

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3457
Wednesday, May 15, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
FURNIVAL'S INN.
'T'HIS view of Furnival’s Inn was taken in the reign of Queen
Victoria, looking through the archway upon Holborn. The Inn
was on the north side of that busy thoroughfare, between Brooke
Street and Leather Lane, occupying a site upon which the Prudential
Assurance Company has since built ofigces. According to some
authorities there once stood here the town mansion of the Lords
Furnival;' however that may be, the enclosure was long an Inn
Chancery—from the time of Henry IV onwards—and Sir Thomas
Moore was once Reader of the Inn. But it later lost that dis-
tinction; in 1818 it was entirely rebuilt. Furnival’s Inn will always
have an interest for admirers of Charles Dickens, for in chambers
here the great novelist lived, and wrote the greater part of Pickwick.


r
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
S.B. 148 AGE
The Red Page
"E": THE FULL STORY .
[The publication in 1942 of Moles Do So
Little with Their Privacy brought before the
Australian public a poet of exceptional quality
—one who “wrote small” but who wrote so ex-
ceedingly well that she would certainly take a
permanent place in Australian poetry, and
might in the world’s. The book, published
under the nom-de-plume “E,” was sponsored
by Miles Franklin.
When the selection for “E’s” second book of
poems was being discussed at The Bulletin
office, Miles Franklin promised to write the full
story for the Red Page when the book came
out, revealing the identity of the unknown
poet. The book —The Wonder and the Apple—
is out; and here is the story,]
“E” was Mary E. Fullerton —an Aus-
tralian who, in the early ’twenties, went
to London to rejoin her friend Mabel,
Singleton and never returned.
She died at Maresfield, Sussex, Eng-
land, on February 23, 1946, of a linger-
ing and painful illness borne with the
sustained fortitude .which distinguished
this rare and reticent soul all her long
life.
She was born in Gippsland, Victoria,
and has told part of her story in Bark
House Days (Endacott, Melbourne, 1921)
—essays of indigenous tilth that should
be in die Australian Pocket Library.
In the late ’twenties Dent and Sons
commissioned her to write a volume for
their “Outward Bound Library” entitled
The Australian Bush, which had warm
commendation in the Red Page. Among
her novels were People of the Timber
Belt, A Juno of the Bush, one which
shared a London publisher’s prize, and
a detective story.
In 1908 (Lothian, Melb.) in a shilling
volume she published 37 sonnets and nine
lyrics. Moods and Melodies; in 1921
(Endacott, Melb.) a larger collection, The
Breaking Furrow, containing 78 titles.
These 124 pieces are in addition to any
uncollected, and the 565 ( plus limericks
and clerihews) entrusted to me. Some have
appeared in the two little volumes (Angus
and Robertson), Moles Do So Little with
Their Privacy (1942) and The Wonder
and the Apple (1946).
When in the United States I knew
Mary Fullerton through her friends as a
writer of letters delightfully humorous,
philosophical, richly allusive, informative
—treats to be savored and shared. Her
freelancing was mentioned but never her
poems or novels. I became friends with
her personally in London following
World War I, even knew of the two
volumes of poetry, but had not read them
carefully.
In 1931, when I was living in
London with Mary and Mabel Single-
ton (an Englishwoman, married to an
Australian), she introduced me to The
Breaking Furrow. . . There must be more
gold where this came from. How had
the poems been received? The answer
was not yet. What had she been doing
since? Novels in MSS. as well as lyrics
were inconsequently and shyly put for-
ward, and the poems were to continue
during the fifteen years till she died.
Why had she not gone on? It was the
familiar story of neglect by contempor-
aries. She was discouraged and self-
doubting because of her lack of aca-
demic education. I pooh-hooed this when
I, similarly illiterate, had been extrava-
gantly received by the Australian profes-
sors whose names still have weight here,
and when I had occasionally cavorted
with some of the distinguished abroad
without their emphasising their cultural
superiority. She pointed out that I had
escaped from Australia early, and re-
mained convinced that her bush education
was the breach through which the carpers
swarmed.
She eagerly accepted the suggestion of
a pen-name. When invitations to a ban-
quet by an unknown were rebuffed by
the more pretentious, a Biblical recipe
was followed with .the lesson. On one
inspiriting occasion, Margaret Trist, Ida
Leeson and Camden Morrisby rescued me
from the derision of a congregation for
promulgating trash.
Following this, poetry-lovers gradually
assembled as set forth in the explanatory
note to Moles Do So Little with Their
Privacy, Tofn Inglis Moore supplied the
preface to this and predicted that so much
introduction would irritate the critical, but
for that I was deliberately angling. There-
fore the complaint on the Red Page that
there was an extraordinary number of
giants introducing the poems made me
gurgle with glee, though giants was not
intended gigantically in a complimentary
sense.
The sponsoring was ridiculed on the
Red Page in a parody of a catalogue
poem, and the writer concluded that “E's”
stature could not be determined “until
all the 450 poems in Miles Franklin’s pos-
session are published.” One had hardly
hoped for so distinguished a fish on so
insignificant a hook. The poems were
presented to Douglas Stewart forthwith
with a reminder of what he had written.
He laughed outright: we chuckled to-
gether ; you can count on a sense of
humor. The upshot was that Mr. Stewart
later confessed himself impressed with
“E’s” work in bulk and consented to
select the second volume. The Wonder
and the Apple. Alas, it was too late for
Mary to see, except in galley, but she
expressed pleasure in the selection and
its title. Our plan was delayed and de-
feated by war conditions.
The response to her Moles made Mary
so happy that she decided that the
anonymity might be lifted after the second
volume appeared. Later a letter insti-
gated by curiosity made her more than
ever desirous of maintaining it. It*was
not till appreciation accumulated and in-
cluded so much from younger poets and
poetry-lovers that she mentioned her
earlier wounds.
An uninspired professor of literature
had doubted if there were one successful
line in her first collections, and Mary’s
comment was that this judgment arose
from the knowledge that she had never
seen even the doormat of a university.
She told also of an occasion when, adver-
tised to speak on some literary subjects,
her name was inadvertently decorated
with the letters of an academic degree,
which resulted in others likewise adorned
effusively welcoming her, only to drop
her conipletely when the mistake was
made known.
The complaint of the conventional was
that Mary Fullerton would not put suffi-
cient work into her novels and poems,
that she missed chances through careless-
ness. She loved the essay form and had
the taste and excellent memory to shine
in it had opportunity been more continu-
ous. She also had ample talent as a story-
teller and the poetic insight and winged
wisdom which could have aerated novels
to the front rank, but she never was in
a situation to give all her time and effort
to arduous craftsmanship on work which
might be rejected or be long in gaining
either recognition or remuneration. She
had none of the ruthless self-determina-
tion that could ride over all obstacles to
the full development of her gifts. On
the contrary, she was so generous and
unselfish that anything and everybody
would come first as a duty. All her rela-
tives, friends and acquaintances basked
in her sensitive discerning sympathy and
understanding. Her letters contained
enough effort for many novels.
I realised that criticism leaning heavily
on buts could lose for us perhaps a
unique genius. Apropos, I studied what
was obtainable concerning Emily Dickin-
son’s reclusion, and felt that any mare’s
nest of the “Louis Parensell” order con-
cocted to account for it was no better
guess than my own that she may have
been driven into herself to protect her
work from some prosodist who pecked at
her waywardness of metre, her enchant-
ing unusualness—the very core of her
genius. Emily had little contemporary
acceptance: she refused to conform :
now she reigns. Neither could Mary con-
‘form: she was frail: time was running
out: her exquisite gift must be encouraged
and conserved, its product accepted as
she herself fashioned it, or be lost.
She was one of a large family which,
fortunately, survived intact with her till
recently. They were all letterwriters, had
the Fullerton sense of humor and an in-
nate understanding and love of the Aus-
tralian country and its literature, so that
Mary’s last years were nourished by
correspondence. Her own letters and the
brief philosophical lyrics and epigram-
matic quatrains were the literary vehicle
suited to her failing strength.
Early in the war Mrs. Singleton removed
her from London to Sussex to the home
of Miss Beatrice Williams, herself a
practiser of the arts through music. They
were in the track of aerial bombardment,
and the neighborhood did not escape.
Mrs. Singleton had suffered from the
bombing in London, but attended her
friend without break. Many letters and
the later poems are largely owed to her
single-minded devotion and tender nurs-
ing night and day. Paper and special
pencils were ever ready for when Mary’s
strength and inspiration should combine
in the intervals of pain and exhaustion.
“My dear beautiful friend, Mabel,” as
Mary said so often near the end, and this
is the Virginia of the dedication to
Moles. Through all the suspense and
racket, too ill to remove to the shelter in
the garden, sustained mostly by arrow-
root, Mary was never despairing,
frightened or depressed. Sensitive, fas-
tidious, reticent, self-mastered, suffering
terribly, her spiritual tenacity remained
inviolable,
“Invocation” was written on a May
night in 1944 when death was threatening
from the air from doodlebugs and
bombers;
Oh tremble not my soul
Because the chariot waits,
And the Hand that clasps the Scroll
Is knocking at the gates.
The horses of the King
Send sparks from out the stone
To the courtyard echoing,
Impatient to be gone.
Immortal sinews must
Be fit the Hour to meet,
When from the clog of dust •
, Steps forth the Form complete.
Now in the chariot come
Ride out triumphantly,
To thy mysterious home
Wherever it may be.
A niece and her family were within
reach, another relative helped in the cere-
mony of laying Mary to rest in Mares-
field cemetery with masses of tributes of
the gentle English spring flowers which
she so loved. She has no further need of
the innocent ambush of anonymity. The
just evaluation of her work will come
from those of requisite ability.
MILES FRANKLIN
“The Cookabundy Chronicles ”
In this issue of The Bulletin is pub-
lished the first of a series of stories from
a remarkable picture of Australian life
by Brian James, < entitled “The Cooka-
bundy Chronicles.” Other extracts, in the
form of short stories, each complete in
itself, will be published at regular inter-
vals.
The work as a whole, when eventually
it is published in book form, will be
seen to amount to something more than
a collection of short stories, excellent as
the episodes are. As was said of Eve
Langley’s “The Pea Pickers” and as
might also be said of “Such Is Life” the
book is held together by a quality of
mind: by its humor, its tolerant and
ironic view of mankind, and its love for
the Australian earth.
All the stories, moreover, are set in
the one region—a country town with its
surrounding farms, worked-out gold-
fields and mountains —so that the book
gives a complete picture of the district’s
life: from the kids to the ancient fos-
sickers, from the hardbitten farmhands
to the refined soul of the poetess who
writes for the “local paper”; from hay-
making to municipal politics, from
comedy to tragedy, from love to murder.
The predominant impression left by the
whole series is of richness: the rich
comedy of Australian life. Norman
Lindsay, who read the work in MSS.,
believes it will make a place for Brian
James alongside Joseph Furphy and Eve
Langley in Australian literature.
“Stan d Easy.”
Stand Easy (Australian War Memorial,
for the A.M.F.) is a successor to Khaki
and Green, Jungle Warfare, and other
army books: a handsome and interest-
ing book, containing photographs and
articles of a documentary kind; also a
number of poems and short stories,
which, judged from a severely literary
viewpoint, are poor.
Exceptions are Eric Irvin’s “Amphi-
bious Operation,” J. S. Cleary’s “You
Can’t Say Goodbye on Paper,” and some
miscellaneous humorous sketches and
pleasant jingles.
While there can be no doubt about the
quality of Irvin’s work, Cleary’s story has
more dubious claims to distinction. The
story is one of those introspective studies,
with frequent flashbacks, in italics. The
effect is vivid, if patchy, and the con-
clusion is unforced, and based on sound
observation. But the trouble is the form
—or the lack of it —and there is an im-
pression that the writer has tried to be a
little too clever.
Ex-servicemen and -women are still en-
titled to copies of this book, at special
rates, on application.
Adriatic Adventure, Squadron Leader
John Buckland (Robertson and Mullens).
The author’s experiences as a p.-0.-w. in
Italy, and, later, escaping. Brevity and
some good photographs are the main
assets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral,”
unusually well done by the Melbourne
University Conservatorium at the Union
Theatre, is a convincing demonstration
that the form of a work of art is not as
important as what is put into the form.
The form, with its rhymed verse and its
chorus of women, is old-fashioned, but
it gives a living picture of the conflict
between his beliefs and feelings of the
prelate who defied a king and earned
martyrdom and canonisation. Nobody is
interested in these days in the political
differences between Henry II and Arch-
bishop Thomas Becket—they may have
been as shoddy as the latest Canberra
racket —but Eliot succeeds in making his
audience interested in the doomed arch-
bishop being torn in two directions, and
he had an extraordinarily able executive
in Frank Brooks, who was dignified with-
out being pompous and beautiful as to
diction. Eric Young, Winston Hunter,
Peter Chapman and Arthur Davis did the
delightful satire on the four knights at
the end with the knowledge that comes
of acquaintance. Gregorian chants pro-
vided a lovely accompaniment to the
action. The play could be magnificently
performed in a real cathedral.
Like “Journey’s End,” “The Hasty
Heart,” by Captain John Patrick (at the
Comedy, Melbourne) dips sincerely, if not
very deeply, into the psychological re-
actions of soldiers, in this case in a hos-
pital in Burma. A Scots soldier is due
to die within six weeks, and his fellow-
soldiers are asked to make his last days
pleasant. They come to hate him because
every offering of fags or chocolates in-
creases his suspicion, and when he finally
learns about his doom he realises that
all they have been feeling for him is pity,
and he is confirmed in his belief in the
beastliness of human nature. When a
Basuto patient, who doesn’t know the
language or the situation, makes a friendly
gesture by giving him a string of beads
he is converted—a rather unreal touch,
but it makes for a cheerful ending. The
dour young Scot is magnificently por-
trayed by John Wood. J.C.W. got most
of the rest from Melbourne amateur
circles, and have no reason to regret it.
The negro, Joe Thomal, is a real one —
which fact doesn’t detract from his excel-
lent performance.
John E. Bates has attacked Nature
with up and down results at the Velas-
quez Galleries, Melbourne. “Bougain-
villea” and “Boatsheds, Williamstown,”
are the best efforts. Most of the others
scarcely justify exhibition.
“J.F.”: Reviewing art shows is a job
which should suit the normal domesticated
male, for many Sydney exhibitions are
held in the galleries of large stores.
Which means that the professional investi-
gator must adventure through all kinds
of departments, ranging from toys to
haberdashery. And if he leaves with no
new insight into the mysterious nature
of beauty, at least he stands a fair-to-
middling chance of snapping up some
steel wool or a pair of gloves for the
wife. It would be unfair to discriminate,
but personally I have an affection for
Anthony Horderns’ “Fine Art Galleries.”
The lift is Jarge, and equipped with a
seat, an irresistible reminder of more
leisurely days. And after a brisk walk
along a partitioned corridor, one finds the
gallery; where, at the time of my entry,
three whitehaired gentlemen were en-
gaged in rolling up red mats, beneath the
oils of Thomas Dean. Mr. Dean has no
fewer than 145 paintings on show, a mam-
moth exhibition. And the pictures them-
selves are monuments to a departed
fashion. Large and bulky, with masses
of flowers and moonlight and maidens
toying with roses or sighing. And vast
expanses of scenery. One, indeed, com-
bines most of these phenomena. “Zephyrs
of a Summer Night” has plenty of syn-
thetic moonlight, waves, a lady in flowing
robes, with a noble Roman nose, and
zephyrs as well. The last-named clustered
symmetrically around the lady, like a
formation of bombers. But if the flowers
and swans and women of discreetly
generous proportions are all false, and as
ephemeral in their way as are the current
crop of “modernist” outrages, they are
nevertheless interesting, if only for the
purpose of comparing styles in women’s
headgear. And with cattle Mr. Dean is
far more successful; it would seem that
he has kept a realistic eye on them and
painted them pretty well as he saw them.
Without regard for the conventions which
decreed that a horse should have an
arching neck and a maiden an interest in
horticulture. And, as though in revenge,
his women are idealised, but often bovine.
(“ Sundry Shows” continued on page 24.]


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
“THE SENIOR STORE"
'(f ijMl
//.I
M
m
t
A
,0
CMM
K
e
■■ ' •-
;¥:V.
VW«T A
WAU-’
fi
'?{)>
! c
. h
■ita^
Milk
.■** ““
fv^
Tv
.O'--
MR AMDRFW WAUGH
■
t&SSSZ
Will HUP SOLVt YOUR IVtRYDAY HOME PROBIfMS/
Consult _ our Handyman, Mr. Andrew Waugh, about any of your
home difficulties. He will be found on our Lower Ground Floor,
Pitt Street, next to the Paints Department, and is available during
Business Hours. We offer you his valuable assistance as a free
H
service.
LISTEN TO STATION 2GB EACH
SUNDAY MORNING AT 10.15 A.M.
Many of those odd jobs around the home
will become simple if you listen to Mr.
Waugh's weekly chats- over Station 2GB
remember each Sunday at 10.15 a.m.
k
frf
rrT
WmM
I* l* <s §
ijums
nrwT: ]
fajli
IQ
uT
WM I
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
HARTS
Circular Charts iea all types oi
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Gel oui quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. 010.
QUEEN STREET
McGIIiIt’S Est. 1860. Subscription Department Ist Floor.
POPULAR OVERSEAS MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS
Direct from Publishers to Customers
Life, £3/2/6; Saturday Evening Post, £2/9/6; National Geographic, £l/17/6 ; Coronet, £l/1/-;
Better Homes & Gardens (three years only), £2/8/-; Popular Photography (Just released),
£l/12/-; American Photography, £l/6/-; U.S. Camera, 16/-; Popular Mechanics, £l/3/6;
Popular Science, £l/3/6 ; Popular Homecraft, £1; American Woodworker, £l/4/-; Veneers & Ply-
wood, 12/-; Model Airplane News, 18/6; Model Railroader, £l/2/-; Model Craftsman, £l/4/-;
Mechanix Illustrated, 18/6; Science & Mechanics, 15/- ; Parents Magazine, 15/-; Wee Wisdom
(children 5-13 years), 7/6; The Instructor (Helpful Classroom Material), £l/9/-; Rudder (two
years), £2/12/-; Yachting, £l/16/-; Etude Music Magazine, £l/3/6; American Record Guide,
£1; Theatre Arts Monthly, £l/12/-; Variety Theatre Magazine, £4/4/-; Readers Digest, 12/-
one year, £1 two years. Please add exchange to country and interstate cheques.
New American and English Novels and Technical Books by Every Mail.
Earge range of stationery and office requisites stocked.
i a 183-185 Eiizabeth st - /xhe g.p.oa
iYICVjiJLiL* O V* 1 MELBOURNE. CBll3-4 opposite j
STRONGER-LIGHTER LONGER-LASTING
GLOBITE
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Globite!
If your
dog’ 6 coat
is dull.,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e -suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
oim on a coursei _
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
r
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL”.PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with <orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
&OTjS|A
>4 inliiifi
m
mo
ml
SAY
ILBEYS
yi
w
The only GIN to Serve With
WATER . . . LIME . . . ORANGE
VERMOUTH ... BITTERS .... TONIC
GINGERBEER . . . GINGER ALE
PEPPERMINT... SQUASH ... SODA
LEMONADE . . . FRUIT JUICES
the occasion—whether a party,
a drink between friends, or “Cocktails at Six”
—make sure the Gin is- Gilbey’s.
Whether you serve it with your favourite fruit
juices or cordials, or use it as a base for palate-
teasing cocktails, Gilbey’s is a gin that pleases
everyone. So always . . . “Don’t say Gin, say
Gilbey’s.”
i THE STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED!
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy. Electricity and Magnetism, by Star-
ling.—3745.
To buy Patrollers of Palestine, by H. Smith.
—3746.
To buy Georgina of the Rainbows. —3747.
To correspond with collectors of Norman
Lindsay items or other Australians. —3748.
To buy N.S.W. Bookstall editions of Three
Years with Thunderbolt, Dan Kelly: Outlaw,
and The Outlaws of Weddin Range, by Am-
brose Pratt; and In the Last Stride, by Arthur
Wright.—3749.
Information Sought.
In B. 6/3/’46 there were published* among
names and addresses of English manufacturers
of better-class china given in answer to an
inquiry, the words “Wedgwood—Wedgwood and
Co., Ltd., Tunstall, Stoke-on-Trent.” The in-
formation so supplied was incorrect; Sly and
Russell, solicitors for Josiah Wedgwood and
Sons, Ltd., and their Australian representatives
J W. Roberts and Son, state that their clients
products “alone are entitled to the description
‘Wedgwood’ and to the use of that word in the
Commonwealth as registered proprietors of the
trade-mark ‘Wedgwood.’ ”
* * * ♦
Can a minor witness a will legally, or would a
will with one of the witnesses a minor be
illegal ?
It is inadvisable to have a will witnessed
by a person whom the law does not regard as
in all respects a responsible legal entity. But
the fact, in itself, that the witness is a minor
ddes not disqualify him provided he is of an
age and intelligence , to enable him to under-
stapd fully the act he performs and the re-
sponsibility carries.
* * * *
Who was the Frenchman whose grave is situ-
ated at La Perouse, Sydney?
He was Louis Receveur, a Franciscan friar,
who accompanied La Pdrouse on his voyage
through the Pacific as naturalist and astronomer
aboard the Astrolabe. At Tutuila he was
wounded by natives and never recovered, dying
at Botany Bay, February 17, 1788.
« * * •
What are trade winds and where and when
do they occur?
They blow from the tropical belts of high
pressure toward the equatorial belt of low
pressure, from the north-east in the Northern
Hemisphere and from the south-east in the
Southern. The term “trade” is used in the
otherwise obsolete sense of “direction” or
“course.”
♦ * * *
Does the Southern Cross point due south?
The constellation points due south only when
it is on the meridian of the place, and this hap-
pens twice in 24 hours, at the upper and lower
culminations. At other times it is either east
or west of due south. The culmination takes
place a little earlier each evening, and during
the year goes right round the clock.
* * =i= *
Method of waterproofing brick walls?
Brush on to the walls two coats of any Port-
land cement-base paint, materials for which
may be obtained from any paint supplier. Thus
an impervious durable coat is left on the
masonry.
* * * *
Can water be siphoned from any depth?
Theoretically, the height from surface of the
liquid to the top of the siphon is limited to
34ft., but only 25ft. is practicable. At greater
height the atmospheric pressure is not suffi-
cient to force the water up the shorter arm of
the siphon.
* * ♦ ♦
(1) What is the longest boxing contest on
record ?
The drawn fight between Andy Bowen and
Jack Burke, 110 rounds (7hr. 19min.), at New
Orleans on April 20, 1884.
* * * *
What is the definition of professionalism in
golf?
Anyone who takes payment for playing or
teaching golf; is employed in connection with
making and maintaining greens, fairways, etc.;
makes or proffers for sale golfing material; or,
being over the age of 18, plies for hire as a
caddy.
Brief Answers.
W.O.B.; (1) Provided the player is offside
when he takes the pass, a free kick is awarded
to the opposing team. (2) If A player is outside
the five-yard-limit when B player fumbles the
pass a try is awarded to A if he touches down.
G.A.: Howard Auto Cultivators Ltd.,
Windsor-road, Northmead, N.S.W E.A.B.:
Winston Churchill is '71, Field-Marshal Smuts
just on 76; the late President Roosevelt
was 63....T.M.: (1) Consulate-General of
France, 60 Hunter-street, Sydney. (2) Bums
Philp Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge-street, Sydney
E.W.: (1) and (2) In estimating the number
of words in a manuscript, count the number of
words in several lines; then, by dividing the
number of words by the number of lines, find
the average number of words per line. Multi-
ply the wordk per line by the number of lines
to a page (counting the short lines as though
full), and then by the number of pages....
G.G.: Presume you refer to the Australian
Society (sec., A. H. Willey, 313 Punt-road,
Prahran, Vic.). If so, they do not perform
service required. Suggest you try the Bread
and Cheese Club (Worthy Scribe, H. W. Mal-
loch, 980 High-street, Armadale, Vic.) A.L.:
In 1943 the Australian Army totalled 475,000,
but was down to 350,000 when the peace was
signed. ’ Other figures unavailable C.P. :
Control of restaurants and eating-houses is
vested in councils by the Local Government
Act. There is no ordinance of general applica-
tion dealing with smoking in such places....
S.G.: The only possibility Of a pullet going
broody without laying eggs is when the egg
yolks have fallen into the abdominal cavity
instead of passing into the oviduct; this is due
to some abnormality E.R.S.: Parcels to
Poland can be 111b. in weight and would cost
3s. lid. for 31b., 5s. 9d. under 71b., and
8s! 9d. under 111b. The addressee in Poland
would be able to advise what contents may be
enclosed J.H.J.: If the discoloration is due
to age, it is impossible to clean the celluloid.
Other stains may be removed by a commercial
polish that is at present on the market.


T H v> . =
A
$
w
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codidl to your Will you «an guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—l,. 8. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.E.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Bo* 543 6.P.0., Sydney.
SF f-«l.
Tarzans
GRIP
Instantly and permanently mends all
kinds of breakages—crockery, china,
kitchenware, furniture, toys, jewel-
lery, fabrics, water piping, car parts,
etc. The most powerful adhesive
known. Resists moisture, acids, al-
kalies and extreme heat. Get a tube
NOW something may bneak to-day.
Available everywhere.
WHO PROFITS
DOC EATS DOC?
When the supply of money is greater
than the supply of goods, and the whole
population joins in a fight for those
goods (using its money as" weapons),
eventually nobody gets anything. As
prices go up and up, the value of money
goes down. In short, dog eats dog.
But even Price Control is only effective
if we add to it the power of our own
Self Control. If we fail to understand
that the return to full peace production
must necessarily take time—if we try to
beat the game, disregard Price Control
and other measures designed for our
economic protection, and patronise the
blackmarket for goods in short supply,
then we are storing up plenty of trouble
for ourselves and the rest of the com-
munity. Week by week we would get
less for our current earnings, decrease
the value of our savings, and delay im-
measurably the desired return to normal
conditions.
This process has happened plenty of
times in history. It could happen here
now, but it needn’t. It need not happen
because we have discovered an effective
counter weapon to that surplus money,
a counter weapon designed to stamp out
inflated prices, namely, Price Control.
Therefore, SAVE money, don’t spend it
unnecessarily. Equally important, invest
these savings in Bonds and Savings Cer-
tificates. By saving now, we keep prices
down, and when goods become more
plentiful we will be able,to buy more,
much more, with the money we have. By
investing in Bonds and Savings Certifi-
cates we not only get better than bank
interest, but we put the money where it
won’t get on the market to force prices
up.
Savings Certificates may be purchased
at any Bank or Money Order Post Office,
and advance subscriptions to the next
Commonwealth Cash Loan may be made
through any Bank or Stockbroker.
WHAT TO DO TO ENSURE YOUR FUTURE SECURITY
Spend wisely. Get full value. Buy only
what you really need. Save all you can.
Hold all your Bonds and Savings Certifi-
cates.
2 Share and share alike the goods avail-
able . . . don’t foster the blackmarket by
paying more than prices. Check
all prices with the lists available.
3, Keep your own prices down. Don’t take
advantage of shortages to ask more for
your goods or services.
4, Pay your way—settle your debts—make
no new ones.
5, Invest your savings, at better than bank
interest, in Commonwealth Bonds and Sav-
ings Certificates. When goods are plentiful
again you can make good use of the money
you save now*—for then you will get more
for your money in everything you buy.
Be a Saver, Not a Spender-Help Keep Prices
N 563.113.46
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
D.A.W.: That’s the 59th girl who has
shrieked “Get out of my room” from MSS.
this week; must be an epidemic... .J.F.: Well,
it ought to interest the A.W.U., so here goes:
And sweating and toiling and panting,
Like men of primeval might,
The shearers grimly reap the clip
By work from morn till night.
....Mack: Psalm about “golden reefs on far
horizons” handed over to “Wild Cat” foi
autopsy... .N.P.; The “Argus” novel competi-
tion is closed; “S. M. Herald” has one run-
ning... .B.H.: Manuscript passed Religious
Editor, sent to Det.-Sgt. Munro, N.S.W. Police
Vice Squad, for approval of use of word
“naked” as applied to torso of gumtree....
C. : See notice at head of this column....
G. Oh, my! P.McM.: Tried “The Sym-
phony” on our saxophone; result, no saxo-
phone W.E.F.: Go back to Bourke
D. “Graff” daft... .C.S.: For the last time,
no! P.B.: We know you mean well but
what do you mean? ... .J.B.: Has its points,
but why drag in the sentimental bookmaker?
... .S.K.: Slapstick M.K.; “Finger Prints”
failed to convince the jury... .Aggie C.: “She
would have to pass the house both going and
coming.” Tell her to try it sideways....
S. “Mr. Pyke said he was a student of
abnormalities.” Let him have a look at your
story .John J.: Oh, no, John, no, John, no,
John, no-o-o! P.D.: Your “Wheatgrower”
will remain a “hitherto unpublished master-
piece.” U.W.: “It shook her to her founda-
tions.” Lucky girl to have any these times....
J.L.: Hard to make a living poem out of gener-
alities such as Youth or the People K..R.:
Women may be “cunning, deceiving and cruel,
but you shouldn’t have let the exigencies of
rhyme drive you into using them for “fuel”....
D. “Up, up I went, my mind and I.” You
fly too high D.D.: —
A picture of bright sunshine
That always lifts the heart
Away above the coniine
Of gloom’s poisonous dart.
The poisonous dart of gloom is not so far
away from it as you think... .G.A.S.: “Ballade
of Ward-damage” is as excruciating as the pun
and the subject T.S.S.; Tell the “brain
child” not to skip about so much and not to
ask rhetorical questions N.R.: “Her future
literary life is in your hands.” No; in hers.
They’re ideas for poems, rather thaw poems
M.R.; So many hearts in the city have been
a-quiver for the Murrumbidgee River... .Nod:
You do P.J.B.: If that’s all the magpie has
to say he shouldn’t make such a song about
it M.R.R.: The banning of We Were the
Rats seems to have left you somewhat inco-
herent S.T.: Featherweight.... S.K. C.:
You’ve been reading Don Marquis... .V.V.:
Your memoirs might be better in prose
R.C.: Come in, then, and get it off your chest:
ELEGY WRITTEN IN A SYDNEY HOTEL.
The bar bell tolls the knell of beer today.
The herd looks on, aghast, afraid to speak;
The froth-filled glasses, rinsed and put away.
Must needs await the new supply next week.
Full many a flask of purest from the still
The black unfathomed markets palm away.
If we were mugs, we sure could foot the bill,
Whilst other States sell bottled beer by day.
E.M.: “Sabina walked serenely, with a
lilting, flawless rhythm.” Sabina is now lilting
serenely through the post... .J.M.: Something
more than archaic oaths needed for a convinc-
ing historical tale.... A .McK.; Weak....
T. : “Joe the Jive Merchant” should be
left to his own unhallowed devices J.R.:
Shallow, but lively N.C.: You lose yourself
in relating the antecedents of your hero
E. : Might make a par I.L.: Go easy
with the exclamation marks... .W.H.: Sugary.
J.K.: “The Ghost of Haunted Hollow”
didn’t raise a scare J.H.Y.: Trite
B.McN.: Dull F.W.J.: Characters, adverbs
and adjectives all hopelessly confused... .G.A.:
Magazine type of story, with a limping conclu-
sion E.L.K.: Sentimental... .R.D.: Jests
and puns dated M.R.: When these comical
bush characters are overdone they become very
dull indeed ... V.McD.: “Broken Heart” too
long and too tearful N.C.: Promising
H. : Visualise your characters S.O.:
Stories that begin *Harry told me” lose a
good deal in the retelling U.B.: “Scoop”
smacks strongly of Hollywood D.P.: Leave
Europe to its fate and write about Australia.
B.B.: Conversation too sparkling to be
natural C.W.W.: Sentences too long
J.L: Introspective and depressing M.U.:
Slight C.L.J.: Cut D.V.K.: Frothy
R.D.R.: “Dan the Bushranger” should be
locked up for life.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.L.J.; Please forward address of pub where
they serve grog in such outsize tankards
A.G.: Sketch is not badly done, but the jest
is pointless to us H.P.: Can understand why
clothes were invented after seeing your nudes.
N.M.: The wash drawings are muddy and
the line sketches scratchy E.F.: No good
submitting drawings done in indelible pencil.
H.C.: Your ladies might have stepped out
of a dressmaker’s catalogue V.F.: Its good
points are outnumbered by its bad A.D.:
Judging from the dim pencil sketches sent, you
belong to the Eyewreckers’ Union... .D.J.:
Dreary humor and an ordinary drawing
H.B.: More suited for the columns of a
children’s magazine.. . .K.J.S.: An old “Hop”
drawing bfought up to date N.T.: You are
an optimist! P.T.: No use throwing a few
perfunctory lines on a piece of soiled card-
board and looking for a buyer E.H.W.:
Have seen some queer landladies but none like
yours C.D.: It doesn’t set us running to
open the cashbox F.G.: Gag dates back to
Tutankhamen... .M.L.: There’s a faint glimmer
of promise T.N.J.: You must eat frightful
suppers judging from the nightmares we have
received... .A.S.; “What is wrong with it?”
Mediocrity E.C. ; Don’t try to jump another
artist’s claim.


4
■
/A
\
V\
xy.
T7>
>i
Vv’O.V
mUiiUJ
Ikr*^
J::i‘% ,-. ;
W{
- s »»n
• *v#
tKi
Cv;^w*
r/rA-^
*
,r>r
«T;
\ —vr.v
1 y''''-"y/
it {
* a> V. l ,'-'
is»'p,
[w*
J ?;j
s
■ -
N*.>.J»
••V/fi
&.V
y\ »
-3>r
& /Si
X
m
n
M
WlMllii
I
m
i
m
■ ■■: ■ i
The “MARS” Plain Miller
(Above)
A sturdy machine of great accuracy for a maximum output of
High Quality work. For the rapid milling of Small Engine Parts,
Straight Fluted Reamers, Taps, Dies, Splines, Keyways, and
similar work.
The “HERCULES” S^in.Lathe
“The little, GIANT of the Lathe WorldV
(At Bight Top)
The “Hercules” is a lathe which will be welcomed by operators
of all types of Maintenance and Engineering Plants and by
Garage Proprietors. It has all the facilities of a larger lathe plus
GUARANTEED and certified accuracy to finest Commercial
limits. Supreme in Value, Accuracy and Utility
The “ATLAS” Sin. Lathe
(Two Models—Long and Short Bed ) •
(At Right Below)
The “Atlas” 8-inch Lathe is a lathe of most pleasing design and
is an ideal High-Speed, General Purpose Workshop Lathe. It is
a delight to handle, and is equipped with Internal Unit Drive
and 2-speed Gear Box. An ideal machine for Garage and Auto-
motive Workshops.
ETA
Licensed Manufacturers
in Queensland of
“MEEHANITE” Metals
Stockists and Distributors:
N.S'.W. —THOMAS HERBERT & CO. PTY. LTD., 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
New Zealand—MOTOß SPECIALITIES LTD., Anzac Avenue, Auckland.
Branches throughout the Dominion.
QueensIand—INTERCOLONIAL BORING CO. LTD., 450 Ann St., Brisbane.
Australian
Machine Tools
to Build
Australian
Industries
Outstanding “MARS” Features
X. ACCURACY —Built to recognised and certi-
fied standards of accuracy.
• 2. BALANCE —All necessary revolving parts
are Dynamically Balanced.
3. FINISH—AII surfaces aro Machine Ground.
4. MATERIALS—Finest Matured High Test
Alloy Castings throughout.
5. SMOOTH RUNNING—AII Gear Teeth are.
generated.
6. VERSATILITY—AII Lathes have generous
Detachable Gap Bridge.
I®**-
mm
:x. ;
Other “Mars” products are 6-inch,
7-inch and 10-inch Lathes, Shapers,
Planers, Radial Drills, Turret
Lathes, Boring Mills, Printers’
Guillotines, and Diesel Engines.
asX i .
fm
wV K
w
I** INK
MARSmachinetool MAKFG. C? pa L l -
- RID G E STREET • VALLEY • BRISBANE
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE lEXCEPT CANADA AND GREAT BRITAIN)


THE BUNYIP OF BARNEY'S ELBOW
No. 1 of "The Cookabundy Chronicles”
By BRIAN JAMES
/F a traveller stood on the top of
Tralgan Hill on, say, a clear day in
autumn —good enough, as Sammy
Bowen would put it, “to be killing the
first pig for the winter” —a broad and a
fair world would lie before him.
Asleep in the sunlight as it nestled be-
neath the high purple ranges, the town
of Summerlea, the two spires looking, as
Mrs. Thompson Watts had said {in her
role of “Melisande,” poetess of the
“Western Argus”), “like fingers pointing
to a brighter world above.” The long,
wide, straight and dusty streets straggling
and fading at last into lanes and paddocks
and farms. The willows on the Cooka-
bundy River already baring, and the tall
Lombardy poplars touched with gold. On
the flats, the brown patches of corn and
the very last cocks of lucerne hay.
To the north the Grey Box, the land
of ancient gold, too far just now to pick
out more than the suggestions of farms
and orchards and vineyards, hut the Wil-
low Ponds Creek, with its giant sheoaks
plain to see.
Away to the south-east lies the Boolgi,
the great spur from the Main Divide, and
higher than it. To the east, stark, high
and grim, the Cookabundy Ranges. To
the west, the ridges tapering off in end-
less succession to Barney’s Elbow and
Sandy Ridges, and then going on for ever
and ever.
A broad and a fair world.
BARNEY’S ELBOW, without more
exact knowledge, would be sugges-
tive of a hero, Barney, with an uncon-
querable thirst, always giving exercise
to his elbow. And that would be wrong.
The Elbow was a sharp-angled turn like
a bent elbow.
Barney himself had been an innocent,
hard-toiling man, the first settler of
Sandy Ridges, and the discoverer of
the Elbow. At the foot of Barney’s
was Mick Cullen’s Wild Cat Hotel. Origi-
nally this hostelry was named The Green
Island.
The Green Island had no reference to
any sort of island in the vicinity—really
Barney’s Creek was almost as lacking in
water as in islands, so the name was prob-
ably due to the nostalgia of one Timothy
Byrne, a villainous purveyor of poison
in the golden days.
Timothy was eventually found hanging
to the limb of a sheoak down by the
creek, but whether he “done it hisself” or
whether it was thoughtfully done for
him was nevpr properly discovered. But
the fact that Timothy’s ghost was fre-
quently seen thereabout for years after
was strongly suggestive of what is popu-
larly termed “foul play.”
Mick Cullen was, strictly speaking, a
newcomer, having run the Wild Cat only
for the last twenty-five years or so. It
would again be a mistake to think that
this new name for the pub had anything
to do with mining ; Mick simply called
it after his first wife. His first inspiration
had been Spitfire a good name, too,
but connoting words rather than deeds.
Wild Cat suggested both.
Mick was not one to talk overmuch of
the past, but in the right time and mood
he could be persuaded to expose for view
a bony knob behind his right ear. His
explanation went like a formula: “She
done that. She did. Done it with a
yammer. Just up with the yammer and
cracks me there!” Mick would pat the
bony excrescence tenderly.
Quite likely there were other marks of
the “yammer” on Mick’s skull, but they
could easily remain hidden under a very
thick growth of dirty-looking sandy hair.
Mick never seemed to get it cut, and it
never seemed to grow any longer than the
shaggy stage. His face was covered with
a similar thicket of hair, of much the
same color. And out of it looked a pair
of dull-green eyes. Mick wasn’t really
handsome. „
“She must have been a terror, Mick.
Mick turned this over in his mind and
puffed at a briar with a very broken rim.
“Yes, and she was that. A regular wild
cat, if you ask me.” Then, in strict fair-
ness, “But she had her points—only she
was inclined to go too far.”
Mick was reported as having told some-
one or other, at some time or other, that
the first Mrs. Cullen had, in a fit of rage,
hit a Chinaman behind the ear with a
hammer —and the Chinaman died a day
or so after, very mysteriously, and it was
all “hushed up” in some way or other.
Also, it was that very same hammer that
she,used on, Mick, and she always slept
with that very same hammer under her
pillow. And when she got pneumonia
that winter, and the doctor said she was
“a gonner,” Mick’s first thought was to
bury the hammer with her. But before
the end she looked so pitiable and small,
and besides she forgave Mick everything,
so that he didn’t have the heart to bury
the hammer with her after all. And then
the hammer just disappeared, and Mick
didn’t know what ever became of it.
Mrs, Mick, the second, was a widow
when Mick married her—Mrs. McCarthy
that was. McCarthy had been a helpless
little man with one eye, who seemed speci-
ally designed by Nature to die of pneu-
monia, which he did that very same
winter, and was buried the very same day
as the first Mrs. Mick, and not twenty
yards from her, and Father Moran merely
moved from one grave to the other.
Such a series of coincidences was not
to be taken lightly, and as a result Mick
and Mrs. McCarthy were married none
so long after —and let people say what
they like.
As a pub the Wild Cat was ordinary
enough, shabby-looking, too, with its
cracked and unpainted hardwood boards.
There were six windows facing the road,
and three doors and a long, narrow veran-
dah. Mick attended the bar most times, but
on occasion his two daughters assisted.
Perhaps the cold, calculating eye might
have noticed that Molly and Joan were
useful as decoys.
The young men for miles around, when
they had drinking silver, would ride to
the Wild Cat- and feast their eyes on
Mick’s girls. Shrewd and sophisticated
were Mick’s girls, and the hard of head
summed up with great finality “You’d
get no change there,” or “They know
how to look after themselves.” Which
was deemed a pity.
But, in all, the history of Barney’s Elbow
and of the Wild Cat was commonplace
enough, apart from the exploits of Timo-
thy Byrne and the first Mrs, Mick; and
so was the manage of that pub if it came
to that. And then it and the country
round' about leapt into fame —or
notoriety. ,
ONE night in early winter a horse was
heard descending The Elbow at a
mad gallop. A runaway most evidently,
and Mick went out into the starlight to
see if he might recognise the horse.
He was surprised to find there was a
rider on its back. The rider, with diffi-
culty, turned off the road at the Wild Cat
and with greater difficulty brought the
horse 'to a trembling, lathering halt. The
rider dismounted, and in a reflex sort of
way patted the horse’s neck.
“Gawd —it’s you, Abe! ”
“A whisky, Mick; double-quick!”
* Mick didn’t move. His slow brain was
dealing with visions of doctors, murders,
snakes, premature births—any of the big
unexpected happenings.
Mrs. Mick slithered out of the parlor.
She was a shade faster in her mental
workings than Mick.
“Come in, Abe, into the parlor fire.
Mick will look after your horse.”
Abe was wild-eyed, his hair was liter-
ally on end, and his thick lips were work-
ing in a curious manner. The indications
were fear. And Mrs. Mick felt fright-
ened at the very appearance of him. With
presence of mind she closed the parlor
door. Then she took a candle into the
bar and poured out a generous dose of
whisky for Abe. It went down Abe s
hairy throat in one gulp,
“Wh-what is it, Abe?”
Abe cocked his ear as though trying to
hear something he didn’t want to hear.
“Did you hear it?”
“What, Abe?”
“You didn’t hear it?”
Mick had by now returned after put-
ting Abe’s horse into a ramshackle struc-
ture that bore the courtesy title of stable.
“Did you hear anything, Mick? Abe s
heard something.”
Mick didn’t think so, but after seeing
Abe and his horse he was fully prepared
to hear anything.
Abe was getting through his third
glass, and Mick joined him in it —feeling
that it was as well to be ready for the
worst.
“Do you know that little apple-tree flat
near the old selection of Morris’s? ’
Mick knew it well, of course*— about
three and a half miles back.
“Well, it was there!”
“What was —good God, man, what
was?”
“Look, Mick, old chap”—Abe was
too scared to swear, which was a bad
sign—“I don’t know.”
But Abe’s horse was as full of terror as
Abe was, so it must have been some-
thing.
“I was just coming down the hill —easy
like —and across the little flat... You
know the culvert over the creek, Mick?”
“Yes, Abe!” There was no use trying
to hurry it out of Abe.
“It was there —Mick—as true as I am
sitting here!”
Perhaps Abe had no desire to be dra-
matic about it, but Mick’s hair was stand-
ing on end, too ; that is, as far as Mick’s
tousled thatch could stand on end. Mrs.
Mick just stared at Abe.
“What was there, Abe?” Mick’s voice
was husky.
“The Noise. Mick, I never wapt to
hear a noise like that again. I can’t tell
you what it was like —it came from under
the culvert, and at the same time from
up the creek and from the hill.” Abe
took a mouthful of whisky. “Gawd
knows, Mick, what made that noise. But
Something—it sounded like “y-a-h—oo.”
“How often, Abe?”
“Just once —Christ, that was enough.”
“Could it have been a bull?” Mick
felt strongly within him that it wasn’t a
bull.
“A bull! A hundred bulls couldn’t
have made that much noise.”
Mick’s hair stood up a bit more as the
thought of old Timothy’s ghost came to
him. But ghosts never made a noise like
this. Then he thought of the Chinaman
who had died of the hammer. But no,
it could hardly be a ghost.
“When it came,” continued Abe, “the
mare stood and trembled —I thought she’d
sag right down under me. And I was no
better. And then she started off —she
flew.”
The girls came in. Abe went over the
whole story again. The old pub was well
and truly locked up that night, and the
parlor lamp was kept burning. No one
slept much —except Abe, and that was
mainly whisky,
I N the morning the hills looked innocent
1 enough—dark-wooded ranges rising
above Barney’s Elbow, and in the nearer
distances magpies warbling, kookaburras
finishing off their morning’s laugh and a
crow or two cawing as they flew towards
the hills.
Innocent enough ; and fears dissolve in
sunlight. But out in those hills was a
terrible Something. It was no dream—
it was true. Abe’s mare was found dead
in the “stable.”
Men called in at the Wild Cat and Abe
took them out to look at her. It wasn’t
that they doubted that Abe had heard a
noise, but they wouldn’t credit it was
terrible. Also, Abe was drunk and, in
the retelling of his story, prone to exag-
geration.
There was present a long slab of a
fellow with pimples on his neck, shrewd
in a mean sort of way. He was Jack
Slade, and he worked on a station beyond
Sandy Ridges.
“Look here, Abe,” he said, throwing
a wink to Molly. “Look hete; you say
that Noise of yours came from under the
culvert?”
“The main part of it did,”
“But you said there was only one
Noise.”
A possible solution came to Abe. “The
rest of it must "have been heccos.”
“What?”
“Heccos!”
Jack tipped another wink in sheer de-
light with “heccos.”
But Abe stuck to the culvert as the
chief source of the noise. And the upshot
of it was that Abe should accompany
Jack and several others going that way to
Sandy Ridges. Abe was working on a
chaff-cutting plant out there. Mick lent
Abe a horse, and the party set out.
They came to the hill overlooking the
creek and the apple-tree flat. It was a
peaceful and beautiful spot, with a
scattering of fine big apple-trees on the
level flat below the culvert. The cattle
usually feeding here and there among
the trees were not to be seen, however.
But the very appearance of the place
stamped Abe as a liar, more so, perhaps,
as Abe had a reputation for practical
jokes and was always “up to his tricks.”
They came to the culvert. “Now,
Abe,” said Jack, “we’ll look underneath
for tracks.”
There was no water in the creek just
there, only a fairly long stretch of nearly
white sand. The only tracks in that sand
were made by cattle passing up and down
the creek under the fairly high culvert.
Nothing else. Jack was delighted in his
exasperating fashion. It is hard to say
what Abe had expected to find, but the
fact that there were no tracks of an
untoward nature seemed to revive the
worst of his terrors.
“Gawd!” he gasped. “Let us get away
from the place!”
So Jack Slade spread the yarn of
“Abe’s Noise,” and added all the neces-
sary trimmings to make Abe look quite
ridiculous. And Abe didn’t even get
wild about the banter, which was unlike
Abe. No one else had heard the noise, so
Abe was in a hopeless minority about it.
A fortnight later Jack Slade and his
mate. Bob Felton, were riding into
Barney’s Elbow —for a few drinks and
the prospect of “doing a line with Mick’s
girls.” They came to the culvert.
“Look out,” laughed Jack, “for Abe’s
noise!”
“Is this the place?”
“Too right.”
It was a lovely night, with a frosty
silver moon in the sky. They both
laughed at Abe and clattered up the stony
road beyond the culvert. At the top of
the long ridge was a big patch of pine
scrub —thin, tall trees, closely grown, a
dark mass even in the moonlight. The
road for some distance was like a cutting
through this scrub. Jack and Bob had
forgotten Abe and were indulging at the
moment in certain shocking reminis-
cences. And then
Out of the scrub, from no defined
point in it, came the “Noise” —a per-
fectly blood-curdling “Yah-00-oo.” Just
one cry—long drawn out—and living in
the ears for ever after. It was not the
volume or pitch of the sound alone that
froze the blood, but some indescribable
quality of terror to it.
Jack and Bob were in even worse state
than Abe had been when they arrived at
the Wild Cat. And for a long time, it
seemed, they couldn’t get in. This time
Mick and his family had heard the cry
and wouldn’t open the doors.
There was no “doing a line with Mick’s
girls” that night. And though Jack and
Bob didn’t “belong” they were glad
enough to join the family in the Rosary
—a whole long series of Rosaries. It is
doubtful if Mick had even been so de-
vout in his life.
AND so —Barney’s Elbow was “put on
the map” as the saying goes.
Sydney papers got hold of the story,
and treated it with entire disrespect in
the main, though an afternoon journal
took it seriously. One paper even had
a cartoon depicting a hideous monster
thrusting its head out of a whisky keg.
This was, of course, an explanation of
the mystery; another explanation was
that the whole thing was a hoax. And
since Mick Cullen was undoubtedly selling
more grog than ever, it was cunningly
suggested that he “knows something
about it —you bet he does,” and Abe
Newton “is in it, too.”
However, a party of “sports” from
Summerlea announced its intention of
going out, well armed, to comb the hills
round Barney’s Elbow, and shoot or
capture the “Yahoo.” It had been heard,
in all, a good dozen times now —always
on clear, frosty nights, and of late in
a tangle of scrubby gullies above the road
over the ridge. Mick at once included
the party in his prayers and set up sup-
plications for its success. At the same
{Continued on page 24.)
Moths.
I have seen moths tired of the light,
That rested like dark scraps of night
Sawn out of ceilings. The fret-saw work
Of one who shaped small hearts, to burke
At carving love’s initials.
What joy in life these creatures brought
To me escaped my wildest thought.
So ineffectual; minding me
Of mouths whose lips fan silently,
Whose beauty’s superficial.
Speechless, dark sentimental shapes!
I like the mouth that wisdom rapes
With brilliant laughter; that shakes me
down
The day’s cobwebs, the dust of town.
And moths for dull officials.
QUEENSLAND.*
F. JION BLIGHT


Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
EVERY MARRIED MAN
shopld be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LiTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
• Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.O.A. Building. 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King Willum Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
EUROPE’S DARK PLACES.
(Condensed from a London “Nineteenth Century and After” article by F. A. Voigt.)
There was a time when injustice done
to one man could shake a whole nation.
When the injustice done to Dreyfus was
challenged, the challenge was the more
memorable because Dreyfus was lowly.
Such an event was possible only in the
Europe that was. It is no longer possible
in the Europe that is.
Not only has the late enemy lost the
war, Europe has lost the war. The Graeco-
Roman and Christian heritage and the
Rule of Law—these are Europe. And in
the furnace of the Second World War
these have been more than half-con-
sumed. That is why there is less commo-
tion over wrong done to many millions
of men, women and children than there
was over wrong done to one man. And
let none say, by way of excuse or pallia-
tion, that the wrong done today arises
out of the necessities of war, for that is
not true —it arises out of the nature of
the peace in which we now must live. The
wrong has been, and is being, done this
time not by war-makers but by peace-
makers.
It is being placed on record by many
thousands of men in the forces, who, in
their letters home from overseas, or in
what they have to say when they return
home, are doing more than the press and
the wireless to promote an enlightened
public opinion, to withstand or rectify
the cumulative falsification of history per-
petrated by the principal media of pub-
licity in our time.
* * * *
A wrong is being done in the heart of
Europe, a reflex or imitation, and terrible
in its intensity, of wrong done by the
Germans —the expulsions and persecution
of the Sudetenlanders by the Czechs.
Not known today, it will make itself
grievously known some day.
According to the Agreement signed at
Potsdam the Sudeten Germans (that is
to say, the Austrians of the Sudeten-
land), numbering 3,200,000, are to be
transferred from Czechoslovakia to Ger-
many. It would seem that more than a
million have been transferred to Germany
and to Austria. As the transfer meant
complete destitution—for the victims
were evicted from their homes and robbed
of all their property (except what they
could carry themselves —and they were
usually robbed of this as well), of their
money, their rings and so on, as it meant
exile in a land where they are as aliens
(for their ancestors came to what is now
Czechoslovakia centuries ago), a land
that is, even now, disastrously overpopu-
lated by the arrival of many millions of
men, women and children from east of
the Oder as well as from Czechoslovakia,
they dreaded what they deemed the
greatest disaster that could happen. But
now those who have not yet left have
come to apprehend an even greater dis-
aster —namely, not to leave. And today
there is amongst the two million or so
who are still to leave (by the end of the
present year apparently) one great desire
—to leave quickly, so unendurable has
their lot under Czech domination become.
* * * *
There are, in Europe, about 20,000,000
men, women and children who have been
uprooted and are wanderers or exiles in
alien lands or regions not their own. This
figure does not include those who are
Germans —if the Germans were to be
included, the total would be about
40,000,000. About 1,000,000 of these “dis-
placed persons,” as they are called, are
in camps, chiefly in Western Germany,
under the care of U.N.R.R.A. and of the
British, French and American military
authorities.
All “displaced persons” may return to
their own countries and are encouraged
—sometimes more than encouraged—and
helped to do so. Those who were resident
in the Soviet Union on September 1,
1939, are forced to do so by agreement
between Russia and the Western Powers.
Many, if not most of these, and most of
those whose countries have been annexed
by Russia or are under Russian occupa-
tion, are unwilling, even desperately un-
willing, to return.
The rule is that no “displaced persons”
must return if they do not wish to, unless
they are subjects of the Soviet Union
under the agreement. The forcible return
of these subjects is the cause of many
tragedies, but those who protest against
it must protest against the agreement
itself. The officials of U.N.R.R.A. and
the military authorities who have the
painful duty of carrying it out are not
to be blamed.
But many “displaced persons” outside
the agreement have been, and are still
being, forced to return against their will.
These forcible repatriations are unlawful.
These persons resist, or try to resist, be-
cause they can no longer regard their own
country as their own. They are at-
. tached to their homes as much as human
beings could be, but repatriation to them
means simply this —that they are handed
over to the Russians and will never see
their homes again, but will, if they are
allowed to live, be sent into the Russian
interior, probably to Asiatic Russia.
The Ukrainians of Eastern Galicia were
an object of special concern to the peace-
makers after the First World War. To
place them under Polish rule seemed in-
compatible with the right of self-deter-
mination, but the intermingling of diverse
populations was such that it was impos-
sible to draw frontiers which did not leave
some minorities under the rule of alien
majorities. The inhuman device of rob-
bing millions of their homes, their farms
and fields, their villages, their homelands,
their all, and of sentencing them to exile
for life was a device to which those
peacemakers (so humane by the standards-
that prevail today) would not resort.
When the German menace showed it-
self in 1938 and 1939, the Ukrainians
reasserted their claim to home rule, but
when Poland was invaded the Ukrainian
troops fought loyally and well in defence
of the Polish Republic.
The Russians, who invaded Poland
soon after, occupied Eastern Galicia and
arrested all Ukrainians who had been
prominent in support of the national idea,
especially of home rule, leaders of
parties, trade-unions and co-operatives,
indeed, the entire elite of the nation, ex-
cept for the few who had fled or gone
into hiding. More than a million Polish
subjects were deported to the Russian in-
terior. How many of this million were
Ukrainians is impossible to tell, but it
was certainly a large proportion. Some
were sent as far as the Arctic Circle or
Kamchatka. Many have perished of
cold, exposure and hard labor under ter-
rible conditions. Those who still remain,
whether Ukrainians or Poles, are doomed,
it would seem, never to return, for they
have been forgotten by the world.
In the negotiations between Russia and
Poland, after Russia was herself invaded,
Stalin left no doubt that he would not
tolerate the existence of a Ukrainian
nationalist movement outside Russia.
Now that Eastern Galicia has been in-
corporated in the Soviet Union, the de-
portations have been resumed. The
Ukrainian people of Eastern Galicia are
being diluted as well as depleted, for
non-Ukrainian settlers from the Russian
interior —from Caucasia, for example—
are replacing Ukrainian farmers who have
been removed.
The rule that Ukrainians—as well as
other “displaced persons” who were
residents of the regions now annexed by
Russia but not part of the Russian
Empire on September 1, 1939 —shall not
be repatriated against their wishes is fre-
quently broken. The result is that the
doom falling upon Ukrainians in Eastern
Galicia also threatens those who have
found a refuge in Western Europe, where
a kind of man-hunt is going on, a hunt
conducted by Russian military authorities
and Russian secret agents. The kid-
napping of Ukrainians (as well as of
Balts and Poles) by Russian agents is not
confined to Western Germany, but has
occurred in Belgium, and even in Nor-
way.
Ukrainians who are to be “repatriated,”
despite their protests that they are not,
and never were, subjects of the Soviet
Union, are taken under armed escort to
entrain for the Russian zone, or they are
handed over to the Russian authorities.
Some resist, though resistance is vain,
some escape, some commit suicide.
In December the Russian representative
at General Headquarters in the American
Zone demanded the “repatriation” of
21,706 “displaced” Ukrainians, who were
thereupon ordered to report in the
Russian camps near Stuttgart and Neun-
kirchen —the local German authorities
received instructions to refuse them work,
food and sheltdr. The Ukrainians sent
for priests so that they might be prepared
for death. Many committed suicide.
Ukrainians have been rounded up in
the streets of German towns. Russian
soldiers are feared more than the press-
gang was ever feared. Thousands of
Ukrainians have taken to the forests and
hills and live as marauders, a menace to
public security. They fear that the camps
are but a stage on the journey to Siberia,
But the long history of the Ukrainian
struggle for freedom is not over. There
are limits to what even the Russians can
do. The Western Ukrainians, like the
Poles, the Rumanians, the Serbs and
others, cannot simply be suppressed or
assimilated and, even now, a new struggle
for liberation has begun, taking secret
and unprecedented forms, among the
people, numbering over 100,000,000 be-
tween the Arctic and the /Egean. Besides,"
there are over 300,000 Ukrainians in
Canada and more than a million in the
United States (of the Ukrainians in
Canada, some 50,000 volunteered to
serve with the Canadian forces against
Germany). There is, among the Ukrai-
nians across the Atlantic, a passionate
interest in the fate of their original home-
land and of their fellow Ukrainians, who
are, in Europe, passing through the most
tragic period of their tragic history.
The old and intractable “Ukrainian
problem” cannot be solved by being
smothered. It will always be kept alive
in America. It is, of course, beyond the
powers of Great Britain and the United
States to play a decisive part in Eastern
Europe, as they could after the First
World War. But it is in their power to
uphold, in their dealings with fugitive
Eastern Europeans, who are under their
care, those rules of conduct and those
principles that belong to the texture of
Western civilisation.
* J<i ***
The deep and persistent Rumanian
economic, political and constitutional
crisis has been, and is being, artificially
deepened and perpetuated as a means of
demoralisation and disintegration by
Russia and her agents, both Russian and
Rumanian. The Rumanian Government
is principally an instrument with which
Russia promotes this purpose.
Goods have disappeared from the
market, not only because of the direct
exactions of the Russians under the
terms of the treaty, but also because of
secret exports to Bulgaria, Hungary and
Yugoslavia. Rumania no longer con-
trols her own customs —the customs
officials have been removed from the
frontiers on Russian demand.
Under the terms of the armistice,
Russia was to release her Rumanian
prisoners-of-war. But she declared that
out of a total of 300,000 prisoners only
136,000 had been identified —164,000 had
vanished without leaving a trace: 18,600
prisoners were repatriated, another 30,000
were expected (and may have arrived by
now), but 50,000 are being retained for
work in Russian factories, no one knows
for how long.
Under the Economic Convention signed
in Moscow last year, Russia has the right
to a share of 50 per cent, in all the more
important Rumanian concerns —and of
these the technical management passes
into Russian hands. Rumania is also
compelled to lease to Russian-Rumanian
companies all harbor and dockyard in-
stallations at Constanza, Galatz, Brail a
and Giurjiu and to hand over, in good
condition, all existing aerodromes, as well
as suitable grounds for the construction
of new aerodromes.
There is, in Rumania, still some hope
that the Western Powers will make their
influence felt in accordance with their
promises and their declared principles.
But there is a growing awareness that
such hopes may be illusory. The Western
Powers, their policies, and all they stand
for, or profess to stand for, have been
defeated in Eastern Europe. Rumania,
like all the countries between the Arctic
and the Aigean' (Greece alone excepted),
has ceased to be independent as the result
of the Second World War —a war
in which more nations have lost their in-
dependence than gained it in the First
World War. This loss has been accom-
panied by the loss of liberty at home.
The foundations of order and justice have
been destroyed, all norms and standards
have vanished, only the incalculable
foreign oppressor and his agents, who
exercise a reign of terror, prevail. Maniu,
with his immense hold over the Rumanian
peasants, and the King, who, in spite of
his extreme youth, has shown exemplary
courage and commonsense, still exert a
strong moral authority. But beyond this
there is nothing the righteous can do,
except to look backwards and, in com-
mon with the other betrayed and en-
slaved nations of Eastern Europe, to re-
consider their future in terms of their
past—as a renewed struggle for national
independence, a struggle which will, per-
haps, be more difficult and impose greater
sacrifice than the struggles that were, but
will, nevertheless, be something to hope
for, to live and to die for.
Two-up in U.S.
In the current anti-gambling drive in
New York both public and judges have
been amazed at the police for bringing
in culprits accused of merely ‘‘pitching
pennies.” Usually, the magistrates dis-
miss these violations as too petty to conr
sider. The low down on this new coin-
game will interest all concerned. It was
introduced here during the war by mer-
chant seamen from Australia, where it is
widely known as ‘‘Two-up.” Briefly,
two pennies are placed on a small stick
of wood and tossed up into the air.
The bettors wager on whether they will
come down two heads, two tails or one
of each. There are at least 70 such games
always going on, and the bookies carry
as much as $30,000 to cover all bets at
a five per cent fee. It is estimated that
more than $2,000,000 changes hands
daily on New York’s waterfronts by these
penny-pitchers. — N.Y. ‘‘Daily News.”


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
lit
nirti!
m
ill
iiiiiiiS
lit
Ilf:
Hi
ws.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE," Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
• ' 86363 (4 lines!
'ho
will manage
YOUR ESTATE?
PERMANENCE
You are at the helm now. You know how to manage
your business to the best advantage. Your years ox
experience' have taught how to safeguard your . . situation
against varying industrial conditions and the ever-changing economic situation.
BUT
Have you appointed an Executor qualified to carry on your expert management
and to ensure for your- dependants their rightful heritage.'’
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N,S.W. LTD.
has had over fifty years’ experience in the management of all types of Estates,
the assets of which include businesses and manufacturing concerns. ensure
If you appoint the Company as Executor and Trustee of your Will, it will ensure
for your Estate the benefit of this experience backed by integrity and fmancial
stability and, through its permanence, uninterrupted administration until the
completion of the Trust. , „. . . .
E. V. T. Whittle ( Manager ) N. L. Shaw ( Assist. Manager)
PERMANENT
Write to-day for free Booklet.
TRUSTEE C». «t
N.S.W. IT»,
2 3.25
CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Report from Spain.
(By a Chicago “Tribune” staff correspondent in Madrid.)
To anyone coming to Spain after visit-
ing Central Europe, or even Denmark and
Sweden, the tumult and shouting over
the urgency to put an end to the Franco
regime strike a discordant note.
If the welfare of the Spanish people is
the dominant interest, as the American
State Department, the British Foreign
Office and France pretend that it is, the
co - ordinated anti - Franco demarche
smacks of hypocrisy to the point of ab-
surdity. For few observers here in Spain
can deny that, relatively, the Spanish
people are enjoying a greater measure of
the four freedoms than most European
countries.
True, the Government has strict con-
trol of the press and radio, but not to
the degree that there is now in Rumania,
Hungary, Czechoslovakia and other
countries. And it takes visitors only a
few hours to discover that as for the
other freedoms —that from fear, from
want and that of worship—this country
has the edge on all the countries men-
tioned as well as others. This, however,
does not mean that everything is perfect,
either economically or politically—far
from it.
Yet foreign newspapermen are allowed
absolute liberty to go where they please
throughout the country, which cannot be
said for any Russian or Russian-domi-
nated territory.
In order to understand the situation in
Spain it is necessary to realise that the
Spanish civil war was not a clear-cut
battle between the aristocratic, privileged,
reactionary classes on one side and the
progressive, freedom-loving liberals on
the other. Nor was it an ideological
struggle between simon-pure Commun-
ism and unadulterated Fascism.
Fascism‘and Communism towards the
end did, it is true, play an important
part, but other interests, monarchical,
church, personal hatred and passions
which had been pushed around, found
themselves in confusing and paradoxical
camps.
It is explained, even in non-Franco
circles, that the international effort to
oust Franco has strengthened his position
throughout the country not because the
Spaniards are opposed, as usually re-
ported, to outside interference in their
internal affairs, but because of the
general conviction that the objective is
not to restore the Republican-Democratic
regime but a Leftist dictatorship.
Foreign observers and Spaniards agree
that Franco has three great assets in his
favor: first, as protector of the church;
second, as the bulwark against Commun-
ism ; third, ability to maintain law and
order.
Many are for Franco because they are
convinced that a sudden change of Gov-
ernment might provoke another civil
war with resultant political and economic
chaos. They find things bad enough as
it is, but believe even at that they, are
better off than most countries of Europe.
There are strong forces against Franco,
but they are not allied. The aristocracy
and nobility and, to a certain extent,
even the Catholic Church want the
monarchy restored.
Communists and the extreme Socialists
want nothing of the kind, but there is a
great difference of opinion between
strong republican feeling and dyed-in-
the-wool Communists. Many want
Franco out, but for diverse reasons.
Anti-Semitism in Europe.
{From a N.Y. "Times” report .)
Anti-Semitism is more widespread in
the world than ever before in modern
times, although the collapse of the Nazi
empire deprived it of its greatest stimu-
lus, and the reaction to Nazi laws and
methods in most of Europe has driven it
underground, according to the consensus
of public and private reports of Jewish
leaders from many parts of the world who
assembled at the London conference of
Jewish organisations.
A survey of these representative
opinions from a variety of types of
Jewish communities on what to all of
them is the root of the problem of the
Jewish people’s future reveals some bright
spots. But the general testimony is that
the effect of the war and the years of
turmoil that preceded it has been to in-
crease anti-Semitism.
Of the countries that experienced Nazi
occupation, Belgium and France seem to
have been least affected by the flood of
anti-Jewish propaganda that the Ger-
mans released in all areas • under their
control.
It was a Belgian, however, who re-
ported that the lasting effect of Nazi
propaganda was the emergence of “Jewish
consciousness” among people who had
never before thought in terms of Jews
and non-Jews as categories. Similar de-
velopments were reported from Britain
and the United States, which were open
for years to Nazi and Nazi-supported
anti-Semitic campaigns.
The situation in Germany itself, as re-
ported by a German Jew from the
land, a, former concentration-camp in-
mate, is little better for the Jews than it
was under Hitler. The Allied authorities
—London “Daily Mail.”
STORM BREAKING IN ?
treat them as Germans and the Germans
still almost wholly accept the Nazis’ anti-
Semitic doctrines. Case after case in
which Jews during the past few months
have received threats, been attacked and
been subjected to hoodlumism were re-
counted by this leader of a Rhineland
Jewish community.
In countries under Soviet influence,
notably Bulgaria and Rumania, the Jews’
legal status is very much better than be-
fore the war, and efforts to revive anti-
Semitic agitation are ruthlessly suppressed
by the present Governments. Few rep-
resentatives from those areas thought,
however, that there had been any notice-
able decrease in anti-Semitism among the
people.
Bulgaria, the only country in Europe
with more Jews than before the war, re-
ported less anti-Semitism than Rumania
or Hungary, but most oI the delegates
believed that the anti-Semitic organisa-
tions in all Eastern Europe had merely
gone underground. In Poland, from
which no direct report was received at
the conference, anti-Semitic organisations
are known to be very active.
The survival of what might be called
organised anti-Semitism, which during the
Nazi heyday became throughout the
world the appendage of the German poli-
tical and propaganda machine, is looked
for mainly outside Europe. The remain-
ing groups with funds and publicity chan-
nels at their disposal are largely in the
Western Hemisphere, particularly Argen-
tina, Mexico and the United States.
Study of Hitler.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
Out of the chaotic Germany of the
Nineteen Twenties and the Nineteen
Thirties came a little man who looked
like the screen images of Charlie Chaplin
and had the instincts of Genghis Khan.
Major H. R. Trevor-Roper, the British
Intelligence Officer who investigated
Hitler’s life and deaths analyses • this
weird character. He finds him a study
in contrasts
A pitiful’ failure as a painter, Hitler
“always thought of himself as an artist
and of politics as a form of art.”
He had a sense of a messianic mission,
but he remained a petty bourgeois. He
loved “teacups and cream-buns, cuckoo
clocks and Bavarian bric-a-brac,” and he
loved death.
TT ~ ~ , . , . ,
kte liKoti to discuss books and pictures
with Eva Braun and he was an abso-
lately merciless killer. He was physic-
ally afraid of blood,” but the thought of
bloodshed “excited and intoxicated him.”
He had the choice of the best German
doctors, but he selected a greedy quack,
who, according to Major Trevor-Roper,
administered nostrums that hastened his
final physical collapse.
He liked simplicity and “coziness,” but
in his last days he lived like an Oriental
potentate, in a “despotic court of toadies
and flatterers.”
He talked of rebuilding German power
to last a thousand years, but his ruling
motive was a “mania for destruction.”
•
Because he had a hypnotic quality in’
eyes and voice and because he had a
megalomaniac belief in himself, people
followed him.
Communist “Principles.”
(From a N.Y. "Post” article.)
No one will ever understand the Soviets
who has not known Communists. It is
not a breach of Communist principle to
lie, cheat, deceive, forge, make fools of
“rotten liberals,” betray friendships, make
“united fronts” only to subvert them, or
indulge in any means whatsoever to defeat
non-Communist policies.
Communist principle embraces mortal
struggle. Its object is to win against all
odds and by any means, for the sake of
an idea that has, for them, the force of
a crusading religion, bolstered by con-
viction of total millennial triumph.
In the eyes of a Communist believer
the individual is nothing, and personal
scruples but remnants of a “sickly,”
“bourgeois” morality. Thus the Com-
munist believer is ready to render not
only his life but his immortal soul, in
sincere faith that the end of his way is
the redemption of mankind.
If necessary, through blood and slime
—the exploitation of every vice, the
assassination of every opponent, the wily
deception of the tolerant, the mobilisation
of every passion of envy, frustration and
hatred, the exacerbation of every injustice,
the promise of every Utopia, the tem-
porary flattering of the capitalist, the
harsh disciplining of the worker, the de-
bunking of the traditional heroes, the
subversion of the law —through all these
the Communist faithful press toward the
great redemption, in a generation or in a
century, but with unswerving conviction
of the final unconditional surrender of
their enemies, whether of the right or the
left, for thus it is written in the infallible
law of human societies as laid down by
St. Marx, St. Lenin and St. Stalin.
MacArthur’s Fine Job.
(From a “Christian Science Monitor” Washing-
ton staff report.)
The nine non-American representatives
of the new Far Eastern Commission re-
turned to Washington after an on-the-spot
inquiry and inspection in Tokyo and it
can be stated authoritatively that they
are unanimous in wishing to have con-
tinued in the hands of the United States
the primary responsibility for the control
of Japan.
The Far Eastern Commission members
who are at one in supporting this con-
clusion and whose delegates reached it
on the basis of their first-hand consulta-
tions in Japan are Britain, China, France,
the Netherlands, Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, India and the Philippine Com-
monwealth.
The significant fact is that the more
closely and the more fully the Allies have
come to grips with actual conditions in
Japan, the more completely are they con-
vinced that multi-nation control —com-
parable to four-Power control in Ger-
many—or any modification of it is un-
workable.
From the reports which the returned
nine members of the committee have sub-
mitted to their Governments it is clear
that America’s allies overwhelmingly:
1. Desire that the United States exer-
cise the principal and in most instances
the decisive voice in internal Japan.
2. Favor retaining the exclusive author-
ity and responsibility of the American
Commander -in - Chief, General Mac-
Arthur.
3. Agree (and in some cases this is a
revision of some of the tentative judg-
ments they took with them) that General
MacArthur personally is doing an emi-
nently sound, thoroughgoing and states-
manlike job of carrying out the Potsdanr
surrender terms.
4. Join in bringing to Washington onu
disquieting and unresolved question
about American occupation; Will it last?
They believe the very appearance of
eagerness to get it over and rush home
already is playing into the hands of the
Japanese “old guard,” which is biding
its time, and that without an implacable
determination to see the- job through,
whether it takes 10, 20 or 30 years,
Japan’s demilitarisation will be short-
lived and its democratisation a failure.
Implicitly and explicitly, the Allied
observers are giving General MacArthur
high commendation for his performance
{Continued on page 32.)


m
C
■: V ■
V
.r
IS
■
i
-■-
/or the future
Here is a picture of a young married couple . . . they are
no different from any other young people in that they
derive pleasure from building Castles in the Air , in
planning the things they will have some day ... a family
... a home of their own ... a car perhaps . . . the
pleasures that they should have from life . . . and inde-
pendence in their old age. But their “dreams” are based
on solid foundations . . . on Whole of Life and Endow-
ment Assurance policies.
You, too, should plan now for the
future. You can look ahead to a
future of your own design. You
can be assured that your children will
have the education you want them
to have; yxju can go through life
with the knowledge that you are
covering every financial emergency
that is likely to arise; above all, you
can enjoy the freedom of knowing
that, in the event of your unexpected
death, your wife and children will at
least not have the additional burden
of immediate financial distress. . . .
All of* these things and more you
can achieve with Whole of Life and
Endowment Assurance Policies.
Have you sufficient cover to meet
any emergency? Consider now; and
remember that Assurance is alwlys
an investment.
LIFE ASSURANCE... TODAY’S PROTECTION
TOMORROW’S SECURITY.
THE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
LTD.
* *(*<
ppsnoi
n
ii
w
II
i!
tmms.
.. 1111 ua cm ram i
il niirararaaß l
II
il
II - V .
11 1,11
,ii "i!
liiui ii
CITY MUTUAL
Facts
A PURELY MUTUAL
ENTIRELY - AUSTRALIAN
SOCIETY.
INCORPORATED IN NEW
SOUTH WALES IN 1878.
LIBERAL POLICY CON-
DITIONS.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: City Mutual
Building, 459 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
TASMANIA: City Mutual
Building, 26 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: City Mutual
Building, 307 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: City
Mutual Building, 113 King
William Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building, 62 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
HEAD OFFICE: CR. HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: BW 2021


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3457
Wednesday, May 15, 1946
“ON THE HOUSE.”
“Everything’s free today, Comrades. Who wants India? Who wants Egypt?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia lor the White Man”
Directors:
H- K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David, Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper ffouse, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westualia: 33 Barrack. Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings C opp■
G.P.0.), Wellington,
THE MAN WHO WAS RIGHT.
During a week big with the fate of
the British Empire, a week marked
by the breaking of the news that the
Attlee government, already engaged in
surrendering India to factions sundered
by ancient animosities, had decided —
with Mr. Chifley’s concurrence, but not
that of General Smuts or Mr. Mackenzie
King—to withdraw the British forces
from the Alexandria naval base, the Suez
Canal zone and the rest of Egypt, Mr.
Churchill had a thought for Neville
Chamberlain,
He “repudiated the idea” that “it was I
who raised the spirit of the British nation
in May and June, 1940.”
Members of the Government would have
torn me to pieces if I had suggested sur-
render. Neville Chamberlain was among
those who wished to fight to the death.
Mr. Churchill has a sense of history, as
well as possessing the • candor, pride,
courage and chivalrousness of the British
aristocrat. It must have occurred to him
that Neville Chamberlain was No. 2 in
the Government which negotiated the
treaty with Egypt, and had the ordering
of it himself as Prime Minister for 30
pre-war months, during which effective
measures were taken for the defence of
the vital base and region. No doubt Mr.
Churchill recalled also that Neville
Chamberlain set a limit on Jewish immi-
gration into Palestine in the Wtpte Paper,
to which Mr. Churchill himself was
opposed, and steadfastly refused to inter-
vene in Spain.
These particular Chamberlain measures
are now under review. In concert with
the other so-called United Nations,
Britain could make short work of the
Franco regime and, at the cost of strife
with the Arab world, export all the
European Jews to Palestine ; but there
can be very few English-speaking men
with sane minds who are of opinion that
either stroke of policy would not now be
utterly mad.
In 1938, even in Australia, and not only
by Communists and fellow-travellers, Mr.
Chamberlain was attacked for refusing to
take Britain and the Empire into war on
behalf of Czechoslovakia. In America
especially he was accused of being a
coward. Events have shown that his little
finger was thicker than the loins of those
who blackguarded him. He knew that
Czechoslovakia, with furiously dissatis-
fied Polish, German, Hungarian and
Slovak minorities, was falling to pieces,
and that its only chance of survival as a
Czech republic was to accept the junc-
tion of its German province with the
one living German State. He knew also,
what none of his critics realised, that
France was neither able nor willing to
fight, and had grave and justified doubts
of Russia.
But Russia and Communists the world
over were talking fight; and at Stalin’s
invitation Neville Chamberlain sent a
military mission to Moscow to explore
the possibility of an alliance which might
deter the Nazis by exploiting German
fears of a war on two fronts. Moscow’s
first terms —it had others in reserve had
Neville Chamberlain been the weak and
shifty character of Left-Wing fiction —
were the annexation of the Baltic States
and half of Poland. The Chamberlain
Government could have accepted them
only at the price of dishonor, and this
price it refused to pay. It had previously
given a guarantee to Poland that it would
support that country if Hitler tried to
grab it, as he grabbed Czechoslovakia.
To this guarantee it was faithful, and it
brought in the faltering French Govern-
ment, though there was a strange and
still-unexplained delay in the French
declaration of war. It has come out at
the Nuremberg trials that throughout the
negotiations with Hitler and his satellites
when the Polish question became acute,
Neville Chamberlain, the scorn of fools
and knaves, multitudes' of whom sup-
ported Stalin in his double-crossing—all
the knaves and most of the fools—stood
as firm as a rock.
When the war came the Chamberlain
Government took the Empire into it with
clean hands, with a year gained and with
none of the barriers to the moral and
material support from the American con-
tinent, in the end decisive, which would
assuredly have been erected had Britain
intervened in Spain and tried to preserve
a dissolving Czechoslovakia, whose first
measure when reconstituted after the war
was to abandon 800,000 Ruthenians in
one of its four original provinces to
Russian greed.
It has been alleged a thousand times,
and still is, that September, 1939, found
Britain in poor shape. Actually, it was
inferior to the enemy only in tanks, and
the Germans maintained their superiority
in tanks till they were finally defeated.
The British Navy and Merchant Navy
were ready for all emergencies. The
Army had first-class leaders and was be-
ginning to draw on the splendid material,
provided for by the Chamberlain con-
scription measure, that, with regulars
from Britain and India and with volun-
teers from those countries and from Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and South Africa,
was’ to show its mettle on many stricken
fields and gain the decisive victory at
El Alamein. The R.A.F, was already
supplied with Spitfires and Hurricanes
and with the lads who were to fly them
victoriously in the Battle of Britain with
the help of radar, a potent factor in the
defence of Britain and—as Admiral
Doenitz has admitted—in the defeat of
the U-boats. And everything was ready
for the conversion of British industry
from a peace to a war footing which was
to have prodigious results for all the allies
and unhappy results for all tjie enemies.
Having more imagination than any of
his critics, Neville Chamberlain foresaw
that another war would be terrible
and would have terrible effects. He
strove to avert it by every means
in his power, short of bartering away
British honor and vital British and
British Empire interests. In the pre-
sent dreadful plight of the world,
with millions doomed to die of
starvation and pestilence, and with
Russia trying to become master of Europe
and Asia and to stir up civil war in other
countries—in the process devouring all its
pledges, holding up all the peace treaties
and increasing the sum of wretchedness
by living off the occupied countries and
eating into the stocks of U.N.R.R.A.
food while sending huge quantities of
grain to France and Czechoslovakia —
can any true and clear-headed subject of
the King find it in his heart and con-
science to revile Neville Chamberlain?
Not his the guilt of the wars or their
frightful consequences. There was no
thought in his time of withdrawing
from India and Egypt or leaving the
Sudan naked to enemies. What other
men are giving away he kept intact. And
other men, American and British, will
have to answer to humanity and history
for the surrenders at Yalta and Potsdam
which brought fhe Russians back into
Port Arthur and Dairen and into the
Kuriles, and which planted the seeds of
other wars in Europe—now, except for
the little democracies, a scene of misery
and ruin unexampled since the Mongol
invasions.
Belling the Cat.
It is almost an axiom in public life in
Australia today that for any signs of
sanity and commonsense one must look
to the smaller States. For that reason
alone Australia needs more small States,
a reform which could be best accom-
plished by the division of the State with
more than two-fifths of the population,
overcentralised and strike-ridden N. S.
Wales.
In South Australia new industries are
being established and jobs created for
workmen who are old-fashioned enough
to believe that security and comfort are
gained by honest work and who are not
deluded by the agitation of those
who preach that the millennium is just
around the corner, and may be achieved
by producing less goods in less time for
more money. The coalminers at Collie
in Westralia, ignoring the gospel preached
by their Communist-led colleagues in
N. S. Wales, are producing more coal
instead of less and thus helping their
State to become less dependent on the
caprices of the blackmail gang in the
Mother State. From Tasmania, smallest
of the States, comes the latest sign of
returning sanity; the latest and the most
significant, in that it comes from the
Labor Premier.
Speaking in Hobart, Mr. Cosgrove told
his followers, and incidentally the Labor
movement of Australia, that the time had
come for Labor to change its whole out-
look. It must drop the theory that its
function was to fight for decent wages
and conditions. It must regard that part
of its task as completed and realise that
its job now was to defend its standard of
living by an entirely new outlook towards
industry, Mr. Cosgrove said;
The world needs production to save it
from disaster. Labor’s standard of living
in Australia cannot now be saved by mere
adjustments of wages. The main , need of all
workers is more goods produced at lower
prices. Labor cannot now logically try to
enforce its demands by cessation of work.
Every time work stops production of
goods stops. That means that scarcity
wruch endangers our economic situation is
intensified. Urgently-needed goods in all
countries of the world must be produced
in greater quantities or black markets will
increase and multiply until no power on
earth will be able to stop • a reduction in
the workers’ standard of living.
These are words of plain commonsense
and their truth must be evident to any-
one who has given any thought or study
to elementary economics. But this is the
first time any Labor leader has had the
courage to voice such words, and the Tas-
manian Premier must be respected for
daring to call a halt to the disastrous
course the Labor movement in Australia
is running. No Federal Minister has been
game to tell his followers this truth ; no
Minister of the unspeakable N. S. Wales
“Labor” Government has taken time
off from the races or the dogs, or from
pandering to brewers and publicans and
arranging pensions far in excess of those
issued to maimed servicemen and service-
men’s widows, for self and pals, to warn
the coalminers, the meatworkers or the
wharfies of the boomerang effect of their
crazy policy.
Mr. Cosgrove will be abused and black-
guarded by the Communists and their
fellow-travellers ; he will be reviled be-
cause he has been courageous enough to
tell the truth and he will be sneered at
because he belongs to one of the smaller
States ; but he has started something that
the Labor movement cannot ignore. If
Labor continues to connive at destructive
strikes and go-slow it will be the workers
and Australia that will be the heaviest
ultimate sufferers, as they are the heaviest
immediate sufferers.
While Mr. Cosgrove was issuing his
warning to his followers, Red Fascist
Thornton was telling his confederates and
serfs of what was in store for them and
the rest of the community “in the very
near future.” This Communist ruffian,
who boasted that his organisation made
strikes its business, even during the “im-
perialist” war against Germany, which
was to be “settled” by peace with a vic-
torious Hitler, was perhaps a little
flushed with May Day fervor—Senator
Donald Grant, Dr. Evatt’s “adviser” at
the Peace Conference (if any), had the
previous day followed Comrade Sharkey
on the platform at the Sydney Domain.
Thornton had probably not then heard
of the Communist defeat at the French
referendum, but he left no doubt as to
the intention of his gang to stage another
hold-up of industry throughout Australia.
And the following day at a public meet-
ing held at the Sydney Town Hall to pro-
test against Communist-inspired strikes
Communist louts and viragoes, running
true to form, tried to wreck the meeting,
denying to the 2000 people present the
right of free speech, long acclaimed the
cornerstone of democratic order. Their
demonstration only served to emphasise
to the gathering the gangster nature of
the conspiracy behind the lawless strikes
that paralyse industry and the country’s
return to normal conditions. Thornton,
in his tirade against all who have had the
temerity to disagree with him (all “Fas-
cists,” of course), abused 8.H.P., the
president of the A.C.T.U., the N.S.W.
secretary of the A.R.U. and the Arbitra-
tion Court, B.H.P. had “double-crossed
the Metal Trades Federation,” Mr.
Clarey and Mr. Ferguson had shown
“where they stand, and will stand, in the
big fight for the working class,” and the
Arbitration Court was “a bar to real
progress.”
Meanwhile, Miners’ Federation Reds
were making similar ominous threats,
directed in the first place at the pusil-
lanimous “Government” in Sydney, and
there was every indication that Australia
was in for another succession of Com-
munist-inspired blackouts. In Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane Moscow minds on
the waterfront were trying to convert a
wool-loading “dispute” over “double-
dumping,” of which a great many water-
siders are known to approve because it
means handling by 12 men instead of
nine, into a complete hold-up of shipping.
Taking it all round, “militant Labor”
seemed bent on bringing about the very
conditions against which Mr. Cosgrove
uttered his warning and Mr. Forde his
wail about strikes being “Labor’s Achilles
heel.”
From Sydney, main storm centre of in-
dustrial anarchy, no responsible Labor
voice was raised to warn the workers or
to support the Tasmanian Premier’s re-
marks. All the indications are that none
will be raised, save perhaps for feeble
bleats. After all, what could a Sydney
“Labor” politician, State or Federal,
learn from a backward State like Tas-
mania or from a pint-sized town like
Hobart?
"These English People."
When last heard from Mr. Calwell was
still in a dreadful state of mind about “these
English people” —a man from 8.8. C. and
another from the Ministry- of Informa-
tion who, with their wives and children,
had arrived to take up jobs in a country
to which Mr. Calwell is bringing 2000
European Jews without turning a hair.
At the same time, Mr. Calwell had an
argument on his hands with the “World’s
Press News,” published in London.
When Lord Louis Mountbatten and
his lady came to this country some Eng-
lish and American journalists proposed
to accompany them. The “World’s Press
News” said they were told by the Aus-
tralian Government that it couldn’t pro-
vide transport to Darwin. S.E.A.C. fur-
nished a Dakota, which flew the only
two members of the party who persisted
in going on to Sydney ,and Melbourne.
The pair left the ’plane at Melbourne and
paid their own fares to Brisbane. They
were not invited to any official function,
and had to “scrounge” accommodation
and do the best they could.
The background of the treatment i*
understood to be that the Cabinet Minister
concerned has an anti-press phobia which
finds expression against both local and visit-
ing correspondents.
The newspapermen went on to New
Zealand. The Fraser Government sent a
’plane to Sydney to get them and ap-
pointed a Cabinet Minister to attend
them, supply their wants and arrange
interviews. They had the best accommo-
dation as guests of the Government, were
present at all official functions and sent
glowing reports to their papers.
Somebody asked Mr. Calwell, the
Cabinet Minister With the “anti-press
phobia,” about it. He said:
They came unheralded and left without
presenting their visiting cards. The Com-
monwealth’s invitation was to Lord and
Lady Louis Mountbatten, and there appears
to be no legitimate reason for foreign
pressmen being associated with the visit.
In view of the complaint that they got no
free feeds and no free tickets, the moral
seems to be that if you don’t give free en-
tertainment the claims of your country are
excluded.
To this the “World’s Press News” re-
plied, for the newspapermen, that,
although Mr. Calwell and his crowd
had “prior knowledge of their prospective
arrival, no welcome and no courtesies
were extended.” Yet the newspapermen
were commissioned to “tell the people of
Britain and America something of Aus-
tralia’s resources and war effort.”
To the churlish Mr. Calwell they were
just foreigners, with no right to any
welcome or courtesy.
There followed the admission from
Canberra that “numbers of Australian
businessmen are temporarily stranded in
New Zealand because of transport diffi-
culties” ; and it has been no secret for
months that many hundreds of New Zea-
landers are, from the same cause,
stranded in Australia. But this does not
apply to a party of Australian pugilists
who, with in two cases wives and families,
were in New Zealand for five weeks.
Special arrangements must have been
made for these worthies with Mr. Cal-
well’s sanction or that of Mr. Ward, that
discriminating patron of pugilists, a sur-
prisingly large number of whom plied
their trade on the home front during the
war with Japan.
Special arrangements must also have
been made for a party of English pro-
fessional footballers who arrived in Fre-
mantle, bound for New South Wales and
Queensland, the only parts of Australia
in which their Rugby League game is
played, by the aircraft-carrier Indomit-
able. “Transport difficulties” delayed
their progress to the cities where the
money is good, and there was an unholy
row. A Sydney “Morning Herald”
correspondent travelling with the foot-
ballers revealed that “the English Rugby
League did not desire to send a team this
season, but agreed when Dr. Evatt issued
a pressing invitation on behalf of the
Commonwealth Government.” Recording
that a “troop train” was arranged for
them at Perth, the correspondent men-
tioned that, “as the team will have
travelled under cheap Service conditions
all the way from England to Sydney, the
saving on the tour finances will be con-
siderable.” Whether the “saving” will
be at the cost of Australian or British
taxpayers the correspondent did not state.
It may be that the tour is a pre-election
stunt, like the visit of Mr. Attlee, which
doesn’t look much of a pre-election stunt
since the Suez Canal business. Anyway,
the privileges extended to the profes-
sional footballers who received “a press-
ing invitation from Dr. Evatt on behalf
of the Commonwealth Government” can-
not be squared with Mr. Calwell’s strident
objections to the visit of the “foreign
pressmen” or with the arrival of the two
(2) “English people” —not to play football
for money but to work —for which he
blames not only the Melbourne “Herald’
but the British Ministry of Informa-
tion (“I think it was highly im-
proper for the British Ministry of Infor-
mation to recommend a priority passagi
for Bell”). But consistency is as “foreign’
as good manners to this patron of Euro
pean-Jew immigration.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Police "Evidence."
A public meeting held at Sydney Town
Hall as a protest against industrial law-
lessness almost developed into a riot
when Communists of both sexes
attempted, in the well-known Communist
manner, to shout down the speakers and
disorganise the proceedings. There were
2000 people in the hall and hundreds out-
side who couldn’t get in, and they were in
no mood to tolerate Communists an atti-
tude which became so quickly manifest
that even the louts recognised it and left
most of the interrupting to women, after
fights and struggles in the body of the
hall and in the galleries.
The chairman, Alderman Henson, fre-
quently called upon police and town-
hall officials to remove troublemakers.
Some of them resisted violently. It took
sometimes three police to handle one
male lout. Up in the gallery a female
fastened her hands to the rail and for
many minutes struggled against the
officers. Her hat fell off, her hair fell
down, she grabbed an officer’s cap and
threw it to the hall below, all the time
shrieking at the top of her voice.
A man in what appeared to be
R.A.A.F. khaki uniform grabbed the
microphone while Dr. Louat was using
it and there was a struggle for its pos-
session. A fellow rushed from the organ
aisles to the front of the platform and
began to speak. A man behind him
grabbed him by the collar and forced him
down into a seat with violence three
times. Another platform-rusher was
attacked by two or three others; more
rushed in, including two men in A.I.F.
uniform, and there was a brawl for some
minutes. Up- in the rear gallery, four
men seized an interjector and frog-
marched him out.
This sort of thing went on throughout
the meeting. Naturally, it made headline
news in the daily press, illustrated by
photographs of struggles.
The ferocious challenge to the right of
public meeting was debated in “Parlia-
ment” two days later, and a “Labor”
member named Finnan had the face to
suggest that “those who disturbed the
meeting were paid by the conveners”-*-
one of whom, and principal speaker, was
a fellow-M.L.A., the mild and benevolent
D. P. Macdonald, who was a Presby-
terian minister for many years. And the
Premier, who took over the direction of
the Police Department for a time, tabled
astonishing examples of police evidence.
An inspector reported:
I have perused accounts of what trans-
pired in the daily papers and they are
much exaggerated. There were no in-
stances of women or men struggling or
being ejected. On the contrary, on being
requested to leave the hall, they walked
out peacefully and did not return. None
of the names of the persons ejected was
taken, no action was desired by the chair-
man other than the ejection, and the ejected
persons committed no offence where police
action could be taken independently.
A sergeant: —
No bad language or insulting remarks
were heard. The interjections were purely
of a political nature, in many cases de-
manding the right to speak.
Another sergeant:
I saw a man spring on to the platform
and attempt to speak. An official .grappled
with him and they slipped and fell to the
floor 1 separated them and removed the
intruder, who left the hall peacefully.
This stuff has drawn flat public con-
tradictions from chairman, principal
speaker, reporters and members of the
audience, among them a clergyman
and Dr. Currey, of the University.
If it is a fair sample of police
evidence presented in criminal cases, the
reluctance of juries to convict on police
evidence is explained. In any case, it is
a startling example of the current police
view of public meetings on subjects of
public importance. Apparently they are
only for Communists to hold, and to
break up or try to break up (in each case
with impunity) if anti-Communists pre-
sume to hold them.
The Indian Cauldron.
“Lao-dah”: In demanding not one but
two constitutions for India, the Moslem
leader Jinnah confirms the Englishman
who said that the essential thing to learn
about India is that “there is not and never
was an India, nor even any country of
India, possessing, according to European
ideas, any sort of unity, physical, political,
social or religious. There is no Indian
nation, no ‘people of India,’ of which we
hear so much.”
The central Indian wild tribes, the de-
scendants of Arab, Afghan, Mongol and
Persian invaders, the southern Dravidians,
the Aryan Hindus, the Armenians and
Parsees make a hotchpotch of races, lan-
guages, cultures and customs that be-
wilder the most competent observer. A
third of the population speak Hindu, a
sixth Bengali, and there are hundreds of
other dialects and lingos.
In religion the “nation” is even more
confounded. There are 217,000,000
Hindus, 11,000,000 Buddhists, 3,000,000
Sikhs and 70,000,000 Moslems. There
are Jains, who kill nothing, not even the
anopheles mosquito, and descendants of
the Thugs who worshipped the uncom-
fortable deity Kali and gave a name to
the language by strangling 30,000 of their
fellow-countrymen annually. Throw into
this witches’ cauldron the various sects
amongst the Moslems and the 70,000,000
outcastes, co-religionists with the Brah-
mins, and what have you?
I once saw a high-caste Hindu prepare
himself a meal at a wayside station, He
had piles of chupattees, the Indian equiva-
lent of bread, and was preparing to
dip them into a bowl of curry and enjoy
a magnificent repast—he was obviously
very hungry—when an untouchable
passed and his shadow fell across the
Brahmin’s breakfast. With a wrathful
gesture the Brahmin flung the food into
a pool of water behind him and, beside
himself with fury, leapt up and gave the
untouchable an unmerciful kick. He
would sooner have starved than
eaten the food.
Mr. Jinnah wants a Moslem constitu-
tion covering six provinces, the rest to
be Hindu. He cries pathetically: “Canada
and America five together—why can’t
Moslems and Hindus?” A Hindu-Moslem
conference to promote unity or agree on
disunity has broken down, though three
British Cabinet Ministers were on hand
to give one or other their blessing. The
three British Cabinet Ministers are stay-
ing on in India, hoping for the best.
The S.-P. Madness.
Of all the silly ways of wasting time and
money, starting-price betting is the
silliest. The vast majority of those who
go in for it, men, women and children —
the proportion of women is startling, and
VOICELESS AND TOOTHLESS.
“Denouncing ‘Labor’ acquiescence in Communist go-slow in the building trades, and declaring
that ‘Communists are the real leaders of this State today,’ ex-Premier Dunstan (Victoria)
likened ‘Labor’ to a pomeranian that barks like a bulldog but never bites.”
“Albert is wrong about this ‘Labor’ dog. He doesn’t bark and he can’t bite.”
seems to be on the increase—never sees
and has never seen any of the horses (or
dogs) on which these simpletons bet. It
wouldn’t matter, of course, if they had
a nodding acquaintance with the beasts,
starting-price betting being one of those
pursuits in which a little learning is
dangerous. Even knowledge is apt to be
a rank deceiver.
For every man who has made money
as a punter, a thousand have gone broke
or retired before bankruptcy overwhelmed
them. Theo Marks, one of the leading
Sydney architects of his time, escaped the
latter fate, but before he died he con-
fessed that he had lost the equivalent of
a King’s ransom backing horses. Yet
Marks had “good information” and was
esteemed an excellent judge of a horse;
and so, of course, was Eric Connolly, the
Victorian. As owner, trainer, patron of
jockeys, student of form and judge of
pace, Connolly had what might be de-
scribed a genius for “the game” ; indeed,
qualities which would have carried him
to success in almost any calling. Yet he
cut up for only a fraction of what he
had gathered in, in stake-money and
wagers, after one of the many coups he
brought off when he was esteemed the
most successful racing man of his time.
Not all the multitudinous starting-price
mugs place their bets in shops, offices or
pubs, with principals or agents, or by
telegraph or over the telephone. Many
of them, in Sydney especially, take the
prices offered by racecourse bookmakers
on races in other cities, chiefly Mel-
bourne.
The accepted leader of those who eater
for this sort of business (“fruit for the
sideboard” in the parlance of the profes-
sion) is a young gentleman who came
unscathed through the wars except
for being fined for having added to
his possessions, contrary to National
Security Regulations, an elegant week-
end mountain retreat. It has been
recorded by a press to which he and the
like seem to be the noblest works of God
that this stalwart young gentleman backed
his Doncaster Handicap horse to win
£lOO,OOO, and that on the second of two
races won by the animal at Brisbane he
“landed a single bet of £lO,OOO to £2000,”
in addition to sharing in “a pay-out of
£lOO,OOO on doubles.” In other words,
this fellow is having a glorious time with
the fruits of his unexacting exertions as
bookmaker ; “mugs’ money.” How long
the glorious time will last if he continues
to punt in thousands is another matter.
The folly of starting-price betting and
the sordidness associated with it have
been thrown into sharp relief by the
murder of a woman, a middle-aged
divorcee, who took wagers, sometimes for
considerable amounts, in a tobacco kiosk
in York-street, Sydney. She was knocked
on the head and strangled on the after-
noon of a “settling-day,” and the mur-
derer must have known that she would
have large sums in the kiosk. The police
arrested an afternoon-paper reporter who
admitted owing the unfortunate creature
£lOB in booked wagers on slow horses.
He also, though not immediately, said he
had entered the kiosk intending to pay
£4O on account, and had come upon
the woman lying dead, being so overcome
that he got blood on his clothes (these he
hid) and couldn’t even think of telephon-
ing the police or his office. Going into the
witness-box, he strenuously maintained
his innocence, and there was evidence
that he was seen in a distant coffee joint
when the ferocity must have been com-
mitted ; then there were clumsy errors in
and omissions from the part of the case
for which the police were responsible.
The verdict was “not guilty.”
Reports of the case must have left odd
impressions of the habits of Sydney news-
papermen and the topics discussed at the
Journalists’ Club —incidentally, a haunt of
Communists and fellow-travellers. It is
too much to expect that they will bring
about a decline in the popularity of
starting-price betting, whether by smiting
the consciences of editors who make
horseracing their principal subject or by
convincing addicts, not too dumb to be
incapable of being convinced, that start-
ing-price betting is a mugs’ game, a cause
of the enrichment of loafers and of
misery and crime.
By all the rules of the mugs’ game —
if there are any rules —the young man
who stood in the dock last week should
have been crammed with “information”
and sitting in Easy Street. He had been
employed by both afternoon papers, and
may conceivably have been on intimate
terms with the wizards who compile
the “information” for the two morning
papers. Yet it came out that, on a salary
of £l2 10s. a week, he owed £lOB to the
woman who was knocked on the head
and £95 to a compositor who “made a
book” on his own premises.
No greater reform, social and indus-
trial, could be effected in N. S. Wales
than the abolition of starting-price
betting, and it could be brought about
by the restricting of betting and the pub-
lication of betting “information” to the
racecourse. But it is a vain aspiration,
for the “ ‘Labor’ Government” is as
racing-mad as the four daily and three
Sunday newspapers.
Price-fixers at Work.
From the sugar country:
Up here in Ingham (N.Q.) the citizens are
thinking of endowing the Institute of Anatomy
at Canberra with a glass-fronted refrigerator in
which to keep on permanent show the bisected
brain of any typical bureaucrat'. Candidates
for this posthumous honor may come from any
Commonwealth department, but preference will
be extended to members of the Prices Branch.
John Patrick Jackson, an Ingham publican, has
promised a preliminary donation of 3s. Bd.
towards this worthy object.
One day in June, 1945, John Patrick Jack-
son’s hostelry was invested by two non-coms,
of the Army Provost Corps who raised the siege
when sold a bottle of special reserve port wine
for 7s. Peace descended on the Jackson
hostelry. Came January, 1946, and a summons
for J.P.J., charging him with having fractured
Nat. Sec. (Prices) Regs, by selling that there
wine at that there price when the fixed price
was Is. Id. Now since J.P.J. had paid 4s. Ad.
a bottle for that wine, and since about'
before he had been assured by a Prices official
that he could sell it at 25 p.c. above cost
price, to cover freight', loss in transit —about
two bottles in every 12—and profit, he called
upon Messrs. Swayne and Hopkins, solicitors,
t'o defend him and right manfully they did it.
They satisfied the magistrate that not only
had John Patrick Jackson received that assur-
ance but that a North Queensland deputation
had visited Professor Copland in Canberra in
June, 1945, had protested against the absurdity
of the retail price of a thing costing 4s. 4d.
being fixed at Is. Id., had caused the professor
some “amusement,” and had been assured that
a new order would be made and in the mean-
time the goods could be sold at the 1940 ceiling
price—which was 7s. per bottle for special re-
serve port wine. What’s more, before the case
was finished, a new order came from Prices
fixing the retail price at 7s. lOd.
The case, with adjournments, lasted from
January to March. John Patrick Jackson
was exonerated and awarded £3l 10s. cost's
against the Crown. That, of course, neither
covered all his costs nor compensated him for
time, trouble and worry involved. But it did
reveal that, while the master minds were fixing
the price at Is. Id. for Ingham (N.Q.), it was
fixed at 6s. 6d. for Kalgoorlie (W.A.). And
since the s.r. port in question was a S.A.
product the moral seems to be that Bret Harte
was way off the track when he alleged that
For ways that are dark
And tricks that are vain.
The heathen Chinee is peculiar.
Which is why all Ingham wants to see that
addition to the Institute of Anatomy.
A Noxious Growth.
In'“Review of Marketing and Agricul-
tural Economics,” a monthly issued by
“The Division of Marketing and Agri-
cultural Economics” of the Department
of Agriculture (N.S.W.), the chief of the
division (all these Government depart-
ments and divisions and subdivisions
have their chiefs now), a Mr. H. J.
Hynes, holds that everybody is satisfied:
A striking feature of the considerations
that have been given to the post-war
stability of our primary industries has been
the need for placing the marketing of
commodities on an organised basis. This
has been evident in discussions between
Government officials and primary pro-
ducers ever since hostilities ceased —when
it seemed to dawn on most people that,
in spite of the somewhat irksome nature
of war-time controls, organised market-
ing had at least something to offer in the
way of stabilised prices and assured
markets that could not lightly be swept
aside in favor of an open and free market
with all its pitfalls.
After the reader has absorbed the mean-
ing of these two formidable sentences,
he comes to a comfortable forecast of
the establishment of a “company or co-
ordinating committee at the Federal level
to stabilise marketing,” with particular
reference to eggs and potatoes —as a be-
ginning. In the same publication two
lesser officials define the N.S.W. Market-
ing of Primary Products Act as “a demo-
cratic enactment,” and essay to prove it by
outlining the powers, activities and hopes
of the N.S.W. Egg Board, Rice Board,
Ginger Board and Wine Grapes Board.
Another lesser official extols the Federal
Government’s new wheat stabilisation
scheme.
Great play is made in all three articles
with “Government officials” and “pro-
ducers.” Nowhere does the con-
sumer or his wife get a mention, though
both do a power of hard thinking about
the multiple “controls.” In their experi-
ence and judgment “control” signifies
that the affected commodity disappears,
becomes too dear or goes on the black-
market.
However, that is not so much the point.
The Department of Agriculture is main-
tained by tax-money, and its purpose is
to educate farmers in land usage, apply
its scientific and other facilities to agricul-
tural problems and development and
make its findings on these matters avail-
able. For too long it has been financially
starved by Governments, thus being un-
able to employ sufficient men or means
to do an important job. But it is not, and
never was, intended to be a propaganda
machine for centralised official control
of food marketing nor for doubtful
wheat “stabilisation” schemes which reek
of party politics. Heaven help us if agri-
cultural department “chiefs” and their
offsiders become afflicted with the preva-
lent blighting notion that Australia- can
be saved only by public servants admini-
stering socialistic schemes!


k
m
N
5788
CRAVEN
IjouM oapweiak tkeh
•0
Obtainable in 10’s & 20’s
MADE
PREVENT SORE THR
POLITCAL POINTS
In Washington on Thursday Fio-
rello La Guardia, Director-General of
U.N.R.R.A., asked Chifley to hurry up
the delivery of 25,000 tons of Australian
wheat and to hasten the shipping of
manufactured goods already ordered.
Chifley promised to “attend to the
matter.” Then he left for Tokyo, just
before news reached America of the
wharfies’ strike over double-dumped wool-
bales which tied up ships in practically
every Australian port, many of them food
ships. Chifley times his departures well.
“I did not become the King’s first
Minister to preside over the dissolution
of the British Empire,” said Churchill
in a very dark hour. With the Empire
victorious Churchill’s successor has given
orders for the withdrawal of British
forces from Alexandria and the Suez
Canal zone —which will leave the Sudan
high and dry—as well as India. And
Criifley and Evatt “concur.”
As anticipated, Tully’s retreat to the
London office, with quite 2 p.c. of his
promises of farms for servicemen ful-
filled, has led to a 16th paid Minister
being inflicted on the N.S.W. taxpayers,
many of whom, with knowledge of the
amount of work done and the far greater
amount left undone by the Sydney
“ ‘Labor’ Government,” must long ago
have been convinced trial eight Ministers
would suffice. The sixteenth Minister is
C. Evatt, who rias been named Minister
of Tourist Activities and Immigration.
Since the great trouble with tourists is to
get accommodation, tourist activities
should not occupy the gentleman more
than two or three hours a week, and
immigration, in the jargon of Sydney
“Labor” Ministers when passing the buck,
is “a Federal matter.” All the same,
knowledgeable taxpayers may accept the
Ministry of Sinecures with a philosophic
shrug of the shoulders. Under the Legis-
lative Assembly Pensions Act, C. Evatt,
having been a member for nine years in
three Parliaments, could retire tomorrow
on a life pension of £5 a week, with re-
version of £3 a week to his widow.
The trumped-up complaint about
double-dumped wool deceives no one who
knows anything about wool, wharfies or
Communists. Double-dumping was in-
troduced before any watersider at present
in the game attended his first pick-up
During the late wars more than 10,000,000
of these bales were handled without com-
plaint. No lifting is involved, 12 men
are used in the hold as against nine for
single dumps* and extra men can be
called for if trie rolling exceeds a certain
distance. Woolstore employees handle
every bale many times before it reaches
the wharf ; no complaint has come from
them. To Red Fascists anything that
will hold up industry and spread chaos is
a good cause for a strike, and any strike is
good for their Cause.
In Queensland it is taken for granted
that Hadley will be the easiest “Labor”
M.H.R. to beat. Lilley, his electorate,
had its first contest in 1913, and Hadley is
its first “Labor” representative—he got
in last time with a majority of 482 in an
effective poll of 67,620. As if astonished
by his success he did not open his mouth
in the House for a long time. All his
utterances have confirmed the impression
that he is fated to be a one-term member.
All that “S. M. Herald” could find to
say about Dr. Wallace, who is to oppose
Dedman in Corio, was that he was bom
in Orange (N.S.W.) and was educated,
from Fort-street to Med. School, in
Sydney, Nothing about his service as
captain in the A.A.M.C. in the 1914-18
war, or about his long association with
Geelong since his return from Palestine.
He has been a Geelong councillor since
1931, was Mayor for three years 1942-45,
and is otherwise honorably known for his
association with the Infectious Diseases
Hospital and the Old Folks’ Home. A
medical philanthropist of Scottish extrac-
tion witri a fine record of public service
is the answer to an election agent’s
prayer. Dedman would prefer to have
Casey for an opponent.
It is anticipated at Canberra that every-
thing will be ready for the broadcasting
of debates when Parliament returns to its
job next month. Apart from other con-
siderations, it is only what the Australian
daily press deserves for its skimpy reports.
Heavily as the newsprint restrictions
(always more severe in Britain than in
Australia) have handicapped great news-
papers like the “Times” and the Man-
chester “Guardian,” they still make the
reporting of Parliament their principal
feature, as also does the New York
“Times” in the case of Congress. In the
city with a sixth of the Australian popu-
lation the newspapers give pride of place
to horseracing, making a special appeal
to the starting-price punter, that most
credulous and irrational of mugs.
A. N. Kemsley, giving up his position
as director of organisation at Army head-
quarters and business adviser to the
Army, opened his heart to Melbourne
Legacy:
A great deal of duplication could have
been avoided if Australia had had one com-
batant Service instead of three, each with
different postal, medical, 1 canteen and other
ancillary services. In extra expenditure and
wastage of manpower, the taxpayers paid
very heavily for want of a national
Ministry, which it could have had when
Mr. Menzies made the great gesture of
offering to resign as Prime Minister and
serve under Mr. Curtin.
A true bill; and Kemsley might
have added that post-war credits, pro-
posed in Fadden’s last Budget and
skittled by “Labor” with the assistance
of its friends Coles and Wilson (now
most handsomely provided for), as well as
directly benefiting taxpayers would have
been a useful check on expenditure. For
Blarney, Kemsley had notriing but praise,
regarding him as the “savior of his coun-
try,” most boorishly requited—it “was a
cowardly, miserable action of the Prime
Minister to run 12,000 miles away and
then use the word ‘stooge’ in relation
to this man.” Chifley used it again in
the U.S.A.
A Sydney stipendiary, R. C. Atkin-
son, has ruled that trie Re-establish-
ment and Employment Act doesn’t apply
to cases like that of W. C. Taylor, vice-
president of the N. S. Wales A.L.P., who
was named vice-chairman of the
National Airlines Commission under
Coles, at £5OO a year, “It means,” said
the president of the N.S.W. Air Force
Association, “that ex-servicemen can only
get the pick and shovel jobs—the plums
will go to friends of the Government.”
And that’s just about it
At the instance of the Bendigo Trades
Hail Council, Field, the Victorian Edu-
cation Minister, has ordered the “revision”
of a geographical textbook in which the
Russian people are described as “mostly
small farmers and very backward.” Only
one word needs revision—the substitu-
tion of “collective” for “small.” But
that, of course, wouldn’t suit the Bendigo
Trades Hall Council; and in these and
other matters Labor Ministers are the
humble servants of such concerns.
In Brisbane “Courier-Mail’s” opinion,
“Australia has drifted far since the days
when it was tradition that no stranger
should be turned from a homestead door
unfed or without having his tuckerbag
filled with flour and sugar.”
Whole nations can go hungry now and
we don’t care.
A great many Australians do care, but
they need leadership and none has been
forthcoming. Even the Food for Britain
appeals, which anticipated the one in New
Zealand behind which a Labor Govern-
ment with some pretensions to the title
has thrown its weight, were cold-
shouldered by Food Controller Murphy
and Dedman. Still, Chifley has promised
to “review the position” or something
when he returns.
John Francis Barnes, Esquire, “the
Bundaberg Bombshell,” has had the laugh
on the Brisbane Government, which had
him evicted from the Parliamentary
Lodge after the latest of his suspensions.
An appeal from a magisterial nonsuit
ended in Barnes being awarded £25 dam-
ages, with costs (£B9 6s. Bd.), against a
detective-sergeant who had been called
in to “thrun” him out and was held to
have assaulted him.
On March 21 Barnes was called to
account by the Speaker for “defamatory
and un-Parliamentary expressions” and
ordered to withdraw and apologise. His
answer (censored) was that he would
“sooner crack stones on the road,”
and after further remarks (also censored)
he whirled himself out of the House.
Thereupon Premier Hanlon, premising
that “the Constitution gives this Parlia-
ment power to deal in any way it thinks
fit, either by fine or imprisonment, with
any member who has in any way inter-
rupted the business of this House,” moved
that “the hon. member for Bundaberg
(Mr. J. F. Barnes)” should be required
to purge the offence of contempt by
paying a fine of £3O, such fine to be paid
within 14 days. It looks as if Barnes
will pay the Crown with its own money.
At a State Parliamentary sitting in Mel-
bourne today A, J. Fraser, till recently
chairman of the Transport Regulation
Board, is to receive C.P. and Liberal sup-
port for the vacant Senate seat against
A. R. Hendrickson, who was Keane’s
campaign secretary. Considering the
state of parties in both Houses, Fraser
should win easily, but a difficulty has
arisen with three C.P. Ms.L.C. who voted
with the Government on the Teaching
Service Bill. Their party nominations
for the L.C. elections on June 15 are now
in question, and that may make a differ-
ence.
The by-election for Bremer will be a
test of Queensland feeling towards the
predominant party. The Opposition has
hopes of regaining the seat, and can point
to a swing in the local municipal vote,
the suffrage being the same as in State
and Commonwealth. But F. A. Cooper,
who was Premier and is now Lieut.-Gov.-
ernor, was Bremer’s member for 33 years
without a break, being several times un-
opposed, so an Opposition victory seems
almost too much to expect.
A Dutch Parliamentary commission
returned from the N.E.I. to The Hague
convinced that “the Indonesian Republic”
was “made in Japan,” its two leaders
having during the entire occupation “been
in the service of the Japanese war
machine.” It asserts that “the population
as a whole was very pro-Dutcri from the
moment of the capitulation until well into
the second half of September; then the
incitement began.” Much of the incite-
ment came from Communists in Aus-
tralia, and they are still engaged in the
foul riusiness (and not only in the N.E.1.)
of stirring up a color war.
It looks as if General de Gaulle will
be back in the saddle before long with
a firm seat. When he decided to
retire he must have had a shrewd
notion of what was coming and have real-
ised that intelligent and patriotic French-
men would resent their country being
made a pawn in the Moscow game and
further humiliated by the idiotic measures
against Franco’s Spain, so reminiscent of
the Bourbonist invasion of that country
in 1823. He must also have had a vision
of the failure of the Communist-Socialist
effort to impose a Moscow-favored Con-
stitution with one Chamber, a dummy
President and a dummy judiciary on a
people that has lost much but not its
pride. Fail it did, not only in the pro-
vinces but in Paris itself, the Red Belt
notwithstanding, the adverse majority
being nearly a million and a quarter.
The Victorian Government continues
to discuss ways and means of circum-
venting N.S.W. coalminers and their hold-
ups, conversion from black coal to brown
coal being envisaged to take 20 years.
Another portent is the experimental use
of oil for driving engines. A test of a
locomotive has pleased the Railways
Commissioners so much that they are
pushing the project further.
Americans addicted to running down
the British colonial system —Leftists
principally—never forget to make dis-
paraging comparisons between its results,
as reflected in the condition and feeling
of the colored populations, and those of
U.S. rule in the Philippines. A good test
will be afforded when (or if) Uncle Sam
makes the promised gift of independence
on July 4. Meanwhile there have been
elections, and the Filipinos have a new
President, Osmena having been defeated
by Roxas. Australians who have been
to Manila bring back no alluring account
of the situation and prospects. A Sydney
“Herald” man has noted “the influence
of Australian Communist party propa-
ganda” on the native Corns., a rotten
influence wherever exerted.
Gromyko, the Soviet delegate to the
U.N.0., was pushing his case for “action”
against Franco (J.B. to take most of
the “action”) when Stettinius (U.S.A.)
said his country wanted to avoid civil
war. Gromyko answered “Civil wars
have not always brought bad results;
take, for instance, the civil war between
trie American States.” It was fought over
80 years ago, and some of the bitterness
still remains, though the winners were
merciful —Grant told Lee his soldiers
could take their horses home “for the
spring ploughing.” All Communist civil
wars are orgies of massacre and robbery,
and it has yet to be demonstrated, even
in Gromyko’s country, that the winners
won’t become the losers in process of
time. The question of the succession
must arise ; and, in any case, 28 years
or so is nothing in the life of an Oriental
State.
In the days when Britain stood alone
against Germany, a lot of people thought
Paul Winterton, of the “News-Chronicle,”
8.8. C, (and A.8.C.), was Leftist. They
thought so even more when he went to
Moscow for his paper. Now he’s written
his Report on Russia :
Russia has its poor and well-to-do, its
top-dog and under-dog As near as
makes no odds Russia is a totalitarian State,
ruled by a small inner ring of Communist
party leaders with Stalin at their head.
There is, he adds, a huge black market
run by the State and there is much cor-
ruption. It looks as though Winterton
will have to join our own Maloney in
the category of “Fascist ‘stooges’ viciously
plotting to destroy the great working-
class movement.”
“S. M. Herald” concluded a leading
article on the current wharfies’ strike
with “The Commonwealth Government
must, if necessary, be prepared to take
strong and prompt action to keep the
ships moving.” But surely “S.M.H.”
has long since learned that trie Common-
wealth Government wouldn’t be game to
take “strong and prompt action” with any-
body except a lone wagepayer.


“INDUSTRIAL UNREST.”
“Here’s another to go on with! And there’s plenty more where THAT came from.”


Society
“and it's PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Findy”: Despite tobacco and beer
shortages, strikes, atom-bomb talk and
threats of World War IJI, I am convinced
that peace is with us again. Last week
in a city cafe a waitress asked whether
I wanted tea or coffee, and added in a
whisper “Don’t take white coffee. It’s
made with powdered milk,” I don’t sug-
gest that the use of powdered milk is a
sign that the war is over, but the fact that
the girl warned me certainly is. Next day
my dawning suspicions that hostilities
had ended received further confirmation.
In another restaurant, remembering the
previous day’s warning anent the coffee,
I ordered tea. Back came the waitress.
“D’you like it strong or weak?” she
asked. Accustomed for so long to taking
my tea as it came, I could not for the
life of me remember which was my actual
preference, but I’ll be ready next time.
Yes, the war’s over all right.
* * * *
“Clooter”: In other days when I read
Jack London’s stories of the Klondike
and lesser authors’ yarns about rushes to
goldfields in various parts I frequently
came across references to the “gold
hunger in their eyes” or “that eager,
searching look of the prospector” or
“faces thrust forward in avid keenness for
the lodestone of their dreams” and so
on, and I used to imagine watching
crowds stream over the ChiUkoot, or
down the Sacramento valley or across
the mhlga tracks into Kalgoorlie, all with
that look in their faces. I never expected
to see it in real life, but I do, I do!
Any day in Sydney I can go and watch
the hunting housewives prowling in search
of food or clothing or a house and there
on their faces is that eager, searching,
never-say-die look. They’ve been at it
so long that most of ’em must wear it in
their sleep. I’m dead certain that I need
only mutter “meat” to my own sleeping
spouse to see her arise and go sleep-
walking to the nearest bus stop,
• * * ♦
“Oxmead” : I have read with interest
the news that Prime Minister Chifley,
preparatory to being created a Privy
Councillor, submitted to a certain amount
of “coaching” for the actual ceremony,
though he declined to wear knee-breeches.
Which reminds me that the only account
of the ceremony in my recollection con-
sists of a few lines written by Henry
Labouchere 50 years ago when he was
accorded the same honor on his retire-
ment from Parliament:
I have been to London to b'e sworn in
as a Privy Councillor. I have not the
slightest notion what a Privy Councillor
is, except that I had to take half-a-dozen
oaths at a council, which were mumbled
out by some dignitary, and then Fletcher
Moulton, who was also being sworn in, and
I performed a sort of cakewalk backwards.
it is to be hoped that Chifley managed
the “cakewalk” business with the dignity
expected of his official position.
“Harold Hardupp”: An old chap on
the beach park told me that he had started
life as a “tiger”—long an obsolete calling.
The “tiger” was the chap in livery who
sat at the back of the dogcart while his
master drove and took charge of it when
he left. The smart dogcart, a dashing
horsedrawn chariot popular in former
days, had bachelor associations —although
some married men favored them, too —
and the efficient “tiger” was a man who
not only looked smart enough in livery
to dress the spanking turnout, but could
act as groom, valet and general factotum
in a bachelor menage. The ex-“tiger” had
some interesting yarns about some of the
people whose dogcarts he drove —actor
Bland Holt was one, and Dr. John Henry
Jenkins, whose conveyance was the
smartest in Melbourne, was another,
* * * *
“Galenus”: The recent case in the U.S.
in which a stopped heart was started again
by direct hand-massage through an open-
ing in the chest is no novelty. Forty and
more years ago. Dr. John Ramsay, then
Surgeon-Superintendent of the Launces-
ton (Tas.) General Hospital, brought a
man back from apparent death in the
same way, and the operation was not a
new one even then. Colonel Dunlop,
now of Melbourne, had a similarly suc-
cessful result with a fellow-p.-0.-w. patient
“What about a loan o’ your mackintosh, mate?”
whose heart stopped beating after an
operation in a prison camp in Siam in
1943 Hearts are muc h more enduring
organs than most lay folk imagine. Many
cages of card j ac f a jl U re from beriberi
among p .. 0 .-w. in Malaya were treated
successfully by merely stabbing the heart
musc j e w j t h a sterile hypodermic needle,
The technique was even taught to hos-
pjtaj or derlies for use in conjunction with
ar tificial respiration when a medical
o ffi ce r was not immediately available, and
jj ves were thus saved. Normally, a heart-
stimulant drug would have been injected
as but these were seldom available
under the brutal Japanese control,
* * * *
“p e ter Mike”: “Jerboa’s” crowd (B.
j 7/ 4/ ’45) were lucky to get a bottle of
Aussie beer per three men in Tobruk,
o ur ration was a tin of Yankee brew
to s j x merij and j t was a work of art to
p i erce the lid without losing some of the
conte nts. When the first issue arrived,
one sect i on declared that a sixth of a tin
was an j nsu i t to a man’s thirst, and
refused to imbibe. By the time the
second issue turned up, pride and the
j tll portion were readily swallowed,
P ( A , amein (he two
week continued to
P £rontlin p e almost until the eve
f Jr . X r , , + 0 . c
°f- ./ , , t - fh ’
al ‘ se f, that the sudden cessation of beer
?“PP hes would prematurely indicate that
D-Day was approaching.
„ * 1
Cor-ped : Although that a. ••
do § retd ™ ed Wlthdut
24/4/ 46), thege dogs are apt
to be dangerous. One broke free at Rich-
mond (N.S.W.). An airman, confident
G f mutual trust, attempted to secure the
, Tt , . ~• nver
f og ‘ At lea Pt at him, bowled him over,
bit through his forearm twice when he
tried to protect his throat, and finished
up standing astride the poor devil. The
airman had the savvy to keep quite still
until help arrived in the form of the dog-
handler. Being trained to do the job,
Rover did not maul the man once he
kept still. Another war-dog tripped up
his keeper when being led out to guard
duty, savaged both the man’s hands and
went a.w.l. I was warned at the gate
that the hound was loose. On the way
to the barracks in the dark I heard the
pitter-patter of a large dog coming be-
hind me. I kept walking, tense and taut,
ready to yell. As I came into the light
I glanced around, heart in mouth. It
was just a large local stray mong. The
poor mutt may be still trying to figure
out why I made such a fuss of him.
« * * *
“Eve”: My medical knowledge is as
extensive as the inside of a flea’s stomach.
Even so, I object to some first-aid books
which not only stress the obvious, but
jam it into huge print. I’m reading one
such book at present, and in the chapter
devoted to “How to arrest bleeding” I
find myself faced with the following
caution, in capital letters: “Never apply a
ligature to the heck.”
* * * *
“X.S.”; Is Melbourne becoming work-
shy? A firm requiring hands for a new
factory advertises every sort of amenity
for its employees, from air-conditioning
to swing music. The ad. concludes; “No
exception will be taken to an employee
who, for unavoidable reasons, arrives
late.”
* * * *
“Nogat” writes from Rabaul:
“lant'ho” (B. 20/3/46) gives a picturesque
but inaccurate description of “Rabaul slowly
returning to normal.” Apart from the egress
of Japs and the gradual return of natives to
the coastal villages there is little progress to-
wards rehabilitation. The army, using Jap labor,
has done much in clearing up the immediate
precincts of Rabaul, but, as “lantho” remarks,
wrecks still litter the foreshore, and even
through the old town site itself piles of rusting
equipment line the way. A good deal of work
has been done on roads, but they are still in
poor condition. In Rabaul itself you cannot
drive in comfort at over 10 m.p.h., and 10
minutes’ drive from the town are roads passable
only to jeeps.
Some tunnels have been blown in, but most
of them remain as they were when the Aus-
tralians first entered Rabaul —save that they
now smell a little mustier, and have been bereft
of everything valuable.
There are very few native huts in Australian
camps. The Japs cornered most of the native
materials to build their compounds, and even
the natives are hard put to it to find
local building materials. Australian camps are
mostly tents, together with conglomerations of
Army-pattern buildings roofed with hideous
“black” iron—the “black” is a deep shade of
rust. No paint is available. Some camps are
neat; a few have gardens; too many reflect the
attitude of large numbers of their inhabitants.
They are straggling and untidy.
“lantho” passes lightly over Chinatown.
Chinese families are living in hut's and hovels
made of scrap-iron, salvaged timber, second-
hand sisalkraft and such small amounts of bush
materials as they have been able to collect.
They are being fed and given medical attention
by A.N.G.A.U., and the A.N.G.A.U. officer
in charge of Asiatics is doing a fine job in
adversity. Most of these Chinese before the
war were merchants, tailors, hotel-keepers and
garage-owners. Their return to normal is and
will continue to be slow.
Most of the missionaries are Catholics who
were p.-0.-w. under the Japs and have re-
mained on to rebuild their missions. The only
civilians are representatives of War Damages,
War Disposals and Production Control.
To what extent Rabaul will be rebuilt depends
entirely on civilian interests centred there. One
thing is certain —Rabaul will never again be
what it was before the eruption of 1937.
Jj? , "i 5
“Frank Mauri”; Did “Simon Scrawler”
(B. 1/5/’46) sing the p.-0.-w. version of
“She’ll be Coming Round the Moun-
tain”? In 1943 the Japanese and Koreans
on the Burma-Thailand railway were
much more cheerful than in 1944.
Pri|pners were encouraged, even ordered,
to sing, and the Nips would join in rol-
licking choruses, though they did not
know the words. One of the favorites
was “They’ll Be Dropping Thousand-
pounders When They Come” ; with a
different meaning it had earlier been
sung in Greece. And sure enough they
came ; and singing was not encouraged
then. The first Liberators dropped
leaflets, one batch of which read
“Keep your chins up, boys, we’re com-
ing.” The next lot said “Keep your heads
down, boys, we’re here.” From then on
we got the thousand-pounders.
“Ramac”: During the first months of
our captivity on Ambon the brass-band
of the 2/21 battalion entertained us
time and again. The Japs at that time
didn’t seem to mind us enjoying the music.
They liked it themselves. At the conclu-
sion of every recital “God Save the King”
was played, and the Japs’ reaction to it
was unexpected. They imitated us and
came to attention. One evening while the
anthem was in progress two Aussies,
ignoring the soldierly tradition, strolled
casually past a sentry. As soon as the
music stopped the Jap grabbed them and
belted them senseless ; later on they were
made to stand at attention for 12 hours.
Yes, the enemy knew it was our National
Anthem, Strange, isn’t it?
* * * *
“Old Bill”: There is an odd impres-
sion among writing boys that police mag-
istrates are devoid of any knowledge of
literature, ancient or modern, English or
foreign. One notable exception, and there
must be scores of others, was T. B. Clegg,
who edited the “Red Page” for a few
years after his retirement from the Bench
Another was the magistrate who sat on &
case in which I had to give evidence of
character for a freelance.
I mentioned that the accused was a
scholar, that he had, in fact, lent me
a copy of a play by Pierre Corneille a
few days before his arrest. “Ah, Cor-
neille!” murmured his Worship. “A
great, very great dramatist. I suppose
you are " familiar with Racine and
Moliere.” I wasn’t, but I mumbled
some sort of assent. Thereupon his
Worship embarked upon a brief eulogy
of seventeenth-century French drama.
Suddenly remembering his prosaic sur-
roundings, he sighed and returned to the
case in hand. The accused was acquitted.
* * * *
“Wongajong”: Coming back to civilian
life after nearly six years, I find myself
embarrassed by an inability to remember
people’s faces. Day after day I am
approached by old workmates and
acquaintances and welcomed back. Be-
fore the preliminary handshake and ex-
change of greetings are over, I begin to
search my memory for the name of my
wellwisher, and, more often than not, am
forced to ask it. Yet I have on
dozens of occasions since my return
picked up the telephone in response to
an incoming call and immediately identi-
fied the caller by his voice. I am able
also to recognise at a glance an old
acquaintance’s handwriting on an en-
velope addressed to me. 1 daresay if my
pre-war calling had been that of a detec-
tive, headwaiter or politician, I would
have no difficulty in recalling the physiog-
nomy of an old cobber. y
* * * *
“Bondi Beachcomber”: Outbursts
against censorship remind ex-servicemen
that these hysterical dailies which so jeal-
ously guard the rights of the individual
never printed a word against the mon-
strous system whereby, ylurflig the war,
army rankers had to submit their corre-
spondence to their own officers for censor-
ing. On the lighter side I am reminded
of “Snow,” who received word from a
mate to whom he wrote regularly that
his letters were arriving mOch mutilated.
“Snow” was puzzled because he never
mentioned army or war matters, and
pressing his friend for details, he was told
that there were single words cut from
his letters at frequent intervals. Then
the truth dawned on him. “Snow” wrote
as he spoke, with plenty of flowery adjec-
tives. If you need a further clue to the
character of the “loot” who had set him-
self up as censor of morals, his nickname
was “Jessie.”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Unusual methods of
solace? An A.I.F. major, who had been
a frequent visitor to Melbourne’s National
Gallery, found himself for three years
in Changi with nothing to do after lights
out. Every night he tried to make a
mental picture of the Gallery, placing
each painting in its right position.
By the time he • was released he
had the exact situation of almost every
picture faith'fully recorded. When he
got back to Melbourne one of the first
things he did was to hurry up to the
gallery to confirm his memory. Not one
picture was where it should be. The
gallery had, in the meantime, acquired a
new director in Daryl Lindsay, who had
his own ideas about gallery arrangements,
A PURE COINCIDENCE.
“Federal Labor Ministers deny that there is any
connection between the coming visit of the British
P.M. to this country and the general elections. It
is just a coincidence.’’ i
Of course you’ll all be glad to welcome Attlee,
But out on these mean souls who raise the cry
His visit comes a little bit too pafly
Not to have clearly been dictated by
Events ahead. We contradict it flatly,
Give the unworthy inference the lie,
And tell you frankly that his coming hence,
Just when he does, is pure coincidence.
It’s true that we and other Labor trusties
Will pretty soon be hustling hard for votes,
And any finger in our pie that thrust is
(If it’s a helpful one) our cause promotes,
But oh! it grates upon our sense of justice,
In other words, it fairly gets our goats,
To think malignant tongues the charge should
hiss
That Attlee was invited here for this.
How true it is, as Shakspeare once commented,
There’s no escaping calumny and no
Method by which it can be circumvented
“Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow.’’
To be so spitefully misrepresented
Might well provoke the mildest temper,
though—
A poor return, as you may well surmise,
For drawing closer our Imperial ties.
Would you not see, from all affiliations
Of parties and of politics apart,
The main director of the British nation’s
Affairs, the foremost figure when they start
Their Parliamentary deliberations,
And greet him from the bottom of your heart
With outstretched hand and stimulating cheer?
Of course. And that is why we’ve asked him
here.
Take it from us, these sinister reflections
Wherewith detractors seek to smear and slime
Our patriotism, hinting at connections
’Twixt Attlee’s visit and election-time,
Are pitiful and puerile objections.
His coming visit to this sunny clime
Before the dog-fights at the polls commence
Is nothing but a sheer coincidence.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Penelope’s Mate”: There was never a
more cosmopolitan two-up game than the
one at Haisho (Hainan Island) prison
camp. Gambling was strictly forbidden the
Japs, but some guards often managed to
sneak into the ring. Then we had
Dutchmen, Javanese, Ambonese and
Chinese prisoners, Korean and Taiwan
guards and paroled Sikh sentries, all
lured by the spinning coppers. Betting
was in shillings, guilders and yen; cigar-
ettes and chits (debts paid after libera-
tion). “Ins and Outs,” Darwin’s favorite
game, also thrived for a while, and there
is on record the story of the Australian
sergeant who made an “Ins and Outs”
board and sold it to a Hong Kong boy,
who introduced it in the Chinese barracks
and made a fortune.
at ik * »
“Passun”: As a morale-buster the
speech made by our adjutant on a trans-
port carrying troops and cattle North in
late December, 1941, would take a lot of
beating. He said that we could not ex-
pect to see our loved ones again. The
Japs had probably captured our island
destination, and we might have to fight
our way up the beaches; at any rate
our ultimate end was never in doubt, as
the Japs didn’t take prisoners. Then we
heard a loud splash to starboard and a
ripple of laughter began to lap the uneasy
silence. Soon we roared; 500 men
cheered the scarecrower for the effect his
speech had had on a timorous cow.
Strawberry was rapidly disappearing
astern on the first stage of a long home-
ward swim,
* * * *
“Roofless” at the end of his tether:
For seven months since the Army decided to
terminate my occupancy of one of its.tents I
have been engaged in a non-stop house-hunt.
Not one day have I omitted to scan Granny
“Herald’s” “To Let” and “For Sale” columns,
and any ad. that has ottered the faintest gleam
of hope I have answered. Some of my replies
have been merely courteous, some businesslike,
some plaintive and beseeching, some even
grovelling; their tenor depending on the mood
of the moment and the degree of my despera-
tion. The big surplus in the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment is due partly to the stamps I have put on
“Now, boys, how about a little snorter to
celebrate ?”
or enclosed with my replies and partly to the
’phone calls I have made, always to be greeted
with “Sorry, the house is gone.” Some of the
most appealing ads. in the “Wanted column
have been mine. Ambitiously I have invited
people to sell me a house; hopefully I have
asked them to let me one. Modestly I have
suggested that a flat would be better than
half 1 ’a S liouse P would
and use of conveniences. Receipts from
are all I have to show in return, ? nd “ ean ‘if t .
my wife and family are 500 miles aw y
ing the day or year when I find a horn • .
terday in an effort to forget my woes . P.^, m
into the corner pub and ran into a f vears .
another Stale whom I had not met ? '
He had landed a g<?od job and was going to
bring the wife and kids over right aw t u e
1 tell him the best suburb to live in—among the
right sort of people, not too far out ’
preferably with a harbor view? Oh, ye.
there’d be the kids to think of-mustntbe
too far from a good school—and he d like a
golf links handy. Just a small place with four
bedrooms ... He burbled on, but 1 didn t hear
any more, and when I came to half an hour
later he was gone and an old con-
gratulating me on the finest exhibition of -
iacal laughter he’d heard since the days of
Bland Holt melod ta. .
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Old Comp”: Occasional refe.cnce to
A. G. Stephens recalls his great work
in early Bulletin days. No man
did more towards “shaping” the manu-
script of Lawson, Dyson, Bedford
and others, and his word on punc-
tuation set the standard which was
law to contributors. He had a fetish
for purple ink and quarto paper, and a
habit of throwing his copy on the floor
to dry; copyboys always knew where to
look for it. Stephens was not a talkative
fellow, but his staccato barks were em-
phatic ; and he was one of the best
judges of how much copy was needed to
fill a given space. However, his sub-
editing didn’t always turn out trumps. It
was customary in early Bulletin days
for prominent contributors to be pro-
vided with final revises of their stories
and verse. Once Stephens so hacked a
column of verse by Bedford that when
that author saw it he scribbled across the
proof: “What b —y fool altered this?
Leave it as the original or throw the
damn’ stuff out!” Bedford won; and
for many years that proof was Exhibit
A on the wall at 252 George-street —as a
grim warning to sub-editors.
* * ♦ •
“Echelon”: Why does Hollywood in-
variably show the effect of violence by
a trickle of blood from the mouth? When
Bogart serenades someone on his
machine-gun “pianner” you can bet your
life just how the victim will register it.
It’s the same with divers who descend
to improbable depths and stratosphere-
test pilots who hit the high ceilings. In
horse opera oral bleeding may result from
riding a bucking bronco, crashing over a
cliff, or from one or more of the 20
shots fired (without reloading) from a six-
shooter. Whodunits include victims who
bleed from the lips after a few taps with
an overgrown auto-wrench, from eating
a poisoned hash or being stabbed. Acci-
dent spectacles, where the players tangle
with falling houses, avalanches, railroad
wrecks and auto crashes, seem to be cer-
tainties for a wave of mouth-bleeding.
No bout of fisticuffs is complete without
it. A tense football game, a fall down
stairs or even a common kick in the pants
also bring it on. What’s the reason for
this convention, and who started it, any-
way?
* * * *
“Hackshaw”: I see that the British
Minister for Town and Country Planning
had the tyres of his car deflated and the
engine tampered with when he journeyed
to Stevenage, a lovely old village 28
miles from London, to tell the inhabit-
ants that it was to be
the guinea pig in a
vast experiment t o
decentralise London.
Extra police had to be
called in to still the
villagers, who objected
to being evacuated
from their ancestral
acres to live some-
where else in pre-
fabricated houses. “If
the people ape frac-
tious I must carry out
my duty,” remarked
Mr, Silkin amidst
cries of “dictator”
and “Gestapo.” Per-
sonally my sympathies
are with .the Steven-
agers, whose inn was
praised by Pepys. An
interesting contrast is
that when the United
Nations Council tried
to oust thousands of
honest Americans
from their homes in a
‘choice district of N.Y.
State in order to erect
a palace in which to
deliberate, the owners
successfully protested.
Nobody will be safe
when we have a bureaucratic World
State.
* * * *
“Seaforth”: Running late the other
morning I decided to hitch-hike a ride to
town. After 10 minutes’ thumb-jerking
a sumptuous limousine pulled up and a
well-dressed chap invited me to hop in.
There were two prosperous-looking pas-
sengers in the car, and with them I dis-
cussed the weather and the iniquities of
politicians. As we glided over the Sydney
Harbor Bridge, the driver remarked casu-
ally “We usually have a flutter on the
toll ticket. Ten bob in, winner collects
all and pays the toll,” Meekly I handed
over my last ten bob, called some mysteri-
ous numbers in a daze and congratulated
“This assurance policy even covers drowning in your own home!”
with false joviality the passenger who
won the gamble. Next time I hitch-hike
to town I’ll give all flash cars a miss, hail
some battered wreck and get in first at
the toll with a treybit.
* * * *
“Zake”: When a series of sporting
articles appeared in a daily over the
name of a professional pug, who wasn’t
exactly renowned for an extensive
vocabulary, there were many guesses as
to the identity of his “ghost” writer. A
group of journalists was discussing one
of the articles, and one of them, unusually
magnanimous and modest for one of his
calling, said: “Anyway, it’s damned good
—I wouldn’t mind if / were able to write
stuff as good.” “Neither would Bruiser,”
dryly remarked one of the sceptics.
* * * *
“Bo”: The reactions of various sport-
ing gentry whenever they register a win
fascinate me. The chess player, I find,
merely allows himself the luxury of just
another stare into space; the hockey
player gives vent to three staccato
“prahs!” in a mechanical way, his
thoughts being on the shins he must im-
minently rebark. The Rugby Leaguer,
nobly suppressing the natural urge to
bite someone’s ear in the sheer elation
of his spirits, gives a wild leap and rushes
for the showers; on the other hand, no
play of emotion surges across the bookie’s
face —a win, after all, is no more than
he expects. Swimmers love to push their
heads under and then throw their hair
back in a fine gesture. The tennis player,
especially if he is in world class, will
sometimes hurl his racquet aloft as he
races from the baseline to the net, caring
not if it lobs on the umpire’s head. Usu-
ally he is also impelled to leap the net
to clasp his opponent by the hand. I
have waited long years tq see one of them
catch his toe in the net, but so far I have
been disappointed. I await with interest
the reaction of the ex-tennis champ, who,
having retired because of increasing em-
bonpoint, has a win at billiards. Perhaps
he will throw himself down on the floor
and bounce over the table.
* * * *
“NX65381”: Just as the Q. store was
closing for the day a Digger came in to
change a pair of broken bootlaces.
“Listen, mate,” I said. “Do you know
what you’re asking me to do?” “What-
daya mean?” snapped back my visitor.
“Well, mate,” I explained with mock
patience, “first I’ll have to get a certi-
ficate from the C.O. saying that the laces
are unserviceable. Then I’ve got to issue
you with a receipt for them. Then I’ll
have to dig out your F2OO and get you to
sign for the new laces. Next I’ll have to
adjust my bin tally cards, stock sheets and
ledgers, then return the unserviceable
laces to Ordnance on a returned stores
voucher and request authority to write
them off. After that I’ll have to indent
for a new pair, sign for them when they
turn up, then bring them on ledger change
and adjust my stock sheets and bin tally
cards. Listen, mate, give us a break.
Here’s threepence. Go over to the can-
teen and buy yourself a pair.” Dazzled
with science he staggered dut. Soon he
was back. Thrusting a big bundle of
laces into my hands, he muttered hoarsely
“Take these. Jack. I just bought ’em.
Give them to the boys when they want
new ones. Gripes, I never knew you
blokes had all that trouble!”
* * * *
“Jasby”: In the matter of ancient
gags (B. 10/4/’46) it is a common
complaint among my low acquaintances
that the well of smoke-room yarns seems
to have dried up. "Twenty years ago”
lamented one of these lately, “y’ heard a
couple of good newies every day. Now
you only get the old ones rehashed.” As
I have seen no real signs of moral
regeneration in the community and I
don’t doubt that the powers of invention
and imagination are no less keenly
developed now than in the days my col-
leagues sighed for, I suspect that even the
yarns we guffawed at then were merely
the oldies rehashed —new to us, but not
to our fathers. The best stories have
been going the rounds through successive
generations for as long as man could
speak and chuckle. Many of the yarns
that get the loudest laughs today can
be traced in the pages of the Decameron
and the Arabian Nights, and they were
certainly not new when they were first
confined within those books.
* * * *
“Pawang”: I am inclined to be scep-
tical of the reported American discovery
of another cure for hay fever, asthma and
other allergic diseases. Dozens of speci-
fics for thesp distressing complaints have
been advanced during the last two genera-
tions, but the world goes on sneezing as
hard as ever. Advanced opinion is that
they are the most psychological of all
psychological diseases. A Collins-street
doctor recently had a visit from a lady
who suffered intolerably from asthma, for
which she blamed cats. The patient
entered his consulting-room and imme-
diately retreated sneezing. Pursued by the
physician she complained that there was
a black cat sitting in his open fireplace
and that cats always brought on her
asthma. In this case the cat was very
lifelike, but happened to be made of
china.
* * * •
“Uco”: Feminists who for years have
been campaigning for Equal Rights
are going to howl when they realise
how the arch-enemy is invading fields
once thought to be the province of
women. Factories are desperately short
of female labor —the pleading advertise-
ments in the “Persons Wanted column
of the newspapers testify to this ; in cafes
and restaurants the slowness of the ser-
vice bespeaks shortage of staff; every
housewife knows the virtual impossibility
of finding a reliable “charlady” or daily
help. A Brisbane clothing manufacturer
killed two birds with one stone by trying
the experiment of taking on ex-servicemen
and training them as machinists. He
claims that despite the higher male wage
the plan is provingVsuccessful; the post-
war man is more reliable than the post-
war girl. In Sydney one restaurant, tired
of the everlasting task of breaking-in new
waitresses, replaced its staff with men
and so far is well pleased with the
change. In both Melbourne and Sydney
men have established laundry services for
baby linen. They call the nappies by that
hideous American word “diaper,” but
there’s nothing wrong with their service.
And I’ve heard of several instances of ex-
servicemen setting up in business as
“charmen”—at a pound a day plus fares
and with lunch thrown in thpy are
getting all the work they can cope with.
If the feminists don’t wake up they’ll
find men running the Housewives’ Asso-
ciation.
A BOKO BALLADE.
"People who want Jewish noses remodelled are
among the best customers of plastic surgeons.”
—London cable.
There are, it seems, divergent views about
The organ which enables us to smell.
While some consider a tip-tilted snout
The most becoming and desirable,
Others prefer the Roman article
As better suited to their facial pose.
And, finally, there’s nothing can dispel
The prejudice against a Jewish nose.
t
Tough bruisers with their bokos flattened out,
Their ears quite likely cauliliowered as well,
Results of many a well-directed clout,
May leave a plastic surgeon’s citadel
With conks remodelled till they look as swell
As any that a'beauty actor shows;
But even they, it’s hinted, would rebel
If they were offered a Semitic nose.
Thither, too, others come with faith devout
That science will undo the blow that fell
On them when careless,Nature caused to sprout
Upon their dials the unmisfakeable
Emblem of Jewry, badge of Israel.
Where’er, the beauty competition goes
Incipient beau alike and would-be belle
Dislike suggestions of a Hebrew nose.
Some skilful handling, followed by a spell
In splints and bandages, and at the close
Of operations nothing’s left to tell
The subject once possessed a Jewish nose.
N.S.W.
MIDPORD.


Manufacturing
Another
Depression
Those people who are obstructing Aus-
tralia’s export trade are going the right
way to land this country in another de-
pression.
Many of Australians pre-war markets are
either closed or greatly restricted in
purchasing power. New markets to the
north must he developed, and quickly
developed, if our primary and secon-
dary industries are to keep our people
employed.
There are “Red Fascists” in Australia who
are fomenting strikes and other industrial
troubles for the deliberate purpose of
creating chaos in industry. They know
that the present standards of living of the
workers must be destroyed before the
people will be desperate enough for the
revolutionary dictatorship these “Red
Fascists” intend to impose on them.
CEIGOA PTY. LTD.
Consolidated Export and Import Group of
Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
CE7
NGLAN
LIMITED,
x
m
RAYON
for loveliness
{hal lasis
tv Tew clothes are an event these
days and it is wise to buy
for quality. You will therefore'
find it advantageous to purchase
r dresses and lingerie made from
Courtaulds rayon. If you prefer
to make your own things at home,
the lovely rayon fabrics made from
Courtaulds yarns provide quality
and service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds rayon is still avail-
able, although the quantity is
restricted
World distributors for
Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courfauld & Co. Ltd..
London, England.
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY : Samuel Courtauld - Co.
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 181 Clarence Street.
THE SERVICE MAN
A Cross for George Gosse.
Australian papers gave little space to
the deeds of George Gosse, Lieutenant,
R.A.N.V.R., who, a few days ago, was
awarded the George Cross—which, inci-
dentally, ranks with the V.C., and is a
rarer decoration.
Yet on the citation Gosse’s actions
would be very hard to beat for cold cour-
age in any war.
A year ago, on May 8, as the German
War came to a close, it became necessary
to search for a mine in the cluttered
harbor of Übersee Hafen on the German
coast, recently taken over. The harbor
bed was a tangled mass of wreckage with
many corpses.
Lieutenant Gosse went down and found
the mine—a GD pressure type, known as
the “Oyster.” Since it was vital to re-
cover it intact, it was decided to make it
safe under water. Next day he dived on
it again and with improvised tools re-
moved the primer. There was at once
a loud metallic crash.
The mine was lifted to the quayside.
It was found that the detonator had ex-
ploded the moment the primer was taken
out.
Nothing deterred, the lieutenant went
down and dealt similarly with two more
“oysters” within the next 10 days. Each
time the detonator went off.
The citation declared:
This form of operation called for an
exceptionally high standard of personal
courage and also a high degree of 5ki11....
The conditions would deter the boldest.
Gosse is a South Australian, and is in
Australia, but his magnificent feats of
“two-o’clock, in the morning” courage have
been little advertised. In Sydney the
newspapers have been too busy reporting
an unspeakably sordid s.-p. murder case
to laud the marvellous bravery of a coun-
tryman whose story should be in every
school paper.
Civil War in Persia.
Ek Dum”: It seems that in Persia
a serious situation has developed out
of the conference of Kurdish chief-
tains held in Baku, on Russian soil, in
November, with Moscow’s backing, for
the deliberate purpose of organising a
rebellion against the Persian Government.
Every move has been thought out and
taken carefully. First, Azerbaijan was
detached while occupied by the Red
Array, so as to form a secluded communi-
cation line between the rebels and the
Russians. Then the rebellion was set
afoot, seemingly armed by the Russians.
Meanwhile, the United Nations took
a hand, and the Russians gave a pledge
(one of several, the rest broken) to move
their troops out of Azerbaijan on May 6.
On the night of May 4 Tabriz Radio,
which seems to have been built up on the
scale of Tito’s “Yugoslav” Radio at Tiflis,
under Russian management, announced
that a treaty had been concluded —on
April 23 —between the “national State”
of Azerbaijan and Kurdistan. The pre-
amble declared that the Kurds were a
persecuted people, and that the Second
World War had given them the oppor-
tunity to obtain freedom. There is no
“national State” of Azerbaijan nor any
such sovereign entity as Kurdistan.
Provision is made for an exchange of
Ministers ; racial equality is established
between the two “countries.” Trade con-
cessions are set out and the fourth section
provides for “mutual military assistance
against aggression.” It is, in effect, a
declaration of war by both provinces
against the central Persian Government—
and perhaps, other Governments.
It will be noted that the treaty was
signed in Azerbaijan territory, a fortnight
after the Tehran agreement. It was made
without the knowledge of the Persian
central Government, but obviously with
the knowledge and backing of the Rus-
sians.
The position is the more obvious be-
cause the Kurds who met in Baku last
November purported to represent not
only the 500,000 Kurds in Persia but the
1,500,000 in Turkey, the 800,000 in Irak
and the 250,000 in Syria.
By May 9 it was reported (but not con-
firmed) that Russian troops were out of
Azerbaijan and the means had not been
provided to allow the United Nations to
test the statement.
Bombs, Not Ballots
It was quite clear, however, that civil
war already was in being. Mahabad, the
H.Q. of the Kurds and their leader, Ghazi
Mahomed, had been bombed from the
air. Persian troops had been in action,
according to the Persian press on May
7-8.
And the Persian Foreign Minister had
announced that negotiations with Azer-
baijan province had broken down because
of “exaggerated demands.” Tabriz Radio
had reported that an unidentified aircraft
had flown over the province, and that in
future such machines would be shot
down. Fighting on the Azerbaijan border
was imminent.
At the week-end the fighting. against
the Kurds seemed to have flared up. The
ensuing week promised full-scale civil
war in Persia, which might be a prelude
to the expansion of rebellion into Turkey
and Irak, with awful consequences unless
major pressure could put out the fire.
The reasons why there are 100,000
British troops in Palestine become every
day more clear.
"Not Discussed."
“Ek Dum”: Having routed the Secret
Servicemen whom the hospitable U.S.
Government provided to protect him, and
been 25 minutes late for a conference
with newspapermen, Mr. Chifley is re-
turning home via Japan, and thus will not
be in London in May when the real talks
on Empire defence policy will begin.
These obviously could not take place
without Mr. Mackenzie King, who left
Ottawa on May 12 and who was not pre-
sent when Mr. Chifley helped to settle the
fate of the Empire, apparently by per-
mission of Dr. Evatt, who is to remain
for the Peace Conference —if there is a
Peace Conference—with Senator Donald
Grant, formerly of the 1.W.W., to advise
him —also if.
General Smuts will still be in London
on May 18, but Australia and New Zea-
land will be represented only by
Ministers.
The position is most peculiar. The
P.M. went to London to discuss the whole
Pacific defence problem, if he and his
spokesmen (or “stooges”) can be believed.
Yet he took no senior military adviser. He
comes back and leaves behind a Minister
whose ideas of Empire co-ordination are
original, and who so far has preferred
association in foreign affairs with
countries like Mexico, San Salvador and
Liberia to a pre-arranged policy within
the British Commonwealth.
The idea has been propagated that,
“without a struggle,” the British Govern-
ment has accepted the Anzac Pact and
that an overall method of dealing with
bases has been agreed upon. The fact is
that it is not possible to agree on a base
policy (or any other policy) for the South-
west Pacific without agreeing on a specific
policy for the whole' Pacific, since distri-
bution of resources and air power and
the navies are involved.
It certainly is not possible to agree
without full discussion with Canada,
especially since Canada is the next-door
neighbor of the only country likely to
make aggressive war and the source of
almost the whole of the world’s more
accessible supply of some types of atomic
and other war materials.
The announcement that (as it were) the
white flag had been hoisted in White-
hall “without a struggle” and that the
Anzac Pact had been accepted was made
on April 25,
The true position is shown by the
“Times” announcement on May 3, a
week later, that “general defence ques-
tions were before yesterday’s meeting,
with the papers submitted last week by
the British chiefs-of-staff and the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Governments as
a basis of discussion.... In the survey
of the broad- and long-term principle of
Empire defence little in the way of detail
has been discussed.”
That will not be discussed until Mr,
Mackenzie King arrives and Mr. Chifley
is home again.
Retreat from Egypt
Some vital matters have been decided
without asking Dominion assent.
Egypt, though the strategic heart of the
world, is to be left to the Egyptians,
which means abandoning it to the highest
bidder. That there will be a bidder is
shown by the Russian Government’s
tender for a big new Nile dam ; by its
persistent propaganda for Arab “free-
dom” ; and its demands for the Dodecan-
ese, Tripolitania and a “free” Spain
now added to by the demand of the new
Bulgarian Government (headed by Kola-
row, former general Secretary of


’UkUefotffiadur
Study for a spare-time or full-time
career. Complete Home Study Course
covers 20 weeks. Complete cost of
£6/6/- covers personal correction
service. Send for brochure to . • •
RADIO INSTITUTE
OF AUSTRALIA
Cowell Buildings, Victoria Square,
Adelaide, South Australia.
NAME
ADDRESS
BI
Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone who could give information as to
the whereabouts of WILLIAM A. JAMES and his
wife FLORENCE JAMES, late of Cullen Sullen,
N.S.W., please communicate with R. J. WISE, 10
Martin Place, Sydney, to their advantage ?
If NORMAN PEARCE, a Son of John and Susan Mary
Pearce, late of Ballarat, Victoria, deceased, will
communicate with the undersigned he will hear of
something to his advantage. The Ballarat Trustees,
Executors & Agency Co., Ltd. Registered Office:
101 Lydiard Street, North Ballarat.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN ERNEST BOYCE late of Eosebank
Street Darlinghurst Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLET BOYCE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 711 of 1946 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney before the 10th day of June 1946
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from CLIFTON R. PENNY Solicitor 81 Elizabeth
Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
arc: . A
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 12 «
3 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
13 months .. .. .. 18 0
6 8 0
8„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£l9O
fellas
r
o
■4(7/.
*&?
n^r^>
5
ox
TIP FOR TYPISTS
A model typiste—Daisy Bates—
Allergic to young men and dates—
Economised on feeble lights
When working overtime at nights,
Until one time she typed “Dear Sister”
To a most important “Mister”! . . .
No false economy now cramps
Her style—she uses “OSRAM” lamps.
o
for an
sra
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Gmvted Siecfcie
1 (Sale Australian Representatives of The of England•)
. NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE . PERTH
HOBART.. LAUNCESTON • ADELAIDE . BRISBANE
the Comintern, and U.S.S.R. Foreign
Office commissar until a few months
ago), for the Thracian littoral from
Greece, which would give the Russian
bloc control of the Dardanelles.
India expects to be “free” in “a few
months”—so free that the leaders who
have been most vigorous in demanding
freedom are begging the British to leave
behind troops to protect them.
Persia is in the throes of a civil
war planned >(B. 24/4/’46) in Baku,
Russia, and armed by Russia. British oil
in Persia is in severe jeopardy. The
Russians ache to remove the fingers of
the British from it, not because they
themselves need oil, but because they
believe that the move will hamstring the
“You take the blunt end, Bert!”
Royal Navy in certain zones. In view of
modem engineering developments, it
won’t.
The Sudan is to be isolated. The
British plan for the Italian colonies in
East Africa involves a managed indepen-
dence.
Though there is talk of a new all-
British canal through southern Palestine
to Akaba, Palestine is only a mandate,
and whoever holds the existing route and
Egyptian defences can make it untouch-
able. Irak and the Arabian kingdoms and
Turkey are in danger of being mortally
isolated. Egypt becomes a foreign-control
point on two of the three main air routes
of the British Commonwealth—that to
Capetown and East Africa and that to
Australia and New Zealand.
Mr. Chifley Approves
And all this has been done by the
British Government without consulting
either Australia or South Africa. (General
Smuts, who is a soldier and a statesman,
has shown his alarm.) Mr. Chifley, who
is so unobtrusive that he passed through
the United States scarcely noticed, knew
about the matter but made no protest.
He even approves of what has happened.
And no doubt approval will come from
the dominant A.L.P. organisation in
his electorate, notorious for its demand
for' a second front, couched in insulting
language, in 1943.
There has been no outcry from Dr.
Evatt.
Britain at the Crossroads
Britain, at present, has an ominous
look of Rome in the threshold days
before power shifted eastward to Byzan-
tium. Since before the war h<?f relations
with Canada, as with New Zealand, have
brightened. Her relations with Australia
have loosened palpably since October,
1941, though this is not the fault of the
British or the bulk of Australians.
Britain, when Japan struck, was in great
danger. The British were engaged in
the preliminaries of a full-scale war in
Africa. They were engaged in a her-
culean sea war on all their adjacent
oceans. They were turning over to the
attack in the air war. They were called
on to help Russia on a major scale.
At that stage the Australian Govern-
ment withdrew all its troops from the
Middle East, and would have withdrawn
its aircrews from the R.A.F. if there had
been anything for them to fly in the
Pacific. Our Laborites refused to join
their Allies, Britain and the U.S., in estab-
lishing conscription for overseas service.
They were odd-man-out in every agree-
ment between the Allies on major stra-
tegic policy. Dr. Evatt’s cry to Russia
for help, succeeding, as it did, Mr.
Curtin’s appeals to Uncle Sam, was
received with joy in Germany, where it
was interpreted as an admission that
Britain was finished. .
Now, under Labor rule, Britain seems
to be divesting itself of association with
everything but the solid core of the
British Commonwealth. The management
of Japan has been handed over to the
United States. The relations with Canada
as a sister-nation have become closer and
the investment of British capital there has
increased apace and widened beyond
measure in scale. So great is it now and
so close the scientific and defensive link-
age that the unity of the two is pretty
close to being indissoluble.
Australia’s Value
South Africa holds a special place be-
cause of its naval value. Australia s
naval value was tested by the British
Pacific Fleet at a crucial point of the last
war, with deplorable results.
At one stage Admiral Fraser had to
send destroyers to New Zealand for re-
conditioning during a major phase of the
advance against Japan. For Australian
workers were on strike, regardless of the
fact that the strike endangered the lives
of British seamen. Only those who were
in close touch with the fleet at the time
know how the British joy at coming to
an all-white British base turned to
stunned despair at the conditions which
they found in this country.
The worst and most curious feature of
the position is that what is happening is
opposed to the opinion of the great
majority of Australians. But Australians
are easygoing, and RPd Fascist “pressure
groups” which control the so-called Gov-
ernment and the industrial situation are
fortified with support from without the
Commonwealth, and —since they are bent
on serving the ends of a foreign Power
—have none of the inhibitions of patriots.
The attitude of the Canberra Govern-
ment —a Government whose Foreign
Minister claims time and again to sway
the nations of the world and change the
course of global events with his wisdom
and eloquence—is pretty clearly depicted
by the phrasejvhich he used in Washing-
ton to the President.
He expressed to President Truman
“Australia’s appreciation of United States
protection during the critical months ol
the war.”
In all the circumstances, while this
country has reason to be graceful for U.S.
assistance and alliance, it was an abject
phrase. A nation which admits its need
to “protection” is scarcely a nation.
Another Referendum Needed
The New York “Times” is reported
by a Sydney paper as announcing that
the United States has asked Britain for
sovereign rights over three islands in the
Pacific Christmas (British), Funafuti
(British) and Canton (jointly controlled by,
British-U.S. interests).
On April 7, it is declared, the Aus-
tralian Government was asked for Manus,
in the Admiralties.
Taken jointly with its seizure and con-
trol of Japanese possessions, the position
is that the mid-Pacific area has become
virtually a United States dominion, and
these cessions would give control of the
communication gateway from the north-
east to the south-west Pacific.
Canton, Christmas and Funafuti
are not desired primarily for defensive
services. Uncle Sara was after them
before the war. His objective was to
obtain civil air bases, which would help
him to obtain mastery of the main air
routes not only of the Pacific but of the
world.
The three islands asked for are all
included in the Gilbert-Ellice Islands.
Funafuti is in the Ellice section. Christ-
mas, discovered by Captain Cook in 1777,
was annexed by Britain in 1888, and is
the largest atoll in the Pacific —about 100
miles in circumference, and a priceless
possession for flying-boat operation.
Canton is in the Phoenix group and
was taken into the colony on March 18,
1937. The following year the Americans
claimed Canton and Enderbury. A few
months later the two countries agreed to
establish equal and communication rights.
Australia has a very deep interest in
these islands, and a vital one in Manus. It
should claim to be consulted. The Gil-
bert-Ellice group are important stepping-
stones to the south and have a great value
as air bases in the outer ring of Aus-
tralian defences, to which they are more
closely related than to any other defence
region.
And it is time that Manus and all other
Bismarck Islands were declared to be
Australian unalterably, as the first mea-
sure of defence under the Anzac Pact.
When a foreign Power, however
friendly, obtains possession of one of
them, either temporarily on lease or per-
manently by gift or sale, Australia ceases
to have any real right to their use, either
in war or peace and to dictate how they
shall be used.
Furthermore,, the establishment of
powerful bases on Australia’s fringe
means the establishment of the means by
which a foreign Power can dominate the
area, and perhaps Australia itself.
The property right in Australian terri-
tory lies not in Dr. Evatt (as that gentle-
man seems to imagine) nor even in one
generation. Territory must be disposed of
and held with a view to future contin-
gencies, of which there are plenty of a
nature to suggest that it is inadvisable to
give footholds to foreign Powers, how-
ever generous, on this country’s doorstep.
One contingency would arise if Aus-
tralia was involved in war while the
United States Was not. Then we should
need the bases and could not have them.
Another would be that the United
States might become involved in war, and
that an enemy would be forced to attack
Australian territory to obtain a foothold
from which to attempt to destroy or
neutralise the base. And there are plenty
more. No concessions in territory,
whether on loan, lease, for defence or
otherwise, should be made without the
full consent of the Australian people,
taken at a referendum after full discus-
sion.


(yilaxio^
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Canada’s Justice T. C. Davis has said
farewell to Australia after one of
the most successful High Commis-
sionerships in Canberra’s history. In
between a great deal of hard work on
war-time matters between the Australian
and Canadian Governments he packed in
something like 40,000 miles of travelling
around Australia to get first-hand know-
ledge of the country. He can’t remember
all the mileage he’s covered, but since he
came here in early ’43 he’s been to Perth,
Darwin, Brisbane and north-western
Queensland ; all over Tasmania, Victoria
and most of New South Wales; up the
north-south road through Central Aus-
tralia, out to Camooweal and Cloncurry
—a record not many Australians can beat.
In between all that he joined heartily in
the unofficial life of Canberra, boosted
his pet interest there, the Boys’ Grammar
School; sold tickets for raffles whenever
a suitable moment arrived ; made a host
of friends, among whom he left the
clearest-cut impression of Canada any of
his countrymen has ever done. Mr. Davis
wants to get back to his judicial life in
Canada, but it’s any odds to nuts that the
Canadian Government won’t waste his
rare talent for diplomacy. The Canberra
view is that the six-feet-something Judge,
with his wide sombrero and cheery grin,
will bob up soon in one or another of
the world’s Chancellories.
Lester Brain, who gets the job of
general manager of the Airlines Com-
mission, was born 43 years ago at
Forbes (N.S.W.). He was educated at
Sydney Grammar, learnt his flying with
the R.A.A.F. in its early days and joined
Qantas as a pilot in 1924. During the
next few years he got plenty of all-round
experience. He piloted ’planes over most
of the company’s routes, acted as
manager of the Brisbane branch, visited
Britain, Europe and America, and in
1929 made a name for himself as a
search pilot by locating two lost ’planes
—Kookaburra, in which Anderson and
Hitchcock lost their lives in Central Aus-
tralia while in search of Kingsford
Smith’s party, and Vellore, which Moir
and Owen, on a flight from England to
Australia, managed to coax to a safe
landing at lonely Cape Don after
their fuel was exhausted. When Qantas
introduced D.H.B6s to Australia Brain
brought the first one out from England.
During the war he ferried aircraft across
the Pacific, and when he was chosen for
the new job he was operations manager
for his firm.
A sad accident at Blacktown (N.S.W.),
when two small boys were drowned in
a waterhole, was the occasion for a fine
example of devotion to duty by Dr. J. J.
Donnellan. When his assistance was
called for he was in bed with two broken
ribs encased in plaster, but despite his
injuries he applied artificial respiration
until ambulance officers arrived to relieve
him. Dr. Donnellan served with the
A.I.F. in two wars, and in between was
a resident doctor at Sydney Hospital,
medical officer on Royal Dutch Packet
ships, saw service with the R.A.N. and
was superintendent of Waterfall Sana-
torium. He is now in practice at Black-
town, and is an honorary physician and
surgeon at Parramatta Hospital.
Harlan Fiske Stone, Chief Justice of
the United States since 1941, who col-
lapsed during a sitting of the Supreme
Court in Washington and died shortly
afterwards, took his law degree in 1898,
the year of “Remember the Maine,” and
was appointed Chief Justice in time to
hear the States re-echo with “Remember
Pearl Harbor.” Dean of Columbia Law
School and member of a New York legal
firm, he w ; as made Attorney-General by
Coolidge in 1923, and was raised to the
Supreme Court a year later. In 1930
Hoover considered making Stone C.J., but
the final choice was Charles E. Hughes;
11 years later Roosevelt gave Stone the
honor, and despite his well-known Repub-
lican affiliations the appointment was ap-
plauded by both parties. Stone was 73
when the end came. Justice Jackson,
lately prominent at the Nazi war trials,
seems the best bet for next Chief Justice.
At Bonalbo (N.S.W.) show,, Curley
Williamson, veteran abo. roughrider, has
made what he declared to be his last
appearance in any buckjumping contest.
At 75, it certainly was a notable perform-
ance. The bucker scored first fall with
a wicked sudden twist after a series of
straight-out bucks, but the plucky old
boy climbed aboard again and rode the
tricky brute to a fair standstill amid the
cheers of an admiring crowd. The hat
went round afterwards for a worthwhile
collection. Victorian-bom, Curley was
for many years a tracker in the Victorian
police force, and afterwards travelled with
the Skuthorpe roughriding crowd over
most of eastern Australia.
Hugh Devine, who had an honor from
the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng-
land bestowed on him by the Duke of
Gloucester, has a surgeon-son, John De-
vine, who seems to be treading in his
footsteps. Word has come from London
that John Devine has been elected a
Fellow of the Royal College. He is a
Master of Surgery of Melbourne Uni-
versity, a Fellow of the Australian and
U.S. Surgical Colleges, and he wrote Rats
of Tobruk. He is visiting medical
centres in America on his way back to
Melbourne!
Douglas Mawson, sketched by Coven-
try at a luncheon of the Commonwealth
Club (Adelaide), of which he is the new
chairman, came to Australia from his
native Yorkshire as a boy and got his
schooling at Sydney Fort-street. In 1903
he went to the New Hebrides with a
geological exploration party, and not long
after his return was appointed lecturer
in mineralogy at Adelaide University.
The trip to the islands had whetted his
appetite for exploring, and in 1907 he
went to the Antarctic with Shackleton,
sharing with Edgeworth David the honor
of being the first to ascend Mt. Erebus
and the discovery of the South Magnetic
Pole. In 1911 he led the Australasian
Antarctic expedition, which spent two
years in the South Polar regions, and
added considerably to scientific know-
ledge of that area. He was knighted on
his return, and his collection of medals
from scientific societies in various coun-
tries makes a very imposing array. Since
1920, when Adelaide Uni. made him Pro-
ANTARCTIC GEOLOGY.
fessor of Geology, he has been mostly
satisfied to pass his knowledge on to
others, but in 1929-31 he made one more
trip to the icepacks in command of the
joint British, Australian and New Zea-
land expedition.
“Becks” on the House of Savoy;
Abdication of Victor Emmanuel 111 places
Prince 'Umberto, since June, 1944, Lieutenant-
General of the Realm, temporarily on the throne
of Italy; a plebiscite to be held next month
will (perhaps) decide whether he will stay there.
Victor Emmanuel is a Johnny-come-lately name
in the history of the House of Savoy; Umberto
goes right back to the founder of the line,
Umberto the Whitehanded, an Alpine-climbing
count of the eleventh century who dominated the
St. Bernard and Mont Cenis passes and took toll
of merchants and pilgrims travelling to and
from Italy. Am’ong his early successors were
Umberto the Fat and Umberto the Saint. The
family history followed the usual pattern of
petty kingdoms during the Middle Ages, acquir-
ing and losing territories, scheming dynastic
marriages, switching from side to side in in-
terminable wars. Henry 111 of England married
a Savoy girl and made one of her kinsmen,
Peter, Earl of Richmond, and another, Boni-
face, Archbishop of Canterbury.
By the fourteenth century Amadeus had be-
come the favorite family name—there were nine
of them, not counting those who had to carry
the moniker as a second choice —and their
pocket-handkerchief domain had become a
dukedom. One of their number had been
elected Pope. Round about this time an Edward
Crept up the family tree. He deserves mention
because he was called “The Liberal,” not
through any democratic leanings, but on account
of his extravagance. The first Emmanuel
flourished about the time of Elizabeth; he was
Emmanuel Philibert, one of the ablest soldiers
of his day. From then onwards an array
of Charles Emmanuels and Victor Amadeuses
—there was also a fragrantly-named Francis
Hyacinth—dragged their people in and out of
wars, changing side so frequently that it be-
came a saying that the House of Savoy never
finished a war on the side it started on. In
the process they became Kings of Sardinia,
and ultimately, with the advent of the Victor
Emmanuels, Kings of Italy.
Victor Emmanuel 111 came to the throne in
1900, when his father Umberto was assassi-
nated. He saw the dominions of his House
reach their greatest' extent when in 1936 he
assumed the title of Emperor of Ethiopia, but
in the two World Wars the Savoyard genius for
picking losers was once more exemplified. The
1914 outbreak found his country tied up in the
Triple Alliance, though she was eventually per-
suaded to swing along with Britain and France.
On June 10, 1940, the shades of all the old
Amadeuses and Emmanuels must have rejoiced
that their descendant had at' last picked a
winner, but four years later Italy was working
her passage with the Allies.
The latest Umberto is not particularly white-
handed or fat, and no one has suggested that
he is a saint, but if the plebiscite confirms his
succession few will envy him his uneasy throne.
Visiting Australia is Dr, George Sava,
the Harley-street surgeon who, like Con-
rad, learnt to write books in English
better than most writers bred to the
language. But languages mean nothing
to Dr. Sava; he speaks Russian, Bul-
garian (his own tongue), German, French,
Italian and Turkish, His English publi-
cations run to 21 books and two plays,
one of which has been produced in Mel-
bourne. His romantic career began in
the Russian Navy in World War I —as a
lieutenant. He dug a bullet out of a
comrade’s chest with a clasp-knife. That
set him thinking about surgery, and
finally landed him in London’s street of
doctors. One of his patients when he
practised in Paris was James Joyce, the
author of “Ulysses.” For two years he
worked in London on civilian casualties
of air raids, and for three years he was
a War Office plastic surgeon. His wife,
a former Sydney girl, has known what it
was to be bombed during the blitz, tor-
pedoed in a ship, pickejd up from an open
boat by a fishing smack and landed in
Glasgow.
William James Denny, who has been
given a State funeral in Adelaide after
succumbing to a heart attack at 73, suc-
ceeded Charles Cameron Kingston in the
S.A. Parliament in 1900, and held the seat
for over 30 years. A notable public
speaker, and a capital writer withal, he
became Attorney-General under John
Verran, and held „ the same port-
folio twice under Lionel Hill. Between
times he was a successful lawyer, first
with John Gordon, later with Villeneuve
Smith and Senator Daly. Denny went
away with the 9th Light Horse in 1915,
transferred to Fifth Div. Artillery, was
wounded in France, gained a commission
and a Military Cross. In his youth he
was a keen oarsman, cricketer and foot-
baller, and in later years he was for some
time an honorary steward of the Adelaide
Racing Club,
• Melbourne National Gallery had a
link with Ernest Samuel Makower,
Britain’s leading silk magnate, who died
the other day in London. A lot of its
fine collection of antique fans and silver
was bought by him when he acted as
honorary purchaser for the Felton Be-
quest in England, and some of its most
valuable items were his gifts. He was
the man who subsidised the sixpenny
concerts at the London Museum, where
thousands listened to eminent musicians
while bombs were raining on the city.
Sketched by Mcßeath just oefore he
closed his office door at Victoria Bar-
racks, Melbourne, for the last time, Group-
MAORILAND LIAISON.
Captain T. M. Wilkes, C.8.E., M.C., came
to Australia in March, 1940, as Maori-
land Liaison Officer for the Army and
Air Force. He served with the
Dominion’s forces in France in the previ-
ous shindy, won the M.C. and got two
“mentions.” An early starter in M.L.
aviation, he held the original appoint-
ment of Staff Officer for Air Services,
Director of Air Services and Controller
of Civil Aviation' He joined the M.L.
staff corps in 1911 and went over to the
R.N.Z.A.F. in 1937 when it became a
separate service. He leaves a wide circle
of friends, both service and civilian, made
during his six years’ sojourn in Australia.
To turn 70 this year, Will Lawson and
Hugh McCrae have been writing for
The Bulletin since the dawn of the
century. Will retains his roving disposi-
tion and his interest in ships, locomotives,
bushrangers and Cobb and Co.’s coaches.
Hugh prefers to stay at home and weave
rich and lovely verse about nymphs and
fauns or extract exquisite gossip from
old family diaries. Will came to Aus-
tralia from Durham (England), and spent
18 years in Maoriland. Hugh is a native-
born Australian. Jack Abbott regards
them as mere boys, but that is probably
because their boyhood memories don’t go
back to the days of Macquarie.
Into the silence:
At Melbourne, at 47, Dr. R. J. Wright-Smith,
assistant Government Pathologist and assistant
Coroner. A gunner in the last war, he was a
lecturer in pathology at the University and a
Fellow of the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians.
At 36, lost in a Lancastrian in the Indian
Ocean, Capt. O. F. Y. Thomas. He ferried
Catalinas from America to Australia and later
skippered them on the Indian Ocean crossing;
and was the first pilot to fly them on the 1500-
mile hop from Tjilatjap to Broome. He took the
first Empire flying boat to Moresby in 1942,
and played a big part in the famous Biscuit
Bombers. Thomas also commanded the first
Lancastrian to leave Sydney for England bn the
Qantas route.
In Melbourne, Lieutenant - Commissioner
Ernest J. Harewood, 0.8. E., a Salvation Army
officer for 38 years. A chaplain in the last
war, he was mentioned in dispatches by Haig.
In Sydney, at 75, Archdeacon R. B. S. Ham-
mond, lifelong temperance and social reformer
and, in early years, a Melbourne footballer —
member of the Essendon team in the great days
of Thurgood. His best-known work was the
founding of the township Hammondville during
the depression; at this settlement near Liverpool
(N.S.W.) unemployed were enabled to build
homes and rebuild their lives. Other projects
which the former rector of St. Barnabas’s,
Sydney, initiated included pioneer homes at
Liverpool, Hotel Hammond for unemployed
single men, a boys’ employment bureau, a
clothes and food depot and a paper, “Grit.”
A grand Australian, in every sense of the word.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Vice-chairman of N.S.W. Division,
George Patterson, at the Red Cross con-
ference, spoke for everyone who has a
spark of gratitude for the great service
the soldier lads have done, when he de-
clared that “Red Cross has at least 30
years of intensive, inescapable work
caring for the sick, wounded and their'
dependants.” It was heartening to hear
that the ex-p.-0.-w. will be a ward of
Red Cross throughout his life. A Trust
Fund will be established to meet p.-0.-w.
requirements.
The treatment of tuberculosis as urged
by Dr. Cotter Harvey is a matter of
urgency to the community. In spite of
our climate the doctor told that t.b. kills
1000 people each year in this State. The
campaign against this disease seems a
war in which the aid of Red Cross is
needed. Nor was its President, the
Duchess of Gloucester, forgotten by the
conferrers. Out to Gloucester House,
where H.R.H. was recovering from an
appendix operation, went a great box of
flowers from the delegates. The special
messenger was Mrs. G. R. Strachan.
The echoes of the C.W.A. Conference
still lingered about the Assembly Hall
when the Red Cross Society went into
conference. The talks commenced on the
7th and lasted till the 9th. Nine hundred
and fifty delegates came *and well over
800 branches were represented. The
note for economy was struck by only
one group. The Warrumbungle Branch
had on the agenda paper a resolution that
now that the war is over the expenses
in Red Cross printed matter might be
reduced. But the difficulties of getting
anything printed at all, as expounded by
the publishers, seem to make that a vain
hope.
The Coral Sea Ball, in spite of its
romantic name, did not commemorate an
idyll. It was a celebration by the Aus-
tralian-American Movement of victory
won by American and Australian forces
over a ruthless foe. So there was more
of a patriotic note than tropic languor
about the decorations. There were tower-
ing figures of' John Bull and Uncle
Sam. guarding the entrance to the
ballroom of the Trocadero, and
the big moment of the night came
with the breaking of the Flags. This
was quite a good stage effect with groups
of girlish Australian charm, and Alice
Prowse singing “God Bless America!”
Snow-white chiffons and a discreet glit-
ter of sequins were worn by the singer.
Sequins also added their sparkle to
frocks in the official group. President
Mrs. Sam Jones’s flame crepes were em-
broidered at the neckline with them, and
Mrs. Florence Taylor’s black laces glit-
tered here and there. Organising secre-
tary Mrs. Ted Scorfield’s mingling of pale
amber and brown chiffons was admired.
Acting American Consul Derry and Mrs.
Derry were important guests. The Agent-
General-to-be Tullys, just about to depart
for England, were notables. All told, there
were a thousand dancers, among them
high-ranking officers of the American
Army and Navy. Acting-president of the
Movement, R. Conrow and Mrs. Conrow,
were there also. The presence of Madge
Elliott and Cyril Ritchard and a dashing
floor show were other specials on the
menu. The tables, incidentally, were
decked with chrysanthemums. This was
no compliment to Tokyo, but just be-
cause the astringent . beauties are in
season.
Aberdeen-Angus owners felt quite a
wave of nostalgia when they entered the
room in Usher’s, where their annual
dinner was set. On every table stood, in
black and gleaming facsimile, a group of
their pets. The menus were cut to shape,
too, and inside all the dishes bore the
names of champions, or their owners. It
was a real cattleman’s night. But it
made a lot of the country ones restless.
The hours following the dinner and be-
tween them and speedy return to loved
herds seemed unendurable. There were
speeches and quips, with Bob Dyer to
put a top-spin on the razzle-dazzle.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says that
she wishes she could now sing the old
Negro Spiritual “Ah Got Shoes” with
anything like truth. She says in the whole
of her 15 years in Sydney she has never
known such a shoe shortage. Gone are
the days when a woman could put aside
footwear because of scuffed toes or heels,
or. because its black suede is beginning
to go a brownish hue. Every day the
sex goes hide-hunting. The stores that
remain open all day have an almost in-
variable reply to queries: “Sorry, out of
stock.” • Others close their doors early.
A query at two shoemakers’ last week
brought the reply: “Yes, an order would
be taken” —you could count on them (like
the “Punch” joke) to deliver the goods in
12 months. The Girl in the Flat Opposite
says she is going to learn to walk on her
hands to save her soles (wearing slacks,
of course).
Sound and peaceful should be the
sleep, beneath Australian soil, of Padre
S. G. Drummond and his wife, who put
their strength and sympathy into the cause
which has brought happiness and health
to thousands of this land’s outback
children. The work they started still
grows, and at Drummond House, in
Manly, on Monday was opened another
floor. This home is for the care of the
children of the Far West, who are
brought to the city for medical atten-
tion ; the friendly house in Manly is
their home throughout their treatment.
Percy Spender, M.H.R., opened the
new floor on Monday afternoon. This
now holds such treatment rooms as
the physio-therapy, occupational therapy,
eye rooms, spray baths and so on. Joseph
Wolinski’s portraits of Mr. and Mrs.
Drummond were unveiled by Mr. Spender
to a great burst of handclapping. Be-
sides the Drummond Home the Far West
scheme arranges a summer camp at Manly
for small boys and girls from out Wil-
cannia and White Cliffs and Tibooburra
ways. This movement ranks with Flynn
of the Inland’s Flying Doctor and Mrs.
Mackinnon’s Junior Red Cross for ideal-
ism in vision and unsparing energy in the
building.
Last Tuesday the tenth ~nnual State
conference of the Far West scheme was
opened at the B.M.A. rooms, Macquarie-
street. Associated with the enterprise
since its formation has been Mrs. E. E.
Hill, pictured here. She is now general
secretary of the scheme and matron of
the Drummond Home.
Dr. George Sava, who was the guest of
the Society of Women Writers’ lunch last
week, is a very interesting man. He is
the author of the widely-read The Heal-
ing Knife and many other books crammed
with his experiences and observations of
life, and he is a surgeon. During the
war he was engaged on plastic surgery
for the British Government. He has a
graphic way of describing events, so that
his story of bombed London brought new
and more acute realisation of the days
and nights of suspended dread.
But the women literally hung on his
lips when he told of plastic surgery and
the miracles of beautifying or otherwise*
that a tiny operation to the mouth, the
nose and even the corners of the eyes
could produce. He told how part of the
plastic surgeon’s work during the war was
to alter the features and the expression
of the members of that gallant company,
all volunteers, who dropped behind the
lines to become merged with various
underground movements. The speaker
brought out the heroic quality of these
lads, who had plainly won his heart. But
in reply to a barrage of inquiry from his
speech, he laughingly declared that British
women had, more than any other women,
the “art of growing old gracefully,” and
“looking all around him there was not one
face there that could be made more beau-
tiful.” Everybody parted the best of
friends.
Dr. Sava, who has cherished for years
the dream of coming to Australia, has
fallen in love with our landscape. He
had already fallen in love with and mar-
ried an Australian girl. She was Miss
Hollingdale, of Sydney. She accompanied
him to the lunch.
Fun and cocktails gave the right zing
to the autumn evening at the R.S.Y.S.,
Kirribilli, yesterday. The flag officers and
committee were giving a party in “appre-
ciation of the splendid work of the
R.S.Y.S. women’s auxiliary during the
war.” And why not? The stuff’s easier
to get now, isn’t it?
For the past five years a band of
workers calling themselves the Ceramic
War Workers have met every evening at
No. 3 Muston-street, Mosman, to make
felt slippers to be sent as gifts to
113 A.G.H. at Concord. Now giving up
the work as the material is too hard to
procure, the little group has made 2036
pairs. The ceramic circle was organised
by Ada and Jessie Newman.
From Melbourne
R. G. Casey turned on a speech in
quite his best style at the luncheon party
given by the Australian-American Friend-
ship League to commemorate the Coral
Sea battle. The ex-Governor of Bengal
is the new president of the league, Keith
Murdoch having retired. Vice-president
Wesley Ince gave the joint toast to his
Majesty and the President of the U.S.A.,
which was enthusiastically honored in
ginger-pop. Notables of both countries
jostled amiably and the Consular Corps
was well represented. Mrs. R. G. Casey,
attractive in a deep-green suit worn with
brown accessories, met many old friends
again.
The Coral Sea Ball at the St. Kilda
Town Hall, arranged by the Australian-
American Friendship League, was a bril-
liant affair. Moving among tropical
foliage against a Pacific Ocean back-
drop were lovely girls wearing sarongs
and leis. Sea nymphs in filmy green
draperies presented a poetic ballet. Mrs.
Geoffrey Smith, in a costume of white,
green and gold, undulated in a Balinese
dance. Wearing a real Hawaiian costume
of shimmering blue, Mrs. S. J. S. Mac-
kinnon sang island melodies. One of the
features of the pageant was a group of
Chinese girls wearing national costume.
Cabaret tables were covered with gaily-
hued cloths and decorated with bowls of
chilis, red peppers and tropical fruits,
with knight' Harold Clapp and his lady
(who organised the ball) at the official
table were the Premier, John Cain, and*
Mrs. Cain (their daughter Joan was in the
pageant), American Consul-General R.
Boyce, U.S. Naval Attache Capt. B. F.
Tompkins, and - Mrs. Tompkins—she
a striking figure in an off-the-shoulder
red velvet frock. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell,
wearing a black beaded gown, had a party
at her table. Secretary of the Australian-
American Friendship League, Rhoda
Taylor, wore a tomato-red patterned
gown. Nestling in her hair was a match-
ing colorful bird, the long tail curling
around her neck.
The good-looking lass pictured here’ is
Petera Campbell, who is wearing a sap-
phire-and-diamond ring given to her by
Lieut. Peter de Wolf, of the Royal Nether-
lands Naval Reserve. Marriage plans are
awaiting the cfetermination of Peter’s
release from the service. Peter is an old
Geelong Grammarian and is the son of
Madame de Wolf, of Walsh-street, South
Yarra, and the late H. A. J. de Wolf,
Petera is the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. H. A. M. Campbell, Cliveden Man-
sions, East Melbourne. She left the uni-
versity to become a journalist.
French residents in Melbourne cele-
brated St. Joan of Arc’s Day by placing
a wreath at the feet of her statue which
stands outside the National Art Gallery,
At night the French Naval Attache,
Captain de Corvette Kervella, was host
at a party given at the Naval Legation in
St. Kilda. The guests included M. Pierre
Auge, Col. D. M. Renucci and M. Lou-
here, Capt. R. D. Farncomb and Capt.
H. J. Buchanan of the R.A.N., and their
wives, and Rear-Admiral Portal, of the
R.N., and Mrs. Portal. Mr. T. W. White,
M.H.R., was accompanied by his wife and
three daughters. Present, too, was Brig.-
General Sebree of the U.S.A., who, during
the 1914-18 war, commanded the forces
which liberated Orleans, birthplace of
“The Maid.”
The long, sweeping formal frock with
elbow-length gloves had solid competi-
tion from short frocks, most of them
black and highlighted with gay little bits
of floral nonsense acting as hats, at the
opening of the ballet season. The tradi-
tional “Les Sylphides” made the terpsi-
bow, followed by “Scheherazade”
and “Le Beau Danube.” It was an ele-
gantly-clad first night. Valda Normoyie,
over from Sydney, wore a hip-length cape
of white fox ; another Sydney lass, Beat-
rice O’Connor, had a matching sari for
her nut-brown chiffons. Mama Clarke's
short-sleeved dinner of ice-blue
crepe had a net yoke worked with
sequins ; long blue gloves completed the
ensemble. Sonia O’Brien had a black
dinner gown to set off her fair coloring.
Mrs. Hal Watt, formerly Tempe Falkiner,
chose black, the square neckline, short
sleeves and hemline being trimmed with
rows of narrow blonde lace. Mrs. Olive
Thring’s black dinner gown had a bodice
trimmed with steel beads; over it she
wore a dyed ermine coat.
The Y.W.C.A., planning to take part in
world rehabilitation, will for the first
time in seven years hold a World Con-
ference, this time in the Swiss village of
Staldon, in the rich Emmonthall valley.
Here delegates from all over the world
will meet for study courses. English and
French will be used throughout the con-
ference, and a special staff of inter-
preters will be kept busy. Another reason
for the conference is to test the effective-
ness of Y.W.C.A. working ways,
which may have to be revised in
the light of the spiritual, moral and social
reconstruction to which the Y.W.C.A.
is committed. Transport difficulties make
it impossible to send a Y.W.C.A. member
from Australia, but National Head-
quarters in Melbourne have arranged for
a member now in Europe to represent
this country.
The parent body of the Ministering
Children’s League has handed over to the
Invalid Children’s Aid Society its Meath
Hospital School in Ottershaw, Chertsey,
England, so that children suffering from
a disease common in London—bron-
chiectasis —which has increased consider-
ably during the war years, may be cured.
To raise funds so that food parcels may
be sent to the hospital-school a musicale
was held at the home of Mrs. A. Vale,
president of the St. Kilda branch of the
M.C.L. Mrs. W. Charles, president of the
Brighton branch, was co-hostess. Pro-
gramme, which included items from Muriel
Howard, was arranged by Mrs. R, Phil-
pott. This function, to which 120 guests
came, is the first of a series arranged by
the secretary of M.C.L., Mrs. Hewison,
to keep the good work going.
Walter Susskind, the Czech conductor
who is visiting us with his English wife
and small son, was the baton-wielder at
a celebrity concert in the Town Hall,
which included works by Shostakovitch
and Dvorak. Solo pianiste was Mary
Macleod, frocked in old-gold satin.
Others of the fellowship of the keyboard
who were looking at it from an angle
unusual to them were Hepzibah Menu-
hin, Vera Bradford, Una Bourne, Mary
Kiernan, Viva Holgate-Clarke, Raymond
Lambert and Lindsay Biggins.
Lorna Dickson, a Westralian who joined
the Y.W.C.A. War Services Bureau in
1942, became Asst. Commissioner in her
State, and after two years in that posi-
tion went to New South Wales, where
she served the Y.W.C.A. -for another two
years. Now she has been chosen to go to
Kure, Japan, where she will minister to
the needs of the 53 members of the
A.A.M.W.S. attached to 130 A.G.H. Miss
Dickson is the first Australian member
of the Y.W.C.A. to serve there. As
general welfare officer, her services will
be available to both men and women,
and she will live in barracks with the
A.A.M.W.S.
How far this country has come in the
way of designing and making the most
of Australian wool was demonstrated at
a fashion show in one of this city’s stores.
Mannequins displayed the models, all of
which were easy to make, easy to wear
and no strain on the budget. The cost of
the wool for a knitted frock was, in
many cases, as low as 18s. and for a
sweater 4s. For the girl who skates,
there was an emerald-green wool sweater,
with a pattern of white fir-trees knitted
into the right side; this was worn with a
short white pleated skirt. An amethyst
frock, knitted in an easy stitch, had a
note of color contrast in the cyclamen
chiffon scarf tied loosely around the
throat. A white knitted frock in simple
design had a very narrow rib of red
wool. Blue blanket wool was used to
make a hip-length jacket, with burgundy
and pale-pink wool plaitings trimming the
front openings and pockets.


l# v«
'ft#;
fej
SfiPK
iiii
SWE^kPRESS
333 -
The secret’s in the 333’s
blend. As welcome as
the letter you are
answering the plea-
sure of a good cigarette
—“Ask please for
333’5.”
“333’s
always
please”
SI2D-5-46
The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M, O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders',
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.! Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £
To staff fund, £14,952 .. --li 970 or, 7
1940. . 3,201,274 1,557,087 303,553 54,725 ) ’ ’
To staff fund, £14,668 .. ..1
Profit on sale of securities, £6207.. ( , iqo 41s
1941.. 3,263,475 1,684,266 267,390 I ’ ’
To tax reserve, £llB,OOO .. .-I
To staff fund, £14,831
1942. . 3,429,797 1,651,406 275,866 52,105 1,335,589
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO ...
To staff fund, £14,503
1943. . 3,062,472 1,665,787 280,518 50.000 1,652,604
Profit on sale of securities, £338 ..
To staff fund, £20,802
1944. . 4,000,659 1,462,951 321,076 50,000 2,148,046
Profit on Sale of Securities, £2216..
To staff fund, £23,239 .. .• 1 9 nco r.nn
1945. . 4,426,155 1,917,038 370,613 51,765 ) ’
* Includes dividends to shareholders.
! After deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.! Claims, penses.* Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £7838 .. .. 1
1940. . 1,452,237 530,257 417,756 2820 1 380 560
To tax reserve, £13,000 .. .. | ’
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO ..1
To staff fund, £8250 .. .. |
1941. . 1,570,713 581,294 436,304 1263 1. 419019
To tax reserve, £31,500 .. .. | ’
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO ..1
To staff fund, £8426 .. .. ( qrQ
1942. . 1,678,500 489,131 437,242 1742 )
To staff fund, £8542 .. .. ]
1943. . 1,850,484 396,209 441,641 [ 905,503
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO 4. |
Profit on sale of securities, £l4ll ;. j
To staff fund, £12,111 .. .. 1
1944.. 2,031,637 430,456 460,180 ) 1,126,516
Loss on sale of securities, £2344.. |
To staff fund, £13,255 .. .. 1
1945.. 2,270,205 574,015 495,201 1474 [ 1,136,260
To general reserve, £50,000 ..J
* Includes dividends to shareholders.
t After deducting taxes.
The low cost at which the M.L.C. col-
lects its income and manages its invest-
ments, the solid nature of its assets,
which appear to be worth more than their
book value, and the satisfactory margins
disclosed in all those rfiatters upon which
soundness and progress depend have won
the co. a high reputation in the field of
life assurance. Apart from a further de-
cline in the rates of interest earned, over
which the management has little control,
the co.’s record was one of continued
progress last year.
A record amount of new business was
put on the books —£10,737,274 (up
£1,709,095) ordinary and £5,011,700 (up
£296,119) industrial; total' £15,748,974
(up £2,005,214). Group contracts again
accounted for a large slice of ordinary
business. They have become increasingly
popular as a means of providing em-
ployee superannuation, and cost less to
secure and handle than would a like num-
ber of individual contracts. In the or-
dinary branch exes. took. 11.1 p.c. of net
premiums, or only a shade over 8 p.c. of
total income, compared with 14.5 p.c.
and 9.8 p.c. respectively in 1939. In the
industrial section the expense rates were
24.1 p.c. of premium income and 19.7
p.c. of total income, as against 32.5 p.c.
and 25.9 p.c. respectively in 1939. These
ratios compare favorably with any other
life office, and reflect the tight hold the
management keeps upon controllable out-
goings.
War claims have caused the office little
concern; they were relatively lighter
than the strain during World War 1.
What has affected the co. and all other
life offices most is the reduction of in-
terest rates. Since 1939 the co. has in-
vested the whole of the increase in its
funds, and more besides, in war loans on
terms increasingly favorable to the
Treasury. Together with the rise in tax-
ation,- this reduced the return from
current investments, and, therefore, the
amount available for distribution among
both policyhblders and shareholders.
Here is the investment portfolio in
tabloid form:
1944, p.c. 1945. p.c.
Public securities £32,833,875 77.2 £30,733,114 79.9
Mortgages . . 6,628,544 15.6 6,161,221 13.4
Loans on policies 1,528,050 3.6 1,453,642 3.2
Cash, book debts,
etc 575,424 1.3 615,431 1.3
Property. . . . 422,646 1.0 372,636 0.8
Debentures, shares,
etc 543,396 1.3 624,781 1.4
£42,520,935 £45,960,825
Liabilities* . . 1,615,499 1,750,314
Net assets ..£40,911,436 £44,210,511
* Other than under policies.
At the close of last accounts public
securities (up £3,899,239) accounted for
79.9 p.c. of total assets compared with
62.5 p.c. six years earlier. Over the same
period the rate of interest earned on
assurance funds, plus reserves, in the
ordinary and industrial sections have
shrunk in this way:
f Interest Yield x
Gross: Ordinary. Industrial.
1939 .. ..£4 18 6 p.c. £4 17 11 p.c.
1945 . . . . 4 3 3 „ 4 4 7 „
Net:
1939 .. ~ 410 10 „ 412 2 „
-1945 .. 3 15 3 „ 3 18 0 „
The net rate is the yield after deducting
taxation. With an eye to bonus prospects
and security for policyholders, the board
lowered the basis of . valuation of
liabilities under policies to an all-round
2j p.c.—the most stringent basis in force
in Australia. As building activity gets
under way more attention can be expected
to be given to house-purchase loans,
which carry a higher rate of interest than
Government securities, and are very
helpful in writing new business.
Here is a comparison of surpluses
available for distribution in the ordinary
and industrial sections, as figured by the
actuary; —
1938. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Ordinary .. £849,680 £563,782 £670,398 £813,365
Industrial .. 115,459 119,068 118,180 140,909
Total .. £905,139 £082,845 £788,578 £954,274
Rates of bonuses aren’t mentioned these
days, but they are known to compare
favorably with those of other offices here
and abroad. Of the divisible profits in
1944 89.1 p.c. in the ordinary and 82.8
p.c. in the industrial section were dis-
tributed among participating policy-
holders. That is to say, the co. earned
for its policyholders £8 3s. sd. and
£4 16s. 3d. respectively before share-
holders became entitled to a pound.
Last year income from all sections of
the business totalled £6,919,917, of
which claims and exes, took £3,360,027.
Of the £3,559,890 that remained,
£3,199,759 was added 'to the assurance
funds (£41,064,328), £103,465 to reserves
(£1,398,675), £53,333 was written off the
book value of premises, etc.*, £53,333 was
sent to the staff fund and £150,000 (15
p.c. div.) was handed to shareholders.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
, Di vi dends ,
Jan., Profit. Ord, Pref. Total. Reserves.!
1939.. 162,995 7ip.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,942 1,098,003
Ipswich Electric Supply Co. absorbed.
Added purchase a/c, £24,225 .. 1,073.778
Net additions reserves, £229,957 ~ 1,303,735
Divs., etc., Ipswich Elec., £7446.. 1,296,289
1940.. 94,860 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 90,867 1,800,282
Added purchase a/c, £9709 .. .. 1,290,573
' Net additions reserves, £109,678 ..1,400,251
194 J. . 114,580 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 112,389 1,402,442
Added purchase a/c, £10,217 .. 1,392,225
Expenses debenture issue, £10,868 .. 1,381,357
Net additions reserves, £97,799 .. 1.479,156
1942.. 103,204 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,204 1,479,156
Expenses debenture issue, £4911 .. 1,474,245
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£74,459 1,399,786
Net additions reserves, £109,521 .. 1.509,307
1943.. 104,423 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,423 1,509,307
Written off debenture exes., £3944 .. 1,513,251
Net additions reserves, £110*346 -.. 1,623,597
1944.. 153,856 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,496 1,672,957
Written off debenture exes., £3941 .. 1,076,898
Net additions reserves, £97,916 .. 1,774,814
1945.. 167,016 5! p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,496 1,837,334
Written off debenture exes., £3940.. 1,841,274
Net additions reserves, £102,179.. 1,943,453
1946.. 163,251 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 127,407 1,979,297
f After deducting intangibles (now £110,768).
Expansion is the order of the day with
this big electrical undertaking, and is
likely to remain so for the next few years.
The co. is the executive factor in the
Government scheme for extension of elec-
tric current throughout south-eastern
Queensland. During the war the work
was held up, owing to shortage of equip-
ment and suitable labor. With war out
of the way the co. has lost no time in get-
ting ahead with its programme, as the
following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:
1939. 1945. 1946.
Capital ~ .. £1,398,226 £1,945,879 £2,432,319
Allotment money.. 161,803
Debentures .. 912,000 912,000
Sundry creditors.. 179,925 860,060 346,222
Property, plant,
mains, etc. .. 2,180,699 4,773,293 5,166,237
Stock .. .. 120,912 308,744 361,844
Book debts, etc... 190,639 123,527 115,087
Cash, public securi-
ties, etc. .. 235,874 63,759 91,385
During the 12 months to end of January,
1945, £377,290 net was added to the book
value of plant, etc., and a further £392,944
was added to the same item during the
12 months covered by the latest accounts.
And a “very extensive” programme lies
ahead, which means that the rate of capi-
tal expenditure will continue to increase
as more materials become available for
delivery.
To help meet the outlay 486,407 new
£1 ords. were offered to and snapped by
those on the register shortly before the
close of accounts in 1945. That made
paid capital £2,432,319 in 20,000 6 p.c.
and 125,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and
2,287,349 ords.—there is still another £3O
to come in.
For the last five years the ords. have
received a steady 5i p.c., the div. being
anchored by legislation at 2 p.c. above the
rate carried by Commonwealth loans
offered for voluntary subscription during
the preceding year. Prices for current are
fixed on this basis, after allowing for all
exes., including depreciation, a moiety
for reserves and the cost of debenture
and preference capital. As public policy
is now one of cheap money, there appears
to be little prospect of a lift in the div.
rate. If the cost of living continues to
rise this formula for calculating the wages
of capital will operate counter-clockwise
to the formula for calculating the wages
of labor.
Last term £126,524 (down £4129), equal
to 2.4 p.c. of cost of fixed assets at end
January last, was allowed for depreciation.
The net addition to the depreciation re-
serve was £102,179, the difference
(£24,347) representing the cost of assets
disposed of and written off during the
term. The £163,261 of profit (down
£3765) that remained was £35,844 more
than the pref. and standard ord, divs.
called for, and reserves benefited accord-
ingly.
Since the close of last accounts the
board has arranged to raise £300,000 of
debenture money “at a low rate of in-
terest.” Finance by debenture is one of the
symptoms of a period of cheap money
combined with high taxation. However,
this issue will, for the time being, com-
plete the co.’s debenture borrowing power,
and its next capital requirements will be
obtained from shareholders, probably
later this year. Nominal capital has been
increased to £5,000,000 by creation of
an additional 2,000,000 £1 shares.
The market prices the f.-p. pound ords.
at 275. 9d., at which figure the return is
3.7 p.c., plus picking from new issues.
The prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
, Dividends x
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 5.4-7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8.317
6-7 p.c.
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
7 p.c.
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ „ 30,800 16,875 45,686
1939.. 59,804 11,200 7 „ ~ 30,800 17,804 63,490
To staff fund, £3OOO ~ .. .. 60,490
1940.. 62,520 11,200 7i p.c. =33,000 18,320 78,810
To staff fund, £3OOO 75,810
1941.. 50,553 11,200 8 p.c. =35,200 4,153 79,963
To staff fund, £5OOO .. •• •• 74,963
6-7 p.c.
1942.. 68,957 10,699 6 p.c. =26,400 31,858 106,821
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. .. 90,821
1943.. 56,531 10,697 6 p.c. =26,400 19,434 116,255
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. .. 106,255
7 p.c.
1944.. 64,488 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 22,488 128,743
To staff partners, £14,600 .. .. 114,143
1945.. 54,386 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 12,386 126,529
To staff partners, £11,750 .. .. 114,779
1946. . 60,826 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 18,826 133,605
To staff partners, £9400 .. .. 124,205
* After deducting bonuses to staff.
The business (founded by the Wunder-
lichs in the ’eighties of last century) is
the largest and most successful of its kind
in Australasia, Its factories are spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, and turn out architectural
terra-cotta, tiles, showcases, shopfronts,
asbestos - cement (durabestos) sheets,
pressed-steel partitions and a lot of other
architectural metal work for the embel-
lishment of buildings, etc.
For the prosperous decade to 1930 the
ords. averaged a shade over 12 p.c.,
£107,360 worth of share certificates to


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Auvt.
« * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22W), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security lor the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings,, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia's
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
Sj£, 11 7 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Do you need a f
PciUl/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank, Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
JiitfmlEmik
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ŕ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters. Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories,
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD. t CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WSWATi you#
ffOM£ against
SUMMER HEAT
WINTER CHILL
. A
W
n
MoiW
nr
CANE-ITE
Cane-ite not only beautifies your home but it gives
you double protection as well. It insulates and
protects your home against excessive cold and
heat —and gives you added comfort all the year
round. This modern attractive building board
keeps your home cosy in the winter, cool in the
summer.
Cane-ite is easy to use. In renovating it goes
right over unsightly walls, covering cracks and
stains quickly and inexpensively. Cane-ite is
white-ant proofed.
Manufacture! by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney—Melbourne—Brisbane —Adelaide Perth
Other C.S.R. Products; Slagwool, Asbestos. Plaster Products
staff partners was paid for out of earn-
ings, and £36,454 was distributed in divs.
thereon as well. For the next half-
dozen slump years average ord. div.
dropped to 4.6 p.c., which called for
£33,000-odd more profit than was
claimed over the same period, after pay-
ing. pref. divs. Then the tide turned, the
old policy of distributing profits as they
were earned was discontinued, and for
the decade to the close of last accounts
the ords. averaged 6.8 p.c., and £125,296
was visibly put on the shelf.
The gap in turnover caused by
stoppage of private building during the
war was more than filled by Govern-
ment orders for fabrication of com-
ponents in metal for defence purposes.
Despite the rise in taxation and costs, net
earnings averaged £58,983 for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1945,
compared with an average of £55,900 for
the preceding quinquennium.
What has happened in connection with
private building in metropolitan areas
throughout the Commonwealth the next
table shows:
Monthly Averages.*
Six Mths,
f —Year Ended June—., Dec., Jan.,
1939. 1943. 1945. 1945. 1946.
Metropolis: £OOO £OOO £OOO £OOO £OOO
Sydney .. 1111 117 183 683 839
Melbourne .. 702 77 132 391 502
Brisbane .. 171 10 62 176 186
Adelaide .. 192 49 80 249 255
Perth.. .. 145 14 50 112 191
Hobart . . 32 5 13 22 25
Six capitals. . 2353 272 520 1033 1997
* Permits issued by Local Government authorities,
excluding Government buildings.
Improvement in the figures since June
last can be expected to become more
marked as the shortage of labor and
materials, especially bricks and timber,
is overcome. Present allocation of
materials is 421- p.c. Government home-
building, 421 p.c. private home-building
and 15 p.c. commercial and industrial
purposes. Activity for the last-mentioned
purposes, for which Wunderlich’s
specially cater, will gather momentum as
the shortage of homes becomes less acute.
Last term net earnings sprang £6440,
reaching £60,826. That was after pay-
ing £1337 in staff-partnership divs.,
setting aside an extra £12,009 for the
taxgatherer (£55,449) and allowing an
additional £8260 for depreciation
(£37,598). The £60,826 was enough to
pay the prefs. their full contract rates and
show 11.2 p.c. on the £440,000 of ord.
capital, as against 9.8, 12.1, 10.3, 13.1 and
9 p.c. back to 1941. The div. was kept
at 7 p.c., £9400 was sent to the staff fund,
and the £9426 that was left lifted reserves
£124,205 in excess of intangibles
(£73,888), not treated as an asset herein.
Finances are comfortable:
1940. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. . £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Creditors .. 107,878* 215,564 143,696 215,069
Tax reserve . 97,924 120,774 131,821
Staff funds . . 30,601 52,050 73,600 81,300
Freeholds .. 318,703 323,679 299,186 329,891
Leaseholds .. 200
Plant, etc. .. 158,307 158,491 152,113 159,420
Stocks.. .. 188,873 335,346 309,475 357,588
Book debts .. 118,623 183,787 117,553 115,309
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 56,328 89,539 196,862 212,524
* Including tax provision.
Last term £3U,/u5 was added to freeholds,
£48,113 to stocks and £15,662 to cash,
etc To do this the board went outside
for an extra £71,373. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£285,820) was £18,589.
The market prices the ords. at 275. 3d.
(official high), at which figure the return
is 5.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 255. Bd. in net tangibles. The
prefs. seldom appear on ’Change,
There is a rumor that the Granites,
Centralia, might soon figure in the news
again. About six years dgo Mt. Isa
carried out a systematic drilling campaign
there, the results of which were never
broadcast. In some quarters it is thought
that the co. might go ahead again wher
men and materials become available.
This desert field first came into promi-
nence in the early 1930’5, following a few
rich, but not extensive, finds by Jack
Saxby and others. In 1932 C. H. Chap-
man, who had been in the well-boring
business at Roma, set out from Brisbane
for the Granites and elsewhere at the
head of a well-equipped exploration
party. He obtained an option over the
Burdekin Duck and other claims; and
half an ounce of gold was reported from
the core of one bore put down on a nar-
row vein. Following a report that the
outcrop of the load, 4ft. to 50ft. wide,
could be traced on the surface for five or
six miles, there was a rush to the place.
Shares in Granites Gold, N.L., rose from
par (£1) to £BO in the market. Mean-
while, several experienced mining engi-
neers had visited the field and turned it
down. One of them was Jim Hebbard,
a former manager of Sulphide Corp., who
said that there was a large, well-defined
ore-body traceable for some distance and
undoubtedly auriferous, and that a rich
vein, which might parallel the whole sys-
tem, was enclosed by auriferous schists,
to the presence of which he attached im-
portance. Then, because the Government
failed to send a geologist, newspapers
got Prof. Madigan, of Adelaide Uni-
versity, to overhaul the Granites. He
spent 13 days there, and inspected some
107 miles of auriferous country. He
summed up by saying that he found “noth-
ing of any value at all as to the possi-
bilities of the presence of undiscovered
but really valuable gold formations in the
area.” Later the Federal Government
geologist. Dr. Woolnough, examined the
field, which he considered showed possi-
bilities that, with systematic prospecting
and development, might develop into
something worth while. After that W. H
Gepp had a look at the place on behal.
of English interests, but nothing cam:
of it.
* * * *
Brisbane-controlled Raub Australian
jold Mining Co., whose property is
it Pahang (F.M.S.), has received a
eport from the acting g.m. that
all plant, machinery and a buildings
on the mine have been destroyed
or removed. The hydro-electric power
station at Sempam is virtually intact, and
is being operated by the military authori-
ties. The ore-body, which is about four
miles in length, was served by four main
shafts and six intermediate shafts. Treat-
ment section consisted of 70 stamps, two
tube mills, two roasting furnaces and a
tailings plant. No head frames, nor prac-
tically anything of value, remain at the
shaft sites, and most of the shaft collars
have collapsed, or are in a bad way. The
mill, it is said, presents a scene of deso-
lation. Rails from the surface tramway
have been removed, and most of the
sleepers were used for firewood; The
board has decided to go ahead with re-
equipment as rapidly as deliveries will
permit. Plans for new plant and flow
sheet are in hand. Meanwhile, shafts will
have to be dewatered and an investiga-
tion of the underground workings made.
This is likely to take some time. At end
of March, 1945, there was £38,480 in
Commonwealth loans to meet £482 com-
ing to Australian creditors. Almost all
the co.’s investments in Straits Settlements
and Malayan securities, totalling approxi-
mately £25,000, are reported to be now
held by the co.’s bankers in Malaya. Un-
claimed divs. on Singapore register total
£21,252.
H= * * *
Big Bell (W.A.) is getting back some
of its war-time impressed plant, which
has been in use at an Adelaide cellulose
factory. It is expected to be on the mine
within a month. Other Big Bell plant,
which has been immobilised at Darwin
owing to lack of shipping, is now on
its way to the West via Sydney. The
co.’s remaining heavier machinery at
Darwin will be moved as soon as a ship
with suitable lifting gew visits the port.
. ,
At First Hu s annual roll-up m Perth
the other day shareholders approved of
the continuance of the Boomerang option
at Burtville, near Laverton, on the East
Mt. Margaret field (W.A.). Chairman
j Baton reviewed the co.’s activities
during the past year, and urged his
hearers to hope for the best. For the
fl rs t time for a number of years no div.
was recommended. At end October last
cash and bullion totalled £11,429 and
there was £1921 coming to outsiders.


■
m
m
1
* "i
mt
m
mm
r
m
if
■
• ys
I
0
$6
m
PARTING IS SUCH SWEET SORROW
WHEN I KISS YOUR INGRAM'S FACE.
Can you blame a girl when it’s
her excuse to kiss his Ingram’s
face again. A nice face, a soft
face, a cool face. A face on which
a whisker scarcely dares to raise
its head. Beards find Ingram’s
quite heartbreaking. The famous
atomic lather burrows in, wounds
’em, wilts ’em, stands ’em up and
then caresses the skin into a vib-
rant, purring coolness.
INGRAM’S
,^-p
■o
(J
.m
tUliin
\m
n grata*
txated'
mv
Crea*
INC
SHAVING CREAM obtainable at all Chemists,
INA
Landscapes by Alison Rehfisch at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries are chiefly
remarkable for their warm, if crude,
coloring. The artist has a fondness for
reds, browns and greens, and her lack
of subtlety is compensated for, inade-
quately, by these uncompromising colors
and by a formal symmetry. The influence
of Cezanne, which sets Australian painters
trying to turn Australian summers into
French winters, is an obvious handicap.
The general effect is of a pleasant kind
of innocence, trying hard to be sophis-
ticated. Where the artist is content to
be herself, as in flower and fruit pieces,
the results are much better, with a natural
and pleasant glow.
“F.S.”: Portraits by 24 Australian
painters formed an interesting show at
George’s Gallery, Melbourne. Tom
Roberts, Lambert, Longstaff, Meldrum,
James Quinn and Mclnnes were in-
cluded and served to show that the
standard of Australian portraiture has
been equal to, or better than, contem-
porary English back to 1890. Among
more modern entries were Dobell’s strik-
ing commentary on Brian Penton, remini-
scent of the technique of the Old Masters,
and a lively “Patricia,” a tawny sketch
by Colin Colahan. Bernard Lawson
painted the Australian playwright,
Catherine Duncan, several leagues under
water, and there wasn’t the light of this
world on the formularised “Kathleen” of
William Dargie. Albert Tucker’s flaming
“Pauline” had a cartoon texture, but
there was solid quality in Alan Moore’s
“Maria.” Lina Bryans’s “Miss Jean
Campbell” was a slick affair of half a
dozen brush strokes. It can be confidently
asserted that, now that the Uccello “Port-
rait of a Lady” has been installed at the
National Gallery in Melbourne, there
will be a wild rush of imitators. George
Bell has beaten them all to it with his
“Portrait of a Girl,” which has the form
if not the content.
Pictures worth noticing at the autumn show
of the Victorian Society of Artists were Rollo
Thompson’s firm study of Miss Dorothy Mat-
tingley, J. H. Glover’s “Rottingden Village,
Sussex,” and a still-life by John Farmer. The
“Marigold” of P. Hurry would probably be in-
cluded if it were hung where somebody could
see it At Dora Wilson’s exhibition (Athe-
naeum) the views of the Street of the Leaning
Trees and Bank Place stood out. Miss Wilson’s
approach has loosened, and some of her pic-
tures are of more than factual interest. Lesbia
Thorpe, a Sydney artist showing at Koztninsky’s,
has some pleasing designs of niggers and jungles
in black and white. Her oils don’t suggest
a great deal of observation... .At George’s Gal-
lery Alan Sumner, a Victorian landscapist, has
tried his fist at transferring his impressions to
silk screens, a process which allows of repro-
duction like etchings. It is claimed to be new
to this country. None of the pictures is any
the worse for the transcription, for the pro-
cess is starkly exact. Some are no better for
it, there being a Noah’s Ark quality about
them. One of the most pleasing is “Lyster-
fiield Landscape.”
At the talkies:
“Over 21” (Sydney Mayfair): Brisk comedy
of a newspaper editor who joins the army to be
able to write authoritatively on servicemen’s
post-war politics.
“Scarlet Street” (Sydney Victory): Adapted by
Dudley Nichols from Fouchardiere’s play “The
Bitch.” An artist “driven” to murder by a
siren, then forced, as the price of a life he no
longer values, to renounce his art. Edward G.
Robinson and Joan Bennett turn in some ex-
cellent acting.
“Our Vines Have Tender Grapes” (Sydney
Capitol): Sincere story of life in a Norwegian
farming community in Wisconsin.
“Saratoga Trunk” (Sydney Regent): Story of
a Creole wench who returns- from France to
New Orleans to avenge what society did to her
wayward mother and to find a millionaire hus-
band for herself. Ingrid Bergman plays the
fiery, volatile Creole delightfully, and Gary
Cooper’s laconic adventurer provides the perfect
sparring partner.
“Perfect Strangers” (Sydney St. James):
Suburban husband and wife transformed by the
war (she in the W.R.N.S. and he in the R.N.)
to two brisk and self-reliant people. Light
comedy with a touch of drama.
“Pardon My Past” (Sydney Lyceum): Fred
Mac Murray playing the dual role of twin
brothers chased! by gangsters, women, etc. He
worries it like a dog with an old sock, and
provides about the same measure of entertain-
ment.
“The Corn Is Green” (Sydney Century);
Hollywood makes the slattern who seduces the
young Welsh student depart shedding a tear
for virtue lost. It’s the only lapse in an other-
wise .excellent and sustained stretch of acting by
Joan Lorring. Bette Davis manages 19 adapt
the schoolteacher role to fit Bette Davis com-
fortably. The film is well directed and played
with intensity.
“The Front Page,” a play by Ben
Hecht and Charles Macarthur, had a suc-
cessful first night at Bryant’s Playhouse,
Sydney. Clark McKay, who took the
part of a reporter continually on the
verge of getting married, but restrained
until the drop of the curtain by his lust
for a “scoop,” was excellent, but Tom
Farley, who played the Machiavellian
editor, shouted too much to be alto-
gether convincing. As also did friends of
the actors among the audience.
time he thoughtfully got in huge extra
quantities of whisky and beer.
Fairly early on a Saturday morning
the party gathered at the Wild Cat.
And they had, as a mere afterthought,
“a drink before we start.” A few drinks,
in fact.
George Douglas, auctioneer and cham-
pion pigeon shot, was the leader and
organiser. A shrewd hard man was
George, with great eyebrows of sandy
bristles and a glib tongue. Some van-
loads of hunters had come out from
Summerlea with George. They were all
heavily armed with a variety of weapons
—mostly shotguns, though some had .32
Winchesters. Of greater variety still Were
the hunters themselves. They ranged
from Mr. Simpson Butler, who was the
• Member, to old Pat Casey, who was no-
thing. Teddy Clarke and the other
“sports” of the town were there, of
course. So was Shoot, the undertaker —•
“We might need him, so we might,”
said Pat Casey. Also Peter Window, the
blacksmith, and his rival, Sid Brown.
There was quite a sprinkling of young
fellows from the Grey Box and beyond—
Doolans, Ryans, Rosens, Wenns, Notts
and so forth. Mostly they rode, if they had
presentable horses. Everyonefrom Barney’s
Elbow and Sandy Ridges was there.
Simpson Butler was hardly a man of
desperate action, but “it was decent of
him to come along.” He dressed for the
part, too, looking sdmething like a pros-
perous and retired bushranger. He was
full of heartening cheerfulness and
humor, and declared “If we don’t shoot
It we’ll legislate It out of existence.”
Pat Casey came in an almost wholly
ornamental capacity, and partly on
account of an argument with Kelly,
the publican. He was armed with
a terrible looking muzzle-loader,
with the stock bound not over-
neatly with wire. It was a great relief
to everyone that Pat had no caps or
powder for this ancient gun, though he
had shot in great quantity, very aged shot,
whitened and gummed with rust. Pat
said he would be able to borrow powder
and caps, surely. And if he couldn’t it
wouldn’t matter, for the Yahoo was be-
yond “mortal encompassment,” anyhow.
George Douglas got the crowd together
at last, and divided it into two groups.
The drivers, under Jack Slade, were to
detour to the Sugarloaf, and then advance
northward to the road, where George
and his line would be waiting. Final in-
structions and warnings were given as to
care in shooting, and the time of advance.
Also hares, rabbits, wallabies and kan-
garoos were to be ignored entirely.
Pat Casey and Mr. Friar (of the
“Western Argus”) were left at the Wild
Cat with Mick, as a kind of home
defence. Both of them by this time were
fit for little else. Mr. Friar, who was
finding locomotion of any sort decidedly
distressing, took up position on a barrel in
the bar and later on a sofa in the parlor.
I ACK SLADE’S party, in fine spirits,
reached the Sugarloaf, but something
of its courage vanished in the thick scrub.
Often one could not see the next man,
even at twenty yards or so, and there was
a touchy tendency to fire at any move-
ment or noise.
For, despite instructions, there wds
quite a deal of firing, with no result. An
old wombat was most indignant at find-
ing his peace disturbed and nearly skittled
a driver, in his haste to get to his burrow.
Now the waiting line of shooters opened
fire —at hares and wallabies. The only
big thing that came through was a skinny
old bull with an insane look in his eye.
With two charges of shot in his hide, and
possibly a Winchester bullet, he went
down the slope at a speed that was
hitherto thought quite impossible to
bulls, sane or otherwise.
No one was shot in all this excitement,
which could be ascribed only to the
mercy of Providence, and not to human
management. Courage flowed back as
groups gathered. And disappointment
mounted too that the “Yahoo” was not
seen and dispatched. It was a kind of
anticlimax after so much preparation
and boasting ; and a relief as well, a feel-
ing that the best had been tried and a
duty done, whatever the result.
THE day was drawing into clear cold
evening ; the party moved down to the
Wild Cat and Mick did a big trade.
Mr. Friar hardly took any part in the
convivialities, except that of snoring on
his parlor sofa. For one so frail and
such a blending of the aesthetic and the
tragic, Mr. Friar’s snoring was a thing to
wonder at.
Pat Casey was fuddled in a logical sort of
way. “You didn’t see It at all, George?”
“No —we didn’t.”
“That’s not to be wondered at.”
“Why not, Pat?”
“It’s not to be seen, and if it was to
be seen you could do nothing.”
“It wasn’t in the bit of bush we drove.”
Pat wagged his head solemnly.
A frosty moon floated in the sky. The
night was growing late, and it was time
to go. “Just one more, then, and that’s
the last.”
Out of the frosty silence came the cry
of the mysterious “Yahoo.” A cry that
tingled to the very tips of the fingers,
and like nothing on earth.
“Christ! ” And a glass shivered on the
floor. Apart from that there were sus-
pended animation and the fixed look of
men trying not to be afraid.
Outside there was wild commotion
among the horses, and reefing and snort-
ing and snapping of reins and halters,
and a wild thud of galloping hoofs;
while a few horses in Mick’s “stable”
screamed in terror. That panic of the
horses made the fear of the men stark
and absolute ; and the. Thing feared was
nameless and undefined, a very personi-
fication of the most primitive fear itself.
Then Pat Casey blessed himself loudly
—“Holy Mary, preserve us —and I’ll go to
confession next Saturday—see if I don’t.”
All a matter of not so many seconds.
George Douglas screwed himself together
and with no conviction at all: “Now’s-s-s
our chance —it’s just on t-t-top of the
ridge! ”
The sound had come from somewhere
near the top of the ridge, somewhere in
the area hunted that day. Just where
was hard to say. Location was vague—
the cry sounded very near and very far.
No one moved.
Through it all, snoring on the sofa, was
the one man who could have immortalised
that strange night at the Wild Cat. It
was the very irony of things that Mr.
Friar, sceptic and genius, should be so
oblivious. No one thought of trying to
wake him. It would have been quite use-
less perhaps to make the attempt.
Outside were bright moon and pale
stars, and world without end, and space
without limit. A world of silence, and
glistening leaves without number, and
all the unnoticed sounds that are part of
silence always. But no one looked out —
not for a long time. Here were four
walls, bright lamps, warm flesh and
breathing bodies, and brandy, whisky and
rum that could make a man cease to be
himself, and as someone else face anything.
Mick’s devotions interfered with his
business capacity, such as it ever was,
and his mortal terror increased his devo-
tion. Even as he prayed he swallowed
a fair deal of neat brandy which seemed
to help him a deal. He passed round
bottles instead of glasses: “Help your-
self —we’ll square up later —pray for us
sinners now and at the hour”
Pat Casey, exhausted, slumped in a
corner with his head at a grotesque and
impossible angle. Mrs. Mick straight-
ened his head and put it on a buggy
cushion, and threw an overcoat over Pat.
She hardly knew she was doing it, but in
the tally of good deeds that will be re-
membered to her eternal credit.
THE moon sank at last into the ridges,
and out of the grey ghosts of trees
came the harsh music of the kookaburras.
There was the smell of morning in the
air. Far and clear came the crowing of
roosters. Nearer, the twitter of small
birds. Night was over.
The high wooded ridges grew again into
their wonted shapes, knowable, innocent
and friendly. Men came out of the stale
and rancid air of bar and parlor to sniff
in life and freshness. They could face
the things they could see. Pat Casey came
out more, tousled and dirty-looking than
ever. He surveyed the big world and
summed up things very comprehensively:
“It’s a bloody fine morning.” Every-
one took that as a healthy sign.
At long last, after almost insuperable
difficulties about horses, most of the
party got away. There was no concerted
plan to comb the hills again—plenty of
talk about it, however, and a vague
understanding about “next time.” Mr.
Friar stayed for the time being, alter-
nating between snoring and muttering.
The ignominious failure of the Douglas
expedition was a jest for ever after to
those that had never heard the “Yahoo’s”
cry. Still, strangely enough, because of
it, or ih spite of it, the “Yahoo” was
never heard again. The weeks and
months went by but the terrible sound
did not come. It was gone, people just
knew it was gone ; to join the Bunyip
and other impossible terrors. What it
really was was never discovered —beast
or bird or devil.


m
m
i
P
J
J
HILLMAN MINX
% S£~t&i, jjcrt a Ujzlt cbru£. /
iimn abi p paaai t/ _ «/ Daffintl^rfi
AVAILABLE SOON.
See Your Distributor tor Particulartt
JOHN McGRATH LTD.,
lie CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
(Temporary Address.)
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD., 222 Exhibition St., MELBOURNE.
JOHN McGRATH. LTD. .. 324-340 Wickham St., The Valley,
BRISBANE.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTORS CO., LTD., 900 Hay St., PERTH.
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS PTY., LTD., Cr. York & St. Johns Sts.,
LAUNCESTON.
Bootes Group Regional Representative: 472 Bourke St., Melbourne.
SPORTING NOTIONS
No photo.-finish was required in most of the
races at Canterbury, where Mulley rode three
winners and Cook two. Mulley, whose luck is
in, tops the jockeys’ list with 41 winners. Cook
is next with 36, despite a run of 40-odd losing
mounts.
The first division of the Trial was a sad
affair for the Payten stable, but joyous for
hackers of the favorite, Pearler (evens). One
of the Payten horses. Volley, ridden by the
stable apprentice Robards, reared up and went
over the barrier instead of following the usual
practice of the unruly, ducking under. With
Robards prostrate, the filly trotted back to
the enclosure. Taken back to the start, Volley
lined up and got away with the rest, but came
a cropper at the three furlongs, and her stable-
mate Monsoon was the first of a couple to
fall over her. Pearler missed the trouble and
careered on to win by five lengths from Miss
Corrigin and Allied Chief. He is trained by Wil-
liam Kelso —the third of the line, who led
in many winners when his father was away—
and was ridden by Mulley, Payten’s leading
boy. ♦ Robards sulfered some injury in the
second spill, but there was no serious harm
done. Mulley completed the Trial double by
getting Cisco home in the second division ahead
of Sun Frolic and Goldguilt.
Spectators had thoughts of the richly-endowed
Aherne Handicap when they sawHedui, having
his first run for more than a year, take the
Flying in capital style. Mulley had an
armchair ride, Hall Stand, unluckiest of
boomed horses, and Oberon being closest
to his mount at the finish. In the Frank
Underwood Handicap, the principal race, Cook
was seen to advantage on Spearex (7 to 2) in
the only really exciting finish of the day.
Flying Cloud and old Shining Night contested
it with the Spearfelt horse, who has three
owners, Schwinghammer, Malouf and Dr.
Yarad.
Earlier, Quadrant, looking the bet of
the day, proved it in the Maiden, clearing
away from New Cashmere and Drummer Boy
over the last couple of furlongs.
* * * *
On the third and final day of the very suc-
cessful Q.T.C. meeting held at Eagle Farm
(correct title, “the Brisbane Racecourse”),
horses from the south were again conspicuous,
especially Victory Lad and Swan River.
A run of minor placings no doubt had its
influence on Swan River’s price for the More-
ton Handicap. Repshot was favorite at twos;
Murray Stream was at fours, and Swan River
fives and 9 to 2. Wee Laddie was the early
leader, tempting McGrowdie to take Murray
Stream after him rather too early in the piece.
With half a mile to go Murray Stream was
in front, but Swan River (G. Bougoure) ran
past him as they entered the straight and went
on to a good win from Repshot and Wellesley;
2-i lengths, three lengths.
Not a bit the worse for the long military
occupation, the course proper was a picture
to the eye, and evidently very fast. Swan
River galloped the mile and a quarter in 2.2\ —
only a second worse than Beau Vite’s Australian
record and equalling the Queensland record.
In view of his very close fourth in the
Stradbroke, Victory Lad was the logical favor-
ite for the Flying, and the Ring was very
careful, offering evens. The good thing came
off, the well-backed Lagoon being second and
Lady Emborough third. Briscoe, the lead-
ing Brisbane jockey, had the mount on the
winner and rode an excellent race. Victory Lad
clocked 1.1 If —pretty good.
The faithful who stuck to Queensland gal-
lopers and accepted short odds on the favorite
(4-5) in the Claret Stakes for two-year-olds
had a reward when Gay Stand beat a weakish
field. He just scraped home from Bon Vite and
Channing, and the time, 1.265, was nothing
much, but he carried 9.7. Moreover, he is
a pretty good colt and should pay his way in
Sydney on a second visit.
Another winning favorite was Red Mick, who
took the Epsom Handicap, with Fox Breeze
and Felt Force following him home. Fox
Breeze was going much the better at the finish,
but failed by half a length.
* * * *
Travelling must agree with Royal Gem, who
added the S.A.J.C. Goodwood Handicap at Mo'r-
phettville .to his impressive list of successes.
Though burdened with 9.3 in a field of 25
starters, G. W. Badman’s colt was voted a
certainty by the generality of punters, who took
6 to 4. He had the services of Breasley, who
rode his usual patient race, waiting for a run
on the rails. When convinced that it wasn’t
coming, the crack jockey took the colt to the
outside and had the race won with half a fur-
long to go. Industry hung on well for second
money and Antos was third.
Also ridden by Breasley, Elgin accounted f<pr
Conservator, Vacant and a bunch of others in
the South Australian Stakes, a special-weights
event for two-year-olds. Though somewhat
small, Elgin is a very smart colt by Stand
By and has won at five of his seven starts.
The Shakuni filly Norwich (D. Graetz), though
not actually bred to stay (her sire was a
sprinter), outstayed Chatspa and Marocain in
the S.A. St. Leger.
* * * *
Melbourne punters are having a lean time.
At the Williamstown club’s meeting held at
Moonee Valley only one favorite bobbed up,
and that in the last of six races.
On the strength of a win first go over the
jumps, though it was a slovenly performance,
General Cunningham was made favorite, at twos,
for the Kororoit Hurdle, and tried to lead all
the way. Fie was done with at 12 furlongs; a
10-to-l pop, Elliot, ridden by Godfrey, taking
the obstacles smartly, went on to a very easy
win from Jocularity and Walladale. In the
Spotswood Steeple Cimranda (25 to 1) gave
doubles bookmakers a skinner, and two other
outsiders, Yontilini and Garofil (100 to 1), had
their numbers put up for places. A protest on
behalf of Yontilini was dismissed.
The Gellibrand Handicap was not so bad
for punters. Geronimo was at 9 to 2, but it
was an open betting race with five or six of the
three-year-olds well in the market. Geronimo
made his own running, and the colt won by
four lengths from Lord Beaufort, Rose Bay and
Latani deadheating for third,
...
Dhoti’s Star and Princess Sion were the
popular picks for the Seaside Handicap,
Neither filled a place, the Hostile-Koolagoor
colt Reprisal (8 to 1) proving, on the day, the
best of the score of two-year-olds engaged, Gay
View being next-best and Parody third.
_ ~ ' . ' ,
For the most part the spectacle of toppling
favorites was suffered in silence, but some
peevishness was expressed when Valcurl (10 to 1),
displaying greatly improved form, downed
Arduh and Anthony m the Bay View Handicap,
12 furlongs. Valcurl was another to lead
nearly all the way. The favorite, Arduh,
“ Look, sport —Wot about comin' inside an' sneakin' up on 'em?”
challenged as they turned for home but made
no impression on the leader in the run to the
judge.
The favorite who did come good was True
Law (11 to 8), a Law Maker gelding, and he
was struggling at the finish to hold off the
25-to-l chance Aggressor, with another rough
’un, Regency, in the picture.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Handicap (colts and geldings):
Concise or Pitt, 1; Blaxland, 2; Tamasha, 3.
Juvenile Stakes (fillies): Lithesome, 1; Shining
Vision, 2; Tattling, 3. Flying: Hall Stand, 1;
Civic Pride, 2; Vermeil, 3. Encourage: Quad-
rant, 1;• Hemisphere, 2; Courier, 3. James
Barnes Plate: Flying Cloud, 1; Turn Again, 2;
Accession, 3. Welter: Craftsman, 1; Home-
leigh Dick, 2; Strathdarr, 3.
* * * *
The inter-State eight-oar race on the
Nepean, the first for the King’s Cup since
1939, was worthy of a much bigger crowd
than the one that saw the finish. The
Victorian crew was: a credit to its State
and its coach, W. R. B. Todd. By no
means the heaviest of the five, it ex-
hibited a quiet, easy style, with plenty of
power. N. S. Wales was the early
leader. Going past the N.S.W. boat at
the mile, the Victorians were not again
headed, winning by a length and three-
quarters from the Cornstalks, who
finished six lengths clear of the Wes i
tralians. South Australia and Tasmania
followed; Queensland did not send a
crew. The time was 17min. 6jsec.
M. T. Wood (N.S.W.) had no opponent
in the sculling championship. ' That
couldn’t have happened in other days,
when the grand old water sports held
their own with pastimes in which profes-
sionals and betting are now rampant.
* * * *
Footscray got off to its usual flying
start in the V.F.L. competition this year.
On Saturday it accounted for Richmond,
rucking as hard and wearing the opposi-
tion down in the last quarter; Footscray
19.19, Richmond 17.10. The match of the
day, to the astonishment of teams, on-
lookers, police, umpires, small boys and
Victorians scattered throughout this wide
land, was Collingwood q.. St. Kilda. ’Wood
went to St. Kilda as to a picnic, found
itself four points down at the last change
and had to play like the Magpies of old
to win 14.20-13.7. Beaten by Melbourne
most of the way, South Melbourne staged
a third-quarter comeback and then faded,
losing 12.15-11.8. Meantime Essendon,
North Melbourne and Fitzroy enjoyed
, practice runs against Hajvthorn, Geelong
and Carlton respectively.
* * * *
Although Randwick scored six tries to
University’s four, ending with 21 points
to 18, it seemed lucky. Towards the end
’Varsity lost its half-back through in-
jury, and it was during this period that
the Greens took the lead. Their* usually
trustworthy goal-kicker Patterson kicked
only one (a penalty) in eight attempts.
Gordon, with most of its ex-service
players back, is a force to be reckoned
with this season, as North found to its
cost, being routed 21-nil. Manly v. West
was a hard-fought tussle. Manly’s backs
showing more polish to gain their side
the victory —17-14. East maintained its
unbeaten record by trouncing Drum-
moyne 32 -nil, and St. George, down 16-8
at half-time, surprised everyone, includ-
ing Parramatta, by showing such
superiority in the second half as to gain
its first success —25-19. Parramatta, second
last season, has yet to win a game.
* * * *
After many tribulations, an English
Rugby League team has arrived in
Sydney. It was hastily assembled, and its
captain, Risman, and other veterans on
whom he leans are a bit old in the tooth ;
but the side will do well if it approaches
accepted English standards of forward
play, which has gone to the bow-wows in
the two States in which Rugby League is
played. This was made painfully evident
in an inter-State match at Sydney in
which N. S. Wales beat Queensland by
46 points to 10 ; evidence, on the defeated
side, of bad tackling. Apparently the
Englishmen will meet poor opposition
in Queensland, where one of the greatest
English Rugby League sides that ever
came to this country was defeated by
Toowoomba; but that was before the
Rugby Union game was revived. And, as
if Queensland form had not deteriorated
enough, the only members of the team not
obliterated by the indifferent N.S.W. com-
bination have been “approached” by
Sydney “talent scouts.”
v * * *
Norman von Nida rattled the field in
the Dunlop-Southport £2OOO Purse on his
first appearance in competition golf in
England. With 75-72-75-75 in rough
weather he finished one stroke behind the
winner. Max Faulkner. “The Von” played
a shot out of bounds on the 17th in the
last round, and even then might have tied
had not his second on the 18 th hit a spec-
tator and gone into a bunker, making him
five for the hole. He collected £250,
however, and on his form looks like
giving the British Open a shake.
* * * •
Three of the Sands boxing boys were
in action last week, and two blasted box-
ing promoters’ hopes for future matches.
Les Darcy had a couple of brothers who
fought in the ring—one was shaping like
a welterweight champion till the 1919-20
influenza epidemic got him. Billy
Murphy, featherweight champion of the
world, introduced a couple of brothers
who were almost in his class—-Tim be-
came middleweight champion of Aus-
tralia and Jimmy lightweight champion
of South Africa. Paddy Slavin’s brqther
fought in several countries, and so did
a brother of Joe Goddard. But for one
family to produce five fairly capable pugs
is unique iA ring history.
Clem Sands, a middleweight, found
Tommy Ward, of Scotch descent, a bit
too tough at Leichhardt. The thing went
12 rounds, and Ward got the decision —
very properly. But Sands suffered a
thumb fracture in the second round,
though he kept flailing away
with both fists till the bout
ended.
Saturday was the Sands’
night. Outboxing and outfight-
ing Jack Kirkham, from Mel-
bourne, at the Sydney Stadium,
Dave Sands stopped Kirkham
20 seconds before the end of
the 12th round. Had Kirkham
lasted those 20 seconds his Aus-
tralian middleweight title would not have
changed hands, but he was “technically”
knocked out, so Sands is now recognised
as holder of the 11-6 championship. He
had the Melbourne lad down many times.
Melbourne was game, but he was done
to a turn when the referee intervened to
save him from a finishing blow that might
have had serious consequences.
On the same night, at Newcastle,
Ritchie Sands disposed of the highly-
thought-of American Stu Mallon, in two
rounds. Had Mallon succeeded he would
have been booked for some very profit-
able engagements.


TO CH,tD «^S f ,o ts -
THE
shortage of ° s^ y re Sarding C r t Uer ,n The
fusers of ie ? f r S - VV e art f ? e
t h n e d r f ,Qes catotV ,thou " fiSSfl and
"»>>. and™J™' »ftave d ' few
Banr Sa ? e a s £' ,0n /s afoosTn™ the
Ban cro ft Qar k that kneed
... <fe r c- » r>
Vjc( ona H. -
Lej
b ßiggs.
oi
SV\° eS
»” 4
-- 0 -
v *S«.
' fgil Pi
S=-“=.;~fe
„ p erson a n„ sf ° f us
• DUrse Sarea a fv CoD trary t _
r»*»
■ ,Uat tile tjT, e for n
C FOOT'
DHILDB SHOBTA6E
„ ct cenous °t al
One of the m . footwear l ?
age* of cWW«; c public ( JJ
;K'fe'“ shor sf«l'fe!i
1
an '" c 'f' c i as
1 3"fe5 ouU
leather
Imost every week
someone writes to the English
press about the shortage of
shoes and the difficulty of keep-
ing children properly shod. Yet
we, who have been making ladies’
and children’s shoes for over a
Century, are producing more
than ever —but the home de-
mand remains unsatisfied.
Small wonder then that we
\ can only send limited quan-
tities overseas. Better times
will come and with them more
shoes both for children and
their Mothers shoes that
we and you will be proud of.
SHOE?
Mads by C. & J. Clark, Ltd.,
Wholesale only. Street, Somerset, England.
LONDON OFFICE:
Mitre House, 177, Regent St., London, W.I
Business, Rolleiy, Etc.
Extemal Trade, Funds and Debt
The United States Senate having
approved the $4400 million loan to
Britain ($650 million of this will be re-
tained by the U.S. as settlement of lend-
lease items, leaving the “line of credit”
to be drawn over five years at $3750 mil-
lion), it appears that freer trading con-
ditions may soon be prevailing among
Empire countries and with the United
States. But even with Bretton Woods
plans in operation, Australia’s trade
dimensions will be ultimately governed
by the volume and value of its exports.
Our external trading position thus grows
in importance daily. During the war,
mainly because of lend-lease, it was
almost forgotten.
In the month of March Australia had
a favorable balance of overseas trade
amounting to £2.9 million, and this had
the effect of reducing (to £20.3 million)
the adverse balance established earlier in
the financial year, when war was still on
in the Pacific and Australia was still re-
ceiving lend-lease assistance from the
United States. Lend-lease assistance, as
such, ended in September, except for
special items arranged for on a reciprocal
basis with America. Lend-lease goods
coming to Australia entereefe into our
import figures, but reciprocal aid from
Australia to the United States was mostly
given within Commonwealth territory,
and did not figure in our exports fully.
A result of lend-lease operations, so
far as Australia is concerned, has thus
been to swell our import totals and,
actually, to reduce our export totals some-
what, it being reasonable to assume that
if we had not had so many American
troops in this part of the world to feed
and clothe we should have exported
more. Aid granted to us by America
under lend-lease has nevertheless been
offset in value by Australian aid to the
United States.
Fortunately for Australia’s balance of
payments, lend-lease figures as shown in
the trade balance are statistical more
than financial. Our exports on a cash
basis have, on the whole, exceeded our
cash imports considerably.
Lend-lease and reverse lend-lease in-
volved no cash payments by either side ;
goods originally intended to be supplied
under lend-lease which, owing to the sud-
den termination of the war in the Pacific,
were ultimately delivered on a cash basis
obviously cannot be classed as lend-lease
items. Our overseas trading statistics
have thus only a vague relationship with
our real balance of overseas payments,
and this has tended to confuse many
observers. We have the apparent anom-
aly of spending more overseas than we
earn and at the same time building up
large credits in London and repaying old
debts.
This state of affairs is explained by the
fact that, in addition to the lend-lease
situation, our funds have been added to
by the dollar and sterling spendings of
U.S. and British troops in Australia, by
the sale of wool and gold under con-
tract (an overseas credit being established
whether the goods are shipped or not), by
Commonwealth Government spending (in
Australia) on behalf of the British and
other Governments, by unrecorded trans-
actions of various kinds, by ships’ stores
taken aboard and paid for in Australian
ports (£ll million in 1944-45), and by
the migration of capital to Australia. At
one stage dollar spendings in the Com-
monwealth were very large, being esti-
mated by a New York bank as being the
equivalent of the value of a season’s wool
clip. U.S. servicemen’s spendings in Aus-
tralia represented a clear y gain in funds,
as we were not obliged td pay U.S. troops
under lend-lease arrangements.
Between June, 1941, and Dec., 1945,
Australia had an adverse balance of
trade, including gold movements, of £390
million Australian. That included £5.6
million-worth more of bullion and specie
imported than was exported.
In this same period the Common-
wealth Bank holding of gold and sterl-
ing securities increased by £102.5 million
Australian (to £176.7 million) after pay-
ing external interest and similar commit-
ments.
Australian credit abroad further im-
proved by the repayment of overseas
loans, mostly in London, to the extent of
£9l million, leaving the external debt
then at approximately £670 million Aus-
tralian, and the interest bill thereon in
the vicinity of £2l million Australian a
year. At June, 1941, external interest was
costing us about £26 million a year.
Here is a tabulation, expressed in Aus-
tralian currency, of some trade, ex-
“Give us a shilling , Dad."
“Co and Work for your living like me!”
ternal-finance and gold-production fac-
tors since June, 1941: —
Movement Reduc-
Gold and tion Gold
Trade Sterling Overseas Produo-
Year to Balance. Funds. Debt. tion.*
June 30, £million. £million. £million. £million.
1942 .. -21.3 -15.6 7.0 12.1
1943 .. - 142.7 +22.4 2.0 7.8
]944 .. —121.3 +63.0 22.6 6.9
1945 .. -80.6 +41.0 15.5 7.0 f
Nine Mos.,
March, ’
1945’ _ —20.3 +12.2 43.5
* Year to December 31. t Approximate.
The figures relating to gold and sterling
funds represent the central bank’s hold-
ing thereof, and the Commonwealth
Statistician says: “Not to be taken as a
measure of net London funds.” Never-
theless, the movements represent the
general trend in our holdings of gold and
external currency. (On March 28 these
had risen to £197 million.)
In the case of the gold-production
figures it is important to note that, during
the period covered by the table, gold
imports exceeded exports by nearly £6
million. Production retained in Aus-
tralia, however, would almost automatic-
ally be credited to our holding ol gold
and sterling. . .
As to the trade figures, the 1 “41-42 cal-
culation takes into account £12.6 million
of unrecorded exports and £2O million of
“ . , Tri 1Q4 9 th»rp is
unrecorded imports. In 1942-43 is
an estimate of £2.5 million unrecorded
exports, £lO million in 1943-44 and £2
million in 1944-45 All figures arc sub-
million in 1944 43. All ngures are suo
ject to some revision because f
Ifend-lease activities and the war-time
urgency for moving goods rap d y re-
« f^“ B rrSrnal
| r utap?« tm r WJSLTtXI
up funds waiting here to go overseas
and debits still to be charged to us by
overseas Governments, we have to re-
member that Australia has big over-
seas purchases in view to make up for
war-time shortages, and the strength of
our overseas credit position will largely
depend on whether future exports are
capable of paying for future imports,
thus saving a drain on our accumulated
balances. The U.S. loan, to whatever
extent availed of by Australia, will in-
volve payments of interest and principal
frnm IQSI onwards
f The value of our exports will largely
do a“i„g L in 0 . r he V*
SSf
tomers, on seasons and on prices obtain-
able. Prices are generally high at pre-
sent but this applies to imports as well
as to exports. Land products, such as
wool and wheat, usually regain produc-
tion momentum more quickly than
manufactured goods. This may mean
that export prices will fall more rapidly
—when a fall comes—than the cost of
our imports.
Cosgrove, Labor Premier of Tasmania,
has spoken in terms similar to those
used by F. P. Walsh, economic adviser
to the New Zealand Labor movement.
It has brought charges of a “middle-class
outlook” from some on his own side.
Said Mr. Cosgrove :■ “Labor’s standard of
living in Australia cannot now be saved
by mere adjustment of wages. Main
need of all workers is more goods pro-
duced at a lower price. Labor cannot
now logically try to enforce its demands
by cessation of work. Every time work
stops, production of goods stops. That
means scarcity, which endangers our
economic situation, is intensified. Mr.
Walsh’s address was made to the N.Z.
Federation of Labor, and was dealt with
j n g 3/4/’46. One emphatic statement
d b Mr . Wa l s h was :
j -
The only solution to our problem is m-
creased production. I stress the point
that if we are to have a higher standard of
living we must have more goods and ser-
vices. Our movement is no longer just
fighting for wages. We want to increase
actual standards of living. To do this we
must increase production. Real standards
come from production, and not from the
P™fing of a note issue,
No similar sentiments have so far been
heard from the Labor side at Canberra,
which is still paying seamen as much as
50 p.c. “war-risk” bonus, from the Sydney
Turf Club or from N. S. Wales Premier
McKell. Menzies, of the Liberals, corn-
mented on Cosgrove’s statement; “I am
glad that after we have been advocating
for months recognition of the paramount
importance of production we have made
the first convert on the Labor side.”
* >l= * *
An R. G. Menzies comment in address-
j ng tbe p e dcral Assembly of the Liberal
p ar jy jn Melbourne:
The real issue between ourselves and the
Labor party, the real problem before us in
domestic politics, is production. Shall we
produce our way to prosperity or shall we
not? Shall we produce our way to markets
of sbad we no t? Shall we produce our way
to employment or shall we not? Here we
have a point upon which there is the
sharpest conflict, not only in conduct but
t^oughtS) between ourselves and our
present masters.
presentation of the economic
P £ „ our nt masterC Mr .
Menzies and The Bulletin concur.
f Papuan ApJpi Petroleum, which, he-
fore Japans entry into .the war. was
driUmg a major well on its Oiapu area
m Papua, has made two calls of 6d. each
on its contributing shares ; it is negotiat-
mg with the Commonwealth. Govem-
ment, which lent it a drilling plant a f
years back, in respect of further ope -
tions in Papua. Administrative and lab
conditions have changed m New Guinea
since E. Ward took charge It
to believe that one man could be such a
disaster But, banking on a more rational
control la j er on > mapy people are anxious
to expand their activities on the island,
and quite a few lads who fought the Japs
««
£1,000,000 in the search,
* * * T f M ,
Wiltshire File Co. Pty., Ltd M
bourne, is to manufacture table kmv
soon, as well as rasps and a wider_rang
of files. The co. set up in Australia m
1938.


Bu y Wft R SAVINGS CEftT I F i CUTES
JUair
SOWS ueubt,
•® ® #
Thomas Hardy & Sons Ltd.; Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne; Makers ot
Tintara Gold Label Port, Amontillado Sherry, Gold Label Muscatel; The
Tintara Sparkling Wines:— Champagne. Hock, Moselle, Burgundy, and
Tintara Old Brandy.
ŗ
ř
r
EH]
m
THE CALENDAR
W//////M
H
4
2
£
I
I
I *l*l i
i li 11/1 pi
i Ii
i liJ j 241 2i
i I
a i
fijii ji i
imli* i «#• i
DUNLOP
THROUGHOUT THE
BRITISH EMPIRE
SILENT
m
MOST PEOPLE RIDE
ON DUNLOP TYRES
D 241
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
II N C IN VIC.I
Budgeting for Prosperity
United States authorities in Sydney have
been officially informed from .Washing-
ton that civilian production in the first
quarter of this year (and prior to the
soft-coal strike) was at the highest
rate in the Republic’s history, in
spite of extensive industrial disputes.
The United States, it is forecast,
will witness “the greatest era of
prosperity it has ever known” if
the people’s hard-earned savings are
not dissipated in inflation but spent
gradually as increased goods come
on to the market. The post-war produc-
tion slump in U.S.A, has not been as
great as anticipated ; many Australians
will wish that the same could be said of
conditions in this country.
It will come as a matter of additional
interest to Australians to learn that this
level of civil production has been achieved
in a period in which defence spending
is at the rate of less than half the war-
time peak, and that next year it is aimed
to reduce war spending to something less
than a fifth of the 1944-45 level. Total
U.S. Federal outgo in 1946-47 is forecast
at just over a third the 1944-45 peak ; Mr.
Chifley’s expenditure aims ,in the same
period, as expressed at the launching of
the Security Loan, appear to be in the
nature of two-thirds the 1943-44 maxi-
mum —Australia reached its greatest war
expenditure before the United States.
According to the official U.S. handout,
“unexpectedly high national-income levels
resulting from increased business volume
and reduced or deferred Federal expen-
ditures have led President Truman to
revise the Federal Budget for 1946-47.
In announcing the Budget revision Presi-
dent Truman affirmed the aim of the Ad-
ministration’s fiscal policy is to balance
the Budget in the 1946-47 year and take
advantage of boom to push
retirement of the national debt?’
The Administration has actually done
some retiring of the national debt already,
but this has mainly been the result of pre-
vious war loans leaving the Government
with an excess of funds on its hands fol-
lowing on -big cuts in the war-spending
programme. Apparently the Administra-
tion intends to do some real debt-reduc-
tion. If 1946-47 hopes in this respect are
realised it will be the first time in 17
years that there has been no increase in
the U.S. national debt.
It is only when Budgets are balanced
that there is no increase in the debt. A
U.S. official comment in this connection
is relevant:
Balancing the Budget is highly desirable
because of the unprecedented accumula-
tion of liquid assets in the United States.
Coupled with favorable economic environ-
ment and huge deferred demand for goods
and services, these funds continue as a
major source of inflationary pressure. These
personal and business holdings, created
largely by deficit-financing during the war,
now stand at 225 billion dollars in the
form of currency, deposits and readily-
convertible Government bonds. As long
as the Federal Government operates at a
deficit these liquid funds continue to grow.
As the Government approaches a vir-
tually balanced Budget the Government’s
pumping into the economy of new purchas-
ing power unmatched by goods will cease.
However, the accumulation of liquid
assets resulting from past deficits remains
at a very high level and acts as a combi-
nation of stimulant and time-bomb in the
present economic situation. From 1939
through 1945 cash holdings or their equiva-
lent rose by 156 billion. Even after allow-
ing for a greatly increased volume of busi-
ness —now at twice the 1929 level—there is
an excess of nearly 100 billion in cash
holdings by individuals and business.
When the gap between supply and
demand is substantially reduced, huge
liquid funds will no longer have a time-
bomb menace. Instead, they will be a
stimulant to international trade as well as
domestic trade.
Government civil expenditure for 1946-
47 is put at about two and a half times
the figure of 1939. This is largely because
“civil” figures include interest on the
national debt, whether incurred for war
or other purposes, and also war pensions
and benefits. Interest on the debt is now
equal almost to the total revenue in 1939.
Although it is aimed ultimately to reduce
Federal spending to something like a
quarter of the 1944-45 total, this will be
still five times higher than the total 1939
Federal revenue. Fortunately for U.S. citi-
zens, their war-time tax rates have never
been as high as those in Australia, But,
even with higher tax rates, the Canberra
Government has no prospects of balanc-
ing its Budget next year.
The National City Bank of New York,
taking a more critical view of U.S. condi-
tions than Government officials, com
ments:
The difficulty of contracting public
spending—even in times of active busi-
ness —is the weakness of the theory of
“compensatory Government spending” to
smooth out fluctuations in the business
cycle. Under any system of Budgetary
practice, now is the time when the Gov-
ernment ought to be curtailing its activi-
ties and not adding unnecessarily to the
stream of purchasing power through its
own expenditures when manpower and
materials are scarce.
If that applies to a country which is
making some very real cuts in its Budget
spending, how much more does it pertain
to Australia, where economy in budget-
ing is practised so reluctantly as to be
almost imperceptible?
Since the beginning of hostilities Aus-
tralia has raised' public loans for war
purposes amounting to £lO4l million, in-
cluding the £7B million derived from the
Security Loan which recently closed. A
considerable proportion of “public loans”
has been taken by the banking system,
which has also absorbed most of the
Commonwealth Treasury bills; some of
these, however, have been taken by Gov-
ernment departments, such as the
National Welfare Fund. At Dec. 31,
these “internal” bills totalled £9l mil-
lion and bank bills £385 million.
* * * *
Before the war it was easy to get a
conveyance through all necessary N.S.W.
official channels within a month. Finality
in land deals now takes several months, and
the Federal Treasury is only partly—even
if largely—to blame. Apart from the wait
for Treasury permission to go on with
a land deal, there are a long delay at the
Stamp Duties Office and another at the
Registrar-General’s, where the change in
title is recorded in the R.-G.’s books as
well as on the deed. There are other offi-
cial delays as well. Any department that
can shorten its time on the job will be
doing the community a service. The
present situation is certainly no advertise-
ment for extended Government powers of
supervision over the lives of civilians.
• * ♦ *
Pope Products, Ltd., the pref. shares
of which are listed on Adelaide ’Change,
is taking over part of the Finsbury (S.A.)
gun-ammunition works, involving about
64,000 square feet of floor space, roughly
half the size of the present Beverley
plant. The co? has several projects in
mind, including expansion of diecasting
activities aimed to dovetail with new in-
dustrial developments in the State.
Originally a manufacturer of irrigation
appliances, the co. expanded its activities
during the war and now makes tools,
among other things.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lub”: Jud’s tyres have suffered the
effects of war-time over-use, and now he
manages to get about somehow on sleeves
and patches and the remnants stuck
together. But it’s the tubes that
are in a bad way. Scarcely a trip goes
by without recourse to the vulcanising
outfit, and once he did three miles on
17 patches. Pulled up at the roadside
garage for fresh supplies, Jud asked the
possibilities of picking up a second-hand
tyre. “No hope,” drawled the proprietor-
mechanic. “But I can get y’r tyres re-
treaded now.” Jud inspected the four
thoughtfully. “Aw, they’re orright f’r
tread,” he said ; “but what’s the chances
of getting new walls an’ canvas fitted
on ’em?”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Streaky” Taylor was one
of those long, silent young blokes who
listened to others, laughed in. the right
places and never let on what he was
thinking. Naturally he was. regarded
from Balranald to the Border as “deep,”
and the knowing ones made significant
gestures when word went, round that
“Streaky” had won the heart of a district
beauty and was set for wedding bells and
a decent cheque from her old man. Then
the ownership of a long-vacant allotment
in Euston was revealed as “Streaky” and
and offsider were seen measuring off for
foundations. On the Saturday the mob
gathered round, with advice and well-
meant attempts at humor, and “Pocket-
knife” told the ancient yarn about the
bloke who built a house and then found
that he’d forgotten to put in a door-
space and had to break through a wall
to get out. We’d all heard it a dozen
times and seen it illustrated in cartoons,
but we forced a chuckle or two until
somebody noticed that “Streaky” was
looking at “Pocket-knife” in an offended
manner. Wondering how the yarn could
have rattled the silent cove, we left him
to his measuring. On the Sunday mom
some of us strolled along to have a look
at the builder. He had the flooring joists
down, there was no sign of wall-plates,
but “Streaky” was busy fitting a door-
frame up. Somebody ventured a query.
“I’ll build the wall round it,” grunted
“Streaky,” in one of the longest speeches
he ever made. “Man don’t want t’ be
caught like that bloke ‘Pocket-knife’ was
tellin’ us about.” And another reputation
was spreadeagled.
* * * *
“Dronestung”: The Russians have
done it again, this time by training bees
to pollenise lucerne and clovers for seed-
bearing. The bees, trained by feeding
for two or three days with sugar syrup
having flavor of the plant requiring pol-
lination, then work this flora to the ex-
clusion of others for the full length of
its flowering period. The bees used are
Caucasians, said to be docile and resem-
bling the black bees in many ways, though
standing up to much colder conditions.
In other countries bees work lucerne and
clovers freely without training, and crops
of seed harvested could hardly be better.
The position regarding agricultural re-
search in Australia leaves much to be
desired, but there isn’t yet sufficient indi-
cation of anything in the “discovery” to
warrant sending a deputation of apiarists
to Moscow for inspiration in bee-
training.
* * * *
“Goldie”: The other morning, on
baling the winze, 150 ft. below the surface,
we came on a red yabbie about 2in, long.
As the water oozes in through fissures
and flaws near the bottom, it appears that
it must have followed its course from
somewhere close to the surface. Where
the yabbie was heading for or what it
intended to live on is a mystery.
* ♦ * *
“Atlanta”: “Sou’-west’s” mention of
wells (B. 27/3/’46) calls to mind the
120 ft. shaft which 40-odd years ago sup-
plied water to stock on the A.P. Co.’s big
Gulnarber station, near St. George (s.-w.
Q.). Situated on an isolated sandknob
five miles from the Balonne, the supply
was seemingly inexhaustible, and on occa-
sions up to 20,000 sheep were watered.
The cypress-pine slabs have long since
rotted and the sides fallen in, but the
mound of clay and sand still stands be-
neath a massive superstructure of solid
“It's a birthmark, doc. Mum got a fright at a circus.”
hardwood beams and cypress crosspieces,
all that remains of the pumping device
called the “whip.” Operated by a horse
moving on an endless chain, this predeces-
sor of the modern windmill or centrifugal
pump was remarkable for the quantity of
water which could be lifted in a day,
and round the old Gulnarber homestead
can still be seen one or two of the heavy
rectangular buckets which raised 15 to 20
gallons at a gulp. Also in use then were
the canvas bottomless buckets, three feet
in diameter, 12ft. to 15ft. in length, with
chain or rope attached to each end. Low-
ered perpendicularly into the water, the
bucket was raised with both top and
bottom on the same level, and emptied
by the simple process of lowering one
end. Those pioneers certainly made in-
genious use of crude tools.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Hadn’t heard before of
“Zake’s” method of choosing a pup (B.
10/4/’46), but have seen fellows when
selecting a sheepdog take the pup with
the broadest head as being the brainiest.
Others select the sharp and narrow head
for sagacity and alertness, while some pick
the friendliest, or, it may be, the bossiest
little tyke of the litter. The method
favored by one cove I know is to take
the litter before their eyes are open and
tumble them in a heap some distance
away. The first one to find his way back
to his quarters is the pup he selects. But
they can have all their fancy methods. I
still think the greatest contributing factor
is plain luck.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”-: In the roadworkers’
cpp one night the younger element
started yarning about the girls they’d
known, and, to my astonishment, Mat
butted in. “Cripes,” he said, “I struck
a girl one momin’ out the other side o’
Warracknabeal that I never forgot. It’s
dark an’ rainin’ one night an’ I sights
a homestead an’ goes up t’ put it on the
boss for a camp. But there’s nobody
there, ’cept a couple o’ chained dawgs.
So I prowls aroun’ an’ finds a old two-
roomed slab hut off a bit an’ gets in.
The place is empty except for one o’
them old tin baths lyin’ in one room
which I reckon is used for fowl-feed or
somethin’, so I make me nap in the other
room. I come awake in the mornin’,
bearin’ noises in the other room, so I
pulls on me pants an’ opens the door.
In that bath, with her back t’ me, is a
girl surrounded with steam an’ with
towels an’ things on the floor. Before I
can do anythin’ she looks round, gives
me one o’ them haughty looks an’ says,
‘Well, don’t stand there gawking, shut
the door if you don’t want me to catch
cold.’ So I shuts the door an’ steps back
into me own room.” He paused, looked
from eager face to eager face and, with
a beatific smile, added, “Yair. By cripes
she was a nice kid, Musta bin nilly eight
years old, too.”
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: The remarkable thing
about jarrah road-blocks is the way they
resisted the white-ant during their 50-
odd years of service. I’ve seen thousands
of them dug out, and except for a little
dry rot around the sapwood they were
sound. Such resistance is in keeping with
the timberman’s theory that jarrah
always gives the best service when used
on the type of country on which it grew.
Jarrah favors two types, the sandy coastal
plains and the ironstone gravelly hills.
Hills jarrah brought to the plains and
buried as posts shows a poor resistance
to the termite; and vice versa. Which
explains why jarrah occasionally fails to
live up to its reputation of being both
a termite- and a dry-rot-resister. And
again why the piles of old W.A. bridges
and similar structures often show an
amazing longevity they were, of
course, cut from the bush in the vicinity
in which they were ultimately erected.
T-ii* , c aa* i •
,' ‘ Tleay, of the Mackenzie
sanctuary m Victoria, has sent to Hausen,
ot the Flinders Chase Reserve on Kan-
garoo Island (S.A.), three more pairs of
platypus. The ones introduced earlier
are flourishing at the far western end of
the island, free from foxes and other
mainland vermin; but it was thought
well to increase the stock of native
animals, Victoria having plenty. Their
old home reports a difficulty in
getting platypus by the pair, owing to
the roving habits of the female, while
the male seems to stick by the nest. Of
eight specimens caught out swimming,
only one was a male.
**' * *
“Tantanoola n”: “Notaden” (B.
1/5/’46), after placing my South Ossie
hometown in Victoria, goes on to pro-
claim that its famous tiger turned out
to be a calf. Obviously this sceptic hails
from one of the benighted States that
have not produced a tiger. I don’t claim
to have seen old Stripes myself, but my
grandfather, after a heavy night out, was
mauled by the brute and carried the marks
to his grave ; my father—he later distin-
guished himself in the Stawell Gift—was
chased by it, and his graphic description
of his nightmare race for cover with the
animal’s hot breath scorching the back of
his neck was always good for a couple
of beers from passing motorists at the
Tantanoola Tiger Hotel. Elsewhere in
Australia reputed tigers, crocodiles and
bunyips may have been calves, goats or
even jeeps, but around Tantanoola a tiger
is a tiger. And if “Notaden” doesn’t be-
lieve it let him drop in at our pub for
a spot; above its verandah he will find
a lifelike model of the actual tiger. What
further proof than that does he want?
Still, to a man who thinks Tantanoola
is in Victoria the model would probably
look like a calf.
* * ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”: For consist-
ently nesting in the strangest of places
the swallow has no rival. I’ve seen their
mud nests in churches, fowlhouses, horse-
yards, homestead kitchens, on the veran-
dahs of bush pubs, under seaside piers
and even in cluster colonies on sand-
stone banks of the Murray River. But
the queerest place I’ve yet seen them build
was inside on the transom of a fishing-
boat recently at Mallacoota (Vic.). The
only trouble was when the vessel occa-
sionally moved from its idyllic home-
made jetty. One day it travelled up the
picturesque, gum-fringed inlet to the
Gipsy Point pub and back, and Mr. and
Mrs. Swallow, in a very concerned frame
of mind, were compelled to escort us the
22 miles, like sheepdogs following a
buggy.
• ♦ » ♦
“Arafura”: “Wippegong” missed the
most important use of bamboo-roofing
(B. 10/4/’46). Three- and four-inch stems,
split lengthwise and divested of joints, are
laid, hollow side up, all along the purlins;
being pegged or nailed only at the extreme
apex. A similar set is then laid on, this
time inverted in such a way that the edges
of the covering bamboo lie in the hollow
of its immediate neighbors. So the builder
has a roof, little inferior to corrugated
iron, and capable of shedding the rain
of even a monsoon. Pictures of the East
showing such roofs often give the im-
pression that they really are of corru-
gated iron. Another use is for rope. For
centuries Jhe boat-haulers on the rapids
of the Yangtse River used only cables
made from plaited bamboo. Besides being
cheap, such ropes, from the hardness of
the bamboo, resisted fraying on the rocks
better than those of any other material.
Again, bamboo is unique as a vegetable,
in that its skin contains silica. Thus its
polished hardness, very intense in some
species. A slither from such bamboo,
worked to a blade one side of which re-
tains the silica edge, makes a quite toler-
able knife capable of carving up vege-
tables and flesh.
* * . * *
“Dicky Beach”: Never again shall I
regard as mere clumsy, useless sea-nuis-
ances the gams of humpback whales
cruising northward every autumn from
the Antarctic to the tropics, and return-
ing with their lusty infants in the spring.
A Maoriland friend has introduced me
to Ocean Steak, canned product of a fac-
tory at Picton, on Queen Charlotte Sound,
and no more flavorsome or satisfying
meat ever came out of a tin. That admir-
able tucker, and a good many tons more
of the same kind, was provided by a
humpback whale taken in Cook Strait.
It is no wonder that after a 26,0001 b.
trial shipment U.N.R.R.A. has lodged an
order for anything up to 1000 tons more
for its famine-fighting work in China
and the N.E.I. Our annual visitors are
of precisely the same species as their
Maoriland relatives, and in them we
have the material for a very valuable
marine industry. The matter might well
be taken up by the Fisheries Section of
the C.S.I.R. with a view to practical com-
mercial trial when the great marine mam-
mals return in six months’ time on their
southern migration.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Lamenting her lord’s weak-
ness for hoarding junk, Ma picked
her way carefully through the littered
dairy and paused thoughtfully at the
door. “Marthie,” she called, mysteriously,
“there’s that auction sale coming off at
Simpsons’ on Saturday, Do you think
if we sorted some of these old tools and
things into boxes we could get them
down there without your dad seeing us?
He’d never miss a load, and we could
move round better.” For the next couple
of days there was much surreptitious sort-
ing in the back premises ; then, with Dad
safely out of the way, Martha hitched the
nag, loaded six boxes into the trap and
topped them with a warped but freshly-
painted blue bedstead, “Just leave them
there and Mr. Simpson’ll see they are
sold tomorrow,” instructed Ma. “And
tell them to give the money to the bush
nurse or something, because we can’t risk
getting a cheque.” The day of the sale
passed off quietly, and Ma was congratu-
lating herself on success when Dad ar-
rived home. “Gripes, everythin’ was
flamin’ dear at Simpsons’ sale, Ma,” he
announced, tying the reins on the wheel,
“but I managed to get half a dozen boxes
of useful things, and a decent-looking
blue bedstead that’ll do in place of that
one you were always growling about.”
THE SWAGGIE’S HUT.
Oh, when the swaggies had their day a score
or more have met
At Yangar hut by time the sun o’er Yangar
range had set;
A log fire on the hearth was lit, blue smoke
from chimney curled,
And firelight shone on faces lined and hardened
by the world.
And yarning while the billies boiled they told
of times they had,
The kind of cooks on other runs and squatters
good and bad,
The swaggies met in station huts, the pipes of
“ ’bacca” shared,
The drought that lay on northern plains, and
how the cockies fared.
They knew what Governments had done and
what they ought to do,
They read the papers when they could and
pored them through and through;
They held the land was in a state not known
in all their days,
And raucous voices loudly cursed the blasted
modern ways.
Their love was with the old world still, and,
though it smouldered low,
A random word, a fleeting thought, would set
the spark aglow;
And then the lonely Yangar range by songs
has wakened been
Of English lanes and Scottish hills and Ireland’s
shamrock green.
A drooping gum now sweeps against the worn
and battered wall
And moonlight falls on broken beams where
• prowling ’possums crawl;
The windows and the doors are gone; and
through the open space
The night-owls glide on ghostly wings and
haunt the eerie place.
And Yangar hut will soon be gone, but while
a relic stays
’Twill bring to mind those rovers past and
old sundowner days.
It watched the last one hump his swag on
shoulders worn and bent,
And follows on the tracks of Time the way the
swaggies went.
VICTORIA.
DOUBLEGEE.


“Zake”: A little, wizened, whiskered
old cove, he came into the glassworks,
pulled money and a photo, out of the
pocket of a tattered overcoat and said
he wanted a stained-glass-window, with
the lineaments of the subject of the
photo., a large woman with a forbidding
jowl, incorporated in it. The man-
ager, to whom he was referred, asked
him what church he wanted it put in.
“Whaddaya talkin’ about —church!” said
the old boy scornfully. “I’m puttin’ up
a one-room shack just off the road from
Yarramalong to Upper Mangrove Creek,
an’ I want to put the winder in that. Y’
see, me missus shot the towel in a while
back, and I want to be able to walk past
’er stuck up there in the winder while I
can spit on the floor, smoke, leave me
boots around an’ do just wot I like with
’er lookin’ on an’ not bein’ able to do
nothink about it!”
* * * *
“Bo”: It was Pringle’s invariable cus-
tom, after he’d sunk a few pots, to be-
come melancholy and implore the others
gathered in the little bush pub to lend
him a gun, a bottle of lysol or a rope.
His fellow-residents of Flystrike had suf-
fered him for long, until a day when
Pringle waxed more lugubrious and im-
ploring than usual. Marchant whirled
“Tell 'im to shove orf, sergeant —'e's creatin' a noosance!”
on him. “Look, Pringle, do y’ want to
hang yerself?” he asked savagely. The
reveller in misery said he did. “Well,
come on,” said Marchant, “and we’ll help
y’.” He got a rope, and a procession,
including Bung, retired to a shed at the
rear of the pub. Winking at the others,
Marchant, with his back to Pringle, cut
almost through the rope with his pen-
knife, leaving only a few threads of
hemp. Then, turning around, he osten-
tatiously fixed a noose, put it tight around
Pringle’s neck, put him on an up-ended
fruit-case, threw the other end of the rope
over a beam and was about to tell him
to jump when a figure, stern of face and
wearing a clerical collar and turned-up
coat collar entered the shed. The
newcomer, slinging another
wink, announced himself as a
travelling pastor. Then he gave
the would-be suicide a lecture
long enough to sober him, and
painted a truly awful word-pic-
ture of the fate in the next world
of him who destroyed himself.
As he finished his diatribe to
the now thoroughly - scared
Pringle, Marchant rushed across,
pushed the pseudo-cleric aside
and snarled “We’re not goin’ to
be done out of a hangin’ now we got this
far” and kicked the fruit-case from under
Pringle. Everyone agreed later with the
shaken Pringle that only the miracle of
the rope breaking saved his life. When
Pringle has a few these days he bursts
into songs like “Sweet Genevieve.”
* * * *
“Wonk”; Feeding his pack of rabbit
dogs through the summer was a bit of
a problem, but Toddy helped out by tak-
ing advantage of his collection of second-
hand tools, etc. “Harrers?” he’d say to
a neighbor. “Sure take them of mine
for a few weeks, and I’ll get you to feed
a couple of me dogs if y’ don’t mind, see-
ing y’r getting plenty o’ milk.” A cross-
cut saw, swingle-bars, an old cream can, a
truck jack and a couple of buckets were
all away with a dog attached ; then Toddy
ran into Peters. “Thinking o’ shifting
the pipes from y’r dam, eh?” he said,
lining up alongside. “Gripes, I got plenty
tools y’ c’n have if yTl take one o’ me
dogs for a bit. Call in on y’r way back.”
Three weeks later Peters returned the dog.
“Stone the crows,” gasped the mong’s
owner, “he’s nothin’ but a flamin’ skeling-
ton. Ain’t bin fed. Now, what good ja
think he is like that? Weak, broken-down
an’ wobbly ; cripes, he wouldn’t stand
up to work for two minutes.” “No,”
came Peters’s snort, “an’ neither would
y’r flaming pipe wrench.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The surveyor who named
the Nullarbor Plain so appropriately
didn’t have to delve very deeply into his
Latinity (B. 24/4/’46). The two lines
he had in mind
Pone me pigris ubi nulla campis
Arbor sestiva recreatur aura
are, of course, from one of Horace’s
best-known odes, “Lalage and the Wolf.”
The pity is that so many people, includ-
ing “G. Roper” himself, spoil the point of
it by writing and pronouncing the word
as “Nullabor.” You may notice the same
error on some maps.
* * ♦ •
“B. A. Ker”: The bridge across the
creek was very narrow —so narrow that
a hundred or more sheep had crossed,
climbed the rise and dropped out of sight
beyond before half the mob had nego-
tiated the bottle-neck. Suddenly the un-
mistakable report of a 12-gauge shotgun
roared from the vicinity of the leaders.
Although not an over-suspicious man,
the drover felt that investigation was
necessary. With the dogs clearing a path
before his horse, he was halfway over the
bridge when another shot boomed. A
third report came as the horse galloped
up the rise. Reining in beyond the crest,
the drover saw a lanky youth, shotgun
in hand, staring fixedly—not at a dead
sheep, but the trunk of a bluegum. At
"Good thing We didn't get one of them steel homes!”
that moment a bellow from the tumble-
down homestead some distance away
caused both man and youth to start.
Shouting as he came, a burly, elderly
man was literally charging across the pad-
dock. “Yer blasted young fool!” —the
words became distinguishable as he came
into range. “What the devil d’yer think
yer doin’?” The young ’un looked
sheepish. “list seein’ what the ‘choke’
of this gun is like, Dad,” he said, pointing
to the peppered bark. “Choke be
hanged!” shouted the parent. “Yer’ve
’ad the blasted gun over a week ; yer
know yer mother’s been crook all night,
yet the minute she starts to get a IdH of
sleep you ’ave to start blazin’ at nothin’!
’Ere, give me that gun.” When the drover
and his charges were only a dustcloud
beyond the bend the youth strode up to
the homestead —to find his sire trium-
phantly dressing a sheep. But the old
chap had a word of criticism to deliver.
“Next time we work this stunt pick one
a bit closer to the house; if I’d ’ad to
carry this one another three yards the
bloke w'ould’ve seen me as ’e came over
the rise.”
* * * *
“Pinjarrah”: Why wouldn’t bunny be
silly enough to drink sea water (B.
10/4/’46)? Know of a property in the
W.A. south-west where sheep often visit
the sea beach to nibble at the weeds and
take an occasional mouthful of salt water,
this although there is an abundance of
fresh water and grass available. Animals
like salt, but it is seldom available to
them in their wild state. Deprive a man
of salt for a few months and then see
how he would react to an invitation to
partake of a few mouthfuls of sea lyater.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: “Munja’s” yarn about
the Kimberley abos. topping the basket
of crabs (B. 10/4/’46) is quite in accord
with the abo. character. Binghi has
only one real enemy: work. Any-
thing that will enable him to get a living
without compounding with the enemy is
right to his touch. Knew one northern
station where a request for “tucker” was
invariably met With the invitation for
the male member of the supplicants to
extend himself on the wood-heap. After
about an hour’s desultory chopping
Barney and his two gins would present
themselves again at the kitchen door.
“There you are, Missus, that good heap
—’nough chopped there to do you a
week.” But Mum was wise with experi-
ence. Going to the nicely stacked and
quite pretentious heap of split wood she
would give it a kick—on which it
promptly subsided to about one-third its
previous bulk. For while his two gins
swung the axes Barney interested and
amused himself building a hollow “pig-
sty,” around which the rest of the chop
would be stacked to seemingly monu-
mental proportions. Of course he expected
the trick to deceive only long enough
for him to get hold of the issue of scran
and then fade. And he never lost hope,
though Mum caught him every time.
Probably there were other places where
the scheme worked.
* ♦ * ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: That salty-looking
veteran who told “B. A. Ker” that the
warm waters around Wollongong
(N.S.W.) kill little penguins (B. 27/3/’46)
is a bit astray. The small fairy species
of this marine flightless bird, the only one
that frequents the seas fringing the coasts
of Australia, is seen as far north as Rott-
nest (W.A.) and Moreton Bay (Q.). More-
over, only a couple of hundred miles
south of Wollongong, on the sandy, tree-
less hills of granite-bound Gabo Island
(Vic.), there was, up till the war years, a
rookery of fairy penguins larger than any
I know in the rugged Kent or Furneaux
groups, Bass Strait. However, on revisit-
ing the Gabo rookery on Easter Monday
last, I found its population had been
greatly depleted. According to Hughie
Brady, a fisherman from Mallacoota Inlet
who runs the mails regularly to the island,
this was because a hundred naval and
R.A.A.F. personnel who were stationed
at. Gabo during the war disturbed the
birds. Whether the little ocean swimmers
will return as of old, with only the light-
housekeepers in residence again, is to be
seen, but there are still countless acres of
rookery and thousands of working bur-
rows. Another thing, a dead penguin
washed up on a beach is nothing. After
every decent blow along the Victorian
coast you see one every mile or so.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The fastest thing in
my section of the Westralian bush is the
aptly-named “racehorse” goanna. Out
’rooing with two fine dogs, we treed a
go., and to give the hounds a run my
mate climbed the 20ft. shrub and dis-
lodged him. He was running when he
struck the ground, the dogs, which
had the edge on any ’roo that ever ran
and could easily outstrip my pony, weren’t
in the event. Nor is the go. any slouch
in water. Saw one lead a pack of mongs
down a street and out to the end of an.
ocean jetty. Without any perceptible
slackening of speed he took to the briny
and made back towards shore, giving the
impression of running over the water
rather than swimming through it.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: In my travels
around New Guinea from Yule Island to
Hollandia I saw a good many odd-looking
natives, but one called Gemini, whom
we struck 250 miles up the Sepik, beat
them ail. He’d be worth pounds to any
circus. Six feet, broad-shouldered and
smiling, he came aboard at Avatip village,
stark naked except for a turban of
white possum skin with two white cocka-
too feathers protruding from the top. The
whiteness of his headdress was accentu-
ated by his shining boot-blackenedlike
face, his negro-comedianlike reddened
lips and eyelids and a body smeared
below the neck in yellow mud. He had
a great sense of humor, and; as he told
us of local customs, he helped his very
limited pidgin along by knitting his brow,
grimacing, rolling his eyes and waving
his hand across his face. As there had
been no trade-goods on the river since
the Jap war, and we required fruit, I gave
him a lap-lap. But wear it —not he!
He subsequently used it only for carry-
ing rice, in which he bartered for bananas.
Our crew of coastal coons even blushed
at his nakedness, though they explained
he was a widower in mourning, and that
his pot-black face was made from a paint
of berry oil mixed with charcoal. We
fascinated Gemini so much he pleaded to
join the crew, but we had to decline.
After all, although we had natives in the
crew, we were a R.A.N. ship, and we
had to think on our arrival at Madang
what the naval officer-in-charge for New
Guinea there would have said about
Gemini’s original rig-of-the-day.
* * * *
“E.2”: Morgan borrowed Dan’s
wagon, used it for a couple of days to
cart wood and parked it under a pepper-
tree near the house, where it remained
for a couple of months. Morgan made
excuses on several occasions when asked
to return it, so Dan decided to go for it
one evening after milking. It was dark
when he reach Morgan’s and the family
were out to a dance, but Dan yoked up
his horses and took the wagon home.
There has been a tacit silence between
them since. Dan is still riled about hav-
ing to make the trip to collect his prop-
erty, and Morgan mutters in his whiskers
about 14 chooks disappearing mysteri-
ously that night. And those fowls, in-
conspicuous among Dan’s numerous poul-
try, still roost on the axles of the wagon.
THE HAS-BEEN.
The man is never absent who' has “done things”
in his youth,
And if his stories vary or they decorate the
truth,
At least to age and wisdom in my deference
I’ll bow —
If he doesn’t start his preface with “I couldn’t
do if now.”
“I couldn’t do it now, o’ course,” and that’s
his alibi,
“But when I was a young ’un round” —it might
be Mungindi
Or Alice Springs or Townsville, or it might be
Broome or Hay;
It doesn’t really matter, but it’s always far away.
Then he’ll bash your ear with details as to
why and when and how
He stoushed a fourteen-stoner —but he “couldn’t
do it now.”
He couldn’t do it now, of course, but when he
“rode a bit”
The horse was never saddled that he wouldn’t
mount —and sit.
And when it came to shearing he could wield
so fast a blade
The other pens were idle as the shearers stood
dismayed.
They all had cash to back him as the “best
since Jackie Howe,”
But of course his back is onkus and he
“couldn’t do it now.”
He used to swing a Kelly when some decent
timber stood;
Then, less than twenty-inchers were just classed
as “mornin’ wood.”
He used to run a dairy in the days when men
could milk;
No automatic gadgets for the cockies of his
ilk.
His wife now swings the Kelly and it’s she who
milks the cow,
For the “screws” have got him euchred and
he “couldn’t do it now.”
He couldn’t do it now, of course, but mention
what you will,
He’ll always swear he’s done it —and he never
did it ill.
But let the chance be offered and he’ll never
say, 1 vow,
“I used to like a schooner, but I couldn’t do
one now.”
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC,
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BUGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA,' TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
'yl
m
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS,
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
lise the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
C^N£|GAS
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
LYSAGHTTS
pßoor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
M*
MflT
x:
/y^J
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable'^from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "tY S A 6 NT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS.”
Sydney Beef Show.
Bulago”; It was held at its war-time
address at Pyrmont, but it will be back at
Moore Park next year.
Still, the Pyrmont wool floor has many
advantages, being well lit and having all
the breeds under the same roof. Judg-
ing is done inside and can’t be affected
by the weather. Purely a beef show, the
dairy breeds have been out of the picture
for several years.
The roll-up of cattle and cattle enthusi-
asts overtaxed accommodation. Both
judging rings were uncomfortably
crowded when a class of 20 or more had
to be handled. It would have taken a
paddock to accommodate one Hereford
class of 72, Entries showed an all-round
increase and thd standard was generally
high, though there was a lack of out-
standing animals. This year all entries
had to be certified t.b. and c.a.b. free.
Four States were represented and several
breeders new to Sydney did well,
THE WINNERS.
Shorthorns were of high standard. Coonong
sent a choice team of those rich red bulls for
which it is famed, but although they led as in the
P** st they were seriously challenged by Calool.
i *P er brought several particularly good
bulls by Munduney Emblem, a sire whose pro-
geny should be worth watching. With Calool
Jupiter he won reserve championship, and
Calool Journalist, a beautiful roan, was junior
reserve. The 15-18-months class attracted 29
entries, among them the pick of the show. The
judge, W. R. Ross (Vic.), eventually narrowed
it down to three, Coonong O.B.E., a rich red
that was practically faultless, the Calool roan,
and Woomargama Jeremy, and placed them in
that order; this class later provided winners of
three of the four bull champions. Coonong
O.B.E. was both junior and senior champion.
Although he lacked the scale of the Calool bull
he is the nearest thing to the perfect bovine
rectangle seen to date.
. Shorthorn females were not so strong either
in numbers or quality, and there was a large
proportion of light colors. Copmbing Park won
the champion ribbon from Hambledon, while
reserve championships went to Turanville and
Lochinvar. Each successive year brings further
proof of the sterling qualities of the Coonong
importation Calrossie Red Baronet. His stock
is now well distributed over Australia, and
this year’s awards were permeated with his
influence as a sire.
Herefords Were again numerous, and the tops
were particularly good, though they lacked the
appearance of some previous champions. There
was a definite tail here, too, and the judge
had no hesitation in weeding them out. One
class of 72 bulls took a bit of handling, and
had to be judged in sections. The Windsor
cattle had a close run with Bexley representa-
tives for top honors. These two studs divided
all but one of the championship ribbons.
Windsor Puritan’s stock kept up the record of
its sire and in one class the first and second
bulls were direct descendants of Puritan and
Hobartville Bim Boy, whose close go for
premiership several years ago will be remem-
bered —and once again the Mcllrath entry won.
Hereford awards were widely distributed, a
sure sign of general high quality of the tops.
The female classes attracted some very good
entries, Bexley, Windsor, Myall, Herbert Park
and Golf Hill being chief scorers.
Devons were good, and for once Havilah
didn’t have it all its own way. Ban Ban
scored well, and Table Top also featured in
the ribbons. It_ is a pity that more breeders do
not support this deserving type. Devons kill
well, they are a hardy breed and bn rough,
hilly country they take a lot of beating.
Each year since they were first shown in Syd-
ney Poll Shorthorns have made astonishing
progress, and this year’s entries were far and
away the best yet seen. The popularity of
the Polls is threatening seriously their horned
brethren, and within a decade their relative
positions in the show schedule may be reversed.
The tops were a very fine lot and gave the
judge frequent problems. As with any new
breed there was a decided tail, and some of the
entries showed up badly against the tops.
Several were high off the ground, there were a
number of bad heads and too much evidence
of slab-sidedness.
J. T. Scrymgeour brought a strong team
from Queensland and won the bull champion-
ship with Netherby Welcome Guest, a five-year-
“Y' should've done the kids first, Ma-that water's for to hot f'r Bluey.”
old. rich red that handled particularly well.
Antrim and Armagh had very attractive teams
in wonderful condition. A white Antrim bull
was awarded reserve championship; then in the
15-18-months class a rich roan Antrim bull
took the blue ribbon from a line-up of 18 and
went on to the junior championship. Bogan,
Gunnawarra and Gundibri bulls were well
among the ribbons, and the Peel roans also
caught the judge’s eye.
Poll Shorthorn females were in good numbers,
and most of- them showed quality, but there
were many poor colors and faulty animals. A
very nice roan heifer from Netherby was
awarded champion and junior ribbons, Bogan
Firefly being runner-up in both.
Polled Herefords continue to show great pro-
gress, and this year’s tail would bear compari-
son with the tops of less than a decade ago.
Nevertheless, that tail was very evident, and
there were some rough cattle that should not
have been sent. In some cases the colors were
wrong —too dark, or washy, or showing too
much white —and there were a lot of bad heads.
Wantabadgery East contributed an excellent
team that collected, among other ribbons, both
senior championship and junior female cham-
pionship. Barrister, the champion bull, is rising
three years, and was shown in great condition.
Milton Streeton was junior champion, and
also reserve to the Wantabadgery bull, running
him very close. Merryville was a new com-
petitor this year, and gained a female reserve
championship, but, on' the whole, these cattle
appeared short of preparation. Several classes
attracted very limited competition, and on
several occasions the judge, Ray Reynolds, with-
held the blue ribbon where quality was lack-
ing. Invernish, Pylara, Merawah and More-
duval all shared in the awards. )
In the Red Polls only two studs competed,
and Mt. Parry and Bundaleer shared the
honors. This dual-purpose breed has many
followers, and it is a pity that more of ’em
aren’t seen at shows.
Aberdeen-Angus entries were strong in num-
bers and quality. Several new studs appeared,
and cattle from Terrinallum (Vic.) joined in.
The black polls seem to have settled down to
a more composite type, and they afforded the
judge some ticklish decisions. Taking them
right through, the A.-A. classes were of high
standard, and the tops were magnificent. How-
ever, in some studs certain inherent weaknesses
have become more pronounced each year. In
one case the backs were at fault; in another
many of the bulls had weak heads that did
not commend them as sires. There was also
a noticeable falling away on both sides of the
tail.
Booroomooka took both seniors and the
junior male championships. Booroomooka
Nikola is one of the best-bodied bulls ever
seen in Sydney, and could only be faulted
in his head, which might be more virile. He
carries himself like a champion and made things
easy for the judge. Awards were widely dis-
tributed and were shared by Kahlua —unfor-
tunate in missing the championship—Abington,
Narrangullen, Wallah—particularly strong in
females —Milong, Trangxe—whose bull, Everside
12th, was very well grown and symmetrical and
was most unlucky not to have been placed.
Nailsworth, Forest, Cavan and Terinallum also
collected ribbons.
At least two well-known properties whose
cattle ranked high this year are being resumed
for closer settlement. It is to be hoped that the
studs will be carried on, as they are the outcome
of many years’ work-and cannot be replaced.
Homs Should Go.
“Billjim”: A dehorned herd is a
decided advantage. The cows can be
fed from a- feeding rack or trough, there
are no ripped or bruised udders and the
cows are much easier to handle. In addi-
tion, the same number of cows can be
yarded in, a smaller area, an important
consideration when cost of laying con-
crete in the yard is taken into account.
Most convenient age to dehorn is when
the calf is from five to eight days old,
using either caustic potash or the hot
iron. In the former method the hair is
clipped away from the small buttons
which are the future horns. Vaseline is
then smeared around the base of the but-
ton. A stick of caustic potash, protected
by several thicknesses of paper, is
moistened slightly and rubbed on the
button with a circular motion, until it
starts to bleed. Care should be taken
not to allow the calf to stay out in the
rain after this treatment or the potash
will run into the eyes.
For dehorning adult cattle, double-
bladed instruments are used which cut
the horns quickly and easily. The opera-
tion has very little effect on the general
wellbeing of cows in milk. The wounds
heal quickly and the cow is back to
normal in three to four days. Decline in
milk production is surprisingly light and
is compensated for by the subsequent
freedom from trouble among the cattle.
That Colicky Horse.
“J.W.R.”: Concerning the colicky
horse and all those who advise owners to
drench with bulky and nauseating mix-
tures of linseed-oil and turpentine, one
can be reasonably sure that the scribe is
not commonly called upon to give the
filthy drench himself, and that he has not
been required to pay for any of the
horses that die from gangrenous pneu-
monia as the result of the drench going
the wrong way.
There is nothing so bitterly resented by
an intelligent horse as being made to
swallow a mixture of oil and turpentine,
and nothing that the writer, as a young
veterinary surgeon in the horse age, so
bitterly resented having to do. “No,”
said the horse, and the flannel suit was
ruined. Consequently, it became a laboi
of love to devote a professional lifetime
of more than 40 years to exploding the
myth that linseed-oil and turpentine was
a sure cure for equine colic.
The scientific truth is that there is not
a scrap of experimental evidence to sup-
port the supposition that this foul mix-
ture cures colic, but it is a scientific truth
that every old-timer veterinary prac-
titioner in equine practice can recall
several instances of horses’ being killed
by oily drenches going the wrong way.
The best all-round veterinary advice
that can be given is to put the griped
animal into a safe paddock or loose-box
(paddock is best) and leave things to
Nature. One cannot prove such a sweep-
ing statement as this in a few words, but
the general truth of it can be deduced
from the following statistical facts.
More than 90 p.c. of all cases of equine
colic are due to simple functional dis-
order, caused usually by nervous fatigue
or acute indigestion, and such cases,
whether treated or not, recover spon-
taneously within 18 hours in nearly every
instance. Consequently, home doctoring
is not necessary for these cases. The re-
maining cases are due to some grave
structural change, such as twist of the
bowel, ruptured stomach, strangulation of
the bowel or massive impaction. Of such, .
only the last-named can ever be cured at
all, and all the resources of modern
veterinary science are often not enough
for this purpose.
Expert veterinary opinion of the value
of “drenching” is evident from the fact
that, other things being equal, the ex-
perienced vet. invariably prefers the
chances of the colicky horse that has not
been dosed with such alleged cures as


Notice.
]tfen desirous of securing employment as cane-
cutters in the Cairns District, North Queensland,
during the 1946 harvesting season, which will begin
early .in June, are hereby - invited to immediately
register their names and addresses with the under-
signed.
Any relevant information required will be gladly
supplied on request.
FRANK FERGUSON, Secretary,
Cairns District Canegrowers’ Executive,
P.O. Box 842, Cairns.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
of Tired Kidneys.
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them.
Nature may be warning you that your kidneys need
attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. They
help most people eliminate about 3 pints a day.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t
work well, poisonous waste ma ter stays in ihe
Thcse poisons may start nagging backaches, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, disturbed
nights, swelling, puffiness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness. Frequent or poor kidney action some-
times shows there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEYS PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
y VS - .* 4^v«a
//
w
f
aEi#^sa
PORTABLE—FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES ON
STANDS.
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and
built to lit your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very
attractive and some pur-
chasers have reported re-
covering their full outlay •
in one season. M
ŗ
ř
m
m
i/l%
t
iU
1
I*
[jf" ■
■s*^vr
f/~
vs
m
\>\vv£v
- -
'; r
60
fiV
-■■?■-
ft\Jv
'is*
1 ®
r
Thousands of miles of road repair,
new highway, railroad and irrigation
projects for the development of our
national wealth, are among t* many
tasks calling for the brute strength and
amazing capacity of "Caterpillar”
Tractors.
On big earth-moving jobs, it’s the
extra yards per haul that give the con-
tractor his profits. And that’s where
"Caterpillar” team work comes in. It
allows for the calculating of bigger
yardages when figuring out tenders.
High-speed hauling of "maximum yard-
ages is best accomplished the "Cater-
pillar” way. The scraper pulled by
the "Caterpillar” Diesel DWIO Wheel
Tractor, shown in the picture above,
will carry 11 loose yards per trip. The
pusher tractor assures heaped loads
and greatly reduced loading time, en-
abling the contractor to get a much
higher work-yield from his high-speed
hauling units. That’s the way con-
tractors like to get the job done!
CATERPILLAR D/£S££
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd.. St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone-LA3321. Marquis St., Gunnedah. PAone-G JJ!*
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathborne, 57 Cambridge St.. South Grafton. Mr. R. Port Mtucquane.
'Phone-Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone-2839.102 Melbourne St
South Brisbane. 'Phone—Jl4S6. Rankin St.. Innisfail. 'Phone—lnmsfail 4 75. 7.45.33^
linseed-oil and turpentine before he takes
on the job. Finally, very many shrewd
farmers and dealers never 'do drench
colicky horses, and find no reason to
think that they lose anything by thus
leaving things to Nature.
These observations do not refer
to sand-colic, which has a distinct
pathology of its own, and is differently
treated.
The House Cow.
“Cow Cocky”: The Jersey-Shorthorn
cross is the best breed for the purpose
(B. 10/4/’46) because it is stronger than
the pure Jersey and not so susceptible to
milk fever. Cows of this cross are heavy
milkers and rich'in butter fat.
At the moment we’re milking an aged
cow that has borne nine calves. It has
been possible to rear her own calf on
the bucket, and when that was weaned
another was bought and reared. Our
cow has been milking for 13 months, is
4j months forward, supplies a family of
four with milk, cream and more than
enough butter. There is abundance of
green feed, and the cow gets a half kero.-
bucket of chaff daily, well dampened,
with a large handful of bran and pollard
and a little salt added. The run of about
12 acres is shared with her 13 months’ old
heifer and the second six months’ old
adopted heifer. Over a period of years
the bullocks from this cow have returned
a handsome sum of money.
Soya Bean.
“E.H.S.”: For the life of me I can’t
see why it shouldn’t do well here. It
grows on immense acreages in Manchuria
and the U.S.A. under widely differing
conditions of soil and climate. It does
best on friable black soil and loams, has
been grown with some success in Vic-
toria and Queensland, and does well any-
where that maize can be grown.
The land should be well ploughed, and
then harrowed at intervals until the seed
is sown to prevent growth of weeds. Seed
should be sown in rows 2ft. to 3ft. apart,
using 251 b. per acre, spaced about 3in.
apart, with a covering of l|in. of soil.
Sowing may be done at any time after
frost risk has disappeared. When sown
broadcast for fodder not less than a
bushel of seed per acre should be used.
Grown for ensilage, a mixed crop of soy
beans and corn produces a greater ton-
nage than corn or beans alone. Propor-
tions of seed for a mixed crop should be
one of beans to three of corn. Soy bean
and maize ensilage is highly nutritious,
as the bean provides the protein, which is,
to a large extent, lacking in corn.
Hints for the Farm.
“Xob *33”: Lucerne is best cut for
poultry when it is about one-third in
bloom ; it is then nutritious and palat-
able. If cut in the immature stage it has
little feeding value for fowls. Cut later
than the early blooming stage it is coarse,
with the proportion of fibre far too great
in the stalks.
“Plane Creek”: When ordinary
methods failed a neighbor stopped severe
erosion of a creek-bank by throwing iron
cuttings and metal junk from a rubbish
dump over the bank. Then he planted
numerous runners of couch - grass
amongst the junk, and it wasn’t long be-
fore the growing grass twined itself
around the rubbish and formed a tangle
that floodwaters could not shift,
“W. Court”: During the cooler
months in tropical parts French beans
can be profitable. A well-broken soil is
necessary, and if the land is deficient in
phosphates a dressing of super, should be
mixed in before seeding. The beans are
legumes, and should take most of their
nitrogen from the far. Don’t neglect
climbing varieties if you can rig up a
trellis, for they’re the heaviest croppers.
“Safina”: Farmers in warm districts
having an annual rainfall of 40in. or so
may now be able to get crowns or seeds
of the leguminous kudzu vine from
Queensland Department of Agriculture,
which expected to have crowns from
experimental plantings by this time. The
kudzu didn’t strike the department as
being much good for cool climates with
a light rainfall.
“H.8.F.”: For keeping poultry fit
green fodder is essential, and of
all is lucerne sown in long, narrow, net-
ting-covered beds in the pens. The green
leaves can be picked as they come through
the netting. Netting covers should have
wooden frames so that the lucerne stand
is at least din. high before reaching the
netting. In cold months Berseem clover
is not a bad substitute.
“Big Billy”: At a bureau conference
in our S.A. district Agriculture Director
Spafford found it difficult to answer the
question “Would cultivating at high
speeds have a deleterious effect on the
soil?” The director said his department
had done no research work on the matter,
which, however, was an important one.
Tractors travelling at six m.p.h., he
pointed out, throw the soil some feet.
thus separating the particles and spoiling
the composition of the soil. A remedy
was an alteration in the type and shape
of implements, for he could not, see that
the pace of modern farming would
decrease.
“Lub”: Victorian Department of Agri-
culture’s Bulletin No. 68 deals compre-
hensively.with budding and grafting fruit-
trees. Numerous illustrations show the
various processes in detail. Value of this
publication is enhanced by the setting out
of detailed information on particular
methods of reworking trees of certain
ages anc * kinds, a table of affinities and
ways of bridging and inarching to re-
juvenate or repair damaged trees. And
all for a shilling.


H.P.
CL
gJ^ 3
?
V
H P. SAUCE
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
ANNOUNCING...
The COMMONWEALTH
EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Xn csll cities and suburbs* and in the larger provincial
centres* there are now District Employment Offices. They
are part of the Commonwealth Employment Service set
up under the Re-establishment and Employment Act 1945.
What are the inactions oi the
Commonwealth Employment Service?
First , to assist ex-servicemen and women to find employment best suiting
their qualifications, experience, physical condition and personal
desires.
Second to aid any person, man or woman, boy or girl, in the same way,
whether they may be temporarily out of employment or seeking
to improve their position, or td obtain employment more con-
veniently situated, or in which to exercise to greater advantage
their skills and abilities.
Third , to assist employers to engage the workers they need by submitting
for selection, by the employers, workers possessing all the quali-
fications, skills, etc., that are needed for the successful performance
of the jobs to be filled.
Fourth to provide a general advice and information service for ex-service
personnel and the public particularly in relation to benefits, etc.,
under the Re-establishment Act and other Commonwealth
Legislation.
The Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice places modern employment service
facilities at the disposal of employer and
worker. It is something new in Australia.
But employment services are not new
elsewhere, as witness the success of the
British and United States Employment
Services on which the Commonwealth
Employment Service is modelled. The
matching of workers with jobs—in other
words, the task of finding the right
worker for the right job—is a scientific
process. It requires the aid of psycho-
logically trained vocational guidance
officers, career advisors, and so on—it
requires the services of specially trained,
experienced, courteous and efficient
employment officers. The Common-
wealth Employment Service is a modern,
scientific placement service, complete
with all these facilities.
The Commonwealth Employment Service will cater for the filling of all
types of vacancies and the placing of all types of workers—professional,
scientific, managerial, clerical, skilled and unskilled, domestic and rural.
The facilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service are available
without fee or charge.
There are COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT
CENTRES throughout AUSTRALIA.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Look for the COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SIGN
CESGMI3-46
as the executor of American and Allied
occupation policy. It is only accurate
to say that some of them went to Tokyo
with a doubting and suspicious attitude
toward General MacArthur and left with
a deep conviction that he was doing an
outstandingly good job.
The one underlying reservation which
marks their otherwise favorable estimate
of the occupation—Will it last? —is being
raised with mounting insistence by Ameri-
can as well as Allied observers. About
half of the American officials whom the
Commission delegates interviewed said
they hoped to be home in a month or
two. There was no certainty that replace-
ments were to be forthcoming promptly
or that men of equal calibre were
available.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
There is only one important party in Turkey
—the Government People’s party—founded by
Kemal and still faithful to his teachings. The
Communist party is outlawed. The single-party
system of State Socialism, a controlled press
and an exceedingly active secret police seem
to add up to something that has been heard
before. But one comes away with the con-
viction that the people stand solidly behind
the Government’s handling of foreign affairs.
This, they fear, means certain difficulties with
Russia, and perhaps a war. It would be un-
realistic to suppose that the prospect does not
frighten them. Any conversation sooner or
later comes around to Russia, and the possi-
bility of the United States helping if there
should be war. Hence the extraordinary warmth
of their welcome to the American squadron,
which they all, without exception, hope will
turn out to have been more than an isolated
gesture.— N.Y. “Times” staff correspondent.
* * * «
What we have to understand is that the
Russians are conditioned to a society in which
any criticism of the conduct and policies of
the powers that be is sinful. The rest of us
are not so conditioned, and do not intend to
be. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
According to the Air Transport Association
of America, comprising the 23 airlines of the
United States, flying now is safer than riding
in automobiles. For instance, there were only
2.2 deaths per 100,000,000 air passenger miles
in 1944. The figure for autos and taxis was
2.9. And even on long over-water flights there
were Only two fatal accidents in 1944. — Scripps-
Howard aviation writer.
* * * *
Public confidence that Russia will co-operate
with the U.S. in world affairs is lower at this
point than at any time in the past four years,
since the American Institute of Public Opinion
[Gallup polls] first began measuring United
States sentiment toward Russia. —Report by
Director George E. Gallup.
* * * *
A cowman’s sizeup of the international situa-
tion, received from a correspondent in Osage
Hills: “Seems like ever’body’s a-fightin’ or a-
aimin’ to. Looks like this fella Stalin’s aimin’
t’get all the grass, don’t it? That feller ’ud
cut a man’s fence!” — Scripps-Howard Washing-
ton report.
* * * #
For many months now, we [U.S.] have been
breathing fire-and-brimstone toward Argentina,
and badgering the Argentine Government with
accusations, and recently—though in far milder
form —we have followed the same tactic to-
ward Spain. Yet in Argentina our policy has
served only to elect our enemy—Peron—and to
consolidate much Argentine and Latin-American
opinion against us. Many of the happy re-
sults of the “Good Neighbor” policy have been
destroyed, and again Latin-Americans are be-
One major cause for the world’s
shortage of food is the looting in
many lands by Russian troops.
They have seized farm stores and
cattle; they continue to live upon
the land of the countries they
occupy. The resulting shortages
are far greater even than the seiz-
ures themselves, huge as these have
been; for they discourage all
further production, even where they
do not make it physically impos-
sible. Another cause of shortage is
undoubtedly the reparation terms
as they have been announced and
applied. To tell individuals, or to
tell a nation, that their stand-
ard will not be permitted ‘ to go
above a predetermined level regard-
less of the effort they put forth is
one of the most certain ways of
reducing effort. And it is surely not
the way to collect maximum repara-
tions. — N.Y. “Times.”
coming more and more conscious of the “colos-
sus of the North” and “Yankee imperialism.”
We are risking the formation of a real anti-
United States bloc in South America. And
probably our latest Spanish move has served
to strengthen Franco. —Hanson W. Baldwin;
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Wendell Willkie used to speak of the “reser-
voir of goodwill” which the United States
had available to it throughout other parts of
the world. That reservoir, unfortunately, is
very rapidly being drained dry. —Former U.S.
Under-Secretary of State Sumner Welles, in
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The “liberals” and “realists” are at last
awake to the fact that Stalin isn’t fooling, a
revelation which was not news to some of us
long before Stalin made it official and long be-
fore the Canadians decided to remove Soviet
spying from the‘ “top secret” list. It won’t
be long before the whole pack will be hot on
the very scent they have attempted to cover up
these many years. —“ Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
As a result Of the common effort in the
war, all the democracies of the world were
eager to collaborate with Russia in the preser-
vation of peace and promotion of the pros-
perity of all. The United States in particular
was willing to go far to aid Russia in recuper-
ating from the war’s devastation, with complete
disregard of any differences in ideology or
social system. To any sane mind it would
appear that this reservoir of friendship and
active help, not only on the part of Govern-
ments, but of the peoples of the world, would
be of far greater importance to Russia than
anything she can get by unilateral action or
force. Yet for reasons which are partly his-
toric, but may also lie in the hidden strains
and stresses of the Russian State, Russia has
indulged in actions which are rapidly dissipating
the reservoir of goodwill and are driving the
rest of the world to join in self-defence. The
hitherto weak and vacillating policies of the
other Powers may have tempted Russia to make
the most of her opportunity, and it may now
be difficult to retreat. But the opportunity of
any Power is limited by obligations incurred by
treaty or agreement, whose observance must
be the cornerstone of world peace, and beyond
which opportunism turns into aggression.
There is hope that Russia is beginning to
realise these consequences of her course ana
is beginning to adjust her policies accordingly.
Without that hope the prospect would be aarit
indeed. — N.Y. “Times,”


RONALDSON-TIPPETT
ENGINES
... products of Tradition
1904
JJONALDSON-TIPPETT ENGINES had
their beginning back in 1904, The
fathers and grandfathers of present
Ronaldson - Tippett craftsmen laboured
ceaselessly to give future generations of
Australians engines which served faith,
fully the ideal of absolutely dependable
and economical operation under all con-
ditions. Ronaldson-Tippett Engines of to-
day are a magnificent tribute to this
tradition of Excellence. They are not
“cheap” engines in the sense that they
are priced excessively low; neither are
they “costly.” The price you will pay
for a Ronaldson-Tippett Engine *is, in
actual fact, below its real worth, for it
buys more than mere DEPENDABLE,
ECONOMICAL POWER. Every pound
you spend brings you thirty shillings
worth, for the PLUS VALUES of Ronald-
son-Tippett Engines give you AT LEAST
50% more for your money.
Write for the list of PLUS VALUES
which prove our point!
&
1946
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 638 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (QW-) Pty. Ltd.
Parburv House. 137 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
m
8®
taw
m
M
m
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRANK
SMOKE-OH!
To the Bestl
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“While shaving, his stomach suddenly
squeezed his heart out of shape.”
— “Sun” short story.
Anything can happen when an inex-
perienced stomach tries to shave.
4*
“ ‘A revolting offence —so very un-Australian,’
said Justice Philp when he fined Ivan Leonard
Pidgeon £3O, or six months, for biting a man s
ear.” — “Sun.”
That’s pretty tough. After all, there’s
no crime in trying to borrow a few bob.
** * *
“Three years to dress rhino, skin.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.
Judging by this a politician’s would
take anything up to nine or ten.
“Hollywood gives you everything but takes
away your ability.”— “Sun:”
Leaving you only a shadow of your
former self.
•J* 4*
“For sale, three good ladies’ dresses, £1
each.” —Suburban paper.
There should be considerable virtue in
the purchase of these.
“Girl’s brown tweed coat, 15 years, no
coupons.” —For Sale advt. in suburban paper.
They made ’em to last in those days.
•j« q* 4* 4* - „
“Few men are ever sincere to a barmaid.”
— Woman’s mag.
But some do ask for their drinks
straight.
•j* »|* 4* M
“Brunettes are more honest than blondes.”
— Woman’s mag.
They never go under false colors.
4* »> •& ...
“Women were second only to flowers in the
earthly scale of beautiful things.”
—Woman s paper.
Even though many of the former are
more highly colored.
Metaphysics.
One of the objects of philosophy -
Is to discover the reality
Behind appearances; but I protest
That there is little sense in such a quest.
For only yesterday, when morning broke,
I yaw Rowena just as she awoke.
And, if that be
How she
Looks in reality.
Oh, heavens! Give appearances to me!
T. W. NATHAN.
Frustration.
“The accused told me I deserved to be shot,
only a face like mine was too great a boon to
caricaturists like himself.”
— Constable’s evidence.
Said he : “To shoot this minion of the
law
Would rob my fellow artists of a treat.
Because if I should beat him on the
draw,
It’s clear we couldn’t draw him on the
beat."
F. M.
Goats of War.
“Australian Goats to Take Part in Occupation
of Japan.”— Headline.
The use of goats in warfare is, of
course, not new. During my eighth cam-
paign against the ’Mbongos I enlisted the
services of a number of the local goats,
owing to my army deserting to gather
the zareeba harvest.
The ’Mbongo goats are similar to the
ordinary breed, except for their smell.
The ’Mbongo word for goat is a noise
between a hiccup and a sneeze, and accu-
rately represents the stranger’s reaction to
the proximity of one of them. They are
also vindictive in disposition, and my
early attempts to drill the herd of 500
resulted in the issue of five casualty lists
in which my name figured in splendid
isolation.
To distinguish my goats from the un-
trained mob that hung around the parade
ground making insulting bleating noises,
I designed a tunic of coconut fibre. The
replacement rate, due to the goats’ epi-
curean tastes, was high, but what I lost
on the Q.M. store I gained in the com-
missariat.
The first battle was impressive, though
brief. From ray vantage point on a
distant kopje I ordered three battalions
of picked goats to charge the ’Mbongo
army. They responded splendidly. The
scene as they tore off in all directions,
urged on by a charge of saltpetre, was
awe-inspiring, and when several of them,
scenting the ’Mbongo coconut-fibre loin-
cloths, advanced towards them, the oppos-
ing army fled.
But victory was a barren one. The
local Arbitration Court fined me an exces-
sive sum for resorting to chemical war-
fare. _
PLUM.
“With a constable tenaciously gripping its
tail, an enraged and injured bull caused ex-
citement in the city.”— “Argus.”
The bull ran amuck and careered here
and there
With a constable hot on its trail,
Till (not for the first time, Tm willing to
swear )
The Law got the bull by the tail.
STANFORD.
Getting His Teeth Into It.
“Mr. , Bootmaker, wishes to make it
known that he has withdrawn from the Band
owing to difficulties with dentures.”
—Notice in Harden ( N.S.W .) “ Express.
Playing a wind instrument in a band
is a hazardous undertaking at any time
for a “snob.”
My Uncle Beelzebub, who belted hob-
nails into the trilbies of Moochalong’s
residents, used to play the double bass in
the town band. An assiduous practise!,
he one day put aside his work to go
over a lengthy solo he was to give that
night Forgetting that he had just thrown
a handful of tacks into his mouth pre-
naratory to getting to work on a half-
sole he took a breath which he hoped
would be sufficient to last him right
through the 11 bars. Luckily for him a
customer came into the shop just as
Uncle's face was turning from purple to
black. A hearty belt between the
shoulderblades got rid of a lot; the
blacksmith got out the other 27 tacks
that were embedded in his tonsils by using
a powerful magnet.
In those days Uncle Beelzebub had his
own teeth. On Friday nights the band
"played in. the main street and Uncle
“No, that's not Percy Lindsay-this bloke's
too serious.”
used to go straight from closing his shop
to the band’s rendezvous outside the
Royal". The bandmaster, who was also
the town’s garage owner, invariably in-
sisted on Uncle being placed on the very
edge of the footpath with the opening of
his instrument aimed into the street. Also,
whenever his tone was becoming a bit too
“liquid” and it became necessary to
empty half a gallon of saliva out, the
bandmaster always made Uncle up-end
the instrument in the road. It was often
remarked that the garage was a hive of
industry every Saturday morning fixing
punctures that were caused by tacks or
tingles. Uncle was always puzzled as to
why the bandmaster’s geniality to him
went to the extent of offering to do any
retreads for him at only 80 p.c. above cost
should he ever acquire a car.
As my relative gradually became a
victim of a war of nerves and his teeth
started to go, it became evident to the
rest of the band that he was losing com-
pression badly, causing him to emit only
an asthmatic wheeze through his double
bass in place of the healthy, full-blooded
“blurp” that was wont to send the dogs
yelping in a mad rush for the scrub on
the town’s fringe.
In an endeavor to plug up the inter-
stices through which valuable blowing
wind was going to waste, Uncle at great
expense had his dentist put seven pivots
into his stumps. It was during a perform-
ance of the “Caractacus” march that,
trying to make his in-
strument heard above an
enthusiastic street-corner
evangelist, a dogfight and
a motor-horn that had
got out of control, Uncle
Beelzebub blew six of his
pivots into the bowels of
his double bass. His use
of a hacksaw on it to
recover them converted
the instrument into some-
thing rather less than a
single bass, especially as,
with only one stop left
working, he was confined
to the production of only
two notes.
With the continued
deterioration of his tomb-
stones, Uncle had them
all yanked out and
ordered a set of crockery.
He did try blowing his
instrument while the set
was being made —only
once. Inhaling too
much of the instrument,
the mouthpiece clamped
with so strong a suction
against his uvula a sur-
gical operation was neces-
sary to remove it.
The first time Uncle
appeared with the band
with his new set the
bandmaster wondered
who was playing the clappers. The noise
was eventually traced to the double bass
—it was his badly-fitting upper and lower
sets being banged by his mouth hurricane
against the mouthpiece.
Uncle might still have been trying to
play his double bass, however, had it not
been for the mischievousness of a small
boy in tipping half a bag of sawdust into
the opening one night. When he blew
hard into it the wind, rushing back
whence it came, dislodged Uncle’s ersatz
ivory and he swallowed the lot.
Uncle Beelzebub now plays the kettle-
drum.
BO.


THE OTHER fEĹOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
New Guinea’s Capital
If it is true, as stated by A.8.C., that
Rabaul is to be abandoned and Kokopo
considered the future capital of the com-
bined territories of Papua and New
Guinea, few people with direct know-
ledge have been consulted.
The future of mandates may be un-
certain, but if the old law stands there is
nothing to prevent amalgamation—the
League’s rules specifically allowed a “C”
class mandate to be administered in any
approved way, even as part of the terri-
tory of the governing Power. The amal-
gamation of Papua and New Guinea was
proposed before the war with Japan and
rejected. Business interests of wealthier
N.G. feared that Papua would be a
financial burden on them; Papuan
officials feared that the larger N.G. public
service would swamp them and their
traditions. Both fears are now out of
date; the officers of both countries
worked together in A.N.G.A.U. and
came to know and understand one
another.
As to sites: Port Moresby has always
been Papua’s capital, and no other site
has ever been suggested. The Mandated
Territory’s capital has had a complicated
history. The Germans tried Bogadjim
and they tried Madang. These were
abandoned as too unhealthy—a point
less important nowadays, being a matter
of sanitation. The capital was then
moved to Kokopo (Herbertshohe), then
the centre of the most important plant-
ing area in the country. Later still it was
moved to Rabaul, despite the protests of
the Governor of the time, who justly
feared the volcanic dangers of the place.
Thus matters stood when we took over.
The 1937 eruption killed over 500 natives,
and it was a mere fluke that all in the
town were not wiped out. The authority
imported, one of the two or three men
in the world competent to give a judg-
ment, condemned Rabaul and the . whole
area roupd it as unsafe. After much half-
hearted argument, a decision was reached
and the capital was in process of removal
to Lae when the Japanese attacked.
Lae was selected rather arbitrarily, but
all agreed that the capital should be on
the mainland of New Guinea. Some sug-
gested an inland site ; others Finschhafen
or Madang. A new situation has to
be considered. The mainland is the most
important part of the country and will
preponderate more and more as it
develops because of its resources, popu-
lation and range of climates.
Many a tropical country has an inland
capital at high altitude. Such sites are
available in New Guinea, but land trans-
port to both coasts would be necessary,
and this seems to be beyond present re-
sources. So a coastal site would appear
to be required.
As a residential and shipping post,
Moresby is ideal, but is too far from the
whole of the territory of New Guinea.
Madang is ideal in the same ways, but is
too far from Papua, as are Finschhafen
and Lae.
In my opinion, the ideal site is the
Cameron Plateau, well abovj sea level
on the north shore of Milne Bay. As a
residential area it is well drained, has
splendid views and breezes and un-
limited water supply. Hydro-electric
power is easily available, and access is by
splendid sweeping roads from the fore-
shores, Great U.S.A. hospitals occupied
the site during the war. Beside the main
plateau there are a number of smaller
ones. The foreshores in front were
occupied by wharves, and there are large
areas of flat ground suitable for business
establishments. War-time roads extend
many miles and there is much country
suitable for food production, cattle, etc.
Gurney airfield is six miles distant by
road.
Milne Bay, being at the eastern end of
New Guinea, is equally accessible from
both territories. It opens into China
Strait, a through waterway that will in-
crease in importance in the future. It
is the front door of New Guinea.
One disadvantage only is present.
Flying conditions at times are bad,
Gurney drome being blanketed by 4ow
cloud on many occasions. This, however,
is so in many parts of New Guinea. Only
overseas aircraft would be affected and
could always be diverted to Port Moresby
if necessary.— Merlin (S.A.).
Migrants
I was a migrant settler under the
notorious Victorian scheme of 1922-23.
After years of agitation for a judicial
inquiry, culminating in the settlers send-
ing a petition to the King, a Royal Com-
mission presided over by a Chief Judge
was set up. The report almost completely
vindicated the settlers’ complaints, hold-
ing that the State in 699 instances, con-
cerning 306 settlers, had not fulfilled its
obligations. More delay followed, and
finally a so-called settlement—which the
Victorian Premier himself declared was
“not justice”—was dictated: a flat-rate
scale of compensation, which, in scarcely
one case, returned the capital the settlers
had put'in (the average was £437). One
settler thereupon sued the Victorian
Government for breach of contract, but,
by the simple method of repudiating the
Agent-General, the State evaded responsi-
bility.
Another war has ended, and again
Australia says it wants migrants from
Britain, particularly young ex-service
people just released (with gratuities), who
may be looking for better chances than
they can find at home. What will they
get at Australia House this time? Plain,
unvarnished facts, agreements honestly
made and honorably kept, migrants treated
fairly in all respects? Or wild, reckless
promises, grossly untruthful information,
agreements made with tongue in cheek?
Australia House and the British Gov-
ernment —which also played a thoroughly
discreditable part in the affair of the Vic-
torian settlers—are not going to treat our
young ex-service, sons and nephews as
they treated us. We shall not try to
hinder honestly planned and fairly ad-
vertised migration, but if Australia House
gets up to its old tricks again we shall be
very much on the job.
Incidentally, the law of this country
says (Merchant Shipping Act, 1906) “If
any person by any false representation,
fraud or false pretence induces or
attempts to induce any person to emigrate
.... he shall for each offence be liable
on summary conviction to a fine.., .with
or without hard 1ab0r....”
Australia’s Resident Minister in Lon-
don, in charge of Australia House, is, I
presume, as much subject to the laws as
anyone else.— Lt.-Col. P. R, Night-
ingale (Southport, England).
Loans on Policies
Interest on money borrowed against
life-assurance policies is now 4| p.e.—
a reduction dating from August 11,
1944; and further reductions are ex-
pected.
The security is foolproof, as the loan is
simply payment in advance of portion of
the money the company has contracted to
repay later on.
Some concerns, however, are still col-
lecting five per cent. Presumably policy-
holders are not aware that they can pay
off the old loan at any time and borrow
the same amount again to qualify for the
lower rate.
It seems strange that people should be
obliged to go through such unnecessary
procedure to benefit from improved con-
ditions,—Onlooker (N.S.W.).
The Atomic Age
Squabbling about who shall hold
Manus displays a “Maginot Line” men-
tality. Next war there will be no bases,
except underground, and islands are not
particularly suitable for such. Nor will
there be widespread training , camps with
any deployment of huge masses of troops.
Nor mammoth battleships—already out
of date in the late war, since they were
as helpless as caterpillars unless pro-
tected by an air umbrella and a fringe
of destroyers. Jet-propelled aeroplanes
carrying atomic bombs will put a quick
end to such obsolescence.
A plutonium bomb no bigger than a
thimble will wipe out a battleship. And
since there will be no massing of troops,
speedy or otherwise, there is no need for
the costly unification of Australian rail-
way gauges. Australia, depending as
usual on Britain, will be adequately de-
fended by an atomic bomb base situated
in the Centre, From there ’planes capable
of circling the equator in 24 hours will
be able to deal adequately with any
aggression, Asiatic or otherwise.—Bug-
house (W.A.).
The proposal of two Chicago Univer-
sity physicians for ribbon cities, rows of
houses stretching from coast to coast and
from north to south of U.S.A., as a de-
fence against the atomic bomb might, if
taken seriously, well be the beginning of
a new era. Such a scheme would be a
boon to Australia, apart from any benefit
for defence. It would mean decentralisa-
tion, the breaking-up of the bureaucratic
machine which today stifles independence
with a multitude of petty restrictions.
Living together in suburban commu-
nities, our people, so long spoon-fed by
vote-conscious Governments, would have
to assume more public responsibility and
thus take a greater interest in public
affairs. The loafer who hides his iden-
tity under one of the various isms—in
the Army we use a stronger term to de-
note the type —would be seen in his true
light; one who wants all without being
prepared to give anything. The risk of
regimentation, whether Communist or
Fascist, would also be lessened. Really,
I think more good may come from the
atomic bomb than we thought possible.—
Beja (Q.).
Short of Tradesmen
Good openings are Waiting for active
ex-servicemen—civilians, too, for that
matter—-in a pleasant town on the N.S.W.
South Coast—Moruya.
Moruya needs a blacksmith, a painter
(general), a firewood supplier, a house-
builder, a plumber and tinsmith,
a clock- and watch-repairer, a car-
penter, a furniture-maker, a farrier, a
mechanic (trained in fitting and turning)
and a signwriter; also a restaurant, a
bookshop and library, a car park, and
camp.
There are no competitors in any of
these callings or lines from Nowra to
Bega and up to Braidwood, a radius of
nearly 100 miles. There is a timber mill.
But no union organiser is required nor
any Communist agent. There is already a
Commo, and one is more than enough.
Living conditions are goo.d and healthy.
Those who like fishing, swimming, surf-
ing and camping can be accommodated
well. Admitted that there are no weekly
boxing matches and horse- or dog-races,
and the picture theatre opens only on
Saturday night. But to think of the chance
for a good tradesman —no blacksmith,
clock-repairer, signwriter or any of the
others for miles and miles!— Caveman
(N.S.W.).
Dutch in the N.E.I. \
Fair-minded Australians who know the
facts will support The Bulletin (B.
1 /5/’46). No one, unless he has the heart
and soul of a Beast of Belsen, could pos-
sibly condone the continued internment
of thousands of women and children in
Java. Is it chivalrous, is it one of our
war aims, that they should slowly have
the life ground out of them while we sit
idly by with full stomachs? Many of
these people did far more for the Allied
cause than those who are the cause of
their crucifixion.
Early in the war, when Britain stood
alone, and when traitors in Britain and
Australia “demanded” a “people’s peace”
with the Soviet-supported Nazis, the
Dutch —their homeland gone and their
islands threatened—gave us their moral
“ Hooray , chaps— I'll run along now.”
and material support. In the N.E.1., they
contributed large sums to the Spitfire
fund. With the backing of the U.S.A. and
Britain they refused to give the sinews
of war to Japan that the Kremlin was
giving to the Nazis while making Japan’s
back door secure by signing the Matsuoka
pact.
Those of us who were in Malaya from
the beginning of hostilities will not forget
the Dutch airmen going up, in their
obsolete Glenn Martins and Brewsters,
to do battle with vast numbers of Zeros.
The Dutch Navy and Air Force accounted
for at least 50 ships in the first 50 weeks
of the Pacific war. On land, on sea and
in the air they were in the battles of
Malaya and Java. There may not have
been much land fighting in Java, but
when Singapore fell the doom of that
island was sealed. It was successfully
used as a bait to tempt the Japanese from
Australia. One must not forget that the
great bulk of the Dutch nation lives in
Holland, and that it was hardly possible
for the few surviving whites to offer much
resistance after the Battle of the Java Sea.
When the Japanese surrender came
many of the women who are now dying
in Central Java risked their lives to help
our prisoners. Is . that not gratitude?
Older Dutchmen, in charge of demolition
work, who remained to face the ferocity
of the Jap, paid the penalty for their cour-
age at the hands of the Kempei Tai. Let
him who is without sin cast the first stone.
Finally, despite the assertion of “Gunner
X” (B. 1/ 5 / ’46), I have found Dutch
refugees pathetically grateful for the
smallest, most elementary gestures of ap-
preciation of their loyalty to the Allied
cause and patient in the face of our
shameful treatment of their relatives
and friends in Java. — Infantryman NX
(N.S.W.).
Immigration
Mr. Calwell should bless, not curse, the
press for its silence on the arrival of a
party of Jewish refugees from Shanghai
(B. 17/4/’46). Their permits must have
been granted by Mr. Calwell before
7/3/’46, when he made these interjections
in the House (“Hansard” No. 1, page
114):
Mr. Harrison: “We know that a number
or refugees has arrived in Australia.”
Mr. Calwell: “That is not true.”
Mr. Harrison: “That has been pub-
lished.”
Mr. Calwell: “It is not true. There has
been a good lot of filthy propaganda.”
Same “Hansard,” page 116:
Mr. Ryan: “I have been told on good
authority that recently numbers of refugees
have been brought to Australia from
abroad.”
Mr. Calwell: “That is an absolute lie.”
If the Minister knows what is going on
in his department he should have
admitted that the Jews from Shanghai
were on their way. Mr. Chifley has pro-
mised that his Minister will make a full
statement on immigration, but it seems
that Mr. Calwell can say only those things
which ought not to be said, arid leave
unsaid those things which ought to be
said.—F.D. (N.S.W.).
Reunion in Victoria < ,
For some years before the war I lived
in Malaya. After the fall of Singapore
I became a p.-0.-w. and my wife was
interned. Fortunately we had sent our
two boys, then aged 3| and six, to Aus-
tralia with my mother-in-law when France
fell, so they did not have to undergo the
Jap invasion.
There was nothing wrong with the
hoys’ physical condition when we last
saw them in 1940, but we were more than
pleased to see the two pictures of health
which greeted us in October, 1945. Much
of this result was due to the fact that the
boys met with the greatest kindness and
friendliness wherever they went; and I
hope you will enable me to express my
gratitude to the kind folk of Nhill, Manly
and South Yarra.
I am piow about to leave Australia in
very much better shape than when I
arrived, gfatefurfor the many kindnesses
my wife and I have received here.
Might I add that I have enjoyed The
Bulletin ever since I first met it in the
Ipoh Club in 1933? I have been hoping
that my mother-in-law would have kept
her copies during the war. It went on
a bit too long for her, however, and she
had sent them to Heidelberg Hospital.—
Malayan (Vic.). .


The Eighth
There is no greater chapter in the
history of Australia at war than the story
of the captive Eighth Division and those
associated with it in captivity. Never
defeated, these men won the greatest
moral victory of our day in the fight
against humiliation, disease, bashings,
starvation and torture.
It was the Jap who bowed to defeat,
beaten by a courage born not of the
heat of battle but by self-discipline, com-
radeship, self-denial and high purpose, by
Australian initiative and improvisation.
Battle honors have been bestowed upon
our men who fought and earned them
by land, sea and air, but what of our
p.-0.-w. who fought disease without
remedies and equipment, who operated
the secret wireless at the risk of death and
torture, who maintained a morale that
has set a standard for the nation? Are
they to be ignored or are they to share
in these honors?
Nine long months have passed since the
Jap surrendered. Australians still await
recognition of services rendered their
comrades and their country by their
heroes in captivity.—F. Warland Browne
(Tas.).
To spectators of Melbourne’s Anzac
Day procession it was painfully obvious
that Eighth Division men had not re-
covered from the hideous experiences of
Jap prison camps. They had brooding
eyes, and drawn faces, and their move-
ments were nervous. They didn’t attempt
to march with the precision displayed* by
others. They passed by with no laughter
or badinage. Their behavior may have
been deliberate, or at a solemn time they
may have more acutely felt the horror
of memories; but, whatever the reason
for their unforgettable appearance, it was
impossible to miss the contrast between
them and their happier comrades.
The sight of these men of the Eighth
must have shocked onlookers into some
remembrance of Malaya, Timor, Ambon
and Java, and into some consciousness of
the necessity for an inquiry into the
causes of those tragedies.—McG. (Vic.).
Secret Ballots
I lately read in an English paper that
the world owes to Australia the use of
the secret ballot, as well as the Torrens
title.
Possibly the writer was too tactful to
mention the counterbalance of the ballot-
box with sliding panels, also an Austra-
lian invention. And times have certainly
changed, for we now find Australians who
profess to speak for us describing the use
of the secret ballot as a retreat to a
coward’s castle, —E. & O. E. (Tasmania).
Kindness to Animals?
A disgusting sight from any train is
the sight of passengers leaping out and
into the platform bar at every possible
stop. It’s not their thirst which disgusts
me. It’s the fact that, often, the train
has stopped right next to trucks contain-
ing sheep or cattle, packed so tight that
the poor things can’t all arrive at their
destination with unbroken limbs. These
animals get no drink at all. They might
say “Baa,” but they can never shout
“Bar” in a triumphant tone.
All animal trucks should allow
adequate space for the stock to relax in
reasonable comfort, even if some system
of giving them at least one drink on their
tedious journey couldn’t be evolved. The
thought of the suffering of thirsty stock
in painfully overcrowded trucks, espe-
cially in summer months, brings any nor-
mal person out in a sweat. If there’s any
law against overcrowding it doesn’t
always seem to be obeyed, and why
should human thirst be considered more
important than that of dumb (or more )
dumb creatures? — Yair (Sydney).
The Tailor’s Side
“One Suit” (B. 17/4/’46) wonders why
he can’t buy another. As one in the
tailoring for many years, I should like to
tell him why.
Most men get their suits from tailors
who in normal times made anything
from five to 50 suits a week. These small
shops are now starved of supplies. They
buy from wholesalers dependent on mills.
The supply position has never been
worse nor the demand greater.
One can hardly blame wholesalers—
mills seem to be by-passing them with
material. A lot is exported to Maori-
land ; for this trade mills get 2s. per yard
more than the fixed Australian price. And
mills supply direct to big factories,
one of which recently obtained 61 pieces,
cna eaSt - yards—enough for about
.. ~ suit , s -. , Warehouses get the slight
trickle which is over. So often a tailor’s
quota from the supplier is one or two
suit-lengths.
Last year there was a superabundance
ot cloth, due to rationing and small ex-
servicemen demands, but one still had to
wait months for a suit. As with other
industries, there is a female labor short-
age. No tailor in Sydney can say where
all the girls have gone. Some are in
milk-bars and restaurants ; others in the
women’s clothing trade, which, as “One
Suit” says, is very well supplied with stalf
and goods.
However, tailors are not guiltless.
Many could not be bothered with appren-
tices. In pre-war years one used to meet
girls seeking jobs who could do no more
than put pockets in vests or trousers.
The girls would tell you they “learned” in
factories which were nothing but sweat-
shops—and Sydney had plenty of them ;
they carried on by “making-up” for the
trade. Stores would measure a man
for a suit and send the cloth out to a
factory to be made-up for as little as 50s.
—worth £5 or £6 in a decent tailoring
establishment. During the war, the girls
left these places for better jobs ; conse-
quently many of them closed, and former
independent tailors had to open their own
workrooms.
A few factories are now selling to the
public—these are the places, backed by
the mills, that can make you a suit in
five or six weeks. Of course the prices
they now get allow the owners to give
good working conditions. Previously
stores that supposed them held + be big
stick over owners to keep prices down.
I am not being pessimistic in saying
that it will be a long time before we can
have a suit made in a few days. (I have
seen a man order a suit at 9 in the
morning, have two try-ons and wear it
away at 5 o’clock.) Building new fac-
tories—such as that at North Sydney,
built under Government auspices at a cost
of at least £3o,ooo—will not help much,
as girls will only leave their jobs at other
establishments to staff them. The indus-
try must give girls better wages and make
the jobs otherwise attractive. Moreover,
men must get used to the idea of paying
more for their clothes. Gone for ever are
the suits which sold for £2 or £3 ; and
good riddance to bad rubbish and rub-
bishy industrial conditions! — Behind the
Counter (N.S.W.).
The Psychology of It *
Everything in this world has a psy-
chological element, and price-fixing is no
exception. In Melbourne it seems to
have hypnotised people.
Sellers can dispose of anything they
like, from tobacco to tomatoes, at the
fixed price, whether the quality is good,
bad or indifferent. A case of tomatoes
has been fetching 10s. to 30s. in the
markets, according to quality; in my ex-
perience as a grower, for one case sold
at the higher price 20 are sold at 10s.
Yet they are all retailed at lOd. to Is. a
pound. There is about 44 pounds in a
case, so the profit to the retailer is round
about 300 p.c.
This applies to almost everything else.
Bureaucratic control sterns to have
stunned the critical sense of the public.—
Bump (Vic.).
Soldiers’ Hostels
Wandering round Queensland on my
free railway pass, I couldn’t help noticing
the haste with which most of the
clubs and free hostels for servicemen
have closed their doors. Apparently now
that the war is over the soldier can take
his chance in the park or in an empty
railway carriage.
As far as I could discover, except in
Rockhampton there is no accommodation
for soldiers in transit. Visiting men in
uniform are generally looked at with a
curious eye, even in R.S.L. clubs.
At Cairns there are two very prominent
signs at the railway station —Toe H and
Comforts Fund. Both invite servicemen to
use their club and hostel, but their doors
have been closed some time.
The exceptions at Rockhampton are
a well-run club sponsored by the
A.C.T.U. and a hut with free accommo-
dation run by a local patriotic fund. —•
Changi Charlie (Q.).
“Disposals”
I have inquired into “Old Digger’s”
allegation (B. 24/4/’46) that he could
riot obtain a wheel assembly suitable for
a caravan at a Disposals Commission
sale —presumably the (only) one held in
Queensland (Jan. 15). The regional
manager states that the auctioneers had
instructions to receive bids of one in lots
offered, and “Old Digger” could have
asserted his right to bid for any particular
unit he required.
An officer of the Commission attends
all sales and can always be consulted. In
future, if “0.D.” wants an article at a
sale he should bid for it, and not ap-
proach dealers afterwards. If he bids
for one particular article and is refused,
the Commission will be only too pleased
to take the matter up —this ruling applies
to articles such as can be sold in small
lots.
“C.S.” (B. 24/4/’46) seems to blame the
Disposals Commission for the acute short-
age of typewriters. The fact is that type-
writers will be in short supply for a year
or two before manufacture catches up
with demands. The Commission can only
pass on to the Typewriter Control those
machines which are declared surplus to
Service requirements.
“C.S.” trusts that the Public Relations
Officer will never see the vehicle park
at Rutherford (N.S.W.). I trust I never
will. There is not one there at the
moment, nor does the Commission or the
Army intend to establish one. Possibly
“C.S.” refers to another park near
Albury, Bandiana. At the time of writ-
ing, the Commission has exactly 205
vehicles to sell at Bandiana, less than a
week’s supply; -over 250 a week have
been sold from that park. In Ryde Park
(N.S.W.), as I write, there is only about
three weeks’ selling stock—4B7.
The Commission turns over motor
vehicles almost as quickly as they are
declared surplus in southern States. In
North Queensland, where the population
does not absorb the number declared
surplus, there is a time lagj but all stocks
are now practically clear. In a fight
against time, deterioration, jungle and
kunai grass, the Commission is selling
motor trucks in the Solomon Islands and
in other northern areas as they stand in
vehicle parks. These vehicles are not an
economical proposition for the Army to
return to the mainland. They are all
“stop it, Admiral, you're making me seasick!”
W.D. type trucks, and the buyers (private
enterprise) will remove the engines
and spare parts on the spot and ship them
back to Australia —H I. Sabey, Public
Relations Officer (Vic.).
Typewriters
If “C.S.” had dropped in at Finschhafen
at the end of the Pacific war he could
have had a typewriter for the picking up
(B. 24/4/’46). Hundreds of typewriters,
along with much other surplus stores,
were dumped by the Yanks, ship-
ping space being at a premium with so
many G.ls. waiting to get home. Why
the machines were not taken over by our
Government and returned to the hungry
Australian market remains one of the
unsolved mysteries.—C. A. (S.A).
'
Sikhs and India
•-p . i , , . T
To those who have seen much of Indm
and the Indian peoples, the most sigmfi-
cant move in the agitation for Indian in-
dependence and the partition of the coun-
ry on religious grounds is that which
as iccently come from the Sikhs. At
a meeting in Lahore, the accepted leaders
or that fighting race declared uncom-
promisingly that in the event of division
on those lines they will retain their native
Punjab at all costs
• e L ru number only about one-
sixtieth of the total population of British
India, rather less than the population of
Australia today. With a national history
dating no further back than the last
quarter of the 17th century they became
a formidable military power a century
later. Their courage and probity have
gained for them the admiration and
friendship of all administrators of
British India ever since Shere Singh and
his to General Gilbert
on Marctl 12, 1849, after the Gujerat
action which ended the second Sikh War.
Eight years later they gave valuable help
to the British cause during the dark days
of the Indian Mutiny,
Located, as their Punjab is, in northern-
most India, abutting on Afghanistan and
Kashmir, with the Khyber Pass forming
the natural gateway from south-western
Asia into the Indian Peninsula, they hold
a position of vital strategic importance.
Uninfluenced by the myriad warring sects
and jealousies which prevent unity among
the Hindus,-or by the outside sympathies
and internal dissensions to which the
Indian Moslems are unavoidably sub-
ject, they have for both an hereditary
contempt and distrust, legacies from the
cruelties and persecution which they suf-
fered at the hands of both in the early
days of their own cultural evolution, and
the later victories gained over both.
Essentially proud warriors, they have pre-
served towards the British soldier the
wholehearted respect and regard of one
tried and tough fighter for another.
Should British control pass from the
country the Sikhs will be worthy holders
of the key to India’s future. Should they
fail, there will be an unpleasant but
imminent possibility that the chattering
futilities of Gandhi, Nehru, Jinnah and
their like may revive the territorial am-
bitions of Russia in those latitudes to an
extent which might conceivably lead to
another World War. — Puyyaka (Q.).
The N.S.W. Liquor Bill
It should have provided for separate
beerhouse and general licences. Many
industrial centres would be content with
simply beerhouses. Mixing of drinks is
the cause of a high percentage of drunk-
enness.
And there is no provision in the
measure against one of the most offen-
sive conditions of the trade—bar over-
crowding. ’Planes and buses are licensed
to carry so many passengers. The same
principle applies to theatres, public halls,
ferries, etc. Why shouldn’t it be applied
tQ k ars 7—p INEM r espice (N.S.W.).
Country Community Centres
. man y the ldea llvm S m the coun-
try 18 ass omated with drudgery and isola-
don ’ and eolation is probably the greatest
deterr ent. It could be simply and satis-
*actonly overcome. Every farmer and his
tamily should be within reasonable access
of a c f." tre where they can P a rticipate in
de< . . ... ~ .
, The r° cal P om t of this centre would be
a Iar 8e building containing an auditorium,
a te , chnical school > a clinic, a library,
men s and women s clubrooms, boys’ and
® irls ’ /i brooms and a B y mnasium.
Around this would be grouped shops,
chu rches, some homes and a sports
ground.
phe auditorium could be used as a
cinemas lecture hall and for social func .
tions. The technical school would be
divided into sections where the boys could
be taught the latest methods of farming—
0r trades if they did not wish to continue
as farmers—and the girls household man-
agement, cookery, nursing and child wel-
fare clinic would return handsome
dividends in good health and peace of
mind. A good library should be incor-
porated in the central building.
The clubrooms would provide the facili-
ties for men, women and children to get
together in happy social intercourse. The
gymnasium could be used by all, and
leaders for the various activities selected
from among the residents themselves,
The members of the community should
form themselves into a co-operative
society and run stores. This would result
in being able to purchase goods at re-
duced rates, or profits could go towards
maintaining the social services,
The underlying principle must be co-
operation. With the whole community
associating itself in business and pleasure
I firmly believe that life in the country
could be made profitable and happy.—
C. P. C. (Vic.).


:./• ■ ■■
v co^
s'
V)P
/jo\ W
( ‘” e e o'
„ ' vs 'a v^f
\V« f e ■ >' C
**., *° . rW S« A °' ' W' 0 * J
• • •
AW S '" e .c x ‘ >
*"""ve
,
& 00 >' C
ci.'lc, 9<< JML s'^ ' s' 0 "
°" „o' . s*° W .vc V \f co" %
A P rt\® S
£ 0 %<>'
\'°
M
o''
o' N
e c
V' c
tf'V’ . rt <\v
o* 6
P
e''
\e
6°
*;; 0
x\' v
0^
p I
•.pv'
& *W e
\o'
o'*
o''
ve
N
v"
<e
P>
o'
e c
o'*
111
;• «»
’ . • •••
: Hi am
y>
llipiilllii
V
:: :
a^'V-
\o" ‘ AQ''
r^r 4
P® C «
>*fV
ilight
/
m
m
m
Mi
m
e
o
?v
