

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3464
■
Wednesday, July 3, 1946
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
St. PANCRAS' CHURCH.
r JpHE cost of this fine church, which in The Queen’s day stood at
the east corner of Endsleigh Gardens, in Euston Road, was
about seventy-seven thousand pounds. Built between 1819 and
1822, to designs prepared by William In wood, St. Pancras’ was the
first Christian church built in Great Britain in the strict Grecian
style. Modelled after the style of the Erectheum, at Athens, St.
Pancras’ was greatly admired for its six columns with rich capitals
? nd enorn ?ous caryatides bearing entablatures. The church tower
„ * du P licati °n of “The Temple of the Winds,” attributed to
? nd wand havebeen re P la “ d w-'l l
the first church he built at Canterbury.


lk
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin/’
Uy Name
lly Address
1.8. 240 AGE
The Red Page
SOIL AND POLYSYLLABLES .
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “can
you honestly assure me that you have
consistently ordered your life within the
wisdom of an ecological unity?”
“I trust so,” said Mr. Gallagher. “But
I should really have to get out my dic-
tionary to be quite sure on the point.”
“In Celtic Britain, let me remind you,”
said Mr. Shean, “there was no indi-
genous sensate civilisation.”
“No what ?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“Let me put it this way,” said Mr.
Shean. “Through vitally living within
the laws by which ecological balance is
held we could achieve a new planning of
ourselves into the universe. The really
free individual is one who, by self-
discipline and training, has fully de-
veloped all his potentialities and assimi-
lated all his experience. Can the people
of a continent achieve freedom in the
same way, by establishing themselves in
perfect symbiotic relationship with their
land so that the fullest powers of soil
and man are realised?”
“I am sure,” said Mr. Gallagher, “you
are telling me something of tremendous
importance. Saving my life, possibly. I
wish you would do it in English.”
“Bless my soul,” said Mr. Shean, “can
you not realise the simple fact that the
early life is agricultural and symbiotic
between man and the earth, yet triunal,
with an immanent god, or transcending
gods?”
“You are making me giddy,” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“In the dark pine woods of northern
lands,” said Mr. Shean, “are bred
rumorous legends.”
“I am sorry,” said Mr. Gallagher, “but
‘rumorous’ strikes me as humorous.”
“However,” said Mr. Shean, “there is
in the Australian earth, too, an imman-
ent chthonian force.”
“I am able to perceive it, I believe,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “but I’m hanged if I
could ever pronounce it.”
“Shanting shafts of sunlight,” said Mr.
Shean, “carry their obliqueness into the
forests, in long fingers reaching out to
infinity, diffused through a curtain of
sarsaparilla, blessing with an aureole a
sleeping wombat.”
“Unless the shafts of sunlight carrying
their obliqueness into the forest are going
backwards at the same time I don’t see
how they can be reaching out to infinity,”
said Mr. Gallagher.
“Beside a creek,” continued Mr. Shean,
“sunlight on a broken column whitens
the grey of a soaring dead eucalypt—
whose branches at its head, long since cut
off short to the trunk by storms, make a
vast Winged Victory.”
“I can’t see the gum-tree,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “and I can’t follow the syn-
tax.”
“In that case,” said Mr. Shean, “I
must remind you that if the soil is
properly regarded as the matrix of our
being a unique seed of civilisation could
be planted with the commencement of
work in recreating the land’s fertility.
This seed might grow into a new
Yggdrasil.”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “a
force rises in me ; immanent, chthonic,
ecological, symbiotic, photosynthetic,
gargantuan. A seed in my bosom has
swelled to a foaming Yggdragon. I will
have no more of this intolerable jargon.”
“Wait,” said Mr. Shean. “I have been
quoting to you from Elyne Mitchell’s
Soil and Civilisation (Angus and Robert-
son).”
“Elyne Mitchell!” said Mr. Gallagher.
“But she wrote Australia’s Alps, and that
was altogether charming. She wrote
Speak to the Earth , and that —though I
did detect the first ominous rumblings of
a polysyllabic style—was an extremely
attractive picture of life on a cattle
station. The author wrote naturally ; she
pictured the life of the earth. If this is
the same writer —who decorates with so
frilly an aureole the sleeping wombat —
may I run up a gum-tree backwards.”
“Look you,” said Mr. Shean, “by
quoting these extravagances out of their
context I may be a little unkind. And I
assure you that, in spite of everything,
Soil and Civilisation is a very sensible
book. I agree with every word of it; at
least, with every word I can understand.
Elyne Mitchell is pointing out the
dangers of soil erosion and trying to ex-
plain that the life of man, just as much
as the life of trees, grows out of the good
earth. She surveys the rise and fall of
past civilisations and submits to Aus-
tralia a timely warning.”
“Very good,” said Mr. Gallagher. “I
am (I think) in perfect ecological agree-
ment with the author. But surely these
simple matters could have been stated
with an appropriate simplicity?”
“I think,” said Mr. Shean, “that the
book is somewhat overexcited. The
author is, as it were, sounding a trumpet
on a hilltop, and one does not feel —yet —
that she is expert with the instrument.
And, in the effort of sounding this
trumpet, sometimes she closes her eyes to
realities. For instance, I don’t think she
should say that the Incas were conquered
by the ‘overwhelming strength’ of the
Spaniards. And, instead of demanding
of the unanswering sky ‘Where are our
arts?’ she really might have gone along
to the galleries and had a look at a few
Streetons, Gruners and Heysens. I note
that, with the exception of one sonnet of
O’Dowd’s, her many quotations are all
from English poets ;.and Fitz Gerald and
Brian Vrepont (who wrote a long poem
about soil erosion) would have been very
much to her purpose. And I would say,
too, that, when she accuses Australians of
having lost touch with earth, sun and
storm, she has forgotten how many of
even the city-dwellers rush out to the
bush and the beaches every chance they
get.”
“Would you not say,” said Mr, Gal-
lagher, “that Australia’s Alps and Speak
to the Earth would do a good deal more
to refresh one’s love of the earth than
this confused sounding of clarions?”
“On the whole,” said Mr. Shean, “I
would. But I would remind you that this
is, after all, a tremendously important
theme. The legendary Great Yu, earlier
than 2000 b.c., was the first to practise
flood-control in the devastating floods of
the Hwang Ho ; and the Chinese say ‘But
for Yu, we should all have been fishes.’ ”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
am disarmed. Even if the work is a
trifle chthonic, but for Elyne Mitchell we
might all become lizards.”
Oddments of China.
In China, Her Life and People
(University of London Press ; Hodder and
Stoughton, Ltd.), Mildred Cable and
Francesca French give fascinating thumb-
nail sketches of Chinese historical person-
ages.
There was Tsao Tsao, for instance, a
general who lived in the third century
b.c. ; he was “the grandson of a
court eunuch” —which, in itself, is
sufficiently amazing—and his daughter
became Empress of China. But Tsao
Tsao was honorable, just and ener-
getic and had the declared object
of clearing the country of abuses,
and so became something of a legendary
figure. On one occasion his horse strayed
into a cornfield, and the general was
obliged by his stern sense of duty to
condemn himself to death. His friends,
however, petitioned for a reprieve so per-
sistently that the general—“reluctantly”
—altered the sentence and had his hair
cut off instead. “Thus both honor and
justice were satisfied.”
Tsao Tsao’s punctilious sense of honor
is illustrated by the anecdote of his dis-
covery of a list of his enemies. He burnt
it unread. For all his high principles,
however, he was no fool. When he was
seriously ill a physician told him he was
suffering from “wind under the brain,”
which could only be cured by an immedi-
ate opening of his skull. The sceptical
general sent the savant to prison, and left
him there. To reflect, presumably, on the
dangers of hasty diagnosis.
There is a peculiar interest in reading
about Chinese, indeed all Asiatic his-
torical characters, for one hears so little
of them. Everyone knows of Caligula,
but apart from a few scholars it is doubt-
ful whether many Europeans know that
the last ruler but one of the dynasty that
preceded the “Glorious Han” rulers had
delusions of grandeur similar to those
which troubled the eccentric Roman
Emperor. He bestowed upon himself the
curious title of the “First Emperor,” and,
to prove it, set about destroying all books
containing any reference to his predeces-
sors.
The book is a cross-section of Chinese
geography, letters, fable, industry and
so on. It is full of facts —it bristles with
them —but they are so tersely stated
that they do not become weari-
some, as they might in a larger, more
pretentious volume. And the reader can
takejiis pick, as it were, browsing through
it and concentrating on whatever interests
him. If it is history, then there are Tsao
Tsao, and Huang Ti, the Yellow Emperor,
who wore yellow silk robes and had his
palace roofed with yellow tiles; and.
more recently, the Empress Dowager, the
“Old Buddha,” Sun Yat Sen, Chiang Kai-
shek ; and Feng, the “Christian General,”
who dislikes spirits, tobacco, opium and
arrogance; once shooting a chauffeur
who knocked down an old man, with the
exhortation “the people of the hundred
names [the common people] must be
Valued and respected.” As his retainer”
died instantly, it is doubtful if this had
much persbnal value; but doubtless it
served to “encourage the rest” in Christian
meekness.
If there is a fault in the book, it is
probably that of partisanship; the tale
of Feng and the chauffeur, for instance,
is told without any conscious irony. But
the fund of information is surprising.
Flying with Kings ford Smith .
An Australian edition of John Stan-
nage’s High Adventure (H. W. Bullivant
Co., Ltd., Christchurch, N.Z.), timed to
coincide with the release of the Kings-
ford Smith film, might have done good
business. The New Zealand edition was
first published in 1944 and has newly
been reprinted.
Stannage flew with “Smithy” as wire-
less operator on several of the big ad-
ventures ; and has had, besides, an in-
teresting career of his own jas an operator
aboard various ships. And he has piloted
an ancient Ford up Paekakariki in a high
wind.
His book, the less impressive for being
printed in paperback format, is roughly
written, and could have been much im-
proved by sub-editing. When a writer is
not a literary man —and Stannage freely
admits he is not —he can still turn out a
book of genuine literary worth if only
he will use his own natural speech. But
Stannage—“lt’s frightfully interesting to
hear a reunion of old shipmates remin-
iscing”—does not write as he would talk,
but as unpractised writers do when
afflicted with the terror of the typewriter.
A further, though unavoidable, disad-
vantage is that the book covers some of
the same ground—or air—as Ulm’s and
Kingsford Smith’s Southern Cross Trans-
Pacific Flight and P. G. Taylor’s books.
However, these are minor criticisms.
Kingsford Smith is history—a legend—
and anything written by men who knew
him is important. And, with all its faults.
High Adventure is lively, humorous and
dramatic. Its best chapter describes the
attempted flight to New Zealand in 1935
to celebrate the jubilee of King George
V, when the “Southern Cross” so nearly
came to disaster and when Taylor did
“the bravest thing I have ever seen done.”
Here, as Stannage warms to his theme,
the reader can see the drama of the flight
and can see, too, into the minds of the
pioneer adventurers of the air:
I wonder if it is such a fantasy that
man-made mechanism can possess a soul?
The dear old “Southern Cross” always
- seemed to have something of the human
about her. She had never let her master
down. She'd been up to her belly in mud
and floodwater, but somehow struggled
out; she had Mistered in the hot sun of
Central Australia where motors were
never meant to run, but had still pulled
through. Now came this last valiant effort
when a newly-made inanimate piece of
iron practically tore the vitals from the
stout old bus; yet she still staggered on
when her master was forced cruelly to
spur her and literally thrash her two re-
maining power-plants to death. It would
be a heartbreaking tragedy to lose the
old machine in the sea, a horrible end to
a beloved piece of mechanism that had
become part of the man who controlled
her, obeyed his every command and
struggled on to the last gasp.
Oddly—or, rather, naturally: men
don’t talk much in a crisis—Stannage’s
most powerful picture of Kingsford
Smith doesn’t come in this flight, or on
any of the great journeys, but in a
reminiscence of the 1914 war, quoted in
“Smithy’s” own words. It is an account
of how the airman won the Military
Cross, and no biographer could afford to
ignore it: a picture of a man attacking
an army as later he would attack the
elements.
Society of Artists’ Book: Ure Smith
Pty., Ltd. A paper-backed volume with
some good illustrations of work done by
members of the group and others. Also
a number of articles, designed to improve
the culture of the community, and ranging
from an analysis of aboriginal art by
Margaret Preston to an essay on art
gallery reforms by Hal Missingham.
There is a good deal of controversial
matter; C. Lloyd Jones, for instance,
advances the theory that art galleries
might be improved if they were nm more
on the lines of large retail stores.
A DRUM FOR BEN BOYD.
[Benjamin Boyd, born in Scotland, quitted England for Sydney in 1841 on his yacht the Wanderer,
accompanied by Brierly, a marine painter. With either unlimited wealth or unlimited credit at his
command, he invaded the finances of the colony to an amazing extent, winning over the incautious speculator
in some uncanny fashion; and actually built his own town (Boyd Town) at Twofold Bay, with the aim
of disputing Sydney’s leadership as a trading depot. Most of his projects failing, he left the banks
and investors to disentangle themselves, and transferred his energies, fruitlessly, to the Californian
gold-rush. Finally, with grandiose schemes for exploiting the northern islands in his head, he disappeared
while on a lone-handed shooting expedition at Guadalcanal. A vessel, the Oberon, dispatched by Boyd’s
relatives to find some trace of him, returned with a skull which later proved to be that of a native.]
I.
1842. An immense shaking of the sun
On the little flat waves of the harbor,
And a young town grown out of myths at the
world’s end,
Where the South is a swaggering fantasy, not
yet sober.
Quiet are the blue-notched Heads,
Quiet the ticking of the spray—we barter
Our one grey albatross and rearing tonnage of
swirl
For a leaning shore, land-birds, an officious
cutter.
The Wanderer, swaying like a mirage
Of snow country, drifts in safely;
While all the paunchy loafers near the dockside
Gape at an apparition so wholly lovely;
Plumaged with softness, yet diamond-beaked
With purposeful bowsprits of destiny.
Trumpets and adulation here take over,
The original impact and dream rest with the sea.
II. A BOAT-BUILDER.
I, Jan Strindberg, boat-builder from Voss-
vangen,
Came to this colofiy through strife and hunger,
Forsaking my life-work, leaving epics behind
me.
Now I polish hackneyed shells that the officers
May regale their ladies on a summer Sunday
(Appropriate giggles and comment on strong
forearms,
Scuttling like crabs for shelter when southerlies
beat up).
Burning for one fierce second, protagonist
Of a world tangled in flame, despair and dark-
ness,
I saw the Wanderer glide in, knew it was glid-
ing
Into my last' defenceless anchorage.
No ripple foreshadowed a remorseless entry,
No warning gun snapped at those pallid bows,
Death came upon me, strangling peace and
reason,
And his grey, swollen trappings people my
heart:
Fragments of lyrical mountains; tall, splintered
timbers
Piled up like breastworks guarding a fjord s
gnarled ice;
And then the lithe craft' —chips cracked from
hardihood,
Spinning about the globe, diving into change,
Ploughing the vicious weathers, splitting in-
finity
Like a rotted stump in the path—all these
rear up
In my backwater of life, in my declension.
I have chosen bread for dreams, the hearth-
place for action,
Safety for courage, shutters and a cand|e for
stars,
N.S.W.
Handed over my youth for an old man’s
ironic caution;
And now that thing garrotted, like a slain
mistress,
Comes back only to upbraid and scorch.
Dark Lord of the waters —you of the wind-
belled mantle,
Lord beyond Fate —what have you killed this
day?
A ship or two in an hour, some few fools
Drowned or starved, and a few gulls choked
with squall?
But I, here, polishing rowlocks, I am safe.
111. JOURNALIST.
A new ship’s in, dirt-cheap at sixpence per line,
A trim job', too, but a bit willowy for yours
truly:
500 tons or above is my margin of safety.
“Twelve brass guns” —if only they paid per
gun
I’d paint her as the King’s Fleet.
“Brass guns for gesture
And swivel-mounts fore ant} aft for execution.”
Now for the weather: “Halcyon, dancing wave-
lets” ;
A line or two on the salute with blank charge,
Rather like the Boss, elevated, and spitting out
nothing.
The owner’s good copy: “Of illustrious family
Descendant of” —some laird of something or
other,
“Of princely means,” damn him.
I can see his future
Plain as the Boss’s nose, since everyone’s bow-
ing and scraping.
With those eyes like talons, that blackguard
confidence, , . ~
He’ll grind out a fortune, rule this blasted
colony ...
While I sit here rotting slowly between editions.
IV.
Ringed with a million sterling, the name of
Boyd ,
Shuffles the horizon like some monstrous hand
Spanning the island, idly pulling strings of hade,
Half-cynically toying with rumors of banks and
land.
And a monster grows in gossip above common
huge cartwheels turning in jealous
Hides, tallow, wool and human brains and
blood ,
Revolve before him, tempting a ravenous dream.
We who know small ambitions are yet pliant,
Turning like creeks to avoid each obstinate
feature u . .
That reason jams m our way but this is a
Rolling 11 boulders aside, and daring nature.
FRANCIS WEBA.
(To be continued.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL GROW”
I
%
imm*
F4— FORMULAS FOR PROFIT. Easy-
to-follow instructions for making
valuable preparations for your own
use or for profitable sale. (Post
7 id.) Price 10/-
If!
m
m
m
FS.— THE BOY MECHANIC. Hun-
dreds of things any boy can make.
Fully illustrated. (Post 6id.) 14/
■
m
F6—A CULTURAL TABLE OF
ORCHIDACEOUS PLANTS, by J.
Murray Cox. The most ambitious
work on Orchid Culture ever pub-
lished in Australia. An encyclo-
paedia for orchid enthusiasts. It
is beautifully produced by “The
Shepherd Press,” well-known spe-
cialists in fine editions. 80 mag-
nificent plates, 13 in full colour.
(Post 10-id.) Price ... £4/4/-
• Book Dept.—Second Floor.
F3.—AT HOME WITH MUSIC, by Sigmund
Spaeth. A music book for everyone—
highlights of musical history, biographies
of composers, digests of famous opera
plots and glossary of musical terms.
16 full colour reproductions. (Post
71d.) Price 25/-
F2—THE BOOK OF FURNITURE AND
DECORATION: Period and Modern, by
Joseph Aronson. Details of furniture
designs from the earliest times to the
present. More than 200 photographic
illustrations and many line drawings.
(Post 1 Old.) Price 19/3
FI.—THE PACIFIC WORLD. Its
vast distances, its lands, and
the life upon them and its
peoples. A graphic picture
of the whole area. Edited by
Fairfield Osborn. Maps and
colour illustrations. (Post Sid.)
Price 19/6
Posted to any address in
the British Common-
wealth and Empire at
the postage rates quoted.
BOOKS
FICTION
F7.— BLACK BOY, by Richard Wright,
author of “Native Son.” Jhe honest,
dreadful, heart-breaking story of a
Negro childhood and youth. (Post 34-d.)
Price 13/9
FB— VICTORIA CRANDOLET, by Henry
Bellamann, author of “Kings Row.” A
highly dramatic story of the conflict
between an ambitious New England
woman of doubtful origin and the proud
aristocratic Louisiana family into which
she marries. (Post 4jld.) Price .. 9/
F 9 ALSO THE HILLS, by Frances Parkin-
son Keyes, author of “If Ever 1 Cease
to Love.” A truthful and dramatic
novel, shirking none of the tragedy that
war brings, but displaying it against a
constant background of work, love and
sacrifice. (Post 6-Jd.) Price ... 12/6
FIO.— THE ROBE, by Lloyd Douglas. The
scene is the Roman Empire in the Ist
Century A.D., a time that has a strange
similarity to our own; the story is that
of Jesus and His loving, serious, reck-
less group of followers in a world of
tyranny, terror, slavery, slaughter and
despair. (Post si-d.) Price ... 12/6
FI I.— THE IKON ON THE WALL and
other stories by Elizabeth Coudge. 12
short stories by the author of “Green
Dolphin Country.” (Post 3-id.) 9/9
FI 2.— THIS ABOVE ALL, by Eric Knight.
A stirring and courageous novel of Bri-
tain’s most desperate hour. (Post si-d.)
Price 10/6
Fi 3.— HORIZON, by Helen Maclnnes,
author of “Assignment in Brittany” and
“The Unconquerable.” Her latest novel,
set in the highlands of the South
Tyrol, centres on Peter Lennox and the
people he. meets on the Schlern-Mahl-
knecht after his escape from an Italian
prison camp. (Post 4-i-d.) Price, 7/6
Fi 4. — THE KING LIVETH, by Jeffery
Farnol. A typical Farnol romance set
in South England in the ninth century,
when the people led by King Alfred
rose against the barbarous Danes and
Vikings. The romantic interest is woven
around Earl Ranulf and the beautiful
Morwenna. (Post 4i-d.) Price . . 10/6
FI 5. — THE DEVIL’S JESTER, by Nita O.
Thompson. A vivid and gripping mid-
seventeenth century story of love and
adventure, amusingly and skilfully told
(Post 4i-d.) Price 10/6
FI 6.— THE STAR OF PERSIA, by Rex
Adams. An exciting story of action and
espionage. (Post Price ... 8/6
FI7. — WILD ORCHARD, by Isabel Dick.
A new, charming, wholesome story of
a pioneering family in early Tasmania.
(Post si-d.) Price 9/6
Fl B— WE OF THE NEVER-NEVER, by
Mrs. Aeneas Gunn. A new edition of
this splendid romance, that so vividly
portrays life as it really is in the
Northern Territory. (Post Bid.) 7/6
Fl 9 FIRST READER. A bril-
liant, entertaining, witty, moving and
surprising collection of 95 articles on
almost everything of importance by
first-class contemporary writers. 550
pages. (Post 6id.) Price 15/
MISCELLANEOUS
BOOKS
F2O.— CREATIVE WRITING IN AUS-
TRALIA, by John K. Ewers. A selective
survey of the work of Australian writers
in the imaginative field—the novel, the
short story and poetry from 1788-1944.
A valuable reference book. (Post
Price 4/6
F2l.— -MEN AND MANNERS IN AUS-
TRALIA, by J. Alex Allan. An inform-
ative book on the social and economic
development of this country from the
early days of settlement to the present
time. Illustrated. (Post 4-Jd.) 10/6
F22.— TWO AT DALY WATERS, by Eliza-
beth George. Life in that lonely out-
v post with only native boys and lubras
and an occasional passing stockman for
company, is here portrayed with sim-
plicity and directness. Many photo-
graphic illustrations. (Post 6/-
F23.— THE GREAT BOOMERANG, by lon
L. Idriess. A powerful book of the
Dead Heart Country, rich in true life
stories of the hardy people who battle
for a living round the fringe of this
most mysterious area. 2 maps and 50
illustrations. (Post 5-id.) Price, . . 8/6
F24.— JOURNEY AMONG WARRIORS, by
Eve Curie. Describes her 40,000 mile
trip to the battlefields. Civilian life in
countries visited is also clearly por-
trayed. (post 6-id.) Price .... 17/6
F2S—PORTRAIT OF CHURCHILL, by Cuy
Eden. An intimate portrait of the most-
talked-of man in the world. Fifteen
excellent photographs. (Post
Price 7/3
F26.— THIS CHEMICAL AGE, by Williams
Haynes. Tells the intriguing story be-
hind the miraculous accomplishments of
modern chemistry. Clearly, warmly and
dramatically written. Fine colour plates.
(Post 7-J-d.) Price 18/6
F27.— CHAOS ENTHRONED, by James
Crockett. The story of an Australian
business man, his trials and triumphs.
A book abounding in life—action, inci-
dent and argument, business, fireside
and travel. (Post sid.) Price .. 13/6
F2B—THE COLLECTED VERSE OF A. B.
PATTERSON. All “Banjo’s” poems.
Just re-issued. (Post 4-J-d.) Price, 7/6
F 29. BREWER’S DICTIONARY OF
PHRASE AND FABLE, by E. Cobham
Brewer, LL.D. Thoroughly revised edi-
tion of this standard work of reference.
1158 pages. (Post llj-d.) Price, 37/6
F3O— THE PRONUNCIATION OF ENGLISH
IN AUSTRALIA, by A. G. Mitchell. A
fascinating study by an acknowledged
expert on language. (Post 4id.) 6/
F3l. —THE BUILDERS. A story and study
of Freemasonry by Joseph Fort Newton,
Litt.D. (Post 6id.) Price 21/-
F32— SHUTTLE-CRAFT BOOK OF AMERI-
CAN HAND-WEAVING, by Mary Meigs
Atwater. An account of the rise, devel-
opment, eclipse and modern revival of
a national popular art. A fine book for
amateur weavers. Contains 300 patterns
and a profusion of illustrations. (Post
Price 23/6
FB3.— THE AMERICAN ANNUAL OF
PHOTOGRAPHY, Volume 60. 1946 Edi-
tion. Contains examples of beautiful
modern photography. Printed on heavy
art paper. (Post 8-id.) Price .. 21/-
F34.—AMATEUR TELESCOPE MAKING.
Edited by Albert C. Ingalls, with contri-
butions by 12 other leading authorities.
(Post 7-id.) Price 33/-
F3S.—MODERN MARRIAGE AND BIRTH
CONTROL, by Edward F. Griffith,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. New, thoroughly re-
vised and greatly augmented edition.
(Post 4id.) Price 9/6
F 36— DELTA HANDICRAFTS SERIES.
Twenty-seven easy to understand fully
illustrated books for amateurs and pro-
fessional craftsmen and technical
schools. A complete library of tried
projects. New and novel things to
make, etc. (Post l/si>. Price, per set
of 27 books 54/6
F37.— MODERN HOMES. A book for
home planners, by Raymond C. Smith.
Contains 27 designs of modern bunga-
lows. (Post 2-id.) Price 5/9
SELF INSTRUCTION
ART SERIES
All fully illustrated. Postage 2id. each
F3B.—PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES,
by Charlotte H. Young. Price . . 7/6
F39—THE ART OF DOING PORTRAITS,
by Tommy Beere. Price 7/6
F4o ESSENTIALS OF CREATIVE DESIGNS
by Carside Powers. Price 7/6
F4I—THE ART OF DRAWING WOMEN.
A Gallery of life figures by Arthur
Zaidenberg. Price 7/6
F42.—DRAWING FOR ILLUSTRATION, by
Arthur Zaidenberg. Price 7/
F43—THE ESSENTIALS OF PASTEL
PAINTING, by Charles X. Carlson. 7/6
F44.—A SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY OF
THE HUMAN FIGURE, by Charles Carl-
son. Price 7/6
F4S—DRAWING FOR CHILDREN, by Mary
Black Diller. Price 7/6
ORDER COUPON (F)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please send me the books whose
numbers I list below:
Name
Address.
Cash, £ enclosed. \ Strike out
Charge to my account. j One
Signed.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
THE SENIOR STORE
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


SSP
Caff
■ir*XT-
MODE
458
MODELS 888
ABO 326|r
imitm
of these NEW
“BIS MASTER'S VOICE
99
RADIO RECEIVERS
aAe it&w av^blta^&y
• MANTEL MODEL 456 • A.C. BROADCAST RECEIVER
• TABLE MODEL 886 • A.C. DUAL WAVE RECEIVER
• TABLE MODEL 326 . DUAL WAVE VIBRATOR OPERATED
RECEIVER FOR HOMES WITHOUT ELECTRIC SUPPLY
Ask your nearest His Master’s Voice retailer for
details of these new receivers.
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE
true-to-life Radio
99
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
RI4/46
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY PARAFFIN (KEROSENE)
300—5,000 c.p.
An Announcement
FROM 1939 TILL 1944 LARGE QUANTITIES OF
TILLEY LAMPS WERE SHIPPED FROM ENGLAND
FOR AUSTRALIAN DEFENCE PURPOSES.
FOR THE LAST TWO YEARS THE AUSTRALIAN
AUTHORITIES WERE UNABLE TO ISSUE
LICENCES FOR THE IMPORTATION OF TILLEY
PRODUCTIONS.
NOW A QUOTA HAS BEEN ALLOCATED TO
ENGLAND ONCE MORE FOR TILLEY IMPORTS
AND WE HOPE THIS IS THE RECOMMENCE-
MENT OF IMPORTANT TRADE BETWEEN THE
EMPIRE AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY.
#
TILLEY LAMPS AND RADIATORS ARE MADE
ONLY at HENDON. ENGLAND.
SUPPLIES OF LAMPS AND SPARE PARTS ARE
NOW IN AUSTRALIA, AND MORE CAN BE
SHIPPED WHEN PERMITS ARE GRANTED.
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd., 123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG.
London Office & Showrooms: 33, SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
OIL PAINTINGS
WATER COLOURS
SCULPTURES
PRINTS
H We represent the leading Australian Artists
of all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art, past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for your
home. No gift is more acceptable and dignified
than a Work of Art.
PRICES FROM 3 GNS. TO 300 GNS.
Morley & Torda
invite you to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417, St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Telephone: MA 3805.
Gallery open Daily from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
Saturday, 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on a'ctive service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —■
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
II Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
English translation in prose of the Plays of
Euripides, or English translation in prose of
“Iphigenia at Aulis,” by Euripides.—377o.
To exchange copies of Australian novels for
a copy of J. A. Ferguson’s Bibliography of
Australia. 1784-1830. —3771.
To buy old copies of “Art in Australia.” —
3772.
Information Sought.
What is the poem which contains the words
“To you from failing hands we throw the
torch,” and who wrote it?
The line is from “In Flanders Fields,” by
Lieut.-Col. John McCrae, a Canadian, who
died in an army hospital at Wimereux, France,
on January 18, 1918.
* * * «
Facts about the treatment of antimony con-
taining gold?
The antimony, which is roasted in a strong
oxidising atmosphere, is converted into anti-
mony oxide. This oxide is then condensed
and smelted to yield metallic antimony. The
ore from which the antimony has been taken is
then treated by amalgamation or cyanidation
for the recovery of the gold, but this recovery
is usually incomplete as the small amount of
antimony left behind after the first treatment
sickens the mercury and fouls the cyanide solu-
tion used in the latter treatments.
* * * *
(1) Would docking affect a five-year-old geld-
ing ? (2) Some facts about “Devil’s Grip” ?
(1) Operation is considered unnecessary ex-
cept where there has been an injury to the tail
or where it is thought desirable to have the
tail short for show purposes. This should
be carried out by a veterinary surgeon. (2)
The term is given to a fault in the conforma-
tion of sheep and can be seen as two dark
patches in the wool, one behind each shoulder
and about three inches below the top of the
back. It is a restriction in the development of
the ribs, and is a definite fault. The usual pro-
cedure is to cull all young animals with this
fault.
* * * *
How to get rid of meat-ant nests around
houses ?
Polir 2oz. of carbon bisulphide down each
hole with the aid of a funnel. The nests should
then be covered over with a wet bag. See that
no flame comes near the carbon bisulphide
as it is highly inflammable.
* * * ♦
What is the difference between scream,
shriek and screech ?
The first is the “dominant word” for a cry
uttered, under emotion, at a higher pitch than
that which is normal with the utterer. Those
who wish to intensify the pitch and the emotion
substitute shriek. Those who wish either to add
the notion of uncanny effect or to make fun
of the matter substitute screech.
♦ * * *
With what foods and at what temperatures
should the following wines be served: (1)
Sherry, J 2) hock, (3) chablis, (4) sauternes and
(5) claret?
(1) Hors d’oeuvres and soup; 50 deg. F. (2)
j* n d (3) Fish, white meat and poultry (white
flesh); 45 deg. F. (4) Oysters and fish; 40 deg.
F. (5) Entree (red meat) and poultry (red
flesh); at room temperature.
* * v m
How to prepare canvas so as to render it
suitable for oil painting?
Get a good heavy-grained unbleached linen
and mount it with glue to a piece of three- or
four-ply. When dry give it a coat of sizing, and
later another coat composed of palette scrap-
ings. Make sure that these are not lumpy,
and they will give it a pleasant gray tone com-
fortable to work on. Three-ply can be pre-
pared for painting without canvas in exactly
the same way.
Brief Answers.
E.P.: For the story of H.M.A.S. Parramatta
see The Price of Admiralty, by Paul and
Frances Margaret McGuire, published by Ox-
ford Uni. Press, Melbourne; price, 15s
R. : Sgt. John Whittle, winner of both the
V. and the D.C.M. in the 1914-18 war, died
at Glebe (N.S.W.) on March 2, 1946, aged 65.
Whittle won both decorations in France in 1917.
He gained the V.C. when serving with the 12t'h
Battalion... .W.T.: Orson Welles was bom in
1915. His first stage appearance was with the
Gate Theatre, Dublin. He founded the Mer-
cury Theatre in 1937 and directed productions
of Julius Ccesar, Shoemaker's Holiday, Heart-
break House and Danton’s Death. He has
been director of, and actor in, radio pro-
grammes, and has written, produced, directed
and acted in motion pictures since 1940
J.G.: The poem “A Night wi’ v ßurns in Yack-
andandie” was written by Thos. E, Spencer,
and is contained in his book How McDougall
Topped the Score.... L.K.: (1) Mick Sim-
mons, Ltd., Sydney. (2) You would take the
four holes for the flush F.J.W.: Property
is in either Wonghaidon or Koingberi tribes’
territory, but none of the place-names or
vocabularies published include either the full
name or the last section... .K.G.L.: The job
would have to be done by a specialist....
T.E.N.: The Registrar-General’s Department,
Sydney, will search for the certificates; the
fee isi 2s. 6d W.G.E.; W. C. Penfold and
Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney, sells the canvas....
T.8.W.: There are 19 Ministers in the present
Federal Government R.F.: Know of no
Ceylon Government representative stationed in
Sydney, but an application sent to the High
Commissioner for the United Kingdom, Can-
berra, would be redirected to the appropriate
authorities in Ceylon C.N.S.: The Govern-
ment Printer, Canberra, can supply you
S. : Contact a french-polishing firm....
J.H.K.: The Commonwealth Treasury Depart-
ment has the information in detail J.A.G.:
Edward Bulwer Lytton Dickens, son of Charles
Dickens, was elected to the N.S.W. State Par-
liament in 1889 as member for Wilcannia. He
vacated the seat in 1891 L.F.G.: J. H.
Smyth Pty., Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney, will give you a valuation S.C.: Associ-
ated British Picture Corporation, Ltd., Film
House, Wardour-street, W.l; British Lion Film
Corporation, Ltd., 76 Wardour-street, W.l;
Everyman Films, Ltd., 20 Nottingham-place,
W. Pathe Pictures, Ltd., Film House, War-
dour-street, W.l—all London W.D.: “Barti-
meus” is the nom de plume of Paymaster-
Commander L. A. Ritchie, “Taffrail” of Com-
mander Taprell Dorling, and “Beachcomber” of
J. B. Morton.... R J.T.: Yiddish is the language
used by Jews in Europe and America, consist-
ing mainly of German (originally from the
Middle Rhine area) with admixture according
to local or individual usage of Balto-Slavic
words and printed in Hebrew characters,


CALLING ALL
WRITERS
The National Literary Research Agency
markets on your behalf radio scripts,
short stories, poems, novels or any
literary effort. Registration fee of 5/-
per item required. If MSS. is unsuit-
able it will be returned with criticisms.
National Literary Research
Agency,
443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "up and up," Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
übbornly refuse anything
Missing Beneficiary.
FAIRLIE.—WiII MARY LESLIE and NESTA JOAN,
daughters of WILLIAM JULIAN LESLIE FAIRLIE,
deceased, or their descendants, communicate with
STEPHENS & SONS, Solicitors, 9 Portman Street,
London, England?
YOUIX TRAVEL
LIGHTER
WITH A
GLOBIT
it
wM
MW*
Just pick up a Globite and you'll see how much weight you can
save. Globite Travel Cases are sturdy, smart-looking, and
weatherproof. They give extra years of service and are being
made available as fast as materials and manpower permit.
Illustrated is a Globite One-Suiter, which makes packing easier
and prevents creasing and crushing.
OBTAINABLE AT GOOD STORES EVERYWHERE
Manufacturers: FORD _ SHEHINGTON LTD. (Wholesale only)
15
t".
m.
m
DODGE
i
m.
1
1
i
mmufl
Be
I
m
DODGE
TRUCKS
FAR CO TRUCKS
'm
I
ssn's*
m
m
l
faraanßiS
W»
The Whole line will Advance
In the modern development and expansion of Aus-
tralia—both urban and ‘outback’—a role of major
importance has been played by Chrysler, Dodge,
Plymouth and De Soto Gars, and Dodge and Fargo
Commercial Vehicles and Trucks. In every city
street and on country roads and bush tracks there
is a regular traffic of cars, utilities and trucks bear-
ing one or another of the great tried and proved
line of Chrysler Corporation products. Chrysler
Dodge Distributors (Australia) Pty. Ltd., wholly
owned and controlled by Australians, is proud to
sponsor that famous line, and its post-war plans
are directed towards assuring that the progress of
the past will be continued and magnified.
Chrysler Ibisiributors
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: Harden & Johnston Ltd., York Motors Pty. Ltd., Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. Ltd.
• MELBOURNE; Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Automobiles Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Ltd., Stradbroke Motors Pty. Ltd. • ADELAIDE: Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd.
• PERTH; Winterbottom Motor Co. Ltd., Wentworth Motors Ltd. % HOBART: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Co-operative Motors Ltd,, H, C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.
RSJMc
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
J.H.: Characters wooden... .C.C. : Econo-
mise on adjectives... .1.G.C.: Philosophical
swaggie bears a striking resemblance to 485
knights-of-the-road who have been shown the
door before K.R.; Thin W.J.R.: It is
difficult to decide whether you are writing a
romance or a treatise on soil erosion E.A.:
Write about things you know... .T.P.; The
magnificent piebald brumby stallion who won
the Melbourne Cup has the racing staff puzzled.
A.F., G.B. and others: Contributions
should be typed, if possible; but whether they’re
typed, written, engraved or hacked in marble
slabs, please double space ’em....5.H.; Alas,
“By Dream Boat to Paradise” will be returning
by train to Queensland... .H.M.: Dated....
A.B'.C. (England): Off our beat....J.A.M.:
“I will repent and mend my ways.” See if
you can bring yourself to give up rhyming
“doors” with “pause”.. ~J.J.A.: “Merodach:
a Babylonian Legend” in 187 lines. Have a
heart! J.M.E.: “Beneath it all was rot;
dank and seeping, ghoulish rot.” Really, that’s
putting it a little too strongly... .D. 8.0.:
Sorry; no place for it Pukatoi: A thought;
but you spoil it by the hackneyed rhymes....
Dustos:
I said to a man who loudly caroused: —
“Revellest thou? Whyfor?”
He looked at me as I were daft.
Well, honestly now, weren’t thou a little?....
J.C.: Even in your poetic frenzy do you really
insist on shaking hands with all the farmers
in Australia? M. 8.: “Immortality” lasted
about half a second A.J.R.: Anyhow you’re
probably the first writer since Dr. Johnson to
use the word “arcana” W.H.: “Maloney’s
Fenian Cat” will come back S.O’S.; Thin-
nish, but it has atmosphere M.S.K.: Take
it quietly... .M.M.: Clouds don’t blush....
G.T.; “I stood upon a lofty mountain peak.”
Come down to earth R.B. (China): You’re
a welcome visitor; .but it’s a woeful fjoem.
D.H.E.: The closest yet. Metre too sing-
song... .H.J.R.; Bees and zephyrs find it very
hard to fly in our windows P.H.; Rain
poems are the only things that can induce
a kindly feeling towards drought poems; and
vice versa... .J. 8.: Not quite; no bite
L. : Vague, though there’s feeling in it....
P.L.0.: Insipid L.A.D.: We found the in-
tricacies of the plot too tortuous after the
first 27 pages... .D.A.F.: You seem to be
something of a caveman:
She was sweet and she was fair,
How I longed to drag her to my lair!
....K.McN.: Goblins and fairies are shot on
sight A.M.C.: Characters amemic.,.. J.F.:
You’re either too subtle or else the story is
pointless O.B.: Not bad for a youngster.
I.McD.; “This is definitely the last story
I intend submitting.” Hooray! W.F.: The
covering letter was well written C.H.; Cut
severely, add a little more color to your charac-
ters and come again J.C.V.: Melodrama.
C.S.: Poor old Sam: —
“I got to get back, I got to get back,”
Said Swaggie Sam ; then fell down dead
With a heart attack.
D.M.: Plot transparent, characters moronic,
ending weak A.C.K.: Try a daily... .D.A.:
Ponderous style mars ,it N.N.: Artificial
throughout... .P.M.: “Boozy Bill the Book-
maker” won’t collect here G.K.; Restrain
your use of slang and you’ll do better....
M. : “The Raving Robot” was led out into
the wilderness C.A.P.: No trick endings,
please V.J.: Hackneyed theme clumsily
handled... .8.F.: “I can send you a dozen
more stories like this one.” Don’t... .K.R.:
Send “Lover’s Dream” to a woman’s paper.
WJC.L.: Come in and get it off your
chest':—
I confess I was surprised, and not a little
disgusted, to read the “Answers to Correspon-
dents” page, June 19, and find my story “Sabina
and the Fairies” dismissed in two contemptuous
words. If the ill-natured, and obviously ill-
informed, remarks in this column are intended
as a guide to young writers, all I can say is that
the sooner it is suppressed the better for the
paper, the public and sincere writers like my-
self.
P.G. :■ Lady with a “hurt heart wounded
by beauty” returning home L.N.8.: Breezy,
but empty.... .J.H.: No, we don’t think you’ll
ever become a great writer, but your passion
for detail could be turned to good account
writing cookery books T.McM.: “Ah, me,”
said Alice, as she threw herself under t'he
swiftly-churning wheels, “life is a broken
bauble”; a strange remark, in the circum-
stances. And “swiftly-churning” seems ex-
cessive, as applied to the wheels of a Syd-
ney tram R.T.: Precious V.G.: Limp.
....J.G’C.: Wordy... .M.M.; By now it
should be fairly well established that ex-service-
men have periods of disillusionment F.S.:
Cut S.C.: Patchy W.Y.: It is hard to
feel continuous sympathy for a lass who was
abandoned by three Yanks, two Scandinavians
and one British seaman P.P.: A glimmer
of feeling, disguised by ponderous prose....
A.Z.H.: Come again... .R.D.E.: The man-
eating tiger who became a house pet was m-
teresting, but unconvincing IF.: Drought
resembled dozens of short stones on the same
theme... .J.D.: Weak... .O.SJ.; Dull,
ARTTRTir CAND INARTISTIC!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INAKIIMIGJ
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.M.J.: Picture of swagman lashed to rail-
way ]j ne i ooks exciting, but where’s the joke?
H.K.; Doesn’t quite get there, though it
has a dinkum bush flavor... .C. 8.; If that’s
bow y OU S p end your wet week-ends, we pray
f or fine ones... .A.V.: While it has some artis-
tic merit it doesn’t make a joke b10ck....
W .J.N.: Get more vitality in your linework
\\rp_ : \ twopenny-halfpenny joke and the
week > s feeblest drawing S.C.: The gag was
the millstone that dragged it down... .J.8.L.:
sketch appears to have strayed from a geometry
textbook.. ..H.R.: Couldn’t get enthusiastic
about the toper in the rain T.W.T.; The
drawing ran away from y0u....J.R.: Those
lopsided hikers will not stalk across our pages.
It shouldn’t be beyond you to
improve on them D.H. : Not interested in
the size of the old girl’s dentures F.G.: “If
unacceptable, please” . Why the “if”?
A.W.J.: They are all calculated to bring about
an epidemic of melancholia T.R.: Three
mishits—still, you’re not altogether a hopeless
marksman 8.P.L.; Drawing done completely
in horizontal strokes was a complete failure.
F.M.: It has an air of incompleteness
M.O’H.: You call it a recreation! It looks
more like hard labor to us W.8.D.: Not
nearly hilarious enough... .G.T.H.: You draw
as if your wrists were handcuffed and your
pen a crowbar 8.5.: Sadly in need of in-
structions in the rudiments E.S.J.: “Afraid
they’re not much good.” We agree A.M.K.:
Freakish style alone doesn’t compensate for
the poorness of the rest.


Hi
■
m
%
1
MS.
mu
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
mm
mm
THE EXCELLENCE OF ITS WORSTED MANUFACTURES
ALL MADE FROM AUSTRALIAN VIRGIN WOOL
VICTORIA
A U ST R A I
■
m.


HANS AND THE BULL
BY E.COLLSCHEWSKY.
HANS mixed the bull’s evening feed
in ominous silence. The other
men, coming in for pieces of
harness, grain or grooming
brushes, gave him a glance and left him
alone. They joked among themselves,
laughed and swore amiably, but left Hans
in his own circle of isolation.
Every move he made was deliberate,
sullen and heavy. The heavy, warted
lids strayed down over red-rimmed, little
eyes, blue and hard as agates, and as
emotionless. His heavy, juicy-looking
bottom lip was dragged down as low as
it would go. It hung loosely, like that
of a tired, sleeping horse. The brim of
a woman’s red felt hat was pulled low
over his narrow forehead, and beneath it
the matted grey curls clustered down the
back of his neck as far as the collar of
his flannel shirt.
He picked up the feed bucket and
shambled out of the barn, keeping one
hooked, ape-like arm level with his
shoulder to balance the weight on the
other.
As he walked, the dying sun caught the
high polish of his beautiful leggings,
winking at its own reflection. Hans spent
hours polishing them every night of his
life. They were his badges of rank —
picking him out from the other hands as
Keeper of the Jersey Bull.
When he got to the shed at the south
end of the paddock he whistled, opened
the gate, and walked in. He was putting
the feed in the box when hooves rattled
lightly on the cement flooring, and an
acrid bovine odor filled the shed.
Hans turned clumsily, drooling from
his thick lips. He put out a distorted,
calloused finger and rubbed the bull’s
forehead just between the two pearly,
spear-sharp horns, where the tufted hair
was thick and coarse.
“Now you’ve done it. Been and made
a blazing fool of yourself.”
The bull tossed his head. He was a
slender beast, carrying his shapely head
on a proud, strong neck. His back was
straight, tending to arch as he pushed out
a shirring black nose to sniff at Hans.
“Ripping a man’s guts out like that!
Didn’t you know when to stop? That lot
makes you a killer, see?”
He gave the bull an indulgent, affec-
tionate poke in the ribs, but there was
no fun in him today.
He stood back to let the bull get at
the feed. And his heart swelled with
aching pride as it nosed the feed fastidi-
ously.
THERE was never a bull on the station
could touch this one for line and
color. The hocks were as finely turned
as a girl’s. There were depth in the chest,
power in the thick neck. Hell! He was
beautiful. Just to look at him made
Hans’s innards turn to jelly ; and for the
sake of Deacon —a rouseabout nobody
would miss much —they’d kill off the bull.
It was enough to make him howl like
a kid.
Deacon had deserved all he got. Every-
one knew a Jersey couldn’t be trusted.
And the fool had died, to make things
worse.
The bull stood with legs slightly apart.
He was not yet three years old. Hans
caressed the sleek belly, and mourned.
There would never be another bull like
this. There would never be anybody or
anything to rely on him and look for him
as this bull did.
The animal was the epitome of all
Hans had ever hoped to be. Proud,
strong, fearless, beautiful —all the things
Hans had failed to become.
Hans had rescued him, a miserable frail
calf, from the body of a dead cow, had
reared him, and with the years there had
grown a bond of deep-rooted reliance
between them.
The manager had left him in charge of
the bull, because Hans was a queer old
stick, and after all he’d mothered the
young calf. Nobody but Hans had ever
cared for him. Tomorrow it would be
his job to destroy him.
He left the stall, feet dragging. And
as he slouched towards the quarters even
the dogs left him alone. The scowl on his
face was a threat.
UnXbLE to sleep that night in the
hot hut where the mosquitoes pinged
arid the snores of eight men rever-
berated, Hans flung off the blanket,
pulled on his trousers and the shiny
legging, a railwayman’s patched tunic,
the old red felt hat. Then he went out
into the clear moonlight.
It was like day—only still. Quiet, as
if the place was deserted. The dogs licked
his hands and jumped up at his back. He
fumbled for his pipe, and lit it. The smell
of the strong tobacco wiped out the
fragrance of stacked hay, close-growing
eucalypts and the faint, pervading odor
of animals.
The outbuildings were a great unwieldy
mass. From the stables came the
friendly sounds of horses —stamping
hooves, champing jaws, the occasional
rattle of a chain.
Far away in the hills a curlew moaned,
and a fox answered with his baby-in-
distress yowl. In the hills they would be
safe. Nobody could find you there ; f
you wanted to stay hidden. It was hard,
barren country, but if you knew it you
could cross it. And on the other side
iay a different world. You need never
come back.
His squat shadow sidled along the
ground before him. He kept thinking
about the hills, and the freedom to be
enjoyed there; and he thought of the
brumbies that came down from the moun-
tain range, of the cattle that eluded every
muster and got away to join the scrubbers.
They lived there. And where they lived
he could, because all his life had been
spent in the bush.
He giggled. Old Hans was as tough
and cunning as any dingo. Once he got
away they could look till their eyes fell
out.
The steel gate swung open at his touch.
He whistled. A dark shape lumbered out
of the long, silvered grass. Hans whistled
again, louder, and the bull came towards
him.
Hans shut the gate. The bull didn’t
want to move. Kicked under the belly, he
began to walk, with Hans muttering and
pushing and urging him on. The bull
broke into a lope, and Hans, running be-
side him, mouthing unintelligible words,
steered him into the river run. They
reached the sliprails leading to open
country. Hans stood for a moment, hesi-
tating, looking back over the valley they
had crossed.
Everything slept. He thought regret-
fully of the horses, but was glad, never-
theless, that he’d resisted the impulse to
steal one. Stealing was bad.
Theie were a few treasures left behind.
His seed catalogues. The gun with no
hammer. The pearl tiepin he’d found at
a dance. But they weren’t important
now.
They passed into the shadow of the
pine scrub together, the man’s arm rest-
ing on the neck of the bull,
A WEEK later, Hans and the bull stood
on a brow of a mountain. It was
early morning, and below them lay a
mist-wreathed gully, shot with purple and
gold, blue and ever-changing greens. The
air was cold up here. Bracing, with a
hint of frost in it.
Hans sat down on a rock. His hair
was tangled, threaded with twigs and
burrs. His clothes were ragged, only the
hat and the leggings being intact. The
leggings were scratched and roughened.
His beard gave him a villainous look,
emphasised by the red rims of his sunken
eyes.
“Look.” He pointed down the sparsely
wooded gully, where wild oats were
thick and lush between the trees —tall
blue-gums and dark eternal ironbarks.
“This is it.” His voice shook slightly.
“Water and grass.”
The bull raised his delicate nose, sniff-
ing the air tentatively. He was no longer
sleek and smooth, but rough-coated and
gaunt.
Hans giggled delightedly. “You smell
it, eh?” His teeth were black from berry
stains. “Well, go down and find it.”
He rode on the bull’s back, swaying
with the animal’s every move, his great
shoulders lunging loosely. His cracked
voice rang out occasionally in bursts of
jocular profanity. But for the most part
they went in silence, the bull’s hooves
scarcely making a sound on the dirt track,
Hans studied the country as they went;
and every now and then nodded to him-
self £s if satisfied.
The bull broke into a run, and saliva in
threads of gleaming silver drifted back
past Hans like spider webs. Hans
chuckled. The water was close.
They were on it at once. A wide, deep-
sided pool that lay still and becalmed in
the morning sunshine. Not a ripple broke
its surface. The water was opaque, and
showed no reflection as man and beast
hurtled down the bank.
They drank greedily, side by side, till
the hollows filled out in the bull’s flanks
and the man’s belly distended under his
scanty clothing.
EACH day after that, with herbage,
water and rest, the bull regained his
condition. Endurance had infused his
frame with new power. Hans lived on
rabbits he snared and berries ; grew thin,
but seemed to draw comfort from the
bull’s growing strength.
The last stage of their journey lay
ahead. Hans was preparing for it with
every trick he knew. He knew where he
could get the bull’s brand altered;
where they could lie low till time covered
their tracks. Hans had all the sagacity
of his type, and intended to run no risks.
The bull had been vaguely restless all
through this last night. One or twice
Hans got up and took a look around, but
there were no dingoes on the prowl. With
the dawn he; saw the reason. Two heifers
stood in the shelter of a cluster of wild
apples, chewing the cud and apparently
oblivious to any other presence.
A big red bull lay on the ground be-
side them. The heifers were small-boned,
smoke-grey throwbacks to some pedi-
gree breed probably. The bush was full
of strays.
The red bull saw Hans and lumbered
to its feet. There was a rumble, like the
warning growl of thunder, reverberating
round the towering mountainsides and
drifting earthwards again, echoing and
re-echoing.
The Jersey bull’s spine stiffened. The
hair along his neck lifted, menacingly, in
conjunction with the arching of his tail.
Hans stared, fascinated, across the tran-
quil pool.
The grey gloom lifted, taking with it
the lacy fog that had wreathed the gully.
The big red bull stalked into the open,
stiff-legged. He was a strong, raw-boned
animal, his spreading horns gleaming like
gun-metal. He stamped and bellowed.
Hans kicked the little Jersey and jerked
his head towards the slope they had tra-
versed when entering the gully.
“Come on. He’s not our business,”
The bull shook free, nearly knocking
Hans into the water, Hans swore. But
the bull didn’t budge. Not even when
Hans smashed his fist into his muzzle.
Gripped by a sudden frenzy of fear,
Hans kicked at the corded belly. The
bull turned slowly, rumbles coming from
its throat. The big red bull bellowed
again and again. The Jersey pivoted like
a dancer. Then he pawed, head down, tail
arched.
As the big red bull came round the end
of the pool the Jersey challenged, the
shrill scream breaking into a smothered,
enraged moan.
With stiff, short steps, he gained level
ground.
The red bull, too, magnificent at close
quarters, bony and ragged of coat though
he was, flung the dust high above his
shoulders as his hoofs cut into the dirt.
Hans, like a mother who sees her only
child in a street brawl, was beside him-
self. Tears flopped on to his cheeks, his
heavy underlip slobbered and quivered.
He wrung his hands hysterically.
The little Jersey bull looked like a calf
beside the great red scrubber.
They met like wrestlers, and went into
an instant lock. There was a heavy rattle
as bone met bone.
Their breathing was a series of grunts.
And as they struggled light came over
the shadowy clearing, and the rays of the
rising sun stabbed the grey sky.
The little Jersey, straining to hold his
ground with every muscle bunched to re-
sistance, was forced backwards. The
great red neck was swollen thick with
force and power. The Jersey’s head was
pinned by the great gun-metal horns,
HANS, down on all fours, watched
every move. He sobbed in a
kind of frantic helplessness. It could
not last long. The little Jersey’s sides
were heaving already—falling in and out
like flopping sails. The red bull was
comparatively fresh, only his hide darken-
ing now 1 with streaks of sweat.
Back they went, four more steps, only
the little Jersey’s agility and surefooted-
ness standing by him.
The red bull stumbled —his near hock
caught in a rut, throwing him off balance.
Just for a flash of time —but it was long
enough.
The Jersey moved quicker than Hans’s
eyes could follow. There was a frenzied
bellow, bubbling away into a choking
gasp. The dripping horns, like blades,
struck again, slicing the great red neck
wide open.
The red bull fell slowly. The Jersey
staggered back to stand heaving.
Hans ran grotesquely and flung his
arms around the stained neck. He cried
and laughed.
A dozen black crows settled almost at
once in the great gums near by. The
sun came up, and the red bull lay still.
The Jersey shuddered. And then Hans
heard it —the low soft lowing that floated
to them from the other side of the pool.
The two heifers were watching nervously,
ready to run. The smell of blood had
disturbed and upset them, tautened their
nerves.
Hans grinned to himself.' Let them
stay. They could form the nucleus of his
herd. In time they 'could be gentled and
handled —especially when they calved. He
wagged his head knowingly. Old Hans
was wide awake, all right.
One of the heifers lowed again, plain-
tively. The little Jersey took no notice.
He was, for the moment, entirely spent.
As he rested, his head nearly touching
the ground, the two heifers began to
browse ; and ever the direction of their
movements was towards the bull.
The bull walked slowly down to the
pool to drink.
Rejuvenated, he stood : for a while in
the cool, knee-deep water, shadowed by
the reflection of the trees. He switched
his tail and watched interestedly as the
heifers drew near to him. One pirouetted
and coyly watched over her shoulder.
The young bull stood impassively, then
stamped and began to walk towards her.
Together the heifers fled, crashing
through the undergrowth, horns waving
above their backs. They ran awkwardly,
heads upflung.
Hans spoke to the Jersey bull. But he
didn’t seem to hear. He began pacing
swiftly after the heifers. They stood,
poised and alert, on the edge of the bush.
Hans called again and swore. He ran
after the bull and caught him by one ear,
jerking his head savagely.
“Hold still!” he ground out, pushing
his heels into the dirt against the force
of the bull’s forward surge.
THE Jersey bull tossed him aside
lightly and braced his forelegs. Hans
saw the eyes roll wickedly, saw the
nostrils dilate as the head twisted. He
gave a yell of sheer terror —and flung
himself flat on the ground as the horns
curved above where his chest had been.
Over and over he rolled down the steep
bank leading to the water. His open
mouth picked up dirt, sticks pushed into
his face, but he fell with a splash into
the water and safety.
He came up gasping, his hair over his
eyes, water and thin mud streaming from
his clothes. The bull bellowed —a ring-
ing call to the heifers to wait. Hans saw
him go, plunging madly through the trees,
and 'far away sounded the crash of
branches as the two heifers fled once
more.
“Bitches! ” Hans spat the word out, his
lips drawn back into an ugly snarl. But
the water on his cheeks turned salt as it
reached his mouth. He brushed his hands
across his eyes angrily to keep back the
tears. There was no blame in his heart
for the bull.
His voice sank to a helpless whisper,
and he stood impotently, in the middle
of a circle of eddies. “Bitches! Bitches! ”
he repeated, and the words were dry sobs
in the stillness of the gully. The red hat
lay on the bank where it had rolled from
his head.
They Seek a Country.
Bells heard through the fog on an un-
known coast
By sailors easing their craft through nar-
rows and shoals;
A frail ship inching along like a guilty
ghost,
A ship top-heavy with hungry-for-para-
dise souls —
Somewhere ahead must lie those dream-
shotten lands,
Ringed round with silvery surfs and
dazzling beaches,
To whose nymph-haunted weeds and
bejewelled sands
Each of their hungry hearts and hands
stretches:
In vain, for even if reefs and shallows be
passed.
And there is an end of stress and threat
and alarm,
There shall be only kelp-ridden rocks at
last,
Where blind, obscene, indeterminate sea-
slugs swarm.
MX.
ARNOLD WALL.


NP4S/34
“So you feel dull & dispirited?
Well, a daily
dose of .. .
‘NUGGET 9 will
make you merry
and bright”.
■w’
For 50 years a GOOD polish
• I6ISTIAIO TtAOl HARR
m
»M ACIC
I r
R4TMMOOMIII >»OM ACID
The Finest leather
v Preservative >■
\OGGET SHOE POLISH
height (approx.)
If tons
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
f
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
m
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO.PTY.LTD.
-Manufacturer! of Precision Lathes, Shapers,
Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE
Sole Dlstrib. A*ents: For N.S.VV.; Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 189 Clarence St., Sydney.
Victoria: Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), 343 A Sydney Road.
Queensland: Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., 450 Ann Street, ® h ml
New Zealand: Motor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac Ave., Auckland. Branches throughout theJPomlnioiu
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
CHURCHILL: RECIPE FOR PEACE.
(From London “Times” Parliamentary reports .)
Speaking in the House of Commons,
Mr. Churchill said that indescribable
crimes had been committed by Germans
under Nazi rule ; justice had to take its
course, the guilty had to be punished ;
but once that was over he fell back on
the declaration of Edmund Burke, “I
cannot frame an indictment against an
entire people.” He could not plan or
even dream of a new world or a new
Europe which contained pariah nations
—nations permanently or for prolonged
periods outcast from the human family.
Our ultimate hope could be founded
only on the harmony of the human
family. So far as it remained in our
[British] power to influence the course
of events, we must strive over a period of
years to redeem and to reincorporate the
German and the Japanese peoples in a
world system of free and civilised demo-
cracy. The idea of keeping scores of
millions of people hanging about in a
sub-human state between earth and hell
until they were worn down to a slave
condition, or embraced Communism, or
died off from hunger would only, if it
was pursued, breed at least a moral pestil-
ence and probably an actual war.
There were obvious limits to our
[British] powers, but in agreement with
the United States great power might be
exercised, and we must do our best for
the German people. After the guilty had
been punished for their horrible crimes
we must banish revenge against an entire
race from our minds. We must make
sure they did not rearm and that their
industries were not capable of rapid
transition to war production, but the
danger to European peace and to the
future of free democratic civilisation was
not at this moment Germany—that
menace belonged to the first and second
acts of the world tragedy.
The danger was the confusion and
degeneration into which all Europe, or a
very large part of it, was rapidly sink-
ing. Above all, we should not again let
the years slip by while we were pushed
and slid down the slippery slope.
We still had a breathing space. Let us
not waste it, as was done last time. The
last great war could have been prevented
with the utmost ease by prudent, firm, and
righteous action, five, four, or even three
years before it occurred.
Britain could not delay indefinitely
making a peace with all those countries
with whom we had been at war and with
whom we had no further quarrel. They
had yielded themselves unconditionally.
Nothing was more costly, nothing was
more sterile than vengeance. We should
make a peace with Germany or with
whatever parts of Germany were still in
our control. We should make peace with
Italy, who had been our ally for the last
two years of the war.
If this peace could not be achieved by
inter-Allied discussions in Paris or else-
where then he agreed with the Foreign
Secretary, and with the Government of
the United States, that we should carry
the matter to U.N.O. and that the 21
nations who were actively engaged in the
fighting should make the best solution
possible. But it must be a quick one.
It was in this world organisation that we
must put our final hope. If it was said
that such a procedure would rend the
world organisation, and that a line of
division and even of separation might
grow up between Soviet Russia and the
countries she controlled on the one hand
and the rest of the world on the other,
then he said with much regret, but with-
out any hesitancy, that it would be better
to face that, when all has been tried and
tried in vain, than tamely to accept the
continued degeneration of the whole
world’s position.
It was better to have a world united
than a world divided ; but it was also
better to have a world divided than a
world destroyed. Nor did it follow that
even in a world divided there should not
be an equilibrium from which a further
advance to unity might be attempted as
the years passed by. Anything was better
than the ceaseless degeneration of the
heart of Europe. Europe would die of
that.
President Wilson, Mr. Lloyd George
and M. Clemenceau were criticised for
their long-drawn-out and harsh treatment
of the conquered. But what was hap-
pening now? After the last war peace
was made with Germany and Austria
seven months after the fighting stopped.
Now no one could predict when a peace
would be made, or even when relations
would be established with the conquered
Powers which would be in practice
equivalent to peace. Rumania, Bulgaria,
Austria, Hungary had no peace. Even
Italy, which fought at our side after
Mussolini’s tyranny was broken, had no
peace. That could not go on.
Never again would the parties of the
Left be able to reproach the men of
Versailles. Europe was far worse off in
every respect than she was at the end of
the last war. Her miseries, confusion and
hatreds far exceeded anything which was
known in those bygone days.
More than once the formidable truth
had been stated that great nations were
indestructible. Let us beware, then, of
delay and further degeneration. With all
their virtues, democracies were changeable.
After the hot fit came the cold. Were
we to see again, as we saw the last time,
the utmost severities inflicted upon the
vanquished to be followed by a period
when we let them rearm and then sought
to appease their wrath?
We could not impose our will on our
allies, but we could at least proclaim our
own convictions. Let us proclaim them
fearlessly. Let Germany live. Let
Austria and Hungary be freed. Let Italy
resume her place in the European system.
Let Europe arise again in glory and by
her strength and unity ensure the peace
of the world.
SOVIET OFFERS TO GERMANY.
(Condensed from an article by F. A. Voigt, editor London “Nineteenth Century and After.”)
The Russians admire German organisa-
tion, German efficiency, German special-
ised knowledge. The Germans can offer
Russia more than any other nation —
they are potentially the greatest Power
in Europe, and for Russia to have that
Power under her own control (provided
always that the control is absolute and
immovable) would make Russia all that
Germany ever aspired to be, even under
Hitler.
France, today, is no problem for
Russia. On the contrary —thanks to the
energy and determination of her Com-
munists—she serves, on the whole, the
purpose of Russian foreign policy. But
some day the French Communists will
go too far. The French will react
violently against them, and the result will
be a split in the French Communist move-
ment. France will then be a problem for
Russia. But if Russia has Germany as
a vassal-ally she will always be able to
impose her own solution on the French
problem—as on any European problem.
For Germany, if there is no other hope,
there is hope of domineering as well as of
being dominated, of being the privileged
nation under Russia in this the Russian
order. .
Today Russia is offering the Germans
national unity. The Germans do not
accept the offer because they know why
it is made. But some day they may
accept it —willingly, if there is no
alternative.
Russia can offer more. She can offer the
Sudetenland and the territories ceded to
Poland. Of one thing we may be sure —
that the millions of men, women and
children who have been expelled from
their homes, robbed of everything and
sent into exile (for to them it is exile) in
accordance with the Treaty of Potsdam
are resolved to return, desire nbthing so
much as to return.
The fugitives from the Sudetenland and
Eastern Germany, when the “transfer”
has been completed, will probably num-
ber about 10,000,000. Their expulsion
was accompanied by terrible barbarities.
Only force can keep these 10,000,000
from returning. Russia has but to give
the word and they will stream back. And
who will be able to condemn Russia then?
Will she not have righted a terrible
wrong?
For this wrong she is, it is' true, respon-
sible. But so are Great Britain and the
United States. What if Russia is the first
to assert publicly that wrong was done?
And what if she profess to make amends
by righting the wrong? If she does so
it will, no doubt, be for reasons of policy,
not of humanity. And, no doubt, further
wrongs will be the consequence. But the
Treaty of Potsdam has placed a trenchant
sword in her hand, and she will be able
to use it the more effectively because it
will shine like the sword of justice.
U.S.-BRITISH LEAD OVER RUSSIA.
(Condensed from the “United States News.”)
While Russia is showing little interest
in machinery for world economic co-
operation and is building surrounding
countries into a powerful Russian bloc,
the United States, while still standing
for world co-operation, is completing
plans to co-operate with those nations
which show some interest in co-operat-
ing with her. In U.S. official circles, the
attitude towards Russia is hardening into
a “take-it-or-leave-it” form. This atti-
tude, first prompted by fear of Russian
expansion in Europe and Asia, is now
encouraged by evidence that Russia has
lost the political offensive in Europe.
The Communists suffered defeat in the
French election. They lost in Greece ;
they are making little headway in West-
ern Germany ; they stand little chance
in Spain or Portugal, little more in the
Low Countries or Scandinavia.
The result is that Russia can rely only
upon those areas that her troops either
occupy or overshadow. The rest of the
world, in most cases, is orienting itself
Westward.
A race apparently is to start between
the Russian bloc and the Anglo-American
bloc. It is not a race in which war is
the objective or even a necessary result.
It may be a race between Communism
and Capitalism. In any event, it starts
as a very uneven race.
The Russians start with the odds
strongly against them. As things stand,
they are outnumbered and outproduced
several times over. For this reason, if
for no other, Russia obviously does not
wish serious trouble with the rest of the
world now. But Russia’s ambitious five-
year plans, and her lack of interest in
world economic co-operation, show that
Russia expects to make very large gains
in her area during the next 10 to 15 years.
Apparently Russia intends to overtake
the present advantages of the Anglo-
American sector by 1960 or thereabouts.
A serious U.S. depression, scheduled by
Communist doctrine, could permit the
Russian bloc to forge ahead and put
Russia in the top economic role now
occupied by the United States within
what Russia believes to be the foreseeable
future.
The Anglo-American bloc starts the
race with about every economic advan-
tage on its side. Present resources and
skills are ample to enable this bloc to
operate effectively, whether or not Russia
participates in world economic organisa-
tions. To compare the present strength
of the two blocs, figures have been
brought together from a variety of
sources, including recently - published
studies of the League of Nations. Though
these figures are necessarily rough ap-
proximations based on the pre-war situa-
tion, they give a basis for sizing up the
two blocs. In a division of resources
what we find is this:
Trade of the world is largely outside
the Russian sphere. Commodity exports
and imports of Russia and the areas
within her sphere add up, on a pre-war
basis, to only 11 per cent, of the world
total. That leaves the Anglo-American
bloc 89 per cent, to work with. Actually,
the percentage will be higher than 89,
since Russia wishes to continue buying
scarce commodities from areas outside.
A complete barrier preventing all trade
between the Russian and Anglo-Ameri-
can blocs, thus, is not to be expected.
The future trend of trade with tile Rus-
sian bloc is likely to decline, however,
as the Russian goal of self-sufficiency
is approached.
Production by industry in the Anglo-
American bloc far outstrips industrial
production of the Russian bloc. On a
pre-war basis, the Anglo-American share
probably was 75 per cent. Now, with
U.S. industry stepped up by the war and
Russian industry badly damaged by the
war, the Anglo-American share is con-
siderably higher. U.S. industry alone
now probably accounts for about half of
current world production. Britain and
Canada contribute another 15 per cent,
or more. Countries of Western Europe,
plus Western Germany and Japan if per-
mitted to revive, could swell the Anglo-
American proportion to a very impressive
figure. As it is, the Anglo-American
bloc has a head start difficult to over-
come.
Steel output, key factor in industrial
production, is at present heavily on the
side of the Anglo-American bloc. A
pre-war proportion of something like 81
per cent, of world production must now
be materially higher, wj.th Gearrmyp pro-
duction currently dormant and Russian
production struggling to get back up to
where it was when the war began. The
announced Russian intention is to treble
steel output by 1960, and reach
60.000. tons. That would put Russian
production short of the U.S. war peak of
80.000. tons, but above the U.S. pre-
war rate. By 1965 or thereabouts, some
U.S. economists estimate, Russian steel
output may overtake and pass U.S. pro-
duction. If the Anglo-American bloc
wished to hold the lead in steel produc-
tion in that situation, heavy steel pro-
duction in Western Europe, including
Western Germany, would be needed.
Power and fuel with which to stoke
industry are likewise a present Anglo-
American advantage. The world outside
of the Russian sphere can add up, on the
basis of pre-war production, 84 per cent,
of the world’s coal production, 87 per
cent, of the crude petroleum, and 89 per
cent, of the electric-power production.
As against this handicap, Russia counts
on stepping up her own output very
rapidly. She now is in control of oil in


Safe and Profitable
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin” annual reviews. Policyholders
get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
D. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
SOME NOTABLE BOOKS
Masterpieces of Persian Art. By Arthur Up-
ham Pope, containing 155 plates, some in
full colour. £4/4/- (post. 1/-).
Thesaurus of the Arts. By Albert E. Wler.
690 pages, 8500 references. A handsome
volume. Size lOln. x 71n. 43/- (post 1/-).
Facts at your fingertips on every field of art,
drama, music, ballet, radio, motion pictures, litera-
ture, painting, sculpture, architecture.
Birds In Colour. By Walter Higham. 89
beautiful illustrations in colour of birds
most likely to visit a British garden. 40/-
(post. Bd.).
Birds of the Day. By E. Hosklng and C. New-
berry, with 78 superb photographs. 19/6
(post. Bd.).
Birds of the Night. By Eric J. Hosklng and
Cyril W. Newberry; with 80 remarkable
photographs tkken at night by flashlight.
19/6 (post. 10d.),
Interior Decoration. By Margaret Lord. An
excellent guide to furnishing the Australian
home, with illustrations in colour. 14/6
(post. 4d.).
Retreat from Rostov. A realistic novel, by
Paul Hughes, revealing the true merit of the
Russians in battle. 14/- (post. 6d.),
Why Singapore Fell. An illuminating his-
torical record of great importance by Gen-
eral H. Gordon Bennett. Illus. First Indian
Edition. 15/- (post. 4d.).
Officially Dead, the Story of Commander C. D.
Smith. By Quentin Reynolds, author of
“Only the Stars Are Neutral.” An amazing
story. 10/6 (post. 4d.).
Chaos Enthroned. A book of human interest
by James Crockett, author of “The English
Spirit,” with a foreword by Walter Murdoch.
13/6 (post. 6d.).
Thesaurus of Quotations. A new classified
collection of the Best Quotations from
ancient times to the present day, edited by
Edmund Miller. 21/- (post. lid.).
Complete Rhyming Dictionary. The essential
handbook for poets and song-writers, with
a complete guide to the technique of Eng-
lish poetry, by C. Wood. 17/6 (post. 1/-).
Harvard Dictionary of Music. An indispen-
sable reference book for all musicians by
Dr. Willi Apel. Published by Harvard Uni-
versity Press. Large handsome volume. 839
pages. 35/- (post. 1/-).
The Southern Cross and Other Plays.- By
Louis Esson. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Rumania, coal in Eastern Germany and
Silesia, and vast water-power resources
within her own boundaries. Inside
Russia, the plan is to treble coal pro-
duction by 1960 and double electnc-
power output by 1950. For more oil,
Russia looks to new oilfields in the Urals
and to Iran.
Transportation is a present problem to
Russia and an advantage in at least the
industrialised portion of the Anglo-
American world. Even including China
and India, where transportation facilities
are far from adequate, the Anglo-Ameri-
can bloc has 85 per cent, of the world’s
railroad mileage, and probably 80 per
cent, of the world’s highways. The U.S.
alone has roughly a third of both.
Motor vehicles within the Anglo-
American areas before the war totalled
roughly 44,500,000 to the Russian sphere’s
1,000,000. Output during the war has
raised the totals but probably not the
proportion, which stands about 98 to 2
in favor of the Anglo-American bloc.
Russian output of 500,000 autos and
trucks by 1950, according to plan, still
would leave the Russian sphere far short
of United States production alone, which
should be at least 12 times 500,000 units
a year considerably before 1950.
Shipping shows up in about the same
proportion, with 98 per cent, of the
world’s merchant shipping (totalling
91,663,500 dead-weight tons) now in the
service of the Anglo-American bloc. As
a land mass, the Russian sphere thus is
in no position to bring the world to
Russia’s door or to tap on doors far
across the water. From all indications,
the shipping advantage will continue
with the Anglo-American bloc.
In population, too, the advantage of
numbers lies with the Anglo-American
bloc, 1,780,000,000 to 360,000,000 for the
Russian bloc. But the Anglo-American
total includes China and India, which
account for nearly half the total, and
which at present give the Anglo-Ameri-
can bloc more of an economic problem
than an asset.
Land for food is the one category in
which the Russian areas have a present
advantage which could turn out to be
critical. The Russian areas have roughly
two acres of crop land per person as
against an average in the Anglo-Ameri-
can bloc of about four-fifths of an acre
per person. It would be difficult to
feed the masses of China and India, and
also supply Western Europe, without the
food resources of Eastern Europe.
Russia, thus, is in a position to drive
hard bargains in a hungry world, or even
withhold food, hoping that hunger will
drive people to Communism,
On net, however, considering the com-
parative figures all along the line, the
Anglo-American bloc starts this economic
race with a very heavy advantage over
the Russian bloc. The figures make it
clear that the Anglo-American world can,
if it has to, proceed without Russia in
organising for freer trade and economic
progress. It is the Russian bloc that
starts the race with a handicap.
India’s Worried Princes.
(From a report by a N.Y. “Herald Tribune
correspondent in India.)
The most worried people in India are
the maharajas, the rajahs, the nawabs
and the minor potentates who rule a
third of India’s area and a quarter of her
population. They are about to be
granted an independence they do not
particularly want: to be deprived of the
prop of British protection, and thrown,
instead, on the support of their Indian
subjects. For most of them this is an
appalling prospect.
There is something more than irony
in the alacrity with which India’s princely
rulers are now making their peace with
Indian nationalism. The fact is they
have no other choice. The alternative in
most cases is political extinction.
The British Cabinet mission’s formula
for Indian independence deals mainly
with the 11 provinces of British India,
which together embrace two-thirds of the
subcontinent’s expanse. But the mission
has indicated that it expects these States
also to become part of the all-India
union. The terms of their participation
are to be decided through negotiation
during the interim period preceding full
independence. No compulsion will be
necessary, for the British have proclaimed
that their paramountcy and their respon-
sibilities, as far as these States are con-
cerned, will cease the moment British
India becpmes free and sovereign.
Faced "with the impending loss of
British support, India’s princes and prince-
lings are already hastening to assure
leaders of the All-India Congress
(Nationalist) party and the Moslem
League of their desire to participate in
drawing up the Constitution for a free
and democratic India. Javaharlal Nehru,
Chicago "Tribune."
NEW CHALLENGER.
THE OLD CHALLENGER: “It survived me, and it will survive you.”
president of the dominant Congress part£
has given a line on the attitude ot his
party: —
We suggest that rulers of big States can
continue to be Constitutional heads of their
States, and the question of their future
will ultimately be decided by their people.
Rulers of small States cannot function at
all. We are prepared to pension them off.
There are approximately 600 British-con-
trolled States in India, the largest being
Hyderabad. Some of them are not States
at all, but merely petty estates containing
from 200 to 300 people.
There is nn love lost between Indian
inere is no love lost between inu an
Nationalists and rulers of the Indian
States. As the Nationalists see it, the
States are superannuated survivors of an
, j j • • i: .
outmoded imperialism and owe
existence solely to protection. They are
convinced that once British support is re-
moved and the political consciousness of
the States people aroused, it will be only
a matter of time before all prmcely
authority is swept away.
it lo 'nrnhahle fbnt hi oopr States like
18 u pf O tiiat T bl .BS er
Hyderabad, Mysore, Jaipur and others
will be admitted to the Indian union on
the same basis as the provinces, provided
thpv reduce themselves to trulv constitu-
they reduce tnemseives ro iruiy consuiu
tional status. Some smaller States may
combine into units and enter the federa-
tion on a similar basis. Very small
States, embedded in the midst of the pro-
vinces, may be wholly absorbed oi at
most retain only partial measure or their
present autonomy.
* If Ic that the enn ic cettine on
It is evident that the sun is setting on
the prmcely side or India s lite. Mates
like Hyderabad and Mysore are sur-
rounded bv British Indian provinces and
frrirri cpa Thev would
are cut Oil trom the sea. in y
wither away economically It they OKI
not throw in their lot with the rest of
India. In the extreme north-west, on the
other hand, stands the big State of Balu-
chistan, which, through its propinquity
to Iran and its exposure to the sea, enjoys
a good geographical bargaining position.
For the most part, the national
political parties have been excluded from
the States, but the Congress party has
succeeded in getting a foothold through
such subsidiary organisations as Raja
Mandal, or the People’s Association.
From this nucleus nationalism will ex-
pand and the princes, shorn of their
present power, will be unable to check
it. Great changes are inevitable.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
There is a way of preventing labor disputes
breaking out into strikes. The Russians use
if; a striker is shot, exiled to a forced labor
camp or merely left without means of liveli-
hood. This is no Russian discovery. It has
been 1 threughon.
accumulated
sense of injustice breaks forth into
something much worse than strikes.—“Wall-
street Journal”
*. ,„ * , * .
The United States, through its President, at
Moscow, Tehran, Yalta, Potsdam and other
places, entered into a series of secret and un-
constitutional, but nonetheless binding, agree-
ments which imperil its national existence. It
is still true that the American people do not
know all the facts of these agreements • they
have never been fully published. We only know
that what has been made available is horrible,
indecent, un-American and we can only pray
that nothing worse is to come.—George E.
sokolsky; N.Y. "Sun.”
* * * . . *
The Russian view, tied up with its long in-
doctrmated conception of Russia as the spear-
head of a new system of society destined to
liberate mankind from poverty and oppression,
is that the power of a Government should be
satellite States. The Western view is
ra ther that the function of power in a free
society is the precise opposite: to ensure the
right of political opposition, the right of access
to the facts upon which Governments base
tde | r p o ]| C y 7 the right to discuss those facts
and to oppose the conclusions drawn by Gov-
emments. If we could get agreement on that
P° int and on the reciprocal freedoms of mfor-
mation, movement, inspection, reportage im-
pijecj i n we should have taken the first step
to understandings and adjustments which, with-
out it are likely to fail completely-Norman
Angell; N.Y. He,aid Tribune letter.
jbe European economy, in which before the
war Holland played a highly specialised part,
has entirely ceased to exist. With the wrecking
of Germany’there is now practically no market
fQr tfae ag / icultural goods and transport faciii-
des which the Netherlands lived in com-
parative luxury. This state of affairs appears
to the Dutch to be likely to be made permanent
hy the Potsdam agreement, and it is therefore
not surprising that they should resent the fact
t b e y were never consulted over an arrangement
which is nearly a matter of life and death to
them. It is hoped that intensified industriali-
sation will in the long run redress the balance
and possibly enable Holland to gain a share of
the markets left available by the defeat of Ger-
many and Japan, but that will be a very long
run indeed. — London "Times’’’ special corre-
spondent.
* * * ♦
A world in which Europe is restored as an
organic whole, a world in which Chinese civili-
sation once more prevails in its own right and
over all its own vast territories, a world m
which the Near and Middle East achieve co-
hesion and stability, such a world will be
balanced and secure. In such a world Russia
too, will find security.— Editor F. A. Voigt,
London “Nineteenth Century and After."
* * * *
Speaking in the House of Commons, Mr.
Churchill said he had been struck in his visits
to Belgium and to Holland with the vigor
with which all parties there were unitedly
plunging into the whole process of national
recovery. The close relations which were
growing up between those two countries,
the association of the Catholic Church with ex-
tremely advanced liberal social policies, the
general aversion from Communism, all these
were evident. But what impressed him even
more was the deep affection of those countries
for Great Britain. They had it in their hearts
that Britain, by her resistance when she was
all alone, saved the world and enabled their
liberties, to be regained. Why were we not to
be close friends with the Dutch and the Bel-
gians? Had any other nation in the world
a right to object to that? — London “Times"
Parliamentary report.
* ♦ * ♦
When the first American troops came info
Japan there was a rough but fairly well-known
plan. It was that the Allies would tell the
Japanese Government —upheld by the Potsdam
agreement, which was the fundamental basis
of all the American directives —what not to
do. The Japanese were then expected to pro-
duce a righteous system doing what we desired.
This has not worked. We could and did tea
the Japanese to draft a “democratic” Consti-
tution. Prince Konoye tried it —and finally
committed suicide. General MacArthur could
and did tell the Japanese Government to
“purge” undesirable persons. Twice since he
has had to step in and himself outlaw Ichiro
Hatoyama —head of the Liberal party—and two
prospective members of the new Yoshida Gov-
ernment. Since those devetopments the system
has become more co-operative. No important
appointments are now made without previous
Allied sanction —and it is well known who
dressed up the Japanese Constitution. — Tokyo
correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
*** * *
The newsreel which recorded the visit of
General De Gaulle to Clemenceau’s graveside
drew from Parisian audiences a spontaneous and
rare outburst of applause. French history, like
all classical history, is remarkable for the
number of recorded instances of what is vul-
garly known as a comeback. People in ordi-
nary life rarely enjoy the possibility of a second
chance. But in France, as in ancient’ Rome,
statesmen seem to share with characters m
melodrama the mingled sweetness and bitterness
of a return visit. Both Napoleons, the uncle
and the nephew, made a comeback, although in
greatly differing circumstances. Louis XVIII
did if. In more recent times France has wit-
nessed the political resuscitation of Clemenceau,
Joseph CaiUaux, Raymond Poincare, Paul Pam-
leve, Andre Tardieu and Pierre Laval, to name
the dead, and of Edouard Herriot and Leon
Blum, to name the living. All these politicians
had at some time or other in their careers, if
from very different reasons, disappeared from
the public scene or diminished in Parliamentary
prestige to a degree that their return to favor
and power seemed extremely unlikely. .The
case of Clemenceau is, of course, peculiarly
suggestive in relation to the career of De Gaulle.
—Paris correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’
* * * *
This much must be understood: Anti-Semit-
ism is on the rise throughout Europe. Six
million Jews have already been murdered m
Europe because they were Jews. The war only
French casualties in 1939-45
were: Prisoners of war, 1,500,000;
military dead, 250,000; military
wounded, 180,000; civilians exe-
cuted in France, 275,000; political
deportees. 755,000; civilians killed
by bombardment, 300,000; civilians
wounded by bombardment, 700,000;
homes destroyed by bombardment
and in German retreat, 1,250,000;
civilians homeless, 5,000,000. Also,
27.000 prisoners of war and
150.000 political deportees died in
Germany. The high percentage of
tubercular persons returning from
captivity has not yet been tabulated
but is alarming. France’s popula-
tion in 1939 was about 42,000,000.
—“Free World.”
accelerated the velocity of murder. Anti-
Semitism is now taking hold in Soviet Russia
and the puppet countries, particularly Poland.
Reports that seep through the Iron Curtain are
too horrible even for this tough era. —George
E. Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun."


.
<S
m i
t
:
*
w
t *
w
: : •
"A\
w.-y*
«fc. M\ l
K
PIT y ,. *
**
m
% m im\
npiiui
,
I
j-. ■
-fA *
✓‘’v \
i ;; H
■'••'; • : -.
When you mstul
Use the Claude Rental System
Nine out of ten Claude customers including
leading companies choose the rental system
in preference to paying cash when installing
Claude Fluorescent Interior Lighting. One
of the main reasons is that it practically
eliminates first cost, leaving funds free for
other purposes. Under the rental contract,
Claude Neon Limited guarantees to deliver to
your working surface bench or desk
- a specified correct intensity of cool,
glare-free lighting day in, day out, and to
take the whole responsibility of maintenance
from your hands. No lamps to replace. All
you need to know about fluorescent lighting
is how to dial for the Claude Service team.
And when compared point by point, Claude
Fluorescent shows a lower cost per lumen
than any other light source.
CLAUDE FLUORESCENT
CLAUDE NEON LTD.. BRANCHES IN ALL STATES


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3464
Wednesday, July 3, 1946
OPEN AGAIN FOR BUSINESS.
Moscow’s queer manoeuvres concerning Franco recall that its attitude to his friend Peron was almost as ferocious till it hurriedly signed up with the Argentine and
began trading with his country on a large scale.”
“Come in, Caudillo! You will find Peron here already, and if you like to sit where Ribbenlrop or Matsuoka sat you can.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
FUNK AND SPUNK.
The name and example of Mr, Curtin
have already been invoked by “Labor”
in pre-election advertisements. Could
Mr. Curtin return to earth long enough
to see what his country has come to after
four years of surrender to Communists
and their basher gangs and mobs, he
would be appalled and ashamed. And
he would be moved to bitterness and per-
haps to quotation of a favorite poet (“A
lie that is half a truth is ever the blackest
of lies”) by the Communist larrikin
boast, which, however brief his visit, he
could not fail to hear or to read, that
1942 was the peak year of N.S.W- coal
production during the wars.
So it was, if output alone (12,236,200
tons) is considered, but only because
N.S.W. coalminers did less striking and
loafing in that twelvemonth than in any
other of the six war years. In the very
first month, when the war situation was
bad everywhere, and worst of all in the
Pacific, Mr. Curtin got so ugly a report
about the proceedings of the bad hats
(there have always been miners who have
worked faithfully, particularly at Kandos)
that he was baited into addressing them,
in the process admitting his Government’s
ultimate responsibility, in terms which no
other Prime Minister has addressed to a
body of unionists. He said “Any Gov-
ernment that allowed essential produc-
tion to suffer, because men would not
work when" provision existed for the
speedy settlement of disputes, would be
traitorous to Australia”; and, again, “Men
who are not in the fighting forces and
who at the same time will not work are
as much enemies of this country as the
directly enlisted legions of the enemy.”
Military disasters were already accumu-
lating for Australia as well as its partners,
and a period of great peril was setting in.
Within two months there had occurred
the tragedies of Singapore, Rabaul,
Amboina, Java and Timor, in which and
in the ensuing prison-camp and prison-
ship horrors 10,000 Australians lost their
lives, together with the bombing and
civil evacuation of Darwin. Yet in the
first quarter of the terrible year, as the
Prime Minister reported indignantly to
Parliament, there was a production-loss
of 664,000 tons of N.S.W. coal, caused in
part by a stroke of State “Labor” Gov-
ernment lunacy, the withdrawal from the
mines of men who had turned 60 —most
of them were younger than General Mac-
Arthur when he arrived to take up his
command, and many did not want to
go but had to yield to State “Labor”
law and larrikin stoppages—but in the
main by “strikes for many frivolous
reasons,” Mr. Curtin’s own expression,
and by loafing, sugar-coated as “absentee-
ism.”
Into the gaps left perforce by veterans,
as Mr. Curtin revealed at a later date,
swarmed “malcontents and irresponsibles
with bad attendance records ; youths of
military age and taxi-drivers, s.-p. book--
makers, billiard-markers, dog-trainers and
the like,” turned miners “to obtain pro-
tection ; and they not only readily agree
to strike but sometimes make the first
move.”
The Government made a show of
applying coercion. Dr. Evatt, the Attor-
ney-General, came to light with a series
of National Security regulations directing
the mineowners to keep their pits open,
and the miners to labor in their vocation,
the penalties prescribed being £5O and
six months’ imprisonment on summary
conviction, with provision for a great
deal more, at the discretion of Judges,
in cases where indictments were lodged.
Even the show of coercion had a good
effect, and production, though never
“full” except at Kandos and other camps
—the loss for the year was reckoned at
1,800,000 tons —became ample enough to
admit of fairly strong reserve stocks
being built up. But as soon as the bad
hats became convinced that they had
nothing to fear from the Government, or,
of course, their Communist bosses, they
returned to their larrikin tricks.
The first set of regulations having
been found defective, other sets made their
appearance. The policing of the whole
litter being, in effect, left to Communist
bosses, enforcement became a joke. Mr.
Curtin’s Government helped to bring
about its own discomfiture by appeasing
Communists in every way. Communists
boasted that they had secured the arrest
of the Australia-Firsters, eight of whom,
after many months of martyrdom, and
over three years of misery, all shared by
their families, were to be proclaimed inno-
cent by a Federal Judge, compensated—
after a fashion—and apologised to —after
another fashion —by Mr. Forde. That
gentleman’s first job as Minister of the
Army had been to secure the release of
two impenitent Communist conspirators
against Australia’s German-war effort.
Dr. Evatt, after assisting in this con-
summation, was to take it upon himself
on December 18, 1942 (too late to have
any effect on “peak-year” production) to
remove the legal ban on Communist or-
ganisations and publications, undertaking
to restore it if they failed to keep their
engagements, one of which was that they
would “do their utmost to promote har-
mony in industry and minimise absentee-
ism, stoppages, strikes or other hold-ups.”
This Evatt undertaking has proved as
worthless as a Soviet treaty.
Meanwhile Communists cashed in on
lying reports of the Russian war, reports
representing all the Russian operations as
victories, and thus bringing reflected glory
to the Communist conspiracy everywhere.
Except for the stands at Moscow and
Leningrad, these operations were an
almost unbroken series of horrible de-
feats, and casualties were suppressed—it
is now admitted that the Russians lost
in dead alone the equivalent of Aus-
tralia’s whole population—until the de-
cisive victory of El Alamein relieved the
pressure on Russia by shaking the morale
and forcing a redistribution of Axis
forces to meet the gathering threat of in-
vasion from North Africa and from Eng-
land.
In the Feb,, 1943, issue of the “N.S.W.
Industrial Gazette,” a State Govern-
ment publication, there appears a list of
coalmining disputes during the “peak
year.” Including two at the Glen Davis
shale concern, they numbered 538, of
which 136 lasted two to ten days and
five others 11 to 50 days. Comparative
figures for ten years (the general-strike
and depression periods of 1929-32 in-
clusive omitted) are here subjoined;
Workers Working
Year. Involved. Days Lost.
1933 .. .. 16,299 36,068
1934 .. .. 33,729 117,108
1935 .. .. 45,539 156,176
1936 .. .. 75,067 215,458
1937 .. .. 142,350 304,163
1938 .. .. 161,851 714,342
1939 .. .. 202,522 380,367
1940 .. .. 204,284 962,801
1941 .. .. 218,211 404,520
1942 .. .. 138,589 226,299
In effect, the “peak year” and the two
preceding war years were worse for strik-
ing and loafing than pre-war years. The
wicked 1940 .figures (otherwise expressed
in a reduction in output from 11,119,500
tons in 1939 to 9,600,000 tons) were
results of a ten-weeks’ strike in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Victoria and Tasmania which
Mr. Menzies tried to settle by facing
insult-shouting N.S.W. coalfields mobs in
their own haunts (an example lost on his
two “Labor” successors), and they greatly
influenced the Menzies Government in
outlawing the Communist conspiracy.
Since Federal “Labor” became its patron
and ally, the Communist conspiracy has
exerted itself to keep annual output round
9,000,000 tons, all too successfully.
Last year, as the Opposition-leader
said —in the course of a debate in which
Mr. Dedman, with a disingenuousness
which other Labor leaders from Scotland,
Andrew Fisher, Gregor McGregor and
Forgan Smith, would have despised,
asserted untruthfully that “the present
coal shortage is in part a legacy of the
1940 strike,” for which he blamed the
Menzies Government —“629,000 days
were lost in N, S. Wales by 17,000 miners,
while in Britain 640,000 days were lost by
700,000 men.” As the “N.S.W, Industrial
Gazette” puts it, “lost time per cent, of
possible working time” (30 to 36 hours
per “working” week underground) was
19.7 p.c. in October, 60.9 p.c. in December
and 16.5 p.c. for the year. “From
3/12/’45 to 17/12/’45” (the “N.S.W. In-
dustrial Gazette” quoted again) “all coal-
mines were idle owing to cessation of
work by coalminers (16,526) in support
of the Newcastle and Port Kembla iron-
workers’ strike,” and the Bunnerong
power-house was idle, except for loyal
staff workers who carried on, with no
thanks from “Labor,” “from 7/12/’45 to
13/12/’45.”
During the second week of the
December coal strike the Sydney “Labor”
Government turned from the considera-
tion of pensions for Assemblymen and
their widows far greater than those pro-
vided for servicemen and servicemen’s
widows to impose drastic restrictions on
the innocent community, buttressed by
savage penalties, and to issue the cruellest
instruction of which any English-speaking
Government has ever been guilty. “All
hospitals under the control of the State
Hospitals’ Commission,” being “depen-
dent on coal, coke and electricity for
light, heat and power,” were “to discharge
all patients who can be discharged with
safety” and “keep admittances to a mini-
mum by restricting them to maternity
cases and urgent cases.” This shocked
Dr, Schlink, chairman of the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital Board, and a practitioner
whose skill and benevolence have for
many years been placed at the service of
the sick poor, into stating that the re-
strictions and the ukase would amount to
a death sentence in many cases ; and it
is a melancholy fact that mortality
figures obtained from the Government
statistician’s office showed a sharp rise:
Deaths Registered in Sydney Metropolitan
District Registrars’ Offices.
Dec., 1944 .. 1103 Jan., 1945 .. 1211
Dec., 1945 .. 1161 Jan., 1946 .. 1386
Any Communist ruffian or “Labor”
poltroon is at liberty to argue with Dr.
Schlink that these dreadful statistics have
no bearing on the protest that came from
his heart, or to deny that strikes which
convulse transport and supplies of fuel,
power and lighting, as they have done in
June as well as in December and Janu-
ary, with so many people ailing and
anxious and overwrought, can be killer
strikes.
The Queensland coalminers, in spite of
their Communists, had a fairly good war
record. The Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion, which is stiff with Communists, had
a bad war record. Coalminers and
watersiders having struck in “sym-
pathy” with the deregistered Meatworkers’
Union, which came out in March—
though most of the original strikers have
returned to work —the State Government,
which is Labor with a difference, declared
the existence of a state of emergency and
imposed restrictions affecting most of the
Queensland people, ordering as well a
strike ballot of the Meatworkers’ Union
and seizing its books and papers.
This, of course, meant making
the innocent suffer, in the propor-
tion of 40 or 50 to one, for the
acts of the guilty. And the inno-
cent may fairly protest that it would
have been better to isolate the strikes,
freeze the bank accounts of the guilty
unions and the principal conspirators,
disfranchise these fellows, and, as
far as possible, deprive the whole
crowd of recourse to pubs, cinema
theatres, racecourses and other gam-
bling joints and racing broadcasts.
But appearances are that the hard-
ships have been and will be philosophic-
ally endured in consideration of the fact
that, in the presence of Communist
larrikinism waging wicked war on the
community, a Labor Government has at
last shown spunk. And though the evils
and the dangers are continent-wide and
are removable only by continent-wide
action, the spunk of this Queensland Gov-
ernment is a great matter after so many
years of Canberra funk.
Tales from Papua.
There is a legend of Papua which may
not be true, but which certainly has a
bearing on current events.
It is told that, before World War 11,
the authorities of the Port Moresby Club
were alarmed by a sudden hiatus in the
bottle department, coupled by an even
more mysterious disappearance of whisky
glasses.
The Papuan Native Police, that splen-
did force which is the real Government
as well as the eyes and ears of authority,
unearthed a strange sight at which a few
taubadas were allowed a furtive peep
before it was forcibly dissolved. In a
disused copra shed the club’s houseboys
had set up a club of their own. The fur-
nishings, like the members’ raiment, were
somewhat sketchy, but the acting was
superb.
Each houseboy had adopted the role
of his favorite taubada. Thus, members
of the club proper were able to study their
own attitudes, gestures and voices repre-
sented by chocolate-colored imperson-
ators of the highest quality. The amenities
of the ghostly institution included
stewards, who had been drilled to their
task by experienced hands, and, of course,
the Port Moresby Club’s whisky and
glasses. The feelings of some of the tau-
badas as they gazed furtively on the
revivals of past scenes were not always
humorous, save when.their fellows were
concerned. (“Have another Scotch, old
son?” “Don’t mind if I do. The missus
is away.”)
It is a pity that nobody apparently told
this tale to the Honorable Edward John
Ward, Minister of Transport and External
Territories, and impressed upon him the
moral lesson which it contained: if an
Administrator wishes for good behavior
and loyal adherence from natives, he must
set an example, since he is sure to become
the prototype of all native public actions.
If the Honorable is capable of absorb-
ing a lesson it would possibly have
saved him from some of the tribulations
with which he is now threatened and for
which his own actions have been largely
responsible.
The people of Papua have suffered
a series of unsettling experiences from
which it will take them long to recover,
even in the most favorable circumstances.
First there came the Australian Army
and its satellites, with all the concomitants
of pick-and-shovel work and curious
scenes in which white men were actually
noticed laboring. Then came the Japan-
men in the skies. Then the old white
inhabitants were bundled into ships and
sent southward. One of these veterans
was Albert English, who had stepped
ashore at Riga in 1885, unarmed and in
the face of a few thousand glowering
Papuans, and taken away a couple of
native criminals whom the local chieftain
had dared him to molest. Albert Eng-
lish had lived there ever since, but the
Administration sent him away because it
didn’t think Papua safe for him.
Next there was Kokoda with all its
hardships, and on its heels queer char-
acters who knew no Motuan or pidgin,
and some of whom spoke sentimentally
of “Fuzzywuzzy angels,” a term of en-
dearment calculated to make the stomach
of a strong warrior turn over.
And then —and then —came the Honor-
able Ward.
The Honorable’s arrival on out-of-the-
way beaches will, by this time, have
become a classic turn of mimicry in the
houses of the young men.
Friends of long standing have been at
pains to herald his coming. The local
council has been told of the vastness of
the distinction which has been conferred
on the community by the descent of the
all-powerful one who can set all things
right. He is in a boat. The rowers sweat
at their oars in the very sedulousness of
their endeavor to feather without splash-
ing. The green shore, with its waiting
concourse of dusky citizens, leaps towards
them.
There is one other person in the boat
who attracts attention. He is large,
chocolate-brown and very clean. He
appears beatified. This is his day of
days. He sits anticipating the honor
which is about to be his.
For he has been chosen to carry the
Great Man ashore. Already he can feel
the Great Man’s Brisbane Line impinging
on his shoulder muscles. In imagination
he makes his steady aquatic progress,
travelling through the shoals —not too
fast, for the ladies must have ample time
to appraise his skill. He sees himself set
his precious burden down safe and un-
splashed ashore; hears with mock
modesty the public thanks. He hopes
his illustrious burden will shake hands
with him. The Great Man may even give
him a present—perhaps even his photo-
graph. That’ll knock ’em one! He him-
self will be a great man in the village
tonight.
The boat grates to a standstill without
even a jar. Constable Waria steps into
the sea and presents his shoulders. No-
thing happens till there is a splash. The
constable discovers that Big-fella Minister
has rolled up his pants and has taken to
the water. Big-fella Minister is soon
making an unbalanced progress shore-
wards, the population looking on and
trying not to laugh. Such a thing has
never before happened in Papua.
Constable Waria is deeply affronted.
The old men as they discuss the incident
spit occasionally. They agree that the
Minister must have been brought up
among some kuku-kuku hill tribe of
whites who have no manners. At any
rate they lose their awe for him, and
when he makes a speech about “democ-
racy’* and the native they do not under-
stand him. Democracy has been in un-
disputed practice in Papua for about
10,000 years and has become so common-
place that the word for it is mislaid.
At last the war ends, but bewilderment
remains. The old friendly masters do not
come back. In their places there are
gabbling sentimentalists whose talk a
civilised man cannot understand. Hope,
however, rises when the news reaches
Moresby that Murray is coming. Big
Murray, nearly a god, has of course gone
to Elysium ; so it is Young (Leonard)
Murray, Papua-bred, who is expected.
There is great excitement when Young
Murray is due; bitter disappointment
when it is discovered that there is a mis-
take and that the Murray who has come
is a new Murray.
It is not quite the last straw. That
comes when it is announced that the
Honorable intends to build a model
village for the Papuans and spend a
hundred and thirty thousand —or it may
be a hundred and eighty thousand —
pounds. Indignation is at once rife
among the Moresby natives. They are a
solid, intelligent, capable people, many of
whom think more clearly and, speak
better English than Mr. Ward does. They
have their own village councils which
conduct their business infinitely better
than did the Sydney City Council when
Mr. Ward’s party controlled it. There


have been no Bunnerong scandals in
Papua.
Model village, indeed! They do not
want Mr. Ward’s model village. What
does he think they are! Animals in the
zoo?
So it is here that the Moresby natives
have shown their capacity for imitation,
This time they propose to make Mr. Ward
the victim of the methods of his friends
the wharflaborers, the coalminers and the
meatworkers.
Last week it was reported that they had
served two demands on the Government,
They have asked that Young Murray be
sent back to govern Papua, and that the
Government abandon its plan to build its
model village. They declare that they are
quite capable of building their own vil-
lages without interference from the Gov-
emment.
And if Young Murray does not come
back and if the village is built, they say,
they tvil! consider organising a general
T . , . . ,
It would seem that Mr. Ward is to have
a sa utary lesson in the influence of ex-
ample on native life.
KALOA.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Clever People!
During a week which saw the British and
American Governments concentrate ten
warships in the Gulf of Venice to pre-
vent the Moscow agent, Tito, from seiz-
ing Trieste, a parcel of Australian “intel-
lectuals” came out with a “demand” for
the severance of “diplomatic relations
with the Franco Government in Spain.”
Among them were Professors Clunies
Ross, Stone and Crawford. Others were
members of the Australian Fellowship of
Writers. These particular worthies were
dumb and inert when the Australian
writers Harley Matthews and Watts were
interned in 1942 for many months with-
out being charged, much less tried. Nor
is it on record that they broke their
silence when Watts, a gassed soldier of the
first German war, died in a military hos-
pital, or when he and Matthews, a Gal-
lipoli soldier and poet, were vindicated by
a Judge belatedly appointed by Dr. Evatt,
and apologised to by Mr. Fordc, the
Judge having reported they were loyal
citizens unjustly arrested and held in con-
finement, and entitled to be compensated
by the Crown—the surviving victim of
panic and of Communist vilification, and
the gassed soldier’s widow.
The “intellectuals’ ” manifesto closed
with a statement that, “if the leaders and
people of the United Nations refuse to
recognise Franco’s regime, we believe that
it will not be able to continue oppressing
the people of Spain, and that a peaceful
transition to constitutional government
will be possible.” For this fustian read
“a violent transition to Communist gov-
ernment will be certain,” in Spain
and also in Portugal. In other
words to Governments as furiously
anti-British as are those in Yugo-
slavia, Poland, Bulgaria and Rumania,
to which last country Russia has refused
to admit English-speaking reporters.
With Egypt and India as good as gone,
how crazy it would be for any British
Government to plant Tito regimes in
Spain and Portugal!
It is the height of impudence for any
clique in Australia, on which a parcel of
Communists, acting under orders from
Moscow, have imposed Moscow’s policy
against the friendly and neighboring
Dutch, to the extent of holding up their
ships and even refusing to repair a
damaged destroyer, to “demand” interfer-
ence in the affairs of another country, at
which they may gaze in comfort and
safety from a distance of 10,000 miles.
But the folly of clever people is one of
the tragedies of the age. In no other age
has it been made so evident that know-
ledge and wisdom can be poles apart.
The D'Alton Scandal.
On May 25 N.S.W. District Court Judge
Kirby, rounding off an inquiry undertaken
by him as Royal Commissioner, reported
that Thomas George de Largie D’Alton,
when Tasmanian “Labor” Minister of
Forests, had received two bribes from
sawmillers —one of £94 14s. 3d., in timber,
from Ronald James Howard, and one of
£3OO, “in notes,” from William George
Nosworthy and Edvard Aarstad Alster-
gren—and that two officers of his depart-
ment, Melville Roy Garrett and Donald
Wallace Chisholm, received other bribes.
A month passed without anything ex-
plicit being heard from Tasmania as to
proceedings being taken or contemplated
against any of the persons mentioned
Nor, up to last week, was anything at ail
said at Canberra as to the appointment of
D’Alton as High Commissioner to New
Zealand during the year in which (as per
his Honor’s report) he “accepted” the
“gift” of timber “ as a bribe for ser-
vices and favors improperly rendered and
to be rendered” or as to his work in New
Zealand and his sudden disappearance
from office.
Noting the strange silence and with a
preliminary reference to # “the remarkable
changes which have taken place in the
standards of thought in this country since
my departure in January, 1941”—year in
which, according to the Royal Commis-
sioner, D’Alton “accepted” the Nos-
worthy-Alstergren money “as a bribe for
services and favors improperly rendered
and to be rendered” —Mr. A. M. Blain,
veteran of two wars and captive of the
Japanese for nearly four years, devoted
part of a very outspoken speech to the
appointment to Wellington and related
circumstances. The Digger member said:
It was a somewhat hurried appointment.
At the rime it was made the very dogs
in Tasmania must have been barking the
exploits of the gentleman involved and
he must have heaved a great sigh of relief
when he was translated outside the three-
mile limit of Australia. With equal sudden-
ness that gentleman was replaced recently
by a young V.C. winner.
For that V.C. winner. I have the gieatest
personal admiration. But he has neither
the training nor the qualifications to serve
the country as a High Commissioner. And
the reason for his appointment was only
apparent when it was discovered that the
political henchman of the Government,
whom the Government had aided, I am sure
unwittingly, in getting outside the three-
THE RULING THOUGHT.
“And now, perhaps, we’ll get a bit of coal.”
mile limit, had been convicted of bribe-
taking in the most flagrant manner by a
Royal Commission. It then must have
been apparent to everybody that the
appointment of a V.C. winner, otherwise
unqualified for his position, was merely
designed by the Government to enable it
to take cover behind his well-earned
decoration.
It is time the Government made a state-
ment on the D’Alton case. I should like
to know what steps it is taking to see
that the corrupt scoundrel who represented
this country in New Zealand at Common-
wealth expense is brought to justice. I
should like to know, in view of some of
the evidence given before the Royal Com-
njission on the scandals in Tasmanian timber,
whether the Commonwealth knows whether
its recently-employed officer is to be prose-
cuted by the Tasmanian Government....
This is one incident which shows how
deadened public opinion is in this country.
If any such speech had been delivered 7
in Andrew Fisher’s time the member’s
last remark would have been indignantly
repudiated and he would have been an-
swered immediately. Immediate answer
to Mr. Blain there was none, although the
“Government” now has a Minister from
Tasmania in each Chamber.
In Macquarie's Street. *
Anyone who reverences Macquarie and
has an abiding admiration for Green-
way’s architecture could imagine that
State “Labor” has gone to the gods of
its deadly materialism, Brewers, Bungs
and Bookies, for its ideas of “improving”
Macquarie-street, in the process drawing
heavily on the pool of building material
and labor which thousands of bitter
servicemen have found tragically inade-
quate.
As communicated to “S. M. Herald”
the proposals run to shifting Sydney Hos-
pital to Kensington racecourse (subject,
of course, to the caprices of the “Gov-
ernment’s” war-time creation, the Syd-
ney Turf Club), “the provision of a
public square, large enough for gather-
ings, opposite the junction of Martin-
place with Macquarie-street,” the square
to be “flanked by public buildings, with
Law Courts on the south”; and “the re-
placement of “the present Parliament
placement y ~ „
House, recognised as g .
With the last sentence, one word omitte,
people who have followed the war-t
and post-war proceedings of Parliament
down to the passing of the Legi
Assembly Pensions Bill will not *
But those who love Sydney
acquainted with its history ask themselves
whether the greatest
is’Macquarie-street should be superseded
by “Labor’s” notions of improving it.
and the answer is a thunderous No.
d _ , TT - , ,„, „
Sydney Hospital s Hosnital
the mam block of advisers.
designed by M q . . building
It is such a str f another storev
hat it could easily carry another storey.
In any case t howitals in great
where all great public hosprtakm peat
ports , are m the ° £ m ‘Kf?,
That is the Vl ‘'W - th h n ; ta i ex .
the medical profession with hospital ex
penence, but they are ignored.
As for the suggestion that a new Par-
liamentary building is needed the present
edifice is capacious enough for the
amount and quality of the “work” done
within its walls, and with the inevitable
. . I v. ’o. . . ..
arrival of new States three at least in
what is now N. S. Wales — it will be
capacious enough for all future purposes.
* - ~ , • •
One of the counts in the indictmen
against this “Parliament,” which has
been under “Labor” control for five
years, is that it has no reverence for old
Sydney, though old Sydney was one of
the most charming cities in the world, or
the few remaining relics of its history in
brick and stone. It connived at the demoli-
tion of the Commissariat Stores on the
west side of Sydney Cove, a crime against
the past of the nation and committed
to no purpose. No doubt it will blithely
contemplate the pulling down of Francis
Greenway’s convict barracks and the
Mint —which goes back to the foundations
of civil law, banking and commerce in
Australia. It might possibly give three
cheers if St. James’s Church were re-
placed by a theatre in the Byzantine-
Hollywood style, or a lottery shop or a
stadium built to plans vetted by Wren —
not, of course, a lineal descendant of the
man who built St. Paul’s, but patron of
a long line of bruisers who have enter-
tained “Labor.”
Socialism and Farming.
Many land men to whom “socialisation,”
under the guise of guaranteed prices and
regulated production, looked attractive
are now scratching their heads doubtfully,
and many more are voicing their dis-
approval of Canberra methods of “con-
trol.”
Woolgrowers got their first shock when
the Chifley Government calmly an-
nounced that a £7,000,000 profit from
skin wools, noils, tops, etc., under the
British purchase scheme would be de-
voted to research —growers already pay a
25.-a-bale levy for that purpose. They
became mighty annoyed when they
learned that profits accrued from the
winding-up of the B.P.S. —£20,000,000
was one estimate—might be used as a sort
of reserve for the future, under the Joint
Organisation, to “stabilise” or “equalise”
or something in the event of wool prices
falling below the J.O. limits.
Wool men would prefer to do their own
stabilising with their own money, paying
their own administrative costs. Canberra
administrative costs are terrific. Whafs
more, the money was promised to them,
once by Senator McLeay, speaking for
the Menzies-Fadden Government, and
again by Mr. Curtin, and they resent
broken promises, especially since money
is badly needed for fencing, equipment,
flock improvement, water supplies and
numerous other things. Few of them
escaped drought; none escaped man-
power restrictions and mechanical and
fuel deficiencies ; and the same applies to
wheatgrowers.
Wheat men have come up against this
“stabilisation” notion with a loud bump.
In a world hungry for wheat and with an
export price of over 10s, a bushel ruling
for their product, they have been told
once more by Mr. Scully that they are to
get ss. 2d. at ports for last year’s and the
next four years’ crops, the difference be-
tween that and world parity to go into a
“stabilisation fund,” half to be held
against some problematical time when ex-
port parity falls below 55.2 d. It means that
the grower will get 6s. or so a bushel
for last year’s wheat, and the way this
is explained is enough to make him go
out and kick a saffron thistle to death:
It is proposed for the current year that
the contribution will be half the difference
between ss. 2d. and 9s. 6d. bagged. The
average export return is estimated at 10s.
Growers will therefore, be paid from the
pobl on the following basis: ss. 2d. a
bushel for domestically consumed wheat,
and for export wheat ss. 2d., plus 50 p.c.
of the difference between ss. 2d. (the
guaranteed price) and 9s. 6d. and a further
6d. on export wheat, this being the differ-
ence between 10s. and 9s. 6d.
There has been an Australian Wheat-
growers’ Federation meeting in Perth and
its president expected to see Mr. Scully
on Saturday and have certain things out
with him. But on Saturday Mr. Scully
was at Moree, where somebody had some-
how got together 1000 bales of wool
for the first and last appraisement under
the Scully scheme of country —in this
case, Scully-electorate appraisements,
which got no further than the erection of
two or three unwanted and unused
appraisement floors at a cost of some-
where about £BO,OOO.
Meantime, dairyfarmers, who also are
steadily “socialised” from Canberra, are
far from happy, finding that growing
costs, crippling taxation and lack of
labor and machinery, together with Com-
munist-led strikes which tie up bacon
and cheese factories and transport, go
hand in hand with Government “control.”
Many good dairy heifers are being sold
for slaughter and many good and often
famous herds are going up for sale.
Poultrymen are no better off; just now
they’re being told on the one hand that
overproduction threatens them and on
the other than Britain wants all the eggs
it can get, while suburban housewives
can’t get an egg for love or money.
About the only land men who are doing
well are those who’ve chucked farming
to go rabbiting. And even there, if
“Labor” is continued in office, it’s only
a matter of time before Canberra sets
up a board or a commission or some-
thing, fixes prices, starts a “stabilisation”
fund, restricts the number of bunnies per
acre, insists on trappers being licensed,
and thus brings one more industry into
the “Labor”-socialist net.
Plan With a Chance.
There is nothing nebulous about, the
S.A. intention to make Robe into a deep-
sea port and develop its hinterland
through soldier-settlement and the crea-
tion, as a beginning, of a super, factory
and a cellulose industry. A Public
Works committee, after close examina-
tion, is confident that the population of
the State’s south-east can be stepped up
from 30,000 to 100,000 in 20 years.
The plan entails many things in addi-
tiofi to the construction of a port —new
roads and railways, water and drainage
works, subdivision of estates and home-
building. South Australia has bought, or
is about to buy, land enough to settle a
thousand farmers, with a resultant in-
crease in sheep numbers from 750,000 to
3,000,000. Figures based on estimated
imports into and exports from the area,
anticipated extra taxation, harbor and
rail revenue inspired the committee to
estimate a profit of £250,000 a year for
the State over additional costs when de-
velopment reaches its limit.
Therein lies a catch. Many State
schemes have been cheerfully estimated to
show profits at some time or other. Few
have ever done it, not necessarily because
the planning or the estimates were wrong,
but because seasons and markets and
costs are unpredictable things which
always operate against optimists. All the
same, S.A. is on the move, particularly
with soldier-settlement, and that without
any excess of “planners.”


&sg
m
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
\
POLITICAL POINTS
When this page had to be made up all
Queensland was awaiting the result of a
compulsory conference between meat-
works employers and strikers. It had
been called by Premier Hanlon, who had
earlier declared a state of emergency and
ordered a secret ballot. The rest of Aus-
tralia, noting signs of revolt against Com-
munist larrikins in Perth (the carpenters
have promised to work all Dutch ships),
Melbourne (the Communist Healy had a
hostile meeting on the waterfront), and in
Queensland (among coal strikers) watched
Hanlon with greater interest than it did
the atom-bomb experiment at Bikini, so
novel was the spectacle of a Labor
Premier standing firm against wreckers.
In the meantime, though Sydney’s
power and light supply depended for its
continuance on hourly coal arrivals at
Bunnerong and N.S.W. trains were cut
down and trams ceased running at the
week-end, every coalmine stopped in the
Illawarra while the men talked about dust.
And out of Canberra and out of Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, welled a scared
silence —not even a word of encourage-
ment for Hanlon. In that he shares the
experience of every other Australian who
has dared to stand up to Communists and
their mobs and serfs.
Rain, with promise of more, came to
the Riverina wheat-country at the week-
end. It was barely in time to save the
new crops or to prevent a second seed-
ing. Nature seems to delight in acting
“contrairy” every time the optimistic
Scully and his offsiders open their faces
and burble joyfully about big crops. Big
or little, few farmers can be found ready
to burble with anything other than rage
over the latest Scully “plan,” under which
—unless election scare blows it away-
they will get ss. 2d. a bushel at ports,
half the balance between that and a
world price of at least 10s. to go into a
so-called stabilisation fund.
One Healy, of Brisbane Trades Hall,
on the meat strike;
The only authority which can end it is
the Commonwealth Government. The
Commonwealth Government can issue an
order for the reopening of plants under
the conditions which applied on March 1,
with reinstatement of the four men dis-
missed from the Murarrie bacon factory.
When Messrs. Neumann (Meatworkers)
and Macdonald (Ironworkers) had consulta-
tions with him some weeks ago, Mr.
Holloway agreed to such a proposal and
was ready to recommend it to Mr. Chifley.
Chifley’s reply was to pass the buck in
the familiar terms —“It is a State matter.”
Now, every time a ’plane appears “poor
old Holloway’s” colleagues have to resist
an impulse to hide him in the wood-box
or somewhere.
When the Queensland all-services
railway unions decided at an executive
meeting to lift the “black” ban on goods
so marked by the strike bosses —some
railwaymen had been fined for refusing to
handle “black” goods, and the punish-
ment proved salutary—“militants” vented
their spite by sneaking from the room,
locking the door and throwing away the
key. The majority had to stay there till
the caretaker arrived with his master-key.
The police used to have a way with
larrikins capable of such low tricks, know-
ing .they were yellow; but 1946 larrikins
have the Chifleys and McKells —but not
the Hanlons—in a blue funk.
About 400 members of the deregistered
Queensland Meat Employees’ Industrial
Union have applied to the Court for regis-
tration as the Bacon Factories Union of
Employees. This joins an application for
registration of the C.Q. Meat Employees’
Union —about 150 men at Lakes Creek
who, like the bacon workers, obeyed the
Court’s order to go back to work. The
signs are that there will be a lot more of
these applications to industrial tribunals,
and not only in Queensland. ,
Scully has announced the wool reserve
for the auctions: 18.15 d. Australian per
lb. The agreement to which Britain, Aus-
tralia, N.Z. and South Africa are parties
provides for selling war-time stocks and
oncoming clips, the four to fix a reserve
each season and make their own arrange-
ments about local charges to meet admini-
strative costs —the Australian is 5 p.c. of
the value of the wool, about .9ld. per lb.
Apparently there is to be a rise of round
l|d. per pound on war-time prices, and
growers will welcome it, though it won’t
quieten their curiosity about the millions
gathered in by the Commonwealth “Gov-
ernment” from the war-time purchase
scheme, and held by it with vague talk
about “research” and “stabilisation.”
Ashley, who blames Bunnerong for the
coal iniquity, forgetting that Bunnerong
was a “Labor” show (and smell) in the first
place, keeps on dribbling out a little more
petrol to motor owners. Nobody cart find
any reason for continuation of rationing
except the nearness of the election, for
which the Government needs a lot of bait.
New Zealand dispensed with coupons,
keeping the dollar position under 'control
by restricting bulk supplies. Nothing so
simple as that would appeal to Ashley
and his crowd and the bureaucrats with
whom they have surrounded themselves.
Small as is its local production of coal,
South Australia has fared better than
any of its eastern neighbors since the man-
caused shortage brought about drastic
restrictions once more. In N. S. Wales,
for eveiy ton saved by the cutting out of
trams, trains, sleepers, radiators and so
forth, 30 or 40 tons have been lost in
stoppages. For two Sundays there have
been no church, hospital or cemetery
trams, and in at least 95 per cent, of
cases decent working families have been
the victims. Communist-bossed strikers
can be awfully cruel to their own people.
In the last two years there have been
many things about the R.A.A.F. which
have called for attention, but Drakeford,
the Minister, was spared. The odd ex-
emption period ended when Air Vice-
Marshal Bostock, turned newspaper
writer, raked Drakeford’s administration
fore and aft; and Air Vice-Marshal
“King” Cole is to tackle him in the Mari-
byrnong (Vic.) electorate. Maribyrnong
is reckoned one of the “safe” Labor divi-
sions, but after crossing the floor with
Lyons Fenton won it for the U.A.P. in
1931.
Communists, whether principals, agents
or dupes, are, clumsy fellows. At New
York Gromyko had “a fierce battle of
the veto” with Dr. Evatt on the Franco
question, thereby giving rise to the sus-
picion that Moscow may try to come to
terms with Franco, as it has come
to terms with Peron. And after
continuing to play the nark at the
Foreign Ministers’ palavers, Molotov pro-
duced a plan for “an autonomous division
of Trieste” with, as an alternative, “joint
sovereignty by Yugoslav and Italy, with
two governors, one Italian and one Yugo-
slav,” and apparently five or six armies.
Simultaneously the Czechoslav Govern-
ment, now led- by an open Communist,
sent a memorandum “recommending that
Trieste become Yugoslav territory in the
interests of economic prosperity and
appeasement.” And this from Prague,
where Chamberlain has been a dishonored
name for eight years.
The Anglican and Catholic bishops who
look after the religious needs of the
Northern Territory have united in protest-
ing against Canberra’s seizure of their
churches. The Anglican Bishop has
raised a point which should interest Dr.
Evatt, who, when drawing up his 1944
referendum proposals, so horribly de-
feated, seemed to harbor the view that
neither Deakin nor Barton nor any of
their contemporaries had ever thought
of any of the Freedoms, the privilege be-
ing reserved for Roosevelt and himself.
Section 116 of the Evatt-despised Con-
stitution says “The Commonwealth shall
not make any law for prohibiting
the free exercise of any religion.”
The closing of the taxation year
has left many taxpayers without assess-
ments for the first time since they began
paying income-ta«, and has also left them
wondering whether they have not been
withheld to admit of the “Gov-
ernment” making a great pre-election
tax-cut parade. They have not been
withheld in all cases. A Tasmanian
with an income of £4706 has been ordered
to pay £4975, part of the impost being
“provisional tax for the ensuing year.”
Needless to say, he is not a publican, a
bookmaker or blackmarketeer.
Though the Rabaul, Ambon, Timor
and Java garrisons were sacrificed far
north of Ward’s Brisbane Line, and that
when “Labor” was Saving the Country,
Ward had the face to quote the line on
which he hangs dirty linen as counter
to an Opposition request for an inquiry
into the island tragedies. Taken to task
by Spender, he had no answer to Percy’s
spirited defence of his oft-slandered
brother-in-law, but to Harrison the fellow
talked fight. Afterwards he confided to
his favorite daily that he wasn’t a fighting
man. The Paddington push may demur,
but the A.I.F, will agree.
It is exceedingly rare for a Govern-
ment which has been nearly eight years
in office to win a by-election with a sub-
stantially increased majority. That has
happened in South Australia, the Govern-
ment being Playford’s, and the electorate
Burnside. With a Playford Minister,
Abbott, promoted to the Supreme Court
bench, Burnside has gone to G. T. Clarke,
who secured 10,000 to “Labor’s” 4800 or
so. The ominous feature for the Chifleys
is that Burnside is part of the Federal
electorate of Boothby, for which ex-
Senator Keith Wilson, who wore the
A.I.F. uniform in two wars, will be the
Liberal candidate. His opponent is
Sheehy, who has cut no ice at Canberra,
and who, in 1943, unexpectedly wrested
Boothby from Grenfell Price by 1928
votes in a poll of 73,082,
The British Labor Government,
absorbed in “taking over”'this, that and
the other thing, has been recalled to
essentials by protesting women, reduced
to despair by rationing of bread and flour
(adults are to get 2\ 28oz. loaves a week)
and by a cut in the soap issue. The
constancy and generosity of the sorely-
tried people have extorted praise from
the stern De Valera;
Our Government considers it nothing
short of wonderful that the British people
are behaving as they are —stinting them-
selves to send food where it is most needed
in Europe.
Dr. Mannix is also active in support of
the Food for Britain appeals. The Gov-
ernment at Canberra has coldshouldered
them, and has never been instrumental in
sending a hundredweight of food to
Britain for which it has not exacted the
full market price.
All unknown to the vast majority of
Australians, a Brains Trust was working
among them in 1942, attending to their
morale and all that. Composed in the
main of professors in the thirties, with
Stone and Crawford, of course, among
them, the Brains Trust, according to the
Sydney “Sunday Telegraph,” which has
Lifted the Veil, fortified itself with “read-
ings from ‘PM.’ ” “PM” is a nasty little
semi-Communist New York sheet whose
editor, Ingersoll, attacked Montgomery
in a book as a bad general and a bounder.
Though he was blown out by Eisenhower,
the “Sunday Telegraph,” which is edited
by a. Mr. C. Pearl, is serialising his
poisonous stuff (the first instalment was
headed “The British Wanted to Dodge
a Second Front”), having itself been so
contemptuous of the British war effort
when the “D.T.” stable was mad for a
Second Front that it denounced Opposi-
tion Ms.H.R. as “Anglophiles.”
It has been denied by Forde that
deserter? from his Army are to get honor-
able discharges. It was asserted that there
were at least 15,000 of these deserters,
euphemised during the war as “a.w.l.
cases” and now as “illegal absentees.”
Forde gives the number as 8789, and de-
clares that “their records will be en-
dorsed to show that their discharges were
made on account of misconduct, which
will automatically preclude them from
eligibility for war gratuity or for war
medals, rehabilitation benefits and war
service homes.” Nothing about their be-
ing disfranchised, although they are not
fit to vote or to be at large.
The Newcastle branch of Thornton’s
Red Racket, the so-called Ironworkers’
Association, has slapped a levy of 10s. a
head on full members and ss. a head on
girls and youths for money to square its
debts over the lost Christmas strikes.
Australian law ought to protect unionists
against Communist taxes and lots of other
things—though if it did “Labor” would
never enforce it.
A new Rudd family has appeared in
Melbourne. Evicted from their home in
Box Hill in the middle of a rainstorm
the Rudds —man, wife and three children,
one a child of three who is having in-
jections for asthma—spent the night in a
cowshed which the father first had to
clear of the evidences of their usual
tenants, A doctor found the youngest
infant sleeping on a sopping mattress and
said that a night like that might per-
manently undermine the child’s health.
The family Was evicted because the house
was wanted by its owner, who may have
been in the same straits as they are. An-
other Rudd has just been demobilised and
another is on his way to Japan to join
the occupation force.
Left-Wingers fared badly in the elec-
tion of the N.Z. Federation of Labor
Executive. A. W. Croskery (Shop
Assistants) was named president and F.
P. Walsh (Seamen) vice-president. The
choice of Walsh is particularly signifi-
cant. He was voted off the executive two
years ago, and was defeated again last
year. Since then, as a member of the
N.Z. Economic Stabilisation Committee,
he wrote a brave and wise report in
which he warned the unions that “all up-
ward wage movements, of which the 40-
hour week is only one example, have to
be met by price increases or by subsidies,”
and that the extension of either expedient
would bring trouble in large quantities:
We can no longer stand apart from the
economic system and throw the responsi-
bility on employers or on the Govern-
ment. The ohly solution is increased pro-
duction.
Union “policy” in Australia is more pay
for less work, interrupted by strikes.
Oswald on Hubert:
Oswald Barnett, vice-chairman of the Vic-
torian Housing Commission, is no ordinary
official. He is a poet and a social reformer
who, years before he got his present position,
studied the housing of the poor in Melbourne
and scarified authority with blistering revela-
tions in books he wrote on the subject. So
his opinion of Lazzarini isn’t likely to be mere
political progaganda. Oswald said the other
day that Hubert, the Federal Housing Minister,
had gulled the public by stating that his “Gov-
ernment’s” quota of 24,000 houses would be
attained this year; that even if the target was
attained it would still leave Victoria 15,000
dwellings worse off than the previous year, as
the actual annual demand was 40,000; that
there were numbers of houses which had been
completed but could not be occupied because
the gas mains had not been laid; that his
Commission was suffering under intolerable
conditions, as if was not getting a fair run
from material suppliers; that hundreds of
houses were being held up because of lack of
bricks, although 37 brick kilns were idle; and
that his Commission had not been able to build
one additional house to relieve the shortage
which has existed for six years. He added
that there were waiting in his outer office a
returned soldier, his wife and three children,
one deformed, who are living in a rat-infested,
bug-ridden hovel in a backyard and that their
case was typical of thousands.


CAPRICORNIA OR BUST.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Findy”: In these days when the trade-
union movement embraces every class of
worker and one concern may be working
under forty or fifty awards it is not always
easy for the layman to say offhand to
which union a particular craftsman should
belong. This was brought out clearly in
a radio quiz in America. The question
asked was which unions had jurisdiction
over perfumery workers, bathrobe-makers
and gravediggers. The first answer was
a little surprising—the blokes who make
the stuff that tantalises the nostrils are
members of the United Mine Workers, a
show controlled by John L. Lewis. As
to bathrobes, if an American trade-
unionist makes ’em for men (buttoning
on the right) the Amalgamated Cloth-
ing Workers of America collects his dues ;
if for women (buttoning on the left) the
International Ladies’ Garment Workers
claims him. My robe has no buttons and
ties with a cord, so is probably the pro-
duct of scab labor. But the gravedigger
part of the question is the real killer.
First, second and other gravediggers owe
their loyalty to the United Agricultural,
Canning and Packing Workers Union.
After that no one can say that Americans
are not a logical race.
* * * *
“Zake”: Efforts of hybridists to pro-
duce freak colors in flowers never seem
to flag. Men have for years been trying
to evolve a black rose, though heaven
knows why. The nearest to it so far are
the dark reds like Etoile de Holland,
Hadley and Crimson Glory, which in the
late summer and autumn possess a sable
sheen. Jonquils and daffodils have also
come in for a lot of attention in an effort
to change their color from yellow to red.
Again, heaven knows why, for their clear
yellow suits them admirably—in any case,
reds and pinks already clutter the horti-
cultural world, as they do the political.
And, after all, is there need to go to all
this trouble trying to turn these graceful
annuals out of their ancient saffron garbs
by such tedious means? At the prices
asked nowadays the flowers themselves
couldn’t refrain from blushing.
* * * #
“Sextant” sees the last of a gallant old
destroyer:
Waterhen, badly holed, engine-room flooded,
was wallowing helplessly as we transhipped to
an English destroyer. “I’ll come back after
dark and see if she’s still afloat,” said the
skipper. “It’s too risky to attempt towing
her now —Jerry’ll certainly be back.” Darkness
soon fell and we were feeling our way slowly
towards our ship. Engines were stopped as the
lookout shouted “dark object ahead,” and we
drifted slowly towards Waterhen. As the bows
passed ahead of her a shout came from the
fo’c’sle “Submarine, port.” The ship moved
slowly on, even though the engines were re-
versed, and sure enough on the blind side of
Waterhen was a surfaced sub. Our fo’c’sle
guns fired, but the sub. was too close to us
and the shells went over her. There was a hiss
of escaping air as the sub. crashdived, her stern
coming out of the water. Another hiss of air
followed as two torpedoes left the sub.’s stern
heading our way. There was nothing we could
do but screw up our faces and wait. But
nothing happened; the tinfish dived steeply
and passed underneath us. We got the old
ship in tow, but she was too far gone. As the
strain came on the towline she rolled over and
disappeared beneath the Mediterranean.
* ♦ m m
“Seaforth”: Asked to give evidence in
a court case at the last minute a truck-
driver turned up in the witness box in his
working clobber, a pair of grey slacks and
a sleeveless singlet. His Honor took one
horrified glance and promptly ordered
him to leave the court and return attired
in a manner more suited for the occasion.
Two hours later the witness reappeared
He had on a pair of bottle-greea trousers,
a coat that was a dazzling maroon, a
gaily colored shirt, a loud tie and a purple
silk handkerchief drooping from the
breast pocket of his coat. Barely con-
cealing a grin the Judge’s associate passed
up a note to the bench expressing the
opinion that the original outfit was more
aesthetic. Back came a note from the
Judge: “If I thought it was deliberate I
would fine him for contempt of court.”
“Bunch of Fives”: “Seaforth’s” cobber
(B. 19/6/’46), who wrapped his felt hat
round his hand and punched a hole in
the window, had better luck than a mate
of mine who tried the same dodge. He
wrapped the hat round his left hand, but
when he shaped up to the window force
of habit was too strong for him—he
feinted with that hand and punched the
glass with his right.
* * * *
“Bo”: The evening was bitterly raw,
and every time the carriage doors opened
at a station an icy wind howled in, send-
ing the homing toilers shivering deeper
into their topcoats —all except one fresh-
air fiend, a beefy fellow who sat along-
side a window opened to its limit. A
man in the aisle pushed in and closed it;
the beefy fellow promptly skied it again.
Then a girl in the seat behind him
started a hacking cough. A mild-looking
man, close on 60, leaned over, tapped the
iced-air fancier on the shoulder, drew
“Cuthbert calling , Dad—dinner 's ready!”
his attention to the girl’s cough and asked
him to lower the window. The beefy
one told him to mind his own business.
Thereupon the mild-mannered one quietly
leaned down and opened a Gladstone
bag, selected from a variety of carpentry
tools a hammer, leaned over and cracked
the flimsy catch that held the window
into the top notch. The well-nourished
one just withdrew his hand in time as
the window crashed down. Aussies travel-
ling are, as a rule, undemonstrative; but
there was no mistaking the warmth of
the cries of “Good on y’. Dad!” that
came from the laughing passengers as
the window-seater scowled out through
the glass at the gathering dusk.
* * * *
“Eve”; The quack was disgusted when
he heard that, as a would-be writer, I
type twenty thousand words a week and
tramp around for three hours a day try-
ing to sell the stuff.- “Ridiculous,” he
snapped, “You have the muscles of a girl,
not a man. You’re killing yourself.”
“But I have to live,” I told him. “Well,”
he said earnestly, “Surely there’s some
way of avoiding part of the physical exer-
tion ... er, couldn’t you just give the edi-
tors the ideas and let them do the
typing?” It’s a suggestion I’m just dying
to try.
s|j jjj )j(
“L.H.P.”; “Zake 1 ” (B. 19/6/’46) is
wrong when he gives the first London
production of “Faust” as having taken
place at Covent Garden. It occurred at
Her Majesty’s Opera House (pulled down
in 1892) and Mapleson, in his memoirs,
mentions how very disgusted he was at
the reserved booking. For the first three
nights he “papered” the house, and on
the fourth evening he opened the reserves
to the public, who rushed the show.
Arditi conducted, Trebelli was Siebel, and
Gassier Mephisto. Gye, who had previ-
ously said there was nothing in the opera
except the “Soldiers’ Chorus,” seeing the
Mapleson boom, put on “Faust” at
Covent Garden with Carvallo, the original
Paris Margherita, Tamberlik and Faure.
This was some weeks after the start of
Mapleson’s run, and owing to spme defect
in the English copyright law there was
no money in either show for Gounod.
“Faust,” in 1888, at the Melbourne Prin-
cess, with Nellie Stewart as Margherita,
brought back a lot of music in the opera
which is generally cut in Australian pro-
ductions. The Ballet in Act 5 was put
on here by Pavlova in 1926, the only
time it was given in Australia.
* * * *
“Exkewex”; I was in the same unit as a
“loot” who wore an M.M. ribbon with
bar supposedly won in the M.E. and
N.G. No one queried it till he was suc-
cessful in impressing an A.W.A.S., and
when he “married” her it turned out he
was a bigamist and his record was
examined. It was found that he had not
been in action anywhere, yet he was
associating daily with men who. had seen
plenty, and some of whom had genuine
decorations of their own. All the same
he was entitled to complain about the
bad luck in the way he was caught. He
had left the unit and his replacement was
his best man from the first marriage. Be-
fore long the newcomer got chatting with
the best man of the bigamous marriage
and it all came out.
* * * *
“Pawang”; It isn’t mere laziness of
mind which makes people fail to apply or
understand words they must see and hear
every day (B. 19/6/’46). It may be the
associations, quite unconscious, with
which the word is surrounded. I used to
write monthly to a firm of house agents,
Bullfinch and Bustard, let us call them. I
could never address the letter until
I hunted up one of their epistles. Then
one day I started thinking that this was
rather strange, as my memory for names
was usually good. I searched my past
life for some experience to account for it,
and suddenly remembered one Bustard
with whom I had once had a row in which
I had made a complete fool of myself.
“Bustard” had the unfortunate associa-
tions of my humiliation, and as Bullfinch
was connected with him he came in for
the same associations. I have never for-
gotten the two gentlemen’s names since
I worked that out.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Quite a number of people in
other countries are puzzled about the
position of Tasmania; in Europe less
water than is in Bass Strait separates
countries that are entirely different in
ideals and ideas. At a soldiers’ entertain-
ment in London a well-meaning bloke
arose to say a few kind words, and he
addressed quite a lot of them “to the Aus-
tralians we are proud to have in our
midst, and also to the Tasmanians.” The
Tassies were ropeable about it, and about
the banter they received from the “dinkum
Aussies.”
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: When L. S. Jackson,
Federal Commissioner of Taxation, was
given a presentation at the Melbourne
offices on his retirement after 36 years’
service, he said that, despite the unpopu-
larity of its work, no section of the public
service was esteemed by the public more
than the Taxation Department. I don’t
often find myself in agreement with a tax-
gatherer, but in this case there is some-
thing in it. Possibly because they*also get
hit in the pocket, taxation officials seem
much more human than other civil ser-
vants. Some years ago I complained to
the Melbourne office about some minor
exaction. The inquiry officer was sym-
pathetic but told me the item was quite
in order. As he was folding up my
papers another item caught his eye.
“Why did you put that in?” he asked.
“Why, I’ve done that for 10 years past,”
I said. “Wait a bit,” he said, and took my
papers away. He came back to tell me
that I was entitled to a refund which,
over the 10 years, would amount to close
on £lOO. He positively beamed as he
said it, as if the money was going into
his own pocket, instead of mine.
* * * *
“Taz”: My evening paper ran a news-
par. about converting landing craft into
houseboats ; it carried the dateline “King-
ston-on-Thames (England).” With no in-
dication of any other origin, it quoted
prices in dollars, and referred to “gaso-
line,” “icebox” and “clothes-closets”-
terms which would sound even more
foreign in the old Surrey boat-building
town than they do here. In the same
issue a par. by “A Special Correspondent”
dealt, with the blackmarket in London,
and the reporter “took the subway” to
reach his destination. If news on affairs
in Britain must come from American
sources, surely the stuff could either be
acknowledged as such or translated.
* * * *
“Melbn”: A Melbourne suburban
shopkeeper was charged under State
Electricity emergency regulations with
having used power to light his shop win-
dow. Disdaining counsel, he produced a
dictionary and argued that the term
window meant a “cutting in a wall for
the purpose of letting in light.” As there
was no light to be let in at the time the
alleged offence was committed, it being
night-time, his window was not a window
according to the dictionary definition.
He should have been given a medal for
ingenuity, but a hard-headed Beak fined
him two quid, with costs.
* * * *
“Si Ami”; North Queenslanders are
reported to be astonished that the Duke
spent whole days in the saddle in the
heat and - dust of cattle camps bare-
headed, although even the abo. stockmen
wore broad-brimmed hats, and came
through with merely a dark suntan.
A doctor of my acquaintance in
Borneo used to say that the sure
way to get sunstroke was to wear
the regulation helmet, and he went
everywhere bareheaded, his bald pate
winking like a heliograph. He had only
one lung, having come out from England
under a medical diagnosis which said he
was a gone coon. He pushed a bike all
day and played tennis every evening
with his bellows going so loud he could
be heard a mile away. He drank a bottle
of whisky a day and had been doing it
for 15 years.
* * * *
“W.A.M.”: An old dodge, but it still
works. “I’m from the Post Office,” said
the young man to a Melbourne cos-
tumiere, and informed her that an urgent
parcel from overseas awaited her at the
G.P.0., and that delay in collecting it
would involve payment of demurrage.
As the lady could not leave her premises
the gallant youth offered to bring the
parcel, adding “of course there is 19s.
duty to pay.” He was handed a pound
to cover the duty and his tram fares. The
lady is still waiting for parcel, boy and
pound.
♦ * * *
“Philm”: Tell “Five By Two” (B.
29 / 5 / ’46) that “passing the buck” was not
always a habit of officers. Constructing
fieldworks in Syria, our crowd had
trouble from Wogs who crept into the
posts at night, emptied the contents of the
sandbags into the weapon-pits, and made
off with tffe bags. One evening two
sentries were posted. A couple of Wogs
appeared, were challenged in English and
Arabic, and were fired upon as they fled
with the bags. Next day French gen-
darmes arrived with the news that one
Arab had died of wounds, and a legal
staff officer instructed the C.O. to place
the sentries under close arrest on a charge
of manslaughter. The Old Man promptly
replied that he was charging himself and
the platoon commander with being acces-
sories before the act. A day or so later he
received a handwritten note from the
G.O.C. drawing attention to the poor
marksmanship of sentries who scored
only one hit in Six shots. The only other
repercussion was an amendment to orders,
authorising sentries to open fire for the
protection of Government property.
c * * * *
“Caballer”: Those Churchill doubles
(B. 19/6/’46) took me back a few years.
When Gladstone was in his prime there
was an English horse trainer who could
have passed for his twin brother. The
G.O.M. was due to pass through Swindon
one day and a crowd of supporters
assembled on the station. The horsey
one arrived by a train a few minutes be-
for the P.M. and received a welcome that
must have made him think he was lead-
ing in a winning favorite. A speech was
demanded, but he could not make him-
self heard. Enthusiasts crowded to his
carriage window and begged for a few
words. “A message, sir,” they implored.
“A message to profit the people of Swin-
don ” The train began to move and the
trainer felt he ought to do something. He
raised his hand for silence and gave them
the only piece of information he knew
which might “profit the people of Swim
don ”__“Humewood for the Cesarewitch.
Two days later Hume wood romped home.
——win
EVATT AND FRANCO.
At home his colleagues stand at tray,
Beset by storm and tension,
With some fresh trouble every day
To wake their apprehension.
For votes they needs must soon campaign
From Yellowdine to Yanco.
But Evatt’s eyes are fixed on Spain;
His main concern is Franco.
He left at duty’s stem demands
To settle what relations
We ought to hold with distant lands
And contumacious nations.
Our foreign policy’s his biz
And wheresoe’er he goes it
Stays in his hands —because he is
The only man who knows it.
Jack Beasley sits in Thames-side state,
With never need to take in
Holes in his belt; the Yankees wait
To welcome Norman Makin;
Men look for Evatt’s voice in vain
At Caucus or in banco;
He’s out to mend the plight of Spain
And cook the goose of Franco.
Sore is the blow to Chifley dealt;
He grows more gaunt and grizzled,
Feeling as Crusoe might have felt
Had faithful Friday mizzled.
His trustiest henchman off the chain,
’Tis obvious he must remain
A Quixote sans his Sancho.
But Evatt fears no “please explain”;
His pressing business is with Spain,
His job is dishing Franco.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Fitz”: Present shortage of smokes
must be doubly hard on the habitual
“bumper king.” Most people today
smoke their gaspers to the last puff, many
even retaining the ends for “retreads,”
and there is also more competition for
the butts that are thrown away. It is
fairly easy to pick the newcomers to the
game. They operate furtively, gazing
around to see if anyone is looking, as
they pounce for their prize. Some resort
to the old dodge of pretending to tie a
shoe-lace as they stoop ; others drop a
small object near the coffin-nail and
make a double pick-up. The other morn-
ing I saw a well-dressed cove drop a
small packet three times in the length of
a city block. The habitual butt-stabber,
on the other hand, doesn’t mind who sees
him,
“P.McM,”: The morning cigarette
queue at Sydney’s Wynyard station has
become an institution. Earliest arrivals
are greybeards who bring cases to sit on,
chatting amiably and unperturbed by
their two hours’ wait until zero hour —
9 a.m. Steadily the Horde drifts into line
until a double column of nicotine addicts,
mostly women, stretches more than 100
yards along George-street. Regulars
choose the inside column, where they can
lean on the walls and shop windows.
Somebody wanders along the queue dis-
tributing religious pamphlets, an arty
individual sporting a red tie and a mane
of greasy, brown hair loudly deprecates
“the system,” but nobody takes much
notice as they shuffle forward inch by
inch for their ten cigarettes. Inevitably,
the last 40 or so miss out and discon-
solately vanish into the crowd. I venture
to prophesy that when cigarettes are
plentiful again some diehards will still
queue up there from sheer force of
habit.
“Phone”: The furphy that radar
operators would suffer from loss of hair
and white corpuscles, or become sterile,
inspired some war-time tests on guinea
pigs. These were exposed to the antennas
of a radar transmitter blasting out 45
kws.- of waves for a period of 50 (three-
hour) days. No hair or white corpuscles
were lost, and the introduction of some
female guinea pigs completely wrecked
the rest of the fable,
* * * *
“Jasby”; “Midford’s” verses based on
the abos chanting “legendary tribal songs,
the meaning of which none could ex-
plain” (B. 26 /6 / ’46) found a like-
ness between the legends of the
dark people and incomprehensible
modern verse. A closer analogy would
have been our own nursery rhymes.
These jingles are repeated by generation
after generation of children, none of
whom have the slightest idea of the real
meaning of most of the rhymes. Some
of the old favorites go right back into
forgotten folklore; many were originally
political lampoons, and a few, •if their
real origins and meanings were revealed in
Court, would be. banned with much more
justification than We Were the Rats.
* * * *
“Pookie”: In the Middle East, where
most of the decent hotels and caffis were
out-of-bounds to o.rs., officer-imposture
was a big temptation. With the majority
of troops wearing shorts and shirt, pips or
a crown bought at the nearest Wog shop
were sufficient to do the trick if a private
with a pocket full of accumulated pay
wished to spend it luxuriously and
speedily. Likewise, if officers wished to
cash in on the other-rankers’ more econo-
mical preserves, they could always doff
their cloth pips. Coming back from Ger-
many, via the M.E., a sergeant pilot pro-
moted himself to the rank of Flight-
looey, and drew the equivalent pay. An
agreeable soul, who always kept his sub-
ordinate cobbers well supplied with grog
from the officers’ mess, he was punctili-
ously saluted by them on board ship.
But the best hoaxer of them all was the
A.I.F. gunner who came to Durban, from
England, in the early stages of the war.
Broke, and thirsty, he found himself in a
pleasant bar, where he sat, head in hands,
darkly muttering. Friendly Afrikanders
asked him what ailed him, to which he
“Did I leave a tube of shaving-cream in here, dear?”
replied, wagging his head mournfully, “I’ll
never forget (sigh) Dunkirk (groan) so
long as I adjectively live.” Comforted by
beer, he continued to mourn, but refused
all details, explaining that it was “too
terrible.” Accused later of “bludgihg,”
he pointed out, reasonably, that he had
made no actual claims of personal
heroism, but had merely remarked that
Dunkirk was a terrible affair,
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: I see that the 4h ec t° r
of an American safety-razor company
estimates his firm sells an annual average
of 40,000,000 blades in this country.
Justice Williams, of the High Court, was
unable to accept these figures, which were
based on the assumption that all males
over 15 are in the shavable class. Most of
them are, and the fashion for shaving is
so universal that even the descendants of
aboriginal fathers who wore beards down
to their waists, and would have been re-
garded as effeminate if they didn’t, can
be shocked at the sight of a ziff. One of
Melbourne’s most distinguished artists,
who sports a beard, was sitting in a
train when a young Binghi got in with
some companions. The ex-son of the
desert couldn’t keep his eyes off the
artist’s facial adornment. Finally he
could hold it in no longer. “You can
get razor blades, now, you know, dad,”
he said.
» * * •
“W.J.E.”: Long ago I met two of
N.S.W. Premier McKell’s fighting
uncles, one of whom, Billy,, was an Aus-
tralian champion at his weight, as was
“If’s a man called ‘ Spike ’ asking can We do him a dozen of whisky at a)
fiver a touch.”
also Herb, a brother whom I never met —
he died young. As a cub reporter I had
something to do with arranging a match
at Perth (W.A.) between Billy and Frank
Thorn, who gave Billy a dreadful hiding,
endured stoically. Afterwards, when we
divided the dibs—£Bo in golden sove-
reigns—Billy discoursed cheerfully on his
experiences in running a boxing tent in
N. S. Wales. He said he had arranged a
match with the champion of Orange —
or it may have been Bathurst —and was
looking forward to a great “gate” when
the Rev. Dill Macky arrived in town.
That, as the old pug. ruefully recalled,
was the end of Billy’s “gate,” for Dill
Macky had a great vogue in that day
as the champion of Orangeism against
Cardinal Moran, and nearly all the
“sports” went to hear Dill. The incident
came back to me on receiving a circular,
here reprinted in brief:
Dr. Dill Macky Memorial Homes.
Not connected with any Denomination
or Association.
In order to raise funds to support the
candidature of Miss Evelyn Gardiner in
the United Charities Popular Miss 1946
contest, tne Dr. Dill Macky Memorial
Homes are organising a Button Day.
Button sellers are required. Committees
and/or individual volunteers please con-
tact the Organising Secretary, Dr. Dill
Macky Memorial Homes, Room 5, 242
Pitt Street, Sydney, ’phone MA8195.
I question whether the Rev. William Mar-
cus Dill Macky, D.D., Presbyterian
Minister and President of the Australian
Protestant Defence Association, b. Lon-
donderry, 1849, would have approved of
any Popular Miss contest, but he would
have been all for the homes for orphans
and waifs. And I daresay Billy Mc-
Kell’s nephew and namesake could be
induced to box for the cause in his
magenta trunks,
* * * *
“Clooter”: If there is to be a revolt
against the tyranny of union bosses and
the incompetency of Governments, I
doubt if it will begin in Sydney, whose
citizens have come to accept their troubles
in much the same way as they accept the
weather —something beyond their power
to correct, however uncomfortable it
may be. Almost everybody you talk to
on the subjects of strikes, shortages,
blackouts and so forth agrees that “It’s
a blankard,” but there’s little or no sign
of that hot resentment which leads a
citizenry to institute sudden reforms. No,
the comment is made in the same tone as
if it were a cold, rainy day under dis-
cussion, and there is behind the comment
a sort of unexpressed confidence that
some day it will all clear up, just as the
sun follows the rain. You can’t do any-
thing with a people as phlegmatic as that,
let the Menzieses rave and the Thorntons
fulminate as they will. Perhaps it’s what
social writers mean when they refer to
the stoical patience of the British race,
though it isn’t so evident when the same
people are fighting to win a seat in tram,
train or bus.
* * * *
“Norther”: To add to our other
troubles up here in N.Q. a “lion” has
broken loose and is, at time of writing,
reported to be ravaging the country out
of Maryborough, “terrorising” people at
Yengarie and Oakhurst. One resolute
character claims to have shot at the thing
at 20-yards range and missed, whereupon
it roared mightily and disappeared in the
direction of Cloncurry. Another bright
spirit claims to have measured its foot-
prints, though he hasn’t disclosed their
size. Confirmed casualties are two poddy
calves in seven months, which suggests
that the “lion” is either on a diet or has
declared meat “black” in support of the
lions of the meat unions further south.
A Maryborough policeman, when invited
to go and apprehend the ravening beast,
then reported near Oakhurst, remarked
succinctly “There’s a pub in that district,”
and coldly went on collecting statistics
or something.
* * * *
“L. de R.”; Phonetic spelling (“Viz,”
B. 19/6/’46) wouldn’t alter the way a
Scotchman would pronounce “house” or
an Australian “cow.” It would reduce
words like “thorough,” “borough,”
“through,” “brew,” “trough,” “doff,”
“enough,” “stuff,” “plough,” “allow,”
“though,” “hoe,” “sough” (also “sow”)
and other monstrosities to a logical sys-
tem consistent with itself. Americans, Aus-
tralians, Oxford Englishmen and Aber-
donians would still go on giving the
words their peculiar accent but they
wood no wot they were reading. “Viz”
probably hasn’t noticed how these dis-
crepancies run rite thru our magnificent
language. An Australian child has to
learn the written English in the same way
as a Chinese learns his characters —by
painful memorising. The Chinese char-
acter is the same from one end of the
country to the other, but is given a dif-
ferent sound in almost every district.
But one Chinese can communicate with
another if both know the written lan-
guage, I can’t see how phonetic spelling
would increase the ambiguity of English.
My objection to it is associational —the
words I learnt in childhood have pleasant
associations for me and a new system,
however scientific, would have none.
* * * *
“W O. Two”: Swagger sticks, or “dog-
wallopers” as the boys called them, were
not nearly as popular with the Australian
army officer during the last war as in the
days of 1914-18. At the finish it was
mostly a few sticklers for tradition in
base jobs who flourished the useless
article, I never took the trouble to in-
quire who could legitimately sport a
swagger stick, but ran across a lance-
jack who carried one for one glorious
day. It was the day after his promotion.
He also managed to acquire a Sam
Browne belt and an officer’s cap. The
boys chiacked him so much that he dis-
carded his acquisitions that night. I am
aware that the Sam Browne and the cap
were unauthorised wear, but am uncer-
tain about the stick.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The most successful poets I
ever knew who hawked their own works
(B. 19/6/’46) were Paddy Collins and
Jack Bradshaw. Both wrote topical dog-
gerel and sold it at a penny a sheet (later
increased to threepence), Paddy, famili-
arly known as the one-eyed poet, was
well known at Sydney Cricket Ground,
where he moved among the crowd recit-
ing his lines and selling his verses as
something to read while waiting for the
match to start. Jack Bradshaw claimed
to be the last of the Australian bush-
rangers, but he also claimed that he had
been cell-mates with a man who later
became Premier of N.S.W. Last time I
saw him was at the unveiling of Henry
Lawson’s statue in Sydney Domain, and
I wondered how many of those present
who bought his threepenny poems com-
pared his work with that of Lawson.
* * * ♦
“Woody”: On Victory night a radio
announcer, in reviewing the songs that
we sang during the war, referred to “that
song the Nazis marched to —‘Lili Mar-
lene.’ ” During my four p.-0.-w. years in
Germany I heard that song sung, whistled
and broadcast innumerable times, but
never as a marching song. When Ger-
man soldiers sang on the march they
chose lusty songs about marching on
England, bombing or drinking, not the
sentimental “Lili Marlene” type. Written
years before the war, the song became
popular after Germany took over Bel-
grade radio in 1941. A recording sung
in German by the Danish star, Lale
Andersen, was broadcast, and an instant
demand came from soldiers on the Euro-
pean fronts for the “song about the
lantern.” It became a feature of troop
broadcasts, and so commenced its world
tour. Like “Tipperary” it was an old
song before war gave it overwhelming
popularity.
THE GATE.
“ ‘Hail Caesar! We who are about to die
Salute you’ was the gladiators’ cry
In the arena. Isn’t that the way,
Dad, that a poet in the U.S.A.
Has rendered into Saxon speech the famous
Announcement Morituri Salutamus?”
“Yes, that' is how the slogan runs, my lad.
Why do you ask?”
“Because I wonder, Dad,
When modern gladiators take the field,
All set to win, or die before they yield,
Why they’ve no Caesar now before their eyes
With adoration to apostrophise
And to assure that either life or limb
They’re cheerfully prepared to lose for him;
One to be told that he’s the only one
That matters?”
“But you might reflect, my son,
No modem Caesar such allegiance claims
From the participants in bloodless games,
Mere mimic warfare, not the gory sort
That furnished Roman crowds such splendid
sport.”
“But, Dad, these warriors of the Rugby League
Who laugh at violence and scorn fatigue,
Who face undaunted hostile howls and jeers,
And broken snouts and mutilated ears,
And now and then break off the game to fight
As angry bulls or jealous gamecocks might,
Is there no deity they could salute
Before they start the brawl of bash and boot?”
“Well, son, it seems to me, I tell you straight,
One god is theirs and one alone—The Gate.”
N.S.W.
IEORD.


-ip
S 3
m
m
O
m
m
Wm
FINE CUT
TOBACCO
If sometimes your Champion Fine
Cut is in short supply;—it is only
because of existing conditions.
Ask for it as usual—your retailer
will supply you when he can.
Also in Bright and Dark Flake Gut for tho Pipe.
X4l 5 D-f .4#
LIFE ASSURANCE
—How does it work
for you?
What is Life Assurance 7
How does it work ?
Life Assurance offers every
man and woman in good
health a plan (policy) that
enables him or her (the
policy holder) to join a large
group of people (the Life
Assurance Office) which
promises to pay a sum of
money to his family at the
time of his death, or to
him if he be alive on a future
named in the policy.
This promise is given in re-
turn for the policy holder's
promise to pay a sum of
money (the premium) regu-
larly to the Life Office.
Like any other co-operative
movement, Life Assurance is
purely voluntary. No one is
compelled to invest in it
against his or her will. Those
who become policyholders in
a Life Assurance Office are
free to arrange for just as
much security and protec-
tion as they feel they need.
Life Assurance will begin to
work for you just as soon as
you say the word.
tflake tide ctf
LIFE ASSURANCE
GUARDIAN OF AUSTRALIAN HOMES
ISSUED BY
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
THE SERVICE MAN
" TorpyV Circus."
“M.K.”: In May, 1940, Lt.-Col. D. A.
(“Torpv”) Whitehead, M.C. (now
Brigadier D. A. Whitehead, D. 5.0., M.C.,
E.D.), was commissioned to form the
2/2nd M.G. Battalion,-A.I.F.
With him went many officers, n.c.os.
and troopers of his militia unit: the Ist
Light Horse M.G. Regiment (Royal
N.S.W. Lancers). The original plan of
raising companies in the various States
was soon abandoned, and the battalion
was raised in N S. Wales and Queensland.
H.Q., “A” and “B” Cos. went into
camp at Inglebum, “C” and “D” Cos.
at Redbank (Q.).
Trained machine-gunners from militia
battalions formed the core of the unit,
further stiffened by 1914-18 veterans.
There was even one, Harry Moores, who
had seen service in the Boer War as well
as the Great War.
Those were fine days, at Ingleburn and
later at Cowra (N.S.W.), when soldiering
was new, when the best types joined up,
when the uniform was still surrounded by
an aura in the eyes of civilians. The
Cowra district generously raised sufficient
funds for purchase of the instruments
for a battalion band.
The battalion sailed on the Aquitania
from Sydney on Dec. 29, 1940. This was
“Fes, dear, I'm a great admirer of the realist school of painting."
the first occasion on which the N.S.W.
and Queensland halves met.
“A ” “B” and H.Q. Cos. were then
commanded respectively by Major
Edward Macarthur Onslow, of the his-
torical Camden family; Captain (later
Major) J K. Mackay, a noted polo
player from Dungog, and Captain C. M.
Hayes formerly Staff Captain Ist Cav.
Div • “C” and “D” Cos. by Major G. A.
Mci’ Searle and Captain P. K. Searle.
After a lively New Year celebration at
sea the battalion was transhipped at
Colombo to the Christian Huygen, a
Dutch liner—later sunk with all hands
evacuating Australians from Greece.
And so into the Suez Canal, to have a
first taste of enemy bombing in the
Bitter Lakes, Followed disembarkation
at Ismailia and a most uncomfortable
railway journey to Palestine.
Getting Acclimatised
In Khassa camp, not far from the
medieval Ascalon, and on the site of last
war’s battlefields, “Torpy’s Circus” went
into really hard training, diversified by
very ceremonial guard changes. To the
N.S.W. brass band was now added the
Queenslanders’ bagpipes band under the
baton of W.O. “Horrible” Hobbs.
The boys soon found their way around
in the numerous caffis in Allenby-road and
along the waterfront of Tel Aviv, not to
mention “Kilo 7” near Jerusalem. The
“Mug Gunners” were also privileged to
witness the last mounted sports of the
Scots Grfevs at Ramleh.
At last came the rumor that the bat-
talion was to embark for Greece. How-
ever, before this could happen, Greece
fell. And so, on Anzac Day, 1941, the
unit headed for the Western Desert, and
found itself in Mersa Matruh.
During the following six months it was
attached in turn to the Seventh Div., then
to the Polish Brigade, then to the Spring-
boks. It trained by day and was bombed
at night. There were long, weary, thirsty
exercises in-the desert, towards the Siwa
Oasis on the Libyan border. There was
hard digging. Above all, there was the
frustration of being stuck in Matruh while
the fight for Tobruk was on.
About the time the Australians in
Tobruk were relieved, the 2/2nd M.G.
returned to Palestine —to Quastina camp.
Even this barren country appeared now
as a flowering garden after the tawny,
waterless emptiness of the desert. The
troops relaxed and started to fatten once
more. There was leave to Haifa and
Jerusalem, to Tel Aviv and Cairo. Quite
a deal of “fratting” went on in the Jewish
settlements, where our men were hospit-
ably entertained. And still “Torpy” was
sticking' the training into his men.
Came 1942. The Sixth and Seventh
Divisions sailed for Australia. The Ninth,
and with it the 2/2nd M.G. Battalion,
took over the garrisoning of Syria. “A”
Cos. was stationed in and near Beirut
and was living off the fat of the land.
The rest of the battalion were near TrU
poli, building the defences of Jebel Tor-
bul. .
Headquarters were for a while m
the charming village of Fih, where Lieut.
Terry Southwell-Keely, later “S. M.
Herald’s” correspondent in Italy and
Greece, acted as local Tsar over the native
population and preserved law and order
among the troops and the Wogs. It must
be said, to the great credit of the bat-
talion, that, in all the time its members
were billeted among the local population
in a land of beautiful women and ample
beer and arrack, not one incident occurred
to mar the good name of Australia in the
eyes of the Lebanese.
During this time Lieut.-Colonel White-
head was transferred to command the
2/32nd, and was replaced by Lieut.-
Colonel Edward Macarthur Onslow,
At Jebel Torbul the battalion’s posi-
tions were inspected by Australia s present
Governor-General, who was then viewing
our troops in the Middle East,
. .
The End of the Beginning
in June, 1942, whilst the battalion was
engaged in exercises in the Syrian desert,
grim news began to arrive from Egypt,
and one day we found ourselves on the
way south. The move was so unexpected
that many men left their pay oo s in
their tents and their kitbags unpacked
In order to preserve the secrecy ot the
move, our men were ordered to wear
their tin helmets instead of slouch n ,
and were not aUowed to ahght from t £
trucks so as not to show the tan Boots
that only the
ever all these p.ecautions °J y
wasted on the Ara ,


•//erels
mw cAMB-tre ctum
Ivory white Cane-ite ceilings
catch and throw back every
available degree of light with a
soft ivory-white reflection. Ivory
Cane-ite insulates the room from
roof heat during hot weather—
keeps out winter’s cold draughts
and icy blasts.
It’s jest like standard Cane-ite, but
with a beautiful soft ivory-white tex-
ture that makes it ideal for ceilings.
Ivory Cane-ite Is as easy tcf erect as
standard Cane-ite, too —and costs only
a few pence more. For smart modern
ceilings—and for insulation—use Ivory
Cane-ite.
a
T
CANE-ITE
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Other C.S.R. Products Slagwool, Asbestos, Plaster Products.
Australian
Workers
Sacrificed
The destruction of Australia’s trade with
Singapore and China is evidently now the
objective of the Communist Party.
Australia has already lost £20,000,000
trade with Netherlands Indies this year be-
cause the Communist Party, mouthpiece
of the “Red Imperialists of Russia” has
decreed that we must be kept out of that
valuable market.
Note, our trade with Singapore and
China is being interfered with. Ships
are prevented from sailing whilst other
countries make the goods Australia
could have supplied.
What matter if our export trade is
strangled what matter if servicemen
walk our streets looking for jobs so long
as the red revolution is brought nearer?
CEIGOA PTY. LTD.
Consolidated Export and Import Group of
, Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
CEI2
the world’s champions at finding out
things.
The July battles of Alamein have been
overshadowed by subsequent events. But
where the November offensive proved to
be the turning of the tide, the anxious
July days were the end of the beginning.
Then and there the 2/2 M.G. Bat-
talion received its baptism of fire. There
were heavy casualties, but not nearly as
heavy as might have been with less trained
troops. The boys now thought with
gratitude of the long, weary months of
training, and they thanked “Torpy”
Whitehead for having been hard on them.
Among the first to die was Private J. A.
“Tip” Kellaher, much of whose stirring
verse was published in The Bul-
letin. The battalion also lost a whole
platoon of “D” Company, captured on
Ruin Ridge whilst supporting the 2/28th
battalion, together with the company
commander, Captain Monty Stephens, of
Bringelly, N.S.W. The O.C. “A” com-
pany, Major Max Wheatly, a well-known
N.S.W. polo player, was also taken pris-
oner in July.
Many awards were gained. Lieut.
R. W. (“Darky”) Cameron, of Sherwood,
Brisbane, won the D.S.O. when he charged
a Spandau single-handed with his pistol.
Corporal Vic Knight, who went to Eng-
land with the Victory contingent, won
the D.C.M. The M.Ms. are “too num-
erous to enumerate.” Rommel was held.
After four months of waiting and of
daily “hates” from Jerry, with only the
“Bulimba” show to break the monotony,
came the great November offensive.
Again there were casualties, which in-
cluded “Tip” Kellaher’s young brother
(their mother, grief-stricken, was soon
to die in a Sydney hospital). It was now
“B” Company’s turn to lose its com-
mander, Major “Bref” Dawson, who
was seriously wounded.
More awards were won, including the
M. by Lieut. Frank Lavan, of
N. Then the Eighth Army rolled on,
leaving the 9th Division behind.
Home, and then North
And so, after a short rest at the Mosque
of Sidi Abd-El-Rahman, and a longer one
in Julis camp in Palestine, the battalion
embarked on the Queen Mary at Suez in
January, 1943, and headed for the strike-
ridden, blackmarket-infested, dollar-crazy
shores of Australia.
Followed leave, happy family reunions,
many marriages and some divorces. Fol-
lowed glorious marches through Sydney
and Brisbane. And then off to Python
Hill on the Atherton Tableland to learn
an entirely new type of warfare under
Seventh Division jungle veterans. Am-
phibious exercises in co-operation with
the Yanks were undertaken. Then came
embarkation —this was routine with most
units.
The “Mug Gunners” saw action at Lae,
Finschhafen, Satelberg, on Scarlet Beach,
in the advance to Sio —during which
men of “B” Company had to carry guns,
tripods, ammunition on their backs in the
tropical heat as much as 12 miles in a day,
till they fell from sheer exhaustion. Dis-
ease took its toll as well as the Japs. The
last machine-gunner to be killed in N.G.
was W. 0.2 Des Hughes, son of the late
Dr. Hughes, of Moore Park, Sydney, one
of the most popular men in the battalion.
In March, 1944, the battalion returned
to Australia in the Sea Snipe, and after
some home-leave once more went bush,
this time near Ravenshoe (N.Q.), there
apparently to await the end of the war.
However, a year later it sailed once
more, this time towards Borneo.
The Last Post
In the Tarakan landing “D”-Company
went in as infantry and did as good a
job as any seasoned infantry company.
So did “A” Company supporting the
2/28th battalion at Labuan. In Borneo,
the battalion remained for a while at
“Picnic Point” at Mempakil, where nearly
every “Mug Gunner” acquired a pet
monkey ; then it returned to Lafiuan.
By this time Lieut.-Colonel G. A. McL.
Searle, of Queensland, had taken over the
command from Lieut.-Colonel Macarthur
Onslow.
The new C.O. had earlier shown his
organising ability when, as 2 i/c, he had
provided amenities in the form of can-
teens, snackbars, public-address systems,
sports meetings, etc. Now he was faced
with the task of organising the reception
camp for civilians who had been interned
by the Japs in Borneo. He did the job
so well that he and the battalion were
personally congratulated by Lord Louis
Mountbatten.
Then came the end. Gradually the
“Five-Year Planners” sailed home, and
then the rest of the battalions to be broken
up. And now all that remains of the
2/2nd M.G. Battalion is a warm com-
radeship between its former members, a
row of ribbons on their chests on Anzac
Day, and many white crosses on the
battlefields where Australians fought.
The Atom Bomb.'
“Ek Dum”: While it will be some time
before the full effects of the atom-bomb
tests at Bikini are known, there is now
little doubt about what happened at Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki. One of the most
vital facts is that the gross blast damage
was considerably overrated; also, that
attacks on these two towns, as on places
like Tokyo and Yokohama, were not fair
tests of bombing results against modern-
ised Western cities.
If German cities had been anything like
Japanese cities and German civil defence
like Japanese civil defence, the R.A.F.
would have won the war lone-handed.
Japanese cities consist of a small core
of earthquake-proof concrete buildings,
surrounded by wide open spaces for fire
prevention, and square mile on square
mile of rice-paper and wood-walled dwell-
ings, often set on rotten and always on
highly inflammable and resinous timbers.
These are packed together in tight masses
pierced by innumerable small streets and
alleys. Provided there is a high wind
and a few burning rags are dropped in
the right quarter, these “towns” can be
guaranteed to burn till nothing is left
of them.
Thus a few B29s, flying distances which
restricted their loads to weights far below
those carried to Germany by Lancasters,
until the very last phases of the war, were
able to destroy the industrial and residen-
tial sections of huge cities. On Germany,
the impression which they could have
made with the same bomb-load would
have been limited, indeed.
The effect of the atom bomb on Hiro-
shima seems to have been not much
greater than that of a first-class B29 raid.
It differed only in the fact that it was
caused by a concentration of power.
Hiroshima was burnt out for an
area of about four square miles. The
city had 20 bridges. Only one was com-
pletely wrecked. Contrary to the breath-
less press yarn that steel vaporised and
that all things wooden disappeared, the
detailed pictures show, well towards the
centre of the blast area, trees which are
only badly charred and telegraph-poles
in the same condition.
Buildings of concrete in the modern
centre of the city were mostly intact,
save for being swept, in many cases, by
fire. Not only that, but flagpoles are to
be seen on some of them. On one at
least it is noticeable that not even the air-
raid precaution siren equipment has been
blown away. A street or two away from
the aiming point of the bomb, some
buildings were so little damaged that
cornices and rather frail architectural
details are still there. And window
frames remain, though not the panes.
The damage generally was very like that
in other Japanese cities. It was caused
mostly by fire and not by blast. Gamma
rays and flash burns caused most of the
mortality.
A British commission has reported that
in Hiroshima, “although* Jap air-raid
shelters were much below British
standard, all survived except the poorest
earth-covered shelters. Standard ground-
level shelters, such as the Anderson and
the Morrison, would have been safe from
collapse, even at the centre of damage.”
They are useless against heavy bomb-
blasts. Shelters like London’s under-
ground would have given “complete pro-
tection.” Irradiation, which killed heavily
in Japan, can be warded off by lead or
other shielding.
In Nagasaki, concrete buildings, also,
stood the test, though many were gutted
by fire. But the wooden centre of the
city survived and the argument that this
was due to shielding by the hills fails to
hold water, since part of the area which
escaped is not so shielded. And the pic-
tures of damage which have appeared in
.the press represent not merely those of
the atom-bomb raid, but of an intensive
week of heavy H.E. attack by B29s for
a week before. It was claimed, for in-
stance, before the atom attack that the
Mitsubishi works had been almost
destroyed; but this has not prevented
American publications from showing pic-
tures of the damage to Mitsubishis as an
example of atom damage, without any
reference to earlier-inflicted ruin. It is
obviously damage from heavy demolition
bombs.
There is no doubt that the atom bomb
is a terrible weapon, but its intrinsic
“merits” lie in its ability to kill defence-
less people and destroy utterly flimsily-
built areas. Its valency lies in heat rather
than in blast. It so far has done nothing
that a relatively small force of heavy
bombers could not do at less cost in labor
and materials, and it has npt yet done
what heavy bombers loaded with ten-
tonners certainly can do in moderate force
—smash down concrete, even in the form
of heavy fortifications.


'■J&A
%
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
In your choice of a car battery be guided
by the Air Forces. They and the world’s leading
passenger air lines depend on Exide. They
still keep going when the rest have stopped.
WHIN
lism
i
I
JO.USTART
PERSONAL ITEMS
Air Chief Marshal Keith Park, of the
South-east Asia Command, lately in
these parts for Air Staff talks, is a
Maorilander who received his education
at King’s College. Served with the
artillery during early part of 1914
dust-up, switching to R.F.C. in 1917. Re-
ceived permanent commission in R.A.F.
in 1919, and was made a wing-com-
mander in 1929. During the first world
war he collected the M.C. and D.F.C.
When the Battle of Britain was at
its height Park went from Chief
of Staff to Sir Hugh Dowding to
the command of 11 Fighter Group
and watched the show from his
own Hurricane. He also flew over Dun-
kirk beaches during the grim days of the
evacuation. Sparing of words, he is
dynamic in action, and is noted for being
where things are hottest. Before coming
East he was A.O.C. at Malta when the
Axis ’planes were falling thick and fast,
and was later A.0.C.-in-Chief in the
Middle East. Made a K.B.E. in 1942
and K.C.B. last year, he collected a
G.C.B. in the latest honors list. Oxford
showed recognition of Park’s services
by electing him an honorary M.A. When
he arrived in Maoriiand in the course of
his just-completed trip Park found that
America had added its Legion of Merit
to his awards.
A man to whom French is as familiar
as his mother tongue is Professor
Alan Rowland Chisholm, professor of
French at the University of Melbourne,
An intense, active little fellow, he throws
himself into things with ardor; he flung
himself into the Free French movement
when it started its first roots in Australia,
his passionate articles in the dailies being
a curious mixture of the higher literary
criticism and the latest in political
polemics. Born at Bathurst, N.S.W., and
educated at Fort-street, Sydney, Paris and
Berlin, he served 3£ years with the old
A.1.F., has published The Art of
Arthur Rimbaud, and has contributed a
mort of scholarly reviews on French
literature to European journals. His bril-
liance has just won recognition in a re-
quest to write for the new British Encyclo-
pedia biographies of Victor Hugo and of
Rimbaud and Valery.
Edwin Styles, now aboard the Rangitata
with bevies of brides of British service-
men sailing for England—a charming and
appropriate company for any actor —told
a Bulletin man he hopes to come back
to Australia. He likes the country ; and.
of course, the country has liked him. All
the way from “Reunion in Vienna” to his
farewell appearance in Noel Coward’s
“Blithe Spirit” Styles played to packed
houses. As far as comedy is concerned, it
will be difficult to fill his place, for, be-
sides being a natural comedian who could
entertain music-hall crowds by playing the
“William Tell Overture” on a matchbox,
he has a sophisticated polish and a know-
ledge of qomedy technique that are hard
to find in Australia. His friends in Syd-
ney included Norman Lindsay and Frank
COMEDIAN JUST DEPARTED.
and Charles Shepherd of the Shepherd
Press, and they found him as amusing off-
stage as he was on ; which, remembering
“The Man Who Came to Dinner” —which
Styles played better than Monty Woolley
did in the film —is no small compliment.
He is pictured here as he appeared to
Frith when he played in Coward’s
“Design for Living” at Sydney Minerva*.
George Julius, dead in Sydney at 73,
was the son of an archibishop and the
father of the automatic totalisator. As a
young man with a science degree he went
to Westralia in 1897 as engineer in the
Railways, and devoted his spare time to
a study of the hardwoods of the West.
After ten years he shifted to Sydney and
set himself up as a consulting engineer,
becoming in 1926 chairman of the Council
of Scientific and Industrial Research, a
position from which he resigned last
December. His invention of the tote was
rather in the nature of an ingenious
mental exercise, and the same streak in
his character that was responsible for it
led him to construct an elaborate model
railway system which was his hobby for
many years. Julius’s widow is a daughter
of C. Y. O’Connor, Westralia’s great
engineer, who built Fremantle Harbor
and carried through, in face of bitter
attacks, the Goldfields Water Supply,
Len Clarkson, president of Adelaide
Rotary, is the second member of his
family to hold that job—his father A. E.
Clarkson occupied the chair twenty years
ago. At that time Len’s chief interest was
cricket; he played for Prince Alfred
ROTARIAN NEWLY-CHAIRED.
College, and for Kensington when that
team won its first premiership in 1927.
These days he plays picnic cricket with
the “Taxation” team, skippered by F. B.
Lee, the deputy-commissioner; former
Test player Arthur Richardson is a team
mate. Rotary’s new president, sketched
here by Coventry, is prominent in Liberal -
Country League activities, secretary of
Malvern Men’s Fellowship, is on the
council of his old school and a member
of the Chamber of Commerce.
Taxpayers’ problems will not be new to
Geoffrey Thomas Clarke, elected to suc-
ceed Justice C. L. Abbott as M.H.A. for
Burnside, S.A., as he’s been secretary
of the Taxpayers’ Association for many
years. Accountant by profession, he was
educated at Prince Alfred College and
Adelaide Uni., where he became an
Associate in Commerce. Actively inte-
rested in a number of public bodies,
Clarke was honorary secretary of the
Lord Mayor’s Food for Britain Appeal
in Adelaide. Now 43, he served with
the Red Cross in the'M.E., New Guinea
and North Australia.
Professor Thomas Howell Laby, F.R.S.,
dead at 66 in Melbourne, was another
Australian to come from Creswick (Vic.),
that hotbed of eminent men. One of the
world’s leading physicists, he was a pupil
in London, under a research scholarship,
of Joseph Thomson and was demonstrator
in chemistry at Sydney University before
he came to the professorship of physics in
the University of Melbourne. Laby was
one of the men who provided the answer
to German gas in the First World War,
and ip the Second he did yeoman service
as chairman of Optical Munitions Panel
of the Department of Munitions. He was
an able teacher—l 3 of his students
were, like himself, awarded Exhibition
of 1851 scholarships, and like himself,
two have become Fellows of the Royal
Society.
“R.A.P.”: John Gerald Hayden’s
legion of friends and acquaintances will
be amused at the suggestion (B. 26/6/’46)
that he has since relinquishing duty with
the Army given up his practice in favor
of research. Dr. Hayden is again very
much on the job as a Collins-street con-
sulting physician. During the war his
work as C.O. of 7th A.G.H. earned him a
C.B.E. and a mention in dispatches.
It is more than a quarter of a century
since Edward Gerard (“Gerardy” of in-
numerable Bulletin verses) brought out
his second book of poems, Australian
Light Horse Ballads and Rhymes —his
first was The Road to Palestine and Other
Verses, published in 1918. A third.
Rhymes of the Restless Years, containing
the cream of his work since he got out
of khaki after World War I, will be pub-
lished shortly by Frank Johnson, Sydney.
“Gerardy” is a bush balladist who knows
his bush; since 1919 he has had a sheep
and wheat property at Grenfell (N.S.W.),
and as a young fellow he roamed South
Aus. and Westralia.. A careful craftsman,
his rhymes have a swing and a lilt of their
own and there are many Light Horsemen
who served in Gallipoli, Sinai, Palestine
and Syria who can remember his earlier
pieces. At 55, “Gerardy” can toil from
sunrise to sundown with the best of them.
“Becks” on a great Canadian;
When William Lyon Mackenzie King became
Prime Minister of Canada in 1921 William
Morris Hughes held the same j°b here. Since
then Bruce, Scullin, Lyons, Page, Menzies,
Faddeh, Curtin, Forde and Chifley have had
their hands (or, in the case of three of them, a
finger) on the tiller of the Commonwealth ship
of State; in the old Dominion, his reign only
twice interrupted—for three months of 1926
by Meighen and from 1930 to 1935 by Bennett'
—Mackenzie King is still at the helm. Canada’s
Prime Minister cut his political teeth under
the tutelage of Wilfred Laurier, whom he suc-
ceeded as leader of the Liberal party in 1919,
and under his leadership the party, wh'ich had
been in partial eclipse for ten years, climbed
back to the Treasury benches and has remained
there for most of the time since.
Mackenzie King’s detractors describe him as
an arch-compromiser, and a compromiser he
certainly is—in a country where a great part
of the population is of non-British descent
compromise is the only policy that could bring
any kind of stable government. That Canada
has had this is indicated by the scope and
nature of her war effort. Food production
during the war reached record figures and at
the same time secondary industry was so ex-
panded that only Britain, U.S. and Russia
ranked above her in production of munitions
and supplies for the Allied cause.
Early in his career King qualified in Arts
and Law at Toronto University and followed
that up with degrees in Political Economy at
Chicago and Political Science at Harvard.
From the last-named university he went to
Europe on a travelling fellowship. These
degrees earned in his own right he values more
highly than the honorary letters which 10 uni-
versities, including Oxford and Cambridge,
have since hung upon him, together with the
“freedom” of five cities, during his record term
of 19 years as Prime Minister.
John Bowie Wilson, of Sydney, is
now entitled to add K.C, to the imposing
string of letters already tacked on to his
name. His first choice engineering, from
Sydney Uni. he went to Mt. Morgan in
1897, after qualifying in mining and
metallurgy. He spent 10 years there,
finishing up as manager, and then came
back to Sydney Uni. to lecture in mining
and study law. He was called to the
Sydney Bar in 1914. In Wilson’s mining
days he had joined the Queensland
Mounted Infantry and back in Sydney he
continued his association with the Army,
first as a captain in Intelligence and
throughout the First World War as a
legal staff officer. This last post brought
him ultimately to the position of Judge-
Advocate General of Commonwealth
Military Forces, appointed in 1935. At
the Bennett inquiry Wilson was called in
to define the laws relating to surrenders
and capitulations. His silk gown comes
to him at 70,
The history of the Maori Battalion in
the “battles, sieges, fortunes” of Hitler’s
war, brought to the end of the Tunisian
campaign by Lieut.-Col. Bennett, is to be
completed by Warrant-Officer K. H.
Nepia, Hawkes Bay. Lieut.-Col. Bennett,
commander of the Maoris, is now at
Otago University studying anthropology.
Both historians are Maoris.
When Oscar Hammerstein II first saw
the light in 1895 in Harlem, that suburb
of New York was not the negro district it
PLAYWRIGHT PASSING THROUGH.
is now. His grandfather, Oscar Ham-
merstein I, built streets of houses which
subsequently harbored the dark popula-
tion, some of whose songs his grandson
has since written. Oscar’s father made
him promise to eschew the theatre, and
he took a law degree ; but when dad died
in 1914 —he left Oscar £l6 a week —son
drifted towards the forbidden portals.
Oscar the Second’s fir£t big hit was
“Wildflower,” in which Marie Burke shot
to fame in Australia ; later came “Rose
Marie,” “The Desert Song,” “New
Moon,” “Sunny,” “Show Boat” —a great
success —and dozens of others. His song
lyrics run into hundreds, many of which,
like “OP Man River,” the milko whistles
in a hundred suburbs. Six feet 1+
inches in his socks and turning the scale
at 15st., he does not smoke and
drinks in moderation. Oscar Greely
Glendinning Hammerstein is the full
name. The Australian theatrescape
attracts him and he expects to be back
soon with some of his new productions,
With the graduation of Clem Windsor,
State Rugby Union full-back, at the
Queensland University’s Medical School,
his family has achieved something ap-
proaching an Australian record in doctor-
production, Clem’s father, Dr. H. J.
Windsor, is a leading Brisbane practi-
tioner, his brother Harry, just discharged
from the A.A.M.C., is about to take out
a Gordon Craig Fellowship in medical
research in Sydney, and another brother,
Morgan, is a medical officer with the
Occupation Force in Japan.
Into the silence:
At Geelong, Vic., at 88, William Holliday, a
Cobb and Co. coachdriver for 32 years. After
that he drove cabs and finally automobiles, re-
tiring last year.
In Christchurch, at 83, Colonel G. J. Smith,
C.B.E. Born in Durham, England, he arrived
in Maoriiand in 1879. First elected to the
Reps, in 1893, he had two terms in the House,
and in 1907 Joe Ward called him to the Upper
House. He served with the Canterbury Bat-
talion in the First World War, and had long
service on the Canterbury College Board of
Governors, of which he was chairman.
In Brisbane, at 74, Thomas Llewellyn Jones,
chairman of United Provisions, M.L.A. for
Oxley from 1915 to 1918, and M.L.C. from
1919 until the abolition of the Council. In
his time he was a member of the Queensland
University Senate, chairman of the Brisbane
and South Coast Hospitals Board, com-
modore of the Royal Queensland Yacht Club
and a member of the Barrier Reef Committee.
In Adelaide, at 54, R. G. Wilton, Engineer
for Water Supply. Son of a former chief-of-
staff of Adelaide “Advertiser,” he was in Gal-
lipoli and ♦France with the 10th Battalion,
and then became prominent on the Warren,
Cobdogia and other waterworks of S.A.
Robert Waden, landscape-painter of repute
in S.A., is dead at 46. Trained by Will
Ashton, he was one of the “Three Ws.” who
became known together in the southern State;
Whinnen (now president of its Society of Arts)
and Travis Webber were the other two.


Women's letters
From Melbourne
The International Club of Victoria was
founded by Mrs. Herbert Brookes in
1931 just after she returned from a visit to
America, Mrs. McMillan becoming hon.
organising secretary, which position she
held for 14 years before going to live with
her son in Westralia. Every month a
luncheon is held and a speaker of interest,
usually from another country, is chosen.
Recently Mrs. L. Manniche spoke on the
life and works of Hans Andersen.
Strongest of the national groups associ-
ated with the club are the Norwegian and
Swedish communities. Brides of all
countries and other arrivals in this city
from various nations are always enter-
tained at afternoon tea; in this way per-
sonal contact is made and the new Aus-
tralian made to feel at home. The club
also has an active Red Cross group. Since
it was formed over 13,000 articles have
been sent to the Red Cross. Headquarters
of the club are in the Manchester Unity
Building.
Wedding of Felicity Jacqueline (Jackie)
Haggard was held at Holy Trinity, Kew,
scene of many of the family weddings.
The church was full of glorious snow-
white blooms. Jackie is the elder daughter
of Mrs. Haggard, of Pendleside, Woori
Yallock, and the late Commander
Geoffrey Haggard, R.N. Her bride-
groom was William Denison Deasey,
youngest son of Mrs. Deasey, Lansell-
road, Toorak, and the late Rev.
D. M. Deasey. The bride was grace-
ful in a trained gown of white and silver
lame, with yoke and long tight-fitting
sleeves of Brussels lace to match her filmy
veil, which was caught to her head with
a small diamond tiara lent by her aunt,
Mrs. M. Clemons, of Tasmania. The
bouquet was of gardenias. Jennifer,
schoolgirl sister of the bride, and her
youthful aunt, Veronica Syme, were
bridesmaids, their lovely frocks of white
corded taffeta featuring quaint little
bustles formed by loops of the taffeta.
In their white hairbands they wore two
full-blown roses arranged at the back of
the head, and they carried bouquets of
roses. The ’groom was supported by his
two brothers: Randal as best man and
-Desmond groomsman. Bishop Baker offi-
ciated.
The reception was held at Blythswood,
Kew, the home of the bride’s grand-
mother, Lady Syme, whose ensemble of
deep brown crepe was fur-trimmed.
Guests were received by Mrs. Haggard,
whose smoky-blue frock was finished with
a sequin collar, her hat fashioned of tea-
rose pink roses. The bridegroom’s sister,
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, was gowned in bur-
gundy satin covered with a fur cape, her
hat highlighted with tiny green ostrich
feathers. There were many young guests ;
among them Angela Sturt, who clustered
green-felt flowers at the back of her black
velvet bandeau; Petra Campbell, whose
hat was a twist of black velvet and mist-
blue tulle, and Margaret Brodribb and
Judith Barrett, both wearing gaily-colored
wreaths of flowers on their hair. Mrs. W.
Finies was snugly wrapped in a black
tailored coat, and added contrast with a
small black hat on which was looped saxe-
blue ribbon.
Recently Claridge’s, of South Yarra,
recommenced a pre-war custom, the
“Friday Dress Night,” and the first func-
tion proved that people do appreciate
the opportunity to don formal evening
wear. Adding to the festive note were
the masses of colored balloons, which
later were used for a miniature battle.
Among those seen at supper tables or on
the dance floor was Mrs. Douglas
Stephens, who included in her party the
Frank Coles, Mrs. Redvers Bate and Col.
de C. Boys, formerly private secretary to
Sir Winston Dugan and who is leaving
soon for England on the Stirling Castle ;
Neville Palmer, now back in Civvy-street,
after service in the R.A.A.F., was with
his wife; Ruth Colman danced with
fiance, member for Henty, “Jo” Gullett.
Others having a gay time included Kath-
leen Grant-Hay and Major Keith Knox.
Margaret (“Bunty”) Schofield was the
associate artist with Edmund Kurtz at his
first concert in this city, held in the
Assembly Hall. The pianiste showed the
trend towards more glitter in the sequin-
trimmed lace jacket she wore over her
slim-fitting black crepe frock. In the audi-
ence were her parents, Archdeacon and
Mrs. Schofield, wife of the ’cellist, Mrs.
Kurtz, and also many well-known musical
personalities, including Rudolph Himmer
and his wife, Bertha Jorgensen, leader of
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, and
Mr. and Mrs. Jascha Spivakovsky,
A happy feature of the party given by
Mrs. William Boyd, of Wanroy, Camper-
down, for the coming of age of her grand-
daughter Prudence, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Douglas Boyd, of Chatsworth Park,
Tabilk, was that the guest of honor’s
father, who had just returned from Eng-
land, was able to be present. Large
bowls of pastel-tinted hydrangeas and
Iceland poppies formed the chief floral
decorations at No. 9 Darling-street,
Prudence wore a lovely lace frock in
Patou pink, a gift from her grandmother..
Its bodice, which had an off-the-shoulder
line, was finished with a gathered berthe
threaded with narrow turquoise-blue
velvet ribbon which matched the
shoulder-straps and the sash, the ends of
w'hich, tied in front, reached almost to
the hem of the skirt. Her only ornament
was a diamond true-lovers’ knot, also a
gift from her grandmother.
The new off-the-shoulder effect v/as
chosen by many of the young guests ;
Angela Cass had a berthe of white lace
forming a contrast to her gown of deep-
lose shot taffeta. Veronica Syme wore
the frock in which she was brides-
maid to Mrs. Denison Deasey, and it
was noticeable that many girls, some of
whom are fellow-students of the guest of
honor, who is doing Law, favored back-
less gowns. Bunty McConnan had a
narrow ruche outlining the top of her
sleeveless gown and Bebe Stephens also
chose a backless gown of blue self-
patterned satin. Sub-Lieut. Baillieu Myer,
Gordon Byron Moore and Dr. Peter
Wilson were guests.
Viola Wilson, portrayed here by the
camera of Athol Shmith, has been heard
and seen with pleasure by thousands of
Gilsullivan lovers in Australia. A Scottish
lass, she is married to Frank Tait. Now
with two bonny children tucked away in
the nursery, Viola has come back to the
stage and is playing Maria Zeigler, opera
singer, in “The Dancing Years.”
In 1940 a band of women headed by
Mrs. Norman Martin founded the Coun-
try Leave Club, which was situated in
lovely Fawkner Park, South Yana.
Every Sunday men of all the Services
were invited to lunch and then stayed on
for tennis, miniature golf or dancing.
Concert parties gave their services every
Sunday afternoon and four orchestras
took it in turn to play in a voluntary
capacity, on Sunday, in the afternoon and
at night. When Norman Martin was
appointed Agent-General for Victoria
early in the year, the Martin family
moved off to London ; but the Country
Leave Club still functioned, for Doreen
Tiley took over the presidency. Now,
with other such centres, the doors
have closed, the last Sunday gathering
being wound up with a bright concert
party.
The gala opening of Ivor Novell© s
“The Dancing Years” was a notable occa-
sion. Women wore their loveliest frocks
and furs, and men came out in force foi
the first time since the war, in
“ironclads” and tails. The frocks
in the audience were more than
matched by those worn by the principals
and others of the cast. Scenery and back-
grounds for the frocks were just as lovely,
and the ballet numbers by the Borovansky
dancers were received with great enthusi-
asm. White fox furs are coming back
into favor; a striking three-quarter cape
was worn by Mrs. Wallace Mitchell over
her long formal black grown. Silver foxes
also have their devotees ; Anne, wife of
Dr. Bill McDermott, used a silver fox
cape for added warmth. Mrs. Norman
Spry chose black velvet for her evening
gown and had it heavily embroidered in
pearls. She also featured the new hair-do:
her blonde locks were twisted into a
double chignon and dressed low on her
neck. Bernard and Maurice Dowd were
with their attractive wives. The coveted
mink coat was also in evidence; Mrs.
Olive Thring wore one. Judith Silk wore
a long ruby velvet evening coat with the
latest in hoods attached. Betty Stewart
chose a formal gown of ivory satin with
a smart matching tailored jacket. Leon-
tine Sagan, producer of “The Dancing
Years,” and who was also producer for
the original presentation in London, wore
a tailored dinner gown of white crepe.
From Sydney
One of the happiest visits made by the
Duchess of Gloucester last week was that
to the Drummond Far West Home at
Manly. The children in the occupational
therapy classes had a particularly proud
moment when two woollen scarves, made
in H.R.H.’s family tartan, were presented
to the Duchess. They had all had a hand
in the making and the weaving. The
Duchess was touched by the gift, and said
how welcome the scarves would be when
winds in Canberra blew cold. Chairman
of the Far West scheme Dr. Moncricff
Barron and his wife received the Duchess,
who was attended by Miss Eileen Phipps.^
The mothers and babies in the Women’s
Hospital, Crown-street, had a visit from
the Duchess of Gloucester early last week.
Four-day-old Mary Briggs, of Surry Hills,
the tenth member of her family, was
nursed by the Royal visitor. There are
five boys and five girls in this family and
Mrs. Briggs is a smiling and proud
mother. Miss Eileen Phipps attended the
Duchess. Mrs. W. R. Dovey, wife of the
hospital’s chairman, and Matron Shaw
made the tour of inspection with H.R.H.
Importants in Sydney last week were
Air Chief Marshal Sir Keith Park and
his wife. They were taking a breather
on land before flying off again to Singa-
pore.
Happy-looking Beryl Kimber, Tas-
mania’s young violinist, will soon lovingly
finger the Amati of her desires. The
Young Tasmanian Artists’ Fund promised
it to her when she won the A.B.C.’s
Overseas Scholarship. The tests were con-
cluded last week, and Sybil Willey, con-
tralto, of Brisbane, and pianist Manfred
dynes, of Melbourne, are other winners
of this musical competition. Manfred,
who is 21, came from Budapest with his
parents eight years ago and is a graduate
in Engineering of Melbourne University.
He and Sybil will study at the Juilliard
school, New York, while Beryl will go to
the Royal Academy of Music, London.
Joan Hammond came back to Australia
last Saturday. She arrived by flying-
boat, and found an excited company of
friends waiting to welcome her. Her
mother and brothers were the first with
greetings. A.B.C. potentates were there,
too, for Joan has come back to tour
Australia under A.B.C. direction. It is
10 years since she left Sydney, after a
monster farewell concert in the Town
Hall, to study in Vienna. Later she
studied with Borgioli. She has sung in
opera throughout Great Britain with the
Carl Rosa company. She has sung on the
Continent. She starred in a season of
opera in Ireland, and Dubliners gave her
enthusiastic applause. She has warbled at
celebrity concerts in the Albert Hall, and
it was after one of these appearances that
she was presented to the Queen by Lady
Gowrie, who has always taken the keenest
interest in Joan’s career. Throughout
the war she drove an ambulance. Yester-
day 400 women golfers entertained her at
the Kensington Golf Club. The singer’s
Sydney teacher. Lute Drummond, was
among the guests.
Federal administrators of the A.C.F.
had their last visit to Sydney on Comforts
Fund business last week. They met for
the wind-up rally and a few preliminary
junketings, the most important of which
was a reception at Admiralty House by
the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester.
That was on Wednesday. On Thursday
the executive gave their Royal Highnesses
a lunch at the Australia Hotel plus a
painting, “Night Convoy,” by James
Cook. The Duke is patron of the Fund,
and he has always shown deep interest in
A.C.F. work.
The final trumpet filled the Town Hall
with sound, if not fury. Amid a beginning
jungle of ferny shoot and palm sat Lord
Mayors, former Lord Mayors, aldermen
and members of the Federal executive —
it might have suggested a theme for a
patriotic and modern “Apres-midi d’un
Faune.” There were flags about the gal-
lery, and presently when the Governor-
General and the Duchess (her frock of
soft pink woollen topped by a short furry
cape) appeared the organ thundered
“God Save!” and then the speeches
started. All the speeches told the same
story —a story of hard and unremitting
effort on the part of the women of each
State to help their fighting men. Three
pictures impressed themselves on the mind
in Lt.-Colonel McCann’s story; those
of the Gumnuts, the small, blind
children of South Australia; the women
of the Mallee, picking out the mallee
roots which they sold for firewood, and
the mother who ran a monthly
dance, even after her own boy was killed,
and averaged for the fund £25 a month.
But, really, from each corner of Australia
the story of determined endeavor to make
the lot of the fighting man happier rang
out on a brave note.
After the packed Town Hall had dis-
gorged its thousands, Lord Mayor Bart-
ley and Mrs. Bartley gathered a crowd
of guests around them in the Mayoress’s
drawing-room. Here were drinks to warm
the heart and the toes after the freezing,
unradiatored atmosphere below stairs.
Winifred Brennan, of Queensland, in
black with a large pink rose in the lapel
was greeted by many Sydney friends.
Sydney heard another famed violinist
last week —Serge Kotlarsky, who comes
from Russia by way of America. The
night was cold, the radiators in the Town
Hall were off, and the audience was not
packed in, but the sensitive beauty of the
music brought warmth and color into
this frigid zone. The applause was hearty
and was extended to associate artist
Olga Krasnik. Pianist Olga wore a palely-
green taffeta frock with flowing skirt,
and her pretty and intrepid arms
were bared to the breeze. The piano was
set in a mess of pottage which held the
ferns and palms left on the stage from
the grand A.C.F. rally in the afternoon.
Novelist Biddy Worger called into The
Bulletin last week. She is in the Ran-
gitata bound for England. Biddy, who
has lived in Fiji for some years, is the
author of four novels. She won a short
story competition in The Bulletin in
1936, and another story of hers, “Loma
the Native,” set in Fiji, appeared recently
in this paper. She is having a book of
short stories published in England, and
after her English journey she hopes to
return to Fiji,
A date not to be forgotten is one with
Neville Amadio, Maureen Jones and Jean
Hatton next Friday night at the Conser-
vatoriura. Neville will play the flute
sweetly, Maureen’s talented fingers will
play the piano, and Jean of the soaring
notes will sing for the benefit of the
Samuel Cohen Kindergarten for Deaf
Children.
Hundreds of women boarded the Bondi
trams last Wednesday. They weren’t ice-
bergs. No, indeed, they went full of
warmth and affection to the Masonic Hall
to listen to Dame Enid Lyons talking to
them in a friendly, cosy fashion about all
the things that would make life more com-
fortable, in contrast to the things that
were making it the reverse. It was a
soothing talk, because the woman listener
felt that life in the future could offer a
cushion or two instead of the constant
brickbafof today. It was a grand meeting,
with Jane Bernays, very alert, in the chair.
She promoted Deputy-Leader of the
Opposition Harrison on the spot, and
named him Leader, which title he had to
blushingly deny. He referred to Dame
Enid in a matey way as Enid. But with
all its nonchalance the meeting got its
message across. Trust Dame Enid for
that. She was, if you are interested, very
trig in black, a deep-blue plume curving
the rim of her black toque.
The invitation to the show of Irish Con-
temporary Art was circled with sham-
rocks, and on the day when Australia’s
just-departing Minister to Eire made the
opening speech there was soft music of
the harp and the violin inside the en-
trance to David Jones’s Gallery. How-
ever, there was no flash of emerald in
hat or frock of any of those invited. The
pictures are by artists on both sides of
the border, so you can admire alike the
snow scene by Tom Nesbit, of Belfast,
and the “Mill Stream” of Limerick man
Fergus O’Ryan. The “Trees of County
Down” as seen by Frank Egginton found
great favor with a group of college lads.
But the little barn with the white calves
is the one for this writer’s red seal. Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones, there with husband
and son Charles, wore a loose short coat
of snow leopard —very distracting from
the beauties on the wall.
The New Zealand Club, Sydney, will
be holding its annual ball to celebrate
Dominion Day, 1946, in the Sydney Town
Hall on Wednesday, October 16. Will
intending debutantes please ring the
president, Mrs. E. Hempton, FA3383?,


How Will My 'Estate
he Administered?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over bo years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges arc
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Roserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb.,
F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jone*.
Manager: K. M. Hughe*.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie. M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie Morshead.
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of cord,
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Hear Anthony Horderns)
PLAN m HIS,
fUT
imi
r"'
Wise is the father who
plans ahead and makes
provision for his family’s
future welfare by arrang-
ing for a life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice available!
equitable proqate
e. GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
Bea^Office37l-373 Brisbane
WINGEU.O MOim, ANCEI PLACE. SYDNEY
?OtUHS HOUSIHBOLIIHS ST, MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
The WILD CAT
COLUMN.
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
„ To Re- Re-
March, Profit Dmdends. serves, serves,
1936.. 234,474* 10 p.c. = 150,000 84,474 1,641,338
1937.. ZtiM'fo p!“-i5°o n ,ooo £25 9°4 C ;?i9 lumst
1938. . 261,725* 10 „ „ 156,250 f 95 i 75 j 805 962
1939.. 290,286* 10 $1 = SSSo 109,03 a i’,9u,998
Unexplained addition, £33,809.. 1,948,807
1940.. 260,621 10 p.c. = 200,000 ) 50 , 62 i 1,999 428
lo staff fund, £lO,OOO S
Unexplained addition, £93,982.. 2,093,410
1941.. 270,657 io p.c. = 200,000 70,657 2,164,067
Written off plantations, £35,000.- 2,129,067
Docking and repair a/c, £150,000 2,279,067
Unexplained addition, £217,129 2,496,196
1942 •• 000 a qnTqQo
Unexplained addition, £305,399 2,796,030
1948.. 201,464 io p.c. = 2g0,000 1,464 2,797,494
10 .. addition, £105,743 2,903,237
1944.. 226,572 10 p.c. = 200,000 7 , ,
To staff fund, £25,000 | 1.572 2,904,809
Unexplained addition, £112,658 3,017,467
45.. 2 1 7 o 5>1 g^ ff 1 “ u | 3,817 3,021,284
Unexplained addition, £121,516.. 3,142,800
1946.. 232,835 10 p.c. = 200,000 )
To staff fund. £30,100 | 2,735 3,U5,58 °
* Includes net additions to insurance and branch
revenues, etc.
This ably-handled merchandising, agency
Qn j df
and shipping business has brought a lot of
trade and employment to Australia.
Shareholders have received a steady 10
DC for the last 27 vears and thev can
p.c. ior me last z/ years, ana tney can
see reserves of £3,145,535 to support ana
assist the £2,000,000 of share capital. Pre-
war activities spread round the Australian
*i ;i.„j
coast, out o\ er the Pacific to Maonland
and the islands of Micronesia, and north
to New Guinea, Java, Singapore, Manila,
Horn? Knno and pkpwhpr? War folded
Hong ivong ana eisewnere. war loiaea
up trade in operational areas, and the
fleet was taken over by the Government
on a charter basis. Still, whatever the co.
i , • -i , • ...
lost in earnings through mterrup-
tion of old trade channels it largely re-
covered through service demands for mer-
chandise, etc., and through its war-time
U.S. shipping agency hundreds of
American small ships were handled and
millions of pounds were paid out on be-
half of the U.S. Government.
Last term there was a sharp tapering
of activity on war account, and only
partial revival of island and other trading,
Cash turnover (£15,612,780) fell away
£1,136,725. Still, gross earnings from all
sources were £42,317 stronger:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Gross £ £ £ £
earnings. . 1,284,081 1,593,523 1,431,490 1,473,807
Hxes. .. 846,020 1,110,446 1,087,570 1,095,799
Balance .. 439,061 483,077 343,920 378,008
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. .. 178,440 288,642 118,730 145,173
Profit claimed 260,621 194,435 225,190 232,885
Exes., including taxation, took only £8229
of the gain, but an extra £26,443 was
provided for depreciation, etc. The net
result was thus £7645 better at £232,835,
or 11.6 p.c. on capital as against 11.2,
11.3, 10, 9.7, 13.5 and 13 p.c. back to
1940. After paying the div, and sending
£30,100 (double the contractual amount)
to the staff fund, £2735 of the year’s profit
remained. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing £121,516 tossed into the insurance
fund and other reserves. The addition
represents excess over book value of war
damage recovery on a property in Papua
and extra provision for depreciation of
property and plant, and makes total addi-
tions to this reserve over the last seven
years £1,239,637, raising the figure to
£1,853,881, some of which might be
genuine profit.
The future, however, is full of uncer-
tainty, the shipping outlook being most
doubtful. Chairman James Bums sums
up in this way:
We may be forced to concentrate more
of our business in this country, and with
this in view have extended our retail inter-
- ests Some of our vessels are twice or
three times more expensive to run than in
1938-39, and 1 cannot see that anybody
seems to be better off. Somebody has to
pay, so with higher wages, shouer hours
and reduced output everything must cost
more High costs may be all right in the
Australian coastal trade, which is pro-
tected, but it is a different matter when we
have to compete with the outside world
With the high cost of new tonnage we hesi-
tate to build, even to replace the six motor
ships we have lost Fortunately we are
merchants; rather than shipowners, but
whether the day of 1 the Australian ship-
owner in overseas trade is past, only the
future can tell. We intend —in Australian
parlance—to “give it a go,” and see what'
happens, and I sincerely hope we will not
have to fade out of the picture so far as
development and progress of this side of
our business are concerned.
In contrast with World War 1, ship
earnings during the last war were based
on austere compensation rather than ade-
quate reward for services rendered. Aus-
tralia cannot afford to suffer contraction
of that portion of its national income
represented by this co.’s island and other
overseas trade. To enable the co.’s ships
to continue successfully in international
competition outside Australian waters,
suitable exemption from the hobbling
provisions governing the Australian
coastal trade should be granted. Future
repair, bunkering and other opera-
ting costs promise to be a heavy
handicap, but demand for passenger
accommodation and freight space seems
likely to continue at a high level
for some time. Unlike the factory,
which may increase or reduce its
operations according to demand, the
economics of a ship are comparatively in-
flexible. It has to run its coal or oil-fired
propulsion unit for 24 hours a day while
on a voyage, and it cannot increase or
reduce its carrying capacity, and opera-
ting costs and capital charges are not very
flexible.
The co. is well equipped to expand its
activities in whatever direction is decided:
1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Liabilities .. 2,356,082 2,856,065 2,988,617
Properties and
shipping .. 2,625,G0'S 2,273,524 2,223,678
Investments, etc... 2,047,903 3,447,378 3,989,330
Stocks, advances,
etc 1,126,486 1,241,562 1,021,892
Book debts .. 941,529 806,338 742,902
Cash . . .. 205,786 208,546 256,348
Outstanding feature last term was the
addition of £541,952 to investments,
which consist of Government securities
and shares in other cos. Shares in sub-
sidiaries (£867,826) increased by £145,636,
owing to purchase of a controlling interest
in “certain country stores.” The more
of less liquid surplus (£1,255,040) was
£74,391 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The market, which notes the co.’s his-
tory, discounts the future by pricing the
pound shares at 655. (official high), at
which figure the return is 3 p.c. -on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover is
51s. sd. in net tangibles.
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1936.. 81,295 8| p.c. = 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. .. 295,445
1937.. 33,005 9£ p.c. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
1938.. 37,091 9| p.c. = 34,911 2,180 318,327
1939.. 39,681 10 „ „ 37,596 2,085 320,412
Contingency reserve disclosed, £23,000 343,412
1940.. 42,020 10 p.c. = 37,596 4,424 847,836
1941.. 43,100 10 „ „ 37,596 5,504 353,340
1942.. 37,702 10 „ „ 37,596 106 353,446
1943.. 38,006 10 „ „ 87,596 410 353,856
1944.. 38,200 10 „ „ 37,596 604 354,460
Added contingencies reserve, £22,000.. 376,460
1945.. 38,674 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,078, 377,538
Warehouse reserve, £36,000 .. .. ' 413,538
1946.. 39,500 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,904 415,442
Well-handled and stoutly-ribbed, this
vendor of paper and printers’ requisites,
etc., has been, and is, a stout prop to
many in the printing trade, and share-
holders have nothing to complain about,
either. For 15 years after the public
became interested in 1915, the ords. got a
steady 10 p.c., sweetened with £50,000 of
bonus scrip and new issues at par. The
rate dropped to 5f p.c. for the
two years to close of accounts in
1932, and then advanced by easy
annual steps to 10 p.c. again in
1939, and has remained steady since.
The economic storm of the early 1930’s
left the co. with more money than it
could find employment for in the busi-
ness, and £368,484 of capital was re-
turned. Then, in 1937, reviving trade
called for the issue of 53,709 new pound
shares at a premium of 10s. each, raising
paid capital to its present figure.
Despite war and its accompanying ex-
change, shipping and other difficulties, in-
cluding rising costs and the rationing of
paper and reduction in the size of country
and other newspapers, the co.’s net earn-
ings over the last half-dozen years have
averaged £39,197, compared with an
average of £35,662 for the six years to the
close of accounts in 1940.
Though end of hostilities removed ttfe
isolation of Scandinavian and Finnish
producers, and made more pulp available
to British mills, full supplies are not yet
available from these sources, nor from
Canada or U.S.A., owing to pressure
from their own home markets and the
shipping position. Still, supplies im-
proved last term, and so did the co.’s
turnover, which was further assisted by
purchase of the stationery manufacturing
business of Galwey and Co. a year or so
ago. The board figured net earnings £826
better at £39,500, or 10.5 p.c. on capital
as against 10.2, 10.1, 10 and 11.5 p.c. back
to 1942. Actually the result was better
than stated, because the profit figure was
written after strengthening “certain inner
reserves” and tossing £36,000 into a “re-
serve for improved warehouse facilities,”
which came in undisclosed proportions
from the year’s earnings and from “inter-
nal provisions not now required.”
Balance-sheet figures further reflect the
year’s .brisker trading:
1989. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. . £375,965 £375,965 £375,965 £375,965
Liabilities .. 109,650* 147,673 229,601 227,059
Tax reserve .. . 68,562 76,910 116,977
Freeholds .. 120,565 126,881 126,881 126,381
Stocks . . 137,258 209,922 187,407 258,447
Debtors . . 445,781 390,551 284,026 328,984
Cash, etc. . . 118,822 228,191 471,599 431,030
* Including tax provision, etc.
A growth of £71,040 in stocks and of
£44,958 in debtors’ balances was accom-
panied by a reduction of £40,569 in cash
and of £2542 in the amount coming to
trade creditors. Tax reserve was
strengthened by £40,067. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£674,425) was £37,904.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, prices the pound
shares at the ceiling figure of 545. 9d.,
at which the return is 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 425, Id. in net
tangibles.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd,
t Div idends—
A B Nominal
Prof. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6' p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 828,600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £51,037 .. 396,113
1939.. 37,877 10,500 19,200 2400 5,777 401,890
1940.. 41,543 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,243
1941.. 36,717 10,500 19,200 2400 4,617 415,860
1942.. 32,360 10,500 19,200 2400 260 410,120
1943.. 37,837 10,500 19,200 2400 5,737 421,857
9 p.c.
1944.. 34,942 10,500 21,600 2400 442 422,299
Added investment reserve, £398 .. 422,697
10 p.c.
1945.. 37,296 10,500 24,000 2400 896 423,093
From inner reserves, £64,346.. .. 487,439
1946.. 40,427 10,500 24,000 2400 3,527 490,966
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
The exceptionally strong position in
which this co. (it is in the difficult dry-
goods trade) finds itself today is the out-
come of the cautious policy in both trad-
ing and finance long followed by an able
management. The co. trades on short-
term both as buyer and seller, preferring
to have thousands of customers on its
books rather than be a silent partner in
a limited number of “supported
accounts.” And its warehouses, scat-
tered throughout the Commonwealth,
are kept filled from factories in Victoria,
N. S. Wales, Queensland, South Australia
and Westralia. This has meant, and still
means, much so far as difficult transport,
delivery and other problems are con-
cerned.
When the books last closed the £430,000
of capital had the support and assistance
of £490,966 of reserves, subject to £BO,OOO
of goodwill. So net tangibles (capital and
reserves combined) need turn in only a
shade over 4.3 p.c. to cover the div. on
pref. and employee shares and 10 p.c.
to the ords. Here is the comfortable


INVENTORS—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
b-ZA
timers
Circular Charts io> dU type* oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
ol Machinery or equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gel our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
OUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O'lO.
ilave you
helped a
Perhaps you are one of those men or women who did
so much valuable work in canteens. Comforts Fund Groups
or the N.E.S. right through the war. Now the war is over
you feel that you’d like to keep on helping the boys who
are coming out of the Services but don’t quite know how to
go about it. There is sure to be a job you can do today.
Simply ring your Town Clerk, or Shire Clerk, and ask where
you can get in touch with your Local Repatriation Com-
mittee which is comprised mostly of honorary workers.
The community’s responsibility to our servicemen
doesn’t end with demobilization, as shown by these examples
of the way in which other men and women are helping
ex-servicemen. There might be an idea here for you.
Sailor
Mr. J. K. ... a country real
estate agent makes a point of
finding accommodation for ex-
servicemen and their families.
• ••••♦
Mrs. D. B. , . the wife of a
railway shunter. Her part time
job in a munitions annexe has
ended. Now she takes in washing
for un-married ex-servicemen who
usually don’t have many shirts or
underpants and find it hard to
get laundry done.
*•••••
Mr. K. A. .. . factory owner
who is certain that there would
be fewer industrial troubles if
men had jobs which suited them
as individuals. For that reason
he has supplied his Local Re-
patriation Committee with a list
of jobs which are vacant in his
factory and has taken care to
specify the type of man which he
thinks would be happiest doing
each particular job.
Miss F. . . . business girl. Does
typing for any ex-servicemen who
are starting small businesses and
naturally don’t have type-writers.
They greatly appreciate her help
with letters.
Mr. K. . . . suburban bank
manager. Inspects any local busi-
ness that an ex-serviceman con-
siders buying and advises him
whether or not it is a sound in-
vestment.
»#»•••
Mrs. J. . . . has taken over the
town’s Hospitality Hut and runs
it on self-service lines as a board-
ing house for ex-servicemen. The
boys are glad to make their own
beds, wait on themselves at table,
and even help with dishes —in
return for good meals and a
pleasant roof over their heads at
a price they can easily afford
to pay.
Phone or write to your Town Clerk or Shire Clerk for full
particulars of your Local Repatriation Committee •
df
<UST
ZlLir
d
Inserted by
the central re-establishment and
RE-EMPLOYMENT COMMITTEE
CRR11.102.66
“WORLD BOOKS”
in de luxe
editions
)
im
wmmi
mm
mmm
CANB£ 6rt?&yta^
AT THE AMAZINGLY LOW PRICE
m Of ONLY 56'^
JOIN “World Books” and enjoy a
unique reading experience. Each
month members receive the club’s
choice in a special buckram bound
edition finished with a gold stamped
panel as illustrated. Irrespective of
the regular selling price of the book,
members receive the W.B. editions
for only 5/6 each.
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
May: “The Outnumbered,” C. Hutter
June: “Indigo” C. Weston
July: “Henry the Eighth,” F. Hackett
Aug.: “Valley of Decision,” M. Davenport
Sept.: “These Were the Days,” Clarence
Day.
Oct.: “Deft Hand, Right Hand,” Osbert
Sitwell.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MONTHS, £l/16/- 12 MONTHS, £3/12/-
( Subscription rates cover all costs.)
MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP, 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of “World Books.” I enclose £ / /
My name is ...
Address
Rodgers
financial set-up as the published accounts
show it:
1939. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 34,243 45,700 ** 91,636 39,803
Tax reserve .. 20,000 43,000 70,000 95,819
Freeholds . . 144,264 144,401 149,873 151,945
Plant etc .. 38,574 28,912 20,376 25,219
Stocks '.. 126,616 103,458 136,210 144,340
Sundry debtors 92,241 102,832 72,902 68,980
Government securi—
ties, cash, etc. 420,487 491,268 576,219 601,704
At end March last, public securities,
cash, etc., (up £25,485), were alone suffi-
cient to repay the whole of the pref. and
B-share money and 345. 3d. per pound
of ord. capital as well. The outside debt,
including the tax reserve, was more than
one and a half times covered by stock
and debtors’ balances combined. Modern-
isation of factories and plant is to be
undertaken as soon as circumstances per-
mit. The cost, not mentioned, isn’t likely
to call for more than a fraction of the
surplus funds available.
Last term service demands eased, but
the hungry civilian trade more than filled
the gap. After allowing for taxation and
other contingencies, the board figured
the net return from trading £l5Ol better
at £20,368, or 4.7 p.c. on the £430,000 of
capital, a clear indication of the diffi-
cult nature of the trade and the narrow
profit margins it carries. Investments
turned in £20,059 (up £1630), making the
net return from all sources £40,427 (up
£3131). That was enough to pay the pref.
and B-share divs. and show 11.4 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 10.1, 10. 10.4, 8,
9.9 and 11.9 p.c. back to 1940. A 2 p.c.
bonus was again sent out with the 8 p.c.
div., making 10 p.c. for the year. The
£64,346 of inner reserves disclosed repre-
sents provision for contingencies in previ-
ous years, which was lumped with sundry
creditors in the published accounts.
The scrip is tightly held. Buyers offer
355. 6d. for the prefs. and 475. for the
I ords. At these figures the return is 3.9
p.c. and 4.2 p.c. respectively on the basis
of last term’s distribution. The net tan-
gible cover is £6 2s. 9d. prefs. and 60s.
lid. ords.
Conpress Printing, Ltd.
This co. has been launched in Sydney
under the wing of Consolidated Press,
Ltd., to take over the commercial print-
ing section of that co.’s business, to print
certain of its publications, and to under-
take a wide range of other commercial
printing, bookbinding, etc. —the etcetera
includes aggressive competition.
Nominal capital is £1,000,000 in £1
shares, of which 300,000 are prefs., carry-
ing a fixed cumulative 5 p.c. p.a., and the
balance ords. The prefs, are offered for
public subscription at par ; those on Con-
solidated’s pref. register on July 2 are
to have priority of application for 125,000
of them. The issue has been under-
written by C. H. K. Miller and McFadyen
(Sydney) and J. B. Were and Son (Mel-
bourne) at 9d. a share. The scrip, which
is to be listed in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane, will have a backing of approx,
395. a share, when the issue is fully sub-
gcribed and paid. The div. is guaranteed
by Consolidated for 10 years, or until
asset backing is 50s. a share, whichever is
the longer. Of the ords., 300,000 have
been issued at par to Consolidated for
cash, and 10s. a share paid on application,
the balance being due on or before July
24. In addition a 25-year p.c. first
mortgage debenture loan of £300,000 has
been arranged with the National Mutual
Life Association, and both principal and
interest have been guaranteed by Con-
solidated.
The undertaking will thus be capitalised
at £900,000. The money will be used
£5200 for purchase of freehold and lease-
hold, £275,000 for erection of factory
building, £43,263 for purchase of plant
now operated by Consolidated, £397,110
for purchase of plant ordered overseas by
Consolidated, £109,915 sundry plant, and
£49,712 for erection and electrical instal-
lations, etc. Preliminary exes, are ex-
pected to run off with £15,000, leaving
£4BOO for working capital.
The plant is to include 25 units of high-
speed rotogravure presses, together with
flatbed commercial printing and book-
binding machinery. The co. will also
“have at its disposal” a magazine rotary
press capable of printing four colors on
both sides of the sheet. Of the rotogravure
units, 20 on order are expected to be
shipped from England by the end of 1946.
The other five, and a lot of the remain?-
ing plant, are now being used by Con-
solidated, which has undertaken to install
all the new co.’s plant, and to provide
certain technical personnel.
The new co. will print for Consolidated
on a cost-plus basis the undermentioned
publications, or portions thereof:
Circulation.
6 Mths. End March.
f May,
Publications. 1945. 1946. 1946.
“Australian Women’s
Weekly” .. .. 700,000 725,000 808,000
Rotogravure supplements
for—
“ Daily Telegraph” .. 263,061 295,456 317,000
“Sunday Telegraph” .. 319,125 362,229 388,000
Consolidated, which will apparently con-
tinue to print the “Daily Telegraph” and
“Sunday Telegraph,” except for rotogra-
vure supplements, will also transfer to the
new co. all its job printing, and a five-year
contract, as from July, 1946, for printing
the Australian edition of the “Reader’s
Digest,” sales of which are expected to
reach 100,000 with the first issue.
Estimated earnings from contracts to be
taken over are £760,000 gross, of which
£17,675 is expected to be net profit, aftei
allowing for debenture interest and taxa-
tion. Estimated net earnings are suffi-
cient to cover the annual pref. diy.
(£15,000) and show 0.89 p.c, on ord. capi-
tal. Hence the guarantee by Consolidated,
which is apparently prepared to wait for
direct financial benefits from its invest-
ment in this new subsidiary. Consoli-
dated’s certified net earnings for 1941
were £48,187 ; 1942, £46,170; 1943,
£55,279 ; 1944, £85,009 ; 1945, £78,625 ;
average £62,654. Its own prefs. call for
£14,250 p.a. at full contract rates. The
ords., which got 3 p.c. in 1943 and 1944,
were passed by in 1945.
On the board of the new co. are E. G.
Theodore and D. F. H. Packer (both
directors of Consolidated), and J. V. Rat-
cliffe and C. H. K. Miller. Mr. Theo-
dore’s holding in Consolidated is 24,496
ords. and 2200 prefs., and he is a joint
holder with others of 24,999 ords. and
17,900 prefs. Mr. Packer holds 500 Con-
solidated ords. and is joint holder with
others of 11,000 prefs.
Lake View and Stars are being boosted
in London mainly on the chance of the
dividend rate (ls.-6d. a share for the past
four years) being stepped up. Co.’s
holding comprises nearly 1000 ’acres
at the south end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), and includes
mines formerly worked by Lake View
Consols, Hannans Star, Boulder Main
Reef, Golden Horseshoe, Ivanhoe,
Chaffers and associated cos. The deepest
vertical workings, in Chaffers, is 3700 ft,
Treatment plant has a monthly capacity
of 57,000 tons.
* * * •
London - controlled Youanmi Gold
Mines (in liq.) has invited tenders for the
’remainder of its Westralian assets. These
include a mine in the Black Range district
with a quantity of payable ore developed,
350,000 tons of tailings, estimated to
assay 2dwt. Bgr. of gold a ton, 50,000
tons mixed calcined and raw residues,
estimated to contain 3dwt. gold a ton, and
some mining stores, Co. ceased opera-
tions in January, 1942, owing to “disap-
pointing developments at depth,” and
later sold its plant to the Commonwealth
Government.
* * * *
“Jukes”: Statement in “Wild Cat”
column (B. 5/ 6 / ’46) that Hill 50 is de-
veloping the Boomerang mine at Burtville,
“over which it holds an option,” is evi-
dently the reason for the recent collapse
of First Hit shares. That former Menzies
divvy payer was alleged to have obtained
an extension of its option on Cable Bros.’
Boomerang, at Burtville, and the last
news shareholders had was that a
Pomona pump was installed to cope with
the water trouble. *it is, about time that
the directors got the Menzies derelict
into liquidation while some assets remain
for distribution.
* * * *
Joe Manners, Boulder Perseverance’s
general manager, now in London, is pro-
ceeding to Rhodesia to supervise the
working of the Champion Mines, in which
Perseverance acquired a controlling in-
terest in 1940, but was unable to do any
work during the war. Champion Mines
are in the Umtali district, and their auri-
ferous deposits are stated to be five miles
in length. Manners hopes to return to
Kalgoorlie in a few months.
Commonwealth geophysical and State
geological experts are to make surveys
to determine the wealth and disposition
of the coal seams on the Collie field
(WA..). The job is expected to start
this month. Westralia’s coal-production
Commissioner Wallwork is being sent
to inspect coalmines in Victoria and
New South Wales.


EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
The oldest and largest
Insurance Brokers in the
Southern Hemisphere
effecting insurances at—
of
a
Your passport to Security
in any part of the World
Wherever you go, however you travel, what-
ever your business . . . there is a Lloyd’s
policy to cover you against any and every
contingency. In Australia, for example,
thousands of policies have been under-
written by Lloyd’s of London during the
past fifty years, through the oldest and
largest brokers in the Southern Hemisphere
, . . Bennie S. Cohen & Son, now known
as Edward Lumley & Sons Pty. Ltd. To-
day, more than ever, you will appreciate
the sense of security that only a Lloyd’s
policy can provide.
All enquiries will be promptly and cour-
teously answered by: —
EDWARD LUMLEYiSONS PTY LTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY: 263 George St. and 9*ll Martin Place. Newcastle: 33 Watt
St. MELBOURNE: 57 Queen St. Adelaide: T. & G. Bldg. Brisbane:
A.M.P. Bldg, berth; 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart: 82 Collins
St.; also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, new
ZEALAND: and EDWARD LUMLEY INC., LONDON, NEW YORK, PARIS,
Colombo, Singapore and Montreal.
LL.S.M
SUNDRY SHOWS
"SMITHY."
Since no good purpose is served by
varying standards of criticism, it’s no use
recording that this Columbia production
is the best Australian film yet seen with-
out adding that (1) judged beside the
general run of films it’s an average pro-
duction, mildly entertaining and leaning
heavily on the natural interest in its sub-
ject, and (2) considered strictly in the
light of its admitted aim, it falls a long
way short of what might reasonably be
expected of a biography.
Of what Smithy did there is plenty--
too much in fact—-but of why he did it,
and of what kind of man he was, there is
practically nothing. The authors of the
piece have apparently tried to cram a
complete chronological record into the
film and to “pack it with action,” instead
of devoting some time to the more neces-
sary revelation of character.
People who knew him or saw him have
recorded that “Smithy never talked very
much” ; “he looked like a warrior—there
was something fierce about him” ; “he
was an artist with that huge machine of
his” ; “he kept the plane in the air by
sheer willpower”; “you could see the
grin of sheer triumph on his face even
before he landed.” From such impressions,
and from his own account of his ferocious
and elated low-level machine-gun
attacks on German troops in 1914-18, the
man emerges as a fighter, fierce and effi-
cient. The force that drove him was his
pleasure in personal combat, which he
found in pitting himself against long
ocean flights, as others have set them-
selves against mountains, deserts and ice-
fields.
A biography of Smithy would need to
have something of that, and there is
nothing of it in the film. There is a
garbled statement that the man had some
vision of the future, that a sense of re-
sponsibility to succeeding generations
made him pioneer aerial routes across the
Pacific, but it’s a shallow and highly sen-
timental interpretation of his or any other
pioneer’s character.
In the early passages of the film Ron
Randall, with some very capable acting,
presents a direct and enthusiastic young
man credible enough to be accepted as
the young Smithy, and sufficiently impres-
sive almost to carry the first half of the,
film. But he seems to lack the maturity
to conceive the older Smithy—although in
fairness it should be stated that the
authors have given him precious little to
work on. There is no strength in the char-
acter, no fierceness, nothing of the fighter,
and not enough accent on the strange
affinity between Smithy and his “Old
Bus,” or on his qualities as pilot. There
are only some close-ups of a pleasant
young man at the controls, and rather too
many long shots of an aeroplane flying
through storms or skimming low over the
ocean.
In one passage only is there a convinc-
ing gjimpsfe of the older man —when he is
explaining to his wife his tiredness, his
knowledge of the inevitable finish, his
reluctance to continue and yet the need
to go on flying. They are good lines and
with them Randall gives a brief, con-
vincing flash of character. Unfortunately,
Muriel Steinbeck’s lines in the same scene
would be a halter for any actress —Miss
Steinbeck turns in a capable performance
throughout, a slight stiffness in spots* be-
ing more a reflection on the role than on
her acting of it.
Joy Nicholls, as Smithy’s young Ameri-
can friend, is the most natural actress in
the film, and her capable, lively perform-
ance matches well with Randall’s version
of the young aviator. The other players
haven’t much space —John Tate’s Ulm is
a colorless job, W. M. Hughes and Cap-
tain P. G. Taylor both show signs of
embarrassment in re-enacting their parts,
although John Stannage repeats his role
naturally and with every sign of enjoy-
ment.
On the technical side the film is good.
A few storm scenes are unreal and there’s
a studio atmosphere about the re-enaction
of Captain Taylor’s heroism in transfer-
ring oil from one engine to another dur-
ing the Tasman flight. Australian pro-
ducers, however, seem too apt to follow
Hollywood methods when they haven’t
the advantage of Hollywood money,
players and other facilities. They’d do
better to study the continental approach ;
to learn, for instance, the character and
drama that the French can put over for
a fraction of the cost and display used by
Hollywood for an ordinary Western.
And one final and pressing need of the
Australian film industry is a stringent sub-
editor. There are several crudely senti-
mental scenes in “Smithy” that should
have been pruned on sight—the flier’s first
sight of the Southern Cross and his fare-
well to it are painfully overdone, and the
conclusion of the film is carried on to
some sentimental poppycock when it
should end a few scenes earlier as .Ran-
dall’s face, amazingly like Smithy’s, fades
out until only the dark outline of his fly-
ing helmet and cockpit remains.
Mary Edwards's Paintings.
In her smaller work, studies of Pacific
natives, women with flowers in their hair
and the like, Mary Edwards shows a kind
of small genius, as is apparent when any
fair-sized collection of her work is ex-
amined. At an exhibition at Woollahra,
Sydney, this type of painting was well-
represented, although there were several
larger pictures.
“Isles des Fleurs,” a large-scale imagina-
tive study, was a good example of the
artist’s virtues and faults, A blaze of
color, it promised much, but trailed away
into a group of flowers, a swan and a cat.
Pleasing, despite its faults, but a trifle
saccharine, and with no strength of design
or drama to hold the eye after the first
glitter. Yet, in the portraits of natives,
there is no lack of strength. They have
color, gaiety, beauty and character. Also,
although this is a secondary considera-
tion, they are probably important from a
documentary viewpoint.
“Samoan Dancer,” a typical Mary
Edwards painting, is the head of a native
girl, with flowers in her hair. The warm
coloring of the skin, the vivid touch of
the flower, the fidelity of the native linea-
ments, lips and nose and eyebrows, all
make a warm and natural whole. And
the eyes are, in all the native studies,
excellent; a subtle blend of brown and
black which makes them warm and direct,
or shy and retiring, but always natural
and characteristic.
“Bride of the Hills” is more interesting,
for the subject here is beautiful, with a
finely-chiselled face and an elaborate
headgear, twisted and coiled, and with
long, red and blue and green trailers fall-
ing down to her shoulders. In striking
contrast to the brown face the eyebrows
are delicate, and a little supercilious.
And so with the others. They all differ,
in their portrayal of different types of
native men and women. But the women
are the better, and they all have the
warmth and color and touches of char-
acter which make Mary Edwards’s paint-
ings outstanding in this class of work.
* * * *
Arnold Shore, who has a background
based on a solid training in tonal values,
shows some of it in his latest show at
George’s Gallery, Melbourne, especially
in landscapes like “Noon,” “The Glade”
and “Bush Fringe.” “Winter,” viewed at
close range, looks a muddle, but seen at
a proper distance resolves itself into a
fetching study of leafless trees against a
barren background which gives the feeling
of the season. There is a tendency to-
wards paintiness in many of the other
pictures, particularly in the still-life,
wherein the first impression is less of
pears and apples than of pigment.
"The Barretts" Again.
It isn’t often that celebrations find
themselves in the fortunate position of
having to repeat a festival. No encore has
been requested for Melbourne’s Victory
Day celebrations, for instance.
This, however, is what has happened to
the National Theatre in Melbourne,
whose tenth-year-anniversary festival of
opera, drama and ballet will shortly be
repeated, at least in some of its sections.
Its resurrection of “The Barretts of Wim-
pole Street,” the concluding item in the
drama department, certainly deserves it.
In no way inferior to Marjorie Raw-
lings’s original production or the screen
version in which Charles Laughton over-
dominated the proceedings, the play was
admirably interpreted by Joyce Hunt, as
the consumptive Elizabeth Barrett, Eric
Young, as her tyrannical old father
equally tyrannised over by an CEdipus
complex, and the young amateurs who
represented the numerous progeny of that
browbeating parent.
As to whether the original Barrett or
any human being was like Rudolf Besier’s
portrait of him is another matter. The
picture is painted in such sombre colors
that it recalls the similar portrait painted
by Samuel Butler of his father in The
Way of All Flesh. It is a horrible picture
Butler paints of his family, whom he
obviously hated; and truth never comes
out of hatred.
One can’t identify oneself with the Rev.
Theobald any more than one can identify
oneself with Edward Moulton-Barrett,
who must have had some human qualities
in him. The final curtain where he orders
his, daughter’s dog to be killed because
its owner has gone off with the poet has
a malicious touch about it.
The Robert Browning of the opus isn’t
any more convincing. A poet of Brown-
ing’s quality would surely have under-
stood that it was ignorance, not malice,
which activated this Early Victorian
father and caused him to destroy com-
pletely his own world. Considering its
material, however, the National Theatre
production couldn’t have been much
better; and it was handsomely uphol-
stered into the bargain. A lack of subtlety
in the glaring lighting was a drawback.
"The Playboy" Becomes
Respectable .
Nothing like the old rumpuses hap-
pened at the recent production of “The
Playboy of the Western World” by the
Tin Alley Players at the Union Theatre,
University of Melbourne,
Universities are embalmers. They
embalm the great men, when, like Freud
and Shelley, they have been dead long
enough to cease to be alarming. Synge’s
Playboy is the last person in the world
who would have appeared on the boards
of the Union Theatre at a time when he
could have aroused the pitch of feeling
which produced the Dublin demonstra-
tions.
So it can be safely said that Synge,
officially dead in 1909, is really dead now,
though his play, having some of the
quality fc of the universal in it, isn’t. The
story of the reactionary son who splits
his father’s skull open with a loy and be-
comes the murthering hero of a village
on the wild west coast of County Mayo,
where everybody seems to be a natural
poet, is not only richly funny but has a
large humanity about it and appeals to a
public whose national saint is Ned Kelly.
Dialect plays are apt to become tedious,
and some of the language spoken by the
T.A.P.’s was doubtless as like County
Mayo as Chifley’s is like Shakspeare’s,
but the company played the piece with
vigor.
Bill Ryall, who is a first-class actor,
depicted the Playboy with the same
emotional intensity as he previously gave
to Hamlet. Gwen Izzard’s Pegeen Mike,
who fights the village for her murderer-
lover, was more the conventional heroine
of melodrama than the subtle character
Synge depicted. The Widow Quin was in
the safe hands of Ruby May, and the
allegedly murdered father who walks in
and resumes his domination of the
frightened youngster was admirably done
by Hugh Neville.
"Clambake" at the Tiv.
Melbourne Tiv.’s “Clambake” gets its
title from an old negro custom or orgy
adopted by the whites in which a certain
variety of shellfish was the piece de resis-
tance.
Patrons will have their own opinions
about which is the p. de r. in the present
programme. Present writer plumps for
the six robust young ladies who call them-
selves the Flying De Pauls and whose
Catherine wheeling, while not being par-
ticularly graceful, has a wholeheartedness
about it that makes male winders look
tame. Banner Forbutt is a Bloke on a
Bike who does things on a single wheel
which most people couldn’t do on a solid
pavement. By gracious permission of the
Commonwealth Government, which ought
to know something about it, Elimar
juggles and is fantastically clever at it.
Singers in Melbourne .
Peggy Knibb, the Melbourne soprano,
has been flooding the Assembly Hall with
harmonious noises. She was fine in
Brahms and excellent in Handel, but
Wagner seemed too dramatic in vocal
intensity for this lovely singer.
The National Theatre’s production of
Gounod’s “Faust” had the services in the
name part of John Lanigan, who has sud-
denly shot into prominence, and has
raised hopes in well-instructed quarters
that a successor to John Brownlee has
arisen. One thing the new aspirant for
world honors—he is being given a benefit
concert at the Town Hall shortly—has in
common with the Geelong singer is a
sublime indifference to the niceties of
acting, but he has a voice that takes every-
thing in its stride with surprising ease.


WHERE HAVE I SEEN
THAT INGRAM'S FACE BEFORE?
Maybe beauty is only skin deep,
but the good looks and good-
feeling that an Ingram’s shave can
impart to the old epidermis does
a power of good to the front you
show the world. Ingram’s bubbles
are belligerent. Fighting fellows
that wedge themselves under the
spidiest whiskers, straighten them
out, whisk them off, and then
sweeten the spot marked "X” with
the smoothest, coolest, After-
Shave-Feeiing that you have ever
known in shaving.
4■* -a v
INGRAM’S
SHAVING CREAM obtainable at all Chemists.
[UiiimiuSS
in graft*
‘ L ”U » “
SPORTING NOTIONS
In its bearing on the Grand Nationals the
racing at Moonee Valley on Saturday was,
if anything, more complicating than illumina-
ting. That goes mainly for the Hurdle. The
Limond six-year-old gelding Spawater, from
South Australia, won the Federal Hurdle (two
miles one furlong) in such convincing fashion
that on that count, at least, he clearly estab-
lished National credentials. Also, a contender
with a record of pricings in all his last 10
starts over hurdles —including, a month ago,
an S.A.J.C. Ascot Park Hurdle win oyer 21-
miles, carrying 11.5; 91b. more than he will
carry in the National Hurdle—must definitely
come into the reckoning.
On the other hand, form is always a relative
quality, and what a horse beats can’t be left
out of it. On Saturday Spawater beat practi-
cally nothing. Camouflage (second, 10 lengths
away) was a hot favorite, but that was purely
Melbourne confidence in L. Meenan; a loyalty
persisted in though that fine rider isn’t doing
nearly so well as he did last season. Camou-
flage himself has no hurdling credentials, and
what chance he may have had in this event
was probably ruined by Securities going with
him out in front. They led most of the way
from Spawater —at one stage by 12 lengths—
and when Securities petered out Camouflage
at least did keep going well enough in a per-
pendicular style of plugging to take second
money, but he was a well-beaten horse before
the turn, and Spawater, continuing a nice run,
passed him without trouble. There was a
margin of 25 lengths between the winner and
the third horse, Tralee.
- . • • *
Had it not been for scratchings the event
might have had a much clearer National
Hurdle bearing. Of those that came out, Ron
Rico has been plugging along at least promis-
ingly in Hurdles of about two miles. He’s in
the first half-dozen in the National betting,
and a run on Saturday would have shown how
much that is merited. An even more interest-
ing one taken out was the very lightly-weighted
John Masefield, who recently won in nice style
carrying as overweight a couple of pounds
more than his modest National 9st., and next
start held on quite well to be second to the
ruling National favorite, Solvent. A John
James four-year-old, John Masefield looks the
pick of the lightweights.
The Moonee Valley going was so heavy that
six-furlongs sprints were won in 1.19 or worse,
so Spawater’s form could be all right if there
are similar conditions at Flemington next Satur-
day. The going was also holding when Solvent
won at his last start, so he would not be put
out by a bit of heaviness, while old Isambard,
as a National placegetting habitual, will pro-
bably be somewhere about the scene, whatever
the conditions. Still —especially if the going
is reasonably good—they should all find Hiatus
very hard to down. He has top weight (11.6),
but there is no question about his hurdling
ability; a fine jumper who combines some
brilliance with sticking quality. Another
likely to help make a race of it is Krallis, who
had a run in the distance fiat event on Satur-
day to keep in trim without risking a penalty.
Making a National Hurdle pick from this
lot: Hiatus, 1; Solvent, 2; Krallis, 3.
In the other jumping event at Moonee
Valley, the Commonwealth Steeple (2 miles
3J) furlongs), the field was also very much
on the weak side, Night Life winning it
easily from Jack and Hearsay. It showed the
winner to be a better sticker than had been
thought, and he jumped beautifully, but as
National Steeple form it was probably 9!
minor account. Tente still looks a very solid
contender for the big Steeple.
Another distance winner turned up in the
12-furlongs Mount Alexander Handicap to add
to the season’s variety in these events; this
time New Warrior, who won nicely from
Carlton and Chatsol. The divisions of the
six-furlongs Keilor Handicap were respectively
won by Audacity (always to be remembered in
time of mud) from Great Win and Home James;
and Maemanto, easily there from Kind Link
and Hereward, the leaders going wide at the
turn and letting Maemanto through. Mae-
manto was favorite and ridden by A. Breasley.
What joy the punters got out of that was
obliterated when Enthuse flopped badly in the
mile Ardoch Handicap, won by the three-year-
old Dhoti filly Wondering rather narrowly from
Spanish Legend and William Tell. Having
a first run for some time, Sea Monarch (Charles
Fox-Aphrodite) was too hot for Rareone, Ross-
field and the rest of the two-year-olds.
* * * *
Handicapped by a repetition bf the previous
week’s no-transport and threatening weather
conditions, the Hawkesbury Club had barely
10,000 at Rosehill on Saturday. If was the
smallest suburban attendance in several years
and scarcely sufficient to balance the Club’s
budget, £3200 being distributed in prizemoney.
Though favorites in Brazier and Kiaree won
the main double, results probably favored the
books. They started off on the right leg when
the 20 to 1 chance Leumas led all the way to
win the Kurrajong Two-year-old Handicap for
colts and geldings. Wise Ruler (25 to 1) was
second, while Spendthrift (third at 5 to 1) was
the only one of the fancied horses to finish
within shooting distance of the winner. Favor-
ite Uranium was slow to begin and made up
no ground.
Time for the six furlongs was 1.161, indi-
cating the state of the track, which looked
badly ploughed up after the first race. Front
runners were the ones to be on, four other
winners besides Leumas being of the go-to-whoa
variety. One such was Brazier, who made
short work of his three opponents in the
seven-furlongs Clarendon Flying. Thompson
had the Brazen gelding smartly out from the
barrier, and held a narrow lead to the home
turn, where he stole a big break to win by
eight lengths; Gay Monarch and Field Captain
shared the prize, Balmore alone failing to
collect expenses.
One pacemaker who didn’t quite last it out
was King’s Glen, in front most of the ten
furlongs of the Hawkesbury Handicap. On
the favorite, Kiaree, McGrowdie rode a patient
race, and a well-timed and powerful finishing
nin just caught King’s Glen on the post. Also
finishing fast from further back Loyal March
missed second money by a head.
It was Kiaree’s first success since winning
a similar event on the same course m 1944.
Trained by McCarten, he is one of the two
original inhabitants of that trainer’s stable, the
other being Shining Night. Only the strong
Payten stable has had more wins this season.
A feature of the success of McCarten-the-
trainer has been his evident understanding and
fine handling of two-year-olds, which is
scarcely surprising; it was always a leading
feature of McCarten-the-rider, as testified by
the results of four Breeders’ Plates, six Sires’
Produce Stakes and three Champagne Stakes.
Apprentice T. Mullane gave the two-year-old
filly Foolfox the benefit of a 71b. allowance,
and conceded nothing in horsemanship, which
is too often the fly in the 71b. ointment. He
rode her a good patient race, coming along
“Don't shoot , Forsythe — it's mine!”
at the right moment to overhaul the pace-
maker, Fleeting Glimpse, and win with a
couple of lengths to spare. Royal Colours,
third, was expected to do much better, but she
missed the start.
Both divisions of the Highweight were virtu-
ally over as soon as the barrier went up.
Usually unruly, Strauss took kindly to the
box-start. First out, he found the soft going
very much to the liking of his legs, which have
shown infirmity in the past. Lady Charming
and Oberon were closest at the finish. In
the second division Pearler beat D.S.O. and
Oliver just as easily, giving the 16-year-old
apprentice D. Porter his first winning mount.
Mt. Howitt (W. Cook), Thrums and Lord Ivan
passed the judge in that order in the nine-
furlongs Novice. Somewhat belatedly, it was
then discovered that Mt. Howitt was not
eligible for the lace, having won a Novice
at Canterbury in August—an astonishing over-
sight on the part of all concerned. Betting
was settled on the Original result, but the prize-
money is to be paid to the connections of
Thrums, Lord Ivan and the fourth horse,
Meny Time.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
July Juvenile (fillies): Royal Colours, 1;
Photinia, 2; Foolfox, 3. Three-year-old En-
courage: Thrums, 1; New Cashmere, 2;
Drummer Boy, 3. July Nursery: Lucky Escape,
1; Spendthrift, 2; Clipper, 3. Trial: Johnnie
Zero, 1; Dieppe, 2; Oliver, 3. Moore Park
Handicap: Victory Lad, 1; Vermeil, 2; Civic
Pride, 3. Pacific Handicap: Loyal March, 1;
Shining Night, 2; Royal Peer, 3. Maroubra
Handicap: King of the Mist, 1; Gay Monarch,
2; Marshal Tito, 3.
* * * »
“And some people say we breeders pick over
the yearlings before we send the drafts to the
sale ring,” F. W. Hughes was reported as
saying apropos of a race at Randwick in
which his Titan product Marshal Tito had run
second-last. With dozens of horses carrying
his colors the Kooba owner and breeder might
be excused for temporarily overlooking an
odd one in his stable such as Euryalus, who
has more than an outside chance of proving the
best of the Titans, and, incidentally, has more
than outside Derby prospects too. On the
other hand, he sold the Titan colt Tamasha
for 2500 guineas and it has yet to win a race,
and three other Hughes-bred Titans fetched
2225 guineas at the same yearling sale.
Other leading breeders seem to have the same
happy knack —or are likewise favored by pure
coincidence. At the 1945 sales a draft of
seven Midstreams from P. Miller’s stud went
for prices ranging up to 1350 guineas, but the
best from that crop seen so far, Zambesi (a
full brother to Murray Stream) and Wirralie
(a full brother to Swan River), both carry the
Miller colors. So does the Sires’ Produce
Stakes winner Flying Duke, the best to date
of Le Grand Due’s crop, four of whom sent
to the sale ring brought 3700 guineas. Again,
the fanciest prices at the last couple of sales
have been paid for Ajax yearlings, averaging
over 1000 guineas and ranging up to the 5250
guineas paid for a colt who finally won a very
minor race at Canterbury. Four of these Ajaxes
have so far proved of real account —Magnifi-
cent, Civic Pride, Havoc and Chaperone, and
the last-named trio are raced by various mem-
bers of the family that bred them.
* * * ♦
To the lists of aptly-named horses must be
added Revoked, who at a yearlings sale in
America in 1944 brought $41,000. His buyer,
however, was subsequently advised that there
was something wrong with the colt’s wind and
asked the breeder to take him back. The
breeder did so, named him on the strength of
the transaction, and then had the pleasure of
seeing Revoked score three wins and a second
in his four starts as a two-year-old.
* * * *
There is no faster and more exciting
spectacle than an Australian Rules foot-
ball team in a burst of scoring, and the
crowd watching the Vic.-S.A. match in
Melbourne on Saturday got it in the lasf
half. Vic., generally taller and heavier
than the Croweaters, had a six-goal lead
with its straight-down-the-centre game
at half-time and regarded the thing as
done. But S.A., with fast handball and
passing, slapped on three goals to nothing
in the third and 5.3 to 2.1 in the last, had
a goal lead over the astounded Victorians,
and were mortified to see big Fanning
(6ft. 4in. and 15 stone 101 b.) mark and
goal right on the bell to make it a draw—
Vic. 19.9, S.A. 18.15.
For the first time Adelaide has adopted
Melbourne’s plan of choosing the State
football team from all the clubs, so as to
weaken them each to only a moderate
degree. It very sensibly went one further,
and had no club matches while the State
team was away in Victoria, but instead
picked a good second lot to meet Broken
Hill.
» * * *
In an exciting Rugby Union game at
Sydney University oval, Parramatta,
battling for a place in “the four,” beat
University 15-12. Manly, now hard put
to hold its place, failed dismally against
Northern Suburbs, for which side R. Corn-
forth, a returned p.-0.-w., scored 18 of his
side’s 21, points—Manly ended with 3.
Other games: East 14, St. George 5;
Randwick 6, West 3 ; Drummoyne 15,
Gordon 11.
if * * *
At Brisbane N S. Wales (30) inflicted
another defeat on Queensland (14) —the
third this season. N. S. Wales has been
twice defeated by the English team, whose
colors were lowered by Queensland.
With four of its best men resting, N. S.
Wales galloped over Wide Bay (43-13),
which had “pressed England to a four-
point-margin.” Such is Rugby League
form; and yet the betting was never so
brisk.
* He * *
On the lookout for “possibles” for the
Australian visit, England’s selectors gave
Washbrook, Ikin, Gibb, Smailes and
Alec Bedser a chance in the first
Test against India at Lord’s. England
won by 10 wickets, scoring 428 and
0 for 48 to 200 and 275; Bedser
got 11 for 145. He is a six-
footer aged 28. Smailes (3 for 62),
Wright (4 for 121), Ikin (1 for 43)
and veteran Bill Bowes took the other
wickets. For India all-rounder Amarnath
gathered half of England’s wickets (5 for
133); he is remembered by the Australian
Services XI for a fine 113 in the third
Test at Madras. Of England’s total,
Hardstaff (Notts) scored 205. Australian
bowlers had a taste of Hardstaffs hitting
in the M.C.C. tour in 1935-36, when he
rattled up 230 and 63 v. an Australian
XI at Sydney. With Allen’s 1936-37 XI
he scored 83 in the fifth Test at Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
“Sturt”; Golf in S.A. gets a big lift
with the rise of new clubs to break the
monopoly of Seaton and Kooyonga,
which for so many years have stood alone
in competition strength. In the current
competition, Grange lost to Kooyonga
only by the odd match, while Glenelg had
a handsome win of six to one over
“Royal” Adelaide (Seaton),
* * * *
A trial horse for almost any aspiring
Leichhardt (Sydney) welter, Jimmy Dun-
dee was seen in that role again in oppo-
sition —again—to Jack Samuels. Dundee’s
right eyelid was cut in the second round,
and as somebody considered it unsafe
for him to continue the “contest” was
stopped at the end of the third. Previ-
ously the trial horse had made the colt
look cheap.
Ron Walsh, a light-heavyweight frpm
Melbourne, seemed unlucky not to get a
decision • over Owen Moase at Sydney
Stadium. He attacked in every round,
scored frequently and had Moase badly
marked and groggy in the eighth. Boxing
courageously for the rest of the bout and
landing many straight lefts, Moase was
adjudged to have broken even.


To
the man who is
ever considerate of
his family's welfare
Have You Chosen Your Executor Wisely?
(2 HANGING conditions will have
a considerable effect' upon the
Estate that you have built up for
your family. Taxation alone will
cause shrinkage.
Are you completely satisfied that
you have chosen your Executor and
Trustee wisely? Have you pro-
vided strength and stability to pro-
tect your Estate? Have you en-
sured efficient management?
If there is some “human factor”
that secretly concerns you, have
you provided for wise impartial
guidance and counsel? Have you
ensured a friendly, sympathetic and
courteous service—service that is
always available to your family?
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limi-
ted) has rendered such service to
the Community for over sixty years
—in some cases to the third and
fourth generations.
If you would know more of this
service write for a copy of the
booklet “Your Executor and
Trustee,” which others have found
so informative and helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.: E. R KNOX •
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H R ’
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING BESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Missing Friend.
Re ERNEST CHARLES BYE, deceased.—Will any
Solicitor or any other person having possession or
knowledge of the existence of a will or other papers
of Ernest Charles Bye, formerly of Wamuran,, in
the State of Queensland, but late of Rabaul, Terri-
tory of New Guinea, Master Mariner, who became
missing on the First day of July, 1942, and who is
for official purposes presumed 'to be dead, please
communicate with The Public Curator of Queensland,
of Edward Street, Brisbane?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD VICTOR SOLOMAN DALLMAN late
of No. 12 Winslow Street Kirribilli near Sydney in
the State of New South Wales and late of Blenheim
New Zealand.—TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE MARIAN
DALLMAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 5286
of 1945 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in th#
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney before the 19th day of August 1946 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from THOMAS
LESLIE BLATCHFORD Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.-— (I.S.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
No. 4502 of 1945.
BETWEEN ALAN GEORGE FRASER Petitioner
MURIEL LEETON FRASER (formerly Muriel Leeton
Earle Spinster) Respondent and JOHN FREDERICK
CHALLIS Co-respondent TO JOHN FREDERICK
OHALLIS late of No. NX 91296 Australian Imperial
Forces.—TAKE NOTICE that the said ALAN
GEORGE FRASER has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of adultery AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the 26th day of July 1946 next
and in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge. Dated this 19th day
of June, a.d. 1946.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce. ROWLEY, ROSEBY & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, St. James Buildings, 107-9 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALEXANDER PAXTON late of Wil-
loughby.—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS IRENE
PAXTON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1739
of 1946 alleging that you the said JOHN ALEX-
ANDER PAXTON have been guilty of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you desire to defend the suit you must
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office King Street
Sydney by the sth August 1946 and obtain a copy
of the petition free of charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER Solicitor of St. James Buildings 109 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney New South Wales. DATED this
21st day of June, 1946. —(L.s.) 0. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
I’O THELMA REBECCA PATTERSON also known
is TERRY LITTLEJOHN late of 22 Winslow Street
sorth Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that GEOFFREY
ANDREW PATTERSON has filed a Petition No. 1967
if 1946 on the ground of desertion without just
■ause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
rish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
livorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
ly 9th August and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from R. J- M. FOORD Solicitor 90
’itt Street Sydney N.S.W. — (L.S.) 0. K. BODY,
legistrar in Divorce.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
w. j. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
THE ROAD TO RECOVERY.
[II— Part I appeared last week.]
In looking at the industrial picture in
Australia today we must remember thai
the correct functioning of our whole
economy depends upon, the efficieni
working of all its parts. N6t even one State
of the Commonwealth is economically
independent of the others, as coal strikes
in N. S. Wales have shown once. more.
Also, every industry depends upon other
industries, and all depend on the financial,
transport and distribution systems.
In ordinary circumstances the supply
of finance to industry has a big influence
bn its production and employment rate.
Before the war the general policy of the
trading banks was to supply enough
credit to industry to permit it to manu-
facture or otherwise produce enough to
satisfy a legitimate local demand and
allow for a profitable export surplus.
Credit can be safely based thus. Sbme-
times the financial policy might even
have been to stimulate demand slightly
ahead of production, especially in times
when employment was falling and fac-
tories were not fully occupied. Inevit-
ably overseas prices for our land pro-
ducts, such as wool and wheat, had an
influence on both production and credit
arrangements, Australia still being largely
a primary-producing country.
Financial policy, whether laid down in
Sydney, Melbourne or Canberra and en-
forced through Government Budget
policy and through the banking system,
must affect the whole Commonwealth. No
part of this country is insulated, economi-
cally, from the other, not even the gold-
mining areas of Westralia. So it is with
industrial policy ; rises in wages and other
costs influence all industries eventually,
and the true cost of production is based
on the output per man in relation to his
remuneration. A central system of regu-
lating these economic matters obviously
has its disadvantages as well as its ad-
vantages ; if a ruling works detrimentally
in one place it will probably have an
adverse effect in other parts of the Com-
monwealth.
. During the war Australian finance and
industry were more centralised than ever
before. The discretion of the individual
trading banks was largely removed and
placed in the hands of the Common-
wealth Bank. Banking policy generally
was then laid down by the Treasury. The
Federal Government increased its annual
expenditure from about £76 million a
year to nearly £7OO million, eventually
spending more than half the national in-
come. It is still spending at the rate of
about half the national income.
Produce, Compete, Progress
There are many lessons to be noted
from all of the foregoing. To extricate
ourselves from the present production de-
pression we must first of all use all
efforts to do the obvious —increase neces-
sary production. This will call for more
diligent, conscientious work and the abo-
lition of industrial anarchy, of class-war-
fare. A higher output per worker than
pre-war will be expected in all industries
where mechanical efficiency has im-
proved, and, in return, the worker will
expect a higher standard of living and
a more secure economic future. He can
only better his economic position, how-
ever, by showing himself to be an im-
proved instrument of production.
Another essential to our extrication is a
definite —and sound —decision as to how
far the Government should control cer-
tain functions —financial, social, trans-
port, industrial, etc. —and to what extent
it should retire from positions it has
taken up as a result of the war. In arriv-
ing at a decision on these points some
regard must be paid to the administrative
ability—or lack of it —of the Govern-
ment. On a detached appraisal it will
be allowed to retain but a minimum of
controls, its administrative record being
so bad.
To sum up on a very broad question:
It is essential to make up our minds now
whether we are to follow the road of
socialism or free enterprise. Public
ownership of certain functions will be
conceded, but those functions, it is be-
lieved here, must operate to benefit the
rest of an economy operating as free
enterprise. We cannot at this critical
stage afford a Government still possess-
ing almost totalitarian legal and financial
controls over us to be in any state of
mental confusion in this respect,
A Radical Change Needed
The present is a time for a tapering-
off of Government spending and a com-
pensating building-up of activity in pri-
vate industries producing to meet
public demand and export markets. We
are in a period of credit and costs infla-
tion and lethargic labor conditions. Gov-
ernment spending— at present implying
further credit-expansion—should be re-
stricted as speedily as possible without
causing excessive economic disturbance,
and every encouragement given to pri-
vate industry to provide a maximum of
employment and competitive production.
Taxation should be reduced very sub-
stantially to start with.
The sooner private industry can get
into its full stride the sooner will the
need for high taxation be removed and
the Budgetary inflation menace diminish.
Even now private industry, where it has
official sanction, has little difficulty in
raising new capital; the Government, on
the other hand, has great trouble in filling
its loans. This indicates the natural trend
of economic conditions in Australia to-
day. The Government would be wise to
follow it as speedily as it can with safety.
The safety feature is stressed because of
the inflation danger.
With the borrowing demands of the
Government reduced, the country’s credit
should improve. At present interest rates
are largely fictitious. A more even bal-
ance between public and private invest-
ment is required, and, should taxation
rates be reduced and industrial output
increased, we would be making definite
progress towards our goal of industrial
and financial stability. Although our aim
should be to reduce public borrowing
(now) to a minimum, we should attempt
to make public securities fully attractive.
A Balanced Budget
A key objective in our post-war
planning must be a balanced Federal
Budget. An unbalanced Budget, justifi-
able in war-time, is becoming synony-
mous with excessive Government spend-
ing, and, therefore, excessive obstruction
to industry run by private management,
upon which production and employment
depend to such an overwhelming extent.
An unbalanced Budget also means exces-
sive Government borrowing, which in
turn points to either a drain on invest-
ment funds more properly required by
private industry or to excessive creation
of bank credit. Such bank-credit crea-
tion is the mother of inflation.
To save interest rates from rushing up-
ward in a breakaway movement, to main-
tain our credit generally, to restore pro-
duction and provide fullest useful
employment there must be a diversion of
investment and spending from the big,
leaky Government pipeline to the more
selective 'and swift-flowing channels of
private enterprise.
In balancing the Budget at present con-
fronting us we ask for both reduced Gov-
ernment spending and reduced taxation,
each reduction carried out in a way that
will add to production incentives. Such
a Budget policy of itself will require that
private enterprise be fitted to undertake
greater responsibility and be allowed
greater discretion than that at present
exercised.
The National Credit
One objective in combating inflation
and in fortifying the national credit is to
maintain the value of savings, whether
held in cash, in bank accounts or in Gov-
ernment securities. There is great danger
in present financial and political condi-
tions that both value and confidence will
disappear in the case of savings. Thrifty
incentives must be restored; industrial
expansion depends greatly upon thrift and
upon financial confidence.
In the 1930 depression, a period of de-
flation, the popular cry was to reduce the
burden of debts. At present, in an era
of inflation, our difficulty is to save the
value of debts (or investments). We still
need borrowers, lenders and investors.
Finance will always remain essentially a
matter of persons, and we must endeavor
to give those persons fair treatment, in
accordance with what their contracts lead
them to expect.
Taxation policy should be streamlined
to give least discouragement to industry
in the incidence of taxes and the least
expense, uncertainty and inconvenience in
their collection. Government administra-
tion must aim at wastage of the least tax-
payers’ money and least manpower. Good
salaries should be paid to departmental
heads, who should be appointed accord-
ing to ability; seniority, etc., being of
consideration only where all other things
are equal. Governments must get out of
the habit of regarding manpower merely
as potential unemployment and there-
fore to be given a Government job re-
gardless of the type of job or type of
man. Manpower will have to be regarded
more as an asset, but a fully productive
asset —or else!
The question of a shorter working week
is plainly answered by present conditions.
Economically it is quite out of place. Our
production is far below our requirements,
and there is no evidence that Labor
would do as much in an hour,, working
fewer hours, as it does now. Conces-
sions to Labor generally have resulted in
more unruly behavior. Improved condi-
tions should be a present for a good boy,
not a bad one. We look forward to meet-
ing the good boy.
Recent banking legislation has been in
the nature of concessions to Labor
Caucus, the objective being to place the
Commonwealth Bank under political con-
trol and the trading banks under the
thumb of the political central bank, the
staff of which now is subject to civil-
service conditions.
The central-bank board should be
restored, and banking again placed
upon a professional basis. It is
enough for the public interest, in an
extremity, to be protected by the general
powers of both Houses of Federal
Parliament to remove the central-bank
board if thought necessary. Banking
should again become a matter for co-
operation between the central-bank board
and the nine trading banks, not a thing
for political opportunism. Powers of the
central bank should be of a general
nature, enabling it to lay down broad
policy. The trading banks should be free
to conduct their businesses within that
policy. The central bank, the trading
banks and the Commonwealth Treasurer
should confer on major questions relat-
ing to credit volume, exchange control,
interest rates and the like, the central
bank having the largest say. Free com-
petition should be allowed by all banks
for any class of legitimate banking busi-
ness offering within Australia. The
Bretton Woods agreement will probably,
eventually, reinforce the financial right
of the central bank to control our
foreign exchange dealings. It at present
has the legal right.
Practical Considerations
Instead of allowing ourselves to be
industrially strangled by irresponsibles
and anarchists we should be considering
such questions as how far our secondary
industries can expand to meet permanent
home-market requirements, the future of
our land industries, rehabilitation or
otherwise of goldmining, the prospect!
of export trading over a period, and the
possibilities of carrying out large water-
conservation schemes, obviously necessary


Why I Bank at the “Wales”
Manufacturing to-day is beset by special
difficulties.
Amid these special difficulties, it is of great
assistance to the manufacturer to have the
understanding advice and assistance of a
banker with a flexible lending policy ready
to make working capital quickly available as
soon as the opportunity for expanding output
or for improving the product arises,
Thai is why I bank ai the "Wales”. I have found
that, every time I had a sound project for develop-
ing my undertaking, the Bank was ready to give
it sympathetic consideration.
Take my advice: consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
’RSI IX
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
It’s no use cheering
from the sidelines!
If you wont victory ot the next elections you must GET INTO FIGHT !
The Country Party is already there, stronger and better organised than ever before. But—
IT MUST HAVE CAMPAIGN FUNDS!
It has no affiliations to Right or Left, whose wealth it can tap.
It has no deep reservoir of conscripted union levies like the Labor Party.
It has no colossal fund, of unknown origin, like the Communists—whose support for
Labor is already pledged.
The Country Parly— a genuine centre party— with a national Auslralia-minded policy, depends upon the support of The People.
It can win seats at the forthcoming election—the Goulburn result showed that.
But it must have the immediate and generous support of The People.
if „d the present system of pressure-politics, with appeasing Governments 100 weak to govern, and with
taifes that destroy all the initiative of the common people, then gel into the fight with your support.
The Country Party has the candidates and the organisation—what it wants is financial support, so. as a matter of national urgency—
Sou it with POUNDS/
Send your cheque TODAY to Head Office, the Australian Country Party
(N.5.W.),42 Bridge Street, Sydney
E. J. EGGINS, M.L.C., Chairman.
*He gives twice who gives quickly.
if we are to plan for a greater population,
It is no use of talking about increasing
our population at all unless we can see
our way ahead to increase the available
resources of the nation, including produc-
tion.
Later on we may have to consider the
question of credit expansion—through
the banks or through the Budget—in
order to maintain buying power in a
period when there is a setback from the
present condition arising from an over-
supply of money. The confidence with
which such a policy of credit expansion
will be met will depend considerably upon
the manner in which the present crisis
caused by excessive credit is handled,
Credit expansion in slump times is only
justifiable where it is shown that we are
capable of taking reverse action in times
of boom. Clearly the present is a testing
time for this country.
The theorists and the so-called “humani-
tarians” have had full scope in Aus-
tralia over the past half-dozen years,
War conditions gave the Labor Govern-
ment legal and financial powers that it
would not have gained in 20 years of
peace-time evolution. But no progressive
country can live for long in an atmo-
sphere of parasitism, incompetence,
ignorance and make-believe, and Aus-
tralia has just about reached its limit,
We have to return to a state of mind in
which we are prepared to work hard to
gain our objectives, and to distribute
rewards according to effort and merit.
The pool of benefits will provide no
more for the community than the com-
munity puts into it. Australian minds
will have to learn to give as much atten-
tion to the idea of putting in as they
have devoted for so long to that of taking
out.
Plantation rubber is still regarded as
a “critical” raw material, in spite of the
improvements made in quality and quan-
tity of United States synthetic rubber,
New Guinea produces a few thou-
sand tons of plantation rubber a
year, one of the chief plantation-owners
being Koitaki Para Rubber Estates. This
concern had its production disturbed for
a year or two by army occupation, even
though the Japs never overran the area,
After the property was released by the
Australian military authorities Koitaki
took off some heavy crops and set
about cleaning the plantations of pests.
Eddie Ward was made Minister for Ex-
ternal Territories, and this humbug has
been no help in what was bound to be
a difficult situation when army control
of native labor ceased. As soon as army
contracts with native labor ran out in
October many natives walked off plan-
tations. Meantime both rubber and
copra production in Papua ceased, even
though rubber is a “critical” commodity,
and this is one reason why motorists are
being put off a few more months in getting
new tyres—another reason has been the
N. S. Wales strikes. (In the United States
and Canada the present year began
with no restriction on tyre pur-
chases.) The Commonwealth Govern-
ment proposes to raise native wages,
reduce working hours and increase
rations. It is also “controlling” ship-
ping. Though thus increasing pro-
duction costs, Canberra will not allow
rubber producers to receive prices for
their output equal to world parity. But
stupid and unkindly interference with
essential production must soon become
unpopular and unfashionable in Australia,
Natives must be given fair treatment, but
it must be intelligent treatment. In the
Commonwealth politicians of the type
of Minister Ward have advocated
methods that brought complete industrial
breakdown over the Christmas season,
and “Labor methods” generally are be-
ginning to smell. Rubber and New
Guinea are too important to be left the
plaything of warped and opportunist poli-
tical minds. Rubber- and copra-growers
in our island territories must soon be
given reasonable treatment if those terri-
tories are to remain economically healthy
and those essential commodities to be
produced in the required quantities,
* * * *
The C.S.R. reports that the Australian
sugar crop amounted to 645,000 tons in
1944, 640,000 tons in 1945, with 660,000
tons expected this year, Fiji produced
63,000 tons in 1944, 65,000 tons in 1945,
arK j 115,000 tons is expected this year. A
“considerable tonnage” of 1945 sugar
will not be cleared from northern Austra-
ban wharves before the p ... n ’
this is because of. the shipp g p' »
caused by congestion m po g
froni slow and intermittent w y
fies. Strikes and shortage of m&npo e
coal have again causedajagr of re-
fined sugar m various Australian States,
® e ? ai Jf e . o f 1 manufa g Y
and the fall in Service e » Hrrmned
of refined products by the C. . PP
from tons m 9 j tj
tons in 1945. Despite war-
and post-war labor troubles, • • •
Millaqum have been refining abou
P-C. more sugar than before the war. The
C.S.R. board is of the °P I “ 1 °”
view of the increasing world produ
and the small growth in the Austral
population, it would be unwise to increase
the total farming area in us ra 1a
assigned to canegrowmg.


ABORIGINALITIES
“E. 2”: “Pig day t’morrer,” said
Murphy to his offsider. “We’ll git that
lot I’m sendin’ in the pen near the ramp
so’s they’ll be ready t’ load when Joe
calls with the truck. Now, be careful
yardin’ ’em, ’cause the cheque on the last
mob was down a bit on account of ’em
bein’ knocked about.” The first strata-
gem was enticement with a bucket of
slops, but the pigs, scenting something
strange afoot, baulked at the critical
moment and stood uncertainly. Tom’s
staghound joined issue by seizing a young
sow by the ear and bringing her to earth,
and Murphy spoiled a classic coup d’etat
by tripping over a rail and landing on his
nose in the mud. The pigs, now thor-
oughly aroused, bolted in several direc-
tions and finally went to earth under a
large clump of blackberries. Tom and
Murphy prodded with long poles to the
accompaniment of loud squeals; with
willing aid from the dogs they eventually
got the baconers out separately. The
next hour was a pandemonium of racing,
chasing and wrestling with pigs, alter-
nately sooling and belting dogs, but it saw
the mob in the pen. A month later
Murphy was frowning over a cheque.
“Don’t that beat the band?” he moaned.
“That’s the second time it’s happened with
that cow on the truck. Nex’ time I’ll give
the other carrier the job ; that bloomin’
Joe must speed along an’ knock the pigs
about somethin’ crook”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Has any Aboliar ever
tasted limpets? Roasted, they are quite
good, though I didn’t know they were
even edible until years ago, on Flinders
Island shores, Bass Strait, some Cape
Barren half-castes introduced me to them.
They were the favored shellfish of those
descendants of the early sealers —in fact
so much so that afterwards, about the
Furneaux Group, we used to tell if a
“nigger” had been about by looking to
see if there were any limpets on the
granite rocks.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: One of the most per-
suasive battlers I struck on the track was
the bloke from the Marthaguy. Long of
body and limb, with sandy hair, a wide
grin and grey eyes with a glint in ’em
that came and went so that you watched
for it, he’d breast up to a farmer’s wife
and, fixing her with a grin and glint, in-
quire “Are y’ happy. Missus?” It
startled most of ’em into saying “Well, I
suppose so. Why?” The bloke from
the Marthaguy would assume a wistful
expression, something like a dog who be-
lieves he’s blundered and wants pardon,
then he’d sigh, let a slow smile creep
acro'ss his leathery dial and say “Ah,
that pleases me. Y’ know, I had a missus
once, but I lorst her. Looked everywhere,
too, but couldn’t spot her. Well, y’ know,
she was a lovely woman. She had all
the good points of a good woman. It
broke me up when she got lorst. Nilly
went orf me nut. Then I seen that every
woman had something mighty good in
her an’, y’ know what, I sorter got the
idea that she was all sort o’ scattered,
like wattle pollen or the smell o’ them
wild peas on the wind an’ that a bit of
her was put into all the other wimmen.
That’s why I wanted t’ know if y’ was
happy. Missus, ’cos if y’ are, well, it
means there’s somethin’ of her left, a bit
of her in you. See what I mean? So I
just knock round like that, findin’ bits of
her in all the happy wimmen, and it
sweetens me life and” But by that
time eight out of ten of them would be
in tears and he’d come away with his
nosebag full of tucker. “Did y’ ever have
a missus?” I asked him the first time I
witnessed the performance. “Listen,” he
said, “how do y’ think I could knock
about livin’ like a fightin’ cock if I had.
Use y’r nut, mate.”
* * * *
“Visitor”: An Adelaide boy of 15
claimed a 1001 b. cod while visiting the
Murray lately. He was alone in a boat
without net or any equipment, and fought
the fish for an hour before securing it.
His own weight is only 951 b.
H* •I* *f*
v “Nagheer”: Saddest of all tragedies in
Australia’s birdlife has been the senseless
destruction of the vast flocks of Torres
Strait pigeons, which once used to migrate
with each spring from New Guinea to
the more northern islands of the Great
Barrier Reef and return in autumn after
the nesting season. Fifty years ago, the
great white clouds of snowy wings passing
overhead between the jungle feeding
grounds on Cape York Peninsula and
their island nurseries were a breathtaking
sight for any admirer of beauty. Now,
there are only odd, small flocks, and
many of the former nesting islands are
deserted. Alleged “sportsmen” have been
mainly responsible for the crime, though
“That will make me one up and two to go.”
what “sport” can be had from blazing
into a mass of big birds sitting on their
nests or coming down to their young ones
is impossible to conceive. E. J. Banfield
tells of more than 250 being slaughtered
in less than two hours. They are cer-
tainly good to eat, the flesh having a
pleasantly flavorsome taste from the wild
nutmegs on which they mainly feed, but
potshooting has played only a small part
in the tragedy. The real cause has been
the insensate slaughter of nesting birds,
and the resulting death of their young
ones, deprived of nourishment and
warmth. They should be placed under
strict protection by the State, and heavy
penalties enforced against any alleged
“sportsman” who is detected; in killing
them or having them in his possession.
# * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d hardly got into
Eugowra when the usual roughie, with
enough drink in to make him nasty, was
misled by Mat’s mild manner into pick-
ing him. Mat had few equals in stfeet
scrapping, and he gave the roughie a
pasting, finishing up by heaving him into
the Mandagery, to the gratification of the
small crowd. About an hour later the
policeman came to us and said to Mat
“Look, you’d better come up to the
station with me. I’ve got a charge of
assault against you.” Mat beckoned to
me and off we went, the policeman be-
tween us, and the town peering intently
as we went along. When we got inside
the policeman said “Look, there’s a friend
of mine going over to Forbes by car to-
night. Go with him. Here’s a couple
of quid between you. Stay here and I’ll
go down and get your gear.” We gaped
at him. The law grinned wryly and said
“That bloke you cleaned up is the wife’s
brother. He’s been a blasted pest in this
town too long, but what could I do about
it?” Mat thought it over, pocketed his
share of the money, then handed the
policeman two bob. “That,” said he, “is
to pay for a wire any time y’ want
me. Cleanin’ blokes like him up at a
quid a time will do me.” Then a really
bright thought struck him and he added
“Look, for another ten bob I’ll dig him
out an’ give him some more,” But the
law refused, and that night we landed in
Forbes.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”; It needs a stout heart
to face the responsibility of rearing a
few chooks for sale in Queensland in these
hard days when the politicos bray so
loudly about the Need for Peopling Our
Great Open Spaces. Here is a bright spot
from the Queensland Poultry Industry
Act of 1946, Section 22, subsection (2),
penalty for infraction, knowledgeably or
otherwise, £5O. “No person shall (whether
as principal or agent) sell, or attempt to
sell, or offer for sale, or have in pos-
session for sale, any day-old chickens
other than cockerel day-old chickens, the
sex of which has been determined to be
male by a person licensed under this Act
as a person qualified to determine the
sex of day-old chickens, which have been
marked with a stain prescribed for the
marking of cockerel day-old chickens, the
sex of which has been determined to be
male by a person licensed under this
Act as a person qualified to determine the
sex of day-old chickens.” All so beauti-
fully plain and clear that I’m going to
write it out on a card and get our local
Bung to hang it up in the bar as a test
for drunks. No really sober individual
would ever pretend to understand it.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Like all
primitive races, northern New Guinea
natives do not understand the origin of
fire, so they explain it with a legend.
“Long fella time” ago, my native-boy
tells me, villages north of Madang had
no fire, even though some miles across
the ocean they could watch flames belch
forth from the crater on towering Manam
Island, where the warlike islanders re-
pelled all visitors. One day, however, a
dog came to live in a village and —a very
wise dog, of course —“he savvee-ed place
no got fire,” and feeling “sorry too much
for all fella boy, all fella Mary along
place,” he went over to Manam on the
back of a turtle. There the canine
obtained a dish of burning coals, and
on returning to the mainland he and the
turtle were capsized in the surf and the
fire put out. This happened again and
again, until, finally, the hound came over
with a lighted stick in his mouth and
landed successfully by swimming through
the breakers with the smouldering twig
high above his head. But because the
dog brought only a little fire that is why
today fife is in short supply in mainland
villages.
“Abi Tonus”: Overheard in Port
Moresby. “Taubada, soon you will not
know Port Moresby. Eddie has promised
£lOO,OOO for new village,” says the
shrewd village councillor. “Oh,” rejoins
the new arrival, trying to be sarcastic.
“No doubt you will have a cinema as
well as electric light and sewerage.” “Oh,
yes, taubada ; all these, and plenty more.”
“Who will pay for it?” “Australia pay.”
“Well, you’ll soon have the country to
yourselves ; the white man cannot afford
it.” “But, taubada,” says the councillor,
thoroughly alarmed, “the Papuans cannot
live without the white man to help and
protect them!”
♦
“Bo”; The argument had started on
hydatids, and it had gradually broadened
into a general discussion as to whether
humans could catch complaints from
domestic animals. The majority agreed
that men mostly were immune from
animals’ diseases, but “Long Harry” was
emphatic for the opposite view. “Why,”
grinned “The Herbalist,” with a jerk,of
his thumb towards Harry’s big liver-
colored hound snoring on the hut floor,
“did y’ pick up the mange from Toby
sometime or other?” The long bloke
looked serious. “No,” he drawled, “but
I got concussion from him.” There was
a roar at that. “But y’ can’t ‘pick up’
concussion from a dawg or anyone else,”
protested “Jumbo.” “It ain’t a disease.”
“I don’t give a damn what y’ call it, but
I got it from Toby right enough,” went
on Harry. “It was when I was doin’ a
bit o’ stiffenin’ out on Boylan Downs.
One day Toby picks up a bait. I stuffed
a fistful o’ salt down his gob but that
didn’t do him no good. Then I remem-
bers that if y’ swing a baited dog round
by the tail it sometimes works. Well,
I’m swingin’ him round an’ round when
suddenly I gets giddy. I comes to half
an hour later with Toby lickin’ me clock
full rip. Yair, I’d chucked a sugar doodle
an’ dominoed me scone on a gibber as I
fell. If that ain’t gettin’ concussion from
a mong I don’t know what is! ”
* * ♦ ♦
“Prop”; Lack of size in offspring
doesn’t always mean that it belongs to a
primitive species (B. 5/6/’46), but in the
case of the ’roo it’s so. The ’roo, just
one jump higher than the egg-layers, has
not developed a placental connection be-
tween mother and embryo. Joey, there-
fore, has to be born to be fed, and as.
he’s necessarily immature at birth he has
to be provided with a special incubator
with an automatic milk supply. The
lowan, although its method of incubation
is reptilian, has evolved an O.S. egg that
contains sufficient tucker to give the chick
the necessary start in life. Comparable is
the egg of some of the cuckoos, which
incubates very fast and produces a whop-
ping baby strong enough to do his bit
in the cuckoos’ nasty life-cycle.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: I presume that that
A.I.F. unit, in N. Guinea with its native
energetically turning a wooden crank to
work a fan (B. 29/5/’46) had never
heard of the punkah. Originally an
Indian invention, it was adopted
extensively by the many hash
foundaries of the East Cool-
gardie goldfields prior to the
advent of the electric fan. As
a unit it was simply a flat vane,
perhaps a couple of feet wide
and twelve or more feet long,
which hung on a hinge at each
end from the ceiling. Covered
with paper, cloth on canvas, it
was light and responded readily
to a pull on a cord rigged over a
pulley at roof height. Back-
wards and forwards it swung,
creating a breeze —for punkah-
puller as well as feeders. Half
a dozen vanes could be rigged in
series along the whole ceiling,
all attached to the one cord. On
the Boulder Block, punkah-
pullers were always in demand —
it was one of the ways whereby
anyone down on his luck could
earn a feed and a couple of
bob.to boot. I can say from
experience, though, that it was
hard to pull the punkah for an hour in an
atmosphere of soup and cooked meats
when one’s breakfast had been absent,
for they didn’t need the punkah at break-
fast time.
• * • ♦
“Timothy Tywire”; Add to “The
O.D.’s” panegyric on the horse (B.
12/6/’46) a word or two for its part in
national fitness. A medico once said that
a man’s expectation of life was in inverse
ratio to his girth. Hard-riding outbackers
exemplify the truth of this. Wiry and flat-
bellied, they face up to Anno Domini
more successfully—barring accidents
than their city contemporaries, and keep
their springy step and sprightly action
longer too. An outback horseman put
the secret neatly in my hearing : “The
best thing fer a man’s inside is a horse’s
outside! ”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Came in the other night to
find “Seventyfiver” still wearing his hat,
but before I could ask why was attracted
by a noise in the rafters. “It’s a blasted
squirrel Blue brought in,” growled the
old bloke, glaring resentfully at the mong.
“Bung it out, will y’?” “Gripes, he’s all
right,” I grinned, watching the little grey
acrobat. “Funny little chaps, those fly-
ing phalangers.” “Seventyfiver” mumbled
something, and made a few swipes in the
intruder’s direction before flopping down
to salvage his whack of fried beef. The
squirrel jumped uneasily from rafter to
rafter, then to the cupboard, on to a
hanging saddle, a crowded shelf, then,
without warning, landed square on my
thatch. At my startled movement he
skidded badly, but hung on. There'was
a yell of unholy applause from “Seventy-
fiver.” “Gripes, he . . . he’s awright,” he
roared, holding his waistband and sway-
ing delightedly. “F-funny little chaps,
them flyin’ philanderers; damn’ funny.”
I finally got the little nuisance outside,
and turned to find the old bloke lifting
off the camp oven with his hat. There
were long red scratches down the sides
of his pate.
“KON-NICHI-WA.”
On one side of the muddy road are newly-
fashioned shacks
Where cherry-wood communes with lacquer-
ware;
Upon the other side there stretch the coal-
strewn railway tracks,
And only rubble tells that once a busy town
was there;
The trousered women work with spades and
smile “Kon-nichi-wa.”
Up through the dim and smelly lanes that
wind their ancient way
Haphazardly amongst the hillside homes.
Where festering drain and cesspit speak to
cherry-blossom spray
And conquered men in silence watch the
Foreign One who comes,
A carefree child with running nose will pipe
“Kon-nichi-wa.”
geyond the lanes a rainwashed world is reach-
ing to the sky;
Here barley grows in rows on terraced plot’s
That look down on the rooftops and the gar-
ments spread to dry
On Lilliputian balconies by tiny flowerpots:
The aged peasant rests his hoe and bows
“Kon-nichi-wa.”
So up into the mountain mists where pines and
beeches grow
With maiden-hair and violets by the track,
Where cherry-blossom blushes in the sunlight’s
filtered glow,
And a wrinkle-faced old woman with her
firewood on her back
Will step aside and bob her hea,d and smile
“Kon-nichi-wa.”
So beautiful is Nippon all amongst its thousand
smells
I’ll walk again to reach the Inland Sea;
Far from the shoddy merchant and the shoddy
goods he sells
Here Nature lays her sweetest gifts—but
none so sweet to me
As the women’s and the old men’s and the
kids’ “Kon-nichi-wa.”
A.I.F.
JOHN O'GRADY.


HORSE-SHOE.
I hate to have to say
“Horse-shoe,”
Don’t you?
Whichever way
You choose,
Whatever mode you use —
If you divorce the two,
Horse plus shoe,
As elocutionists meticulously do,
Halting in between
With primness and precision,
It leaves you harassed
And embarrassed,
It sounds so prismic and prunesian.
While if you run
The sibilants together
Making them one,
“Hawshshoo,” like this,
You wonder whether
Anyone can bear
To hear
That lawless coalescence,
That sloppy effervescence,
Like surf upon a beach.
What do we do
In face of these
Extremes of sinful speech?
Why, I say “hawshoo,” like a sneeze,
And so do you.
m.l. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Zake”: “When I was fettlin’ up
Weetaliba way,” said “Muscles” Mitchell,
“I boarded with a bloke and his missus
who ran a coupler hundred acres of
hungry country. I never once see mutton
or beef. They had a kid of about 12
who was a snifter shot with a .22, almost
as good, I’d say, as that ‘Narrin’ bloke,
ah’ he useter supply the meat —it’d
be wombat one day, magpie the
next, then a kangaroo rat and a brace o’
galahs. Animals an’ birds in season, as
you might say, and when on’y the galahs
were about we had galah day after day.
That woman, I’ll give in, was a
wizard of a babbler—she could pretty
well disguise anything. I left there,
though, when we had mince pies every
day.” “Cripes,” someone interrupted.
“You’re a whale enough on pies here,
‘Muscles.’ ” “I might be,” went on
Mitchell, “but y’ see wombats was scarce,
the kid hadn’t picked off a kangaroo rat
fer weeks and the galahs and magpies
had become suspicious. But there was
a mice plague on at the time! ”
* * * *
“W. Court”: Being deciduous, the
crepe myrtle shrubs in my Queensland
garden shed their leaves early in the
winter. Last year I cut one particularly
large specimen back to within 2ft. of
the ground soon after the rainy season.
The stump threw out suckers which throve
right through the winter without losing
a leaf (other myrtles, of course, were
leafless for months). This winter the
pruned specimen is still growing, with
apparently no intention of reverting to its
deciduous habits until it has regained its
original size.
* # * •
“C.E.”: Dad was seated on the step
as Nick came round the corner. “Hey,
Dad,” greeted the arrival, “wasn’t Haw-
kins the nurseryman you bought them
vines off a while back?” “That’s right,
Nick.” “An’ after buyin’ special manure,
an’ skitin’ about the big new sort o’ white
grapes y’ were growin’, an’ cartin’ water
from the creek for three years, they
turned out little sour blue ’uns. Now I
hear y’ye sold him one o’ y’r foals,”
“A half, please.”
“That’s right,” agreed Dad. “An’ when
there’s so many blokes after that blood-
stock o’ yours. Besides, Hawkins dunno
horseflesh when he sees it, an’ he’s
blowin’ already about racin’ that filly
some day. Reckons you dunno how to
train a nag,” continued Nick, “An’ after
them vines. Cripes! Told y’ at the time
y* ahould’ve punched his flamin’ nose.”
Tie old bloke shook his head. “It don’t
pay, Nick,” he murmured reprovingly,
“That sort of tiling doesn’t get a man any-
<*Gets a heap o’ satisfaction
though, don’t he?” growled Nick. “May-
be,” drawled the old cove, “but not
nearly as much as I’ll get for the next
few years thinking of the high-priced feed
Hawkins’ll be shoving into that little
brumby I caught.”
* * * *
“W.C.C.” :Tell “L’Tops’l” (B. 29/5/’46)
that dead albatross from the Crozets
was found Sept. 11, 1887. Since the
Westralia of those days did not possess
an ocean-going boat of any sort, it would
have been impossible for the then Crown
Colony to send relief even to its own
citizens had any been in a similar situa-
tion. However, Governor Broome tele-
graphed at once to Admiral Fairfax, in
command of the Australian Squadron,
headquarters Sydney. The squadron,
as it happened, was then at Thursday
Island. In the meantime word had been
cabled to the Colonial Office, London,
and, via Paris, it was passed on to the
French admiral in the Indian Ocean,
resulting in a cruiser being dispatched.
Returning to Mozambique on January 11,
1888, its captain reported having searched
the Crozets and found that 13 men had
got ashore from the Tamaris. On Sept. 30,
they had left the Isle of Pigs to go to
the Isle of Possession. But no trace was
found of them there. Nor were they ever
heard of again. If there was any delay
in sending relief it certainly was no fault
of anyone in Australia. And the alba-
tross was found not at Cottesloe but on
what is now Scarborough. One of the
boy finders was Willie Mansbridge, in
later years a magistrate at Broome. A
photograph of the strip of tin is still to be
seen in Perth.
* * * *
“Blime”: Dill took another careful
look at the big bally and, jumping his nag,
hurried over to meet the boss. “Cripes,
Bill, y’re in luck,” he greeted. “Y’ got
a lumpy jaw. One o’ them good cows.”
“What! Y’ sure?” Bill looked his dis-
gust. “Too right,” chortled Dill. “Been
watchin’ her f’r weeks. Now we’ll be able
to put her in somewhere an’ report her,
an’ that stock inspector’ll come ’n’ shoot
her for y’.” “Oh, cripes, yes. Great luck
that is,” snorted the boss, glaring at Dill.
“An’ he’ll gimme a cheque for a third of
her value.” “Yair, but she’s a darn
good cow, Bill,” the hand pointed out.
“Y’ oughter git eleven or twelve quid,
an’, cripes, that’s better’n nothin’. Think
of all them cattle y’ve specked in these
last coupla years. Think of all the stamps
y’ve had to buy f’r that flamin’ cattle-
compensation scheme. This is the first
time y’ve been lucky enough t’ git any-
thing out of it.”
* * ♦ •
“D.R.H.”: While we’re prying into
other animals’ insides (B. 5/6/’46), how
about giving the tadpole a go? The thin
tissues of the tail make it possible to
watch the actual circulation of the blood
under the microscope. If you pick a
small artery, preferably branched, the
sight is one to remember. You see the
corpuscles, yellowish oval cells, coming
along in bunches, moving fast and slow-
ing up in time with the beats of the heart.
If there is a branch the cells slow up at
the junction, seem to hesitate and then.
as the pressure behind mounts, make up
their minds, some surging ahead, others
slipping down the turnoff. A larger
artery, however, is just a yellowish blur
of movement, because the speed as well
as the size of the corpuscles is magnified
two or three hundred times. If you aren t
satisfied with the entertainment value of
the froglet’s circulatory system you can
always cut the beggar open and find in
his intestines, among a wonderful assort-
ment of the tiny natural-glass cases of the
diatoms—microscopic plants on which a
tadpole feeds —a collection of parasitic
one-celled animals. Of the two most
noticeable forms, one is club-shaped, with
a gleaming white body. The other, a
large ciliate, is much the shape of a bean
seed, if you can imagine a bean seed
equipped with a band of waving proto-
plasmic threads which sweep the tadpole’s
tucker into the parasite’s “mouth.” In
“Sorry, Basil, but it Was the best I could get.”
some tadpoles the intestinal contents
swarm with such minute animals, but the
host, although a living zoo, seems none
the worse for their presence.
sit * * *
“X.E.D.”: Crowther has a mean,
hoarding nature, and during the worst
phase of the tobacco famine it was dead
hard to get a smoke from him, though
we knew he had more than a couple of
pounds of the stuff hidden away. Now
weed is easier to come by cigarette
papers are very scarce in this village, and
Jim developed a sore throat and rasp-
ing cough through inhaling burning
newspaper. Knowing Crowther had
about two years’ supply of papers
hoarded, Jim paid him a visit. They
were sitting yarning on the verandah
when Crowther pulled out the makings.
Jim did likewise, producing a roll of news-
paper and carefully tearing off a strip.
Crowther regarded his efforts thought-
fully. “Hey, wait a minute,” he said, and
vanished inside, returning with a larger
sheet of newspaper. “Here y’are,” he
said, “there ain’t nearly so much printin’
on this bit. It’s the ink that makes y’r
throat crook.”
* ♦ * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Gazing up at me
from pale yellow eyes is a big brindle
kangaroo dog, staghound - greyhound
cross, beautifully proportioned. He can
overtake the emu and drag it down with a
broken neck with the same savage ease
with which he can kill the fastest ’roo that
runs. He’s almost as wide between the
ears as the average man, and I think
rather more knowing. But the point
I’m interested in, in a purely hypothetical
way, is the part he’d have played in the
shaping of this continent had Nature
selected his type instead of the cowardly
dingo as the Australian representative of
the canine tribe. The other animals, such
as managed to survive, would have
developed greater speed or pugnacity and
the aboriginals progressed far beyond the
spear-and-boomerang stage, to become a
real obstacle to white settlement. With
the job taking more time, Australia
might have attracted other nations, which
might have partitioned the country, not
into States, but into nationalities. Maybe
it’s idle, but it’s fascinating to speculate
on how this continent might have de-
veloped if only my brindle dog’s an-
cestors had settled here some few million
years ago.
* . ♦ * *
“E. 2”; Choom was young and had
not been long out here, but Dan, who
enjoyed growling about a bad back, gave
him a couple of rounds with the binder
and left him to it. Later in the day he
was horrified to see the horses weaving
through the crop at a near-gallop, with
the binder bounding along behind them
like a kangaroo and hay flying i n a “
directions. By some fluke Choom had
the team under control and was still in
one piece when Dan got there. I seed
a hare bobbin’ ’cross field an’ thinked
we’d ’ave ’un,” he babbled excitedly.
“Aye, an’ I nearly catched ’un.” Dan,
recovered from his back trouble after
the long chase, had no recurrence that
season.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: While doing a spot of
work —at union rates —in Parramatta
(N.S.W.) jail I was chosen by a —er —
boarder as a suitable listener to be ear-
bashed with professional blatherskite. No
ordinary fowl-thief, the expert went to
great pains to explain his scientific
methods. Lesser men burn sulphur
to stupefy the victims, I was in-
formed, but the smell drifts on the
night air, and fowl-flunkeys generally
sleep lightly—and with the windows open.
He used the stick
method. The idea
was to creep into
the fowlhouse, find
a perch and move
a short stick along
it. When the chook
felt the touch on
the foot it subcon-
sciously stepped on
to the stick, the
other foot fol-
lowing ; then the
expert gently lifted
the I stick and its
burden away from
the other fowls,
muffled the bird’s
wings and broke
its neck. Before the
delayed action of
the “dying flutter”
could take place,
the victim was
placed in a chaff-
bag and screwed
up tightly. Thus
the whole pen
could be noiselessly
pilfered. It took
Hollywood to con-
vince me that the
“crim.’s” methods
are obsolete. In a
recent epic Clark
Gable, lurking
in the bushes, persuaded his loose-
lipped “tomato” to imitate a rooster crow-
ing. The girl’s effort was appalling; but
a rooster instantly took up the challenge,
stalked into the scrub and was captured.
The bat-eared hero didn’t use such com-
monplace things as chaffbags, however.
No; he merely laid the captive on the
ground and drew a mark in the dust with
his finger. When the chook remained
motionless he explained to his “tom-
ate-o”; “He won’t move —that mark
hypnotises ’em.” I hope my criminal
friend is out in time to learn this ad-
vanced method.
“B. 4”: I fired at a cockatoo in the
zenith of an ironbark, and the fowl
dropped to the crack of the .22 in the
midst of a vibrant screech. Examination
disclosed an extraneous wound, the pellet
having broken his heart as he opened his
loud shouter. As I was washing cocky’s
chassis in a steely-colored pool the car-
cass was wrenched from my caress by a
mountain croc, lurking in the opaque
depths. These fangless old bulls, driven
from the herd, scramble up a mountain
stream to a remote junction and then
scratch a hidie-hole in the bed of the
trickle. Mysterious tracks, puzzling alike
to abos. and fossickers, are produced by
these pallid prowlers, whose integument
eventually assumes an alpine hue, which
renders them invisible in their dim
aquaria. Many a thirst-stricken miner
deemed lost has been seized as he lay
down to fill his hide. The horror’s tech-
nique is to grab and drown the drinker;
then, with the head engulfed, ascend a
cliff and, diving off, ram the dinner home.
Camped near these haunted holes, one
must be careful to tuck in the mossie net
to exclude saurians doing a starry ramble.
« * * *
“C.E.”: Dad paused to survey the reno-
vations to the kitchen wall. “Now,
where’d y’ like the door in this wall,
Ma?” he called. “After waitin’ 40 years
f’r these alterations y’ better have things
like y’ want ’em.” Ma trotted over
eagerly. “Right at this end. Dad,” she
replied, “so I can easily slip out f’r wood
and water.” The old bloke eyed the spot.
that’s a rotten place for a
door,” he scoffed. “Should have ’em in
the middle. ’Bout here, say.” “But,” Ma
protested, “I’d have to squeeze round the
table every time to go outside.” “Aw,
I dunno” —Dad rubbed his head thought-
fully. “Y* c’d shove the table along in
front o’ the cupboard t’ get out. Yair,
that’d do. An’ now, how d’ y’ want her
swung?” “Outwards, please, Dad.” Dad
pondered the position. “No, y’ can’t
swing her out, Ma,” he explained. “She’d
be in the way every time a bloke come
home in the dark. Have t’ be inwards.
Would y’ like her left or right?” “Oh,
left. Dad.” “What, just where a man
puts his feet after dinner? What’s wrong
with havin’ her swung right?” “Well, it
would be across my track to the stove,
Ma pointed out. “Besides, working at
the bench there, it would bang me when
anyone came in.” “Aw, y’ c’n keep one
foot out, Ma,” the old bloke decided,
“then she’ll be no trouble.” He picked
up a rule and marked off the doorway.
“Awright; now y’ sure that’s how y’ want
things? I don’t want y’ changin’ y* mind
an’ sayin’ afterwards that y’d ’a’ liked it
somewhere else.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK. AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
S H NEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE.
r, w ™,o.T CU ?. NAMULLA ’ TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures
Bone-chewing Cattle
and Licks for
J /)JU Sterilised
To Remedy BONE
Phosphorus Deficiency
In Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 768 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 688 Perth.
as®?*
m
n
'Hi
i/.' 7/y
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CVanogaS
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
t“ e warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
WHEN BELOW PAR
Try Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills
Even those folk who usually enjoy good health do not
always feel right up to the mark. At times they have
their bouts of perhaps Biliousness, Constipation, or
Rheumatism. When these attacks do occur, a course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found helpful.
They stir the Liver, aid the Digestion, and regulate
the bowels, thus helping the system back to normal.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"SONT WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
CRAZCOS"
Sheep Brands.
“Murrawong”: The Australian Wool
Board has circularised classers regarding
the treatment of tar brands, apparently
in the belief that a classer can influence
his employer’s methods; a rather opti-
mistic belief. The classer is asked to sug-
gest that a very small brand be used, but
this is not so important as the manner in
which the branding fluid is applied. If
the fluid is poured on to a pad of felt or
wool in the bottom of a tin so that the
brand carries no excess fluid that will
drip over the sheep or remain as a huge
blob on the wool surface very little
damage is done. If no absorbing pad
is used the fluid is wasted and spilt on
the sheep ; home-made' wooden brands
are a source of trouble.
There are branding fluids which are
fairly durable and which will scour out
of the wool unless excessively applied.
Most of the trouble is caused by tar, paint
or home-made branding fluids. It is
against these that action should be taken.
The A.W.B. recommends that classers
should instruct shedhands to remove all
wool from fleeces containing brands and
press it separately. Very few owners will
see eye to eye with this, as under present
selling arrangements the grower will be
penalised. Until branding is cut out
altogether, those who market their clips
free of brands will receive no monetary
advantage, yet patches of wool removed
from branded places can only be sold as
“brands” at a much reduced rate.
Sheep branding is optional in all States
except N.S.W. and Tasmania, although
the travelling “T” brand is enforced in
Queensland. It is understood that brand-
ing in N.S.W. may shortly be made
optional. So far no workable altern-
atives to branding have been advanced.
Fire branding could be dangerous unless
done properly. What about using a
distinctive face brand with a strong
aniline dye or a chemical branding fluid?
Most studs use a tattoo brand and it may
be possible to have a suitable tattoo
made for use on the ears which would not
interfere with the regular ear marks,
Cattle-Dogs and Dairy Cows.
“Rooster”: A good dog reflects the
principles of its master in any sphere of
activity. Unfortunately a large percent-
age of dairy cockies look upon the cattle-
dog as an animated labor-saving device.
They yell out for Rover to “git away
back” and “sool ’em up.” Rover gets
the nasty habit of scarping it for the lick
of his life, stampeding the cows through
bottleneck entrances until the scared
animals thunder into the yard in a lather
of perspiration, wild-eyed ‘and with heav-
ing flanks. Cows; naturally, become bad-
tempered at such treatment, disinclined
to yield their full quota of milk. And
kicks on the underbelly merely result in
complete negation.
Dogs should be trained early, as soon
as they are able to run around with
confidence. The first essential is obedi-
ence. First time a dog shows symptoms
of going wild with cattle, chain it up for
a couple of days, displaying every mark
of displeasure. Even a heeler will fly
to the head if untrained.
Initial trials with round-ups will soon
show whether the dog is worth its salt.
Every time it attempts to stampede the
milkers, call it off. A great deal of
patience is required in order to have your
gestures and voice inflections clearly
understood. Every mistake must be
“Stop pesterin' me! D’yer Want me t' lose count?”
clearly demonstrated. There’s no reason
why, with proper training, you shouldn't
be able to sit back in the saddle and, with
a gesture, indicate a quiet, orderly round-
up and trek homewards.
During the spring months, or at any
time when calving takes place, dogs
should be taboo. At such a time a cow
is liable to go completely mad at canine
inquisitiveness. Intelligent dogs never
interfere. They’re the four-footed friends
of intelligent masters.
Transplanting.
“P.R.A.N.”: When the soil is provided
with adequate moisture slow growth of
plants or their failure to strike can
generally be attributed to planting too
deeply or to doubling up the fine root-
lets. When the plant is in the nursery-
bed there is a balance between root de-
velopment and the growth above ground.
When the plant is lifted without a ball pf
soil enclosing the roots many of them are
broken and the balance thus disturbed.
Prior to setting out shorten long hair-
like roots so that they will not be doubled
up when planted. At the same time top
growth should receive attention. Leaves
liable to flatten out should be removed
and others shortened. With tomatoes all
leaves except the two immediately below
the bud should be removed, and these
two shortened so that the stem will keep
erect.
With trees and shrubs broken roots
should be trimmed and top growth cut
back, with due regard to symmetry.
When setting out roots as far as possible
should be spread out and the soil firmed
around; watering at once ensures a
more intimate contact of root and soil.
Trees and shrubs when set out should not
be deeper in the soil than in their original
situation. Deeper planting is usually fol-
lowed by a poor growth.
Plants of seasonal growth with single
stems, such as the tomato, cabbage, etc.,
should not be planted deeper than the
level of the cotyledons, or seed leaves.
With other plants care should be exercised
in seeing that the growing bud is not
covered with soil. Neglect of this is the
main cause of strike failures, particularly
with strawberries and lettuce.
Back to Bark.
“E.H.S.”; In view of the existing high
cost of galvanised-iron, why not revert
to bark for farm buildings? A good
bark roof will remain weatherproof for
20 years or more, and on coastal areas
it costs little more than the labor of
stripping.
Best building bark comes from stringy-
bark, messmate, mountain ash and tur-
pentine, and the proper time for stripping
is when the sap is running freely ; at any
other time the bark has a tendency to
stick to the tree, thus making it hard to
remove without cracking—a small crack
will become larger as the bark shrinks.
Tools required are an axe, an adze with
a long handle, a long-handled spade and
a measuring rod. All tools should be
ground to a keen edge.
First make a cut through the bark
around the tree at or near ground level,
then, with the adze, make a similar cut
at the desired height. Make a vertical
slit through the bark from cut to cut,
push the spade into the slit and ease the
bark off until about halfway round;
repeat from the opposite side until the
sheet is free. If the bark is flexible, lower
it gently, sapside down, spread out flat
and weigh down with sufficient stone or
wood to keep it flat; if too heavily
weighted it is liable to split in drying.
The soft, fibrous portion of the bark
should be shaved off with the spade be-
fore placing the weights.
If the bark appears stiff and brittle it
should be left standing against the tree
and a small fire started inside and kept
going until the bark becomes pliable
enough to flatten out without cracking.
If the tree is short in the bole or decayed,
one sheet may be taken off and the tree
left standing, but all sound, long-barrelled
trees should be felled and worked into
fencing or other serviceable timber after
the bark has been removed, as timber is
now too valuable to waste. The bark
should be dry enough to cart in and stack
in about a week or ten days, and it should
be stacked in layers, each at right angles
to the preceding one. The stacks should
not be more than three feet high, other-
wise damage may result when further
shrinkage occurs.
Feeding Root Crops.
“L.C.”: When feeding root crops,
study the mouth of the sheep and type
of fodder needed. Old sheep with de-
cayed teeth and hoggets losing baby teeth
can’t deal with hard food. Tops of the
turnip crop are best for both —they con-
tain more protein and minerals than the
roots and promote health and growth in
young animals.
Wethers and ewes can be given the
bulbs. If they refuse them, give them
temporary access to an ungrazed part of
the field till they get acquainted with the
flavor by feeding on the tops, then return
them to the roots. If allowed to graze
new fields indefinitely, they’ll consume
tops only and skip the root fodder.
Sheep on turnips need a grass run-off till
they get used to the crop. Hay, straw or
oaten chaff are needed to balance the diet.
In frosty weather, move the animals to
pastures in the evenings and don’t turn
them in on the turnip field till the frost
thaws.
Planting an Avenue.
“Agro”; When thinking of plant-
ing an avenue consider the novel and
effective flowering trees, instead of the
usual cypresses and pines, which are some-
what sombre in appearance. There
are plenty of colorful Australian
trees. Imagine the spectacle of an avenue
of red-flowering gums {Eucalyptus fici-
folia). Among other flowering gums are
E. calophylla rosea (pink), E. leucoxylon
rosea (warm pink), E. calophylla (white),
E stricklandi (yellow), E. coesia (pink—
nearly all the year round) and E. erythro-
corys (red seed vessels and yellow flowers
—a striking combination).
All are good growers, with handsome
foliage as well as blossom. If you want
your trees all the same color remember
that E ficifolia and E. calophylla rosea .
cannot be relied on to come true to color.
Through their susceptibility to cross-pol-
lenation they are likely to flower pink,


BLOTCHY'
S SKIN
'f marred by spots,
m/ rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
i of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ik Ointment, Soap and
hL Talcum Powder. 533
BLOTCHY
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
i of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ik Ointment, Soap and
rL Talcum Powder. 533
0
f
OINTMEN
f
dfd
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or Is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course i
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN L.OTION 2/0
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/0
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
SOLD
END your RUPTURE
A i Y
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
lo do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and Ik days’ ffree
trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOESSEIi APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. SYDNEY.
A
m y
...
9
&>■
Itiß
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or. if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. X. W. Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.E.I.A.
BURNS PHIIP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET* SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
SP ?-i4.
,
, -
■
flf
V
ENGINES
PETROL&DIESEL
1
FULL RANGE
We can supply an engine for
any purpose within this range.
1 H.P. to 600 H.P.
RURAL
I*
m
n
am
m am
mmm.
INDUSTRIAL
• AUTOMOTIVE
• MARINE PROPULSION
• MARINE AUXILIARY
2im (AUST.) PTY LIMITED
Formerly the Steel & Machinery Division of
COMMERCIAL STEELS & FORGE CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY: Bowden St., Alexandria ’Phone MX 1191
MELBOURNE: Cnr. Capel & Queensberry Sts., Nth. Melbourne. ‘Phone F 3616
NEWCASTLE: C.M.L Building. Hunter Street ‘Phone B 1810
ADELAIDE: Steamship House, Currie Street ‘Phone Cent. 77
orange, biscuit, cream or even white.
These two should not, however, be dis-
carded on that account.
Other worthy trees are the wattles —
beautiful in flower and foliage, and quick
growers like Golden {Acacia pycnantha ),
Queen (A. normalis). Coast (A. longi-
folia), Willow (A. saligna ), Black (A.
decurrens) and Mount Morgan silver
wattle (A. podalyriceifolia). All bloom
in winter or spring, and attain about the
same height (15-20 ft.). A splendid com-
bination would be alternate trees of A.
pycnantha (dark-green foliage) and A.
podalyriceifolia (silvery-grey foliage).
Other useful avenue trees are the white
paper-bark {Melaleuca styphelioides ),
which has abundant white, fluffy flowers \
the white kurrajong {Brachychiton dis-
color). pinkish-red; and the Queensland
firewheel tree {Stenocarpus sinuatus ), a
curious red-flowered tree. All of these
trees should be protected from frost the
first winter and need summer watering
till established, A bag shelter is advisable.
Skin Hints.
“Big Billy”: Besides being correctly
skinned (slitting across the hind legs and
pulling right over the head), rabbit pelts
should be correctly stretched; one side
of the wire should run down the centre
of the back and the other side along the
belly. When the skin is placed on the
wire it should be pulled well down and
not wrinkled. Use wire which retains
some resilience so that the pelt is reason-
ably well stretched in width. Sleeved
skins invariably bring a higher price than
open ones. Don’t leave skins hanging in
a shed for long periods ; they lose their
fresh appearance, become dirty and may
be attacked by weevils. Moreover, where
left too long they reach market at a time
when the bulk of the offerings are fresher
and of a different seasonal quality.
Fox skins should be nailed out on some
wooden surface in a shady place, stretched
into proper shape ; over-stretching should
be guarded against. Ears and head should
be left on. The brush requires careful
attention. It should be opened by cutting
the tail along the underside right to the
end and all tail-bone removed. Small
pieces of twig may be placed in the cut
to keep the tail open and so allow it to
dry and prevent sweating. If a fail
sweats the fur on it will fall out and
such skins have to be sold as broken-
tailed: Skins being' parcelled for for-
warding should be packed fur to fur and'
pelt to pelt so that the fur does not be-
come damaged by contact with grease.
Hints for the Farm.
“L.C.”: Breeders of merinos who
favor strong or medium wool should
choose sheep suitable to the area. Strong-
wool types are best for drier districts;
medium-wool for good rainfall country
—particularly if pastures are topdressed.
“Hux”: Little nitrogen, potash, phos-
phate or lime is lost from areas grazed
by grown fattening cattle or wethers.
Dairy cows and ewes with lambs retain
quantities of both calcium and potash,
though potash goes back to the soil in
urine. Large flocks of sheep feeding off
roots or green crops return nine-tenths
of nitrogen to the soil in the drop.
Accumulations of droppings plus periodic
dressings of phosphatic fertilisers and
lime will maintain fertility for several
seasons.
“Myrrhee”: In Vic. the hairworm
troubles cattle chiefly in autumn, winter
and early spring. Drench with phenovis
or phenzeen, for calves up to six
months, |oz. for heifers up to a year,
and loz. for older stock. Treat three
times at intervals of 14 days. As a
preventive measure, graze calves on fresh
country apart from the older cattle and
away from low-lying, swampy areas.
Worms may not be visible in faeces, but
don’t conclude that there are none. They
are microscopically small.
“Bull-ant Bill”: When painting gal-
vanised-iron roofs the under surface
should also get a coat of cement and
boiled oil in the proportion of about
81b. to the gallon, preferably before put-
ting up. For the upper surface the same
ingredients, cheaper than any good paint,
can also be used, reducing the cement to
61b. if the rainwater from it is used for
drinking or washing. An attractive green
tint can be obtained by adding H|b. of
chromium oxide per gallon. The mixture
should be kept well stirred when in
use, and tightly covered when not.
“H.C.”: Queensland’s Poultry Act
makes notification of diseases compul-
sory. Anyone who attempts to, or does,
sell diseased birds is liable up to £lOO.
Poultry for sale for table use can now
be killed only after inspection.
“Farmer Bill”; Recent tests at Shannon
Vale Nutrition Station (N.S.W.) proved
that ewes grazed on natural pastures of
granite soil country and November-
lambed showed 5 p.c. mortality, 68 p.c.
lambs marked and wool cut average of
As against this, mortalities in ewes
grazed on improved pastures and lambed
the same month were minus. Number of
lambs marked rose to 77 p.c., and average
wool cut to 101 b. Only difference in
feeding was three days per week on im-
proved pastures.
“Atlanta”: Destroy all cancerous or
diseased sheep. Although there is little
risk of infection to healthy animals, they
are consuming feed which a sound sheep
could use. Shearers won’t handle diseased
sheep and their wool is generally of poor
length and quality.
“Agro”: High perches have a tendency
to make the fowls long-legged, caused
from the extra spring they must take to
reach their objective. This is liable to
result in injury to vital organs. An ideal
height is 24 to 36 inches, and they should
be two to three inches wide.
“H.C.”: Growing of trees to protect
s heep from heat and cold has a direct
e ff ec t on value of wool. In S.A., which
j s deplorably devoid of trees, good prices
are obtained for clips produced in mulga
country.
“C.H.”: Give mulga a chance of sur-
vjvai by leaving two or three leader
branches on the side of the stump. If
cut r jght back, it dies. When sheep were
f e( j almost exclusively on mulga in
wes t ern Queensland, the wool, though not
Q £ £j rst quality, was good. Average
length of staple from ewe hoggets with
under 10 months’ wool was 2|in.; wether
hoggets, 12 months’ wool, 4in.; 4-tooth
ewes, 18 months’ wool, 6|in.


MAN'SEAS®
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’o
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
BRASDALE RA
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG-
RELIEVE THE
MISERY OF
HAEMORRHOIDS
There is no need to suffer the torment-
ing irritation of itching piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at once to use
DOAN’S OINTMENT. It quiets the
itching and protects and lubricates the
tender tissues with its soothing an-
tiseptic ingredients. Don’t continue
to let the itching and misery of
piles torment and worry you, get
DOAN’S OINTMENT
today and see what long lasting happy
relief it gives—used successfully for over
40 years.
LET
r ATLAS >
CARRY THE
BURDEN j
W
&
'S
J)lMh
A vV^\\U*s. W^>
Estabiished 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY is
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
2/- per copy, or £l/2/6 per annum posted.
i m
•mmamm
m
Mil
m m
|P l '
A SIGN..TO
REMEMBER
v>
* 7M
mh •Va
s'
\ «
f %
1. V
■
II Ml
:■
k/AA'
BS
W vV
a
\ «r> **-
HMHi
iii;
4,
i
i?
g.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers of: “C.O.R Plus” Motor Spirit • “C.O.R” Power Kerosene • “CORALITE” Lamp
Kerosene • “C.O.R Light Diesoleum” • “C.O.R” Diesel Oils • “C.O.R” Fuel and Bunker Oils
■*> • Cl 2.27
The Waiting-Room
By LES ROBINSON
i i r\ T what time will there be a train
aH to Bleakton?” I asked.
( I “Not until six-thirty this even-
ing,” said the stationmaster.
“It’s a ‘goods,’ ” he added.
So, as it was then only one-thirty,
five hours of waiting, on the coldest of
winter afternoons, stretched before me.
A westerly wind tore across the rail-
way platform, and sleet rattled every
now and then on the iron roof of the
waiting-room, in which, of course, there
was no fire. Commissioners of Railways
think, evidently, that travellers are hardy
and that it would be a mistake to pam-
per them.
The only occupants of the station were
its master, a porter and me.
I had omitted to bring a book, I don’t
play solitaire or do crossword puzzles,
and I had no letters to write. Nor am
I one of those fortunate people who can
sleep just anywhere, day or night, in all
kinds of weather.
What could be glimpsed of the town-
ship from the platform did not make one
long to see more of it. The view, which
was inescapable, unless, of course, one
closed one’s eyes, comprised, in the fore-
ground, an ashdump, an iceworks, a
gasometer, a hoarding, a tannery that
had gone to rack and ruin and a claypit.
Beyond them were a few habitations of
weatherboard roofed with galvanised-
iron. Except for a few goats searching
for grass along the fence bordering the
railway line and at the edges of a strag-
gling and muddy road, there was no sign
of life.
I am not in the habit of talking to
myself and there was no one with whom
I could enter into conversation: railway
officials, I have often noticed, seem to
hold themselves aloof as much as pos-
sible from the travelling public. They
often have hiding-places in which they
can talk undisturbed, presumably about
trains.
What then was I to do all that long
time? How could it be prevented from
seeming interminable?
AFTER pacing up and down the plat-
form restlessly for a while I began to
read the proclamations, notifications, in-
timations, threats, warnings, provisos,
suggestions, hints, etc., pasted on the
walls of the waiting-room and on boards
provided for the purpose elsewhere, and,
while doing so, discovered that I was
even more of an ignoramus than I had
imagined.
I did not know, for instance,
“What to Do When the Engine Stalls.”
I was unaware, in fact, that railway
engines ever stalled. I did not know
“What to Do When Lost in the Bush,”
“How to Extinguish Bushfires,” “How to
Check the Depredations of Fruitflies,”
“How to Remove Foreign Bodies from
the Eyes,” “How to Get Rid of Rats”
or “What to Do in Case of Snakebite.”
Nor was I aware that, besides running
the risk of a £lO fine for one misde-
meanor and another, the incautious pas-
senger might also, at any time, have to
contend against “Venomous Insects,”
some of which, according to the illiis-
trations on the dingy wall, were very
large indeed. I scanned the floor and
looked under the seat, and finally came
to the conclusion that they had all been
frozen to death.
There was a proclamation concerning
wildflowers and the penalties attached
to picking them. “How to Rescue and
Resuscitate Persons Who Are Drown-
ing,” with illustrations, caught my eye.
The only water for miles round
seemed to be that which was in the
station tank.
A poster-girl in bathing costume on
opposite wall was exclaiming with de-
light “It’s icy cold!” as an inducement
to drink the beverage with which she
was chilling herself.
I told myself that if I adopted her
suggestion it would probably be the end
of me.
Just as a trickle of water, “icy cold,”
from a leak in the roof went down the
back of my neck my gaze was transfixed
by the question, in large type, “Why put
up with cold water when you can enjoy
the hot artesian Moree baths?”
“Why indeed?” I murmured. I had
no real desire to go there. I had
never been plagued by wanderlust. Bleak-
ton, despite its drawbacks, and they, in
winter especially, were multifarious,
would, once I was back there and
in bed again with the flaps of the
tent tied together tightly, be good
enough for me.
Scribbled by wayfarers on the margins
of the proclamations, notifications, pro-
visos, threats, etc., and in between them,
were exhortations, advice and comments
on things in general. It seemed to be
clear that the world was in a bad way;
but that —undoubtedly a hope for the
future —Peggy B. loved J.F.
THE hours crept ever more slowly by
because, I suspected, the hands of
the station clock were congealed.
“The waiting-room is for the travelling
public only. Unauthorised occupants will
be prosecuted,” a notice informed me.
As I didn’t seem to be doing any
travelling I wondered whether I should
be authorised and who the author to
consult about it was.
I wondered whether the fowls, taking
advantage of my absence, were roosting
in the tent.
I wondered, no longer sanguine about
anything—how could I be when my
feet were so cold? —whether, if I
didn’t succeed in reaching Bleak-
ton, the horse would have sense
enough to go down the road to
the poundkeeper’s place and kick a
few palings out of the fence so that he
could get himself interned or whether
he’d make his rheumatism worse by wan-
dering about in the wind and the sleet
looking for sorrel and thistles.
After trying in vain to estimate how
many months it would take me to walk
there, if compelled, I sank into a kind
of coma, which, although I realised that
by doing so I was probably infringing
same regulation or other, seemed, undei
the circumstances, especially as I was
unable to prevent myself from sinking
into it, the only thing to do.


Its
m
mmz*
.
i
fmm
mm
' S» , I
m
ill
Don’t suffer
with
■ ...get
quick relief
with
Kidneys are often the cause
of nagging Backache. Don’t
suffer the down-dragging pains of
Backache . . . assist the Kidneys in
their action . . . help them to become
stronger . . . more active . * . and
free from inflammation, by taking
Dr. Sheldon’s GIN PILLS relief
from nagging Backache s’oon follows.
KSHIIDONS
GIN PILLS
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills act directly
on the Kidneys, stimulating their
action, relieving inflammation. Gin
Pills quickly help the Kidneys to
work normally again, so that they
filter out accumulated poisons from
your body, thus ensuring relief from
wearisome Backache. Begin a course
of GIN PILLS right away.
DR. SHELDON'S
ft
27 pills 1/9—60 pills 219.
bright horizons, happy days
Serving the Allied Cause throughout the War, the
K.P.M. and other principal Netherlands Shipping Lines
lost 164 vessels as a result of enemy action. This was
almost half of their combined fleets.
Happily, that is all in the past. The day should not
be far distant when “Great White
Yachts” of the K.P.M. Line will be
thronged again with happy travellers
bound for the glamorous islands of
the Netherlands Indies and Singapore.
Incorporated In
the Motherland*
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO LTD , SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
To The Bell
With the Besll
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Never soak any colored things likely to
run.” — “Ladies’ Home Journal.”
Dark-skinned athletes shouldn’t be
given stimulants before they race,
4* 4* 4* 4* .
“Bridegroom: Portion of a bride’s outfit'.
—“New Idea.”
And one that she’s simply got to have
to match.
4* 4* 4* 4*.
“Attractive widows are dynamite.
—Dorothy Dix.
And no one can explode the charge.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I remember when high-class boxers fought
like tigers—not for a purse, but for the spare
coins patrons would fling into the ring.”
— Old-timer’s reminiscences.
1" T . >
“Meeting relations entails kissing more women
than. you’ve ever seen before, but a little
courage and a little whisky will carry you
through.”— “New Idea.”
You can smack their lips and your own,
too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Palmistry is not a superstition. It is an
accomplished fact that the destiny of all human
beings is registered on the palm of the hand.”
—“New Idea.”
And many good tips are obtained by
holding it out for people to see.
“To let, double room, furnished, suit' two
Air Force men or British Navy.”
—Suburban paper.
Not much room left for the Navy to
manoeuvre.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The miners certainly don’t want the com-
munity harassed by coal shortages.”
—Miners leader.
But we don’t like their way of setting
our mines at rest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Our most alarming shortage of smokes
is in factory chimneys.
“ Listen, sister. I want lunch, not afternoon tea."
"I'll attend to you when I've finished serving breakfast."
“Pheasant skirts, 255.” T „
—Murrwnburrah (N.S.W .) Signal.
Of featherweight material, naturally.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“20 slips and porkers, 1 pedigreed Tamwort'h
bull.” — “West Australian , v
Making 21 slips in all.
4* 4* 4* 4* (j
“Wanted, good home for lovely. Ring
—Hornsby ( N.S.W. ) “Advocate.
Now, gentlemen, don’t rush!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Punctuated by prolonged applause, the
speakers had now and again to pause in their
addresses.” — Bondi ( Sydney ) daily.
But they didn’t come to a full-stop.
Manhunt.
“Grimly led by magazine writers, American
women have begun one of the greatest man-
hunt's in history. The quarry is the Eligible
Post-war Bachelor.” — “S.M.H.”
The caveman lover who went wooing
As gentle as a grizzly bear,
All mawkish sentiment pooh-poohing,
Dragged home his soulmate by the hair.
These days, his erstwhile role resigning,
Man flees while womankind pursues,
Content no more with mute repining
On mateless misery to muse.
To- snare her quarry she has pitted
Against man’s guile her painted lips.
Her lacquered nails and padding fitted
To unalluring calves and hips.
But should all these prove ineffective
With bachelors who know the tricks,
A lass can still gain her objective
With wisdom culled from Dottie Dix.
D.H.E.
For such reward, two of these pugs
Once fought in Scotland; they were mugs.
Never a copper reached the ring —
The Scots just gave a Highland fling.
F.M.
Oversight.
“ I’m sorry we’re so short of shoes.
But leather is in short supply,”
Apologised the salesman whose
Excuse has set me pondering why—
While we acclaim our land for wool,
The Scots their country for its heather,
Etonians Eton for its school —
Nobody mentions hell for leather?
BRIAN BUREAU.
Epitaph.
Here lies poor Alice. What she did
Is quite a tale of woe.
She wed a rich, aged invalid —
She was the first to go.
NAT.
Diplomatic Week.
Monday: A brighter atmosphere pre-
vailed at this morning’s meeting of the
Big Four, at which were discussed details
of the work of the Special Sub-committee
of the Working Committee to clear up
outstanding questions prior to considera-
tion of preliminary negotiations for the
temporary peace treaties. M. Molotov
chatted gaily with Mr. Byrnes, who after-
wards had lunch with him. At the after-
noon session, when Mr. Bevin, with Mr.
Byrnes’s obvious approval, mentioned the
desirability of quickly reaching a decision
on the question of a plebiscite to deter-
mine the disposal of the Dodecanese,
the Soviet Foreign Minister said that
he cordially agreed with the general prin-
ciple. He saw no reason why finality
should not be reached there and then,
except for the vital effect it might have on
Polish security. Unless this could be
thrashed out the meeting would have to
defer consideration. In a more or less
happy atmosphere it was decided to form
a Steering Sub-Committee to advise the
Special Sub-Committee which is guiding
the Working Committee, whose findings
will later be made known to the Big
Four
Tuesday: In a bitter attack xm what
he termed “the Bevin-Byrnes Blackmail
Bloc,” Shiktorov, speaking over Moscow
Radio, described the proposal to dispose
of the Dodecanese question by plebiscite
as a typical example of Anglo-Saxon
chicanery. Bevin, he said, was obviously
playing the old Imperialist game, and
making the inexperienced Byrnes pull the
chestnuts out of the fire for England’s
benefit. .The Soviet was not hoodwinked
by such despicable tactics. The Dodecan-
ese must not be allowed to pass as a pawn
into the hands of the so-called “Western
Democracies.” Marshal Tito had the
strongest moral claims to their sove-
reignty. If these were not recognised
the Soviet would withdraw from all con-
siderations of outstanding questions prior
to the preliminary negotiations for the
temporary peace treaties,
Wednesday; Hopes for an early settle-
ment of all outstanding differences among
the Big Four soared at this morning’s
session. It was particularly noticed that
when Mr. Byrnes cracked a joke M.
Molotov didn’t go into a corner and sulk
as usual. Another happy augury was M.
Molotov’s unprecedented action in offer-
ing Mr. Bevin a match. Later, when the
British Foreign Secretary mentioned the
importance of reaching an early agree-
ment on the Danubian waterways, M.
Molotov, after agreeing in principle with
the necessity, made it clear that an ad-
journment of three months was vitally
necessary to the Soviet to allow the views
of Patagonia, Iceland and Madagascar
to be obtained. A Special Task Com-
mittee ito investigate and report to a
Negotiation Sub-Committee, which would
in turn give a decision to the Special Sub-
Committee of the Working Committee,
which would report to a later meeting of
the Four Foreign Ministers, was formed.
Thursday: In a violent attack on
Britain and America, an unsigned article
in “Dyzpepzia,” thought to have been
written by Stalin himself, accuses the
Western Democracies of endeavoring to
“encircle the Soviet with an iron ring
around Europe and Asia.” It goes on to
assert that ever since the preliminary
negotiations began an Anglo-American
conspiracy to block all constructive pro-
posals advanced by the Soviet has become
glaringly clear. Let Bymes and Bevin,
the article concluded, keep their pigs’
snouts out of the Danubian waterways,
which is purely a Soviet internal matter.
The article seems to wreck what little
hope there ever was of agreement between
the Big Four being reached.
Friday: The most cordial atmosphere
since the Big Four talks began was im-
mediately apparent at this afternoon’s
session. M. Molotov was seen to slap
Mr. Bevin jovially on the shoulder, and
when one of Mr. Byrnes’s jokes had been
explained several times to him M. Molo-
tov, though he wasn’t seen actually to
smile, at least took no offence. A cheer-
ful spirit still prevailed when Mr. Bymes
suggested that the question of the Aus-
trian Tyrol be promptly settled, and hopes,
rose sharply when M. Molotov said he
agreed in principle to the desirability.
However, he insisted later that Argentina
should first be consulted, and he moved
for a six-months’ adjournment to allow
a Subsidiary Probing Committee to assist
a Special Task Committee in correlating
facts for submission to the Minor Sub-
Committee of the Auxiliary Committee of
the Steering Committee of the Working
Committee, its findings to be submitted
to the Big Four.
Saturday: Commenting on the failure of
the Big Four Conference to finalise any
phase of the preliminary negotiations,
Diktarov, over Moscow Radio, blamed
the infamous stonewalling tactics of the
blackguards Bevin and Byrnes for the
fiasco. He claimed that it gave one more
proof, if any were needed, that it was
part of a predetermined set-up by this
warmongering pair of jackals to try to
damn the Soviet in the eyes of the world
and rob her of the,fruits of the war
against Fascism which she won without
any help from her so-called allies.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Cultural Backwaters
The middle-class suburb in which I live
has about 1000 attractive modern homes,
situated in pleasant tree-lined avenues and
commanding fine vistas of bushland and
water. Its residents are well-behaved,
friendly and interested in the welfare and
progress of the suburb so far as practical
needs are concerned —transport, sewer-
age, lighting, roads and parks.
Yet, in public cultural amenities, the
place is as dead as a derelict mining town.
Possibly in the privacy of their homes
the residents read good books, play or
listen to* something other than jazz or
swing, and engage in intelligent discus-
sions. But nowhere in the suburb is there
a library where I can consult a standard
reference book or an authoritative work on
economics, philosophy, science, the fine
and applied arts or history. Nor is there
a place where I can read any of the im-
portant overseas periodicals. If I wish
to consult such material I must make an'
eight-mile journey to the State public
library in the city. The same journey is
necessary to see an exhibition of Aus-
tralian paintings, to hear a vocal or in-
strumental recital, or to listen to an Aus-
tralian author talk on some aspect of
Australian literature.
There is not even a debating society
in the suburb. Nor are there a dramatic
society, a repertory theatre group, a read-
ing or study circle, an historical society,
a chess club, a discussion group, arts and
crafts classes, or any other social or edu-
cational activity.
The inhabitants pride themselves on
their homes, their hot and cold water ser-
vices, refrigerators, vacuum cleaners and
other conveniences and believe they are
civilised. But any community which
cannot claim some of the amenities listed
above hasn’t started to live. It is merely
hibernating in a thousand modern dwel-
ings under the illusion that it is up-to-date
and in touch with the world, — Wonga-
jono (N.S.W.).
For the Little Dears
Months ago both Sydney’s morning
papers nearly burst themselves trying to
outbid each other with promises of un-
told thousands to encourage Culture in
Australia.
Now, I suppose, the great Campaign
for Culture is under way. Wednesday
morning papers are carrying special sup-
plements for children. One is called
‘The Children’s Newspaper,” the other
“The Children’s Magazine.” On page
three of the “magazine” I was delighted
to see a cartoon about a sensational new
novel entitled “Torrid Love.” Overleaf
a gentleman named Buz Sawyer is told
that he is “just in time for a blind date
with an artist’s model.”
Page two of the “newspaper” had a
private detective remarking “Strike me
blind! It ain’t possible.”
What is the use of teachers and parents
trying to teach their children to speak
correctly and behave properly if our news-
papers feed them with American trash?
—Aussie Writer (N.S.W.).
Stories and Editors
,^Th 0 American market for writers, is it
(B. 19/6/’46)? I sent half a dozen of
ray own published stories to Canada,
They were a mixed lot, but, having re-
ceived only the briefest criticisms from
Australian editors, I was agreeably
surprised by some five hundred words of
personal advice from the Canadian
editor. Some of it may be of use to
writers anxious to exploit the overseas
market:
Most American editors are hounds for
plots. By “plot” they mean struggle,
complications, the overcoming of diffi-
culties by the efforts of the hero or heroine,
and final success. “Struggle” is not neces-
sarily physical. It is possible to have a
strong plot in which the hero sits through-
out m a dark room and never moves, the
struggle being between two sides of his
nature in his own mind.
“Final success” of course is only neces- •
sary for tire popular magazines, and even
a strongly marked plot is not so much in-
sisted upon by the very few markets for
quality or high-brow stories. But there is
no sense taking the trouble to try to sell
over here stories which can only get into
quality magazines. They are few, run few
stories, and do not pay highly. (My
italics.)
Editors here will always tell a writer to
Put nothing into a short-story which does
not directly advance the action. We are
a good deal less inclined toward the leis-
urely - atmosphere, character - developing
s tory in this country than are the English.
Revise stories to heighten plot-effect,
eliminate superfluous paragraphs, cut out
phrases which convey nothing
to readers here, even when taken with the
context. When stories do not depend on
locale, eliminate the Australian angle ; but, '
if a story is deliberately placed in Australia,
be explicit in letting readers know it.
Nothing annoys editors and readers more
than a story which goes on for pages with-
out any indication in what continent or "
country it is happening.
The germ of the criticism is that my
stories are “under-plotted and over-
worded,” and, since they were printed in
half a dozen different periodicals, it prob-
ably applies to Australian stories as a
whole. Not long ago the “Red Page” (B.
1/5/’46) stated, “The dilemma confront-
ing all short-story writers is that, if they
don’t offer a well-made plot, they will be
accused of writing mere
sketches; and, if they do turn out an
orderly story, with a beginning, a middle,
and an end, then it’s likely to be criticised
as ‘magazinish’.”
So a man writing for a living needs a
split personality. To satisfy his literary
conscience he will write quality stories
and get little for them; to satisfy his
stomach he must be “magazinish.” Once
in a while he will achieve a story which
satisfies both masters —and the more
often he does that, the nearer he will be
to genius. —Hist (N.S.W.).
Rejection Slips
“R.E.’s” plea for more explanatory re-
jection slips (B, 19/6/’46) has already
been answered by at least one publica-
tion. A Queensland weekly journal is
now using a slip which does give “an
indication as to why the contribution was
not acceptable.” Six headings have been
listed under “plot,” two under “length,”
and there are two miscellaneous headings.
After the usual “regret” line, the editor
places an “X” against the appropriate
heading. It not only softens the blow, but
also gives a lead towards possible im-
provement.—Jacob (Q.).
More Miners Needled
Gas rationing, train cuts and other re-
strictions inflicted on the long-suffering
people of Melbourne bring home the
dependence of Victoria on the N. S.
Wales coalies. Strikes, holidays and
steady expansion of industry are said to
be the contributing causes of the coal
shortage.
Expansion of industry will continue,
there will be more strikes and holidays are
not likely to decrease, so what’s stopping
the Government from training a few
thousand jobless returned men as coal-
miners? Wages are good, employment
could be continuous and surely the job is
not too much for a strong, healthy man.
I was on the Maitland (N.S.W.) field
about 1930 when the march on Rothbury
Colliery took place, and, being new to
the field, was inclined to sympathise with
the miners. I thought it was possibly one
of the worst jobs in the world. However
business people, shopkeepers and pro-
fessional men in Cessnock all assured me
that my sympathy was misplaced —they
had no time for the miners’ tactics. —
Ceg (Vic.).
Unions
The modern union secretary who de-
bates in his office all morning and rides
about in his car in the afternoon has the
contempt of all honest workmen (B.
12/6/’46). These are the gentry who
quickly prosecute a unionist if he happens
to fall behind in his fees. ,
But for compulsion, unionism would
have disintegrated long ago. In the days
of Andrew Fisher and Deakin, unions
were a brotherhood in the true sense of
that term. Today they are stepping-stones
for Joe’s disciples. Right from his Sun-
day-school days the young Red is taught
that a union is a “cell” and to bore his
way in. And that’s just what has hap-
pened. Every “key” union meeting is
stacked with Marxists who naturally vote
their own into authority. Any unionist
who opposes them is dubbed a “Fascist,”
so it’s no wonder that decent men will
not attend. —A. D. (S.A.).
“Pickin’ ”
Must the regulation forbidding a
worker to take another job during his
annual holiday wipe out that great yearly
trek to fruitgrowing centres for the
pickin’? Here, change, open air, exercise
and rich fruit diet do things to jaded
humans that must be experienced to be
believed. Minor ailments often disappear,
muscles toughen, near-neurotics forget
their worries, new friendships are made
and old ones renewed. And the patients
are paid for it. What could they buy to
take its place?—L. de F, (Vic.),
Natives
The native isn’t entirely “a perpetual
drag on public finance” (B. 8/5/’46), In
Queeqsland, at least, where there are
about 19,000, the total number of
workers is 4330. During 1944-45, seven
gangs of 545 in all earned £62,000 at
canecutting, harvesting and other jobs.
There is also a 700-acre dairy-
farm near Murgon (Q.), which sells
cream to a nearby butter factory and
vegetables to the markets. Bought with
aboriginal earnings held in trust by the
Government, this farm is only the begin-
ning of an ambitious and so far success-
ful scheme —of which a most encourag-
ing feature is the enthusiasm of abos.
working on it. —C. S. (N.S.W.).
Petrol Rationing
Does petrol rationing exist in any other
State but Queensland? Judging by the
number of N. S. Wales and Victorian cars
in and around Brisbane lately (I counted
24 one afternoon), the answer is “No.”
After discharge, I was given a ration
that amounted to three-fifths of the
quantity I requested. Of course that was
my own fault. I should have asked for
double the quantity in the first place. I
was also allowed to buy four brand-new
tyres and tubes and a battery to put the
old bus back on the road after nearly
five years on blocks.
If I could find the blackmarket fellow
who would sell me sufficient petrol to
take a trip down south, I still wouldn’t
be game to go unless the same bloke could
oblige with a spare tyre and tube.—
Taffy (Q.).
You City Dwellers
I’ve always been interested in why Aus-
tralians congregate in already overgrown
capital cities and, while in the Army, I
questioned all and sundry on the subject.
Generally they began with a statement
that Sydney (or Melbourne or Brisbane)
was the only place in Australia fit for
civilised people to live in. Pressed for
details they murmured vaguely about
“conveniences,” and when I pointed out
that, as far as getting to and from work
was concerned, the average country town
knocked spots off any city, they retreated
to the statement that there was “nothing
to do in those places.”
Further inquiry revealed that about 95
per cent, of them spent their spare time
drinking, yarning, going to the flicks and
listening to the radio, with a bit of danc-
ing thrown in. Confronted with the fact
that facilities for all those things exist
in any decent country town, they wriggle
out by saying that better medical and
educational facilities are provided in the
capitals. There may be something in
that one, but, from the vital statistics in
my Year Book, plus the number of coun-
try boys who make good, I doubt it.
The real reasons for clinging to the
capitals seem to be (1) sheer inertia; (2)
the average city dweller’s complete ignor-
ance of his own country and its condi-
tions ; and (3) a particularly horrible
form of snobbery which regards the cities
as the only fit places to live —and which
flourishes as freely in Surry Hills as in
Potts Point.— Five By Two (Q.).
Marxism
The strangest feature of the post-war
situation is not Russia’s hostility to
former allies, but the astonishment which
this change caused in the democracies.
No one knowing Communist strategy
“And it'll only cost you ten quid for the key."
could have expected any Communist
alliance to survive the peril which called
it into being. Communists have con-
sistently followed Marx’s advice on tem-
porary alliances; “From the first moment
of victory our distrust must no longer be
directed against the vanquished reaction-
ary party, but against our former allies.”
Marxism is an irrational creed because,
for one thing, .it is based on an economic
situation which has been replaced by an-
other which Marx did not foresee, and
Which differs greatly from the one which
he predicted. The Marxian faith is held
today, not because it appeals to the
reason, but because it gratifies the in-
feriority-inspired emotions of envy and
hate. But don’t think that because it is
fallacious its supporters will not try to
apply it with all the ruthlessness of the
Germans and Japanese in the service of
their irrational dreams. —I. M. (N.S.W.).
M. andV.
From a publication “explaining” the
incidence of Sales Tax I learn that mix-
tures of meat and vegetables, canned or
bottled, are now exempt from Sales Tax,
but not the following:
Canned beans, pork and molasses —be-
cause molasses is not a vegetable.
Canned curried rice and sausages—be-
cause rice is not a vegetable.
Canned sausages and spaghetti—because
spaghetti is not a vegetable.
Canned steak and kidney pudding—as
this has a covering of paste which, being
made from flour, is not a vegetable.
How much a year do the taxpayers pay
the fellow who thought that lot out?
—Kell (N.S.W.).
Spending Power
Our financial experts say that as soon
as production is restored to normal the
danger of a runaway inflation of prices
will be over. Will it? It is certainly
necessary to overcome scarcities as soon
as possible, but that alone won’t solve the
problem of the excessive spending power
placed in the hands of Australians by the
methods used to finance the war.
Money, once spent, does not disappear.
It is merely transferred. The total
amount will not be reduced, except where
recipients use it to pay off their bank
overdrafts.
Supply of money is, in fact, still rising.
It has more than doubled since 1939.
It will take a long time to double the
flow of goods. Australia has, therefore,
put into circulation a volume of money
which will remain for many years above
her requirements. For decades, perhaps,
it will be within the power of determined
spenders to inflict a steep rise of prices
upon the community.
The habits of saving and thrift, so
determinedly attacked by many people
before the war, must, for many years to
come, be regarded as a supreme economic
virtue. — Ellis D. (N.S.W.).
Old-Age Pensions
The firm which employs me has a sup-
erannuation fund to which both it and I
contribute. It’s a good scheme and guar-
antees me about a fiver a week for life
when I retire at 65. It also provides some
benefits for my widow if I die before
reaching that age. As a taxpayer I also
subscribe to the payment of old-age pen-
sions, as do my employers, but as my
superannuation pension will debar me
from drawing an old-age handout I am
actually paying into two schemes in order
to benefit from one. I know many who
contribute very little to the general taxa-
tion fund because they work only when
the fit takes them, but they’ll certainly be
eligible for the old-age pension. If
married the joint pension now is £3 ss. a
week and, judged by the present trend,
there’s a good chance of it being £5 when
I am 65.
It’s a poor civilisation that makes no
provision for the aged and infirm, but it’s
a poorer Government that spoonfeeds
the shiftless and extravagant at the ex-
pense of the thrifty and industrious. I
earn a few pounds a week over the basic
wage, but that is because, by self-educa-
tion and spare-time study, I have ability
to do the job I’m paid to do.
Yet, when I’m too old to work, I can
only anticipate the same reward as those
who, with equal or better opportunities,
have saved nothing, worked when they
felt like it and regarded self-improvement
as a mug’s game.— K. B. C, (Q 4


If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
London’s Victory Day
I have had the opportunity of seeing
and being stirred by a film (Gaumont-
British) of London’s Victory Day, of
which Twentieth Century Fox has the
Australian rights.
A 20-minute technicolor short —with
the English climate softening the hard
brilliance of that medium to something
like normalcy—it begins with a survey of
Londoners at the elated reception of
Churchill’s announcement of victory on
May 8, 1945, and then switches
to the celebrations of June 8 this
year. The- Royal family’s depar-
ture from Buckingham Palace in an
open landau drawn by the “Windsor
Greys,” and their arrival at the saluting
base in the Mall, are followed by glimpses
of Churchill and Attlee, of Mackenzie
King and Smuts, Beasley and Nash, after
which the camera settles down to record-
ing the march past—mainly from an angle
where the marchers are seen coming out
of a light-blue-grey mist and along the
Mall, lined with a blaze of flags against
soft English greens on each side.
It is, of course, impossible for the film
to show the complete march past, but it
presents an admirably representative
selection —massed pipes and drums from
Irish and Scottish regiments ; American,
French, Chinese and other Allied troops ;
Canadians, Australians, Maorilanders,
South Africans, Indians and representa-
tives from a string of colonies ; the Royal
Navy, Marines, Tommies and the R.A.F.;
tanks dipping their guns in salute ; buses,
fire brigades and police ; miners, railway-
men, factory workers, housewives and
other civilian services of “the most highly
mobilised country in history.” They all
looked well and marched well. Our Aus-
tralians made a grand show and there
were striking figures among the Indians
and South Africans. But, on the evidence
of the film, the Royal Marines had the
marching in the bag.
A Disneyan fantasy of fireworks fol-
lowed at night with a continuous stream
of rockets soaring over the Thames as
though the city were hurling back into
the sky all the pyrotechnics that came
out of it during the war. The discharge of
the rockets was so arranged that only
one type was bursting at a time —one
minute the sky was filled with golden
• rain, the next with glowing, crimson fire-
! balls, then a tracery of silver sprays, then
j a curtain of broad fiery streamers; all of
| it against a black sky and over a black
j river from which dozens of boats sent
up illuminated fountains of water.
With a background of English archi-
tecture, with judicious avoidance of any
signs of war damage or destruction, and
with a few touches of tradition, the film
leaves an impression of ceremony and
pageantry without “the pomp of her-
aldry” ; of a triumphant affirmation of
Empire with none of “the boast of
power” ; of thanksgiving that is sirnple,
genuine and justified. Commos won’t like
it, but everyone else with pride of race
and some imagination will hail it as a
just tribute to “the best of actual nations”
on one of its great days— Oliver Filter
(N.S.W.).
/
Soldier Preference
The three recent court decisions which
have adversely affected the Diggers’ pre-
ference rights are only typical of the
Government approach to the whole ques-
tion of rehabilitation.
Civilians may be in a bac| way for
plant, equipment and tools, but at least
they have something . The returned Digger
has nothing with which to start himself in
a trade or business.
If the Government were serious about
preference to returned men, all surplus
war goods suitable for rehabilitating
Diggers would be collected in central
sales depots and sold over the counter
direct to the Digger. If typewriters,
duplicators, cars, trucks, accounting
machines and the like must be put
through the trade, then the Digger should
have absolute preference to buy his re-
quirements, the civilian population re-
ceiving second cut. At present the situ-
ation is reversed. — Recco (N.S.W.).
P.-0.-W. Funds
It’s a pity that the prisoner-of-war
appeal funds, amounting to £1,291,000,
should go into the Red Cross general
fund. No doubt it will be used to carry
on excellent work, but many for whom
the money was especially donated by
anxious parents, wives and friends feel
that they have prior claims. Certainly
the donors would wish them to receive the
funds.
In three and a half years in Jap prisons
my mates did not receive a letter or a
parcel. After liberation they saw one Red
Cross distribution at Hong Kong, and
then internees were given first pick. I
received a pipe, a toothbrush and paste,
a cake of soap and a tin of boiled, lollies.
The supervisor asked that on return to
Australia we should let it be known that
the Red Cross was the first to bring us
comforts, and that we should advertise
how well it had treated us.
A Dutch pal of mine once told me that
his Queen had promised a gift of 200
guilders to every Australian who fought
in the N.E.I. Because I know that the
Dutch keep their promises, I believe we
would have got the money but for the
hooligans who treated our Dutch allies
in the usual Commo manner. — Sergeant
Damocles (Vic.).
Solomons War Damage
“T.T.” paints a gloomy picture of the
devastation and desolation awaiting New
Guinea planters on return to their homes
(B. 12/6/’46), but admits that “all this
can be counted as war damage, for which
the planter gets compensation.”
Consider the plight of British Solomon
Islands planters, who face similar condi-
tions, but whose right to compensation is
not even admitted by the British Govern-
ment. Denied assistance to rehabilitate
themselves, Solomons planters have the
choice of remaining in exile in Aus-
tralia, or —in fortunate cases —returning
in late middle-age to face the heart-break-
ing pioneering job all over again.
Untold millions can be found by
U.N.R.R.A. to assist our ex-enemies, but
not a bean to help our own people who
fought or suffered in the Allied cause.
—L. F. G. (Vic.).
“The Sergeant of the Eighth”
In September, 1918, I was adjutant of
H.M.A.T. Marathon, then being used to
bring convalescent and leave details from
England to Australia. Among those on
leave was Sergeant W. E. Brown, V.C.,
D.C.M. (B. 12/6/’46).
The 1918 ’flu epidemic had taken such
toll of our crew that we missed our con-
voy and lay off Devonport for two or
three weeks. During that time Sergeant
Brown came to me and asked if he could
be disembarked and arrangements made
for him to rejoin his unit. 1 put it to him
that his leave had been well earned and
that he should take it, but he insisted
that he should be with his mates.
Eventually I was able to arrange his
disembarkation. The armistice came on
November 11, however, and I was glad
that he was unable to rejoin his unit in
the line before the cease fire. I’ve often
wondered what became of him. Your
article of June 12 is the answer. —J. K. B.
(Vic.).
Air Crew Log Books
Writing to Air Board for my late
brother’s log book, I was told that, “in
accordance with a direction now given,
log books of members of the R.A.A.F.
who unfortunately lost their lives are
forwarded to next-of-kin on request.”
Why is it necessary to make a “re-
quest”? Air Force records contain
addresses of next-of-kin, and it would be
simple enough to forward log books as a
matter of course without waiting for any
formal application.— Blue (Q.).
Military Law
Minor offences are usually dealt with
summarily in the company or battalion
orderly room. The rules of procedure are
those of the court-martial on a modified
scale, but war-time justice was not always
fairly dispensed. The average regimental
officer was insufficiently trained in his
legal duties. For example,, many C.Os.
incorrectly insisted that the accused
should plead. Some men pleaded guilty
to offences of which they were legally
innocent; in other, cases, the plea itself
was the only proof of guilt.
Many company commanders did not
know it was their duty to satisfy them-
selves that a prima facie case had been
established before the charge was sent on
to higher authority. In some orderly
rooms the rules of evidence were not
observed, and the accused was not always
warned that he need not make a state-
ment or give evidence on oath. Having
made a statement, he was often subjected
to cross-examination.
However, if commanders could be
made to improve their knowledge o ! fl
military law, their powers of punishment
might well be extended. A company
commander cannot impose a fine except
for drunkenness; and his maximum
of seven days’ C.B. is little more
than a nominal penalty. So that adequate
punishment could be inflicted, Company
commanders often have to remand petty
offenders to the C. 0., who in turn may
have to ask for a trial by court-martial.
The system would be simplified and
crimes kept in their true perspective if the
company and battalion commander could
award up to 14 and 60 days’ loss of pay
respectively; the accused could exercise
his present privilege of electing trial by
court-martial if he didn’t want to be
dealt with by his own officers.
During the war too many petty
offenders lost valuable training expert-
ence through being sent to detention bar-
racks ; in any case, a fine or loss of pay
was usually a more effective punishment.
Absence without leave was the most prev-
alent offence, and many men openly con-
fessed that an extra week at home was
worth a month or two in the clink.
The Army toyed with the idea of debiting
these absences from the soldier’s ac'” .ulu-
lated leave, but weakly left the decision
to the C.O.’s.discretion. The penalty was
seldom imposed. The number of a.w.l.
offences would have been cut in half had
“Oh, it Was YOU ringing. I thought it Was the
postman !"
there been an automatic forfeiture of the
equivalent period of official leave.
The really difficult problem was to find
adequate punishment for the confirmed
wrongdoer. Fines were useless —this type
of man never had a credit in his paybook,
but was an adept at living on his wits or
the charity of his mates. Often he delib-
erately went into detention in preference
to serving in a campaign. An intolerable
burden on the Army, he was despised by
his comrades and officers alike —though
some outside influences tried to set him
on a pedestal as the typical Digger.
Should compulsory military service be
introduced, the Army, aided by psycholo-
gists, must at least try to give these hood-
lums a basis of citizenship. The job will
be harder if sections of the press and
public persist in their present attitude that
every man in uniform is a national hero
and that every soldier who is “crimed” is
a martyr. The hoodlum becomes puffed
up with conceit, and the young soldier
is led to believe that larrikinism is a form
of manliness. .
Military law is inherently fair. What
is now required is an administration
which will allow the silly or high-spirited
soldier to be corrected inside his unit by
commanders able to back up sound advice
with a fine or loss of privileges, and which
will reserve detention barracks for the un-
repentant petty offender. The confirmed
sinner should be deprived of all privileges
and be sent to a labor corps. Larrikins
never did like hard work. — Peter Mike
(W.A.).
Small Beginnings
The N. S. Wales Government blitz on
“backyard factories” is all to the good if
it is directed against those alien joints
where conditions akin to slave labor
obtain. But there is always a danger
that such a campaign can be carried too
far.
Many large Australian enterprises
started in conditions that might have been
suppressed in such a blitz. Macßobertson
began his confectionery business in his
mother’s scullery. Alexander made his
first racquets in a workshop built into the
verandah of his home in Launceston.
Mette started in a friend’s kitchen and
expanded into the delicatessen business—
he died worth £70,000. Arnott’s biscuit
business had its origin in a small shop in
Hunter-street, Newcastle, and another
sweets man, Henderson, started making
“honey kisses” in a shed opposite the
Sydney Victoria Barracks.
The proposed blitz should ensure that
employees work under fair rates and con-
ditions, but it should beware of crushing
the spirit of enterprise.— Old Unionist
(N.S.W.).
The Professions
Every university in Australia is crowded
with students of medicine, law, dentistry,
chemistry and like subjects. Whatever
the lure of these professions, it can’t be
money. In this country the young pro-
fessional man, unless well heeled or out-
standingly brilliant, is unlikely to earn
more than the clerk or tradesman for
many years. Certainly he isn’t likely to
earn more than the waterside worker or
miner under present conditions.
Lawyers’ fees today are little, if any,
higher than those charged for similar
work 20 years ago. Then solicitors were
permitted to add 33£ per cent, to their
Bills of Costs to catch up with the rising
cost of living. This was reduced to 13j
per cent, during the depression, and has
never been restored, despite a 40 per cent,
rise in award wages and cost of living.
Dentists’ charges have remained at
practically the same level for the last 15
or 20 years. A fang-wrencher with a
good suburban practice makes a fair
living, but his hours would make a
unionist’s hair stand on end. The usual
thing in Brisbane is 8.30
a.m. to 6 p.m. and 8.30
a.m. to 1 p.m. on Satur-
days, with three or four
nights a week as well.
The salary of a young
managing chemist is £9
to £lO a week. If he has
the capital he can start
his own business, but the
same capital invested in
a shop or lottery agency
would earn him just as
much.
Most lucrative of the
professions is undoubt-
edly medicine, but, con-
sidering the years of
study, long hours and
heavy responsibility, a
doctor is certainly not
overpaid. Professor
(Q-).
The Press
Demobilisation found
me dubious about re-
turning to the press game
—the old urge was there,
but with it a disgust at
many papers and jour-
nalists encountered during the war.
Proprietors were guilty of much
in their reckless pursuit of circulation by
pandering to stay-at-homes. But jour-
nalists were equally culpable. Their aping
of “famous correspondents” and their
omniscience regarding the war appalled
fellow-writers in the services.
Provincial dailies, however, seem
to have preserved their standards and fol-
lowed rules of good journalism. On them
you still meet the kind of writer who
deals kindly and tactfully with the
troubles of the distressed, keeps his own
views out of print, prefers the King’s
English to modern jargon, and remem-
bers that, although he was christened
Robert Gordon, the leader of the Oppo-
sition is better referred as “Mr.” Menzies.
On country papers one’s fellow-workers
all seem to wear R.S.L. badges or show
physical evidence why they could not earn
them. Their reporting is impersonal; to
them news is news, requiring no obtru-
sion of views to color it.
Is it something in the essential sound-
ness of the country which holds the pro-
vincial press to the best standards of jour-
nalism? Whatever it is, proprietors and
journalists seem still to believe that honest
reporting is more important than fancy
styles, stunts and “sensations.”—F. E.
(Tas.).
No Use for Tourists
Residents in our small North Queens-
land township are wondering if the
scenic attractions of their district and the
nearby Barrier are more a liability than
an asset. Worried housewives seeking the
week-end meat often find' only the com-
monest cuts available while the butchers
benches are piled with specially-selected
joints packed in readiness for the island
trip. In the greengrocer’s are crates of
fresh vegetables, carefully and coolly
packed for the pleasure resorts, while
“rejects” adorn the shelves for local con-
sumption.
But feelings of the town-dwellers are
mild compared with those of the unfor-
tunate countryman, whose route home,
after a day’s shopping, does not lie along
the tourist track. Miles of bitumen
stretch smoothly before the happy sight-
seer, while in most other directions it is
almost necessary to crawl along in second
gear.
The crowning spectacle is the railway
station, crowded with tourists when the
mail pulls in. The local traveller, after
days of planning and booking, finds that,
far from getting the sleeping berth he
wants, he is lucky to receive an odd seat
anywhere on the train.
If this much-boomed “tourist traffic”
was conferring a general benefit upon the
community we wouldn’t object, but only
a very few are gaining by the endless
stream of visitors. The remainder would
rather keep the district to themselves. —
B. J. L. (Q.).


■■■
.
:¥SS
Si*
m**.
* - .* :
mm
wmmm
■: ,
tm
,
SHELL
developed a portable pipeline
that was like a
seven - leagu
petrol pump!
It enabled the Allies to chase the enemy
farther and faster than enemies had been
chased before since the world began.
For no reward other than the
satisfaction of rendering assistance
to the Allied Forces, Shell de-
veloped a portable pipeline that
ran petroleum products right up to
the lighting fronts and aerodromes
—in Africa, and Europe, and the
Pacific.
It had never been done before.
SHELL did it was able to do
it because Shell is trained to serve!
Use SHELL Motor Oil
*
You can be sure of
«
CUE! I
SHELL
G462M
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Inc. In Gt. Britain)
