

The House of Seppelt ... pof
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vo!. 68- -No. 3528
Wednesday, September*24, 1947
Price 6dL
Registered at he General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE REMAINS OF MELLIFONT ABBEY STAND SERENELY IN COUNTY LOUTH
/'"'OUNTY LOUTH, Ireland, is famous for its two great ruins.
Monasterboice, which was one of the greatest of Ireland’s
ecclesiastical establishments, lies five miles north-west of Drogheda.
It now contains only the ruins of two very ancient churches, a
round tower and three magnificent Celtic crosses elaborately
sculptured., A few miles from Monasterboice there is a valley of
great beauty and tranquillity. Here, beside the gently flowing
waters of the Mattock River, stand the ruins of Mellifont Abbey.
The Abbey was founded in the twelfth century, some 700 years
after St. Buite, or Boethius, founded Monasterboice, but both
establishments are equally celebrated. The ruins are now grass-
grown and crumbling, but enough of the old Abbey remains to
give the visitor an idea ‘of its original beauty and dignity.


mi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, withov * obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sgdnev “Bulletin
My Name
Up Address
fi.B. 247 AGE
NEW NOVELS
CORNERSTONE
By Dorothy M. Catts. An absorbing
romance from the drama-packed pages
of Australia’s bistory 8/6
HIGH RIVER
By Nonrma Handford. You’ll lire the
joys, sorrows, hardships and triumphs
at High River Farm 8/6
DADDY SOWED A WIND!
By Cynthia Reed. An analysis of the
inner secrets of a woman's mind, 8/6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty. Itt.
Central House, Little Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
GULLIVER AND ALICE
Since it is a fantasy for grown-ups and
children alike and since the heroine is a
girl of 10, T. H. White’s Mistress
Masham’s Repose (Cape) inevitably re-
calls Alice in Wonderland, all the more
strongly because White’s Maria, blunder-
ing among men six inches high (and
looking, in their eyes, a girl 48 feet in
height), has that charming clumsiness
which infuriated the White Rabbit and
was so nearly the death of Bill the Lizard.
There is a more direct debt, frankly
acknowledged, to Gulliver’s Travels—
children’s version. Maria, with a cook,
a dog, an absent-minded professor, a
wicked governess and a wicked visiting
vicar, lives on an enormous estate in the
English countryside, and on an island in
a weed-grown lake she discovers first a
baby in a walnut shell and then a whole
colony of Lilliputians. Their ancestors
had been brought to England and
exhibited for profit by Gulliver’s Captain
Biddle and, along with cattle four inches
high and sheep of an inch and a half,
had escaped to the retreat in the lake.
But, Swift and Lewis Carroll notwith-
standing, Mistress Masham’s Repose is
more than a mere imitation of the
masters. Once the debts are acknow-
ledged and forgotten, White reminds you,
in a minor way, of Dickens: and not
because of imitation or direct derivation
here, but because of his gusto —a bound-
ing and abounding and unbounded gusto,
a delight in “piling it on,” fun on the
gigantic scale. There is nothing Rabe-
laisian in the usual sense of that noble
adjective in Mistress Masham’s Repose,
yet you feel that White must have read
of Gargantua with joy.
There is, for instance, his list of English
place-names. A less spirited writer might
have been content with Malplaquet-in-
the-Mould and Maid’s Malplaquet; or
even, though the story demands that the
vicar and the governess shall follow Maria
for miles through the countryside in their
implacable search for the Lilliputians,
might not have paused at all to have a
game with English place-names; but
White rejoices in the excuse for parody,
and he goes on and on:
She went by Malplaquet-in-the-Mould to
Maid’s Malplaquet, turned left through the
parishes of Gloomleigh, Marshland and
Malplaquet St. Swithin’s, cut across the
Northampton road for Bishop’s Boozey and
Duke’s Doddery, skirted the famous fox
covert at Monk’s - Unmentionable - cum -
Mumble, doubled back from Bumley-Beau-
snort to Biggie, and ate her sandwiches in
the gorse patch on the round barrow at
Dunamany Wenches, overlooking the
drovers’ road to Ort.
And even then White is not content.
In the next paragraph is Dumbledum-
Meanly, and on the next page are Muddle,
Pigseaton, Biggleswesterleigh, Idiot’s
Utterly, High Hiccough, Malplaquet
Middling and Mome,
Malplaquet House, where Maria lives,
is a mansion “about four times longer
than Buckingham Palace, but falling
down.” It seems to grow bigger every
time White mentions it. To do justice to
him here one would have to quote by
the yard. It is a place where “two or
three people could ramble about the vari-
ous corridors for several weeks, without
meeting each other. Wren, Vanbrugh,
Hawksmoor, Kent and the rest of them
had erected its dozen colonnades ; Adam,
Patrioli and others had plastered its
hundred ceilings ; Sheraton, Heppelwhite,
Chippendale, etc., had stuffed it with
furniture, since sold; and there it lay
before the Professor in the evening sun-
light, with more rooms than anyone could
remember.” The author’s fecundity is
such that he can get a laugh out of every
room:
He searched the Orangery, where Gibbon
had scratched out a semicolon in the
famous last paragraph of The Decline and
Fall of the Roman Empire, before present-
ing the eighth volume to the Duke of Glou-
cester —who had observed affably; “An-
other damned thick book! Always scribble,
scribble, scribble! Eh, Mr. Gibbon?”
He searched the Chart Room, where one
of the viscounts, an admiral, had been
accustomed to keep his sextant and other .
instruments, on retiring from the service
after having lost Majorca, Minorca, Ber-
muda, Goa, Simla, Hecla and Alabama,
in a series of naval engagements.
He searched the Pavilion, where an
absent-minded Lord Dudley had once in-
vited Sydney Smith to dinner with the re-
mark: “Dine with me today and I will get
Sydney Smith to meet you”—to which Mr.
Sydney Smith had courteously replied that
he was engaged to meet him elsewhere.
He went out of doors at last and searched
the fountain which Boswell had once fallen
into, to amuse the Great Lexicographer.
The Lilliputians, surprisingly, are dis-
appointing in the midst of all this splendor
of architecture and opulence of satire and
nonsense. There is, it is true, one moment
of delight when the Lilliputian school-
master, who talks the Queen Anne English
of Swift, is mistaken by the cook for a
fairy:
Cook took her scissors out of the work-
basket and lifted the tallow candle.
“I bid you said she, “by the
Power of Iron and by the Might of Fire,
for ever and ever, by Christopher Columbus
and Whatsobe, Amen.”
The schoolmaster stamped his foot with
vexation, causing Captain to give a growl.
“The Professor and Miss Maria are bolted
in the cellar.”
“Ladybird, ladybird, fly away home.
Your house is on fire, your chillun”
“What the Devil!” screamed the School-
master, who had, after all, been tried rather
high. “Z—ds! D—n the Ladybird!
Plague on’t, Madam, can’t you understand
plain English? We wish you to unbolt the
Door! ”
“Maria in the cellar?”
“Don’t you hear me, Ma’am (with a Pox),
when I tell you that the Bolt is stiff? Must
I e’en be slobber’d to death with Spittle and
stifl’d by the filthy Carkass of your
Monster, to be deafen’d with the Follies of
Domesticks and exorcised under the Appel-
lation of an Insect? Miss is in the Cellar,
I say, and the Devil fly away with it!”
But, in the rest of the book, little
humor comes directly from the Lilli-
putians. Perhaps White felt embarrassed
at playing tricks with creatures who are,
after all, Swift’s property.
It is doubtful, however, whether he
could have given full life and conviction
to the Lilliputians if he had wanted to.
Despite a notable paragraph where
Cook’s dog gives a canine viewpoint on
humanity—“ Poor Cook, thought Cap-
tain, I must be kinder to her. She makes
a splendid pet. So clever, too. I believe
she understands every word I say”—
White falls short of both Swift and
Carroll in the particular kind of imagina-
tion that can give personality to creatures
of pure fantasy.
There is, in consequence, since the
central plot deals with creatures of fan-
tasy, a certain pointlessness about his
book, a purposelessness. It is not, like
Gulliver, written for the purpose of
venomous and puritanical satire. A few
hits at dictatorship and the colonial
system are not enough to give it a
practical significance. Neither does
it, like Alice, transport the reader
bodily into the strange poetry of non-
sense, out of this world and into dream.
If the Lilliputians had been left out of
it, the book might have been all the better
as a light satire on modern England and
its traditions, for patches of this sort of
writing make its brightest moments'. Its
triumph is a portrait of a horsey gentle-
man, the Lord Lieutenant of the County,
who owns a silver horse full of walnuts,
a filly full of cigars (“Look, you just press
her tail down, like this, and the cigar
comes out of her mouth, like that, oh, I’m
sorry”), a copper horse full of coffee, a
china hunter full of chocolates, a platinum
pony full of cigarettes, and a chromium
steeplechaser full of biscuits. The Lord
Lieutenant’s conversation, which is ap-
propriately horsey, includes at least one
phrase that deserves to become im-
mortal: “My good man, what’s the use
of Mr. Attlfee?”
Missionary in Korea .
Francis Herlihy, author of Now Wel-
come Summer (Hawthorn Press), is a
Catholic priest and a missionary, and
is introduced on page 1 at what, in effect,
was the beginning of his missionary
career: —
The road past the house ran up to the
High Street; out beyond it were mountains
—the Ruahines; that was the Maori name
for “old woman.” They, too, were silent
and wise, and their wrinkles were older
than Solomon. Remote in their soft blue
haze they looked down in sleepy wonder
at our serious little town.
When they caught the sun’s first beams,
or its parting light, retracted by rain, you
could see the grey-green bush on their steep
sides, and scars that slips had made, and
whitened fingers that had been great trees
before bushfires killed them years ago.
A single streak of snow lay on the
highest hump above the town. By shutting
one eye I could transform it into a streak
of smoke from the chimney of the hotel at
the top of the road. Some day, when I
was bigger, I was going to go up there....
Meanwhile I could only dream of such
adventures, for I was ten years old, and,
moreover, had mumps. There was only
the blue line of the Ruahines to look at
through the window, the red roofs of the
houses up the town, the street, and the
streak of snow coming down to the hotel
chimney.
I could not even find an inviting book to
read. This thing without a cover that I
had just dug out of an old box, thinking it
was a Buffalo Bill, was of all things Life
of St. Francis Xavier. Well, 1 had his
name: perhaps 1 ought to find out some-
thing about him.
Something like Conrad’s incantation
of placenames in Youth follows ; and —
with admirable brevity—an account of
the author’s training in Australia and
Ireland. There is little about Australia,
but a note that “to some of us Ireland
meant still more, for we were Celts,” and
the comment that there was a special zest
in meeting people “who were not
ciphers.”
There is an account of Father Heriihy’s
travels, enlivened by comments of a
specialised nature. A glimpse of mis-
sionaries at work in the Philippines, for
instance, and a blast in passing on a
little-known religious group, the Agli-
payans, founded by a native priest during
the Filipino revolution. Gregorio Agli-
pay appointed himself “Vicar-General”
of the Philippines, and his followers,
Father Herlihy states, were “without
learning or morals, and, in most cases,
without Orders.”
In Shanghai the author visited the
Sancta Sophia Convent, where Russian
Catholics observe the Byzantine liturgy.
Among the six Sisters who taught 200
Russian Catholics were two Australians.
Apart from dips into ecclesiastical law
and the long and dangerous history of
missionary work in Korea, the interest-
ing part of the book is the daily life of
the missionaries, interrupted frequently
by the police, who had grave doubts con-
cerning the nationality and whereabouts
of Thomas Aquinas—a kind of perennial
interrogation which culminated in the
outbreak of war and the arrest of the
missionaries.
In a civilian jail there were unrivalled
opportunities for observing Japanese
justice;
They brought in a woman and left her in
the alley-way outside the cells; an unkempt,
wild-eyed creature who had been involved
in a brawl about a hen. Policemen filling
in time about a stove amused themselves
alternately baiting and abusing her. Ad-
dressing her chiefly in Japanese, of which
she was entirely ignorant, they provoked
her to half-frightened, half-frantic retorts.
One of them would come threateningly
towards her, and she would retreat to the
end of the alley-way and kneel there, whim-
pering for mercy. A policeman followed
her down as far as our cell and beat her
with bamboo for several minutes
Despite this and worse recorded
brutalities, Now Welcome Summer is
not a gloomy book. It is, indeed, full of
humor, although that humor, often
enough, is of that private kind which,
giving a general atmosphere of friendly
warmth, disappointingly fails to amuse.
As, for instance, when it is expressly
stated that Father So-and-so is a noted
wit, without producing adequate proof
of Father So-and-so’s wittiness. More
of the close observation of the first page,
a careful eye on Father So-and-so’s
idiosyncrasies as on the snow and the
smoke from the hotel chimney, and the
characters would fill out vitally and
adequately.' Even a factual record of
missionary work in Korea would be a II
the better for realistic characterisation.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Earth’s Youngest Daughter .
What shall she have,
Earth’s youngest daughter?
Green combs of willow wands.
Mirrors in the water.
Where shall we go
To do her birthday honor?
Clematis above the rocks
Hangs her silken banner.
Heath lights tapers through the bush —
White, and red for morning;
All the tight-balled wattle boughs
Overnight are turning
Each into a golden fleece,
Rich as Jason plundered.
Where across the shining weir
Winter floods had thundered.
Reedy singers call her home.
Little Proserpine,
Cuckoo’s flute, dark bittern’s drum.
And wren pipes fine.
Old as moss in glacier lands:
Earth’s youngest daughter;
Clean as worship in the hills —
New as lambs and laughter.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.
Last Scene of All.
Now I’m on the stage.
Sweetly I coo, lionlike I rage,
A paragon in peace, a hero bold in war.
Always a star.
Now I’m in the wings.
Waiting for my turn, wishing I were
younger,
Waiting for my cue, my soul sick with
hunger,
The manager allows me in the kindness
of his heart
To wheeze and prattle through some old
man’s part.
My halo flown, my locks greying.
Playing at playing.
Now I'm in the pit,
About my ancient haunts I hover.
Listlessly I sit;
No more, no more, the footlights shine
upon me.
The young players pity me and shun me,
My day is over;
Soon I must go.
For me, at least, the last scene is nearing,
I must leave the lights, the clapping and
the cheering,
The rumor and the show ;
I’ll sneak out softly, so that nobody will
mark.
Into the dark.
m.l.
ARNOLD WALL.
Metho-drinker.
Under the death of winter's leaves he
lies
who cried to Nothing and the terrible
night
to be his home and bread: “O take
from me
the weight and waterfall of ceaseless
Time
that batters down my weakness, the
knives of light
whose thrust I cannot turn,, the cruelty
of human eyes that dare not touch nor
pity."
Under the worn leaves of the winter city
safe in the house of Nothing now he lies.
His white and burning girl, his woman
of fire
creeps to his heart and sets a candle
there
to melt away the flesh that hides the
bone,
to eat the nerve that tethers him in Time.
He will lie warm until the bone is bare
and on a dead dark moon he wakes
alone.
It was for death he took her; death is
but this,
and yet he is uneasy under her kiss
and winces from the acid of her desire.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Dogs and Dingoes.
In his Australian Barkers and Biters,
published in the lost era between the
wars, Robert Kaleski put up a theory
that the dingo was the original dog and
all others have descended from it —a
theory which caused a- mild flurry of ap-
proval, rage and sarcasm.
Kaleski was unmoved, and, after all
these years, he springs it again, this time
in Dogs of the World (William Brooks
and Co., .Sydney), and offers as proof
Sir Frederick McCoy’s The Paleontology
of Victoria, Tertiary Mammalia, pub-
lished in 1881:
McCoy tells how he discovered the bones
and teeth of our Dingo (a corruption
of the abo. name for it, Dyungho)—in
the Pliocene Tertiary formation of Colac
and other Victorian localities, in company
with similarly mineralised remains of Thy-
lacoleo (our marsupial lion), Diprotodon,
Arbortherium, and many other extinct
genera; thus proving that ‘‘the dingo was
really one of the most ancient of the in-
digenous mammals of the country, and
abounded as now most probably long be-
fore Man himself appeared.”
Kaleski says Professor Huxley con-
firms it and that, on the word of the late
Edgeworth David, the dingo is “at least
three million years old,” making it “im-
measurably older than any known species
of dogs,” and that it got up into Asia
and Europe across the land-bridge that
once existed from Tasmania to India. All
this may be the real McCoy, but Kaleski
missed a great chance in not following it
up. . .
However, having restated the Kaleski
theory. Dogs of the World then becomes
a sort of catalogue of the size, shape,
color and use of a variety of dogs'. A
proper affection for the Australian sheep-
dog and the Australian “heeler” may be
detected. Fairly well illustrated, a useful
book for dog-lovers.


m
i
lU-- (.(/
m
/i Y
tm
I ’-M.-i t
i i ,A' "V\ '
i/Y Ad
" 4*
v"
A y?
;;?>-¥. ’ ;
“j# *
>f /
V ,
iiiiili
1 £■ ' - -t <>•••: ' : ' •!':•’ wiv-<*'•:•■•'
: '• : - '■ : '
x
S . A > V \ '
Y r </ Y ■"■
-f J
.6
''
M
WALLPAPERS
We can offer you a large and
/ varied selection of economically
/ priced Wallpapers in pleasing
designs to suit all tastes and with
Friezes and Borders to match.
( Wallpapers •
*/ Per roll, from 3/- to 247-
Friezes, per yard, from .. 3d.
Borders, per yard, from l^d.
• Wallpapers — Third Floor.
mi
Mi
Above. ' ;
36-inch Printed Floral Chintz design
to greatly enhance the beauty of any
home . . . designs on a background of
blue or burgundy. No cpns. 11/11 yard.
We have an extremely large range of dainty,
frilly Crossover Curtains with frilled valance
attached . . . complete, ready to hang.
Prices, 13/6, 27/6, 29/6, 37/6, 39/6
No coupons.
• Furnishings—Tbird Floor.
mM
Y
k.
x f. ss
i' £
m
%\ V:
/
*
If
pt#*! -
mi
IJH
iiiilll
Richly piled, hand-made Indian Carpets bringing with them
all the glory of the magnificent East. What a luxurious
addition to any home! Choose yours in Blue, Camel, Rust
or Fawn grounds. Size 9ft. x 12ft. approx. £36/11/9
Rugs to tone with above, size sft x 2ft bins., price, £4/7/6.
Size 6ft. x 3ft., £6/6/- Size 7ft. x 4ft., £9/16/ ■
• Carpets—Fourth Floor.
Comfortable Hassocks are again available in a multitude
of different fabrics in all colours. Oblong or round shapes
are available. No coupons. Price 8/11 each.
• Furnishing Drapery —Third Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS 9
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
BOOK SELECTION
THE ART OP EXiIOTH GRUNER.
with Jf ? 00 f contains 24 beautiful reproductions in colour, together
f r e }£'i ) t^ r i rait of the artist in colour, and an essay on Gruner by
Norman Lindsay. £4/4/- (poBt . 10d .).
THE PAINTINGS OF ROBERT JOHNSON.
book contains 18 new plates representing the best of the artist’s
work over a long period. With biographical summary of the artist’s life.
42/- (post. 9d.).
An Important Australian Publication by The Golden Cockerel Press.
MATTHEW I LINBERB’ NARRATIVE of His Voyage in the Schooner Francis: 1788,
preceded and followed by notes on Flinders, Bass, the Wreck of Sidney Cove,
etc., by Geoffrey Rawson.
Nine engravings by John Buckland-Wright. Edition limited to 750 copies.
Attractively bound. £6/10/- (post. 1/-).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
Booksellers and Publishers
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LTD.
■m
m
7
Tj¥
Q
*
V
Airway Cases, hi
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leat|ier-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited ....
but increasing!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
>
in*
I
o «
mm
On the
-y
iff.
v
<r
\
of f
Skill, determination and stamina brings the winning surf-boat home on
the crest of the wave. And skill in the making of fine Wine has put
Tintara Amontillado Sherry at the crest, as a favourite with all. Amon-
tillado Sherry acts as a perfect prelude to a meal—a glass before lunch
or dinner induces a healthy, hearty appetite. And after any form of
recreation, such as surfing, rowing, tennis or a hard day at the office,
Tintara Amontillado Sherry restores lost energy and soothes your nerves.
Meet the Champions: Adelaide Wine Show—Champion Prizes—Flor-
fino Sherry; Old Castle Reisling; Fine Old Liqueur Port. Sydney
Royal Show —Champion Prize—Old Liqueur Port; First and Second
Prize—Old Brandy. First Prizes—Vintage Port; Export Port; Export
Muscatel; Fine Old Liqueur Port.
"I often wonder what the vintners buy One half so precious as the goods they sell!*
OMAR KHAYYAM
MADE BY THOMAS HARDY & SONS LTD., ADELAIDE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
THS7
Missing Friend.
WILL any persoi. knowing the whereabouts of
FRANCIS CHARLES TOUNE, formerly of Adelaide,
and employed in the Motor Vessel Westralia in 1939,
please communicate with MESSRS. KNOX & HAR-
GRAVE, Solicitors, 112 King William Street, Adel-
aide.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copies of Narratives of the Wreck
of the Whaleship Essex of Nantucket (Golden
Cockerel Press, 1935), Essays from The Spec-
tator, selected by Arthur Symons, illustrated by
H. M. Brock (Dent, 1903), and Chums, 1903. —
4095.
American youth (18) would like to correspond
with young Australian stamp collectors. —4096.
To buy copy of Round the World with a
Circus, by George Wirth. —4097.
To buy copy of The English Revolution, by
Christopher Hill. —4098.
To get in touch with any descendants or
relatives of Emily Soldene and Amy Sherwin.
—4099.
Information Sought.
(1) Address of the “War Inventions Commit-
tee''' or its peace-time equivalent ? (2) Does
this body still receive ideas? (3) Does it assist
inventors in any way?
(1) There was no “War Inventions Commit-
tee” during the war, but the Army Inventions
Directorate was in existence and this organisa-
tion is now a part of the Department of the
Army, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne. (2) The
Directorate welcomes ideas and inventions from
the public so far as those ideas affect the De-
partment of the Army. (3) Assistance will be
given for the development of ideas and inven-
tions considered likely to be advantageous to
the improvement of Army methods and equip-
ment.
* ♦ « «
How to patent an invention in Australia and
how to obtain an international patent ?
Application for a patent in Australia may be
made either bv a provisional specification or
by a complete specification to the Patents Dept.,
341 Pitt-street, Sydney. A provisional specifi-
cation gives protection for nine months, during
which time the invention can be commercialised
or tested, and such application must be com-
pleted within that nine months’ period into a
full application. Applications for patents abroad
must be made in each of the countries in which
they are required; there is no provision for
an “international” patent. It is advisable for an
inventor to seek the assistance of a reputable
firm of patent attorneys. Full particulars of the
invention, including sketches and a description
thereof and explaining the method of operation
and genuine advantages over prior construc-
tions, should be sent.
* * * ♦
How to overcome mildew on roses and sweet
peas ?
Dust affected foliage and stems with sulphur
powder or spray them with lime sulphur (trade
strength). Apply treatment in the early morn-
ing when the dew is on the plants; the warm
sun will increase its effectiveness. Badly-affected
fdliage should be cut off and burnt. Three or
four treatments at fortnightly intervals will
make a clean-up.
* * * *
How to grow lavender?
Lavender is fairly easily grown and thrives
best in a well-drained, rather ligjjt, loamy soil,
and reasonably sheltered position. It likes plenty
of sunshine, but should be protected from cold,
cutting winds. It does not require a great deal
of manure if grown for commercial purposes,
otherwise oil content is low; this applies also
to water. Renewal of plantings generally takes
place in four to six years.
* * # ♦
Difference in age, measurements and experi-
ence of Vic Patrick and Freddie Dawson when
they fought at Sydney Stadium?
Patrick is 27 years old, and Dawson 23. Each
is sft. 6in. tall, but Patrick (71|in.) has a longer
reach than Dawson Dawson weighed
9st. 7£lb. to Patrick’s 9st. 91b. Patrick began
boxing in 1940, and Dawson in 1943, but the
American has had 97 contests (for four losses
and 93 wins—3B by knockout) against Patrick’s
52 (for four losses and 48 wins—42 by knock-
out).
# * * *
Where and when was Dave Sahds born ?
What Australian championships does Sands
hold, and whom did he win them from ? How
many contests and what results ? Is Sands his
real name, and how many brothers has he in the
boxing game?
Sands was born at Burnt Bridge, near Kemp-
sey (N.S.W.), on February 4, 1926. Holds Aus-
tralian middleweight and light-heavyweight
championships, having beaten Jack Kirkham
(knocked out in 12th round) for middleweight
title at Sydney Stadium on May 11, 1946, and
Jack Johnson (knockout in fourth round) for
light-heavyweight honors in same arena on
August 24, 1946. He has had 54 contests for
46 wins (33 by knockouts), six losses (beaten by
Billy Myers, jack McNamee, Doug Brown
—twice —Jackie Marr and Emory Jackson), one
draw, and one “no fight”—with Emory Jackson
in Melbourne. Sands’s real surname is Ritchie.
Five brothers box as Sands. They are: Clem
(aged 28), Ritchie (25), George (23), Dave (21)
and Alfie (18).
Brief Answers.
S.R.D.: Best practice with a single-wire aerial
is to align it in the direction of the broadcast-
ing station, taking the lead-in from the end
nearest the station. The optimum inclination
of the aerial to the horizontal is not so signifi-
cant and varies for different frequencies. If
optimum reception is desired, a rhombic aerial,
a description of which can be found in most
standard radio textbooks, could be considered.
A.B.C.: As it is possible that the heat
transfer is increased by extra movement of the
brine, it is likely that the tank which is agi-
tated will warm up more than the tank left
undisturbed R.J.T.: The decomposition of
the constituents of the tobacco lead produces
hundreds of chemical compounds, many of
which have been identified. Many others
need to be identified before a complete analysis
could be given... .T.G.: Dipping the bags for
12 hours in a bark decoction of specific gravity
1.015 (15 points on a barkometer) would prob-
ably be sufficient. The tannery from which
the bark was obtained should be able to assist.
L.S.M.: Get in touch with H. B. Lincoln,
Vic. State Rivers Commission, Treasury-gardens,
Melbourne. . ..W.E.C.: (1) An acute shortage
of caustic soda is already restricting soap pro-
duction by existing manufacturers, and that fact
needs to be considered before commencing
business. (2) Approach a suitable consulting
engineer, who would need to go into the matter
for you on tne spot. (3) The Australian In-
stitution of Engineers, Science House, Glou-
cester-street, Sydney, will nominate suitable
persons... .A.C.L.: Have referred inquiry to
Horrocks Roxburgh (N.S.W.) Pty., Ltd., 3
Spring-street, Sydney, agents for oil extraction
machinery makers, who will advise you direct
as to suitable machinery E.N.P.: The lily
seen ,was a giant lily ( Doryanthes •excelsd), a
native species found in the coast district from
the Shoalhaven into Queensland. It is pro-
tected under the N.S.W. Wild Flower and
Native Plants Protection Act. The species is
not a true lily, but belongs to a closely allied
family ( Amaryllidacece ), which includes the
garden species, jonquils, daffodils and hippe-
astrums, among others... .J.S.S.: Write Central
Import Licensing Branch, Dept, of Trade and
Customs, 52 William-street, Sydney... .M.M.:
Depends on terms of lease or tenancy. If the
tenant has committed any breach of a covenant
in the lease you may serve him with a notice
to quit and take eviction proceedings. Other-
wise cannot suggest any remedy. Suggest you
see a solicitor A.H.S.: Lost deeds (Real
Property Act) may be replaced if application
is made in prescribed manner, but first admin-
istration of your brother’s estate must be
obtained. Conauh a solicitor A.W.: Lemon
yeast if made from stated recipe should be
ready in 24 hours, sooner in hot weather ...
D.0.R.: Suggest you get in touch with John
Young, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney R.W.H.;
Alan Crook Electrical Cos., 3 Barrack-street,
Sydney, undertakes such repairs.


Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO OLIVE CLARA CLARKE late of Melbourne Vic-
toria.—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM CLARKE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3543 of 1947 on the
grounds of desertion ■without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 3rd De-
cember 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from ELLITT & LAW, Solicitors, 72 King
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOYCE BERYL BROTHERTON.—TAKE NOTICE
that JACK BROTHERTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2508 of 1947 on the -grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance by 16th October 1947 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from JOHN W.
MILNE, Solicitor, 850 George Street, Sydney.—(l.s.)
0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO KENNETH GORDON KEAR late of 23 Junction
Street Forest Lodge.—TAKE NOTICE that RITA
MAVIS KEAR has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
650 of 1947 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by 16th October 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from RICHARD T. ORAM,
Solicitor, C/o ALLAN E. CUPIT, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—(n.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LYNN DUNCAN late of Narrandera.—TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN ELIZABETH DUNCAN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3037 of 1947 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 20th
October 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from SOMERVILLE, LAUNDRY,
LOMAX & REID, Solicitors, Molesworth Street, Lis-
more.—'(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA—
(Divorce.)
TO LILLEY ANNIE PHOEBY POULTNEY last heard
of at Balmain in the State of New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in this
Court endorsed with a notice to you to appear and
answer the charges of WILLIAM GEORGE POULT-
NEY of Mt. Nelson in Tasmania Quarryman praying
for a dissolution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereof AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart. —-
(1.5.) J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
N.B.—Friends of the abovenamed LILLEY ANNIE
PHOEBY POULTNEY who may see this advertise-
ment are requested to bring it under her notice.
HARTS
Circular Charts 4o» all types oi
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Go* our quotattoßi
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, ©m
OVERPROOF
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848
g
Yw
m
*
n
as
7 DICTATOR sV^
THE FIRST FATAL STEP
It is Communist doctrine that the nationalisation of
banking is the first step towards nationalisation of everything,
which means dictatorship.
Nationalisation of industry production, distribution and
exchange is the policy of the Australian Labour Party; and, if
carried out, that policy must lead to the same end.
The Chifley Government, urged on by the Communists,
threatens to force the people of Australia to take the first fatal step.
Don’t let this evil thing happen
Demand a Referendum
It is your right
Write to your Federal Member and sign protest sheet at any Trading Bank.
Authorised by Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney. The basic aim of the Sane Democracy
League is to combat fallacious revolutionary doctrines. It needs members and funds to help it do its job.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
0.N.5.: Turned a deaf ear to “A Plea for
Mercy” G.B.McK.: Hasn’t that pig been
caught yet? It must be 50 years since he
escaped from his sty L.L.: All are home-
ward bound E.S.: Try us with something
original for a change N.D.: Hopeless
W.L. (England): They have a sort of a
feathery charm that floats them away from
publication Ajax: Come in and sing, then:
We’ll sing a song of Bunnerong,
Our generating station
Where dynamos in long neat rows
Oft cause us consternation.
They sell us watts to boil our pots
And make our saucepans simmer;
As time goes by we sit and sigh,
Our lights grow dim and dimmer
R.A.P.: “Atomic Era” is a very mild ex-
plosion Blue Passion: To hunt for the mean-
ing would give anyone a blue fit... .P.N.8.: A
touch of feeling. But it’s no use writing poems
about the impossibility of writing poems
M.0.E.: Bridget’s sad fate is sung in singularly
jingly verse...,T.Y.: “I come, I go, whither,
whither away?” Well, whither G.L.N.: “I
am 57 and have never written poetry before.”
You haven’t exactly done it now... .J.V.: Your
rhymes are about as melodious as a pneumatic
drill H.F.J.: See if you can have “The
Fowl” plucked D.A.U.: “Thou sayest fare-
well, but lo I have thee by the hand.” Haven’t
you got Robert Bridges by the hand? P.A.:
“Go West, Young Man” has gone west....
L.KJ.: You can remove “The Romantic Re-
movalist” at your leisure... .F.L.R.: Just an-
other tame lovers’ tiff A.D.H.: From what
American pulp magazine did that crime yarn
stray? H.S.: Get yourself a new typewriter
ribbon before bombarding us with any more.
C.W.A.: We’ll try to struggle along with-
out the aid of your sentimental giant N.E.:
Was it a short story or an essay on miscegena-
tion that you started out to write? E.S.G.:
Daphne, the “demure and dainty damsel who
dispensed drinks at the Diggers’ Arms in' Douta-
galla,” was deposited in our deepest dungeon....
S.F.: Send “Checkmate” to a chess magazine.
P.K.: Drunk who joins a temperance
society and turns up hopelessly blithered at
its next meeting is an old friend W.W.:
Seeing that you’re a first we’ll let you
off with a caution....F.S.A.: Stick to people
and places you know and leave the Brazilian
jungle to those who have been there T.R.:
A “Ticket in the Golden Casket” didn’t draw a
prize H.A.A.: Suspect that only sheer ex-
haustion on your part brought that rambling
story to an end L.H.G.: Whenever a story
begins “Seated in the smoking-room of the
club were a doctor, a lawyer, a priest and a re-
tired squatter” we know that we’re in for a
dreary 20 minutes W.McK.: Rooster that
was chased through 12 pages of slapdash writing
won’t crow in our pages 8.C.: Fair effort,
try it on a daily... .A.W.M.: The yam about
the missionary is the better of the two, but it
falls just short of the mark G.W.: Comic
suitors who address their sweethearts in the
language of a medieval gallant are not for us.
. ...T.H.F.: Reads more like an Empire Day
speech than a short story P.D.: Still won-
dering what all that splurge of words is about.
A.R.R.: Surely a five-gallon keg couldn’t
make a whole football team that merry
J.R.A.: If you could write short stories as well
as you write covering letters you might get
somewhere... .G.8.T.: Print that! Not on
your life J.W.8.: “I find myself continually
groping for the right atmosphere”—not to men-
tion plot and characters; and, also, the right
word C.T.: Dick Turpin transplanted to a
middle-nineteenth-century- Australian setting
E. 8.: The disappearance of winter is always
marked by a glut of yarns dealing with surf
rescues... .A.T.J.: As a yarn-spinner you still
take too long to get started R.P.: Girl who
fell in love with a traffic cop ordered to move
on H.E.W.: Try making them speak like
ordinary beings A.L.: Your reformed skin-
flint might have stepped out of Dickens’s A
Christmas Car01.... P.W.C.: The characters
may be Australian aborigines, but the plot came
from H. Rider Haggard M.F.: Forty-eight
runs to win, an over to play and the last
man in hits eight sixers. Phew!.•. .S.M.: You
scored several laughs but not in the places
you intended should be mirthful W.G ; : Old
joker who spouts Omar Khayyam every time he
opens his mouth muzzled with his own beard.
....5.0’8.: Your copper, armed only with his
son’s water pistol, who arrested a trio of
gangsters carrying a tommy-gun apiece, is too
good to be true....A.Q.: Missed the mark....
W.T.J.: Not paying out for “A Deadbeat on
the Rocks.”
TO ARTISUC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W R.P.: You’re by no means the first to de-
pict Chifiey pointing a gun labelled ‘‘National-
isation” at a bank manager L.V.R.: Airaid
that dog can’t scratch for his fleas on our
premises....Y.M.: Put some flesh on those
skeletons.... G.M.J,: It was a great laugh-
raiser half a century ago H.F.N.: Whats
wrong with using white paper and Indian ink.
D M : You might have rubbed out the
smudges before sending them in.., .J.H.P.: You
have carried distortion too tar 1.&.tt..
Should we need to reprint our own gags we
could do the job ourselves D.W.F.: Cant
make sense out of picture in which a kangaroo
marked “National Debt” is sparring up to a
featherless emu N.M.: Fair first efforts, keep
on trying...'.K.S.M.: Stop copying someone
else’s style and strike out on your own
0.D.: We can’t find room for your zebras
nor for the one-legged bagpipe player I.V.;’
Deformed batsman sent back to the pavilion
and cross-eyed umpire ruled out for all time
W.S.C.: Someone before you thought of
halting a mile-long column of soldiers outside
a wayside hamburger stall for a feed.... R.F.:
At least you can produce the most artistic-
looking blots E.H.: Send us something that
we can laugh at K.J.: Still scratching
N.L.R.: You, too, are still scratching
M.8.H.: Conversation between the Queen of
Diamonds and the King of Spades merely
caused us to scratch our head in bewilderment.
A.T.: Lessons are called for —a few years
of them P.G.L.: At least the full moon
passed muster... .J.C.F.; Sawbones’s bedside
manner didn’t attract us M.D.A.: You
managed the barber’s pole but made a dreadful
mess of the barber S.P.; It would take
several sheets of foolscap to list all your faults.
A.G.: Chap in spats and a belltopper
addressing lubra seated in the shallows of a
billabong still talking in the basket R.D.:
No hope for those freaks.


THREE HORSEMEN
WITH RIFLES
By SAMSON POST
THE blustering,
tearing wind
had fallen, as it
does at sun-
down, but it was cold
enough without it.
The two men and
the thin, sorrowful-
looking youth sat on
boxes around the
leaping flames of the
fire and ate stolidly.
Then Jack broke
the silence. H e
frowned, and ran a
horny hand over his
semi - bald head.
Then he rubbed the
stubble on his lean
chin, cocking his
head on one side and eyeing the youth
reflectively.
“Sid,” he said, “sure y’ didn’t see me
swag along th’ track today?”
The other shook his head dolefully and
wiped his nose on the sleeve of his
ragged khaki sweater,
“Nuh,” he replied, “di’n see it, Di’n
see it anywhere.” He stared trance-like
into the blazing wood.
Jack snorted in sudden disgust.
“Strike me flamin’ roan! Y’ wouldn’t
know if the blasted thing fell on top
of y’!”
Sid flinched and sniffed noisily,
“Would ’e, Fred?” Jack glared at the
third man as he placed his empty plate
on the ground at his feet. Fred regarded
the uncomfortable Sid disparagingly.
“No.”
Sid snuffled, again.
T” HAT day the Too - shooters had
* shifted camp from Sugarbag Mill on
Old Murphy’s Place along 23 miles of
rough bush road to the Four-Mile Hole
in the Ealhart, on Old Murphy’s Son’s
place.
Sid the menial, the newchum and, in
the loudly-expressed opinion of the
others, the totally-useless third, had tailed
the horses along after Jack and Fred in
their battered utility.
It was pleasant work—he was alone,
which was a relief, and the horses drove
well. The little aged bay mare was a
good leader. She’d been a drover’s horse
once, and trotted along steadily, head on
one side and looking back, in constant
fear of the lash of the horse-tailer’s whip
that she hadn’t felt for years but had
never forgotten.
After her went Jack’s heavy black, and
Fred’s chestnut. Funny how they always
drove together.
Then in the other deep wheel-rut of
the track trotted the three ponies,
disdained by the others, and savag-
ing each other playfully from time
to time, each trying to get ahead.
Sid followed along behind on Carrots.
Old and . poor, a good stockhorse
once but too weak for anything
but the tailing job now. The powdery
red dust trailed behind them all, where
iron-shod hooves pounded the tracks
obliterating the fresh tyre-marks of the
truck.
At the Four-Mile he found an air of
puzzled gloom about the newly-made
camp. Jack was walking around the
utility, still piled with some of their rifles,
camp-gear and stores, and scratching his
chest vigorously where the ginger fuzz
showed above the open neck of his khaki
shirt.
“Y’ seen me swag?” he had bellowed,
after Sid had watered the horses in the
hole in the sandy river-bed; “me flamin’
swag’s gorn!”
“Gorn?”
“Yair. Gorn. D’ja see it?”
“Gorn? Y’ mean bumped orf some-
where?” . x
Jack had not replied to that, just said
“Hell,” and glared. Then he had turned
and walked around the truck again, the
other way this time, and scratching his
head instead of his deep flat chest.
Sid had mooched away to hobble out
the horses on the lush Mjtchell and
Flinders that stretched away from the
river to the black distant hne that was
a gidgee scrub, where the ’roos would
be coming out to feed.
The swag was gone all right. It
worried Jack more than a little. It was
an old swag, a comfortable swag, the one
he had carried through 12 years of Too-
shooting, five of droving, which had
graced his bed in the Mitchell Downs
homestead for his time as manager, and
had flapped along on a pack-horse when
he was with Old Charlie that time —no,
he’d had a different one then, the one
he’d wrapped young Jacobs up in when
they’d sent him away with—who the hell
was it now, who’d driven the buck-
board in to meet the ambulance that
time young Jacobs had had his face
smashed in by a kick from a young mare
in the yards at Dalkeith? Hard luck,
that. But Jacobs was one of those blokes
who didn’t bother to join his bridle-
reins . . .
Jack’s swag was a reflection of its
owner. Or rather, it had been. Lean
and firm, the worn canvas cover lashed
around with neat hand-made rawhide
straps, it was a testimonial to his back-
ground and character.
The three bush blankets were faded
with much washing and from airing in a
thousand suns, and held the not unpleas-
ant earthy smell of sweaty manhood: and
the scent of rifle-oil, for often he rolled
it around his weapon when shifting camp.
When he stretched out on it on the
ground, he gave the impression of a man
pulling on an old comfortable boot.
But Jack would not sleep in his swag
tonight. And it would be cold towards
morning . . .
He watched Sid thoughtfully as the
youth rose and walked across to the
truck, removing his blanket-roll from
under a large camp oven.
‘ 1 C R,” Jack said tentatively.
1— Fred, beside him, glanced up.
The firelight danced redly on his young
tanned face under the thick black beard.
“What, Jack?” he asked. There were
three dark lines on the sleeve of his
jungle-green shirt, where the stripes had
been.
“Nothin’,” grunted the other, still
watching Sid.
The youth, shivering now that he was
out of the fire’s warmth, was fumbling
with a stiff tin buckle on a shiny new
strap, factory-made, and already begin-
ning to perish. He opened out his swag,
as Jack strolled across towards him,
nonchalantly, hands in pockets.
“Turnin’ in, Sid boy?” he remarked,
rising on his toes and dropping back on
his heels again.
“Eh?” There was something about
Jack’s tone that puzzled Sid. It was
almost —well, kindly.
“Yair. Oh, yair. Yair, Jack.” He
bent over the blankets, fussing as he
spread them.
Jack pursed his lips.
“Huh,” he said, and coughed. Then
he went on: “Plenty o’ nap there, eh?”
He stirred a corner of the spread blankets
with a big bare toe.
“Yair. Oh, plenty Jack, I’m
well off fer nap.”
He was flustered.
Behind them Fred was blinking sleepily
in the firelight. Sid straightened the stiff
white canvas of his swag-cover.
“Sleep warm?” inquired Jack tenderly.
“Oh, yair, Yair, Jack, pretty warm,”
Silence awkward and oppressive.
“That’s good.” This from Jack,
“Hey, Jack!” Sid straightened and
snuffled significantly. “Er—Jack, how’s
th’ huntin’ over the river here?”
The other waved an arm grandly.
“Plenty er ’roos, plenty of ’em. Er.
Lissen, Sid, how’d’ja like t’ take that
side termorrer? Fred an’ I’ll work over
here. All right?”
Something appoaching a smile spread
over the lad’s long face, as he exposed
his huge uneven teeth.
“Good-oh, good-oh. Jack. Yair.”
Jack turned and began to wander back
to the fire. Sid stood watching him.
Then he called:
“Hey, Jack!”
“Yair?”
“Jack—-y’d better take some of this
nap o’ mine. I got plenty here.”
“Aw,” Jack hesitated. “I’ll be all
right, boy. I’ll sleep in th’ spare tent-
fly.”
“Crikey no! Here, that’s no flamin’
good. Take somer this,”
He stooped and took two blankets
from his swag.
“Here,” he walked across and placed
it in Jack’s hands.
“Sure y’ got plenty y’rself?”
“Yair.” Sid shuffled his boots in the
dust. “I’ll be all right. No good sleepin’
cold ; . .”
“Orrite then, Siddy, thanks, boy.” Jack
raised the blankets and smelt them.
“Camphor,” he remarked, “nice an’ new.”
Away down in the river a watering
boobook hooted softly.
In ten minutes the camp slept.
IT was the cold that woke Sid in the
* early morning. He lay in his blankets
on the chilly earth and watched the sky
pale slowly and the stars go one by one.
The long dry grass around him stirred,
and overhead the leaVes of a ghostly
whitegum whispered together quietly.
Down in the sandy river-bed was the
soft thump-thump-thump that was the
tail of a frightened marsupial, hopping
back to rest in the scrub after watering.
Sid breathed heavily and blinked a
drowsy bloodshot eye at his sleeping
companions. He shivered, long uncut
hair tousled and large teeth chattering.
He sighed, lips trembling, and threw off
the blankets regretfully.
He rose and stumbled about, shaking
with the cold.
“Sid,” the voice came thick with sleep.
“Hey, Sid, got the fire goin’, Sid?”
Y es —s —s.”
Jack’s blankets heaved slightly under
the stiff tent-fly. He rolled over.
Presently he sat up, rubbing his eyes and
yawning. Then he stood, his few light
hairs standing erect on his head# clothes
creased and disordered. He yawned again
and stretched his arms and legs mightily.
“Put the billy on, Sid,” he murmured,
turning and tucking his shirt into his
trousers. His blinking eyes fell on the
youth.
Sid was squatting over a small
smouldering heap of wood and ashes,
elbows on knees and arms held straight
out before him. His face was upturned
from the billowing smoke, his eyes
closed.
“Hell,” whispered Jack. “A bloomin’
prayin’ mantis.”
He wheeled and strode off into the
scrub. Savage crashing and cracking.
Jack reappeared dragging wood, and
pushed Sid aside. He began to break
the wood with hands and heels, building
up the blaze.
“When’ll y’ learn t’ make a fire ?” he
growled.
1 ACK and Sid’s father had been mates
once, in Palestine and elsewhere.
They had never written to each other,
but met by chance in the city, one day
when Jack was feeling particularly miser-
able, and their friendship leapt to fresh
heights with beer and memory; then
Jack had gone with Sid’s father to the
little coastal farm, and when he left
Sid left with him.
Sid found his new occupation very
strange, his spirits rising with his daily
tally of skins. Usually he hated that
question: “How
many didja get,
Sid?” Every night
Fred or Jack asked
it —he tried to anti-
cipate and avoid it,
but he couldn’t do
that, very well. One
day he had six, and
rode home singing
“Rose Marie.” But
the others had nearly
50 between them
that day.
That night it was
Fred who asked it.
“How many didja
get, Sid?”
Sid was leading his
mare down to water.
He did not answer. After, when
he had hobbled her out and returned to
the camp, Fred asked again.
“Chops’re in the camp oven. How
many didja get?” They were both eye-
ing him. He took up a plate and bent
over the sizzling meat in the round oven.
“T’ree,” he said softly.
Silence.
“How many didjoo?” he went on.
They did not reply, talking and arguing
between themselves over the merits of
certain sights.
Sid ate silently, beginning to sniffle as
the night air grew chill. Blasted windy
days. Nothin’ like a windy day t’ make
’em jumpy. Shouldn’t hunt at all on
windy days. Wasn’t worth it. Plenty o’
Toos across th’ river, Jack had said.
Huh. Like t’ see him try an’ stalk ’em
over there. Blasted wind right behind y’.
An’ th’ flamin’ mare’s not much help.
Gun-shy, properly gun-shy, she was.
[ T was Fred who brought up the sub-
t ject of blankets again after they had
finished pegging out the wet skins on the
little clay-pan near the camp. Pegging
out, a monotonous tap - tap - tapping,
stretching the skins flat on the ground,
nailing them with wire pegs cut from
fencing-wire, a bottom strain of Old
Murphy’s River Paddock fence.
Fred led them as they walked back
into the firelight. He bent and threw a
fresh log on the fire, then straightened and
looked over his shoulder at Jack, strok-
ing the black beard with a heavy mus-
cular hand.
“Sleep warm, last night?” he asked,
casually.
Jack squatted over the blazing wood
and extended his cold hands.
“No,” he said shortly. Then he glanced
at Sid. “Go an’ get some water, Sid,”
he ordered. *
The youth took up a kerosene-tin
bucket and slouched off down the river
bank into the darkness.
(<Continued on page- 32.)
Weather Synopsis.
I.
Storm made no declaration. Without warning
wind
Strode through defenceless borders, armed with
bright hail
Sharper than the sun’s sword. Look! O look
behind I
From stormtroop cloud crow-paratroopers sail
Knife-beaked for slaughter. Torn is the steep
hillside,
Torn the ewe, the plotting heart and hand;
And wind is here to rip the tatter wide
For joy and fear qlike are contraband.
Blow wind; beat hail; strike, you black
veterans, home;
Lash, knock and probe! so long as the intricate
heart
Still feels the pitch and terror of the storm.
There’s something to be said for the weather’s
smart
And a world puffed up against you, for the
rocking tree;
And there is a gust of joy in tragedy,
11.
A steep ascent, mist like an undertow
Lapping and curling through the depth-charge
trees
And a dream hand at the ankle, backs in the
view
Where the conjuring eye for frost-woolled
boulders sees
A fallen lamb and ewe. O the crow sings
And his song is desolation. Here there’s no
guide,
No warmth, no human comfort; only dark
wings
And a sun like a cold young planet in the void.
Then see ! The air is pursuing, like love, like fire;
And it is angel-tongued. At the last stride
Are morning, summit, magpies in a gyre,
Young lambs new-butting at their mothers’ side.
Each rock and stone a fortune. And though
mists return,
There is this region where they glow and burn.
in.
So great a calm on earth and in the air!
The land’s in doldrums; like a sunning cat
She licks herself with oceans. Smoke climbs
his stair
And trees are loafers battening on the state;
They will not stir. O where is foreman Time?
Could he go fishing when the job’s half-done
And leave us here abandoned, stayed at our
prime.
With plan and timber wady! It’s not to be
borne.
Come, Time, about your business. Men, lend
a hand;
We’ll set the man example. But though we buy
And sell and love and Labor, dance to the band
And keep accounts, a cypher’s in the sky.
Well, Time, if you’re so stubborn, I’ll match
your mood;
And may this sonnet dam you when you flood.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Four Generations c&rulujcted—
A CENTURY of WINE
/
fJ
m
A-
)
m
mmm
I
jm
i®
—'
m
m
M
wp
BW
m
m
i/iMimdllJl
• lUi
1 » a
i
.ki-v
A '
1847
inning lo
C^3
%
Vbe9*
dc«
f.
wm
iPm
J.
100 years—ln time, a mere bagatelle, but in the life of a young country like Australia,
and an Australian firm, a notable achievement indeed. From the modest beginning
of J. Oramp in 1847, four generations of Gramps have carried on the name and the
traditions of the family.
Above is an artist’s drawing taken from a very old print of the original winery of
1847 where the founder of the business made his first vintage of ‘Carte Blanche’
hock. Since then many other varieties of wine have been made, and all through the
century it has been a tradition with the Company to produce only the best.
WINE OF THE CENTURY
1947
moq nificeg*
mm
■■
■s rxaassp*^
■
m m
m
m* : :
isls*®
XvX£
> mi&i
- v X* , i
» *
mm
mm
■m.
im.
mm
mm
Mm
m m
SwS :■ ■■
HHi
i
L.
il
m
BBKHHiWi
9B
mm
mm


Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
.undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticura ‘cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder.
What a Trustee should know
A Trustee must have'“special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.lw
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Pavlell
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted-
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted-
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O. ASSEMBLY MEETS.
(J.N.O.’s General Assembly met last
week with the organisation’s standing at
the lowest it has ever been.
For the hoped-for world-peace-main-
taining organisation to have developed—
to have been developed—into such a
sorry joke is bad enough. Worse is the
fact that now in America—where hope for
it ran higher, perhaps, than anywhere
else in the world—it is being looked on as
actually dangerous.
Feeling in America not alone in
America —is that unless some very drastic
change can now be made, U.N.O. is
doomed. The present Assembly meeting
should be decisive, one way or the other.
The world hope for peace is such that
any positive Assembly achievement will
boost U.N.O. stocks probably higher than
would be deserved, for the peace it would
have to protect would still have to be
made. But if this meeting ends as in-
conclusive as the last one, the Humpty
Dumpty that U.N.O. now is will be a
very bad case indeed.
For that reason, and because of some
of the issues due to be dealt with, this
Assembly meeting should be the most
interesting to date. Actually, the
Assembly is really in the nature of a
formulating, advisory, recommending
body. It forms policies. The Security
Council—wherein all the havoc against
U.N.O. has been worked—is supposedly
the executor; an executor in which one
member, Russia, has used its veto power
to nullify the moves of the rest of the
Council and also the wishes of the
Assembly. Since the last Assembly
meeting the Soviet delegate brought the
whole of U.N.O. to its lowest depth of
farce by using the veto no fewer than
seven times within one week. That is
the depth from which the Assembly now
has the job of rising.
Among the problems awaiting solution
are:
The Balkans: Likely to bring U.N.O.
to a crucial point. The U.S. delegate,
angered by the Soviet nullifying of the
Security Council on this issue, gave
notice that he would bring it before the
Assembly, invoking Article 51 of the
Charter, which recognises the right of
individual or collective self-defence pend-
ing action by the Security Council. That
would be a way round the veto, though,
as N.Y. “Times” has stated, “this drastic
action would impose a severe test on the
organisation.” The feeling, however, is
that just such a test is exactly what is
wanted to show whether or not U.N.O.
is anything but a pious sham.
Egypt: An attempt to shift Britain
out of the Sudan, despite the Anglo-
Egyptian treaty, which is valid till 1956
and sanctions the presence of British
troops in Egypt and British administra-
tion of the Sudan.
Indonesia: The Dutch hold that U.N.O.
has no jurisdiction in what they insist is
a domestic affair, a view backed by,
among others, the U.S., with Australia
involved as a moving party, on bad
information, pigheadedness or a lime-
lighting impulse.
Palestine: Given American and Rus-
sian agreement, a solution might be
reached on the partitioning lines recom-
mended by the special U.N.O. commis-
sion, with, however, rejection by Jews or
Arabs or both as good as certain ; in any
case, continued strife in the once Holy
Land, and U.N.O.’s the nice job of keep-
ing the ring. The Jews seem much more
likely to accept the proposed partition
than do the Arabs. With U.S. seeking
Arab friendliness for oil operations and
Russia also angling there, it’s a delicate
issue ; not the old easy luxury of abusing
J. Bull. At the last Assembly meeting
both U.S. and Russia declined to come
out into the open on one side or the
other.
The Veto: There was a rumpus over
the Soviet misuse of the veto power even
at the last Assembly meeting, since when
the Soviet has exceeded the expectations
of the most cynical pessimists. The
general use of the veto has been put on
the Assembly agenda by Argentina. In the
Council the Soviet can still veto anything
the Assembly does, anyway.
The Assembly can also consider its
Military Staff Committee, which has done
nothing ; its Atomic Energy Commission,
which has got nowhere ; the Commission
on Conventional Armaments, which has
accomplished nothing. Also, it can revive
its resolution calling for the withdrawal
of Ambassadors from Spain, which
Argentina has ignored, and the resolution
asking South Africa to submit a trustee-
ship agreement for South-West Africa,
which South Africa has ignored, as it has
also the Assembly recommendation that
Nashville ( U.S. ) “Tennessean.”
VETOED.
it cease “discriminating” against Indians
in South Africa,
Those are some of the steps on the
ladder for U.N.O. to climb. Most of
them are carryovers from its last meeting,
and if it does no more than it did then
there will be a rash of additions to the
ones mentioned by a N-Y. “Times”
U.N.O. correspondent, commenting on
the effects of the Soviet sabotaging: “It
is no wonder that one or two file-clerks
here, and one or two Ambassadors as
well, have told this correspondent that
they may have to start looking for new
jobs.” There will also be additions on a
widespread scale to the Chicago “Tri-
bune” comments:
We should fire the incongruous United
Nations off our territory. To build it a home
here, to be responsible for its inanities, the
duplicities for which it is used, would be a re-
flection on commonsense. The United Nations
is impotent now. It will never be anything
else. Let it go to the League of Nations
palaces in Geneva. To realise that we stand
alone would be some improvement in the situa-
tion. If we banish the United Nations physically
we might banish its use as a Russian instru-
ment of disorder.
Present Assembly failure will also give
impetus to moves reported in “Christian
Science Monitor” from Washington;
There is visible today a developing opinion
in the country and in Congress which favors
tramforming the United Nations into a limited
World Government. \
It is revealing that in the Congressional de-
bate on the Greek-Turkish aid bill there were
scores of appeals in both Senate and House
that the United'Nations, admittedly unequipped
to aid these countries in a way necessary to
secure their independence, should be given the
means necessary to do so. In a word, Senators
and Representatives were saying that if the U.N.
is without the powers needed to do its job, let’s
give it the powers.
It needs to be understood that a single vote
of any one of the Big Five can veto any
amendment to the Charter. The only way
around that barrier would be for all the
countries which were prepared to see the Charter
transformed into a limited World Government
to form a new United Nations. There could
be no veto of that.
Such moves for a completely changed
or a new U.N.O. indicate the evolution
of feeling regarding it, from mere doubt
based on its demonstrated talent for doing
nothing to spreading fear of Soviet
use of it as a means of doing
damage. This has been the theme of
many articles and speeches in America,
not prompted by a desire to see U.N.O.
pass out but by an earnest wish to see
it succeed. As a widely representative
example, an “American Mercury” article
headed “The Failure of the United
Nations,” written by Christopher Nor-
borg. Attacking “the delusion that the
United Nations, as that international
organisation is now arranged, offers the
slightest possibility for positive prevention
of aggression,” the writer deals with the
Soviet use of U.N.0., shown in these
extracts:—
So long as this wish-
ful notion [that U.N.O.
can prevent aggression]
is held, the democracies
are actually inviting the
outbreak of war by
their adherence to an
organisation that can
only serve to immobilise
the defensive forces of
democracy. Such im-
mobilisation in turn
would give the aggres-
sor the priceless advan-
tage of the initiative,
and thereafter compel
a desperate, all-out and
prolonged global war
for the survival of free
men.
The time has come
to face the truth that
the United Nations is
actually serviceable
solely for the protec-
tion of the Kremlin and
its sphere of influence.
When the Soviet Union
or any of its proteges
is attacked by another
State, as may well hap-
pen in view of the
underhanded and pesti-
ferous activities con-
tinually directed against
foreign Governments
by Moscow’s agents,
the Kremlin can call
for help from its “fel-
low-democracies.” On
the other hand, when the Soviet Union or any
of its satellites, or all of them together, launch
an attack on a fellow-member or members of
the United Nations, that body then becomes
itself the tool by which the Kremlin’s veto
power can nullify or divide the defensive forces
of the peace-loving States of the whole world.
The Kremlin under the veto provisions could
prevent even publication of the invasion by its
own troops of a peaceful country such as
Greece, Turkey, Iran or Palestine. The Soviet
delegate can deny to the so-called Security
Council the privilege of even advising what shall
be done if Yugoslavia should march through
Trieste into Italy. A Soviet-inspired Polish
invasion of Germany backed by Red troops
could neither be stopped nor reprimanded!
The Soviet vote, in short, paralyses the entire
United Nations, its military staff, military con-
tingents nominally devoted to the halting of in-
vasion by an enemy Power, and all the other
agencies set up by these bodies to prevent war.
It is the deepest irony of the post-war era
that the only practical significance of the
United Nations is that of a protector of an anti-
democratic dictatorship and a blanket licence
for the expansion of Stalinist militarism at the
expense of weaker States.
It is beyond question or dispute that the de-
cision as to whether or not there shall be an-
other global war has been transferred from the
55 United Nations to the political bureau of
a single State.
The core of the whole trouble —and
the sole prop of the Soviet strength in
U.N.O. affairs—is the veto, regarding
which there is this dilemma:
The veto provision cannot be apiended with-
out the concurrence of the one State that bene-
fits from the retention of the veto. And the
Soviet Union has served notice that the abofi-
tion of the veto would mean the “liquidation”
of the United Nations. Finally, the Soviet
Union cannot be expelled from the United
Nations, no matter how faithless its future con-
duct may prove.
In common with practically all who
still believe, despite everything, that
U.N.O. has a future, the writer sees it as
possible only through drastic change;
“The fact that it is necessary to go out-
side the present conventions of the United
Nations in order to safeguard the peace
has now become a generally accepted
tenet.” He pins his faith on the Assembly
now struggling with the host of U.N.O.
problems, involving the greater U.N.O.
problem of its own survival. But, he
adds:—
The Assembly itself cannot hope to survive
unless the abortive Security Council is replaced
by another organisation of unquestioned com-
petency to enforce a peace based upon justice.
That the Assembly will welcome such a substi-
tute for the present misnamed and incurably
hamstrung Council cannot be doubted. By a
smashing majority the Assembly has already re-
buked the Soviet Union for its abuse of the
veto privilege. Other proposals by which the
Kremlin _ sought to obtain one-sided military
information of vital value to the democracies
were voted down by equally emphatic majori-
ties. Were the members of the United Nations
to be assured of the protection of an agency
controlled by genuinely peaceful Powers, they
would find renewed inspiration in the councils
of the Assembly, and the United Nations would
begin to fulfil the dreams of millions.
With—it is sadly true —little enough
basis for hope, the millions will be weigh-
ing the present Assembly meeting’s day-
to-day achievements (if any), not over-
looking in the weighing the veto awaiting
in the so-called Security Council. General
Marshall said at last week’s opening:
“It is possible for one nation during the
present session to destroy the faith of
the world’s people in U.N.O. as an instru-
ment of world peace.” Rather, it is the
stiff job of the present session to re-
kindle that dampened faith.
SEEDS OF WAR.
After long delay, Russia on August 29
announced having ratified the treaties for
Italy, Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary and
Finland—the last of the treaty-framers
to do so —and last week the occupation
troops started moving out of Italy.
By all accounts, these treaties heavily
underline “the evil that men do live after
them.” They have been recognised—
notably by those who helped make them
—as, at the best, appeasing compromises
towards getting some sort of a “peace”
started.
A N.Y. “Times” writer has dubbed the
Italian treaty “the harshest made to
date,” adding that “it may have un-
happy consequences.” The same writer
raises a point which indicates the amount
of mere expediency in that treaty-
making ;
It is more than probable that those treaties
would not be written in the same terms in the
atmosphere of today. Perhaps they could not
be written at all In Washington hearings it
is suggested that if the Truman policy on Greece
had been announced earlier we would hardly
have opened the door to Soviet penetration at
the head of the Adriatic while closing it in the
iEgean The settlement belongs to the time
when American policy was based on the belief
that the United States and the Soviet Union
would co-operate in maintaining peace.
If the “peace” treaty for Italy can be
called “the harshest of all,” the one for
Finland can’t be far behind it, though
when arranged it was held up as a shin-
ing example of Soviet leniency. Pro-
fessor John H. Wuorinen, in a letter to
N.Y. “Times” (footnoted by that paper
“We do not quarrel with Professor
Wuorinen’s figures or conclusions”),
shows how Finland is held in the Soviet
grip. The reparations were fixed at
$300,000,000, but the total —with the rate
fixed at 1938 dollar prices and with losses
through cession of territory, turning over
to the Soviet of German property in Fin-
land (without compensation for Finnish
property in Germany confiscated by


Schweppes
TABLE WATERS
FAMOUS:
SINCE
1790;
Schweppes
DRY GINGER ALE
"Vima,” Athens.
THE EAST-WEST SPLIT.
Russia), and meeting various other claims
—actually amounts to approximately
$950,000,000, “an incredible loss in the
economy of a nation of about 4,000,000
souls.”
As Professor Wuorinen points out, it
means that the Finns, to pay the “lenient”
Soviet claim in the specified time, will
have to turn over from 10 to 17 per cent,
of their total yearly national income. As
a comparison, “German reparations pay-
ments under the Dawes plan after 1924
absorbed a fraction oyer 2 per cent, of
Germany’s national income par year.
Yet the plan failed.”
To make the Soviet grip on the Finns
secure, a 5 per cent, penalty clause is
imposed per month for failure to deliver
on time: “this- provision makes it pos-
sible, in case of default, to levy tribute
for an indefinite period.”
“It would not be correct to designate
these as peace treaties,” Chicago “Tri-
bune” has bitingly commented. “By
crystallising injustice, arousing old ani-
mosities, creating new vexations, and re-
opening the festering wounds of a des-
perate and pain-wracked Europe, these
are treaties of war.”
Detailing the various—mostly niggling
—annexations which the treaties sanction,
reparations agreed to and other clauses,
the “Tribune” described the terms gener-
ally as “symptomatic of the harshness
of spirit which has always governed the
affairs of Europe.” It pointed to the
special danger;
In that continent grudges are held without
relaxation for centuries, territorial ambitions are
never put aside, or ethnic hatreds quenched.
“These treaties,” the “Tribune” added,
“perpetuate the cleavages, for they have
been dictated out of a spirit of charity
for none and malice toward all.”
Actually, they were arranged in the
fallacious belief that appeasement on
such lesser matters would lead to easier
agreement on the greater ones then, and
still, looming ahead ; a belief that has
since been thoroughly exploded. The
“Tribune” further commented, with* the
weight of history backing it:
When the disposition of the so-called peace-
makers is to create an unbearable existence
for 392,000,000 Europeans west of the borders
of Russia, it requires little gift of prophecy to
see new wars forming. The resolution to
undertake them is already in the minds of
peoples who are being ground down. The
means of vengeance may not be immediately
available, but to defer the opportunity for
explosive reprisal is not to make an end of it.
Hatred during long waiting will feed on itself.
One of the most baffling elements of
it all is that those countries which havfe
the strongest reasons for knowing how
the dragons’ teeth they sow will in time
sprout against them—such, for example,
as Poland, annexing under the claim that
they are its “ancient lands” territories
that others have held for 700 years —
seem incapable of ever learning the
lessons they have been grimly taught
over and over.
BRITISH EMIGRANTS.
pe thesis labored by Mr Calwell
(who borrowed it from London I imes ),
to the effect that it is in the interests
of every part of the British Common-
wealth that its manpower (meaning
Britain’s) should be so distributed as to
Strengthen the whole, has had a rough
handling in Rritain
11 g in ai “- RrinW
One of its attackers, Bnnley
Thomas, has pointed out in the “Times’
that there is “a conflict between what
Britain must nnw Hn for economic self-
Britain must now do tor economic sen
preservation and what the Dominions
want her to do in the interest of Com-
monwealth defence,” adding; —
TT . .. t . ’ . , . ..u-p,
XJndcr the free and a^ te . d pa | sa^f s tb p Aus .
which came into operation last April t ®
trahan authorities are prepared to receive
applications from persons in the following
OC^? ati ? nal g rou .P s j i„ r
tricM e ?ng£eeS; bofleriSlkers, weldlrs, sheet-
metal and foundry workers; textile and clothing
operatives; building and civil engineering trades ;
brick and pottery workers; machinists in the
clothing and textile, printing, canvas and leather
trades; boot factory operatives; sawmill and
timber workers; architects and surveyors, phar-
maceutical chemists, doctors and dentists;
nurses and domestics.”
Surely these are some of Britain’s most seri-
ously undermanned occupations? Not only Aus-
tralia but also Canada, New Zealand and
South Africa are eager to receive young skilled
workers from Britain; and apparently it is only
the lack of ships that is preventing a rush ot
emigrants. But can it be denied that such an
efflux at the present time would be a further
grave blow to our hopes of overcoming the
economic crisis? It seems incredible that the
British Government should at this moment be
committed to paying half the cost of assisted
passages under the Anglo-Australian agreement.
Professor Thomas concluded with the
unanswerable argument that Britain’s
“economic condition calls for immigra-
tion, not emigration,” It calls so
urgently, in fact, that (as reported by
Washington “Post”) Britain has been
taking immigrants—skilled workers from
Europe— at an average rate of 1000 a
week!
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Made in Japan. —Happy-ending act from the
human comedy, as presented by a N.Y. “World-
Telegram” correspondent: “Some products
shipped to the United States and labelled ‘made
in Japan’ met with prompt rejection and resent-
ment. When the labels were changed to read
‘made in occupied Japan’ everything was 0.K.”
Shure, and the hivvens be praised for that,
for do not the made-in-Japan productions once
more include, along with silks and fishing gear
and so forth, artificial shamrocks for St. Pat-
rick’s Day!
* * * *
Unknown Children. —Of all the “displaced”
in Europe the most pathetic are surely the
children; those, as a N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
correspondent puts it, “whose whole past,
present and future is nothing but a thin file”
entitled “Unaccompanied Children.” Their list-
ing runs like this: —
Name; Unknown.
Nationality: Unknown.
Age: Unknown (approximately five).
Religion: Unknown.
Language: German.
Original language: Unknown.
Particulars; Small black mole under left
elbow.
Medical particulars: Slightly underweight.
Remarks: Child has nervous twitch right
eye. Also in sleep. Treatment in process.
The number of such “unknowns” is 25,000.
* * * *
Japs Out for 100 Years. — No statement of
General MacArthur’s has had, or has seemed to
invite, such doubting comment as that to the
effect that Japan could not make war again
for 100 years. According to “Christian Science
Monitor” editor Erwin D. Canham, MacArthur
partly bases that estimate on one circumstance
—that the prestige of militarism in Japan has
received a tremendous blow. If correct, it
could, of course, be a much more important
factor than any disarming or other temporary
measures.
* * * *
Cost of the Displaced. —lt seems to make its
own comment on American reluctance to take
“displaced persons” as immigrants that, while
it has been setting U.S. taxpayers back
$130,000,000 a year to maintain the U.S. share
of them in Europe, and while President Truman
has more than once urgently appealed to Con-
gress to agree on accepting 400,000 of them,
Congress went into recess without taking any
action, which means that nothing will be done
till well into next year, if then. Congress,
“United States News” has reported, “is ex-
tremely cool” to the immigration suggestions.
Congress feeling would seem to be that if there’s
delay enough the “displaced” will go, home,
as a few of them have been doing—a desperate
choice.
* * * »
Czechs No Corns. —Dismissing the notion that
Czechs want Communism with “What a joke!”
N.Y. “Post” foreign affairs writer Edgar Ansel
Mowrer declares in support: “In'January, 1946,
in London, I found members of the Czechoslo-
vak Cabinet profoundly concerned lest the
Communist party receive too few votes at their
coming election; too few, that is, to placate the
Soviet Union. If the Communists surprised
everyone by polling 38 per cent, of the votes, it
was largely because the non-Communist Govern-
ment supported them too well. Since that elec-
tion Communist sympathy has dropped.” The
only reason the Czechs have fallen for Com-
munist Russia, according to Mowrer, is fear of
future Germany. There’d also be pretty lively
fear of present Russia.
* * * *
French in Germany. —Meanwhile making “the
occupation pay economically” (by what has been
reported as undisguised confiscation, not better
than that practised in the Russian zone), the
French a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” correspondent
on the’spot has reported, “are planning 19 stay
put in Germany for at least two generations.
However, reports the correspondent, They are
openly disliked by outspoken German political
leaders, and they don’t expect any change in
attitude from the present German generation
Resentment against food requisitioning ana
against the fact that the 65,000 members of the
French occupying forces have brought in
90,000 French wives and children—almost three
times the number of dependants in the Ameri-
can zone —are two major sore spots with the
German population. But the French are quite
prepared to incur more resentment than this.
They should have no trouble succeeding in that
—not only with the present generation.
* * * *
“Socialistic Humanism.” —When the Soviet
some months back abolished the death penalty,
Deputy Foreign Minister Vishinsky referred to
it as a “great act of socialistic humanism.
Maybe those who will “benefit” may wish they
had been spared such humanity. As N.Y.
“Times” has reported: “All political offenders
are still to be sentenced to the notorious labor
camps, which are more murderous under the
Soviets than Siberia ever was under the Czars
and which are estimated to contain between
eight and ten per cent, of the Russian popula-
tion, or between 13,000,000 and 17,000,000 men
and women. The death rate in these camps is
such that no inmate can hope to survive a 25-
year term.”
* * * *
“Execution of Boys.” —When Henry Wallace
was on the rampage in Europe, one of his
lines of attack on U.S. foreign policy was that
it supported a Greek Government which he said
was guilty of the “execution of 16-year-old boys
for crying out against shameful abuses.” The
sort of foul propaganda this was has been ex-
posed by London “Nineteenth Century and
After” editor F. A. Voigt: “Boys of 16 have
figured prominently—or rather one boy has —
in the verbal offensive conducted by our Com-
munists and fellow-travellers against Greece
A person aged 16 was recently committed to
trial for murder at Salonika. The Judge had
no alternative except to apply the law, and
passed sentence of death. The sentence was,
however, commuted. Nevertheless, Wallace has
the audacity to cite the sentence —passed by due
process of law on one person, which was not
carried out —so as to convey the false impres-
sion that the Greek Government is thirsting
for the blood of Greek boys. Wallace carefully
conceals the fact that the condemned person
was a murderer, and insinuates that he had done
nothing more than denounce the regime for
being ‘reactionary.’ ”
* ♦ * ♦
Synthetic Rubber. —One of the prizes in the
struggle in Indonesia and thereabouts is the
natural-rubber supplies, for which there is
still a huge demand, though in one of the
biggest pre-war markets, the United States,
the fight is on to give preference to the syn-
thetic article developed on a vast scale during
the war. When the Japs cut off supplies, the
U.S. was importing some 90 per cent, of its
natural rubber, and, says “Collier’s,” if it hadn’t
been for an enormous performance by Ameri-
can industry there’d have been a transport
breakdown on both the fighting and the home
fronts, and that breakdown “in all probability
would have lost the war for the Allies.” U.S.
built up a vast synthetic rubber industry—
“about $750,000,000 worth”—with a capacity of
more than 1,000,000 tons a year, and this kept
U.S. “fighting forces and the home front ade-
quately supplied.” Natural-rubber interests are
now working to have that synthetic industry
scrapped, to which, “Collier’s” declares, Ameri-
can reaction “should be and continue to be,
‘Ah, nuts! ’ ” However, there’s a possibly de-
cisive factor —natural rubber is very much
cheaper than the synthetic.
» * * ♦
S’Africa Gets Immigrants. A couple of
months back the South African Government,
says a “Christian Science Monitor” report, con-
cluded arrangements with Britain to have full
use of the liners Carnarvon Castle and Win-
chester Castle for transporting immigrants, and
thousands of skilled men and women are being
chosen in London, given priority travel in the
liners and provided with well-paid jobs as soon
as they reached S’Africa. As well as in London,
S’Africa has committees at The Hague and in
Rome selecting; they “endeavor to select
immigrants who will fit /in readily with the
social structure of the Union.” The rush has
been so great that there has been no need for
assisted passages; all pay their own fares, £59
ahead.
Marshall Plan Error. —One notion of the
Marshall plan for aiding Europe (like other
attacks on that plan, largely Communist-
inspjred) has been given short shrift by N.Y.
“Times”: the assumption, noted particularly in
p renc h comment, that “the real motivating
f orce behind the whole Marshall idea is fear of
torce . betund tbe whol « Marshall idea is tear ot
a business depression in the U.S. On which
N.Y. “Times” commented: “Certainly it is true
that the United States needs, for its own pros-
perky and safety, a healthy and prosperous
Europe. But if it is to be a matter of lifting
ourse i ves by our bootstraps, by the artificial de-
v;ce i end j ng people money to buy our sur-
. s goods> we do no j. neec j European borrowers
for that purpose. European observers should
note that we can accomplish precisely the same
purpose at home, with fewer risks and prob-
ably less trouble in Congress. Any one of a
dozen different formulas for Government spend-
ing of twenty billions at home would give us
about as much ‘prosperity’ as twenty billions
lent to Europe.” A good many others in
America are saying that, too; with the adden-.
dum that the alternative should be adopted, and
let E urope try pulling itself up.
* * * *
TT . _ u,;*
Europe Can Recover. Under this heading
RY. “Tunes comments on the Marshall plan;
The Europe west of the Iron Curtain is still
the Europe which cradled our civilisation and
made our history, and potentially it is still the
greatest production centre . l he greates
market in the world. For it contains 18 natio
and , wester ? Germany) with
300,000,000 of Europe s most energetic peop ,
with tremendous resources of coal and iron
and with unsurpassed scientific and technical
knowledge and training. Today it lies prostrate
because the political rivalries which at one
time made it the dynamic continent that s P r ®^ d
its power and civilisation to all parts ot the
globe have exhausted it. But properly organised
so as to release the energies of its people for
productive purposes, it can nse to even greater
heights than in the past, and not only support
itself but also become a pillar of world peace,
Essential to all that, however, is restoration
of German economy, the key to the restoration
of Europe,” and “this is impossible as long
as Germany is divided even among the Western
country economically,
* *
While Most Starve. The few who can
afford it can still live well per the blackmarket
j n Germany. A correspondent there of the
u s united Press went at night with a black-
market operat or, and within two hours, after
ca ni ng at a number of farms, they were on
6 . hlackmarketeer Johann’s
their way back, blackmarketeer jonann s
automobile loaded with 5001 b. of p ,
1001 b. of barley flour, 51b. of bacon, 31b.
ham, 41b. of lard, two dozen eggs and 51b.
of sausage. Besides,” adds the correspondent,
« we stuffed ourselves with all the ham, sausage,
bread, milk and apple cider we could hold.
j o h ann a t e five times as much as I did, and
the f armers were obviously disappointed that
d j d show an equal appreciation of their
food For dll this, 9 Joha„o traded 12 pieces
of German-made soap, one pair of new '
°f e o ttS
men’s work shoes and six cigarettes. That,
however, is no help to the majority, *who are
next to starvation. At the Jky tfne M
correspondent was making his midnight forays
U.S. experts were urgently conferring on se -
ous German hunger, and this at the best time
of the year.


ALUS
7
a
v j6
i
CHfILMER
nil
1947
11
N
•n
'■\vs N V\"
,\WV\«
»*iu
mu
rrrv.
ftVVVS
V V^\x
m
m
'S/,/
""((If.
mMi
£=St
<4t
v -
OnV
sSfe
FIRM
**" WILUfcWI?
FOUNDATION
Today, construction in Australia is an
urgent national need. We must build on firm founda-
tions to provide more places to live and work. Homes, schools,
bridges, hospitals, roads, airports—projects of all types are needed to repair
the neglect of wartime and to build structures for the present and the future. This
is the job Allis-Chalmers is doing. We know and experience the value of a
firm foundation. Based on 100 years of wide experience, Allis
Chalmers Motor Graders and Tractors powered with the
famous G.M. 2-cycle Diesel engines are the tools
designed to untiringly play their im-
portant part in the reconstruc-
tion and expansion of
Australia.
AC
Industrial Distributors for New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South
Australia : TUTT-BRYANT PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: A. G. WEBSTER & SONS
LTD., Hobart and Launceston. Western
Australia : WESTRALIAN TUTT-
BRYANT PTY. LTD., Perth.
Agricultural Distributors for Western
Australia: WESTRALIAN FARMERS
CO-OPERATIVE LTD. South Australia:
JOHN SHEARER & SONS PTY., LTD.
Victoria : MITCHELL & CO. PTY. LTD.
N.S.W.: MITCHELL SHEARER FARM
MACHINERY PTY. LTD. Queensland:
ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. AUST.
LTD. Tasmania: A. G. WEBSTER &
SONS LTD.
11/97FP
fw&r
m. 0
ISSt
c
iSS
• Industrial Tractor*
• Road Building Machinery
• Agricultural Tractors


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3528
Wednesday, September 24, 1947
GHOST OF TIME PAST.
‘No Communist rally these days is complete without a vote of confidence in the Government’s banking policy and a pledge of unqualified support from the Communist
party to the Chifley Government.” — Mr. Lang in his “Century."


The Bulletin
Tbe National Ausjralian Newspape.
Australia tor the While M.u
Directors:
H K Prior J E Webb
P.‘ H.' Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan's Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SOCIALIST BANKRUPTCY.
What has happened in Britain is that the
bottom has fallen out of Labor-
socialism, and that is what is happening
in Australia also. The collapse arrived
earlier in Britain because of the im-
measurably worse general position of
that war-exhausted country when the
Labor-Socialist doctrinaires took charge,
and because in the application of their
design for general prosperity and happi-
ness —■“nationalisation,” doubling of ex-
ports, borrowing, “bulk purchases” and
the rest —these worthies had no mitigat-
ing or delaying factor at their disposal,
no counterpart of our magnificent wool
industry. But in both countries the box
is broken and the dice are scattered;
and the players, so far from being cured
of their infatuation, propose to continue
the crazy game for higher stakes.
Hoping to keep it going, they fly from
one desperate expedient to another.
One desperate expedient to which both
sets of gamblers have subscribed is a
drastic reduction of imports, even neces-
sary imports, from Canada and the
United States. A poor return for what
those “capitalist” countries did during the
war and have done since, for Australia in
no small degree and for Britain on an
immense scale, and a hazardous policy
which may have results undreamed-of by
the authors. And it might have been
averted had Dr. Dalton and the ex-Com-
munist Strachey kept in touch with the
Governments at Washington and Canada,
whose sole object in granting their great
loans was to set Britain on its feet again,
and invited them to suggest an alternative
while there was time.
But it is not in the nature of socialists
to seek, much less take, advice from
“capitalists,” however able and generous,
though they have no sort of objection to
borrowing and spending “capitalist”
money. Conceit is the badge of all their
tribe. So the two precious pedants
squandered dollars madly until they
landed themselves and their nation in a
terrific mess. Now Dr. Dalton has had
to sell part of the gold reserve to get
dollars and beg the International
Monetary Fund to give him dollars for
sterling, and the other gentleman has cut
rations again, the “bulk purchases”
policy, based on the “principle” of buy-
ing gaily and heavily in the dearest
market, having suffered a check.
The grant of dollars from the Inter-
national Monetary Fund was followed
by an industrial-conscription decree (“I
can send you to Land’s End if I like”),
aimed in particular at “increasing the
coalfields • labor force by 13,000 to
730,000.” For under “nationalisation”
the Labor-socialist Government has been
unable to get coal in nearly sufficient
quantities, and it has found itself power-
less to with “wildcat strikes,” one
of which brought Yorkshire industry to
a standstill.
For the British coalminers “nationalisa-
tion” meant boards. They soon found
that they hated boards more than they
hated the expropriated mineowners, with
whom they had at least an understanding,
and to whom, if dissatisfied, they could
always say “To hell with the boss!” and
make tracks for some other pit. The
N.S.W. coalminers, who have “nation-
alisation” in everything but the name,
also hate and despisfe boards. One,
headed by a Mr. Gallagher or a Mr.
Shean, gave them the boon of three weeks’
paid holidays, waiving the condition (his
own) that they should have “completed
225 shifts within the qualifying period
[twelve months] or rendered continuous
service between June 9 and the last day of
the first pay period in December.” There
followed immediately the worst stoppages
for the year, which added materially to
“the loss of 1,300,000 tons from strikes.”
TTiis was the estimate of the miners’
former president, Wells, an avowed
disciple of Stalin, who is about to be
admitted to the Labor party, an acquisi-
tion balanced by the admission to the
Communist party of a Macquarie A.L.P.
supporter of Mr. Chifley, who had be-
come too embarrassing.
A paradox of the coal situation is that
the only white miners who are producing
to requirements are the miners in “capi-
talist” America. They are turbulent
fellows, and their turbulence brought
their president' and organisation
tremendous fines after their last old-man
strike. But they paid the fines philo-
sophically, and under the impulse of a
new agreement, which placed' them in the
position of being the best-paid workers
in America, they went down into the
mines again, to hew coal sufficient not
only for the needs of their country, but
for those of a great part of Europe.
Neither Lewis nor the members of his
union have any use for socialism. They
are firm believers in the American system
of free enterprise, realising in their way
that free enterprise means free men.
Free enterprise and free men! How
does Australian “Labor” stand in this
regard?
“Labor” has seized farmers’ wheat and
contracted to sell it for little more than
a third of the current export price. It
has commandeered sheepmen’s wool and
commandeered also for arbitrary expen-
diture £7,000,000 to £10,000,000 of profits
on trading in the substance. It has levied
extortionate taxes and spent part of
the proceeds, and is spending more, on
massive salary-increases for members and
Ministers, the Speaker of the House and
the Senate President—this in flagrant aban-
donment of its wage-pegging policy—on
cars for the privileged caste —one fleet of
fluid-drive Chryslers and another of Buicks
—on improvised jobs for defeated “Labor”
politicians and on dollar-squandering
jaunts not only for Ministers and retinues,
but for a host of party hacks who missed
out in the Caucus election of Ministers
and officers of both Houses. And, having
laid down the proposition that it may
take what it chooses, to take from annual
incomes, it claims the powfer to meddle
as it may choose to meddle with the
deposits of one-sixth of the nation in the
trading banks, which are marked down
for expropriation.
To what end? “Labor” doesn’t say;
perhaps it doesn’t know ; but its Com-
munist supporters, to whom it has sur-
rendered the direction of shipping and
of foreign policy as it concerns the Dutch,
and who are all for expropriation,
are not so reticent. They have
secured control of Government railway-
men’s unions, and it is an old dream of
theirs, sharpened by the financial collapse
of Government railways, to “scale” those
who lent the money for thfe construction
and equipment of those luckless enter-
prises. And they have never ceased to
be inspired by the Russian example of
repudiating the national debt or by the
German example of redeeming it with
bad money.
U.N.O. and the Nark.
There can be no mistaking the purpose
of the American political drive at the
current meeting of the United Nations
General Assembly. Two years’ experi-
ence has shown the complete impotence
of the Security Council to justify its
name or the trust committed to it under
the Charter, As an executive it is a
farce. As a body constituted to bring the
authority of the major Powers to the
work of establishing and maintaining
security against war it has worked only
to produce strife and insecurity, to the
point where another world war is, as
many are coming to believe, already
brewing.
The bone has been justly pointed at
Russia, and not only because the Soviet’s
misuse of the veto has aroused wide-
spread anger and confusion. One English
commentator has declared that the devas-
tation in Europe caused by the war has
been eclipsed by the economic collapse
resulting from the Russian refusal to co-
operate in restoring the requisite condi-
tions for recovery. But the very effort
to counter this majignant Communist
policy has undoubtedly hastened a crisis
by exposing Moscow’s hand. It has also
enhanced the responsibility of the United
States as the author of that effort. In
the words of the London “Spectator”:
Nobody wants a breach with Russia and
everybody hopes that one day it may be
closed. Perhaps the breaf would have come
anyway; but there is no doubt whatever
that, so far as economic affairs are con-
cerned and probably political affairs also,
the Marshall offer has brought it forward
in time —
And not only the Marshall offer; it is
true also of the American intervention
in Greece and Turkey against the aggres-
sive advance of Moscow.
Before the U.N.O. Assembly General
Marshall is now pursuing the course upon
which, at the time of his offer, he told
, the Western European States his Govern-
ment was determined —“to create a
world in which the principles of U.N.O.
could have a chance to take root and
flourish.” But where previously state-
ments from himself or other spokesmen
for his State Department have been on
the plane of high principle, he is now
descending into the arena for a contest
in which the United States alone, at this
moment, can take the lead. The U.S.A.
has, in fact, already taken the lead in
direct action on the European scene, Not
only this action but the whole question of (
U.N.O.’s purpose and authority and the ]
sincerity of its founders is the main-
spring of the issues General Marshall is ;
submitting. For there could be no grosser ;
outrage offered to the body and charter (
of the United Nations than Russia’s <
abuse of a high privilege reserved for (
the chief Powers, and the Russian repre- j
sentative’s vetoing in the Security i
Council alike the duty of the Council :
to examine a plain and submitted breach
of international peace and security and
the very reference of that disturb-
ance to the U.N.O. Assembly.
The mooted “campaign to bring moral
pressure on Russia” may proceed, but its
prospects of success can hardly be
rated as favorable. It is physical com-
pulsion somewhere that has become neces-
sary. Whether General Marshall’s plans,
reputed to have befen well prepared, will
carry him eventually to what the New
York “Times” has described as “a declara-
tion of war within U.N.0.” remains to be
seen. But his opening moves —to have
thfe use of the veto restricted to cases
where military sanctions are under dis-
cussion, and to establish an executive
committee in the Assembly, instead of
the Council, to deal with disputes in
embryo—must either succeed or must
break up U.N.O. along the line of
its clear fracture, into the democratic
majority of the nations which want
peace and the ruthless minority which
contemplates nothing of the sort.
There is a wealth of significance in the
New York “Times’s” comment that the
U.S. delegation “believes that it will be
possible to require co-operation by the
Soviet without enforcing its withdrawal
from U.N.0.” The timfe has gone by
when America, or any member-
nation agreeing with America, could stay
her hand before the threat of that event.
Moscow is now before the judgment seat
of world public opinion,
Russia is engaged upon wiping out at
home “all memory of three-Power co-
operation in the war,” says a London
critic. The Comintern is back again in
full war-paint, and its savage howls
against Socialist and Social Democratic
parties in all European countries —
especially in the Danubian States —are
a throw-back to the ’twenties. Stalin the
other day used the occasion of Moscow’s
“800th anniversary” to hail “the struggle
against the incendiaries of a new war —■
the imperialists who are trying to pro-
voke it,” Old stuff; the stuff he used to
hurl at Hitler and Mussolini. Old stuff
also were the U.N.O. Assembly speech
in which Vishinsky named the Churchills
and 12 Congressmen and other Ameri-
cans as “warmongers” and the resolution
in which he asked the Assembly to “con-
demn the criminal propaganda for a new
war which is being carried on by reac-
tionary circles in a number of countries”
—and so on in the very jargon of a
Moscow trial.
The miserable, hungry, knout-ridden
people of the Danubian States must have
heard with new despair that “Moscow is
the banner of oppressed nations for
liberation from the rule of plutocracy
and imperialism.” Although the peace
treaties for these States were signed on
February 10, not till September 15 did
Russia (the last of the necessary Big Four)
ratify them, and that act was deliberately
delayed by Moscow until the occupying
Red armies had established in power
Communist minorities in the local “Par-
liaments” and seen that the leaders of the
peasant majority parties were incar-
cerated in dungeons, killed off as traitors
or driven into exile. Even now the Red
Army will not leave Hungary or Rumania
—its remaining was the price of any treaty
for either —until the Austrian settlement
is composed. Moscow’s refusal last April
to discuss Austria is thus explained.
What is the explanation of this insist-
ence by Moscow upon occupying the
Danubian States? The story must be
dragged out soon into the light of public
debate, and then Russia and the sea-
Powers will be finally arrayed against
each other. It was a recommendation
from the Paris conference, which drafted
the satellites’ treaties, that within six
months of their ratification the four
Great Powers and all Danubian States
should meet in conference to draw up a
new international convention for the
Danube waterway. With the question of
control of the Danube is wrapped up that
of the Straits. The reason why the Soviet
Government forced upon its war allies a
claim to Bessarabia was to acquire a
riparian State’s interest plus control of
the Danube estuary ; and the Soviet Gov-
erpment is holding the Balkans today,
and trying to rope in Greece under the
same yoke, to become master also of the
Dardanelles.
That has been the Russian objective
since 1812. It was the policy of the
Czars without intermission, and - it is
Soviet policy under Stalin. Equally per-
sistent was the resolution of the other
European Powers to keep the Danube
free for European trade, and the Straits
open, under Turkish sovereignty, for the
outlet of that trade into the Mediter-
ranean.
The Congress of Vienna after the wars
against Napoleon, the treaty of Paris
after the Crimean war and the Congress
of Berlin after the Russo-Turkish war
of 1877 all repelled Russian bids to
dominate the Danube, and fashioned
gradually an international administration
through the European Danube Commis-
sion. When, after the outbreak of Hitler’s
war, the baseness of the Soviet last-
minute pact with the Nazis became fully
revealed, Stalin seized Bessarabia again,
and agreed with Hitler to suppress the
Danube Commission. The two conspira-
tors divided the Balkans between them,
but they fell out when Molotov wanted
recognition for Russia’s prior claim over
the Straits. From that moment Hitler
planned his attack on Russia.
These 125-year-old principles of the
Western Powers concerning the regula-
tion of the Danube were abandoned at
Paris when the satellites’ treaties were
drawn up. “The eastern countries were
sacrificed to the necessities of the hour,”
a former Rumanian ex-Foreign Minister
wrote. “All the treaties did was to
register the political and economic decay
of countries that were [and are] prisoners
within the iron curtain.”
While the Danube remains a Russian
river the Balkans will be a running sore
in Europe. And the threatened revision
of the Montreux Convention concern-
ing the Straits threatens only strife which
will call for all the strength U.N.O. can
muster to subdue it.
Another Setback.
Our Foreign Policy has been cheated of
its desire to guide whirlwinds and direct
storms in the U.N.O. General Assembly.
Dr. Evatt had been proclaimed a certainty
for the post of President by the familiar
band of newspapermen and radio uncles.
He was beaten, after two ballots, by an-
other doctor, the Brazilian Aranha, who
had said he was reluctant to stand.
Yet nothing had been left undone to
render the election of Dr. Evatt certain.
There was “frantic lobbying by the Aus-
tralian delegation,” and “even Australian
journalists were asked if they were doing
their best to ‘help us win.’ ”
When the External Affairs Department
and an inspired press were campaigning
against the American decision to let the
Japanese catch Antarctic whales and mine
phosphatic rock in one of the Marshalls
the Chinese at Nanking were apprised of
“Australia’s” hostility (abandoned so sud-
denly) to this part of General Mac-
Arthur’s policy and the Chinese vote in
U.N.O. should thereby have been
secured. Evidently it was. “Australia,”
already committed to the cause of “our
Indernesian comrades” by the unresisted
decrees of Communist-controlled unions,
had also volunteered for the loaded-with-
dynamite job of arbitrating between “our
Indernesian comrades” and the justly in-
dignant Dutch ; and that should have se-
cured the votes of the Moslem States.
Apparently it didn’t. And the Indian dele-
gation, headed by a dashing lady, must
have been reminded of what the Dutch
morosely call “the Ihdonesian-Indian-
Australian” partnership; anyway, the
Indian vote was promised.
Support could also be expected from
the English-speaking countries, which
could not afford to see “Australia” humil-
iated, though “South Africa is still smart-
ing because ‘Australia’ abstained from
voting on the South African-Indian
issue.” It could be expected also from
the Latin-American republics, which, two
years ago at San Francisco, hailed Dr. Evatt
as the Great Leader of the Small Nations.
The attitude of the Soviet bloc was
uncertain. But the Soviet bloc had cause
to remember that Dr, Evatt brought the
“Australian” Communist organisations
and newspapers back into circulation and
has never done or said a thing to them
since; and that Dr. Evatt gave his
approval to Soviet greed and bullying as
late as last year, saying then that “Russia's
present expansionist policy is defensive
and not aggressive,” being “directed to-
wards self-protection and security against
future attacks.”
But all the manoeuvres and anticipa-
tions went for nothing. The reluctant
Dr. Aranha led Dr. Evatt and Jan
Masaryk, of Czechoslovakia, on the first
ballot, and got the required absolute
majority on the second ballot. Here Dr.
Evatt lost a vote and four delegations,
presumably members of the Soviet bloc,
cynically spoilt their ballot papers. It
was the small Caribbean, Central Ameri-
can and South American nations, Haiti,
Guatemala, Peru and the rest, that
turned their Leader down.
By all accounts Our Foreign Policy is
bearing up as well as can be expected.
Though its insatiable vanity has suffered
a check, it can continue to enjoy the
privilege of being all things to all men.
If “noises off,” distant echoes of mocking
laughter, were heard after the result was
announced, Mr. Paul Hasluck and Mr.
Macmahon Ball may be blamed,


PLAIN ENGLISH
Wanted, a Million.
Murrawong and nannygai, leather-
jacket and bream, flathead, snapper and
garfish, indeed everything that swims in
the seas washing the N.S.W. coast, are
the property of the State “Labor” Gov-
ernment and cannot be caught and sold
without catchers and sellers suffering the
pains and penalties of “Labor” law.
All that has to do with fish is under the
control of that eminent ichthyologist Mr.
John Marcus Baddeley. Mr. Baddeley,
Deputy-Premier and Chief Secretary, was
made chief fisher by Act of Parliament,
and there followed astonishing goings-on.
Fishing-boats began to pull into quiet
coastal spots by night. Thfcir loads were
transferred to motor trucks, which ran
the gauntlet of “Fisheries Department
flying squads” and inspectors disguised as
tree-guards and milestones, what time
newspaper reporters dashed hither and
yon, more or less hot on the trail of all
concerned.
Presently there were free fights and
minor riots at the city fish markets, and
the ichthyologist was heard threatening to
shut the gates and doors or something.
Meantime he put forth a ukase that all
fish caught on the South Coast must go
to the Monaro and there roost at
Nimmitabel until a train could get enough
coal to bring it to the city. When a
ton or so eventually got through, it was
too old or too tired or too strong for
human consumption and presumably
went back into the sea.
About this time the fishing fleets tied
up, announcing that they would remain
tied up until the prices were altered. John
Marcus B. “arguified and stultified, but
didn’t show wherein,” though he forcibly
acquired a cargo of fish sent from New
Zealand. The legal aspects of the trans-
action remain to be defined.
A deputation of fishermen waited upon
J, Marcus last week and complained of
the prices—the innocent fellows appar-
ently imagine that they, and not Mr.
Baddeley, own the fish they catch. J.
Marcus let himself go:
If all the factions in the industry would
come together and cease to be afraid of
each other mhny of the disputes in the in-
dustry would solve themselves....
Then he confided that, like Trochu
and Dr. Coombs, the building wizard of
Post-War Reconstruction, he had a Plan
—“to set up a new control .” With
£1,000,000 from the Federal Government
he could “straighten the industry out.”
Money is the remedy for all the evils
which these “Labor” theorists, from
amateur fishers to amateur bankers, inflict
on the community, provided somebody
else supplies it. Meantime, for the period
of the Baddeley reign in the fish markets,
fish has been but a memory, to thfe aver-
age Sydney household.
The Law and Riot.
On Communist disturbers of the peace:
There is a marked difference between the
Melbourne manner of dealing with them and
the Sydney manner.
In Melbourne, Thornton, the Ironworkers’
boss, and his offsider, McPhillips, both Com-
munist-party officials, entered the pressroom at
the A.C.T.U. Congress, surrounded by a
Praetorian Guard, and made for a reporter
sitting at a table. The reporter they accused,
in foul language, accompanied by threats from
the Praetorian Guard, of having written an
inaccurate report of an incident unpalatable to
them and their mob. Although the reporter
was not in a posture to defend himself,
although he is years older than the disciples
of Moscow, and although he was wearing
glasses, Thornton struck him, knocking his
glasses to the floor.
As this happened in Melbourne Thornton
was arrested like any other common brawler
and brought up at an early sitting of the City
Court—one sitting. The ruffian was fined £5,
with £3 3s. costs in default 14 days. To Mc-
Phillips the magistrate gave the benefit of
“some elements of doubt” but deprived him
of costs.
In Sydney such events take a different course.
When or if Communist brawlers are arrested
at or after public meetings and mob de-
monstrations, they are invariably represented
by counsel, who demand and get long adjourn-
ments to prepare defences on matters regarding
which the evidence should be simple and readily
available.
When the hearing comes on at last the
defendants —a dozen perhaps—demand to be
tried separately. The first one convicted gives
notice of appeal. Further adjournments are
asked for by the rest until the appeal is tardily
decided. In the result it takes many months
to bring to “justice” any Communist thug who
batters a speaker at a public meeting or is
involved in a vicious display like that at Mr.
Menzies’s meeting’ at Darlinghurst in Septem-
ber last year. Under this “system” Communist
basher gangs can operate almost with
impunity.
The cases of Sydney University students
concerned on July 25 in a mob demonstration
against the Netherlands Consulate and in favor
of collaborators of the Japs in Indonesia,
whose gangs of savages have murdered, looted
and pillaged .and who accepted favors and
decorations ‘from the Japanese Emperor and
Government, showed a new technique. Arrests
were made. Immediately there were charges
of police violence, unobserved by impartial
spectators of the outbreak. A “Labor” mem-
ber of the University Senate was defend-
ing solicitor (or his firm was) and he
briefed two counsel, one of whom insulted
the magistrate as well as casting aspersions on
the police and trying to create an atmosphere
of martyrdom. In that he was successful. The
students, with one exception (fined), were either
discharged or found guilty with no conviction
registered.
Thereupon “S. M. Herald” came out with a
grossly unfair leading article on “disgraceful
police methods.” Granny, who really should
know better, insisted that “there shall be
no repetition of the indefensible methods used
to break up the pro-Indonesian procession....
by a' number of youths who behaved fool-
ishly or wrongfully.” To the Old Girl the
affair of July 25 was “a trivial disturbance”
treated as if it were “a major riot,” in which
police, “some of them in plain clothes and
unidentifiable,” employed “unnecessary and
provocative violence.”
In passing it may be said that the “S. M.
Herald” report gave the impression that it
mw a major riot, using the expression “a
wild fight in the city.” And if it was not a
major riot it was no fault of the organisers. The
whole tone of the procession was grossly pro-
vocative to the feelings of decent citizens and
insulting to a loyal and friendly allied people.
The procession itself was illegal, as everybody
who took part in it was old enough to know.
And though the thing was supposedly the
boyish emanation of overenthusiastic students
burning with zeal for “our Indernesian com-
rades,” murderers of Australian servicemen and
Dutch women and children, others showed a
dangerous prescience about it. The Communist
crowd knew all about it in advance and mem-
bers of the gang that attacked the Menzies meet-
ing and on a later occasion assaulted two Liberal
speakers in the Domain were there in person
tendering advice. A boss of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, himself a Communist
notorious for his connection with the out-
rages against the Dutch, was there, surrounded
by kindred spirits.
And there were certain curious features not
commented on in court. One was that some
unauthorised person sumiponed military and
naval patrols, perhaps hoping that something
would come of it which would allow it to be
said that the authorities were using the mili-
tary. Another was the presence in force of
newspaper and cinema photographers. They
could scarcely have been on hand so promptly
“ENGLAND’S NECESSITY IS IRELAND’S OPPORTUNITY.”
“Mr. De Valera is visiting London with a promise of a million cattle a year for the
next five years.”
“This is giving a new twist to the old saw, John. And now about that little
matter of partition” . ..
if they hadn’t been told that what was about
to happen would be something more than a
small and peaceful demonstration of trifling
“news value.”
A Second Indonesia.
Announcement of the latest French offer
of self-government in Indo-China directs
attention to the remarkable likeness be-
tween the difficulties of France in that
colony and those of the Dutch in Java.
The Japanese-Communist influence, the
mixture of fighting and negotiation, the
instability of any agreement to which
European negotiators could bring Com-
munist-schooled native leaders and the
nature of the compromise sought by the
French have all been of a pattern with
Dutch experience in the N.E.I.
The leading Annamite Communist, Ho
Chi Minh (being a Communist he natu-
rally has an alias, Nguyen-ai-quoc), is a
counterpart of Soekarno in Java, though
in the 20 years before the late war
his foreign career was more varied. He
spent several of those years in Moscow
undergoing training in the class-war
school. There were occasional small ris-
ings in Annam as, contemporaneously, in
Java. When the Japanese invaders
arrived they met little opposition. Not
until the Japanese were facing defeat did
the rebels, with the enemy’s encourage-
ment, set up their own “Governments.”
At the end of the war France was no
more in position to move in thait were
the Dutch next door. As in Java, so in
Annam, it was a British force that first
entered to round up Japanese and set
free prisoners and hostages. Ho Chi
Minh meanwhile proclaimed Viet-Nam
(Annam) an independent republic, just as
Soekarno did for Java. When the French
finally alrived to take over, they brought
with them offers of a settlement in the
form of a federation of Indo-Chinese
States, to have local autonomy within a
French Union (including metropolitan
France), external interests to be repre-
sented by France. Viet-Nam was to be
a free republic with its own Parliament
within this federation. In March, 1946,
this offer was accepted, and hostilities
were to cease.
Following the Indonesian pattern, the
Viet-Nam leaders promptly began pre-
varications over the carrying out of the
agreement. They wanted diplomatic as
well as economic freedom. They wanted
to embrace other provinces within their
“republic,” and claimed superior status
over those excluded from it. The agree-
ment to cease “fighting” was ignored.
Like the Dutch, the French proceeded
to organise the remainder of the pro-
posed federation. There were truces in
the fighting and repeated breaches of
truce by Ho Chi Minh’s “army.” Till
October last settlement seemed hopeless.
Then Ho Chi Minh agreed to sign a
treaty on terms originally offered. Like
his opposite number, Sjahrir, in Java, he
was straightway displaced by a Com-
munist committee which ran the “army.”
Fighting began again and has continued
spasmodically ever since. In April the
ex-monk Admiral D’Argenlieu was re-
placed by a civilian High Commissioner,
Emile Bollaert, .who has put out a new
offer —conditional on a cease-fire order
being obeyed—of full self-government
within a French Union, guarantees
against persecution of minorities, strategic
military installations to remain under
the French, and recognition of French
treaties with foreign Powers. The offer
must be accepted or rejected as a whole.
The Viet-Namese could have had these
terms long ago. Being Communist-
directed, they have preferred disorder
and violence.
A Bottle of Scent.
A sort of breathless hush fell upon the
continent’s flapper papers when a French
commercial traveller by the name of
Balmain dropped down at Sydney, accom-
panied by a few samples of his wares.
This M. Balmain, no less shrewd and
practical than any other French shop-
keeper, was by no means averse from
capitalising the air of worship which he
encountered, recorded in awe for the
readers of the city’s oldest daily paper:
To the accompaniment of recordings
of seventeenth-century French music
in the darkened gallery, where the only
light was that centred on the speaker,
M. Balmain told of the little boy in
Savoy who wished to design even against
the wishes of his parents.
To his credit the man found it a bit too
much, and asked for lights, after which
there was a parade of “mannequins,”
one “escorted by Gilbert, a French
poodle,” with all the trimmings and
superlatives. Two days later the drapery
concern which, with other drapery con-
cerns and flapper papers, has been im-
porting French girls and “couturiers” at
a time when travel is costly and difficult,
and splurging their every gesture and
word across the pages of scarce and dear
newsprint, introduced a bottle of scent.
This, it was claimed, was the inspira-
tion or the invention or something of the
“famous French couturier”; “a light,
airy, drifting perfume.” And for a
drachm or two husbands and fathers were
invited to pay £l2 19s. 6d. Just on £l3
for a tiny bottle! Shade of George
Houston Reid! When the price was two
bob or thereabouts George objected to
its being increased by taxation, on the
ground that Our Girls had a prescriptive
interest in saturating their persons with
perfume “to make a fellow believe it will
always be like that,”
"The Soviet Myth."
“It is clear that Churchill has been
cheated by Tito, and that Major Ran-
dolph Churchill has contributed to the
family disaster. Lack of experience in
dealing with adventurers or Tito’s kind —
brazen fellows educated in the tough
school of Moscow—proved fatal.”
The foregoing passage is taken from
There Shall Be No Victory, by Axel Heyst
(Gollancz), Heyst, an able student of
affairs with a European mind, spent the
war years in Britain, except for visits to
France before the catastrophe of that
country, which he foresaw, and kept a
diary which, because of “the deplorable
lack of moral courage displayed by pub-
lishers and editors in democratic
countries,” he could not get printed until
this year. The diary, carried to the end
of 1945, is embodied in There Shall Be
No Victory. It is well-informed and well-
written, and the judgments are thought-
provoking, if not always convincing.
Heyst has three heroes, Churchill (“one
of the greatest war leaders”), Roosevelt
and the average Briton ; and hfe has two
aversions, Chamberlain and the Russia-
Is-Always-Right inkslinger. On that
worthy he quotes a George Orwell
“message to English Left-wing journalists
and intellectuals generally.”
Do remember that dishonesty and
cowardice always have to be paid for.
Don’t imagine that for years on end you
can make yourself the boot-licking propa-
gandists of the Soviet or any other regime
and then suddenly return to mental decency.
Once a whore always a whore.
On Chamberlain, however, the author’s
verdict, in chapter after chapter, is in-
distinguishable from that of the Leftist
herd. Yet, being honest, if here inconsist-
ent, he allows that “Churchill, who
roundly condemned Munich and Cham-
berlain’s policy, was rushed into another
Munich and another capitulation”;
Churchill’s Russian policy is bound to be
judged severely by- posterity; and Roosevelt
underestimated the cunning of Stalin —
fell victim to his ignorance of the methods
of a totalitarian State.
A chapter of this arresting volume is
headed “The Collapse of the Soviet
Myth.” The collapse began during the
1939 invasion of eastern Poland, an in-
vasion carried out by clouds of Asiatics
and other strangers from the steppes in
“shoddy uniforms,” the officers for the
most part “rather poor, ill-disciplined and
thievish,” the soldiers “even worse”;
They steal watches, bicycles, typewriters,
fountain pens and everything reasonably
portable they can lay their hands on.
They behave like savages. They drink heavily ,
and rape wholesale. They look like people
who have suffered years of misery. There
are tales of Russian officers’ wives wearing
nightdresses at the theatres in Lvov [Lem-
berg] and Vilna, obviously mistaking them
for evening gowns. Otherwise their clothes
are terribly shabby. The general appearance
of both men and women is unhealthy, sug-
gesting years of undernourishment.
That entry in the Heyst diary bears the
date, February 1, 1940. Another, more
terrible, is dated October 29, 1945:
For millions of Europeans the Soviet
Myth has already collapsed). Russian
prisoners-of-war in Norway, and even in
Germany’s camps, showed great unwilling-
ness to go home, whilst Latvians, Eston-
ians and Lithuanians resisted all attempts
to dislodge them.
When Russian troops entered Budapest
and Vienna they were given a free hand.
Hundreds of thousands of women in Buda-
pest and Vienna were raped, and looting
was the order of the day. The memory will
live on in the two cities like a nightmare.
Thousands of similar stories are now
pourjng in from all parts of Europe. The
general pattern is always the same: looting,
wanton destruction, inefficiency; the dis-
mantling of factories; the introduction of
radical changes which must result in eco-
nomic chaos. The wanton conduct of Russia’s
soldiers betrays the misery and starvation-
level of life from which they came. But
in Western Europe the spell of the Soviet
Myth has not yet been broken.
But it has been shaken, for (Nov. 10,
1944) “thousands of Russian soldiers” in
Hitler’s service were caught by the ad-
vancing Allied armies in northern and
southern France ; and “the local popula-
tions sighed with relief.” Moreover
“French and British p.-0.-w. liberated by
the victorious Russian armies intensely
disliked the secret police, the commissars
and similar features of Soviet life.” Pre-
viously “the West” had “shown a fatal
tendency to subscribe to Russian ways
and to the Russian version of ‘De-
mocracy’ and ‘Fascism’.” This tendency
must be arrested if Europe, as Europe,
is to survive ; but Heyst noted on Nov-
ember 13, 1944, that “while Russia is al-
ready putting the finishing touches to the
eastern and south-eastern European bloc
Britain has not even started building her
own western bloc.” And he gloomily pre-
dicted that surrender to the sophistries
of continental socialism which has
brought Britain (he did not mention Aus-
tralia) to the verge of economic disaster.


c*
i
6574
w
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
ŵ
POLITICAL POINTS
The Opposition-leader’s speech in
launching the bank-grab debate was one
of the best he has ever made at Can-
berra. Chifley’s reply gave the impres-
sion of agitation as well as evasion, and
so did the contributions of his followers
with unsafe seats. He and they must
have had in mind not only the nation-
wide petitions and protest meetings but
the warnings of Frank Brennan, voiced
in Caucus—somewhat querulously, for
the years are telling on Scullin’s faithful
lieutenant (“Brennan and Moloney con-
cur”). The old campaigner knows what
happens to the party when public opinion
turns against it. In 1929 the member for
Batman got one of the greatest majorities
ever given to a pledge-and-Caucus man:
Brennan 46,666, Keeley 14,891. In 1931
it was Dennis 31,393, Brennan 30,432.
Australian tax-revenue (Commonwealth
and States) for the war year 1930-31
amounted to £181,600,000, In 1946-47,
exclusive of what the States got from
land taxes, estate duties and the like, it
reached £374,000,000, and Chifley—
always a long way out in his estimates —
expects £356,000,000 this year, plus “in-
creased collection of arrears.” All expen-
diture of Commonwealth and States in
1940-41 was £279,200,000. The 1947-48
Commonwealth estimate is £427,000,000,
Only yesterday wage-pegging, “to hold
the line against inflation,” was Chifley
policy. Now all Commonwealth Govern-
ment employees, with members and
Ministers leading, are to receive substan-
tial increases, and the strikes against
wage-pegging—mostly for a few bob a
week —have been relegated to the his-
torians of these times. If they are honest,
they won’t spare “Labor,”
Tom Tunnecliffe is to be succeeded as
M.L.A. for Collingwood, safest of
“Labor” seats for half a century, by
W. J. Towers. Towers has been a Col-
lingwood councillor for 18 years and
mayor three times; what is more, he
“served on Gallipoli with the sth Bat-
talion, and in France with the 59th,”
returning with the M.M. and honorable
scars. In short an unusually good candi-
date, and he needed to be; even so, an
unknown Liberal, helped not at all by a
blithe party admission that he hadn’t a
Chinaman’s chance, doubled the last
U.A.P. score. Cain was careful not to
hail the result as a Collingwood verdict
for bank expropriation. He claimed it
as a vote of confidence in his “Govern-
ment.”
At the time of the Paris “peace” talks
a yarn went the rounds about Hector
McNeil (recently in Australia) and Molo-
tov. McNeil remarked that Scots and
Russians had two things in common —
“we get better as the night grows longer
and we like to drink with our chess.”
After one long troublesome session Molo-
tov asked whether McNeil was going to
drink with his chess that night. “Chess
after this?” said McNeil. “No, I’ll just
drink.” Last week it was reported that
after Vishinsky’s outburst of vilification
against America? McNeil shook hands
with him and said his speech was “an
excellent performance.” Perhaps the
kindest explanation of this extraordinary
action is that McNeil had not been play-
ing chess.
When the Commonwealth Hospital
Benefits Act came into force last year
it was thought it might adversely affect
schemes like the N.S.W. Hospital Con-
tributions Fund, a voluntary organisation
whose members in return for a small
weekly payment are entitled to benefits
similar to those of the Government
scheme. The fears were unfounded. For
the year ended June 30 last the increase
in membership was a record for the 14
years of the fund’s existence and nearly
£400,000 was paid out in claims. In all,
88,145 members received benefits and
over £40,000 was distributed to hospitals
included in the scheme.
For 36 years (1904-40) Dr. Maloney
was “Labor” member for Melbourne, and
he rarely let a session go by without pro-
claiming his adhesion to the initiative and
referendum. Could the little doctor have
been in the House last week listening to
his degenerate contemporaries and suc-
cessors repudiating the referendum he
would have taken a fit. Archie Cameron
tartly reminded them of their apostasy.
A man with a retentive memory as well
as a rasping tongue, he recalls that the
initiative and referendum was the second
plank of S.A. Labor’s general platform,
constructed in 1908, and the 14th of the
Federal “Labor” platform on which the
party won the 1910 election, “Main-
tenance of a White Australia,” now also
buried deep, was the first. In those days
the word Labor didn’t call for inverted
commas. ~
Professor Currie, Vice-Chancellor of
the Westralian University, in a Macrossan
lecture on education at Brisbane:
Australia’s moral laziness leads to a
state where juries cannot be found to
convict criminals and known rogues may
be appointed to public offices.
Surely this can’t be true. “Labor” pre-
dominates in Australia and is pledged to
“the cultivation of an enlightened and
self-reliant community.”
Wheat, 180 or 200 million bushels of
it. Great stuff, wheat. One trouble is
that the farmers won’t have enough
machines to take it off. If they do get
it off there won’t be enough coal to run
wheat trains. If they do get trains there
won’t be sufficient ships to take it out
of the country, and there are neither
bags nor silos in which to store such a
quantity. Mice and weevils look like
having a good time.
Flowery compliment, transferred to a
State Paper by Dr. Evatt after he had
assisted in “Shaping the Purposes of the
United Nations” at San Francisco:
At the final meeting of the Steering Com-
mittee the delegate of Peru proposed a special
vote “by way of homage to the greatest
champion of the small Powers —Foreign
Minister of Australia Herbert Vere Evatt.”
The chairmen of the delegations rose to
their feet and carried the vote by accla-
mation.
Ah Fame, thou fleeting ember! Ah In-
gratitude, sharper than a rattlesnake’s
tooth! When “the Greatest Champion
of the Small Powers” put up for president
of the U.N.O. Assembly, with “frantic”
lobbying and log-rolling placed at his
service, it was Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia,
Paraguay, Uruguay, San Salvador, Guate-
mala and the rest of the small Powers
in Central America, South America and
the Caribbeans that turned him down.
The wittiest thing said by Paul Has-
luck about his relations with Dr. Evatt,
now severed for all time, was left out of
Be-Kind-to-Evatt newspapers —not the
“West Australian”:
It was not my privilege as a representa-
tive of the Department of External Affairs
to differ publicly with the Government on
a question of policy. I have never done
so even when policies changed their
plumage in mid-flight.
No doubt Macmahon Ball, now back in
circulation, will have something to say-
on his own account about “policies”
which “change their plumage in mid-
flight,”
The theft of a thousand two-shilling
pieces consigned by rail to Coffs Harbor,
N.S.W., led to the revelation that “more
than £200,000-worth of goods disappeared
from the N.S.W. Government railways
during the last twelvemonth, £160,000-
worth being lost on the North Coast line.”
A few stiff sentences would go far to-
wards erasing this blot on Government
ownership and on the reputation of
Sydney as a port —for pilfering from
ships’ holds and wharves is as bad as, or
worse than, pilfering on the railways—but
no stiff sentences are ever imposed for
these blackmarket-feeding crimes. There
are few prosecutions, and convictions are
generally met with fines or nominal terms
of imprisonment, suspended as often as
not.
Admiral Halsey’s memoirs have been
appearing in the “Saturday Evening
Post,” and one passage is especially in-
teresting to New Zealanders and Austra-
lians. It concerns a visit to Auckland at
the beginning of 1943:
Peter Fraser told me his country was
still apprehensive about a Japanese break-
through and was urging him to bring the
N.Z. divisions, back from Africa. Mr.
Churchill and President Roosevelt were no
less insistent that he leave them, for
General Montgomery’s slender forces might
not be able to survive the depletion, and
the Allies had no ships to spare.
Reassured by the Admiral, Fraser’s Gov-
ernment left Freyberg’s men in Egypt
and they went on to gain deathless glory
in their fighting from El Alamein through
to Trieste. Canberra insisted on bring-
ing the Ninth Division back, regardless
of the needs of the Eighth Army and of
the dearth of shipping.
In his stumbling speech, on the no-
confidence motion Chifley pleaded again
and again that he aimed at nothing
more than control of banking and cur-
rency. He has that control to the full
extent permitted by the Constitution, as
construed by the High Court, What he
is after is ownership of the banks, with
all the powers that ownership gives. And
ownership exercised in the partisan spirit
evidenced in the appointments of McKell,
Breen, Martens, Mountjoy, Frost and the
Communist Rudkin —and what guarantee
is there that it would not be so exer-
cised?—and in the spirit of abject sur-
render to Communism, pointed by the
undeclared war on the Dutch, would be
a threat to all depositors not “in with
the mob,” and an omen of ruin to indi-
vidual liberty.
Just before Sydney’s Joe Cahill brings
in his bill to put 52 municipalities out of
business and substitute a “Greater
Sydney” of 14 councils, somebody
should remind him, for what the re-
minder may be worth, that there is a
Greater Brisbane. Greater Brisbane
levies sky-high rates and is the “Gov-
ernment’s” biggest debtor. It owed
the “Government” £3,151,753 at June 30,
a third of the total indebtedness of local
authorities councils, hospitals, fire
brigades, harbor boards and so forth.
As was here suggested (B. 10/9/’47) the
conference of the Food and Agricul-
tural Organisation (all nations except
Russia and puppets) recognised that the
proposals prepared for it, aiming at estab-
lishment of a World Food Board with
wide powers to finance and control pro-
duction and distribution of foodstuffs,
“cannot be realised at present.” The
gentlemen at Geneva had to be content,
as Lord Bruce warned an earlier prepara-
tory commission, with a proposal for a
Food Council “to co-ordinate annual
programmes of various countries and
inter-Govemmental agreements over agri-
cultural commodities” —so far as these
may be willing. Such excessive planning
only deludes the “planners” and every-
body else.
The mild Stassen, so far the only avowed
aspirant to the Republican nomination
for President, has come out with a
declaration that he would make it a con-
dition of aid to all countries that they
proceed with no further measures tot
“nationalise” industries. Questioned
specifically, he replied that he would not
favor giving aid to Britain unless the
“Labor” Government dropped its crazy
notion of taking over the iron and steel
industries. It is a disconcerting message
to Chifley, as well as to Attlee, Dalton,
Shinwell, Sevan, Laski and the rest of
the dreaming pedants of Labor-socialism,
The great Government wheat distillery
at Cowra (N.S.W.), built —at heaven
knows what cost —to turn wheat into
power alcohol —it never produced a gallon
of the stuff—has lost its innards. The
boilers are to be used for generating elec-
tricity or something in the N.S.W. south-
west. Nothing has been heard of the one
at Warracknabeal, placed there in part-
payment for Wilson’s vote. Pferhaps the
Warracknabeal boilers could be used for
cooking crawfish from The Yarriambiac
creek.
At Paris in August, 1946, when drafts
of the peace treaties for Rumania, Bul-
garia, Yugoslavia, Hungary and Finland
were discussed —the treaties came into
force on September 15 —four main objec-
tives were sought:
1. Inclusion of a clause guaranteeing
human rights. (Included for Finland, but
Russia successfully opposed it for all the
others.)
2. Provisions assuring freedom of trade
in the areas occupied by Russia. (Left
unsettled.)
3. Freedom of navigation on the Danube.
(Left unsettled.)
4. Withdrawal of Russian occupying
forces from Hungary, Rumania and Bul-
garia. (Provided as regards Bulgaria only;
for the others it has to await an Austrian
settlement.)
This is the miserable fruit of two years’
effort to induce the Soviet to join in
giving peace to part of Europe. Stalin’s
commentary, simultaneously with his
belated last-man ratification of these con-
temptible instruments, is that “the im-
perialists are trying to provoke a new
war! ”
The distraught figure seen rushing from
bookshop to bookshop in Washington
(D.C.) at the week-end was probably Bert
Evatt in search of a copy of the best-
seller of a few years back, Latins Are
Lousy Lovers.
Throughout the Occupation Japanese
officials have been openly living on the
black market, and General Mac Arthur
has had to issue a “directive” to deal with
the situation. In other days Japanese
political history was a record of financial
scandals which staggered the Staviskys,
and other European practitioners, by
their magnitude.
“Labor” was presented with a case to
answer when a former R.A.A.F. chaplain,
Rev. Prouse, made these remarks at an
all-Australian Band of Hope conference
in Brisbane;
One of the most terrible things that hap-
pened to youth during the war was the
handing out of two bottles of beer as an
allowance in camp. I often saw young
girls with tears in their eyes, saying that it
was the first time they had taken liquor,
and that their mothers would be ashamed
to see them because they had found it
easier to “go with the mob” than to resist.
But surely “Labor’s” subservience to the
Booze interest didn’t go so far as a beer
issue to girls.
The waterfront powers of the Parlia-
ment at Canberra are not in question. As
delegated to the “Government” they are
full and ccfmplete in respect of every
port, harbor and roadstead in Australia.
Yet because the “Government” doesn’t
govern where unions are concerned these
powers, or such of them as are required
by Communists for their malignant pur-
poses, have been seized by the Com-
munist-controlled Waterside Workers’
Federation and other maritime unions and
exercised to the grave injury of the coun-
try in its foreign and domestic rela-
tions.
Overseas shipowners charged with
the duty of carrying food to Britain have
asked Chifley to end “the chaotic condi-
tions on the waterfront,” pointing out
that, by “slow handling and disputes,”
ships are kept so long in ports,
discharging and loading, that “running
to any sort of time-table is impossible.”
Any Government worthy the name would
be moved by this appeal to take drastic
action. The Chifley crowd will just
“acknowledge receipt,” and go on seeing
that men who refuse to work more than
30 hours or so a week get 12s. a day
when they so time their visits to the
wharves —or their visits, if any, are so
timed for them —that there is nothing for
them to do.


“ALWAYS A BRIDESMAID, NEVER A BRIDE.”
“Dr. Evatt was defeated for president of the U.N.O. Assembly by representatives of the Latin American nations, who hailed him as their champion in 1945."


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Jasby”; It’s probably been told of
other pubs, but in my time and town it
was told of the “Royal.” In the days
when pubkeepers could go broke —when
beer was cheap and glasses big and there
were no cash registers—the proprietor of
the Royal, a generous bloke with no
head for business, found himself on the
rocks. Put up for sale, the pub was
knocked down to the barman, who had
thitherto shown no signs of being a man
of capital. The ex-owner suggested to
his successor that the least he could do
for an ex-employer was offer him a job.
New Bung agreed and Old Bung went to
work in the bar. A couple of years
passed by and, despite a good bar trade,
New Bung in his turn found himself sold
up, the purchaser being Old-Bung-now-
barman. While he was busy superin-
tending the painting-up of his name in its
old familiar place above the door of the
Royal, the dispossessed one came up,
suggested that one good turn deserved
another and asked for his old job back.
“Be jiggered,” said Bung-once-more, “I
lost it that way ; I got it back that way.
I’m not taking any more chances. You
can have a job in the stable. The bar’s
mine,”
* * * *
“Quilliam-street”: That kiddies’ pro-
gramme of “Twenty Cartoons” (B.
17/9/’47) wasn’t the only example of
specialised entertainment provided during
Adelaide’s Royal Show week. A couple
of enterprising fellows got together a
collection of early Charlie Chaplin films
and ran an All-Chaplin bill; judging by
the queues they were well repaid for their
effort. I could sit out a programme of
custard-pies and slapstick, but I’m
hanged if I’d be tempted by the fare
offered by a rival, theatre; “Swing!
Swing! Swing! 16 Hot Swing shorts!”
The names of the 16 swingers were listed.
I’m not well up in the craft, and as far
as I am concerned they might just as
well have been purveyors of hot-dogs as
of hot swing, but although they left me
cold I have no doubt that bobby-soxers
of both sexes found their appeal irre-
sistible.
# H* * H*
“Cauboy”: Melbourne’s Louis Monod
announced last year that, owing to short-
age -of accommodation, sideshows at the
Royal Show had been vetoed. But the
Pinheaded Chinaman, the Tailed Man
from Borneo, the World’s Fattest Woman,
the Two-headed Calf and the other mon-
strosities recalling the court of Philip the
Fourth as painted by Velasquez must
have climbed under or over the fence be-
cause they turned up as usual and did
the customary roaring business. The
same announcement wa§. made this year,
reason given being the enormous increase
of entries, especially in the equine divi-
sion. Personally I can’t find it in my
heart to regret it. The young ladies who
risk their lives riding round the inside
of a ball on motor-cycles display' skill
and courage which can be an inspiration
to the small fry, but the unfortunate
creatures who make a living exposing
their deformities to the public must have
a depressing effect even upon a champion
Clydesdale. No healthy child would'
want to emulate a woman who turns the
scale at 26 stone, and if horror films
which are palpable make-believe are con-
sidered to have a detrimental effect on
children the traditional Show custom of
entertaining the youngsters with a human
pathological museum must be more so,
“X.S.”; Melbourne police headquarters
issued a fearsome warning to Royal Show
visitors and Melbourne people to be on
the look-out for pickpockets, thieves
and confidence tricksters, and a
certain bearded master of his craft was
specifically mentioned. In the six-o’clock
rush from a Collins-street hostelry two
men violently collided. Each looked at
the other, each saw a beard, and both
instantly clapped their hands on their
pockets. Then both laughed, having
recognised each other as fellow-artists.
* * * *
“PJop”: “No, we’ve nothing in a very
mild stripe. How about one like this?”
The salesman leant across the counter
and bared for me his necktie. It bore a
golden dragon breathing scarlet fire down
a green silk background. “You know,”
he said, “these ties aren’t really loud. It
is merely male inhibitions which make
them seem so. I really believe that since
I’ve been wearing this I keep a
little warmer in spite of the weather.”
I did not doubt it and scrutinised his
neck for blisters. After reading the report
"Why are you so lonely, cowboy?"
"Ain't got na cows."
of what a sinister influence such neck-
wear can possess, I am glad that I did not
soften and buy one. New York
police and fire-brigades, responding to a
call from a street-corner alarm-box,
turned up but found no fire. Bystanders
informed them: “The man who gave the
alarm went into a bar up the street. You
should have seen his tie. Flowers! ” The
police entered the pub, nabbed the man
with the loudest tie, and shortly after-
wards had him admitting to the local
beak “that he just couldn’t resist it.” He
was stung 75 dollars.
* * * *
“Ad Rem”: Truth in advertising, con-
fidence in one’s product or war-time hang-
over? A Melbourne asthma-fixer extol-
ling a new gadget with which to apply his
particular cure had a sizable advt, in a
daily to explain its whys and wherefores.
Following an announcement of the gadget
he exhorted would-be clients to “Write
(no longwinded ear-bashing details
wanted), enclosing name and address.”
• ♦ * *
“Chevroford”; It is 93 years since Sir
Charles Hotham, Lieutenant-Governor of
Victoria, and all the eminent citizens of
Melbourne stood on the Flinders-street
station and stared amazed as an Aus-
tralian engine, clothed in steam, drew the
first train away from an Australian plat-
form while a band played the National
Anthem, It was only accidentally an
Australian engine. The puffpuffs ordered
from England had failed to arrive, but
the engineer of the Melbourne and
Hobson’s Bay Railway Company, a man
of resource, put together a loco-
motive capable of hauling 130 tons at
the express speed of 25 miles per hour.
This forerunner of the Spirit of Progress
conducted a half-hourly daily service to
Sandridge, the windjammer-crammed
port of Melbourne, for 10 weeks and then
went on strike; the service was sus-
pended until the English locomotives
turned up. There were only nine engines
to hold up in 1854—now Mr. Brown, of
the A.R.U., has no fewer than 4748 at his
disposal.
* * * *
“Bo”; An English medical journal,
in describing baby shows as “ridiculous
anachronisms,” goes on to ask what ex-
actly constitutes a prize baby. Well, if
the medicos don’t know, how can the
layman, who is usually the judge, decide?
Certainly those unsung heroes who fool-
ishly allow themselves to be roped in
to face the wrath of the mothers of the
also-rans —and the proverbial ire of the
woman scorned by her lover is as the
cooing of a dove compared with it —
have usually only the foggiest notion of
the finer points of infanthood. Every
suburban baby-show judge I have seen
in action plumps for the outsize infant,
and the more revolting its rolls of fat
the better its chances of the prize. If it
is placid as. well, then it’s a monte foi
the prize, although the placidity may
denote laziness or dopiness. Usually,
too, the kid who adds to the judge’s other
harassments by bawling has the Bolter’s
chance, though it may be the perfect
physical specimen. It is not unusual for
the winner of a baby contest to grow up
into the scraggiest and unloveliest of
humans. I am all for the scotching of
these baby shows. Well, I" may as well
confess it; I’ve just been asked to judge
one.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: Like T.N.T. (B.
17/9/’47), gelignite is given, by sensation-
loving writers, a much more dangerous
reputation than it merits. I’ve often
wished for the opportunity to take one
of these bright young reporters under-
ground where he could see miners biting,
breaking and ramming the stuff into the
holes; or dropping several dozen plugs
of it into their shirt to facilitate scaling
up a 60ft. rise. Out Tennant Creek way
I once rode about 20 miles with a city
tourist in the back of a utility over one
of those roads that just happen by acci-
dent. At the end of the journey he
admired the solid boxes on which he had
been sitting and asked what was in ’em.
Subsequently I had to take a stick of
the stuff, break it, jump on it and hurl
it at a rock half a dozen times, and even
then he wasn’t quite convinced that he
hadn’t been within a fraction of sudden
death for 20 miles. Some say gelly is
dangerous if it has been frozen by frosts,
but I’ve never seen it confirmed. It’s
another story altogether, of course, when
the stuff gets its initial kick-off from the
fulminate of mercury in a detonator.
* * * *
“Macnell”: The Navy had a man-size
job recently when required to tow a
50,000-ton floating dock from India
through the Suez Canal. Built of Indian
material by Indian labor for the Admir-
alty at a cost of £1,500,000, the dock is
in two sections and when assembled
stretches for 855 ft., with a beam of 172 ft.
It will lift the largest warships afloat.
Destined for the Mediterranean, the huge
structure seriously inconvenienced ship-
ping during the seven days it took to
navigate the canal. Though capable of
towing at five knots in the open sea, its
blunt bow at this speed would have
mounted a bow wave big enough to suck
and gouge the canal’s sides. With in-
finite caution and skill the monster was
jockeyed through, but even so the suction
of its passage bared the canal bed astern
for nearly half its width, the muddy water
piling up behind. It would have provided
work for thousands of Egyptians had its
port been Alexandria, but loyal Fleet-wise
Maltese will benefit from the Gyppos’
snarling ingratitude to Britain.
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: The dollar situa-
tion has been relieved slightly by the
fortune of a local genius who has broken
into the Tin Pan Alley song market and
received an advance against royalties
which staggered me when I recalled that
a song like “A Life on the Ocean Wave”
was sold for a mere two guineas The
theme of the young genius’s opus runs
(near enough) “Come in to dinner, darl-
ing, It’s in the room, waiting,” and I
cordially agree that it is probably better
than those inanities “Open the Door,
Richard” and “I Was Watching a Man
Paint a Fence,” both of which, I am in-
formed, brought fortunes to their com-
posers. There is an astonishing market
for tripe these days, owing to the preva-
lence of a large public which regards
strange noises as music and is willing to
pay for records when the songs are put
over the air; and there are royalties for
the performances, too.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Queer hiding-
places for money are not only the prero-
gative of the boozed (B. 3/9/’47). Some
time* ago Darlinghurst police raced to a
laneway as a result of information and
found a man who had been slugged to
sleep by thugs. They had gone through
him so thoroughly that even his boots
and socks had been removed and his
shirt had been torn off—thieves
that some people carry wealth fastened
by elastic bands to their arms or about
their bodies. Yet of the over a hundred
quid their victim carried the toughs had
only got a few pounds that was loose in
his pocket. The rest had remained safe
in a false bottom in the seat of his pants.
* w * s
“Craiser”: Foreigners are usually
credited by Australians with a know-
ledge of at least 10 languages, but all of
them aren’t so gifted. The consul for a
great European country brought his
beautiful young wife out to Melbourne.
One day he came home and found
her giving the butcher his best
sherry and biscuits in the drawing-room.
Not knowing a word of English she
thought the butcher was a visitor call-
ing on the consul.
9P % * *
“Kerin Paul”: Our college was honored
with a visit from the barber every three
weeks. Lads with ambitions for long hair
would give the orders “Leave it on the
top,” or “Just trim up the neck.” As
term progressed several boys looked for-
ward to going home with a spectacular
hair-do, and each day they were frowned
on more by the authorities, who con-
sidered such unconventional styles de-
tracted from the dignity of the college.
At the barber’s last visit, a fortnight be-
fore vacation, the long-haired ones gave
the usual orders, the barber agreeing with
tongue in cheek, for what were these
orders compared with those from higher
up? A few hours later, our literally crest-
fallen youths eyed each other in dismay,
dumbfounded by such dastardly deceit.
Though they weren’t as close-cropped as
convicts, the loss could not be replaced
in two weeks.
* * * *
“Fons” finds evidence for a theory:
As the crowded outer-suburban train
approached the city I noticed that the couple
who had been sitting opposite me, a woman
with black gloves and a haunting eye and her
male companion, had vanished, their places
being taken .by another two passengers. Nothing
very unusual about that, but presently the
woman of the black gloves was back, and in
a twinkling had one man out of his seat. He
left, meekly enough, but the second man, a
middle-aged chap with a pipe, was more diffi-
cult.
“That’s my husband’s seat,” said Black
Gloves, very fiercely. Pipe made a move as
though to rise, and thought better of it. “No-
one sittin’ here when I got in,” he muttered.
Black Gloves was angry, and expressed herself
at length. She appealed to me to confirm that
her husband had been sitting there. I weakly
muttered that I thought so, and retreated be-
hind the paper. “Wait till my husband comes,”
said Black Gloves menacingly.
The husband arrived; a dark, nuggety, lively-
looking customer. Black Gloves informed him
of his wrongs. “Aw,” the husband said, “never
mind.” “Never mind!” shrilled Black Gloves,
an(T commenced to read him a lesson on manli-
ness, mannerliness, spinelessness and kindred
subjects. This went on for some time, the
Man, with the Pipe staring conscientiously out
of the window, the husband doing his best to
take an interest in the ceiling. Then a woman
with a baby got in, and Pipe could surrender
his seat with honor.
From there to Sydney Black Gloves kept up
a kind of intermittent sniping, her husband
limiting himself to remarks like “Aw” and “It
doesn’t matter.” Then Central, and as 1
walked out I accidentally bumped against hubby.
His reaction was instantaneous. “Mind who
you’re pushin’, mug. Cripes,” turning to
Black Gloves, “a bloke oughter clock ’im!”
All of which goes to prove my theory that
it is the women who make wars. Men, by their
superior tact and wisdom, often manage to
avoid them.
CHIFLEY’S ALLIES.
“Communism: The economic theory which advo-
cates the expropriation of private property and the
absorption of all wealth by the community. *’
—Dictionary definition.
Keep up your pecker, much-enduring Chifley.
Stick to your guns. Be resolute and bold.
Maintain that lengthy upper lip as stiffly
As stern and stubborn Pharaoh did of old.
Though angry protests rage as thick around you
As pelting hailstones or as bursting bombs,
One crowd with no dissentient voice has found
you
The very man they need, i.e., the Corns.
True, in your latest project for converting
Banks to your use, you’ve stirred a hornets’
nest
That must have been extremely disconcerting
To you and Dr. Evatt and the rest.
Reluctantly or not, the track you’re trying
They needs must take, like well-trained Pekes
or Poms,
But in this matter, it’s beyond denying,
Your sturdiest supporters are the Corns.
While certain of your mates are heard explain-
ing
Some injudicious utterances away,
And, in the face of what they’ve said, maintain- ’
ing
It wasn’t what they really meant to say,
Others account such sophistries degrading,
Say what they mean, impugn it whoso lists,
And lustily applaud your bank-crusading,
Your hearty barrackers, the Communists.
Some of your followers may hold objections
Deep in their hearts to what you aim to do
And glumly speculate what next elections
May have in store for them, if this goes
through.
Yet here’s a job that destiny’s assigned you.
The twittering of Harrys, Dicks and Toms
Immovable and unperturbed should find you
As long as you have plenty to remind you
There’s one enthusiastic crowd behind you
As solid as a rock—to wit, the Corns.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“It dispenses with all that shoving and pushing at mealtimes."
“Domino”: Along the main street of
Newcastle rolled the sesquicentenary
procession. Beside me in the crowd
stood a father, his three-year-old
perched on his shoulder. One of the
brewery floats was passing. Upon it
was the model of a large white horse,
rampant, and it was drawn by seven
prancing lovelies. The gals were in brief,
white costumes and, in face and figure,
would not have disgraced an old-time
J.C.W. chorus. As the float passed by
the kid beat excitedly on his father’s
head. “Daddy,” he cried, “look at the
nice horse.” “Never mind the horse,
son,” replied Dad, his eyes goggling.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Memory is a perverse
thing, anyway, “Plop” (B. 3/9/’47). I
have a Ipng memory for incidents, but a
deplorable one for faces. A stranger re-
cently greeted me, called me by the
school nickname I left behind 25 years
ago, and continued: “Must be a couple
of years since I saw you last. How’ve
you been going?” Keeping up the con-
versation I tried to avoid the em-
barrassment of baldly asking who he was.
Presently he mentioned our old tyrant of
a schoolmaster. At least it gave me a
line to work on. We were still discussing
bare-footed days when, his train, pulling
in, he rose, shook hands again and left
me with, “You know, I’d completely for-
gotten those times. By Jove, you’ve got
an unnatural memory!” Unnatural was
right—l still don’t know who he was.
* * * *
“Col M.”: Of those gazing into Sydney
Zoo’s monkey pit, all were laughing ex-
cept one —the man whose hat had
fallen in. It was picked up by an
aged monkey who used it as a basket
to hoard peanuts. There followed a
Donnybrook among the apes and the
winner scampered around, waving the lid
at his audience in the manner of Maurice
Chevalier. A mother monkey descended
upon him, thrashed him and took the hat
aloft for use as a cradle for her youngest.
With a last rueful glance at his cady, the
man strode away toward the sobriety of
the Guinea-pig pavilion.
# * * *
“H.W.M.”; Melbourne Bread and
Cheese Club seems unable to get out of
the atmosphere of criminality in which it
was born. For the first two years it met
in the house where Martha Needle com-
mitted the crimes for which she was
hanged. A little later the Knight Grand
Cheese purchased and hung on the walls
a painting alleged to have been executed
by Deeming. Now another member
has come to light with a painting of
Martha Needle herself, which hangs on
the wall opposite the Deeming master-
piece.
“T p”. The house rented by Deeming
at Windsor (Vic.) is certainly occupied
now (B. 3/9/’47), but the original owner
made what was to prove a bad bargain
with one tenant, a showman, who recon-
structed the grisly concrete hearth burial
scene. Morbid crowds, of course, paid
to gloat, and for years afterwards the
place was under a hoodoo. Previously
Deeming fancied a more expensive dwell-
ing, and interviewed the owner, offering
a quarter’s rent in advance. The wife
called her husband from the room and
objected to any dealings with the appli-
cant. “He has called before; and I put
him off,” she said, “He is a bad, oily
man. Why does he offer a bigger rent
in advance?” The husband got rid of
Mr. Deeming; his wife had good reason
later to say “I told you so!”
**♦ , ♦
“Weff ”: When the Warrnambool
(Vic.) “Standard,” which celebrates its
75th birthday next month, was founded
by William Fairfax and Henry Laurie,
its youngest compositor was J. F, Archi-
bald. At 14 Archibald was apprenticed
as a printer to Fairfax and Laurie, who
had leased the Warrnambool “Examiner”
but gave it up to start the “Standard,”
now a flourishing daily. Fairfax,
who hailed from Warwickshire, was
related to the “S. M. Herald” Fair-
faxes, and Archibald remembered him in
after years as a “kindly soul with a genial
and sanguine temperament.” Laurie had
been a Scottish university man and was to
become Professor of Logic at Melbourne
University. He used, as editor, to blue-
pencil Fairfax’s “copy” ruthlessly, a fact
not wasted on Archibald, Within two
years of his debut as a comp, Archibald
could, “given fair copy, set 60 lines of
13-em brevier every hour till the cows
came home.” His first literary effort
was published not in the “Standard” but
in George Mott’s Hamilton “Spectator”
while still with the “Standard.” “I
got a whole half-crown for it—the
sweetest money I ever earned,” he
said in after years. Archibald stayed
with thfe “Standard” until he cpm-
pleted his indentures, then broke into
journalism in Melbourne. He was a re-
porter on the Sydney “Evening News”
when he decided, with John Haynes, to
bring out The Bulletin.
* * * *
“L.H.”: One of Calwell’s preffos has
opened a small store near me. He picks
his “tick” customers with unerring
accuracy, but the turmoil of serving is
play compared with the ordeal of
making up accounts. His tongue is
ever ready, his reckoning faultless ; but
his spelling is naturally a bit shaky. The
words “Tomato Sauce” are an especial
stumbling block, and to fortify his de-
fences he places a bottle of sauce on the
counter so that when he comes to the
momentous words all he has to do is
glance at the label, take the letters one
by one, and transcribe them to the bill-
head. But ever since I’ve known him he
has never spelt “Tomato Sauce” right
yet.
* * * *
“Clooter”: When Richard Casey spoke
against bank expropriation in Sydney
Town Hall the other day he had a packed
hall and a small overflow audience out-
side. Any student of human listening
behavior would have been entranced to
cast an eye over the faces and forms in
the galleries, on the orchestra dais and
in the body of the hall. Expressions
ranged from cold ferocity to pure vacuity ;
there were the faces that moved in re-
sponse to their owners’ thoughts and
emotions, and the other ones that moved
in response to the chewing-gum in their
mouths. One corpulent chap frankly en-
joyed a snooze, doubtless lulled by the
warmth and the speaker’s words. Out-
side, where the audience had to stand
and the sun played its tricks on eyes and
cast shadows on faces, most of them lost
their individuality when only a few feet
away, though the intense, unhappy ex-
pression of a fellow on the parapet of a
building across the street was sharply
etched. Poor devil, he was plainly
worried by the wind, which kept blow-
ing and tattering a huge Communist
canvas bearing the intimation that “Three
million died of starvation in Bengal under
Governor Casey.” Whether the chap
was conscious of the scurrilous lie or
of the amused contempt of the crowd
below' isn’t clear, but I’ve seldom seen
an unhappier face. Nor have I seen a
happier than that which looked through
the open window of the Gresham Hotel.
Its owner had a schooner of beer beside
him and leaned in superior aloofness on
the sill, taking occasional swigs as he
listened to Casey on the amplifiers. That,
to my mind, is the ideal fashion for
listening.
* * * *
“Auto”: “Pater’s” mention of the
bloke being fined for laughing (B.
17/9/’47) recalls another recent court
case. In this one, however, the accused
was still chortling long after he had been
fined. Charged for reckless speeding —
his vehicle is not one of the, streamlined,
fluid-drive masterpieces our politicians
tote about, but a whbezing 1914 “Peer-
less” —he parted with the cash chuckling:
“Didn’t think the old girl had it in her.”
* * * *
“Pookie”: Some weeks ago, when
N.S.W, wireless sets were vibrating to
the lamentations and agitation of “sports-
men” concerned about the grievous loss
of N.S.W. trotting horses to other States,
I came across a fashion magazine from
England. Turning the pages I was struck
by a similarity in expression and feature
in all the female models. A kind of
apathy, in the one, and hollow eyes, lean
cheeks, uncomfortably gaunt cheekbones
and a general gauntness and hollowness
in the other. Hands and arms, to any-
one with experience of subnormal nutri-
tion, were, perhaps, the most revealing
of all; these were startlingly bony, big-
knuckled, and the veins were ropy and
prominent. And the models were not
displaying economic conditions, but
clothes. They were young women chosen
for beauty and youth and health. Mean-
while the unknown “sportsman” on the
air kept urging me to solicit my local
member so that “the clean and healthy
sport of night-trotting”—his very words
—might not be lost to the State. A queer
world.
* * * *
“Metax”: Arriving home near midnight
I found our ancient but wiry Uncle
tearing into a big feed of steak and
onions. “I’ve got to get away early in
the morning,” he explained, “and I’m
having my breakfast before I go to bed.”
* * * *
“Youanmi”: I sympathise with
Sydney’s tram and bus conductors (B.
17/9/’47), The general behavior of
morning and evening suburban travellers
compares reasonably with the feeding-
time rush in a piggery and would not
induce much respect for humanity in any-
one forced to watch and serve it under
such conditions year after year. Nor
would his state of mind be improved
by having to cling to the footboards in
wet weather and to force his way through
a solid mass of passengers. As always,
it’s the odd’ surly fellow who draws
adverse attention and the rest of ’em
suffer for it. In Sydney there are “school
buses” and it’s a treat to watch the
manner in which the conductors and con-
ductresses shepherd the five- and six-
“And here's your mealticket!"
year-olds on and off the vehicles and
stand guard over them during the journey.
They do a much better job than many
parents.
“Bullengro”: I saw a pompous old chap
march up to a driver at Manly (N.S.W.)
and lay down the law to him; “Look
here, your bus has ‘The Spit’ on the
front of it, ‘Dee Why’ on the side and
‘Harbord’ at the back. Where is the con-
founded thing going?” The driver, lean-
ing against the side of his bus, carefully
stubbed his cigarette on the heel of his
shoe .before replying: “Well, mate, we
don’t go backwards, and we don’t go
sideways, so you work it out.”
♦ * * *
“Plum”: Aided and abetted by official
jargon and journalese (B. 3/9/’47), the
riieaning of words often degenerates even
to the stage of complete reversal. An
official instruction received from England
advises that certain publications are out
of date, and can be “salvaged.” This
would once have been taken to mean
“preserved”; now it means “dumped”
for salvage. Newspaper English, parti-
cularly in headlines, often reverses the
sense —“bid” is a case in point. It has
come to be a synonym for “attempt”—
“U.N.O. Peace Bid,” “Police Bid to Stop
Crime,” The other day I noticed
“Britain’s Bid for Exports” which would
convey to the uninitiated that Britain was
offering high prices to secure a share of
the exports from some other country.
Translated into modern English, it in-
timated that John Bull was trying to sell
exports —his own.
$ * * $
“C.Q.”: English usage? The store-
keeper’s wife sighed and said: “Yes, I’m
afraid my family are a heady lot.” “I’m
sorry to hear /that,” I said. “But still,
I suppose, after four years in the Army
it takes a bit ,of time for a young man
to settle down.” “Yes, that’s just it,”
she said. “It’s this Army Education.
Now they’re back they don’t want to
serve in the shop. They just want to
study books and take university courses.”
* * * »
“Meekatharra”; Signs of the times?
My wife was in a Sydney chain store ex-
amining a counter display when two
Lascar seamen forced their way between
her and the counter and stood there look-
ing at the goods on offer. Once these
fellows would have walked round you on
the footpath, although I’ve noticed lately
that you are permitted to walk round
them. I don’t know whether or not
“Labor”-Communism and its “Inder-
nesian” cobbers have anything to do with
it, but I can’t help remembering that in
pre-war days the Japs in Darwin developed
the same sort of cockiness.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: The judges at the
Wagga (N.S.W.) show reported them-
selves amazed to find that “R. Kirkwood,”
winner of six first prizes and two seconds
for preserves, jams and pickles, was a
man —an 80-year-oldster who had shown
all Wagga district how to make jam and
hadn’t started till he was 70. “Women,”
he said, not invincible in the kit-
chen.” In mine I can’t find a single object
that wasn’t man-invented or anything that
wasn’t due to male design and organisa-
tion. All the great cookery books, except
Mrs. Beeton’s, had men for their authors
and I can’t think of a great chef who
was a woman. I have a book of
English wood carvings covering centuries
—a marvellous collection of beautiful
objects. I don’t suppose a solitary woman
made one little cut in all that mass of
effort. Thousands and thousands of
craftsmen produced it, all of them men.
Hundreds of cathedrals were built in the
Middle Ages and myriads of pictures
were painted before and during the
Renaissance. Men did the lot.
STAMPS.
“After the recent issue of the Newcastle com-
memorative postage stamps, it was discovered that
the wrong Shortland —the father, not the son—had
been portrayed on the 21d. one.”
If you should have a craze for stamp-
collection—
Philately’s the more imposing word —
Always remember that in this connection
Those which the keenest interest have stirred
Are specimens which merely perpetrate
Blunders which came to light a bit too late.
The very choicest efforts in portraying
Some storied scene, some bit of genuine art,
May yet be valued less than those displaying
Some bloomer on the propagator’s part,
Some quaint presentment carrying within
Material to incite a cheerful grin.
The Perth artificer who, it’s asserted,
Set going niger cygnus long ago
Upon its postal pilgrimage, inverted.
It seems a pity he could never know
How great a boon his negligence persists
In still conferring on philatelists.
And here we find another record broken
Now it appears that the imposing phiz
Which gazes at you from the reddish token
Announcing just how old Newcastle is
Features not Shortland fils but Shortland per>e,
Who’s not the least excuse for being there.
Ah, well, what odds? However interesting,
It doesn’t signify a tinker’s curse.
There’s not the slightest reason for suggesting
Father or son will sleep a whit the worse,
The stamp may gain some value. Not, I wis,
Much, or I’d not be sticking one on this.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


LOOK FOlt THIS TRADEMARK
ON YOIJR NEW RADIO
Let it be your guide to the best radio that money
can buy. Remember, “His Master’s Voice” is
backed by 50 years’ research in the field of sound
reproduction, perfected by the skill of the best
radio engineers in the industry, and proved by
years of reliable service in Australian homes.
HERE IS THE IDEAL RADIO FOR COUNTRY
HOMES WITHOUT ELECTRIC SUPPLY
MODEL 847
4 Valve—Dual Wave—vibrator-operated Table Radio
Available on easy and confidential terras of payment
★
DEPOSIT No. of Monthly Amount of Monthly
Payments Payments
, f 12 £2 17 5
£7 17 0 -{ 15 £2 7 2
18 £2 O 2
Ask your nearest accredited “H.M.V.”
retailer to demonstrate Model 847.
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTP»
(Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
RB/47
The world's playground
4
wm
\ /ISITORS who have long been familiar with Egypt’s rich store
” of historical records return, again and again, to luxuriate in
a climate that is as invigorating as it is delightful. Restful days
may be spent in comfortable social surroundings, or devoted to
sport of almost every kind. In Cairo, alone, there is a full
programme of entertainment which includes opera and music
comparable with the best that is offered in any European
capital, and a night-life of exceptional brilliance.
Travellers to Europe are afforded an opportunity of
breaking their journey in Egypt if they apply for the Special
Tourist Visas.* Egypt, ever appreciative of her visitors,
offers a friendly welcome. Her luxury hotels are world-
famous, and there is no lack of first-class pensions. Travel
facilities are up-to-date and inexpensive. Many clubs
admit temporary members.
ic Special Tourist Visas obtainable In the British Commonwealth and Empire
Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
m
WmBOBSM
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
'THAT
THE
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against
difficulties and loss which might arise should your Executor die or
become incapacitated. By means of such a codicil you can name Burns
Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint Executor with your present appointee or,
if you wish, as sole Executor. In this way you gain positive assurance
of continuous and sound administration and are relieved of a serious
anxiety. The Company will willingly forward full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P, T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Loxton - Eric Priestley Eee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
C O M P A N Y LIMITED
EXECUTOR
TRUSTEE e ' AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE : BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Loss of the Warrnambool.
“Ek D.”; Newspaper stories need
clarifying by publication of the actual
official statement of what happened. •
H.M.A.S. Warrnambool was engaged
in sweeping a defensive minefield laid by
H.M.A.S. Bungaree during the Second
World War,
At the time of the accident, the flotilla
was in echelon sweeping formation,
Warrnambool following Swan, the leader.
Swan’s sweep fouled an obstruction on
the sea bottom, which meant that Warr-
nambool was no longer protected by
Swan’s sweep wire.
Warrnambool consequently altered
course to move over into safe water and
take over Swan’s position as leader.
While engaged in this change of posi-
tion, Warrnambool struck a submerged
moored mine.
Efforts were immediately made to tow
her clear, but, because of a strong tidal
stream, she drifted back towards the
line of mines.
To avoid further casualties the ship
was abandoned. She drifted across the
line of mines, finally turning over and
sinking.
The results of the accident might have
been much worse. The survivors were
lucky to escape with their lives —inci-
dentally, the report that three wounded
men had died while being transported to
Cairns which was published in the press
on September 15 proved to be untrue,
though one has died.
Sequels to the tragedy were handled
quietly and expeditiously by the Navy.
“Find out who owns that luggage, bosun!”
Men were flown or otherwise* carried to
their home port and placed on leave.
Their photographs, published in the daily
press, gave the public an opportunity to
see what splendid types of young men
are recruited for the naval service.
One fact came out which should have
hit the public conscience like a splash
of ictj water. Mine-sweeping, under the
most carefully contrived conditions, is a
perilous occupation. Yet at the very
moment when Canberra’s Government
was engaged last July in raising its mem-
bers’ salaries to £l5OO a year and prepar-
ing to buy new motor chariots and also
increase Ministers’ salaries, the mine-
sweeping service had been robbed of its
trifling danger pay.
It is a stunning piece of parsimony
coming from a Government which, dur-
ing the war, agreed to saddle the com-
munity with a danger scale of wages for
merchant seamen traversing safe waters,
so high that some of them could net
£lBO for a trip from Sydney to Fre-
mantle and back, and paid still.
Mr. Riordan, the Navy Minister, said
that the danger-pay question had been
referred to a committee of the Navy
Department and, as a result, some time
ago he had asked for a restoration of the
bonus from the Treasury. But the
Treasurer, Mr. Chifley, was apparently
too busy considering the simple needs of
Ministers and higher-grade civil servants
to have time to spare for the R.A.N.
British Defence Reductions.
“Ek Bum”: All over the world the
Communist party and the empty heads
that run with it have been demanding a
cut in British defence expenditure. The
enthusiasm with which Communists de-
sire disarmament—Mr. Vishinsky was
quite violent about it in U.N.O.—is
almost touching. But their eagerness for
the stripping of the nations of weapons
does not extend to Russia.
Russian “literature,” press and radio
reek of the sentiment that every Russian
must be able to handle a rifle to defend
the fatherland from the Fascist Beast—
now Uncle Sam.
It is, however, stressed that Russia’s
own intentions are thoroughly peaceful,
that the Soviet Union cannot fight a major
war for years ; and this specious view-
point is held up by editors always ready
to follow the Moscow line, and by various
amateur strategists who never seem to
learn from experience,
Ihe Communist line in the matter is,
as usual, based on a half-truth.
There is probably no danger that
Russia would directly attack the United
States, because an attack on the United
States would mean the use of technical
equipment, including swarming aircraft
and a large shipping industry, which the
Soviet Union does not possess, its ship-
ping being less than that of little Norway
or Sweden,
What is in danger immediately, how-
ever, is western and southern Europe and
southern Asia. Western Europe could
be conquered by the same methods that
achieved the conquest of Poland and
part of Germany—by the sweeping west-
ward of more surging mobs of half-armed
Asiatic conscripts, less the tens of thou-
sands who, captured by the Germans,
turned round and fought the Russians.
By using, as General Martel, the one man
who really saw anything of the Russian
front, declared, not fewer than three men
to every one employed by the enemy, and
sacrificing them ruthlessly, the Russian
Army (it has recently abandoned the
name of Red Army) could sweep over
Germany and France and Spain, as well
as Greece and probably Italy, Turkey,
Persia and the Middle East.
Then the technical resources and the
genius of the defeated and vengeful Ger-
mans could be used with an abundance
of slave labor. The next step would be
attack on England. In all these opera-
tions the Soviet Union could count on
the help of Communists everywhere.
British Forces Reduced
It is alarming that within a few weeks
of the issue of a letter from the Com-
munist party of Britain to Mr. Attlee,
that gentleman is contemplating a whole-
sale reduction of the armed forces.
It seems clear that this will involve the
reduction of the defence Budget for the
year from £868,000,000 to £600,000,000,
the reduction of defence manpower in
the forces from 1,300,000 to about
1,000,000 all out, the closing of dock-
yards and the retrenchment of naval per-
sonnel by about 50,000, with abandon-
ment of Pacific bases and the Far East.
Even spending £600,000,000, Britain,
with six times Australia’s population, will
be laying out 12 times Australia’s defence
Budget, and providing 20 times Aus-
tralia’s force of trained men —since the
citizen force is a mere imposition on the
public credulity.
There is a mild demand from people
in Britain —reported here in speeches by


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— -In Divorce.
TO CECIL VALENTINE NORWOOD formerly of
Moree in the State of New South Wales Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that RUTH IRENE NORWOOD has
filed a. Petition for Divorce No. 2553 of 1947 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise in her f&voiir of the Court/s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 16th day of
October 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. MOODIE, COLE &
CO., Frome Street, Moree. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAAKKO OLAVI ERIKSSON (also known as
Olaf Jackoo Eriksson). —TAKE NOTICE that ERNA
LEOPOLDINE ERIKSSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3169 of 1947 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist day of March 1948 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR EDWARD TITTERTON.—TAKE
NOTICE; that FRANCES FAITH BERNADETTE TIT-
TERT6N has filed a Petition for Divorce against you
No. 2995 of 1947 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend the suit you must enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry King Street
Sydney by the 20th day of October 1947 and you
may obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from P. W. EWART, Solicitor, 21 George Street,
Parramatta. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Di vnrne
1923 -
developed the
BALLOON
TYRE
Goodyear’s development of balloon tyres brought a
tremendous measure of comfort to car driving. Balloon
tyres increased motoring pleasure and reduced repair
costs. They had better traction, preventing skids on
curves and wet surfaces. They ran cooler. The larger
cross-sections and lower air pressure distributed the
cord flex over a bigger area and greatly increased
mileage. Goodyear’s contribution to the balloon tyre
is a typical pioneering effort in a long line of “firsts’.
In 1906 it was the straight-side tyre . . . 1908 saw the
introduction of the Goodyear tyre-building machine .. .
the multiple-ply-cord tyre
in 1913 and in 1917 pneu-
matic truck tyres. To-day
more people, the world
over, ride on Goodyear
tyres than on any other
GOODYEAR
—you don't stay FIRST unless you're best
make.
Cl 0/227
i
>
. m
w
f'
i
i
4#
m
m
HP
SiU/UCZ
(L
safe
i
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit an
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activi ies.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2 3 posted from Bulletin Office, 252
George Street, Sydney.
Major Randolph Churchill—-that Aus-
tralia should take up the white man s
burden and provide a fair British Com-
monwealth share of Pacific and ar
Eastern defence. It is probably luke-
warm because intelligent Britons must be
wondering whether it would really be
an advantage to have a strong Australian
Navy, Air Force and Army, subject to
Communist direction, seeing that Com-
munists are already so powerful as to
dictate foreign policy and to issue orders
to the “Government,” through the
A.C.T.U., to repeal the measure aimed at
preventing Communist control —with spy-
ing as a first step —of the rocket-range
project.
The Case of Blackburn, V.C.
“Ek Dum”: Australian soldiers who
fought in the front lines while the Thorn-
tons and the Wrights and their like stayed
at home and tried to prevent their being
reinforced on the ground that they were
engaged in “an imperialist war” have
had another foretaste of what the world
they “fought to save” holds for them in
their own country.
The “Government,” against all the
principles of its A.C.T.U. masters, dared
to appoint among its last batch of con-
ciliation commissioners A. S. Blackburn,
V.C. of the First World War and a
brigadier who commanded the devotion
of his men in the Second.
The appointment was made, not out of
goodwill for soldiers of Brigadier Black-
burn’s type—a type which fought vali-
antly through the first war, rushed as
valiantly into the second when increasing
age might well have gained them ex-
emption, and in like cases spent years
in prison camps. The “Government”
suddenly remembered that there were no
returned servicemen among its new issue
of conciliation commissioners. In any
case, it likes to have a V.C. about the
place as a prevention of embarrassment.
Its last previous essay in V.Cs. was when
it suddenly abandoned its usual policy
of spoils to Labor candidates by replac-
ing the mysterious Mr. D’Alton as High
Commissioner in Maoriland with a V.C.
This, however, is disconcerting to its
followers who have to answer to their
masters. One follower who has been
having a particularly bad time is Com-
rade Thompson, M.H.R., who succeeded
Comrade Makin (now at Washington) in
Hindmarsh last election.
Mr. Thompson found himself hauled
up before the S. Aus. A.L.P. Conference
to take a dressing-down for allowing the
“Government” to dare to appoint a con-
ciliation commissioner who was a fighting
soldier and who might be expected to
be impartial instead of merely acting as
a rubber stamp for the Communist party
and the A.C.T.U.
The Waterside Workers’ Federation,
whose general secretary is a member of
the Communist Party Central Committee,
as well as an established part of the
Government of Australia under a statute
passed in the first part of the present
session, brought forward a motion;
That this convention views with grave
alarm the appointment of Mr. A. S. Black-
burn as conciliation commissioner. We
do so on account of his political back-
ground, and more so in regard to his anti-
working-class activities in 1928, when he
with others organised the Citizens’ De-
fence Brigade for the purpose of attempting
to defeat and intimidate members of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation in their
fight for better working conditions... .In
view of the foregoing we request the
Federal Government to reconsider the
appointment and give consideration to
other nominees who would be more sympa-
thetic to working-class principles.
The 1928 business, it may be said in
passing, was not an attempt to get better
conditions, but a deliberately organised
disruption of industry. It was planned
and concerted with the help of a Mr.
Rubanoff, who came from Moscow in
1927 for the purpose and addressed
secret conferences at trades halls, as
still-extant records attest.
Only three members of the A.L.P.
Conference spoke up, each in his fashion,
for Brigadier Blackburn. One, the presi-
dent, Mr. C. R. Cameron, said that
“there must be some good reason for the
appointment” and that he “hoped the
resolution would not be construed as an
attack on the Federal Government.” Re-
gardless of the alleged background of
Mr. Blackburn, he might give better deci-
sions for the working-class than some of
the union secretaries appointed as con-
ciliation commissioners.
Mr. Soar drily suggested that the only
man who would be acceptable to the
Waterside Workers would be one defi-
nitely biased. And Mr. Walters declared,
with unusual courage, that he could
say personally that the appointee was
a man of integrity, a capable and experi-
enced lawyer,) and that he knew there
had never been a complaint about the
way he had carried out his duties as
magistrate and coroner. Brigadier Black-
burn had had unrivalled war service and
had been a prisoner-of-war and no
previous Cabinet had considered his
political background.
After the Moscow delegates of the
Watersiders had intimated that they would
not appear at any tribunal over which the
gallant soldier presided, and that they
hoped every other trade-union would
take the same stand, Mr. Thompson,
M.H.R., so far conquered the trembling
of his knees to rise and make a “personal
explanation.”
Mr. Thompson said that he had knowu
“nothing of the appointment until I saw
it in the papers.” He had not been con-
sulted.
Mr. Cavanagh, Jnr.; Have you protested
since? . .
Mr. Thompson; There is a time and.
place when my protest will be made.
Mr. Fisher (Waterside Workers); Too
late, though.
Unless Australians make a few strong
protests, they also will find it “too late.
They are well on the way to waking up
one morning and finding that govern-
ment has been taken over lock, stock and
barrel by a body of Communists, whose
party is illegal in the United States and
Canada, barred from political associa-
tions in Britain and banned in Eire.
In Australia its Central Committee
members are treated by the Government
as conquerors.
“Ek Dum”: The Indian position con-
tinues appalling. Though there is now
some semblance of an organisation for
dealing with the Pakistan-border situa-
tion it involves the horrible process of
removing minority populations from their
native areas to foreign areas in which
they must be re-established. For this
purpose virtually all ordinary rail and
road traffic between East and West Pun-
jab has been suspended. Gandhi, who
with all his theatrical habits knows his
India, says.the end of this policy can
only mean war between the new
“Dominions.” That the feelings of Sikhs
driven to exile from their holy cities, for
instance, would be like those of the
daughters of Judah by the waters of Baby-
lon can be readily understood by any-
body who has had contact with them.
Floods and cholera are adding to the
general misery in some of the most dis-
turbed areas.
* * * *
“K.E.H.”: As a memorial of the
Desert Mounted Corps in the Near East
campaign of 1915-18, and of the horses
that carried the Australian mounted divi-
sions through to victory, it is proposed to
erect in Sydney—if possible in a city
park—a bronze statue of a horse. That
is the form of memorial most favored at
a meeting of representatives of all N.S.W.
Light Horse units at which Major-General
J. D. Richardson presided.. For half a
century there has been no more dis-
tinctive unit in this country’s military
service than the Australian Light Horse,
and with the replacement of cavalry by
armored vehicles the passing .of the horse
from the fighting ranks reinforces the
sentiments to which this committee has
responded. There is already assurance
of hearty support throughout country
districts, and all old Light Horsemen in-
terested in the proposal should make con-
tact with their unit associations. The
hon. secretary of the movement is E. D.
Campbell, 8 Spring-street, Sydney.


H
if"/.
'\\\\°
EXIDE IS THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
ẁ
PERSONAL ITEMS
It may have been a linguistic bloomer,
confusion with another Victorian Louis
or the prophetic mantle falling on him,
which made Minister for Agriculture Mc-
Kenzie announce at the Melbourne
Show’s annual luncheon that he wanted
to pay a warm tribute to “the Secretary
of the Royal Agricultural Society, Sir
Louis Monod.” Monod has been
secretary and chief executive of Vic-
toria’s big shop window for 15 years and
through the war years when it was an
R.A.A.F. camp. He had the huge job of
reconverting it to its peace-time grandeur
and will probably have the task of direct-
ing its urgently-needed complete rebuild-
ing. Bom in Ballarat in 1892, he w r ent
into the timber business and then joined
the Society as a junior clerk in 1912. He
has since worked up through all its
official ramifications. He is the editor of
the Shorthorn Stud Book, is working on
a new publication. The Draught Horse
Stud Book of Australia, has organised
stud associations all over the State and
secretaries and a dozen Vic. branches
and a dozen Federal organisations of
breeders of pigs, dogs and horses. His
wife is the presiding spirit of the home-
craft section of the Show.
Biggest individual hit of the Melbourne
Show was not made in the ring or over
the sticks, but in the culinary department
by Robert Kirkwood, who recently
caused consternation in the Wagga dis-
trict by winning a cooking prize against
the competition of the local housewives.
He has repeated his offence at the Mel-
bourne Showgrounds by carrying off the
prize for chutney. Mr. Kirkwood is 77
and didn’t intrude into the kitchen until
his wife died when he was 70. He has
a love of good food, and his wife had
been a good cook, so he had to do some-
thing about it. He now makes jams
which would make any epicure’s gastric
juices flow, and is, in addition, a hand-
some man with a good figure who, in his
well-cut, slightly old-fashioned clothes,
looks as if he had stepped out of some
Edwardian fashion journal.
Charles Eaton, 0.8. E., A.F.C., Aus-
tralian Consul in Timor, now busy on
the U.N.O. inquiry into the Indonesian
dispute, was born in London in 1895.
He served with the R.F.C. and R.A.F.
in the Great War and afterwards linked
up with the Imperial Forest Service in
India. Coming to Australia he joined
the R.A.A.F. in 1925, rose to the rank of
group-captain and was familiarly known
as “Moth.” Commander of a squadron
in Darwin, after the Japs came in he
directed 1111 sorties, mainly by Dutch
airmen, and for his excellent work was
awarded the Cross of Orange of Nassau.
During operations over Timor he lost
a cap and was presented with another
autographed by every pilot of a Beau-
fighter squadron. When the Yanks arrived
in Australia he was in command of the
aircraft depot at Wagga. His colleagues
will recall “Moth’s” indignation when he
contrasted his own limited authority—no
amount exceeding £25 could be expended
without reference to Air Board with
that of his American opposite number
who, needing timber, just went to sur-
rounding sawmills, bought £6OOO-worth
and paid in cash from a bag carried by
his adjutant. Eaton left the R.A.A.F. in
1946 to take his present appointment.
Dead at 74 after a long illness John
Oliver Feetham, Bishop of North Queens-
land, ruled his diocese for 34 years, a
record period in the history of the Angli-
can Church. Born in Monmouthshire, the
son of a parson, he went, soon after
leaving Cambridge, to the London church
of St. Simon Zelotes, in Bethnal Green,
where he worked as curate for eight
years. In 1907 he came to Australia as
Principal of the Brotherhood of the Good
Shepherd with headquarters at Bathurst
(N.S.W.), where he remained until 1913,
when he was consecrated Bishop of North
Queensland. He identified himself com-
pletely' with the life of the North and
was loved and respected throughout his
vast diocese.
James Boyd, recently appointed by
President Truman as director of U.S.
Federal Bureau of Mines, is an Aus-
tralian, born at Kanowna (W.A.) 43
years ago. He’s! a son of mining engineer
Julian Boyd, who was superintendent
under “Hail Columbia” Hoover on the
W.A. goldfields when James was a
toddler. Truman actually nominated
Boyd for the job early this year. John
L. Lewis objected that the appointment
was political, and although a Senate com-
mittee approved it the Senate went into
recess before it was confirmed. The
effect of the President’s renomination is
that Boyd can carry on pending
the Senate’s approval next year. At pre-
sent he is dean of the Colorado School of
Mines. He was in the chair of profes-
sor of mining geology there until he
joined the U.S. Army Engineers in 1941;
by the time he was demobbed he was a
colonel with a Legion of Merit, earned
for work with the U.S. Occupation
Forces in Germany. Boyd senior was
born in Melbourne, and has managed or
advised on mining shows in W.A.,
Rhodesia, The Rand and Death Valley,
California. He went to the U.S.A. after
his return from World War One, is con-
sulting mining engineer for many under-
takings on the Pacific coast and instruc-
tor in mining at the University of
Southern California.
Retiring as Tasmanian Auditor-
General, Frederick John Batt, who has
been with the department since 1890.
Twenty years ago he had a hand in the
preparation of Tasmania’s case for Com-
monwealth assistance, and he has since
helped draw up several similar reports. A
few years ago he took on the formidable
job of ascertaining the capital and
replacement values of all State-owned
buildings, plant and equipment in the
Speck. Earlier on he had an active part
in many sports, particularly football,
swimming and yachting, and he is presi-
dent of the Tasmanian Regatta Club.
The pugnacious jaw and good-natured
grin captured here by Heth -should be
well-known to all N.S.W. politicians and
to others whose business or hobby takes
them to the Macquarie-street House of
Assembly; they belong to Fred Langley,
recently retired as Clerk of the House.
Youngest son of the second Bishop of
Bendigo. Fred joined the Parliamentary
staff in 1904, went away to the First
World War with the 38th Battalion and
came out of Messines with a mention in
dispatches. After demobbing he . was
attached for a few months to the House
of Commons. In his younger days Lang-
ley captained the lolanthe football team
in the City and Suburban Association
and he has always been a great yachting
enthusiast; he owned at different times
Magic, Meteor and Cutty Sark, all well-
known on Sydney Harbor. He is now
president of Palm Beach Surf Club. In
CLERK OF ASSEMBLY.
Langley’s recollection, the stormiest
period in the N.S.W. Assembly, not even
excluding the Lang days, was the latter
half of the 22nd Parliament under the
Speakership of Henry Willis.
Sydney artist George Duncan, whose
studio was gutted when a fire burnt out
the top floors of the old Bulletin build-
ing at 214 George-street, is to have his
fourth one-man show at the Macquarie
Galleries next Wednesday. George was
born in Auckland in 1904, and studied
in Sydney under Dattilo-Rubbo. From
1933 to 1940 he travelled abroad, paint-
ing and studying, mainly in England,
France, Germany and Spain. He ex-
hibited and was twice hung on the line
at the Royal Academy and has been a
regular exhibitor with the Royal Oil
Painters’ Institute, the Leicester Gallery
and at other English art shows. The
National Gallery of N.S.W. has samples
of his work, his paintings have been
bought by the Felton Bequest and he is
well represented in many private collec-
tions in England and Australia. Duncan
managed the production and design of
murals for the Glasgow exhibition and
during the war was engaged on camou-
flage work. Several of his paintings,
done during the war, were included in
the Allied Works Council Exhibition.
Prior made this sketch of Dudley
Glass, now on a lecture tour of U.S.A.,
when the subject was revisiting Aus-
tralia, During his stay here he gave
several A.B.C. talks on music and his
light opera, “The Toymaker of Nurem-
burg,” was broadcast by a Melbourne
station. Glass has had considerable suc-
cess both as a composer and lyricist. His
“Beloved Vagabond” was played in Mel-
bourne and Sydney about 12 years ago
with Gladys Moncrieff and Claude Flem-
ming in the leads; recently it has been
running in London, where a Strauss piece,
“A Night in Vienna,” for which he wrote
the lyrics in 1945, had a season of 18
COMPOSER.
months. Glass was born in Adelaide 48
years ago and educated in Melbourne,
graduating B.A. at Melbourne Uni.
While in America he intends to complete,
in collaboration with Madeleine Mason,
an opera with a Norwegian folk theme.
Dead in Melbourne, at 84, Lieutenant-
General James Gordon Legge, C. 8.,
C.M.G., M.A. Born in London, he was
educated at Sydney Grammar and Sydney
Uni., was a schoolteacher, a barrister-at-
law, and did military service for his coun-
try for 30 years. A veteran of the Boer
and 1914-18 wars, he commanded the
First and afterwards the Second Division,
A.1.F., on Gallipoli and in France. He
was Chief of the General Staff in Aus-
tralia until 1920 and then took command
of Duntroon. On his retirement he
farmed for 12 years in the Federal Terri-
tory. His greatest achievement was on
the administrative side of the Australian
Army during the organisation of uni-
versal military training, for which he won
Kitchener’s high approval. He published
several books on military law and uni-
versal training which were textbooks.
Two sons. Colonel S. F. Legge and E.
Legge, survive him.
This year’s Smith Memorial Medal,
awarded by the Australian Chemical In-
stitute, goes to Dr. A. Bolliger, Ph.D.,
A.A.C.L, Director of Research at the
Gordon Craig Laboratory at Sydney Uni.
The medal commemorates the work of H.
G. Smith (1852-1924), Assistant Curator
and Chemist in the Technological
Museum, Sydney, and is awarded
annually for the best contribution to the
development of chemical science in Aus-
tralia.
Hypercritical folk have been saying
that Thomas Erskine Cleland’s qualifica-
tions for the post of Adelaide City
Coroner are very similar to those which
earned him the job of Chairman of S.A.
Betting Control Board; he is neither a
racegoer nor a punter and, so far as can
be ascertained, has never been a
CORONER.
corpse. Only son of Judge Cleland, he
was born at Beaumont, near Adelaide,
and interrupted his law studies to go to
the 1914-18 war, in which he served
with the R.F.A., Imperial Forces, bring-
ing home a Military Cross and a “men-
tion.” Called to the Adelaide Bar in
1919, he practised as a barrister and
solicitor. He has been chairman of the
Betting Board for several years and at 53
keeps himself young with tennis and
squash.
New York had to wait 276 years for
a mayor who could gain election for
three consecutive terms; the city will
probably have to wait much longer for
another chief magistrate as colorful and
dynamic as Butch, The Hat, The Little
Flower, The Little Stinkweed—to list but
a few of the names applied by friends and
foes to Fiorello la Guardia, dead at 65
in the city he made his own. Anecdotes
of his eccentricities, his flow of vitupera-
tion, his habit of switching sides in
politics, his childish love of watching
fires, his zeal for having a finger in every
pie, his unorthodox methods of gaining
publicity and his often blatant vulgarity
will probably grow with the years, but
his name will continue on record as the
man who broke Tammany and gave New
York good government, cleaned up a
graft-ridden police force, built schools
and children’s playgrounds and made a
start on slum clearance. For these things
New Yorkers will probably forgive even
his Sunday night morality talks. Aus-
tralian servicemen whom he entertained
in New York thought no end of him.
Into the Silence:
In Hobart, at 94, George Henry Oakes, in
his time sailor, policeman and lighthouse-
keeper. He went to sea at 14, and put in a
few years with the R.N. before joining the
police force. For seven years he was in
charge of Hobart water police. He was
awarded the Royal Humane Society’s Bronze
Medal and certificate for rescuing a child from
a .burning building, and while in charge of
Macquarie Heads light with his 16-year-old
son saved four persons from the wrecked
Kawatire.
In Renmark (S.A.), at 88, Joseph Mighell Smith,
the settlement’s oldest pioneer. Born in Eng-
land, he took up land on Kangaroo Island
in 1885 and joined the Chaffeys in Renmark
four years later. He was 11 times chairman
of the Irrigation Trust.
At Taree (N.S.W.), a t 78, Percy Ivens, the
only oarsman to win in all classes of his State
and Australian championships. Commencing
in 1900, he won Victorian champion pairs
once, the sculls eight times, the fours three
times, the eights twice and the Australian
champion eights and sculls twice. Charlie
Donald (Vic.) and George Rogers (W.A.) have
each won their State champion sculls, pairs,
fours and eights and the Australian champion
eights, but both were defeated in the Australian
champion sculls. v
At Newcastle, at 87, Charles Ephraim Dag-
well. Was founder of the Newcastle Fire
Brigades and was a member of a number of
voluntary teams of fire-fighters before the
permanent service was established.
At Sydney, Frank Musson, chemist,, who
enjoyed the custom of Vice-Royalty for many
years and mixed many a dose of medicine for
visiting dignitaries who caught cold in the
draughty corridors of Government House. His
advice was often sought by chemists in the
city on preparations outside the usual run.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
All good Victoria Leaguers in this land
are invited to contribute pne shilling each
to a wedding present iof M R.H. Princess
Elizabeth; N.S.W. members are asked to
send their shillings to the Sydney office
before the first week in October, when the
fund closes. The Junior Red Crossers,
with characteristic thoughtfulness, are
putting their pennies together and send-
ing the Princess for their present thou-
sands of ylb. packets of sweets —to be
given to schoolchildren in England, and
no doubt the Princess will get as great
a joy from that gift as from any.
Does the Mitchell Library harbor any
description of a wedding from State Gov-
ernment House? If not, there will be a
new page to be added to the archives in
November. That fair month has been
chosen by Marjorie, elder daughter of
the Governor, Lieut.-General John North-
cott, for her wedding. ’Groom-to-be is
Major Donald Coburn, Royal Electrical
Mechanical Engineers, 8.C.0.F.
No details to hand yet about the frock-
ing, but Sydney’s Archbishop Dr. Mowll,
assisted by (Major-General) Padre C. A.
Osborne, will put churchly seal to the
partnership in St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Sister Elizabeth, Sheila Graham and
Sheila Collett will be ’maids. Flight-
Lieut. R. B. Nash, A.D.C. to the Gov-
ernor, will be best man. The ’groom’s
mother, Mrs. E. R. Coburn, is coming
from Middlesex, England, for the wed-
ding.
Yesterday the Town Hall held mid-
morning reception in honor of Viscount
Addison, Secretary of State for Common-
wealth Relations, and Lady Addison.
This afternoon, from a quarter to five
onwards, Lord and Lady Addison will be
the guests of honor at a Victoria League
party. This will be held at Fairwater,
Double Bay, which has been lent by the
Fairfax lady. Viscountess Addison is
a member of the Central Executive of the
Victoria League in London. The
National Council of Women and the
Royal Empire Society also extended the
chop and chat of welcome.
President of the Lunch-time Music
Club, Margaret Gillespie, had the joy of
hearing the club’s unusual programme
last Monday before flying south. Renee
Goossens’s sweet voice and Victor Mc-
Mahon’s flute were featured —together
in Bantock’s “Songs From the Greek
Anthology,” separately, when Victor’s
flute, like an echo from Arcady, made his
listeners forget nationalisation of banks
and such irritants. His group included
Ravel’s “Piece in the Style of the Haban-
era,” and works by Busser and Camus.
Renee (no relation of the Con.’s new
director) paid that gentleman the compli-
ment of singing four of his songs.
Margaret Gillespie, who flew to Mel-
bourne on Tuesday, is due to leave that
city two nights before the opening of the
Rambert ballet season. That’s bad
timing, but there was nothing wrong
about the timing of her telegram of pro-
test on the Nationalisation of Banks.
That reached Canberra among the first
5000.
One thousand six hundred pounds
trickled merrily into the till of
the C.W.A. Seaside Homes Appeal
last Wednesday. The silver lode was
minted by the Floral Fete, a one-
day effort by the Metropolitan group.
The Town Hall was the busy but, truth
to tell, not very fiesta-like scene of action.
The stalls, decked with artificial poinsettia
and other bright flowers, were piled with
an amazing display of needlework,
kitchenware, canteens of cutlery and
what all. There was even a cunning
hoop-la —where you paid a shilling and
could go on till you ringed a prize. Catch
was that you were allowed to ring only
one prize. There was a good deal of fun
at this fair, and in the evening Margaret
Newland, of Kuring-gai Younger Set, was
crowned Queen.
The Royal Art Society is in the final
hectic whirl of presenting its 68th yearly
show to the world. It will be staged, as
usual, in the Education Department’s
Galleries in Loftus-street. To the
Society’s friends and supporters the presi-
dent and council are sending out small
packets of invitations —one for the official
opening on Saturday by Minister for Edu-
cation Heffron, another for the private
view on Friday (26th). This goes on from
ten o’clock till five, and still another for
the Society’s at-home on Wednesday,
October 8. Each card is a different
color: duck-egg-blue, pale buff and light-
tan.
Sydneyites interested in the history of
their city are looking forward to Nesta
Griffiths’s fascinating story of Point
Piper. This covers the time from the
laying of the foundation-stone of Captain
Piper’s naval villa in 1816 up to the pre-
sent day. In this book’s pages the homes
and the people who lived in them spring
vividly to the imagination. The book is
illustrated with old photographs and many
drawings. There is an introduction by
knight Henry Manning. The jacket
cover is a four-color pictorial map of
Point Piper by Bill Constable.
The Journalists’ War Memorial Fund
ahd the Australian Journalists’ Associa-
tion Benevolent Fund will benefit by the
Journalists’ Ball of 1947—a “front page”
fancy dress frolic to be held at the Tro-
cadero on Friday, October 3. The aim
of the War Memorial Fund is to provide
scholarships to educate the children of
Australian journalists who fell in the war,
either as members of the fighting services
or as war correspondents. Dancing will
be from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.
The Permanently Disabled Soldiers and
the babies at Belhaven are the bene-
ficiaries of the Enzed Club’s thirteenth
birthday party. The event was celebrated
at Federation Hall with singing by tenor
Alex Bruce and music by Auckland
pianist Lilian Turner. Canada’s Trade
Commissioner, L. M. Croft, and his wife,
and that vast land’s Assistant Trade
Commissioner, Bruce Rankin, came
from Canberra to the party. Maoriland’s
Trade Commissioner, Mr. Taylor, pre-
sented Mrs. Elenor Hempton, the club’s
untiring president, with a crystal bowl and
welcomed Capt. F. Child, Maoriland’s
newly-appointed Army liaison officer.
At his press conference Randolph
Churchill and one of the pressmen
debated whether there were more women
than men in Australia. Concluded Ran-
dolph : “Women talk so much there
probably seems more of them.” The
Girl in the Fiat Opposite, however, mut-
tered that she bet when Randolph and
Winston got really going Mrs. Churchill
and Mary just fold their tent (no, not
T.N.T.) like the Arab and silently steal
,away.
On October 7 you will see the lady of
this photograph, Mrs. Lennox Bode, at
the Trocadero. She is one of the com-
mittee busied about the success of the
White Ball, the star race-week function
to aid Sydney’s Industrial Blind Institu-
tion. With Mrs. Lionel McFadyen, Mrs.
Bode is busy on a scheme of decoration
which so far is a dead secret —almost a
dead secret to themselves, Mrs. Bode
owns, because their ideas keep on chang-
ing. But the result will be good. Mrs.
Bode and Mrs. McFadyen have quite a
gift for decorative art. John Lee photo-
graph.
Two well-knowns who announced their
engagement last week are Barbara Finlay
and Richard Littlejohn. Barbara is the
only daughter of the Mervyn Finlays, of
Brackley House, Drummoyne, and
Richard’s father is Albert Littlejohn, his
mother Mrs. Charles Tilden, of Connecti-
cut, U.S., better known in Sydney as
ardent feminist Mrs. Linda Littlejohn.
Richard’s home address is Spring Valley,
Crowther.
“Flynn of the Inland,” whose heart and
brain made the Flying Doctor Service
possible, was the important person at the
opening of the Sydney A. Shead orchid
show last Wednesday. In fact, he made
the opening speech, for the display of
regal beauties had been arranged to
benefit the Flying Doctor Service.
The Reverend John reminded his
listeners that we in the cities must not rest
satisfied with seeing that the medical
needs of our neighbors of the Outback
and thq far-flung borders were attended
to, we must See that they have brought
to them the amenities of city life. The
first floor of Cowell’s White House was
banked and massed with plants heavy
with tawny and white, mauve and palely-
green blooms.
From Melbourne
At the Lord Mayor’s pre-luncheon
party for the British Secretary of State
for Commonwealth Relations and his
wife, Lady'Addison wore a slate-blue suit
with a high upswept navy felt hat and
a narrow cocoa-fox fur stole. With
Admiral Sir Louis Hamilton was his
sister, Miss Jean Hamilton. Air Vice-
Marshal J. Hewitt came with his wife,
whose black suit, with Persian-lamb
pockets, was worn with a black hat laden
with ostrich feathers. Mrs. Haydon, wife
of Major-General J. C. Haydon, was a
study in navy blue, complete to upturned
felt hat. Mrs. George Maxwell contrasted
her navy frock with a navy-and-white-
spotted hat. Mrs. R. H. Solly’s black
suit was worn with a small blue-ribbon
trimmed hat. Among others to greet the
distinguished visitors were Mesdames
Robert Lane, Harold Wootton, Herbert
Brookes and F. G. Kumm.
Broothorn took this picture of Kath
Christie, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Christie, of Hawthorn, • who
will be married on October 1 to Peter
Lynch at St. Peter’s, Toorak. An old
girl of St. Catherine’s, Kath’s hobby is
the piano, her chief enjoyment the
celebrity concert. Her sister Pat and
friend Pat Green will be her bridesmaids,
and little Leveda Lynch the flower girl.
The honeymoon will be spent in
Honolulu.
The Dorchester, with its Alexandra
Gardens Yarra-side setting, was the.
venue of the spring fashion show spon-
sored by the southern auxiliary of the
Tweddle Baby Hospital to help along its
funds. President of the auxiliary, Mrs.
Garnet Curwen, smart in a grey, pencil-
striped suit and small black hat with a
snood, kept a weather eye on the after-
noon’s proceedings. The capable organ-
iser was Mrs. J. G. Mason and the
ticket secretaries were Mrs. N. Wilkins
and Dorothy Walsh. Feature of the show
were the clothes and accessories made
and designed by Australians at prices
well within the scope of all budgets.
Special guests included the Angliss lady,
who topped off her black Persian-lamb
trimmed coat with a small “Gibson Girl”
bowler in pastel-green felt trimmed with
touches of red ribbon and black veiling.
With her was Matron Graham, of the
Tweddle Baby Hospital. Mrs. Carl
Randall, wife of the producer of “Annie,
Get Your Gun,” was with her mother,
Mme. Stalle. Mrs. Ned Holland’s fine
grey check suit was worn with a primrose
linen blouse and black hat. Mrs. Bill
Clarke was tailored in grey, her small
beret of grey Persian lamb. Mrs. Ben
Dunlop, also in grey, wore a matching
beret. Other supporters of the good
cause included Mrs. A. McKenzie King,
who came with her daughters, Mesdames
Joel Harris and Harold Devine, Mes-
dames Bruce Shepherd, Robin Hood and
Norman Jeffrey.
For a few short hours the clock was
turned back into the gay ’nineties for
the party at No. 9 Darling-street, given
by Mrs. A. E. Bottomley for her
daughter Jocelyn. Mrs. Bottomley was
sartorially right in the picture with her
gown of black tulle over satin, the skirt
trained and the bodice made with leg o’
mutton sleeves. Heather, sent from Scot-
land by her father, was mixed with
orchids and primroses to form the
bouquet which Jocelyn carried with her
gown of cream-patterned brocade. Very
much of the long-ago, this was fashioned
with an off-the-shoulder neckline, and
the full skirt and train were in keeping
with the bustle. Denys Bottomley assisted
his mother to receive the guests, and he
kept the spirit of the period dressed as
a dandy with tight-fitting trousers and
bowler hat, not forgetting the waxed
moustache. Jocelyn’s uncle, Noel
Duckett, appeared in her grandfather’s
evening suit. Check suits, straw boaters
and the old-fashioned tail coat with
colored “weskits” were chosen by the
lads; the lasses leaned to Edwardian
hair-dos, bustles, trained frocks and
little tight black velvet bands around the
necks. Outside two hansom cabs, their
drivers sporting walrus moustaches, wel-
comed the dancers. Jocelyn, who is do-
ing her final year in journalism at the
Uni., had fellow Uni. students and old
St. Catherine’s School friends as guests.
Departing from the usual custom of
carrying posies, debutantes at the Prince
Henry’s Hospital Annual Ball carried
large flower-trimmed hats on their arms
and, after their presentation to the presi-
dent of the ball committee, Mrs. W. K.
Burnside, set them on the floor and with
their partners danced round them. Their
gowns were of white marquisette over
taffeta. Mrs. Burnside received the debs,
wearing an imported model gown of
flame-red crepe, the bodice trimmed with
gold sequins and the skirt modishly
draped. Her bouquet was of orchids.
In her party were Chinese Consul Martin
Wang and his wife, her Oriental gown of
white satin featuring an imprint of
flowers. Berenice Heuston, one of the
ticket secretaries, chose a pale-blue taffeta
full-skirted frock finished with a large
bustle bow at the back. Another member
of the committee, Mrs. L. G. Lanyon,
covered her black velvet dinner gown
with a Kolinsky cape. Mrs. Beatrice
Campbell was with her son and his wife,
Mrs. Edward Campbell, whose blue crSpe
gown was fashioned with the new draped
hipline and slit skirt. Nancy Woodrow,
sister of Mrs. Edward Campbell, wore a
simply-cut floral frock in turquoise and
black tonings. Mrs. Stan Heuston’s white
French-crepe gown was printed in tur-
quoise blue and yellow flowers. With Dr.
Murray Tallent was his wife, whose black
crepe frock had a deep yoke of black lace.
Glorious sunshine and mild spring
weather enticed women to wear their new
spring suits and ensembles for the
Williamstown Racing Club’s meeting,
which was held at Moonee Valley.
Color rioted all over the course ;
reds and greens were favorites, with
chartreuse, lime and blue not far behind.
Mrs, Trevor Clarke’s tweed suit was of
deep green ; red pompoms made a splash
on her deep-green bowler hat. Mrs.
T. C. Manifold’s suit was of saxe-blue
wool, her hat and accessories navy. Mrs.
Ten Buxton’s white felt hat carried navy
velvet and red cherries; the navy was
repeated in her velour coat. Maureen
Wilton was tailored in grey, her blouse
primrose-yellow. Penelope Nettlefold,
also in grey, wore a small hat with a
peaked brim. Shirley Watts wore a
brown-and-beige suit and small tan
bowler hat.
A delightful luncheon party at the
Oriental gave presswomen an opportunity
to meet Mrs. Vyvyan Holland, whose
husband is the only surviving son of
Oscar Wilde and recognised as one of
the best translators from the French in
England. Mrs. Holland, whom Mel-
bourne remembers as the former Thelma
Besant, prominent in theatrical produc-
tions of the late Gregan McMahon, is
now a cosmetics expert. She will com-
pere the Fifty Years of Fashion and
Beauty at the Myer Mural Hall on
October 7 and 8, which will mark the
50th anniversary of the Australian branch
of Britain’s oldest cosmetic firm. Mrs.
Holland, whose flat in Sloane-street, Lon-
don, is the mecca of such literary celebri-
ties as Compton Mackenzie, James Laver
and Alec Waugh, revealed that Princess
Elizabeth, who has a lovely creamy skin,
uses a powder base, light powder and
English Rose lipstick. Princess Margaret,
she says, has a natural peaches-and-cream
complexion.
The Gowrie Room at Menzies was the
setting for the luncheon party given to
Olga Moss prior to her departure for the
U. where she will join her daughters,
Mrs. Bunny Lindsay and Helen Moss.
Olga wore a black frock under her mink
coat, and her small black hat was high-
lighted with a veil spattered with large
white chenille dots. Her sister, Mrs. J.
Nettleberg, wore a grey-cloth coat with a
grey-fox collar over a black frock, her
small hat decorated with gold sequins.
Mrs. E. Best, another sister, also chose
black, with silver fox as an accessory.
Mrs. A. Colman allied black Persian
lamb with a black frock and small black
hat. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell was full of
news of daughter Betty, who is now in
the tourist section of a bank in Bfcrkeley-
square, London.
Mrs. E. Crisp wore lovely Venetian lace
revers on her black frock. Mrs. Bill
Cook’s unusual grey felt hat had wide-
meshed grey net attached by a gold
ornament to the crown, and fell to the
shoulder, where it was caught by another
gold ornament. The grey motif was re-
peated in the grey silk blouse worn with
her black suit. Mrs. Leo Curtis had
large pink taffeta bows adorning her
black hat, which was worn with a black
frock. Mrs. V. Sleigh wore London
tan accessories with her grey suit. An
attractive hat worn by Mrs. A. Levy had
folds of soft blue ribbon drawn across
the brim, to end in a large bow at the
side. She wore it with a black Persian-
lamb trimmed coat.


ŵ
Are You a Business
or Professional
Manf
If so, your days are possibly so fully occu-
pied that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its 68th year of experience as
Attorney or Agent, and is well qualified to
relieve you of worry in arranging invest*
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if you will call or write at
your convenience.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,559.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; O. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M. 8., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W; Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., E.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie' Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French. ,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878. jfy
in.
cd* c^fotel
FACING N PHRK
The one thing you will Imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it Is merely ‘‘round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
In tlne^
Thone BW 136! (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
p^f
'fog*
-zr\\
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd,
Sydney.
ei/*** 1
HAIR RESTORER
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
_ t To Re— Re—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1938.. 201,830 7 p.c. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,178,738
1939. . 185,500 7 p.c. = 171,500 14,000 1,192,738
From tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 1,217,738
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,207,738
1940. . 200,154 7 p.c. = 189,000 11,154 1,218,892
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,208,892
1941. . 190,276 6i p.c.= 175,500 14,776 1,223,668
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,213,668
1942.. 186,653 6* p.c.= 175,500 11,153 1,224,821
1943.. 185,739 64 ~,,175,500 10,239 1,235,060
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. ..1,225,060
1944.. 185,594 6J p.c.= 175,500 10,094 1,235,154
1945.. 168,180 6 „ ~162,000 6,180 1,241,334
1946.. 163,438 6 „ ~ 162,000 1,438 1,242,772
1947.. 215,439 7} „ ~ 202,500 12,939 1,255,711
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,245,711
“Due mainly to the price of our wool
and other exports, we are perhaps at the
highest level of national income ever
reached, and this on the basis of a boom
resulting from a huge deferred demand
and accumulated war savings,” says chair-
man P. A. Mcßride. Nature, too, was
kinder last season than it was for the
two preceding ones, which means that
the clip was heavier. For the Common-
wealth the dip realised £92,335,940 (up
£34,175,940); the.average price per pound
(greasy and scoured combined) was
25.15 d., an increase of 56.3 p.c. The
cheque was approximately twice the aver-
age value of the five clips to end June,
1939. Moreover, the staple was our most
fruitful source of dollars, U.S. purchases
aggregating over £32,700,000. Also the
Wool Realisation Commission was able
to sell a lot of the accumulated war-time
stock, portion of the proceeds of which
will ultimately get into local circulation.
During the year the co. put under the
hammer in South Australia —where its
name has been a household word for over
a century—Westralia and Victoria
257,994 bales wool (up 30,197 bales),
2,650,349 sheep, 121,275 cattle and
148,865 pigs. Sheep values reacted to the
higher wool prices, and pigs fetched in-
creased prices, too. Also, turnover in the
merchandising section increased by over
46 p.c., reaching £5,370,688. The value of
wool and livestock turnover was
£7,930,320 and £6,100,000 respectively,
making aggregate turnover £ 19,400,000-
odd for the three departments combined.
After writing £37,026 (up £9216) off
the book value of premises and plant and
allowing something for bad and doubtful
debts, the spring in gross earnings
(£1,196,349) was £294,698. Exes.
(£980,910, including £160,000 set apart for
the taxgatherer) took £242,697 of the in-
crease. The net result thus benefited by
£52,001, reaching £215,439, highest since
1929. Yet it was a moderate 5.4 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined), or a wink under 8 p.c. on the
£2,900,000 of capital alone, compared
with 6, 6.2, 6.8, 6.8, 6.9, 7 and 7.4 p.c.
back to 1940. The div. was lifted from
6 p.c. to p.c., and £lO,OOO was sent to
the staff fund, leaving £2939 for reserves,
now equal to ss. 6d. per pound share
paid to 12s. And it is safe to say that
assets, put in the crucible, would assay a
lot more than their book value.
As for the outlook, seasonal prospects
in S. Aus., Vic. and W.A. are bright, there
has been an 80 p.c. to 85 p.c. lambing, a
heavier clip is anticipated, and at auction
good to average fleeces are fetching prices
up to 30 p.c. above closing rates for June.
TTiere has been little buying on U.S.
account, partly because of the price rise,
but American millmen are expected to
come into the market later. It is too
early yet to say what effect the dollar
crisis is likely to have upon prices ; much
will depend upon what happens in
connection with the Marshall plan and
the revival of Europe. “Realising that a
fall in wool values would adversely affect
our economic position, we have set out
on a policy of gradual expansion of our
merchandise business,” the chairman
says. For growers the disturbing features
are rising costs and high taxation.
Strength is the outstanding feature of
the co.’s finances, which means that it is
well-equipped to further assist clients as
the need arises:
1939. 1946. 1947.
Deposits, etc. .. £935,509 £627,454 £595,892
Sundry.creditors, etc. 936,501 1,660,927 2,568,455
Provident fund, etc. 392,936 140,112 170,827
Freehold, plant, etc. 750,340 798,469 860,198
Gov. sec. and cash 1,291,455 1,758,224 2,641,122
Advances, etc. ~ 3,854,959 3,430,379 3,351,479
Stock .. .. 245,326 231,182 289,227
Shares other cos... 155,103 247,511 260,359
The year’s growths of £907,528 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
of £882,898 in Government securities and
cash are interrelated. They mainly reflect
higher prices for wool and livestock,
which were also largely responsible for
the contraction (£88,900) in advances.
Extensions and additions to wool stores,
etc., sent fixed assets up by £61,709 net;
merchandise stocks increased by £58,045.
Cash and Government securities were
equal to 15s. lOd. in the £ of outside
liabilities when the books closed.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
bought the 70-year-old stock and station
business of De Garis Sons and Co., Ltd.,
operating in the s.-e. portion of S. Aus.
for an unstated amount. A substantial
part of the 250,000 new £1 shares
which the board has been authorised to
issue at its discretion are to be used in
part payment for the business.
The market sees no cloud in the co.’s
sky, and prices the scrip at 225. 10d., at
which figure the return is 3,9 p.c. on a
1\ p.c. div. basis.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
• To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 49,786 8 p.c. = 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 „ ~ 37,033 14,713 110,088
1939.. 52,853 10 „ ~37,371 15,482 125,570
1940.. 56,101 10 „ „ 37,081 18,420 143,990
1941.. 44,412 10 „ „ 38,113 6,299 150,289
July,
Life-policy bonuses, £2433 .. .. 152,722
1941*. 25,789 10 p.c. = 19,190 6,599 159,321
1942.. 48,610 10 „ ~38,379 10,231 169,552
1943.. 63,568 10 „ 38,663 24,905 194,457
1944.. 65,945 10 „ „ 39,253 26,692 221,149
1945.. 78,453 10 „ „ 39,883 38,570 259,719
Maintenance reserve down £2568 ~ 257,151
1946.. 82,290 10 p.c. = 40,206 42,084 299,235
Maintenance reserve down £1782 .. 297,453
1947.. 74,002 10 p.c. = 40,207 33,795 831,248
* Six months.
The drop of £B2BB in last term’s net
earnings might be taken as a hint from
the board that the road ahead doesn’t
look so good as the one the co. has
travelled of recent years. Still, there is
nothing in sight to suggest that the 10 p.c.
div. is likely to be interfered with.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts a sellers’ market prevailed,
and retailers remained in clover. The
public’s pockets were well lined, thanks to
a buoyant national income, and prices re-
mained on the up-grade, thus eliminating
the risk of loss on stocks, while scarcity
of many lines, especially cotton and man-
chester goods, together with price con-
trols, minimised the effects of competi-
tion. Add to all this able management
and a bright store in one of the busiest
blocks in the city—it runs through from
Queen- to Adelaide-street between Albert-
and Edward-street —and satisfactory trad-
ing results arc to be expected. Finney’s
performance was exceptionally good.
Now consider these figures, showing
percentage changes compared with the
corresponding period of the previous year
in aggregate turnover of a dozen Bris-
bane department stores over the last nine
years;—
Average Three Months Ended
/
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1938- .. + 3.7 + 1.1 + 0.7 + 8.5 + 2.6
1939- .. + 6.1 + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- + 5.3 4- 3.0 + 5.9 -+B.B + 5.8
1941- .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 1.0 +ll.O
1942- .. 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 + 4.1
1943- .. 2.1 + 3.5 + 3.0 + 4.6 + 2.4
1944- .. + 7.6 +lO.O + 1.0 0.3 + 5.0
1945- .. +16.5 +27.7 +22.4 +24.8 4-23.3
1946- .. 4-14-6 -j- 9.3 +9.9
Sales for the year to end June, 1946,
were nearly 76 p.c. above the 1938-39
level —owing partly to higher prices—
and they continued to rise, though
at a less accelerated rate, for the year to
end June last. However, the heavy spate
of buying that followed demobilisation
appears to have flattened out.
The spring in Finney’s gross earnings
last term (£386,377) was £51,459 as
against a rise of £8159 in the previous
year. Trading exes., etc. (£212,555), took
£48,714 of the gain, owing mainly to wage
lifts and increased cost of distribution.
The amount set aside for the taxgatherer
(£92,621, up £9682) was £20,000 in excess
of the previous year’s tax bill, and an
extra £1351 was allowed for deprecia-
tion (£7199). Disregarding a net reduc-
tion of £1782 in the deferred maintenance
reserve, the net result was thus written
£B2BB short of its immediate pre-
decessor at £74,002, which was an attrac-
tive 18.4 p.c. on capital as against 19.4,
16.6, 16.5 and 12.6 p.c. back to 1943.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
As for the current term, a good season
is in prospect in the northern State and
employment continues at or near the full,
which means there is still plenty of
money about. The dollar shortage and
restriction of imports of cottons, rayons,
etc., from U.S. won’t help the supply posi-
tion. Chief threat to net earnings comes
from rising costs, effects of which will be
accentuated by the 40-hour week, final
lift in the basic wage (yet to be an-
nounced), and rise in shipping and other
transport charges—about 80 p.c. of the
merchandise handled by Brisbane re-
tailers comes from manufacturers in the
southern States. And there will be the
initial expense inevitable in connection
with the opening of another store. On
the other hand, increased turnover should
help to cushion the effects of rising costs.
Since the business has outgrown its
present premises, the old Courier building
a few doors down the road at the corner
of Queen- and Edward-street has been
bought at an unstated figure. Net growth
in the book value of freehold (£429,435)
was £149,991:
1941. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Capital . . £383,793 £388,793 £402,067 £ 402,067
Creditors .. 133,276 78,144 41,184 60,928
Tax reserve, etc. 30,150 41,109 84,455 104,455
Property, plant,
etc 356-,313 3 5 2,7 8 5 3 31,2 0 0 5 00,263
Stock . . . . 3 05,4 6 3 3 00,87 5 2 3 8,68 8 3 17,931
Book debts, etc. 48,7 9 9 31,7 6 9 26,96 8 41,287
Investments and
cash . . 15,156 6,358 250,188 59,321
To meet the outlay on property, add
£19,072 to plant, etc., and carry an extra
£79,243 of stocks and £14,319 of
debtors’ balances cash and investments
were drawn upon for £190,967. The
contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£253,156) was £137,049.
The f.-p. pound ords., which rose from
365. 6d. (ceiling) at end 1946 to 465. 3d.
in June, had eased to 435. 6d. last week.
The return at 435. 6d. is 4.6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The 55.-paid contribs.
at 16s. give an immediate return of
3.1 p.c,, rising to 6.4 p.c. when fully
paid.
John McGrath, Ltd.
Parent’s Figures.
To Re- Ee-
June, Profit, f— —Dividend , serves, serves.
£> £ £ £
1937.. 19,659 12 p.c. = 18,000 1,659 86,648
1938.. 25,831 12 „ „ 24,854 977 87,625
1939.. 26,642 12 „ „ 26,724 87,543
1940.. 22,548 10 „ „ 22,500 48 87,591
Profit on sale of assets, £3120 .. 90,711
1941.. 15,786 7 p.c. = 15,750 36 90,747
1942.. 21,465 9J „ „ 21,375 90 90,837
Prom inner reserves, £ll,BBO ~ .. 102,717
1943.. 20,270 9 p.c. = 20,250 20 102,737
1944.. 20,293 9 „ „ 20,250 43 102,780
1945.. 20,497 9 „ „ 20,250 247 103,027
1946.. 21,393 9 „ „ 20,250 1,143 104,170
From investment-contingencies provision,
£22,787 126,957
1947.. 27,944 9 p.c. = 23,027 4,917 131,874
When war cut off supplies of English
Hillman and Humber cars —John Mc-
Grath’s main breadwinner directors
turned the co.’s secondary manufacturing
interests to defence work. Today these
interests rank among the largest forges
in Australia, with plenty of civilian orders
and a contract to supply all forgings for
General Motors’ Australian-made cars,
due to come on to the market in 1948.
Delegating the motor franchises to a
new subsidiary last October, John Mc-
Grath became purely a holding co.
Largest of the five operating cos. is Aus-
tralian Forge and Engineering Pty., of
Sydney (paid capital £250,000), which
turns out ferrous and other forgings for


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Abvt.
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump onl
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two poundi
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn't
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ‘‘up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, -yet amaring in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osuujvan
prrtm
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
♦ GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL, BRISBANE
ẁ
H
OF
R
I a *
Fi/
■■ . .
IN
Candles, a form of indoor illumina-
tion much in favour during the
Georgian and Victorian periods,
owing to their portability and decora-
tive effects for various domestic and
public functions.
The making of modern candles from
gtearine is still quite an important
industry, their soft glow being
particularly favoured.
Electric lighting has replaced candles
for domestic use, and none of us
would prefer the uncertain flicker of
candlelight to the clear steadiness of
an OSRAM ELECTRIC LAMP.
O^Qsram
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Made In Australia tor The General Electric Co. Ltd. of Enoland
GmeftaiS&cfiuc Cc.&tfy.j&d:
(Sole Australian Representativei of The General Electric Co. Ltd. of London) j^j
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • LAUNCESTON
EVERYBODY DRINKS K.B.
One up and one to go . . . then back to
the club-house to review the afternoon's play
with a glass of K.B. near to hand—not
plentiful at the moment, but as good as ever.
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
MAKERS OF GOOD BEER SINCE 1835
KB. 12.1«
aircraft and tractors as well as cars. The
new subsidiary operating Hillman-
Humber franchises in N.S.W. and
Queensland is John McGrath Pty.,
with £60,000 capital. Distributing
various British and American steels,
diesel and petrol engines is Perkins
(Aust.) Pty. (£55,000), with branches in
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adel-
aide. Two small offspring Mag-
nesium and Aluminium Alloys (Aust.)
Pty. and Industrial Sales and Service
(N.S.W.) Pty. —respectively make alloys
and distribute tractors and earth-moving
equipment.
In January £75,000 of fresh capital Was
raised for expansion of the forge co.
In the parent’s accounts manufacturing
activities are cloaked behind the item
shares: —
Parent’s Balance Sheets.
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Capital . . £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 86,077 12,749 '36,150 111,814*
Freeholds . . 41,222 68,787 89,238 200,952
Fittings .. 7,921 286 3,927 158
Stocks . . 136,091 9,578 13,501
Debtors .. 141,273 668 5,502
Shares . . 87,550 266,200 265,325 356,750
Cash .. 235 31,544 24,114 2,105
* Mostly owing to subsidiaries.
Collapse of car-agency business after
1939 is vividly shown by the figures for
stocks and debtors.
This year, when car-agencies vanished
from the parental accounts, directors
presented a consolidated balance-sheet
for the whole family (without compara-
tive figures for 1946). This statement
brings to light an additional £85,396 of
reserves, shows liquid assets exceeding
liabilities by £291,835 (or 17s. per share
allowing for outside interests), and puts
no goodwill value on the numerous fran-
chises and agencies:
Consolidated Balance Sheet, June, 1947.
Capital ~£300,000 Freeholds ..£200,952
Reserves . • 217,250 Plant .. •. 83,575
Div. provision 16,277 Stocks .. 301,431
Outside holdings Debtors .. 189,947
in subsids... 42,835 Cash, etc. .. 10,007
Creditors and
tav .. .. 159,550
£735,912 £735,912
Last year’s £27,944 profit shown by
the parent represented 10.7 p c. on mean
capital, compared with 9.5, 9.1, 9, 9 and
9.6 p.c. back to 1942. It was struck
after allowing plant depreciation of
£21,288 (over 20 p.c.). Directors give no
clues as to respective earnings of the
subsidiaries. Britain’s present plight
makes it doubtful whether the car-selling
organisation—re-established during 1946
at “considerable expense”—will develop
as rapidly as might have been expected,
for a while at any rate. In manufactur-
ing, co. has large orders to fulfil, but
supplies of steel are the main trouble.
Continuance of 9 p.c. div. next term will
entail an extra £3967, which was more
than covered by last year’s profit.
All freeholds passed from subsidiaries
to parent last term, and £lOB,llO is still
“owing” on this account. Payment
must be made soon, chairman says,
because of subsidiaries’ need for
working capital. Also, parent has
£18,980 still to pay on a property in
College-street, Sydney, where modern
showrooms are to be built. Finally,
£28,735 is wanted to put another storey
on the service station at Rushcutter’s Bay,
Sydney. Although cash resources of the
whole group are insufficient to meet these
requirements (totalling over £155,000),
chairman says there’s to be no further
capital issue “at present.”
Scrip seems to have good long-term
prospects, both as to divs. and other
benefits. The pound ords. (there are no
prefs.) are priced around 435. The re-
turn at 435. is 4.2 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. Net asset backing is 345. sd. each.
“Bullionist”: Suspension of the gold
tax, which politicians, stockbrokers and
others claimed would increase production
and benefit the industry so much, has
been followed by “tempered enthusiasm”
in London, and by more reserve than
rapture in Westralia. It is feared that
removal will be offset by (1) increases in
the amount of income-tax paid by pro-
ducers, (2) an automatic lift in the pros-
perity bonus payable to mine workers
when the price for gold received by pro-
ducers rises, and (3) payment of extra
U.K. income tax on additional revenue
of cos. domiciled in London. The tax
operated on ■ a sliding scale, being half
the price of gold above £9 (Aus.) an
ounce. Prospectors paid nothing on the
. first 250 z. got each year, and mineowners
making less than 30s. profit an ounce
could, and did, get a rebate of tax to
bring their profit up to that figure. Some
producers paid nothing.
* -4. * *
Western Mining Corp. has taken an-
other gold option in the West, this time
a fortnight’s free sampling on a 4ft. deep
pot hole in a gully near Bullfinch, and
two miles from Golden Valley, where
the yellow metal was first discovered
on that field. The prospectors got
some specimen stone from a jasperlite-
cement formation, but how much pay-
i ore exists has yet to be determined. The
, find is in a district where rich dabs ancf
1 patches have been got,over the past 50
I years,
* * * ♦
Ellerton Binns, Gt. Boulder’s mining
1 engineer chairman, grumbled at the
• London annual meeting that while 25
' p.c. more tonnage was treated last year
( than the year before, and 24 p.c. more
, gold was produced and sold at a higher
’ price, working profit improved by only
I £6244. He said that the significance of
> this comparison was obvious, reflecting
* as it did the serious effect of a continued
I rise in working costs. No wonder that
s the future of the Westralian goldmining
\ industry is viewed with grave concern.


mmt
m
€mfm
mm
w
m
m
2
/
/
m
i
SMB
1
«*
CCS
mn
wm
*"'v
'H
...Keep that evenness in
Temperature in your Home
with Modern Insulation . . .
Australia is fast realising that in this country
we must insulate our homes to enjoy our
extremes of climate.
If you're building —or even if you've
already completed your home —do some-
thing now about this most important modern
home comfort— B.l. Slccgwool Insulation.
PTY
LTD
HEAD OFFICE; 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins St., Melbourne; Shell House, Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House, North Terrace, Adelaide.
T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray Street, Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street. Brisbane. FLOWER. DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin. R .
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
SPRING MEETING, 1947
To be held on RANDWICK RACECOURSE
4th, 6th, Bth and 11th October
PRINCIPAL EVENTS:
First Day—SATURDAY, 4th OCTOBER
THE A.J.C. DERBY: £5OOO added. (For 3-year-old Colts and Fillies only.)
ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP: £3OOO added. ONE MILE.
The Colin Stephen Stakes; £2OOO added. (Weight for Age.). ONE MILE
AND A HALF.
Second Day —MONDAY, 6th OCTOBER (Six Hours Day)
THE METROPOLITAN: £5OOO added. ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
The George Main Stakes; £l5OO added. (Weight for Age.). ONE MILE
The Gimcrack Stakes: £l3OO added. (For 2-year-old Fillies.). FIVE
FURLONGS.
Third Day WEDNESDAY, Bth OCTOBER
The Craven Plate: £2OOO added. (Weight for Age.). ONE MILE AND
A QUARTER.
The Flight Handicap: £l5OO added. (For 3-year-old Fillies.). ONE MILE.
Fourth Day SATURDAY, 11th OCTOBER
The Randwick Plate: £2OOO added. (Weight for Age.). TWO MILES.
The Final Handicap: £lOOO added. ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
T. NICHOLSON, W. N. PARRY-OKEDEN,
Racing Secretary. Secretary.
Office: 6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Lady Windermere's Fan."
In Wilde’s “Lady Windermere’s Fan”
—excellently produced by May Holling-
worth at the Metropolitan Theatre’s
rendezvous at Reiby-place, Sydney—
Lady Windermere is the central figure.
Round her and her fan the play revolves,
and both are elegant and unyielding.
“A fascinating Puritan,” the witty and
wicked Lord Darlington calls her, to
which she rigidly replies that Lord Dar-
lington might have dispensed with the
adjective.
But Lord Darlington is not discour-
aged. He presses his suit and presently—
through a misunderstanding—her faith in
her husband’s fidelity is shaken. He is
paying attention to the notorious Mrs.
Erlynne and paying her bills. More, he
callously invites her to Lady Winder-
mere’s ball. It is all a mistake, of course,
Mrs. Erlynne is really Lady Windermere’s
mother. Lord Windermere is actuated by
the worthiest of motives . . . Lady
Windermere, in a weak moment, flies to
Lord Darlington’s room, but is saved,
after some debate, by Mrs. Erlynne, who
remains honorably silent concerning her
maternity.
But she is not quite saved. At the very
moment when she is about to flee back
again voices are heard. It is Lord Dar-
lington—and—Lord Windermere! Here
is ruin. She hides. Then the fan is dis-
covered and Mrs. Erlynne, sacrificing her
chances of new-found respectability by
marriage to Lord Augustus, stands up
and claims it. Lady Windermere is saved
and flees.
Here are all the contents of melodrama
and, by a certain sliding of conventions,
it is less feasible to 1947 than to the public
of Wilde’s time. What saves it is the
balance, the English, the form and, above
all, the wit of Wilde. Wit which, unlike
that of his imitators, is evergreen.
At the Metropolitan production Lynne
Murphy played a dignified, charming and
sometimes moving Lady Windermere, dis-
covering more in the part than a reading
might lead one to suppose existed. No
1947 doubts concerning the soul-destroy-
ing consequences of being found in Lord
Darlington’s rooms seriously interfered
with the enjoyment of the play. And this,
to a great extent, was the result of an
attention to detail and a sense of form
in the production itself. It breathed 1892.
It was 1892. And minor characters such
as Lady Plymdale (Gwen Harrison), Lady
Stutfield (Betty Mclntyre), Lady Jed-
burgh (Wanda Herbert), Mrs. Cowper-
Cowper (Flora Levitus), Mr. Dumby
(Robin Lovejoy), Mr. Cecil Graham
(David Saxby) were, by the raising of an
eyebrow, the dropping of a word, elegant
and vital elements in the tone of the play.
Everything moved as gracefully as the
strokes of the notorious fan.
Cathy Lloyd as the Duchess was less
faithful, but compensated with gusto and
character. Her daughter, Lady Agatha,
as portrayed by Audrey Peck, was exp-
edient. Dutiful, addicted to albums and
sunsets, gawky, but with a gawkiness that
reflected the spirit of the play.
Frank Walters, good as he was, was a
shade too robust as Lord Darlington—
something more in the style of a junior
O. D. Bisset could have extracted the
full flavor from Lord Darlington’s
polished cynicisms. Lola Sweeney made
a vivacious and effective Mrs. Erlynne.
Whenever sentiment became dangerously
sticky she—and Wilde —were able to turn
a neat phrase and shun the danger with
a burst of gaiety.
"Awake My Love."
By what he describes as “dramata-
lurgical licence,” Max Afford has included
a romance with a fictional Linda
Manners in this play on the life of
Colonel William Light (Doris Fitton’s
Independents, North Sydney). Fie has,
however, made so much of the incident
that it, instead of Light, becomes the
whole play—makes it a fictional romance
hung on two or three historical pegs,
instead of a historical drama.
Permissible, of course, but regrettable,
and from the dramatic rather than the
historical point of view. The romance is
of the sentimental stuff from which fillums
are made, whereas the clash between
Light and Hindmarsh is, in the two
samples given in the second scenes of the
™ f. c ? nd act ?’ dramatic dynamite.
After watching Kevin Brennan, as Hind-
marsh, and Paul O’Loughlin, as Light,
figuratively slugging it out toe to toe, and
then seeing the bulk of the play given
over to Light and Linda Manners being
“drawn together, first in companionship,
hen as close friends and later m a hope-
less, tragic love, it is impossible not to
feel that the author has missed or avoided
the main explosion and played with
fizzogs.
With Afford’s writing and Kevin
Brennan’s acting, Hindmarsh dominates
the play, even though he appears only
twice. Powerful, venomous and stubborn,
he electrifies the piece the moment he
walks on the stage. From a dramatic
viewpoint he is the perfect antagonist for
Light. In the latter role, however,
O’Loughlin was not so happy ; he in-
vested the role with an air of resigned
suffering, slightly reminiscent of Herbert
Marshall. Had he been freed of the
“hopeless, tragic love,” he might have
gone about the business of beating Hind-
marsh with considerably more spirit qnd
credibility.
An excellent cast, including Diana
Perryman as Linda Manners, Pamela
Bromley Smith, John Cameron, Charles
Tasman and Enid Lorimer, is well up to
the Independents’ customary high
standard, while decor and costumes, de-
signed by Thelma Afford, are even better
than usual.
Melbourne Show.
Melbourne’s 70th Royal Show burst into
bloom in fine, balmy spring weather with
a light westerly blowing the flags about
and tossing the manes of the horses. A
run of good seasons was reflected in the
record number of entries, totalling over
18,000. Never before have so many
objects of art, industry and nature been
crammed into 30 acres, and secretary
Louis Monod had to relieve his head-
ache by excluding sideshows. Nothing
daunted, the Fattest Woman, the Thinnest
Man and the Calf with Five Legs set up
shop on the Housing Commission’s Ascot
estate without the gates, and at time of
writing were doing a roaring business
and a lot of roaring.
The vanguard of the possible million
attendance—last year it was 622,000 —
began to pour into the grounds on Thurs-
day, and most of it made for the arena
to see the judging. Machinery is more
in evidence this year than ever. A
quarter of an acre of earth-moving equip-
ment makes an impressive showing.
Nevertheless, this age of mechanisation
only seems to have added importance to
the horse, except the Clydesdale, which is
being ousted by the tractor. And there
was only one entry in the Percheron
division —by Dr. Donald Thomson, the
anthropologist. But the horse used for
sport and decoration is more abundant
than ever. The arena was a vast moving
pattern of hacks, galloways, Welsh ponies
and Shetlands, where it wasn’t a moving
pattern of shorthorns, Jerseys and
Devons, all there for the ceremony of
judging.
Everything in this year’s show is bigger
and better than ever except the smallest
pony in the world. There is an incredible
variety of new products, from woven and
printed textiles to cosmetics, and the
Victorian pastures have produced the
finest performance in their history in the
way of beef and mutton. The inhabitants
of the animal pavilions look proud and
complacent, and the lustre of their coats
tells its own story.
In Sydney Minerva’s “Grand National
Night” a husband has a struggle with his
drunken and detestable wife when she
to stab him with a paper-knife; she
falls, hits her head on the table and dies
of heart-failure. Instead of sensibly ring-
ing for the police, the gentleman drives
the body off in a car; and thereafter the
play is concerned with his battle to avoid
arrest for manslaughter. As he has only
to tell the truth at any time to get out of
his troubles the play is altogether lack-
ing in dramatic tension. The playwright’s
intention seems to have been to show him
as a gambler and a fool, desperately en-
joying a battle of wits with the police;
but this —which might have made a play
of sorts —is lost in the tremulous earnest-
ness with which Douglas Herald plays the
role. Three good pieces of minor char-
acterisation by Leslie Victor, David Dale
and John Tate make the play a passable
time-killer.
* * * *
“The Children’s Hour,” by Lillian Hell-
man, presented by the Tin Alley Players,
Union Theatre, Melbourne, concerns two
young women who start a girls’ school
which is completely ruined by one of their
own pupils. Every attempt they make
to deal with her drives her to fresh
emotional excesses until she succeeds in
Spreading the scandal that there is an
“unnatural” relationship between her two
teachers. The story loses the young
women all their pupils and they launch
a libel action, but the girl terrorises an-
other girl into giving false evidence and
the charge is proved against them.
Miss Heilman seems to share with her
characters the general belief that the
child is a wicked monster. Her play is
dramatically powerful, though rather
obvious and lacking in subtlety and
nuance. Lola Russell turned in a good
performance as the reactionary pupil,
Dorothea Collopy and Shirley Davis were
monuments of self-pity as the tyrannised-
over teachers and John Davidson acted
well as the ineffectual doctor.
* * * ♦
S.U.D.S. came to Brisbane with
“Hassan” and, since the Sydney produc-
tion, there has been an improving tighten-
ing or polishing. The incidental “music,”
though, was distracting and rarely har-
monious to the action. Generally, the
production was good and the play in-
teresting, beautifully worded and, indeed,
a poem. Dmitri Makaroff, as Hassan,
though competent, was often over-
shadowed by Nigel Hawkins (Rafi), John
Lawrence (the Caliph), and John Richards
(Ishak). The two Tasmins and Per-
vaneh were equally decorative and effec-
tive.
* * * *
“Carnival in Costa Rica” (Sydney
Plaza): A great array of beautiful Costa
Ricochettes tried hard, but could do little
to warm up this technicolor corpse, which
died at the hands of Dick Haymes, Cesar
Romero and others even worse.


No. 17 of Series
Metal Polish ...
m
14
m
m
- r .
as
u
WJHEN metal is tarnished, a chemical process
I has taken place. Though metals have a
natural glitter, most of them are active chemically,
combining with oxygen and other gases in the air,
especially in foggy weather, to form a dull skin of
oxides and sulphides. Polishing removes this dull
film and restores the natural lustre of the metal.
Metal polishes contain substances called fatty
acids” derived from vegetable and animal oils, to-
gether with abrasives, and alkalis such as ammonia.
These not only loosen and remove the unwanted
skin, but the process of polishing brings about a
rearrangement of the molecules on the surface of
the metal, producing a mirrorlike smoothness which
shows up its natural lustre. All the
materials which go into a tin of metal
polish are made by the British chemical
industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
- _ - . IL-31-16
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
Probably very few among the tidy crowd
at Rosehill on Saturday left the course with
pockets bulging, but the .opportunity was there
for the observant to put in a profitably instruc
tive afternoon, good form galore bemg di -
played. In the Rosehill Guineas and Hill btaKes
and the Theo Marks Quality and Rosehill
Handicaps many prominent Derby, Epsom ana
Metrop. candidates rounded off their prepara-
tions.
The success of Conductor (E. Fordyce) in
the Guineas, with Karachi and Valiant Crown
placed and The Groom nowhere, didn t exactly
clarify the position for the Derby, which this
year seems a very open race. 'Conductor, a
bay colt by Marconigram from Silver Cloud
and bought as a yearling for 1300 guineas,
finished on well to run the nine furlongs m
1.52, which might be prophetic. Only three
previous winners of the Guineas have recorded
that time: Laureate and Tea Rose, who went
on to take the A.J.C. Derby, and Prince
Standard, who won the Victoria Derby.
Expressing dissatisfaction with G. Podmore s
handling of Valiant Crown in the Canterbury
Guineas, connections secured D. Munro when
it came to Rosehill. Without knowing whether
Munro was riding to instructions or left to
his own judgment, it seemed poor tactics to
try to lead all the way on a colt who has
previously done his best finishing on from
behind. And the stable money was again left in.
Over the past weeks Derby hopes have
been rising and falling like the ocean wave,
but through the story runs one thread ot
consistency in the efforts of Karachi. A huge
colt and wonderfully well bred, he evidently
doesn’t know how to run a bad race—three
points commending him as the one most likely
to toss Temeraire, whom this page does not
yet discard as a forlorn hope in the Derby.
At all events, Maurice McCarten, who trains
Karachi, must be feeling a strong urge to dust
off his gear and throw a leg over some of his
own charges in the rich spring races. He has
a great team with Karachi for the Derby,
Columnist and Flying Duke in the Epsom,
the Metrop. favorite Sweet Chime, and young-
sters who look capable of winning both the
Breeders’ Plate and Gimcrack Stakes.
Columnist (G. Weate) did all that could be
asked of him in winning the w.f.a. Hill Stakes.
To provide a decent straight run before reach-
ing the first turn the Hill Stakes is run over
furlongs, an odd distance but an ideal tester
for Epsom candidates. Puffham did the pace-
making; then Columnist produced his run m
the straight to win by a length, with Sweet
Chime an excellent third and Deep Sea also
handy. Puffham and Columnist might well
fight out the Epsom, in which case the weights
should favor Puffham. In the Hill Stakes
Puffham, who’s not really happy with any-
thing over 9st., carried 9.1 against Columnist s
9.4; for the Epsom they drop to 8.3 and 8.10.
In the Tramway Handicap at Randwick the
previous Saturday, Puffham did best of the
fancied runners by finishing fifth behind four
rough ’uns. Back in the field, Murray Stream
was eighth, just ahead of Native Son. It
pointed further to Puffham’s Epsom prospects
when the same pair, Murray Stream (G. Pod-
more) and Native Son, finished first and second
in the Theo Marks Quality Handicap of seven
furlongs.
Taking up the running early, Hiraji set a
cracking pace, while Native Son was always
prominent just behind him. Right back in
the field as they entered the straight Murray
Stream produced the splendid finish of which
he is capable on occasions, and got there by
a neck, with a neck between Native Son and
Hiraji. Hiraji would be first selection here
for the Epsom should he start, but connections
seem to have their hearts set on the Caulfield
Cup.
Blue Legend finished on promisingly in the
Quality, for which he was topweight with 9st.
For a horse, who has already won two Don-
casters and an Epsom he is really leniently
handicapped with 9.2 for the Epsom, but he is
such a little fellow and won the Doncaster
so narrowly with 8.11 that 9.2 might be just
enough to stop him.
Carrying his Metrop. weight of 9.1, Cordale,
partner in the old-established doubles com-
bination of Blue Legend and Cordale, finished
a very stout third behind El Senor (J. Thomp-
son) and Cisco in the 12-furlongs Rosehill
Handicap. He may not, however, be up to
conceding Sweet Chime 81b. in the big handi-
cap. Hitherto regarded as just a moderate
Welter horse, Cisco is of late showing sur-
prising staying ability.
Results of the distance races at Rosehill were
a great advertisement for Marconigram as a
sire of stayers. In addition to Conductor,
El Senor and Cisco are both by that sire, as
is Kureebi (F. Williams), who downed King
Lear and Megaron in the 10-furlongs Mixed
Stakes. The dam of El Senor was El Senorita
and of Kureebi another fine racing mare in
Cooranga.
On the strength of his effort in downing
Granite, New Cashmere and some other
moderates over the nine furlongs of the Welter,
Titanic (N. Sellwood) is to be given a run in
the Epsom; with only 7.5 aboard he might have
a rough chance.
* * * *
After watching Trilaw (J. Taylor), at 25 to
1, defeat Buzharine and Llandrillo in the
Paisley Hurdle, which opened the card at
Moonee Valley, the books were gleefully antici-
pating sharing in the sort of luck their brethren
up North have been enjoying of late. The
success of favorites in the next six races came
as a rude shock.
A couple of weeks back Attley won the
Memsie Stakes at the excellent odds of 2 to 1;
in Saturday’s Underwood Stakes of a mile
punters had to lay the books those odds. The
result was a simple repeat of the Memsie, with
Attley (J. Purtell) first, Valcurl second and
Noble Prince third. It carried Attley’s stake-
winnings past £2o,ooo—a fair return for a
250-guineas yearling.
All going well, Attley and Shannon are
expected to meet in the Linlithgow Stakes at
Flemington in early November. The distance
of a mile should be the ideal one at which
to match them. Over anything shorter Attley
might have the edge and at beyond a mile
Shannon would almost certainly prevail.
Another to justify odds-on favoritism was
the New Zealand-bred Fresh Boy (B. Fames),
scoring an effortless five-lengths victory oyer
Leros and Cronides in the second Spring Stakes
for three-year-olds. In two other recent wins
his margin was six lengths. On the fairly
heavy track Fresh Boy cut out the mile in
1.40| —slower than Attley’s 1.39 but a halt-
second better than recorded by Dumfries (W.
“ Don't count so loud, ref. —I can't hear the birds."
Williamson) in winning the first division from
Hororata and Birmingham. Fresh Boy is m
the Caulfield Cup with 6.11.
River Hero was solidly backed to start second
favorite for the first 10-furlongs Metropolitan
Handicap, but evidently he has inherited little
of the staying quality of Eis dam, Rivette;
he finished stone last after leading to a point
past the half-mile. Propontis (G. Bougoure)
moved up then to lead them into the straight
and hence to the judge. Lunar Lynx and
El Banco were at long intervals in the minor
places. Hie Windbag gelding Clatterbag (R.
Hutchinson) almost as easily defeated Heather
Rose and Nagation in the second Metropolitan.
Both Propontis and Clatterbag carried a good
deal more than they have in the Caulfield Cup.
River Hero would have beeen more at home
in the Truganina Handicap of six furlongs,
yet it is doubtful if he could have matched
the sort of sprinting produced by the Dhoti
four-year-old Assam (R, Heather), who led
throughout to down Da Vinci and Upheaval
in the excellent time of 1.12-J-. Over 13 furlongs
the John James gelding Britisher (J. Gilmore)
gave a solid display in accounting for Tudor
Prince and Ellipsis.
* * * *
For the seventh successive year Foxbridge was
New Zealand’s leading sire last season He
headed the list in 1946 with winners of £62,111,
a New Zealand record, though not for long.
In the 1946-47 season his progeny bagged the
remarkable total of £82,000 and altogether in
N.Z. and Australia Foxbridge horses have now
won well over £300,000.
* * * *
Jim Griffen, of Bundaberg (Q.), put in his
60th birthday recently riding two winners and
a second at the local meeting.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances);
Kurrajong Novice: Young Andrew, 1; Robyn
Lynette, 2; Pigeon Pie, 3. Clarendon Three-
year-old : Bluesaic, 1; Owen Roe, 2; Cetewayo,
3. Richmond Mixed Stakes: Menehk, 1;
King Lear, 2; Nandewar, 3. N. B. Thompson
Quality Handicap: Blue Legend, 1; Flying
Duke, 2; Homeleigh Dick, 3. Hawkesbury
Grand Handicap: Open Air, 1; Cordate, 2;
Temeraire, 3. Windsor Welter: Rose Glory,
1: Strathdarr, 2; Montrose, 3.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs rocked the critics and
Manly by winning the Rugby Union
“grand” final 32-6 at Sydney Showground.
Manly looked a tired team; East’s for-
wards were hard-working and deter-
mined, and had the necessary touch of
devil. They won the majority of the
scrums, dominated the line-outs and
ended with eight tries to one. There were
no passengers.
The Wallabies won their third game in
England, at the expense of Somerset-
Gloucestershire, the scores 30-8. Star
winger Bastes was replaced by Tonkin,
and a number of players have yet to be
given a trial, so the real strength of the
side is still in doubt. In the match a
lighter pack held the Australian forwards ;
on heavier ground they may find it
sticky going. Indeed all the indications
are that they will need Cornforth, Furness
and East’s tough captain Newton before
it is all over.
* * * *
It was a fast and robust “preliminary”
final at M.C.G. on Saturday, Essendon
downing Fitzroy by 16.13 to 14.12 after
both sides had mixed fast, open football
with crowding and hard knocks. Essen-
don broke away to an early lead ; Fitzroy
staged a brilliant third quarter to be a
point ahead at the last change, then
Essendon’s small men assaulted the Fitz-
roy goal, and by the time ’Roy woke up
that it was well behind everybody was
too tired to do any more. It’s Essendon
and Carlton in the “grand” final next
Saturday.
“O’Yen”: North Launceston Club
(Australian’rules) is to ask a transfer fee
before clearing any player to other Tassie
or mainland clubs. A result of traffic-
king by mainland scouts during the recent
“carnival” in Hobart, the lead is expected
to be followed in other States.
With* a great burst for Middlesex v.
The Rest in the final match of the season,
Compton (246, his highest score of the
year) and Edrich (180) made cricket
history. The smiting lifted the a gg^g
of Compton (3816 av. 90.85) and Edrich
(3539 av. 80.43) ahead of the 41-year-old
record of Tom Hayward (3518 av. 66.37)
made in 1906. It was the first time two
batsmen from the same county topped
the 3000-mark, and it raised Compton s
centuries to 18, the previous best Jack
Hobbs’s 16 in 1925.
Besides Compton and Edrich those to
top 2000 for the season in England were
Washbrook, Ames, Hardstaff, Hutton,
Robertson, Place and Todd. Wicket-
takers: Goddard (238 av. 17.30), Howarth
(164 av. 17.85), Young (159 av. 17.38),
Pope (114 av. 18.38) and Muncer (107 av.
18.85). The last-named, who is 35, is a
clutf-mate of Compton and a possible
Jest player.
S.A. Cricket Association has Don
Bradman as an honorary life member —‘
a very unusual honor at his age. The
only others are old players Blinman,
Pettinger, Grimmett, Wall and Victor
Richardson; two former Governors,
Gowrie and Galway; two widows of
former presidents Evan and Fisher ; and
the son of an old-time secretary, Cres-
well.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Lakes Club’s open cham-
pionship, one of the most important golf
contests in Australia, went to H. Pick-
worth, the former Manly professional
now stationed in Victoria, with 291, two
strokes ahead of Eric Cremin. Young
Rigney, the North Brighton (N.S.W.)
amateur, who had a great start with two
71’s, took 76 and 79 on the second day,
finishing in fourth place behind W.
Holder’s 296.
* * * *
An odd comeback in tennis, from
Adelaide. The hard-courts State doubles
championship was won by Turnbull, a
Davis Cup man of pre-war days, with
“Gar” Hone, once Gerald Patterson’s
partner. Warhurst, a leading Adelaide
footballer, was in the losing pair in the
finals; but the very next day Turnbull
with Warhurst won another doubles final.
* * * *
Ernie Jarvis (11,40 easily outpointed
Tommy Colteaux (11.12) at Leichhardt.
Jarvis also outpointed Jack Kirkham be-
fore meeting Colteaux, and as Dave Sands
won the 11-6 title from Kirkham, a
Sands-Jarvis scrap should make a fight.
» * * ♦
Showing plenty of gameness after be-
ing down and saved by the bell early in
the scrap, Filipino Johnny Cinto (9.12) •
battled on to the end against Les Fuller
(9.1 li) at Melbourne Stadium, but Fuller
had him on points all the way. Cinto has
his share of the old Filipino doggedness,
but lacks the class,
* * * *
American comment on the Patrick-
Dawson scrap: “Vic Patrick, termed the
best fighter Australia has produced since
the immortal Les Darcy’s day, was
knocked out by Freddie Dawson, a
Chicago negro who is ranked eighth
among our lightweights. The inescapable
conclusion is that Vic was overrated.
Second Les Darcys don’t come along
very often.”


Send your small packages or large consignments to New
Zealand by the daily air freight service. The Tasman flying
boats leave Sydney every morning and deliver their precious
cargoes in Auck. the same day - fresh and in perfect condition.
Any office of Qantas Empire Airways will despatch your freight
TEA"
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
CE^
cm
Ijßlt
r
/
3
GEM Set
Today's Best Value
British made, this full Nickel Plated Gem Razor is offered,
complete with 2 Gem Double-Life Blades, in serviceable Bake-
lite Case for only 3/-.
Stocks are limited. Buy yours today. Obtainable from most
Stores, Chemists, and Tobacconists.
AVOfO ’SO’CLOCK SHAOOWyV/TH
GEM
RAZORS and BLADES
n
Business, Rollery, Etc.
What Happened in 1931
Mr. Chifley has stated, as a reason for
his recommending the nationalisation of
the trading banks, that “in 1931 overseas
conditions precipitated the crisis in Aus-
tralia. On that occasion the private trad-
ing banks refused to co-operate with the
proposals made by the Commonwealth
and State Governments for the relief of
unemployment and the revival of busi-
ness activity. This should not be allowed
to happen again.” The “proposals,” of
course, included the Lang Plan.
As to the Federal Government’s pro-
posals, an American economist (W, R.
Maclaurin) who spent nearly two years
here in studying the economic situation
has commented:
It is doubtful whether Mr. Theodore fully
recognised the difficulty, under prevailing
conditions, of initiating recovery along the
lines he proposed. World deflation was
Still in full career, and the Australian busi-
ness community had lost faith in the exist-
ing Government. The Caucus resolutions
of October, 1930, had thoroughly
frightened the country. Mr. Theodore was
distrusted, and Mr, Scullin was generally
believed to be vacillating and incompetent.
, Although the Court trial which Mr. Theo-
dore had requested had not yet taken place,
Mr. Scullin had felt the need in the
Ministry of Mr. Theodore’s recognised
financial ability. He had, therefore, per-
suaded the Caucus in January to reinstate
Mr. Theodore as Treasurer. The country
was profoundly shocked at this action.
“Shocked” and lacking in confidence it
undoubtedly was. Mr. Maclaurin went
on to say:
It should also be said that the banks
probably distrusted the Government’s pro-
• mise of economy, in view of what had
happened to date; and although some of
the bankers may have recognised Mr.
Theodore’s ability, they were painfully con-
scious of the shortcomings of many of his
inflationary colleagues, whom Mr. Theo-
dore might not be able to control.
The facts are that the Scullin Govern-
ment in 1931 could not even co-operate
with itself —Lyons and two others later
walked out of it —and as for “proposals
made by the Commonwealth and State
Governments”—well, Lang and Theodore
got so much into holts that Lang-planner
Rosevear was eventually put up against
Theodore in the Dailey electorate, and
extinguished his political career.
The opposition by the Senate, the Com-
monwealth Bank board and the trading
banks to the Theodore “fiduciary issue”
proposals has been commented upon by
Mr. Maclaurin as follows:
The impasse thus created brought about
two results. Within the Labor group it
produced the conviction that the banking
system must be altered in the future. More
immediately it made possible the accept-
ance of the Premiers’ Plan.
Those, of course, were two opposite re-
sults. The “Labor” which now wants
banks nationalised has for years past
blackguarded the Premiers’ Plan, just as
elements of it have referred to the A.I.F.
as “six-bob-a-day murderers” and con-
ducted an underhand campaign of
calumny against R. G. Menzies. Premiers
Hill, of S.A., and Hogan, of Victoria,
were expelled from the Labor party for
supporting the plan.
But of the plan our unbiased and com-
petent U.S. observer commented in 1936,
“As a practical measure the plan was an
enormous success. Budget control
essential in the circumstances, and the
plan laid the foundations for a revival
of confidence.” He went on to say;
The Premiers’ Plan proved to be the
solution of the crisis in Australian public
finance. Agreed to by the Commonwealth
Government and the Governments of the
several States, it halted the advance in
expenditures and, more important still,
created the impression in the community
that Australia was at last working by some
logical plan. The psychological effect of a
plan adopted by the mutual consent of all
the Governments was profound. It was as
if Australia, hitherto struggling valiantly
to get out of the quicksand, had at last
gained a more secure footing.
As to the banks:
The allegations of Labor against the Aus-
tralian banks were exaggerated. For ex-
ample, the monetary manipulators in Labor
ranks assumed that, because the banks had
restricted new loans in the earlier stages of
the depression, they were still restricting
credit in 1934. They maintained that, if
the banks would only release credits, pros-
perity would return. But actually by 1934
the banks had a plethora of funds and,
with mounting cash reserves and declining
revenue assets, were willing enough to make
new loans of the traditional type, which
was what Labor was referring to.
The Australian banking system, while
not free from imperfections, stood up re-
markably well in the depression. None of
the trading banks failed, there was no wide-
spread liquidation of securities, and there
were comparatively few foreclosures. The
only banks that failed in Australia were
the State Savings Bank of N. S. Wales,
which failed largely for political reasons,
and two small banks with combined de-
posits of less than £2 million. Confidence
in the safety of the banks had probably
never been higher than at the time of the
principal Labor attack in 1934 [election].
It is easy enough to see why any respon-
sible economic or financial body found
it impossible to co-operate with the dis-
united and often distraught Labor Gov-
ernments of 1931. The cry was for
“easy” finance without the obligation to
impose industrial discipline or engage
in realistic industrial planning. The
Premiers’ Plan, forced upon Labor and
later disowned by it, produced equili-
brium in Budgets and threw upon private
industry the task of rehabilitation and re-
employment. With confidence returning,
this was a responsibility that private enter -
prise accepted with alacrity,
Most of us, including the trading banks,
have learned a great deal more about
modern economic workings since the early
1930’5. Those who have learned the
lesson best, however, realise that you
cannot safely expand credit unless it is
based upon efficient production that is
satisfying a legitimate demand. Credit
cannot be expanded merely to sidetrack
the economic and industrial realities of a
political problem. Labor has not yet
learned this fundamental truth.
The Budget
The Federal Government, by virtue of
its tax exactions on a community at
present in receipt of a very large export
income arising from inflated overseas
prices, is embarrassed by its riches. But its
riches are someone else’s loss; a com-
paratively small proportion of the in-
crease in our export income remains in
the hands of those who “produce the
goods,” and, the Federal Government’s
policy, financial and industrial, having
a distinctly inflationary side, what the
producer has left to him after paying
taxes is not worth what it seems on the
face of it, costs having risen so much.
The tax revenue of the Canberra Labor
Government is so great that it could very
easily have tendered a balanced Budget
for the current year. There is enormous
uncollected income tax. Mr. Chifley’s
accounting purports to show that there
will be a deficit of £3O million. But
charged to the Budget are £33 million of
“public works,” and if balanced Budgets
were not such an anathema to the rank
and file of “Labor” (and a source of
argument for mendicant State Premiers)
there is little doubt that Mr. Chifley
could have produced a “balanced” state-
ment of account without any more deceit
than has been apparent in other ways
in other Budgets.
But it is not the classification as revenue
expenditure what might be called capital
outlay that is objectionable about the
Chifley Budget. The finances of the
country are no worse off for charging
capital expenditure to revenue. Where
the nation suffers is in overtaxation and
overspending. These are double-edged
weapons of industrial frustration and
socialisation: excessive taxation dulls
private enterprise, and heavy Govern-
ment spending brings about excessive
competition for materials and labor, thus
restricting private initiative.
Mr. Chifley proposes to abolish the
war-time (company) tax “at a cost of
£3.5 million.” This, of course, does not
remove the greater part of war-time taxes
from companies ; they are still subject to
the double taxation brought about by
elimination of rebates, there is still the
increased undistributed-profits tax to pay.
as well as the high flat rate, and private
companies are still subject to that peculiar
system of tax that prevents many of them
from building up adequate reserves.
Sales-tax remissions are expected to
involve £3.5 million a year, and elimina-
tion of the gold tax £550,000 a year.
After making these allowances the Gov-
ernment modestly budgets for a net tax
revenue of £320 million, compared with
£342 million in the preceding year. But
in 1946-47 estimates were greatly ex-
ceeded, and it is expected that the present
rate of national income, if maintained,
will produce another bumper crop of
taxes for Chifley, even though Customs
revenue may be less buoyant than hitherto
because of restrictions on dollar spend-
ing.
After providing for State tax reimburse-
ments (apart from special grants) Budget
figures over three years compare as fol-
lows:-
Expenditure.
Actual, Actual, Est
1945-46. 1946-47. 1947-48
£md. £mil. £mil
“Defence .. 378 233 ias
Civil ■. .. 132- 178 215
510 411 383
Revenue and Loans.
Taxation .. .. 327 342 320
Business income 30 31 33
Loans .... 153 38 30
510 411 383
Government expenditure, after allow-
ing £44 million (against £39 million) taxes
collected and handed to the States, is given
at £383 million for 1947-48, down only £2B
million. Civil outgo is inflating prodig-
iously. This is the great cause for concern
in the Chifley Budget. Any Treasurer is
to be commended on adopting a conser-
vative attitude as regards his estimates
of tax revenue, but economies in public
outgo are a matter of far greater import-
ance. Here you have the fundamental
reason for levying taxes, and if it is that
we are facing a world of uncertainty in
spite of our present high export and
national income, then far greater con-
sideration should be given to the expen-
diture side of the Budget. Our budgetary
sails have certainly not been trimmed by
Chifley to meet a recession. He is still
clapping on canvas.
The Federal budgeting that is killing
production incentive shows that the Prime
Minister’s appeal for greater output is
mere lip service. We are undoubtedly in
a production depression at the moment.
If the wind changes so as to bring us the
“financial recession” that the Government
itself has been talking about, then Aus-
tralian public finance will be in a state of
grave crisis. There will then have to be
a drastic shortening of sail, or great and
disastrous inflation.
Most disarming comments of the year:
(1) Question and answer in Parliament, March
5, 1947: Mr. Brennan. —Will the Treasurer
consider —not as a matter of urgency, but as
something for consideration at his leisure, if
he ever has any—an amendment to the Con-
stitution providing for such amendments of
the Commonwealth Bank Act as should be
desirable in the Constitution in the light of the
fact that sound finance. is •an essential part of
the Constitution?
Mr. Chifley. —Certain amendments to the
Commonwealth Bank Act have been suggested
by the governor of the bank, and they may be
coming before Parliament this year, but they
are of a minor character only. I shall consult
with the honorable member in order to learn
what amendments he has in mind.
(2) From an introduction, dated March 31,
1947, to “Commonwealth Bank of Australia in
the Second World War,” by governor H. T.
Armitage: The co-operation of the trading
banks is unreservedly acknowledged. Their
readiness to carry out the financial policy
approved by the Government and administered
by the [Commonwealth] Bank contributed
materially to the successful operation of the
system of war finance.


Since
When George 111 was
King
The Bank of New South Wales, established 130
years ago, is Australian in origin and is still
Australian in ownership, directorate and
management.
Over 72 per cent, of its shareholders are
small investors holding 25 shares or less, and
the average holding of all shareholders is under
30-| shares.
This Bank has pioneered with the pioneers,
opening branches to give financial help to the
rugged early settlers as they pushed further
and further out into virgin areas.
No institution in this country has done so much
as this Bank to foster every phase of Australia’s
development.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability)
A4706D
WHEN FASTER STARTS
MEAN LONGER LIFE
IT
Vi
m
A
2^
J
W\
V V
s>
“v,
4 *j-. , 5 fk A „
f *>-
*/
</«
<o^
G/ */ e
(to v« ,« EtY At
tTURK . *m*™* s,TS
_ v » at H ' GH
•«BOt>T **
NEPTUNE
HIGH VISCOSITY INDEX
□Wn
MOTOR OIL*
NEPTUNE OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.S.W.) .
MARKETERS OF QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA SINCE 1909
IIOHOMH
S
Overseas Funds
After making a gift of £25 million to
Britain, and repaying overseas loans
amounting to million, Australia’s
London balances on June 30 were £198.7
million, compared with £215.4 million a
year earlier. This notwithstanding, a
favorable trade balance of £62 million
during the year; It would appear that
there were withdrawals of funds from
Australia on a fairly substantial scale
during the period.
The Commonwealth Bank is not very
informative in this respect. It says, in its
latest report: “Recoveries from other
Governments on account of war supplies
and services have been substantially lower
this year than in 1945-46. This is a
natural consequence of the tapering-off
of war-time inter-Governmental con-
tracts. It is taking time to reach finality
in the clearing of our debts on war
account, and, though we paid out more
this year than last year, under this head,
all our liabilities have not yet been
cleared.”
The movements in Australia’s reserves
of “international currency”—since the
restrictions on conversion into dollars
they are not so international as they
were—have been as follows since before
the war:
June, £Amil. June, £Amil.
1939 .. 55.7 1944 .. 182.5
1940 .. 71.7 1945 .. 208.3
1941 .. 89.5 1946 .. 215.4
1942, .. 69.1 1947 .. 198".7
1943 .. 86.8
The great increase in 1943-44 was partly
a result of the heavy spending by U.S.
troops stationed in the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth Bank governor
says “we are experiencing a substantial
increase in our export income—an in-
crease beyond current expectations and
largely accounted for by the current high
prices for wool and wheat.”
He further says; “On these grounds it
may be considered that caution for the
future is unwarranted. I cannot, how-
ever, share this view. It would be unwise
to rely on the maintenance of an export
income at the present high levels, and
the rate of flow of imports is, if uncon-
trolled, more likely to increase than
diminish. It is already high; the prices
of imported goods, moreover, show as
yet little signs of falling.”
Mr. Armitage adds that we have to
face the question of “what our reserves
really are.” He says: “It was clear be-
fore the dollar crisis deepened that
for the time being our ideas of what we
can afford to import must be governed
more by the level of our current income
than by the overseas monetary reserves we
have built up in the past. Recent events
have driven home the realisation that we
are entering on a period in which we
shall have to be careful, in particular,
about the rate at which .we are importing
Unessential items will have to be cut,”
Highest-paid workers in Maoriland
today are in transport and communi-
cations ; their average is £7 7s. 3d. a week.
At the lower end of the wage-scale are
engineering and metal workers, on £6
165., but a quarter of them, repairers of
vehicles and cycles, get, with overtime,
£6 6s. 3d. Only one group reaches
double figures; its average is £lO 3s.
weekly. White-collar workers have fared
worse than unions in recent bargaining,
and the top group, “education and in-
struction,” is well under £5OO a year,
with a weekly average of £9 Bs. Only
one other group, “financial establish-
ments,” is above £9. Women bring up
the rear with a range from £5 Is. 3d.
for transport workers, though the
majority of these get £4 125., down to
£3 14s. 2d, for girls in manufacturing.
M.L. girls in the best-dressed group—
“distribution and finance” —get just under
£4. Fat earnings are hard to find, and
swollen war-time pay envelopes are a
memory. Few Maorilanders on pay-
rolls are in a position to be reckless now,
and businessmen know it, so they’re
watching customers’ pockets more than
at any time since depression days.
* * * *
Shrinking overtime payments are off-
setting rising wages in Maoriland, and
the post-war spate of frantic buying at
almost any price is broken. Slowly
Maorilanders are growing more cautious,
more inclined to wait for prices to turn
downward. Although the trend is still
upward, many don’t mind waiting. The
reverse won’t happen suddenly; at least
traders fervently hope not, for they
haven’t forgotten the knock they took in
1921-22, when a collapse in prices almost
overnight was a terrific blow. They
haven’t much fear of this happening
again, because the pent-up demand today
is too big; but memory makes them
canny. So they’re watching customers’ re-
actions as the rein is drawn on spending.
/%* * #
Tin has gone to another record at the
£515 a ton permitted to be charged by
Australian smelters, but it is £3l a ton
below London parity, and the metal is
still underproduced in the Common-
wealth. The increase of £97 a ton
allowed recently by the Prices Com-
missioner is intended to bring more pro-
ducers into the field. Biggest tinmine in
Australia is Tableland Tin’s dredging
proposition at Mt. Garnet (Q.). Its £1
ord. shares have strengthened to 255. 6d.
So far there has been nothing from it
for ord. shareholders.
* * * *
The Bank of Australasia and the Union
Bank, which in February announced a
proposed merger, now say “an entirely
new situation has been created by the
proposed nationalisation of the trading
banks by the Australian Government. It
will be readily understood that until the
position of the two banks under this pro-
posal is clarified the directors are not
in a position to proceed further with the
merger.” In the circumstances little else
could be expected.
* * * *
“Graz”: The Australian Wool and
Meat Producers’ Federation has a wool-
marketing plan to take over if, and when,
J.O. ceases. S. Africa and New Zealand
are to be invited to co-operate with Aus-
tralia in forming a joint controlling
authority to work on the same line as
J. 0., the wool to be appraised before be-
ing auctioned and lines not fetching the
reserve to be bought in. The sponsors
realise that several millions will be needed,
proposing that growers should invest
their share of forthcoming wool profits,
and that a contributory charge not ex-
ceeding 5 p.c., beginning with the 1948-49
clip, be placed in a special capital fund.
Certificates showing their equity in The
fund would be issued and participating
growers would receive interest. The A.W.
and M.P.F. wants the endorsement of “a (
great majority of producers.” Little
argument could be raised against the sug-
gestion that the best use for the wool
profits, including the £8,000,000 Central
Wool Committee profits socked away by
the Chifley Government, would be to
utilise them to stabilise future wool
prices. At the appropriate time the
Governments of the U.K., Australia, S.
Africa and N.Z., which now control J. 0.,
should be prepared to hand it over as a
going concern to a joint grower-controlled
authority of the three Dominions.
* * * ♦
Mr. Chifley may not like to acknow-
ledge the fact, but restriction of imports
was one of the actions that preceded the
adoption of the Premiers’ Plan during
the depression. We are again restricting
imports.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Trundle (N.S.W,), which
probably has the widest main street in
the world, slumbered in the midday heat,
the only sign of life an old horse, without
halter or harness, standing in the middle
of the street clopping lazily at the flies.
Down the road from Tullamore came a
traveller on a bicycle loaded with swag
and camp gear. He was hot and weary.
So was the dog that cantered a hundred
yards behind him. The cyclist dis-
mounted at the Union, slapped dust
from himself, stepped on the verandah
and stopped, open-mouthed, before the
closed bar door. He knocked in vain.
Looking in mystification about him, he
led the bike across the sun-drenched
expanse of the main street to Rintoule’s
pub, the weary dog trailing behind, and
there encountered another closed bar and
no response to his knock. The cyclist
screwed up his eyes against the glare and
searched the empty street, his glance
lingering a moment on the old horse.
Then he leaned Against a post, folded his
arms, looked down at the panfling dog
and spoke. “Y’ was right, Rowdy,” he
said, “I wouldn’t listen t’ y’ an’ it serves
me right. I ought t’ ha’ known when y’
didn’t want t’ leave The Toffs that y’
was right. It is Sundee, all right!”
He pondered a moment, then slowly
reached out for the bike. “Ah, well,”
he sighed, as the dog arose, “well
hunt up a camp an’ wait till the momin’.
It’ll teach a man t’ watch the days from
now on. Come on, Rowdy.” And man,
dog and bike drifted slowly towards the
scrub near the football ground.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: That kerosene-tin
griller (B. 27/8/’47) recalls the “stoves”
that warmed us during the cold Syrian
winter a four - gallon drum with a
chimney attached, and a funnel inserted
in the top leading down to a piece of
flat iron. A scrap of paper heated the
iron, and the flames were fed by a
mixture of oil and water dripping in from
two containers. We used two drips of
water to one of oil, the water distributing
the oil over the hot plate. Each drop
produced a “woof” of heat which roared
up the chimney, setting it to a red heat
for some feet. With those stoves we
warmed rooms, cooked toast —and, at
odd times, filled buildings with soot and
smoke. But even the smoke was warm.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Illustrative of Binghi’s
Peter Pan mentality was the necessity of
an official ban on the game of marbles,
shortly after it swept through Torres
Strait, From pot-bellied piccaninny
to beldame the population settled down
to a marathon marbles tourney which
lasted for weeks on end, beginning at
crack o’ dawn and continuing by the
flickering light of coconut-leaf torches
far into the night. Communal gardens
were forgotten and the M.O.P, cutters,
which the native normally works, lay
beached, while dear-water after dear-
water passed, before officialdom stepped
in with its interdict.
“Lub”: Concerning frogmouths,
“Gryllus” (B. 27/8/’47) brushes off
as “imaginative” my report of hear-
ing numerous birds in dry trees
in the bends of a creek; then
goes on to babble of “vast flocks” and
the fowls spending “entire nights on the
wing.” In the locality I wrote of it
wasn’t unusual to hear up to a dozen
frogmouths from one spot on an early
summer night; biking it a dozen miles to
the town by the winding creek road on
moonlight nights, we heard hundreds.
In every case we investigated, the
monotonous “oom, oom, oom” could be
traced as stationary in one of the many
dry trees in the weired-up creek, and
heard in intermittent stretches from dusk
till well on in the night. There is no
sibilance of a whisper in a frogmouth’s
repeated calls try whispering “oom,
oom, oom”—the effect being more a
subdued or hollow booming. At close
quarters it has a distinctly resonant
quality.
* * * *
“Esk D.”; It is Sunday afternoon and
George is entertaining the other hut-
dweller from down the creek. “How
will you have your tea, Fred—smoked or
plain?” he inquires, courteously. “Hot,
with sugar, thanks,” Fred replies. They
“partake” of tea, for in the bush it’s
never drunk, guzzled, swigged, gargled or
sipped (hot) with large slurping noises
“Anybody home?”
“These rockcakes are good,” Fred
murmurs, nibbling cautiously with a
rattling of his dental plates. “I’d like to
have the recipe.” But a wild clout from
George lands on his ear and bowls him
over from the upturned box, “Them
ain’t rockcakes, y’ insultin’ hound!”
George bellows. “Them’s scoans, like me
pore old mother used t’ make. Me dawg
won’t eat nothin’ else. Gripes, I dunno
what the place is cornin’ to when me first
guest in two years starts pokin’ borak at
the tucke^!”
* * * •
“Bo”: The residents of Yabbawogga
were gathered outside the Mechanics’ Hall
discussing the finer points of the charity
concert they had just attended, with par-
ticular reference to the visiting pianist.
The general opinion was that the long-
haired one was a wizard, but Dad Cum-
mins delivered himself of a terse minority
judgment. “He ought t’ take a few
lessons from our Annie,” he said —“she
don’t have to chase ’erself up an’ down
the pianner like that. But, I suppose y’
got to be fair,” he went on. “P’raps the
damned thing wasn’t big enough for the
poor coot. He seemed to be stumped
when he got right up to the top of it.”
♦ * * *
“Abi Tonus”: Residents of the eastern
districts of Papua were not surprised at
the two shipwrecks which happened in
one week. Visibility has been limited
to a couple of miles for nearly a
month, a dense haze persisting in the
presence of the south-east trade wind.
Numerous theories, ranging from atomic
bombs to volcanic explosions, have been
advanced to account for the phenomenon,
which is new to most of the natives,
though some of the older ones assert
that there was a similar occurrence in
1920.
$ * * *
“Blime”: “Ladies and gentlemen,”
boomed the chairman of the gathering in
the Mechanics’ Hall, “you all know we
are here tonight to bid farewell to Mr.
and Mrs. Oatman, who are leaving the
district. I now call on Councillor Dunnit,
to make the presentation.” The old
councillor rose importantly, ran an eye
over the audience, and cleared his throat
several times. “Friends,” he croaked
huskily, “when Jack Oatman come t’ this
district 35 years ago, with no money in
his pockets, I’m glad t’ say I was able
t’ be of great service to him. A service,”
he continued weightily, “for which Oat-
man has never ceased to be grateful t’
me.” The departing cocky looked puzzled.
“Since then,” the veteran went on, “I’ve
given Jack Oatman very good advice on
many occasions, just as I’ve done t’ many
of youse. I’ve alwiz done me best con-
scientiously for yez all, because I felt it
was me unselfish duty t’ do so.” He
cleared his throat once more. “Then,”
he continued, “there was the building o’
this here hall. Jack Oatman was on the
committee, and I’ll never f’rget the way I
worked f’r this hall. And, you’ll agree,
I done a good job. Fact is I’ve always
done a good job, not only as y’r
councillor, but in all the districk work I’ve
undertaken. I don’t think there’s any
more I c’n say about Mr. Oat . . . that
is, about Mr. and Mrs. Oatman, so I’ll
ask him t’ accept this gift, knowin’ that
everything Fye done f’r him was always
a great pleasure t’ me.”
* * * *
“Mic. O. Farad”; Wind power (B.
20/8/’47) is put to maximum use on
Flinders Island. Most homesteads have
equipment to take full advantage of the
wind, and it is used for many purposes,
including home lighting. During the war
the R.A.A.F. had an ambitious project for
supplying the ’drome with power from
harnessed wind. One of its most prac-
tical uses is the generating of power for
the Whitemark wireless-telephone service,
which is linked with Scottsdale on Tas-
mania’s north-east coast. The plant is
most ingenious, the wind planes being so
constructed that they feather in the hard-
est gale, presenting a minimum of surface
to the wind. The set is 'dso geared and
governed to ensure normal rate of charge,
despite variations in wind velocity.
“Dutigalla”: “Loc” (B. 27/8/’47) re-
minded me of the time I bought Sam, my
last cocker spaniel. When I explained to
the kennel man that my previous dog
had run away he told me that the pup
would never leave me if I took an old
sock, wore it for several days, stuffed
it with old rags, and gave it to him to
play with. I followed his advice, and
will go on rfekkud that Sam never ran
away. Still, I doff my hat to “Loc,” be-
cause although my sock kept my dog
from wandering, it never rendered him
“utterly unconscious.”
* * * *
“Stanus”: I always believed that birds
went in for careful reconnaissance before
selecting their nesting places, but a pair
of tits at Merrygoen (N.S.W.) must have
made a snap decision. They were busily
engaged in building in a cavity in the
automatic coupling of a railway goods
wagon that had been in the siding for
less than 24 hours,
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: If “Naturala” ex-
amines his bulldozed ant-heap (B.
27/8/’47) in a few weeks’ time he’ll
probably discover that it’s just as active,
just as populous, but a little less con-
spicuous, Ants don’t die as easily as
that, and they’re very adaptable. In-
telligence in insects is a debatable sub-
ject, but one argument in favor is the
manner in which they’ve accustomed
themselves to the idiosyncrasies of man.
I once concentrated on a nest of sugar
ants which raided the larder nightly. By
a combination of ingenuity and bone-
headed persistence I finally convinced
them that their only refuge was in the
foundations of my house. They’re quite
inaccessible, and much handier to the
jams—they make a specialty of piercing
the paper covers. This particular ant—
honey-colored and about three-quarters
of an inch long maintains its communal
life even when separated from the queen.
Traced some to a branch which I’d
chopped off a fallen tree. When I split
the log, months later, they were appa-
rently unaffected by the absence of the
queen, who had obviously been left be-
hind in the tree. ,
* * * *
“Betcha”; Considering the wary timid-
ness of most wild creatures, the placidity
of the possum is something of a novelty.
Caught one the other morning in a trap
I’d left in the fresh earth of a covered-
in rabbit burrow. With his hind foot in
the trap, the little grey bloke was
crouched in under the log, face tucked
under one forearm, and sound asleep. I
ordered the dogs back, removed the trap
and felt his foot to make sure it was not
broken. Then, giving him a light stroke
on the rump, I pulled up my old Griffiths
and departed. He was still asleep.
* * * *
“Val” on casual outback financial
matters:
In the N.S.W. “corner country” Bung is the
unofficial and unpaid banker’s agent. In a talk
on the race week-end, when Far West, C.W.A.,
Progress Society, Hospital Committee and every-
body foregather, Bung told me he had cashed
£I2OO in cheques and taken £604. In seven
years the only cash he had banked was a
£SO note, and the £2 cheque pasted on the wall
was the only “boomerang.” Mellow and
trusting, my host showed me the inside of his
safe, in- which he always carried about £2OOO
in cash. There were several tidy little nuggets
of yellow gold and a gold watch and chain with
little nuggets suspended between each link.
Several bottles full of shining gold prills were
the results ot “specking” by his customers after
the rains. When cash is getting low Bung
uses the transceiver set and puts through
the Flying Doctor base a message to the bank
for four or five hundred pounds in stated de-
nominations and up it comes by mail truck.
“They know my cheque is on the way,” he
explained. On one occasion the expected parcel
didn’t arrive and Bung said to the postmaster
“Ah, well, I suppose it’ll be up on the next
truck.” The mail driver looked in next morn-
ing before he pulled out. “Here,” he said,
tossing a parcel across the counter, “I nearly
carried this on. The bloke at the bank asked
me to give it to you. Said he was too late to
take it to the post-office. . I shoved it under
the seat and forgot all about it.” “There was
only four hundred quid in the parcel,” said
Bung.
“Sou’-west”: Have heard most noc-
turnal bush sounds: screaming owls,
wailing dingoes, yapping foxes, dreary
moreporks, etc., but for sheer cold creepy
weirdness I fall back on a night out from
Busselton (W.A.). The breakdown of the
motor on our 30ft. auxiliary had brought
night down on us and we were beating
home past Tub Rock with a ragged sail
that every fresh gust threatened to rip
to ribbons and leave us stranded. Tub
Rock, a lonely crag popping up at all
tides from fathoms of water, got its name
from the big tun or tub, long since dis-
appeared, that a Yankee skipper of a
century ago had placed there, hoisted on
a couple of short spars, as some sort
of a warning for himself and his fellow-
whalers. Now from its hidden wave-
washed coldness came sounds to chill the
blood ; a deep growling bass, a shrill sort
of soprano, and the low whimpering
apparently of a tormented child.
“Heavens! what’s that?” asked the theo-
logical student, out for a day’s angling.
The skipper kidded that he didn’t know.
“Sounds much like lost souls: that’s the
Tub Rock over there; there’s been
wrecks on it.” Just then a pale moon
shone out and showed not a 100 yards
away a family of seals on the rock, the
old woman apparently administering a
little correction to the cub, while the old
bull throatily expostulated that she
“needn’t be too hard on the kid.”
« * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Unexpected visitors that
“just drop in” are seldom welcome; and
this visitor was reptilian, black and 6ft.
long. The girls, city-bred, bolted, one to
get a masculine neighbor, the other to
ring the police. The neighbor searched
the place, including the verandah rafter
whence the snake had presumably come.
“Well, he’s certainly not in the house
now,” was the verdict. Still a little
apprehensive, the newchum poultry-
farmers returned to their home, after
being assured that the window was
shut tight. Six hours later the Law
arrived, ringing the front door bell.
Thinking up an apology (she had seen
him from the window), one of the girls
was halfway to the door when she halted
in horror —Joe Blake had turned up
again and was slithering along the hall
two paces ahead. This time the lady
retreated via the back door, and ex-
plained the situation to the waiting con-
stable. Again a search failed to locate
the reptile. “Well,” deduced the young
Sherlock, “it must have been the door
bell that drew him out; it might do it
again. Keep ringing.” For a full minute
the ear-jarring whirring continued, then,
like a conjuror’s master trick, the snake
slithered out of a bedroom—to his doom.
Puzzle: Where could a snake hide in a
bedroom so that two thorough searches
would not reveal him?
HOME OF THE EAGLEHAWKS.
This is the home of the eaglehawks
In the mountains’ pride,
Where the wind talks or the water talks,
And nothing at all beside.
And over the range the wet mist walks
With garments floating wide.
The clouds of winter roll dark and low
In from the western plain
When the savaging winds begin to blow
And the wet scrubs creak in pain
At the promise of snow and yet more snow,
Of rain and yet more rain.
Then spring returns like a wave of light
Breaking in rainbowed showers,
In the flood that smothers the stony height
And the tumbledown rock-towers
With blue and scarlet, yellow and white
Flowers, and yet more flowers.
Over the ramparts’ graves and duns
The cataract seeks the cool
Water-mirror that over-runs,
Broken and beautiful,
Shattering the sun to a thousand suns,
Drowning peaks in a pool.
Cliff beyond cliff the Grampians go,
Further than eye can see;
Wimmera wheatfields spread below
Stretch to eternity
With timbered terraces leaning low
To the sheep and the ring-barked tree.
Freedom has here a nesting place
On the steepest steep of all,
Where the white bird-droppings of years
deface
The overhanging wall,
And over the ledge, blown into space,
Feathers and small bones fall.
High above crag and high above cave
They float where the blue air sings;
Pygmy forests beneath them wave,
The wide earth circles and swings—
Range and river and all this brave
Old world under their wings.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


ẃ
"When I want your help I'll ask for it!”
basket, woven one time by his Mary from
swamp reeds. From another hiding place
high up the tree he brought out a big
ball of strong twine woven by his
useful gin from the strong bark fibres
of the roots of the native fig tree. Open-
ing one end of his basket he extracted a
big sucker fish. To the tail of this he
deftly fastened one end of the line. Then
slipping the gasping fish back into the
receptacle he carried everything to his
ancient two-man dug-out canoe. Tying
on the basket so that it followed well-
submerged, he paddled slowly out to the
big Kimberley inlet. Turtle was not
scarce this placid summer day, but Timbo
was a trifle choosey; he didn’t want to
fasten on to any carapace bigger than he
or his fish could handle. However, pre-
sently he sighted a nice 50-pounder lazing
sleepily on the surface. Releasing his
sucker fish he gave it direction, then sat
paying out the line. Out in the wide
waters, after many days without support,
the remora made straight for the turtle,
finally fastening on underneath. Then it
was only a matter of drawing the catch
quietly in until Mary in the bows could
get a grip. .
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat and I struck
something new to us when we took on
a small fencing job on the outskirts of
Sydney among flocks of pigeons, the boss
being a racing-pigeon breeder and en-
thusiast. A genial old cove, he’d come
along to the fence line and be talking
when a flight of pigeons would go by ;
and he’d stop and describe them and ex-
pect us to stop and admire them. At the
week-ends there’d be gatherings of coves
from round about and they’d sit on the
ground and throw wheat about and dis-
cuss the pigeons that came down for it,
pointing out this or that as a “fine bird,”
and talking of distances and times and
hawks and so forth. “Strike me roan,”
Mat complained. “I’ve seen blokes
bangin’ over rails starin’ at sheep or
cattle, an’ other blokes wanderin’ about
shows googlin’ at chooks an’ dogs an
pumpkins an’ things, but these pigeon
peanuts take the bun.” He watched
morosely as three more devotees joined
the group at the pigeon lofts ; then he spat
and said, “Well, there’s a pub up the hill
a bit. Seein’ everybody’s starin’ at their
fancy, what say you an’ me amble up
there an’ stare down a couple o’ pots.
They won’t fly away if y’ try t’ grab
’em!” The motion was carried. About
an hour later we looked up to see the
boss leading the pigeon audience into the
bar. “Strike me,” marvelled Mat, “they
got a bit o’ sense, after all.”
“Mateless Mattie”: When I asked a
nurse in a big general hospital how she
liked the ward she was in she replied that
it was rotten, being “full of old mats.
“Mats?” I inquired. “What on earth
have you got old mats on the floor for?
“We haven’t,” she replied, “but we’ve
heaps of old bores like that Mat in The
Bulletin, always talking of ‘the wimmen
wot wanted to marry me.’ That’s why
we nurses call them ‘Mats’ instead of
something worse.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Zake”: Australia seems to have but
a quartet of avian nocturnal serenaders.
Willy Wagtail’s modest effort is limited
to his references to a “sweet pretty crea-
ture,” and he sings of it on a minor note.
The blue wren occasionally lets his plain
brown spouse know from the roost that
he has a good light tenor voice to go with
his cerulean weskit. The bush lark will,
when the spirit moves him, burst into a
night piece, But the reed-warbler is the
best night singer of them all. That
friendly fellow, who shares his shakedown
on the edges of swamps and lagoons with
his cobbers the grass birds and the marsh
warbler, can give the English nightingale
and the thrush an octave start and beat
them hollow in the vocal stakes. Just
now he is busy in his capacity as chief
harbinger of spring.
“Elcho”: Mention of that Camden
Harbor Colonisation concern (B. 3 /9 / ’47)
reminds me that the unlucky venture left
behind a pathetic grave. On a small
island in the harbor stands a plain marble
headstone, still showing the epitaph: “In
Memory of Mary Jane Pascoe, who died
June 4th, 1865, aged 30 years.” Mother
and babe lie together ; it was a puerperal-
fever case. Mrs. Pascoe had been at
“You gibbit permit for rocket-range weapon, boss?”
Camden Harbor only three months
when her end came: thus when she left
Melbourne, with all its doctors and com-
forts, she must have known that far away
in the wilderness she would have to face
woman’s greatest ordeal. Nor did the
expedition carry a doctor. What hearts
some of those pioneer women had!
* * * * »
“Gipps Apis”: At the end of autumn,
observing some unusual activity just in-
side the entrance to the hive, I investi-
gated. Two small tightly-packed clusters
of bees, each about the size of a tennis
ball, were giving off a vicious, sizzling
sound like a red-hot poker dipped in
water —a condition known as “balling”
the queen. The hive had a hunch for re-
queuing, and may have succeeded had
it killed off the old queen before the
new one emerged. But, with one portion
of the colony in favor of retaining youth
and the other determined to give the old
one another season in the brood nest, the
hive soon became another Punjab.
Shortly, two dead queens were rolled out
on the alighting board. With no drones
around at the approach of winter the
colony’s blunder was suicidal.
* * * *
“Goldie”: Cranky Willie and the new-
chum were sinking a shaft on a barren
seam of quartz, and progress was slow.
Every evening after work they used to
measure up to the nearest inch, and their
enthusiasm soared one night when the
tape ran out to 20ft., a whole foot for
the day. But the following night it
measured only 19ft. 6in. to the bottom,
and Willie started packing his tools.
“Must’ve bin a mistake,” commented the
newchum, dazedly. “Mistake be hanged, ’
Willie growled. “I’ve had me suspicions
all the time when we were gettin’ only
a few inches a day, an’ now I’m sure.
The blankard’s bin slippin’ back on us!”
* * ♦ *
“Scot”: The term “girdling” had me
tricked until I remembered a newchum
lad who arrived at Tara, near Dalby (Q.),
and informed the boss that he had done
forestry work in Britain as a “girdler.”
He soon got a job when, after some ex-
planation, it was found out that he meant
ringbarking. Then, ransacking m y
memory, I recalled seeing forestry
workers in the north of Scotland ‘gird-
ling” trees before sawing them down.
They did that for seasoning purposes.
From experience of ringbarking in
Queensland I have found that trees
“sap”-ringbarked decay much more
rapidly than trees “collar”-ringbarked,
the sapwood of the tree very lightly cut.
Evidently the slower process of the timber
dying makes it tougher. Grey-box bark
used for roofing, if stripped from the
trees in our spring months, doesn’t last
nearly as long as bark stripped in the
autumn, when, if good rain falls, the sap
is flowing to make bark-stripping pos-
sible.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Everywhere one hears the
assertion that cutting down of timber
is responsible for our lower rainfall.
A contributing factor it may be but by
no means entirely responsible. Granted
that in certain areas where timber has
been removed the rainfall has decreased,
but the Victorian Alps country is also
becoming drier. What were once big
streams are now dry creek-beds or small
trickles. The rain, though coming more
often, falls in light showers that dry
quickly, and the heavy soaking rains that
fed subsoil and maintained streams in
our youth are now rare. Undoubtedly
my home range is drying, though sur-
rounded by many miles of heavily-
timbered mountains and virgin forests.
Further, over the tops in north-eastern
Victoria, where timber-clearing and land
settlement go on, the rainfall has in-
creased. In the search for an explanation,
the water-conservation reservoirs are
seized upon and cited as the inducement to
cloud-spilling. If so, those open reservoirs
must be a more powerful attraction to
rain than timber, for though a few misty
clouds contract to the timbered peaks,
the forest areas, too, are losing out on
their water quota.
“Abi Tonus”: No, I’m not getting like
“The 0.D.,” but when “Bufo” (B.
30/7/’47) refers to ligation in the first-
aid treatment of snakebite, shades of my
old teachers arise. In surgery, ligation
signifies the actual tying of a blood vessel
by a ligature.
“Carlyle”: It was unlikely that that
pigeon from Gympie (B. 3/9/’47) would
have passed over Brooklyn on the N.S.W.
Hawkesbury River, and for a very good
reason. A Brooklyn resident recently
found a hawk’s nest in which there were
79 pigeon identification rings, some of
them dating back as far as 1924.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: York© Island, some 90
miles from Cape York Peninsula, N.Q.,
is a low, sandy landfall which, prior to
the turn of this century, was uninhabited.
It is now peopled by the half- and three-
quarter-caste descendants of Yankee Ned
Mosby, who are an excellent physical and
moral type. Over the last decade this
population has suffered losses of
domestic livestock through the sudden
appearance of the dingo. Assuming that
the canine was always present on the
island, though he only recently disclosed
himself, the question of his previous menu
arises, since there is no indigenous animal
life in the Torres Strait islands. If he
has migrated to Yorke only in the last
10 years or so, his presence is still more
puzzling, since a 90-mile trans-water hop
is involved. All importation of dogs by
Binghi is rigidly policed, so his deliberate
introduction could not have gone un-
noticed.
* • • •
“Bo”: Gostelow, coming back from a
bender ip the township, gave over the
direction of his homecoming with com-
plete and justifiable confidence to his
horse, while he slumbered fitfully on the
sulky seat. When, however, the animal,
with equine wisdom, stopped at the ford
on seeing the river in flood Gostelow
arose unsteadily, his bleary eyes and
brain refusing to register the obvious,
and, cursefully wondering why the so-
and-so nag was jibbing for the first time
at “going across,” eventually suc-
ceeded, pounding on its rump with his
heel, in getting it started. Soon the outfit
was floundering, with the swirling water
allowing only an inch or two of free-
board. At a steady four or five knots
they were swept downstream, the horse
just managing to keep its snout out of
water and luckily missing any deep holes.
Eventually by a miracle of good luck the
current bore them to a bend on the same
side as that which they’d entered. The
nag dragged itself and sulky up the shal-
low bank and on to dry land. As it stood
there trembling some faint light shone in
the alleged brain of Gostelow. Peering
hard he started, leaned over and felt his
horse’s rump. Then he spoke contritely.
“Sherry,' Nig, ole boy,” he said. “Bidden
know I was drivin’ y’ that bloomin’ hard
t’ getsh y’ in shush a lather. Here” —with
a flourish he threw the reins down on the
floor—“you takesh y’r own time from
now on an’ doan let me bushle y’! ”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Choom had spent a back-
breaking two hours digging over the site
of a long-vanished straw stack, and he
was a weary man when he plodded into
the kitchen. “Get any?” I asked, and
he tilted the jam-tin to show it half-filled
with lively worms. “Oi’ll cotch some fish
come night,” he said; and, going to the
box, he grabbed a fistful of salt and shot
it in with the wrigglers. “ ’Struth,” I
gasped. “What did you do that for?”
“Boss said t’were gradely way to keep
worms fresh an’ all,” he said.


fimm
m
m
A,
y*fto
um
c fsPx : ?
COLO
The best
you coo buy
You don't have to acquire
a taste for Cinzano Ver-
mouth, you appreciate it
first time. • . . You relish im-
mediately the edge it gives
to appetite, the refinement,
of flavour and delicate aroma
it adds to Cocktails ... at all
good hotels and licensed stores.
TRY A "TROPICAL"
For each person, crush a slice of orange
and a slice of pineapple in Cocktail
Shaker. Add ice, then I measure Dry
Gin. I measure Cinzano Sweet Vermouth,
Vi _ measure Cinzano Dry Vermouth.
Moisten edge of glass with orange and
dip in crushed sugar. Shake well, strain
and pour gently . . . Deliciousl
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock . . .
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders . . .
■..Cd-Q*
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. 4058 Melbourne —758 K —712 F 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Northern Stock Losses.
“Agric”: Sheep numbers in Queens-
land—l6,oB4,34o—-are the lowest for 30
years; dairy cattle have been showing
a decline since 1943, and at March 31
last were 1,322,122, while beef cattle de-
clined from 5,099,509 at March 31, 1946,
to 4,613,163 at March 31 last. The
decrease in sheep numbers during the
year was the heaviest in the run of poor
years since the record number of
25,650,231 in 1943 ; in the south-west the
decline was 22.9 p.c., and the number
depastured there today (2,417,350) is
scarcely more than half the number in
March, 1943.
Queensland had a very bad drought in
the south-west and, as usual, drought will
be blamed for the decrease, and the Gov-
ernment will hope for a turn for the
better in the seasonal conditions to re-
build flocks and herds. But I’m not so
optimistic.
Wool prices are certainly good, but
what with dingoes, rabbits, Noogoora and
Bathurst burr, labor shortages, lack of
amenities generally, and high taxation
when a profit is made, there is not much
to encourage a grazier, even those who
can afford to pay today’s high prices for
store sheep.
Even a Labor member, G. H. Devries,
whose electorate radiates from Long-
reach, has been criticising his Govern-
ment’s land policy and asking a few
pertinent questions. The people’s land,
he said, should be vested in those with
the financial resources and courage to
make it productive. It is regarded as
akin to sacrilege to suggest that the policy
of cutting up pastoral leases for closer
settlement is not a sound one economi-
cally, but Devries, an ex-shearer and
A.W.U. organiser, told the Hanlons that,
years ago, Wellshot, in the Ilfracombe
district, shore about 250,000 sheep and
employed about 100 extra men at shearing
time, and Westlands, south of Long-
reach, in 1922 shore about 110,000 sheep.
Since then land has been taken from
both properties for closer settlement or
resumed in accordance with the terms of
the lease. “Today,” said Devries, “Well-
shot shears about 30,000 sheep and West-
lands about 25,000.” It would be interest-
ing to know whether the two properties,
plus the resumed land, were carrying the
same number of sheep as they carried
before being cut up and whether the acre
yield now for the whole area is anything
like it was.
The small owner is admittedly an asset
in good count-y with assured rainfall;
on the tricky western plains it is another
matter. Declining stock numbers should
warn Queensland that its land policy is
badly in need of review and repairs.
~ t
Care of Calves.
“Rooster”: A good, well-bred calf costs
no more to rear than an inferior one,
and by proper breeding the quality of
the herd is maintained. Methods of feed-
ing depend on the purpose for which the
calf is being reared. A stud animal will
require whole milk until it is weaned, as
will beefers. The latter are generally
allowed to suckle until they are six
"What are you going to plant—Iceland poppies?”
months old. This expense is justifiable
with high-class stock or fat cattle.
Calves for dairy stock must be fed
on more economical lines if they’re to be
a paying proposition.
After calving, cow and calf should re-
main undisturbed for 24 hours. If the
calf is too weak to stand, as occasionally
happens, it should be gently lifted and
coaxed to suckle. In such cases it is
wise to allow three days before separating
from the mother. A normally healthy
calf requires two days. By observation I
find that calves fed on skim milk supple-
mented by other suitable foods will grow
into as good cows as those fed on whole
milk. Foods rich in fats, such as linseed,
or those rich in starch, such as wheat
or oat grains, will provide the deficiency
in butterfat. A good fat substitute is a
jelly made up of linseed meal and pollard
—3lb. crushed linseed and 21b. pollard
stirred well into 4gal. of water and heated
slowly to boiling point, allowing to boil
for 20 minutes.
The change from whole to skim milk
should be made gradually, the linseed
jelly being added in proportion to the
amount of whole milk given. A pint of
jelly to every gallon of skim milk is a
well-balanced ration. About two fluid
ounces of lime water should also be
added. Each calf should require about
one gallon of this mixture night and
morning.
To prevent “scours” don’t (1) allow
young calves to eat foods which affect
digestion ; (2) feed skim milk too soon ;
(3) feed milk at too low or high a
temperature (normal is 98 degrees); (5)
feed irregularly ; (6) feed separator froth
with milk ; (7) overfeed ; (8) underfeed
through faulty handling; (9) feed from
dirty utensils; (10) expose to rain and
weather. All these are mainly acts of
negligence.
Grasses in Queensland.
“Plane Creek”: Rains over most of
Queensland have stimulated interest in
summer crops. Most of our best grasses
are mainly summer growers, though we
have several that will make some growth
nearly all the year round, provided they
are in fair soil and do not experience
heavy winter frosts and dry weather.
These perennials include three varieties
of Guinea grass (of which one variety is
growing generally along the North Coast
south to Capricorn), Para grass, or giant
couch, molasses grass, elephant grass,
paspalum and couch. Guinea-erass seed
isTarely used for propagating the upright
tussocky grass since germination usually
falls below 30 per cent. Broken up tus-
socks when the grass is growing freely
make the best planting material.
Para grass does not mature seed in
some districts, but its rooted runners
soon build up a stand if sown when the
summer storms are starting. Like Guinea
grass it grows luxuriantly on sandy creek
flats, but the Guinea won’t stand mud
and stagnant water at its roots. How-
ever, while Para will not grow away
from moisture, Guinea is more resistant
to drought than any native grass on the
coast.
Molasses grass resists drought, but
cannot stand being burned, whereas
Guinea and giant couch respond excel-
lently to a burn after rain. Molasses
grass can be propagated either by roots
or seed. Elephant grass, grazed or cut
short, is very fine feed for dairy or beef
cattle, but unpalatable and useless when
allowed to make canes. The canes in
every way resemble sugarcane stalks, but
are thinner. To plant, the flourishing
canes are chopped into Ift. lengths, each
having two or three sound “eyes” and
buried in shallow furrows. Or actual
stools may be dug up and separated into
many rooted sections. A few clumps
allowed to grow to canes will provide
much better planting material.
Paspalum and couch are dwarf grasses
compared with the others, but they yield
a lot of good feed if thoughtfully handled.
Black soil containing plenty of moisture
suits paspalum, but couch, while needing
damp-soil conditions, favors the lighter
soils, where its rhizomes can spread
freely. They may be propagated by
seed. Couch can be planted by running
the long stems through a chaffcutter and
then scattering the chaff over a cultivated
area.
Engine Lubrication.
“Endeeay”: Engines operating agri-
cultural equipment, cars, lorries, etc., are
lubricated by either the dry sump system
or the wet sump system. In the dry
sump the oil is stored in a tank and is
fed to each bearing by a pump or gravity
feed. Only a small amount of oil is
fed to the bearing, and no attempt is
made to recover and re-use it. The sump
beneath the engine is kept free of oil
by drain cocks. This system is now
applied to small engines and is rarely
seen in a multi-cylinder job. Many motor-
cycles have dry sumps. A heavy oil,
such as S.A.E. 50 or 60, is used so that
it will not run away qsickly, and it thus
maintains an oil film in the interval be-
tween oilings.
With a wet sump, oil placed in the pan
beneath the dngine is used repeatedly
until it is due for replacement; “make-
up” is added to keep the sump full, as
some oil is burnt or loist.
An engine with a wet sump has either
(n) splash feed, ( b ) force feed, or (c) com-
bined splash and force feed. In (a) the
oil is filled to a level so that “dippers” on
the big-end bearings dip into it and
splash it about, thus lubricating the
cylinder walls. As the oil drains down
it is collected in galleries where it flows
t 6 the main crankshaft bearings. The
big-end bearings receive oil, as a rule,
through the dipper, which is hollow. This
principle is often used on lighting sets,
and fairly light oils, such as S.A.E. 20,
are frequently used. It works well, and is
simple and cheap to construct. However,
the oil level must be kept up; if it drops
the dippers canriot splash the oil around
and the engine is starved of oil. Some
old-type cars use splash lubrication.
In lb) a pump picks up the oil from
the bottom of the sump and feeds it
through pipes to the main bearings. The
crankshaft is hollow and the oil is forced
through it from the main bearings to the
big-ends; it flows through these and is
flung off on to the cylinder walls to
lubricate the piston and gudgeon pin.
Some engines even have hollow connect-
ing rods, and the oil is forced right up
to the gudgeon pin. In large stationary
engines cylinder lubricators are often
fitted so that additional oil is fed directly
to the cylinder wall. The force-feed
system is probably the most expensive
to build, but those who use it consider it
well worth while ; the engine is efficiently
lubricated provided that the oil intake to
the pump is covered with oil. A drop in
oil level won’t affect the engine unless
it is allowed to go too far. On the other
hand, a marked and sudden drop in pres-
sure should be investigated immediately.
Many well-known engine makers use
(c). In its simplest form the oil is pumped


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
NS W SEED GO , Bo* 4109. 0.P.0.. Sydney.
ẅ
Sdf c in liis hands > ■ •
kn M?tVSS s
fidently al A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
B„ n rhAg at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree. Henty and
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANO GAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Babbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Available from Storekeepers Eve W*h ere -
buzacott-wolseley pty. ltd.. sydney
’PHONE: MA 6311. '
. -
wmm
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY *KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
MW
m
x:: :
m
m
m
m
m
mmwmmmw
fIMHMI
E
iy'.'
*£
TIU.&
■ -
.
the owl is proverbially a wise bird, so be sure
YOU FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE I TILLEY LAMPS ARE
SO SUCCESSFUL THAT COPIES OF THEM ARE BEING
MARKETED. TILLEY LAMPS ARE MADE ONLY IN ENGLAND
THE TILLEY LAMP CO. LTD., of ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
MELBOURNE: T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
LYSAGHTS
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
- ■ ■- *»««»W*™s*
.
1 -
IM
•••
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING,
ETC
to a high-level gallery from which it flows
to the various parts. The big-end bear-
ings are fitted with dippers, but trays are
fitted so that each dipper has its own
small sump ; these are kept filled by the
oil pump. Sometimes the main bearings
arb fed directly from the pump, but this is
only a minor variation. The system com-
bines some of the simplicity of construc-
tion of the splash feed with the added
safety of a pump supply. A small drop
in oil level is not serious.
A wide range of oils is used for these
systems, such as S.A.E. 10 to S.A.E. 50,
depending on the design of the engine and
the maker’s recommendation. In all wet
sump engines an oil of good stability is
I necessary as the oil is used repeatedly
before draining and refilling with fresh
oil. Oils of poor stability can give rise
to excessive sludging, although in modern
engines if sludging occurs it is wise to
seek other causes, as oil companies supply
oils with ample stability for all purposes.
In diesels these various systems are
seen, although the multi-cylinder diesel
tractors usually use the force feed. Large
stationary engines frequently use a varia-
tion in which the oil is stored in a
separate tank, and a second oil pump
picks up the oil from the sump and re-
turns it to the oil tank. This is necessary
as the sump would not be big enough to
hold the amount of oil required.
Two-stroke petrol engines have a dry
sump, and the oil is mixed with the.
petrol in the proportion of one pint of oil
to approximately three gallons of petrol;
excess oil is either burnt or drained away.
An S.A.E. 50 oil is usually used.
Hints for the Farm.
“J.H.”: To cure collar, saddle or girth
galls make up this mixture: In enough
hot water to fill an ordinary beer bottle
dissolve 2oz. of sugar of lead. Bottle it.
To apply, soak a piece of towelling in
the solution and pat it on the gall for
up to five minutes, re-wetting the rag as
needed from the bottle. Apply morning,
noon, evening and last thing at night. You
can work the horse all the time.
“B. Acre”: For tar branding don’t use
an iron with a flat branding surface. A
rounded surface concentrates the tar into
a neat line that will remain readable much
longer and does not use any more tar.
If the brand is made of 5/16in. round
iron it should last for all time.
“Sarina”: A coating of preservative
paint to a new galvanisedriron tank
lengthens its useful life, particularly in
areas of low rainfall where it may be
almost empty for months, Rusting pro-
ceeds rapidly on the damp sides of a
practically empty tank. If an unpainted
tank falls very low, the top should be
removed so that the sides of the tank
above water-level will be dried by the
sun and rusting prevented.
“C.E.”: “Bull-ant Bill’s” method (B.
23/7/’47) of removing a tank tap with-
out undue loss of water, by using a part-
filled sugar bag of soil or sand, has its
disadvantages. Not only does the soil
muddy the water, but the heavy bag is
awkward to manipulate. A better way
is to fasten, say, a six- or eight-inch
square of rubber (a piece of used car tube
will do) to the end of the pole, so that
it hangs loose and flapping below. Then
lower it down inside the tank until the
rubber is over the outlet pipe. Turn on
the tap, and if the rubber is in the right
place it will soon grip and stop the flow,
allowing the tap to be safely unscrewed
“C.s.”: Orchardists and vegetable-
growers who care to send 2s. 6d. to the
Central Meteorological Bureau, Mel-
bourne, will get a copy of “Frost in the
Australian Region” in return. A handy
booklet, it tells all about frost and is
useful in making plans to beat the cold
enemy.
“Gip”: To mend a puncture if you
have no vulcanising outfit, take a piece
of rubber a little larger than the patch
required and, holding it with pliers, set
it alight. When the rubber starts to
melt, put it over the puncture and place
a weight on top to keep it tight. Leave
for 10 or 15 minutes, then remove weight.
This makes a good temporary patch, but
will not stand extra rough handling.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
At what tune should summer fruit-trees be
sprayed to combat codlin moth ? Liquid to
U? When flowers on apples, pears and quinces
begin to drop their petals spray trees with
arsenate of lead solution, being careful not to
use the mixture stronger than the trade formula.
Repeat the treatment every three weeks. I tie
use of fly traps (either glass or tins) containing
lures (plant merchants stock ready-mixed pre-
paration) is also an excellent method of gather-
ing these pests. All fallen fruit should be
gathered and burned —a decided help towards
combating codlin moth.
* * * *
What vegetable plants are influenced by the
application of lime to the soil ?
Those that thrive in heavily-limed soil are
cauliflower, broccoli, parsnip, onion, leek, beet,
celery, lettuce and spinach; lesser helpings
should be given to tomato, vine vegetables, cab-
bage, chilli, peas, carrot, kale, rhubarb, endive,
kohlrabi, beans and sweet corn; turnips, raaisn,
parsley and potato do better on lightly-limed
areas.


w
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS”
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Ohowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Port Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
ŵ
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and U days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY!
M
Planning?
o
:
fmsO
Wla
fSS-
Where’s the money coming from
to make your plans successful?
You find it easy enough to dream of
a pleasant future . .. with home, educa-
tion, travel retirement and so on, all
nicely planned.
But the cold fact is that without the
necessary money your plans are useless.
What you must do is to start saving
now. Control your spending carefully,
buy essential things only, and pay no
more than fixed legal prices.
In this way you will be able to save
regularly ... to build up worthwhile
funds ready to spend when the time
comes.
To make sure your savings increase
at better than bank rates of interest,
make an advance subscription in cash
to the Fourth Security Loan . . . buy
more bonds by instalments when the
Loan officially opens on October 29.
FACTS ABOUT THE
FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
The Fourth Security Loan opens on
October 29: Bonds will be available
in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO and £l,OOO, paying interest at the
rate of 34% per annum for 12 years.
You can make a fully-paid advance
subscription at once, and interest will
be paid from the date your application
is received by a bank. Invest to-day
through any Bank, Savings Bank or
Stockbroker.
Make an Advance Subscription to the
FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
Save for Security
P4SL2.«ta
“That’s no flamin’ good, Jack.”
“No.”
“I’d give y’ some o’ my blankets . . .”
“Aw, no, Fred. You only got a couple,”
“Well, what about Sid? He’s got a
great heap of ’em.”
It didn’t seem right that Jack, the
leader, the brain of the combination,
should sleep in a tent-fly while the new-
chum had a more comfortable bed. It
didn’t seem right at all, somehow.
“Has ’e?” inquired Ja~k.
“Yes. Oh, yes.” Magnanimously.
“Take a couple of his, he’s too damn’ soft
anyway.”
“Aw,” Jack hesitated, “I don’t wanter
do the kid outer”
“Aw, don’t be silly. Here,” Fred strode
to where Sid’s blankets were spread on
the ground. “Take this ’un. Struth!
He’s got a dozen! Here, take a couple
more.” He threw them over to Jack.
Sid couldn’t help noticing the shrinking
of his swag, but he said nothing. Jack
was awe-inspiring, a great hunter. Jack
had stalked kangaroos for so long that
he looked like an old man kangaroo.
Thought like one, Sid suspected.
Sid didn’t say anything. Just a weak
“er,” standing there with the remaining
two blankets in his hand ; then he sniffed
and was silent.
Afterwards, he had thrown a thick
gidgee log on the fire and spread out his
nap near by.
Jack never took anything, just casually
and almost accidentally acquired it.
'THE weekly mail truck came through
. next day. They heard it at breakfast,
sitting around the fire, sleepy-eyed and'
silent, the chug-chug-chug coming down
the track.
“He’s early,” suggested Sid timidly.
“He’s early, Fred,” asserted Jack.
“Yair,” said Fred.
The noisy old truck, trailing red dust
and with radiator steaming, drew up on
the road near the camp soon after. The
three men walked across slowly.
“G’ day, Bill!” called Jack cheerfully,
“how’s she goin’?”
“ ’Day there, Jack ; how is it, Freddy?”
The mailman was a short muscular man
with snowy-white hair and moustache.
He slewed sideways in his seat and
dangled his legs over where once there
had been a running-board, rolling a
cigarette in small hard hands. They
talked.
“How’s the water at th’ Ten-Mile?”
piped Sid, at last.
“Aw,” Bill expelled a cloud of blue
smoke in the pale morning sunlight and
glanced at him from under bushy eye-
brows, “it’s goin’ back a bit but”
“Where’s Charlie, Bill?” Jack said.
“Aw, Charlie couldn’t come. ’Urt ’is
back.”
“Go on.”
Sid waited his chance. Then, “How’re
the Evanses?”
They all looked at him. “Young
Tom”
“What about some tea, Bill? Put
the billy on, Sid.”
Sid was quiet for the remainder of the
visitor’s stay. Then, after he had thrown
off their stores and mail chugged on
down the track, picking up the trail of
dust where he had left off, Sid wandered
away with the bridles to catch the horses.
It was while they were saddling that
Jack took him to task.
“The trouble with you, Sid,” he said,
stooping for his saddle, on the ground at
his feet, “is that y’re too full of mag.
Ain’t he, Fred?”
Fred raised a stony eye from a buckle.
“Yes.”
Jack continued over his shouder as he
fastened a girth.
“Talk-talk-talk like an’ ole woman.”
“Yap-yap-yap like a blasted kelpie.”
Sid kicked up a tiny spray of dust with
the toe of his boot.
“Blokes don’t come here t’ talk t’ you.”
“They certainly don’t,” said Fred.
“If y’ — an ' don’t kick up th’ dust!”
“No J” echoed Fred. “Gawd, y’re dull,
Sid.”
Sid looked up defiantly. Fred didn’t
hold the same psychological terror for
him that Jack did.
“Not as dull as you are,” he sang
vindictively. Jack and Fred looked at
each other, shrugged. Sid felt his defiance
going flat.
RIDING towards camp through the
chilly twilight, Sid Sang “Rose
Marie” in a reedy tenor. He was happy.
The unaccustomed weight of many wet
skins slowed the mare’s usual shambling
homeward-bound jog.
The others were there before him. He
could see the twin stars in the blackness
that were the carbide lamps.
He dismounted and rolled the bag off
his saddle, unsaddled and led the mare
to water, mumbling to her affectionately ;
patting her tenderly, to her great irrita-
tion.
Back in the firelight he waited for the
familiar question.
“How many didja get?” Fred asked.
Sid coughed and smirked, and colored
slightly.
“Nineteen,” he whispered. “Got on to
a channel where there was a bit of a
green shoot an’ follered it up all after-
noon.” Some explanation, he felt, was
necessary.
Fred examined the blazing wood with
interest.
“How many did you?” asked Sid.
“Fourteen,” Fred said, casually, staring
hard at the wood. Sid looked at Jack,
who was similarly engaged. What he
saw froze the question on his lips.
Jack turned to Fred.
“That flamin’ rifle o’ mine’s carryin’
high,” he said belligerently.
“Is she. Jack? I always said them new
army rifles are goin’ to be a lot o’
trouble.”
Sid ate cheerfully, then wandered off.
When he came back sniffling, and hum-
ming “Rose Marie,” he found the others
bedded down; and Jack had all his
blankets.
Sid dragged the stiff green tent-fly
nearer the fire and reached for a log to
bank up the flames.
Then he blinked and sniffed, happily,
“0000, SWEETheart ” he sang.
Down by the river a mob of watering
sheep scattered in alarm, tiny hooves
scuffling the loose sand*


Everybody^
snapping it now!
The artist drops his palette, the mechanic downs
his tools. And "SNAP” goes a big block of
Small’s Club Chocolate. We men like a chocolate
that’s "NOT so sweet” and that’s exactly how
Small’s make their Club Chocolate especially for us.
Remember, the louder the "SNAP” the better
the quality of the .chocolate and Small’s Club
Chocolate breaks with a good loud
"SNAP” every time.
K
m
Jl
%
m
yj* Who says it’s a man s world? We
<ir\ girls like our chocolate not so
sweet too! "Cut us in on your
Small’s Club Chocolate every time.
Smalls make great Chocolate
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
ẃ
ẅ
year would be a bit of a comedown for
’em, but there might be one of them,
perhaps, getting so hard up he doesn’t
know where his next yacht is coming
from.”
“No,” went on the Minister firmly.
“This is a matter of principle with me.
Favors to friends and relatives should be
strictly taboo in political life. The
appointee will be selected purely on his
merits and qualifications.
“Um, exactly, sir,” the secretary put
in weakly. “Er, I was just going to say
it has started raining, and your children
will just about be leaving for school.
“Do you want this telegram sent 'collect'?"
Will I send the fluid-drive as usual to
take them?”
The Minister looked at his secretary
sternly, “Certainly not!” he barked.
“That is a practice that must cease from
now on. I have given some thought to
this lately, and I’ve come to the con-
clusion that it is quite unethical that the
taxpayer should be further burdened by
such extras, which, after all, are properly
a man’s own personal expenses. My wife
can send them in a taxi, and it is not to
be booked up to the department. And
the same will apply to her in the future
should she be going to the hairdresser’s
or to Banano’s for lunch —the official car
is to be used only for official business.”
“But surely you’ll be using it again this
year to take the family for a holiday up
to the Barrier Reef. After all, that’s only
a couple of thousand miles each way, and
you’ve no need to worry about paying
for the pet”
“No, definitely no. That’s what is
wearing so many Ministerial cars out.
We must think of the replacement cost
and the desperate need to conserve
dollars. I hold the view that a Minister’s
car should last him fully twelve months,
and it won’t if it is given undue work
purely on pleasure jaunts. Moreover, I
don’t intend taking the family up by the
Government airline, either. I’ll use
A.N.A., and pay out of my own pocket.”
“Just as you say, sir. Now, you are
due to leave for that overseas conference
next month. I take it that I will make
plane reservations for your wife, your
three daughters, your mother-in-law, your
cousin and two sons-in-law, same as last
time —they will, of course, all have jobs
and be on the pay-roll. And there’ll be a
couple of ‘observers’ from the Waterside
Workers’ Federation.”
“They’re all out —even my wife. After
all, why should various relatives of a
Minister be given a useless and expensive
joyride at the country’s expense? And
what earthly benefit would the nation
w
Voicing His Approval.
“At a wedding that 1 attended, the bride did
respond, not only lor herself, but for the
groom J” —“New Idea,”
Serene on this her day of days
The lovely bride endures the gaze
Of those who came to See her gown
And criticise from toe to crown.
Her youthful heart is filled with pride
To think that, standing by her side.
Is he whose simple golden band
Placed presently upon her hand
Will make of her a happy wife
Embarked upon a fuller life.
The fateful moment now arrives,
The question comes that links their lives:
“Wilt thou, John Thomas . . . ?” But the
groom
Just stammers at the words of doom;
And his fair partner, dauntless still,
Responds in haste “I’ll say he will!”
D. H. E.
Unaddressed.
He'd always flaunted in his hand
A leather case, for he way keen to
Display the labels from each land
And city he had ever been to.
He died. Sad irony! No friend
Around the hearse he was borne off in,
To designate his journey’s end,
Stuck one lone label on his coffin.
BRIAN BUREAU.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4id. per line; all others per line.
Blood Money
I am trustee and executor in the estate
ot a plantation manager—a 1914-18
Digger, one of the unfortunate civilians
u * , on New Ireland to perish at
the hands of the Japanese. In May,
1947, the Department of External Terri-
tories issued a certificate of presumed
death under Regulation 5A of War
Deaths Regulations, in which death was
presumed to have occurred on February
18, 1944. The deceased left assets in N. S.
Wales valued at £145, upon which the
Commissioner of Stamp Duties for that
State has now issued an assessment for
death duty at the rate of 8 p.c. (£ll 125.),
plus interest at 8 p.c. p.a. chargeable from
February 18. 1945 (£2 7s. lid.).
If the imposition of interest at 8 p.c.—
four times the Commonwealth Savings
Bank rate—covering a period of over two
years before the issue of the certificate
of presumed death is not blood money,
I don’t know what is. I hope the N. S.
Wales Treasurer will derive much satis-
faction from the reduction of his State
deficit by £2 7s. lid.—R. F. B. (Q.).
Queensland Rivers
“Bogaduck” (B. 23/7/’47) hits the bull
when he says something should be done
about using Queensland rivers where
they now flow. The idea of taking water
from the Queensland coast to the western
watershed is about 100 years ahead of
its time.
Why not set about making use of the
water where rivers run? There are few
inland towns in Queensland that have
sufficient water to flush a toilet ten
minutes after floods have taken thou-
sands of yards of good Queensland soil
out to sea.
If a start were made on the coast there'
are hundreds of places where some
major but mostly minor dams could be
built —not Grand Coulee or Boulder
affairs, of course, but useful enough. In
this steel-and-cement age it would be
easy, for most Queensland rivers have no
current that would worry an engineer.
Away from the coast watershed is the
black-soil belt which runs from the
Darling Downs right up the coast be-
tween the coast ranges and the Great
Dividing Range. There you find some
of the best soil in Queensland, and in
most cases it lies at the head of all the
big Queensland rivers that have their
sources in the Great Dividing Range,
Instead of moaning about the “dead
heart” and want of water, why not get
to work -and keep the water-bag up to the
“live heart”?
What about applying the T.V.A. prin-
ciple to the Burdekin, the Fitzroy and
all the upper reaches of the Darling?
And the Barcoo, Thompson and Dia-
mantina can be made to hold a lot of
water —it does rain there sometimes.
At the gates on the Diamantina Nature
made an ideal spot for a major dam, and
if the same amount of money had been
spent there as has 1 been spent on some
of our coastal harbors the country
would be better off. —O. B. (M.L.).
The Right Spirit
This is for the benefit of “CB.M.” (B.
20/8/’47) and any others who think that
“misfits” are being placed on the land
under the soldier-settlement scheme.
Six neighboring settlers on the recently
allotted Gragin Estate (N.S.W.), having
acquired sheep under the scheme, found
themselves in a spot when the woollies
had to be shorn before lambing.
Shearers were at a premium, and the
only equipment available was the 22-
stand plant in the existing station wool-
shed. The lads got together and found
that among them were two shearers, a
qualified classer and an expert, the ’re-
maining two being experienced in shed
work.
A small engine was borrowed from
the Australian Mechanical Fencing Co.,
and after a couple of days—during
which the ingenuity of the expert was
taxed to the utmost—a two-stand plant
was set up. Our wives went out with
horses and dogs and did the mustering
aqd the shearing was started. After a
fortnight about 2000 sheep have gone
down the chute and the wool is being
expertly classed, picked and pressed.
I’m one of the “misfits.” If “CB.M.”
thinks that I obtained my qualification
certificate, which entitled me to partici-
pate in the ballot, without a searching
quiz as to my suitability he’s got another
think coming.—L. S. P. (N.S.W.).
Kimberley Beef
My estimate of £50,000 for freezing-
plant (B. 16/ 7/ ’47) was, I repeat, an
estimate. A lot of research is neces-
sary before the actual figure can be
arrived at. But if a higher figure is neces-
sary the expense is justified if only be-
cause development of the north is vital
to Australia’s defence.
“G’Roper’s” suggestion (B. 13/8/’47)
that meat be “loaded into planes and
flown to altitudes where freezing tem-
peratures prevail” will draw smiles' from
airmen who flew, at 18,000 feet in the
tropics.
No. The solution is snap-freezing.
The beef is subjected to extreme tem-
peratures for an hour or so, and frozen
solid it will carry well for a considerable
time. In one experiment, which was
successful, beef was loaded into the plane
during a black frost. That was at Mt.
House station, where frosts occur, but
few stations are so favored. Hence the
need for refrigerators.
Incidentally, the ultimate scheme is for
the meat to be reduced to saleable cuts
and dispatched, cellophane-wrapped, to
retail butchers'—W. J. W. (W.A.).
The Banks >
A few weeks ago I moved from Vic-
toria to N. S. Wales. Before I left the
manager of the private bank with which
I had a small trading account told me
all he could about the place to which I
was going. On arrival the accountant
and the manager gave me every assist-
ance,
I had a Commonwealth Bank savings
account at least seven times the
size of the trading account. The “treat-
ment” received in connection with the
transfer of this account reminded me
very much of my days in the R.A.A.F.
A junior girl assistant gave me about as
much assistance as 1 one would expect
from an orderly room— nil. I was told
that my signature would be sent back to
Victoria to be checked, and when and if
all were found correct I could pick up
my passbook.
If there is such a contrast now what
will it be like when “Labor” has wiped
out all opposition?— Taxler (N.S.W.).
It seems that the war years, during
which Australians allowed themselves to
be bound by restrictions, have dimmed
their remembrance of the true meaning
of democracy. Otherwise Mr. Chifley
would not have dared this attempt to
take over private banks without the con-
sent of the people.—T. T. (N.S.W.).
Hitler allegedly said “Let me control
the nation’s banking and I control the
nation.” Now our Mr. Chifley says “Give
me control of the banks.” Hitler’s
“control” took six years to frustrate, and
the cost, in blood, treasure and desolation,
was terrific. —S. T. (Q.).
For the annual audit a lodge secretary
had to obtain certificates for funds held
by banks on trust. The Commonwealth
Bank took 45 minutes to produce the
necessary voucher ; a private bank did
the same job in six minutes. Recently
in Brisbane people with tickets over a
certain number were told to call next
day to obtain their withdrawals. It’s not
difficult to imagine what the position
will be if the Commonwealth Bank has
to handle the thousands of accounts now
handled by trading banks.—S. A. Y.
(Q-).
Though opposed to nationalisation I
find it pays to do business with the Com-
monwealth Bank. When I was with a
trading bank recently, I asked for a little
extra accommodation to enable me to buy
a new car. My request was refused de-
spite the ample security offered. Had my
plea been granted I would have had to
pay 5 p.c. for the accommodation. I was
recommended to the Commonwealth
Bank, where I was promptly given all the
accommodation I required for 4 p.c.—
Anti-Socialist (S.A.).
Many of us well remember the
promises of Utopia held out by the late
T. J. Ryan, then Premier of Queensland.
He promised the workers cheap timber
for homes from State forfests and saw-
mills, cheap meat produced on Govern-
ment stations and sold through Govern-
ment shops ; he established a State trawler
service to provide the people with cheap
fish and he started a State jam factory.
His State brickworks proved a colossal
failure, as did all the other ventures.
Eventually they were either closed down
or sold to private enterprise. The losses
F ran into millions (about £5 per head, in-
cluding women, children, pensioners, etc.),
and the worker, who derived no bene-
fits from the schemes, is still paying for
them in taxes. Queensland shouldn’t
forget this when Chifley and his crowd
dangle promises about “cheap money”
if and when they get control of the
banks. Don’t let this happen again.—
E. B. (Q.). &
A small suburban shopkeeper has just
1 had a mild foretaste of the One Big
Bank. His shop bears the name of the
small centre where it is situated and the
class of goods he sells. He banks in his
own name. A new manager came to the
branch of the Commonwealth Bank
patronised by him and proposed that the
client should put his account under the
shop’s name. “Why should I?” was the
answer. “I’ve banked for 37 years under
my own name.” “It will be best if you
transfer your account elsewhere,” he was
curtly told.— Lyle (N.S.W.).
The private banking system that has
been built up over the centuries is the
cornerstone of our commercial life. If
the Australian people allow amateurs to
meddle with it chaos will inevitably ensue.
Banking is an extremely intricate business
and is interlocked internationally ; tinker-
ing with it would cause friction with other
countries because many of the small
banks are but branches of foreign banks.
In addition there is a large number of
institutions which conduct banking of
specialised sorts, such as issuing loans,’
discounting bills and facilitating foreign
trade.
Isn’t it significant that the two financial
crises that have occurred in recent years
both happened under “Labor” Govern-
ments the “run” on the Queensland
Government Savings Bank in T. J. Ryan’s
regime in 1917, and the closing of the
doors of the N. S. Wales Government
Savings Bank under Lang in 1932?
“Labor” Governments are tireless in
denouncing monopolies, but they are
seeking a monopoly in finance. Most of
Labor’s” hirelings have as much know-
ledge of economics as the fellow who
delivered a two-hours address on
“Finance” in Adelaide’s Botanic Park.
The rumbling thunder drowned his voice,
and when the storm broke he had to walk
home because he lacked a tram fare.—
A.D. (S.A.).
Dollars
It is time economists, politicians and
newspapers ceased using the expression
“dollar scarcity” when, in plain English,
all it means is that we are not producing
enough to pay for our imports from the
U.S. We can balance our imports from
America by (1) exporting our primary
products or manufactured goods to that
country, or by (2) creating a favorable
trade balance in some other country—
Japan, the N.E.1., or wherever our goods
are in demand —and letting our creditors
draw on such balances.
It is unlikely that the U.S. will accept
either our primary products or manufac-
tured goods to liquidate the adverse
balance, so the commonsense course for
us is to reduce our imports from that
country. We could take a big step in '
that* direction by cutting out some 90 p.c.
of Hollywood films. The remaining 10
p.c. would more than cover such films '
from an entertainment or cultural point i
“I'll take these, Miss, if you'll have the tassels removed."
of view, particularly if a free hand were
given in their selection and “block”-
buying abolished.
Tobacco is another item that could
be cut down to vanishing point with
benefit to the local grower. Any demand
over what he could supply could
be met by Empire-grown tobaccos.
Before the war there was seldom enough
> South African tobacco to supply the
■ demand—or good care was taken that it
remained in short supply. I’ve smoked
- Australian tobacco when it was 6yd. an
i ounce and today I’d be glad to get any-
thing as good at double the price.
' We could get along with considerably
fewer imported cosmetics, rayon and other
luxuries. The Australian manufacturer
of woollen goods still has a lot to learn
■ about attractive presentation of the
’ finished article. With our unrivalled
Merino wools it is hard to understand
why wearing apparel of finer texture and
more acceptable designs is not available.
Throughout the southern latitudes of our
continent—especially in winter—woollen
goods should be available and designed
to meet the most exacting demands of
taste and fashion.
Britain laid the foundations of textile
industries by welcoming displaced persons
(Flemings) to her shores. It is not too
late for Australia to import brains rather
than manufactured goods.
According to the press, imports of farm
implements will not be restricted. Yet it
seems not so long ago that we had a
highly-protected agricultural-machinery
industry. What’s become of it? — Obelist
(Tas.).
The acute shortage of dollars would
not be so bad if we had not been so
reckless in the purchase of aircraft.
Qantas has bought four or five Lock-
heed Constellations, A.N.A. five Sky-
masters, T.-A.A. several Skymasters and
five Convairs, B.C.P.A. three Skymasters.
Among them they have milked the dollar
pool of something in the vicinity of 100
million.
The Government should have insisted
on the purchase of British aircraft, even
if it meant waiting another year to get
the necessary types. The man in the street
will now have to do without some of his
essentials to provide aircraft companies
with these dollars.
It is not too late now to cancfel the
orders for Constellations and Convairs
and save a sizable wad. As well as the
capital expenditure involved there will be
a continuous pay-out for spare parts.
Also to be considered is the ousting of
the British aircraft industry from major
aircraft sales in Australia for many years
to come.
Incidentally, what about those fluid-
drive Chryslers and the nice little order
for Buicks for the convenience of
“Labor” Ministers and their families and
friends? The purchase of British cars—
if new cars were really necessary—would
have been a very substantial help to
Britain. — Recco (N.S.W.).
Free Medicine
Much has been said about the limits
that will be placed on doctors when it
comes to prescribing when the “free
medicine” scheme is in force. In the
Army there was a rigid schedule of items
and the various formularies adopted by
medical units were designed to incor-
porate them, and the M.Os. had to con-
fine their prescribing accordingly. No
one can honestly say that any patient
lacked adequate treatment because the
prescribers were thus limited.
Anyway, what’s wrong with a formu-
lary? Every hospital has its own par-
ticular pharmacopoeia and the doctors
prescribe from it. Not only does it help
them and save time, but assists the dis-
pensers and cuts the costs of drugs and
chemicals. Many doctors use the Aus-
tralian Pharmaceutical Formulary, and
the preparations listed therein are
standard throughout Australia.—R. W.
(N.S.W.).


Planes and Trains
Australia’s internal airlines may be the
finest in the world, but they are riot
Australian except in name and present
ownership. With possible exceptions in
the way of British planes, the whole
business is American —American in
planning, design and manufacture, and
no Australian has had anything to do
with it.
On the other hand, both Clapp’s
“modern” train —the Spirit must be nearly
20 years old now —and the “puffing
Billy” on the other side of the border
are 100 per cent. Australian —Australian
from the ballast under the B.H.P. rails
to the top of the chimneys and from the
headlight to the guard’s van. They are
designed, built and fuelled in Australia
and by Australians. If they are good—
and in many unspectacular technical ways
such as safety, they are extremely good
—then we alone take the credit. If they
are bad, then we again take the full
blame.
The actual carriage of human carcasses
between two of our cities is one of the
most unproductive efforts we can make
and the fares are of academic value only.
The train passenger is paying in full for
himself and a generous luggage allow-
ance and is probably helping to pay the
way of a few tons of wheat in addition.
The air passenger on the other hand is
getting a handful of luggage and a “free”
bus service, but is paying at most one-
third of the actual cost of the service,
the rest being made up by that willing
cross between a goat and a camel the
taxpayer.—Tidapa (Singapore).
Education
Adult education (B. 20 /8 / ’47) has
been the theme-song of the A.L.P. for
over a quarter of a century. But that
body gives a fair indication of the value
it sets on education when choosing its
representatives for electoral districts.
In these cases if one is invested with
authority neither intelligence nor know-
ledge is important. Officiousness can
always take the place of efficiency so
long as the actual work is left to those
who know how. When nobody knows
the job we get officiousness from top to
bottom.
Blind adherence is of more import-
ance than education to both the A.L.P.
and the Communist party —political and
religious' sects grow in power through
secular education. Education in the
U.S.S.R. is designed to different ends
from those aimed at in the U.S.A.
What great purpose should education
serve? The personal needs of the indi-
vidual or the general design of a system?
My education was free, not only in sub-
ject-matter but also by choice. I started to
learn the alphabet on my 19th birthday.
Today, at 36, I have left behind most of
those who were forced to learn. I’m weak
in maths, mainly because I never got
beyond figuring in terms of human
values, I saw Germany and Italy at
their Nazi and Fascist peak. I’ve never
been inside Russia, but 1 am assured
there are in that country so lately freed
from the boss more bosses than ever
before.
I’ve seen most of the world and could
only find two classes in it —the power-
drunk and the punch-drunk. Australians
are not so punch?drunk as others in
many places, but they are being man-
oeuvred into position for a bad hammer-
ing. And no education will help them
unless they heed the lessons of man-
power, rationing, enforced service, etc. —
Freedom (Q.),
Modem Cars
“Ben” could have said even harder
things about the 1947 car (B. 13/8/’47).
When the one I am exposed to hits a soft
patch it goes down with a flop and re-
sembles an oversize turtle squatting on
the mud. The bodywork prevents you
from getting at the wheels to shove
boughs, sticks and stones under them so
as to move her out. You have your choice
of leaving her there until the ground dries
out or paying somebody with a tractor
or an old-model bus to tow you out.
Damage to that sleek and shining body-
work is so expensive to repair that in-
surance companies are raising the insur-
ance rates on old cars to help pay for
their losses on new ones. These new cars
have been designed solely for gliding
along on bitumen roads, whereas half
the motorists in Australia have to travel
on rough tracks or no tracks at all.
What we need is something plain and
of rugged and simple construction.
Wheels should be in full view for tyre-
changing or putting on and removing
skid chains, and for taking the bus out
of mud or sand without assistance. Other
necessities are an engine which can be
cranked by hand on a frosty morning or
when the battery is too flat to turn the
starter, a seat from which the driver can
see what is just ahead of the front wheels.
and no flash bodywork to need extensive
and expensive repairs if a sticx rues up
or another car scrapes against it in a
parking area.
When I saw my first jeep I hoped that
after the war a slightly larger edition of
that wonderful little bus would appear
on the market. But new cars are all
chromium plating, fancy gadgets and
show. As far as real usefulness is con-
cerned, most car designs have been going
back from 1930 onward.
Those who intend to make cars in
Australia should think hard before they
come to a final decision about design and
take the jeep as their model rather than
the aircraft fuselage. It isn’t as if the
sales of such go-anywhere-a-wheelbarrow-
could cars would be limited to the coun-
try —half the city motorists would prefer
them, too. —H. A. L. (S.A.).
A National Balance-sheet
The Commonwealth Budget must be a
source of bewilderment to any book-
keeper. Roughly, it is a statement of
probable receipts and payments, but
though its contents provide ample scope
for criticism by those more learned than
I, what baffles me is not the contents, but
what is left out.
No businessman needs to be told that a
statement of receipts and payments would
scarcely reveal to him the success or
failure of his previous—or forthcoming-
year’s trading, because of the vital factors
missing—stock in hand, assets and liabili-
ties, The same must surely apply to the
affairs of a nation. A Budget is very
barren ground on which to trace the pros-
perity and true position of a country.
What of the assets; the stock-in-hand?
No sensible trading and profit and loss
account can be drawn up without stock
figures—the accounts would be meaning-
less without them.
A proper accounting of Australia Un-
limited would reveal that this concern is
flourishing and healthy, with ample assets
to cover all possible contingencies, with
plant and machinery in good order gener-
ally, carrying good stocks of fast-moving
lines, backed by almost untapped natural
sources of raw material.
Such an analysis would also reveal that
the turnover position was being restricted
in a wholly unnatural fashion by a
diseased economic system—a bad sales
staff.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Indonesia
Instead of blaming the EVutch in their
grievous trouble in the N.E.I. we should
have more understanding and offer them
a full measure of sympathy. Here in
England I find the ignorance concerning
the true situation and the circumstances
truly astonishing. While we grieve, and
rightly, over the foul murder of two
British sergeants in Palestine, the people
in England have no conception of the
unsurpassed horrors endured by the
Dutch —men, women and children —in
their internment camps in the East Indies
at the hands of their native oppressors
and jailers, nor of the terrible condition
of the pitiful few who succeeded in escap-
ing, or of the hundreds of both sexes
with their children tprtured and slaugh-
tered by the Republican so-called army.
The Dutch have not so far published
the facts to the world, but when they do,
the evidence will shock every reader.
Had the Dutch not been compelled to
return to their prison camps a few days
after the Japanese surrender, a very dif-
ferent story could have been told. In
all the “recces” I did while serving with
the Dutch forces in Military Intelligence,
and later in the Services Reconnaissance
Detachment —a secret British unit in
which I served with the rank of major—
in Celebes, the Halmaheras and Borneo,
we had overwhelming evidence on the
spot in enemy-occupied territories that
the vast majority of the Indonesians were
wholeheartedly pro-Dutch and urgently
wanted their return. But what proved to
be the fatal period between the Japanese
surrender and the departure of British
troops from Java and Sumatra caused
mortal damage to the cause for which the
Dutch have so rightly striven — i.e., in-
dependence in the N.E.I. by a gradual
but definite process. And this period
was without question responsible for the
“Come on, sister , two bob—you wouldn't like to see a poor working girl
without a silver-fox cape , Would you?"
subsequent appalling loss of life by giving
x evolutionary and Communistic leaders
ample time to terrorise and train the
“rahajat,” ably backed by Japanese per-
sonnel and weapons.
The opinion shared by many of my
British countrymen who know the past
history of the N.E.I. is that Dutch ad-
ministration has been a shining example
to the world of how to govern efficiently
and sympathetically the teeming millions
of the brown races in these islands. For
45 years I’ve travelled extensively in Java
and Sumatra and, with a knowledge of
native languages and customs, have seen
for myself outstanding results in progress
and in the betterment of the native races.
—Richard K. Hardwick (London).
Booze and Betting
It had always been my ambition to
emigrate to Australia, and I made it
early this year. It is a pleasant and en-
joyable change after the austerity of
England, but I am puzzled by what
seems to be the twin besetting evils of
Australia —drinking and gambling. These
vices are indulged in to an extent un-
dreamed-of in Britain.
In a week in Australia I saw more
“drunks'” than can be seen in a year at
home. Perhaps this is a result of the
licensing hours —a stranger cannot help
but wonder at the disastrous effect of
the six-o’clock closing with the mad
rush to swallow the maximum amount of
alcohol in the shortest possible time.
Why not close the bars for the afternoon
and open them for more leisurely drink-
ing at night?
And the gambling in the fair name of
charity! The betting at the races, the
lottery tickets, the raffles! Are the wells
of charity so dried up that nobody will
support a good cause without a chance,
however remote, of winning a basket of
groceries, a pair of blankets or a ticket
in the Government lottery? I wonder
what percentage of the weekly pay-
envelopes and family allowances is
swallowed up by the many forms of
betting.—G. S. J. (Q.).
Root of the Matter
I am one of those C.R.T.T. trainees
doing a University course, although be-
fore the war I had no intention of doing
anything like it. I would gladly ex-
change all my training benefits —and my
gratuity—for what I lost during the war:
the four years of my youth which I spent
in German prison camps. There were not
many who would have envied me when
I was at Salonika, Lamsdorf or
Auschwitz, but there are plenty who, see-
ing me receive reconstruction benefits to
make up for the lost years, are eager to
tell me how “lucky” I am. Some people
have short n memories. Footslogger
(Vic.).
My son attends a “free” high school
where education is supposed to be free.
I have to fork out 10s. a year rent for
text-books and another 10s. a year sports
fee, as well as paying for all exercise
books, pens, pencils and even ink and
blotting paper. Nearly every week I’m
called upon for a donation to some school
fund. I’d like to send the lad on to the
University, which is allegedly open to the
son of the poorest man in the land, but
that is only a theory. W. P T. (N.S.W.).
~~ , ,
The public still loves a real flesh-and-
blood show and it will up m force
if the prices are right. If contemporary
showmen turned on good vaudeville,
drama, comedy and opera they would
prosper, as their fathers did before the
film era. —Thorn (N.S.W.).
. . • rnnil trv tnwn PO
At our Victonan coimt^
I handed in a parcel for Darwin. Seven
and threepence,” said the clerk ; but he
added, seeing my consternation, “if you
can take out a couple of ounces to bring
it down to the 81b. limit it will be 55.”
I re-packed that parcel. Later, I paid
3s. 6d. to send a 41b. parcel to Darwin.
Another penny would have enabled me
to send 7!b. to England.— Emil (Vic.).
We will never get relief from “Labor”
misrule until the Opposition changes
its name. Seventy five per cent, of voters
haven’t the foggiest notion of issues
involved in an election —“I work for my
living, so I vote Labor,” is the rule for
thousands who would probably not vote
at all if it were not compulsory. I
suggest the Liberals call themselves the
“Workers’ ” party. It would have more
appeal and would be as well justified as
the tag of “Labor” for the crowd of union
bosses and opportunists that we have in
now. — Montefiore (S.A.).
I was amazed to see Duntroon de-
scribed as “Australia’s West Point.” Why
it should be a West Point any more than
a Sandhurst, I don’t know. Is it that West
Point represents some esoteric ideal we
have not yet achieved? This glib, thought-
less use of comparisons reminds me that
at one time an enthusiastic if misguided
American critic pronounced Gershwh" l
“the American Mozart.” The English
critic Ernest Newman was goaded to
retort, “Mozart, then, must be the Aus-
trian Gershwin.” —I. E. (N.S.W.) .
The “Trapper’s Right” suggested by
“W.P.T.” (B. 20/8/’47) would be hard on
the small farmer, who needs every penny
he can get. If the farmer wants to trap
his own rabbits, why not leave him alone
and concentrate on the bigger holdings,
where there are rabbits enough for half
a dozen recognised trappers? — Bob
(S.A.).
Until lately, our district was always
able to boast that all its concerns were
in local hands and gave friendly, personal
services at reasonable prices. First to
go is the mail-passenger service, which
has been snapped up with a string of
others by a big company. The days of
the mailman are gone. His place has been
taken by the liveried driver of a luxury
motor coach and more expensive travel.
It’s only the beginning. We’ll probably
end up with chain stores, chain hotels and
more businesses in the hands of com-
panies outside the district. I’m agin the
idea, for the profits of such concerns go
out of local circulation and dealings be-
come hard business affairs. I’m agin it,
too, for the simple and heartfelt reason
that country life is losing out to sophisti-
cation and dropping tlje old and simple
ways.—E.2 (Vic.).
After 1914-18 I was among other things
editor of a monthly for the employees
of the firm for which I worked. I had
the following item printed:
Fifteen years ago I had £5O in the bank.
With interest and compound interest I
can buy almost as much with my £lOO now
as I could with my £5O 15 years ago.
The day after the publication I received
a note from the boss; “Such alleged
jokes are deprecated.” I often wonder if
he still thinks it a joke.— Torjabo (S.A.).
Vanishing Authors
During the war, many Australians
whose ideas would not ordinarily have
found daylight had books published. As
a result, not a few fine writers were dis-
covered and welcomed by the reading
public. Some were successful in having
three and four editions of their books
printed. The war over, these writers,
confronted by apathetic publishers and
excessive taxation, are sinking into
oblivion. Today some of them are find-
ing it practically impossible to secure
even a second edition, though the demand
for their books persists. “One book, one
edition” is fast becoming a publishing
law.
Not a few publishers are continually
producing more and more books by a few
well-known writers to the exclusion of
other authors. What we need is a pub-
lishing house devoted solely to Aus-
traliana, covering educational works,
fiction, verse, plays, rural, technical and
domestic subjects, music, art, etc. If such
a house maintained a high ethical
standard it could exert a great influence
for good on the national character. —
MITCHELL
(N.S.W.).


When the climb is very severe
With petrol restrictions so much eased, it's five years
since your engine was tested under conditions of such
prolonged hot weather running as will be planned for this
year’s touring.
Safeguard your engine beforehand by draining out the
old oil and refilling with Shell Drag-Free Motor Oil For
Extra Protection.
The extra oiliness, and freedom from drag, of Shell
Motor Oil keep every bearing and friction surface 100%
lubricated no matter how hot the weather or how severe
the running conditions.
MOTOR 01
*
Cl
Bk wm
BEFORE TOURING, LET YOUR
GARAGE OR SERVICE STATION
DRAIN, FLUSH AND REFILL YOUR
ENGINE WITH SHELL MOTOR OIL.
/
/
m
/
/
/
■m
/
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain.)
LO4GI6M
