

f
dg
df
ROYAL
PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol, 68—No. 3492
Wednesday, January 15, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
ANTRIM’S GLENARM CASTLE.
PRESENTED by the House of Seppelt, this series of Old Country
places of historic interest includes none more picturesque than
Glenarm Castle, family seat of the McDonnells, earls of Antrim.
Glenarm has so been occupied since the destruction of their former
residence at Ballymagarry in 1750. A lofty barbican forms the
imposing gateway to Glenarm. from which a curving driveway
leads to the entrance hall. The grounds of Glenarm Castle occupy
a deep and well-wooded gully through which flows a stream abound-
ing in trout and salmon. A locally famous feature of this river is
the Bull’s Eye cascade, and nearby stands the hill of Slieve Mish,
where, says tradition, St. Patrick, as a captive boy, tended the swine
of the chieftain Milcho, when Ireland’s- history was very young.


Uml
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, withovt obligation, your New Free
Bvoklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. 1 ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 247 AGE
The Red Page
" RIGBY'S ROMANCE."
An amiable, an estimable madness is
abroad in the land. Namely, the deifica-
tion of Joseph Furphy, alias Tom
Collins.
Such Is Life was republished a couple
of years ago and 10,000 gallant souls
bought it and braved the perils of the
narrator’s pipe. And, no doubt, were
recompensed by that pervading humor
which, when Furphy is not reforming the
capitalist system or inflicting on the reader
his arch and monstrous erudition, seems
to roll beyond the earth and go rumbling
among the stars, dissolving the whole
universe in a rich and quiet chuckling.
Mr. J. K. Ewers wrote a book about
Furphy, Tell the People. Miles Franklin
wrote his life. At a conservative esti-
mate, 15,000 articles on Furphy appeared
in “Southerly.” And now from Angus
and Robertson comes Rigby’s Romance,
a sort of offshoot from Such Is Life,
which Furphy made into a separate novel.
Those who write forewords to books
have the present commentator’s deepest
gratitude. For they must write some-
thing ; and they always write something
one can dispute. So, of course, do blurb-
writers ; but only the reviewers of
daily newspapers—some of whom prob-
ably don’t read more than the blurb —
would quarrel with anything so innocuous
and so anonymous. But a foreword is
fair game. And Mr. R. G. Howarth, who
introduces Rigby’s Romance with a re-
mark about Furphy’s “wide, humorous
and almost Shakspearean contemplation
of life,” is obviously a sitting shot.
Perhaps one shouldn’t take it. Per-,
haps Mr. Howarth means no more than
that, as Admitted above, Furphy’s laughter
plays about both earth and stars.
But—“almost Shakspearean.” “Almost
Lamb-like” might pass; or “almost
Sterne-like.” For Furphy is a droll and
a playful fellow. But the central story
of Rigby’s Romance is the piffling apd
hardly credible narrative of an American
lady who comes to Australia seeking her
long-lost love, finds him in the company
of drovers and other denizens of the
Outback and, in pique, leaves him where
she found him because he fails to keep
an appointment with her. Granted that
Furphy—earnest-minded Socialist though
he was —had the wit to show that his
Socialist agitator is a destroyed man, a
lost soul, where in this mildly amusing,
mildly ironical and greatly footling
“romance” are Shakspeare’s profundity,
Shakspeare’s passion, Shakspeare’s
drama? As far as the heights and depths
of human experience are concerned,
Furphy “contemplated” life by shutting
his eyes to it.
Well, Mr. Howarth doesn’t mean to
imply too much. He is talking about a
broad view of life. But it is as well
to be aware of Furphy’s limitations.
The best thing to say about him
might be that he is “almost Furphy.”
For One thinks of him as a delightful
humorist and one finds him, for pages
at a stretch, as enlivening as Euclid,
Book TV.
A hundred pages (or thereabouts) of
Rigby’s Romance amount to no more
than a sermon on Socialism. Mr. Howarth
—how useful a foreword is! —is able to
avoid reproaching Furphy for this un-
mannerly behavior by classifying the
book as a “symposium.” And, in truth,
one could read it as such and have no
quarrel with it. For you would expect
a symposium on Socialism to be unspeak-
ably tedious; and Furphy’s symposium
would more than fulfil that expectation.
It could be read aloud at a meeting of
the Fellowship of Writers.
But if Rigby’s Romance is to be read
as a novel the whole central section is
indeed an unpardonable interruption of
the narrative. Dickens could be painful
enough when he was reforming the world,
but at least he sermonised in small doses ;
and he dramatised his social criticisms.
When he wished to attack the Yorkshire
schools* for example, he most marvel-
lously dramatised Squeers; showed the
schools in operation. But Furphy does
not, in comparable satire or action, show
the capitalist system in operation ; merely,
with mild humor, with his characteristic
parade of erudition, in his most pon-
derous style and with insufferable pro-
lixity he sermonises about it.
Page after page, chapter after chapter
he sermonises. He goes on and on and
on. Until, maddened by
argument and naive evangelism, one
wishes that Walt Whitman, from whom
Furphy learnt these knavish tricks, had
never been born. One wishes that some-
one had told Furphy that a “barbaric
yawp,” however impressive as such, was
simply not poetry ; not art: as the rustic
drone of Rigby is not art. One wishes
that someone had told him that it is
not good manners to invite your guests to
a party and then subject them to a sermon
on social uplift and that —though one
may spare a grin for an inveterate prac-
tical joker—it is neither art nor manners
to trap a man into a corner and then
bore him to death. For one’s own sake,
for Furphy’s sake and for art’s sake one
wishes that the sermon had been cut out,
leaving the fun of the “romance,” the
cod-fishing expedition and the incidental
yarns of Dixon and the lugubrious
Thompson.
And here let tears be shed. For in the
1921 edition of Rigby’s Romance the
sermon was omitted. Nine chapters of
it. And it was of this mercifully sub-
edited edition that A. G. Stephens said
“who reads it slowly, as it is written,
will learn Australia and acquire virtue:
enough.”
Why have the nine chapters been re-
stored?' Mr. Howarth —how invaluable a
foreword is! —declares: “The more one
studies this work.... the more one
realises how carefully articulated it all is.
No part, therefore —not even a minor
part—can be removed without injury to
the rest.” Which seems to the present
commentator, again expressing his
deepest gratitude for the foreword, an
excessively reverent opinion. After all, if
your wife weighs 22 stone and “reduces”
to 16, she remains carefully articulated.
And, normally, she is much improved.
The sermon could have been reduced by
two thirds without in any way impairing
the structure of the book; still allowing
Rigby to talk all night and still allowing
Furphy his double wow-ending about the
301 b. Murray cod.
Still, it is too late for that. The dark
deed has been done ; the sermon has been
restored. The readable has been made
unreadable. It is difficult to agree that
the restoration was desirable, but of
course a case could be made out for the
defence: the Sacred Writings are here
in their entirety, a Classic has been
established. Fifty years from now, when
Eve Langley and Brian James are “dis-
covered,” the readers of Australian
classics are going to have a rather less
thorny time of it. In the meantime, you
can always read —and you will certainly
enjoy— Rigby’s Romance simply by skip-
ping the sermon. And by not skipping
Mr. Howarth’s graceful and stimulating
foreword.
The Coast Watchers.
The story of the men who stayed in
New Guinea and the Solomons after
the Japanese invasion, or were taken in
later by submarines and small boats to
report the enemy’s movements, is told in
Eric Feldt’s The Coast Watchers (Oxford
University Press).
The career of Con Page is typical of
the material which makes the book an
outstanding record of adventure. When
war came in 1939 Page thought of enlist-
ing, “but it all seemed far away and not of
his world.” He went as manager to a plan-
tation on Simberi, 80 miles or so east of
Kavieng. He had a teleradio which had
been lent by the R.A.N., and he was
ready in the unlikely event of a German
raider or some such passing near Simberi
to send word of it to Australia.
Page’s only white neighbor on Simberi
was “Sailor” Herterich, “a lazy, unreliable
man who drifted along with the tide of
life.” He had settled in New Guinea
when it was a German colony, but after
the 1914-18 war he had escaped deporta-
tion by becoming “not so much a German
as the husband of a native woman.”
“This little world was a backwater, a
little group of islands of no importance
whatever,” till, in the first days of 1942,
Japanese planes began to fly a regular
route across Simberi on their way from
Truk to bomb Rabaul and Kavieng. Day
and night Con Page kept watch reporting
them. “Sailor” Herterich was busy, too.
He had begun to wonder what would be
best for Herterich if the Japs should
come. He decided to become a German
again, and quietly he spread the word
among the natives that the Japs were to
be treated as friends. Page did his best
to scotch the rumors. He told the natives
the Japs would not come, and that if they
did they would be driven out very
quickly. He told them that he was stay-
ing. “It was his country. The war was
now an intimate, personal matter.”
With the fall of Rabaul and Kavilng,
Page’s world fell about him. His signals
had not escaped the notice of the Japanese,
and five days later a warship raided the
plantation., but he had already moved his
teleradio to a hut in the jungle and was
not found by the raiding party. When the
ship had gone he signalled, reporting its
departure.
From Headquarters Page’s position
appeared untenable, so after consultation
with the Director of Naval Intelligence,
a signal was sent to him: “You have done
magnificent work. Your position is now
dangerous if you continue reporting. You
are to bury your teleradio and- may join
either party on New Ireland or take' other
measures for safety. Good luck.”
Page took no notice. He was on Simberi.
He was a master who had told the natives
he would stay. He was fighting his own
war in his own small world. He continued
to send signals concerning the extent of
the Japanese occupation at Kavieng, the
names of Europeans who had been cap-
tured, guns and defence positions.
The natives, watching the course of
events, began to lean towards Herterich
and the Japs. Page’s position was pre-
carious. He, like many others doing
similar work throughout the islands, was
a civilian and liable under international
law to be shot as a spy, if caught. In
March, 1942, he was commissioned as
Sub.-Lieutenant R.A.N.V.R. after a good
deal of discussion as to whether that was
possible without medical examination and
other formalities.
Page reported in March that his plan-
tation had been looted by renegade
natives from Kavieng who were threaten-
ing to disclose his whereabouts to the
Japs, and that Herterich had been joined
by a half-caste, Hans Pettersen, “a fat,
sly swine of a man.” Page was advised
to try to get across to Buka, which was
still clear of the enemy. He “scouted the
suggestion ; he would not give in, beset
by an obstinacy aggravated by his dislike
of Herterich and Pettersen. His reply was
to send a further list of Europeans who
had been captured.”
By the end of March Page was a dot in
a Jap-held ocean. All the key-points of
his surroundings had been occupied; escape
was impossible except by outside means.
Worst of all, the natives began to feel that
the Japanese had come to stay, and that
they must make their peace with them in
their own interests. Fewer natives sup-
ported Page and he was running short of
food.
It was late May before anything could
be done to help him. Then a R.A.A.F.
plane made a run at night to drop
supplies, including a cap- and badges of
rank. “He had moved into caves for
hiding, and at one time only Ansin Bulu
[a native woman with whom he had lived]
stood by hint He signalled that
the Japs were enrolling native police.
We knew he could not evade these, even
though he had escaped from the Japs
alone.”
The U. S. Navy agreed to send a sub-
marine to try to get him off. Page kept
the rendezvous for three nights, but the
sub. did not arrive. It had developed
engine trouble and limped back to port.
There was no other available.
Page signalled then that a Japanese
ship was bringing natives and dogs to
hunt for him. The R.A.A.F. sent planes
to bomb the ship, but it could not be
found. Next time Page was called on the
radio there was no reply.
Two years later the story was told. The
Japs came on Page when he was asleep
in a hut. He was taken to Kavieng and
executed shortly afterwards.
Ansin Bulu had been captured a week
before Page, and held in Kavieng jail till
after he was brought in. She was found
on Tabar. “Emaciated and aged, she
came forward to meet the first white man
she had seen for two years.” She handed
him “a piece of toilet paper, dirty and
crumpled” which had been smuggled
out to her from Page just before his execu-
tion. It read, in faint pencil:
To C. 0., Allied Forces,
This female has been in my service 7
years. Has been of great value to me
since Jan. Japs looted all she owned
value £5O, put her in prison and God knows
what else. Her crime was she stuck.
Sir, please do your best.
SubrLieut. C. L. Page.
Few people who spent any time in the
islands of the North-Eastern Area during
the years between 1941 and 1945 but had
heard of the coast watchers, few had any
very clear idea as to who they were or
what was their job. But in the Solomons
Admiral Halsey said that the intelligence
signalled from Bougainville by two of
their number “saved Guadalcanal, and
Guadalcanal saved the Pacific.”
It was no haphazard o i Ration. A
beginning had been made with the coast-
watching scheme under R.A.N. direction
as early as 1919. When war broke out
20 years later it ( claimed some 800
members, almost l \ of them civilians.
With the war the scheme was extended.
Lieutenant-Commander Eric Feldt was
placed in charge, responsible directly to
the Director of Naval Intelligence. When
the war ended the organisation numbered
on its active list members of the three
Australian services, New Zealand Navy
men, American soldiers and marines,
members of the 8.5.1. P. Defence Force,
Dutch servicemen, native sergeants and
police boys, a Chinese civilian, three or
four Fijian civilians 5 and a number of
half-castes. Its strength boasted a proud
record of British, Australian and
American decorations, a sad list of
casualties.
Feldt saw the organisation from begin-
ning to end of its war-time service. He
was largely responsible for overcoming
official delay during the first months of
the war in the Pacific. He was able to
send an immediate reply to a question
from Bougainville, asking what should be
<Jone regarding a planter who seemed
likely to throw in his lot with the Japs:
Take any measures you consider neces-
sary for your own safety. There will be
no inquest.
He scrounged its supplies, mapped its
escape routes, mothered its obstinate and
recalcitrant miners, planters, seamen, mis-
sionaries and wanderers become soldiers.
He tells the story complete and detailed,
and if sometimes his liking for a cliche
and the poorness of his proof-reading be-
come irritating the irritation can be for-
gotten in his sense of humor, and in his
understanding of the men of whom he
writes. He is frankly appreciative of the
heroic —of the work of Read and Mason,
of Kennedy of Segi, of Jocelyn and
Robbie, of Fryer’s fantastic three months’
march through mountainous jungle from
Bena Bena 300 miles to the country about
the Sepik. The Coast Watchers could, as
it stands, take its place as a supple;
mentary volume to Australia’s Official
History of the War.
JOHN BRENNAN.
Judgment in Suspense: Gerald Bullett
(Dent). Little Stuart has a mother;
mother has a past; headmaster, with
incredible impertinence, sets out to in-
vestigate the family history and ends by
marrying the mother. Readable, but
about as moving as a flat tyre.
COUNTRY PRESS.
Under the dusty print of hobnailed boot,
Strewn on the floor the papers still assert
In ornamental gothic, swash italics
And bands of printer’s flowers (tradi-
tional)
Mixed in a riot of typographic fancy,
This is “The Western Star,” the Farmer’s
Guide,
The Voice of Progress for the Nyngan
District.
Page-proofs of double-spread with run-
ning headlines
Paper the walls, and sets of cigarette-
cards
Where pouter-bosomed showgirls still
display
The charms that dazzled in the nineteen
hundreds.
Through gaping slats
Latticed with sun the ivy tendrils fall
Twining the disused platen thrust away
Under a pall of dust in nineteen-twenty.
Draw up a chair, sit down. Just shift
the galleys.
You say you have a notice ? There's no
one dies
But what we know about it. Births,
deaths and marriages,
Council reports, wool prices, river-heights,
The itinerant poem and the classified
ads. —
They all come homewards to “The West-
ern Star.”
N.S.W.
Joe's our type-setter. Meet Joe Burrell.
Joe’s
A promising lad —and Joe, near forty-
seven,
Peers from a tennis-shade and, smiling
vaguely.
Completes the headline for the Baptist
Social.
The dance, the smoke-oh, and the chil-
dren’s picnic
Down by the river-flats beneath the wil-
lows —
They all come homewards and Joe sets
them all,
Between the morning and the mid-day
schooner.
Oh, “Western Star” that bringest all to
fold,
The yarding sales, the champion short-
horn bull,
And William’s pain-relieving linament,
When l shall die
Set me up close against my fellow-men,
Cheer that cold column headed “Deaths”
with flowers,
Or mix me up with Births and Marriages;
Surround the tragic statement of my
death
With euchre-drives and good-times-had-
by-all
That, with these warm concomitants of
life
Jostled and cheered, in lower-case italics
l shall go homeward in “The Western
Star.”
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
m*
£
/
“2
;TS
ss
4
rfs
4^ot
4/
'Oft
r^f
*
r^Cfr
4fi if
s?Oiy
f
. -
mm
Hi
i i
:■ :..'
ft
r v ; >. --v
v V>» *««s*■.
■
• • • ••
m
Cultivating Equipment includes
one G.T.I single row equipment.
This is used primarily for
hoeing and cultivating narrow row
vegetable crops
GTIEOUIPT.
GT-2 EOUIPT.
GT-5 EOUIPT.
ANTHONY
ccSiionnEßNS'
What you have waited for. . .the Planet Jr. Hand Tractor! Here'is
a Tractor with features to please all. The Planet Jr. Tractor is fitted with 3h.p.
Motor, a belt pulley 3fin. diameter by 3iin. face, provides a power take-off
for operating a saw, pump, etc. The Planet Jr. is supplied complete with a
Three Row Seeder Attachment which will sow almost every type of seed. It
also has a Fertilizer Attachment which will apply
Fertilizer at the same time as seeding. It puts
the fertilizer into the ground up to four inches deep
and either directly under the seed or in a band
beside the row as desired. If desired, terms can be
arranged, and the price of the Planet Jr. complete is
G.T.2 single row equipment is generally used in larger growing crops and for heavier
cultivating. Seven 8-inch reversible cultivator steels are furnished with the G.T.2
—two 1-inch steels for making neat the row and five 2*-inch steels.
G.T.3. Three row equipment for narrow rows. It makes an efficient three row culti-
vator for such crops as onions, spinach, beets, carrots, etc. It will handle three
rows from 12 inches to 15 inches apart, and will do just as good and just as thorough
a job of weeding and cultivating as a one row outfit.
• Agricultural Implements, 4th Floor, Pitt Street.
f 5
5


AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
CHRISTOPHER BRENNAN, the man and his poetry, by A. R. Chisholm. Frontispiece.
5/- (post. 4d.).
ANZAC TO AMIENS, a shorter history of the Australian fighting services in the first World
War, by C. E. W. Bean. Illustrated. 25/- (post. Bd.).
RIGBY’S ROMANCE, by Tom Collins (Joseph Furphy), author of “Such Is Life.’ 8/6 (post. 6d.).
INSIDE PARLIAMENT —twenty years’ experience in the Press Gallery at Canberra, by
Warren Denning. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
WOMEN AND CHILDREN FIRST! An outline of a population policy for Australia, by
Victor H. Wallace. 15/- (post. Bd.).
GOLDEN GOLIATH, by Frank Clune. Limited Edition. 10/6 (post. 4d.).
EUREKA, the story of Peter Lalor, by Clive Turnbull. Limited Edition. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
BONANZA, the story of George Francis Train, by Clive Turnbull. Limited Edition.
8/6 (post. 4d.).
CHALLENGE TO EDUCATION, by Eric Ashby. 3/6 (post. 4d.).
OBSERVATIONS ON THE COASTS OF VAN DIEMEN’S LAND, ON BASS STRAIT &
ITS ISLANDS, & ON PART OF THE COASTS OF N.S.W., by Matthew Hinders,
with an introduction by George Mackaness (Aust. Historical Monograph).
18/9 (post. 4d.).
POETRY NO. 21, 1946. The Australian International Quarterly of Verse. 3/- (post. 2d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street. Sydney
dfg
DIESEL FUEL
INJECTION EQUIPMENT
Anticipating the demand for a Diesel Fuel Injection Service
in Australia, PYROX PTY., LTD., many years ago established
service facilities in all States, thus making possible the rapid
development of Diesel power in this country.
In all capital cities, repair and maintenance services and spares
for all leading makes »of British, American and Continental
Fuel Injection Equipment are provided by PYROX. Injection
parts not obtainable through ordinary trade channels will be
manufactured by PYROX according to specification.
VOJC DIESEL INJECTION SERVICE
IN SYDNEY PYROX PTY., LTD.
Australian Enterprise Australian Skill Australian Achievement
POST”WAR
MODELS
NOW
AVAILABLE
to
' s to-o
/
SP
1/
/
J 5
V
G
C
C
To appreciate fully the value of a refrigerator, range, washing machine or
any similar piece of kitchen equipment, you must know what is in the hidden
places. For it is there, below the surface, that basic quality lies.
Where Comrol Sheet Steel is used there is no better assurance of high
quality. Comrol Enamelling Sheets give a perfect porcelain enamel finish
for all types of appliances. That is why the most reliable and trustworthy
appliances are constructed of Comrol Steel Sheets.
STEEL SHEETS
9
9
FOR
I N
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
Head Office and Works—Port Kembla, N.S.W.
ARMCQ (AUST.) PTY. LTD., GENERAL SALES AGENTS:
DUST
PTY. LTD.
r r
df
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he 1b list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —be may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
oVVa RKOCondition Powders. Constant scratch-
is of ten a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine N S pj^, IOV POWDERS l/«
SKIN MOTION ....... 2/f>
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
British ex-serviceman, resident England, was
sick-bay attendant Royal Navy, now undergoing
training as male nurse, seeks position with a
Sydney hospital.—3926. ,
To buy, new or second-hand, P. C. Wrens
Beau Ideal. —3925. .
Words of verse concerning Bradman s playing
in a cricket Test series ending with the refrain
“And great was the fall thereof.” —3924.
Photographs of the late Dr. Charles Mac-
Laurin, author of Post Mortem, Mere Mortals
and De fylortuis. —3927.
Information Sought.
Whereabouts in N. S. Wales could 1 gain ex-
perience in vocational guidance and aptitude
tasting ?
Vocational guidance and aptitude testing is
carried out in N.S.W. by guidance officers
appointed by the Public Service Board to the
Government Psychological Service. The mini-
mum qualifications are a university degree with
at least two years in psychology. Training in
the actual work is obtained either by entering
the Youth Welfare Section of the Department
of Labor and Industry as a clerical assistant
and getting experience while completing the
degiee course, or by qualifying as a teacher in
the Education Department and obtaining ex-
perience in Careers Advising. A course is given
by the Australian Institute of Industrial Psy-
chology which should b'e useful to people wish-
ing to undertake aptitude testing for private
industry.
* * * *
In those Australian States where capital pun-
ishment for murder is still the law but is not
carried out, what happens when a criminal is
found guilty of murder? Has it happened
that a criminal has been given a natural-life
sentence 2
In some States the death sentence has not
been abolished but is nevertheless not carried
out. In such cases the Judge sentences the
accused to death but the Executive afterwards
commutes the sentence to such term of im-
prisonment as it decides. In the case of Jones
(N.S.W., 1936) the sentence was commuted to
imprisonment for the term of his natural life.
In the States where the death sentence has
been abolished the Judge can inflict a sentence
up to the term of natural life.
* * * *
, (1) What Customs duty is payable on sewing
machines? (2) Is it necessary for the importer
to be registered under the Sales Tax Act and
be in the position to quote a sales-tax certifi-
cate at the time of the importation of the
goods? (3) Is a licence under the Customs
(Import Licensing ) Regulations necessary if the
machines are the manufacture of New Zealand ?
(1) Sewing machines are classifiable for
tariff purposes under Item 168 (A) (2), as fol-
lows: (a) when entitled to entry under British
preferential tariff, Customs and primage duty,
free, (b) otherwise. Customs duty, 15 p.c., and
primage duty, 10 p.c. (2) Yes. (3) No.
# * * *
I am an ex-soldier troubled with nerves. I
find it difficult to obtain a good night’s sleep
on the fibre and kapok, mattress l am using.
What type of mattress is advised ?
With its obvious advantages in a hot climate,
the hard fibre mattress makes but little allow-
ance for curves or natural contour of the body.
Science has shown the error in restriction of
circulation with irregular pressure and muscular
restraint. To circumvent .this the multiple-spring
mattress has been devised—it overcomes any
restraint in the normal, recumbent position
assumed during sleep. In its manufacture the
inner-spring mattress is lightly packed with hair
or other casing so that no overlay mattress is
required. Ordinary bed covering gives extra
warmth if necessary. Restful sleep is essential
to the nervous subject.
* * * *
(1) How to mark steel tools? (2) Acid used
for marking glass?
Warm the tool slightly and rub with wax or
hard tallow until a film covers the surface to
be inscribed. Scratch the letters on the wax,
cutting through to the steel. A little nitric acid
poured on the steel over the writing will
quickly eat out the letters. Wash the tool
and remove the wax with a hot rag. (2) Hydro-
fluoric acid, using the same method as for steel
and applying the acid with a feather.
& * * *
(1) Must electricians in N.S.W. be licensed?
(2) If so, who issues such licences, and what
qualifications are necessary to obtain a licence ?
(1) Yes. (2) An electrician’s licence is a permit
to carry auc without supervision electrical wiring
work, that is, the actual physical work of installing
an electrical installation. Except when he does the
work on his own premises, a licensed electrician
must be in the employ of a licensed electrical
contractor. Electricians’ licences are issued by
the Electrical Contractors and Electricians’
Licensing Committee, whose authority is derivable
from Ordinance No. 73, subsidiary to the Elec-
tricity Development Act, 1945. _ To obtain an
electrician’s licence certain minimum standards
of experience and technical qualifications are
prescribed; for instance, the completion of a
five years’ apprenticeship to the electrical trade,
together with the five years’ higher trades course
at the Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane Technical
Colleges. Clause eight (b) of the ordinance sets
out other acceptable qualifications, failing
which, provided an applicant has had sufficient
experience, he may obtain a licence by passing
the examination arranged by the committee,
which is held twite in a year.
* * * *
(1) What is the cause of blotchy skin on
tomatoes? Some are half-red and half-yellow,
others have red and yellow spots. (2) What
causes tomatoes to split ?
(1) This condition is due to a disease known
as Spotted Wilt, which is described and sug-
gested methods of control given in Plant Dis-
ease Leaflet No. 37; obtainable free from the
Department of Agriculture, Sydney. (2) The
splitting of the fruit has possibly resulted from
a period of comparatively dry soil followed by
adequate water supply. Under dry conditions
the fruit ceases to increase in size and develops
a toughened surface. If the fruit is still imma-
ture when water becomes available the internal
tissue develops at a greater rate than the sur-
face and thus causes the latter to split.
Brief Answers.
G.H.W.: Write the Jewish Board of Edu-
cation, c'/o the Great Synagogue, Sydney...,.
G.D.: His work has not been published in
book form W.H.: G.I. are the initials of
Government Issue... .R.M.K.: Tyrrell’s Book-
shop, 281 George-street, Sydney, would be in-
terested. .. .P.W.D.: The South Australian De-
partment of Agriculture has pamphlets on the
subject J.M.: If the two captains cannot
agree then the decision rests with the umpires.
J.A.McL.: The price to continue would be
Bs., as the price is always doubled, e.g., 25.,
45., Bs., 165., 325., etc J.M.S.: See article
“Constitutions, State and Federal,” pages 291-
297, Vol. 1, Australian Encyclopedia....
N.L.C.: The present record in Sydney for
trotting over eight furlongs against time is held
by White Globe, who took 2 mins. 8 secs, to
cover the distance. According to the Australian
Stud Book for Trotters, Vol. 1, Fritz had a
record of 2 mins. 144 secs, for one mile....
W.M.: Fleet Street Annual (65.) is published by
Fleet Publications, 9 Palace-gate, London,
W.B C.A.F.: In 1861 the Victorian exhibits
for the International Exhibition of 1862 were
on show in Melbourne from October 1 to De-
cember 7. The first intercolonial exhibition m
Victoria was opened on October 24, 1866, in
an exhibition building erected in connection
with the Melbourne Public Library; it closed
on February 23, 1867 SJ.W.: “The Wreck
of the Brunkencrungerci ob‘” was written by H.
Tate and appeared in the Christmas number ol
The Bulletin, 1910. It was illustrated* by
Lionel Lindsay A.G.: Write N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department, Sydney, for leaflet Tattoo
Ear-marking in Calves” E.A.J.S. : (1) A. M.
Pooley was born at Cheltenham, England, on
December 12, 1881. From 1915 to 1919 he was
with Naval Intelligence Division, London. (2)
F E Baume was born at Auckland (N.Z.) on
May 29, 1900... .Inquirer: Write secretary,
Victorian Cricket Association, V.C.A. Cham-
bers, 1 Collins-place, Melbourne.


. JOPvou»Ehipture
Worries!
Mark ® Location.
of YQUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Gall
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIi APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. Zt), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
HOW
TO I<o OK AT !
HOW
TO OWN
I
A
Hi
v/sirei
WITH A NEW
VELVET - SMOOTH RIDE
Extruded Bronze Grilles
« n\r
m, . i
*
m
&
frill
H
i
m
ill
n
i
ms
PPH
i !
• !
l
Craftsmanship
in fine
ARCHITECTURAL METAL-WORK
•SINCE THE TIME—OVER 50 YEARS AGO—
when the first Wunderlich Metal Ceiling was installed in the Sydney
Town Hall, the firm has been prominent in the production of all types
of fine architectural metal-work.
During the war-time years Wunderlich Limited
were fully occupied with the fabrication of components in metal—for
defence purposes. To-day, the organisation is now, more than ever,
equipped to produce high-quality metal-work (cast, wrought, or stamped)
to meet architectural requirements in peace-time construction of buildings.
e> v
Yon are' cordially invited to visit our showrooms at the above addresses.
itec/,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALTITY FOR OYER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY. 'Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON. HOBART.
Whichever way you look you’ll see post-war beauty and distinction in this new V 8 from
newly styled front end to sleekly contoured luggage trunk with its room galore. A new idea
of elegance inside, too. New colour harmonies. New luxurious spaciousness. New smart-
ness in everything from instrument panel to concealed
stitching of carefully tailored upholstery. Yet style
and luxury are not all that matter in Ford VB. From
the velvet-smooth ride to the silent, economical power
of improved V 8 engine and smooth, straight-line
stopping of new hydraulic brakes this car has
everything you expected better days to bring.
FORD
vs
--gs.
FROM
PLACE YOUR ORDER WITH YOVR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LT6, UNO* fN VIC.), BES, OFFICE; 6EELOBG; VIC?
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken xc contributions
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
W.M.: It would be a relief to_ receive a
yarn in which the missing will didn’t turn up.
F.D.: Cinderella in a Footscray setting....
J.W.A.: The meek suburbanite who wins
enough at a two-up school to pay for his wife s
operation strikes us as being unreal... .T.P.:
“With a mighty heaye of his arm Jensen threw
the unlucky pearl, for the possession of which
five men had died, into the opalescent sea.’
That’s generally the ending of that sort of
yarn.. .V.E.: “Of late I have been burning
the midnight oil.” What’s wrong with the
electric light? L.T.G.: Story of strip-poker
game far too risque for this sedate journal.
H.J.F.: Aren’t you tempting fate when you
invite our “candid opinion”?... .C.F.S.: You
appear to be interested more in the number
of drinks consumed than in the tall tale of
the saloon-bar yarn-spinner... .C.J.V.: We
are open to correction, of course, but we have
an idea that atomic bombs cannot be made
by a couple of schoolboys with a two-quid
chemical set L.Y.: It is disconcerting to
learn that already Japanese spies are back
on the job in the “Red heart of Australia”....
M. : Just a fragile love yarn... .D.F.8.:
Nine-tenths description of scenery, one-tenth
narrative. No thanks... .S.G.S.: We started
to yawn halfway through the first page....
N. : You should be able to do better than
that T.P.1.: Byron, perhaps, had he been
in Sydney on New Year’s Day, would have
agreed with you:
The hailstones came down like wolves on the fold,
Their icicles gleaming all silver and cold.
A.S.: A novel idea, giving a complete
short story with every sentence. Save it till
we start a puzzle page P.T.: “The Car-
penter” nearly made it.... H.L.: We keep a
blood-hound at 252 George-street for tracking
down intricate plots, but “One Minute” bushed
him... .Little Caesar: Beware the “I’s” of
the first person V.N.W.: Light, but we
would like to hear from you again C.M.:
Wog-bitten o.rs. may appreciate it:
M.V.N.: Not a bad oration 8.J.L.:
Man to man, then, it hasn’t an earthly....
N.A.R.: Passable of their sentimental kind, but
don’t know where you could place them....
F.H.: “I can’t help thinking they are very
good.” That, alas, is a frequent misapprehen-
sion P.S.JL.: Your little man is unintention-
ally comic J.E.G.: Say it in eight lines for
“Smoke-oh” A.C.: “Moonlight” is a total
eclipse L.W.: Your humorous story is
infinitely more agonising than toothache....
P.N.8.: The birds fly too high D.H.E.:
“The Organ Grinder” is inflated G.M.H.:
How do you know the roses are “content their
purpose to fulfil”? Morning Glory: Come
in and shine:
C.J.S.: Ever tried prose? P.A.F.:
Pardonable if you are very young 1.G.:
Both close. They’re padded with hackneyed
imagery—the “wine,” for instance, in the mallee
poem... .F.B.P. (England): A long way to send
“Larch’s florets, crimson tips” which “Bejewel
pendant twiggery” J.8.C.: Come again
W.N.. These stories which start at the club
are usually as entertaining as the proverbial
club bore... .O.McK.: “Good Dog” has been
sent home.'.. .G.H.H.: Wrong market... .J.S.:
There is a certain falsity about your “tough
guys” P.W.C.: Nicely written, and there are
promising characters in it; but, when it is all
boiled down, it is only a record of the astonish-
ing fact that an earl’s sister was a goldfields
character W.R.: It isn’t the size of the
story, so much as the story D.S.G.: The
murder story is so old that you might try
,-naikng a musical comedy out of it F.L.U.:
“Only a Woman” is dull and depressing, and
only a story by the most generous of definitions.
T.Y.: It owes a lot to O. Henry D.D.:
P?mbling P.K.: Wordy V.A.8.: Dialect
at times unintelligible E.McG.: “Digger’s
Luck” is out... .S.E.H.: Sugary T.Q.:
Another swaggie yarn, with a direct family
resemblance to 2000 previous contributions....
E.O’L.: Tales of magic, evil spirits and wizards
exorcised in the w.p.b A.H.McL.: It is,
indeed, a “simple love story” For-
get about the “storied Balkans” and concentrate
a little literary attention on the stories in your
ho ne town... .N.V.: “The Hussy” sent pack-
ing R.L.: Too many characters 1.J.L.:
A little gleam....T.T.: There is something of
Hollywood in your primitive savages G. 8.:
The Social Purpose may be all right, but the
yarn is a soporific P.B.FL: Slight G.H.,
J.B.McD., H.C. and P.E.S.: All mildly current
stories concerning hailstorms, strikes, Parlia-
mentarians as G.Gs. and peers working as sea-
men, and all stories are p00r... .J.W.L.: Re-
dundant G.L.: No. Not even on lilac-
scented writing-paper T.L.: Musty
C. : Good effort and very near the mark.
....G.P.: No, thank you. We do not need a
guest columnist. Wait until he has his holidays
again A.W.: The trouble with the yarns
which the traveller told you is that apparently
he read them first in the Bulletin. .. .D.J.:
“Phillip tugged at the lobe of his ear
Phillip pulled at his lip he rubbed his nose
Phillip scatched his hair he nervously
twitched his moustache Phillip tugged at his
lip.” We rolled our eyeballs and put it back
in the envelope G.F.R.: One thousand
words is a bit hefty for an Abo. par K.L.:
We wept, too, but not for the same reason as
your auntie... T.J.: Try it on the dailies
D. : So “You laughed like mad when you
read it over.” Joy is coming back your way by
the first post.
TO ARTISTIC* (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.H.F.: Lessons —a few years of them —are
called for... .M. 5.8.: An amateurish effort....
E. : You are months too late with that
masterpiece P.J.A.: We seem to remember
running that drunk off the premises some time
last year R.8.J.: We quite believe that it is
original. No paper in the world would print
anything as bad as that atrocity H.C.8.:
One glance at your sketch and the Art Editor
had to pay a hurried visit to his optician
W.F.D.: Please don’t draw with an indelible
pencil on air-mail paper... .A.C.K.: Weren’t
you taught anything about perspective P.G.:
Keep on trying... .L.M.: Discard the crossed
and spluttering nib you are using R.D.H.:
No market for silhouettes at The Bulletin
J.G.: In the opinion of the Religious Editor
that curate should be unfrocked W.J.W.:
B. E. Minns beat you to the post with that
abo. gag by at least half a century... .C.S.P.:
What’s the old bloke doing on the chimney-
top? ... .K.S.G.: Not competing for illustrated
schoolboy howlers E.D.: Gloria’s reply to
Daisy’s impertinent question didn’t even raise
a chuckle T.M.: There comes a time in
every young artist’s life when he feels the urge
to draw labor and capital sitting on the opposite
ends of a see-saw M.0’8.: Nine—ten—out.
W.L.: Try holding the brush in your toes.
This is an aria,
Concerning malaria.
Poona, where the tiger pants,
Chased by blokes on elephants,
Home of lions shot in pyjamas,
Quite a place for good embalmers;
Home of ageing Brigadiers,
Tummies full of Poona beers,
Also yields a Mephistopheles
Known as the mos. Anopheles.
Brigadiers when older still,
Having been through Poona’s mill,
Dressed now in their bowler hats,
Cluster round like thirsty bats,
Filling numerous pubs anti clubs,
Shivering like young aspen shrubs,
Curse that Mephistopheles
Known as the mos. Anopheles.
THE WILD-WOOD.
Today I find a special treaty,
Life and living in the bush;
Interests rally fresh to keep me
Savored till the night’s inflush.
Haunts I spy of wild-wood “punters”
Birds and animals have skilled
Safety zones denied of hunters
Leave them little to be killed.
Winding wild-wood tracks detection
Traces where wild cattle stray
To the mountains free accession
Brings them back another day.
At my feet what type of beetle
Creeps beneath a carpet, ' bark,
Before the sun at last to settle
Turns each homeward path to dark ?
Then the moonbeams crest an halo
For the purpose moon tonight,
I of course crept homeward also
In the dimness of the light.


BIG HANDS
By J.H. MEIEIIE
THE dray Came rumbling over the
bakery bridge, and Matt Crae, from
his ladder against the courthouse,
scowled over his shoulder to be-
grudge a throaty “Hurrp”—greeting
enough for Big Fred Donovan, crouched
over the reins.
But a glimpse of Big Fred’s load set
the cocky little builder dancing in won-
derment for a nfew foothold. There in
the back of the dray the bee-widow from
Hansen’s Gully sat demurely on the edge
of a high-backed sofa, and old Herb Fea,
knee-deep in manuka brush, stood
braced against a dressing-table. The
brushwood all but covered the top of a
beehive.
“Hey, there, Fred”
Matt Crae never finished
his question. As he
fumbled with a length of
ridging-iron a flash of
light leapt at him from the
left of Herb Fea’s bowler-
hat. He flung up a hand
to shield his eyes and
lurched disastrously. His
ladder skidded along the
spouting. The builder and his ridging
fell together. Then, its mischief done,
the reflection from the dressing-table
mirror glided off along the wall of the
courthouse.
“You mad old coot!” Matt Crae lay
in the shrubbery shaking his hammer at
the old man in the back of the dray.
“You should be put away! By the
powers of God, you’re not fit to b£ out! ”
Old Herb flaunted his marksmanship
by training his mirror in quick succession
on a carcass in the butcher-shop window,
a sleeping fox-terrier dog, and the
butcher’s wife.
The bee-widow shaped her mouth re-
proachfully and giggled. “Oh, Mr. Fea.”
“Same thing as shootin’ at a moving
target,” the old man said. “Sort of comes
to me natural.”
Big Fred looked back askance from
under the peak of his greasy cap. The
squint of his loose-draped eyes, though
aggravated by the restraint of fat rolling
tight up the nape of his neck as he turned,
was habitual —a front of distrust that
feebly disclaimed meekness..
Back at the courthouse, the roaring
builder was drawing wildly on his
authority as a councillor.
“I can’t keep my wife away from
auction sales,” Big Fred said unhappily,
taking to his own burden of misfortune
the threats being flung after his dray.
His hands worked in vexation. Mon-
strous, meaty hands they were. Giant’s
hands. Picking-up hands, his father,
Mick Donovan, had boasted of them;
ploughing hands, too, when there was
ploughing to be done, and thinning hands
—praise that had spurred Big Fred to
keep proud faith. But harsh, grasping
men like old Mick Donovan don’t flatter
without good reason: “There’s no place
in my garden for a loafer that let’s my
boy Fred show him up,” was the driving
taunt he’d used. And Big Fred, hearing
it, had rejoiced each time in the might of
his hands. His way to the world was
through the yard gate, and there was
nothing for him beyond the boundary
hedges.
But they were hands that lacked direc-
tion after his father died. Big Fred’s
arrogance wasn’t enough. He drifted
through complacency to indolence ; and
for those who had envied or resented the
management of Donovan’s market-garden
there was only the most pitiable of vindi-
cation in the picture of Big Fred’s de-
ection as he’d rear up, forlorn as a statue,
n his impoverished, ill-drained strip of
and between the road and the plantation.
Jis big hands would come curling up
mder- his armpits when he was hailed by
>assfers-by, and he would punch down
iercely. His soft voice would break
under the scourge of misfortune—the
sciatica that held him back while potatoes
rotted in the ground, shingle spread by
the plantation creek, blight, clubroot' . . .
Only old Herb Fea, for his own peculiar
reasons, welcomed all the details. Then,
of course, there was his wife —frivolous,
irresponsible Annie.
“She buys anything,” he complained.
“The house is full of old furniture like
this stuff.”
Old Herb was peering back at the
courthouse. “Poor old Matt,” he said.
“Too old to take a joke.”
He pinched affectedly at the knees of
his trousers and sat down with the bee-
widow.
“Ah, but take yourself, now,” he said,
breathing earnestly into her wispy hair.
“Lighthearted as a young girl. Eh, Fred?
And not much more than a girl, either,
for that matter.”
All the smugness of drab middle-age
was in the woman’s giggle.
“Thirty,” he said. “Tell me you’re a
day over thirty and I’ll know how you
string your admirers on.”
Two women struggling along the foot-
path under a load of shopping-baskets
nudged each other as the dray passed.
'Hiey stood watching with their lips
pursed knowingly.
The bee-widow shrank back suddenly
with a show of disgust. “Really, Mr.
Fea,” she protested “You’re be-
having like a silly old man.”
“Old!” Herb echoed tartly. “Certain
people I know are older than I’ll ever
be, because they can’t take a joke.”
Big Fred squinted round again. “The
auctioneers all know Annie,” he said.
His hands were taut and working
slower now. His wife’s faults were being
willed into their grip and crushed out
In this way he disposed of all sorts of
vexations —a harmless relief so long as
the passion in his hands spent itself in
illusion. But there were times when it
surged free. As the outcome of an argu-
ment with his wife one night—something
about the shifting of a penny used to
keep the kitchen-clock on a working
balance—he’d brought both fists down
smack on the top of her head and felled
her in the hearth. “It was the liveliness
in my hands,” was the tearful apology
he’d made. She had told him huffily that
she understood ; but it was more than
Big Fred himself could ever understand.
BIG FRED got up to belt his horse
with the doubled end of the reins.
He froze there ih a squatting position, his
tongue out between his teeth, and then
gingerly dowered himself back to his
seat.
The old man chuckled. “Sciatica
ticklin’ you up again, Fred?”
“It’s worst when I get set,” he whim-
pered.
“Never you mind, Fred,” the old man
said. “Just you wait till we get those
bees on to you. We’ll have you friskin
about like a young colt.”
“They do say that bee-stings are good
for some things.”
The bee - widow’s
observation was
noncommittal. She
was having no truck
with Herb Fea’s
scheme. The hire
and transfer of the
hive was purely busi-
ness.
Donovan’s horse
plodded on through
a shallow cutting. A bank rising from the
roadside was vivid with the blue of match-
heads, and along its ledge, from which
daffodils bloomed back to the border of
a grassy playground, a schoolmaster
strolled admiringly with a woman assis-
tant in a tartan skirt.
Up at the school gate a boy broke from
his speculating mates and ran out be-
hind the dray.
“Are there bees in that hive?” he
called as he ran.
Old Herb got to his feet. “Yes, sonny,”
he said, “it’s chockfull of bees. They’re
shut in.” ' He raised his voice and
addressed himself to the teachers on the
bank. “Mr. Donovan’s goin’ to kick it
over for his sciatica,” he announced
pompously. “A cure I once seen done
by a Maori up in the King Country.
Stripped, pretty near. Never a twinge
of the screws he had after that.”
The teacher in the tartan skirt let out a
peal of laughter, and old Herb, having
dutifully contributed a titbit from his
own store of knowledge, tipped his
"bowler-hat respectfully as the dray
passed on. He sank back into the sofa.
The toothy, earnest youngster clinging
behind raised himself up out of the brush-
wood to goggle at Big Fred.
“How did he get away from the bees
at all if he was as bad as you said?”
Fred asked, squinting round again.
“Who?”
“That Maori.”
“He did his best, Fred,” the old man
said. “Nobody can do more than that.”
The bee-widow didn’t share his con-
fidence. “I’ve heard of a horse that was
stung to death. There was still bees in
its nose when they buried it.”
“Horses’ noses!”
“Yes, and a man that went up like a
balloon, too,” she added, nettled by the
old man’s scorn. “He came out in red
blotches.”
The boy in the brushwood was trying
to scramble up into the dray.
“Can I see you do it, Mr. Donovan?”
he asked.
Old Herb waved him back.
Big Fred, with his nostrils contracted
and his eyes screwed half-shut, was
grimly anticipating the ordeal ahead. But
his imagination recoiled from a picture
of the hive upturned below the workshop
window (endwise might save the combs,
the widow had said). Nothing emerged
objectively but a picket-fence. The rest
was sensation a vague, nightmarish
projection ; bees fastening to his paunch
in a fury of stinging, the torture of arms,
legs and back merging in absorbing
agony, and under his raking hands the
feel of the pickets. Then the last splin-
tered picket, where the cats sharpened
their claws. And the back-door slamming
behind the miracle of it all.
He thrilled strangely to its element of
heroic desperation. There was a sorry
sort of triumph in the thought of afflic-
tion wilfully outdone ; but self-determina-
tion was the real reward the idea held
out, and that, to Big Fred, was everything
—crops that would stand again as tribute
to the worth of his big hands.
“When are you going to do it, Mr.
Donovan?” the boy in the brushwood
asked.
Big Fred was pleased by the boy’s in-
terest. “I’ve got a job or two to do first,”
he answered.
Along the way, he’d appreciated the
response of people at whom the boy and
f old Herb had shouted the story of the
hive. Most of them, he could admit to
himself now, were people who had ignor-
antly called him lazy. He took comfort
from the thought of his vindication as
he drove his dray home.
The youngster in thfe brushwood
dropped off, disappointed.
Shortly after, when the dray had been
unloaded in Donovan’.s yard, the bee-
widow left, too, but not before she had
nonchalantly stripped the gauze from
the hive entrance.
“Let’s know when you’re ready for it,
Fred,” Herb Fea called briskly, making
for the short-cut through the plantation.
“I’ll have to talk it over with Annie
first.”
BUT Big Fred, at the tea-table that
evening, felt his assurance faltering.
He’d said nothing about the hive. He
prodded thoughtfully at cold meat and
pickles.
“Eat it up, Fred,” fiis wife said. “Let’s
get done.”
She was vigorously working the treadle
of a sewing-machine. The languid modu-
lation of her voice, set against bold steady
eyes and an air of intentness, gave a hint
of hidden depth. Her chin was neatly
cleft and angular. The purpose in Annie
Donovan’s manner, though, had its force
sapped by the hazy, happy enthusiasms
that stirred deeper down. She glanced
up from the rag being fed into her whirr-
ing machine. •
“Mind what I told you, now, Eddie,”
she warned the chubby, dimpled youth
who was hacking at the upper of an old
boot. “You’fe not to have that dirty
thing on the table while your fathers
eating.”
Eddie flung down'the boot in a fit of
pique.
“You wanted the tap fixed, didn’t
you?” he demanded, snipping off each
word as he jerked it out of the corner of
his mouth. “But all you do is sit there
picking on me and grizzling about the
water being off.”
She turned to her husband and smiled.
“Mr. Fea saw the wash-house flooding,’
she said, “and he told me about the time
he cut a washer out of a man’s boot while
the man was asleep.”
“Pity he hadn’t fixed this tap,” Eddie
said.
“The man was wearing the boot at the
time,” she explained, somewhat uncertain
now of her point.
Eddie sneered. “He’d tell you anything.
What’s this stunt of his about a beehive?’
“It’s an idea of your father’s to get
out of taking his medicine,” she said,
smiling again in Big Fred’s direction.
“That stuff does me no good, anyway,”
grumbled Big Fred.
She gathered up the rag she was stitch-
ing and carried it to another machine
across the kitchen.
“Something’ll have to do you good
soon,” she said. “I’ve got no wood, and
every . . .” Her voice trailed off as she
listened intently to the clatter of her
second machine. “ . . . and every time I
go hunting for wood along the hedges
Mr. Galpin has something nasty to say
about you.”
Big Fred nodded miserably. “There’s
plenty of wood waiting to be split down
at the creek.”
Eddie jerked
back his hea d.
“What if there is?”
he demanded, glar-
ing along the table.
“What if there’s all
the wood in crea-
tion along the
creek; you don’t
need to look at me
like that! I’ve got
a right to holidays
some time!” He stabbed his pocket-
knife into the table and left it
quivering. “I’ve got the chimneys to do
before I go. I fell in last time. And if
anybody starts to rub it in, I’ll take that
job down at the produce place.”
His mother leaned back, horrified.
“Eddie! ”
Big Fred’s hands were working. His
knife and fork looked like toys.
“Well,” the boy demanded, “what is
there to come back to?”
“I’ll go down and split some wood to-
morrow,” Big Fred said softly.
He took the morning’s paper from its
rack and hobbled out to the workshop.
A SHELF heaped with junk and rusted
tools, out there in the workshop,
seemed likely at any time to crash down
on Big Fred’s chair.
The chair itself was a sturdy, battered
piece with only wisps of stuffing left. A
coil of rope hung over one ear, and on
its off-side it supported a cartwheel. No-
body would have dared, in the \iays when
Big Fred’s father and grandfather had
favored it, to approach it with anything
more disrespectful than a duster; now it
had been pitched out to make way for
auction bargains. Big Fred had followed
it out to the workshop.
Under the light globe high up in the
rafters he made a labored study of his
paper. His mind was uneasy, beset by
distractions. A storm had blown up. He
heard the patter of rain leaking into the
lime-shed, and loose iron clattered out-
side in the wind. He read and reread,
finding no sense to it.
“Neglect and makeshift to come back
to,” said the clattering iron and the rain.
Big Fred had to acknowledge it. His
reasoning was groping for the first time
beyond the arrogance from which self-
pity comes. Illusion was dying hard;
he’d blindly claimed privilege for too
long as‘the right of his big hands. He
sensed the changed awareness of responsi-
bility and partly rejected it. Its demands
were unfair. He was a sick man. But
there was the beehive outside to nag him
with the hopes it had inspired. He called
on a caricature of himself, blown up like
a balloon, dead with bees in his nose—
a horror legitimately invoked on the bee-
widow’s evidence. What would there be
for Eddie to come back to then? What
was there now?
got up from his chair harassed by
doubts and squinted round the sheet of
plywood that covered the workshop win-
dow.
An escaping shaft of light shone dis-
mally across pools of water to a rutted
gateway and the byre. Through it
whipped the branches of a cherry-tree,
gleaming wet. He saw the hive below,
standing strangely white in the grass
fringing the yard-r-a menacing outgrowth,
recalling a host of bladk feelers that had
waved at him through the gauze blocking
its entrance. Raggfdy Hill, which with
its eroded skyline rose on clear nights like
a banner over the shining spear-tips of
the pines, was shut out of sight. It was


on a night like this, he knew, that the old
surveyor’s yarn would come true and
Raggedy Hill would start to move.
The prospect was not one to sustain
heroic fantasy. He curled his hands up
under his armpits and punched down
fiercely. That hive had ho place in his
yard. He’d had no real intention of
going through with Herb Fea’s scheme.
Bringing home the hive from Hansen’s
Gully had been a gesture—a mad, spec-
tacular gesture without heed of conse-
quences. He’d paraded the frustration
that worked his big hands and was com-
mitted now to the ridicule evasion would
bring.
He eased himself back into his chair
and blanketed himself to the chin with
sacking. He lay thinking bitterly of the
trip home in the dray, pondering on the
significance of Herb Fea’s eager patron-
age, of the curiosity of the boy in the
brushwood and the way the woman on
the bank of daffodils had laughed.
The comfort held out by verses pasted
on the plywood behind him was disre-
garded. Magazine clippings they were,
gay little messages exhorting sweetness
and virtue —Annie Donovan’s thrust
against a husband’s perversity.
“I’m trying peas this year,” Big Fred
said later, when his son, dapper in leather
coat and gloves, burst into the work-
shop. He made it a plea, almost an
apology.
“Peas?” Eddie asked, half-amused,
and swung his motor-bike out from be-
hind the door.
“All in peas, Eddie.”
Still nodding, Big Fred listened to the
motor-bike roaring away. He lay back
and stared up blankly at a mess of cob-
webs.
THERE was an absurd cry of triumph
in the explanation he made to old
Herb Fea next evening:
“I’ve been splitting wood down at the
creek.”
One hand after the other, he was
dragging himself along the pickets to the
house, moving with tentative heehand-toe
stabs and then bold lunges made his
boots creak. Sometimes he stopped,
tongue between his teeth, and blinked m
a happy sort of stupefaction at his wife,
prancing round him with her arms out.
She made a cooing sound each time one
of his big hands reached out for a picket.
“He won’t let me help him,” she com-
plained. “He’s had no tea.” She waved
at him helplessly. “He could hardly get
up from his dinner.”
Old Herb sucked at his Ups disapprov-
ingly. “I thought that blastin’ was over
at Galpin’s,” he said, “You’re going
the wrong way about this, you know,
Fred.” His voice was stern, offsetting
a touch of rakish abandon in the hang of
his long patched coat and the tilt of his
bowler hat.
Big Fred stumbled on, grimly silent.
“He’s killing himself!” Mrs. Donovan
exclaimed, startling herself by this dis-
covery. She rounded on the old man.
Her eyes were wild. “It’s you that’s made
him like this.”
Old Herb skipped back, incredulous.
“Me, Annie? Me that’s doin’ everything
to get Fred right again?”
“You cause trouble everywhere. You
keep away back from him.”
Big Fred was sidling along the wall to
the back door. His wife shepherded him
inside.
The old man was left brooding on
the door step. He poked his head inside.
“Right,” he called peevishly. “Fred
can get somebody else to ask his ques-
tion tonight.”
Mrs. Donovan came out swinging her
arms.
“What question?”
“I’m on me way up to the election
meeting,” the old man explained, cold
and condescendingly polite, “and I was
to have asked a question for Fred.”
“You keep our name out of it.”
“Perhaps the likes of you would know,
Annie?” he scoffed. “Perhaps you’d
kindly tell your husband how many
stacks are burnt up per annum by the
sparks from railway engines?” She
started to speak but he silenced her
with an upraised finger. “Yes, I know
about Cowan’s. But how many others?
Goin’ on day after day up and down
the length and breadth of the country.
They don’t tell you about these things,”
he told her darkly. “But I’ll heckle ’em.
I was a fine heckler in my younger days.
Witty.”
“You cause trouble everywhere you
go,” she snapped at him. “Don’t you
dare come back here again.”
Old Herb turned away, stricken to the
heart. He hesitated at the gate, loth to
do such people the favor of turning their
snib.
'T’HE hostility of Big Fred’s wife
' soured the old man and troubled him
after that night. Where before he’d gone
about bolstering his manner of authority
by telling the story of the hive, he flared
into abuse and sought to rid himself of
blame. A sense of persecution became
a mania with him.
Riding one day with the milkman, he
peered out anxiously as the truck passed
Donovan’s garden.
“What’s that big fool doin’ hobbling
about out there in the rain?” he asked.
his drains.”
“What, with a horse?”
“He’s dragging a sack through that
open section, on a wire.”
The old man gave a cackle of con-
tempt. “That’s a lazy man’s trick if ever
I saw one.”
“You know what’s the trouble with
you, Herb?” The milkman snatched
irritably at his gear-lever. “You know
far too much.”
“Workin’ like a madman,” the old man
whined, “and Annie’s blaming it all on
me. He’ll kill himself the' way he’s go-
ing.”
“It might go hard with you, Herb, if
he did,” the milkman said quietly, with-
out a trace of a smile. “You’ve heard
of what the police call circumstantial
evidence. It’s hanged good men before
today.”
The old man stiffened. “I’ll get out
here at the store,” he said.
Then the droning of Donovan’s tractor
came to haunt him. He heard it in the
mornings when he woke. There was no
escape from it. Even at night, when
there was quietness, the prospect of hear-
ing it 'again tomorrow enraged him. He
roameid the - house, bristling with bad
temper. Finally, his daughter, the refined"
one who taught elocution, packed a
lunch for him and chased him out with
most unrefined directions. But the drone
of Donoyan’s tractor went with him.
Anxiety plagued him to the point where
it had to b # e resolved.
He set off along the road one night
and turned down the wick of his lantern
at Donovan’s gate.
“Fred,” he called softly, setting down
his lantern at the workshop door aftef
he’d made a shrewd detour round the
sheds.
Big Fred lay in his chair. His boots
were white with lime and his cap was
dusted a dirty grey. He looked up over
his paper with bloodshot eyes.
“I came over to see how you’re do-
ing,” the old man said.
“I’ve been sowing a bit of lime,” Big
Fred told him happily. “I’m working
that sciatica off good.”
By way of demonstration, he lumbered
across without much effort and shut the
door.
“When are you goin’ to be properly
right, though?” Old Herb was trying to
make his resentment sound like concern.
“The bees would have had you fixed by
now.”
Big Fred nodded. “I’m going for peas
this year. Lou Galpin said I could have
that big ridger of his when I was ready
for it,,” he said. “I had his boy over
carting for me today.”
“Lou Galpin, with his big ideas.” The
old man gave the tight dry little chuckle
that meant he was turning nasty. “Funny
thing Galpin offering you his ridger. He
was always the first to- say there was
nothing wrong with you but laziness.”
“I didn’t know I could work it off
like this..”
The old man winked and sank his
thumb in Big Fred’s paunch. “Maybe
Galpin was right, eh, Fred?”
“How?'”
“Safer doin’ a bit of work than kick-
ing over a beehive, eh?”
Big Fred moved with surprising speed.
He ripped the plywood from the window
and had Herb Fea hoisted up on the sill
before the old man what was
happening to him.
“Fred! Fred!”
Wrenching h e 1 p-
lessly, he yelped in
alarm as he stared
down into the big
man’s bloodshot
eyes. Big Fred threw
him out. He lay very
still beside the hive,
hardly more substan-
tial than a bundle of
rags. His face was
buried in the grass.
Then he bounded up and was off at a
swaying gallop.
“I’m an old man! I’m an old man!
I’m an old man!”
Big Fred curled his hands up under
his armpits as the old man’s cries faded
away. But instead of punching down,
he squinted round sheepishly from under
the peak of his dusty cap. He’d antici-
pated the liveliness in his big hands. It
wasn’t there. Its absence bewildered
him and he realised dully that he’d thrown
Herb Fea through the window because
he’d wanted to. He sat down to think
it over, but the mystery of it eluded him.
He found himself wondering instead
about Galpin and his ridger and how the
season would be for peas. He’d have
Annie and young Eddie out there picking
with him. Herb Fea, when he’d come
round again, would be there, too, he
hoped ; there had been no finer pea-picker
in the King Country, the old man had
told him.
Disaster Bay
II.
....Now shade that light to a flicker,
Set it by a winter moon. We go back now,
Crave but a stealthy light, resurrectionists steal-
ing
Through will-of-the-wisp and frail blue glims of
fungus.
And dried shrubs rattling in the graveyard of
the years.
Pick out our year, docketed with a lost ship’s
name.
Muffle the mattocks and picks of examination,
Till the light gasps out and the shriek of the
mandrake warns up.
We take the track of that voyage. It’s a long
journey
At a ballad-gait, broken in places, but quiet,
With little of speech—the passengers sleep, you
remember —
Submerged, almost in darkness.
Aloof patrols,
Your thoughts, a convoy of gulls for tragedy,
Feather-noiseless. Your own analogies
To keep you warm lash concentration down
When gusts gibber in the rigging. At the end
Keep fast yaur grapple on life, do not circle
over
These ghosts in their second drowning.
A winter’s night. Good visibility,
Cold, clear. Wind freshening from the south-
east,
A dangerous breeze for this section of the coast,
Well-noted by the skipper. Slightyto moderate
seas.
Heading towards Gabo, where a winking light
Curvets to the ship’s motion. With each slight
Roll off-axis over racing foam
Comes the slap-slap-slap of a pitchless metro-
nome.
t
A few lolling clouds, casual frosty stars.
(M u,tHating some wisp of a song between hid
teeth
The officer on watch gazes absently out beneath
Lamplight that peppers his face with changing
scars.
By now, most passengers sleep on the Ly-ee-
Moon,
Husked safely from the cold in a deep cocoon;
But a piano still jigs in the saloon; there are
random noises,
The chink of glasses, the up and down of voices.
Gabo to port. A shapeless island swells,
Keeps company for a while. Two giant beacons
burn
—Sharp spokes pierce rippling auras —then drop
astern.
The graph is altered. There is. a rattle of bells,
And in a charge of bubbles we go about,
Veering in towards drama and Cape Howe;
Eyried in mist we feel the brush of doubt
As stars congeal, the air thickens. There are
warnings now.
Gabo astern. A stretch
Of darkness slit with grey
Where, past dim trouble of spray,
Flickers the quiet beach.
But something haunts this bend,
Flat, lifeless and lonely,
With a sound not of the wind
Nor of surf only.
Held In the frozen grip
Of past terror, lost
Ship calls to passing ship,
Ghost to coming ghost.
Rub at the wind-gridded glass for a moment
and stare
N.S.W.
Over this blind fool’s shoulder towards the
shore
Where squadrons of shadow load the heavy air:
The Monumental City broke up here,
Slewed on a re&f in a welter of flying froth;
Thirty men drifted in tangled in her litter of
gear —■
You feel those pinions banked about our path ?
This shell of rumors jolting, butting like a moth
Through a heaving web, a tunnel tense with
fear ?
Cape Howe hangs close.
A grim squared knuckle of rock
Gnarled by sparring storms buckles each shock
Of lurching leagues, moon-swollen to bursting-
point,
Vast rippling thews, a tensile elbow-joint
Feel for the windpipe of earth’s last growling
verge;
And here’s deep water, an ocean’s tough bar-
rage,
A vertical staggering lift, vertiginous fall,
Lungeing, bucketting, * unrhythmical ,,
While in the wallowing action of the swell
The bared screw grinds and thuds, like a moving
boulder.
There’s an icier glaze on the stars, the wind’s
colder;
Drawing a lustreless tether we strain north-east
Beyond the cloudy corner of the coast.
Far back along the shore
Lies the landfall of broken ships.
Away from the buffet and roar
They have drifted home,
Away from the waxen chips
Of scud and foam.
Here are the fastnesses
Of the sea’s abandoned things.
A noiseless almoner,
The numb tide brings
Dead seagulls, spoil of ships,
Torn seaweeeds to caress
Stone’s cold blue feet,
The silent mariner.
Feather-footed and dumb,
The wave leaves in retreat
Glimmers and shimmerings
Along the shingle-strips,
A glass proscenium.
And here old marionettes
Faded and awry
Limp furlongs hopelessly:
The jaded thin corvettes
And sunken schooners glide
Unmanned, ropes creak like chains
Salt-caked to rigidness;
Seams gape wide;
The moon’s loop, lost and dull,
Zones listing decks
Lichened with weather-stains.
Shallow coils and flecks
Of glowing phosphorus
Ember the hollow hull.
Sometimes a channel of sound,
A flutter of indrawn breath,
Where water trickling beneath
The steep chine of the cliffs •
Chatters, a meaningless
Echo of voices drowned.
Lean outposts of rock
Flank the dwindled spaces.
What shadowy audience ?
Sometimes a moonray traces
On the dark palettes of rifts
Fitful hieroglyphs
Or lines of crumbling faces;
Sometimes stones unlock
As a pebble shifts;
Immobile, intense,
The audience is Death.
{To be concluded.)
FRANCIS WEEB.
Archy Iggulden
By F. L. COMBS
ARCHY IGGULDEN and I were at
school in Paka Puki. Archy
hadn’t much brains, but in plod-
ding industry he was outstand-
ing. His people helped him with, his
spellings and his marks were gone
through at home with a tooth-comb.
Archy did have a certain kind of brain,
not uncommon among Scottish people,
He was literal-minded. His head, a
capacious one, was stored from basement
to attic with trivial irrelevant particulars,
Later on in life it was misery to hear
him describe how he had missed a putt
at the Willow Brim. You drew back the
putter with him; you calculated the
length of the putt in inches. You noted
the size of a fatal fleck of clay on the
putter. You followed the ball as it lipped
the hole and turned aside because of
what afterwards looked like a wee bit of
a wor-rm cast, but might have been just
an on-r-dinary lump of dir-rt.
One thing that turned him toward the
church was that he felt that he had the
right sort of rhythm for it. The ‘church
was .deliberate and so was he; it made
much of attendant circumstances and so
did he ; it was great on ascertained and
inferred facts, however little they coqtri-
buted to the main point; Archy liked
facts so=, much that he hardly cared if
there was no point at all. The prosiest
of sermons, beating out a shrivelled shred
of text till it was thinner than gold leaf,
was Archy’s idea of acumen and weighty
thought. The humdrum of worship
suited him equally well; his emotions
were less than placid; they didn’t even
simmer, his soul was at peace, the peace
of a duckless horse-pond.
His parents were well pleased to back
his efforts to win scholarships and enter
the ministry. As marks were mainly an
affair of memory, he* did the former ; as
he was respectable—genuinely, hopelessly
respectable—it was impossible to prevent
him from doing the latter. He obtained
his M.A. and B.D. The D.D. was a
little beyond him.
THIRTY years passed during which I
heard nothing of Archy.
I could imagine him treating a remark
of Moses or Habakkuk or the author of
Colossians with scientific respect. He
would • be the man to take you on a
Cook’s tour of hell, pausing tiresomely to
expatiate on the Lake of Brimstone with-
out ever imagining that hell was even
hot.
Then, on a visit to the centre where
Archy ministered, I happened to notice
in the Saturday paper: “Rev. A. K.
Iggulden, M.A., B.D. Sermon: The
Scapegoat.” And for old-time’s sake,
putting a thrifty florin in my vest pocket,
I determined to see how Archy was
getting along.
( Continued, on page 32.)


X
; k Sk.i.
shO{z
NW46/46
7
KEEP SHOES WHITE
’NUGGET’
CLEANER
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A GERMAN PEACE AND THE FOUR.
There have been promises that the
problem of a peace for Germany may be
brought nearer to a solution at the Mos-
cow conference of the Big Four set down
for March, but there is still little sign of
unity among the Powers on two" of the
most pressing aspects of the problem—
unification and reparations.
There is the unhappy possibility that
the question of reparations might wreck
discussions on a treaty, even before they
begin. The “World Report” says that
‘ “Russia has put a reparations price on
German unity that the U.S. finds impos-
sible to accept. The Russians have re-
fused to allow the former enemy a
centralised banking system, regarded as
essential by Britain and the U.S. There
is some evidence that the Soviet may try
to strip its zone of industrial strength
and manpower, then put what is left into
a weak but unified Germany. In addition,
there remains the vital and unsettled
question of Germany’s eastern border.
“Reparation demands are turning out
to be the obstacle most difficult to re-
move. Russia demands, reparations pay-
ments from the current production of
German industry. She suggests that the
level of German industry be boosted
above the limit set by the Allied agree-
ment if necessary,to give the Germans
the means of making payment. Soviet
policy would exclude from reparations
the products of Russian-owned plants in
Germany. The U.S. and 'Britain oppose
Russia’s demand because it would divert
German exports, which, otherwise, could
be used to reduce occupation costs. In
addition, the U.S. attitude is that the
Russian plan would require the rebuilding
of. German industry to the point where
that country once again could develop
the means of rearming for war. France
also will fight any proposal to centralise
German economy if it carries with it any
loophole through which the Germans
(could slip to rearmament in the future.”
The “World Report” examined the
“background to the German situation”
in order to show “the problems that
must be overcome before the Powers can
approach actual negotiations on a treaty.”
What Russia Wants
Russia it found “in serious need of
manufactured goods to bolster her war-
devastated economy. Some of these
articles are now being supplied from the
Soviet zone of Germany. But both
Britain and the U.S. stopped shipments
of plants from the western zones in an
effort to force the Russians to agree to
the treatment of Germany as an.economic
unit. To obtain resumption of these ship-
ments the Soviet has been reported as
willing to approach German unification.
However, under the Potsdam agreement,
reparations removals were to be only in
the form of industrial equipment. The
Russians have asked for reparations in the
form of manufactured goods from the
U.S. and British zones.
“Russia also wants to retain factories
in Eastern Germany operated by the
Soviet Commercial Corporation. Molotov
asks that these plants be excluded from
consideration in determining the German
level of industry. The Russians insist
these factories are actually repara-
tions, but have not been removed to the
Soviet because of the shortage of tech-
nicians. The Russians want to retain
facilities in their zone to balance the in-
dustrial strength of the Ruhr. Soviet
authorities have asked for a voice in the
control of Ruhr industry, but the request
was rejected by the Western Allies
pending an agreement on treating Ger-
many as a whole. The Russians will
hold out for a place on whatever inter-
national body is set up to control the
Ruhr and Rhineland. The Western
Powers may accede to this demand only
if industry in the Russian zone is per-
mitted to produce for exports to be used
in cutting the costs of occupation for all
countries.
“Politically, the Russians want a Ger-
many friendly to the Soviet. It is still
a matter of debate whether the Russians
believe that to be friendly a country must
be Communist-controlled. If the Soviet
agrees to a unified Germany, the barriers
between the zones will be broken down.
Travel across zonal frontiers both by
occupation personnel and by German
officials will be necessary for administra-
tive purposes. This would permit in-
formation from the Western zones to
filter eastward and may weaken Russia’s
influence over Eastern Germany. For
Russia, the decision on Germany will be
based on whether economic necessities
outweigh political considerations.”
France Is Wary
France has shown her determination to
“assert her own essential interests in the
settlement of Europe” by establishing
Customs barriers between the Saar and
the rest of the French zone of Germany.
France has made no secret of her desire
for the “economic attachment of the Saar
to France—a region considerably larger
than the Saar which voted for inclusion
in the Reich in 1935.” London “Times”
finds this latest action “significant of the
extent to which the whole life of France
is dominated by the need for securing
her eastern frontier.”
» In the “World Report” view “the
French position will be determined by
economic and. strategic factors. France,
like Britain and the U.S., is finding the
costs of occupation burdensome. French
occupation authorities have orders to
prepare their zone for unification with
those of Britain and the U.S. Prompting
French co-operation is the need for Ruhr
coal, which the British are increasingly
reluctant to export until some form of
unification is achieved.
“To protect themselves from future
attacks by Germany, the French want to
separate the Ruhr from the rest of Ger-
many. They oppose any plan calling for
a politically unified Germany capable of
employing nationally organised indus-
tries. Knowing that the other three
Powers oppose an independent Ruhr,
France may be willing to accept some
form of international regulation.”
Britain’s Watch on the Ruhr
Britain has been concentrating on re-
viving production in the Ruhr area. She
will oppose any proposals for its interna-
tionalisation, thinks the “World Report.”
“The British consider the Ruhr to be the
economic key to Western Europe, and
believe its separation from the rest of
Germany would destroy all possibilities
of creating a democratic and peaceful
nation. The British recommend the
socialisation of the industries of the Ruhr.
They believe that under a central German
administration, directed by the Allies,
sufficient control to guard against re-
militarisation could be exercised.
“Bevin plans special attempts to obtain
unification of all Germany for economic
purposes. Britain insists that an export-
import balance be created for the country
as a whole before reparations are col-
lected. The mounting costs of occupa-
tion to the British taxpayers strongly in-
fluence this policy.
The U.S. Counts the Cost
“The U.S. is similarly influenced by
financial considerations. It is anxious to
reduce occupation costs by unifying the
zones and removing the bulk of occupa-
tion forces. The U.S. will agree to such
control over German industry, particu-
larly the Ruhr and Rhineland, as is neces-
sary for security purposes. U.S. policy
is based on the Potsdam Agreement,
which limits the production level of Ger-
man industry. However, Byrnes does not
favor any controls that would subject the
Ruhr and Rhineland to the domination
of outside Powers.
“Reparations will provide the biggest
difference between the views of the U.S.
and Russia. There is no provision in the
Potsdam Agreement for reparations in
the form of current production, as de-
manded by Russia. Also, Byrnes is
strongly opposed to Russian suggestions
that factories in the eastern zone of Ger-
many, now being operated by the Soviet
Commercial Corporation, be eliminated
from calculations in determining the level
of German industry.”
Thus the “World Report” believes
“agreement can be reached only through
major concessions by all the Powers.
Thus far agreement on peace-treaty terms
for Germany is as remote as it was the
day the Nazis surrendered.”
Anne O’Hare McCormick, writing in
the N.Y. “Times,” finds “the German
problem a muddy and muddled com-
pound of all the problems of the peace.
For good of evil the future of Europe is
inextricably tied up with the fate of Ger-
many. The Soviet and the Western
world cannot get together unless they
meet over Germany. The Big Four know
this; they have skirted all around this
central question and argued hotly over
subsidiary settlements, actually aware
that none of these means anything or can
become operative until the main issue
is decided.
Germany and the World
“Potsdam laid down a set of rules to
regulate four-Power occupation, but
actually it drew a pattern of the German
peace as it would have been made then.
It is not the peace that will have to be
made now. Germany does not look the
same as when the Third Reich collapsed.
It looks more beaten, perhaps more
malleable, certainly a more considerable
factor in the recovery of Europe. Ex-
perience and the cost of occupation have
not so much softened the attitude of the
victors toward Germany as taught them
that they will have to pay if preconceived
plans are carried out.
“Each occupying Power seems to be
concentrating on a special objective of its
own rather than on the general aims
enunciated at Potsdam. The French
emphasis is on partition, the Russian on
reparations, the American on denazifica-
tion, the British on reviving and control-
ling production in the Ruhr. In each
zone this selective method produces a
Germany pointed in a different direction.
“The world is not the same as it was
when the fighting stopped. No people
has obtained what it expected out of the
war. No Government feels equal to the
revolutionary adjustments it has to
make.”
Nevertheless Miss McCormick thinks
“there is more than an off chance that
the four-Power agreement on Germany
may not be so difficult as every negotia-
tion up to date has led one to expect.
The French don’t yet admit that the
zonal system has failed and the Russians
are holding out for a quid pro quo be-
fore they admit it, but, unless the signs
deceive, all four nations are prepared to
recognise at some point in the negotia-
tions that an advantageous settlement
cannot be made except for an integrated
Germany with some sort of central Gov-
ernment. The importance of this develop-
ment is that it is the result of experience.
The zonal system was a drastic means of
disarming Germany and driving home the
finality and completeness of the political
as well as the military defeat. As a peace-
time method it is proving that it does not
work to anybody’s benefit. By paralysing
the economic life it minimises production
for reparations, as the Russians have dis-
covered, and also for exports to buy
food, as the Western Powers have learned
to their cost. Besides separating Germans,
moreover, it separates and divides the
Allied Governments.
“A year and a half of occupation has
taught that the German- question cannot
be isolated. Belgians, Dutch and Swiss
are already frightened at the effects on
their own economy of living next door to
a relief area which was formerly their
chief avenue of trade. The French assert
that they need the Saar and the Rhine-
land, not only for safety but as a kind
of dike against the morass into which
Germany is sinking. The Czechs begin
to worry over the consequences, first, of
the loss of skill and labor their country
suffers because of Sudetenland expul-
sions and, second, of the drying-up of
German markets and supply sources on
which they depended. Long before the
political tie-up 50 per cent, of Italy’s ex-
ternal commerce was with Germany. So
it goes, all around the circle. A 60 per
cent, cut in production of Ruhr coal is
the greatest economic disaster inflicted on
Europe as a result of the war. One of
the grimmest of post-war paradoxes is
that millions of wheels cannot turn
and millions of homes are heatless be-
cause there are not enough Germans left
to man the mines.”
Miss McCormick finds “Germany so
literally beaten to earth that she is incap-
able of starting another war in any fore-
seeable time. Yet Germany can easily
become a cause or occasion of conflict
in the role of ‘pawn or partner.’ In' her
importance and impoverishment we get a
view of the danger she represents either
as a poorhouse or a powerhouse.
“During the war it seemed that Europe
could be reconstructed without Ger-
many. There was talk of reducing her
to a ‘soup-kitchen economy’ and deport-
ing her labor to build up what her armies
had torn down. The general idea was
that Continental economic balance would
be steadier and the world would be safer
if German industrial plant were distri-
buted to give Germany less and neighbor-
ing countries more. The snag is that the
lowering of the level of life in Germany
also lowers the level of life of Europe.
Germany can be maintained as a pauper
or prisoner as long as the Big Four re-
main on guard, but she cannot be moved
from the centre of Europe. She cannot
be shifted from her strategic position be-
tween Russia and the Western Powers.
She is not Spain or Scandinavia or the
Balkans. She is the heart of a densely-
peopled continent at the centre of the
world, and by reason of this geographi-
cal accident Europe cannot revive unless
Germany revives. If peace cannot be
made in and for Germany it cannot be
made aqywhere.
“If the four Powers substitute a real
quadripartite rule for the present parti-
tion of Germany the most dangerous
dividing line in Europe will be erased and
the way opened for an agreement on
terms of a permanent settlement. It will
mean, furthermore, that Moscow has
changed its mind about incorporating
Eastern Germany into the Soviet sphere.
This is why moves toward unification are
so important.
“A humpty-dumpty composed of 60-
odd million living pieces 'inevitably
patches itself together again. This is
especially true when the pieces are packed
as closely as the Germans are in the over-
populated and truncated Reich of today.
A year ago it could be said that there
was no Germany. It is still a headless
mass of generally passive people, intent
on satisfying the animal needs of food
and shelter. Physical conditions are little
better than they were. It is more evident
than before that war and defeat destroyed
not only cities and industrial plants but
the means and energy for reconstruction.
There is neither material nor manpower


for rebuilding. Yet Germany lives, the
biggest, most compact, most homo-
geneous mass of people on the Con-
tinent. This is what made it powerful
and portentous. Weak as it is now, it
remains portentous. It is an integral
part of Europe, and if it is federalised
and decentralised it might be drawn into
a movement toward a federalised
Europe.”
Hopes For Moscow
Edwin L. James, another of the N.Y.
“Times” commentators, is hopeful of
some accord being reached at the Mos-
cow Conference. He thinks some unifica-
tion of Germany likely even before
March. “It would be only human
nature,” he says, “for Molotov to wish a
successful conference. He would, in logic,
scarcely have invited the other Powers to
his capital unless he thought something
substantial were to be accomplished; he
would not have invited them, one guesses,
if the Russians expected another session
of propagandising and quibbling. One
figures then that the invitation to Mos-
cow is a good omen.
“It has often been said, and even by
the Russians, that there is need of a Ger-
man Government with which to make a
treaty. That calls for a degree of unity
in Germany on political lines. The U.S.
and Britain have agreed on a sort of
union and common administration eco-
nomically of their two zones. If before
the Moscow conference the Russians
should agree to a change in their occu-
pation which would admit of a certain
economic unity with the American and
British zones, the French would be
obliged to go along, and there would be
effected a degree of economic unity in
Germany which has been conspicuous by
its absence since the end of the war.”
James is of the opinion that “there are
not lacking indications that Moscow is
giving consideration to doing something
of the sort.”
Terms for the Satellites.
Reviewing and rewriting the terms of
the drafts it had submitted for discus-
sion at Paris, * the Council of Foreign
Ministers, meeting in New York, arrived
at its final decision on the Peace Treaties
to be offered Germany’s war-time satel-
lites —Italy, Bulgaria, Rumania, Hungary
and Finland.
The Treaties, all being satisfied, will be
signed in Paris on February 10.
Territorial Changes
Italy loses badly.
Italy —Loses African colonies (Eritrea,
Somaliland and Libya), Trieste, the Dodecanese
Islands, special rights in China, and minor
areas to Yugoslavia and France; recognises
independence of Albania and Ethiopia. Trieste
is to be internationalised under the U.N. Italy
is to continue control of the African colonies
pending their final disposition by tljg Big
Powers within 12 months.
Bulgaria— Retains pre-war territory.
Rumania —Loses Bessarabia to Russia; re-
gains Transylvania from Hungary.
Hungary —Retains only pre-war territory,
thereby losing Transylvania.
Finland —Loses the port and province of
Petsamo to Russia.
Reparations
Russia gains largely.
From Italy $360,000,000, of which
$120,000,000 will go to Yugoslavia, $105,000,000
to Greece, $100,000,000 to Russia, $25,000,000
to Ethiopia, and $5,000,000 to Albania.
From Bulgaria A total of $70,000,000,
of which $45,000,000 will go to Greece and
$25,000,000 to Yugoslavia.
From Rumania —A total of $300,000,000, all
to Russia.
From, Hungary —A total of $300,000,000, of
which $200,000,000 will go to Russia; Czecho-
slovakia and Yugoslavia divide $100,000,000.
From Finland —A total of $300,000,000, all
to Russia.
Arms Limitation
Italy—Army: 185,000 men, police strength
of 65,000; maximum of 200 tanks, no long-
range weapons such as guided missiles or
rockets. Navy: 22,500 men, tonnage 67,500,
exclusive of battleships; two battleships, four
cruisers, four destroyers, 20 corvettes, and
minor vessels. Air Force: 25,000 men, 200
fighter and reconnaissance planes, and 150 non-
combatant types; no bombers.
Bulgaria — Army: 55,000 men, anti-airforce
1800. Navy: 3500 men, tonnage 7250. Air
Force: 5200 men, 90 planes (70 combat).
Rumania — Army: 120,000 men, anti-airforce
5000. Navy: 5000 men, tonnage 1500. Air
Force: 8000 rnen, 15 ) planes (100 combat).
Hungary — Army: 65,000 men. Navy: None.
Air Force: 5000 men, 70 combat planes.
Finland--- Army: 34,000 men. Navy: 4500,
tonnage 19,000. Air Force: 3000 men, 60
planes.
Common Provisions
Border Fortifications—Largely limited in all
treaties to preventing frontier disturbances and
maintaining internal security.
Occcupation Troop Withdrawals —British
and American forces must be withdrawn from
Italy and Russian forces from Bulgaria in 90
days after treaties become effective. Russia
may keep forces in Rumania and Hungary as
long as necessary to maintain communications
with Austria.
Danube —Balkan treaties provide for free
navigation.
Human Rights—All five treaties lay down
guarantees against racial and religious discrimi-
nation. Other clauses bai rebirth of Fascist
and Nazi organisations.
Compensation—ln general, the former enemy
countries must make good war losses of U.N.
citizens in their countries.
International Trade —Each of the five
countries must grant trade equality to all
nations.
“World Report” commented that “the
settlement shakes up military and political
strategy, scraps conventional economic
ties, removes some causes of old wars and
creates new disagreements.
“Italy becomes a third-class nation,
existing for the time being on Anglo-
American charity. The war aim—to de-
stroy the position occupied in Europe by
Mussolini’s Fascist State —is accom-
plished. But the democratic Italy that
emerged from the war has lost its place
of leadership. Nothing remains but a
confused, impoverished country groping
for a balance between the Communist-
Socialist and Catholic forces that vie for
control of its Government. Yugoslavia,
with firm backing from Russia, holds the
political initiative in that part of Europe
where Italy, with German support, was
once predominant. Bulgaria, Rumania,
N.Y. “Sun.”
THE FOUR-HEADED BEAR.
Albania, Greece, Hungary and Austria
all feel the force of Yugoslav pressure,
mirroring policies worked out in Moscow.
Marshal Tito’s country is emerging as the
leading small nation east of France.
“Finland, long a protdg£ of Britain
and a favorite with the U.S., now looks
to Moscow for guidance. This brings
Russian influence into Scandinavia,
makes it advisable for Sweden to sign
a trade agreement with Russia, makes
even Norway sensitive to Russian desires.
“Military and naval strategy are com-
pletely revised. Russia emerges as the
only first-class military Power in Europe.
Germany probably will be kept totally
disarmed, and if Austria is allowed an
army it will be of constabulary size. Ex-
cept in France, there will be no military
force of any size between Russia and the
English Channel. Yugoslavia may now
become the No. 2 military force of
Eastern Europe.
“The Mediterranean and its approaches
remain under British and American con-
trol. Italy ceases to be important in those
waters. France gets a long-awaited
chance to be a leading naval Power in
the Mediterranean. Greece, which takes
over the Dodecanese Islands, will resume
an important role. Trieste is kept out of
Yugoslav hands, and thus cannot serve
as a naval base for Russia’s followers.
Thus the Western Powers have won the
chief objective in their Tong struggle for
an acceptable treaty with Italy. Yugo-
slavia gets a border, considerably farther
to the west than before the war, but the
key port of Trieste is kept under interna-
tional control.
“On the south shore of the Mediter-
ranean the former Italian colony of Libya
is occupied by the British. The fate of
Libya and Italian colonies in East Africa
will be decided later, but for the time
being the British maintain complete
security in that part of the communica-
tions route to the Suez Canal.
“The Baltic Sea becomes, in a naval
sense,*a Russian lake. The treaty with
Finland and Russian occupation of the
Baltic States make that a certainty.
“Trade relationships of the pre-war
era give way to a new pattern. Repara-
tions ensure that the ex-satellites of the
Axis will do a large share of their busi-
ness with Russia and Russia’s sphere for
years to come. Finland, Hungary,
Rumania and, to some extent, Italy will
send raw materials and manufactured
products to Russia for years. This will
give Russia a head start in replacing Ger-
many as the biggest factor in the trade of
Eastern Europe. The Danube agreement,
whereby Russia conceded the principle of
freedom of trade and navigation along
that river, gives the Western nations a
legal basis for continuing efforts to get
their normal share of trade with countries
in the Danube Valley.
“The new Europe created by the
treaties is one where Russia still is
dominant, but where the U.S. and Britain
have held on to important stakes at
Trieste, on the Danube and in the Medi-
terranean area. The bargaining over
Germany and Austria will reveal whether
this balance can be maintained.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Unification of the British and U.S. zones
will not cure Germany's ailing economy over-
night. No administrative changes can get more
heat from a ton of coal, more nourishment
from a pound of bread. No stimulus to trade
can wipe out the wreckage born of colossal
defeat in war. Pre-war Germany was able to
deflect nearly one-fourth of her production to
war preparation and to live on the balance.
Post-war Germany has nearly as many mouths
to feed, but a fourth less territory. In
theory, loss of territory just balances the cofet
of building her war machine. That leaves war
damage—wrecked factories, ruined railroads,
starved farms and a collapsed economy—as a
direct charge upon the German’s dinner table.
And a half-starved German cannot dig as much
coal, weave as much cloth or plough as much
land as a well-fed one. Unification of the zones
is aimed at tapering off relief and building
up rehabilitation for three-fifths of Germany’s
population in three-fifths of her present area.
Free internal trade and increasing exports are to
yield surplus goods that will pay for needed
imports by 1950. Progress toward this goal is
expected to be a powerful stimulus to unifica-
tion of all German zones, opposed by Russia
and France. It would also strengthen the
British and U.S. position when the Big Four
tackle the German peace treaty in Moscow in
March. —“World Report:”
* * * *
The war has decimated the German male
population in the crucial age group under 21.
A census in Berlin revealed that among the
15,000 inhabitants of one" particular district
there were only 81 young men in the age
bracket 16-21. In another district the number
of girls between the ages of 18-21 was 717, as
against 71 young men in the same age grout).
—“Free World.”
* * * *
We seem to detect the rebirth of a between-
wars state of mind which cost the U.S. in
World War II perhaps a couple of hundred
billion dollars and 200,000 good lives. After
the previous war Americans let themselves be
kidded and cajoled by pacifists, radicals,
foreign agents and kindred axe-grinders into
thinking that anybody and everybody con-
nected with making or using implements of war
was necessarily an anti-social character who
was bent on selling more and bigger wars to
the human race. The “merchants of death”
notion ran rampant in the U.S. in the 1930’s,
and in the British Empire. That notion was meat
and drink to Hitler, Mussolini and the Japanese
ruling caste. These people inferred from it not
that Americans were a peace-loving people bent
on rubbing war out of the world, b'ut that they
were decadent slobs who were too weak and
cowardly to fight. They got the same impres-
sion of the British, Australians, South Africans,
etc. In this sense, we invited World War II.
Had we been realistic in those years between
the wars —had we recognised that the armorers
had their place in a world which had not
abolished war —we could most likely have saved
much of the effort and the cost when $var came.
Nowadays the rulers of another powerful nation
—Russia —are preaching a variation of the
Hitler-Tojo-Mussolini doctrine of the democra-
cies’ decadence. This variation has it that
capitalism is doomed. We can encourage this
crowd to try to take us, just as we encouraged
the Axis Powers, by falling once more for the
“merchants of death” nonsense, and by once
more reducing our armed strength below the
safety minimum. We can best hope to avert
a fighting showdown with Russia by keeping
our defences strong and our war-research activi-
ties up to date. As long as Russia is aware
that we can and will fight if attacked, Russia
will be unlikely to attack us.—“ Collier’s
* * * *
Every day the Russian programme becomes
clearer. It is fourfold. (1) To sabotage the
American system through actions of Com-
munists, planted in Government, in the labor
movement and on the air and on newspapers.
(2) To bluff Washington and other democratic
capitals into permitting a Russian grab of as
much European and Asiatic territory as possible
short of war. (3) To bluff the U.S. as the price
of appeasement into a loan, credit or outright
grant of several billion dollars to help finance
Russia’s rehabilitation and industrialisation.
(4) To bluff the U.S. out of the secret of atomic
power. All this with one purpose in mind —
to contest the American system, economically
and the American nation militarily at some
future date for domination of the world. Un-
fortunately the New Deal either deliberately or
through stupidity fell for this and helped
further the Russian programme. It put into key
spots in Washington known Communists and
fellow-travellers. Internationally, Washington
allowed Russia to grab most of Europe, and
part of Asia. To complete its power over
Europe, Russia needs control of the Dar-
danelles and Spain. The latter would give the
Reds domination of Gibraltar. Moscow is press-
ing for these two advantages, and the U.S. is
falling for it —at least as to Spain. To con-
test the U.S. militarily and to compete eco-
nomically, Russia must industrialise. She must
also maintain and equip a large army, build
up a strong navy and air force and develop
atomic energy. This will take more than
blood, sweat and tears. It will take billions
of dollafs. So, the next move, once Russia
has gotten what she wants in the way of terri-
tory, is to get her hands into the U.S.
Tieasury. It is simple arithmetic. Russia
cannot maintain a large army, keep it
equipped with the latest in arms and material,
industrialise on a scale comparable with the
U.S., and feed, clothe and house her citizens
unless the U.S. “loans” or gives her several
billions of dollars. — Leslie Gould, Financial
Editor N.Y . “ Journal-American.”
* * * *
The completion of U.N.R.R.A. programmes
in the Ukrainian and White Russian Republics
in the first quarter of 1947 will hamper severely
economic recovery in both areas and rfetard
considerably the rehabilitation of the Don
Basin, one of the Soviet’s most important
centres for heavy industry. There are the
plainest indications that U.N.R.R.A., although
it may be regarded as a “first-aid” programme
elsewhere, is one of the principal resources of
the two republics and that, when the distribution
of food supplies ends, want, hardship and mal-
nutrition will face millions of people.— Drew
Middleton, writing from Russia to the N.Y.
“Times:”
* * * *
.The Molotov-Ribbentrop secret protocol
attached to the Stalin-Hitler alliance is one of
the most secret documents of the war, and it
has been kept as secret by Britain and the U.S.
as by Russia and Germany. This document was
attached to the Stalin-Hitler alliance which
made it possible for Hitler to attack Poland.
It established the reasons for Stalin’s becom-
ing an accessory to the Nazi war crimes. Until
the protocol is issued officially, the following
version can be accepted as authentic. Denial
of its authenticity is worthless without publi-
cation of the well-established original.. Here
is the document: —
On the occasion of the signing of the
Non-Aggression Pact between the Reich
and the U.S.S.R., the plenipotentiaries
dealt with the delineation of their respec-
tive spheres of interest. This exchange of
opinion led to the following results:
1. In the event of a territorial and political
transformation of th<? areas belonging to
the Baltic States (Finland, Estonia, Latvia
and Lithuania), the northern frontier of
Lithuania will automatically be established
as the boundary of the spheres of interest
of Germany and the U.S.S.R., and at the
same time both parties will recognise Lithu-
ania’s claim to the Vilna territory.
2. In the event of a territorial and politi-
cal transformation of the areas belonging
to the Polish State, the respective spheres
of interest of Germany and the U.S.S.R.
will be divided approximately by the line of
the rivers Narev-Vistula-San. The question
of whether it will be in the interest of both
parties to maintain an independent Polish
State will be decided definitely according
to the development of political events.
Both Governments will solve this problem
by friendly agreement.
3. So far as South-Eastern Europe is
concerned, Russia for her part emphasises
her interest in Bessarabia. Germany for
her part announces a complete desinteresse-
'ment in this territory.
4. This Protocol will be considered by
both sides as strictly secret. Signed: For
the Government of the Reich, J. Ribben-
trop; as Plenipotentiary of the Govern-
ment of the U.S.S.R., V. M. Molotov.
Moscow, August 23, 1939.
By this agreement Russia came into pos-
session of about 35,000,000 people; Germany of
some 50,000,000. Russia, in signing this, violated
36 treaties; Germany 16 treaties. Russia got
Finland, Bessarabia, East Poland - Germany got
Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Greece and Rumania. It
was the division of Europe east of the Rhine.
Hitler broke the agreement when he violated
the Hitler-Stalin alliance and as a result of the
war Russia succeeded to Germany’s share of
the protocol. In fact, all the territory that
Germany had conquered prior to September 1,
1939, has now been taken over by Russia. It
is still a Russian-German affair —and we paid
for it. — George E. Sokolsky in N.Y . u Sun.”


tut
f
•V
4V
Z'
'/
✓
/■
/.
(.
hr
€
4
/>
f.
/
//
ft
t
0
&
&
V
/
As the only Company of its kind in Australia
with offices and factories in every state of
the Commonwealth, Claude Neon occupies a
position of unquestionable leadership in the field of luminous-tube
products for out-door advertising displays and interior Fluorescent
Lighting. The magnitude of Claude enterprises warrants a sub-
stantial year-after-year investment in research and planning...
your guarantee of the best that modern science and engineer-
ing can produce, wherf you buy Claude products. In addition,
Claude Neon is in continuous direct touch with overseas laboratory
fesearch so as to ensure that every technological advance is made
speedily available to Australian users of luminous-tube products.
Claude Neon Limited
f I R S T IN FLUORESCENT


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3492
Wednesday, January IS, 1947
FOR A GOOD JOB DONE—AND A BAD JOB CONTEMPLATED.
"Well so long, Governor-General, and all the best; and don’t you worry about the succession. It’s in the bag.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors: >
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE WORDS WERE EASY.
According to the pretensions of fhe
Australian-New Zealand Agreement the
two Governments concerned were going
to play Old Harry round about the
Pacific once the war with the Japs,
mainly an American effort, had been
disposed of. There have been elections
since and the two Governments are still
in power, but nothing is heard these days
of the once-loud designs to face up to
what were described as joint post-war
obligations. About the only positive
achievement has been to ensure that the
Americans would leave Manus in the
defenceless state in which they found it,
and in which it looks like remaining, as
far as it seems ever likely to be ade-
quately fitted out by the Canberra Agree-
ment parties.
The ambitious parties at Canberra,
hitting directly at America with their
gratuitous assertion that naval, military
and air installations did not “afford any
basis for territorial claims or rights of
sovereignty or control after the comple-
tion of hostilities” —no such claims had
been made —mapped out a wide sweep of
Pacific Ocean and islands as their own
special preserve. For this claimed area—
“based on Australia and New Zealand
and stretching through the arc of islands
north and north-east of Australia to
Western Samoa and the Cook Islands” —
the Canberra parties were to “assume full
responsibility for policing or sharing in
policing” as “from time to time agreed
upon.” To cope with the considerable
“obligations” thus airily undertaken there
were to be between the parties “continu-
ous consultation in defence matters
of mutual interest; organisation, equip-
ment, training and exercising of the armed
forces under a common doctrine”; co-
ordination of policy on munitions, air-
craft and similar production.
It sounded very grand at the time,
especially when bolstered by utterances
in the grand-opera manner. Dr. Evatt
declared that “Australia, if it is to take
its place and play its part as a leading
Pacific Power, must continue to maintain
after the war a strong army, navy and
air force.” Mr. Forde told an audience
of Duntroon graduates (much more im-
portant then than they, or any wearers
of the war uniform, are now):
We must maintain adequate defence
forces to honor all our commitments as a
Pacific Power of considerable importance.
The lessons of this war must never be
forgotten by future generations. We must
not allow any future wave of pacifism or
isolation to lull us into a sense of false
security by which we might be tempted to
scrap institutions which form the very basis
of our defence scheme.
In his use of “we” Mr. Forde was
making peculiar reference to his own
party, it having been the blind and only
wrecker of Australia’s defences between
the wars. It had only one brief terpi of
office, but that was enough. It suspended
universal training as its first administra-
tive act, and by other shifts reduced the
country’s defence establishment to ruin.
Even when the war had started its then
leader, Mr. Curtin, issued a statement
October 22, 1939) on behalf of the anti-
preparedness party:
The Labor party will strenuously chal-
lenge the reintroduction of compulsory
military training. The party is irrevocably
and unequivocally opposed to any depar-
ture from the voluntary system of training
the men of Australia.
Yet these were the people who had
the brassbound impudence to charge the
other side with defeatism and unpre-
paredness. And there were many who
believed the crude lie ;. many believe it
still.
The anti-defence party is now heading
in the same direction again, by a different
route; by default; by a negative instead
of a positive policy. Already the coun-
try’s defence establishment is in a state
which makes any hope of implementing
the ambitious designs of the Canberra
Agreement, the whole pretentious attitude
of trying to look like a “leading Pacific
Power,” quite ridiculous. Inseparable
from reliance on volunteering to keep up
uniformed strength, the numbers available
for any sort of “policing” are already
wholly inadequate, and still last awuiu-
ling.
There is simply no plan at all to meet
the loud pretensions of the Canberra
Agreement parties. As happened with
the League of Nations, the emphasis has
been put on hope in U.N.O. There is
no alternative policy to meet the event
of U.N.O. proving a washout. There are
more Ministers for defence than there
were during the war (even separate Minis-
ters for the Navy and for Munitions,
whereas Mr. Makin, who was never over-
worked, was Minister for the Navy, Muni-
tions and Aircraft Production); but
there is no sign of any overall plan even
for the bare protection of the country,
let alone anything for meeting large-scale
Pacific “obligations.” The- full measure
of the Gilbertian pretentiousness under
this latter heading was made clear in
the statement published last October that
“with the present slow army recruiting
rate, school cadet corps have been given
a new important place in Australia’s
scheme fof building up a defence force.”
Since then, their war-time enthusiasms
waning, even the children are reported
flocking from the colors in large numbers,
What actually is happening through the
Government’s default has been partly
stated by Mr. Menzies: “Substantially
the only Interim Defence Force that
exists at present in the Army is the Army
of Occupation now in Japan; the
R.A.A.F. appears to be in the process
of disintegration.” Declaring that “if
there is any more dawdling we will have
to build up an air force from scratch,”
Mr. Menzies asked for the formulating of
“some precise minimum plans for the
three services.” Of the three, the one
certain to come in for most neglect is,
of course, the Army. As Mr. Menzies
himself realised when he risked the
damage it undoubtedly did to his side in
his policy-speech declaration for universal
service, the temptation to discard army
training in peace-time is just about
irresistible. For one thing, it costs
money; for another, it is never popular.
Mr. Menzies is only one to have noted
what is happening to Australia’s defences
by Government default. It is known
to all ex-servicemen. At their last
Federal Congress the R.S.L. Diggers
strongly urged the establishment of the
country’s defences on a sound basis, with
compulsory service to supply the man-
power which will not otherwise be forth-
coming even in numbers sufficient fpr a
nucleus strength. The Diggers, however,
had made the same sort of recommenda-
tion at their preceding Congresses, with no
result. They no doubt realise by now
that the Army is by no means the first
love of the present Government.
General Blarney is another well aware
that what is happening is leading fast to-
wards a complete defence collapse. He
saw in the test of war the tragic results
of neglect of army training beforehand:
raw troops sent into the fighting; a dis-
grace to the very home-front politicians
who were loud in their claims to have
personally won the war. Like his fellow-
R.S.L. Diggers, and Mr. Menzies and all
others capable of placing the country’s in-
terests first, General Blarney knows that
only by compulsory service can Australia
hUve an army adequate for its peace-time
purposes, and there ready to take the first
shock in the event of another war:
All authorities are agreed that if the ser-
• vices are to be trained, then the only hope
of maintaining sufficient numbers to enable
the various organisations to do so is to
make effective the existing universal obliga-
tion of the law for all young men to train.
The solution to the problem which the
nation found in 1911 is still the only effec-
tive solution, since the elements of the
problem remain the same fundamentally.
General Blarney’s acute comments on
the integration of the whole country’s
economic and manpower strength, with
the use of a national register for the allo-
cation of manpower for training, would
be serious reading at Canberra if there
was any thought there above the filling
of jobs with party hacks. But in that
quarter first consideration will not be for
anything so statesmanlike as meeting
national requirements; it will be for the
effect of any particular line of policy on
continued holding of office. Defence in
peace-time, even in such an unsettled
peace-time as this, is a decisive test of
statesmanship, and if there is anything of
that quality at Canberra it is yet to be
revealed. A sound and adequate defence
policy, to match the pretensions rating
Australia an important Pacific Power and
to live up to the highfalutin ambitions
of the wordy Canberra Agreement, can be
docketed as about the very last revela-
tion of the sort likely to come forth.
Example to Chifley.
There is a lesson for all concerned in
the welfare of Australia, and for Mr.
Chifrey most of all, in the altered Ameri-
can situation and outlook, one feature of
which is the restoration of confidence in
the White House.
Not three months ago Mr. Truman’s
reputation in the country, personally re-
spected as he was and always will be as
an old soldier, stood lower than that of
any of his predecessors, except Andrew
Johnson. He had become the despair
of his friends and a figure of fun to his
enemies. Cartoonists and “columnists”
on both sides of the party fence were
making him the butt of their jibes and
sneers, His party organisation implored
him to take no part in the mid-term elec-
tions, and, always a good party man,
he was silent throughout the campaign.
It was conceded on both sides that the
Republicans might gain a majority in the
House of Representatives, but a Republi-
can majority in the Senate was scouted as
an impossibility by Democratic publicists.
In the result the Republicans gained
control of both branches of the legisla-
ture. For the President, it was argued,
this meant two years of hopeless con-
flict with a Republican Congress, marked
on his part by ineffectual recourse, to the
veto, helpless consideration of the drift
to chaos and eventual retirement to in-
significance, “the world forgetting, by the
world forgot.” From his own side came
the insulting suggestion that he should
forthwith resign, thereby branding himself
as an incompetent and a quitter to ail
posterity, first appointing a Republican
Secretary of State to succeed him as
President. Even Republicans were
shocked at this proposal. Mr. Truman *
ignored it
Mr. John L. Lewis, president of the
United Mine Workers, decided that this
was a favorable,moment to launch an-
other coal strike. He had forgotten that
Mr. Truman had strangled a railway
strike in the birth by threatening to place
the railways under Army control. He
could not have failed to remember that
the President had ended a May coal strike
by issuing an Executive Order under
which “J. A. Krug, Secretary of the In-
terior,” took possession of “most of the
bituminous coalmines of the nation”
and entered into an agreement for peace-
ful working of the mines on specified
“terms and conditions of employment,”
for on November 15 Mr. Lewis, in a
letter to Mr. Krug, chose to “terminate
said agreement.” In his overweening
vanity and arrogance, it did not occur
to him that, on a plain issue concerning
the powers of the Government and the
vital interests of the nation, Mr. Truman
might act like a real President; and Mr.
Truman did.
On the advice of Mr. Krug, Mr. Tru-
man straightway had Lewis and his union
prosecuted “in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Columbia”
for “both a civil and a criminal con-
tempt.” The defendants had in the mean-
time “completed the calling of the strike,
and completed the instigation, inducement
and encouragement of the mineworkers
at the biturhinous coalmines in the
Government’s possession to interfere, by
strike, sit-down, walk-out and cessation
of work,” in defiance of a Court restrain-
ing order. Judgment was delivered by
Federal Justice Goldsborough, who re-
ceived his appointment from Mr. Roose-
velt, and parts of it are here quoted:
The United States in seizing and operat-
ing the mines was at all times exercising its
sovereign functions The defendants and
each of them Lave obstructed and inter-
fered with the exercise of the United States
of its sovereign rights.
The defendants and each of them have
unlawfully coerced, instigated, induced and
encouraged the mineworkers to interfere by
strike, slow-down, walk-out, cessation of
work or otherwise with the operation of
coalmines... .have wilfully, wrongfully and
deliberately disobeyed and violated the
terms of the order of the Court and have
obstructed and interfered with the deter-
mination of this case by the Court.
The United Mineworkers of America
has, since the service upon it of the tem-
porary restraining order, committed, and
continues to commit, a civil contempt of
this Court....and is now guilty of a
criminal contempt of this Court John
L. Lewis has committed and continues to
commit a civil contempt of this court
and is now guilty of a criminal contempt
of this Court.
His Honor went on to say that “this
is one of the most serious situations that
have ever developed in any country”;
that he had to deal with “an evil and
monstrous thing, which means hunger and
cold and destitution” and “is a threat to
democracy itself”:
The Government is seeking to accept
world leadership, to promote international
good-fellowship and to exercise its
economic power for the benefit of all
peoples. Action of this kind exposes the
Government to the ridicule of the peoples
of the world. If persisted in the Govern-
ment would be lost. It \Vould be replaced
by a dictatorship, and the first thing the
new ruler would do would be to destroy
the unions.
Passing to the imposition of penalties,
the Federal Justice pointed out that the
imprisonment of Lewis had been waived
by' the Assistant Attorney-General,
and this view he accepted, though his
own opinion was that imprisonment was
richly deserved. He fined Lewis
slo,obo and the union $3,500,000
—only a fraction of its assets, for
these American organisations, like some
of the Australian, are Big Business.
Lewis had admitted that he had “a
home in Alexandria, Virginia,” and
another “in Springfield, Illinois,” and got
$25,000 a year, on which the Assistant
Attorney-General drily commented that
the Lewis contract admitted of his receiv-
ing “such additional sums as may be
authorised and approved by himself, to-
gether with all legitimate expenses when
employed by the organisation away from
his residence or residences.” The fellow
tried to browbeat the Judge, and was
sternly bidden to beware of “another
contempt proceeding.”
Before Lewis returned to Alexandria,
Va., or Springfield, 111., all his courage
had oozed out of him. The coal strike
collapsed and, the hierarchy of union
bosses being now in fear of the majesty
of the law, arrangements for other
strikes which were to have accompanied
or followed it were hurriedly cancelled.
And President Truman, despised and re-
jected as he had been, was at once re-
stored to his place in the hearts of his
countrymen, who accept and admire
resolute leadership, as all democracies do.
It is not in the American tradition .for
a President to attend the first meeting of
a new Congress, but the scene and pro-
ceedings were conveyed to Mr. Truman
by television and radio. The first measure
introduced provided for a sweeping re-
duction of income tax; 20 per cent, to
$300,000, and then 10 per cent. There
followed measures abolishing the closed
shop, which has delivered every Ameri-
can worker over to bosses like Lewis,
and requiring compulsory arbitration on
disputes in essential industries.
In his message to Congress on the
state of theTJnion the President did not
object to any of these proposals. He
agreed that strikes between rival unions
and secondary boycotts, “when used to
further these jurisdictional disputes or
other unjustifiable objectives,” should be
prohibited by law and that law should
be placed at the service of either party
to an industrial dispute, since “the para-
lysing effect of nation-wide strikes in
key industries could result in national
disaster.” But he insisted that “industrial
peace cannot be achieved merely by
laws directed against unions,” and that
“we must not, in order to punish a few
Labor leaders, pass vindictive laws which
restrict the proper rights of the rank and
file; free collective bargaining should
continue the national labor policy.”
This message on the state of the Union
had an excellent reception, as was the case
also with the appointment of General
Marshall as Secretary of State in succes-
sion to the able but ailing Mr. Byrnes.
Indeed, there is now a fair prospect that
Congress and the White House will unite
to give their country a common policy
on foreign affairs, taxation, defence and
industrial matters during the remainder
of the President’s term.
Australia itself, with greater necessities
and dangers —for. U.N.O. may interfere
in its domestic affairs, as U.N.O. has in-
terfered in the domestic affairs of South
Africa —could, if Mr. Chifley rose to
heights of statesmanship, have a com-
mon policy in all these fields. Mr.
Chifley has, or could have, for direct
exercise or delegation, powers equivalent
to those exercised so firmly by Mr. Tru-
man, with effects so salutary in the case
of the coal strike. He could arm his
Arbitration Court, so often defied with
impunity, with the power to fine or im-
prison promoters of lawless strikes and
to seize or freeze the funds of guilty
unions. He has been promised the co-
operation of the Council of Employers’
Federations in bringing about industrial
peace with honor and security, based on
legal control of .wages and working con-
ditions. He is assured of the assistance
of both wings of the Opposition in effec-
ting scientific and substantial cuts in
taxation, which has become a prime cause
of the discontents on which Communists
trade and thrive. Rehabilitation of ser-
vicemen, defence, immigration, settle-
ment, fair prices for landmen, care of the
sick and aged, decentralisation of in-
dustry and government,' White Australia
—there is scarcely a subject on which
agreement could not be arrived at, ex-
cept with the Communist conspiracy.
Save only for this element the nation
could be united under Mr. Chifley’s
leadership, and could go forward to
great things. But Mr. Chifley has thus
far been satisfied to be a mere union
partisan, silent in the sight of larrikin
outrages on the public, stubborn where
stubbornness is folly; and the sands are
running out


PLAIN ENGLISH
The King's Deputy.
As the “Commonwealth Parliamentary
Handbook” has it, the Duke of Glou-
cester became “Governor-General and
Commander-in-Chief of the Common-
wealth of Australia from lanuary 30,
1945.” With dignity and devotion and
general acceptance, the Duke has now
discharged all his functions save that of
reporting to the King.
Himself a soldier, wounded at Dunkirk,
H.R.H. undertook as his first duty in these
parts a visit to men of all the fighting
services holding the line against the
Japanese. Limited as his opportunities
were, he saw more of our fighting men
than did any or all of his Ministers. In
later months he saw more of Australia
and more of its people than most Aus-
tralians have done or are likely to do.
In all his peregrinations he placed his
safety last, reposing justified faith in the
skill and care of airmen, drivers, ship and
train crews. And the Duchess discharged
her social duties when her state of health,
on one occasion in particular, must have
pleaded for a respite.
Australians are not a demonstrative
people, but in the round of farewells it
must have been borne in on the minds
of the Duke and Duchess that their ser-
vices are valued and their persons and
those of their children regarded with
respect and affection. And that will go
for all the years which may be vouchsafed
to them —may they be long and happy!
Who the new Governor-General will
be has not yet been officially announced,
but the N.S.W. Police Commissioner men-
tioned the favorite in a vulgar paragraph
contributed to the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” and intended to be funny:
Talking about Squire WJ. tor the job
of G.-G., why not place two other W.Js.
in the hat also—W. J. (Scotty) Mac Kay
and W. J. (Knockdown) Smith?
This insolent copper did not nomi-
nate his friend Romano (or Azzalin) for
the high office ; but perhaps that was an
oversight. Coppers, however insolent,
never before publicly discussed the
appointment of the Governor-General, in
whom are vested the legislative power of
the Commonwealth (along with the
Senate and the House) and its executive
power. But these are days in which in-
solent coppers and bookmakers and
sporting publicans and other “sports” in
the professional category have been en-
couraged to think no end of themselves
and their influence on the course of
events.
“Squire W.J.” is, of course, Mr. Mc-
Kell, one of the five “Labor” Premiers.
In 1932 Mr. McKell was among the
N.S.W. Ministers dismissed by N-S.W.
Governor Game for “illegal action
against the Commonwealth.” Mr. Mc-
Kell Governor-General and Commander-
in-Chief of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia! God bless us every one!
Populations and Food.
With U.N.R.R.A. as good as finished,
the world’s starving millions face a pretty
hopeless future. In well-fed and rather
pampered Australia it is hard to visualise
the famine in Europe and Asia, but
famine there is and it is likely to increase
—especially in Asia. Feeding itself is
probably the world’s greatest problem just
now, atom bombs and Socialist and Com-
munist theories and advances notwith-
standing.
Just on 150 years ago a very unusual
curate named Malthus came out with the
notion that populations were somewhat
like the cost of the horseshoe nails in the
old yarn of the man who promised to pay
the blacksmith a farthing for the first one
and double-up—l, 2,4, 8, 16, 32,
64 and the rest—a proposition which
sent the horse-owner broke. Malthus held
that food production increased only
on a 1,2, 3,4, 5, etc., basis, and that
before long there wouldn’t be enough
food to go round ; in the end man would
starve himself off the earth.
Many people, poets especially, laughed
at Malthus, but, with the coming of the
machinery age ajid the consequent con-
centrations of population in city areas
and rapid population increases, the
laughter ceased. Europe, given over al-
most entirely to manufacturing, called on
the Americas, Australia, New Zealand
and outer countries for food and,
being willing and able to pay, got it.
European populations became static or
entered on a decline, a position also true
of countries populated by Europeans in
the outer seas. But Asia never stopped
breeding. In the last generation Asiatics
have bred rapidly enough to threaten, not
only the European political domination
. of the earth, but European food supplies.
There’s a lot of worry in it for Aus-
tralians—if they’re any longer capable
of worrying—who have 1,000,000,000
Asiatics on their north, and have
been hearing a lot of Asiatic rumbling
against their fundamental policy—or what
used to be their fundamental policy*
And Australia, like the United States,
Canada, New -Zealand, Argentina and
South Africa, has another worry in the
heavy and continuous loss of fertile soil.
These countries, feeding Europe for 50
years, have flogged their crop and graz-
ing lands to danger point, and are now
forced to consider ways of retaining and
refertilising their agricultural lands.
All this is very quiet and non-spec-
tacular. It doesn’t hit the headlines like
a Bradman double-century or a big bush-
fire or a rape-and-murder case or a
bomb outrage, but it contains more
potential suffering and trouble than any
other single aspect of the post-war world.
And Governments are within measurable
distance of being brought face to face
with it, evade it as they may.
Culture in the "Slums."
“Tovarish Needlenose’s” version:
After reading the published parts of “S. M.
Herald’s” prize novel about Surry Hills I am
diffident about admitting that for six years,
during the war and after, I lived within the
confines of that area, though it appears to
have been a different Surry Hills from that
which the “Herald” has discovered.
Surry Hills is an area centring on broad
streets, with old English names—Crown, Bel-
voir, Hastings. These are long and straight. From
them the Harbor and Botany Bay can be seen
THEY’RE RACING!
“Ineligible for re-election as president of the Miners’ Federation, having become un-
financial, the Communist Wells asked members to declare him eligible by special ballot.
The vote, though nominally in his favor, put the wind up Mr. Wells, and he forthwith
announced his retirement. He has been suspended from the central committee of the
Communist party.”
on either side from some unobstructed vantage
places. “Granny’s” Surry Hills has Irish names
on its highways, in keeping with the Milesians
alleged to live there. One of the wide avenues
ranging through it is Riley-street, which the
old lady’s novelist takes to be an Irish name.
Actually it belonged to a Protestant Cockney,
and Bourke-street, also in the artistic picture,
was named after a Governor of the rarest
Anglican vintage.
As a slum, the Surry Hills which I know
would not even get into a preliminary in a
competition in which London, Liverpool, Glas-
gow, Paris, New York, Washington (D.C.) and
Bombay were entered. And a city like Calcutta,
Istanbul or Marseilles would not even issue it
an entry form.
At its widest part it is three-quarters of a
mile across. There is no point in it from
which a large open park, such as the grand
stretch of open country from Moore Park to
Centennial Park, is further away than just
over half a mile. The centre is about half a
mile from Hyde Park, a little less from Prince
Alfred Park and about tbc same from Moore
Park.
The district has at its door an electric rail-
way service which provides children in school
holidays with cheap and easy access to holiday
resorts round the city.
The “Herald’s” novelist assures us that until
a benevolent keeper of brothels (30!) furnished
£l3O to hire buses to carry the unfortunate
youngsters of the area to Collaroy—does it
cost eleven bob a head to take children from
Surry Hills to Collaroy by bus? —most of them
had never been able to see the sea. Surry
Hills is actually nearer to the great beaches
of Sydney than I used to walk barefoot twice
a day to and from school in the mining town
in which I had the honor to be primarily
educated. And trams, on which any youngster
can travel for a penny to Coogee, Clovelly,
Bondi, Maroubra, Bronte and Botany Bay, run
within a few hundred yards of the heart of
the district.
The area of Surry Hills is not vast and
festering. It includes a few houses of resort
and some sly-grog dens, but so do King’s Cross
and Bellevue Hill, which also have their crimes,
including murders. It could be contained m
the compass of a square mile. And within that
area there are dozens of printeries and factories,
the largest maternity hospital in Sydney, two
other big hospitals, some smaller ones, several
clinics, well-equipped churches and church halls,
one of the largest breweries in Australia, a
children’s playground, a spacious wolf-cub
hall, a tuberculosis centre and various other
amenities of the kind. The great space where
the arcus used to put up its tents was at
one of its corners. At another are the great
Cleveland-street public school and the mag-
nificently-fitted dental clinic. Just outside an-
other corner are a well-equipped children’s
playground and the wide expanse of northern
Moore Park, adjacent to the Cricket Ground
and the Sports Ground and Sydney High
School.
The picture the “Herald’s” pained novelist
paints is of a starving hopeless population
steeped in vice and drunkenness: its adult males
sodden with plonk; its myriad rotting tenements
shared by the bugs (in heaps) with an odious
assortment of drink-crazed degenerates; its
“dark lanes the scenes of dozens of terrible
bloody brawls”; its presiding genius an amoral
lady who hasn’t washed for 30 years, and who
provides the hopeless female children of the
Hills with their sole industry.
That is a false picture from the ground up.
In most of the six years I was there I walked
over every inch of Surry Hills at some time,
often late at night. I was never kicked by a
drunken sailor. Nobody ever attempted to
knife me even on my regular evening walk
in the blackout. The bulk of the population
I encountered was respectable, and courteous
to strangers seeking street directions —more so
than is the rale in “fashionable” suburbs. And
so far from being poverty-stricken and starving,
it was “flush.” Soldiers’ pay rolled in in a
r J qh stream. Shopping centres stocked luxuries
which other parts of Sydney had not seen for
years. When the Royal Navy was here I earned
the gratitude of officers by introducing them to
Oxford-street and to shops further south, inside
“the Hills,” which filled their home parcels with
dainties which could not have been bought
anywhere else.
Congested it was—in part, because the in-
habitants. the great bulk of whom lived per-
manently in Surry Hills because they had early
work at the markets or in some early city
transport or city delivery job, were hiring out
rooms to impressionable people like “Granny’s”
prize novelist.
What is the matter with these daily news-
papers and with Australian literature? This
country is the most prosperous in the world,
the only continent without large-scale filth,
starvation, bloodshed and beggars. It has just
had a grandstand and unobstructed view of
the world’s greatest war and its people have
shared in events vvhich might have inspired a
Shakspeare, a Da Vinci, a Wells or a Cervantes.
And the best it can produce in “literature,”
so one of these journals assures us, is a dirty
novel about dirty creatures!
Where is the great Australian sense of
humor? Where are the grand conceptions of
a fighting, adventurous, generally happy people?
Where the optimism of the pioneers?
All buried, it seems, beneath a festering heap
of Leftist rubbish at the bottom of Granny
“Herald’s” ashcan, on the lid of which sits the
morning-after figure of Mr. Warwick Fairfax,
garbed as the ghost of Dickens and waving a
bottle of “muscat'’ (4s. 6d.).
Vicious Circle.
Golden advice from Marshal Stalin to
the British Labor delegation in Moscow,
printed in the Sydney “Standard,” official
organ of the N. S. Wales A.L.P.:
With commerce even partly in the hands
of the State ...the State could step in
and sell at lower prices, forcing down the
price level all of which is of benefit
to the workers.
Apart from the fact that when last heard
of butter was about £6 a pound in Mos-
cow, and a suit of clothes such as an
Australian worker would wear on Sun-
days cost £BO, there are some splendid
examples of how the theory works out in
practice in Australia, where commerce is
more than “partly in the hands of the
State.” The potato market provides one
illuminating glimpse.
The public pays—or should pay (at
five pounds for sixpence)—£ll 4s. per
ton retail for potatoes. The wholesale
price of potatoes in Sydney market last
week was, including cartage, £8 7s. 6d.
per ton.
“The State,” to enable potatoes to be
sold at these figures, has set aside
£2,500,000 on the Commonwealth Esti-
mates this year as a “price-stabilisation
subsidy”—last year it was £2,829,000.
This is equivalent to over £ll per ton.
Thus “the State” takes £ll per ton in
taxation from the consumer in order to
allow the grower to sell to the consumer
at £ll per ton —when there are any
potatoes to sell.
And it has achieved acceptance of this
position without having to shoot even „a
single resisting citizen!
Political Literature.
To the previously neglected field of Aus-
tralian political literature there have been
noteworthy contributions in the past two
years.
Deakin’s memoirs came first; a won-
derful study of the founding’fathers, a
book which makes one regret that the
great Alfred gave up so much to public
life and so little to letters. There fol-
lowed two collections of Dr. Evatt’s
speeches on world affairs (Angus and
Robertson), both provocatively interest-
ing; The Future of Australian Federal-
ism, by Gordon Greenwood (Melbourne
University Press), and Inside Parliament,
by Warren Denning (Australian Publish-
ing Co.), each a worth-while study,
though highly controversial in parts.
Inside Parliament was written and pub-
lished before broadcasting of debates came
in. In a foreword by F. C. Green, Clerk
of the House of Representatives, it is
hailed as “a description of what the
ordinary elector wants to know about
Parliament, its framework and its
machinery, its usages and customs, its
parties, its officers, its ceremonies and its
relation to the Executive.” It is all that
and more. No uninstructed person listen-
ing to the debates and feeling the need
for instruction can afford to be with-
out it.
Writing of the Governor-General, Mr.
Denning states that he, the Governor-
General, “is the personal representative of
the King,” and that “his position vis-a-vis
the Australian Parliament is substantially
that of the King towards the Parliament
of the United Kingdom, except that the
Governor-General is a representative of
the monarch, and is clothed only with
those powers of the monarch which are
delegated to him.” Correct in substance,
though the term “monarch” may be
objected to. Mr. Denning goes on to
discuss the relations of the Governor-
General with his Ministers and with Par-
liament. He mentions authorities* who
“claim the Governor-General to have in-
itiative of his own in such matters as the
dissolution of Parliament or the sum-
moning of a member to form an alter-
native Goverpment.”
The issue remains unsettled, and may
never tfe settled, at least until the day when
a Governor-General comes into direct con-
llict with an Australian Government or
the Ministers who are his advisers, ex-
pressing themselves through the person of
the Prime Minister. The best guess is that
if that happened the Governor-General
would find it convenient to return to Eng-
land.
“If that happened,” and if what is feared
comes to pass, the Governor-General
might find it convenient to return to
Redfern or Goulburn.
There is a chapter on the Speaker,
portion of which will have to be revised
in future editions:
The Speaker does not as a rule take
tpart in debates. He is in fact the most
infrequent speaker in the House. There is
no rule preventing him from making
speeches, and on very rare occasions the
Speaker has been known to enter into a
controversial debate from the floor of the
House while the House was in committee.
Generally speaking, though, there is a
prejudice against the Speaker acting in this
way—and most Speakers never do so
Nowadays he is the most silent person in
the House.
Three or four months after Mr.
Denning wrote his introduction —actually
on November 23—“ the most silent per-
son” in the House descended to the floor
and delivered a partisan speech on the
Budget. In this he made a bitter attack
on Mr. Lang, and that on the score of
1931-32 proceedings in which he himself
had concurred, being in those days as
obsequious as any other of Mr. Lang’s
followers ; and obsequious they all were,
from Mr. McKell down. One of the
choice passages in this partisan outbreak
was: “When he comes here, talking
about treading on corns ad lib. and treads
on my corns and tells me I am not as
good a Labor man as he is, by God he is
looking for trouble and is going to get
it.” Turning from Mr. Lang the gentle-
man referred to the Country party as
“dead wood.” And of a Liberal he said
“The hon. member is very funny when he
has his teeth out,” and “if I described him
as a wit I would be only half right.”
Of course Mr. Denning had no way of
divining that the Speaker would sink to
so ISW a level of fierce unreasoning
Laborism, and so soon. JHe wrote his
admirable book with knowledge, but
necessarily without foreknowledge.


. . :
6SS-7
Yon
can
rely
on
>a^
AJ
always
CRAVEN
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Gas off, gas on, gas off again, no gas —
such was the kitchen-and-bath situation
for the Melbourne housewife last week.
In bitterness of spirit she learned that the
“ ‘Labor’ Government” had “neglected”
to supply coal, though there was upwards
of 10,000 tons lying idle at the wharves.
Asked to do something about it, Premier
Cain replied with some fancy chin-music
and footwork. Meanwhile the United
Women’s Movement was discussing a
proposal that volunteer women should
load coal at the wharves and deliver it
to gas plants. ,
One thing is clear in Victoria’s rather
muddled State politics —the minority
“ ‘Labor’ Government” won’t last the
year out. Fed up with its crawling to
Brown, the Communist boss of the
A.R.U. (“Victorians will have to do some
more walking”) and to the gas strikers,
McLaren (Glen Iris), one of the two
Independents, joined McDonald (CP.)
and Hollway (Lib.) in asking Cain for an
immediate summoning of Parliament,
failing a “Government” ultimatum to the
strikers for resumption of duty. Mc-
Laren added that Ministers Clarey and
Kennelly (the first president of the ex-
ploded A.C.T.U. and the second Federal
secretary of the A.L.P. executive)
“should resign immediately each of their
conflicting jobs and stop pretending to
be negotiators for class peace.” Kennelly
replied with a clumsy gibe. McLaren
is not the sort of man to take that lying
down, nor is Victoria the sort of country
to accept poltroonery as a principle of
government.
Again last week the average Sydney
housewife was without common soap
(though there was plenty of the perfumed
variety, advertised so extensively and ex-
pensively in radio shows) and butchers’
meat. If the butchers looked for sym-
pathy in the unhappy lady’s direction it
was not forthcoming ; in l\er present state
of mind she wouldn’t care if the butcher
were slammed down on his own block
and cut up for catsmeat. And, except
for a trickle in the northern suburbs,
there was no gas at the week-end, the
gasmen having gone on strike again in
contempt of their engagements to the
“Labor” Government. McKell protested
that it wasn’t fair, but he ignored the
representation of one of the companies
that strikers should be ejected from gas-
works of which they had taken illegal
possession.
Sydney “D.T.’s” Sunday issue has
established what it calls “an Eavesdropping
Department,” first-fruits of which com-
prised an alleged report of an alleged
conversation on the “Seventh Floor” of
“the Commonwealth Bank Chambers,”
Sydney, populated by “Ministers and
such.” The conversation was apropos of
the next G.-G. and was a mixture of
medieval English and American:
Look—McKell’s never admitted it, there’s
been no authorised statemait, and if we
slip Horace* in, Goddam it, the press is
going to look like big Alecs!
* Horace is the word.
Surely this “Labor” mob is not going to
instal Horace Lindrum in Yarralumla.
Walter Lindrum has vastly superior
claims. Walter’s nephew is the only
Horace in the picture. Bruce’s first name
is Stanley, Oliphant’s is Marcus and
Copland’s is Douglas. v
Calvell and his Immigration Depart-
ment and C. Evatt and his tried to get
every ounce of advertisement out of the
arrival of 200 U.K. unionists, first of the
600 who are to build houses at Canberra
instead of in their own war-shattered
country, now in the grip of a fierce winter.
One of the shows was staged in front of
Parliament House, Canberra, and Calvell
spoke glozing words. He had left his
jews’-harp at home, and he was pointedly
reminded of the omission by the Can-
berra president of the R.S.L., who said
“We want our gates closed to aliens,
friendly or otherwise, until our own house
is in onder.” That very day the Hwalien
arrived in Queensland waters with 300
reffos from Shanghai, “some of more than
2000, most of them with Australian [i.e.,
Galvell] landing permits”; the Yunnan
brought 55 others from Hong Kong
and 11 others, with Swiss pass-
ports, had come by ’plane from
Batavia, All, of course, without the
knowledge, much less the consent, of Par-
liament.
Times have changed wonderfully for
Grant, the exuberant author of Through
Six Gaols. Lang, who had something to
do with getting him out of the sixth
gaol and shoving him on to a “Labor”
Senatorship, had the subjoined social
note in his “Century”:
Donald Grant is qualifying for the title
of the Best Dressed Man Around Town
since he appeared in his American suit.
His wife accompanied him on his trip over-
seas. Anyone who asks Donald what he
thipks qpout conditions overseas does so at
his own risk.
“Granny,” “S. M. Herald’s” new column-
ist, had another social note :
As a returning emissary of the Federal
Government Senator Donald Grant had
one of the only two suites on the Wan-
ganella.
In the course of a twelvemonth this
“Labor” Senator has had three trips—
two to Europe and the third to Canada.
What they cost the taxpayers may be
dragged out of the “Government” next
session. Last session the information was
refused.
The Victorian Auditor-General’s re-
port on the doings of the Housing Com-
mission shows that, with the aid of pre-
cutting and pre-fabrication plants, nor-
mal building contracts, cost -plus con-
tracts and day labor, the Commission has
erected a whole 1104 houses (235 of
them in country districts) in a year. He
comments that, as the tendency towards
still higher building costs grows, it is time
the legislature reviewed the present maxi-
mums of £l5OO for brick or stone and
£1250 for other types of houses, as pre-
scribed by the Housing and Slum Abo-
lition Act —especially as buildings are al-
ready costing more. It is one of
the measure’s requirements that advances
be repaid. “Repayment of the greater
part” of over £4£ million is “improb-
able,” the A.-G. concludes.
“S. M. Herald,” on the authority of its
Mr. Blunden, whom it took from the
“Daily Telegraph”:
South Africa wanted the former German
colony of South-west Africa, which con-
tains about 15 million useful negroes, in-
corporated in the Union.
For Blunden read Blunder. By the
Statesman's Year-Book “the native popu-
lation is estimated at 316,765 ; Ovambos,
Hereros, Klipkaffirs, Hottentots and
Bushmen.”
The British Labor Government settled
“squatting” in one act by prosecuting a
party of ringleaders mostly Com-
munists, of course. Forde, when election-
eering, let squatters take possession’ of
Army property in Brisbane, and, unre-
sisted by trie Government that hasn’t the
pluck of a louse, they are still in posses-
sion and are extending their illegal opera-
tions. The Government has even let
them commandeer an Army hut bought
and paid for by another party at a Dis-
posals sale. Brisbane “Courier Mail” has
been moved to remind it that, if it is “too
weak to protect public property for
which it is responsible, it may find itself
too weak to protect any property or
enforce any law ; it is inviting all lawless
elements to treat it with contempt” But
in the industrial world that position was
reached long ago.
One of the five London Communists
bound over in “squatting” cases, having
been convicted of trespass and conspiracy
to incite persons to trespass, was Edward
Bramley, secretary of the “London
organisation of the party.” Others were
Jews. Bramley, conducting his own de-
fence, said he was defending his party
rather than himself. Justice Stable re-
marked that there had been a combina-
tion to “set the law at nought and break
the rules.”
If once the idea becomes prevalent that
this is anything but a serious offence,
it will be a sorry day for everybody.
“Setting the law at nought and breaking
the rules” is Communist practice in Aus-
tralia. No “Labor” Government ever inter-
feres, so no outspoken Judge ever gets
a chance to interfere.
“'Sick of the manceuvrings of Com-
munists and other Red Fascists,” a con-
temporary reports, the Government has
“appointed a commission to pluck
traitors and disloyal persons out of its
service and to set up standards of quali-
fication and investigation to ensure that
such persons are not employed in the
future.” Not Chifley’s Government, of
course. No ; Truman’s Government, fol-
lowing Mackenzie King’s Government.
On the second day of the retail
butchers’ strike in Sydney and Newcastle,
now in the second week, that “fear-
less fighter” Hamilton Knight, Mc-
Kell’s Minister of Labor and In-
dustry, charged with all his might,
though in a way far removed from the
traditional ways of Hamiltons and
knights. He said that if the butchers
didn’t reopen their shops his Govern-
ment would “suggest that consideration
might be given by the Commonwealth to
action under National Security Regula-
tions.” How like a schoolgirl threaten-
ing fo “tell teacher”!
Wells, the Communist president of the
Miners’ Federation, who forfeited his
right to stand for re-election by neglect-
ing to pay his union dues (woe betide any
non-Communist unionist who neglects
to pay his union dues!), was granted the
favor of renomination in a special ballot,
the decision far which was made on Ms
casting vote ; but ballot voting was so
close (3277 for and 2861 against) and
there were so many thousands of “ab-
stainers” that Wells’s nerve failed him.
He announced that he was pulling out
and going “into business.” In union-boss
practice that means a pub, and in union
parlance the self-styled disciple of Stalin,
so bold when things were going his way
and he had only chicken-hearted “Labor”
politicians to contend with, “sqiiibbed
it.”
Wells was of military age when the
“imperialist war” broke out. His fare-
well to the revolted serfs, also addressed
to the nation:
During the past six years, while the need
to win the war drove us all to work to
the limits of our endurance, 1....t00k too
few holidays, and the very trying period
towards the end of last year seriously affec-
ted my health. I feel that if I exercised
my right to contest the ballot some mem-
bers would be so concerned to win such a
coveted position that they would take still
further steps to prevent my winning, and
that serious divisions would be developed
inside the Federation.
Survivors of the Middle East and tropi-
cal campaigns, comparatively few of
whom escaped battle wounds, ugly
diseases or maddening minor maladies,
while this Hero of the Soviet (un-
decorated and now “suspended” by the
Corns.) remained firmly attached* to
the Sydney-Newcastle front, will read his
wretched fustian with gales of laughter.
Folk obliged to travel on Queens-
land’s Government railways often wonder
wljy no apparent attempt is made to
bring them abreast of the standards in
other States. A statement by Railways
Commissioner Wills throws, in one way
and another, a faint but revealing light
on the problem. “Kerosene lamps,” said
Mr. Wills, “are more suitable for train
engines in the metropolitan area. Electric
light, with its glaring searchlight effect,
tends to blind passengers waiting on plat-
forms and level-crossings.” But Queens-
land Government trains being what they
are, wouldn’t candles be more suitable
than kerosene lamps?
Going to Moscow for a few bleak days,
Montgomery invited Vassilevsky to
visit Britain. That marshal had better be-
ware. The last Russian G-m-C. to visit
the Old Dart was Tukhachevsky. Immedi-
ately he returned he was flung into a
dungeon, secretly tried and shot in the
back of the neck. Sixty thousand officers
shared his fate, among them Bliicher,
whom the Leftist press continued to
worship for years after he had become
a cold corpse in the Lubianka.
“Feng-Shui”: A new draft of the
Chinese constitution includes ideas from
the American constitution, the British
constitution and European constitu-
tions, with the Three Principles of Sun
Yat Sen somewhere in the offing. I was
in China when the first Legislative Yuan
was inaugurated in Peking and I trust the
new legislature will be an improvement.
Noted courtesans were among the non-
elected candidates. Although he lacked
experience, the male Chinese politician
showed remarkable skill in faking pf
ballot papers, jerrymandering of elec-
torates, bribery and corruption. There
were almost as many parties as there
were members, but the party of Yuan
Shih-kai gained the suffrages of the
nation. , Yuan owned all the bayonets.
The Chicago “Tribune” through one
of its war correspondents, Harold Smith,
has at last had a good word to say for
an Australian. Back in McCormick’s
city from a tour of Dutch New Guinea
and Australian Mandated Territory, the
young man reported, “an ugly native riot
in Lae, where grievances against Aus-
tralian policies boiled over, and an up-
rising in Madang:
But that was put down bloodlessly by
the stern, cold district officer by sheer "will-
power. His district was the only one in
the Mandate that was back into copra
production on a pre-war scale; but it was
only because this district officer had re-
belliously disobeyed instructions from the
new Australian department of native affairs
in Canberra to cancel all war-time labor
contracts preparatory to negotiating new
ones through the civil authorities.
Smith asserts that wherever else he
travelled, even on Bougainville, New
Britain and Manus, “most of the natives
were on stay-away strikes and the whites
had difficulty in getting even household
servants.” He asserts also that “since the
war ended the Australian Government
has abandoned the field of education,
leaving it in undisputed possession of the
missionaries.”
The Victorian Government is now the
supreme controller of all building and
building material. It will set out the
supplies needed on any building project,
merchants will be obliged to show where
supplies have gone, and thus circumvent
the blackmarket, and operations can be
stopped and materials directed elsewhere
by Governmental order. Nothing is said
about what the Government will do if it
says that a building shall go on and Don
Thomson, the Communist, says it shall
not.
The N.S.W. executive of the A.L.P. re-
cently asked the McKellys to start an air-
line service “to operate in conjunction with
the State railways” and to urge greater
Government competition with private
enterprise in all forms of transport. It
will be a sorry day for N.S.W. if it
comes off. With no competition against
its rail, tram and ’bus transport in the
city and with little or no competition
against its railways in the country, the
Government is making an unholy hash
of the thing, and scads of public money
are being lost. If there is one thing more
than another holding back this country’s
progress it is Government transport
monopolies.
The British P.M. has introduced a bill
to provide for Government control of all
atomic energy in Britain. What Britain
really needs, like Australia, is a produc-
tion energy bill, but Britain, like Aus-
tralia, is unlikely to get it under socialist
rule.


DELAYED ACTION.
“I admit that I am getting rather tired of these industrial disturbances which have occurred so frequently lately. Long speeches are not likely to get us anywhere.
I prefer action.”—Mr. C Inf ley, at Hobart.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: “I regret to hear that several
residents of Surry Hills have suffered
embarrassment because they have identi-
fied their own dwellings with the one in
which I lived.” So ran the opening pas-
sage of a Letter to the Editor, written by
the winner of “S. M. Herald’s” prize-
novel competition, and the thing closed
on an agitated note. I expect a lot more
agitation before the last serialised chapter
is printed, especially on account of the
very raw luv affair —in effect, “Abie’s
Irish Rose” without benefit of clergy—
and the lady will have no monopoly of it.
What happened when Darlington revolted
against another lady writer’s strictures
on that little place—Darlington invited
that lady writer to prove her indictment
by word of mouth, but fortunately she
had an engagement “in the mountains” —
will be tame in comparison.
* * * *
“Ectoplasm”: {Some of the most
fanatical “antis” I have ever met have
been those who have made “psychical re-
search” their chief hobby. Psychical re-
searchers are divided into two groups;
eager believers and the others who, ac-
cording to one of the believers, “are de-
termined to insult every spirit that
manifests itself with its disgusting
scepticism.” Houdini was prepared to
rush to any spot at his own expense to
expose fake “spiritual manifestations,”
and Australia at one time had a man
named Hoskins who had a similar hobby.
At regular intervals Hoskins hired city
theatres to give shows in which he
guaranteed to produce by trick every
manifestation ever produced by the
spiritualists. He did the Sherlock Holmes-
ing in many of the exposures of
spiritualist frauds of his time. There are
some spiritual descendants among the re-
searchers of today, and they must be
thorns in the flesh to the folk who are
eager to welcome spectres without de-
manding guarantees from them. One of
these vigilants was telling a group of a
vivid dream in which he fancied that he
met a disembodied spirit and decided to
speak to it. “And I bet you said ‘Are you
really a spirit, you blanky liar?”’ said
one of the eager believers bitterly.
* * * *
“Also Ran”: Should the abolition of
the turned-up trouser cuff come to pass,
how will “M. Turlutu” (B. 1/1 / ’47) dis-
pose of olive stones when he finds him-
self at a crowded cocktail party with the
nearest jardiniere hull-down beneath an
horizon of human heads? I have found
that, if completely surrounded by women,
the cuffs of one’s own trousers may be
used as a receptacle. And the patter of
he stones on the bedroom floor late at
light when the garments are removed
:nds that touch of surprise and mystery
with which it is well to end the day.
#
“Ek Dum”: The claim that Sir Ben
Lockspeiser, who has been appointed
Chief Scientist to the British Ministry of
Supply, is the inventor of thfe method by
which the R.A.F. successfully dropped
its torpedoes on the great German Eder
and Mohne dams, seems to dispose of
one of the most treasured R.A.A.F.
legends. The story went at the time that
the method came into the mind of an
R.A.A.F. man who was to take part in
the bombing while he watched a lady in
the “nearly altogether” dancing in a
Loudon variety show. What the detail
was which burst upon the theatregoer’s
(or Mr. Lockspeiser’s) irradiated intellect
was not revealed at the time, but now
it is all clear as limelight. The problem
was how to release bombs at exactly 150
feet. Professor Lockspeiser is supposed
to have conceived the brilliant idea of
placing two lights with converging beams
on the wings of the aircraft in such a
way that the beams met exactly 150 feet
below the plane. It seems to me to de-
stroy all chance that the Australian
theory is correct. No London theatre
manager would be so improper as to
concentrate converging light beams on a
dancing lady.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: My first contribution to The
Bulletin (B. 1/1 / ’47), made at the age
of 14, was in rhyme—a highly-
dramatic story of two lost explorers who
staggered across the desert until one died
of thirst. The other drank his com-
panion’s blood before it congealed, but
was thereafter dogged by a bad conscience.
Whether it is biologically possible for a
person to assuage his thirst in this way
I don’t know to this day, but it was a
fine effort, and I was strongly advised to
post it off to George-street. Some of the
lines I remember:
Now the Eye of God’s upon me,
How His eyeballs glare!
With hot wrath He looketh on me;
Can I face that stare?
The comment in Answers to Correspon-
dents was more than kindly—“ Powerful,
but crude.”
"Hold these a jiff , Miss, while I go ’n' catch ole Walkabout .”
“Curtain Raiser”: Bland Holt, whose
wife died recently in Melbourne, had
more than his share of trouble with
stage horses (B. 1/1 / ’47), but there was
one occasion when an equine misadven-
ture added immensely to the pleasure of
the house. It was at the Royal in Mel-
bourne, and the crux of the melodrama
depended on a realistic representation of
a Melbourne Cup finish. First, second
and third galloped on a revolving plat-
form in full view of the audience for
several exciting seconds. One night the
leading horse fell down, but as it had
fallen on the platform it maintained its
lead, prostrate at the head of a galloping
field.
* * * *
“El V.”: Australian press reporting
when it affects the interests of “liberals”
(alias Communists) is getting more and
more into the habit of garbling its facts.
Take, for instance, an account of an
incident in which one Lucy, a journalist—
perhaps a relative of “Punch’s” beloved
“Toby, M.P.” —plugged Piratin, Com-
munist M.P. for the Mile End divi-
sion of Stepney, an electorate which
could provide the “S. M. Herald” with a
thousand “typically Australian” plots for
its prize novel competitions. The Sydney
“Sun” reports that Mr. Piratin said that
“he had received a letter which, perhaps
in fairness to the other side, he should
read ; and the text is then given of a
letter which, if it had been addressed to
Mr. Piratin, would have been a grovel-
ling apology and plea for “mercy.” “The
Times does not appear to have
heard of this letter. It did hear of a
letter in identical terms, addressed to the
Speaker, which contained not an apology
to Piratin, but one to the House for
stoushing Piratin within its precincts.
_ 5 G.R-”: Fritz changed his name to
bred when he came to live next door to
us and his wife did her best to be called
Yvonne. She spoke French well and
copied her husband in the stroking of
the nose as if to draw attention to a
slight hook indicating Hebrew ancestry.
Their factory was a joint affair which had
a patriotic atmosphere; they were manu-
facturing lace-holes for soldiers’ boots or
something. When the troops started to
come home after V.P.-Day, their fervor
was terrific. “They have been magni-
fique,” said Yvonne. “We must sack one
of the girls and give a place to a soldier
in our factory. They deserve all our
thanks.”
* * * *
“Tresco”: “Ek Dum” (B. 25/12/’46)
is a bit off the track when he says Prince
Albert and Prince George (later George
V) came to Australia in H.M.S. Britannia.
They joined Britannia as cadets in 1877,
but when they made their world tour in
1880 they were middies on Bacchante,
under Lord Charles Scott, where
did he get the idea that the Princes’ tutor,
John Neale Dalton, had “whiskers like
a shearer’s blanket”? I have a group
photograph of Lord Charles and his
officers, including the two Princes and
their tutor, who is as clean-shaven as
they are.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: An English announce-
ment that no attempt is to be made to
replace many blitzed church bells gives
me a pang of regret. The church bell in
former generations had its utilitarian uses
besides the ordinary summonses to
church; it proclaimed tidings of national
joy or sorrow, sounded the alarm and
the call to arms or called the parishioners .
to hear an edict. All its old purposes
are better served by the radio today. But
there is a beauty about bells which it is
not pleasant to think future generations
may not know. My own best memories
have the bells pretty often in the back-
ground—the tumultuous exultation of the
joybells of London when the Armistice
was signed; a similar cascading of joy
through the air of Sydney at the Relief
of Mafeking; Adelaide drowsing in
the sun with the church bells singing
in a peace-timing harmony; the silvery
bells of some church in Quebec that
seemed to have been made out of ice to
tone into the snowiness of the scene;
bells in France that spoke serenely of
peace when war was everywhere ; a sunny
day when lying on a daisied field in
Surrey I listened to Sells that chimed
powerfully near by but spread right away
in faint echoes far in the distance —there
are dozens of memories like these, always
with a soul-salving comfort in them.
* * * „ ■
“Frank Mauri”: Civil-aviation pilots
in pre-war New Guinea were noted for
their uncanny skill in finding their way
over that cloud-curtained country. One
of them landed at my camp in the Waria
River. “Closing in a bit over Bulldog
way,” he said. “I’ll wait a while.” I
led him to my house, around two bamboo
thickets, through a patch of sugar-cane
and across the creek, some 200 yards.
Two hours later he rose to his feet. “I’ll
give it a go now. Just where the hell
is my ’bus from here?”’ Another, whose
stunting off the beach at Salamaua had
earned a reprimand, could not cross the
“board-walk” over the race at Bulolo
without assistance. He complained that
heights over water made him giddy!
* * * *
“Sextant”: In the retreat towards
Alexandria some valuable stores had been
left at Bardia, and it was decided to
land commandos in an effort to destroy
them. We, of the Scrap Iron Flotilla,
were to escort the landing ships in. Word
was passed that strict silence was to be
maintained during the operation. As we
steamed slowly shorewards, an eerie feel-
ing crept over us. * Orders were given in
husky whispers and I remember wonder-
ing if the Jerries ashore were already
training their guns on us and laughing up
their sleeves. Suddenly an unearthly din
broke the silence. Hearts stopped, as
steam roared out of our funnel. The old
Waterhen had burst a boiler tube. In
the still of the night, the noise was
deafening, but even that did not wake up
the Hun. The job was a success; ex-
plosions and fires started a panic among
the enemy. A few commandos were
missing when we pulled out, but they
turned up in Tobruk in a Jerry boat next
day.
* * * *
“Uco”: American columnists have a
lot of sins to answer for, but they cer-
tainly have a flair for coining new words
or for giving old ones a new meaning
that sticks. In writing of the Corns, and
their hangers-on the desire to get way
from the hackneyed “Leftist” has pro-
duced several that have grown into the
language. I don’t know who first wrote
of parlor-pinks—there is an English
sound about it—but it was an American
who first used “fellow-travellers.” Walter
Winchell recently came out with a new
word for the American comrades. He
referred to them as Stalinsects —not a
bad title for the Red ants.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: The saddest New Year’s
Eve party in Australia occurred at
Geelong. The bottled beer was giving
out, and guests were eagerly anticipating
the moment when “a nine” would be
opened. When it was opened, there
forth vinegar. Somebody had
mixed the orders. ,
* * * *
“R.E.H.”; Psychology tests (B.
8/l/’47)? I was acting staff captain at a
N.S.W. country camp where each morn-
ing a draft of reos would be paraded
before the brigade office to
be posted to training bat-
talions. My job was to inter-
view each recruit, take his
papers and report to the
brig., who always referred
to the aptitude cards as “an-
other batch of pak-a-pu
tickets.” These cards were
always read as one reads
The Bulletin’s cartoons,
and then filed with the
recruit’s paper as instructed
in D.R.Os. Ido not recall
one instance where the results
of the tests were of any use
in deciding the man’s apti-
tude for any particular duty.
If a lad had been a boy
scout he would be recom-
mended for signals or intelli-
gence ; if he’d captained a
sporting team of any sort he
was a “potential n.c.0.” An
ex-G.P.S. boy was invariably
a “potential officer.” The
psychology “experts,” taken
on with three pips, were
youthful university gradu-
ates with no knowledge of
the requirements of the
various arms of the services.
At Sydney Show Ground a captain, a
veteran of World War I, was in charge of
artillery artificers’ courses. He went to the
psychologists and had himself tested, tell-
ing them of his present duties but hiding
his civilian occupation. He was given a
very good “preference” as an engineer.
Actually he knew nothing of engineering,
had no bent for the trade and loathed the
dirt and grease usually associated with
“ginger beers.” In Civvy-street he is a
solicitor.
* * * *
“Niloc”: I wanted a meat-pie, and in
an effort to buy it at the Sydney Test I
entered a glass enclosure in the stand,
mistaking its clatter for that of a
restaurant. It was the press-room. Within,
scores of correspondents sat typing
away, keen as so many girls at a steno-
graphers’ school. Now and then they
would pause to light a cigarette, hand
“copy” to a messenger-boy or change
a typewriter ribbon. I didn’t see one look
at the match. Thus such a simple thing
as a meat-pie gave the answer to another
weighty scientific problem. I found out
how a “Daily Express” man could cable
his paper concerning an l.b.w. “incident”:
There are world-famous witnesses who
say that they heard the ball meet Edrich’s
bat... .there is the bat itself, which bears
the mark yet Edrich was given out
1.b.w... . .Edrich was not out.
I suppose any one of these inhabitants of
the stratospheric press-box, even though
his head might be temporarily stuck in
his w.p.b., must be a more competent
judge than the umpire at the wicket.
* * * *
“Melton”: This summer the vocal
efforts of a tram conductor on the Rich-
mond (Vic.) line have caused many tram
passengers furtively to lick their lips.
He doesn’t call the names of the streets ;
he calls the pubs, with a jocular reference
to the licensee as each oasis is reached.
As Richmond boasts nearly as many pubs
as the Great Stony Desert has gibbers,
he’s got plenty of scope.
NATURAL-HISTORY NOTE.
“One of the questions most frequently received by
the Australian Department of Information in the
U.S.A. from those who contemplate migration to this
country is whether kangaroos are dangerous.”
We keep a staff to put them wise,
Our cousins in the U.S.A.
Who look towards these sunny skies
And think of coming here to stay;
We reassure them right away
On points that keep ihem diffident,
And cheerfully their fears allay
That ’roos may prove belligerent.
The gay and gallant service guys
Who came to help us win the day
Against the Japs as staunch allies
Had precious little chance to stray
From coastal regions to survey
The innards of our continent.
Clearly ! twas not for them to say
Were kangaroos .belligerent.
They learned a lot, one may surmise,
About our ways and customs, eh?
Scanner, with appreciative eyes
All that our cities could convey.
But the-e were things they couldn’t portHiy,
The fauna that our plains frequent,
To kill the calumny for aye
That ’roos can be belligerent.
Take heart, intending migrants! Weigh
The message well to you that’s sent
Officially and hence 0.K.:
The ’roos that round our pastures play
(Except when cornered and at bay)
Are not a bit belligerent.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Zake”: That haughty insolence which
characterised so many sales staffs during
the war years when customers were at a
discount has gradually changed until
now the customer is sometimes con-
ceded the right to be right. But occa-
sionally one strikes a diehard behind the
counter. Under his patronising gaze I
was trying to determine whether plain
black or khaki socks —the only ones avail-
able —would look less revolting on
my shanks when a big well-dressed man
came in and asked for ties. The
salesman trotted some out and began a
slick line of talk. The prospective buyer
looked the articles over and manifested
morose dissatisfaction. To his “Haven’t
you anything else?” the counter-hand
came back with “What’s wrong with
’em?” “I wouldn’t tie my dahlias up
with the things! ” asserted the other forth-
rightly. “Anyway, I’m not asking your
opinion. Show me some others.”
“Trouble is,. you’ve no taste,” said the
salesman. “Why, you won’t get better
value anywhere. They’re the latest,
“Bother the milk shortage—my complexions more important !”
they’re strongly made and” The big
man reached over, selected a tie, took
a turn around each end with his massive
fists, let it go slack and then tugged,
Tossing the two pieces in front of the
gaping salesman he said calmly “You
see? Not so strongly made. And when
I buy ties they’ve got to be strong—l hate
to have one snap bn me when I’m
strangling an impertinent salesman with
it.” And he strode but.
“Ek Dum”: The headgear one sees at
garden parties these days is enough to rill
the eyes of ghosts of happy pre-war
years rijj. mvse lf\ wd h tears of anguish,
y ' j ,r.V>r*ce Ulrm-
Even the Duke and DUCheSS OI UlOU-
cester lured to Sydney Government House
garden party but half a dozen silk hats
of var j ous vintages, in a week when the
lUpcceriPpr and
news came by King s Mes g
otherwise from London that the oiu
topper is on its deathbed. Only one firm,
the anc i ent “Christys,” still lingers and it
will not last much longer, since the French
concern which supplied the silk plush
bas gone out of business and the world’s
i • • ht rpnrP o PTl to but 250 more
supply m Sight re f ZDU more
hats. The boys of Eton ar£ now passin 0
on their headgear to their successors.
g ut j t seems to me that the lads who will
Buff f r most b V the d F OU S ht are f
bank messengers and others of their ilk,
a silk being, contrary to popular opinion
in this barbarous land, a thing primarily
for utm(y and ’ [he most sensible
headgear ever made. Light, cool in
summer, warm in winter and good for
2 Q years’ wear when kept away from, the
moth and the football field, it had the
additional advantage that that one could
s t ow within its fastnesses anything from
a drum G f oerlikon fodder to a Sunday
dinner. Well do I remember the youthful
awe with which I first watched a high-
hatted London bank porter slowly wiap
couple of pounds of snags in his copy of
the Star, stow them in his sable ceiling
and then steer a stately way towards
Lombard-street.
4 % #
. ,
“Bo”: The duel, a onee-great national
sport without which French history
wouW be J uU > { has been r = V j Ved - D A*
one recently fought outside Paris
by an actor and his mistress’s lover the
best traditions of French duelling were
“P held - Afler the “ sua ‘ formalities had
been observed by the seconds the
duellists, armed with pistols, retired the
allotted number of paces, turned and
fired—one straight into the ground,
the other up in the air. During this
grim, tense drama the steel nerves of the
contestants never faltered for an instant
and their marksmanship was superb,
Neither missed, a
* * * *
“Quilliam-street”: Years ago the
Postal Department treated me with the
same generosity as was accorded “Ad
Rem” (B. 8/1/’47). I received a letter
from a friend holidaying in Melbourne,
and enclosed with it were half-a-dozen
photos of flood scenes in Mildura. They
were of great interest to me, as I was
familiar with the place, and when I next
saw him I expressed my thanks. He
looked at me blankly and asked what I
was talking about. He hadn’t been near
Mildura, hadn’t taken any snaps and
hadn’t sent me any. Apparently his
letter had been left open, the photos had
slipped out of someone else’s letter, and
a postal clerk had put them into the
wrong envelope. That was many years
ago, but I still open my mail with a
sense of adventure. One of these days
a fiver is going to slip out of somebody’s
envelope and who’s to say it xlvon’t find
its way into one addressed to me?
......
“Hist”: Pdstal authorities are having
trouble with bad boys in Japan. Austra-
lian stamps were sent there for use by the
occupation troops, and the department
was soon staggered by the enormous sales
-quite out of proportion to the amount
of outward mail handled. Explanation:
bad boys were dodging exchange restric-
tions imposed to block the sending home
of the profits of blackmarket trans-
actions in goods from canteens and supply
dumps by buying up stamps which could
be redeemed in Australia at a five per
cent, repurchase discount. Thinking to
stop it the department overprinted the
stamps “B.C.O.F.—Japan—l946.” But
the P.M.G. overlooked the world’s host
"Do you think it would work on my missus P”
of stamp collectors, who are dead keen to
secure these novel occupation stamps, and
willing to pay a premium of 10 per cent,
for as many as bad boys can contrive
to export.
* * « *
“Puyyaka”: An interesting outcome of
Australian war-time research has been the
development of an export industry in
hyoscine, a drug of outstanding value in
eve-surgery, midwifery, sea- and air-
sickness and a variety of other useful
directions. Collaborative research by the
Medical Equipment Control Committee
and the C.5.1.R., begun in 1940, confirmed
the findings of Von Mueller and Bancroft,
made 60 years previously, regarding the
medicinal value of the Duboisea cork-
wood-tree ( Pituri ), from whose chewed
leaves Binghi long ago evolved a method
of getting very comfortably tight. A pro-
cessing plant was established at Mel-
bourne and war demands for itr product
increased rapidly. These have continued
into peace-time, and now extend to most
of the world’s countries. At £lO an
ounce it may sound an expensive drug,
but its remarkably high potency —some
90,000 doses to the ounce —really brings
it amongst the cheaper kinds.
* * * *
“Bagot”: “Pink TapVs” telephone girl
(B. 4/12/’46) who can identify familiar
numbers by the sound of the bell is a
quite credible instance of the ears becom-
ing accustomed, by long habit, to par-
ticular sounds. I know a dispatch-clerk
in a Perth warehouse who has six types
of vehicle under his control. The build-
ing is in a busy street always thick with
traffic, yet my friend will often exclaim,
“Here comes Jack!” (or George, or Bill,
or any one of the half-dozen drivers), and
after a lapse of a couple of minutes the
nominated delivery-man will pull into the
yard. Explanation is that the clerk’s ears
have become attuned to the distinctive
sounds of the horns of his firm’s vehicles,
and as they approach the warehouse he
can pick them out unerringly, often a
block of more away, from the babel of
dozens of others.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The question
about how the people who made pots
of unaccustomed money on war work
are settling down to normal conditions
may often be answered with “They’re
not” ; but as far as our 1939 Mrs. Char
is concerned she has come back to her
old scrubbing and washing as if fresh
from a good sleep with a curious dream
in it. Mrs. Char was for a long time
“makin’ 10-quid a week reg’lar,” but she
acquired a husband who was perfectly
content to share her tenner with
her and teach her to squander at the
races whatever he left her. He vanished
when her war job petered out. Mrs. Char
seems glad to be back at the tubs
again. “It’s me proper game, and I rather
like it,” she told me cheerfully.
* # * *
“J.F.C.”: Some weeks after the bat-
talion landed at Lutong, Sarawak, our
platoon took over a position overlook-
ing the oilfield town of Miri. One of our
chaps hiking towards Tanjong Lobang
lighthouse came upon a small clearing
with a tiny compound about 12 feet
square. It was badly charred and a few
feet away were the ashes of a small hut.
Amongst these ruins was a quantity of
Army-issue mugs, mess-tins, brass buckles
from webbing equipment and the metal
heel- and toe-plates from Army-issue
boots, and in the long grass a
wallet with letters inside addressed to a
British p.-0.-w. It was hard to estimate
the number of prisoners who had been
in that compound, but judging from the
amount of heel- and toe-plates they must
have been hellishly overcrowded. About
100 yards from the compound we later
found a cleared patch in the long grass.
Thfcre were no identification marks, but
the fact that it was a grave was quite
obvious. Our pioneers erected a mem-
orial cross and fence round the grave
with the inscription: “Unknown British
P.-0.-W. Buried Here, 1945.”
* * * *
“Findy”: That hard-drinking old
trouper W. C. Fields put over many
good gags during his long innings on
stage and screen, but probably the best
joke of his career was made on a radio
programme, at the expense of his sponsor.
The makers of Lucky Strike cigarettes
were paying Fields to be funny, and the
comedian had been having a difference
of opinion with them. He came on the
air one night with a string of funny
stories about the doings of his imaginary
son, Chester, and when the session was
over it was rated the funniest he had
given for some time. His sponsors were
delighted till someone murmured
“Chester Fields. Let me think. Where
have I heard that name before?”
* * * *
“Tackline S.”: The barque Pamir, now
in Sydney and, as I write, the centre qf a
wharfies’ strike, sailed under the Finnish
flag into Maoriland’s capital just after her
country’s entry into the war. Her crew,
unaware until arrival that they were
enemy aliens, must have been pleasantly
surprised at the treatment meted out by
their captors, as compared with
ally’s methods. I saw them in Wellington
shopping and at the flicks, on a brief
parole from the Enzed Government.
Hamburg - built and German - owned,
Pamir became a British prize in thfe
1914-18 war. Transferred at the peace
settlement to Italy she was sold back to
her first owners. Erikson eventually
added her to his sailing fleet, and she was
his until taken as a prize in 1941. Cross-
ing the Pacific 14 times under her present
ownership, she was once trailed by a Jap
submarine for several days without being
attacked. Maybe these Nips had read of
Campbell’s mystery ships. Anyway, the
sub. followed her too far, ran into a
Yankee task force and took the long dive.
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: Tell “Blank File” (B.
11/12/’46) to give his Army greatcoat
a brush-up and sell it “as new.” I’ve got
a pair of military boots issued to me in
1912 in the old Senior Cadets. They are
the old “Teddy Bears” rough-side-out
issue. They went into cold storage during
1914-18 certainly, but before, and since,
they have done continuous service. I
think, however, that the veterans will
have to be pensioned off shortly. Gar-
dening over the last few years has broken
their keel. The uppers are still, intact and
look like lasting for ever.
* * * *
“R.M.”: The Quiz Kids and a listeners’
representative competing for a jackpot
did not know and failed to guess the
obvious answer to the question: “Why
does a boxer, on entering the ring, remove
his dressing gown and drape it over his
shoulders?” This is a custom that time
is changing. Ron James wears a white
robe with a Welsh motif in red and
sleeves as wide as the robes of a Chinese
mandarin. Tommy Burns has a trick up
each sleeve in the form of a zipper, an
idea copied from Mickey Miller. Both
can don their gloves and still keep their
robes on until the warning buzzer goes.
A STARTLING SUGGESTION.
“American tennis star Mulloy thinks that the
game would improve if spectators were allowed to
give vent to their feelings, as they do at baseball
and cricket matches.” —“Sunday Sun.”
It doesn’t seem in need of much improvement
In play, or in attraction for the crowd,
But Heav’n forbid we ever see a movement
For boisterous barracking to be allowed,
For blatant comments the reverse of gentle,
Stentorian yells and jeers and angry snorts,
Regarded nowadays as incidental
lo certain other sports.
Our cricketers, well-used by now to dealings
With truculent spectators, north and south,
Take little note of chaps who vent their feelings
And indicate their views by word of mouth.
Their hides are hardened to the pungent phrases
From quarters where censorious souls are
packed,
Stout sticklers for free speech—but how the
blazes
Would tennis champs react?
What would they do, these men of moods and
tensions,
Harassed by tongues that roar and rail and
rag,
Subjected to such vulgar reprehensions
As cricketers receive in “Get a Bag”?
Would they endure being made a scoff or by-
word
For slips and lapses? Rather would they
foam,
I think, in fury, hurl their racquets skyward
And hit the b'reeze for home.
!
I wonder if, when Greeks ’gainst Greeks were
pitted
In those Olympic Games, where sport began,
Exuberant enthusiasts were permitted
To be vociferously partisan.
And were the sidelines dense with surging
sections
Who yelled encouragement in noisy chants
Or hazarded disparaging reflections
Upon the combatants.
Hardly, I think. But who would want to
quarrel
On contests where no prizes rich and rare
Waited the winners, merely wreaths of laurel
Or olive —bits of greenstuff, as it were?
When things like these were taken as embracing
All that athletic eminence could bring,
Clearly there wasn’t any need for placing
Bans upon barracking.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Here's a case that will stand the rough and
tumble of school use . . . that weighs and costs less than leather
. . . that is weatherproof and smart-looking! The Globite School
Case is a convenient size ... 16 inches long . . . and it keeps
school books in better condition. Ask to see one . . . feel how
light it ial Globites are being manufactured as fast as materials
and manpower permit.
GEOBITE
SCHOOL
CASES
Manufacturers:
FORD SHERINGTON LTD. (Wholesale only)
It’s
"good taste” to serve
FESQ LIQUEURS
Your discrimination in serving fine Fesq liqueurs
will be appreciated by your guests.
Ask for FESQ . . . Advocaat, Cherry Brandy,
Creme de Menthe, Orange Curacao, Curacao
Blanc, Apricot Brandy, Creme de Cacao,
Maraschino, Kummel, Dominic ... at all hotels.
FESQ, CASSON & Co. Pty.Ltl.
<w
(Distributors of fine wines
and spirits since 1848.)
EDWARD LUMLEY ASONS PTY LTD
The oldest and largest Insur-
ance Brokers in the Southern
Hemisphere insur-
ances at—r-
FROM ITS INCEPTION in the seventeenth
century, Lloyd’s of London has become the
greatest name in Insurance to-day ... a name
associated with the acceptance and payment of
policies interwoven with the very fabric of
history. But Lloyd’s has another significance.
It offers you, the private Australian citizen, the
fullest insurance protection . . . through the
oldest and largest brokers in Australasia . . .
Edward Lumley & Sons. Pty. Ltd. After years
of war, most insurance policies need competent
revision to bring them into line with present-day
conditions. Have your policies revised free anA
without obligation by —
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Sydney: 263 George Street and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle: 33 Watt
Street. Melbourne: 57 Queen Street. Adelaide: T. & G. Building.
Brisbane: A.M.P. Building, berth: 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart:
82 Collins Street. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin,
NEW ZEALAND, and EDWARD LUMLEY INC., LONDON, NEW YORK, PARIS,
COLOMBO, SINGAPORE and MONTREAL.
LL.t.l*
THE SERVICE MAN
Eisenhower Still on Guard.
“Ek Dum”: One of the most ominous
statements of the time came, scarcely
noticed, from General Eisenhower on
January 3, when he deprecated a sug-
gestion that he might be a Presidential
candidate in 1948: —
The Army is definitely non-partisan and
national in character and any talk that
tends to cloud the soundness of that feature
is not in the best interest of the United
States. From the beginning of the war,
when my name has been mentioned in
connection with a possible political career
for me, I have instantly refused to consider
such a contingency. I have not changed
my mind 1 have a job to do and I am
going to do it so long as I am needed
Wars are emergencies. They come un-
expectedly. In the past we have had allies
and factors that gave us ample time to
prepare. This holds true today but per-
haps will not in future years.
Combined with the appointment of
General Eisenhower’s predecessor,
General Marshall, as Secretary of State,
with the earlier appointment of General
Bedell Smith, General Eisenhower’s
C.O.S., as Ambassador to Russia, with
the blending of the British-U.S. zone
administration in Germany, and with
many events in Europe and in China,
“Our anchor-man didn't turn up .”
General Eisenhower’s politic little state-
ment seems to be an indicator of Ameri-
can fears. It was followed a day or two
afterwards by a Marshall statement on
the ugly situation in China, in which the
man who is now Secretary of State placed
the greater emphasis on Communist re-
sponsibility while giving a share of the
blame to Kuo Min-tang extremists.
If there were any doubt about the
atmosphere, a glimpse at the American
press, of which public affairs are the
primary interest, as opposed to the Syd-
ney papers that devote themselves to
girls and racing, and a perusal of the
details of Mr. Truman’s Budget should
set it at rest.
The leading American papers for
November reflect on almost every page
the realisation of the dangerous vastness
of the Russian organised conspiracy in
the United States, details of which are
being laid bare by renegades from the
party in which it is frequently said that
there are no quislings.
The President’s assurance of the danger
of the times is inherent in the 1947-48
national Estimates, which provide the
enormous sum of £A3,500,000,000, or
nearly a third of tlte total proposed ex-
penditure from revenue, for defence,
apart from about £A 138,000,000 for the
Atomic Energy Commission.
Relations between the United States
and Russia are far from good. The sit-
ting of the Security Council’s committee
on Balkan affairs is not likely to make
them better. And so soon as spring
reaches Europe the Dardanelles and the
question of Persian and Arabian oil will
become live issues, a contingency for
which Russia is already preparing in-
tensively via Moscow and Tiflis Radios,
through the dispatch of technical
missions southward —the latest to Saudi
Arabia —and through Moscow’s barrage
of sneers at Transjordan as “a British
Imperialist fiction.”
Underneath the outward calm certain
signs are ominous for international
friendship. Red Governments in the
Balkans are adopting a cheeky air towards
Uncle Sam, many of whose servants and
citizens have been sadly misused in Yugo-
slavia. The persistent attempts of the
State Department to obtain consideration
of Russia’s “lend-lease” obligations have
so far drawn a blank.
Russia’s lend-lease debt, overall, for
American assistance during the war is
about £3,400,000,000. The matter was
to be dealt with on the basis that what
material supplied was lost, consumed or
destroyed should be treated as Uncle
Sam’s contribution to the Russian war,
the Russians having contributed no
material to Uncle Sam’s wars. Goods re-
maining for civilian or military con-
sumption were to be paid for on the
basis of their present fair value.
British and French lend-lease pay-
ments having long ago been agreed to,
and in large part settled by contra pay-
ments in kind and otherwise, the United
Sfates has sent three Notes to Moscow
since last September. None of them
so far has even been acknowledged.
It is no wonder that the chances of
emergency make General Eisenhower
anxious about the future.
AH the nervousness is not on one side
only. Last week the U.S. State Depart-
ment emphatically denied a statement
born in Moscow that Turkey and Persia
were “literally crawling with American
troops.”
A New Heroine.
“Ek Dum”: The Sydney dailies dis-
covered a new heroine last week—Miss
Foumi Saisho, the principal Crown wit-
ness against the unfortunate Major
Cousens (still denied his Army clearance,
apparently at Canberra’s instance)
and a very unsuccessful witness at that.
Miss Saisho was photographed for all
of them and all of them, led by the
Sydney “Morning Herald,” gave her a
respectful farewell interview: —
I have got some material together for
a series of articles on Australia 1 like
your country immensely I want to write
about your national characteristics your
virility appeals to me.... 1 got to know
quite a number of authors and through
them something of your country 1 like
your friendliness and straightforwardness.
And so she should.
It is a little more than a year since the
lady and fellow-“workers,” combined as
“Tokyo Rose,” were to be heard adjuring
the dear Australian boys to surrender
while the going was good, so that they
could hasten home to take their wives
and sweethearts out of the hands of
American troops who were living a|r
idyllic life in Australia, to the complete
demoralisation of its womanhood.
One of the ladies of Miss Saisho’s troop
(perhaps herself) asked one evening why
Australian boys should rot in the jungle
“destroying the flower of their youth.”
She added: “If you do not return home
soon, you will find your loved one in the
arms of the Americans, who are living in
luxury at your expense in dear old Aus-
tralia. There is scarcely an Australian
home which does not know American
love. Can you blame your wife if she is
not faithful to you? Australian
women find the glamorous Americans
with their riches irresistible. Babies are
born every week to American soldiers.
Many of the Americans are negroes.”
In view of the fact that Miss Saisho’s
favorite author, as she confided to
“S.M.H.,” is a lady who writes about
places like Surry Hills, there is, perhaps,
some excuse for Granny’s deferential
treatment of her. But even at that one
might imagine that leading Australian
newspapers would hesitate a little before
lending countenance to a person who, till
the bottom fell out of the war business,
was engaged in the occupation of painting


You arrive "FRESH AS THE MORNING'
WHEN YOU FLY
>v. i-: i
£
l
mm.
u-3*
i )
1
Air travel with TAA is refreshing and clean. Free
of the discomforts of surface travel, you relax in
a deep lounge chair. Soon you are at your destina-
tion, fresh and unruffled, ready to make the most
of the extra hours • • • or days . • . TAA has added
to your holiday.
For further particulars
see daily classified columns
vt&fUA
Sydney Melbourne .. .. .. 6 Flights Daily £5 10 6
Sydney—Canberra .. .. .. „ 2 Flights Daily £1 18 3
Sydney—Brisbane .. .. .. „ 3 Flights Daily £6 1 6
Sydney Adelaide - » .. > 2 Flights Daily £lO 8 3
Sydney Perth .. .. . . .. 1 Flight Daily £25 1 6
Sydney—Hobart £lO 16 9
Sydney Launceston £9 7 0
Children under 4 yrs. free (1 per adult pass.), under 15 years, half fare.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRLINES COMMISSION
H-16-46
We teach
time
are
CONTROL AND OPERATION
We teach you without drudgery, without wasting time. We teach
you the essentials, all that you will ever want to know to operate
any type or size of Diesel Engine. Age does not bar you from this
opportunity—we have qualified students up to 60 in well-paid Diesel
jobs. We can qualify you, too, for this modern, congenial, well-paid
occupation if you are prepared to devote a'little of your spare time
to assuring yourself a future free from worry. If you are in a
dead-end job, now is the time to hoist yourself out of it, because
any ordinary man can afford both the time and the money to take
up the Diesel Engineering College Course.
TRAINED
OPERATORS
WANTED FOR
Twn,
TRUCKS • TRACTORS
BUSES • TRAINS
BOATS • SHIPS
—z
MINES • FACTORIES
EVENING LECTURES AND
PRACTICAL TRAINING
In addition to concise and interesting lessons,
diagrams and drawings, city and suburban
students and country students, too, when in
town can attend without extra cost our
regular evening lectures and practical train-
ing on a 180 h.p. Diesel Engine. Our students
enjoy every minute of this instructive and
entertaining training course.
OVER 90% PASSES IN
GOVERNMENT EXAMINATIONS
for the Diesel Engine Drivers’ Certificate . . . That
is our proud record over the past 10 years . . .
Every day sees the Diesel Engine replacing other
mechanical power for mobile and stationary pur-
poses, opening up a vast field of opportunity for the
ambitious man. Ordinary school education and the
will to do it is all you need to earn £8 to £lO a week
and more. Post the coupon below to-day—don’t
delay —or call any day or Wednesday or Friday
evenings or Saturday mornings for full information
—or ring B 2902.
FREE • Send for this Booklet • FREE
OIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
(Estab. 10 years)
Dept. 14, 255 A George Street, Sydney.
NAME ’ AGE
ADDRESS
B. 15/l/’47
HI
m
cm*
CONGENIAL WORK-GOOD WAGES-SECURITY
Australian womanhood to the hordes of
grinning Asiatics as foul, faithless and
immoral, for the purpose of destroying
the fighting power of the “virile” Aus*
tralian manhood.
Australian memories are .all too short
in regard to some of the things our men
suffered and in regard to those at whose
hands they suffered them. One piece of
Oriental savagery was brought to mind
the day after Miss Saisho’s well-advertised
departure by the suicide of Colonel
Masua Kusunose. Kusunose froze and
starved himself to death at the foot of
Fujiyama rather than face, even as a
witness, the War Crimes Tribunal, headed
by the Australian Justice Webb, which
was to inquire into his knowledge of or
connection with the atrocities committed
on the south coast of New Britain, in the
Wide Bay region.
There, on Feb. 4, 1942, about 150
officers and men were tied up in parties
with fishing-line and shot or bayonetted
or both in cold blood, save for six. These
men, though badly wounded, escaped to
tell their horrible tale, which the official
report issued from Moresby on April 6,
1942 (B. 15/4/ ’42), described as “almost
incredible.” This murder was committed
on prisoners- of-war, unarmed and under
a white flag which they had not abused.
The only “exquse” for it appeared to be
that the Australians had offered resistance
to the Japanese at Rabaul, but even this
“justification” did not apply to civilians,
who were also done to death.
A.B.C. and Compulsion.
“Ek Dum”: That un-Australian or-
ganisation the A.B.C. last week staged a
Hobart (Tas.) debate on the rights and
wrongs of compulsory training.
There Were, as usual in such debates,
two men to a side. Those in favor were
two First A.I.F. soldiers, Brigadier H W.
Strutt, D. 5.0., and Captain F. S. Shaw.
On the other side were a Mr. J. B. Pig-
gott, presented as secretary of the United
Nations Association, and a Mr. Dowsett,
a University lecturer in economics, de-
scribed as a “scientist and philosopher.”
As always in these cases the opposition
had the dialectic advantage. Both anti-
speakers came with obvious radio ex-
perience and knew how to marshal a bad
case or no case at all—the kind of de-
baters who fitted Abe Lincoln’s descrip-
tion : “men.... capable of proving by
words that a chestnut horse is a horse
chestnut” before an audience moronic
enough.
The assets of the affirmative speakers
were bitter experience of war and a case
so unassailable that they did not seem to
consider it worth while to argue the
obvious.
Whereas most of the affirmative argu-
ments were more or less stereotyped, Mr.
Piggott followed the current acrobatic
line.
He opposed compulsory training, first
on the ground that it was training “to be
violent, to kill, to maim and to exter-
minate.” (“Surely this is the stuff of
which criminals are made.”) To illustrate
his point he read some instructional
paragraphs issued to guerrilla fighters by
the Australian Army during the war, and
they were certainly horrible.
But he failed to bring his exposition
to a logical conclusion by adding that
they were exactly the sort of tricks which
the Communist party and press were urg-
ing not only soldiers but women and
children to practise against an invading
enemy, following Russian precepts and
examples.
Mr. Piggott argued that it was a strong
objection to compulsory training that it
suppressed the individuality of youngsters
at the age when they were most suscep-
tible, thus moulding them into a docile
mass, subservient to the will of Fascist
militarists.
Next from 7 the “anti”-side came the
argument that, apart from destroying the
personality of the youth involved, train-
ing him to be a “criminal” and crushing
him under the iron heel of the Australian
military Hitlerites, it would be useless to
train men in the use of modern weapons,
since so soon as they were trained the
weapons would become outmoded and
training would have to begin again.
The Practical Test
Finally it was posed that in World
War 11, while the Anglo-American allies
were without compulsory training and
Hitlerite Germany was trained to the last
man, Germany was beaten and the others
were not, the reason given being that
military training had destroyed the power
of initiative of the German soldier.
The speciousness of this rubbish, of
course, is shown by a reference to figures.
Germany, shut off from the sea and all
imported resources and dependent on the
products of an area two-thirds the size
of N. S. Wales in the initial stages, had
about 69,000,000 people when the war
began. With conscript forces it con-
quered France, dominated Italy, invaded
Africa, engulfed Poland, Norway, Den-
mark, Holland, Belgium, Yugoslavia,
Bulgaria, Greece, Hungary and Rumania
and held Austria and Czechoslovakia in
thrall, while keeping Britain and her
Dominions at bay and seriously mauling
Britain from the air and at sea.
After two years of this phase of the
. war, it attacked Russia, with more than
twice its population, killed and wounded
8,000,000 Red soldiers and would have
«onquered had it not been for the re-
sources which the Anglo-Saxon allies
Were able to pour into the Red Army
depots by virtue of their command of
the sea. Next it became involved with
the Americans, and held them off for
31 years as well as the rest, though (under
compulsory training) British-American
air forces had become strong enough to
wreck German industry.
In effect, the 69,000,000 people of Ger-
many had the better of nearly
1,500,000,000 peaceful foes for years.
Allied victories over Germany and
Japan were not the result of voluntary
training. They were the product of the
years of stern compulsory training which
followed in all countries after hostilities
broke out.
As Brigadier Strutt remarked, if Ger-
many had not paused for a year after the
initial advances Britain might have been
beaten. The airmen who saved her in the
crucial battles of 1940 were in the main
professional fighters, or amateurs so long
trained that they ranked as professionals.
Finally, the United Nations Associa-
tion’s spokesman declared that the insti-
tution of compulsory training was a be-
trayal of international understandings
arrived at by the United Nations and
also of the agreements reached under the
Atlantic Charter. And, he added, com-
pulsory training was an incitement to the
aggressor and the mark of the belligerent.
It would be interesting to know whether
or no he expressed the official viewpoint
of his association.
Russia?
But when question-time arrived some
base fellow in the audience asked the
United Nations gentleman why, if com-
pulsory training were wrong and an in-
citement to aggression in Australia, it was
right in Russia. The United Nations
gentleman was obviously floored.
He said roughly that the question
should have been addressed to Mr. Shaw,
who, he averred, was no friend of Russia,
though that mild advocate had had
nothing to say for or against that
country.
In his later argument, Mr. Piggott
showed anything but a United Nations
spirit in his affirmation that his oppo-
nents were reactionary Tories of the old
military “cfarss,” who wanted compulsory
training because it involved their livings,
and who wanted war because without it
there would be no fat contracts for
profiteers.
In any ordinary debate the chairman
would have stepped in and stopped this
sort of badinage. But A.8.C., judging by
this and other occasions, does not con-
sider its “forum sessions” complete unless
an opportunity is provided for a Leftist
or a fellow-traveller to abuse his oppon-
ents and question their motives in the
offensive argot of the breed.
It was announced last week that Canada
had discharged 95 per cent, of the
1,000,000 men and women in its armed
forces. Since the end of the war
£33,000,000-odd has been paid to returned
soldiers, including £6,000,000 as pre-
liminary payments on home purchases.
By the end of October, 1946, 12,000
full-time farmers and 9000 small-holders
had been settled on new areas.
* * * *
Australian newspaper reports of Field-
Marshal Montgomery’s visit to Moscow
suggest an atmosphere of cordial adula-
tion. No Australian daily has published
the fact that the week before Monty’s
arrival, the leading official Russian literary
review, “Octyabr,” began to publish Ralph
Ingersoll’s Top Secret, an untruthful
account of the Normandy campaign,
savagely hostile to the British command.
The book has been taken to pieces and
made ridiculous by an American who took
part in the campaign and had access to
G.H.Q. records, and others who know
Ingersoll’s politics have had a good laugh
at the Leftist’s habit of staging battles on
the wrong day with the wrong forces.
* * * *
The extent to which Communist guer-
rillas are operating in Greece is illustrated
by the fact that on January 3 some of
the ruffians blew up the concrete bridge
five miles south of Elassona (Sir Thomas
Blarney’s H.Q. at one stage of the Greek
campaign), and on the main road from
Athens to Salonika. It must have com-
pletely tied up road communications be-
tween the south and central north for a
time. Among the classic moving pictures
of World War II were Damien Parer’s
shots of the bombing of Elassona.


/ - ■ , .
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY
%
■ ■ ■
WHIN IT's
i
JAPSIABI
9
4,45
From telephoning to transportation, from light-
ing systems to mining, Exide Batteries serve
you daily in a hundred ways. In your choice
of a car battery you can depend upon Exide.
They still keep going when the rest have
stopped.
sr
&■
f, Vs
PERSONAL ITEMS
Four V.C. investitures, two of them
posthumous awards, were included in the
Duke of Gloucester’s farewell ceremonies.
In Melbourne ex-Pte. Edward Kenna re-
ceived his decoration personally, as did
Lieut.-Colonel C. G. W. Anderson in
Sydney. The posthumous awards were
received in Sydney respectively by the
widow of Lieut. A. Chowne and by the
sister of Corporal J. B. Mackey. All four
decorations were won in the fighting
against the Japs, acts of individual
heroism of the very highest order; each
of them the acme of Digger fighting
quality.
In Australia to conduct preliminary
examinations of sawbones here for Royal
College of Surgeons (London) fellowships,
the eminent British surgeon Sir Heneage
Ogilvie would endorse that whatever else
wars do they certainly benefit the art of
surgery. He declares that the advances
made in anaesthesia in the last war have
been stupendous, and operations on heart,
lungs and chest which a few years ago
were thought impossible can now be per-
formed with ease. Sir Heneage was a
front-line surgeon in three wars —the
Balkan War and the two World Wars.
A film producer looking for a type for
a prospector couldn’t do better than take
this one. Mcßeath met him on a T.A.A.
plane flying from Tennant’s Creek to
Sydney to spend Christmas with a wife
and 13 children he hadn’t seen since the
early war years. He is Jimmie English,
ex-First A.1.F., and a prospector all the
PROSPECTOR.
rest of his 63 years. Broke a year ago,
English today has a roll he can’t jump
over, and has been made a big offer by a
Melbourne syndicate for the biggest strike
of his existence, the Whippet mine. Hunt-
ing for gold all his working life with-
out much luck, Jimmie was employed by
Bulolo Placer Development (N.G.) for
many years before the No. 2 war, and at
the outbreak went to Tennant’s Creek for
a subsidiary company. He spent his week-
ends on the hills looking for likely reefs,
and found one spot his keen eye saw
possibilities in. When the war hit Dar-
win Clutha closed and Jimmie headed
for the mica and wolfram fields. After
the surrender he wandered, carrying all
the mining material he could manage,
and opened up his find. Starting with a
cobber who sold out to a butcher,
Jimmie persisted and soon struck the real
stuff and plenty of it. An old hand at
the air game, Jimmie knows all the N.G.
flying fellows from Parer onwards.
Australia’s new rear-admirals:
Officers graduated through the Rcyal Naval
College at Jervis Bay were promoted to the
highest ranks during the war, and the policy
has now been sealed for peace-time by the
promotion of Captain-Commodores H. B.
Farocomb, C. 8., D. 5.0., M.V.0., and J. A.
Collins, C. 8., to be the first R.A.N.-trained
rear-admir: Is. Rear-Admiral Famcomb’s flag
was raised for the first time in Formosa Strait
on H.M.A.S. Bataan, of which the captain is
Jervis Bay-trained, his ship being Australian-
built. Both the new rear-admirals were born
in 1899. Both were in the first class at Jervis
Bay in 1912, both celebrated the end of World
War I by being promoted to wear two stripes,
and otherwise, save for a gap of a few months
between their promotions to captain and Rear-
Ad riral Farncorab’s existing seniority “by
signal,” they made pretty level pegging through-
out their careers. Both had as active careers
as any officers in any navy during World War
11.
Farncomb had Hobart through all the flurry
of the shaping-up period in the Middle East and
Mediterranean in 1940 and when she sank the
Coburg raider in the Indian Ocean in ’43.
Then he served in the Pacific and won his
D.S O. He was with the R.N. in command
of H.M S. Attacker, aircraft carrier, at the
landing in southern France, being recalled to
take over Australia in the Philip-
pines when Commodore Collins was wounded.
Faincomb commanded the R.A.N. squadron
in the Luzon landings, for which he received
a C.B. and earned private encomiums from
Sir Bruce Fraser which would have made him
blush could he have heard them. He now
commands the Australian Squadron in Far
Eastern waters.
Collins captained H.M.A.S. Sydney 1939 to
1941, when he brought her nome still bearing the
marks of his glorious combat with the more-
heavily-gunned and more modern Bartolomeo
Colleoni. He was first captain of H.M.A.S.
Shropshire, which replaced the flagship Canberra,
lost in the Solomons; he became commodore
in command in H.M.A.S Australia and was
in every operation of importance till he was
fished out of the wreckage of Australia’s bridge
off Leyte after a Jap bomb had killed the
grand old ship’s captain, the gallant
Dechaineux, and caused nearly 100 casualties.
Collins was, however, well enough to represent
Australia at Japan’s suirender parleys at Manila,
solus for the R.A.N., and in ickyo Bay jointly
with Rear-Admiral George Moore, RA..N.
Rear-Admiral Collins is now doing a long
course at Greenwich Naval College.
John Bull having at long last taken to
telling the world a bit about himself,
Charles Wilmot is in Australia as repre-
sentative of the British Council, which is
subsidised to the tune of three and a half
millions to make J.B.’s cultural and edu-
cational doings known. Wilmot is a
brother of the British Minister for Supply.
Dr. P. Dunsheath, president of the In-
stitution of Electrical Engineers, of
London, and the first president of any
of the three greatest engineering institu-
tions to visit Australia while in office,
will meet and lecture to fellow-members
here and in M.L. —the institute’s member-
ship numbers upwards of 29,000. Train-
ing of engineers his specialty, Dr. Dun-
sheath is on the board of Henley’s Tele-
graph Works, is a founder fellow of ihe
Institute of Physics, a member of the
Federation of British Industries Research
Committee and vice-president of the
Royal Institution.
Had an 88th birthday at Brighton
(Vic.), Mrs. Ada Whiting, though seldom
heard of, one of Australia’s most prolific
artists. All her lifetime she -has spent
painting miniatures on ivory, and her
work has been purchased by the Sydney
and Melbourne National Galleries and
been exhibited at the Paris Salon, the
Royal Academy and many other over-
seas galleries. One of her favorite sub-
jects was Melba —the Sydney Gallery has
an example painted at Coombe Cottage.
On that occasion, as it was winter, the
diva insisted on sending her home in a
travelling rug of silver fox skins worth
2000 guineas, given to Nellie by Charlie
Chaplin. The miniaturist breathed a sigh
of relief when she returned it. Three
miniatures a week used to be her out-
put-all done without magnifying glass
or even ordinary specs.
The death in England of Rev. D. D.
Joynt, from an illness resulting from
overwork, war strain and blitz fire-
watching, has removed a noteworthy
Australian from the curacy of St.
Matthew’s, in Elburton. Bom at Elstern-
wick (Vic.) in 1885, Joynt pioneered the
Church Missionary Society’s station on
the Roper when he was 22, and was the
only white man in the district. Later he
was ordained by the Bishop of Carpen-
taria in Darwin. After 20 years of self-
less service in the N.T. he took a holiday
to England and was in that country when
Hitler erupted. An elder brother was
killed in action in France in 1916.
Another is Lieutenant-Colonel Donovan
Joynt, who won the V.C. for conspicuous
devotion and bravery at Herleveille
Wood, near Peronne, in 1918.
Dr. Alan Newton, the man Australia
has to thank for being one of the first
countries in the. world in which peni-
cillin became available for civilians, suc-
ceeds Dr. Victor Hurley as Stewart Lec-
turer in Surgery at the University of Mel-
bourne. This places him in charge ot
surgical teaching there. As chairman
of the Medical Equipment Control Com-
mittee during the war, he played a lead-
ing role in pursuing the manufacture in
Australia of the new drugs the war pro-
duced.
Latest addition to the diplomatic circle
in Canberra and first Danish Minister to
be appointed to Australia, Christian Rot-
boll was sketched in Sydney by Auld just
after coming ashore from the Danish
motorship Selandia with wife and staff.
A Dane who has spent most of his life
abroad, Rotboll was in his country’s con-
sular service in Norway, Switzerland and
U.S.A. before becoming Consul-General
DANE.
in London over 30 years ago. He told
questioners in Sydney that he had re-
ceived lots of inquiries from fellow-'
countrymen wishing to migrate to Aus-
tralia. His Government’s attitude is that
although it isn’t anxious to lose good
citizens it will help those desirous of
coming here. Shipping shortages are the
biggest present obstacle.
Visiting Australia on a business trip
which fortunately coincides with the Test
matches, Colpnel Charles Ponsonby has
been Conservative member for Sevenoaks
since 1935 and during the war was Par-
liamentary Private Secretaiy to Foreign
Minister Anthony Eden. He should
have much in common with Old Diggers,
as during the First World War he served
with the West Kents in Gallipoli, Pales-
tine, Egypt and France. Vice-president
of the Royal Empire Society, chairman
of the Empire Tobacoo Federation and a
member of the Empire Cotton Growing
Corporation, he is making his present trip
in the capacity ot director of Colonial
Mutual Insurance.
Electors of Franklin (Tas.) aren’t afraid
of giving youth a fling in politics. In
September they sent 26-year-old Charlie
FaJkinder, D. 5.0., D.F.C., to Canberra
and they followed that up at the State
election by including W. A. Neilson, just
turned 21, in the team of six
members they send to the Hobart
House. Probably the youngest man
ever to sit in an Australian Parlia-
ment, young Neilson, sketched here by
Morrissey, was a clerk in the P.M.G.’s
department. A member of the Labor
LABOR INFANT.
party since he was 16, he attracted the
notice of party leaders at the last A.L.P.
conference through his debating ability,
but he had already been active in local
affairs as secretary of the Clarence Water
Committee. A great-uncle, Max Ram-
say, was a journalist on the staff of the
Queensland “Worker” —a collection of
his verses has lately been published under
the title “Lays of a Labor Journalist” —
and his grandfather, William Ramsay,
was for some years manager of “a certain
consultation” in Hobart. Neilson has
been appointed Government Whip.
“Becks” on’a one-time rebel:
In the New Year Honors list appeared the
name of Field-Marshal Jan Christiaan Smuts.
He was invested with the Order of Merit. More
than half a century ago Smuts was a South
African student at Cambridge who came there
on a scholarship and compressed the two-year
law course into a year and hurried back to
Cape Town to open a legal practice. He was
then a follower of Cecil Rhodes, supporting
his campaign for a unified South Africa, but
after the Jameson Raid he parted company
vith Rhodes and threw in his lot with Oom
Paul Kruger, president of the Transvaal Re-
public. Forty years later Smuts was to deliver
he Rhodes Memorial Lecture at Oxford.
When the Boers took up arms Smuts was
given command of a small bunch of guerrillas
and he fought hit-and-run contests with such
success that by the end of the war he was at
the head of all Boer forces in Cape Colony.
When peace came Smuts returned to his
old hopes of a united South Africa. With
Botha, he decided that co-operation with
Britain was the best policy for the Boers.
Within three years they had secured self-
government for the defeated republics, and by
1910 Smuts was Minister for Defence, under
Botha, in the first Union Parliament. Twice
since then, in two World Wars, .the British tie
has been challenged by dissident Boers and
twice the Smuts viewpoint has prevailed. In
1914, with Botha, he had to crush the De Wet
rising by force of arms; in 1939 it didn’t come
to that, but when Prime Minister Hertzog
wanted to hmit South Africa’s part in Hitler’s
War to the defence of Simonstown naval base,
Smuts, then Deputy Prime Minister, rallied the
country behind him and swept the Hertzog
group out of office. As soldier, statesman and
lawyer Smuts w.as valued in Allied Councils
in both wars; a pamphlet he published in 1918
is known to have influenced President Wilson
iii his advocacy of the League of Nations, and
Smuts’s hopes for and belief in U.N.O. are
probably unshaken even by its intrusion into
the domestic affairs of his own country.
At 76, Smuts remains a staunch believer in
the British Commonwealth and in the culture
of Western Europe. Ten British cities have felt
themselves honored to admit him as a Freeman
and 21 universities in Britain, America, Canada
and South Africa have conferred honorary
degrees upon him. He has been a Privy Coun-
cillor and a Companion of Honor since 1917
and now, with the 0.M., he has been admitted
to an exclusive order, membership of which
is limited to 24. Not bad for an old rebel.
“Uramao”: 111-fated as was the career
of the Niagara, eventually sunk off the
Hen and Chickens Islands, north of
Maoriland, her officers must have had
deep affection for her, as the second
scattering of ashes of her crew has just
taken place. Captain J. T. Rolls, who
died in Sydney in 1944, was her captain
and commodore of the Union Line. A
captain who served under him took the
urn containing his ashes and scattered
them over the spot where lies the Niagara.
The other day Chief Engineer Alexander
Carson’s ashes- were taken to the same
spot. At one time he was a junior
engineer on the liner and at the time of
his death was acting as second engineer
on the Matua, the vessel that carried
his ashes to the resting place of his old
ship.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane Mrs. Sylvia St. George Dixon,
geneious donor of endowed prizes to Queens-
land schoolchildren for scholarships, swimming
and physical culture, and active supporter for
many years of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation, the Bush Children’s Health Scheme and
the Flying Doctor Service.
At 76, in Melbourne, James McWil’iam,
managing director of Stewart Dawsons. A
nephew of David Stewart Dawson, founder of
the firm of jewellers, he came to Australia from
Scotland 50 years ago.
At Ayr (Q.), at 85, Frederick Llewellyn
Ernest Spotswood, a pioneer of the sugar
industry in the ISSO’s. and afterwards manager
of St. Heliers station, noted for its breed of
draught horses.
At Yackandandah (Vic.), at 50, brilliant advo-
cate Harry Minogue. A son of the M. S.
Minogue who was Victorian Under-Treasurer,
Harry Minogue was dux of Xavier College and
was one of ihe leading men of his time at
Melbourne University. He incurred serious
illness while a captain in the A.S.C. during the
latb war.
At 59, in Melbourne, Douglas Gillespie, head-
keeper at Melbourne Zoo, where he was born
and which he never left except for active ser-
vice with the A.I.F. in the First World War.
A Carlton full-back in his youth, he handled
the savagest animals as if they were kittens.
Made his last appearance in Melbourne,
Norman John Vernon, son of Howard Vernon,
familiar to every Australian theatregoer of last
century. Norman toured with his father in
Gilbert and Sullivan and other shows and later
became an advance agent for J.C.W., sub-
sequently managing Hoyt’s theatres for 21 years.


Women’s Letter
From Sydney
The Duke and Duchess drove through
the city last Friday. The sun shone, the
crowds lining the way from Admiralty
House to the Town Hall cheered mightily,
and the royal pair smiled as they acknow-
ledged the mixed greeting and farewell
of Sydney’s citizens. The general opinion
of the interested onlookers was that the
Duchess looked in much better health
than on her arrival in Australia. Her
soft hydrangea-blue frock and tiny hat
massed With flowers in front blended in
with the bright day. The Duke, too,
looked very fit. After the royal cars had
crossed the bridge the procession was
joined by a company of mounted police
—one of the mounts being “Once Again,”
a favorite hack of the Duke, which he
has given to the police.
At the Town Hall steps, after H.R.H.
had inspected the guard of honor, the
Lord Mayor, the. city’s councillors
and Town Clerk Hendy received
the royalties. Thousands packed George-
street in front of the Town Hall
and amplifiers carried to them every word
of the Lord Mayor’s farewell, and the
Duke’s reply. After the Town Hall cere-
mony the royal couple did what they had
done in their first drive through our
city—they visited the Cenotaph and laid a
wreath upon it. After that they drove
up Martin-place, along Macquarie-street
and so back to Admiralty House. Sydney
had seen the departure of Australia’s
first royal Governor-General.
Earlier in the morning the Duke and
Duchess drove out to the King George
V Memorial Hospital, where the Duke
unveiled a statue of his late father. The
statue was sculped out of Australian
marble by Andor Meszaros. It is sym-
bolic of King George V’s interest in all
works of mercy. The figure, which stands
with bowed head, wears a flowing Coro-
nation robe; a sceptre is clasped in
the hands. Hundreds came to the un-
veiling. Chairman of the hospital, Dr.
Bertie Schlink, received the Duke and
Duchess.
The trees in the gardens of Admiralty
House were steeped in midsummer, the
harbor was blue, the sky was brittle with
sunlight last Wednesday morning. At
Admiralty House the last investiture by
the Governor-General, the Duke of
Gloucester, was in progress. The
Duchess’s frock of dove-grey chiffon was
softly pleated, and its pointed shoulder
cape was bordered with palely-pink
ostrich tips. Her pearls were luscious,
her gloves were long and white —
altogether a very graceful and gracious
figure. Rear-Admiral L. S. Bracegirdle,
who has been official secretary to the
Duke, was turned, by laying on of sword
and the magic words, to a Knight Com-
mander of the Royal Victorian Order.
His wife was present wearing navy and
white flowered silks.
Solemn and heart-stirring moments
came when the three Victoria Crosses
were bestowed. Two of the heroes were
not there to receive the awards. The V.C.
won by the late Corporal J. B.
Mackey was received by his sister Pat
Mackey ; two other sisters, Kath and Joan
Mackey, were eager onlookers. The three
sisters later had their photographs taken
with the royalties. Mrs. Daphne
Chowne, widow of Lieut. A. Chowne, re-
ceived her husband’s V.C. and MM.
Lieut.-Colonel C. G. W. Anderson was
invested with the VC. Proudly watching
him were Mrs. Anderson and a small
son and daughter.
Major P. J. Manley and his attractive
wife will be missing, after the end of
this month, from the city’s gay and busy
razzle-dazzle. They go off on a glorious
voyage across the Pacific to America.
Their ship will be the Mangarella, a
Swedish liner. These ships carry only 12
or so passengers, and each stateroom is
complete with bathroom. After two or
three months in the States with a flying
glance at Canada the Manleys will sail
for London in the Queen Elizabeth. They
plan to alternate Paris and London for
another two months, and after that they
will probably fly back to Sydney. Madge
Elliott and Cyril Ritchard will be fellow-
passengers to New York.
Last Thursday morning was brilliant
and clear, but by early afternoon the
sun was shrouded by grey curtains of
cloud, and many who went to the Gov-
ernment House garden party carried
umbrellas and wraps. The party was in
honor of the Governor-General, the Duke
of Gloucester, and the Duchess, so soon
to leave Australia. The State Ministers
were the hosts and the guests numbered
300 Q.
The garden beds bloomed pink and
mauve and tenderly blue, and the basin
of the fountain was thick with green lily
pads. By three-thirty the grounds were
thronged. The Duchess wore an ensemble
of Chinese lacquer red. Opinions differed
as to whether it was made of nylon or of
silk chiffon. The skirt of the frock was
softly knife-pleated. Her court shoes
matched her frock, and her hat was a
large rose-trimmed Leghorn, worn off the
face. Miss Eileen Phipps, lady-in-
w'aiting to the Duchess, girdled her beige
lace frock in brown velvet. Her hat was
a summer-weight felt in .cinnamon-brown
tones. Mrs. McKell, wife of the Premier,
was a slim figure in black crepes.
Daughters Betty and Pat McKell were
noted among the younger guests.
The Governor and daughter* Beth had
come from Sutton Forest for the great
occasion.
Mrs. Alexis Albert’s tiny flowered hat
might have been specially grown for the
occasion. Chief-Justice Jordan’s wife
wore a large hyacinth-blue picture hat
with her black frock. The Bracegirdles
were there being congratulated on their
new title. There were Wilfred and
Hubert Fairfaxes, and Mrs. Bertie
Kelly in a real full-length garden-party
frock of pale lilac. Very much noted
were Mrs. Michael Hawkins and Mrs.
Cedric O’Gorman Hughes in their bright-
printed silks.
Mrs. Keith Morris’s tiny hat was
massed with cyclamen buds. Hilda
Child’s cameo brooch framed in pearls,
and Dame Constance D’Arcy’s scarab
pendant, that is really a watch, were
among things admired. The two gold
wings of the beetle fold over the face
of the watch. To see the time a tiny
spring is pressed and the wings spread
outwards. Billy Hughes and Dame Mary,
the Harald Bowdens, the Roland Fosters,
the Butters lady, the Hope Gibsons, the
Historical Society Blaxlands, Empire
Society’s Colonel Spain and his wife,
Dr. Wheatley, Major Joyce Snelling,
Mrs. Persia Porter in her sky-blue V.A.
uniform, Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Coles,
Dr. Mari? Hamilton, Annis Rees and
the Tom Batemans, her frock a shimmer-
ing nylon, flower-printed, were among the
thousands.
At half-past five Mr. McKell was still
debonair and carefree. Not nearly so
carefree were some of his guests, who,
when journeying home by car, taxi or
tram, were struck by the billboards an-
nouncing another gas strike. But, any-
way, the Girl in the Flat Opposite says
“You can’t compare our Premier to Nero.
At least Rome was burning when Nero
fiddled, but when Premier McKell was
leading thousands of voters up the garden
path the last gas jet in Sydney was slowly
flickering out.”
Lois Simpson, young Sydney ’cellist,
now the wife of Robert Pikler, Hun-
garian-born violinist, will make her first
public concert appearance with her hus-
band at the chamber music recital by
Musica Viva Players in the Brahms Festi-
val series on Tuesday, January 28, at the
Conseryatorium. Robert Pikler will also
be soloist at the opening concert of the
Brahms Festival at the Conservatorium
on Saturday, January 25. Lois’s sister
Claire is the young violinist whom Or-
mandy selected for further study in the
United States. Photo, of Lois from
Noel Rubie.
Mrs. Elizabeth Goodisson, member and
worker for many women’s organisations
in Sydney for a number of years, died
last week-end. Mrs. Goodisson, who was
87, was active almost to the end. She had
a fine brain, and was a shrewd and amus-
ing commentator on affairs of the day.
She was a member of the Society of
Women Writers and will be missed at the
monthly luncheons.' Mrs. Goodisson,
English-born, came to Sydney from West
Australia.
From Melbourne
Melbourne reserved one of its best
summer days for the farewell to the Duke
and Duchess of Gloucester —brilliant sun-
shine, with a soft breeze to flutter the
thousands of flags which lined the route.
Instead of the usual illuminated address,
the Duke carried away with him, as a gift
from the Lord Mayor and city coun-
cillors, a beautifully-bound book, with
each page an artistic reminder in water-
colors of Melbourne scenes.
Never has the Duchess appeared more
attractive than on this flying farewell
visit. A ciel-blue angora coat was worn
over a delicate frock of lace in a lighter
toning, and her small flower hat of pink
and white was trimmed with folds of
soft green tulle. Two flower diamond
clasps caught her coat at the lapels, and
at the neck of the frock was pinned an-
other sparkling diamond clasp.
At the Town Hall, where this photo,
of Her Royal Highness was taken,
wives of councillors were presented
to the Duchess. The scene later
at Government House was picturesque.
Girl Guides, of whom the Dudhess was
the Federal president, farewelled her
when she left with the Duke. With Mrs.
A. G. Rylah as Commissioner-in-Charge,
they lined the drive, together with the
Boy Scouts, and waved vigorously, led
by Lady Chauvel, the State Commandant,
and Miss Sheila Cameron, deputy State
Commandant. When the Duchess arrived
at the Melbourne Cricket Ground she was
accompanied by Lady Dugan and Mrs.
C. H. Miller, and was entertained by
committee-women at afternoon tea.
Later, the Australian and English
cricketers were presented.
St. Marks, Camberwell, was the venue
for the wedding of Ann, younger daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. H. C. Colville, of Cam-
berwell, and Richard Leif Due, son of
Mrs. Due, of Toorak, and the late Mr.
Leif Due. Ann, who was given away
by her father, chose a frock of pearl-grey
chiffon mounted on slipper satin, the
front of the bodice being extended to
form a little apron drapery edged with
plaited rouleaux of the chiffon. The same
motif of trimming was also seen at the
low-pointed neckline and tiny cap sleeves.
The bodice was allied to a full skirt in
the new ballerina length. Her charming
little cyclamen hat toned with the bouquet
of orchids she carried. Mrs. Dick Willis,
sister of the bride, and matron-of-honor,
wore an ice-blue crepe afternoon frock,
with a corded silk hat featuring a chou
of blue and dark-brown feathers arranged
at one side. For contrast was a posy of
pale-gold orchids. George Kirk was best
man. Canon Robinson officiated. The
reception, which was held at the home
of the bride’s parents, was attended by
relatives and close friends of both
families.
The committee of the Queen Victoria
Hospital chose the right woman as social
organiser of the Hospital Appeal when
they appointed Mrs. Eric Harrison. Mrs.
Harrison was a member of the committee
which founded Air Force House early
in the war, and when this was firmly
established she commenced the work of
the Air Force Women’s Association. In
this work she, with her many helpers,
was able to assist many women who came
for advice on various problems when
their husbands were overseas, and it was
due to her vision that a nursery was
established in the city where mothers
could leave their babies while they
shopped. Later Mrs. Harrison incor-
porated this work with the founding of
the Air Force Auxiliaries. Welfare
House, a home where mothers could go
for a short rest from family cares, tak-
ing their babies with them, was the upshot
of this work. Then came W.A.A.A.F.
House, where Air Force girls whose
homes were in other States could
live. Mrs. Harrison, who is the
widow of Group-Captain Eric Har-
rison, would like women who are
willing to work in any way or who will
give parties to raise funds to call and
see her at the Appeals Committee’s office
at the Central Hospital, Lonsdale-street,
City.
Sensible sailor hats, frou-frou hats,
gay hats and large flat hats
for sunshine were chosen by women who
went to Moonee Valley for the first of
the 1947 meetings of the M.V.R.C.
Floral frocks were riotous with color
and the pastel shades were well in the
running. Skirts seemed slightly longer
and there were bows, sashes and side
drapes and, of course, the tailored shirt-
maker frock with finely-pleated skirt.
Navy-blue was popular; one of the most
outstanding frocks in this shade was worn
by Ivy Parker. Fashioned of mar-
quisette, the skirt was pleated and allied
to a bodice which had rows of fine navy
lace outlining the bust and with white
lace scrolls worked into the yoke and
tops of the sleeves. Her navy cartwheel
hat had lace appliqued into the flat brim.
The charm of pastel crepe was shown
in the frock of ice-blue worn by Mrs.
Arch Aitken. As contrast her small
hat was of lime grosgrain ribbon trimmed
with roses in pink and mauve shadings.
Mrs. E. Phillips chose teal-blue for her
frock and a full-length coat, worn with a
small white straw hat finished with white
flowers and veiling.
A lovely frock was worn by Mrs. Leith"
Crow; it was of dove-grey crepe with
the skirt full in front and with a narrow
band of grey guipure lace inset just below
the waist. The same lace was repeated
at the yoke of the bodice; her small hat
was of cyclamen flowers. Ann Mc-
Dermott’s outsize in primrose flower-
trimmed straw hat was worn with a
tailored frock of aqua-green crepe. Mrs.
Les Sangster, who was with her, chose an
all-white ensemble. Mrs. Frank Watts
set off her natural linen tailored suit
with a small natural straw hat banded
and veiled in navy ; Girlie Keeley chose
a gay flower-patterned frock and smail
sailor hat of blue felt trimmed with pink,
cerise and blue bows. Mrs. Ross Grey
Smith was in brown with white spots and
small brown hat; Mrs. C. Curtain’s dull-
green frock was coin-spotted in white.
Mrs. Martin Wang wore a Chinese
national ensemble in blue patterned with
flowers; Mrs. R. Miao, who has just
come from Singapore, wore her national
costume of black, pattefned in a white
fern design.
At the invitation of Mr. Shashikant
Desai, manager of the Export Department
of the Kamani Group of Industry, India,
Minister for Commerce Pollard opened
the first Indian Trade office in Australia.
Mr. Desai, a picturesque figure in white
jodhpurs, blue coat and cherry-red turban,
handed Mr. Pollard a silver key, with
which he opened a silver padlock. The
William-street offices were bedecked with
flowers and drapings from India in bril-
liant colors and studded with tiny mirrors.
The main room held a table, covered with
a cloth in Indian design, and in the centre,
surrounded with flowers, was a sjlver
image of Rampatti, the god of wealth,
with the burning flame of Ghee on each
side and a coconut in front. A small
sum of silver was offered to the god, and
as long as the office remains open the
money will remain there. Interesting, too,
was the placing by Mr. Desai of a small
red mark on the forehead of each guest—'
a token of good wishes.
After the ceremony 50 guests were en-
tertained at a dinner-party in the
banquet hall of Menzies. Mrs. J.
O. Parker, wife of the Australian
manager of the Group, was the hostess.
Her frock of black sheer was embroidered
with silver and made from a sari sent to
her from India. Mrs. Gray Staley’s short
navy frock was embroidered in pastel
beads. Her daughter, Betty O’Connor,
was also in navy, pearl embroideries
highlighting her frock. Mrs. Gwen Noad,
wife of Captain C. S. A. Noad, M.C.,
was smart in a black dinner gown with
bracelets of tiny Cecil Brunner roses.
Lola Woodward chose a navy-and-white-
spotted frock ; Monica Riley was in black
with pink appliqued flowers trimming
the bodice. Nan Raphael was charming
in grey. Among other guests were
Professor Woods and Captain J. P.
Williams. The latter was the salvage
authority who raised the gold from the
Niagara, and whose last job was raising
a ship from the Hoogly River in Calcutta
When Terence Crisp was a welfare.;
officer in the R.A.AJF. he gave up try-
ing to produce “Arsenic and Old Lace
after divers troubles with cast changes.
Instead he put on the revue “Troppo,”
which cleared £7OO for welfare
funds. But Terence will achieve his
ambition at last—he has just gone to
Tasmania, where he will produce
“Arsenic and Old Lace” for the Hobart
Repertory Theatre Society. He also has
several new interesting plays which he
hopes to produce on his return to Mel-
bourne.


m
If you were suddenly empowered by a
deceased friend’s will to manage his estate,
what would you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend
do if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are
avoided by the appointment of The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Ltd. as
Executor or Co-Executor. The Company
has had over 68 years’ experience of estate
administration and offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart. (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: E. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French. ,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
At all times, and
especially in the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper-
ties which remove all trace(»» JJX
of roughness and soreness, '
One of the famous trio—; V”
Cuticura Soap, \
ment, Talcum J . , \
Powder.
»?*
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage*
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —*
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road, B
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’4O 3,056,735 408,060 1,102,177 1,546,498 17,769,020
Written off premises, £12,530.. .. 17,756,496
To contingency fund, £62,500.. .. 17,703,996
’42 3,436,398 477,616 1,210,526 1,748,856 20,999,428
Written off premises, £13,796.. .. 20,985,632
To contingency fund, £70,000.. .. 20,915,632
’43 3.667,847 449,645 1,286,651 1,931,551 22,847.183
Written off premises, £18,167.. .. 22,829,010
To contingency fund, £60,000 . . . ■ 22.779,016
’44 3,955,413 476,771 1,336,058 2,142,584 24,921,600
Written off premises, £19,080.. .. 24,902,520
To contingency fund, £50,000 .. .. 24,852,520
’45 4,317,267 522,790 1,531,656 2,262,821 27,116,341
Written off premises, £20,505.. .. 27,094,836
To investment reserve, £52,000 . . 27,042,836
’46 4,889,772 080,669 1,687,687 2,521,616 29,564,352
Written off premises, £21,807 .. 29,542,545
To investment reserve, £25,000 .. 29,517,646
iNoiusTKiAii Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’4O 3,255,367 914,594 1,679,556 661,217 15.850,856
Written off premises, £11,220.. .. 15,839,6,36
To contingency fund, £47,000.. . 15,792,636
’42 3,616,115 997,072 1,825,052 693,991 17,117,088
Written off premises, £11,974.. .. 17,105,114
To contingency fund, £25.000.. .. 17,080,114
’43 3,613,549 9*26,421 1,836,692 850,436 17,930,550
Written off premises, £14,534.. .. 17,916,016
To contingency fund, £40,000.. .. 17,876,016
’44 3,724,518 929,672 1,901,429 893,417 18,769,433
Written of premises, £15,264.. .. 18,754,169
To contingency fund, £40,000 .. .. 18,714,169
’45 3,845,155 971,915 1,949,460 923,780 19,637,949
Written off premises, £15,109.. .. 19,622,840
To investment reserve, £38,000 .. 19,584,840
’46 4,005,095 1,039,911 1,980,867 987,317 20,672,157
Written off premises, £15,792 .. 20,556,366
To investment reserve, £25,000 .. 20,531,366
The big mutual life offices, among which
is numbered the 70-year-old T, and G.,
represent a system of collective security
which provides both a sheet anchor in
the realm of domestic finance and a
stabilising influence in the economic and
social structure. They have been the
largest contributors to war and other
Government loans, and the thrift of
policyholders through payment of pre-
miums has helped to ease the pressure of
accumulated spending power in a market
in which goods have been, and still are,
in short supply.
Outstanding feature of the co.’s latest
accounts is the record amount of new
business put on the books —£22,127,522
(up £6,886,477), of which £15,670,593 (up
£5,543,076) was ordinary and £6,456,929
(up £1,343,401) industrial. The average
amount per policy advanced to £390
ordinary and £69 industrial. Group
assurance helped to swell the figures; it
is less expensive to handle than a similar
number of isolated contracts. There are
also other sound reasons why expansion
should be the order of the day. One is
the rise in price levels, which calls for a
larger volume of assurance from all
classes.
Income, too, touched its highest point
yet—£9,083,468 (up £759,538), of which
£7,155,264 (up £680,447) was premiums,
etc., and £1,928,204 (up £79,091) interest
and rents. After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., including £21,207 in
premiums on staff superannuation
policies, and writing £37,599 off the book
value of premises, £3,449,206 remained,
lifting ’ the assurance and other funds to
£51,577,254.
, Surpluses available for distribution (ex-
cess of assurance funds over liabilities
under policies) compare as follows:
Net surplus— 1940. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Ordinary .. £686,776 £450,982 £591,086 £665,828
Industrial . . 352,951 240,017 305,796 324,614
Total . . £939,727 £690,999 £896,882 £990,342
Bonuses to policyholders—there are no
shareholders —were on the same scale as
in 1945, when the rates were increased
from 30s. to 50s. per £lOOO assured on
ordinary contracts, and by approximately
25 p.c. in the industrial section.
Bonus rates, however, are still well
below pre-war levels, and likely to re-
main so, owing to repeated Government
turns of the cheap-money screw. To help
soften the blow and strengthen future
bonus-paying capacity, the co. lowered
the basis of valuation of its policy lia-
bilities from 3 p.c. to 2| p.c. in 1941 and
to 2-2 p.c. (the most stringent rate now
in use in Australia) last term.
The average rate of interest earned on
mean funds last year was 2s. 3d. p.c.
lighter at £4 os. lid. p.e. The net effec-
tive rate (after deducting taxation) was
£3 Bs. 9d. p.c., compared with £4 7s. Bd.
p.c. in 1939. Some amelioration of the
trend in interest earnings, which now
appear to be at, or near, their lowest
point, can be expected as mortgage and
other securities, showing a better return
than is to be had from Government
bonds, become available. The Govern-
ment’s cheap-money policy is approach-
ing, if it has not already arrived at, a
point where the blessings are no longer
unmixed.
Owing to the large amount of new busi-
ness written there was an increase in the
expense rate. Excluding taxes, etc.,
exes, took 14.9 p.c. of ord. premiums as
against 12.7 p.c. in the previous year.
In the industrial section the figures were
29.3 p.c. and 28.6 p.c. respectively.
Here is the co.’s investment portfolio
as the published accounts show it:
Public 1945. p.c. 1946. p.c.
securities ..£35,280,951 72.3 £39,235,462 74.8
Loans.. .. 9,833,761 20.2 9,514,565 18.1
Freeholds .. 2,990,259 6.1 2,974,296 5.7
Cash, book debts,
etc 698,588 1.4 702,632 1.4
Since war began all available funds have
been channelled into Government loans,
which now account for 74.8 p.c. of total
assets as against 55.5 p.c. in 1939.
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Ord. Towards Nominal
Sept., Profit. 7 p.e. 7 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1938.. 242,086 104,459 74,293 82,634 283,402
- To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 281,402
1939.. 236,920 104,459 74,993 57,468 338,870
To staff fund, £5OOO 333.870
To reduce intangibles, £182,921 .. 150,949
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1946.. 202,334 89,536 64,280 48,518 199,467
To staff fund, £5OOO 194,467
6.4 p.c. 6.4 p.c.
1941.. 180,956 80,956 58,120 41,880 236,347
To staff fund. £5OOO .. .. \. 231,347
3 p.c.
1942.. 115,624 80,956 32,140 2,528 233,875
To staff fund, £2290 .. .. .. 231,585
6.4 p.e.
1943.. 186,941 80,956 58,120 47,865 279,450
To staff fund, £7331 272,119
1944.. 207,323 80,956 58,120 68,246 340,365
To staff fund, £15,000 825,365
5 p.c.
1945.. 200,468 80,956 53,566 65,946 391,311
To staff fund, £16,000 376,311
From tax reserve, etc., £28,000 .. 404,311
1946.. 200,651 80,056 63,566 66,129 470,440
To staff lund, £15,000 456,440
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of 22J p.c. from
October 1, 1981.
Not a bad showing, all things considered.
The £2,563,601 of capita1—£1,492,275
carries a cumulative 7 p.c., subject to the
N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act —has the
support and assistance of £455,440 of
reserves, but the lot is subject to
£1,500,939 of goodwill, etc., a reminder
of the generous terms of the merger in
1929 and subsequent purchases and ad-
justments, including jettisoning of half
the ord. capital (£1,052,121) in 1933.
There is also a depreciation reserve of
£686,505 against fixed assets, in at
£1,574,970, cost
Helped by an increased flow of news-
print, which was 46 p.c. of pre-war usage
at the beginning of last term, and 80 p.c.
when the books closed, the size of the
co.’s publications, and therefore advertis-
ing space, increased, and so did circula-
tion of its principal journals, which com-
pare as follows:
1959. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Daily “Sun".. 241,360 175,000 263,540 266,781
“Sunday Sun" 381,173 800,000 411,092 465,849
“Woman" .. * 100,000 341,996 861,062
“Fix” ... * 180,000 286,559 283,199
“World’s News" * 57,000 104,687 91,083
“Pocket Book” * 22,100 34,717 23,744
“Radio and
Hobbies” .. * 14,900 25,352 38,198
* Not available.
But the price of paper advanced from
£35 10s. at the beginning to £3B 14s. at
the end of the term. Costs were further
increased by power restrictions, introduc-
tion of color in the “Sunday Sun” supple-
ment, reinstatement of service personnel,
cessation of pooling arrangements for
deliveries, and an increase in the number
of editions put out each day.
Nothing was received on the holding of
160,000 ords. (28 p.c.) in Consolidated
Press —last div. 3 p.c., 1944.
On the other hand earnings were
assisted by growth in circulations and an
increase in advertising rates half-way
through the term. The lift in the price
of the “Sunday Sun” from 3d. to 4d.
came too late to have any effect worth
mentioning on the year’s takings. One
way and another gross earnings were
figured £30,553 short of the previous
year’s at £444,476. But exes. (£243,825)
were pulled back £30,736, leaving the net
result £lB3 better at £200,651.
That was enough to pay the prefs.
their full contract rate (£104,459) and
show 8.9 p.c. on ord. capital. But money
is wanted in the business, so the ord.
div. was kept at 5 p.c. and the prefs. re-
ceived the statutorily reduced rate of
5.4 p.c.
Pre-war—before appearance of the
“Daily Mirror” —an all-round 7 p.c. was
paid. Prospects of a return to tfyat rate
depend largely upon the extent to which
advertising revenue offsets the growth in
costs. Since the books closed supply of
imported newsprint has reached the MI
pre-war quota, the price has advanced to
£4l 16s. 6d., there has been an interim
increase of 7s. a week in the basic wage,
an upward revision of awards for journal-
ists is pending, costs generally are steadily
rising, and the question of a 40-hour week
awaits decision of the Arbitration Court,
Australian Newsprint Mills (Tas.), in
which Associated is a shareholder, is now
selling paper at about £32 a ton. Annual
output is to be stepped up over the next
couple of years or so from 30,000 tons
to 70,000 tons, and the public might soon
be asked for a million or more of deben-
ture money to help finance outlay.
Owing to delays in delivery and other
difficulties, including rising costs, Associ-
ated has postponed erection of premises
to house new plant. The first lot of new
machines is to be bedded in existing or
obtainable buildings. The financial posi-
tion improved:
1942/ 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £2,563,601 £2,663,601 £2,663,601
Overdraft.. .. 824,240 124,769 856,000
Sundry creditors* 228,850 291,721 247,964
Provident fund .. 7,710 '
Deprec. reserve .. 608,105 644,685 686,605
Freeholds .. .. 752,176 761,893 772,959
Plant, etc 794,631 783,528 802,011
Shares .. .. 419,970 419,003 419,003
Stocks . . . . 288,762 823,868 464,918
Debtors, cash, etc. 186,476 298,078 445,106
* Including tax provision.
To carry an extra £131,050 of stocks,
mainly newsprint, add £140,773 to
debtor’s balances (£377,960) and reduce
the amount coming to sundry creditors by
£43,757 the co. went to its bankers for
an extra £231,231. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£296,059)
was £90,608.
The market for the scrip has remained
steady at 21s. ords. and 245. Id. prefs.
At these prices the ords. return 4.6 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. div. basis, and the prefs. 4.5 p.c.
on a 5.4 p.c. distribution. Net tangible
cover is 18s. Bd. prefs., leaving the ords.
represented by only goodwill.
United Provisions, Ltd.
f Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 55,326 8 p.c. 2 p.c. 55,000 326 712
1937.. 36,087 8 „ Nil 36,000 87 799
Tax refund, £467 .. .. .. •• 1266
1938.. 70,853 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 6,353 7619
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
, Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1939.. 57,490 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 164,875
1940.. 64,529 8 „ U „ 47,875 6,664 171,629
1941.. 75,378 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 1,373 172,902
1942.. 95,776 8 „ 3 „ 64,500 31,476 204,378
1943.. 97,796 8 „ 4 ~ 74,000 23,796 228,174
1944. .127,471 8 „ 5 „ 83,500 48,971 272,145
1946. .147,617 8 „ 8 „ 112,000 36,617 307,762
1946. .111,513 f 8 „ 8 „ 112,000 807,075
* Subject to intangibles, £641,632.
t Subject to revision.
Largest thing of its kind in Australasia,
this big ham and bacon-curing and
canned-foods and smallgoods manufac-
turing organisation has made a poor get-
away in the transition race. The two
operating concerns —J. C. Hutton and
Foggitt Jones, which welded their interests
in this holding co. in 1927 —control 10
factories scattered throughout the Com-
monwealth and three in Maoriland, as
well as a string of warehouses in both
countries.
Turnover, which topped the £5,000,000
mark in slipped £437,000 last term,
owing riot to any lack of demand, plant
capacity or fault of management, but
chiefly to drought in the main producing
centres and to the Queensland meat
strike. Drought reduced supplies of live-
stock, for which there was keen compe-
tition at higher prices, while the strike
shut down two of the main factories and
a can-making establishment for four
months, with consequent heavy loss.
Service demands, which constituted the
bulk of turnover during the war years,
evaporated rapidly, and there was only a
slight increase in production quotas for


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
Contractors to Government Municipal t
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
0'SCLUY\v
n*. %
trade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump ouf
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
Of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’l
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon«
Btipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you reel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. . You
tnuet £, et the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ‘up and up." Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pilla
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3 1- & 1/3.
MV>
'mms
WEEKLY to
For travellers to New Zealand on business
or pleasure, Tasman’s more frequent and
faster service with first-class “hotel”
amenities en route, provides the perfect
combination of speed—with comfort.
And for the economical air-express
transport of all types of air cargo,
Tasman provides unparalleled speed and
efficiency—on the ground and in the air.
Reservations for passengers
and freight can be made
through any office or agent
of QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS, principal agents
in Australia and all
leading Travel Agencies.
d
‘ / X ASIIwI Ail ■' AlHlr lllli
HEAD OFFICE:—MECHANICS BAY. AUCKLAND. N.Z
090?
Vm
as
£ Q>->
MAKE NO MISTAKE—USE “OSRAM”
Macßoodle was a most sincere,
Correct and competent cashier,
But working under feeble light
He paid out fifty pounds one night
Instead of five—now wouldn’t it
Make anybody throw a fit.
Said "Mac” "No more cheap
lamps for mine,
From now on, only f OSRAM’s *
shine.’ 1
sra
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
(MUMOkI
-J
Guaranteed by:
(Sole Australian Representatives of The ff.&.C. of England.)
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE' • BRISBANE • PERTH
HOBART • LAUNCESTON
hams, bacon and tinned meats, etc., for
local civilian consumption. Surplus meat,
butter, and cheese continues to be taken
under contract with U.K., which runs
until end September, 1948. In these
circumstances, the growing export trade
which the operating cos. had built up
pre-war with south-east Asia continues
to languish.
After deducting estimated tax liability
(£BB,OOO, down £42,253), provision for
depreciation (£28,944, down £2279) and
allowing for minor reserve adjustments,
etc., the slip in combined net earnings of
the group was £36,304. The £111,313
of profit shown —it is subject to difference
between estimated (£88,000) and actual
amount of tax bill when it arrives—
covered the pref. div. (£36,000) and 7.9
p.c. on the £950,000 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 11.7, 9.6, 6.5, 6.3, 4.1, 1.9
and 2.2 p.c. back to 1939. The 8 pc.'
div. —best rate in the last 16 years—was
repeated. Reserves are labelled nominal
because they are subject to £641,632 of
intangibles.
As for the current term, raw materials
have come forward in better supply, and
to date the co.’s activities have been less
affected by industrial disturbances. Turn-
over, therefore, shows promise of sub-
stantial improvement. But the all-round
increase in cost, following the lift in the
basic wage, will gobble much of the
gain. And as conditions generally settle
down competition will become more
aggressive again.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect last
term’s difficulties:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £1,490,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Overdraft, eta. .. 60,034 36,181 874
Other creditors . . 144,413 249,932 187,572
Tax reserve . . 29,358 ■ —
Suspense account.. 11,092 1,475
Freeholds .. 895,909 358,605 349,000
Plant, etc. .. 158,204 172,126 162,606
Stock .. .. 371,801 646,023 548,306
Debtors .. . . 286,021 283,045 224,930
Cash, etc. .. 37,344 98,389 119,142
Intangibles* .. 641,807 641,632 641,632
Suspense account.. 4,094 —•—
* Mainly difference between book value and par value
of inter co. shareholdings.
Stocks and debtors’ balances shrank by
£97,717 and £58,115 respectively, £34,307
was lopped off the overdraft and the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
was reduced by £62,360. The more or
less liquid surplus (£702,537) was £28,715
less than at the previous balance.
The f.-p. pound ords., jammed at the
old official ceiling of 225. 3d. at the end
of 1946, advanced to the permissible
limit of 245. 3d. on January 7, but eased
to 235. 6d. two days later. The return at
235. 6d. is 6.8 p.c. so long as the 8 p.c.
div. continues, or 5.1 p.c. should the
rate drop to 6 p.c. Buyers offer 295. 6d.
for the prefs., which sold at 30s. before
Christmas. At 30s. the yield is 5.3 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £2 7s. 4d. prefs. and
12s. lid. ords.
Base Metals
There have been seven lifts in the
sterling price of base metals since August,
1939, and five of them have occurred
since the end of 1945, which suggests
that British control is buying at world
market levels, the tempo of which is set
by U.S. these days. Changes in London
(sterling) prices for lead, zinc and copper
have been as follows:
London Metal Prices.
Date Lead. Zinc. Copper^
Altered. £ stg. £ stg. £ stg.
Aug., 1939 .. .. 16 14$ f , 49$
Dec., 1939 .. ..25 25f 62
June, 1945 .. . . 30 81$ 62
Jan., 1946 . . .. 39 311 62
April, 1946 . . . . 45 391 72
July, 1946 . .. 55 491 84
Nov., 1046 .. .. 55 55 98
Jan., 1947 .. ' .. 70 70 117
The Australian equivalent of the Janu-
ary, 1947, sterling figures are lead and
zinc each and copper £AI46L On
the supply side lead is the scarcest of all
base metals. Unless there is a sharp fall
in demand, the current shortage of lead
seems unlikely to be overtaken within
the next three or four years, at least For
zinc the bottleneck seems to lie in smelt-
ing, which is a heavy consumer of fuel.
There appears to be ample ore and con-
centrates available, though they are not
cheap. The position of copper is more
difficult to judge. Many consider
aggregate production and plant capacity
equal to world needs, but output has
been, and still is, hindered by strikes in
U.S., Rhodesia and S. America, and by
fuel shortages.
The U.S. is the crux of the problem.
Before the war it was largely self-sup-
porting in base metals, with the exception
of tin. At the current level of consump-
tion it is not, partly because of the
heavily increased demand and partly be-
cause domestic resources are becoming
exhausted. However, scrap promises to
play a big part in satisfying demand.
Appearances are that U.S. will be a
marginal buyer in world metal markets
for some years to come. The trend of
U.S. industrial activity and costs, there-
fore, are now generally regarded as
pointers to prices in the metal markets.
The price of some metals will, of course,
resist the trend more than others. Lead
is in a stronger position than, say, copper.
Tin, at the moment, is more’ strongly
placed than zinc. The statistical position
of tin, however, should ease within the
next couple of years, by which time re-
habilitation of the industry in Malaya,
Siam and Indonesia should be sufficiently
advanced to greatly ease the supply posi-
tion.
In Australia the Government has been
able to exploit the country’s strong posi-
tion as a lead and zinc producer and to
isolate domestic markets against the
impact of world price-trends by keeping
the control screw at the £22-a-ton level.
This doesn’t cover cost of production
today, and costs are still rising. It is
exports that provide the dividends paid
by Australia’s big lead and zinc pro-
ducers ; local consumers get both metals
at a ridiculously cheap and artificial
figure.
Placer Development’s two main con-
tributors, Pato and Asnazu, Colombia
(S. America), stepped up their rate of
output slightly for the three months to
beginning of November last. Figures for
the quarter were: Pato, 4,290,000 c.y. for
23,9040 z. fine gold, worth $864,500; and
Asnazu, 1,485,000 c.y. for 64270 z. fine
gold, worth $224,945. Bulolo (New
Guinea), once ■ a handsome contributor,
is well along the road to rehabilitation.
Electrical power is ready, but no date for
resumption of dredging can yet be given,
owing to delays in getting replacements
from U.S. for electrical gear stripped
from til*} dredges by the Allied forces.
However, it should not be many months
before four of Bulolo’s eight dredges set
in again. Most recent addition to Placer’s
stable is Nechi Consolidated, in which
Oroville Dredging is also interested. But
it will be a while before the new off-
shoot begins to contribute to the pool,
because its two big dredges, which will
together handle 12,000,000 c.y. p.a., have
yet to be built. TTiere is over 18 years’
work ahead of these machines. Estimated
profit, before allowing for depreciation,
is $BOO,OOO p.a., or 16 p.c. on capital.
In Australia buyers offer £5 ss. 3d. for
Placer’s dollar shares as against 975. 3d.
a couple of months back. The co. paid
two divs. totalling 50 cents last term,
wholly out of divs. received from Pato.
London investors in Australian mining
cos. are getting anxious about workers’
demands. Australia will, they declare,
be left far behind in the race if it goes on
reducing the hours of work, which means
production, and at the same time increas-
ing the rate of pay.
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile 1946 divi-
dends : Lake View and Star, £280,000;
North Kalgurli, £85,937 ; Great Boulder,
£78,125 ; Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
£66,720 ; Boulder Perseverance, £56,205 ;
South Kalgurli, £19,531.


gMMm mu
i
W
m
Close Check
IN recent years the use of alloy steels—those containing other
metals, such as manganese, molybdenum and turtgsten—has
increased rapidly. Very small alterations in the composition
of alloy steels may have a big effect on their properties. It is
therefore necessary to be able to trace small quantities of
non-ferrous metals in large quantities of steel. The chemist
does this by using the electrolytic separator shown above.
It consists of a number of glass vessels containing mercury
and provided with electrodes or conductors through which an
electric current can be passed. The metal to be analysed is
dissolved in a liquid and placed in the glass vessels along
with the mercury. An electric current is then passed through
it. The iron in the steel alloy settles on the mercury. The
remaining solution, which contains the other metals, is drawn
off through the glass taps to be analysed in the ordinary way.
The electrolytic separator enables the metallurgical chemist to
trace small quantities of such metals as alumthium and vanadium,
which are almost impossible to detect in
any other way. It is part of the equipment
which enables the British chemical industry to
maintain the efficiency of its service to the
community.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates
IL-13-16
Missing Friends.
ESTATE of WILLIAM SABISTON, Deceased.—
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of Miss
JEAN HELLISH, formerly of Mildred Terrace, Swan-
sea, Largs Bay, South Australia, who is interested
in the above estate, communicate with L. J-
STANLEY, 32 Currie Street, Adelaide, Solicitor?
ANDREW COLLINS or ELLEN COLLINS (n ie
REAGAN). —Anybody knowing the name, address or
whereabouts of the next-of-kin of the abovenamed
Andrew Collins and his wife, Ellen Collins (nSe
Reagan), who were born in Ireland, are asked to
communicate with THOMAS JOSEPH PURCELL,
Solicitor, of 66 King Street, Sydney, where informa-
tion to the advantage of such next-of-kin can be
obtained. Information is also sought of the names,
addresses and whereabouts of JOHN COLLINS (a
brother of the said Andrew Collins) or his next-of-kin.
John Collins is thought to have children Ellen,
Jeremiah and Catherine. Any information that would
assist in the investigation as to the whereabouts of
such next-of-kin would be of assistance. Similar
information is required regarding JAMES L.
COLLINS, a son of the said Andrew Collins.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
ALICE ROWE, formerly of Sheffield Street, Malvern,
South Australia, kindly communicate with FARMERS’
CO-OPERATIVE EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEE,
LIMITED, Franklin Street, Adelaide?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO SHIRLEY MARGARET LAYTON late of Wagga
Wagga.—TAKE NOTICE that RONALD DAVID
LAYTON has filed a Petition No. 6187 of 1946 pray-
ing for restitution of conjugal rights If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance on or before
9th February 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition
free of charge from MESSIEURS F. C. PETRIE AND
SON, Solicitors, 375 George Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA—
In Divorce.
TO GOLDIE EDITH JEAN RANSOM formerly of
Perth in the State of Tasmania but now address
unknown and to JAMES HENRY GLOVER formerly
of Perth aforesaid but now address unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear and answer
the charges in the Petition of Reginald Jack Ran-
som of Mount Nicholas in Tasmania praying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of adultery
In default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect -thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
within thirty days after the date of this publication
an appearance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Mac-
quarie Street Hobart.— (l.s.) F. N. PRINGLE,
Acting Registrar.
N.B. Friends of the abovementioned GOLDIE EDITH
JEAN RANSOM and JAMES HENRY GLOVER
who may see this advertisement are requested to
bring it under their notice.
SUNDRY SHOWS
IN REIBY-PLACE.
Between Macquarie-place in Sydney,
where the regimental band used to play in
the days of the Rum Corps, and Circular
Quay, now an unsightly muddle with
ominous preparations for an overhead
railway, there lies a no-man’s-land of
lanes and alleys, haunted by garbage-
cans and tomcats.
There are garages and warehouses, and
businesses tucked away where you would
think nobody could ever find them. Up
one flight of stairs, a watchmaker ; some-
where else, a tailor; somewhere else a
firm of blockmakers now engaged on the
plates for a new book decorated by
Norman Lindsay in water-color. There
are windows where clean curtains blow
about the cactus-plants in pots on the sill,
the abodes of solitary maiden ladies who,
if they venture out at night, must step
delicately by couples in the doorways,
prawns on the footpaths, an occasional
drunk in the gutter.
And here and there in this lost corner
of the great city of Sydney there are the
last forts of the Australian culture. Per-
haps art and music and —thanks to Boro-
vansky—ballet are not doing too badly ;
there is a public for them, and there are
public places where the works of the
little studios may be seen. But here, at
any rate, stands at bay the living theatre
of Australia.
In Reiby-place, somewhere round the
back of Plasto’s Hotel and up a bit from
Bulletin-place, is the “playhouse” of
May Hollinworth’s Metropolitan Theatre ;
a group, generally held to be outstanding
amongst Sydney’s Little Theatres, which
occasionally travels abroad to an equally
salubrious area in Darlinghurst—St.
Peter’s Hall.
It’s an old story, this struggle of the
Little Theatres. But it needs telling and
retelling until some rich man—better than
Government assistance —realises he can
do something better with his money than
throw it away on horses: and learns, as
Borovansky showed the commercial
theatre, that good art can be made to pay.
That it is, in fact, what the people are
hungering for.
In Reiby-place May Hollinworth put
on Wycherley’s “The Country Wife” and
made it—take it all round —a delightful
entertainment. And an illuminating one.
Wycherley isn’t really a wit —he uses the
bludgeon rather than the rapier. Nor is
he, like Rabelais, so overwhelmingly
robust that his coarseness can become
like an elemental force, a great roar of
laughter as cleansing and invigorating as
the sun. One thinks of Wycherley simply
as a rough-and-tumble gay dog, a living
fragment of the times of Charles the
Second.
But Charles, after all, was a man of
culture as well as a rake ; a great patron
of the painters. And Wycherley, too, was
a man of culture, an artist; for when you
see it on the stage you realise that “The
Country Wife” is not about the wits and
fops and rakes and naughty ladies at all,
but, as indeed the title claims, about the
country wife. Shy, eager, playful, tender,
idiotic, Mrs. Pinchwife is an altogether
charming creation; thoroughly convinc-
ing, a truly excellent piece of characteri-
sation. Wycherley has survived not by
his coarseness but by his delicacy. Since
it was Betty Lucas who revealed this
great secret to the audience, nothing more
need be said about her performance. She
was pretty, she was alive, she was the
play.
It must be admitted that after the
hilarious first act the play flagged. The
atmosphere was not air but steam and,
perhaps, audience and players alike were
drowned in it. And, then, Wycherley’s
plot is creakingly obvious. Like many
another light comedy it’s funny while it
is setting its problems, a bit tedious while
resolving them. And the very small stage
had obvious limitations. But one must
partly blame the actors.
A thin, melancholy and almost in-
audible piping is not an uproarious
drunken chorus. The robustness of voice
and presence displayed by Frank Waters,
which should be admirable in drama, is
not the same thing as sparkle. Australian
actors, nine times out of ten set to play
light comedy, nine times out of ten lack
the polish that drew packed houses to see
Edwin Styles.
And k was really not possible to see
Miss Hollinworth’s team of nice young
girls as wicked ladies of the Restoration
—they would have to be twice as sophis-
ticated, twice their size and very nearly
twice their age. Catherine Lloyd, who, as
a maidservant, was not required to
sparkle, had a pleasing energy and
opulence.
David Saxby and James Meagher stood
out among the men. Mr. Meagher' (Sir
Jasper Fidget) didn’t do very much ex-
cept amiably grin; he might have done
more in the explosion at the end, but his
performance as a whole was, perhaps,
correct behavior for a cuckold, and he
was certainly amusing. As was the pro-
logue he composed for the performance.
Mr. Saxby’s Pinchwife was only inferior
to Betty Lucas’s Mrs. Pinchwife insofar
as Wycherley made it inevitable, for the
wife is a subtle and fluctuating character,
the husband static —all on the one note
of jealousy. Mr. Saxby, who was marvel-
lously wigged and costumed, looking
sometimes like the Merry Monarch him-
self (in a very gloomy mood), and some-
times like one of the Wicked Sisters from
“Cinderella,” always does very well in
sinister roles. He has a dark and deadly
look, and fiddles prettily with a knife.
Nobody who had deceived him with Mrs.
Pinchwife, or had refused to support the
Little Theatres, would like to meet him
crouching behind a garbage-can in
Reiby-place.
“Atomic Blondes”
There is usually a forced note about
the showmanship of most showmen, but
not about Mr. Jan Rubini’s. He believes
in showmanship, and his belief conveys
itself to his admirers. , When he was
fiddling at the Capitol in Melbourne on
one occasion he played a sonata or
something and after taking a full medium
of approbation tottered off the platform.
After an interval, the applause not hav-
ing slackened, the manager came for-
ward and informed the audience that Mr.
Rubini was lying in his dressing-room so
utterly exhausted by his immense creative
effort that it was impossible for him to
give an encore. The house almost dis-
solved in tears, and it never occurred to
anybody that Heifetz or Kreisler could
play a dozen sonatas in an evening with-
out showing any physical or spiritual
collapse. So, no doubt, could Mr.
Rubini.
The engaging wizard is back in Mel-
bourne, this time per favor of the Tiv.
management in Bourke-street. He really
can play the violin, and his technical dex-
terity is only equalled by the two La
Salles, who whizz around on skates
while the audience’s head whizzes with
them and then allow their mother to
outdo them by whirling full circle round
a hoop.
The quality of Mr. Rubini’s interpre-
tations of the masters is another matter.
They would probably be as surprised if
they heard them as would be the inhabi-
tants of Casablanca if they were told that
the apache dancing (with knives) of the
Appletons (from U.S.) was an authentic
picture of night life in that seaport. Mr.
Rubini, however, isn’t a jealous, person
and doesn’t want to be the only star in
the constellation. C. Ray Smith, who
manipulates puppets, the six Older Belles
of Variety, the Penguin Ballet and Mr.
Chung Doo are as distinguished in their
way as the master-musician. By singing
about his grubby little son who makes
his downtown tenement seem like a royal
palace and his -hobo father feel like a
millionaire, Mr. Chung Doo shows there
are no international frontiers in vaude-
ville emotion.
“Invisible Circus”
Sumner Locke-Elliott, whose “Invisible
Circus” was staged by Melbourne
Little Theatre, obviously knows his
subject. His young script writer, not
yet disillusioned, his senior script writer,
full of excuses for his failure to be a
Shakspeare, his gag writer, whose business
of being funny to order has eaten into his
soul, his radio stars, his technicians, who
are devoid of respect for the literary
attainments of the dramatists and authors,
and the pompous managing director of
Aurora Network are no doubt drawn
from life, if somewhat exaggerated in the
process.
Norman Ferris, Barry Gordon, Eliza-
beth Hunter, Brian James, Margaret Reid,
Frank Thring and Phillip Colledge were
chief actors in this cynical collection and
rattled off the smart and witty dialogue
to perfection.
Open-air Concert
The Victorian State Government is a
whale for culture. Asked to establish a
permanent orchestra after the example
of the Harbor City, it retorted with a
Music for the People open-air concert in
the Botanic Gardens. The event occurred
on a Sunday and if the Lud Mayor
wanted evidence for his thesis that Mel-
bourne lacks amelioration of its gloomy
Sabbath better couldn’t have been pro-
vided, inasmuch as at least 120,000 music-
lovers crowded the lawns, strolled the
footpaths and absorbed enlightenment
from the trees, the vast and reverential
mass of human beings disappearing over
the skyline out of sight of the performers.
They were composed of the Melbourne
Conservatorium Symphony Orchestra dis-
pensing classical music interspersed with
lighter numbers and a half-score of
soloists, among whom Wyn Laird, a 17-
year-old singer, and David Allen shone
brightly. Conductor was young Hector
Crawford, who had all the luck of the
beginner when he inaugurated these con-
certs. His luck stuck to him. After
deluging Melbourne with 2in. of moisture
Jupiter Pluvius changed his mood and
provided such perfect conditions that even
the ducks on the lake joined in the re-
joicings.
Inspired by “My Pal Trigger” (Capitol),
and to be sung to any of that film’s
songs:—
“Yodelei-woe.”
Strum, strum. (Guitar music)
Yodelei-deliei-o.
O the laddie beside me sat squealin’,
His wail was the loudest of bawls;
It echoed right back from the ceilin’,
And rattled the seats in the stalls.
Strum, strum.
Yodelei-deliei-o.
So I said “Little chappie, why bellow?.
The show’s not as bad '-.s all that.”
He replied “If that’s so, my good
Then why have you chewed up my hat?”
Strum, strum.


No. 4 of a Series
Scottish Jfighland 'Pistol
un
ore
Rivalling the claymore as a favourite weapon, pistols played a deadly role in
Scotland’s bitter Highland feuds. Highlanders preferred them with silver
mounted metal hafts matching the ornaments of the Highland costume.
Engraved on the haft of this fine specimen is a crest with the truculent motto
"Sans Peur” . . . without fear!
%
The modern gun sportsman invariably selects his ammu-
nition with care . . . ammunition bearing the 1.C.1. brand,
his guarantee of consistent performance.
x@s
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUR!
RED MILL RUM.
Any punters who walked home from Moonee
Valley on Saturday must have done so ■ either
from force of habit or with the friendly in-
tention of showing the booties tue way. ■ Four
favorites, one equal favorite and two second
fancies had won the seven races.
Actually five of the winners should have been
favorites, but punters again seemed unable or
unwilling to believe the recently excellent form
of the 35-guinea mare Miss Prim (W. A.
Smith). Flash of Fire, preferred in the bet-
ting on the 12-furlongs St. Vincent’s Handicap,
was beaten a half-head by the Blank mare,
with Britisher third.
In the mile Parkville Handicap, Red Fury
went dowr. to Flying Fury (V.. Hartney) in a
good finish, with Natural third. Finishing
strongly from well back after striking his share
of trouble, Red Fury may have been unlucky,
though the effort of the winner in carrying his
top weight of 9.2 in front most of the way
deserved success.
Flying Fury is a three-year-old son of Helles-
pont, who was also successfully represented by
Hororata, topweight and odds-on favorite, in
the Children’s Handicap for two-year-old colts
and geldings. Hororata (H. McFarlane) downed
by only a head the improving Dhoti colt
Dhutia. Of the two-year-old fillies, Del
Rose (Sam Martin), receiving 21b. from
favorite Surma in the Nurses’ Handicap,
proved slightly the better on the day. A Law
Maker filly, English Maid showed plenty of
early speed and hung on to collect third money.
The six-furlongs Matron’s Handicap was
run in two divisions, though half a dozen
scratchings left only nine starters in the first,
which went to Mahram, a three-year-old Dhoti
filly; she had a clear-cut win from older horses
in Lara Lad and Young Ca:sar. Betting on
the second division was fairly open, with five
of them at 5 to 1 or less; favorite a) threes,
Merasia, !y the comparatively obscure sire
Merenth, easily defeated Last Post and Rosarian.
About the closest the books went to getting
cut of trouble was in the final event, when
a bunch of real rough ’uns bore down on the
very heavily backed St. Dandy as they neared
the post, but the vigorous riding of H. Badger
on the favorite dashed fheir hopes. Second,
and beaten by only a neck, was Chloe, at 50
to 1, with Linemond and Excellent, both 33-
to-1 chances, dead-heating for third.
* * * #
The most interesting race at Randwick on
Saturday was the Juvenile for colts and geld-
ings, with Prince Mohican topweight and more
than half of the others having their first outing.
Conceding a stone and upwards, Prince
Mohican bettered his already good record,
while others showed promising form, notably
the runner-up, Karachi. Beginning slowly,
Karachi was second-last a long way behind the
main bunch and apparently a hopeless case
as they commenced the turn; then he produced
a remarkably stout finishing effort for a two-
year-cld in its first race, flying past horse after
horse between the leger and the judge, and
failing by only a neck to overhaul the favorite.
While he’s sure to be close to the money at
his next start, Karachi looks the type who may
like to travel a bit further than five furlongs.
Certainly his pedigree suggests that he could
win anything. He’s of the first crop of the
imported Neptune, now standing in New Zea-
land. By Hyperion from Fancy Free, Neptune,
who himself won over 11 furlongs as a three-
year-old, is a half-brother to Blue Peter, win-
rer of an English Derby and sire of a Derby
winner (Ocean Swell) in his first season.
Karachi’s dam, Sudan, was by Beau Pere from
Sahara, a daughter of Desert Gold, and half-
sister to Oreum, dam of Gold Rod..
Prince Mohican has been given a very strenu-
ous programme for a youngster, though he
appears to be thriving on it. He has started
on five successive Saturdays for two seconds
and three wins in a row. G. Moore had the
mount on Saturday; Prince Mohican’s three
previous jockeys, Mulley, Cook and Thompson,
are ill now on the outer.
*•• * v •
Following the mount on Prince Mohican,*
•Moore completed a hat trick by winning the
main double of Sefton and January Handicaps.
Evidently very fit, and racing more consistently
now than he’s ever done, the aged Brazen geld-
ing Brazier won the six-furlongs Sefton from
Dutchman and El Grandee. The January Handi-
cap over a mile and hail went to Codicil, with
Courier and Grand Fils in the places; Ihe
Tiger (favorite), proving not quite up to open
company, fourth.
Progeny of the imported Italian sire Brueghel
took a hand in other events, Sweet Brue (F.
Walker) confirming the long-standing promise
of her good looks by downing Menelik and
Haymarket in the 12-furlongs Novice, while
Shading (G. Pownall) and Shine, both by
Brueghel, had the finish of the Nursery pretty
well to themselves, Shading going the better
on the post; Airs anc Graces was third prac-
tically all the way round. French blood had
its say in the Minto Handicap, which went to
the Le Grand Due horse Cavalero (T. Mul-
lane), Chatlock and Agile taking the minor
money.
The false rail at Randwick was further out
than it’s ever been, adding 18 yards to the
five-furlongs trip and 31 yards to the mile and
half, in view of which limes recorded were
fairly good. Both two-year-old events were
run in I.l£. while Braziet ran his six furlongs
20 yards and two feet in LI2.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Nursery: Karachi, 1; Regal Speed, 2; Ex-
cept, 3. Nursery (Fillies): Lady Ajax, 1;
Shading, 2; Million, 3. Maiden Stakes:
Tnnasha, 1; Cevantes, 2; Uranium, 3. Flying:
Dutchman, 1; Gay King, 2; Civic Pride, 3.
“This bloke knocked the square-leg umpire rotten last Saturday!"
Lord Mayor’s Cup: Open Air, 1; Codicil, 2;
Homeleigh Dick, 3. Welter: Agile, 1; Red
Mick.. 2; Deed, 3.
* * * #
Most regrettably Bernborough, grand galloper
and looking every inch the part of a fine sire,
has been sold out of the country, going to the
American film man Louis B. Mayer. In Eng-
land it simply wouldn’t be done; the mere
suggestion would bring their Lords Derby,
Rosebery and others at the. gallop with
open cheque-book in hand. In less demo-
cratic European countries it wouldn’t be
allowed —they’d declare such an outstanding
horse national property and refuse to let
him leave the country, as happened at least
once in Italy. The price paid for Bernborough
has been reported as £93,000, which is prob-
ably not correct, though it wouldn’t be impos-
sible. An offer of £150,000 sterling was made
and refused for the English Derby winner
Dante, while recently several good English per-
formers have been syndicated for round the
£lOO,OOO mark. In the process of buying some
of their own blood back from France, English
breeders last month paid £BO,OOO for Prince
Chevalier, who finished second to Souverain in
the French St. Leger.
Third Test drawn:
Bradman paid the visitors all due respect
in keeping the Australian second innings going
till the worst that could possibly happen to
his side was a draw, which would be enough
to be decisive in holding the silly old “ashes.”
In a draw i&ended, mainly through the agency
of Washbrook, who, striking his real form for
the first time on the tour, bettered his first-
innings total of 62 with a match-saving 112.
Hutton, Yardley, Hammond and Bedser also
helped to hold off the keen attack. Yardley
looks better at every appearance; Hutton hasn’t
had the best of luck; Hammond has so far
failed in the Tests.
The figures were: Australia, 365 and 536;
England, 351 and 7 for 310. It was a poor
match for lan Johnson —“a pair of spectacles,”
and only one wicket, and that Wright’s. The
best success on the Australian side was that of
Morris, who had failed as an opener till he
got his eye in properly in the second innings
for a very sound 155.
So far Bradman is out on his own in the
batting averages, with a total of 549 for the
three Tests, averaging 137.25. Barnes is next
on the 85.5 mark and McCool next, 84.6. It
make* its own comment that the English best
is Edrich’s 315 aggregate, averaging 52.5, while
Yardley, next with 40.6, is bettered by no fewer
than eight of the Australians. The bowling
averages, headed by Miller for Australia and
by Yardley for England, make the same pretty
conclusive comment.
* * * *
Australians in the three Tests have scored
2205 runs for 40 wickets, averaging 55.12.
M.C.C. figures are 1600 runs for 57 wickets,
averaging 28.07.
The third Test drew attendances totalling
343.674, with gross takings £44,063. This makes
an aggregate of 617,271, who have shelled out
£83,707 in the three Tests.
Arthur Morris’s figures :n first-class cricket
this season (697 runs, av. 77.44) are next to
Bradman’s, as the best of the year. Morris
(24) and Dooland (23) are the youngsters of
the Australian XI.
When the M.C.C. team was chosen “S. M.
Herald” commented: “Australians may be sur-
prised that Yardley and Evans, who were
generally rated ‘among others to be considered,’
nave been picked at this stage.” Just to con-
found critics no players have earned their places
more than these two. Yardley’s six victims
in the Tests have been Bradman (three times),
Barnes, Miller and Johnson; and Evans in
three innings allowed only 14 byes in an
aggregate of 1560 scored by Australia.
“Long Leg”: Ray Lindwall’s 100 in 114
minutes is the fastest century in Test cricket.
However, it’s a long way from a record for
any type of cricket in Australia; that belongs
to A. G. Moyes (now a Sydney pressman), who
made 218 runs in 83 min. at Chatswood Oval
(Sydney) for Gordon v. Central Cumberland
in 1922.
After giving a hurried round of exhi-
bition matches Kramer and Schroeder re-
turned to the U.S.A. accompanied by
Parker, Walter Pate and, of course, the
Davis Cup. The rest of the U.S. team —
Tom Brown, Mulloy and Talbert —are
staying for the Australian championships,
to be played at White City (Sydney) from
January 17-27. The Americans have been
seeded separately for the singles in the
above order. Of the Australians, Brom-
wich is seeded No. 1, followed by Pails,
Quist, Brodie, Sidwell, Long, G. Brown
and Crawford. Beaten by Crawford in
Brown has been dropped a long
way down the list. On what was last
seen of his play he needs a rest. In the
doubles Sidwell is to team with the
American Tom Brown, a combination
which should take a power of beating.
They’ve been seeded No. 3, below
Mulloy-Talbert and Bromwich-Quist,
with Pails-Brown No. 4.
Talbert and Mulloy had a crack at
the S.A. championships, Mulloy beating
his team mate in the singles final, while
in the doubles the American pair were
cleaned up three sets to two by Dinny
Pails and Colin Long. Meanwhile the
other U.S. player, Tom Brown, was busy
winning the singles title in the Seaside
championships at Manly (N:S.W.); he
won the final in straight sets from J.
Gilchrist. Surprisingly good doubles
form Was shown by a pair of young
players, J. May and J. Dart, who elimi-
nated Barnes and Tom Brown in a semi-
final and then beat no less a pair than
Sidwell and Geoff Brown in the final.
* * * *
Quiet Soviet football:
The Russians appear to have adopted, and
somewhat misinterpreted, “Waterloo was won
on the playing fields of Eton.” According to a
New York “Times” report some of the football
fields of Russia leave Waterloo in the shade.
The “Times” quotes an article, written by a Mr.
Semyonov, who supported his case with “certifi-
cates signed by various boards of health for re-
turning teams.” Mr. Semyonov, himself evi-
dently a Borovsk supporter, describes a match
between Borovsk City and Kondorovo City:
“The Kondorovo team displayed roughness
which merged into hooliganism. As a result
of malicious roughness two of our men had
to fall out. At the end of the first half, when
the score was 2-0 in our favor, the referee was
attacked and told that if we won he would not
leave the field alive. The referee was threatened
again before the beginning of the second half,
and the game turned into a fist fight, and we
therefore had to leave the field before the end.”
The fact that “we had to leave the field” sug-
gests that “we” weren’t doing so well in the
stoush, but “we” made amends by stoning
the visiting team.
Add a dash of vodka to that and you get a
rough idea of another sporting match played
between Dubossary and Grigoriopol, two neigh-
boring towns “which differed only in that
Dubossary has a larger distillery, which un-
doubtedly had its effect on the match.”
Having partaken liberally of their local product
the Dubossary team arrived well under the
weather and ready to take on all-comers, but
they weren’t sighting the ball too well. The
Grigoriopol bagged four goals in as many
.minutes. Incensed by this reflection on his
ability, the Dubossary goalie ran to the centre
of the field and “tried to push the umpire out.”
By “push” the Russkis don't mean a gentle
shove; the ump. had to be replaced. How-
ever, the new one could do nothing for Du-
bossary, which lost by nine goals.
* * * *
Ted Sprouster (9.0) paced himself just
right to make a draw with Ray Coleman
(8.12) at Leichhardt. Attacking con-
tinuously, Coleman won the first three
rounds, but Sprouster then took a hand
in the fighting, and had Coleman rock-
ing several times before round 10 ended.
Another solid punch must have floored
Coleman, but Sprouster eased down, and
Coleman’s swings from everywhere to
anywhere in the last two rounds evened
the score, though the customers didn’t
think so.


*,l
OYER-STOCKING AND
OVER-IMPROVEMENT
* A Grazier's incompetent
Executor and Trustee may make
costly mistakes
yOUR perfectly drawn Will may be defeated
by the bad administration of an incompe-
tent Executor ; but you will guard against such
a risk by appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as your Executor
and Trustee.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has long and varied experience in
the management of sheep and cattle properties embracing practically every
district of the State.
The Company does not believe in over-stocking nor in over-
improvement. Judicious balance in such things is the aim of the pastoral
inspectors employed and their first consideration is always the livestock.
If you would know more of the Company’s service and what it costs
write for a copy of the booklet “Your Executor and Trustee.” It will be
gladly sent on request.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KEIXY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. PEaVfAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE; AIXEN C. EEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. Armytage, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £66,000,000
(THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzvoy Street, Tamworth.
New
Cream Deodorant
safely
Stops Perspiration
Mi
I Does not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
. men’s shirts.
2 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
8 A pure white,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can be
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests srove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Arrid i« the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-day I
ARRID
IJm a jar At all chemists & stores
Also In 9 }d. jars sellin 9
Distributors: Fassatt & Johnson Ud., Sydney
EYE LOTION
Jor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere *
H.Rose4Co.,Pty,Ltd.. King Street, Sydney, 1
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Week of “Free” Dealings
Under the Stock Exchange rule of
allowing freedom from the “ceiling” to
shares which became available for pur-
chase at any one of the regulated daily
adjusted prices there were a variety of
stocks which “gained their freedom” last
week. Among these were Bank of N. S.
Wales, Tooth, Felt and Textiles, Bradford
Cotton, Burns Philp, Dunlop Rubber,
United Provisions, Kandos Cement,
Henry Jones, Herald and Weekly Times,
Woolworths, North Broken Hill, Placer
Development and North Kalgurli. Stocks
still far below the parity established else-
where at the end of the week were Morris
Hedstrom and New B. H. Consolidated.
As the week advanced there was an in-
creasing activity in share dealings, and
the time appears not far distant when
there will be full-scale turnover again on
Australian ’Changes. This will mean
enlargement of brokers’ office staffs in
many cases, though the extreme con-
gestion in office space in all city areas will
inhibit expansion. There has been a re-
vival in the value of seats on the various
’Changes, and, though the ultimate level
of share-dealings has yet to bfe estab-
lished, it is likely that the value of
brokers’ seats will increase still further.
However, it is unlikely that the £5OOO and
more paid for a Sydney seat in the pre-
war boom days will be seen for some
time, taxation on income being a serious
factor these days even if pre-war levels
of commission earnings are restored.
There are large sums of accumulated
savings awaiting investment in the Com-
monwealth, and arrears of capital ex-
pansion are now being overtaken. Last
year new share issues by companies are
estimated to have brought in a record
amount of capital and premium, notwith-
standing Treasury control and the heavy
demands of the Loan Council. With the
lifting of share-price ceilings there will
probably be a considerable redistribution
of the new issues taken up, and this wifi
add to the turnover potential of the Stock
Exchanges. As overseas shipping services
are restored there will be an increasing
tendency for people to realise upon por-
tion of their investments in order to take
a long-deferred trip abroad. The same
realisation tendency will be in evidence
when homebuilding becomes easier, too.
It is probable that by the time travel and
housing are easier the level of industrial
activity will be higher, with increased
profits resulting to industry and the need
for inflated taxation rates declining.
This may or may not bring higher prices
for shares; much will depend upon the
supply of industrial investments available
and the level of interest and taxation
rates.
Returning to last week’s picture pre-
sented by ’Change dealings, it was
observed that Sydney index for bank
shares rose from 121.1 on December 23
—last day of the Treasury-controlled
quotes —to 137.6 on January 10. Increase
in retail stores was from 154.6 to 182.8, in
industrials from 171.2 to 177, and in the
general ordinary-share index from 164.5
to 172.7. A number of shares had fallen
back into a free market before the re-
moval of the ceiling, and in some such
cases there were further declines as in-
vestors were enabled to select from a
wider choice of stocks. Outstanding ex-
amples of good stocks weakly supported
were A.C.I. (Aust. Glass) and Colonial
Sugar. As can be seen from the indexes,
however, the general experience was a
sharp upward movement.
Striking examples of market apprecia-
tion occurred in the case of Felt and
Textiles, David Jones, Tooth and North
Broken Hill. These and other instances
are shown in this table:
Dec. 23, ’46. Jan. 10, ’47.
Bank of N. S. Wales . £34/15/-* £4O/10/-
Carlton Brewery .. 81/6 81/3
Tooth 68/3* 76/3
Australian Gas .. .. £7/13/- £7/12/6
Associated Newspapers 21/6 21/7
Adelaide Steam .. .. 36/-* 35/6f
A. 1 57/- 56/-
Associated Pulp .. .. 39/-* 39/
Bradford Cotton .. 51/9* 53/-*
British Tobacco .. .. 56/6 56/3
Bums Philp 68/3* 73/6
B. 47/6 47/-
Colonial Sugar .. .. £s3f £52
David Jones .. .. 43/-* 53/-*
Drug Houses .. .. 36/-* 37/9
Dunlop Rubber .. .. 29/3* . 32/9
Felt and Textiles 49/6 58/9
Gordon and Gotch .. 61/9* 75/-*
Electrolytic Zinc .. .. 66/6f 68/-
Masonite 34/6* 38/6*
Mauri Bros, and
Thomson 84/9* 90/-*
Morris Hedstrom .. 33/3* 38/3*
Menzies Hotel .. .. 14/11 1.5/3
Mort’s Dock .. .. 25/-* 25/3
Ready-mixed Concrete 20/9f 20/9f
Steamships Trading .. 23/3* 28/3*
Sulphide Corp 12/-* 11/8
United Provisions .. 22/3* 23/9
Wests .. 24/6* 24/6*
Wilcox Mofflin .. .. 14/3* 17/
Woolworths .. .. 26/-* 28/-
Yarra Falls 52/6 52/-
Mt. Lyell 22/- 22/6
New Broken Hill .. 23/6* 33/6*
North Broken Plill .. 62/6* 70/
* Buyer. f Seller.
It is plain that there will be a considerable
amount of movement in shares of all
varieties before the market is established
on a rational basis. First of all there needs
to be a “freeing” of all stocks, then a
close appraisal of particular merits and
general prospects.
On the question of particular merits all
the customary tests of financial strength
per share, trading prospects, current
profits and dividends, efficiency of man-
agement, competitive nature and capitali-
sation of the industry, etc., will have to
be considered.
In the matter of general prospects, the
attitude of the central Government to-
wards private enterprise will be import-
ant, together with the behavior of trade-
unionism ; it has been made quite plain
by several leaders in the trade-union
movement of the present day that har-
mony and incentive in industrial life is
not sought by union officials, the objec-
tion being that the wage-earner will have
stronger ties with his employer than with
his trade-union boss if he takes too much
interest in his job. This attitude will need
to change if the investor and wage-earner
both are to get the best out of their com-
bined effort and enterprise. Taxation is
another important all-round matter; the
sharemarket as well as all other sections
looks toward substantial reductions in
taxes as time goes by and the aftermath
of war is left behind.
It has been mentioned here before that
a business, and the shares in it, could once
be said to be worth what they could earn.
Nowadays an enterprise is worth as much
as labor, competition and the Prices
Branch allow it to demonstrate its earn-
ing capacity, less the heavy, special taxa-
tion which incorporated companies are
compelled to carry, and which investors
“Are you the coves who rang for the police ?"
in shares are forced to pay at the property
rates.
When there have been a few weeks’
dealings in shares it will be found that a
level of prices much higher than before
the war has been established. This is
logical enough when depreciation in the
buying-power of our money is remem-
bered ; but still the previously-mentioned
earning and taxation factors must
not be overlooked. Taking ta broad
view of things, there are undoubt-
edly great prospects of expansion
before Australian industry, with a
large consumer demand as well as a
wide market for capital goods. In the
interests of our present population and of
posterity we must try to fill these
markets, and we can only do that by
allowing investors a return sufficient to
encourage industrial expansion, which
will in turn raise wage-earners’ living
standards.
“War” expenditure by Australia for .the
half-year to December 31 was £101.5
million, of which £14.3 million was paid
for out of borrowings, the rest out of
taxation. Estimated “war” outgo for
the full year was £221 million. To date
total defence spending and the portion
financed by borrowing are below esti-
mates. This is probably due in part to
credits accruing from realisations and the
like; but, by the same token, there may
be debits from other Governments be-
fore June 30 next. The British Govern-
ment usually has a settlement of accounts
about March.
* * * *
According to latest figures, Customs,
excise and sales-tax revenue are extremely
buoyant, half-yearly collections being
18 p.c. above the estimated rate for the
year.
* * * *
Felt and Textiles of New Zealand,
Ltd., has obtained permission from the
Maoriland Treasury to make a new
capital issue of £260,000, half in 5 p.c. £1
pref. shares and half in £1 ords. Aus-
tralia’s Felt and Textiles co., the principal
shareholder, is to subscribe its full quota
of the issue, amounting to £lBO,OOO. This,
unfortunately, is not at present a two-way
privilege across the Tasman. When Smith
Wylie (Aust.), Ltd., invited its members
to contribute an additional £lOO,OOO last
November, Maoriland shareholders were
prevented by their Reserve Bank from
participating. The Bank is suffering from
a shortage of Australian funds, owing to
the unfavorable balance in trade with
the Commonwealth. Despite a healthy
export surplus from its total overseas
trade, the Dominion is deficient in cur-
rencies that are acceptable to Australia
as payment—a genuine difficulty in the
present coagulated state of international
exchange. What the Reserve Bank has
failed to appreciate is that cases like
this one of Smith Wylie are in quite a
special category. The rights of a share-
holder in respect of new capital issues by
this company have become in recent years
an increasingly valuable privilege.
Dominion investors, discouraged by their
unfavored position, might well react by
reducing on a large scale their Australian
holdings ; which,would defeat the Reserve
Bank’s own purpose, in the long run,
through the loss of incoming dividends.
Smith Wylie’s chairman estimates that his
company has remitted in dividends to
Maoriland in the last few years a greater
sum than was entailed in the Bank’s re-
fusal. The Bank should re-examine a
system of currency-allotment which offers
to such cases no precedence over ordinary
imports.
$ £ * *
Between the end of August and Novem-
ber 30 Australian savings-bank deposits
declined by £8.6 million to £662 million,
There has been a well-defined downward
movement in most savings over the past
s i x months, probably due in a measure to
heavy consumer spending, even though
employment has not been stable in
some industries because of strikes. The
note j ssue has expanded again lately, in-
Seating accelerated spending by the
P-ple. This pending is more selective
than lt used to * e - * *
The Minerva Theatre, near King’s
q- oss Sydney, has been sold to an un-
Closed buyer subject to Treasury
approval. It is likely to continue as a
" . ... .... c ...
playhouse at least until the middle of this
year; its subsequent future is uncertain.


oing r away?
«§>
Whether you are going on family holi-
days, an interstate business trip, or a
world tour, you will need funds for
your daily requirements.
Bank of New South Wales Travellers*
Cheques (Australian, New Zealand or
sterling currency) are the modern, safe
means of. payment for travellers.
You will find that they are readily
accepted by banks, principal tourist
bureaux, transport offices, hotels,
restaurants and stores.
Bank of New South Wales Travellers*
Cheques can be bought at any branch
of the "Wales”.-
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ZJraueffet'S ’ C^h
eauei
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
Xl27d
Sot Me!
I’VE JUST HAD
AN ICE-COLD
Vickers
Ever tasted one ? It certainly takes the
sting out of steaming weather, and a
Vickers “J and J" is easy to make. Take
a small glass of Vickers Gin, a tablespoon
of powdered sugar and a quarter glass
of lemon juice. Shake them well, strain
into a long tumbler, put in some ice and
fill with chilled water or soda water. Be
sure you use Vickers Gin. It’s always
satisfying.
VICKERS GIN * * *
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
|VG 12/24
“Bretton Woods” Exchange Rates.
Australia so far is out of the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund formed under the
Bretton Woods Agreement, which will
begin to carry out its functions from
March 1. Already, in U.S. parlance, the
fund has subjected the currencies of 32
countries to “quick-freezing,” with the
dollar as the key currency and with the
dollar at 4.03 to the £ sterling.
According to Camille Gutt, managing-
director of the fund, seven of the 39
members have been granted ex-
tended time for * stabilising their cur-
rencies. These are Brazil, Uruguay,
China, the Dominican Republic, Greece,
Poland and Yugoslavia. The Nether-
lands has agreed to its own rate, but asks
for additional time in respect of the
Netherlands Indies. France, while accept-
ing the present par value of the franc,
has requested a delay in the case of
Indo-China. Following are the par values
accepted by the fund as the basis on
which each member-country’s currency
will be listed:
Par Values —In Terms
of U.S. Dollars.
• U.S. Cents
Currency Per
Cur- Units Per Currency
Country. rency. U.S. Dollar. Unit.
Belgium .. Franc 43.8 2.28
Bolivia .. .. Boliviano 42.0 2.38
Canada .. .. Dollar 1.0 100.0
Chile .. .. Peso 31.0 3.2
Colombia .. Peso ' 1.7 1 57.1
Costa Rica .. Colon 5.6 17.8
Cuba .. .. Peso 1.0 100.0
Czechoslovakia Koruna 50.0 2.0
Denmark .. Krone 4.79 20.8
Ecuador Sucre 13.5 7.4
Egypt .. .. Pound 0.24 413.3
El Salvador . . Colon 2.5 40.0
Ethiopia .. Dollar 2.48 40.25
France .. .. Franc 119.1 0.839
Guatemala .. Quetzal 1.0 100.0
Honduras .. Lempira 2.0 50.0
Iceland .. Krona 6.48 15.4
India .. .. Rupee 3.3 30.2
Iran .. .. Rial 32.25 3.1
Irak .. .. Dinar 0.248 403.0
Luxembourg .. Franc 43.8 2.28
Mexico Peso 4.85 20.59
Netherlands .. Guilder 2.65 37.69
Nicaragua .. Cordoba 5.0 20.0
Norway .. Krone 4.96 20.15
Panama .. Balboa 1.0 100.0
Paraguay .. Guarani 3.09 32i36
Peru .. .. Sol 6.5 15.38
Philippine Com-
mon wealthr . Peso 2.0 50.0
Union of South
Africa .. Pound 0.248
(or 4s. 11.5 d.) 403.0
United Kingdom Pound 0.248
(or 4s. 11.5 d.) 403.0
United States . Dollar 1.0 100.0
According to Mr. Gutt, Russia, though
one of the original 44, has sent “not the
slightest word” as to possible participa-
tion. New Zealand, it will be noted, is,
like Australia, missing from the list, but
this is reputedly the result of an awkward
situation created by the recent elections,
and is to be remedied. That at least
appears to be the position provided the
Parliamentary Labor party has any
authority of its own other than that
granted to it by the trade-unions. In Aus-
tralia Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt have had
participation “vetoed” by Caucus, and are
now trying to get that body to change its
mind.
In any one year member-countries may
alter their exchange rates by 10 p.c. either
up or down. Larger alterations will have
to be sanctioned by the fund managers.
The present listed rates are regarded as
tentative, and are subject to change as
each country’s production approaches
normal. But Mr. Gutt thought it desir-
able to start off with the rates already
operating (officially only, in some cases)
in current world-trade transactions.
“There will be no disturbance with trade,”
he said. “We must realise that these are
unusual circumstances, and that the par
value suitable now in a few countries will
not be suitable as production rises. The
responsibility of the fund is to see that
members live up to their obligations to
maintain stability of their currencies and
to aid countries in temporary exchange
difficulties.” But he added that the fund
would have no control over blackmarket
currencies in any country. Each country
would have to do its own policing in
this connection.
Before the “frozen” rates were
upon it is reported that there were
arguments about shaky currencies, princi-
pally the French franc. It was pointed
out that the franc, officially accepted at
119.1 to the dollar, sold on the black-
market-at nearer 325 to the dollar. And
the Czechoslovakian koruna, listed even-
tually at 50 to the dollar, was available
on the “black” at 140. Countries with
overvalued currencies, it was contended
in some quarters, would rush their quota
of dollar credits, and the fund would be
left with jpaper that wouldn’t fetch its
accepted value at a pinch.
The United States and some other
members took the view, however, that
the fund was intended to help countries
having such exchange difficulties, and that
to question prevailing rates for the present
might bring political difficulties in the
country concerned. But between now
and March 1 fund delegates will travel
to countries with shaky currencies and
urge that measures be taken to back up
the official rate of exchange through a
strengthening of the general economy.
If the country does not accept sound
counsel from this source the fund can
bring pressure to bear by publicising its
doubts about the currency, and it can
make it hard for the non-co-operative
nation to obtain its foreign-exchange
resources through the fund. Any
member-country, however, appears to be
assured of a substantial helping of U.S.
dollars in the initial stages.
President Truman has issued a pro-
clamation declaring that hostilities ceased
on December 31, 1946, and many U.S.
Government controls have thus automati-
cally expired, while others will run out
after six months. In Australia Dr. Evatt
decided that hostilities ended on Sept. 2,
1945; but that did not represent the
termination of the war within the mean-
ing of the National Security Act, which
continued in operation until Dec. 31 last.
And now 60-odd war-time controls are
being continued under the Defence
(Transitional Powers) Act —some for
at least two years more, on present
plans. One result of the United
States decision will be that Aus-
tralia wjjtl have to return to America,
by the end of 1951, an amount of silver
equal to that borrowed under lend-lease
for currency and similar purposes during
the war. Another result will be that the
British Government will have to return or
purchase before June 30, 1947, U.S.
shipping now being operated on charter.
* * * *
There is no something for no-
thing even in an “internal readjustment”
—a term used by Mr. Ward to describe
the cost of interest on Government bor-
rowings, more particularly borrowings
raised to unify rail gauges. Very
few people will lend their money
interest-free to the Government to pay for
railways or anything else, and until idle
private savings are put to work it would
be extremely dangerous to expand
central-bank credit on a large scale,
whether on an interest-free basis or not.
Projects involving diversion of manpower
and materials towards the creation of
capital items like railways usually caus'e
a drain on the output of consumer goods,
and in such* a state of affairs it is neces-
sary for private investment partly to
contract private spending. Public credit
should certainly not be expanded in times
which there is an excess of investment and
spending power already.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Loc”: Once a year I polish my shoes
and go to the city. On my last trip I
came across a picture show, and was
trapped by the look of a large black
stallion on the posters outside. I entered.
In the film (“Smoky”), a bloke falls off
the horse, doing in a couple of ribs. This
allows a five-minute scene in which the
nag, quite wild a couple of days be-
fore, mentally tosses up whether to
leave his master to the buzzards and
head back to the hill-country or to stay
with him and protect him. He decides
on the latter (cheers from the mob), and
revives his boss by blowing on his face
through a nostril. The bloke (Fred
Mac Murray) comes to and looks up at
the saddle, but it is too high; so he
unties the three-feet of silk scarf that
Hollywood boundary-riders always carry
and ties a loop with it through his off-
side stirrup. Then it is just a matter of
crooking his arm through the loop and
being dragged by the stallion for half a
reel back to the ranch-house. For my
money, I wouldn’t even let my kid’s
rocking-horse drag me by its off-side
stirrup, let alone a brumby stallion. But
the city mob loved it. I can imagine a
city slicker - next time he falls off a
tram whipping out a handkerchief and
doing the Mac Murray act on one of the
off-side handrails.
“S.G.”: You Aboliars haven’t got all
the clever cockatoos out in the bush; I’m
camped in a Sydney suburb which copped
out when the biggest hailstones in history
fell upon it on New Year’s Day. Got up
on the roof to look for damage and
found the guttering choked with bits of
broken concrete and slate. Went aground
per ladder to get a stiff brush to clean it
out. My galah climbed the ladder, saw
the rubbish and went from end to end
of that gutter and threw it all out, and
when I got back there was nothing left
but fine dust. Asked the parrot if he
did it in play or to help me, and he
erected his crest, bobbed his head, gave
me a sidelong look and said something
remarkably like “Pull your head in,
mate,”
* * * *
“Flea”: Old Harry Barr and “Tum-
mas McN.” (B. 25/12/’46) are a pair.
Certainly a six-volt battery is used to
charge an electric fence, but by the time
the current is boosted through a coil it
packs a kick like a mule. The reason
it isn’t dangerous is that the amper-
age is so low the shock doesn’t
burn. I’ve got one around my weaner
run, and I often pick up a “crack” along
with a little squealer when he swings
round and bumps the wires with me hang-
ing to one of his hind legs.
« * * n
“X.E.D.” : The men sit on the fence-
rail gazing impassively at the ground and
the blue-heeler. “Y’ c’n have him f’r a
fiver if y’ like,” Rody says at last. “Aw,
I dunno,” Craig replies, and makes a pass
at a march-fly buzzing near his face.
Silence reigns again. Five minutes later
Rody breaks in. “Good dawg,” he says.
“I’m not partic’ly keen t’ sell him.”
“Yairs,” agrees Craig. A longer inter-
val passes. “Dunno how I’d manage if I
parted with him,” Rody says. “But, o’
course, if y’ want him as bad as all
that” Craig breaks the renewed
silence ten minutes later. “Well, I might
be able t’ use another dawg at musterin’
times,” he admits. Rody cogitates for a
quarter-hour before squinting at the sun.
“Mus’ be time I got along t’ git the cows
in,” he says. “I’ll be over ageh early next
Sundee. Might git a bit o’ time then t’
talk it over an’ decide whether I c’n let
y’ have old Blue. I’m not the sort o’
neighbor t’ see a man stuck f’r a dawg at
musterin’, ’specially as I c’d borrer him
orf y’ between times. Y’d only be wantin’
him f’r a couple o’ days ev’ry three
months or so. Yairs, I think I might be
able t’ stretch a point an’ let y’ have him
for a fiver.”
* * * *
“Botano”: But do various trees fight
for the same minerals (B. 18/12/ ’46)?
Although occasionally several varieties of
trees and shrubs may be found within a
circle radius of 20yd., the fact that in
the primitive forest distinct belts and
clumps of timber are found seems to
prove that trees thrive on different
minerals, lack or overabundance of vvhich
gives some species an ascendancy in that
particular spot. In the region of
which “Gravelsnatcher” speaks, s.-w.
W.A., one often comes on areas
exclusively banksia, or jarrah, or
blackboy, Thus that district is divided
into karri, tuart and jarrah country
with minor areas of quite different
eucalypts such as the York-gum. Where
a variety of ’trees are fpund on a small
area it simply means that by some freak
of natural manuring the minerals that
favor the growth of each are there found
in the soil.
“Naturala”: “D.R.H.” (B. 18/12/’46)
had better keep a strict eye on those
snails. Thirty years ago s.-w. W.A. was
practically snail-free; now every garden
“Aw, go and chase rabbits !”
and paddock carries an infestation,
mostly a small white species with great
power of survival. Grass withers,
vegetables pass out; so the snail
climbs high up posts, seals its shell to
timber, iron or even concrete by means
of its slime, and so sleeps the summer
away. Thus exposed to the full glare of
the sun it withstands inside temperatures
which would cook an egg, or even
a crayfish. At the first shower of autumn
it unlimbers, descends to earth and so
with the earliest sprouting of green be-
gins again its annual life cycle.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Riding through Maxie’s back
country, I was surprised at the few
bunnies in evidence, compared to the
hordes recently in occupation. “Netting
traps,” the owner told me. “Made ’em
meself, an’ if y’ shift ’em about a bit y’
don’t need so many. I leave ’em set over
the burrers an’ on fence tracks, an’ just
clean out the catch when I come this
way. Here, I’ll show y’.” The trap we
inspected was made entirely of netting,
and fitted closely over the burrow open-
ing, whilb a short distance from its mouth
was a hinged netting door which at a
touch let the bunnies through into a larger
enclosure. The swing door worked only
the one way. Seven grown rabbits in
the enclosure at one time was common
enough, Maxie assured me, and the
number of kittens it cleaned up was re-
markable. “Well, yair, the big ’uns shy
orf it a bit at first,” he admitted, “an’
y’ might have t’ leave it there a few days,
but sooner or later they come out an'
don’t go back.” Seeing what the con-
trivance has accomplished in that rabbit-
infested paddock, I’m wondering if we
are at last on the track of a humane trap.
“Dusty Gully”: Ted’s missus com-
plained of mice in the storeroom, and'
Ted growled about having no time for
pottering with traps, patent or otherwise.
The first night he stood a kero.-tin half-
filled with crushed wheat in the room for
free feeding, but the next night he
covered it with a sheet of tin in the centre
of which was a hole large enough to ad-
mit a mouse. The following morning the
tin was rustling with, mice unable to
jump out vertically through the hole just
above their heads. Ted solved the prob-
lem of dispatching ’em by tossing the
lot in an old square iron tank, with the
ginger tomcat for good measure.
* * * *
“E. and 0.E.”: The season for trigger-
shooting has opened in my garden, wnere
the trigger-plant (Stylidium), with its
spears of blotting-paper-pink florets, is
awaiting the touch that will cause it
to “shoot.” In this plant Nature’s pro-
vision for pollenisation works on the
same principle as that of the mouse trap,
though more harmlessly to the agent.
When an insect in search of nectar
touches the “trigger” this springs down
on its back, dusting if with pollen, which
is then distributed to other flowers by
this unconscious collaborator.
* * * *
“D.H.R.”: Arrived in a N.Q. town
one scorching afternoon during the dry
season, I noticed with surprise all the
cars parked out in the blistering sun,
despite the inviting presence of shady
trees beside the road. Wondering at the
queer ideas some people have, I parked
mine beneath a shady gum. Ip the pub
I interrogated an old inhabitant about
this peculiar practice of the locals, and
after studying me with a sympathetic eye
he launched into a passionless diatribe on
the goat family. I couldn’t see what he
was driving at until I happened to glance
out the pub door —there, standing non-
chalantly on the hood of my car was an
ancient Billy miinching contentedly at the
fresh green leaves. Deprived of green
pickings by the drought blight, the in-
genious goats waited for the unwary
motorist to park beneath a tree before
undertaking a slippery climb.
* * * *
“D.A.D.”: It would seem that “Em
G.’s” knowledge of outback roads (B.
18/12/’46) is limited. How does he ex-
plain the deep corrugations on bush
tracks and across Iblack flats where no
roller, steam or otherwise, or grader has
ever been? The corrugations are caused
by the action of the engine on the tyres
of fast motor-trucks and -cars obtaining
their grip on the surface. They are
always worse on curves. In America
engineers on research work have traced
with sound-detectors corrugations to a
depth of 15 feet.
* * * 9
“Old-timer”: The old Murray has seen
some plagues in its time —mice, grass-
hoppers, rabbits, waterhens, snakes,
grubs, moths —but it remained for Gol
Gol to stage a plague of bagmen, hatters
and whalers. Somebody on a back track
out of Hatfield picked up a rumor that
Emerald had drawn a Tatt’s winner and
bought the Gol Gol pub, and it passed
thence into Balranald and points east,
west and north. Emerald, who’d
for anybody while he had the money,
was further reported by a Kilfera bound-
ary-rider to have declared that he’d keep
open house for a week, whereupon there
converged upon the village a collection
of humanity such as never was seen be-
fore or since. Within a fortnight the river
was fringed with camps and battlers from
a hundred tracks, and hatters from a
thousand bends speculated eagerly on the
anticipated celebration. Wentworth, ad-
vised by Mildura, sent up a deputation
of police troopers, but all was peace
while the pilgrims concentrated on work-
ing up their thirsts. Denials by the
publican that he had sold out were re-
garded with contempt and he didn’t per-
sist, since a proportion of the plague had
money and spent it. Then Emerald him-
self arrived, having hurried down from
Tapalin when the rumor reached him,
and was luridly profane when he sorted
it out. Then, just as do the mice, the
hopeful vanished .overnight and for days
afterwards silent blokes were pushing
back into the bends and out on the tracks
they’d left. The troopers estimated that
at its height the invasion numbered 432
thirsty souls, but since Mildura was then
a “dry” area many of them were pro-
bably ring-ins from the grape town.
9 * * *
“Atrax”: Brisbane records a curious
little tragedy in bird life. Playing with
the cord of a dressing gown on the family
lawn, a small boy left it there to go in to
tea and forgot about it. A boobook
owl sailing by after dusk in search of
tucker apparently mistook it for some-
thing very special in the worm line, slid
down on noiseless wings, grabbed it,
swalloVed a foot or so of one end and
then flew up into a neighboring tree to
deal at leisure with the recalcitrant meal.
The slack end got entangled in a branch,
and, in his efforts to free himself of the
now-undesired captive, poor boobook
managed to get a loop of it round his
neck, fell off the branch arid hanged him-
self,
* * * •
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d pitched our tent
in a nice little spot within easy walking
distance of the Yarrawonga pubs and
settled down to enjoy the New Year with
a bit of fishing, yarning and lazing, spiced
with slow beers. The usual river roamers
appeared for a yarn and there were the
usual unrancorous debates on a variety
of subjects from the best wheat for hay
to whether Dan Kelly was still alive.
One long cove had a great habit of
referring to certain aspects of arguments
as “extraneeus”: a word new to Mat and,
as always with new words, he was obvi-
ously intrigued by it; so I wasn’t sur-
prised when he dropped into the local
paper one day and got its meaning. Time
passed and We passed—from Yarrawonga
into dry land of no money and little re-
freshment. It was with memories
upon me that I eyed the Cargelligo pub
from the mallee clump whereunder we
reposed and sighed, wistfully, “Now if
oniy there was a pipe from the pub to
here with a tap on it.” Mat cogitated,
then said, thoughtfully, “Don’t y’ reckon
the tap’d be exteraneous?”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Bee s,” says
“Aperist” (B. 18/12/’46), “don’t attack
anyone who treats them casually.” Held
that view for years myself until one
day, out after a particularly strong bush-
hive, I put up a brush wallaby and let
the nag have its head. Gave it best after
half-a-mile, and when I reached the hive
at last the nag was still in a lather of
sweat. I approached that hive as casually
as a defeated politician accepting a cushy
job, but half-a-minute later I was streak-
ing back to where a frenzied horse was try-
ing to uproot the sapling to which he
was tied. In that brief interval we
absorbed enough bee-stings, between us,
to cure a millionaire’s gout. That’s- how
I, and a nag, discovered that sweat arouses
bees to a point of insane hatred. But I’ve
never discovered why,
* * * *
“Betcha”: Scrap is an ill-bred tyke,
ugly as an attack of measles and about as
big as a hat. He eats when there’s plenty,
takes it cheerfully when things are tough,
and holds his place round here by his
willingness to crawl through hollow logs
and such rabbit hide-outs. As I passed
his kennel, he was trying conclusions with
a big Shorthorn bull with fixed ideas
about feeding grounds. Scrap, serving
out well-timed dashes garnished with
sharp nips, was leading easily on points
as I passed on to King’s kennel. The
collie is a household pet: a fussy, use-
less brute about the size of a yearling
steer, and sporting a pedigree from here
to next Christmas; if there’s ever any-
thing round the place he doesn’t get, it
is nobody’s fault but mine. He whinged
at me appealingly from the -end of his
chain, where, by the look of him, he had
been sitting for some time in the drizzling
pj-ain. Helpless, and utterly wretched, his
sorrowful eyes were directed to his kennel.
There, sheltering on the roomy step,
perched a three-days-old chicken.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Bo’s” inventor who
claimed originality for his legless wheel-
barrow (B. 18/12/’46) was plagiarising
a genius who adopted the device to trans-
port his worldly goods to Coolgardie in
the roaring days. Every conceivable, form
of transport participated in the rush, but
by far the least laborious was one con-
structed from a sulky-wheel, a stub-axle
—probably wooden —and two saplings
attached to the axle, one on each side
of the wheel, and projecting beyond it at
each end. A carefully-balanced load,
fore and aft, required only to be pushed.
There was no weight and the prospective
runner’s speed to Eldorado was governed
only by his walking capacity. The old-
fashioned wheelbarrow was a decided
“drag” compared with this invention.
THE MESSENGER.
I keep this picture from the days of yore:
A waiting group outside the station store,
With eyes that searched along the river track
For one who rode to town—and should be back.
At last he came and, with his goal attained,
Heeled up his waler and beside us reined
And from his dusty saddle downward leant
To tell his news of how the Test Match went;
How Trumper still was batting, or how Trott
Had passed his fifty with a boundary shot;
How cover-point had muffed an easy catch;
How, anyway, ’twas all Australia’s match!
I wonder if today the stockmen wait
To hear that rrder click the paddock gate,
With half the eagerness their fathers knew
In those tense moments ere the news came
through.
But no! The wireless and the telephone
Have flung that herald horseman from his
throne,
And long before the shoeless hoofs are heard
The imps of air have passed the wished-for
word.
/nd yet, today, with thoughts of Hammond’s
team,
I see as in some sunlit golden dream
That horseman with the foam upon his rein
Come riding up the sandhill track again.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“Lazarus”: Henry and the goanna
tvere old enemies, for (a) the go. was steal-
ing the eggs from the turkey’s nest under
the pepper-tree, and ( b ) the last time he
had had a crack at the reptile he had
made the mistake of heaving a waddy
at* it when he was standing in front of
his big header and the 10-horse team.
The goanna, perched 12 feet up on the
limb of a dead box-tree, took a flying
leap and landed on the rump of the off-
side leader; the team took off like a
barrier start at Randwick, and the
machine picked Henry up and took him
with them—right into the thickest crop
ever raised in the paddock. So now,
when Mrs. Henry spotted the goanna
looting the last six eggs from the sitting
"It's good to get home an relax an forget I’m a p’liceman."
turkey, Henry made for the box-tree with
his rifle; and got his go. The rest of
the story makes me a firm believer in the
legend of Jonah and the whale. For Mr.
and Mrs. Henry ripped open that slain
goanna, found four of the six eggs un-
broken in its stomach, and returned % them
(still warm, of course) to the turkey‘hen ;
and she did sit thereon, and eight days
later she did hatch them. When I saw. the
chicks near Dubbo (N.S.W.) they were
alive, well and as happy as those doleful
youngsters ever are.
“Zake”: The acme of cussedness is a
horse when one is trying to tow him by
a lead in a rowing-boat. I once suw a
prad landed from a small steamer
in a flat surf off a jettyless N.S.W. South
Coast beach. Three men in a rowing-
boat took him in tow, and after about 20
minutes, with two pulling and one hold-
ing the lead while the nag thrashed in
reverse, they had gone about 10 yards.
By that time Dobbin was in danger of
being drowned. Then a fellow who had
seen what was going on came out from
the shore in a dinghy. He handed his
craft over to one of the optimists, took
his place in the rowing-boat,- hauled the
prad alongside, grabbed his two ears and
instructed the rowers to pull for the shore.
The horse simply let himself be towed
along until his hooves touched the
bottom.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Straightening his back,
Steve stepped back to survey the new
sheepdip. Finished at last. It had been
a big enough job getting the cement;
with no labor available he’d had to build
it himself; but at least it made a bloke
independent of that ancient community
ruin which the locals shared. With its
sides caving in, the thing leaked badly,
and a man was always fighting for a turn
to get his sheep through. The concrete
of the new dip was nicely set, and the
now windmill tank full, when Rogers
called. “Don’t mind if I use y’ dip f’r
a few days, do y’?” he asked. “Y’ won’t
be ready y’rself till next week.” Rogers’s
sheep were barely through when another
neighbor arrived with eight or ten thou-
sand ready for their bath. He was fol-
lowed by Smithie, Cox and old Sam in
quick succession. Steve mustered his
own sheep, only to find the yards packed
with a mob of Petersen’s, who, he learned,
had sent a message that was not received.
The dip owner waited. Petersen’s mob
was followed through by Bailey’s, with
old Harry standing by impatiently. The
following week Steve was on the road
once more, taking his flock to the old
community dip.
* * * *
“G’roper”: Myths such as the offering
of £5O for the location of a black
cockatoo’s nest have haunted the fringes
of Australian life from my earliest recol-
lection. The latest was a yarn circulated
in the land of sand and flies that the W.A.
Agricultural Department was paying 3d.
per dozen for captured white butterflies.
More than one industrious kid rolled up
with his catch —to be laughed at heartily
by officialdom, for the rumor was just
that. But it never occurred to any of
these tickled authorities that it might
be a good idea to pay the kids a trifle
for the capture of the pests, every female
of which is capable of producing dozens
of the destructive grubs.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: The ridiculously con-
ceited delusion of H. sapiens, var. aus-
traiiensis, regarding his own irresistible
attractiveness as an item on the menu of
all kinds of sharks is being? blared forth
again by press and wireless. Today, half
a dozen school-sharks, none over sft.
and all perfectly harmless, cruised along
the outer break in search of the small
fish on which they feed. Beach alarms
brayed and screeched, lifesavers waved
and yelled, and five hundred scared
bathers made a frantic rush for the shore.
Yesterday the same quaint performance
was caused by a couple of porpoises;
two old ladies, a good hundred yards
from the water, even picked up their
beach chairs and fled into the ti-trees.
Actually only a very few of the many
species of Australian sharks have ever
attacked humans, and there is good evi-
dence to show that with equal choice of
either they much prefer dogs. A patrol-
boat outside the surf-line with a com-
petent sea-fisherman on the lookout and
a harpoon and rifle handy, will spot and
deal with any dangerous kind of shark
before it has time to even scare a bather.
Bathing in the late afternoon or even-
ing is riskier than by day, but for the
average holiday-maker the chance of
injury from a shark is very much less than
that involved in travelling to the seaside
and home again by road or rail.
“Another bucketful, Mustapha—the back hump's still a bit soft."
“Blime”: For several seasons the
brown beetles had ruined the blossom on
the orange-tree near Mike’s door, but
he was not concerned till, visiting old
Bragg, he learned that beetles were un-
known in his neighbor’s garden. “And
don’t y’ git no fruit?” queried Bragg,
“Cripes, y’ oughter see mine. Big as any
in the State.” After that, it became
Bragg’s custom to inquire about the
beetles every time he saw Mike, and furn-
ish reports on his own tree, together with
records of past crdps and expectations
of even greater wonders, till Mike could
stand it no longer. Buying spraying
materials, he attacked the beetles. When
that failed, he tried fumigants, dusts,
language, and smudge fires. For a couple
of days he seemed to give up, then next
I spotted him catching beetles by hand
and shoving them into a big brown paper
bag. “Don’t seem many less,” I grinned,
“What odds,” he snorted. “Let ’em all
come. I got five ’undred awready.” It
was dark when, approaching his home
that evening, I ran into Mike-riding
quietly across the flat. “Going over to
Bragg’s?” I asked, noting his direction,
“Yair... n 0... er, that is, I won’t be
long.” I rode on discreetly. Mike was
carrying a big brown paper bag.
* * * *
“Woman-hater”: Can’t see why “Zake”
(B. 11/12/’46) should be puzzled over
the derivation of the she in she-oak. Our
first settlers had no illusions about the
proper status of woman as the inferior
vessel, so when they came across a tree
whose timber was akin to that of a tree
they knew in the old country, but of in-
ferior quality, they naturally dubbed it
feminine. Thus as well as she-oak they
named she-pine and she-beech. Similarly
when the first brewers began turning out
colonial beer the forthright topers of
Macquarie’s day soon found a disparag-
ing title for it—she-oak beer. Lord knows
what they would have called the present-
day tack.
*’* * *
solitude”: “Seventyfiver” mooched
into the store and began squinting at a
notice prominently displayed on the
counter. “That’s our overseas food
parcels appeal,” said old George.
“Want t’ give somethin’?” The old bloke
looked up. “Short o’ grub over there,
are they?” he inquired. “Well, no, it
ain’t that they’re exactly hungry,” the
storeman told him, “but they don’t get the
variety. No tinned fish or nothin’, an’
their fruit’s pretty dear. Look over the
list while I get y’r things. What d’ y’
want?” “Seventyfiver” came to light
with a chaffbag pack, and dropped it on
the counter. “Give us enough flour ’n’
tea t’ last another three munce, will y’?”
he requested. “An’, George, have y’ got a
tin o’ treacle or somethin’? I ain’t fussy
as a rule, but when a bloke’s out o’ meat
at the camp f’r weeks on end, the damper
seems like it needs somethin’. Yair,
that’ll do, thanks.” He shoved the tin
inside the pack, then dived a hand to-
wards his pocket. “An’ here, I’ll give y’
a quid f’r y’r parcels, George. Reckon it’s
up t’ us lucky ones to help them folks
get a bit o’ decent tucker.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: For a variety of styles in
scrapping the feathered world over-
whelms the furred. The wagtail and his
cousin fight on the wing, darting in with
short, stabbing bursts at the back of an
enemy—generally a designing cuckoo.
Sparrows brawl like slum-alley hooligans,
going to ground and rolling over and
about in the dust. Doves will fight any-
how or where, on the ground or in a
tree, but rarely on the wing. I’ve seen
crows “sandwich” eagles—one above and
one below—each taking a turn to attack
the foe. The peewee is my nomination
as the most quarrelsome bird. He will
“declare on” any bird from a kooka to
a wedgetail; and fight his own brother in
the meantime. But his attack is always
an aerial one, and generally more voci-
ferous than effective. Magpies prefer to
fight it out on the wing; an unusual
technique is the habit of gaining the
upper position, then dropping with the
claws stretched down like a hawk’s talons.
It goes against the grain to hand any
kudos to a starling-after seeing what
the black pests can do to a crop of grapes
—but I doubt if any bird is more peace-
able* Though hundreds haunt my place
I can’t recall having seen a starling fight,
and a gentlemen’s agreement seems to
ex ist when starling and spag alight in
tke feed troughs to pinch my ducks’
tucker.
* * * *
“Bo' : Bedwell fixed up the poison-cart,
gave his new hand detailed instructions
as to how to do the back paddock and
sen t him on his way. Half an hour later,
f r ° m the back verandah, Bedwell
beheld tne poison-cart just beyond
the home-paddock sliprails. The new
hand was looking behind him as
he urged the horse forward, stopped
h, backed, went around in a half-circle one
way and then went off at a tangent, then
turned half left and went another few
Yards. 'Bedwell wasted no time in getting
£ bls employee W are y wastin me
blasted pollard like that for. he
roared. Its the back paddick I told
to do ~~,d s evoked with rabbits. The
new hand gazed from t £l s , , em
to .jhe trail behind him Rabbits, he
? aid , absently What have those things
to do with it. Just look. he pointed
Proudly; have you ever seen a better
outline of a lyrebirds tail?
9 * * *
“Atrax”: At domestic behest I col-
lected the usual bunch of mistletoe for
our Christmas party. There certainly
wa s no difficulty in locating it. The
parasite is a destroyer of forests and
a potent factor in creating flood-
risks > silting watercourses and erod-
mg arable soils. Insensate destruction of
possums in the past has removed the
principal factor in natural control of the
leaf Y species—there are over 20 different
kmds of mistletoe in Australia—which
provided a favorite food for them. Birds
eat the berries, but the seeds resist diges-
bon and are thus carried to other trees
to infest them in turn. So far, science
b as failed to discover any chemical or
biological agent which will kill out the
P est without injury to the trees,
* * * *
“Benbow”: Cockroaches on island
vessels are certainly hogs for beer (B.
1/1 /’47). In a Gilbert Island trader,
the case stuff having given out, we
made home brew in kerosene-tins on the
galley stove. Believing it should
mature in the wood for a day or two,
we used the lifeboat’s water-breakers
stowed under the cabin settee for this
purpose, with slack-fitted bungs to pre-
vent explosibns, previous brews matur-
ing in bottles having detonated. Meeting
the old phosphate-carrier Wanganella, re-
cruiting Gilbert labor-boys for Ocean
Island, nine weeks out and bone dry, we
offered our hospitality. The beer tasted
fair until the first butt was upended, when
out came a solid quart of cockroaches
which had shared the fate of the Duke
of Clarence, of illustrious memory.
GREEN GIPPSLAND.
The birds have been my cousins, wild animals
my friends;
The trees our elder brothers their yearly
dividends
Of bloom and honey paid me; the earth a
royalty
Of fruitful harvest brought me; and for my
songs I’ll be
For evermore beholden
Unto a landscape golden
Thst sweeps from azure mountains majestic
to the sea,
I crave not wealth or power, I little long for
fame;
I envy not the rich man; the poor I do not
blame.
The world may seek its baubles; my quest is
otherwhere,
The breath of crowded places is not my native
uir:
The winds, the changing seasons
Advance a thousand reasons
Why I must find in freedqm the things for
which I care.
My camp upon the hillside is facing to the blue
Where ships of many nations pass in and out
of view.
I see their smoke in daytime, I watch on moon-
less nights
Along the sea-line gliding their bright electric
lights.
They bring to me a splendid
Review of journeys ended
When travel was a mistress who offered sweet
delights.
The winding road to Orbost from Mallacoota
runs;
The winding road te Eden would lead me ’neath
the suns
That rise on Arafura—the frangipani blows
A fragrance through that vision more subtle
than the rose:
But little now I heed them
And less and less I need them..
Who dwell where drooping tree-fern by golden
wattle grows.
For ever as I wandered our broad Australian
scene
A Southern fairy whispered, “Come back to
Gippsland green!
C ome back and hear the bellbirds chime in the
bloodwoods tall;
Come back and see the shadows along Howe
Mountain fall!
Come home, the rain is falling;
Come home, the winds are calling,
Are calling you to Gippsland that holds your
soul in thrall.”
To Gippsland, then, to Gippsland I drink a
lover’s toast —
The queen pf all the bushland, the jewel of
the coast;
And she shall be my Lady and I will faithful be
Till her good earth- for ever at last shall cover
me.
I shall not miss the cities;
My dear ones and my ditties,
My garden in green Gippsland, are good enough
for me.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“HMLANDFCOY”
is the condensation of a distinguished long name. It is
the telegraphic address of Australian, Mercantile, Land &
Finance Coy. Ltd. Whether it's the sale of Wool; Produce;
Fat, Store or Stud Stock; or Property the purchase of
Station and other requirements—or personal services, etc.,
telegraph "AMLANDFCOY" Sydney, or write to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A1.22.7S
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
To Remedy BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely’ a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric add and 40 per cent. lime.
— All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
gf
yT
J
v; '
y
DESTROY THESE PESTS
CYanogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
WEIGHT
APPROX.
4J TONS
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
dg
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Hejbert & Co. Pty.,
Ltd. VICTORIA —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick,
Melbourne. Q’LAND—lntercolonial Boring Co., Ltd. Brisbane.
VV.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.— Motor Specialities, Ltd.
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road.
-IBAY PROVINCE —R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN q’land op
MEEHANITE
METALS
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SEDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Low Lambing Percentages.
“Bungaree”: One' of the chief causes is
mating at the wrong time. Mostly the
rams are blamed, but the ewes are more
often to blame. Experiments have shown
that best results can be obtained only by
mating at certain periods—which vary in
different parts, but generally speaking
occur between October and January. A
fair indication may be obtained by using
a few vasectomised rams or rams fitted
with aprons and raddled on the brisket.
These will give indication of when ewes
are coming on heat and will point to
the opportune time Tor mating, all other
conditions being suitable.
The rams should be in good condition
but not overfat. Don’t expect them to
work in very hot weather. Flushing with
green feed or a ration of grain, particu-
larly maize, will work wonders. Flystrike
will put rams out of commission for
some time. Rams found blown shoqld
be taken out and kept in a hospital pad-
dock for some weeks after recovery.
Good results have been obtained by
shearing the rams before mating, where
they are carrying six months’ wool or
more. In trefoil country it is most advis-
able to. crutch all ewes well over the tail
before mating, and also to shear the
bellies of the rams.
In a stud flock it is possible to check
up on rams and to find out those which
are unprofitable, but among flock sheep
this cannot be done except to a very
limited extent. If there is any indication,
therefore, that some rams are defective
the quickest and safest expedient is to join
a larger percentage of rams than usual.
A Home Tester.
“Prof”: In the absence of more reliable
tests, a fair idea of the butterfat produc-
tion of each cow can be estimated this
way: Buy a few dozen test tubes —about
three to every cow so as always to have
clean ones on hand. Get them all the
same diameter, the wider the better, and
6in. long. With a three-comer file mark
each tube about £in. from the bottom
just above the rounded base, then
another mark exactly 41-in. above that.
Once a month weigh the milk from
every cow for two consecutive milkings,
say, night and morning. After weighing
stir the milk well and take a sample.
Take the prepared tubes and fill with
water up to the first mark —an eye-
dropper is useful —then add milk from
a sampling up to the second mark. Allow
to settle for 12 to 16 hours and measure
the length of the column of cream. Every
iin. of cream represents 1 p.c. butterfat.
Now multiply the xveight of each cow’s
milk in pounds by the percentage of
butterfat and divide by 100. Calculate
this for both morning and evening test,
add them together and multiply by 30 to
get the number of pounds of butterfat
that cow will produce in that month. If
done regularly every month over the
complete lactation period of each cow
the quantities produced by each can be
added up and uneconomical animals dis-
posed of.
Dairy Production in N.Z.
“Outback”: Queensland Director of
Dairying, E. B. Rice, noted while there
recently that failure of dairy cows to
breed regularly seemed to be a major
problem in N.Z.; on some farms he in-
spected 30 p.c. of the cows failed to con-
ceive the previous breeding season. With
the co-operation of veterinary clubs an
attempt is being made to map the rela-
tive incidence of different types of female
sterility, as it is not known to what ex-
tent this is the result of biological or
physiological causes.
At the Wallaceville Research Station,
near Wellington, “Strain 19” vaccine for
the control of contagious abortion in
dairy cattle is highly rated. In a trial in
1943, in a badly-affected district, of
10,724 heifers vaccinated only 3 p.c.
“We get the willy-willies pretty bad ’round ’ ere .”
aborted from all causes, compared with
22 p.c. of the 11,268 unvaccinated heifers.
The average incidence of abortion
throughout the Dominion in 1943 was
estimated to be 12 p.c., but in 1944 of
110,000 heifers treated only 2.6 p.c. failed
to carry a full-time calf. This year
200,000 calves were being treated when
from four to eight months old.
As the N.Z. sire survey investigations
show that the dam contributes only 15
p.c. towards the production standard of
her progeny, while the proven sire was
so prepotent in his breeding efficiency,
Professor Riddet, of Massey Agricultural
College, believes in keeping every calf
sired by a proven bull, irrespective of its
dam. N.Z. generally is placing all em-
phasis on the improvement of dairy stock
via the proven sire or the son of a proven
sire, in contrast with the old system of
selecting a bull on the production
of his nearest female ancestors. Studies
are being undertaken at the Dairy Re-
search Institute on the hormonal con-
trol of lactation. By the injection of
hormones into an empty cow which had
been in milk for 14 months the animal
was' induced to continue to produce for
another season, and 4001 b. butterfat was
yielded. In another trial milk secretion
was initiated in a virgin heifer, which
yielded 1601 b. butterfat in the lactation
period. This work, however, is not yet
developed to the practical stage.
New Legume.
“Bill C.”: Tangier pea (Lathryus tin-
gilanus) is going to help solve Queens-
land pastoral feeding problems if what
W. H. Bechtel, Department of Agricul-
ture, told S.Q. graziers is true. The
legume, a close relative of the garden
sweet pea, has a lengthy growing period
from March to September, and may be
grazed repeatedly during growth by
cattle. Or it may be allowed to flower
before being cut for hay or for feeding
green. Furthermore, it’s no hankerer for
rich soils ; in fact, it is believed that its
growth on poor soils may cause it to
mature its seed better.
That’s the drawback with.it in Queens-
land —it doesn’t mature its seed very
well. So farmers must obtain seed from
other States, particularly WA., where it
has many friends amongst those in-
terested in crop-fattening of sheep and
cattle.
It is recommended that Tangier pea be
broadcast on cultivated land at the rate
of 61b. to 81b: of seed to the acre or
drilled in in rows 3ft. apart, like the soya
bean. Bushing out is very pronounced
when it has plenty of space in rows. Its
anti-erosion cover is as dense as that of
cowpea and much more lasting, but it is
admitted that its early growth may be
leisurely. Besides being resistant to cold,
it is tolerant of much heat without arti-
ficial watering. Bechtel says that,
planted about the beginning of March in
S.Q., it should be in flower by September.
Improvised Well Pump.
“Bushwhacker”: When the cylinder
pump on my well, worked by an engine
and jackhead, broke down 1 was in a fix,
as l could not get another.
A surface pump was out of the ques-
tion, as the water was nearly 30ft. down.
So I put a 2in. low-down hand pump on
a platform 20ft. down the well. Instead
of the straight lever handle I took the
wooden handpiece out of the ratchet and
got a piece of piping electric-welded on
at right-angles and in line with the pump.
I also got a hole drilled to connect the
rod from jackhead to pump lever, thus
converting from horizontal thrust to
perpendicular.
The result is most satisfactory and the
cost much cheaper than if I had bought
a new cylinder pump. I can alter length
of stroke and volume of water by placing
the rod in another hole in the arm closer
to the pump to increase, or further away
from pump to decrease.
Veterinary Scholarships.
“Myrrhee”: Five scholarships will be
awarded this year to Victorian students
to study- veterinary science at Melbourne
and Sydney Universities. The scholar-
ships will be tenable for five years, the
first year at Melbourne Uni., and the re-
maining four at Sydney Uni. Fees for
the first year at Melbourne will be paid,
and for the remaining four years, in addi-
tion to the Sydney Uni. fees, the scholar-
ship holders will each receive a living
allowance of £lOO per annum.
Selected applicants must agree that,
after graduation, they will join, the Vic.
Department of Agriculture or practise
as veterinary surgeons in Vic. for three
years. Closing date for applications,
31/1//47.
Seed Wheat.
“Mr.”: Fair quantities of the new
wheats Insignia and Pinnacle will be
available early this year from Vic.
departmental research stations and col-
leges. Insignia is an early-maturer which
has given highest average yields in Mallee
tests during the past six years, and Pin-
nacle is recommended particularly for the
Wimmera, where it has given higher
yields than Ghurka and Quadrat. Both
produce a flour superior in quality to
Ghurka.
Other standard varieties —Pindar, Ben-
cubbin, Quadrat, Magnet and Baldmin
—are available at 245. per bag f.o.r. send-
ing station, and special cheap freights are
available. Wheat from Longerenong
(Pinnacle) or Dookie (Quadrat, Magnet
and Baldmin) should be applied for direct
to the principals of these colleges. Appli-
cations for other varieties will be dealt
with by the Agricultural Superintendent,
Department of Agriculture, Melbourne,
C 2. No money should accompany the
order, as the department will not know
for certain until after harvest whether
there will be enough wheat to go round.
Maximum allotment of Insignia to any
one grower will be three bags. Priority
to applications in order of receipt.
\ Grasshopper Control.
“K.W.R.”: A reliable bait formula
consists of ilb. arsenic pentoxide, 41b.
molasses, 2|gal. of water and 241 b. bran.
Dissolve poison. and molasses separately
in about one pint of boiling water and


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/0 pkt. posted.
; JN.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4100, G.P.0., Sydney.
Position Wanted.
WORKING OVERSEER, married, requires position.
Experienced in cattle, sheep, machinery. Excellent
references. —No. 318 Advt. Dept., Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
SUBSCRIPTION rates to
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. ..£l4 0
6 12 6
S„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
8 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9 0
ft
'li *7
r
f=^
u
Meet the Pilots
Soon, on your travels, you will be meeting our
Pilots. But since you are never likely to meet
them all, may we introduce them en bloc—all six
hundred and forty? Quite a body of men, and
more important, a very experienced one. Of our
pre-war Pilots, none has flown less than the
equivalent of sixteen times round the equator,
forty-five have topped a million miles —and four
have doubled that. B.O.A.C’s future —and with
it, no small part of the future of civil aviation-
lies in these men’s* hands. And no hands could
be safer.
Speedbird Routes to :
Great Britain, New Zealand,
Canada, U.S.A., Middle East,
India, Far East, South Africa
and West Africa.
BO AC
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
Shell House, Carrington Street, Sydney
GENERAL AGENTSi
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Cairns, Townsville, Port Moresby, Lae, Darwin . . .
Booking Agents In All Cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN
ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS, TASMAN
EMPIRE AIRWAYS AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS.
8/AU
TH*>
f.
%
&
tti.fi.
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simp!© codlcfl to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as Joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this*, way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIKECXOBS—-James Bums - K. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—l>. S. Parker. Secretary—E. K. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET
SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901.
Bo* 543 “ G.P.0., Sydney.
UP Sii.
fg
(HAIMS
CrrculdJ Charts »« all type* al
Recordinq Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty. .
Accuracy guaranteed Ga* our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
% QU£EN STREET HI V. LTD, BRISBANE. Q'lIX,
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANS EASE
All meris-wear shops
and chemists .
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W*
then stir into cold water, using the full
2-£gal. The poison solution should then
be stirred thoroughly into the bran until
the mixture is a moist, but loose, crumbly
mash. '
After the limits of a swarm of hoppers
have been determined roughly, the whole*
area occupied by the swarm, plus a
strip 30ft. wide in front of them, should
be baited by broadcasting the poisoned
bran thinly and uniformly in a finely-
divided state, as in hand-sowing of grain.
Each acre of ground should be treated
with a quantity of bait representing 361 b.
of dry bran, and distribution of the bait
should be done during the warm part
of the day, preferably between 9 a.m.
and 3 p.m. Sufficient bait for the day’s
requirements should be prepared early
in the morning, so that the best working
hours may be fully utilised. Prior to
use, the bait should be kept in a moist,
loose state. Twenty-four hours will
elapse before effects of the baiting are
apparent.
The Vegetable Patch.
“E. 2”: In preparing a new site it’s
well to remember that the soil most suited
to growing plants is that at the surface,
and scraping away the topmost layer with
weeds impoverishes it. If the ground
needs levelling the top layer should be
thrown aside and replaced when the
deeper soil is made even. Hoe the ground
shallowly at first, leave the weeds to
dry and then work them into the soil
when digging.
Most vegetables do extra well in new
ground, and the best results are had
where the patch is cropped every second
year. This is not always practicable, so
the aim should be to re-enrich the soil
in the short spell between crops. Com-
post or humus-building materials should
be added regularly and dressings of lime
and maqure applied as needed. Mulching
with decayed vegetable matter is very
beneficial to summer crops.
Stable manure is best for vegetables,
and it may be applied heavily for cab-
bages and allied plants. It leavens clay
soils and helps to add body to sandy
soils. The latter require heavier manur-
ing, as constant watering has the tend-
ency to leach it of plant food. Nitrogen
manures are essential to leaf crops, while
peas and beans appreciate super. Light
dressings of lime at intervals are bene-
ficial. All weeds, etc., should be returned
to the soil as humus.
Handy Hints Book.
Old farmers and new will find “Handy
Hints for the Farm” a useful asset. Re-
vised and brought up to date, it contains
more than a thousand useful tips for
pretty well every aspect of farm, orchard
and station work. It can hang in the
office or tool-shed for a cost of Is. from
any newsagent or for Is. posted
direct from The Bulletin, 252 George-
street, Sydney.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bogan Joe”: C.S.I.R. Bulletin 199
contains useful information to preserve
wheat held in a silo for fodder purposes.
By the use of magnesite and dolomite
dusts,'ground very fine and spread over
the top of the wheat mound to prevent
weevil infestation, 16,000,000 bushels,
some in store for over three years, were
kept in Victpria and every bushel was
sold without price reduction. This is a
preventive, not a cure. Should weevil
infestation occur, fumigation must be
done first to kill the weevils.
“W. Court”: Have the land ready for
sweet-potato planting in February in
Central and South Queensland. Time is
saved if the ridges are raised by throwing
two furrows together with a swing
plough; thorough initial cultivation is
necessary and a dressing of some potassic
fertiliser won’t be wasted, unless the land
has recently been cleared and the ash
from the burned timber ploughed in.
Give the cuttings 12in. to 18in. of space,
and don’t let weed growth compete until
the “buck” vines are making active
growth. They must not be allowed to
grow very long and throw out roots or
the tubers will not develop. The crop
will be ready for harvesting in four to five
months —or when a cut tubjer dries white
on exposure to the air.
“Sarina”: Space pumpkin hills 3ft.
apart with 3ft. between rows. If the
hills are opposite each other, you will
be able to scuffle across as well as up and
down the field, which saves a lot of hand-
hoeing before the plants begin running.
Vine vegetables benefit from farmyard
manures. The longer such manures have
been decomposing in the soil before the
land is sown to vines the better.
r “Big Billy”: Although he is a valuable
help to the farmer, the dog often receives
very little consideration. All dogs should
be provided with wind-proof and com-
fortable quarters, regularly cleaned and
disinfected. They should be treated every
three to four months with arecoline,
areca nut or nema capsules to remove
worms, and all excreta should be de-
stroyed by burning and the surroundings
of kennels kept clear of bones and litter.
“Billjim”: Red spider attacks a great
many garden plants, and hot, dry condi-
tions are favorable to its development.
Spray with lime sulphur (1-100) or dust
with a mixture of equal parts of hydrated
lime and fine dusting sulphuf. Dusting
is more economical in time. If spraying
it is necessary to wet the underside of
the leaves to obtain best results. In the
event of a heavy infestation a second
dusting a week or 10 day§ after the first
will be necessary.
“Sundowner”: Best way to plant olive-
trees is by striking truncheons of the
desired variety about 30in. long and fin.
to l|in. thick. Cover with/soil during
autumn and keep moist. Shoots will
arise from the dormant buds and after
the shoots have made two years’ growth
the truncheons are carefully raised, cut
between each shoot and the sections trans-
planted into permanent position during
early winter. When trees have been
established two or three years, limbs
which are crossing each other should be
pruned away. Future pruning consists
of thinning out the foliage every two or
three years.
“Malo”: Pellets made of balanced
foods are now procurable for poultry.
They are a little more costly than grain
or mash, but are good savers of time and
labor. If two hoppers are installed, one
for pellets and one for wheat, there will
be only the green feed to be given and
the hoppers can be filled once a week,
or when necessary.
“Xob 33”: On soils too poor to pro-
duce other crops grow buckwheat. It
will grow quickly on the poorest land,
produces a valuable green manure crop
and improves the soil.
“W. Court”: The cauliflower needs
much the same treatment as the cabbage,
but it is not such a sure crop. It will
not head satisfactorily in some C.Q.
districts because the winters are not cool
enough. It pays to plant with the idea
of having the plants ready to head in the
coolest month. The leaves are usually
tied loosely over the heart to shade the
developing heads and prevent discolora-
tion. The seedlings should be put out
not later than early February unless you
are growing quick-maturing small softs.
Be generous with liquid manure or heap
farmyard manure around the plants and
keep it well watered in.
“Johnny”: A ton of the following will
average in cubic feet: earth, 18 to 23;
river sand, 19; clay, 18 ; coarse gravel,
19 ; pit sand, 22 ; shingle, 23.
“E.H.S.”: Stumps of trees may be
destroyed cheaply and effectively by bor-
ing a hole in the centre of the stump
about 18in. in depth in autumn, then
put in about 2oz. of saltpetre, fill the
hole with water and plug it up tight. In
the following spring take out the plug,
fill with kerosene and ignite. The stump
will smoulder until nothing remains but
ashes.
“Johnny”: If you have trouble re-
moving the worn emery cloth from grind-
ing disks in the woolshed, try kerosene,
soap, water and a scrubbing brush.
“Atlanta”: An American method of
fire-proofing canvas, curtains or similar
fabrics: Mix lib. of ammonium phos-
phate and 21b. of ammonium chloride in
6qts. of water, and soak the material in
the mixture. Lightly squeeze out the
excess liquid and let the material dry with
the ammonium salts in it. More delicate
fabrics may be treated in a mixture of
lOoz. borax and Boz. boric acid dissolved
in a gallon of water. Wring very lightly
and allow to dry, but do not rinse.


■'*\:
S'.
mmi
1H
L >,
- ~i.
£/-• • :• ' y ■• C*
i , ■?/ ' UJ .yf, K
s* If®,
' •%• •- - ‘ 4, •* / -y x Sgf
%,. f \ .
■ - - #*£?
. -
BS®
'•>' . > v •:<
«*:.*& • H
g:’ : :§i:^:?S
■
• v <:*-' : ' : :..4
SSWgag
sss&Sss
4-
i> r' t X #'x _ ~ ST&*
c x ; *• >* $ *
*
my
■
llilllilil
e
3S >■'
Plug lor a 35 Million Gallon Basin!
The contents of the huge storage
basin pictured above, on the East
Kiewa River at Bogong Vic., would
fill the average sized, domestic wash-
basin about 17 million times. Yet, like
the domestic article, its retention of
water without leaking depends on
simple rubber plugs. That’s because
the massive concrete face of the dam
is not the immovable structure it
appears to he . . . concrete expands
and contracts with temperature
changes, and spaces must be left at
regular intervals between the concrete
slabs to allow for this movement.
Dam builders, faced with the problem
of finding a suitable flexible, sealing
material for these open joints . . .
found the answer in a special moulded,
rubber strip manufactured by Dunlop.
No adhesive is required to keep these
sealing strips in place—the grip of
the side fins on the concrete edges
has the tenacity of a barbed grass
seed and not only withstands the
terrific pressure of the impounded
water but gives a constant, watertight
seal, as the concrete expands and
contracts.
These special Dunlop rubber sealing
strips are typical of many modern
Dunlop developments in Rubber.
Maybe you have a problem for which
rubber in one of its many forms
may be the answer? If so, don’t
hesitate to write to the Dunlop
Branch in your own State.
DUNLOP fltE Dtdbs'i
DUNLOP
VIC.)
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
I N
(INC
D 355
His church, a brick one, was quite im-
posing. It stood on a rise, and its western
fa9ade was lbfty and wide. I was rather
impressed. Archy might be a poor
preacher, but perhaps he had proved him-
self as an ecclesiastical statesman. The
church looked as if it would hold at least
t L j
.... T ' • T i * ({ „
When I got in I was almost crestfallen.
The edifice had breadth and height but
no length.' It would seat 400 at most,
The huge fiat wall at the back was de-
pressing ; it seemed to encroach on space
that should have been holy ground. The
congregation were even more depressing.
To the number of forty they filled and
half-filled some dozen pews out of fifty
and sat with an air of utter unexpect-
ancy. Silent and forbidding, the empty
pews penned in the handful of wor-
shippers as if, on slight provocation, they
were prepared to advance and overrun
them. Apparently the acoustics of the
place were bad, for most of the congre-
gation were crowded into a cluster close
tt) the blank wall.
Just after the choir entered—five
maidens, two spinsters, a stout matron
and an old chap who would be the last to
leave the sinking ship of Archy’s
ministry—some thirty or forty boys and
girls in some sort of uniform clattered in
and self-consciously filled up four of the
front pews. Of course two of the girls
started to giggle ; it was not an unde-
vout giggle, just the giggle that goes with
the giggling age.
Archy’s entry in gown and bands was
g°°d—benign and pondering. One tak-
m § thing about Archy was that he did
not pose—hecouldnt. His gown looked
rusty, but his bands were clean. Always
tall> he had acquired a stoop, and his
j on g narrow head was as bald as an egg.
with his pouched cheeks, goggle eyes and
no bby nose he had the appearance of a
thoughtful W. C. Fields. As he gave out
the hymns and intimations and read the
i ess on, Leviticus XVI, verses 7 to 33, it
became clear that he had acquired an
intonation, a drawling of the long
vowels, in a sing-song fashion that was
either maddening or sleep-provoking,
The sermon, it appeared, was for the
yoU ng folk. In genuine goodness of
heart Archy descended to their level. He
even verged at moments on the jocular,
when he got as far as the scapegoat
he became long-winded. He made an
easily-graded approach to goats through
sheep. Would sheep whose wool in a
dr-r-y region went back to hair-r be-
come goats again? That was a thing he
had often wondered. Then for the
young people. Had they ever had a pet
lamb or kid endear-red to them by their
loving care of it? (This in the heart
of a city of 225,000 people with 500 miles
of bitumen-sealed thoroughfares). If so,
how would they have like their pet to be-
come a scapegoat? Yet, however har-rd
it might prove, we had to yield our own
inclinations......
Then came a break back to the real
task in hand, and Archy, with the honest
trudge native to his tedious mind, des-
cribed the background behind the rite
of sending off the scapegoat into the
wilder-r-ness bearing the sins of the
many. He devoted in passing five minutes
to refuting the heresy that something he
called A-a-za-a-zel was an offering to the
evil one. He finished by, with an ex-
quisite lack of tact, appealing to his
young hearers even if (half jocularly
here) they might be sad scapegraces at
times not to add to the already heavy
burdens of the scapegoat.
Devoid of conceit as he was, you could
see that Archy as he gave out the last
hymn felt that he had bettered his aver-
age. With his last words the look of
suspended animation that had held the
adult congregation in a vicelike grip de-
parted. Archy glad-handed them across
the threshold of the front porch, and, as
I would have guessed, I could see that
they had nothing against him.
His pleasure at renewing my acquaint-
ance was hearty, and he insisted on taking
me across to be introduced to his wife,
a little body whom I recognised as hav-
ing sat, very official and stiff, in a front
pew. She was jealous for Archy and I
minded what I said. He was a good
and loyal husband and she clove to him,
She had, too, pride in his erudition,
Once in a blue moon it got an opening in
assembly, and every inch of newspaper
clippings recording it was treasured by
her. Per contra she took an almost
malignant view of the fate in store for
our non-church-going generation. Archy
softened her down when she got. round
to that: “There’s good in all, mother,
evep those, as Bur-rns says, that ‘gang
a-kenning wrang.’ ”
I THOUGHT I had done with Archy,
1 but no. A year later the church at Paka
Puki fell vacant. It was well provided,
but poorly attended. I made the mistake
of intriguing among its members for
Archy to be given a call.
My own thought was that it was just
the spot on which an honest old plodder
should be turned out to grass, but I used
specious arguments. He was an ex-Paka
Pukian, our own lad of parts. The previ-
ous minister had harassed the township
and exasperated himself by trying to
start a revival: Archy would be just the
man to restore the placidity congenial to
the place in religious matters.
Alas, I got myself so deeply involved
that I found myself practically pledged
to attend the Rev. Iggulden’s ministra-
tions if he was called. He was called,
and I do attend.


AMOINVHINI
Quality of Reproduction
For nearly half a century the world’s greatest
artists have entrusted the permanent repro-
duction of their art to “His Master’s Voice”
—exclusively.
Purity of tone and quality of reproduction
have therefore become a tradition with “His
Master’s Voice” ... a tradition which ensures
that “His Master’s Voice” radio sets enable
you to hear the world’s greatest artists as
they would wish to be heard.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE 5 '
true-to-life RADIO
★ Limited supplies of the new Radio Receivers
(A.C. and Vibrator-operated models) are now on
sale. Your nearest “His Master’s Voice ” Retailer
will gladly give you details of these models.
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Inc. in England). HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
RI3A/46
afcin/L
WOLFES
uSSuc
M W s^bEmT
HIT: 1 PINT-1 fl.
WS. 183.12.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The moderate
use of Wolfe’s
Schnapps has been
recognised for
generations as a
health-giving
stimulant.
On referendum day mark
your ballot paper 3,2, 1
from the top
for 10 o’clock closing.
SMOKE-OH!
to the Best!
With the Best!
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Why will people not sit still in picture
shows?” — “New Idea.”
Because most films would make
anybody squirm,
*l*
“Worse still is the woman who saves the
kiddies’ and her own shoes for Dad to clean.”
—“New Idea.”
Well, it’s a poor man who can’t polish
off a few at the end of the day.
“In Clayton, Oklahoma (U.S.), burglars
laboriously tunnelled into the State Bank’s
vault and made off with several sacks of money.
Contents: 33,300 pennies.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”.
The coppers are still worrying them.
4* 4 1 4* +
“Make up your neck as well as your face.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Sometimes it’s even advisable to paint
your throat.
V T* T* V
“To water-drinking birds fresh cool water
should be supplied and the receptacles kept
clean.”— Wagga (N.S.W.) “Advertiser.”
Birds that prefer rum should be given
a fresh tot every four hours, with a dash
of raspberry or cloves.
•i* *l* 4* •?<■
“Koshnitsky wins lightning chess.’-’
—“Daily Telegraph.”
He must have played a thundering good
game.
■'‘The boy’s mother... .said that she had two
other children, one aged 18 months and the
other two years.”— “Courier Mail.”
No wonder these poor modern mothers
complain of being overworked.
•h
“Pickled Pelt Classer, permanent position.”
— “S.M.H.” Positions Vacant.
One who can class a full skin when
he’s got a skinful.
•J*
“Large Motor Tent, complete with Poles and
Rope, 3 piece Lounge Suite, loose cushions,
Split Cane Settee, new Tapestry Cushions, Day
Beds and Lounge Settee, Refectory Tables, Side-
board, Kitchen Suite, Wardrobes, Dressing
Tables, Combination Wardrobes, Ice Chests
and Telephone Tables.”
—“Great Northernf’ ( N.S.W. ).
Nothing like a bit of comfort on a
camping holiday.
“ They're defyin' us, Bart—goin' nor'-east when We set a sou'-east
course !”
V. V *
“S.-p. bookmaker operated in U.N. Assembly
Hall.” — News Item.
Perhaps he was inviting punters to
write their own tickets about the prospect
of Russia being co-operative.
'- -I*
“Doctor (ex-service) and wife, no children,
require furnished flat to £44 10s. in advance.”
— “Daily,” Mosman ( N.S.W .)
There can’t be a ceiling price for his
operations.
“Money is no good lying idle.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
If it isn’t kept busy it loses interest.
Battle Royal.
“Five thousand Bing Crosby fans challenged
a 70-year-old Scot, who criticised Crosby’s per-
formance, to a singing duel.”
So when, with knightly ardor shining,
The adversaries take the field
A weapon nowadays they wield
Too foul for chivalry’s designing;
And though (their choice the risk declin-
ing)
No bullet’s whine their blood con-
gealed,
The Crosby offering would yield
At least some pretty deadly whining.
And if Bing’s case should prove so strong
That Scotty couldn’t get along
Without his bagpipes to defeat it,
Though Hielanders will claim I’m wrong,
In frightfulness applied to song
The two should just about dead-heat it.
P. M. LUSK.
The Sine Qua Non.
“Every woman, be she thin or fat, beautiful
or plain, intelligent or dumb, has her own idea
of what constitutes a perfect man.”
-—“New Idea.”
Few women, so it seems to me,
When making their selection
Can be expected to agree
On masculine perfection.
But no man, be he tough and strong -
As steel with limbs like pylons,
Today can hold a woman long
Unless he trots out nylons.
D. H. E.
Decadence.
What time the belly’s droll rotundity
Droops low in middle-age, how sweet
to dream
A bout the sins of youth, when merrily
We lived and loved, and like a lava stream
The blood ran scorching through the
veins! Ah, me,
How bright those gems of memory can
gleam.
And, oh, how sweet to add to the collec-
tion
Some further sins for future retrospec-
tion !
T. W. NATHAN.
Skin-deep Beauty.
The lovely soft-skinned blooming peaches
That fill me with a tender feeling
When l recline on sunlit beaches
Lose half • their charm when they are
peeling.
BERT.
Another Brawl-to-Brawl Description.
“Well, here’s the Government side, led
by Ben, trooping in. Now they’re spread-
ing out over the green benches; very
restful on the this—the benches, I
mean, not the occupants. Eddie looks in
fine fettle —two snarls and a scowl already
before the first brawl comes over. Here’s
Arthur tripping in, wearing his famous
miniature Jew’s-harp in his lapel. He’s
looking unusually cheerful about some-
thing, too —anyway, he’s whistling ‘Abie,
My Poy,’ very blithely. There’s Deddy,
the ’keeper—he’s keeping everybody wait-
ing for those wonderful reconstruction
plans he’s getting out for 1973. It’s a
pretty hoary side —by their looks I’d
say their average age would be around
65 and by their performance about 105.
“Well, here’s the other team, with Bob
and Artie leading. Artie insists, as you
know, on the side having two skippers.
It looks like being a grim struggle here
today. No quarter asked and not even
an eighth given. And now here’s Sol,
the umpire, with a smile all found for
everybody—but you just wait.
“It looks as if Bob’s taking strike.
Yes, he is, facing up to Ben’s ‘I-won’t-
crucify-the-workers’ bosies. There goes
the first —a slashing cut about Ben’s
peculiar absence of intestinal fortitude.
And this is followed by a hook at selling
out to the Commos. Well, Bob hasn’t
taken long to get into his stride. Now
he’s stepped into this one —a full-blooded
lunge at throwing the housewives to the
blackmarket wolves. Well, he’s certainly
flaying the opposition captain, who’s
called for a new pipe.
“Bob’s keeping the pressure up, but
the Government team isn’t taking it too
badly yet—four have gone to sleep, two
are studying form-guides and another is
making paper golliwogs.
“Now the Kooyong boy after a punish-
ing session is retiring and—who’s this
heaving himself up for the call? —yes, it’s
Big Jack, the Auburn wonder! Well, we
can expect some fireworks now. Here he
is, taking his place, and shaping up, this
time facing Arthur. There goes a mighty
crack straight to the Melbourne Blunder
about the reffo racket. Well, Jack never
bothers poking around for an hour to
get his tongue in—the polemics ball is
looking as big as a football to him al-
ready. There, he’s stung Arthur this time
with an awful swipe about the Pales-
tinians from Port Said. Jack’s jaw’s
stroking perfectly now.
“A strange feature about Jack’s appear-
ance at the Canberra ground is that when
he gets going he seems to paralyse the
Government side with sheer fright. Look
at them now —they’re cowering in their
seats as the old man lashes out at them.
He’s socking them for sixers at every hit
and they can’t stand it.
“Hear that from the visitors’ stand?
One raucous voice—obviously from a
Government barracker—has just shouted
‘Put him out!’ But Jack’s unperturbed —
he’s been used to much fiercer barracking
than this from the Macquarie-street ‘hill.’
He’s going along merrily belting Arthur
all over the place and he’s rattling up a
great score.
“Hullo, what’s this? Young Mr. Weakly
has screwed up courage enough to call
Jack a liar, and the Big Fellow’s demand-
ing a withdrawal. There’s Tommy up at
the other end, wings and all. Eddie’s going
a bright purple and it looks like a brawl.
The umpire’s tearing his coat off and
getting into it, too. Jack’s still knocking
rhetorical sixers, which one of the Gov-
ernment boys is protesting is over the
fence.
“Now Tommy up at the other end is
starting to flay them —and he’s out!
Yes, he’s out. The umpire put his coat
on and gave him out. The sergeant-at-
arms is shepherding him to the pavilion.
Eddie’s yelling, Arthur’s waving his palms
and the umpire’s telling Mac to put his
teeth in. You listeners no doubt can
hear the uproar.”
“Well, Basil, it was a good pre-lunch
session, don’t you think?”
“Yes, Mick, quaite. I rather fancy
one would scarcely be likely to see any-
thing like it at Lord’s —or even the Com-
mons. I mean to say, the umpire hopping
into it and all that sort of thing, what?”
“No, I suppose not, Basil. And what
did you think of Big Jack’s straight hits
—forceful, you’d say?”
“Bai Jove? Mick, he reallay is an ear-
opener. And what a fellow of infinite
chest! He must be two feet thick.
And he can certainly smack them, quaite.
Why doesn’t someone make him a
viscount? With him in action the Uppah
House would never see a dull moment,
what?”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MINO
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Moresby
I have been back in Papua for nearly
12 months and this is Moresby as I see
it now.
Things could be worse, but there has
not been the improvement in amenities
of life that one would expect after more
than a year of civil control.
Picture shows are non-existent, although
there were two early in the year,
both service; civilians > not admitted.
The R.A.A.F. show is still running
at Konedobu, but the Army has
long since discontinued its own show
at Murray Barracks. There is a picture
theatre of a sort in the town, but there
is still much work to be done on the
theatre itself before anything can be
done about obtaining films. There is a
cricket competition and there will one
day be a golf course —at present much
time and money are needed before any-
one can do nine holes let alone 18. There
is a tennis club, but it has a limited
membership and there are only three
courts. The aquatic club has been re-
formed and eventually there will be sail-
ing on the harbor —after all hands have
set to and built their own boats. In
common with everything else, materials
for boatbuilding are scarce.
The housing position is as acute as
anywhere in Australia, but there
seems to be less chance that it will be
alleviated in the near future because of
the shortage of tradesmen and timber. It
is interesting to note that in Rabaul
Chinese contractors are building a house
for £l7 10s. if you supply the materials,
but they are prohibited from entering
Papua. Many people are living in far
more makeshift homes than there are
“down south,” with all the attendant
worries of shortages in foodstuffs that
may come or not depending solely on the
state of wharfiumpers’ digestions.
The supply of food is irregular. The
freezing company does a good job but
its space is not unlimited; neither is the
freezer space on the ships. Still, it
carries stock to its limit and if we go
short of fresh meat for a few weeks the
co. is not to blame for the shortage
of shipping. We have been out of fresh
meat for up to five weeks arid out of beer
and tobacco for about the same time.
The tobacco situation has improved, but
the supply of beer is poor and there were
very few homes in Moresby that had a
dozen of beer for Christmas. Prices of
foodstuffs are very high and are not
decreasing. Bread at 2s. a large loaf is
not cheap, nor is tea at 4s. a pound.
Vegetables were at a prohibitive price
until the introduction of the Department
of Agriculture scheme. Now there is a
reasonable supply of fresh vegetables.
Before this cabbages had cost Bs. each
and cauliflowers the same.
Petrol is very scarce and at times there
has been barely enough for Administra-
tion and private vehicles to carry out
essential services. Transport generally
is a rather risky business, but fortunately
it is easy to get a lift in a truck to almost
anywhere. There is a bus service—one
bus is reasonably modern in size and
comfort and the other is a converted
army ambulance that leaves a lot to be
desired. There is also a small converted
truck to carry workers to the three- and
four-mile establishments. All run to an
erratic timetable and at infrequent inter-
vals, the fact that the native drivers
have no means of telling the time being
a contributing factor.
The number of cars can be counted on
the fingers of both hands, but there are
dozens of jeeps in varying states of repair.
The natives own more than their share
of these and it seems to be part of
the New Order for natives and
their girl-friends to dash home to Hanua-
bada in Administration vehicles while
Europeans wait on the side of the road
and see jeep after jeep pass, all “Civil
Administration” and all full of “brown
brothers” going home to lunch in style.
Things will improve, no doubt—prob-
ably after the Edwardian era.
The hygiene of Moresby leaves a lot
to be desired. There is no sewerage,
but there are septic tanks in most of
the new houses and some of the old. The
rest rely on a service maintained by native
convicts. The streets are dusty and the
town drains can’t cope, with more than ,
an ordinary rain without flooding. The
telephone system is antiquated—the
cables are mainly old army cables de-
signed for a short life. When the
water seeps into them getting a number is
like a lottery drawing.
On the credit side is the climate—for
the tropics it’s good. The people are
friendly and you can make your own fun,
and generally life could be much worse.
It’s not a tropical paradise by any means
and anyone expecting to live the life
of an Eastern potentate need not come
to the place. Anyone who likes a spirit
of “ laissez-faire” a.good climate, good
folks, no taxation and not very high
wages should like Moresby.— Kava-Kava
(Papua).
Price-fixing
“Fedup” (B. 25/12/’46) hasn’t got his
facts straight. As toy distributor (factory
agent) for three companies I get 5 per
cent, from manufacturers’ gross profit,
who also allow 3* per cent, prompt or
2} per cent, monthly. All my toys go to
wholesalers, who add 25 per cent, and
give similar discounts. Goods are shown
in January and delivery made from July
1. We make and store the goods until that
date, which necessitates renting a bulk
store. The .wholesaler also holds the goods
until his travellers have shown the toys
throughout the country.
The retailer expects delivery from
October 1 at the earliest. In turn the
wholesaler has to provide warehousing,
breaking bulk, packing and distribution.
The retailer adds 50 per cent. —not 40 per
cent. —and if he nets 6d. in the pound he
does well. When fixing “mark-ups” the
Prices Commission suggested we sell
direct, but as it costs at least £2O a week
to keep a man on the road (hotel bills,
fares and freight on samples), we could
not do it. The wholesalers show as many
as 50 different lines, and have an average
of six travellers each and cover a wider
field in a limited time. This gives the
retailer a wider selection and an oppor-
tunity to compare prices.
Profit on capital is made on velocity
of turnover, which is proved by a com-
pany paying 100 per cent, dividends plus
bonuses. They were held up as profiteers.
They made a public statement (audited)
showing that if the price was reduced by
one farthing the loss would be equal to
the distributed profits. There is no short
method of distribution. Services rendered
must for by the consumer. —
Tock-Tock (Vic.).
House Insurance
“K.J.C.” (B. 1/1 / ’47) has been mis-
informed. Insurance companies don’t
make valuations —unless their inspectors
are licensed valuators they are not
allowed by law to do so —nor do they
ever arbitrarily deduct a set percentage
for depreciation.
It is obvious that a reasonable
deduction in one case may be gross in-
justice in another. Smith’s house may be
full of white ants, last painted 20 years
ago and set on the edge of a swamp.
My house may be sound as a bell, painted
every five years and sitting snug behind
the ornamental trees of a swank suburb.
Both houses may have been built at the
same time at the same cost, but my house
is certainly worth more than Smith’s and
I would expect, and get, a great deal
more if it were burned.
A fire-insurance policy is a contract
of indemnity, which means that it under-
takes to make good the owner’s loss,
limited always, of course, to the amount
of the policy. Quite apart from any
question of inconvenience, the owner’s
loss is the “market value,” which every-
one knows is anything from 20 per cent,
to 33| per cent, higher these days than
before 1939. Most companies have sug-
gested to their policyholders that they
revise the amounts of their insurance to
cover this rise in values, and are nowa-
days increasing 20-year-old policies from
say £B5O to £lOOO or more. If a total
loss is paid the amount of settlement will
depend on the ruling market value, which
will take into account the cost of building
materials, the age and pre-fire condition
of the building and ruling property
values in the locality.
The amount for which the house was
originally insured will not affect the settle-
ment, nor will any amount the insurance
company has “shown on its books.” In-
surance concerns do not keep any such
books. They do not know what they will
pay Smith if his house is burned down in,
say, *1954. They will pay the market
value at the time of the fire, and whether or
not Smith is satisfied with the settlement
depends solely on whether or not he has
taken the trouble to see that the amount
of his policy is somewhere near the
market value. “K.J.C.’s” house may be
worth £B5O or £B5 or £lOOO today. But
he can be assured that his insurance
co. has no sort of figure set against it.
And, anyway, why 2£ per cent?
If “K.J.C.” feels that he is paying
premium on an amount he is not likelv
to get if his place burns down, his in-
surance company will be happy to reduce
his policy and the premium. An insur-
ance company has thousands of houses
insured, and if it employed the staff
necessary to check periodically on the
value to every one of them it would have
to put its premiums up. The policyholder
knows the value of his house better than
anyone else. He has a responsibility, too.
—lnsurer (Q.).
“K.J.C.” should know that deprecia-
tion is deducted from replacement value
at the time of the fire, not original value.
Today’s replacement value of “K.J.C.’s”
home would probably be in the vicinity
of £l5OO. Normal depreciation for 20
years, say 25 per cent., is £375, revealing
actual value £1125. Obviously he would
recover the full amount of his policy—
£Bso.—A. R. M. (N.S.W.).
I find it odd that “K.J.C.” should have
written from a State where firfe-insurance
premiums on dwellings have, during the
last 20 years, been reduced by 40 per
cent. —but not for the reasons advanced
by him.—H. L. Z. (Q.).
Another Sahara?
I have just returned from the drought-
ravaged Hill End district (N.S.W.), where
graziers are contending with difficulties
resulting from the eighth bad season in
succession; lopping and hand-feeding.
No doubt their thoughts dwelt at Christ-
mas on the moron host that jammed
King’s Cross traffic on New .Year’s Eve
and enviously on the wharflaborers’ 16's.
a day consolation money. Most of them
will be lucky to clear 16s. a week if the
drought holds till winter.
Old hands have often remarked that
the climate is changing, and it seems to
me that, in that district at least, a steady
deterioration has taken place over the
past 35 years. Perhaps it is a penalty
for wholesale destruction of timber on
steep slopes with consequent soil denuda-
tion by wind and water erosion. Be that
as it may, the proportion of bad seasons
to good in what once was regarded as
“safe” country has grown to a seriously
high level.
Scientists recently advanced the theory
that the ice cap on Antarctica is receding
and that in a few thousand years land
there would be cultivable and thus in-
habitable. If that theory is correct, it
follows that similar climatic changes,
barely perceptible to each generation,
are taking place within Australia and
that we are slowly moving, toward an
era when the whole of inland Australia
will be desert like the Sahara.
A gloomy thought, but the evidence
seems to be there. Steady rainfall is be-
coming the exception rather than the rule,
a large part of the year’s total being made
up of irregular thunderstorms which run
off too quickly to be of use. The Sahara
has similar sudden and useless visitations.
—Barwon (N.S.W.).
Eureka
“Historicus” (B. 1/1 / ’47) is both
logical and truthful in his outline of the
Eureka Stockade incident and its subse-
quent developments, but neglects to
“Well, it looks as if We'll have to sit this one out! "
mention one important point. It is
revered nowadays not as the birth of Aus-
tralian nationhood, but as the birth of
that spirit which is surely recognised all
over the world as truly Australian —the
revolt against authority.
When I was a boy I used to hear over-
seas visitors complain of the average Aus-
tralian’s “Jack’s-as-good-as-his-master”
attitude. They did not complain because
he was not servile enough, but because
he was unjustifiably arrogant and boast-
ful, and never missed an opportunity to
belittle or impede authority of any kind.
Subsequent years have shown the
alarming rate at which this attitude has
grown in the Australian worker. Nowa-
days, if one wants to do anything or say
anything in defiance of any law or
authority one has simply to drag in the
Eureka Stockade as a precedent, and
divine authority is automatically implied.
The Corns were quick to see this.
They will never let the incident, or their
version of it, fade from our minds. Nor
was it for nothing that they named their
youth league “Eureka.” Catch ’em young,
teach ’em about the Stockade, teach ’em
to sing the International, and what have
you? Not Australians, that’s a certainty.
It is time the Stockade was exposed for
the unimportant incident it was. The
country is alive with men who worship,
in the name of the Eureka Stockade,
stranger gods than Lalor ever dreamed
of. That this worship too often takes on
a literary guise is apparent from the state-
ment made by the editor of the Ballarat
“Courier.” “We want,” he says, “stories
with an Australian setting, provided the
plot is not based on the Eureka Stockade
theme, which has been worked to death.”
—Nexa (N.S.W.).
Taxation
Fourteen months ago I received a
taxation assessment which included pro-
visional tax for the next year although
my income for that year—as disclosed in
my return then in hand —was even less
than the amount allowed as statutory ex-
emption. In spite of my protests to
that effect, I was told by the department
that it was as by law provided, and must
be paid.
r Some weeks ago I received an assess-
ment marked “Non-taxable,” and in-
cluded with it was a slip which indicated
that a cheque in refund would be posted
at an early date. So far it has not turned
up.— Taxidermus (N.S.W.).
Men still not too old to work can
remember when income tax did not exist
in Australia. Now we have an impost
which is not only the highest but the
most complex in the world.
Interpretation of the legislation has be-
come difficult even for experts. In this
connection the story related by Sir Ernest
Benn in reference to complicated English
company taxation is worth recounting.
His business became liable to excess-
profits duty and he paid large sums
annually into the Treasury. Eventually,
he ordered his accountants to go into the
whole matter. A stack of papers which
could not be read in a month accumu-
lated. There was much arguing and the
accountants agreed that he would have
to pay the sum demanded —£6500.
The taxpayer took the unusual course
of consulting a second firm of chartered
accourit&qts. More papers accumu-
lated, more arguing took place and the
second firm reported in favor of the Gov-
ernment.
A third firm was consulted. Another
hundredweight of foolscap mounted up
and there was a lot more arguing.
Persistence was rewarded, for the third
firm decided that the Treasury owed Benn
£5OO. A warrant was received and the
sum collected.
As Benn pointed out it is entirely
wrong that taxing legislation should have
reached the stage where the taxpayer is
reduced to a helpless pawn in the hands
of “experts.” It is also clear that those
of us who lack the financial backing of
a man like Benn cannot possibly go from
one set of experts to another in order
to achieve justice.— Herbert J. Prentice
(Vic.X


Road-accident Control
Detroit (U.S.A.), home town of the
automobile, has a 10-year record to prove
that traffic accidents and fatalities can
be controlled, even if they can’t be pre-
vented entirely. Actively supported by
more than 60 banks, department stores
and all manner pf business houses,
Detroit’s campaign to ensure greater road
safety has reduced the local traffic-acci-
dent death-rate by 30 per cent., while
over the same period the national rate
has risen four per cent.
Investigation revealed that 70 per cent,
of Detroit’s deaths occurred among pedes-
trians and that in 78 per cent, of cases
the pedestrian was to blame. Legisla-
tion altered that. It required the display
in public places of countless realistically
illustrated posters bearing captions such
as “90 Days in Jail for Drunk Driving.”
For information leading to the arrest of a
hit-run driver, a reward of 1000 dollars
is offered.
A simple ten-point programme sub-
mitted by the managing director of the
Traffic Safety Association should-be in-
troduced into every Australian com-
munity. Cost would be relatively
trifling. Here are the 10 points:
Driver training in schools.
Continuous, intensive traffic enforcement
as opposed to sporadic “drives” or cam-
paigns—nine out of ten accidents result
from law violations.
Universal use of the “drunkometer,” an
instrument which accurately measures the
degree of alcoholic intoxication. It makes "
convictions easier and yet safeguards the
innocent man.
Improved safety engineering—street light-
ing, marking, construction of express high-
ways and other engineering aids.
A private local co-ordinating agency to
mobilise all the community’s traffic safety
resources.
Better laws —the ordinance against jay-
walking is an example.
Regular vehicle inspection.
Minimum driver* age limit of 17.
More vigilance in the issuing of
licences.
Adequate recognition of th% good driver,
either through lower insurance rates, greater
ease in obtaining licence renewals or
insignia.
Finally, there is the commonsense
advice of the taxi-driver who covered
1,000,000 miles without an accident.
Asked to do a 15-minute radio talk on
how to avoid accidents, he said: “It’s
simple—just drive on the theory that
every other fellow in the world is crazy.”
—Atlanta (Q.).
Mechanised
Today I stood between two strangers,
watching the excavation of a huge hole
for a new factory site. Six men with
three caterpillar grabs and three motor-
trucks were doing the work of 100 shovel
and wheelbarrow experts.
Said the man on my left, “Those
machines are a curse. They’re the real
cause of unemployment and depressions.
Just think how many blokes it would take
to shift all that muck with manual labor.”
The man on my right took up the
challenge. “I was trying to tally up the
number of men actually working in that
hole, but you’ve made me lose count.
There’s the inventors, the miners, the iron-
founders, the mechanics, the shippers, the
oil men, the tyre-makers, the architects,
the road-makers, and so on. We don’t
see them, but they’re all busy and they
all get paid. If it weren’t for them the
factory wouldn’t be built at all —it wcfiild
cost too much and take too long. When
it is built it will make jobs for hundreds
of workers who would otherwise be un-
employed. The money they make and
spend will make jobs for other mobs, and
the goods they produce will add to the
general wealth. Besides, not one bone
or muscle or sinew need be strained in
the whole process, thanks to machineiy.”
The man on my right was right.—
Sweat (S.A.).
Building Tools
I am in wholehearted sympathy with
young building-trade apprentices who are
finding difficulty in buying tools, but
“Humos” (B. 1/ I / ’47) doesn’t state all
the facts.
Nominally, the trainee has preference,
but as he is at least 19, and often nearer
30 and married, with children, he should
have consideration before a boy of 16.
Moreover, the ordinary apprentice has
five years in which to complete his course,
while the trainee course covers only three
and a half.
But preference doesn’t mean that the
trainee gets the pick of the tools. On
the contrary, many trainees have had to
learn the elementary and hardest part
of their trades with decidedly inferior
tools. Spirit levels, for instance, made
from unseasoned timber with consequent
warpings ; and awkward, unwieldy Ameri-
can trowels.
When the bricklayer trainee has com-
pleted his first six months and is about
to go out to the builder —on a subsidised
basis —he is supplied with British-made
tools, if' possible. .There is a. housing
shortage in the Old Country, however,
and British tools —especially trowels —
are in demand all over the world. Car-
penters are in a slightly better position,
as America can produce first-class car-
pentering tools.
But what prevents us making first-class
tools here? I’ve seen some locally-made
rubbish ; but during the war our factories
produced first-class war materials. They
could turn out tools just as efficiently.
In trowels alone there is an opportunity
for a firm that will experiment and find
steel that is not so hard that it will “fly”
yet not soft enough to bend. A trowel
made to this formula, on the British
pattern, would start a new industry in
Australia. —H. C. B. (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Unionism
Although I can follow J. P. Brazel’s
line of reasoning (B. 25/12/’46) why a
man should join a union, 1 cannot sym-
pathise with his ideas of blackballing and
threats of compulsion. Isn’t this a free
country? Didn’t we fight to keep it free?
And isn’t it the privilege of every free
man to decide for himself whether he
should or should not join a union?
I remember the occasion when M.E.
troops were hurriedly recalled from dis-
embarkation leave and flung into the
battle for Moresby and the Kokoda Trail,
many never to return. Some did, and
they came back with memories. Bitter
memories of striking unionists who refused
to handle their baggage in the urgency
of their departure, of unionists who calmly
refused to load ships while the enemy was
practically on our shores. The strikers
“justified” their actions with the wail “We
are looking after the rights of the boys
while they are away.” ■
Surely J. P. Brazel doesn’t expect these
same troops to share his views of com-
pulsory unionism? — Infanteer (N.S.W.),
A National Theatre
“Cauboy’s” pessimism re the estab-
lishment of a National Theatre (B.
25/12/’46) is unwarranted. A subsidy
need not cause undue concern, for a
national theatre would be self-supporting,
and certainly no lover of good drama will
question the need for one. What is essen-
tial is a beginning, and this must emanate
from the Government. Whatever troubles
“movie fans” have, finance is not one of
them, so the entertainment tax should be
increased to provide one good theatre in
each State.
It is anomalous to have a national
library, a national gallery and not a
national theatre. Such an institution is
vital to counter the slush put out by the
films. In France the State has managed
to support several such theatres even in
hard times. —A. D. (S.A.).
Petrol Prices
It’s possible to go into a shop for most
goods and to know that, whether you live
in Sydney or beyond the blackstump, the
price will be substantially the same, the
manufacturers having been far-sighted
enough to arrange a uniform selling
price.
One line to which this does not apply
is motor-spirit. The further one gets
away from the metropolis the higher the
price, so that even a couple of hundred
miles out there is a difference of several
pence per gallon. In Tassie, which would
fit into the top of Cape York Peninsula,
there’s a difference of threepence in 40
miles.
Why can’t the oil companies provide
for wholesale deliveries at the same price
right through so that there would be a
uniform selling price at all bowsers? The
outbacker would receive it as a friendly
gesture of encouragement and a recogni-
tion of his own place in the country's
development; and the man whose job
takes him away from the city week by
week would also appreciate it — Tasma
(Tas.). .
1 Immigrants
From 1937 onward we received into
Australia thousands of refugees who
arrived, according to the press, to be
placed on farms, but who entered rapidly
into the commercial life of our country,
sometimes with serious fbsults to estab-
lished Australian concerns. Not one per
cent, of those immigrants became farmers.
Their impact on the clothing trade has
been particularly noticeable. Here their
manufacturing and distributing methods
have not always conformed to our wage
standards and business ethics, but factory
inspectors, because of the limitations of
various factory regulations, have not been
able to police backyard and base-
ment plants as well as they might. York-
street and Flinders-lane travellers tell the
same story of undercutting and assump-
tion of control of trade in the distributing
section.
Many signs point to the fact that
refugees do not assimilate readily. Little
colonies have sprung up, particularly in
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs and the St.
Kilda and Carlton sections of Melbourne,
and they remain a community within a
community. In the latter city a racial or-
ganisation, sensitive to informed criticism
of refugees, has a paid publicity officer
whose duty it is to present their case in its
most favorable light. In many cases it is
hard to impress on these people that busi-
ness practices current in, say, Warsaw or
Frankfort do not fit in with our way of
“ Haven't you any vacant beds in the hotel ?”
life, and that as guests of the country
the least they can do is to learn our
standards as speedily as possible and
abide by them.
It is a significant fact that a large pro-
portion of property deals over the past
few years have resulted in the transfer of
valuable sites an<J buildings to people who
arrived, allegedly, with only the clothes
they wore plus the amount fixed by law
for their entry. During the same war-
time period the average Australian busi-
nessman found that controls and high
taxation prevented the accumulation of
sufficient funds for property investment or
for the acquisition of cars.
In Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs, particu-
larly in the Bondi-Rose Bay-Vaucluse
area, the refugee is firmly, entrenched as
tenant or owner in many of the best flats
and dwellings. In some cases Australians
living in these areas are objects of resent-
ment because they are keeping someone
else out of the “colony.”
The people generally have not become
publicly articulate on the subject, but a
personal “Gallup poll” revealed unani-
mous opposition to Mr. CalweU’s policy
of preference to immigrants of the same
type. The general idea is that we already
have as many as we can manage, and that
while murder of British soldiers and out-
rage are the rule in Palestine we would
do well to direct our efforts towards the
encouragement of immigrants from
Northern Europe. These people already
have proved their readiness to sink their
racial identity after a generation or so
and to become Australians in more than
name. Further, they have not shown any
marked tendency to crowd into the
capital cities and exploit their fellow-
citizens. — Barwon (N.S.W.).
Young Ladies
On a perfect day my wife and I
strolled along the jetty. There was a
crowded two-way traffic of young males
and females clothed to the least legal
limit. Voices wer% loud and laughter
often raucous. Gestures and behavior
were embarrassingly free from Victorian
inhibitions. The only promenaders were
there to see and be seen, and almost the
only visual aid lacking was X-ray equip-
ment.
Immediately in front of us were two
young ladies who were unique in being
demurely dressed and modest-mannered
and who ignored the stares and smiles
turned in their direction. We could hear
them occasionally laughing, softly, ati
each other’s jokes.
Hand in hand they completed the
double journey under our close observa-
tion. When they were out of earshot we
compared notes on their general de-
meahor. My wife was full of praise for
them, but was sorry about one failing
they had in common. With a sigh she
said, “What a pity they are aborigines.”
—Fashion (S.A.).
“Nationalised” Fish
The south-Queensland seaside town of
Caloundra and its hundreds of holiday-
makers have been experiencing a taste of
genuine bureaucratic rule.
In September, 1946, the State Fish
Board established a depot there, and in
December issued a ukase forbidding any'
professional fisherman to sell any part
of his catch by retail in the area. An
ice-making and cold-storage plant had for
years dealt with the annual catches of
5000 cases or so by retail sale from stor-
age or transport to the Brisbane market.
Its owner, himself a professional fisher-
man, had been made to take his catches
to the board’s depot, and had been
allowed to retain only one-sixth of it as
his quota for local sale.
In December this man was forbidden
local sales. That put his plant, valued
at £3500, out of action, except for ice-
making. Like other local fishermen he
does not now find it worth his while to
go out, more particularly as they are all
forbidden to use fish from their own
catches for the use of their own house-
holds, or even to use any kind of fish
for bait until it has been examined by
the board’s representative to ensure that
it does not come under any of the board’s
requirements for human consumption.
Yet some misguided persons still seem
to imagine that Australia’s fisheries will
afford opportunities of a good livelihood
for ex-servicemen! They never will while
this sort of official stupidity continues. —
Bray Rock (Q.).
Food and Health
Australians are by no means the un-
healthiest people in the world, but they
have a high incidence of sickness, in-
cluding ' colds, rheumatic complaints,
gastro-intestinal disorders and dental
decay. Add to that the huge expenditure
on patent medicines and it would seem
that the national diet falls far short of
the standard which our natural resources
and modern science would make possible.
Of infinitely greater value than any
scheme for free medicine would be a
searching and well-publicised inquiry into
the nature of our dietary shortcomings.
Special reference should be made to the
effect of losses of vitamins and minerals
in the preparation of white bread and
flour, white sugar, polished rice and pro-
cessed cereals and meat. The uneconomic
cost of the distribution of fruit and vege-
tables and the high price of fish should be
considered as causes of unbalanced diets.
The extent to which current farming
methods are depleting the mineral wealth
of the soil, and the prevalence of vitamin
and mineral destroying methods in com-
mercial and domestic kitchens, should
also be looked for.
The destruction of nutritive value by
the excessive refining of food has always
been closely associated with the pro-
gressive degeneration of human stock in
civilisations which have passed away.
Our physical standards, though immensely
better than those of most native races,
are certainly inferior to those of the best
of the primitives, notwithstanding the
advantages which science could give us
if we would listen. —I. G. M. (N.S.W.).


NpVfftf’l
mk
SI
Si-^
W
J^hJ^'nvo
5^
rs
Ne
'S
vr-v
$
n
%
Sn
When
the plains
are
(
‘sizzling*-
MOTOR OIL
fd
ards
Cl
aw
BEFORE TOURING. LET YOUR GARAGE OR SERVICE STATION
DRAIN, FLUSH AND REFILL YOUR ENGINE WITH SHELL MOTOR OIL
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
