

The House of Seppelt. .. producers of
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—3508
Wednesday, May 7, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MALAHIDE CASTLE.
JRELAND possesses few castles of early Anglo-Norman style
which are better preserved than the venerable and stately
Malahide This mansion was granted by the second Henry to
Richard Talbot, in whose family it remained for several centuries,
indeed, until recent times continuously, except for a brief tenancy
by the regicide Myles Corbet, who was forced to abandon the place
after the restoration of Charles 11. Malahide has been skilfully
restored by successive owners, but always in keeping with its
ancient character. The castle is an extensive square structure
flanked by circular towers, and its interior, which possesses many
features of interest, is noted for its splendid hall, said to be the
purest specimen of Norman architecture in Ireland. The castle
was formerly well known for its valuable collection of rare paint-
ings and portraits by the old Dutch and Italian masters.


dfg
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 247 AGE
The Red Page
DALEY REVISITED.
Having searched with zeal and ardor
among the files of The Bulletin, where-
in, as in Tutankhamen’s tomb, are to
be found jewels and ashes, the immortal
and the ephemeral, Mr. Muir Holburn
and Miss Marjorie Pizer are, up to a
point), heartily to be commended for
their publication of Creeve Roe: Poetry
by Victor Daley (Pinchgut Press, Sydney).
Daley’s reputation has already dimmed
a little, and will fade still more ; dwind-
ling, it may be, until like Wordsworth’s
violet by its mossy stone, some small and
exquisite poem lives its lonely eternity
in Australian anthologies; —
And Spring’s wise little lady,
The Primrose opes her eyne
And keeps in places shady
Her golden lamps ashine.
If that seems a hard doom for one who
did well in his day, and was well thought
of, it should be remembered that a
thousand poets, some who stood like
giants in their time, have been utterly for-
gotten.
Poets who survive in anthologies
are, every so often, “revived” by
scholars; they become the subjects
of learned monographs; sometimes,
as has happened to Donne and
Hopkins in recent times, and not long
ago to Clare and Tourneur and Beddoes,
they are “taken up” by critics and writers
who love the margins of art and, for a
while, shine with temporary lustre beyond
their merits; and often, because their
personalities exceed their works, they are
made the subjects of fascinating bio-
graphies.
All this, in a limited way, Mr. Holbum
and Miss Pizer have tried to do for
Daley. Disagreeing with those of Daley’s
contemporaries who saw him only as “a
jovial Bohemian, a scintillating conversa-
tionalist, an ingenious deviser of prac-
tical jokes and a vivacious comrade in
wine and song,” they call for a “drastic
revision” of the current conception of
his personality. They deny that he lacked
humor and “Australianism.” Further,
they claim that the man who wrote
From golden hour, to golden hour
For him the woodland sang,
And from the heart of every flower
A singing fairy sprang
was, in reality, “the inveterate opponent
of all the enemies, whether naked or dis-
guised, of the common man. He struck
continually at fraud, pretension, privi-
lege, class distinctions and oppressions.”
And, by Mr. Holburn’s long and
scholarly preface and by the printing of
the political verses Daley wrote for The
Bulletin under his nom-de-guerre of
“Creeve Roe,” the editors of this little
book do manage to suggest that some
revision is necessary of the common
opinion on both the man and his work.
But the revision required is, alas, very
much less “drastic” than that so enthusi-
astically propounded by Mr. Holburn and
Miss Pizer.
It is by no means uncommon in what
may be called “partisan” criticism that
an advocate, subconsciously aware of
some disconcerting weakness In his case,
will reveal that weakness by vehemently
denying it. Anxious, for example, to
applaud the editors of this book for their
devotion to Daley, one might write, “Mr.
Holburn’s preface is anything but dull” ;
whereas, in unfortunate fact, it is ex-
ceedingly dull. It has that overpowering
earnestness of tone which makes one,
during sermons, go quietly to sleep.
Mr. Holburn is, perhaps, a very much
sounder critic than, in his partisanship, he
is able to admit; for if you read his
essay in reverse, as it were, on the under-
standing that he really means the opposite
of what he says on nearly all vital occa-
sions, it makes the most admirable good
sense. For instance, the critic writes: —
The method of attack employed in poems
like “The Sweater,” “The Pharisee,” .“The
Lament of the Importer” and “My Visitor”
is more typical, but it is varied with tireless
ingenuity and vivacity to suit the particular
theme under consideration. There is nothing
mechanical or monotonous in Daley’s
satiric verse.
If, however, the paragraph is read on
•the understanding that Mr. Holbum
really means the opposite, we have the
statement. “The method is seldom
varied ; Daley’s satiric verse is mechanical
and monotonous.” And that statement is
demonstrably correct.
In Creeve Roe there are 42 poems ; 21
of these are written in elementary four-
line stanzas with simple iambic metre
and only the slightest variation in rhyme-
scheme and length of line. Six more
poems are written in eight-line stanzas,
differing from the others only in that two
four-line stanzas have been joined to-
gether. There are four ballads, in slightly
freer rhythm, also in four-line stanzas.
So that 31 of the 42 poems are practic-
ally identical in form. The remaining 11
poems are varied in stanza-form, but
show little subtlety or variety of
lyrical melody, certainly not “tireless in-
genuity.”
It is not altogether advisable to use
this method of reading Mr. Holburn in
reverse when he suggests, qn page 28 of
his preface, that Daley’s more “sensuous”
poetry was written for money, or at least
—in contrast to the social verses pub-
lished in The Bulletin —deliberately
written for “an audience of book-buyers
rather than periodical readers”; for, tak-
ing the opposite to be correct, one would
be forced then to assume that Daley’s
social verses were written to make money
out of The Bulletin, whereas he was
free to express his real self in the “sensu-
ous” poetry. A detached point of view
must, indeed, hold the second suggestion
as plausible as the first; but both, besides
being unworthy, are made nonsensical by
the fact that The Bulletin published
both the “wine and roses” lyrics and the
social verses. In both kinds of writing,
Daley was doing, no doubt, nothing more
sinister than guilelessly following the
fashions of his day—the “decadence”
of Dowson, the social protests of
Lawson.
To return, however, to those instances
in which, to make sound criticism of Mr.
Holburn’s preface, you need do no more
than take him to mean the exact oppo-
site of what he writes, there is the state-
ment on page 29, “Incomparable as is
much of the verse in At Dawn and Dusk”
(etc.). For “incomparable” one must
read, of course, “comparable”—to
Dowson, Lionel Johnson, Roderic Quinn
and a dozen others of Daley’s contem-
poraries.
When Mr. Holburn writes on page 26
that Daley compares “very favorably”
with Wilde, Johnson and Dowson one
must read, rather, that Wilde, Johnson
and Dowson compare, favorably with
Daley. When the critic writes on page
35 that Daley’s political versifying was
“never naively propagandist” one must,
turning to the verses, agree that some-
times Daley was naively propagandist:
Who rules the world with iron rod? —
The person in the Tall Silk Hat
He is its sordid lord and god—
Self-centred in a Shrine of Fat.
When Mr. Holburn writes that the
Creeve Roe verses show Daley as “above
all, a poet” one must concur that, as dis-
tinct from visionary poetry or that broadly
human poetry which understands that
all men who wear silk hats are not irre-
trievably wicked and that some poor
men are fat, this book as a whole is not
poetry. When thb critic, unerringly sing-
ling out the best poem in the book to
praise for the wrong reasons, writes that
“The Poet Care” —
To him with sight made strong
By suffering and wrong .
The brows of all the throng
Are eloquent with song—
captures “the undersong of the oppressed
masses” one must credit him with really
meaning that this fine poem, being about
all humanity, rich and poor alike, is not
concerned with “the undersong of the
oppressed masses.” Except for this
poem, with its touch of spiritual depth,
the verses are mostly topical and “oc-
casional” trivialities, often adroitly
enough written, but not worth reprint-
ing.
Simple Life in Wales.
The stories in Kate Roberts’s A
Summer Day (Penmark Press, Ltd.;
Cardiff) have the charm and the limita-
tions of sketches in an artist’s notebook.
Her art is one of extreme simplicity.
The first story, “Two Storms,” opens
with a picture of Eban Llwyd just after
he has been rejected by his sweetheart in
favor of a low fellow named Guto Pant-
y-drin. On a night of snow and despair
Eban swears he will never again have
anything to do with women. And Eban
doesn’t. We meet him again, snowbound
in his solitary cabin many years later,
on a day when he learns that the faithless
Aels, after years of married life with
Guto Pant-y-drin, has died of pneumonia,
Eban wonders whether, if he had net
been snowbound, he would have forgiven
her and gone to her funeral; and there
the story ends. The reader is left to
contemplate the oddity of the name Guto
Pant-y-drin, and the pathos of human
life.
Again and again the writer aims at a
similar effect. “The Wind,” told as a
ghost story- and made still more improb-
able by a sailor’s thinking he has killed his
sweetheart’s father by a punch on the
jaw and not bothering to examine the
body to make sure, is a sentimental tale
of a girl deserted by her lover and com-
mitting suicide. “The Loss” concerns a
wife who goes picnicking with her hus-
band, trying to recapture the atmosphere
of their courtship, and finds at the end
that her Ted “would have given the round
world” to be at a Sunday school teachers’
meeting that afternoon where a notable
row took place—so that the story, very
effective when the wife bursts into peals
of laughter, half-amused and half-tragic,
amounts to a picture of marital stale-
mate.
“The Quilt” is a pathetic little sketch
of bankruptcy, an old woman, when the
furniture is taken away, clinging to a
quilt as the symbol of all she has had in
life, and all she has missed. ’ “Old Age”
portrays a crone too old and too silly
to realise that her son has died I
“Twym?” she asked. “Which Twym?”
“Twym your son, your youngest son,” 1
answered.
She looked at me uncomprehendingly as
she replied:
“Don’t know him.”
“A Summer Day” is hardly more than
an anecdote: a single glimpse of a sleep-
ing hobbledehoy who has married a bar-
maid, thereby bringing disgrace on his
family. This story, like many more in
the collection, reads less like a short story
than like the opening chapter of a novel.
There is a glimpse of a character, a hint
of drama and of comedy, then nothing
more. It is as if the author began the
novel, and left the reader to finish it.
An art of evocation, of suggestion, of
sketch, of outline is always likely to be
praised today, in prose as it is in paint-
ing, but it is not the art of the masters,
who finished what they began. De
Maupassant never left one dissatisfied at
the end of a short story, with the feeling
that there was more to be told of the
story, more to be revealed about his
people ; his was an art of completion.
In “The Condemned,” a picture of a
man dying of cancer, Kate Roberts
achieves completion; the story, more
attractive than it may sound, tells all one
would wish to know of the doomed man
and his wife. But this conquest of the
problem of form is rare hi the book.
“Between Two Pieces of Toffee” opens
with a fascinating sketch of a girl afraid
to marry:
The watchmaker knew his business and
almost before Dafydd had finished speaking
to him there was a tray of rings in front
of them. In his excitement Dafydd had
not noticed how Geini had become pale,
but, suddenly turning to her, he saw her
running for the door. He sped after her
as quickly as he could through the crowd,
and on the quay he caught her, and when
he held her she _ was like a fluttered bird
in a net. Her body shook from head to
foot, and he could hear her heart loud
beating.
“I can’t ever venture it, Dafydd,” she
cried. “I can see an end to our, happiness
when you would put that ring on my finger.
You must forgive me.”
But it is really an unforgivable evasion
of the problems of art to stop the story
at that point, as, in effect, Kate Roberts
does. Since she views the story through
the eyes of the lover as an old man —a
grandfather recalling his youth—the story
illustrates the two characteristic weak-
nesses of the book as a whole; for it is
at once a captivating opening for a novel
never properly developed, and (covering
the life-span of the grandfather in a few
pages) a novel compressed to read as a
short story.
Possibly, as the underlying cause of this
weakness in artistry, the writer’s point
of view is at fault. To depict the simple
pathos of life is all very well, and so
tactfully is the theme handled in these
brief sketches that it rarely becomes senti-
mental or merely miserable; but the
viewpoint would be difficult to sustain at
novel-length without falling into one or
other of those pitfalls. A writer who
seeks to cover the whole life-span of his
characters must inevitably make an effect
of pathos, for all men grow old and die ;
but, within the compass of a man’s life,
there are many other patterns that will
make novels; patterns not nearly so
monotonous.
It is significant that Kate Roberts’s last
story is a sketch of an old man, retiring
from his work in the quarry at the age
of 70, who all his life has “never sat
with folded hands.” It is an epitome of
the book as a whole, which is from one
point of view a charming set of sketches
of Welsh villagers, but which should
properly be regarded as a series of eva-
sions of a novel, which, because it would
be depressing, the author shrinks from.
If she could direct her attention to life’s
drama and humor instead of its pathos,
and develop her characters to completion,
Miss Roberts might find herself writing
novels of high quality. She writes in
Welsh and her stories are translated into
English by various hands.
Curle Papers.
When husband meets with hunter, each repeats
the other’s tale
That the female of the species is more deadly
than the male.
If Richard Curie included Kipling's
familiar lines concerning the perils of
pursuing Himalayan she-bears, and the
deadliness of females genefally, some-
where in Women, An Analytical Study
(Watts and Co.) this reviewer missed it.
And if he omitted it, the absence is aston-
ishing. It is somewhat hackneyed, but
that would not have dismayed Mr. Curie.
The author has a fondness for quota-
tions. Chaucer, Goldsmith, Wilde, Karl
Marx, Drydeh, Cary, Schopenhauer,
Browning, Byron, Shakspeare, Words-
worth, these, and many more, are all
drawn upon. They give a pleasant,
catholic flavor, a background, to the
author’s musings on women. But there
arc too many quotations and, taken in
conjunction with the cliches and near-
cliches, and a frequent meticulous unveil-
ing of the obvious, they point to a
major weakness in the book itself—a
solemn and pervasive literalness.
Despite the accumulated warnings of
the ages, bold men still go bear-hunting
and wooing. And Mr. Curie, in writing
a critical analysis of women, must be
accounted bolder than most. He is no
rash youth—he was a friend of Conrad
—and so he must be aware of the awful
scope and gravity of his subject, of its
humorous pitfalls, and the treachery of
generalities. As, indeed, is plain in his
introduction:
The title of this book may be regarded,
not without reason, as comprehensive to
the pitch of absurdity. For it is plain that
no thirty-two chapters ever written, or ever
to be written, even assuming the highest
standard of insight, could unbare the whole
heart of woman, and that, indeed, there is
much in femininity beyond the analysis of
words. Still, a book has to have a title
Confronted with the author’s difficulties
it seems unkind, and somewhat glib, to
say that the book is both too short and
too long. But this, in fact, is the case.
The obvious could have been ignored,
and more space given to fascinating
themes which are only touched upon
and reluctantly left. But the reluctance
is as much the author’s as the reader's.
There is no conscious skimping. Mr.
Curie probes, examines, weighs and sifts.
And, with that oaken resolution Conrad
admired —and possessed—pushes forward
into territory even prelates and politicians
are chary of treading—women’s rights
and privileges.
It is conceivable that a friend of
Conrad would be read with a certain
attention if he wrote a manual of
gardening—there is natural curiosity, a
kind of detective interest, for personal
details. Of these, there are none. Conrad
is quoted freely, but impersonally, and
the influence is betrayed in odd ways,
in turns of phrase, in the unconscious use
of the expression “Secret Sharer” where
conscience is meant. In the faults of style
there is, irritatingly, something of Conrad
■—a Conrad enfeebled. Wher6 Conrad
would build up a subject, an idea, seem-
ingly play with it, surround it with quali-
fications and finally crown and confirm
it with a phrase. Curie worries it.
' With the mighty influence of Conrad
admitted, it is surprising that Curie has
not attempted a novel. Which, as he re-
cognises—somewhat belatedly, on page
137—is the true method of analysis.
I feel sometimes that the only satisfying
presentation of a woman’s soul is to be
found through the medium of the novel.
Such men as Balzac, Turgenieff, Hardy and
James have done more to explain
women to us than all the treatises ever
written. For their analysis is harnessed to
creation, and thus the woman herself
emerges and not merely the shadow of her
outline.
Why then, one is entitled to ask, has
he not written a novel? Personal friend-
ship with a giant may be a disadvantage;
but at least Mr, Curie could have con-
fined himself to women as they appear in
fiction, a scheme which, judging by the
comments, he had half a mind to do, and
for which he seems qualified. And within
that outline the book would gain the
necessary form. This is, basically, the
trouble with the quotations. Attached to
Mr. Curie’s musings they seem artificial.
Taken the other way round, they could
be valuable.
The value of the book as it stands i r
chiefly “provocative.” Confronted, foi
example, with some endearing feminine
characteristic, women’s matchless ability
to put men in the wrong for instance, or
their brilliant exhibits of injured innocence
Mr. Curie breaks into angry and baffled
exclamations. And when, on page 190.
he concludes a paragraph with “Their
brains, even in such small matters, are
not logical, and this perhaps explains why
there are no great female philosophers or
mathematicians. Not a single one,” there
is a clear picture of Mr. Curie leaning
back, reading what he is written and
approving it, and adding the last sentence.
“Not one.” A short book by the author’s
wife, on the author, might on the whole
be more valuable.


M EIIIS
GROUND FLOOR GEORGE ST
Wi
\
*
'm
V
m
\
a
>
■m
1
I
H
Anthony
Horderns’
Order a pair of Shoes to suit your favour-
ite pastime by mailing your order to The
Senior Store to-day! Rest assured your
requirements will be given every care
and attention.
Your all-purpose Shoe is fashioned from
a super grade Box Calf, and is made on
a good fitting last. Available in full
and half sizes. Price 40/3
For excellent play on golf greens, these
super grade Men’s Golf Shoes featuring,
genuine welted soles of non-slip rubber.
In full and half sizes, priced at 36/3
To suit the fastidious taste of the well-
dressed male, we suggest these Box Calf
or Glace Kid Shoes, made in medium
and extra wide fittings, full and half
sizes. Box Calf, pricg 29/6
Glace Kid, price 30/6
For a smashing game of bowls with solid
comfort, here is a pair of Tan Calf
Bowling Shoes, also suitable for golfing.
Flex sewn rubber soles, in full and half
sizes, and the price is 28/9
You’ll delight in the comfort of these
Tan Derby Officers’ Shoes featuring
genuine welted soles, no toecaps, and
which are available in full and half sizes.
Price 36/6
m
m
C 5?
d/A/
h
CM
1
<2
nr'
f
£Z\
■r&Ssi
¥i)
W;
/
K
yfessf
SW?
For luxurious comfort—high grade
Suede Grecian Slippers, made in Blue
and Black, Red and Black, all Black and
all Brown. Flex sewn leather soles, full
and half sizes. Price 19/3
Also stocked in Brown or Black grained
leather. Price 20/6
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
POSTAL ADDRESS; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


NEW BOOKS, NEW EDITIONS
SUNDAY AT YARRALUMLA. By Ethel Anderson. Sunday at Yarralumla
is in the tradition of Ethel Anderson’s earlier poem sequence, Squatter’s
Luck* in that it has all the musical lyricism, the witty directness and the
mastery of technique that distinguished the first publication. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
BEN HALL, THE BUSHRANGER. By Frank Clune. An exciting and absorbing
novel based on the life of Ben Hall, the Bushranger. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
FLYING FOX AND DRIFTING SAND. By Francis Ratcliffe. This is unques-
tionably one of the beat books ever done in Australia, and we are proud
to add it to our list. Numerous illustrations. 12/6 (post. 6d.).
ALL THAT SWAGGER. By Miles Franklin. All That Swagger has been
acclaimed by critics as one of the finest Australian novels yet written.
8/6 (post. 6d.).
FREE AND EASY LAND. By Frank Clune. The record of a journey from
Brisbane to Cloncurry, to the Gulf round Cape York, and down the east
coast. Illustrated. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
IN CROCODILE LAND. By lon L. Idriess. This—the latest Idriess—is a tale
of a crocodile-shooting expedition round Australia’s northern coasts. Illus-
trated. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
BEHIND BAMBOO. By Rohan Rivett. The grim and splendid story of the
Australian prisoners of Japan is simply and forcibly told by Rohan Rivett,
himself a prisoner for three and a half years. Illustrated. 12/6 (post. 6d.).
AVAILABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
MA 6511.
SI
j* J %
to s e
The Colonel told his wife,
That the Major’s friend, the Captain,
Was a-sneezing for his life.
So a Sergeant told a private,
"Double out! Be doubly sure,
To ask the Canteen Corporal
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”
Precaution against influenza infection,
Woods’ Great Pepper mint Care.
_.
i S
-Mmm
so??-
■•■'■:-
rtf
>'
S' *r
age*..
m: m
torn.
*1
wim*o
*
r ’ i|i f
B*3 .4
*£SI
M^'o*VV»'V
§i 'eiaii
•Mis
P$ gs 5^5
PPW
vV -#si
ipii
sg fcj *
'tai
4^* r • w .-*x«£«te
. f^.'V 1 -'
3S£*- s " „ I^‘-
ts&Ji
ft***
01*
iH»
mf~
- as?
oL L
i/M
f.«!
%
pf
oM|
'f' /J i
//
//
/ /
/ / ... r. a
-T
w/
7^
ii
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT^
Your war-time driving troubles are
over! Plume-the better petrol-is here
again. Plume will now enable you to
obtain from your engine ALL the per-
formance and power it was built to give.
Buy Plume —the better petrol.
P 466
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump oal
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up." Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
tlsc. 3/- & 1/3.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy or exchange seeds of native or exotic
trees and shrubs. —4001. . , _ ,
To buy copy of Abbot’s Practical Geometry
and Engineering Graphics—4002.
Youn ff ex-Digger and wife wish to per-
manently rent cottage or flat within 20 miles
of Sydney.—4003.
To buy copy of Happy Despatches, by
“Banjo” Paterson. —4005.
To buy new or second-hand copy of Inwood s
Interest Tables— 4004.
Information Sought.
(1) In what country did Franz Hals, the
painter, reside? (2) To what school of painting
did he belong? (3) What are his best-known
masterpieces ? (4) Did he paint a porti ait o]
Mary Queen of Scots?
(1) Holland. (2) He was the founder and
one of the greatest exponents of the Uutcn
school of genre painting. (3) “The Laughing
Cavalier,” portraits of Maria Voogt and
Madame van Berestyn, “The Flute Player,
“Nurse and Child” and “Banquet of the
Shooting Company of St. Joris.” (4) No, she
died in 1587, when Hals was barely six.
* » * •
Is there a society dealing with heraldry and
genealogy in Sydney ? If so, what is its address
and what are its objects ?
The Society of Australian Genealogists has
its office and an extensive library at 91 Phillip-
street, Sydney. It was formed in 1932 to
encourage the study of genealogy, family history
and heraldry, to make permanent records and
indices of all matters bearing on these subjects,
and to work in conjunction with the Society
of Genealogists, London.
Some details about Mary Webb, authoress
of “Precious Bane” ?
She was born Gladys Mary Meredith, on
March 25, 1881, in the village of Leighton,
Shropshire. In 1912 she married Henry
Bertram Law Webb, a schoolmaster, and they
made their home at Pontesbury, Shropshire.
She published The Golden Arrow (1916), Gone
to Earth (1917), The Spring of Joy (1917),
The House in Dormer Forest (1920), Seven
for a Secret (1922) and Precious Bane (1924).
A book of poems appeared in 1929. She died
on October 8, 1927. Some months after her
death Stanley Baldwin, then Prime Minister,
praised her at a Royal Literary Fund dinner,
and her books, re-issued, rapidly became best-
sellers.
* * * *
What was the record of the first M.L. Rugby
Union team to Australia in 1884 ; and the
players? .
Played eight matches; all won. Points fof
167, against 17. The wins were against Cum-
berland County (33 to nil), N.S.W. (11 to nil),
Combined Suburbs (23 to 5), Northern Dis-
tricts (29 to nil), N.S.W. (21 to 2), Western
Districts (11 to nil), Wallaroo and University
(23 to 10) and N.S.W. (16 to nil). Team was
W. Milton (capt.), E. Milton, Ryan, Warbnck,
Davy, Dumbell, Roberts, Helmore, Braddon,
Taiaroa, Carter, Lecky, O’Connor, Udy, Webb,
Wilson,'Allan, O’Donnell and Robertson.
*_* * *
Where was Sam Langford born, and is he
still alive ? Did Langford ever win any boxing
championships ?
Born at Weymouth, Nova Scotia, on March
4, 1886, Langford is still living in New York,
although almost totally blind. Many veteran
experts say Langford would have beaten Jack
Johnson for the world heavyweight title if
Johnson had not refused many lucrative offers
to fight him, but the only championship Lang-
ford, who began boxing in 1902, ever won was
the Spanish heavyweight one, which he beat
Andres Balsas for at Mexico City on April 7,
1923.
* * ♦ *
Plants suitable for window-box gardening?
Any hints?
Bright flowering annuals include primula,
viola, pansy, petunia, mignonette, lobelia, ice-
land poppies and gypsophylla; bulbs of lache-
nalia, muscari, daffodils and freezias. Where
little attention can be given use geraniums and
pelargoniums, asparagus, maiden-hair, fishbone
and nephrolepsis ferns, or small-growing
pomegranate and ornamental shrubs. Bright
colors make pleasing contrast to containers;
all boxes should be reinforced strongly at
corners to avoid breakages, and drainage holes
made to carry off surplus water.
Brief Answers.
A.J.: (1) Victoria defeated N.S.W. at Sydney
in 1885 by 37 sets to 26; N.S.W. defeated
Q’ld. at Brisbane in 1895 by 39 sets to 24;
N.S.W. defeated S.A. (men’s matches) at Ade-
laide in 1910 by 4 rubbers to 2. (2) N.S.W.
15 rubbers, 1 match, 36 sets; Victoria 15
rubbers, 1 match, 34 sets; S.A. 15 rubbers,
1 match, 33 sets R.C.J.F.: Write N.S.W.
Agricultural Dept., Sydney R.M.C.: Hazell
and Moore Pty., Ltd., 34 Campbell-street,
Sydney, are agents for the “Triumph” motor
cycle... .R.M.Z.: Handy Hints for the Farm
is obtainable from The Bulletin office at a
cost of Is. 2*d. (post free) L.M.H.: Write
Lecturer-in-Charge, Art Department, East
Sydney Technical College, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
E.R.: In 1887 Edward Hanlan paid a
second visit to Australia, and on November 26
was defeated by Beach over the Nepean
(N.S.W.) course by two lengths in 19min.
55sec. After this race Beach forfeited the title
to Peter Kemp P.O’H.: “My Mate Bill” was
written by G. H. Gibson and appears in The
Bulletin Reciter S.J.W.: Viscount Hamp-
den was Governor of N. S. Wales from Novem-
ber 22, 1895, to March 5, 1899 F.D.: The
quotation is from Tacitus. Translated it reads:
“Every great example [of punishment] has some-
thing unequal in it, which is compensated, so
much as it is to the disadvantage of individuals,
by its public usefulness”... .A.C.C.: Pamphlet
is obtainable from Cement and Concrete Asso-
ciation of Australia, 14 Spring-street, Sydney.
H.G.: The complete envelope flown by tue
first air mail service from New Guinea is not
scarce. Similar covers are sold in Sydney at
2s. 6d. retail and there are plenty available
A.J.S.: Charcoal has no manurial value, but
it sweetens the soil and keeps it porous. Where
asters, carnations, lupins, snapdragons and roses
are grown, the addition of charcoal to the plot
will do much to check mildew, wilt and other
diseases G.F.: Adam’s Clans, Septs and
Regiments of the Scottish Highlands contains
an illustration of the MacDonald of Clan-
ranald tartan in c010r... .F.R.: The quotation
is from Schiller. Translated into English it
reads; “Even out of a cloudless sky the flaming
thunderbolt may strike; therefore in your days
of pleasure beware of the envious approach of
misfortune”... .R.S.P.: Color defects are due
to the plant being kept too much in the shade.
A position near glass where the sun will
strengthen them will bring out the colors. The
addition of leaf-mould to the potting material
is an excellent tonic to force the color. Estab'-
. fished plants thrive with a weekly dose of weak
liquid manure W.G.: The title deeds of
Delville Wood, containing the graves of South
African troops who fell there during the battles
on the Western Front in France in World War
I, are held by the Government of the Union
of South Africa, and Delville Wood is, as a
matter of international law, part of South
Africa... .D.M.8.: Write Angus and Robert-
son, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.


For Sale.
Digger’s widow has for sale complete Official
History World War I. Brand new. No. 320,
Advt. Dept., The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
STOPvour Rupture
Worries/
ft
mark'® Locahoh
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE BODSSEIi APPEIANCE CO.,
(Pent. 27). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
THTTT*
A
CHE
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and Incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate nnd your beneficiaries are of paramount
Importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
Interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W, Black - Frederick
Ewen Boston ■ Eric Priestley Bee.
Manager—B. S. Parker. Secretary—E, B. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE:' BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydntf.
BP 4-44.
h dfg
CHAIMS
Or culm Charts i« all types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gel our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET I'TV. LTD. BRISBANE, O 10.
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
21- per copy. 22/6 a year post free.
/ i
YOU HOED
WAR
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
about to m
bead
important message
If you own War Savings Certificates
which are about to mature, don’t cash
them—hold on to them and they will
continue to pay you better than bank
interest.
If you lodged your War Savings Certifi-
cates with' your bank for safe keeping,
with instructions to redeem them at
maturity, you should immediately
cancel that instruction and request your
bank to retain your Certificates. In that
way they will continue to increase in
value—at better than hank rates of
interest.
If you lodged your War Savings Certifi-
cates with your bank and gave no
instruction about Redemption at matur-
ity, you need take no action at all. So
long as they remain with your bank,
they will continue to increase in value-
each year.
If you are holding your Certificates
yourself, you should continue to hold
them—or better still, lodge them with
your bank or savings bank, which will
hold them in safe custody for you
completely free of charge.
Savings Certificates are now issued in a
new five-year series for face value, in
denominations of £l, £5, £lO and £5O,
which in five years’ time will be worth
£l/3/-, £5/15/-, £ll/10/- and
£57/10/- respectively.
These generous interest rates will also
apply to War Savings Certificates
maturing this year —if you don’t cash
them. Every pound’s worth, for which
you paid 16/- seven years ago, will rise
further in value to £l/3/- in five years’
time by yearly steps.
There is no better place for your savings than in Savings Certificates.
So hold on to all you own, and buy as many more as possible of the
new five-year series. They are cashable at any time, and the annual
increases in value are free from taxation. Regardless of holdings of Wav
Savings Certificates, everyone can own Savings Certificates of £250 face
value.
Don't Cash Your Maturing War Savings Certificates
They will continue to increase in value at the same rate as the
NEW 5-YEAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany s MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
D.M.: All lightweights P. 8.: “Nellie is as
wobbly as a jelly... ; R-Y.T.; Five °u _
lines on the regeneration of society by eating
raw vegetables. Have a heart K.U.M.. rr
you are in hospital, ask the doctor to have
look at that poem’... .P.M.S.: Come m and
sing;
G.M.H.: “Deep-sea-blue the harbor lays.”
Eggs? A.C.P.: “Do you want to stay a little
longer here at Wonga?” N 0... .E.M.R.: Poem
about candles is lost in total darkness....
E.V.W.; “If you think my idea has no body
in it I shall not try again.” There’s a body in
it all right —murdered... .A. 8.: “Song of a
Slop'Pail” is a pearl cast before swine.-...
A.A.1.: Gashed with dashes and strangled in
parentheses... .P.S.: It says the usual things
rather nicely... .F. 8.: If a thousand others
hadn’t written almost the same poem it might
have crept in....W.M.F.: A harmless feather-
weight A.V.A.; So you think the Govern-
ment should take over the Art Gallery to solve
the housing problem. But why not build
houses? S.L.: No bite in “The Bulldog.
H.G.F.: “I rizzle, I sizzle, I sing! ” Are
you, by any chance, a sausage?... . P.N.R.;
“Poem Written by My Truelove’s Doormat” is
not at all a bad poem for a doormat H.S.:
Next thing you’ll be saying you want to go
back to Gundagai... .P.McG.: Send it in a
month before next Anzac Day....J.L.; Swat
that butterfly G.0.R.: “Impossible” is
Y.C.: The only member of the staff who can
read poems about Mother’s Day is the Re-
ligious Editor; and even he .thought yours
was somewhat treacly... .J.U.: Tut... .L.8.H.:
“The inspiration came to me while riding my
bicycle along Alison-road, Randwick.” That
wasn’t inspiration; it was a puncture.. Fitch:
Well, just a taste, then;
....C.D.: Might get by with a stronger ending.
P.H.P.: Stick to subjects you know some-
thing about F.R.S.: It may be true, but it
makes dull reading... .T.H.W.: Burglar finds
safe full of empty bottles. You’re the third
this year A.J.F.: Whatever it is you’re try-
ing to say, you don’t manage to say it....
W.M.: The next person who sends us a “Trip
to the Zoo” sketch will be hurled to the lions.
A.K.: Too sickly sentimental E.H.;
After the first five pages we gave up trying to
sort out those outlandish characters with Biblical
names N.W.: Aeroplane story never left the
ground J.T.: Couldn’t stomach your whole-
sale slaughter of characters C.P.J.: You
have a lot to learn about Sydney policemen.
. ...D.R.: Kindhearted burglar couldn’t force
an entry at 252 George-street... .W.C.8.; “Let
me know if this sort of stuff is any good.”
Not to us R.T.: “One Month” was given
an equal stretch in the office clink C.G.:
If that is a fair sample of your prose it will
be a long time before you lift an office cheque.
T.A.: Not so much a story as a rehash
of early history M.G.: You could get three
football teams out of the characters you cram
into 20 pages 8.0’5.: The parish magazine
might be interested R.S.S.: Microscopic
pencil notes scrawled on both sides of the
paper put our handwriting expert on a bender.
....W.McK.: We don’t want stories that have
been printed elsewhere L.F.: It merely fol-
lows the conventional coward-turned-hero plot.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.M.; There was not even a chuckle in any
of the 5ix....L.G.: You can remove the out-
size dog and his diminutive master at your
leisure... .E.P.: Can’t see our cashier paying
out good money for that atrocity N.C.T.:
Please draw on white paper and use Indian
ink, not colored chalk... .L.H.8.: Caricature
is completely unlike the subject... .A.T.K.; At
least you have patience RJ.: Suggest you
send that masterpiece to Yarralumla C.D.:
That pug has taken the count in our pages
before J.J.: You might have told us why
Chifley is getting around in a diver’s suit
8.5.: “Canberra Comicalities” far from being
comical G.W.D.: Penwork superior to your
brushwork, though neither sample got near the
mark H.W.: You’ll need to think out much
brighter gags DJ.T.: We showed your
sketch of the bishop to the Religious Editor.
He is still on the spree T.S.; Haven’t you
ever seen a kangaroo?.... .AJ.R.: Hardly a
month passes without that watered-milk gag
turning up C.R.: Has all the appearance of
having been dug out of a century-old file of
London “Punch” M.M.: The old He-She
gag has had its day R.F.: “Anzac Day Im-
pressions” well enough done for magazine
pages of a daily W.G.: Two things you can’t
draw are a cow and a train F.R.; Unk White
hit upon the same idea some little time back
A.C.8.: You’re still a IcJng way below the
mark J.L.: If you are under 10 you show
slight promise C.5.0’8.: Don’t tell us that
you’ve just heard that “No-shave-no-razor”
gag? L.A.: An uninspiring mess of faint
scratches J.McD.: Why is Dad floating
half-way between floor and ceiling? E.M.:
Having proved to us that you can draw a
cat we suggest that you tackle a humorous
sketch 8.P.: Cow cocky and hired hand
locked in death struggle in w.p.b R.N.:
Suffered the fate of the average first effort.
I can see the modern mother
In the background of my thoughts,
Ensconced in dog and horse form
From early mom till noon.
The kiddies too, alas, must suffer,
Waiting for their Mum turned punter
To produce the bread and fat.
It grieves me sad and deeply
In reflecting that it’s true!
If I could reincarnate Socrates
Maybe I’d know what to do.
BEER.
Beer, cool beer, of Thee I sing,
Come on, lads, let the welkin ring!
For who would sit beneath the bough
With sickly wine, dry bread, and “thou,”
When sparkling beer its cheer will lend
To reminiscence with a friend?
Would dinkum Aussie rather sup
Ambrosia served in Hebe’s cup,
When beer drawn cool at Young and J.’s
Enhances Chloe to his gaze?
I showed these lines to my fond mate;
She said: “You vile inebriate,
Blind, boozing, beery, bibbling B! !
Don’t drool your dribbling dross to me.
You call it being fou, or canned,
Bewildered, tight, or slightly corned.
Squiffy, mellow, mild, befuddled,
Elevated, muzzy, muddled,
Obfuscated, plastered, oiled.
Intoxicated, spliced, hard-boiled.
Crapulous, the worse for wear,
Half seas over, on the tear —
Words, vain words, that don’t disguise
Your swinish state from seeing eyes.
So keep your soft euphonious arts
For easy-pleased blonde bar-room tarts.


[COMPANY MEETING]
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS'
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
The Sixtieth Annual Meeting of the Company was held in Sydney on the
24th April, 1947. The Chairman, Sir Henry Manning, in moving the
adoption of the Report, Balance Sheet and Accounts, said:—
“You have submitted to you to-day the
Sixtieth Annual Report of the Company, giv-
ing the results of its Diamond Jubilee Year, the
first full year of Peace. In accordance with our
usual practice and with your concurrence, I
propose to take the Annual Report, Balance
Sheets and Accounts as read.
OUTSTANDING PROGRESS
“Before proceeding further I should like to
refer particularly to the outstanding progress
the Company has made in the last decade as
shown in the following statement: —
31st Dec., 31st Dec.,
1936. 1946.
Assurances in force,
including bonus £68,870,388 £154,305,126
Annual Income .. 3,744,515 7,804,202
Assets .... .. 25,168,845 50,553,610
“The percentage increase in sums assured in
force in Australia alone has been 149 and in
New Zealand, where the Company has made
noteworthy progress, sums assured in force
have increased by 131 per cent., with the result
that the holders of over one million Policies
now look to the M.L.C. for financial security.
The Company’s progress is naturally a source
of satisfaction to all associated with it, and is a
measure of the assuring public’s appreciation
of the service we have rendered to the com-
munity.
“Nineteen forty-six has been a remarkable
year for Life Offices' throughout the English-
speaking world. It has been characterised by
very considerable increases in new business, in-
creased expenses and a further fall in the rate
of interest earned on accumulated funds. This
also has been the experience of the M.L.C. New
assurances aggregating £25,138,019 effected
during the year greatly exceeded those written
in any previous year. Forty-four thousand
eight hundred and sixty-nine new Policies were
written in the Ordinary Branch, assuring
£18,104,810 and in the Industrial Branch,
86,637 new Policies, assuring £7,033,209. The
figures in the Ordinary Branch are 70 per cent,
and in the Industrial Branch 40 per cent, in
excess of the corresponding figures for 1945
and represent outstanding progress.
“The writing of such an immense volume of
new business, apart from any other factor,
would inevitably have increased our expense
rate for the year, for people do not purchase
Life Assurance as they purchase most other
commodities, and experience has proved con-
clusively that it is necessary for the Life As-
surance representative to seek out his prospec-
tive client. But in addition, in common with
our contemporaries, we have been faced with
increased costs in every direction in carrying
on our business, for the level of expenses tends
to rise ; nevertheless, our expense rates are very
satisfactory.
“In the Ordinary Branch 13.97 per cent, of
the premium income was absorbed in expenses ;
calculated on the total income the rate was
10.34 per cent. The corresponding figures in
the Industrial Branch were 26.75 per cent, and
21.96 per cent.
“The effective rate of interest earned in the
Ordinary Branch on the funds and general re-
serves was £4 3s. per cent, and on funds alone
£4 4s. 7d. per cent., these figures being reduced,
after payment of taxes, to £3 15s. and
£3 16s, 5d. per cent, respectively. In the In-
dustrial Branch the effective rate earned on the
funds and general reserves was £3 19s. lOd. per
cent, and on the funds alone £4 Is. 4d. After
the deduction of taxes the rates were £3 14s. 4d.
per cent, and £3 15s. 9d. per cent, respectively.
“During the year just passed our policy-
holders, or their representatives, received
£2,646,206, bringing the total paid by the Com-
pany in its first sixty years to £54,254,777.
INTEREST RATES
“Life Offices are profoundly interested in
the three factors which affect their stability and
earnings—expenses, mortality and interest
earned on funds. There has been an improve-
ment in mortality, and if war claims are disre-
garded the death rate* has shown a downward
trend for many years. While this improvement
has been welcome, its contribution to the sur-
plus available for policyholders has been more
than offset by the loss they have sustained on
account of reduced interest earnings. The yield
on Government Loans in recent years has de-
termined very largely the rate of interest earned
by Life Offices on their fund, for as the Com-
monwealth Statistician has shown two-thirds of
the assets held in Australia by Life Offices are
invested in Government and Municipal securi-
ties. It will be realised, that Life
Assurance Offices are affected by the announce-
ment that the long term rate for the new Com-
monwealth Loan which opened this month has
been reduced to 3| per cent.
“In common with other Allied countries,
our public debt was very greatly increased
during the war, and there is a very natural
desire to service the debt on a low interest
basis, but in the interests of the thrifty and the
future welfare of the country there is a limit
below which interest rates should not fall, as
otherwise the reward for thrift on the part of
the people, who are still required to be per-
suaded to refrain from spending and to invest
their savings in Government securities, will not
be worth while.
“In addition to the fact that the purchasing
value of money has fallen through war-time
inflation, reducing the real value of accumu-
lated funds, the low rate of interest now avail-
able on investments greatly reduces the ex-
pected accumulation, even in terms of money.
The results are serious for Life Offices, Super-
annuation Funds, Church and University En-
dowments and the like. For example, the
annual saving necessary for 45 years to provide
an income of £200 per annum for the ensuing
15 years, assuming 4\ per cent, compound in-
terest, is approximately £15 10s, The annual
saving must be increased to £25 10s. if 3 per
cent, compound interest only can be obtained,
an increase of over 60 per cent. All Life
Assurance Companies will need to declare re-
versionary bonuses on reduced scales, and
nearly all Superannuation Funds (unless they
can obtain increased subsidies) will have to
increase contributions and/or reduce benefits;
while the outlook for endowed funds is grim
indeed.
“A natural corollary of the fall in the in-
terest earned on the funds has been that in the
Industrial Branch in common with other Life
Offices in Australia, we have had to discon-
tinue issuing short-dated Endowment Assur-
ances because present and prospective interest
rates make the issue of short-term contracts
impracticable. In the interest of the public.
Life Offices have therefore ceased issuing En-
dowment Assurance Policies of shorter dura-
tion than 25 years. It should be pointed out
that similar difficulties are being experienced
by Life Offices in England and America, where
the largest Offices have found it necessary to
discontinue weekly premium Endowment
Assurances.
* . STRINGENT VALUATION
“Because of the low rate of interest at
which we can now invest our funds, the Direc-
tors have considered it wise further to
strengthen the valuation basis in the Industrial
Branch, and at the close of 1946 all ‘With
Profit’ Policies then in force, representing 86
per cent, of the business in force in the Branch,
have been valued on a 2 per cent, basis. We
are proud to be able to make this stringent
valuation which, so far as we know, is un-
equalled, but regret the necessity for doing so.
HOME PURCHASE
“One most important section of our service
to the community is assisting the purchase and
erection of homes, but unfortunately the out-
look in building construction is not so hopeful
as it was expected to be after nearly two years
of peace. The cost of construction has risen
sharply, and the reserves of the average family
are severely strained in the very natural ambi-
tion of the average Australian to own his own
home.
“We firmly believe that the only sound way
to finance the purchase or building of a home
when recourse,has to be made to borrowing
some portion of the cost, is to underwrite the
loan with a Policy on the life of the bread-
winner of the family ensuring repayment of the
loan at the expiration of the selected term, or,
and this is even more important, in the event
of untimely death. The fact that the premiums
paid on the collateral Policy are within certain
limits eligible for rebate of Income Tax makes
the Life Office House Purchase plan even
more attractive. This part of our business has
become increasingly popular, and our experi-
enced staff are well qualified to assist the public
in deciding which plan will best suit the indi-
vidual requirements.
“It is with great regret that I have to record
the death during 1946 of the Company’s Chair-
man of Directors, the late Sir John Peden, who
had been associated with this Company both as
Trustee and as a Director for many years. It
would be difficult to pay an adequate tribute
to his service to the State over many years in
his capacity as President of the Legislative
Council and Dean of the Faculty of Law.
“My colleagues and I also greatly regret the
deaths during the year of two of our Trustees,
Sir George Julius and the Right Hon. W. A.
Watt. The vacancies created have been filled
by the appointment as Trustees of Dr. C. G.
McDonald, Lieut.-General Sir Leslie Mors-
head and Brig. W. J. V. Windeyer.
SIXTY YEARS OF SERVICE
“We look back on our sixty years of ser-
vice with pride and pleasure, but in this diffi-
cult period more than ever before it is neces-
sary that all should realise to the full the im-
portance of holding on to that which is sound
and stable. In the present time of abnormal
scarcity of so many essentials, exceptional con-
ditions exist which tend to obscure the funda-
mentals, In the very nature of things this arti-
ficial state of affairs will not last, and it should
not be allowed to blind us to the simple fact
that as a nation we can take out of industry
only what we put into it. In the long run re-
ward must be related to output, and if higher
wages and shorter hours aret not accompanied
by increased production a higher standard of
living is impossible. The future of the country
depends on the way in which we prepare for
the years ahead and from the individual stand-
point of Life Assurance is still the best means
of accomplishing the desired end.”
In seconding the motion, Mr. A. M. Eedy
said; —
“Ten years ago, in seconding the Chair-
man’s motion, for the adoption of our Jubilee
Report, special mention was made of the for-
mation of a Group Department by the Com-
pany enabling a wide extension of the benefits
of Life Assurance, permitting the regular de-
duction at the request of the employee out of
his wages of monthly, fortnightly or weekly
premium instalments. The Department has
played a very important part in the Company’s
growth in the last decade ; its outstanding pro-
gress is an indication of the service we have
been able to render employees and employers,
particularly in the specialised advice which our
Staff have been able to give in connection with
Superannuation Schemes, many hundreds of
which have now been underwritten by the
ML.C.
“The availability to all sections of the com-
munity of modern Life Assurance provides an
opportunity for all men of good will and genu-
ine desire for personal freedom to guarantee
security for their families and themselves by
their own individual initiative and intelligent
planning.
“Once again I have been asked by the
Board to express their appreciation of the ex-
cellent service rendered by the Staff during a
year of outstanding progress, which was made
possible only by their loyal and efficient
service.”


THE LAST PICNIC
No. 13 of the "Cookabundy Chronicles”
BY BRIAN JAMES
NEW Year’s Day, and the Cooka-
bundy picnic. There were two
big annual events in the Cooka-
bundy calendar as fixed as the
seasons, and these were the Picnic Races
on the 9th—King’s Birthday, of course,
9th November —and the New Year’s Pic-
nic by the creek. The picnic merged into
the New Year’s Dance in the Hall.
Now it was the picnic part of the day’s
carnival. Hot as hell, too, as someone
said.
In Doolan’s paddock by the creek the
heat was more bearable. At least
there was a pretence that it was, and that
made a lot of difference. In any case,
there couldn’t be a picnic at all without
a deal of pretence. And when old George
Farley “couldn’t mind at all, now, any
New Year’s Day so hot neither,” every-
one knew that old George said the same
thing each year.
Doolan’s paddock was flat and fertile,
dotted with great shady apple - trees;
nearer the creek were enormous river-
gums, majestic trees they were and a sight
good to look on —clear, smooth trunks
and limbs with long wisps of brown bark
hanging here and there. And growing
out of the creek itself were the she-oaks,
giants of their kind, five feet through
some of them, and their shaggy tops a
hundred feet up in the sky.
The banks of the creek were steep, high
and very wide apart, and a tiny thread
of water, clear and cold, ran over the
pebbles between the big deep pools. The
rest of the space between banks was as
green as could be with short crisp water-
couch. It looked cool.
There were over a hundred —well over
that —at the picnic ; everyone, almost
everyone, there from Tipperary and the
Grey Box and Round Swamp, and other
places so distant as to be considered
foreign. Even some young fellows from
town, pice young fellows, who were deter-
mined 1 to be pleasant all round in a pat-
ronising way, so slight that it could
hardly be noticed.
People everywhere. Old chaps who
gathered in knots in shady places;
mothers perspiring over crockery and tea,
and hampers of sandwiches. Tablecloths
on the shady grass.
Picnic dinner set at last. Old George
Farley climbed up the steep bank by a
slanting path, and yelled out: “Chook!
Chook! Chook!”—the yell tapering off
to a fond sort of gurgle. Children at
swings or games understood. Old
George’s “Chook, chook, chook!” was a
tradition at Cookabundy picnics.
Children raced down the bank in cas-
cades. Food in incredible quantities be-
gan to disappear. Mrs, Pat Doolan had an
unwelcome interlude with Terry, aged
five. “Terry, Terry why didn’t you
come to m© sooner?” Terry, feeling his
disgrace, and a thing apart from his
companions, was taken up the creek “to
be fixed.” Elaborate effort to ignore the
painful situation.
Rattle, jingle of plates and knives. Old
George sparking up properly now after
his success with the children. “He’s just
awful! ” said Mrs. George, who was quite
proud really of George’s success.
And then, in the somnolence of the
after-dinner calm, when pipes were going
and men, sprawled under the trees, were
yarning at leisure, Boxer Doolan arrived.
Boxer came of “them other Doolans,”
you understand, and was “only just” re-
lated to the Doolans who owned the creek
property,
A masterful character was Boxer, a
swaggering sort of fellow of 35 or so,
and by no means popular, though most
people took some pains to hide this state
of feeling.
Boxer didn’t belong to the picnic at
all—he happened to be doing a tour for
some reason or other. On the way he
had called at Fred Rosen’s and spent
some time in Fred’s cellar. Fred wasn’t
strong on picnics either.
A strained feeling grew on the little
assembly at Boxer’s arrival. There were
greetings that tried to simulate welcome.
But it wasn’t easy. Boxer didn’t notice
that, however: he was too conceited,
“Hullo, you fellows! What’s all doing
here?”
Someone said it was just a bit of a
picnic, implying that just a bit of a picnic
was all damned foolishness anyway.
Boxer ran his eyes ov«r the group, and
then more distantly over the other groups
further up. The subdued sounds of
languid afternoon and after dinner came
floating down. Even the children had
lost most of their energy. “Ah, so that’s
it, is it? Some nice little fillies up there,
I notfce.”
A dutiful laugh followed. Not very
spontaneous, for this struck too near
home, and wasn’t really funny. It had
to be conceded, however, that Boxer
as a bachelor had certain privileges in
wickedness.
“Ah,” said Boxer, “and do I see Tom
Hayes? Yes, sure enough, I do.”
This was ominous, for the Hayeses and
the Doolans had been “out” for a long
time —as long as anyone could remember.
Mostly an indeterminate, under-surface
feud, supposed to have originated with
the “airs” that a long-dead Hayes had
taken, upon himself.
“Oh, hullo. Boxer, and how are you?”
“Me! — I’m all right, you bet I am.
But how’s yourself now?”
This was not meant to be pleasant.
The others stirred uneasily and tried to
look at ease.
TOM was the decentest of fellows, but
no match for this Boxer in any way.
And Tom was a quiet, retiring fellow, a
bit shy, a bit sensitive, and always ready
to do anyone a good turn. Shame to be
picking on him like this.
Someone rather feebly tried to stem
things by—“Oh, by the way, Tom, you
were mentioning just now”
But Boxer ignored this. “The Hayeses
now! And isn’t it just great for a mere
Doolan to be talking to a Hayes!”
“Now, Boxer, you know I’m glad to be
seeing you.”
The insincerity of this displeased Boxer
still more. “Well, that’s a wonderful bit
of news, Tom—it is that. And by the
way, Tom, do you know I’ve often been
wondering and some of the chaps were
only talking about it the other day, but
how many kids did your missus have
before she got married? Just about how
many, Tom?”
This was brutal —the determination of
the bully to force a fight. A dead silence
followed, and not a move or stir any-
where. Tom went white —but not be-
lieving his ears either. The tenseness of
the long moment was broken by the easy
jarring laugh of Boxer —“About how
many, Tom?”
Tom stepped forward, shaking, quiver-
ing, but he spoke instead of doing—
“ You’re a dirty liar, Doolan!”
The others could only watch. Then
Tom made one wild hit at Boxer —very
wide. Boxer gave a quick move of his
right hand, without noticeable effort,
openhanded, almost tolerant. A smack,
nothing more, on the ear, and Tom was
sprawled on the grass.
“I wouldn’t, if I were you, Tom. But
if you really do want”
Boxer looked down on Tom, gazed a
moment on the others, and then strode off
up the creek bank in the direction of his
hut.
Murmurs rose to voices as Boxer dis-
appeared over the bank. Boxer had in-
sulted them all. They tried to hide that
and concentrate on the bigger insult to
Tom.
“By cripes, Tom, you should have”
“I’d like him to say that to me!”
But they knew that Tom, any of them
for that matter, hadn’t a ghost of a chance
with Boxer. And into their minds, with-
out the effort of putting it there, came
those vague rumors of Mrs. Tom. Pretty
Mrs. Tom, daintier by far than any other
farmer’s wife. She did go away that
time, three months away in Sydney some-
where, Tom’s hands clutched at his
thighs. “I’ll get him for that —by God,
I’ll get him! See if I don’t! ”
. Empty words, maybe, but good to say
them, good to hear them. It was a
measure of relief . . . But Boxer hung
like a dark cloud over the rest of the
day.
AND evening was slanting in. There
was gathering of tired children,
horses and traps made ready, final group-
ings and gossiping, low voices here and
there—explanations of what was wrong.
Something subdued in the atmosphere.
Then a forcing of cheerfulness. Then
glances at Mrs. Tom Hayes—and a re-
newal of the old wondering about “that
time.” Trotting of horses, the sound of
muffled wheels in the dust or on the grass,
“so long!” “Hooroo!” “Hurry back!”
and “See you at the Hall.” A brief breeze
gave a sigh in the old she-oaks and stirred
the long hanging wisps of bark in the
gums—and the picnic was over—the last
picnic ever in Doolan’s paddock.
Tom drove off in the sulky with
Mrs. Tom and the two young children.
“What was wrong, Tom?”
“Oh, nothing, Madge,” Then, after a
pause, “Nothing much.”
“But you will be going to the dance,
Tom?”
“No, I don’t think I will. I’ve had
enough for the day. I’m tired.”
“But won’t they want you with the
concertina?”
“Oh, they can want. They’ve got the
new piano. And there are plenty of
others.”
Mrs. Tom was disappointed. But she
didn’t argue further. Tom was too obvi-
ously upset.
But Tom did go to the dance after all.
He couldn’t sleep, and the rankling within
him became a restless physical pain.
When Madge was asleep he got up, put
on trousers and socks and sneaked out.
The Hall was half a mile away. He
had no mind to be seen at all, and he
kept to the shadows. Why he went he
couldn’t quite explain, even to himself.
The Hall was a blaze of friendly light
from the kerosene lamps. Tbumpty-
thump went the piano, and there was the
gliding rhythm of many feet. Indistinct
sounds of many voices, and a glimpse of
some young fellows leaning on the fence
in front of the Hall. From a hiding-
place in some thick box bushes and
suckers Tom watched for one form only
—that of Boxer.
Yes, sure enough, there he was. Com-
ing, with some of the older chaps, right
this way towards the bushes. That meant
a bottle of wine planted somewhere near-
abouts —against that stump, perhaps. Tom
retreated noiselessly. Good idea that —
not; wearing boots.
Boxer was with two others —one of the
Roaches, and the other Fred Sholtz. Not
much, either of them, or they wouldn’t
be mixing with Boxer. And there was
a bottle at that stump, all right. There
was the plop of the cork, and a guzzling
sound.
'Good stuff that!” said one of them
—Barney Roach.
Boxer was resuming a yarn—“ Don’t
see him here to-night. Didn’t expect to.
Just caught him a smack on the ear, and
he took it like a bloody lamb.”
Tom raced home his brain racing
harder still,
| X the kitchen, on straps, hung his new
1 breechloader gun —bag of cartridges
hanging with it. Smokeless powder-
just coming into fashion —in some of the
shells.
He took down the gun—hands quite
firm now, and slipped a few cartridges—
five of them —into his trousers pocket.
He stood and listened. Not a sound in
the house—all fast asleep.
Then he ran down the slope, and
melted into the bush beyond.
It was over a mile to Doolan’s paddock
on the Willow Ponds —well over a mile.
Boxer would be going that way home.
Tom knew exactly where he would cross
the creek —down the slant cattle track
that side, and up the slant track on this
side. Over the very spot almost where
he had appeared that afternoon. Right
past this big oak tree. A few burrs in a
small thick clump grew near the tree—
a screen. Thank goodness, he had on a
blue shirt and not a white one . . .
There was an endless wait. Torn won-
dered had he got there too late, A dozen
times —twenty times he raised and lowered
the hammer—slowly, with no click at
all. An owl hooted eerily down the
creek somewhere ; a rabbit thumped with
its hindlegs—a warning to other rabbits.
Silence again.
Tom watched the stars over the eastern
ridges, but all the time, too, he had an
eye on the opposite bank, gloomy, un-
real in the starlight.
It was useless. No one came.
And then he heard the clump-clump of
heavy feet. A long way off, but approach-
ing-
Then someone was coming over the
bank. That figure against the stars was
unmistakable. It came down the slanting
track, heavy tread scarce-heard in the
silky dust. A scrunch on gravel; one
splash in the shallow water of the stream
—missed the stepping stone —and a grunt
of resentment; a padding over the short
thick grass.
Tom raised his gun and crooked his
finger. He was cool and steady enough
—but he couldn’t dare say the word he
wished to say. But the mopoke, eerie
and dreary, said it for him. The dead
man was scarce six feet away. The
finger tightened. There was a stab of
fire and the sharp crack of the smoke-
less powder.
The echoes came back from the ridges,
soft and muffled, for the high banks had
caught most of the sound. Tom stood
there, head clear enough and alert, but a
wild whirling in it, too, a fear calling
for flight. But he could only stand. There
was a slight twitching on the grass-
nothing more. Without being told, his
hands snapped open the breech and the
spent shell popped out. And he put an-
other cartridge into the barrel.
Tom was some hundreds of yards away
towards home when the significance of
the spent shell came to hm. That smoke-
less shell must not be fou§d there.
Then, second thought—leave that shell
and get rid of all the rest. He had plenty
of the old black-powder shells at home
to justify the gun. Yes, that was better.
He threaded his way through the
bushes, and at the lane could see the
Hall —its row of windows still a blaze of
light. 'There came the sounds of music
and dancing—they’d keep that up till
dawn. But they were dancing still, that
was the main thing. The world didn’t
know —yet.
All the house was quiet. He crept
into bed. Madge didn’t move —she was
a wonderful sleeper, Madge.
At half-past four Tom started to get
up. Madge opened her eyes dreamily.
“Early, isn’t it?”
“Not so very. -Lots to do to-day. I’ll
be getting the fire going.” He often did
that, so it was usual enough. But now
he wanted hot water to clean the gun.
A jug of hot water, and the pull-
through rag had the gun as clean as ever.
Then the cartridges. Nearly two dozen
(Continued on page 32.)


(J-v
D P
rne
ot
n£ s
to mfl*
PONT- cry! A BRUSH-UP
( M/TH NUGGET MU SOON
HAVE YOU SHINING again!
ms*
NCJGGET
V SH °E POLISH
hafate
NP46/53
U3TIIIAI NlVld «SdVIAI» &VB
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
/
i m
m
K?
m
h fg
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane.
Licensed Manufacturers in Qld. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
df
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VICTORIA—Servian Machine Tools
(Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne. Q’LAND —Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane. W.A. —The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA —Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor
Specialties, Ltd., Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road. BOMBAY
PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East
Asiatic Co., Ltd. <
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FALLIBLE “SUPERMEN.”
Former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury
Morgenthau may never receive an “oscar”
from Clio for his acting in the role of
one of the “supermen” in world affairs
during the war years, but he did produce
the “goat-pasture” plan for Germany,
which should ensure him a high award
on the score of human fallibility. And
it seems he had other claims.
In 12 years in his official capacity the
Secretary devoted his time—he must have
devoted practically the whole of. it —to
producing a diary which makes Pepys
look a slacker. The Morgenthau diary
runs to 900 volumes, which works out at
75 volumes a year, or six volumes a
month, or nearly one and a half volumes
a week; and that, as Frank R. Kent has
pointed out in the “Wall-strefet Journal,”
is “counting no time off for Sundays,
holidays or sickness.” It is also omitting
the fact that the Secretary did not get
properly into hiS Pepysian stride until he
had been some two years in the Treasury
job.
The American fondness for bigness
might be a necessary reservation, much
of the diary probably being made up of
inserted copies of speeches, photostats
and the like. Even so, it’s evidently pro-
digious. Kent comments on the perform-
ance :
Even with his dictaphones and stenographers,
it is hard to see how a man could do more
than this. The thing is unique, and it throws
a revealing light on Mr. Morgenthau’s calibre
and character —if any were needed.
With this revealed, it is no longer sur-
prising that the Secretary should have
produced such a travesty of statesman-
ship as his “plan” for Germany; but
nothing was known of his diary pre-
occupation at the time. That point of
human fallibility being unknown, the
hatcher of the “plan” passed as something
of a “superman,” and .the “plan” itself
attracted a big following.
Picking a “Lucky Number”
The Morgenthau diary, which must be
a wonderful mine of such things, gives
some odd information on one of the
more authentic “supermen,” President
Roosevelt.
As read from the diary and commented
on by the “Wall-street Journal” reviewer,
it makes a pretty tale:
Take Mr. Morgenthau’s description of the
extraordinary manner in which matters of vast
financial moment were settled by the late Presi-
dent and himself. It is inconceivable that Mr.
Morgenthau, who worshipped Mr. Roosevelt,
would knowingly write anything that put either
in an unadmirable light.
Therefore, when he declares that Mr. Roose-
velt at a conference laughed uproariously and
he —Mr. Morgenthau—chuckled gleefully at the
mental picture of “the hairs on the heads of
foreign bankers standing on end” at our [U.S.]
Government’s foreign exchange operations—and
revealed that Mr. Roosevelt fixed the price of
gold at 21 merely by picking that figure out of
the air as a lucky one because three times seven
makes 21 —when Mr. Morgenthau thus de-
scribes how things were done it can be set down
for certain that he did not realise the perform-
ance was utterly unadmirable, which of course
makes it all the more appalling. Clearly to him
it was all “just good clean fun.”
Thrilled by the lightheartedness and daring
with which his hero handled affairs of such
tremendous weight and world-wide significance,
the worshipful Morgenthau, however, did de-
clare in his diary that “if anybody ever knew
how we set the gold price through a combina-
tion of lucky numbers, etc., I think they would
really have been frightened.”
As the reviewer puts it;
In this Mr. Morgenthau was, of course,
entirely right. Certainly people would have been
they would have had every
reason to be. In the whole history of the
country it is doubtful that any exhibition of
equal irresponsibility in high places could be
cited. Here were the President and his Sec-
retary of the Treasury, obviously unequipped
by knowledge or to deal with such
enormous fiscal and economic questions, making
momentous decisions affecting world stability by
the merry device of picking out a “lucky num-
ber” —and shrieking with glee at the shock they
were about to administer.
In moments like these of “superman”
financial wizardry President Roosevelt,
according to the Morgenthau diary, liked
to refer to the head of the Bank of
England as “Old Pink Whiskers.” The
“Wall-street Journal” writer comments:
If any anti-New Deal Democrat or Repub-
lican had suggested that this was the manner
in which the affairs of the nation were managed,
he would have been denounced as a villain and
a liar.
History may possibly not be satisfied to
stop at N.Y. “Herald Tribune’s” descrip-
tion of the monumental diary’s compiler
as “the nation’s most maladroitly well-
intentioned living ex-Secretary of the
Treasury.” Fairly good ; but not half as
catchy as “Old Pink Whiskers.”
F.D.R.’s Faith in Russia
When the U.S. press goes in for de-
bunking, which is often, it certainly does
not hold the punches, as anyone can see
by turning over the
Chicago “Tri-
bune’s” files fbr
references to
America’s late
President. One ex-
ample of the “Tri-
bune’s” explosive—
in this case double-
barrel —style:
General Marshall is
the fourth Secretary of
State in less than two
years. His one quali-
fication as a diplomat
is that he was sent to
China by Truman to
attempt to reconcile
the Nanking National-
ist Government and
the Chinese Commu-
nists. The mission was
an abysmal failure.
The chances that Mar-
shall can be any more
successful in the larger
sphere upon which he
enters are negligible.
The criminal secret
agreements which
Roosevelt made and
which Marshall ap-
proved and supported
preclude the possibility
of creating a peace of
decency and order.
A better average
example of de-
bunking of the
former President
can be given from
Edgar Ansel
Mowrer’s N.Y.
“Post” column,
touching on Italy:
A major result of the chasm between the
Western Democracies and the Soviet Empire is
that today the U.S. needs countries like Italy
as much as these countries need the U.S.
During the war President Rbosevelt, having
bet all our chips on the possibility of close
co-operation between Washington and Moscow,
did not foresee that split world which has made
Italy an important factor.
Feeling sure of Russia, he conducted the
American military campaigns with little or no
regard for political consequences.
When the Soviets threw down the war-time
mask, started grabbing, set up semi-Communist
puppet regimes and announced that real friend-
ship was impossible with capitalist peoples it
was too late. Eastern Europe and new sec-
tions of Asia were in Soviet hands. Western
Europe, China, the Middle East were torn be-
tween adherents of Russia and friends of the
Western Democracies,
Leaving that rather softened brickbat
on the tomb of the late President—it is
really very mild and restrained to what
is being laid there by a surprising number
of debunkers—Mowrer, still on the sub-
ject of Italy, lets a barrel go at a lesser
light representing others unnamed,
though not needing to be named:
When the King of Italy and Premier Badoglio
secretly got in touch with the Allies .and asked
for an armistice, Gen. Bedell Smith, for the
Allies, demanded “unconditional surrender.”
But at the same time he welcomed Italian
military co-operation on our side.
This was, for an American general, a very
normal attitude. But it was a very costly one.
For as subsequent events proved, the Allies
could not have the ravioli and eat it too.
The Italians could not simply drop out of the
war, for the Germans in occupation would not
let them. Yet a successful change or sides
could be effected only with full support of
the Allies.
With such support most of Italy could have
been liberated in a month, with immense sav-
ing of Anglo-American effort, material, lives
and time.
That, Mowrer contends, would have
meant not only more audacious action,
but also, “instead of unconditional sur-
render and humiliation, treating Italy as
an ally.” The reward would have been
an Italy now “solidly anchored to the
Occident”:
The only other choice was unconditional sur-
render, a long and costly military campaign,
and a severely punished and permanently dis-
contented Italy seething with Communism and
resurgent Fascism—all of which we got.
Pardoning the Italians the dark crimes of
Fascism was not easy. But as a political gamble
it might well have been wise. For it was
approximately what the Soviets did so success-
fully in Bulgaria.
And no doubt history will have a great
deal more to say of human fallibility
— N.Y. “Sun.
STALIN SPEAKS.
touching on that same magic formula
of “unconditional surrender.”
Gentleman with Cigar
It should be some comfort to Roose-
velt admirers that the late President's
chief team-mate is being just as heartily
debunked on a variety of counts. One
such indictment, put forward by the
“Saturday Evening Post” foreign editor
Martin Sommers, has stated:
Today, though they do not say so publicly
as yet, some of our [U.S.] ablest military
leaders believe that the North African campaign
and the whole ghastly Italian campaign were
unnecessary and that the dawn of VE Day
was delayed—with all that means in terms of
loss of life and national treasure —by our failure
to attack across the Channel in 1943.
They feel reasonably certain that, with Ger-
man lines strung out wide and .thin against the
Russians, the Anglo-American armies could
have swept through France, over all of Ger-
many and far into Poland, Austria and Czecho-
slovakia.
This would have left Great Britain and the
United States, instead of Russia, in control of
the part of Europe that counts, with Italy
sealed off in surrender. Ironically, according to
this conclusion, if the Russians had got the
western offensive for which they were bellowing
in the summer of 1942 they would not have
been very happy about the result.
Naming General Marshall as the
“leading American advocate of the 1943
Normandy invasion plan,” Sommers takes
a side shot at Lord Louis Mountbatten
urging on Roosevelt the strongest possible
arguments against that plan ; and then
the gentleman with the cigar arrived:
Churchill went to work at unselling the
President. The immediate solution was to strike
as soon as possible in 1942 in the Mediterranean
area, perhaps in North Africa. Then, after the
Germans were pinched out of North Africa, the
next successive steps should be the mop-up of
the Mediterranean islands, the occupation of
southern Italy and the invasion of the Con-
tinent through the Balkans.
It was during these sessions that the Prime
Minister coined a fine new- phrase, “the soft
under-belly of Europe”—one which later led
our soldiers, pinned down in the blood, ice
and mud of the Italian mountains, to remark
that “what Mr. Churchill didn’t know about
the tensile strength of bellies was a great
plenty.”
A point not to be completely passed
over is that, of course, history, setting
down the final word on the fallibility of
“superman” Churchill, may not overlook
any possible fallibility flaws in his con-
temporary historians, including, perhaps,
Mr. Sommers
More Cigar Smoke
Whatever defenders of the then British
Prime Minister may have to offer against
the Sommers kind of contemporary de-
bunking, they may find another recent
testimony very hard to shake.
When a Wavell dispatch dealing with
the early 1941 Middle East operations
was published last year, Greek military
quarters objected, and as a counterblast
decided to publish as a pamphlet part of
a book by Greek Commander-in-Chief
in the war General Alexander Papagos.
Lately issued by the Greek Office of In-
formation, this pamphlet has not been
made available in Australia, but, judging
by a London “Times” military corres-
pondent’s review of it, it has the stuff of
history in it.
When suggested British aid came up
for discussion. General Papagos put his
requirements at nine divisions, with cor-
responding air support: “The figure was
out of the question. Wavell, says General
Papagos, could promise only two or three
divisions and a relatively small number
of aircraft. Moreover, all he could
promise at once —this was in mid-January
—was an artillery regiment and an
armored-car unit. The Greek Prime
Minister replied that such a trifling re-
inforcement would merely provide the
Germans with a pretext for attacking
Greece.” The “Times” military corres-
pondent proceeds:—
What is still more important and may be
called sensational is the revelation by General
Papagos of his attitude to the sending of the
“two or three divisions.” He went to his
Prime Minister and urged him to persuade the
British not to send these forces. They would
not, he said, produce substantial political or
military results in the Balkans. Their dispatch
would also in his opinion be contrary to sound
principles of strategy. It would be much better
to use them in Africa to exploit the victory
just gained over the Italians.
General Papagos goes farther still. The
British, he asserts, were influenced by political
motives. If Greece were to have been crushed
without British soldiers having fought on her
soil, it would hare been a breach of the
promises already given which might have pro-
voked an outcry against the Government and
would have exercised an unfavorable effect upon
American opinion.
General Papagos “expresses the warm
gratitude of Greece for the sacrifices
made on her behalf by the troops of the
British Commonwealth” ; but that merely
makes all the more pointed the fallibility
—to put it politely—that is to be inferred
from his chapters.
Colossus Nods
As represented by the disciples of the
Communist idolatry, Stalin is an infal-
lible “superman” bestriding the world
like a Colossus.
History may make some amendments
to that; meanwhile an entertaining picture


BABY
LOVES
to level In the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticora Soap* It
keeps his lender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
gdf
ĥ g
What a Trustee should know. ..
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
dfg
df
gdf
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly,
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO..
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
of the Colossus at a time that history
will be specially interested in has been
given by Dr. Harold C. Deutsch, historian
and national president of an American
historical fraternity.
Drawing on the official documents or
the German Foreign Office that were
captured, Dr. Deutsch has stated that
when the Russo-Soviet Pact was ended,
Stalin, fare welling some Jap emissaries,
saw a German military attache standing
near by and went over to him, placed an
arm about Jiis shoulders and said, “We
want to remain friends, don’t we?”
It’s exactly the kind of phrase that
history treasures with a- particular fond-
ness.
A report of Dr. Deutsch’s address
adds: —
In the course of the various negotiations
in Moscow for the drawing up of the pact in
the late summer of 1939, Stalin presented a
jovial attitude, on one occasion calling for a
toast to his N.K.V.D. chief with the words,
“Let’s drink to the chief of my Gestapo.”
At these negotiations Stalin was reported to
have referred to the Western nations of Britain
and the United States as the “satiated nations”
and to have said that Turkey needed a “spank-
ing.”
Joachim von Ribbentrop, who represented
Hitler at the Moscow meetings, later told
Count Ciano of Italy that the negotiations
had gone so well and the Russians had been
so pleasant that he felt as though he were
“among old Nazi party members.”
A more recent example of nodding by
the Krfemlin-housed “superman” has been
given by a “Christian Science Monitor”
Washington correspondent, Neal Stan-
ford, in an article on “Totalitarian Fal-
lacies.” The writer quotes “officials in
Washington who follow events in Iran
closely” as holding that the reason Russia
didn’t support its Communist-sponsored
regime in northern Iran when the Iranian
Government at last decided to call the
bluff was simply that “Moscow may not
have known how very feeble and syn-
thetic its sponsored regime in Tabriz
was”;
The Kremlin may never have been told how
little interest the Azerbaijanis really showed in
the regime of Soviet Agent Jaafar Pishevari.
It is possible that Pishevari, a Moscow-trained
professional Communist, who was the real
power in Tabriz, may never have been quite
frank in reporting the progress of his movement
in northern Iran.
Pishevari, in fact, sent in glowing ac-
counts of the loyalty of the Azerbaijanis
to his regime, and “superman” Stalin
took his word for it:
Washington officials believe this tendency of
Soviet representatives out in the provinces (or
in foreign countries) to feed Moscow what they
feel it would like to hear rather than the
facts is a grave weakness of Soviet totali-
tarianism.
By all accounts, the same human falli-
bility also acted against Uncle Joe’s old
team-mate, Adolf.
And They Picked Tito
That there is a sense of humor in the
Kremlin would seem reasonably doubt-
ful, but if there is one they should still
laugh loud and long there, for all their
own fallibility, at that of those “super-
men” who picked Tito as savior of
democracy in Yugoslavia.
A writer on the passing historical scene
already quoted, the N.Y. “Post’s” E. A.
Mowrer, has given an account of it, fol-
lowing, it should be said, what F. A.
Voigt of London “Nineteenth Century
and After” was maintaining all through,
when everyone else was either silent or
lauding Tito and the wisdom of the
“supermen” who picked him. An extract
or two from Mowrer:
In Yugoslavia, right up to the tardy entrance
of the Red Army, the Democracies were in full
potential control. They could obtain exactly
the.kind of persons and regime they wanted.
They deliberately chose Josip Broz, self-styled
Tito and self-appointed marshal. They pre-
ferred the Communist masquerading in demep-
cratic dress to the democratic officer, Draja
Mihailovich. Not from lack of conviction but
from lack of insight.
Tito and his friends abroad first duped the
U.S. and Britain, then betrayed, reviled, robbed
and even attacked them. It was the gullibility
of Churchill and to a much lesser extent Roose-
velt that enabled this petty Communist tyrant
to fasten his claws in the Yugoslav people.
The betrayal of a faithful ally, Mihailovich,
is the worst chapter in the Anglo-American
war record, the gulling by Tito the most
humiliating.
Muscovites and fellow-travellers posing as
“progressives” still deny this. But the evidence
is now overwhelming. If what Josip Broz has
done in Yugoslavia is progress, then let us
prefer a changeless world! Life without per-
sonal freedom is worst than death. Josip Broz
is a professional executioner of freedom.
Yet he was helped into the driver’s seat and
given a green light, not primarily by Muscovite
Communists but by Anglo-Saxon Democrats.
The story is unbelievable and it is true.
Mowrer contends that if those respon-
sible for picking Tito “had not been so
ignorant about the Balkans” they “never
would have believed that the patriot
Mihailovich was a ‘collaborator’ who
‘would not fight’ while the Communist
double-crosser Josip Broz was a scrap-
ping ‘democrat’ who ‘killed Germans’.”
Yet, exclaims Mowrer, “Winston Chur-
chill fell for it —and his brash and naive
son, Randolph.”
All in all, it looks as if the historian
will have plenty to work on in dealing
with the fallibility of the “supermen.”
The dulcet voice of Clio might be heard
in advance exclaiming, “Gentlemen, it’s
a pleasure to do business with you!”
SOVIET SIDELIGHTS.
An extract has already been given (B.
30/4/’47) from The Strange Alliance, by
Major-General John R. Deane, who
commanded the U.S. Military Mission to
Moscow from 1943 to 1945. The items
here added are of the lighter, comic-
— St. Louis ( U.S.A. ) “ Post-Dispatch ."
WHAT PRICE FAILURE?
relief variety ; no doubt what they tell of
helped General Deane to carry on. To
begin with, two of the leading characters:
We found General Fitin, head of the Soviet
External Intelligence Service, and General
Ossipov, head of the section conducting sub-
versive activities in enemy countries, alone in
the conference room. Fitin was about 40 years
of age, of medium height, smooth shaven, with
long blond hair and blue eyes. Ossipov was
short, smooth shaven, with brown eyes, brown
wavy hair and a sallow complexion. One could
easily picture him as the boon companion of
Boris Karloff.
Subsequent adventures with Fitin and
Ossipov:
I called Fitin on the telephone and he agreed
to an appointment. At about 6.30 a typical
bomb-tosser in a long black overcoat, thick
glasses and a disreputable black hat called at
my office saying that Fitin had. sent him. I
proposed taking my car but he declined my
offer and pointed to a long black job with
dark curtains on all windows. I turned to my
chauffeur, Naum, and told him to follow us.
This did not fit in with my escort’s plans. He
gave some rapid-fire instructions in Russian to
his chauffeur and we careered away from my
office, up one street and down another, follow-
ing a zigzag course at a tremendous rate of
speed for perhaps 20 minutes. I realised at
once that the driver had received instructions
to lose Naum, who was following us, in order
that I would not know where I had been taken.
This struck me as extremely funny as I knew
my Buick was faster than any car ever made
in Russia. Sure enough, when we emerged
from behind the curtains in front of a dilapi-
dated apartment, there was Naum parked in
back of us with his motor turned off and
looking very bored.
We climbed a few flights of stairs. A door
was opened cautiously while I was identified
and then was thrown open by Ossipov, who
invited me in....
A few weeks after my wild ride through the
streets of Moscpw I received an invitation from
Fitin and Ossipov to dine with them at the
Aragvi, the only restaurant and night club
which remained open in Moscow throughout
the war and where dinner cost $45 a plate in
American money.
Before dinner I described the mad ride, stress-
ing the humor of their chauffeur’s trying to
shake off my chauffeur, who loved nothing
better than speed. Fitin informed me that 1
was taken to the meeting place in such a
roundabout way because his chauffeur knew
that he, Fitin, would be late for his appoint-
ment and did not want me to be embarrassed
by arriving there first. I remarked that we
had gone at a tremendous rate of speed in
trying to be late and then asked why all their
cars were fitted out with heavy black curtains.
Fitin’s reply to this was that the curtains pre-
vented the occupants from becoming sunburned.
With that I surrendered.
This, by the way, was not the only time
that I was given a sample of what seemed to
be a curious sort of Russian doubletalk. My
trip to the front in the summer of 1944 to see
Marshal Vasilievsky, the chief of staff, was
postponed for 10 days, undoubtedly for some
perfectly good and logical reason. But it was
typically Russian for them to give me instead,
with a perfectly straight face, the fantastic ex-
planation, on July 10, that Marshal Vasilievsky
would have kidney trouble until July 20.
Throughout the dinner with Fitin and Ossipov
at the Aragvi I wondered what my hosts’
reasons were for inviting me. When dinner was
over Ossipov took me over to a corner and
whispered that he had some very important in-
formation to give me. His agents had over-
heard some American engineers at the Baku oil
refinery discussing the forthcoming elections in
the U.S. One of them had been heard to say
President Roosevelt “should be taken out and
shot.” They thought I should know about it.
I was tempted to cable the story to President
Roosevelt and thank him for being the in-
spiration of the most delicious dinner I had
in Moscow.
There must have been plenty duller
jobs than General Deane’s during the
war.
NO “FICKLE WORDS.”
When Senator Vandenberg, as chair-
man of the U.S. Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, said “We shall not trust alone to
fickle words” when it comes to arms
reduction, he coined a guiding principle
upon which Congress is practically unani-
mously acting.
A Washington check-up has shown
that on this stand the Senator has 99
pef cent, of Congress backing him. The
overwhelming demand is for an’ effective
system of international control “which
makes certain that no international
brigand shall hereafter break faith with
us and the world” ; a demand for “pro-
tection against treachery.”
Hence, a N.Y. “World-Telegram”
Washington correspondent has reported
that there will have to be “something as
foolproof as it is humanly possible to
draw up” before any arrangement for
either atomic or other disarmament will
be accepted by the Senate. “It is now
certain that every comma, period and
paragraph will undergo the closest
scrutiny. For members of Congress are
grimly and increasingly determined that
the United States shall not scrap its
defences unless and until reasonably
safeguarded against foreign duplicity.”
There is, of course, only the one mean-
ing to “foreign.” The correspondent
quoted a Senator: “The thing I’m scared
of is that one of these days Russia will
suddenly agree to everything in order to
get hold of the atomic bomb. Then, at
the first real test, she will walk out on
us. And what could we do? Once she
has the secret, it can’t be withdrawn.”
The fear voiced by that Senator has
now spread so wide that it is practically
certain there will be no sharing of the
atomic-bomb secrets and therefore no
sweeping disarmament agreement. Such
things, it now seems as good as final,
must await the outcome of some other
world war.
It is a tragic ending to all the war-
time hopes and post-war endeavors. And
it comes down to an exact repetition of
the position brought about by Hitler.
Simply that, as his was, the Russian word
for anything has been proved too often
utterly worthless.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Too Many Turkeys. —Poet T. S. Eliot, who
wrote of a depressed world in which life was
“measured out in coffee-spoons,” could do a
further bit of global measuring with the aid
of his native U.S.A.’s fat surplus of turkeys.
As counted by “Wall-street Journal,” an annual
average of 39,000,000 of. the birds was killed
for eating in 1944-46, double the number ot
about 10 years previously; and “As turkey
flocks have grown larger so have individual
turkeys. Growers have concentrated on pro-
ducing big, heavy-breasted birds —fine for an
Army mess hall, but too big for most home
ovens.” Now, with “steak and pork chops
back,” dressed turkeys “are piled so high in
cold-storage rooms that they begin to lift the
ceilings Figures tell the story of the glut
of gobblers. Turkeys in cold storage on January
I, 1945, stood at 78,000,0001 b. A year later
they had moved up to 115,000,000. By the
first of this year they had reached a mountain-
ous 130,000,0001 b.” Hence, “the ‘eat more
turkey’ serenade now played loudly by Agri-
cultural Department typewriters for' the ear ot
the American housewife.” The measure seems
to mark out a vast difference between the U.S.
and some other'places, including Britain, which,
to help make the dwindling loan dollars spin
out, has lately had to “postpone indefinitely”
the purchase of 10,000 tons of turkey meat
from the U.S.
* * * •
In Praise of Kings. —Contending, in his N.Y.
“Sun” column, that whether or not the Aus-
trians want the Hapsburgs back it is no busi-
ness of his either way, “nor of Truman nor
Attlee nor Stalin,” George E. Sokolsky con-
cludes on a note harking away to other days,
to which “many human beings in this world
look back with longing eyes”: “As long as
the world is so mixed up, why pick on the
kings? They were never as bad as the dictators
and hardly as expensive. Their trappings come
high but not as high as the politics of the
tyrants and they were often better human
beings, more decent in their attitudes toward
other human beings. The Hapsburgs, in their
nearly thousand years of history, never pro-
duced the slavery that Stalin produced in a
quarter of a century. It is something to think
about.”
* * * *
Task Facing J.B. A clear idea of what
J. Bull is really up against in the recovery task
was sharply put by Lord Beveridge in the House
of Commons. While insisting that “this is not
a down-and-out country,” he pointed out that,
with the American loan by then exhausted, some
time in the second part of next year the British
will be in the position of living within their
income and no longer on borrowed money:
“When that occurs and we shall have to pay
for our imports by our exports we shall not
achieve this unless we do one-third of world
trade. It is quite impossible for us to expect
to do this unless our prices are much lower
than there is any major prospect of their being
without an increased productivity a man. The
whole standard of life in this country is in
jeopardy.”
* * * *
Soviet Clumsiness. —Ever since the war ended,
and even while it was still on, the supposed
Soviet diplomatic cleverness has made a main
point of questioning American motives, and
Americans happen to be of all people the ones
who most resent that sort of thing. The luxury
thus clumsily indulged in is going to prove
costly. The “United States News” declares
that when he started to question U.S. motives
Stalin “muffed his chances.” He would, the
paper added, '“be fortunate in securing as much
as $25,000,000 in old lend-lease commitments,
when he might have had a loan of $6,000,000,000
on easy terms if he had been a little more co-
operative.” It cuts with a double edge: in-
stead of going to the building up of Russian
strength, any U.S. money thus allotted now
goes towards stopping further Soviet expansion.


Grinnell gives you
more
than
gd
n\
m
we
By outlawing fire, Grinnell protects the intangibles of your business
as well. It is your guard against cancelled contracts . . . lost profits
. . . lost goodwill . . . destruction of vital records . . . customers
forced to turn to other sources never to return ... trained employees
obliged to seek work elsewhere.
Every Grinnell protected building is fireproof. Fireproof
because it kills fire at its source, automatically, at any time during
the day or night.
The name “Grinnell” is a registered trademark and applies
only to the “Grinnell” Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System.
Wormald Brothers maintain a complete Fire Protection
Engineering Service at all branches in Australia and New Zealand.
Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889.
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART, DARWIN, AUCKLAND,
WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3508
Wednesday, May 7, 1947
WATCHFUL WAITING.
‘Masterly inactivity is the policy, Bert. We’ll see who gets tired first.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
LORDS OF MISRULE.
Among the new men in Commonwealth
politics Mr. Chifley’s favorite is Senator
McKenna, now No. 12 in the Ministry,
with the portfolios of Health and Social
Services, and not three years in the
Chamber.
There is a story that Mr. Chifley is
grooming the Tasmanian for the party
leadership, but a seat in the House is a
first requirement, and it will be difficult
of accomplishment —there will be no safe
seats in Tasmania for years to come.
Meanwhile, the newcomer is showing an
aptitude for passing the buck and
kindred arts which must endear him to
his leader, who is that kind of leader,
though admiration is not universal, even
in Our Party.
For example, at an A-L.P. regional
conference in Five Dock, Sydney, at
which Senator McKenna was the star
speaker, a delegate sourly protested that
the Senator had given the conference “a
lot of eyewash.” This expression he ap-
plied particularly to the orator’s remarks
on “Labor’s” social services (“compulsory
"Christianity”) and wage-pegging—“It has
not contributed in any appreciable way
to the present industrial unrest, and, in
any case, 90 per cent, of it has gone.”
The objector demanded to know what the
Chifley-McKepna “Government” had
done “to remove the Communist cancer
from the community,” only to get another
issue of eyewash.
Previously, in a Senate debate on the
Sydney waterfront strike and the con-
current Communist bashing of State
members on the Sydney Domain, Mr.
McKenna had resorted to buck-passing
in familiar jargon and the most igno-
minious form:
It is seriously suggested by the Oppo-
sition that either the Government or the
Stevedoring Industry Commission should
call for volunteers [to discharge ships laden
with perishables and load those with food
cargoes for Britain], This is not a matter
for the Government but one for the body
that has been set up for the express pur-
pose of dealing with waterside operations.
Were the Government to call for volun-
teers it would be usurping the function of
the very body set up to control this in-
dustry.
That “very body,” abandoned by the
“Government” and despised by the
union, he had already described as an
“ephemeral body,” and though he re-
ferred to what it was pleased to call its
“authority,” the “authority of the statu-
tory body,” its “authority” wouldn’t have
been sufficient to get volunteers for bait-
ing rat-traps.
Though sorrier stuff has never been
spoken in Parliament by a Minister of
the Crown, this Minister was soon to
match his own fustian. Glancing at the
situation in Victoria, a State beleaguered
by Communists and “moderates,” and its
capital treated as a captured city by the
Communist boss Brown, Mr, McKenna
said in a Sydney election speech that
“the electors themselves” were “largely to
blame for the present industrial anarchy”
by “refusing the Federal Government the
necessary powers to legislate effectively.”
The electors to blame for it! The poor,
the aged, the sick, the housewife, her
nerves worn to shreds by cruel depriva-
tions and anxieties, they and a million
other victims of “industrial anarchy” the
authors of their own miseries! Impu-
dence and political, cowardice could
descend to no lower level.
This time the No. 12 Minister was
confuted by his own colleagues in the
House.
* Guillotining debate on the Evatt
Arbitration Bill, which provides for the
appointment of a horde of Conciliation
Commissioners, each a law to himself, at
£l5OO a year, these colleagues rejected
proposals for £lOOO penalties on organ-
isers of illegal strikes and lockouts (£lOO
on individuals), though reminded that
their leaders, when War Councillors, were
all for substantial penalties “when they
were in danger.” Going further, they an-
n o^ineed through the mouth of Mr.
Calwell that they were about to repeal
the Latham Crimes Act clauses, which
authorise the Governor-General to pro-
claim “a serious industrial disturbance”
such as exists in Victoria and render
inciters, bashers and boycotters liable to
imprisonment for 12 months, plus depor-
tation of convicted persons “not born in
Australia.” In other words, so far from
being disarmed, by reason of their refer-
endum defeats, the Chifleys, Evatts and
McKennas possess an amplitude and
diversity of powers sufficient to cope
with all forms of industrial war on the
community, in which the weak are always
the worst sufferers, and in their servility
to revolutionary strikemongers are dis-
arming themselves.
“Is it suggested that action” ( i.e court
proceedings) “be taken against 6000 men
in N, S. Wales?” Senator McKenna
asked in the course of his whining speech
on the wicked Sydney waterside strike.
“Such a thing is unthinkable.” Yet, as he
knew well, as did Dr. Evatt, “action,”
and very successful action, had been
taken by the United States Government
against 400,000 soft-coal miners organised
in the U.M.W.A.-and their leader Lewis.
Lewis had issued a strike order in con-
tempt of the Government, which had
taken over the soft-coal mines after
a 59-day strike, and in contempt
also of a Federal District Court
injunction. Federal Judge Goldsborough
thereupon fined Lewis $lO,OOO and his
union $3,500,000, The case going to the
Supreme Court, which is the counterpart
of our High Court, seven of the nine
Justices upheld the fine on Lewis but re-
duced the union’s fine to 700,000 dollars,
conditionally on another strike threat
being withdrawn. Withdrawn it was, but
the too-clever Lewis availed himself of a
provision for “mourning days” to call out
his men after loss of life in a mine explo-
sion. In the result reduction of the
$3,500,000 fine was postponed, and the
Republicans were steeled into terrific anti-
strike measures, one section of which vir-
tually outlaws a union “if its national
officers are members of the Communist
party or may reasonably be regarded as
such.”
The words of Chief Justice Vinson in
pronouncing the dismissal of the appeal
against the Districjt Court judgment de-
serve to be weighed well in this country,
where contempt of Arbitration and In-
dustrial Court judgments has become
as endemic as typhoid:
Lewis attempted to repudiate and over-
ride the instrument of lawful government.
He was the aggressive leader in the studied
and deliberate non-compliance with the
order of the District Court; the members
of the defendant union executed the nation-
wide strike. Loyalty to their leader does
not minimise the gravity of their conduct.
Nor did the matter concern only a
rebellious boss and a rebellious union.
The interests of orderly government de-
mand that respect and compliance be given
to ' orders issued by Courts. The welfare
of all citizens depends on the fact that
they enjoy the rights of free men under
our system of government, which must be
maintained. In our complex society there
is a great variety of limited loyalties, but
the overriding loyalty of all is to our
country, and to the institutions under which
a particular interest may be pursued.
For the industrial ills with which Com-
munists and “moderates” have infected
Australia, taking advantage of the “Gov-
ernment’s” folly in maintaining, along
with wage-pegging (specially relaxed in
the case of politicians) the terrific war-
time taxes, law, resolutely administered, is
the remedy. Though it should never be
used to coerce dissatisfied men who want
to change their jobs, it should never be re-
fused to satisfied men who are coerced
into striking by savage objurgations,
threats and bashings. And, applied
with a firm hand, law devoted to
the public safety could also avert
the danger of a Communist rising, for
which the Sydney Domain bashings and
the succession of outrages in Victoria
look very like dress rehearsals, and against
which even Catholic Quebec, its Premier
reveals, has had to prepare. But the
Chifleys, Evatts and McKennas are
pouring the well-tried specific down the
drain!
Our Asiatic Neighbors.
When Lord Mountbatten visited the
Khyber Pass to attend an informal durbar
with 230 Afridi tribal chiefs, he was
presented by their leader with a home-
made rifle, an exact pattern of the Lee-
Enfield Short, Mark 111, even to the stamp
of a crown and an arrow. In press re-
ports the incident is interpreted as both
a royal gift, “the price of a rifle being
higher than the price of a life,” and
also as “a subtle reminder” of the tribes-
men’s “warnings” that if Britain is leaving
India' “the Pass should be given back
to the tribesmen.” There is, of course, a
still more subtle suggestion in the action,
and one which Kim’s Lurgan Sahib would
not have missed. It is that the British
Raj should stand firm and uphold its
hitherto accepted Imperial authority to
keep the peace in an India threatening to
split irreparably into warring factions.
No tribe on the North-West Frontier
has ever yet respected weakness in friend
or foe, nor has it been customary there
to choose a rifle as a gift to the faint-
hearted. If Lord Mountbatten sent that
rifle to London along with his confiden-
tial report, there are men there who
would know what it meant, even if he
(as is unlikely) did. not. Already an
English journal in Calcutta is canvassing
the possibility that the Constituent
Assembly, afraid of the strife that would
follow Britain’s withdrawal, will, as the
date approaches, ask Britain “to stay on
and at least assume some defence respon-
sibilities.”
Neither the Afridis in the north-west
nor the Gurkhas in Nepal are likely to
treat Congress-party sovereignty over
India with anything but contempt. The
Raj has accommodated itself completely,
to their outlook of life and to their
fighting instincts. The Khyber tribes-
men regard the British as there to scrap
with them occasionally, as a matter of
manly exercise ; the Gurkhas, sworn to
serve the King, would never in the past
receive other than British officers. They
resented the Indianisation of the Army in
India. Nothing in the experience of any
of these hardy mountaineers has prepared
them for a meek withdrawal of the
British colors.
It is against such a background, which
no political fulminations of a Congress
party can remove, that the Moslem
League’s stand for a separate Moslem
India must be weighed. Mr. Jinnah
judges shrewdly that, whatever the British
Government may propose, the British
Army will simply be unable to leave at
any forecastable date, and the rulers of
the native States seem to hold the same
conviction. With the Constituent
Assembly, Hindu-controlled, now lean-
ing towards a Constitution for all India,
to be applied only to “the willing areas,’’
and forswearing coercion of the un-
willing—the face-saving method of grant-
ing the Moslems their “Pakistan” —the
outline of proposals which Lord Mount-
batten is reported to have conveyed to
London seems intelligent enough.
Broadly, it is that there should be as much
self-determination as possible for every
faction politically, so long as there are
co-ordinating bodies set up which will
(according to a Bombay newspaper’s re-
port) “give the Viceroy two Cabinets to
advise him, one on Hindustan and the
other on Pakistan.”
Two things are certain. One is that
if British statesmanship can steer this
delicate and critical Indian situation into,
the calmer waters of a compromise
acceptable to the factions, the achieve-
ment should be of immense current value
elsewhere in Asia. The other is that the
outcome is of first-class importance to
every Australian,
Britain could not “quit India,” in the
fashion that the Congress party has, for
its own propaganda purposes, been de-
manding, without the most serious conse-
quences upon the future of this Common-
wealth. It is impossible to contemplate,
in such event, any long duration for the
remaining influence of the Dutch in the
East Indies, or of any Western nation
in China. In all these mass-populations,
stirred profoundly by political ferments,
the essential problem is a fair deal for
minorities, who see in the “new freedom”
little share for themselves. In all of
them, too, relaxation of influence by
remote Governments in London or The
Hague or Washington cannot fail to be
interpreted throughout Asia as abdica-
tion of their position by Europeans, and
by many as the relinquishing of a trust.
Whether prospects of an Allied, or
more strictly an American, “guidance”
of Japan into acceptance of a peaceful
career as a democratic State could sur-
vive the retirement of the British from
India and of the Americans from China
is highly doubtful. Yet nothing is surer
than that the war against the Japanese bid
for Asiatic domination would have to
be fought all over again if the Japanese
were left to their own devices. The
recent elections for the Tokyo Diet, with
which General Mac Arthur has expressed
satisfaction, show clearly, along with the
preceding elections in the prefectures and
for the Upper House, the trend • of
majority opinion towards conservatism —
which is at once a sign of desire to play
safe with the victor Powers, and to con-
solidate the strength of the nation in the
traditional ruling classes, however sub-
missive these for the time being to the
victors’ directions.
Much will depend upon the meed of
economic prosperity; which will accom-
pany self-government. The new India,
China, Indonesia, Japan must be able to
trade with the world society into which
they are looking to be admitted as equals,
and if only from this cause alone they
are intensely interested in future associa-
tions with Australia. By the relations
which they establish with the hitherto
dominating European Powers, these
Asiatic poples are likely to frame their
attitude- towards our own people ; and,
reciprocally, Australian policy towards
her newly-enfranchised neighbors could
be useful in helping their development.
But our strength to assert our own in-
dependence and self-respect will be deter-
mined by many factors besides our own
efforts, especially if we neglect our mili-
tary power, and notably by the manner
in which Britain and America acquit
themselves of the tasks to which they
are pledged in guiding these Asian peoples
into the paths of peaceful home govern-
ment.
The abandonment by Britain of
India to civil war would be the worst
of omens to Asia and to Australia.
One More Retreat from
Moscow.
What everybody expected of the Foreign
Ministers’ conference in Moscow duly
happened—nothing.
Territories to be annexed against
all the grim warnings of history that no
land was ever thus taken without a sow-
ing of the dragons’ teeth of future wars ;
factories to be dismantled in the vain
hope that the devastation of modern wars
can be righted by reparations; the
dead leaves of disregarded pacts to be
raked over and twisted out of recogni-
tion —all that went on in Moscow, and
nothing came of any of it.
The reparations claims are made
chiefly by Russia, which asks for
$10,000,000,000. Figures of such astro-
nomical proportions are meaningless to
any but mathematical minds, but for
what they vaguely may be worth some of
those given at least help to explain the
Russian outlook, even though this may
still be regarded as chising the pot of
gold at the end of the rainbow.
Russians aver that in the invasion of
their country a total of some 6,000,000
buildings was destroyed, leaving
25.000. people homeless ; that the in-
vaders in retreat tore up some 65,000
kilometres of railways; destroyed
31,850 industrial enterprises employing
4.000. workers ; laid waste 98,000 col-
lective farms, as well as State farms and
all their tractors, harvesters and stock,
including a destruction of 7,000,000
horses and 17,000,000 head of cattle;
and, of course, more bitterly felt than all
of this, a war death-roll of 7,000,000
Russian people.
Nobody at Moscow questioned these
figures or the justice of the Russian claim.
But the problem, obviously, does not turn
on justice. The crux of it is whether pay-
ment is feasible, and into that must also
enter the equal justness of the claims-of
others.
For their part, Britain and America are
making practically no direct claims.
What they insist on is, first, that for
Russia or any other country to get any
sum of reparations whatever Germany
must first be started producing again;
secondly, that this must involve heavy ex-
penditure by the occupying victors, and
that such expenditure on getting the
wheels working again must be a first
charge against production profits, since
if the profits were going to one quarter
those footing the “priming” bill—America
and Britain —and not Germany—would
be paying.
It would have called for a miracle
to accomplish agreement in Moscow on
this issue alone. And even if that
dilemma had been resolved, there would
still have been the mountainous problem
of how actually to get Germany working
again as desired, productive enough to
keep itself, supply its hitherto dependent
customer countries all over Europe, and
so be able to pay its way, with enough
over to repay the occupation costs and
at least something of reparations, and
yet itself not be industrially strong
enough to break out again in war.
The magnitude of that issue itself puts
a tax on the imagination. It brings in as
well the settlement of the future Ger-
many’s boundaries. Here the deadlock is as
rigid as that on reparations. The Russian
annexation of part of Poland is not con-
tested. History declares that all annexa-
tions are synonymous with the lowest
grade of national ineptitude, but expedi-
ency—as often before —is a more com-
pelling force than all the lessons of the
past put together. That Russia reveals
that grade of ineptitude is not so surpris-
ing, either.
The contested point in the boundaries
problem is the annexations by Poland.
These, in their inept folly, both the Rus-
sians and the Poles look upon as final.
That, apart .from being against the wis-
dom of history, is against the letter of
Potsdam. The agreement made there was
that the Polish occupation was an occu-
pation only, the final boundary line to
be drawn at that intended peace confer-
ence which now seems so remotely far in
the future.
In the long run, with Russia certain
to hang on to all it has grabbed—folly
has always been blind —the Poles will no
doubt be permitted to go on occupying
some part, if not all, of that 40,000
square miles which once produced nearly
a quarter of Germany’s food, and from
which some 7,500,000 Germans have
been ousted. And thus, as always has
happened, the dragon seeds will be sown
for a war sprung from national passion
and lasting hate, which the Poles will no


doubt greatly regret, cursing the folly of
all those who brought it on them. As,
too the Russians may one day regret the
obvious present aim of their leaders to
supplant a Nazi Germany with a Com-
munist Germany, overlooking that such
stock as the German, under any colored
rag and whether it salutes with open palm
or clenched fist, is very likely to remain
first and always German.
If any progress at all can be said to
have been made in Moscow it would
seem to have reference to peace only in-
sofar as the abortive proceedings helped
to consolidate the unwritten partnership
of the United States and Britain and
brought France closer to them—a com-
bination that would alone be capable of
upholding peace so long as it were itself
capable of holding together.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Won on Points.
Normally Queensland and N. S. Wales
are “Labor” States —the “Labor” States.
So it is in no wise astonishing that, as a
result of the simultaneous Assembly elec-
tions, “Labor” is to remain in office
in each State, though in each with a re-
duced majority, and with a new Deputy-
Premier in Queensland, Mr. Walsh having
been defeated in Mirani by a C.P. candi-
date, Never afraid of standing up to Mr,
Ward in a transport argument or of ex-
pressing his undying, hostility to Com-
munists, Mr. Walsh is a loss to. the
Hanlon Ministry and party, and Queens-
land could have better spared a more
pliant man.
Taking everything into account, especi-
ally the Senate voting in September—
adverse to “Labor” in the north, pro-
digiously in its favor south of the Tweed
—the Hanlons did much better than the
McGirrs. An effect, no doubt, of their
having shown some resistance to Com-
munists, especially in the matter of union
strike ballots, whereas the McKell-Mc-
Girr attitude was completely ignominious.
But in each instance the majority of
seats, whatever it may be when all the
votes are counted, will flatter the winners.
Had there been a State-wide poll instead
of voting in single electorates, with first-
past-the-post in Queensland, they would
very probably have been losers. As it
was, the transfer of a few thousand
votes in 10 or 12 electorates would have
put the McGirrs but. They lost
seats to both Opposition groups, and
their 1944 majorities -were substantially
reduced everywhere—significantly, in elec-
torates where workers predominate.
In both States the Country party did
very well; and, scanning the results,
Colonel Bruxner and his associates can
find abundant justification for their re-
fusal of an amalgamation offered in
prickly terms without regard to ele-
mentary facts. The chief weakness of the
N.S.W. Liberals is that they are run by
too-zealous tyros. They sorely need at
their H.Q. a few old campaigners, wise in
the caprices of constituencies and the
ways of politicians.
Keeping Mr. Menzies out of the cam-
paign by cancelling a branch invitation
to him was a piece of folly as damaging
as it was churlish, especially as it was
accompanied by a fatuous notion that
“Federal issues,” now inseparable from
State issues, should be kept out of the
argument. In the lack of effective news-
paper support, such as Premiers Playford
and McLarty had, crowd-drawing plat-
form oratory was an urgent requirement,
and Mr. Menzies could have provided it.
The Agrarians, on the other hand, made
every use of Mr. Fadden and Dr. Page.
In the the Liberal team,
largely composed of young servicemen
honorably unknown to the constituencies,
made a very creditable showing. Its
party and the Country party should keep
their powder dry against the day when
Mr. McGirr, a born factionist as well as
a fatuous projector and prophet, whirls
himself into a hullabaloo, as did his
brother Gregory, to the political destruc-
tion of himself and Dooley, in 1922.
Old and New.
When the Labor party was young it was
full of ideals. Among the things it was
solid for were one-vote-one-value, the
initiative and referendum, “abolition
of State Governors and other un-
necessary officers” (this in N. S. Wales),
nationalisation of the liquor traffic, with
local option as a beginning, and “the cul-
tivation of an enlightened and self-
reliant community,” based on the main-
tenance of White Australia.
When old Labor men who remember
those days and have retained the old
aspirations look round and see Govern-
ment lotteries strewn over the landscape,
local option abandoned for the per-
mitted transfer of licenses from over-
pubbed districts to districts without pubs
(a procedure with very peculiar possi-
bilities), the initiative and referen-
dum and nationalisation of the liquor
traffic become distant memories, repre-
sentatives of the Booze and Bet-
ting interests admitted to the councils of
the party (a former s.-p. bookmaker has
reached high office), the White Australia
policy subordinated to the fancies
and caprices of “our Indernesian
comrades” and one-vote-one-value and
the purity of rolls sacrificed to expediency
they must feel like going out and destroy-
ing themselves.
For 14 years to the middle of March
“Labor” was in office in Westralia in con-
tempt of the one-vote-one-value prin-
ciple, though the revolution in transport
has made the case for it unanswerable..
Going t 6 the country the Opposition
found that it would have to win four
seats with as many electors as there were
in 26 “Labor” electorates, representing
a majority in the House, to win the elec-
tion. This the Opposition did, and the
Ministry which it was able to form
against great odds is now set on a re-
distribution of electorates on a demo-
cratic basis, with clean rolls. Since the
Constitution will need to be altered, it is
not certain whether the Ministry will be
able to effect this reform, but it is quite
certain that “Labor” will resist.
When Queensland “Labor” went to
the country it had been in for 32 years,
less one Parliamentary term, and for
many years it maintained this position
without a majority of actual votes in the
constituencies. At the week-end election
the distribution of electorates was greatly
in its favor, as was the case at previous
elections.
Mr. Nicklin, the Country-party leader,
found himself with 15,235 electors in
“NIGHT IS THE TIME FOR—TROTS.”
“A trotting mare bred by the Governor-General, her ears stuffed with cottonwool to
muffle the noise of the crowd, won a race at Harold Park, Sydney. On the same occasion
‘Labor’ M.L.A. Joe Arthur pledged his Government to introduce a Night Trotting Bill in the
first session of the new Parliament.”
“If you don’t like the bright lights we'll blindfold you”
Murrumba. Mr. Hiley, a Q.P.P. man,
had 17,874 electors in Logan, easily the
most populous of all the 62 divisions. On
the other hand, there were 6588 electors
in Carpentaria, 6929 in Charters Towers,
6936 in Gregory, 7136 in Barcoo, 7297
in Warrego, 8115 in Gympie, 8485 in
Normanby, 8485 in Maranoa, 8601 in
The Tableland, 9086 in Bowen, 9338 in
Mirani and 9658 in Keppel; all “Labor”
electorates except Bowen (which has
again returned a minority Com.), and
four represented by Ministers. To
Queensland “Labor” one-vote-one-value
doesn’t mean a thing.
The distribution of electorates in N. S.
Wales was not so bad, but the
state of the rolls is another matter. For
these, though not in Queensland, the
Commonwealth Electoral Department is
responsible. After the House of Repre-
sentatives election in September the
Opposition was intensely surprised when
the Ashfield part of Parkes, represented
in the Assembly for 11 years by Athol
Richardson, gave him a beggarly
majority of 71. Before Mr. Richardson
stood again for Ashfield the Liberal or-
ganisation did some purifying of the
rolls on its own account. He was re-
turned with a majority of 2768.
There followed an official assurance
that the rolls would be brought up to date
in time for the general Assembly election
held on Saturday, Nevertheless, the
Liberals, going through the registers,
found them stuffed with the names of
dead and otherwise departed persons,
notably in doubtful electorates like
Lane Cove, Coogee, Concord, Dulwich
Hill and- Drummoyne. Again, as in Ash-
field, they took election-day precautions,
and in two instances these seem to have
been effective.
After the bar-closing referendum on
February 15 it was given out that 250,000
electors had not obeyed the compulsory-
voting injunction and that they would
all be called to account. Between refer-
endum and election nothing more was
heard of this matter, which is very
curious.
Chifley' Is Indignant.
In a belated spasm of outraged virtue,
the Prime Minister reproved Mr. Abbott
for having asserted in the House that
members of an A.L.P. organisation in the
Chifley electorate were Communists.
Denials have come from persons thus
described, and at the time of writing they
had in no case been disputed. But
it is known to Mr. Chifley that one of
these persons, Dr. Dark, of Katoomba,
identified himself in 1943 with an ugly
form of Communist propaganda. As a
member of the Macquarie A.L.P.
Assembly he secured the passage of a
resolution, to be “forwarded to the Prime
Minister [then, of course, Mr. Curtin]
and the Soviet Ambassador,” in these
vile terms:
That the Macquarie A.L.P. Assembly
urges the Commonwealth Parliament to
make it clear to Mr. Churchill that the
people of Australia feel involved in the
disgrace that the British Cabinet has in-
curred through its failure to fulfil the
promise that it made in 1942, since then
twice repeated, to take action that will re-
lieve the intolerable burden borne by the
Russians. We regard this failure as bring-
ing unnecessary suffering and death, not
only to the Russians, but to the people of
all democracies, and to all those in occu-
pied countries who are still heroically
struggling against the Fascists.
Mr. Chifley knows all about this deadly
example of home-front insolence, be-
cause he was present. His only recorded
comment on the proceedings was “It is
pleasing to see the Macquarie A.L.P.
Assembly becoming more representative.”
For another reason, it was effrontery on
his part to attack a member of the Op-
position of having used Parliamentary
privilege to cover slanderous assertions.
Under cover of privilege Mr. Donald
Mountjoy, when a member of Mr.
Chifley’s party, basely slandered a private
citizen, the secretary of an anti-Com-
munist organisation, charging him with
being part-owner of a “notorious house
of assignation.” Actually it was the home
of respectable people, and the victim of
the abominable attack was not only a
guiltless and blameless citizen but had
recently lost his only son, a very gallant
Sixth Division officer, in battle with the
Japs. Did Mr. Chifley protest against his
being smeared with poisonous slime, ob-
viously of Communist manufacture? No ;
and when the cowardly assailant was re-
jected by the electors Mr. Chifley found
him a fat billet on the C.S.I.R.
What’s wrong with being a Communist,
from Mr. Chifley’s point of view? The
Sydney May Day demonstration was stiff
with Corns., and the whole circus was ad-
dressed in brotherly terms by Mr. Ward.
Mr. Abbott mentioned another, also on
the C.S.I.R. and in a research position,
who thinks the British lion is “a sneaking
jackal” and who has expressed his hostility
to Mr. Chifley’s alleged plans for defend-
ing the country by rocket and other scien-
tific means. This Communist, Rudkin,
was caught urging Communists to secretly
enter the A.R.P. in the perilous month
when France fell, in order to collect in-
formation for him and to facilitate “the
seizing of control by the Communists
when morale was at its lowest the in-
terpretation of the magistrate who tried
and convicted him. And he was caught
sending a letter conveying secret infor-
mation to a man who was acting on the
orders of the Comintern (then with head-
quarters in German territory) to demand
the recall of the A.1.F., and who had an
office full of secret military information
which he had collected and of which it
was not difficult to guess the destination.
Mr. Chifley had no complaint to make
about Mr. Abbott’s remarks on this par-
ticular ward of the “Labor” Government,
which appointed him to the C.S.I.R. in
war-time, after he had served a sentence
and been recommended for internment
until peace by the military authorities.
But he had Mr. Abbott gagged.
What is the use of the Ministry pre-
tending to be scandalised at some of its
followers being called Communists when
it has just passed legislation which virtu-
ally makes the leading member of the
Communist Central Committee, Healy,
part of the government of the country?
Why should Mr. Chifley be so deeply
affected when he has himself been instru-
mental in awarding a Commonwealth
Literary Fund fellowship to a Mr.
Rawling, for years a Communist propa-
gandist?
To be or to have been a Communist
seems to be a passport to favor, partly
expressed in gifts from the terrific taxes,
under the Chifley regime.
—--
Mothers 1 Day.
Next Sunday is Mothers’ Day, an Ameri-
can invention which has been joyfully im-
ported into Australia by ragshops,
florists and gew-gaw sellers, and turned
into the same blatant parade of com-
mercialised sentiment it has become in
the land of its origin. All the same,
there was a nice thought behind the
idea that once a year there should be a
special day for mothers —a day on which
the mind should dwell, however briefly,
on the maternal instinct, its effect upon
history and civilisation and its capacity
for love, expressed in unsurpassed cour-
age, devotion, sacrifice and toil, some-
times unrequited.
An even better idea might be to in-
clude in the prayer with which legisla-
tures in Christian and democratic coun-
tries like ours begin their proceedings
remembrance of duty to mothers. If they
don’t do something like that politicians
may shortly find themselves praying for
protection against indignant and organised
matrons, since they are beginning to dis-
play a temper full of menace to elected
persons who fall down on the job.
In Britain, and in our own country,
mothers are displaying an obstinate and
ominous refusal to endure much longer
the muddling of planners, “controllers”
and weak politicians. British mothers are
showing distinct signs of having “had”
their socialistic Government. A meet-
ing of 1500 women at Leeds planned
for 20,000 to 30,000 women to demon-
strate at the House of Commons on
June 6.
We are going to stand inside, sit down
inside, and lie down if tired, and stay there
until they know the Yorkshire housewives
have had enough.
In London 2000 women—in what Benn,
the economist, called a “rising of
Cinderellas” —passed a resolution calling
on Prime Minister Attlee to “take steps”:
To reduce the cost of living without
further subsidies; to appoint skilled ad-
ministrators to Cabinet in place of theoreti-
cal planners, and to concentrate on national
needs with the abolition of trade and in-
dustrial restrictiqns We want the British
people properly fed, housed, clothed, happy
and secure. We want to see children able
to buy a penny orange, apple or banana
without a ration book.
Typical mother-talk, and with plenty
of typical mother-sense in it. Food
Minister Strachey got his share when he
went as guest of honor to the Fish-
mongers’ Federation. Booing and stamp-
ing women surrounded him, and their
leader said she was organising a petition
to the King demanding the resignation of
the Attlee Government or a national
plebiscite.
Australian mothers, who’ve suffered far
less actual privation and worry than their
British sisters, and that through industrial
lawlessness and - Government ineptitude
rather than actual shortages, cannot but
sympathise. And they must themselves
be only waiting the touch of a match to
the fuse of their emotions, for their
“Government” in Canberra, considering
its relatively favorable circumstances, is
far more guilty than the one in London.
In strikebound Victoria thousands of
women responded to a call for peaceful
picketing of their Parliament, When their
purpose was declared, Premier Cain, a
man not destitute of imagination though
deficient in guts, was all set on a “com-
pulsory conference” to “settle the dis-
pute.”
No merely masculine observer can sur-
vey the general state of the country and
ponder on Mothers’ Day without some-
what grimly wondering whether all adult
males shouldn’t begin praying.


im
m
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
MADE specially to prevent sore throats
For greater
smoking enjogmeni
CRAVE', MA'
L#*.
VvX
57*74
POLITICAL POINTS
Between November 23 and May 3 four
States had Assembly elections, “Labor”
lost four seats in Tasmania, four in S.A.
and six in the West —in that case, with
office. It will lose two to four seats in
Queensland and six to eight in N. S.
Wales, and in each State there was a
general slump in its 1944 divisional
majorities —indeed, it is doubtful whether
either “Government” could sustain a
claim that even 50 per cent, of the voting
population is on its side. Except in the
State where “Labor” has an old knack
of winning State elections when Senate
elections go heavily against it, there has
been a substantial Commonwealth-wide
swing against “Labor” since September,
when the Chifley crowd won 49 of the 74
seats in the House and all the Senate
seats except the three in Queensland.
Some queer birds sport “Labor” plum-
age nowadays. One kept a butler. This
was known in the electorate, but it
didn’t hurt the butler’s boss a bit. A
1941 M.L.A., re-elected on Saturday, he
has only to retire after taking his seat
in his third “Parliament” to qualify for
a pension of £5 a week, which will come
in handy if he has another Jeeves in
view.
Something has gone wrong with us at
U.N.O. Putting up for vice-president of
“the special session on Palestine” (the
president is a Brazilian, and seven “vices”
had to be elected), “Australia” ( i.e Dr.
Evatt’s deputy) “received one vote” —its
own. And this only five or six weeks
after Mafcin had noted that the world’s
expectancy of “Australian leadership” had
become automatic, as it were.
At the end of another eventful week,
Victoria, while very grim about “ ‘Labor’
Governments,” trade-union taipans and
Communists, had been spared the oft-
threatened extension of the strike to
Yallourn, which supplies the stricken
State with two-thirds of its power re-
quirements. Yallourn is Victoria’s
pet example of State socialism in being.
There, workers get houses replete with
labor-saving devices that are only fan-
tastic dreams to the house-hungry in-
habitants of Melbourne, and there the
S.E.C. is a sort of all-loving father which
gives employees six months’ leave with
pay after 20 years’ service, a long-service
grant starting at 4s. a week after three
years, free clubs, libraries, cheap cinemas
and amenities of all kinds. It stipulates
that there shall be no strikfes, and the
stipulation has served Victoria so well that
its application to all other bodies of Gov-
ernment employees will be supported.
A couple of weeks ago Calwell was
heard complaining about people “taking
unnecessary pleasure jaunts overseas”
and thereby “creating problems” for the
British and Australian Governments. He
intended to “make representations” to
the British about it. A few days later
Drakeford, the Air Minister, his wife and
daughter, the Assistant Director-General
of Civil Aviation and his wife, daughter
and secretary, went off to Canada or
somewhere. Calwell himself and Ward,
plus entourages, are going to London or
somewhere presently.
The prospect of a militant feminist
movement confronted Melbourne when it
woke up on its 18th trainless day, a call
having been sent out for 10,000 women
to perform “urgent day and night duty.”
Citizens breathed again when it turned
out that the ladies contemplated picketing
the talking-shop in Spring-street singing
the slogan “We want no blackouts —we
want law and order, transport for school-
children, food supplies guaranteed and
protection for the sick and aged,” Pre-
mier Cain himself sent out an urgent
call—for a compulsory conference on
the strike. It was acceded to, and there
were hopes of a settlement before the
singing ladies went into action.
Dr. Evatt has been telling the “United
Nations World” that “the time has arrived
when the Charter provision for military
agreements placing forces at U.N.O.’s
disposal should be fulfilled.” The way
things are going the Australian comple-
ment will consist of one of the five ser-
vice Ministers and his secretary. New
Guinea volunteers would give a warm
preference to Chambers and Bryson, with
headquarters at the North Pole.
In September Hugh Roberton, presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers,
went to a Wheatgrowers’ Federation
meeting in, Perth (W.A.). At that time,
as Roberton put it, the Federation was
under the “spell” of the Scullys at
Canberra. When the Federation pro-
posed to urge all and sundry to work for
the Scully plan, Roberton couldn’t
stomach any more; after a protest, he
walked out, followed by two others. The
Federation, at its annual meeting in Syd-
ney the other day, elected Roberton presi-
dent, and decided to support the F. and
S.A. in its High Court action against the
Government on sales —to N.Z., 5/9 for
16s. wheat.
It has come out that if war arrived
next month about all Australia would
have in the way of an army would be
120 police boys at Rabaul. And now
perhaps Chambers will make a special
trip to New Britain to inspect his army’s
teeth.
Last week the network of country roads
stretching to every corner of Victoria
became alive with trucks of all descrip-
tions as private hauliers took over the
business of goods transport from the
Government railways, paralysed by the
ukase of the Communist Brown. One of
the densest fogs in Victoria’s history en-
veloped the State on the first night, but
most of the truckmen struggled through
it. Some of the fog got into the Leg.
Assembly when Premier Cain made the
awkward admission that it was difficult
“to discipline industrial brigands when
three jobs are offering and only one man
to fill them.”
Edmunds (Lib., Hawthorn): Did you
say brigands?
Mr. Cain; I did.
Edmunds; Well, why don t you treat
them as such?
The rest was “uproar.”
Browne, the “Independent Liberal”
who went up against Murray Robson in
Vaucluse (N.S.W.) and was, if elected,
going to kick the Navy out of Watson’s
Bay and the flying-boat base out of
Rose Bay, was quoted at 6 to 4 on by
Sydney “Daily Mirror.” Vaucluse made
it 2 to 1 against. The “D.M” had better
stick to racing.
Sunday football with betting is a
“Labor” innovation in Sydney, whose
“Labor” party used to be strong for “the
cultivation of an enlightened and self-
reliant community”; and it is an
abomination to hospital patients within
earshot of the shouts of barrackers and
bookmakers. The nights of these poor
people are also made hideous by roars
from the Sydney Sports Ground, also
under “Labor” direction, where motor-
cyclists and the like race, with betting
as an accompaniment. So far Sunday
football has failed to establish itself at
Newcastle within the area controlled by
the City Council; but last week the New-
castle Council received an ultimatum
from the secretary of “the Wharflaborers
League Football Club,” one Pat Mc-
Cullum, who said that “if the Council s
ban on Sunday sport prevented
bers of his club playing on Sunday,” they
would “take a week-day off to play.’
Pat McCullum and friends, whose union
dictates Our Foreign Policy as it con-
cerns the Dutch, are to be obliged with
the use of a ground “outside the City
Council’s control.”
There should be a lesson for politicians
who are afraid to take a stand against
extremists in the experience of E. D.
Darby, Liberal M.L.A. for Manly
(N.S.W.). During the past year Darby
on two occasions organised emergency
transport in his electorate when trams
and bus men had closed down regular
services, and during the last Sydney wharf
strike he was manhandled by a crowd of
ruffians for attempting to find a means
of unloading potatoes in danger of rotting
in the holds of tied-up ships. Darby was
elected for Manly at a by-election in 1945
with a majority of 1101. When counting
ceased at the week-end he was 6026
ahead, with a certainty of a bigger
majority still when absent and postal
votes are added. Australians* still admire
a man with guts.
In Adelaide the A.L.P. refused to take
part in May Day celebrations because
the Communists were running the show.
In Sydney, N.S.W. “Labor” was in it up
to the neck, with Federal Minister Ward
one of the principal performers. Several
highly-paid radio funny men were duped
into believing the Moscow Mooch to be
some kind of Australian national cele-
bration, and the Teachers’ Federation was
enthusiastic to the extent of winning a
prize for the best float. When they turn
to politics actors and pedagogues just
about dead-heat for muddle-headedness.
Almost before the counting in the
N.S.W. elections began Sydney columnists
were knocking Menzies for the thou-
sandth time. One of “Sunday Sun’s”
young men who had apparently been
doing the Madame Twoblues act under
the table in the party room at Canberra
revealed that the Leader of the Federal
Opposition would resign in June, being
“tired and dispirited.” There was no
sign of tiredness or loss of spirit in
Menzies’s speeches in the House last
week. The same seer, mentioning the
possibility of young Mr. McKenna, trans-
ferring to the Reps, “to be groomed to
succeed Mr. Chifley as P.M.,” wrote that
“Dr, Gaha, who holds Denison, Tas., has
not denied published reports that he
would be prepared to give up his seat so
that McKenna could enter the House.”
Gaha may not have denied the report—he
probably thought it waste of time —but
even if he stood down McKenna would
still have to win Denison. Gaha came
back last time with a reduced majority,
and at the State elections the electorate
returned three Labor men, two Liberals
and an Independent.
The main feature of the Queensland
election was the precariousness of the
Government’s win, even with first-past-
the-post voting. In seven electorates its
majority was under 300, in four under
100. In another four electorates the
“Labor” margin ranged from 380 to 500.
Some candidates, including the Commo
leader Paterson, who scored 3034 in a
total of 7525, \yould have lost beyond
recall if preferential voting had been
retained.
When election-time comes round A.B.C,
does not trouble to conceal its “Labor”
proclivities. At 7 p.m. on Sunday it
shouted that most of the McGirr Minis-
ters had been returned with increased
majorities. Actually at that time Evatt’s
majority in Hurstville had dwindled from
7846 to 3314, Dunn’s in Mudgee from
2875 to 976, Graham’s in Wagga from
4912 to 3678, Weir’s in Dulwich Hill
from 2581 to 1950, Kelly’s in Bathurst
from 3158 to 2149 and Finnan’s in
Hawkesbury from 2722 to 551.
The N.S.W, Commos polled 26,914
Assembly votes out of 1,398,000 and had
to put up 12 candidates to do it. In
Balmain, Moran’s 1944 vote of 5186
fell to 1654 ; in Lakemba, Ogston’s came
down from 5447 to 1780 ; even in Bulli
and Waratah, Martin and Deacon be-
tween them polled only 5600 votes
against 9100 last time. J. B. Miles,
general secretary,- “Australia’s Station,”
had only 1154 supporters in Redfern.
The wonder is that “Labor” should re-
main scared of this contemptible min-
ority ; but it will.
N. S. Wales and Victorian “Labor”
Minicters have been engaged in a brag-
ging competition which is amusing to all
but the houseless. The Victorian Minister
Barry enthusiastically announced in De-
cember that 10,000 houses would be com-
pleted in his State in 1947. In a bigger
burst of ecstasy Assistant Minister Hayes
raised the Barry bid to 16,000. Up to
date the Victorian Housing Commission
has this year completed the magnificent
total of 391 dwellings. In 1946 it finished
1265 homes, about a fourth of the total
erected in the State in which “Labor” is
trying to wipe the death-damp from its
brow.
Australians never lose their sense of
humor, even in the direst of emergencies,
and Victorians found food for mirth in
the irreconcilable position of Percy
Clarey. As president of the A.C.T.U.,
committed for months to a May Day
strike, Clarey said that nobody had told
him about the threat to blackout the city
and country. As Minister of Labor and
Industry, Clarey silently agreed with his
political chief, who had to endorse a
censure debate that no situation existed
justifying a declaration of a state of
emergency. Liberal-leader Hollway pre-
dicted bloodshed within a week unless a
state of emergency was declared by the
Government. There has been no blood-
shed, though McKenzie, the Minister of
Agriculture, did threaten to draw blood
from the nose of Hamilton, M.L.A. for
Toorak, who invited McKenzie to come
outside.
The father of a Victorian serviceman
complains that, although the award rate
for a carpenter is £7 11s. 6d., plus holi-
day pay, his boy was asked £l6 10s. a
week per worker by the man he got to
build his place. The £l6 10s. a week was
alleged to be the ceiling rate fixed by
some “authority” or other.
Professor Einstein, whose abstruse
mathematics were largely responsible for
making the atomic bomb possible, has
a panacea for world peace in a single
overriding State with an international
police force that could quell any dissent-
ing nation. A dream as capable of ful-
filment as a flight to the moon; in fact,
th£ arrival of human beings on the moon
is much more possible in these days of
rockets. According to the first report
of the United Nations Military Staff
Committee at Lake Success, the Big Five
have failed to agree on the total size of
the proposed force and proportions to
be provided by the great Powers, on
whether each of the great Powers shall
furnish exactly the same number of
ground forces and on the allotting of
bases and other facilities for the inter-
national policemen.
A Khyber Pass memory:
An Australian soldier who had a term of
service with the Indian Army used to recount
how the caravans from inner Asia would wend
their way down through Afghanistan to the
Khyber, armed to the teeth, and at the frontier
would be received by a Gurkha sentry at the
door of a well-guarded shed. With grins the
caravan escort would hand in its rifles and
ammunition, each man’s being locked up separ-
ately “in a sort of golf locker,” with his thumb-
print recorded on a label fixed to the goods,
and away the caravan would go down into
India, assured of travel in safety from all
marauders. On returning each man would
eagerly claim his arms again from the locker,
generally bickering about shortage of a few
cartridges, which allegation (quite false) the
representative of the British Raj would accept
without question, handing over a few extra ; and
back home the visitors would go with friendly
farewells. A companion picture to this was
that of the Mohmand warrior’s complaint one
day to a British brigade-major that it was time
he went home to Belati on long leave so that
a new man might be blooded. What sort of
fun these people would have with a Hindu-
headed Indian Republic, against a Hindu army
upon which even the Moslems of civilised India
are ready to spit, is not difficult to imagine.


PROVIDING AGAINST EMERGENCIES.
“According to ‘a Jewish envoy’ who has arrived at Canberra, Mr. Calwell, who, with Mr. Ward, is about to go abroad, is highly regarded by world Jewry, which realises
the heavy odds he has encountered in trying to encourage large-scale Jewish immigration. The visitor added, ‘We hope that Australia will again take up an independent
stand on the Palestine question.’”
“But are you SURE this will get us back, Arthur? Suppose we end up in Cyprus.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“R.F.0.”: Despite a ferocious temper
and complete disregard for human suffer-
ing, the Nip often exhibited a childish
generosity. He placed our men as sentries
on gaps in the barbed wire round the
camp, with lurid threats as to what would
happen if any natives were admitted.
Not long after that am annoyed Nip came
to h.q., called for the interpreter and in-
structed us to send an officer to the sentry
on a certain gate, who had let a Chinese
through. The sentry must be severely
scolded and threatened with serious
punishment if it happened again. The
adjutant went along and addressed the
sentry something like this: “Don’t take
any notice of what I am going to say
to you.” Then his voice broke into a
roar. “You rotten swine, if ever you
let any more natives inside this ruddy
wire I’ll have your throat cut. When
you get orders to keep them out, keep
the blanks out or there’ll be trouble”
and so on. It was such a realistic dress-
ing down that it was too much for the
Nip. He intervened with “O.K, 0.K.,”
and gave the bewildered sentry a packet
of cigarettes.
* * * *
“Yair”: If I hadn’t been right behind
her I wouldn’t have believed it. But, as
we stopped to dodge the traffic which
caught us half-way despite the traffic-
cop, the little King’s Cross lass said
brightly to the cop, “Excuse me, sir,
could you direct me to the nearest s.p.
shop?”
* * * *
“Plop”: When this gets around, our
traffic policemen will be making very
careful checks of their equipment before
heading out for their day’s notetaking.
A certain Rev. Poynton, driving through
the township of River Edge, U.S.A., was
motioned by the law on duty to head for
the kerb. When asked for his license, the
clergyman replied that he had left it in
his other cassock. “Harrr-r!” bellowed
the law malevolently. Then inspiration
(divine, no doubt) hit the parson, and he
asked to see the policeman’s own license.
The smug sneer vanished, and, meek now,
the cop admitted that he had also left it
home. Hailing another policeman, the
noble clergyman watched his tormentor
collect a ticket himself,
\ * * * ♦
“Eureka”: There is a little brick build-
ing at Parramatta which might well be
preserved, but it is not listed with those
buildings considered worthy of preserva-
tion because of their historical value. It
is the oldest school building still standing
in Australia, and was erected by John
Macarthur as a school in which Huon
de Kerillion was to serve as tutor to his
children. De Kerillion was one of the
old French nobility who fled to England
during the Reign of Terror, and later
joined the New South Wales Corps. Mac-
arthur managed to get his discharge from
the corps, and built him a school
and a house close to his own
Elizabeth Farm House. Both the
residence, Firholme, and the school
are still in a good state of preservation,
while in the grounds still grow the oak-
trees that Macarthur planted to cele-
brate the news of Waterloo.
m■* * *
“Eshowe”: The Royal visit to Zulu-
land was the occasion for the revival
after many decades of the national dance.
Since the Zulu Wars tribal and village
dances have been kept up, but not for
60 years have Cetewayo’s pfeople danced
“as a nation.” Three months of re-
hearsals, research into almost forgotten
lore and the reforming of old “regiments”
preceded a great display to welcome the
King and Royal party. Five thousand
warriors clad in leopard or buckskins
trimmed with monkey tails and wearing
plumes of vulture and sakabula feathers
poured down from the hills with a deep-
throated chant. As they surged towards
the Royal dais they spread out into the
famous impi horns,” -raised high their
shields and assegais, pulled up short be-
fore the throne, and burst into their
famous cry, the thrice repeated “Bayete.”
It was an unforgettable sight.
* * * ♦
“C. 8.”: Army Disposals has auctioned
some strange items, but probably the
most unique came under the hammer at
the Hobart branch. It was a pair of
binoculars with the inscription “To John
Lemmone, from Melba, 1909.”
* * * »
“Idnom”: If the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment doesn’t make a handsome profit it
isn’t my fault. Most of the persons I
"Hey, cut out the rough stuff!”
raise on public ’phones simply shout
“hullo” at me instead of giving their num-
ber, which means that I press the button
and, when it’s a wrong number, as it
usually is, lose my tuppence. The amaz-
ing thing is the number of different
people one can contact by simply ringing
the same number over and over, I have
just had three numbers and two types of
buzz. No wonder people talk for hours
on public ’phones—it is such an achieve-
ment to get the number one wants. My
No. 1 grievance against the ’phone sys-
tem is.that it is almost impossible to get
any answer to either “Inquiries,” “Com-
plaints” or the number one is supposed
to ring to make an urgent call without
pennies. Although I’ve tried often I have
only once managed to get “Inquiries,”
and that after a lot of trouble. The moral
is to have a private ’phone installed, but
’phones will be out of date by the time
my priority comes up.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Wusslean”: A judge in a garden com-
petition condemned the use of grotesque
cement gnomes and frogs in suburban
gardens. His remarks called to mind an
erstwhile neighbor who bought the house
next door to ours when we lived in the
foothills of the Dandenongs. His first
act was to fell the native trees, including
a pair of glorious golden wattles that had
been a source of delight to us during the
flowering season. This we forgave, as the
trees were close to the house, and there
may have been someone in the family
allergic to wattle blossom, but we could
pot forgive the uprooting of attractive
native shrubs. The final blow came when
formal flowerbeds, weedfree lawn and
concrete paths were completed: two ugly,
lifeless cement kookaburras were installed
flanking the steps to the verandah. Real
kookaburras had been frequent visitors
when the garden was a patch of un-
touched bush, but I doubt if they ever
laughed as they passed that way again,
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; Splitting a match into
four is an old jail trick (B. 2/4/’47), but
it has its limitations; the possession of a
match is the first essential. The main
cigarette-lighter I saw in my ramblings
through His Majesty’s hostels was the
friction-wheel. A small steel disc, a
metal button, or even two bone buttons
sewn together with a piece of razor blade
protruding, is strung on a loop of string ;
one end is held in the teeth, the other
slipped ovfer the hand. When the disc
is given a few twirls on the string, then
the loop drawn tight, a revolving action
is obtained —similar to the cardboard
“spinners” of our youth. Tfie manipu-
lator holds a piece of stone against the
revolving steel and the resultant spark
is flicked into the tinder-box —generally
the top of a sauce bottle —in which partly-
burnt rag has been placed. An old lag
can light a cigarette by this method while
an honest man is feeling for his matches.
But it must take years of practice; I
once jumped at a bet that I couldn’t get
a light in a quarter of an hour. Twenty-
five minutes later I still couldn’t keep the
wheel revolving once I turned my atten-
tion to the hand that held tinder-box and
stone.
♦ * * *
“F.S.”: Travelling scholarships, accord-
ing to Vice-Chancellor Medley, of the
University of Melbourne, are subject to
taxation, which confirms me in a nagging
belief I’ve had for a long time that Mr.
Chifley is antipathetic to culture, even to
the extent that he refuses to have his
portrait painted for the Canberra gallery
of distinguished statesmen. Nevertheless,
a statistical revaluation of the results of
scholarships of this sort would make
interesting reading. Scores of scholar-
ship winners have gone from the National
Gallery school in Melbourne, the vast
majority of them women. How many
of them have become significant artists
and how many have been absorbed by
marriage, or by the intellectual and other
delights of Paris, where they invariably
go? Paris is still the world’s cultural
centre, but it is also the easiest city in
the world to find diversion. An artist
in that city said to me: “When I get
up in the morning I’m too hungry to
paint. After I've had breakfast I’m too
full to paint. So I don’t think about
painting till the afternoon and then I’m
too hungry to paint. After dinner, what
with the food and the wine. I’m too
sleepy to paint, so I go to bed.” He
had been living for 15 years on the re-,
mittances sent him by his American mil-
lionaire father and had never completed
a picture.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Among the wrecked
ships strewing the beaches around Rabaul
lies the hulk Loch Katrine, formerly a
famous clipper of the Loch Line. In her
last years she served as a coal hulk. Less
famous was the Namanula, better known
as La Carabine, at one time the private
yacht of Australia’s first baronet, Sir
Rupert Clarke. She bore the same name
as Sir Rupert’s racer, a mare by Carbine.
The yacht’s tall masts had been cut down,
22 tons of lead sold from her keel and
a diesel engine installed. But in her main
cabin remained an oak table 6ft. wide in
one piece, on which an actress had
once danced during an after-theatre party
in Melbourne.
» * * «
“Niloc”: Around the Salem Marshes,
U.S.A., the ducks are quacking loud and
long. Some hunters were recently shiver-
ing in the marshes, waiting for daylight
and ducks, when a plane appeared and
flew backwards and forwards over the
marsh, its pilot later stating that he had
been trying to help the hunters by
“flushing” the birds. He succeeded in
scaring all the game from the swamp,
and according to one of the peeved
hunters “they didn’t come back for six
weeks.” The pilot copped a five-dollar
fine and a lecture from a sporting magis-
trate. Ducks nearer home are still
quacking over the memory of what hap-
pened to some of their forebears about
20 years ago when two sporting gents
from England, laden with guns and
baggage, stepped off the boat in Sydney.
After congratulating themselves on land-
ing in what they believed was the “best
duck-shooting country on earth,” they
hied to a pub and found support for their
belief in a man who offered, for £5 a
nob, to take them straight to where the
ducks swam thickest. They dropped their
cases and produced the coin. Their
guide hailed a taxi and they drove off,
coming at last to swampy lands abound-
ing with the birds. Promising to pick
them up later, their guide left them to it.
They could not believe their eyes, but
blazed far into the night, collecting a
sizable bag by the time a car-full of
police drove up to arrest and subsequently
sting them for shooting in Centennial
Park.
» * • «
. In Hobart Reference
Library I dived on Sixty Oil Paintings
by Norman Lindsay. It was quite new
but the title was already a misnomer—
only two colored plates remained. All
the rest had been forcibly removed —
ripped away, with the tatters of color
along the edges of the paper and some
of the tops of the pictures left to tell
the tale.
* * * *
The country newspaper
cove and his interpolation of poultry and
personal notes (B. 9/4/’47) reminds me
of a mix-up that occurred in the “Cape
Times” during Joe Chamberlain’s visit
at the end of the Boer war. Motor-cars
were then a novelty, and the “Times”
man spread himself on their peculiarities
and habits. The notables of the Cape
were entertaining their guest at Old Con-
stantia, the historic wine farm on the
peninsula, and this is what one para-
graph said:
On the stoep of the old homestead sat
all the rank and file of the peninsula,
panting and snorting in the manner peculiar
to the breed, and putting forth an aroma
which in the still summer morning was
anything but pleasant.
An attempt was made to recall the offend-
ing sheet, but not before the Cape was
rocking with merriment. There was a
great stir in the “Times” office that day.
I know, I worked there.
♦ * * *
“Strip”: Backsliding parsons and
naughty words (B. 9/4/’47)? The most
brilliant student I have ever met was also
the most brilliant exponent of swearing.
He afterwards became a professor, a
fine linguist, a great humanitarian, and a
powerful influence for good. His youth-
ful failing was only a symptom of his
amazing ability to acquire and use
languages and idioms of all sorts. An-
other young parson, saintly and highly
respected, was booked for a major opera-
tion. When under the anaesthetic he
shocked and amused the surgeons and
nurses by giving a display of plain and
fancy swearing. His audience knew that
he had merely subconsciously reverted
to the cocoon stage through which most
students pass.
* * # ■ *
“Beta”; Barely minimum height, laugh-
ably fat, quite bald, Stumpy’s ribbons
proclaimed him a white liar ... a Digger
of the first war who had stuck his age
back to get into the second war. “I
suppose you found yourself a bit old,
Dig?” the sergeant at the Discharge
depot asked him. Stumpy snorted, “Too
old? Look, Dig, I was hospital orderly
in Greece. They’d given us what-oh for
days and we knew they were right on our
tails. The colonel bustles in. ‘Boys,’ he
says, ‘you’ve done a great job. All the
patients are gone. So is everything on
four wheels or four legs. Now it’s every
man for himself. Make for the coast
back of the mountains. Good luck.’ I’ll
admit the shell that burst as I hopped
out the window got me away to a flying
start, but I led the field for five miles and
in a two day gallop to the coast I was
always a good tote bet . . . never wors’n
third. Too old, be blowed!”
* * * *
“Gawler Road”; The secretary of
Adelaide Plumpton discovered that about
40 of 130 hares turned into a paddock
in readiness for the coursing season have
gone missing and he concludes that some-
body has been putting them into the pot.
Last year snares were found at the out-
let holes of the shelters. The secretary,
who bears the somewhat appropriate
name of Tucker, may be right about the
missing hares being turned into pie, but
since they’re worth up to 255. a head
and few Australians know how to cook
hare, I can’t help recalling my own in-
nocent youth. In those days the plump-
ton clubs paid a dollar each for the beasts
and not once or twice but many’s the
time a couple of us arrived at the secre-
tary’s office with 10 bobs’ worth of hare
in a chaff bag—caught in the plumpton
paddock the night before.
TO A PLATYPUS.
“American newspapers are devoting whole columns
to the platypuses, recent arrivals at the Bronx Zoo —
more space than any other Australian item has re-
ceived for months.” — Cable.
O Platypus Ornithorhynchus,
Whom Yanks with astonishment view,
’Tis surely high timp to bethink us
What an ad. we’ve neglected in you,
When spellbound attention you wake in
New York, such as never was scored
By any such humans as Makin
Or bipeds as Forde.
When first your appearance was noted
To startle our oversea kith,
You were mostly by scientists voted,
With mermaids and bunyips, a myth.
One massive professor, decrying
All evidence urged, would persist
Right up to his death in denying
Such things could exist.
You burst on the world from Australia,
A freak one can only describe
As a cross between true animalia
And the avian genus or tribe.
You fractured biology’s trammels
And shattered old notions to sherds
That there couldn’t be egg-laying mammals
Or four-footed birds.
You are both, I imagine, or either.
B'ut touching your plural, well, I
Reject “platypuses,” and neither
Accept (what is worse) “platypi.”
With Attic your sponsors have tarred you,
So, taken in twos or m threes
Or more, I prefer to regard you
As “platypodes.”
O Platypus, only achiever
In all the wide world of the use
For stoking the frame of a beaver
Of the beak that’s attached to a goose,
When press agents’ worth we are gauging
’Tis you, although mute, we should laud
For really and truly front-paging
Australia abroad.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sixenate”: Parties in a recent divorce
were said to address onfe another as
“Bugsie” and “Pumpkin” and “Pigsey” ;
and in another case incriminating letters
produced were addressed to “My Darling
Log.” The pet names applied to one
another by one of the most affectionate
couples I know are “Pieface” and
“Stinker” ; and their eldest son, a very
fine fellow and their pride, is “The Lout”
to them. Affection often seizes upon
terms that would ordinarily seem oppro-
brious as the best medium for the expres-
sion of its tenderness. There’s a curious
magic about it. A pretty girl, one of the
belles of the district, has made a definite
diversion amongst the many young men
whose hearts she has agitated. There
would seem to be only one reason for
her choice, for, on cool calculation, her
chosen swain does not match up to many
of the others. Shortly after their acquaint-
ance began this cavalier commenced to
address her as “Wart.” Her heart appar-
ently responded to this evidence of ten-
derness,
* * ♦ *
“Tassy”: An English friend has ap-
pealed to me for enlightenment on, a little
item of Australiana he has come across.
He wants to know the meaning of
“Boilermaker’s Whisky,” and tells me he
struck it recently in a Newcastle-on-Tyne
paper which quoted it as a Sydney ex-
pression. I can tell him all about Red
Ned, Auntie’s Ruin and Domain Cock-
tails, but the Boilermaker stumps me.
Perhaps it’s a new kind of tipple served
at Yarralumla beanos. Anyone know?
“I believe she Wants to trade him in for a sports model.”
“Zake”; Her hair had obviously been
newly permed, and, stuck up like a fuzzy-
wuzzy’s, unadorned by any covering, it
raised whispers from the women sitting
near. Lights out and the film started, the
fellow sitting behind her began weaving
around trying to get an eyeshot past the
restlessly-moving Pompadour-like mass.
Finally in desperation he leaned over,
holding his hat out. “Here, missus,” he
said hoarsely, “jam this down over yT
coconut fibre, then y’ can bob around as
much as y’ like! ”
• * * '•
“Bo”; An idyllic little comedy is be-
ing enacted in a Sydney suburban area
which has been grabbed from its owners
at a bargain price for the Housing Com-
mission. During morning tea one of the
brickies happens to mention that his
missus has been urging him to put up
a brick pergola in his backyard, with a
fishpond and a fancy retaining wall into
which can be let a rustic seat. Another
brickie asks how he proposes to go about
it. Discussion stimulates ideas, and rough
sketches with sticks soon appear on the
ground. Then one of the brickies sets
out, with real bricks and mortar, to
demonstrate his idea of how it should
look. By lunch-time it is taking shape
nicely, and by mid-afternoon has pro-
gressed far enough to convince his mate
that it he uses single bull-nosed bricks
it might even satisfy his missus. After-
noon tea is taken with everyone satisfied,
except, perhaps, the mutt who is waiting
for the house to be finished. But at
knock-off time the brickie gets a shock
which makes him come out in a cold
sweat. He finds hfe’s laid 500 bricks!
With guilty looks his mates help the un-
intentional “scab” to pull it down.
* # * »
“Hamfat”: Darcey Renno, son of the
Bill Renno who was mechanist for George
Rignold, has pieced together many old
playbills preserved by his father; and
the Mitchell Library now has them. One
of the most interesting was about the
first production of “Robbery Under
Arms” at the Alexandra Theatre, Mel-
bourne —the production in which Jimmy
Athol wood made a hit as Warrigal. The
Alexandra had the largest stage in Aus-
tralia and Alfred Dampier, who for the
rest of his life found “Robbery” a money-
spinner, had a four-horse coach driven
on the stage for the hold-up scene.
There is still one survivor of the cast —
May Renno, who played the part of a
small boy, is still heard on the air,
* * V *
“Sach”: I hope that “Barkly’s” ten-
acity in hanging on to his souvenir tenner
(B. 26/3/’47) meets a happier fate than
mine. My father used to give me for my
birthday a golden sovereign stuck into a
slit on a neat little card. Grown to man's
estate I often felt inclined to cash in on
them, but sentiment always got the bettei
of me. Lately I came across the cards
again, and found the coins had been re-
moved, the slits widened and pennies
poked in their places. I tackled my up
and coming young son. “Oh, yes,” he
said, “I took out those little pennies and
put in the big ones.” And what,” I asked,
“did you do with the little pennies?”
“Oh,” he said, “Tdmmy Jones said farth-
ings weren’t any good and so we threw
them out in the garden.” Having fruit-
lessly turned the garden over until it
looks like a potential Kalgoorlie I am
now wondering whether Tommy Jones
is the makings of a financier.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: April 23 provided the
biggest hoax in Brisbane’s history. Early-
morning motorists arriving at Victoria
Bridge found large painted notices
attached to road barricades at each end,
notifying that it was closed to vehicular
traffic and that they must use the Grey-
street Bridge. Tramlines were left open,
but the notice warned drivers not to
exceed 10 miles an hour when crossing.
Cursing motorists obeyed the edict until
a doubting Scots newspaperman rang up
the acting Lord Mayor, the ditto Town
Clerk, and the traffic police. None of
them knew anything about it, and at
7.20 a.m. the notices were hurriedly re-
moved. University students were sus-
pected as the jokers on account of censor-
ship of their suggestions for exhibits in
the University procession on May 9, but
no proof was forthcoming. „
“X.S.”: Melbourne City Court sat up
the other day when counsel for accused,
a wharfie charged with unlawful pos-
session, accused the Court of having itself
followed unlawful procedure for 40 years.
Contention was that the Court had no
right to order an accused person to give
evidence from the witness-box adjoining
the dock. The Criminal Evidence Act in
England, on which Victoria’s Crimes Act
is based, was quoted to the effect that a
prisoner should give evidence from the
same place as other witnesses and not
from alongside the dock, which carries
invidious associations. McLean, P.M.,
remarked that it had always; been done
in that way and counsel retorted that
that didn’t make it any better. ’Sonah
“The tapioca must have got a bit moist!”
then ordered' the accused to step down
and use the box from which the other
witnesses had spoken.
* * ♦ *
“Loc”: One of the most difficult of
modern human achievements is to per-
form a “midnight flutter” from an
American hotel. An English clergyman,
now safely back at home, declared that
he was acutely embarrassed after setting
off a bell wired to a Chicago pub’s front
door, when, at 2 a.m., he was heading
out for a stroll because he couldn’t sleep.
The manager turned up brandishing a
revolver, but, soothed by the cleric’s ex-
planation, he walked a block or two
commiserating with him on the difficult
job of keeping some people on the
straight and narrow. He told the minister
of one gent who applied for lodgings,
carrying a suitcase and a large coil of
rope. The publican inquired the reason
for the manilla, and the guest explained
that since he had read of the many hotel
fires in the land, he had been carrying
around his own fire-escape. The guest
was registered, but next morning he and
his equipment had vanished. “And now,”
Bung murmured sadly, “all guests
carrying their own fire-escapes must pay
in advance.”
* # * ♦
“Eve”: The fellow ahead of me in the
paper-shop handed over a lottery form
and the remark, “See what I’ve called it?
Lucky Shop.” “Lucky Shop,” echoed the
counjerman, “but you’ve been buying
tickets here for two years and haven’t
won anything yet.” “It’s lucky all right,”
said the customer. “Darned lucky I
haven’t burnt it down long ago.”
♦ * * *
“Cashier”; That par. of “Ceg’s” (B.
30/4/’47) about the aptness of the term
“filthy lucre” as applied to Australian
notes and coinage made a special appeal
to me. Like everyone whose job entails
the handling of large quantities of silver
the “change” doled out to me at the
bank often includes a batch of “twins”
—florins stuck together through being
plonked down in a pool of spilt beer on a
hotel bar. Australian banks don’t launder
their silver. The worst case I’ve struck,
though, was just after Sydney Show, and
it wasn’t beer money. I tore the paper
off a roll of two-bobs and threw them
down on the desk for counting. They
stuck as tightly as a Labor Caucus at
election-time. I couldn’t part ’em with
my hands, and had to use an ebony ruler
to break the bulk and a desk knife to
separate individual pairs. The bank-teller
provided the explanation. The dough
had been handed in by the firm that had
the tea-room contract at the Show-
grounds ; sugary tea had done even a
better job than beer slops can manage.
* * * *
“Uco”; Citizens who leave suitcases
containing large sums of money in trams
or trains don’t arouse my curiosity at all
(8.. 30/4/’47), and certainly not my
sympathy. I feel that no one carrying
such a cargo for the first time could pos-
sibly forget it; only when the suitcase
of notes has become a habit would care-
lessness come into the picture. And
people who make a habit of toting their
hoard around in a suitcase, like those
who kfeep large sums in the wardrobe or
kitchen cabinet, must have a reason for
their risky procedure, and to my sus-
picious mind the reason is usually con-
nected with blackmarkets or income-tax
evasion. That the sum thus held is
colossal is shown by figures issued by
the Treasury. Since 1939 the Australian
note issue has increased from £50,000,000
to £207,000,000, and whereas the propor-
tion held by the banks has only risen
from £14,000,000 to £23,000,000 the pro-
portion held by the public has jumped
from £35,000,000 to £185,000,000. Some
of the increase may be till-money. But
there’s a wad of it stowed away in safe-
deposits, and suitcase and wardrobe
boys know where the rest is.
“Macnell”: Chifley’s benign belief in
a “push-button” war (B. 30/4/’47) recalls
an interesting and significant development
in the scientific field during the last scrap.
German bombers were flying in to Man-
chester on a radio beam. The “back-
room boys” were read?, and “bent” their
homing beam so that the explosive load
was dumped in the Irish Sea. Radar
waves speed along at 186,000 miles per
second, faster than any missile man can
conceivably build, and if the bomb is
radio-guided, as it must be to ensure
accuracy, radar waves can meet it, sub-
merge its own frequencies, and guide it
handily back to whence it sprang. It
looks as though lethal loads still need
to be humanly piloted, which, of course,
requires that pilots be trained to intercept
them.
“Tail End Dave”: Where did
“Squizz” (B. 16/4/’47) hear the metal
foil used to jam radar called “tinsel”?
Its real name was “window” and it
came in two types —thin strips for ground
radar and inch-thick strips for fighter-
borne radar. “Tinsel” was a rather
amusing but very efficient device used to
jam the enemy’s R.T. A selected group
of planes of the force had microphones
in their port inner engines; when the
operators heard a Jerry speaking on the
R.T. they would switch on their trans-
mitter with the engine mike connected,
thus jamming the Hun’s frequency.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Jules Verne’s once-famous
novel Round the World in Eighty Days
has been' made a back-number by
an American millionaire flier named
Reynolds, who has done the trip in
a little less than that number of
hours. The next aspirant for Puck’s
record will no doubt go in a rocket in
the same number of minutes. There was
a lack of human interest in Reynolds’s
journey which one doesn’t find in Verne’s
slower narrative —speed is the enemy of
beauty. The hero of the Frenchman’s
story is an Englishman who pledges his
entire fortune on a wager. He leaves his
town house and starts off by steamer,
meets tigers, elephants and pythons, has a
love affair with a Siamese princess and
finally lands back in an English seaport,
only to be imprisoned for 24 hours for
having no visible means of support* which
finishes his chance of winning the wager.
When he gets back to London He finds a
bill for gas used during his absence,
having forgotten to turn the lights off.
He goes to his club discouraged, and dis-
covers that he has gained a day in cir-
cumnavigating the globe and has won the
bet by a margin of five minutes.
* * * *
“Camsa”: Strangest excuse for speed-
ing ever put up in the Adelaide traffic
court came from a medical student. He
explained that bodies were scarce, and
when they did'become available first there
got the pick. Reason for speeding was a
ring from a fellow-student advising him
there were a few bodies available. In his
hurry student passed a stationary tram.
Results: he got a fair body, also 30s.
fine and licence cancellation for three
months.
PICTURE IT, THINK OF IT.
“In a pre-election speech, Mr. Clive.Evatt, N.S.W.
Minister of Housing, referred to ‘the thousands of
nappy Australian families who have been accom-
modated in the thousands of new modern homes
which the Government has built for them.’ ”
Do you get it, the hustings presentment
Of Daddy and Mum and their kin
All glowing with placid contentment
At the homes they have found themselves in?
Can you sense their unspoken thanksgiving
As they muse and reflect on the bliss
And the luck that is theirs to be living
In a country like this?
Can you view this most pleasing of pictures
Without wondering why they’re allowed,
These peevish and petulant strictures
Discharged at McGirr and his crowd?
Though houses be short, can they ever
Be blamed when there’s score upon score
Existing in comfort they never
Experienced before?
Can you glimpse, ’twixt their porch and their
pickets,
Staid parents and infantile sprigs
As happy as kings or as crickets,
As chirpy as sparrows or grigs,
Engaged in domestical duties
Or blithely returning from school,
Live ads. to the blessings and beauties
Of Socialist rule?
Unless you can feature them clearly
In thousands, whole thousands, no less,
Your eyes must be treating you queerly,
You’re a trifle myopic, I guess.
Still, there’s much we "might see that now
passes
Unseen, could we only contrive
To borrow the magical glasses
Affected by Clive.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


1797
m
£3!%!
Ssl
1947
NEWCASTLE
150
TH
ANNIVERSARY
CELEBRATIONS
T
I JL HE City of Greater Newcastle, this year, com-
pletes 150 years of development and achievement, and
has now become the most important industrial centre
in the Southern Hemisphere.
To mark this historic occasion, and to make known
. that here are located Australia’s outstanding industrial
potentialities surrounded by lakes, beaches, mountains
and fertile valleys of unique beauty, celebrations will
be held in the Newcastle and Hunter Valley district
from—
SEPTEMBER 5 TO SEPTEMBER 20
Spectacular events will include—
fa Re-enactment of Lieutenant Shortland’s landing
of 1797.
fa Great Industrial Exhibition,
fa Australasian Band Championship Contests,
fa state Championship Eisteddfod,
fa Anniversary Racing Carnival,
fa Championship Sporting Events, Golf, Bowls,
Athletics, etc.
fa Stirring Pageants and Fireworks Displays,
fa Shows, Fairs and Rodeos in Hunter Valley
Towns.
COME TO NEWCASTLE
IN SEPTEMBER
Intending competitors and visitors should apply for
information to the Organiser of the Greater New-
castle and Hunter Valley 150th Anniversary
Celebrations, *
Telephone: G. D. MITCHELL,
Newcastle: B 1571 City Hall, Newcastle.
A*
&rd*y jtuU ' &&CL
ti/icL/!’ d> okfacA. / "
The morning shave with Gem keeps you dean all day
and evening. Why, because Gem shaves you at skin
level a true ‘professional’ job. So be kind to your
skin too ! Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
fijy
li£M
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
dfg
df
gd
THE SERVICE MAN
Chifley Presses the Button.
“Ek Dum”: No change in outlook has
been so marked as that in the last 30
years in Australian “Labor’s” outlook
on defence. In the days of Andrew
Fisher there was a fierce consciousness
of the need of a small population to use
all its resources so as to be ready in
advance to keep out the teeming hordes
of Asia, should occasion arise.
Today the “teeming hordes” are greater
than ever and, for the first time in Aus-
tralia’s day, aggressive, but the fierce
consciousness of danger which once
obsessed “Labor” is gone.
The “Government” has become, in
matters of defence, like the “old, half-
witted sheep” of J. K. Stephen, giving a
bleat whenever it is disturbed in its rest,
and taking what comes to it with true
ovine meekness.
When the war ended there was great
talk about “future defence measures” and
the Government’s determination to have
an “interim” R.A.N., Army and Air
Force, a minimum of 90,000 while future
requirements were estimated.
Then it was seen that it would be im-
possible, under present terms and con-
ditions, to provide anything like the
"We'll be right, Mick, as long as a strong headwind don't spring up."
number. So aspirations began to fall until
the Army figure has got down to 30,000
on paper and something like 10,000 in
actuality.
It was said last week that if all men
in uniform, including clerks, cooks,
hospital orderlies and supernumeraries in
general, were counted they might tot up
to 35,000. If it came to putting a force
into the field all that would be at present
available would be the 10,000 in Japan,
and those who could be expected to be sent
to Japan, plus a few New Guinea natives,
This would scarcely keep a brigade in
full operation, even if it consisted of all
operational troops. How the strength
of Japanese occupation is being kept at
the agreed level is a mystery.
What is worse, even on an enlistment
of 100 a week, which can scarcely keep
the balance level with normal peace-time
casualties, the Government is compelled
to accept A 2 men.
The R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F. scarcely
matter. As things are going, their equip-
ment will be either non-existent or so
obsolete in five years that about .all they
will be able to do then to keep an enemy
off is to bang a kerosene-tin.
There is to be no compulsory training,
Mr. Chifley proposes to save all Aus-
tralian youths from defending their coun-
try in time of war by pressing a button
and letting off the forces of the atom.
To provide the science which is to em-
body the atom-rocket-defence, there are
on the C.S.I.R. staff Friends-of-the
Soviet. One, while taking salary from the
Australian taxpayer, makes it clear that
he is resistant to Mr. Chifley’s press-the-
button defence, because it may be used
against the u.s.s.R.— this despite the fact
that if these friends of Russia were asked
to live in Moscow they would all dive
into the nearest hollow log and stay there
six months.
A little history shows how unfit the
present crowd in office are to be entrusted
with the defence of the Commonwealth.
In 1942 Mr. Curtin askfcd somebody or
other in the military world what force
would be needed to defend Australia in
case of Japanese invasion. The authority
replied off - hand (legend declares)
“about 25 divisions.” Mr. Curtin, who
had imbibed his military knowledge of
divisions by reading daily-press stories
of how the Russians sank a couple of
German Panzer divisions in the creek
before lunch and finished off the rest of
the local Wehrmacht Army group before
sundown, at once cabled to Messrs. Chur-
chill and/or Roosevelt for 25 divisions
as if he were ordering a packet of tea.
The 25 divisions refused, he put forward
a plan for the Allied Chiefs-of-Staff
•under which an Anzac area would be
created, with the Curtin-Chifley-Wards
controlling it, and from which at once—
early 1942 —an offensive campaign should
be launched from Australian bases against
Japanese coastal cities by squadrons con-
sisting of an aircraft-carrier or two and
a few cruisers and destroyers.
It was pointed out to the wretched dolts
of the British-American staffs that the
lessons of Singapore and the Philippines
had proved that the day of the battle-
ship was done, it being powerless in the
presence of an aircraft-carrier. For this
bright scheme, all the main forces were to
be provided by John Bull and Uncle
Sam, Canberra providing the genius, and
infusing it into General Brett, who in
those days, not General MacArthur, was
their favorite commander,
Unfortunately, the Chiefs-of-Staff were
too busy to enjoy this “Labor” essay m
humor to the full. They cautiously
pointed out that, even if the suggested
forces were heavy enough to attack the
Japanese coast, the range of ships would
have to be at least trebled before they
could do what was suggested also, that
unfortunately the aircraft-carriers which
the Canberra Brisbane-Liners proposed to
send as a guarantee of the safety of their
extraordinary fleets were sitting birds at
sea at night in the presence of an enemy
battleship squadron, unless they were
themselves guarded by battleships. The
carriers’ aircraft, at that stage in the
game, could not take off in darkness, and
they would have been helpless targets in
a rough sea.
Beside Mr. Chifley and his “pu sh ‘
button” theorists, the Curtins, who added
so much gaiety to the sittings of staffs in
1942, are Clausewitzes and Napoleons,
This country is wide open and becomes
more wide open every minute. Even it
the Government was willing to oppose a
Communist uprising, such as that which
the Premier of Quebec has reported as
having been plotted in his province,
or as South Africa experienced in 192_,
a few insurrectionaries with tommy guns
could today capture any Australian city
from within, just as a foe could do it
from without with a carrier or two and
a couple of bomber squadrons.
No doubt, if attacks were tried Ben
Chifley would meet them by pressing a
button.
A Bomb and a Sense of Shame
“Ek Dum”: It was two years on May
4 from the Luneburger Heath to Circular
Quay; two years since the surrender
of the northern German forces to
Field-Marshal Montgomery, the final
operational act of importance.
It is a few months short of eight years
since the war began.
In 1938 British politicians were
reviled by every Communist in the world-


Missing Friend.
ALBERT EDWARD HENRY LUCAS, formerly of
Walbundrie, New South Wales.—WlLL the above-
named or any person knowing his whereabouts please
communicate with C. D. GAVAN HUFFY, Solicitor,
Camperdown, Victoria?
Divorce Notices. *
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
TO JACK CECIL CROSS late of Kyogle Labourer.—
TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN CAVELL CROSS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4720 of 1940 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or be-
fore the 2nd day of June 1947 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from SHERIDAN &
DONOVAN, Solicitors for' the Petitioner, Horton
Street, Port Macquarie, or from their Agents,
BARRY, NORRIS & WILDES, 60 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES EDWARD SMYTH late of Drummoyne.
—TAKE NOTICE that CHRISTINA EVELYN
SMYTH has filed a Petition No. 295 of 1947 against
you for dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for 8 years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance to the said suit at the Divorce Office
King Street Sydney on or before the 11th July 1947
and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge from
MR. L. C. ABIGAIL, Solicitor, 50 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—(L.s. I C. K. BODY. Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MILTON JOSEPH KEMP late of 28 Bernie
Street Clovelly.—TAKE NOTICE that IMELDA
KEMP has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3492 of
1946 on the ground of your desertion for 3 years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 9th June 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from D. K. DONALD,
Solicitor, S 3 Macquarie Place, Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO NORMAN THOMAS DAVIDSON late of Potts
Point Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that WINIFRED
EVELYN DAVIDSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2700 of 1946 on the ground of Deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court House King Street Sydney by the 9th day
of June 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from GEORGE MONTGOMERY STAF-
FORD, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—•
(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
FOR A PURPOSE-
r
JIUi
fg
SAVE for the medical ex-
penses which, sooner or
later, come to every family.
It is a great consolation in
those trying times to be able
to afford the necessary nursing and convalescent expenses.
df
S*'
SAVE for costs of schooling
and higher education which
may make all the difference
tothefutureofyour children.
Rewards are higher for
qualified workers. You will be happy in saving for the
necessary training.
mncm
dfg
SAVE while you plan your
future home. Then save for
those little improvements
which go to build up the
comfort and contentment of
family life in a home. Save while you dream and plan.
Ml
dfg
SAVE for your holidays—
that break in the routine of
the year when you throw off
dull care and make that trip
of your dreams which will
give you fresh joy In living.
OUR PURPOSE
Our Purpose is to help you in every way
possible to make these savings. Consult our
nearest Branch or Agency and start that
Purpose Savings Account at once.
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
THERE’S A BRANCH OR AGENCY IN YOUR DISTRICT
C.S.B. 17-82
LEA 6
PERRINS
SAUCE
THE SAUCE
WITH A
SECRET
vTF^
THE
sauce
pjr
Or
w£ spo*
n
9
wide Moscow echo for not having
attacked Hitler. In 1939-40 they were
attacked equally bitterly for having
attacked Hitler. In 1941, when Hitler
struck at Russia they found themselves
graciously and patronisingly received as
a very junior partner by those who only
24 hours before had been demanding
that they should make peace with Hitler,
as there was nothing left to fight for. And
they ended the war by doing much or the
really crucial fighting, having developed
the technique which was decisive
radar, rockets, fast fighters, fast and
heavy bombers, jet aircraft and the basis
of work on the atom bomb and by
being patronised by all.
Little Britain, singlehanded, fought the
Belgium retreat and the Atlantic tussle,
combined with the day-and-night struggle
to hold the Mediterranean. Australia’s
help at this time consisted of some very
valuable cruisers and destroyers and a
magnificent division or two in the mak-
ing.
Next came the extension of the sea
war, the entry of Russia, the retreat of
the Russian armies—slaughtered like
sheep, poor fellows, until they were
equipped with arms and transport by the
British, who were still besieged in their
little isle, and by the Americans who had
come in when Japan struck at Pearl
Harbor in December, 1941.
Singapore Falls
Singapore fell, amid violent abuse of the
British by Australians who could not for
the life of them understand why a little
nation 10,000 miles away, immured on a
small island, its shipping towns under
fire, its shipping lanes harassed day and
night and its shores threatened by the
greatest and most powerfully armed
armies in history, could not also defend
Australia.
But within four months —absolutely
the minimum time in which it was poss-
ible —the British had naval and air
forces, silent and their presence not rea-
lised by those they were defending, in
the Indian Ocean. These forces had
fought the action which General Eisen-
hower said was the turning point of the
war, with scarcely a word of apprecia-.
tion until that gallant leader spoke, and
the scene was set for the arrival of
General MacArthur, who had no troops
fit for action for months to come.
The War Still British
In 1942 the long, patient preparation
of the British Isles —bombed, starved, be-
sieged—began to bear fruit. The year was
closing on Russian retreat and defeat
when Montgomery struck at Alamein.
Alamein was a bigger battle by 100 per
cent, than any fought in the Pacific
during the war save that in Okinawa.
It turned the Russian retreat into a vic-
torious surge forward which rolled for
the first 300 miles over an area from
which the Germans had cleared out and
sent the world r/lad about an operation
in Stalingrad, in which endless hordes of
Russians in their own territory wiped
up a force less than equal to Rommel’s
at Alamein, a force living in ruins and
cut off and abandoned by air arid land
—because the exhibition which Mont-
gomery had given and was giving in
Africa and the landing of the Americans
in Africa had warned Berlin that it would
need all its artillery and aircraft in the
west in short order.
Meanwhile at Alamein the Ninth Divi-
sion A.I.F. had belied the policy that
it was foolish of Australia to send troops
abroad. Without the Ninth and the New
Zealanders Alamein, as Montgomery has
again testified, might not have been won.
The war continued British right up to
the taking of Tunis. The battle of the
approaches to Tunisia, the battle of
Tunisia itself —these were Montgomery’s
battles ; the descent on Sicily was Cun-
ningham’s. The brunt of the fighting in
Sicily was British. The Americans, im-
posing their plan for the landings below
Rome, were compelled to change to the
British view after they had lost many
lives, many of them British, through the
underestimation of the situation.
Meanwhile, all through the British
population, hungry, besieged, working all
day and patrolling at night in the Home
Guard, was receiving the compliments of
Moscow and its agents—“4,ooo,ooo armed
Britons loafing at home while Russians
die.”
In 1943, months ahead of anybody
else, the R.A.F. began to tear German
cities to pieces and, in aircraft, for speed,
weight of armament and type of arma-*
ment, they kept ahead of everybody else
in the field to the end. Australia con-
tributed a noble quota of its best young
manhood to this battle.
In 1944 came the “Second Front,”
which Mr. Chifley’s Blue Mountains
A.L.P. and Sydney editors had been de-
manding at a time when Mr. Curtin was
yelling to Mr. Churchill for 25 divisions.
It arrived under British command and
remained under British command until
the battle was virtually won. When the
victory was threatened at Christmas, 1944,
by the German drive for Antwerp, it was
the British command which again, by
swiftness and initiative, saved the day.
Britain’s Sacrifice
After that, the little island might well
have been excused had it decided to take
a rest and put its house in order. In-
stead, it left that attitude of mind to the
Russians, it flung into the Pacific a fleet
whose manpower was greater than the
forces Australia had herself put into the
actual war area at any time, and kept
it there to the last minute. It diverted
millions of tons of shipping, which might
have gone to bring food supplies and
materials to relieve the British people
after their years of strain, to help beat
the Japanese.
That war over, the U.K., called on
for help from every quarter, its shipping
treated as belonging to the starving world
and to the enemy, to whose women and
children it sacrificed large proportions of
its food and clothing, continued to starve
and freeze through the most dreadful
winter the world had known for a
century, while Mr. Calwell tried to wean
away as much of its building-labor force
as he could get.
Part of the country had been under
heavy bombing or machine-gun fire for
six years. There were children in south
coastal towns who did not know what it
was to live in a world in which there
was not a sudden screaming of sirens,
followed by a diving aircraft, which sent
mothers and babies flat in thfe gutters, and
which left dead children and trickles of
blood, shattered glass and splintered
woodwork behind. There were literally
hundreds of thousands of babies up to
six years old in Britain when thfc war
ended who had never tasted fruit, and
who had never seen a street lamp alight
or a window, which was not blacked-
out after dusk.
In the last phase there had arrived
the terror of the buzz-bombs and of the
silent and more terrible V2s, which came
out of nowhere; great shining cylinders,
40-odd feet long, which blew up every-
thing within a radius of dozens of yards,
shattering windows for a quarter of a
mile around.
One of these monsters, the apotheosis
of all the horrors of modern war on
civilians —it is little use against armies
and defended, places—is being shown in
Sydney by the Government to awed and
interested crowds, who are told by a
breathless reciter of the horrors which it
caused, of London civilians which it
killed.
Those civilians are still in an appalling
plight. Their heroic little country, which
was in the van in holding back the bar-
barian, in the van in hunting him down,
in the forefront in sacrifice, is still out
in the wilderness, ill-fed, toiling, freez-
ing and conscripted, when all the rest
have gone home.
The V-bomb is not being exhibited in
aid of Britain. Aid for Britain is no
part of the “Labor” programme, though
feeble and belated gestures are being
made in the interest of votes.


itxibe
s v" « *ll' ' /
V
I
'\V^'
THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
WHEN IT’S AN EXIDE YOU START!
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
X 4.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
When long-distance flying was still a
novelty there was usually an Australian
about the place when new records were
established. Ross and Keith Smith, Bert
Hinkler, Kingsford Smith, Ulm and
Taylor are merely the outstanding names
in a long list of fliers. Nowadays when
a record merely means clipping a few
hours off the previous best time there is
not so much interest in the achievement,
but Australians are still at it. Latest to
get his name on the list is Squadron-
Leader H. B. Martin, a Sydney man who,
flying a R.A.F. Mosquito, cut down the
time from London to Capetown by 10£
hours. First to make the Capetown
flight were Van Ryndeveldt and Brand in
1920 ; they used three planes to complete
the trip. Cobham flew to the Cape and
back in 1925 and in 1932 James Mollison,
at present in Australia, and Amy Johnson
both covered the ’ 7000 miles in under
five days. That time seems very slow
today ; under war-time conditions it was
chopped down to 32 hours. Martin made
the journey in 2l± hours, at an average
speed of 312 m.p.h.
If experience in widely-distributed seats
of learning is any qualification, Brian
John Grieve, who goes from Melbourne
to the University of W.A. as lecturer in
botany, should be top man for the job.
His M.Sc. degree was earned in Mel-
bourne and his Ph. D. at the University
of London and he has also studied, under
a Carnegie Institute grant, at Cambridge
and at American universities. ijor a
short time early in the war Dr. Grieve
served with the R.A.N., but Melbourne
Uni. requested and obtained his release.
In 1943 he was a joint winner of the Syme
prize and Gold Medal for research in
botany.
Re-elected president of the Air Force
Association N.S.W. Branch John Bavin
is a son of a former Premier of N.S.W.,
and is following in his father’s footsteps
as a barrister. He joined the R.A.A.F. in
1940, and was put into the legal branch,
in which he spent most of his time, hand-
ling problems associated with courts-
martial and courts of inquiry. Discharged
towards the end on medical grounds he
took a keen interest in the rehabilitation
section of the Association and was chair-
man of the committee concerned. Not
a flying man himself, in the literal sense,
he takes a keen interest in the game, and
has been responsible for the Association
purchasing a batch of four Tiger Moths
for the use of members.
Colonel Dudley Persse White, dead at
79 in Hereford, England, was born in
Victoria, the son of John Warren White
and elder brother of the great Brude-
nell White, who, as C.G.S., was killed in
the Canberra air disaster in 1940.
Colonel White spent his earliest soldier-
ing days in Queensland, entering the
Permanent Artillery there .with a com-
mission in the early ’nineties. A fearless
horseman, he had a bad riding accident
whilst still a subaltern, coming out with
a partly-paralysed leg, but in spite
of this ho continued his soldiering. For
some years Dudley White was on the
Administrative and Instructional Staff,
which became the Australian Staff Corps,
and he served in nearly every State; for
many years in N. S. Wales. In the First
World War he commanded the 13th
A.L.H. in France for some time, was
awarded the Croix de Guerre and men-
tioned in dispatches. In 1919 Colonel
White (then lieut.-colonel) was appointed
Commandant of Tasmania. When he
retired a few years later he went to Eng-
land with his wife, and lived there till his
death.
Retired from the post of Director-
General of Medical Services in M.L.,
Major-General Sir Frederick Bowerbank,
K.8.E., E.D. He was appointed to the
medical corps of the first N.Z.E.F. in
1914, with the rank of captain. He visited
Britain in 1937-38, where he attended H.Q.
of the R.A.F. and studied the latest medi-
cal developments in the services, fitting
himself for the big job with which he
was entrusted during his second war. An
honorary physician to the King, a Knight
of St. John of Jerusalem, he also holds
the Dutch decoration Grand Cross of
Oranje-Nassau.
It took a lot of persuading to induce
H. W. Strutt, sketched here by Morrissey,
to stand as one of the Liberal team for
Denison at the Tasmanian State elections,
but despite the handicap of Ulness-a
legacy of overseas service in the war-he
E^oS
F F F
TASMANIAN M.L.A.
representation system was completed. A
well-known figure in the commercial and
sporting life of Hobart for over 20 years
—for most of it as a partner in the
shipping and mercantile firm Macfarlane
Bros.—he’s a judge of the Tasmanian
Racing Club, a committeeman of Tas-
manian A.J.C. and since 1945 has been
president of Hobart R.S.L,
“D.” on a R.A.A.F. type:
Clive Alexander Brewster, who fell to his
death from the fifth floor of the Taj Mahal
Hotel, Bombay, was known by his fellow-
R.A.A.F. officers as “Colorful Clive,” a
sobriquet to which he had an indisputable
claim. I first saw him when with 79 other
“potential officers” I attended an introductory
lecture at the R.A.A.F.’s School of Adminis-
tration at Victor Harbor (S.A.). Brewster, a
group-captain, was commandant of the school
and seemed to fit that appointment as well as
his immaculately-tailored and heavily-ribboned
uniforms fitted him —fiis tall, upright and broad-
shouldered figure must have been a tailor’s
delight. He was an excellent and most interest-
ing lecturer and conversationalist, and a dining-
in night,, with the Grouper presiding, leading
the conversation and inflicting penalties for
breaches of mess etiquette —he sentenced the
padre to deliver a lecture on birth-control one
evening—was always highly entertaining.
Despite his disarming manner, we rookies
moved in fear and dread of Brewster’s uncanny
eye for detail and his almost supernatural
memory—“salute the old boy even if he crosses
the road 400 yards away” was sound advice.
On my second day at the school he stopped
me by the parade ground, addressed me by
name and then showed a disturbing knowledge
of my R.A.A.F. service, my civilian occupation
and my domestic affairs. Then he mentioned
the date, asked “what happened 300 years ago
today” and, when I couldn’t answer, remarked,
“Ah, ‘Memory, the warder of the brain,’ you
know,” and walked off humming a few bars
from an opera. My last glimpse of him was
when he and S.A.’s Tom Playford stood to-
gether in the teeming rain and watched our
“passing-out” parade.
Brewster had a very substantial record behind
his engaging “officer-and-gentleman” exterior.
Born in Suva in 1896 and educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar, he served with the R.F.C.
in 1914-18 and was credited with eight Jerry
’planes. He returned to Fiji, was A.D.C. to
the Governor and then turned that in to be-
come chairman and managing director of
Brown and Joske and of their successors, W. R.
Carpenter (Fiji). In 1938 he was elected an
underwriting member of Lloyds and in between
times added an 0.8. E. and E.D. to his M.C.,
Legion of Honor, Order of St. Olav, etc. He
joined the R.A.A.F. in 1940, was Air Intel.
Officer on McArthur’s staff and later, as a
wing-commander, flew as waist gunner in a
Lib. on ops. over Timor with the American
380 Heavy Bomb Group. In 1943 he was
appointed to command the School of Admin.,
where his whole manner and bearing, together
with his ability and service record, set a fine
example for the hundreds of rookie officers who
passed through the school in the next‘ two
years.
Seizing his opportunity before the
books were moved into the Tamworth
Free Public Library, cartoonist James
McClelland covered the walls with about
200 black-and-white war cartoons, water-
colors, pencil portraits and black-and-
white illuminated commercial work, and
gave Tamworth an art show of two weeks’
duration—something rare in the life of
a N.S.W. country town. McClelland is
a Tamworth product, and draws a daily
cartoon for the “Northern Daily Leader.”
Dr. Eric Gutteridge, who the other day
performed a delicate operation on the
ear of an ex-serviceman deafened by
bomb blast, is a Collins-street surgeon
re p ent ty. studied ear operations in
U.S.A., including some by Dr. Julius Lem-
pert. A window is provided in the inner
ear of the sufferer so that sound waves
can pass through it. Dr. Gutteridge has
already performed nine of these opera-
tions. His latest was photographed by
the Department of Information, and a
color film will be made of the next for
the benefit of doctors and students. Dr.
Gutteridge graduated from Melbourne
University and was a medical colonel
during the war.
P. J. Twomey, of Christchurch, M.L.,
who figured in the New Year Honors
List, has spent years working for the
lepers at Makogai Island ; he has collected
over £lOO,OOO for their comfort. A
native of Wellington, where he was born
in 1892, P.J.T. was educated at Marist
Brothers’ school and was employed at
Christchuph gasworks till he retired four
years ago to devote his full time to his
chosen work of mercy.
An interesting subject for a quiz ques-
tion would be “Who invented the
button?” Not the one that keeps a
man’s pants up but the one which started
the Button Day idea which has become
world-wide and produced funds running
into billions. He was Herbert C. Tucker,
of Colac (Vic.), On a business visit to
Melbourne during World War I Mr.
Tucker got sick of dredging coin out at
every street corner and getting no re-
ceipt for it and conceived the notion of a
small celluloid button to be affixed to
the lapel. Andrew Fisher, then P.M.,
sponsored the proposal, which helped to
put patriotic funds on a financial basis.
Ten or 12 years later Tucker accompanied
the Scottish delegation to Scotland and
found his buttons separating even the
Scot from his saxpence. He and Mrs.
Tucker have just celebrated their golden
wedding.
Joseph Woolf, dead in Melbourne
at 85, was one of that city’s most pic-
turesque legal identities. He was a mine
of reminiscence, legal, artistic, theatrical
and literary, but most of his anecdotal
material concerned his association with
The Bulletin. For many years he was
the paper’s legal adviser in Melbourne;
his association with it began in 1883,
and he fought or settled out of
court many of its cases. An incident he
always took great pleasure in relating
concerned a drawing of a leading actress
dress in a Greek tunic. The lady com-
plained that she had been held up to
public contempt by a certain detail in the
picture and claimed heavy damages.
Woolf used to recall how he inspected
JOE WOOLF, as Low saw him.
the original drawing and the block, and
was able to satisfy the lady that ink
which had run on the zinc during the
final printing had been the cause of the
disaster. Woolf knew every editor of
The Bulletin, and most of its artists,
from May, Hopkins, Norman Lindsay
and Low to Leason and Scorfield, and
he was a close friend of Edmund Fisher,
Melbourne dramatic critic for 30 years,
William Macleod painted an excellent
portrait of him with his keen eyes, full
lips and black beard. For many years
Woolf had a big practice in Divorce
Court cases, was solicitor for the Trades
Hall Council and for the city of St. Kilda.
Colonel W. H. B. Bull, successor to
Sir F - Bowerbank as Director of M.L.’s
Medical Services, embarked with the
Kiwis in August, 1940, in command of
6th Field Ambulance. He saw action
in Greace . and Cret f’ was ca P tu t, ed and
tt wizL£ r . oenß “
lr p ?;
Shlp ?* ® yd “ ey RAS ’ F aster , Sh ° w ' as
Gordon Munro s usual cheerful
f in Wldened ? nd !' was st ‘]' Wlde f wl S n
I"*?- 1 ft? °
Australian A.A. Society. One of the
Ke ,i ra M “ nros ’ he \ be f breeding black
po “ s on ■ Booroomooka for years and any-
body who wanders up the Gwyd ‘ r valky
BEEF GROWER.
from Bingara (N.S.W.) is likely to run
into him either discussing pastures with a
couple of ebony bovines or practising
polo shots on one of the steep hillsides
that abound thereabouts. Munro had a
look at the cattle ranches in the U.S.A.
back in the pre-war era and there is
some talk that they had to call out the
county sheriff down on the Frio when
some innocent Texan naively asked if
Australia was in Patagonia. A staunch
supporter of the Scottish cattle, Munro’s
Booroomooka herd has been prominent
in the show-ring for years and the A.A.
Society has got itself a keen leader.
F. W. H. Wheadon, till lately chief
engineer and manager of Adelaide Electric
Supply Co., dead at 74, was a Somerset
man, with experience in London (gold
medal) and in Spain before coming to
Adelaide in 1899 as engineer to a little
£20,000 co. which tackled the new light-
ing there. He stayed with it for 47 years
and helped it to grow into a six-million
Electric Supply Co. Last year the Play-
ford Government made a trust of it,
and Wheadon retired, a plaque being
erected at the powerhouse to mark his
long service. Melbourne! Uni. once gave
him a Kernot Medal for distinguished
engineering.
Into the silence:
At Tallangatta, Vic., at 64, James Roy Baton,
M.L.A., C.P. member for Benambra. He
had been a member of the Legislative Assembly
for 15 years.
In Adelaide, at 50, Dr. John Ellison Porrer,
a member of the Port Adelaide Racing Club-
An old P.A.C. boy, he was awarded the M.M.
in World War I, graduated in medicine in
1925, and has since practised in partneiship
with Dr. P. T. S. Cherry at Port Adelaide.
In Brisbane, at 86, W. H. Harrison, Queens-
land’s oldest Methodist minister. A former
president and general secretary of the Queens-
land Conference, he was for many years general
secretary of the Home Mission and editor ot
the Queensland “Methodist Times.” Born in
Melbourne, he moved north in 1882.
In Brisbane, at 81, Charles Henry Bromiley,
a pioneer of the Queensland timber industry,
who began work as a boy of 14 measuring
rafted logs in the Mary- River. Appointed in
1914 as first general manager of the State
Sawmills in Brisbane, he later acquired the
Country Sawmillers’ Association, and with his
son operated it until his retirement in 1945.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO RONALD EWART EDWARD BOWYER late of
Glen Davis. —TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE BOWYER
has commenced a suit against you for dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of habitual drunkenness
cruelty and failure to support for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may 'enter an
appearance to the said suit at the Divorce Office
the Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or be-
fore 3rd June 1947 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion free of charge from GARLAND, SEABORN k
ABBOTT, 9 Bligh Street, Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Women's letters
From Sydney
For a few weeks before the elections
there was a positive outbreak of the
“listening ear.” You could see it rise to
attention if there was a suspicion of
political discussion within its radius. The
Girl in the Flat Opposite had a bit of
fun with an acute case the other after-
noon. It was on a home-bound ferry,
and her neighbor, who hailed from the
West, mentioned Labor. Immediately a
man near by began to listen in. The Girl
in the Flat Opposite said something favor-
able to Labor. Then she switched along
and paid tribute to the Liberals. The
Country party, too, came in for a word
of praise from her. She had a plausible
word for the employer and the employee,
the union leaders and the Arbitration
Judges. The listening ear became suffused
with baffled indignation. But when the
Girl in the Flat Opposite said, “Anyway,
women would govern better than men”
the listening ear and the rest of its an-
atomy slunk off in frustration.
Next Tuesday at 10 o’clock a confer-
ence of great importance to Australia will
be opened by the State Governor, Lieut.-
General John Northcott. It is the annual
conference of the Far West Children’s
Health scheme. This work was com-
menced 22 years ago by the Reverend
Stanley Drummond, and through the
years countless little citizens of the Far
West have been brought to Sydney, not
only to enjoy the health-giving sea
breezes, but to receive medical care im-
possible to bring to them in the outback.
Now the happy Far West home at Manly
holds 120 children. It always holds 120,
because it cannot hold more.
Here, under the kindly supervision of
Mrs. Hill (matron and secretary), who has
been active in this work since the begin-
ning of the scheme, the little sick ones
from the West are coaxed back to health.
Special attention is given to the crippled
child. There is a staff of physiotherapists
and occupational therapists; there’s a
school (the Education Department sees to
it) in the grounds of the home. And
over all blow the winds off the Pacific.
Between 50 and 60 delegates are com-
ing to the conference —from Wilcannia,
Bourke and Broken Hill, from other-
towns in the North, the South, the East
and West of the State. Tibooburra and
other remote spots will send reports.
And it will; be seen that though much
is being done much more remains to be
done, and can only be done by sympa-
thetic and vigorous help from the public.
The conference will open at 10 o’clock
in the B.M.A. rooms on Tuesday, May
13. Dr. Moncrieff Barron, chairman of
the Council, will preside.
Have you seen the little note at the
end of one of the Singers of Australia
programmes? It tells that Kenneth
Neate, Australian tenor, who has had a
success in the Covent Garden Opera
season, took time off from savoring
applause to S send a draft for £5 for the
“Singers of Australia” Scholarship Fund.
Ken doesn’t forget the struggles of the
student in this country. And consider-
ing he is just beginning to climb the ladder
of success, the gift was very generous. It
is one with his tetter to his former teacher,
Lute Drummond, after his appearance in
“Carmen”: “When I was bowing to the
applause,” he wrote, “I couldn’t help
thinking that I owed it all to you.”
At the first annual dinner of the Old
Sydneyians’ Union since the end of the
war, the Sydney Grammar School War
Memorial Fund was launched. During
that evening alone almost £5OOO was
promised ; since then the donations are
coming in well from old Sydneyians all
over Australia. The fund will be used
for the building, furnishing and equip-
ment of a War Memorial Wing at the
school. This will commemorate the ser-
vices of masters and old boys in the
war of 1939-45. The memorial build-
ing will be on the Stanley-street frontage,
and will have school halls, science labs,
and lecture theatre, a modern library and
all the up-to-date amenities that make
the educated man of today just about as
knowledgeable as his father, though prob-
ably with a cargo of new embellishments.
The sketch of the proposed building is
impressive, and old Sydneyians at home
and abroad are .asked to rally round.
Cheques and inquiries addressed to the
secretary of the fund, Warwick Building,
Hamilton-street, Sydney, will receive
warm welcome. Total aimed at is just
£50,000. Patron is High Court Justice
George Rich, Norman Cowper is the
president.
Shopping note: There are pure silk
stockings to be had in Sydney. They are
priced at £1 17s. Bd. They come from
Scotland. Mustn’t they look nice with
the kilts!
Sister Myra Blanch, the first Flying
Sister to be attached to the Flying Doctor
Service, and at present the only one, gave
an interesting talk on her work with the
service at the meeting of the Sydney Aux-
iliary of the F.D.S. one morning last
week. Sister Blanch is at the Broken Hill
Base, and it is through her, the annual
report states, that the N.S.W. section
has made arrangements for an ophthalmic
surgeon and a bacteriologist to visit
Broken Hill area for the purpose of in-
vestigating the eye troubles that arise
there. The Walter and Eliza Hall Trust
is assisting this research financially.
The Queensland section has now
appointed a flying dentist, who will
be attached to the Charleville Base.
This Flying Doctor Service is some-
thing Australia can feel proud of,
and it sprang from the inspira-
tion of the ever-honored Flynn of the
Inland. Of all the marvels wrought, none
is greater than that of the wireless medical
calls. These come over the radio com-
munication system, in which the trans-
ceiver (receiving and transmitter) has a
very active part. The transceiver is as
essential to the outback settler as the
telephone to the town dweller. Through
these instruments the outposts, every day,
are given the opportunity of consulting
the doctor.
Mrs. C. R. McKerihan, pictured here
by Monte Luke, is president of the Floral
Ball Committee. This is the big May
effort for the Women’s Hospital, Crown-
street, and it is threatening to bulge out
the Trocadero on the night of the 20th.
This year the committee was determined
not to go to the bird kingdom for in-
spiration for its decorations, so for once
the stork motif will be absent from the
walls. Maybe Matron Shaw, of the
hospital, feels that the stork also should
be able to raise a protest on the question
of overtime. Anyway, autumn flowers,
cargoes of them, are promised for the
decorations, and there’s to be a prize for
the best-decorated table. There’s to be
a group from what Tennyson termed “the
rosebud garden of girls,” selling posies.
Remember, the date is the 20th, place
the Trocadero. The Governor, Lt.-
General Northcott, will be present.
The C. R. McKerihans are feeling
warm at the heart. They have just re-
turned from Grafton —her home town —
where he opened the Agricultural Show.
When he and Mrs. McKerihan met he
was a young man in the bank there. He
went back as president of the Rural
Bank.
Away down in the South Island of
Maoriland there is a town called Dunedin.
Its citizens are positively palpitating with
Scottish emotions, and the stranger has
often gazed up expecting to see a tartan
sky. But he sees, instead, the most ex-
quisite effects of clean blue sky and
scudding cloud. Often the clouds don’t
scud fast enough and then the rains come.
On the way to the railway station there’s
a statue of Bobbie Burns, and about a
quarter of an hour’s tram ride brings
you to one of the loveliest little beaches
in the world, heady with the scent
of lupin. That’s the background against
which conductor Warwick Braithwaite
spent his boyhood. (The family had a
big rambling book-shop smack in the
middle of the town.) And when Warwick,
•who is now famed in London and
Europe, ted the Sydney Symphony Or-
chestra last Saturday night in a packed
Town Hall, you felt that all the color of
Dunedin, its vivid greens, its greys, the
cold clear light of its frosty mornings,
had seeped into his consciousness and
made him the sensitive musician he is.
Glorious Lorna Sydney was the night’s
singer.
Baritone John Charles Thomas arrived
in Sydney yesterday by air clipper.
Didn’t you feel the tempo of the city
rising to welcome the famed singer? He’s
a J, C. Williamson constellation. Mrs.
Thomas came with her husband, also
family friends Mr. and Mrs. McGhie,
manager Everett and pianist Roy Urseth.
From Melbourne
In the Gowrie-room of Menzies’ Jonk-
heer J. A. de Ranitz, Dutch Charge
d’Affaires, explained to the assemblage
that Queen Wilhelmina and the Dutch
Government were honoring the whole
A.LF. by conferring on its Commander-
in-Chief, General Sir Thomas Blarney,
the highest decoration the Netherlands
could give an Australian —the Grand
Cross of the Order of Orange-
Nassau. After General Blarney re-
ceived his Order Colonel Dan Dwyer,
his A.D.C., received the Officers’ Cross
of the Order. Mrs. De Ranitz wore a
tunic suit of black wool and highlighted
it with gold ornaments. Her small black
hat had an upturned brim. Lady Blarney’s
frock of white-spotted black wool
wa§ worn with a tailored black jacket.
Mrs. J. A. van Hoogstraten’s dove-grey
satin frock had a ballerina skirt and a
bust-line and shoulders smoothly swathed.
Mrs. B. Schokking was tailored in grey.
When students at Melbourne University
drop into comfortable easy chairs in the
Union House they can thank the Town
and Gown Group, that busy band of
women, who in 1936 furnished the
lounges and cafeteria. Now the work
of the Town and Gown Group is to
watch for wear and tear on curtains and
chair covers ; for breakages in the cafe-
teria and to mend or replenish when
necessary. Recently the Group held a
“Bring a Gift and Buy a Gift” afternoon
in the private dining-room of Union
House. Mesdames G'. R. Stevenson,
Essington Lewis, H. G. Connell, Colin
Mackay, J. Gray, Farren-Webb, L. J.
McConnan, Bryan Foster, B. Zwar and
Ken McLean successfully prised visitors
apart from their cash.
Mrs. Sammy Lee, who was formerly
Joy Rolfe, of Sydney, has just left for an
extensive tour abroad, where she will
study fashion trends and cosmetics. Joy
first did mannequin work in Sydney for
charity and then, being a lover of flowers,
went off to study floral designing in
London. On that trip she stayed for a
few weeks with her husband’s family in
Vancouver and then went to Hollywood,
where she was joined by Mr. LCe, who
is the owner of the Storklub, one of this
city’s night spots. Joy will stay abroad
for some months, and with her husband
will observe the latest trends in night-
clubs. Portrait from John Lee studios.
Clothes which have a svelte charm
and sophistication were displayed by
Margaret Murdoch at a city store re-
cently. Margaret teamed most of her
craft in the salons of famous Parisian
designers. For the younger set the accent
is on simplicity and elegance. Ringing the
changes on one outfit is a trick which will
appeal to women in this day of rationing.
An ice-blue wool-tailored coat turns itself
into a trim afternoon model with the
removal of a wide brown suede belt.
The frock beneath the coat has a draped
bodice, which, when unfastened at the
back, becomes a smart little jacket.
Gleaned from the collection: back treat-
ments are important. Bustles or loops of
velvet highlight most of the afternoon
and cocktail frocks. A deftly-tailored
black wool frock was allied with black
velvet with classic grace of line. Its
jacket of wool crepe had the front panels
and the yoke and also the basque of
black velvet. Pushed-up sleeves, fitted
bodices with the new high neckline and
the longer skirt, were all evidence of the
newest fashion points.
The evening mode showed the return
of soft black gleaming velvet, the desire
for glitter in the use of gold and colored
sequins, and the off-the-shoulder and the
one - bared - shoulder treatment. Very
startling was the Mary Stuart evening
gown. Fashioned of black velvet; the
fitting bodice with its heart-shaped neck-
line and wide bouffant skirt were modern
effects, but around the throat was a wide
band of black velvet ribbon with a wide
white-pleated frill attached to the velvet.
The littte black velvet Mary Stuart bonnet
was sewn with an edging of pearls. The
ballerina frock for dining aqfl dancing
is an attractive fashion for the-young girl.
The skirt is fashioned of layers of black
tulle, the bodice of black velvet leaves
the shoulders completely bare, and the
skirt is, of course, ballerina length.
Among the smartly-frocked women who
watched the mannequins was Reta Find-
lay, who has been abroad studying
fashions. Her Parisian outfit was a
smoke-grey cloth jacket suit, the jacket
featuring the new shoulder cape, Mrs.
E. Shilliday was with her daughter
Wanda ; Margaret Cochrane, in a black
velvet Schiaparelli model; Margaret
Miller, Mrs. Mark Everett and Joan
and Judith Silk.
There were some stunning gowns worn
at the revival of “No, No, Nanette” at
His Majesty’s. Mrs. T. J. Dowd covered
her black, floral-patterned net frock with
a white fox cape-stole. Mrs. Maurice
Dowd was gowned in a lime-green moire
taffeta with an off-the-shoulder line and
a skirt featuring panniers at the side.
Mary Ward’s classical gown of white
crepe had gold embroideries ; crystal em-
broidery embellished Betty Marron’s
white crepe gown ; Mrs. Geoffrey Brewer
also wore a white gown, over which she
threw a silver-fox cape. Sheila Helpman’s
gown of midnight-blue was girdled with
a wide corselet belt studded with colored
stones. Gloria Lynch’s white gown had
the bodice sewn with gold sequins. Mrs.
W. Brockwell chose a midnight-blue crepe
gown and a fur bolero ; Gloria Myslis,
recently returned from a holiday in
Sydney, were a black taffeta ballerina frock.
All the discord of present-day condi-
tions in this city was forgotten for the big
Town Hall audience as Henryk Mierow-
ski, the Polish pianist, played the music
of such masters as Brahms, Chopin and
Bach. From his compatriots present
Mierowski received an ovation which
moved him greatly. With the John Taits
were their daughter Mrs. T. H. Mitchell
and her small son, Alastair. In the Frank
Taits’ l party were Dr. and Mrs. Bryan
Keon-Cohen. Lillian Wightman chose a
small hat of black ostrich feathers to wear
with her black coat, which featured the
new dolman sleeves. Mrs. Clarence
Weber’s flower hat was worn with a black
frock. Margaret Saker wore a black gold-
sequined blouse with a long black crepe
skirt. Royal Blackburn wore a long tight-
fitting skirt with a blouse of lace and
a short bolero trimmed with rhinestones.
Her long black gloves were also sparkling
with rhinestones. Pianist Raymond Lam-
bert came with his decorative wife Jill.
. Youth had an opportunity to display
its talent when finalists in the annual
Concerto and Vocal Competitions
appeared on the stage of the Town Hall.
Only two girls appeared; June Lind-
say, who played a Flute Concerto by
Mozart and whose frock of gleaming
white satin was becomingly draped to her
figure, and Gloria Foley, violinist, attrac-
tive in a simple white crepe frock with a
fitting bodice and bouffant skirt, Mr.
and Mrs. E. W. Lehmann were in the
audience to hear their talented young son
Wilfred play the First Movement of Men-
delssohn’s Violin Concerto. Also in the
large audience were Dr. and Mrs.
Edmund Alcock, her black dinner gown
featuring a yoke of ice-blue crepe. Mrs.
Maurice Nicholas wore a dove-grey
gown. Mrs. Everard Baillieu chose a
parchment-toned lame patterned in gold.
Mrs. Lindsay Biggins’s gown was of
pastel-blue crepe patterned in white.
The Conibere Hall of the Y.W.C.A.
was banked with bowls of autumn flowers
when representatives of various organisa-
tions met to say “good-bye” to Miss
W. A. Carruthers, who has resigned as
national secretary to the Y.W.C.A., to
take up an appointment as general secre-
tary of Brisbane Y.W.C.A. Guests were
welcomed by Mrs. F. G. Kumm, presi-
dent of Y.W.C.A. of Australia ; the vice-
president, Mrs. J. G. Pott, and Mrs. T. C.
Rentoul, president of the Melbourne
Y.W.C.A., assisted Mrs Kumm. Suc-
cessor to Miss Carruthers is Miss L. W.
Bridgman, a New Zealander who after
doing kindergarten work in the sister
Dominion joined the staff of Y.W.C.A.
In 1941 Miss Bridgman wfent to Singapore
as general secretary Y.W.C.A. When
the invasion came she was able to do
much to help the work of evacuating
European women held up in Singapore,
and she opened emergency accommoda-
tion centres and also a home for Asiatic
children separated from their parents.
She was interned in-Batavia for over three
years.


m
What Would You
Do?
If you were suddenly empowered by a
deceased friend’s will to manage his estate,
what would you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend
do if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are
avoided by the appointment of The Trustees
Executors and Agency, Company Ltd. as
Executor or Co-Executor. The Company
has had over 68 years’ experience of estate
administration and offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
The Trustees Executors
/
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Eesiie Morshead, K.C.8., K 8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French. A
Incorporated in Victoria is 1878. /V/j-
TRAVEL IN GREAT BRITAIN
Recovery from war-time conditions is still proceeding
although handicapped by fuel shortages. We are
anxious to welcome visitors from Australia and if
they find train services not quite so frequent or speedy
as before the war, we are sure they will understand.
The world-famous FLYING SCOTSMAN, which never
failed to run during the war, continues its daily journey
over the historic route between LONDON and
EDINBURGH.
Representatives in Australia:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, and branches.
LONDON & NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
of England and Scotland.
OUJ
The Wild Cat Column
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £14,668 .. .."
Profit on sale of securities, £6267.. . , q 0 ,-.q
1941. . 3,263,475 1,684,266 267,390 ’ '
To tax reserve, £113,000 ..
To staff fund, £14,831
1942. . 3,429,797 1,651,406 275,866 62,105 1,335,589
To general reserve, £ 100,000 ..j
To staff fund, £14,503 .. .. ’
1943. . 3,662,472 1,665,787 280,518 50,000 1,652,004
Profit on sale of securities, £338 ..
To staff fund, £20,802
1944. . 4,000,659 1,462,951 321,076 50,000 2,148,046
Profit on Sale of Securities, £2216.. J
To staff fund, £28,239 .. .. I , (, rq end
1945.. 4,426,155 1,917,038 370,613 51,765 ( ‘ s > uoo > ouu
To staff fund, £25,773 .. ..]
1946. . 4,960,951 1,996,067 530,448 6959 I 3 090 240
Add exchange premium on net over- ( ’ ’
sea assets, £687,536 .. .. )
* Includes dividends to shareholders.
t After deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.t Claims, penses.* Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £8250 .. .. 1
1941. 1,570,713 581,294 436,364 1268 1 410042
To tax reserve, £81,500 .. .. ( ’
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO ..]
To staff fund, £8426 .. .. ( 7 >, qro
1942. . 1,678,500 • 489,131 437,242 1742)
To staff fund, £8542 .. .. 1
1943. 396,209 441,641 L 905,503
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO .. (
Profit on sale of securities, £l4ll . . I
To staff fund, £12,111 .. .. 1
1944. 2,031,637 430,456 460,180 \ 1,126,548
Loss on sale of securities, £2344.. J
To staff fund, £13,255 . . .. 1
1945. 574,015 495,201 1474 1 1,136,260
To general reserve, £50,000 ..J
To staff fund, £13,839 .. .. |
To general branch, £30,000
1946. . 2,424,619 716,359 541,534 2738 1 1,530,512
■ Add exchange premium on net over- |
sea assets, £410,363 .. .. J
* Includes dividends to shareholders.
t After deducting taxes.
The M.L.C. celebrates its diamond
jubilee by writing a record amount of
new business, and by exhibiting satisfac-
tory margins in all those matters upon
which soundness and progress of a life
office depend. As evidence of the co.’s
progress over the last decade consider
these figures:
Dec. 31, 1936. Dec. 31, 1946.
Assurances in force* . . £68,870,388 £154,305,126
Annual income .. .. 3,744,515 7,804,202
Total assets .. .. 25,168,845 50,553,610
* Including bonus addition.
Since the end of 1936 it has put on more
weight than during the preceding half-
century. The amount of new business
written last term was £25,138,019 (up
£9,389,045), or 59.6 p.c. more than for
the previous term —£18,104,810 (up
£7,367,536) was ordinary and £7,033,209
(up £2,021,509) was industrial. Too
much notice, therefore, need not be taken
of the growth in the expense rate, which
was 13.9 p.c. of premium income in the
ordinary and 26.7 p.c. in the industrial
section, compared with 11.1 p.c. and
24.1 p.c. respectively for the previous
year.
After deducting taxes (£187,211, up
£6967), the year’s income from all sources
totalled £7,616,991 (up £697,073), of
which claims and exes, took £3,787,119-
The remaining £3,829,872, together with
exchange adjustments amounting to
£1,097,899, resulting from conversion of
foreign assets and liabilities into Aus-
tralian currency, making £4,927,771 in all,
was used in this way: added to
assurance funds £4,620,753 (making
them £45,685,081), written off securities
£BBBl, to staff fund £59,450, to general
reserves, etc., £80,354, dividend to share-
holders £158,333 (= 15.8 p.c.).
Here is a comparison of surpluses
available for distribution in each section
as figured by the actuary:
1938. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Ordinary ~ £849,680 £563,782 £813,365 £928,621
Industrial .. 115,459 119,063 140,909 168,924
Total .. £965,139 £682,845 £954,274 £1,087,545
Of the divisible surplus (excess of assur-
ance funds over policy liabilities) over
90 p.c. in the ordinary and more than
85 p.c. in the industrial section are dis-
tributed as bonuses among policyholders.
Rates of bonuses to policyholders aren’t
mentioned, but they are known to com-
pare favorably with those of other offices
here and abroad.
The cost of life assurance, like every-
thing else, is higher than it used to be.
Bonuses to policyholders have been cut
severely since 1939, owing to inflation
and'the Government’s cheap-money drive.
This has resulted in placing more
emphasis on the security aspect of life
assurance. There is no substitute for the
protection afforded to the individual by
a contract with a sound office. If the
benefits payable at maturity on a with-
profits contract are to exceed the amount
paid as premiums, the interest earned on
the premiums must cover the death risk
and all expenses associated with the con-
tract, as well as provide a margin for
bonuses. The Australian type of bonus
scale requires a rapid release of surplus
as the age of the policy increases. This
need is met by a low rate of valuation,
which locks up in the early years sums
which would be otherwise available for
distribution, and releases them with in-
terest at a later date.
The M.L.C. lowered the rate of valua-
tion on ordinary policies from 3 p.c. to
2\ p.c. in 1936, and to 2\ p.c. in 1940.
Last term it reduced the valuation rate
on with-profits industrial contracts (86
p.c. of the business in force) from 2\ p.c.
to 2 p.c., which “so far as we know is
unequalled,” the board says. Naturally
it regrets the necessity for doing so, be-
cause, in common with other offices, it
has had to discontinue writing industrial
endowment assurances of less than 25
years’ duration. Obviously interest rates
have been forced down to a level where
the blessings are no longer unmixed —a
fact to which the “Wild Cat” has been
directing attention for some time.
After deducting taxation, the net effec-
tive rate of interest earned last term on
assurance funds and general reserves
combined was £3 15s. p.c. (down Is. sd.
p.c.) ordinary and £3 14s. 4d. p.c. (down
Is. sd. p.c.) industrial. The contraction
would have been more marked but for
the leavening influence of old blocks of
securities acquired at more remunerative
prices.
Since 1939 the co. has invested the
whole of the increase in its funds, and
more besides, in Government loans on
terms increasingly favorable to the
Treasury:—
1945. p.c. 1946. p.c.
Public securities £36,733,114 79.9 £41,456,747 82.0
Mortgages .. 6,161,221 13.4 5,819,793 11.5
Loans on policies,
etc 1,453,642 3.2 1,478,447 2.9
Cash, book debts,
etc 615,431 1.3 688,726 1.4
Property.. .. 372,636 0.8 810,368 0.6
Debentures, shares,
etc 624,781 1.4 799,529 1.6
£45,960,825 £50,553,610
Liabilities* .. 1,750,814 1,602,219
Net assets ..£44,210,511 £48,951,391
* Other than under policies.
Last year £4,723,633 was added to public
securities, which now account for 82 p.c.
of total assets as against 62.5 p.c. seven
years ago. As opportunity offers more
attention is likely to be given to other
Stock Exchange securities and to mort-
gages.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Towards Re-
Jan., Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1939.. 20,981 Nil 2,190
Deficit.
Share reserve deducted asset, £41,000 38,810
Profit.
1940. . 19,728* Nil 1 700 on nso
To tax reserve, £l,OOO .. j 18 > 728 20,082
1941.. 37,809* 5 p.c. = 14,249 ) 11,060 9,022
To tax reserve £12,500 .. )
Reserves.
Tax reserve written back £15,020 .. 5,998
1942. . 50,766* 6 p.c. = 17,100 (q, Q 179 Q7n
Tax paid, £1,694 .. 37,970
1943.. 59,668* 6 p.c. = 17,100 ) q Qn7 Ql7
Tax paid, £38,621.. ..f 3 ’ 907 41,917
1944.. 47,624* 6 p.c. = 17,100 7 _ 9 „ q r .
Tax paid, £45,080.. ..f
Taxes paid, etc., £28,778..) 2 160
1945. . 23,527 7 p.c. = 19,950 j
1946.. 30,487 8„ ~ 22,800 7,687 9,847
1947.. 81,198 9 „ ~25,650 5,548 15,395
* Before providing for taxation, t After deducting
intangibles (£17,447).
A satisfactory result considering the
size of the business, the faltering start
it made and the slender support there is
for capital. Never before have the chain-
stores and retailers enjoyed such easy
trading conditions. In a market in which
many lines are still in short supply, and
with plenty of money about, turnovers
generally have bounded along. The co.
shared in the common experience, but a
slightly lower rate of gross profit, increase
in operating exes., and heavier allowance
for taxation (£53,000, up £7000) left the
net result only £7ll better at £31,198.
The two subsidiaries, one in Maoriland
and the other in Westralia, together sent
along £3500, same as for the previous
term, and £1705 less was set aside by the
parent for depreciation (£13,000).
The £31,198 was 10.9 p.c. on capital
as against 10.6 p.c. and 8.2 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. Another point was
added to the div., making it 9 p.c., and
the £5548 that remained lifted reserves
£15,395 in excess of intangibles (£17,447),
not treated as an asset herein. The
canons of sound finance suggest that
no harm would have been done had the
board been less liberal in its dividend
policy and given more attention to re-
serves, until such time as they became
a more stabilising factor in the business.
The 9 p.c. div. cannot be regarded as
secure. At the moment gross margins are.
for thfe most part, fixed by official edict.
Chief variables affecting net earnings are
turnover and costs. Though the immedi-
ate outlook favors maintenance of a high
level of turnover, there are signs that the
recent spate of buying has passed its
peak, and that the public is becoming
more discriminating in its purchases.
Costs are still on the up-grade, and the
Government’s intention is to taper price
and other control over the next few years,
which means that competition can be ex-
pected to gradually exert more influence
on retail mark-ups. The Westralian and
Maoriland offshoots have each lifted their
div. by 1 p.c., making it 6 p.c. and 2\ p.c.
respectively. The benefit to the parent
(£1159) will appear in the current year’s
accounts.
The price of the co.’s pound shares
shot up from the old official ceiling of
265. 9d. at end 1946 to 475. 6d., and then
eased to 465. At 465. the market values
the undertaking at £655,500, or £355,105
more than its net tangible book value
at end January. The return at 465. is
3.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The co. entered the field against keen
competition in 1933, when it opened its
first store opposite Coles in Pitt-street,
Sydney. Now it has 16 stores in N. S.
Wales, and the two subsidiaries already
mentioned. Until mid-1938, when there
were changes in the control, progress was
more apparent than real. Too much
notice need not be taken of the profit
figures for the five years to 1944, be-
cause no specific provision was made for
taxation. Total assessments for this
period amounted to £114,000, or there-
abouts. That left the average net result
at approx. £20,700, or 7.2 p.c. on capital.
Over the same period divs. averaged
4.6 p.c.
Last term the financial position further
improved: *
1939. 1943. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital £284,397 £285,000 £285,000 £285,000
Sundry creds.* 76,355 ,101,963 114,076 143,881
Freeholds . . 18,801 19,561 19,616 19,723
Leaseholds . . 53,118 . 36,223 22,480 19,080
Plant, etc... 83,736 85,178 55,134 47,863
Stock . . 87,593 216,264 202,194 244,042
Debtors, etc. 7,949 11,536 16,117 25,491
Cash . . 2,424 2,947 41,911 39,457
Shares subsids. 109,320 74,270 74,270 74,270
* Including provision taxation, etc.
To carry an extra £41,848 of stocks and
£9374 of debtors’ balances £29,805 was
added to the amount coming to outsiders,
which includes an unspecified provision
for taxation. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£239,416)
was £18,963.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ i
1936.. 30,877 8 p.c. = 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 &i ~’ „ 23,800 6,712 57,417
1939.. 34,349 9i „ „ 26,600 7,749 65,166
1940.. 31,615 84 ~ „ 23,800 7,815 72,981
1941.. 24,932 8| „ „ 23,800 1,132 74.113
1942.. 26,132 8| „ ~ 23,800 2,332 76,445
1943.. 32,321 8£ „ „ 23,800 8,521 84,966
From inner reserves, £8,043 93,009
1944.. 25,810 8 Jp.c.= 23,800 2,010 95,019
1945.. 29,521 8i „ „ ’23,800 5,721 100,740
1946.. ' 24,380 s| „ „ 23,800 580 101,320
t Not including depreciation reserve —£265,400 at
31/12/’46.
A surprisingly good result. Queens-
land’s sugar belt experienced a year of
widespread and prolonged drought, which
severely restricted cane crushings and
mill output of raw sugar. And this be-
fore the industry had recovered from the
cramping effects of war-time shortages of
man-power, fertiliser, tractors and other
essentials.
The following table, showing Aus-
tralian production, consumption and ex-
port of raw sugar, illustrates what hap-
pened :
Pro- Aus. Con-
duction, sumption, Export,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1937-39 f .. .. 853,005 370,012 482,666
1940 .. . . 805,984 399,484 405,984
1941 . . . . 745,249 440,928 304,321
1942 .. . . 649,559 442,226 207,333
1943 . . , . 523,794 434,128 89,666
1944 . . . . 669,898 454,239 215,661
1945 . . .. 665,881 455,698 210,183
1946 .. .. 552,000*
f Average. * Estimate.
The sharp drop in last year’s production
raised unit costs, and so did a 35.-a-week
cost-of-living lift in the basic wage, which
was further increased by the Arbitration
Court’s interim award of 7s. a week as
from Dec. 23 last.
Under the sugar agreement between the
Federal and Queensland Governments,
the retail selling price of fines in Australia
is fixed at 4d. a pound. Increases in the
cost of transport, refining, jute goods,


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSUUJVAN
PIWII
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE *
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE ' STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ATOMIC SANDS
RUTILE
ZIRCONIUM
MONAZITE
Persons interested in the de-
velopment of this Industry may
obtain particulars on applica-
tion to
Gilbert M. Johnstone & Co
Solicitors,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney
DAVIES & COLLTNSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt
• * * »
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes ot
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 11 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,-000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
AUSTRALIAN POCKET LIBRARY
GOOD READING
In Cheap Editions
THE PASSAGE, by Vance Palmer.
A strongly written and enthralling novel of the
Queensland coast. In a small fishing settlement
we meet Lew, the sea in his blood, his heart
is influenced by two women, both bring him
tragedy as the outcome of their love. Lew
remains true to the sea and to the settlement
now revealed as Oaloundra In Queensland.
Trice 1/11 (postage 2Jd.).
PORTS OF SUNSET, by Ernestine
Hill.
“The Great Australian Loneliness,” of which
this book is the first part (the whole will be
ultimately issued in three parts), is one of the
best books about Australia ever written. Ernes-
tine Hill, who is the author of “My Love Must
Wait,” has a wonderful knowledge of the
Outback and the power to put her knowledge
into vivid word pictures. This is a book every-
one will read with enjoyment.
Price 1/6 (postage 21d.).
I
BUFFALOES, by Carl Warburton.
This splendidly exciting story of a buffalo
hunter’s life in the Northern Territory is based
upon first-hand knowledge. The author has
lived the life he describes in these pages and
his characters and their background are vividly
portrayed.
Price 1/8 (postage 2Jd.).
THE VOYAGE OF THE
ENDEAVOUR, by Prof. G. A.
Wood.
Here is the full story of the most famous ship
in Australian history. We clamber over her
from rudder to bowsprit, meet the men who
sailed her, and share with them their adven-
tures on their great journey to the unknown
south seas. With six illustrations and two maps.
Price 1/3 (Postage lid.).
DIG, by Frank Clone.
Moved by the tragic story of the explorers
Burke and Wills, Mr. Clune set out to “dig
up” everything he could read about them, with
the result their complete story is for the first
time now told as a continuous narrative within
the covers of one book. A drama from life.
Price 1/9 (postage 2Jd.).
WINNOWED VERSES, by Henry
Lawson.
Here is the best of Henry Lawson’s poetry.
“The Sliprails and the Spur,” “The Star of
Australasia,” “Past Carin’,” “The Shearing
Shed,” “Faces in the Street,” “My Army, O
My Army,” all these and many more. Won-
derful value.
Price 1/3 (postage 2id.).
THE GLASSHOUSE, by M. Barnard
Eldershaw.
The reactions of people thrown into the forced
intimacy of shipboard life has been a favourite
theme for novelists. But the subject has seldom
been more successfully handled with such vivid
characterisation and detail as it has in this
description of the lives of the passengers and
ship’s officers on a Norwegian cargo vessel bound
for Australia.
Price 1/11 (postage 2Jd.).
HAXBY’S CIRCUS, by Katherine
Prichard.
Gina Haxby, the central figure in this novel,
is one of the outstanding characters in our
literature. A circus is a world in itself, exist-
ing apart from the complex life of cities. And
the people who inhabit this world are a race
apart.
Price 1/11 (postage 2£d.).
SELECTIONS FROM WALTER
MURDOCH.
“In making this selection,” writes the author,
“I have chosen the essays which I, personally,
like best. If you ask why I like these particular
essays best, I can only reply that they are the
essays I most enjoyed writing.”
Price 1/9 (postage 2£d.).
FLESH IN ARMOUR, by L. Mann.
This novel was awarded the Gold Medal of
The Australian Literature Society, also that
critical publication “The London Observer”
describes it as “The most important novel
published in Australia in many years. It
assesses the, peculiar nonchalance, dourness,
resolution, outward casualness, quiet courage,
unexpressed racial pride of the emerging Aus-
tralian temperament with an uncanny rightness
denied to of the books mentioned.”
Price 1/8 (postage 2M-).
CONFESSIONS OF A BEACH-
COMBER, by E. J. Banfield.
“A book of perennial charm, a distinctive
contribution to the romance, literature, and
natural history of Australia and the world,”
writes Alex Chisholm in his introduction. It
was on Dunk Island, off the Queensland coast,
that Banfield solved the problem of happiness
by becoming an unprofessional beachcomber.
Price 2/- (postage 2Jd.).
INSECT WONDERS OF AUS-
TRALIA, by K. C. McKeown.
This fascinating and very readable book deals
with the lives of some of the more curious
of our insects, together with certain more
general aspects of insect life which have evoked
popular curiosity. A book for every nature
lover.
Price 1/6 (postage 2Jd.),
IT’S HARDER FOR GIRLS, by Gavin
Casey.
Gavin Casey is one of the most successful of
the modern Australian novelists. Keen obser-
vation and a somewhat bitter sense of humour
give this work its real value.
Price 1/6 (postage 2£d.).
CALL TO THE WINDS, by Capt.
P. G. Taylor.
This is a splendid story of air adventure in
Australia by one of our best-known airmen.
Beginning with the last air-mail flight of the
famous Southern Cross to New Zealand, Capt.
Taylor tells of his varied experiences in flying
with Smithy and without him. A really
exciting book.
Price 1/6 (postage 2£d.).
AUSTRALIA, by Prof. W. K.
Hancock.
Prof. Hancock is one of that select band of
* writers who illuminates everything he touches
upon. His “Australia” is a book that lifts
history out of the rut of the commofiplace and
makes it vivid and alive. It offers a pene-
trating analysis of the Australian character and
the development of our institutions, both social
and political.
Price 1/11 (postage 2Jd.).
ON THE TRACK, and OVER THE
SLIPRAILS, by Henry Lawson.
Acknowledged throughout the world as one of
the masters of the short story, ranking with
Maupassant and O. Henry, this collection of
Lawson’s stories contains his best work.
Price 1/6 (postage 2id.).
ON THE WOOL TRACK, by C. E. W.
Bean.
In this delightfully interesting book Capt. Bean
describes a phase of Australian life that passed
with the last century. The “wool track” is
that vast area of N.S.W. around the Darling,
where the stations were hundreds of miles in
extent and a man could die of thirst in the
home paddock.
Price 1/9 (postage 2Jd.).
OLD BLASTUS <3F BANDICOOT,
by Miles Franklin, author of “My
Brilliant Career.”
A long novel of Australian country life by one
of our greatest writers.
Price 1/11 (postage 2Jd.).
Postage is shown thus (3d.). When more than one title is ordered halve the
' amount of postage.
Obtainable from
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.
Booksellers - Stationers - Librarians
107-109-111-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
etc are reflected in the price received for
raws for home consumption. The figure
receded from £24 to £22 2s. a ton over
the six years to the end of the 1945 sea-
son dropped to £2l 18s. last season, and
further shrinkage is anticipated. The sav-
infactor has been the marked increase
in° the price obtained for exports. It
advanced from around £A7 pre-war to
£AI9 10s. a ton for the 1946 season, and
is expected to exceed £A2S a ton for the
current year. The effect has been to
strengthen the overall average price to
miller and grower, and thus take some of
the sting out of the rise in costs.
The industry is apprehensive as to what
might happen at the international trade
talks at Geneva concerning (1) the em-
bargo against sugar imports into Aus-
tralia, (2) maintenance of a stabilised
domestic price independently of export
values and (3) Empire preferences on
sugar. These things underpin the struc-
ture of our sugar industry ; destroy them
and the industry would collapse, a catas-
trophe which the country cannot afford
to risk.
Last year’s outturn of raws by this
Bundaberg grower and miller (11,998
tons) was only about half the previous
year’s figure. Still, the shrinkage in net
earnings was only £5141. That was after
allowing £14,776 (up £232) for deprecia-
tion and something for taxation. The
£24,380 of profit claimed was 8.7 p.c. on
capital as against 10.5, 9.2, 11.5, 9.3, 8.9
and 11.2 p.c. back to 1940. The div. was
kept at 8j p.c., which is the average rate
for the last decade.
Finances are comfortable:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 51,453 103,560 183,820 89,862
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 484,138 512,540 554,520 664,867
Stocks.. .. 42,192 122,392 218,482 53,555
Government
securities, etc. 20,000 40,000 55,273 55,273
Sundry debtors 40,707 4,317 7,880 50,098
Cash, etc. . . 11,272 1,444 1,270 32,412
* Including provision for taxation.
Mill and irrigation efficiency give a
healthy tone to balance-sheet figures.
Last year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£101,476) was £13,391.
The pound shares, visibly covered by
275. 3d. in net tangibles, fetch 40s. in the
market. The return at that price is 4.2
p.c. on an p.c. div. basis.
For the 24 weeks to Dec. 14, 1946,
Mt. Morgan (Q.) netted £34,867. That
was after allowing £19,701 for deprecia-
tion and includes £12,350 refund of gold
tax. The material mined was 724,089
tons, of which 354,629 tons (48.9 p.c.) was
overburden which was discarded. The
remaining 369,460 tons was delivered to
the mill, which treated 370,450 tons,
assaying 2.27dwt. gold and 0.47 p.c.
copper. For the year to June 30 last
profit was £35,674, after allowing £40,242
for depreciation. A feature of the mine,
which is worked by open-cut in a series
of benches, is the presence of four large
stone dykes, along and around which the
ore-body lies. Mining requires the re-
moval of large quantities of overburden.
The main zone of copper deposit lies be-
low the 574 ft. level, and has a length of
approx. 700 ft. Last year the grade of ore
was adversely affected by mining at the
the junction of the dykes. There is still
nearly 8,000,000 tons of overburden to
be removed, of which about 1,000,000
tons will probably be milled, and the re-
mainder dumped. Ore reserves are around
5,450,000 tons, averaging 4.23dwt. gold
and 1.86 p.c. copper. The co. has an able
management and efficient plant, and there
are now over 1000 names on the payroll.
Response to the co.’s request for a lift
in the local selling price of copper, made
necessary by rising costs, has been
prompt. From May 1 the figure was
lifted to £AI3O a ton (refined), a rise of
£3O to principal producers and £35 to
others. To stimulate production and help
cushion the loss on imports the local
price of the red metal was raised, by
.halting steps, from £A63 17s. 6d. at end
1939 to £AIOS a ton in May, 1942, and
then eased to £A9S a ton from the begin-
ning of 1946. However, Mt. Morgan, Mt.
Lyell and Queensland gougers were
guaranteed £AIOO a ton until June 30,
1947, Present world parity is £AI7I ss.
a ton. '
* * * *
“Khills”: The increase to 765. per unit
in the local price for tin concentrates,
assaying 70 p.c. or over, deepens the com-
plaint (B. 6/11/ ’46) regarding the lack of
official advices from the Tin Pool branch
of the Prices Commission. A statement
from one tin-buying firm dated Jan. 16
last appeared in the January issue of
Queensland Government “Mining Jour-
nal,” but no date was given as to when
the increase operated. The Queensland
Mines Department gives Dec. 23 last as
the date. The statement mentioned that
the increased cost of tin to consumers
would be only £35 per ton, £l5 per ton
having been added in 1942 to form a pool
to assist “needy producers.” Apparently
the increase caused some confusion as to
the ruling price of tin, which is now
given as £4lB to £434 (varying according
to size of ingot and size of order). The
further increase on March 29 in over-
seas price to £A546 ss. per ton again
stresses the need for an official statement,
and should merit the attention of State
Mines Departments. A guaranteed period
of operation of the present price, or even
less, would give more stability to Aus-
tralian tin mining than a further increase
in price, followed by a slump. In 1931
the Australian quote for tin oxide fell to
18s. per unit.
» • * ♦
“Norther”: "Broken Hill South, Ltd.,
is to make a systematic survey of about
3000 square miles of the Chillagoe (Q.)
area by aerial and ground examination
to see what can be donfe in the way of
opening up new and old ground for lead,
zinc, copper and silver and any gold that
may be about. Other cos. are also on the
hunt for minerals in Queensland. Gold
Mines of Aust. i£ testing 25 square miles
in the Clsrmont (Q.) district for gold in
deep alluvials, and Aust. Mining and 1
Smelting Co., in association with Zinc
Corp., is testing for zinc, lead and copper
at Mt. Garnet, and for oil in the Roma
district.
* * * *
“O.B.”: In the intensified search for
oil which the Zinc Corp. and other new-
comers are about to begin in northern
Australia, planes and geophysical devices
are to be used, and geologists with a
knowledge of the area are to be em-
ployed. Twelve years ago Dr. Wade
reckoned, on the whole, that prospects
of finding oil in the Kimberleys
were by no means unfavorable. Later
an American oil geologist of wide
experience considered Kimberley as the
likeliest part of Australia to produce oil.
Here Freney Oil Co. has unsuccessfully
tried during the past 25 years to tap a
gusher.
* * ♦ »
Diamond drilling at Paringa, Kal-
goodie (W.A.), reported in London but
not locally, showed that a core from a
hole on the 640 ft. level, put eastward at
a depressed angle of 35 degrees, ran into
values assaying 7oz. 16dwt. for 2ft.,
14.62dwt. for the next 2ft. and 6.45dwt.
for a third 2ft. about 16ft. further on.
This, the management stated, confirmed
No. 62 borehole, which disclosed 96
inches of core assaying 28.9dwt. a ton.
**. * *
C. E, (Pete) Prior, formerly managing
director of Wiluna, Ltd., and now Lon-
don representative of American Smelting
and Refining Co. (New York), looked
at the Big Bell goldmine (W.A.) the
other day. He said his co. was planning
an intensive world-wide search for new
mines. Together with Mining Trust
(London), American Smelting and Refin-
ing is interested in Mt. Isa (Q.) and Big
Bell, and properties in Europe, Africa
and the Middle East.


No. 8 of Series
Paint . . .
r
j
/A
./M
PAINT consists of colouring matter in linseed oil,
mixed with a “thinner” of turpentine or other
volatile liquid and a “drier" to accelerate hardening
of the linseed oil on exposure to air. When paint is
spread over metal or wood or other surface exposed
to air. a chemical reaction takes place. The effect
of the oxygen in the air on the paint is to cause the
linseed oil to alter its internal composition or as a
chemist would say to “oxidise” and “polymerise” to
a new rubber-like substance. This forms a film
which is resistant to weather and damp and thus
protects the surface painted. The British chemical
industry not only supplies the paint maker with his
colouring matter, but also produces
synthetic resins which replace and often
improve on the natural oils and resins
previously used.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ICI
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates
IL-22-16
SUNDRY SHOW
WELSH BLIZZARD.
It is possible that Emlyn Williams’s
“The Wind of Heaven” at Sydney
Minerva might have made a stronger im-
pression had more been done to recreate
its period—after the Crimean War —and
its place, Wales.
Except for two Welsh dogs on the
mantelpiece, which might equally well
have represented a Sydney pawnshop, the
piece was altogether lacking in atmos-
phere. As, on the whole, was the acting,
Douglas Herald, alone among the cast,
seemed to realise that he was portraying
a religious crank and made his Welsh hill-
billy a convincing sort of booming loon.
Megs Jenkins did little more than re-
peat her excellent maidservant of “The
Late Christopher Bean” —it seems a pity
to have brought an actress all the way
from London merely, for the most part,
to polish the furniture in a gliding and
sinister sort of way—but she, too, play-
ing a mother who thinks her child is the
Messiah, was at least aware that she was
a little odd.
The role of Dilys Parry, a widow with
an obsession about her dead husband, re-
quired an actress of great tragic power.
For how is a woman, sitting in a chair as
the curtain rises, to convey to the audi-
ence that she is demented with feeding on
her own grief? Lacking the intangible
something called genius, Kathleen Robin-
son might merely have been angry with
her husband for being half an hour late
for dinner.
Richard Parry, always a capable actor
in straightforward roles, was similarly
weak in characterisation as the proprietor
of a circus who is (incredibly) converted
to belief in the divinity of the peasant
boy and becomes an itinerant prophet.
Endeavoring to convey a roaring robust-
ness, for which both his voice and his
personality are unsuited, Mr. Parry made
strange woofing noises, often incompre-
hensible. He had his redeeming moment
towards the end when, tempted by a
wealthy patron (Daphne Winslow), to
return to his wicked life with his circus,
he conveyed a sense of struggle.
The play, then, could be better than it
is. But not much better; and only in
spite of the author.
There is always a danger, at a con-
temporary Welsh play, of being trapped
into a revival-meeting ; and this time Mr.
Williams has done it. His play is indescrib-
ably dreary, sentimental and pietistic, and
the characterisation is false from beginn-
ing to end. Though he provides him-
self with a philosophical let-out, he takes
his “Messiah” with the utmost serious-
ness ; so that all his characters, instead
of being portrayed as the cranks and
maniacs they obviously are, are shown
as saints. There is not much the actors
could do with characters distorted and
lost in a cloud of maudlin reverence.
Mr. Williams is in such a state of
mental muddle that, without realising it,
he has written an attack on the whole
life of the theatre; for his Ambrose
Ellis’s great “wickedness” is that he owns
a circus. The present sinner will continue
to find consolation in the words of that
wise and wicked old man, W. B. Yeats’s
father: “There is something about the
theatre, something inevitable when people
come together in holiday mood and in
crowds, which makes didactic purpose and
moral effort irrelevant and ridiculous.
That is why English writers approach the
theatre shorn of half their strength—
and that is why we, the mere Irish, hav-
ing escaped Puritanism, and so bent on
making pleasure a serious concern, suc-
ceed where they fail.”
"Skipper Next to God."
This play of the sea, written by Jan de
Hartog in Holland during the German
occupation, and put on by the Melbourne
Little Theatre, has all the stigmata of an
intense spiritual experience. The skipper
is the young captain-owner of The Young
Nelly, a steamer flying the Dutch flag
and inherited from hjs father with a
cargo of 146 Jewish refugees from a
European country where they are liable
to torture and internment if they have to
return. He lands them on a wharf at
Montevideo, and five hours later they
are being beaten back on to the ship by
military policemen ; nor are they wanted
in Brazil, Argentina or any other S.
American republic.
The skipper is faced with taking them
back to hell in Europe, seeing them rot
and starve to death aboard his ship or
dumping them somehow. He decides to
take them to Long Island, and smuggle
them ashore at some remote spot where
public opinion will be aroused suffi-
ciently to overcome official regulations.
After his third attempt he is being
shadowed by 25 U.S. destroyers and
coastguards, and his situation appears
completely hopeless. Then he learns that
off Cape Hatteras the most expensive
yacht race in the world is to be held out-
side the three-mile limit. He will sail
his ship into the middle of the racfe and
scuttle her, putting his crew and cargo
of human beings in the boats where they
will have to be picked up, under the
law of the sea, and taken to the nearest
seaport.
With the scuttling of the ship will go
all his temporal possessions and his wife
and family in Holland will be ruined.
He sends a wireless to his wife asking
her to make the decision for him. U.S.
naval officers, Dutch Embassy officials
and a theologian of the Dutch Reformed
Church come aboard and try to divert
him from his purpose with all the argu-
ments of expediency, decency, etc., that
the world uses. His crew mutiny and
two doctors declare their intention of cer-
tifying him as insane, but his faith is in
the Bible, and he finds chapter and verse
there for his actions, while his actions
give them a life and meaning.
Even the refugees in the hold, where
an epidemic of suicides has started, turn
against him. His belief falters at the
supreme moment when he discovers that
his father wasn’t so Christlike after all,
and paid for his ship by cozening coco-
nuts out of niggers—“two for himself and
one for Jesus.” Then comes the reply
from his wife, quoting a passage from St.
Matthew, and he goes on deck to super-
vise the sinking of The Young Nelly.
The striking thing about the play is
that the talk of God and Christianity
goes on in the skipper’s cabin without
a trace of sentimentality, and this is
entirely due to the fact that the great
generalities are given in example, not
merely in precept.
Frank Thring’s performance as the
skipper was extraordinarily impressive—
he dominated the play from start to
finish, although the cast were all so good
that it is almost improper to single out
individuals.
"Edward the Second."
Christopher Marlowe, born in the same
year as Shakspeare, had his life snuffed
out in a tavern brawl 29 years later.
There are all the indications in this play,
put on by the Marlowe Society at Mel-
bourne University’s Union Theatre, that
had he lived longer he might have added
another star of the first magnitude to the
firmament of English drama.
The play might have been written by
the Shakspeare who wrote the earlier
historical dramas. Like his, it is full of
violence, bloody murder and riotous
nobles, but there is working through it a
clear mind that is concerned only with
depicting human passions and making a
coherent picture out of {he welter. The
play is stiff with Elizabethan conventions,
but out of them sticks the human story
of the ineffectual monarch whose obses-
sion for a low-born French youth,
on whom he showers earldoms, leads
to his own downfall.
Unlike Shakspeare, Marlowe hasn’t
been sifted by centuries of previous pro-
ducers and there are no handy guides for
actors in the methods of their predeces-
sors, so some of the Marlowe Society’s
actors may be forgiven for being as mild
in their deportment as their lines were
violent. There was little subtlety in the
acting except in the case of Lloyd Thom-
son, as King Edward. Arthur Huck, as
Gaveston, the favorite, lacked imagina-
tion, and Don Gray, as Mortimer, the
Queen’s lover, missed most of the oppor-
tunities that Marlowe gives him.
Joyce Bianchi, as Queen Isabella, was
nearer the dramatist’s intention and little
Daniel Taylor, as Prince Edward, showed
remarkable aplomb for a child actor when
he ordered his mother to the Tower and
her lover to the block after his father’s
murder. The surrealist background by
Kenneth Rowell could easily have been
spared for a set of dark curtains.
New Felton Pictures.
“F.S.”: Considering the names —
Rubens, Veronese, Claude, Turner and
Utrillo—they are rather disappointing.
The Turner is a good example of that
painter’s Venetian landscapes, but the
Claude Lorraine landscape, depicting the
Holy Family resting on the flight from
Egypt or something of that sort, is not
ah instance of his best work —pictures of
his school just as good can be picked up
in Paris almost for the price of the
frames.
One wonders who painted the Rubens.
Hercules is depicted taking a fall out of
Antaeus, the gigantic wrestler, but it is
no more the great Rubens than the latest
R.A. picture. Almost anybody could
have done it. Nor does the huge
Veronese give the real quality of that
master except in bits and pieces. The
bits and pieces may be worth while from
the viewpoint of the student of technique,
but the picture as a whole is flatly painted
and is a poor advertisement for the
author.
There is nothing noteworthy about the
Sickert, and why the trustees bought an
attenuated portrait of a woman by
Augustus John’s sister it is difficult to
imagine. The Utrillo streetscape is fairly
representative of an artist who painted
from photos, often when drunk, but who
nevertheless painted some excellent pic-
tures.
Reviewed Briefly.
Stage and Concert
Ninon Vallin, the French soprano,
continued to sing beautifully at Mel-
bourne Town Hall last week. Her perfect
tone,'immaculate breathing and her sym-
pathy and artistry were deployed with
equal skill in German lieder by Brahms
and Schubert, French balladry and
modern lyrics. She is one of the finest
singers heard in Melbourne for a genera-
tion.
♦ ♦ * »
After a careful survey of possible
theatrical attractions with which to
swing the Melbourne Princess back to
legit., Garnet Carroll chose Clarence
Day’s “Life with Father.” The play is
more or less the autobiography of the
author and a portrait of his father, who
seems to have been the prototype of the
screen poppas who hide hearts of gold
behind a facade of extraordinary bad
temper. He is the antithesis of the father
of Samuel Butler’s “Way of All Flesh.”
Butler’s inability to see that he and his
father formed a relation and that he was
part of it caused him to create a monster
which was no more like a human being
than the poppa in “Life with Father.”
Both Samuel’s father and Clarence Day’s
father are monsters, one horrible and
the other sentimental, and both equally
inhuman.
* * * *
At the Films
“Sea of Grass” (Sydney Liberty):
M.-G.-M. has essayed a high-pressure
drama about the cattleman (Spencer
Tracy), whose wife (Katharine Hepburn)
presents him with another man’s child
and then leaves him to bring up the boy.
Tracy, who can impart naturalness to
almost any role, succeeds in making the
cattleman a powerful, credible figure, and
Hepburn, even though she always is Hep-
burn with a voice like a circular saw,
at least knows how to cart her framework
across the screen. A flood of sentimen-
tality erodes much of the film’s dramatic
strength, and its strongest theme —Tracy’s
fight to hold his grassland from farmers,
his defeat and the subsequent devastation
of the land as erosion follows closer settle-
ment on the open country—is touched
on too lightly. But the lesson and the
warning are there for those who want to
chop up Australia’s treeless cattle coun-
try into small holdings.
» * * ♦
“Song of the South” (Sydney May-
fair) ; A full-length technicolor film deco-
rated with three Disney cartoons based
on “Uncle Remus” tales. The film is a
stretch of unqualified sentimentality ; the
cartoons of Brer Fox, Brer Rabbit and
Brer Bear are perfect within the Disney
limit.
* * * *
“13 Rue Madeleine” (Sydney Plaza):
Among the lesser atrocities attributed to
Mars is the spy picture. Occasionally,
however, a good ’un crops up, and this
Plaza offering is among them: The film
has one unusual rare quality—all the main
actors expire before the end, except
Walter Abel, a basewalloper. James
Cagney meets a particularly slap-up finish
and appears so tough that one can
imagine him cleaning his teeth by tear-
ing them out individually and knocking
them back into place with a hammer.
* * * *
“The Magic Bow” (Sydney Esquire):
The only relief from the ridiculous
cavortings of Stewart Grainger and
Phyllis Calvert in this alleged life story of
Paganini is the beautiful playing of
Yehudi Menuhin, but it needs a most
ardent music-lover to endure Mr. Grain-
ger’s antics for the sake of hearing Menu-
hin’s violin.


wmM
wmwni
ES
as*
fe $1 • :
a
a
■■•: ■■•:
E 2
m
aa
I
»»
w
-GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
3 ways to fight
so^ oKt
with
Double”!)
Don’t wait until that Sore Throat
develops into a cold. Banish it now
—tV way:—
This Double “D” Eucalyptus 3-way
treatment brings quick results. Throat
soreness is eased—swelling is reduced, and
the cold attack which usually follows a
sore throat is often broken up before it
begins.
fsMwjyfefot Sxtiait
RUB throat and chest with
Double “D.”
FAKE 3 drops of Double
“D” on sugar.
GARGLE with 4 dr °P s of
——— Double “D” in
of
in
ud.—Enormous Sales — 1/7.
OUBLE
m
m
Smash Colds quickly —
gargle with Double “D”
A few drops of Double “D” in a tumbler
of water makes a pleasant, antiseptic gargle
that will ease your throat and help destroy
Flu-Cold germs. Double “D” Eucalyptus
is always pure, strong and reliable.
THE Pure, STRONG EUCALYPiUS WITH THE SWEET, FRESH SMELL.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
There is no more consistent horse in the
racing game than Wellington, but he seems
fS to be unlucky in big races. With a
favorable marble he could scarcely have lost
the richly-endowed Stradbroke Handicap a
Brisbane, but he had to start from No. 17
position, and it proved too great a handicap.
Hedui with No. 4 marble, was soon in front
and the advantage he gained proved decisive,
though Wellington, Nestor and Young Veil-
mond were fast overtaking him when it was
too late. Hedui was ridden by Morgan and
Wellington by Sellwood, son of Hedui s trainer.
Bookmakers’ prices were 25 to 1 Hedui, 8 to 1
Wellington, 6 to 1 Nestor and the same price
Young Veiimond, fourth.
The P. J. O’Shea Stakes, run at weight-for-
age gave punters a great tip for the Brisbane
Cup. Russia, with 9.1, won, as was only
to be expected, but the Queensland-bred Blue
Boots came home so well in second place
that he straightway became favorite for the
Brisbane Cup. In this Blue Boots came
down to 7.5, while Russia went up to 9.9—a
difference of 27 pounds, compared with the
O’Shea Stakes poundage. The only question
was whether Blue Boots could see out a stiff
two miles. This he did, as became a descend-
ant of Carbine, winning by four lengths in 3.22,
with gallant old Russia second and Rimfire
third. No question but Queensland studs shine
in the' production of stayers.
* * * •
Private cars, hire cars, taxis, utilities, push-
bikes and at least one converted Army truck
took a sizable force of “sports” to Mentone
(Vic.), and those who backed Invasion Chief
(4 to 1) for the Leicester Handicap and Hellenist
(7 to 2) for the Ascot Thousand, did not re-
gret the journey if they played light before and
afterwards.
Heather had the mount on Invasion Chief,
a worthy son of Valiant Chief-Billabong, and
the money never seemed in danger. Mediocre,
another member of the Valiant Chief family,
made an interesting finish of it, but his year-
younger relation —both are chestnuts —was too
good. Regeen, an elderly daughter of Regular
Bachelor, was a fair third. Hellenist had
Badger in the saddle, and Badger did not
need to exert all his vigor to land the Lo
Zingaro gelding a winner from Spearman and
Valcurl, whose weight—lo.3—told on him over
the last bit.
All the same, bookmakers could not have
lost on the meeting unless they went punting
with their eyes shut. Girl James (Cranbrook
Handicap, 12 to 1), Nurelee (Ellesmere Han-
dicap, 100 to I—£4l1 —£41 12s. and £lO 16s. 6d. on
the ss. totes), Charlene (Tottenham Handicap,
15 to 1) and Carngham (Dukesborough Handi-
cap, 10 to 1) brought them “fruit for the side-
board.” Carngham is a four-year-old chestnut
stallion by Great Legend, whose progeny have
a way of bobbing up at long prices. Another
Carngham raced in Westralia long ago with
some success. An average of nearly £7OOO a
race was deposited aft the tote windows. Only
a calamity of nature would deter Melbourne
punters from following their bent.
* * * m
Horses with no pretensions to celebrity were
catered for at Canterbury, horses of class in
training having been taken to Queensland.
Most of the better riders had also gone north.
Cook remained, and he rode three winners.
A pronounced drift in the betting on
Two Grand prior to the running of the Can-
terbury Handicap incited the stewards to have
a few words with the Two Grand party. The
rider, Lawrence, seems to have lent an atten-
tive ear. Anyway, he had the Mr. Standfast
colt well placed throughout, and Two Grand
was a clear winner from the leger,. Roatom
being an improved second and Lady Marie
third. Afterwards it was announced that Two
Grand, on which the owner, a sporting publi-
can, missed the market, was to have a change
of stables.
Cook’s winning mounts were furnished by
Brazier (Flying), Gracious (Novice) and
Buonarroti Boy (Trial). He is a good jockey
when things go his way, but he doesn’t like
to be pocketed. Glencrag added to his'record
by downing Eastralia and King’s Glen in the
Welter.
* * * *
Without trains or Government buses
and with a restricted tram service for the
third successive Saturday, 100,000 Mel-
burnites managed to get to the six V.F.L.
football matches. Nearly a third went
to Richmond, for the most part expecting
to see the Tigers eat Carlton alive, but
on the day Carlton discovered the tigers
to be kittens, stroked the things gently,
laughed at their mimic growls and played
around with them, while Jack Howell went
“Ever tried this crawl stroke , Bill ?”
on and won the game, 17.19 to 5.18.
Elsewhere unbeaten Footscray harried
Hawthorn by 20.14 to 12.10 and un-
beaten Collingwood went down to Gee-
long and collected 14.24 to 12.17. North
dished South, 12.10-10.18, and Fitzroy
overwhelmed Melbourne, 20.14-12.10, but
Essendon had a little trouble with St.
Kilda before winning 21.10-19.11.
* * * m
Wagga (N.S.W.) people and visitors from
Sydney and Victoria (not so many from the
strike-ridden State as in past years) had plenty
of excitement for their money on Gold Cup
day. The start of the big race was delayed for
22 minutes by part of the field of 22 falling
foul of the barrier. When Allen Proctor at
length got them away the amplifiers went phut
(“larrikins” had cut the wires) and the spirit
of Rafferty presided over the subsequent run-
ning.
A bumping finish between Clyde (6 to 1)
and the favorite Tattling (fours) led to Clyde’s
number being hoisted first. Doon, the rider
of Tattling, protested on the score of inter-
ference, and Darke countered with the allega-
tion that Doon had “grabbed me leg.” After
long deliberation the chief stipendiary steward
announced the dismissal of the protest, ‘so
Clyde’s backers tardily collected. A day elapsed
before the Darke-Doon argument was decided;
the verdict was that both boys had “ridden
carelessly” and could consider themselves
“severely reprimanded.” Another jockey, Pod-
more, was “severely reprimanded” for his riding
of the winner of the Maiden Handicap, Ron’s
Pride, and a fourth, Cann, had to answer a
charge by the owner of Preston, who had run
off when leading by lengths, the charge bang
“He took me on.” After hearing a steward
posted near the scene of the disaster to the
owner’s hopes, officials exonerated the accused.
* * * *
Booked for an early U.S. boat is
Mistah Emory Jackson, a third-rate
American welter who, chicken-fed and
made to look quite second-rate by the
absence of worthy opposition, has been
billed as a first-class middleweight in
these degenerate days of the Australian
Ring, which once boasted champions like
Fitzsimmons, Hall, Creedon and, in
later years, Darcy and Dave Smith. Flat
on his back in the seventh round of a
mill with Dave Sands at Melbourne,
Jackson waited to be counted out. In-
stead he heard the referee mumble “No
fight,” and the crowd hooted Mistah
Jackson to his dressing-room. Australia
once knew a Jackson, Peter Jackson, a
credit to his race, who would rather have
destroyed himself than sell a fight.
* * * *
On a lunch of tea and sandwiches (a
“misunderstanding”) the South African
Soccer side defeated N.S.W. 5-4 at Sydney
Cricket Ground, in a brilliant, if uneven,
game. The Springboks were down 1-4
at “lemons,” then they stood in closer, and
booted the ball round freely and very fast.
These changes seemed to bewilder the
home side wingers. L. Anley and D,
Wilson drew and beat the N.S.W. defences
repeatedly, giving the ball to 'the centre
of the field, where good*use was made of
it. Centre half D. Nash and left half D.
Forbes are both capital exponents of the
round-ball game; indeed, it is a fast and
interesting combination altogether. But
the arrangements for the tour have thus
far been very so-so.
* * * •
The N.S.W. Rugby Union team in
Queensland had a runaway win at Too-
woomba against a local team, scoring
18 tries and kicking 11 goals; 77-0. In-
ternational winger Bastes got eight tries,
one dash beginning from his own goal-
line. Tonkin, on the right wing, with
fewer chances, was also impressive, and
Walker played a splendid game as centre.
Five-eight Emery and forwards Keller,
Cornforth and Windon were likewise out-
standing, but captain Phil Hardcastle and
John Fuller, both valuable forwards, were
injured and will be spectators of the
other Queensland matches.
Bastes and Tonkin have a rival in L.
Slattery, of Randwick, who is faster and
more elusive than either, but an uncertain
handler; he might yet have a chance of
Australian representation. At the Show-
ground on Saturday his side beat joint
leaders Norths, 17-3, in a clever game,
Slattery scoring two brilliant tries. In
other matches West beat Eastwood 28-13,
and Parramatta accounted for University
24-10. Manly and East both had easy
victories, 23-5 and 22-8 over St. George
and Drummoyne.
* * * *
Experience rather than weight ad-
vantage enabled Jackie Wilson (9.3|) to
outpoint Ray Coleman (9.0) in the early
rounds of their Leichhardt encounter.
Always aggressive, Coleman was worried
by Wilson’s long straight lefts, and at
half-way Wilson was well in front. But
solid rights shook him in the ninth round
and, though he recovered, Coleman had
the edge in the second half. Mawson’s
decision, a draw, was about right, though
Coleman’s supporters protested, in the un-
restrained Leichhardt fashion, that they
and he had been robbed.
* * * *
From Jack Read:
Just as Les Darcy ranked as a middleweight
of world championship calibre 30 years ago,
Vic Patrick stands out among present-day light-
weights, and more than one astute boxing
expert thinks Patrick would win the 9.9 world
title if matched with Ike Williams. But, while
Darcy defeated classy Americans Eddie Me-
Goorty, Jimmy Clabby, George Chip, Fritz
Holland, K. O. Brown, Buck Crouse and
others, Patrick has yet to meet an overseas
boxer of high standing. Hence veteran enthu-
siasts think it just as well to wait until Patrick
opposes a lightweight of world class before
trying to predict how he would come out in
a contest with the world title holder.
Old-time fight fans are of the opinion that
Patrick is a very fine boxer-fighter, but they
believe that, at their best, lightweights of the
past like Jim Barron, Paddy King, Herb Mc-
Coy, Frank Thorn, Hughie Mehegan and Sid
Godfrey would have beaten him. All were
powerful right-hand punchers, and Patrick,
being a southpaw, is an open target for right
leads. Some enthusiasts think Hock Keys and
Bob Turner would also have beaten Patrick,
but these lightweights were essentially left-
handers, and lefts are not as effective as rights
against unorthodox opponents.
Born in Sydney on June 2, 1920, Patrick
(baptised Victor Patrick Lucca) began boxing
seven years ago, and has won 47 of the 50
contests of his career. Patrick has had only
one fight in the last nine months, however,
and manager Ern McQuillan is talking about
taking the champion to America if there are
not more contests here for him. Efforts are
being made to bring the necessary topnotch
boxers here, and it was expected that Canadian
champion Danny Webb would meet Patrick in
Sydney to decide the British Empire lightweight
title, which has been declared vacant. But
Webb refuses to come, and, with practically
no opponents here, it looks as if Patrick will
have to invade the U.S.A.
Australian boxers invading America since the
days of George Dawson, Griffo, Bob Fitz-
simmons and others have not done well, and
perhaps Patrick will meet wjth the same fate.
However, being kept idle means that he is wast-
ing the best years of his ring career.


ill ' ' M44UlJ»<i=aiUdSl
gist mm in
[aiaimm
mm mol
mm
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C. ;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Your best friend
mar fail as
EXECUTOR
You take a risk if you appoint a friend as
sole Executor. He may die soon after you, and
your Estate may pass into the control of some-
one whom you would never have trusted. He
may maladminister the funds, or your Estate
may suffer losses through his neglect or inex-
perience.
Much better to appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited'as your Executor, even if you
appoint the friend in conjunction. By doing
that you ensure absolute security, combined with
an efficient administration born of experience
gained in the management of thousands of
Estates comprising assets of almost every descrip-
tion.
A personal interview is suggested, or perhaps you
would prefer to write for the Company’s Booklet
“Your Executor and Trustee
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
£66,000)000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
BEING LESS THAN £10,000). '
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St.. Wasca Wagga
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Xamworth.
Western District Representative; J, L. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange
The worlds p
m
m
$2
VISITORS who have long been familiar with Egypt’s rich store
of historical records return, again and again, to luxuriate in
a climate that is as invigorating as it is delightful. Restful days
may be spent in comfortable social surroundings, or devoted to
sport of almost every kind. In Cairo, alone, there is a full
programme of entertainment which includes opera and music
comparable with the best that is offered in any European
capital, and a night-life of exceptional brilliance.
Travellers to Europe are afforded an opportunity of
breaking their journey in Egypt if they apply for the Special
Tourist Visas.* Egypt, ever appreciative of her visitors,
offers a friendly welcome. Her luxury hotels are world-
famous, and there is no lack of first-class pensions. Travel
facilities are up-to-date and inexpensive. Many clubs
admit temporary members.
Special Tourist Visas obtainable In the British Commonwealth and Empire.
Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
Business Rollery.Etc.
The Banking Dictatorship
The decision of the Federal Govern-
ment to bring section 48 of the Banking
Act of 1945 into operation is political and
socialistic, not financial or economic, in
its purpose. This section says that, ex-
cept with the consent of the Treasurer, a
trading bank “shall not conduct any
banking business for a State or any
authority of a State, including a local
governing authority.”
The decision has brought strong pro-
tests, and rightly so, from many local
governing authorities throughout the
length and breadth of the country. A
lot of these authorities bank with one or
other of the trading banks, and wish to
continue to do so, because they naturally
feel that obligation which invariably
arises from long and cordial association
and mutual satisfaction. To compel them
to transfer their account to the Common-
wealth Bank is an unwarranted interfer-
ence with thfeir freedom of choice in
banking transactions. Moreover, it is a
needless interference with the status and
earning power of the trading banks,
which have given a lot of assistance to
public bodies in financing local works,
development and improvement schemes.
It is difficult to see exactly what part
section 48 of the Act plays, or is intended
to play, in the Government’s policy of
financial control —unless it be that of
grossly unfair competition, which is what
coercive transfer of business from the
trading banks to the Commonwealth
Bank amounts to. Certainly section 17
of the Commonwealth Bank Act of 1945
exhorts that institution to “develop and
expand” its business in competition with
the trading banks. But to do so by the
dictatorial method of legislation is alien
to the ideas of liberal democracy and fair
play. Thfe Government, having become
a participant in the game, has reframed
the rules and appointed itself referee.
This deplorable but all too common
attitude in our national affairs today
marks the departure of impartiality.
Control of banking was made a central
plank of thfe Chifley Government’s policy
because regulation of capital and credit
was considered indispensable to the “new”
economics of “full” employment and
maintenance of a high and stable level
of demand. By control of central-bank
credit and of private investment through
the trading banks, the new high priests of
finance —the heads of the Treasury and
the Commonwealth Bank —hope to create
inducements and discouragements that
will accelerate or retard expenditure as
required. Control of expenditure is thus
the master-key by which inexperienced
officialdom aims at bringing about a state
of affairs whereby trade and industry will
always have jobs for workers. The flies
in this will-o’-the-wisp ointment are the
assumption that “workers” will always
want to work, that there will always be
materials for them to work on, and that
there will always be enough people able
and willing to buy whatever is on the
market at the price asked.’
The nation would be better off and
happier with a plan that gave reasonable
prospects of industrial peace and ade-
quate and continuous supplies of coal and
building and other essential materials.
Lack of these is preventing our major
industries from filling orders on hand
and from embarking on expansion on the
scale that the national interest demands.
While the Government is prepared to
regiment capital, it is not prepared to see
that labor, capital’s co-partner in produc-
tion, accepts the overriding authority of
the nation expressed through the properly
constituted instrument of the Arbitration
Court. To go on dissipating our economic
energy and productive resources is to
court all the troubles that follow in the
wake of a declining national income,
accompanied by rising costs and a reduc-
tion in the standard of living. The re-
sponsibility sits squarely on the shoulders
of the Government in office.
The trials and tribulations of the Aus-
tralian coastal shipowner, the high cost
of Government interference in the in-
dustry and the problem of fleet replace-
ment were writ large in the speech of
chairman A. Howard-Smith at the annual
roll-up of shareholders in Howard Smith,
Ltd., the other day. Owing to the Gov-
ernment’s policy of delicensing ships over
25 years of age, the co. has sold five of
the older units of its fleet, including the
34-year-old passenger and cargo steamer
Canberra. The cost of one of the co.’s
latest cargo steamers, Cycle, built in
U.K. in 1939, was about £200,000 de-
livered in Australia. Today ‘the figure
would be around £400,000, or £500,000
for a vessel of similar type built locally.
This means that pre-war the co. could
have bought five of these vessels built in
U.K. for £1,000,000, whereas today two
such vessels built in Australia would
cost that much. Also, overhaul and
maintenance costs are now well over 100
p.c. above pre-war level, and the time
occupied in port by vessels on the Aus-
tralian coast is averaging around 66 p.c.
of total voyage time as against 33 p.c.
pre-war. Further, the cost of handling
cargo has more than doubled. And the
7s. interim lift in the basic wage in De-
cember, plus Is. in February, the grant-
ing of attendance money of 12s. a day
and annual leave to waterside workers,
with the cost of operating the Stevedor-
ing Industry Commission and provision
of amenities, etc., will together run
away with about £1,325,000 per annum.
In addition the seamen still continue to
receive a “war risk” bonus of 25 p.c.
south of Townsville and 33| p.c. north
of that port. It all spells a substantial
lift in freight and passenger charges or
payment of a heavy subsidy, either or both
of which finally come out of the public’s
pocket. What the future earning capacity
of coastal shipping will be nobody can say
until the Government announces its inten-
tions in connection with the industry.
* * * *
“Graz”: High-grade spinning wool sold
during March raised the month’s average
price to 26.9 d. per pound. For the first
nine months of this season 2,197,690
bales were sold, realising £67,973,393;
greasy averaged 24.28 d. per pound, an
increase of 51 p.c. on 1945-46 appraise-
ments. A further 8217 bales were shipped
for disposal, and at end March 464,701
bales were in stores awaiting sale, besides
old stocks. Dr. Edgar Booth says current
demand for wool is 50 p.c. higher than
production, and he believes our wool
cheque this season will reach £lOO mil-
lion. Growers who kept to fine-woolled
flocks are being well rewarded, the de-
mand from America and France being
particularly brisk. The bulk of Australian
fleece lines comprise 60s to 70s quality;
Britain and Germany were formerly
large buyers of these lines. As Britain’s
home trade absorbs 75 p.c. of Yorkshire’s
output, which is subject to price control,
bidding from British buyers at Australian
sales has been restricted. Power restric-
tions curtail output of British and Con-
tinental mills, though French production
is almost back to 1938 volume, and Italian
mills have nearly reached pre-war levels.
Negotiations for sale of wool to Japan
have broken down, because Supreme
H.Q. there insisted on higher quality
fleeces than our own realisation authorities
are willing to supply. Pre-war Japan
took large shipments of burry merino,
of which there is a plentiful supply in
the stockpile. Woolgrowers in the Argen-
tine are feeling the pinch, since there is
little demand for carpet wools. Smaller
clips in Australia and S’Africa, owing to
drought losses, combined with the heavy
world demand for fabrics, should ensure
good prices for merino for some time
ahead. America holds some 400 to 500
million pounds of home-grown wool,
bought at higher rates than those now
ruling.
* * ♦ *
Austerity conditions in supplies of
newsprint, clamorous demands by adver-
tisers for more space and mounting circu-
lation figures are facets of present-day
conditions of newspaper production in
Maoriland. Still N.Z. Newspapers, Ltd.,
owners of the Auckland “Star,” the
Christchurch “Star-Sun” and the Taranaki
“Daily News,” have had another pros-
perous year. Profits at £55,357 for the
12 months to end March are the highest
since the co. was formed 18 years ago to
absorb the Brett Printing and Publishing
Co., Ltd. Next-best performance was in
the co.’s first year, 1920-30, when earn-
ings reached £54,710, but capital was then
£582,500, against £497,917 today. There
was a big slide in the co.’s early years
under the double weight of an Auckland-
Christchurch newspaper war and the de-
pression ; rock-bottom for profits was
touched in 1933, at £31,607. By 1939
profits were up to £50,566, then ebbed to
£40,762 in 1943, and have climbed steadily
over the past four years. Investments now
total £261,707, and there’s £45,496 in
cash items. Money will be needed in
the next few years to finance purchases
of new plant and reconstruction of
premises. Already £140,000 is mobilised
in reserve accounts for these purposes.
Shareholders now see a margin of nearly
£lB,OOO over annual dividend require-
ments of £39,833, for an unchanged rate
of Is. 4d. a share, or 8 per cent., and it
seems likely they’ll have to be satisfied
with this return until the co, completes
its development programme.


Missing Friends.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM MCDONALD and JAMES McDONALD
(sons of William and Mary Isabella McDonald, nee
Hay), born at Back Creek, Amherst, Victoria, in
1855 and 1857 respectively, or their children (if
any), please communicate with GAVAN DUFFY &
KIJfG, Solicitors, 95 King Street, Melbourne?
Puzzled ?
A
\
Ask the manager
When you meet financial problems of
either a personal or business nature,
remember that the Manager of your
local branch of the “Wales” will readily
discuss such matters with you.
He is a man of wide business experience,
who makes a close study of local con-
ditions. In addition, he can draw upon
the resources of the specialized depart-
ments which are a feature of the
“Wales” organization.
Don’t let financial problems worry you
unnecessarily. There may be ways in
which the “Wales” can help. Ask the
Manager.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporated in New Sooth Wales with limited liability
tooro
urn
to scientifically planned cellar
yy' '' '/■
w % %■>* •>
CHUt
iftDOM
CHIU
mmmmm
mm
.
GREEN
TE HOTEL, KILLARA.
Making good beer better .. • The storage cellar plays an important
part in the modern hotel for, if beer is to retain its quality, it must be kept
at a correct and uniform temperature. Tooth’s programme for the recon-
struction and improvement of hotels, which will be resumed as soon as the
housing shortage has been overcome, includes the provision of spacious,
well-ventilated and well-drained cellars with scientifically designed chillrooms
for storage of reserve stocks of bulk'beer.
r ir€D OTT Ml £ CCD • Hi HI Ml Rl V IE 111
SYDNEY
Makers of Good Beer since 1835
T. 11.2413
Courtaulds, Ltd.
The question of a water-supply for
this go’s, proposed factory near New-
castle flared up again during April—ap-
parently as a result of the recent an-
nouncement that the co. was about to be-
gin construction. According to the
N.S.W. Premier, Mr. McGirr, the issue
has been finally settled: but not before
another Labor Premier, Mr. Cain of Vic-
toria, tried openly to lure Courtaulds
away to his State. Terms of the settle-
ment are not altogether clear.
The exact site of the intended factory
is at Tomago. Under the agreement
reached 12 months ago between Court-
aulds and the N.S.W. Government, the
latter agreed to build a railway bridge
across the Hunter River, joining Tomago
and Hexham. Also, it seems to have
been understood that the co. could itself
draw up to million gallons of water
a week from the river-beds, subject to
supervision by the Hunter District Water
Board. It guaranteed to purchase an
additional 8,000,000 gallons a week from
the Board, when in full production ; the
price quoted by the board, Bd. a thousand
gallons, was disputed by Courtaulds until
the Government promised to consider the
payment of a subsidy.
The controversy revived last month
when the Water Board president (Mr. G.
Schroder) stated that Courtaulds would
not be permitted to draw any water on its
own account. Such permission would be
a bad precedent, he claimed, and might
cause pollution .of the Board’s reserve.
Moreover, the Board is in a legal posi-
tion to enforce its decision, having ac-
quired the surface rights to Courtaulds’
property. Also, the Newcastle Trades
Hall Council has butted in in support
of Mr. Schroder’s attitude.
The facts appear to be that the Tomago
sandbeds, being fed solely by surface
rain, do constitute a limited reservoir ;
that over-pumping at one point could
deprive neighboring users of their share,
and might permit the infiltration of salt
water, resulting in pollution. But all
this would be possible only in the ab-
sence of proper supervision. The Board
has full power under the agreement to
ensure that nothing of that sort will occur.
Mr. McGirr has said he intends to
honor the original arrangement with
Courtaulds. He has invited Board officials
and other interested parties to a discus-
sion, and will no doubt emphasize the
safeguards provided against misuse of
the pumping facilities. Whether this will
satisfy the Trades Hall, whose rights as
a party to the dispute are far from clear,
remains to be seen.
* * * *
Maoriland’s South Island farmers, who
have had a picnic in the small seeds busi-
ness for several years, are beginning to
wonder whether Britain’s ban against
some lines and reduced purchases of
others mean that the days of fat profits
have come to an end. Britain has been
M.L.’s big market and M.L. has been
the Empire’s chief source of supply for
grass and clover seeds since war cut off
European producers. But Europe is be-
ginning to raise its head again, so M.L.
will have to work its passage from now
on. Prices for some lines have been
halved since last year, and the slump in
others is heavy. Values this year will
fall a long way below last year’s two
millions for these exports. M.L.’s Gov-
ernment has asked Britain not to be too
tough, but British farmers probably feel
something like M.L.’s North Island dairy-
men and pastoralists, who think it is time
costs of £4 to £5 an acre for seed to
lay down new pastures were ended.
North Islanders haven’t relished paying
fancy prices to southerners, and they
won’t do it for a moment longer than
they have to. If prices come down to sea
level, Australia will benefit, too, because
it’s a fairly considerable buyer of M.L.
small seeds,
* * * *
British capital is putting its weight be-
hind Maoriland’s toy industry. Lines
Bros., Ltd., London, the world’s largest
toy manufacturers, has taken a controlling
interest in Joy Toys, Ltd., under the new
name of Lines Bros. (N.Z.), Ltd. Capital
has been expanded from £15,000 to
£lOO,OOO by creating 85,000 new £1 ord.
shares, of which the London concern has
taken 45,000 at par. No decision has
been made regarding the other 40,000.
The British co. is paying for its shares in
machinery and equipment. Production
plans include manufacture of dolls and
toys, clockwork models, tricycles, juvenile
cycles, prams and pushchairs. A new
factory, with 500 names on the payroll,
will be built in Auckland, and the
output of the present small Whan-
garei factory will be stepped up
by enlarging premises and plant and
increasing the staff to 125. When the
N.Z. market is fully supplied, the co,
hopes to develop an export trade. Joy
Toys, Ltd., was registered as a public
co. in August, 1939, with £15,000 capital.
In the war year.s an arrangement was
made with Joy Toys, Ltd., Melbourne,
to the mutual benefit of both enterprises.
Before the latest move there were 60
names on the share register.
> * * *
In August last G. J. Coles, Ltd., pointed
out that its application to the Capital
Issues Board to raise funds for restock-
ing and rebuilding “had been deferred
for the time being.” Now the co. an-
nounces plans for converting 500,000
unissued B prefs. into ords. This will
increase the number of unissued ords. fo
558,485. Present paid capital is £1,441,515
in 150,000 8 p.c. prefs. and 1,291,515
ords., all of £1 each. Considerable addi-
tional capital is needed to rebuild stores
in Perth and Brisbane and replace fittings,
etc., in other stores. Treasury consent is
still awaited. Very few shares have
changed hands recently. Current price of
around 935. shows an immediate yield of
a little over p.c. on last year’s div. rate
of 12 p.c. A one-for-two par issue, and
maintenance of the div. at 12 p.c., would
lift the return to approx. 3.5 p.c. But
the pref. div. and 12 p.c. to the ords.
would then call for £274,472, or £46,952
more than was netted last year. Last
year’s profit (£227,520) covered the pref.'
div. and 16.7 p.c. on ord. capital.
* * * *
After paying 10 p.c. for three years,
Repco has cut this year’s interim distri-
bution to the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. Reasons
are the obscure industrial outlook and un-
certainty about prices, wages and hours.
Owing to the metal-trade dispute in Vic.
the co.’s manufacturing activities have
been at a standstill since mid-November
last, thus reducing both turnover and
profits. In the merchandising and servic-
ing divisions of the business turnover
and profit were satisfactory. Manage-
ments of cos. such as this one are strug-
gling hard to overtake the backlog of de-
mand accumulated during war years, but
organised labor, disdainful of the public
interest, refuses to co-operate. The co.’s
sales were a record in 1945-46, when the
profit was 15.69 p.c. on capital. Buyers
have been cautious following the cut in
the interim div., but sellers wisely show
no inclination to press sales.


ABORIGINALITIES
“S. Post”: Snuffler Jackson was a good
stockman whose lisping speech was known
in many a cattle camp. One night on
the Leichhardt the cattle were nicely
bedded down and he was instructing the
newchum in the duties of watchman.
“Jutht ’em know you’re there,”
Snuffler told him, turning over the night
horse, “thing a bit, thoftly, ath y’ ride
around ’em.” Then he joined us at the
fire as the youth walked the horse away
into the darkness. Suddenly came the
horrible wail of a reedy tenor, shrilling
a plaintive love song. The mob rushed
as only Gulf cattle can, straight away
from the voice and towards our camp.
The boss and I selected the same tree
and ascended it hastily, while the rest of
the boys found other perches or dodged,
frantically swinging pieces of flaming
firewood. The boss cursed and counted
heads as the beasts thundered past below,
trampling our gear into the dust.
“ ’Struth,” he said suddenly, “I wonder
where poor old Snuffler is?” An anxious
pause. We peered. Then came the
querulous snuffle from above: “You’ll
know where poor ole Thnuffler ith all
right, if thith flamin’ branch breakth.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Knew a river
whaler named Murrumbidgee Bill once
who, instead of carrying in his boat the
usual swop-away-holusbolus library, tra-
velled with a volume nobody could
borrow — Shakspeare's Complete Works.
And Bill knew every line of it; before
booze reincarnated him to a life of
leisurely rowing along the gum-fringed
rivers, clad in rags that would disgrace
a scarecrow, he had been a lawyer. Bill
explained anything and everything in
terms of “this bloke Shakspeare,” though
he added suitable gestures and amend-
ments. The miracle was that Bill always
came away from homesteads loaded with
tucker. He explained to me the reason
was that “this Shakspeare stuff goes
down on all occasions. Either people or
cooks think you’ve been a big knob
come down in the world and they fill
your tucker bags to overflowing, or they
think you’re daft and they do the same
to get rid of you. Then, of course,” Bill
added, thrusting his hat on the back of
his head, “if I strike a Shakspearian
scholar like myself, well, I get the run
of the place for a week.”
* * * ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: The most persistent
feathered enemy of Victorian seine-net
fishermen is the pelican. At an inlet on
the Gippsland coast recently, all efforts
to prevent these large black and white
birds interfering with a shoal of salmon
trout, which were “paddocked” in a net
staked in the shallows, only made the
pelicans more of a nuisance than ever.
Prevented from landing on the waters
enclosed by the net, the birds approached
from the outside, and ripping holes in
the mesh they caught fish as they swam
out. In desperation the incensed fisher-
men caught a live bird, tarred him black
and let him go. It did the trick all
right. Not recognising their black
brother, the large fliers took off, and the
darkie set off flat out after them. Where
he chased them to Heaven knows, but
so far those fish thieves haven’t come
back.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: Just outside Bathurst
(N.S.W.) we had to get out of our camp
because of heavy rain and found some
stables with a chaff-loft about half full.
It was too late, too dark and too wet
to ask questions, so we climbed into it
and settled down, using the loose chaff
for a mattress. I awoke to a grey morn-
ing and sounds below and was about
to call Mat when he and the chaff on
which he rested vanished through the
floor. The lad below, who’d released the
trap and brought chaff and Mat down in
a heap, gaped at the big fellow. “G’day,”
Mat said, calmly. “Now do y’ believe in
ghosts?” The lad fled, calling for help.
So did we, but in silence.
* * * *
“Maluka”; I see that “N.7Y.” (B.
19/3/’47) knows a horsetailer who can
distinguish any one of the 30 bells in his
droving plant. Allowing seven, or even
eight, bells to every 50 horses, this adds
up to quite a droving plant. And some
horsetailer.
* * * *
“Wippegong”; Years ago, when the
spuds were all planted and the hay not
yet ready, the thoughts of us gawky
young Gippslanders would lightly turn to
“Did you pack that anti-tetanus stuff, Doc ?”
blackfish. That meant loading up the
spring-cart with a tent, butts of chaff,
blankets, pots, pans and a huge and
varied assortment of tucker; though
Mum usually added a couple of roast
chooks and a great slab of fruitcake —
“just in case we were hungry.” Leaving
the roads we’d pick up old timber tracks,
and when the scrub claimed these we’d
navigate by our own bush sense and,
poking a sapling through the wheels down
the steepest dips, or getting a shoulder
under the spokes as old Prince clawed up
the worst pinches, we’d drive into the
ranges where the little brown creeks
gurgled out of the granite. There, where
the dark water eddied slowly round the
roots of sodden logs, we’d find the
blackies. Worms were sufficient bait, and
evening or early morn the regular biting
times. An east wind—and Gippsland
easterlies are strongest at night-—would
send them to cover ; but if a thunder-
storm was rolling up they’d almost leave
the water for the hook. Exactly that
same weather change sent the bellbirds
into ecstasies ; if the ringing was good so
was the fishing. Best spot ever was where
a creek ran under an old rotting sawdust
heap; you had only to let the line drift
under and bring out fish averaging over a
pound. That was around the Yarra-
Latrobe-Bunyip headwaters; the Lang
Lang and Bass Rivers in South Gipps-
land yielded some fine fish, too. Haven’t
scrambled through those scrubs for years,
but they tell me they take fine trout there
now ; and I can’t see blackie lasting long
against that savage. A pity; he wasn’t
really a sporting fish, but no sweeter
meat ever filled a pan. Anyone seen him
lately?
* * * «
“Gravelsnatcher”: It isn’t only to en-
tomologists abroad that bullants and
jumpers are of unique interest (B.
2/4/’47). They’re also more than a little
interested in each other, and any chance
encounter between the two immediately
deteriorates into a vicious race to dissect
each other’s anatomy. Westralian country
schoolkids catch jumpers and carry them
around in a matchbox until they sight a
bullant. The brawl seems to satiate that
sadistic urge so prevalent in schoolkids.
* * * *
“Blime”; Jim was riding cursefully
through his back paddock when he met
his neighbor’s new hand mooching along
with mattock and shovel. “’Day,”
greeted the new bloke. “I got t’ start
diggin’ out Tim Parslow’s rabbits. Dunno
this locality much —could y’ let us know
where’s the best place to start?” “Sure,”
agreed Jim, heartily. “Y’ll need t’ start
back in the gully there an’ work up this
ridge ; then over the fence on to the hill
an’ make towards that high top. Pars-
low’s block ends there. Don’t miss these
burrers on the ridge here, or them in the
gully.” The new hand stuck solidly to
the job, and by the end of a fortnight
was through the fence on to the hill, when
Tim Parslow rode out to inspect his pro-
gress. Fifteen minutes later he was hunt-
'ffig Jim with haste and determination.
“What the blazes d’y’ mean gettin’ me
rabbiter t’ clean up your property?” he
bellowed ferociously. “He asked y’
which wus my paddick, didn’t he?”
“Why, no ; he never said anything like
that,” Jim explained blandly. “Just said
he was after your rabbits ; an’, by cripes,
Tim, all o’ them little cows are yours.
They come in from that corner where y’
won’t do your half o’ the fence! ”
* * * if
“Betcha”: The drawn line as a loca-
tion pointer (B. 9/4/’47) is also the means
by which many rabbit-trappers keep track
of their traps. Working 80 to 100 traps,
one can scarcely remember their where-
abouts, so upon making each new set the
idea is to sight towards the previous one.
Commencing back along the line next
morning from where it was finished, one
simply follows the pointers. A common
practice also is to scratch a cross after
every tenth set, so the number can be
checked and loss of traps avoided. The
plan works right enough in dry weather,
but it is when a trap is pulled out and
dragged that one needs the assistance of
a trap-dog. Which breed makes the best
trap-dog is an argument I never enter,
but my best was an ugly little mong that
defied classification.
* * * *
“Mondrain”: Mention of the Recher-
ches (B. 9/4/’47) recalls that those is-
lands, to-day Australia’s loneliest, at one
time carried a small population. Mostly,
it was reputed, escapees from Van Die-
men’s Land during the 20’s and 30’s of
last century, the palmy day of Macquarie
Harbor. Hardy devils, they had come by
stolen boat first to the islands of Bass
Strait; then the of Port Phillip, a
place noted for the superior quality of
the native women, and where a resolute
crew might capture “wives.” Then on to
Kangaroo Is., where Yankee whalers were
often to be found, with skippers willing to
take any able-bodied man for a whaling
cruise, though with no taste for taking
absconding British convicts back to God’s
Own Country. So, quite often, the ille-
gally-at-large found himself dumped on to
the- Recherches, that being the handiest
to King George’s Sound, the bluenose
skippers’ last landfall of Australia to the
westward, with a stock of provisions, per-
haps a gun, and, if he was very lucky, a
boat. He usually found company already
there. Life wasn’t too bad, for there were
plenty of stone for the building of a hut,
food in abundance, fish, geese, duck,
seals, and for those rascals, raids on the
tribes of the near mainland, with cap-
tured women as the prizes. And periodic
visits to King George’s Sound with seal-
skins provided fresh supplies of flour and
tobacco.
* * * »
“C.E.”: Was riding into town when 1
overtook Bob drifting along behind a
mob of bullocks. Presently there came
a toot, a hasty shifting of cattle, and a
dust cloud that raced away in front.
“Bill Hayes,” snorted Bob, nodding after
the car. “Me ’n’ Bill hit this district
t’gether 20 years ago, an’ went pros-
pectin’. Yair, an’ look at him. Struck
a patch, an’ now there ain’t a thing he
can’t have, while I tail blasted cattle, an’
sleep under a tree in the rain. Gripes,
he’s a lucky cow, that bloke.” When I
hit town, the “lucky cow” was outside
the garage watching Big Dick unload
a truck of superphosphate. “Give me
last bean t’ swop places with that chap,”
he remarked. “A steady job, a wife to
look after him, and just get those muscles!
Not like this.” He held up hands twisted
with arthritis. “Laid up half me time,”
he sighed, “and nobody t’ give a damn.”
He limped off, and. I turned to grin at
Dick, as old Bob’s mob hove in sight
round the bend. Dick too, stopped to
watch the drover. “What a life,” he
murmured wistfully. “Laze along in the
sun with your nag and dog, eat when
you like, yarn to everybody, and get
paid for doing it.” He sighed mightily.
“No heavy stuff to lump, no one to nag
if you’re late home, or spend a bit, not a
worry in the World. Gripes,” his eyes
followed Bob as he reached for another
bag, “some blokes have all the luck.”
» * * *
“Naturala”: That pal of “Old Junee’s”
who sat by the ant-hole and bashed the
occupants with a slipper (B. 9/4/’47)
only imagined that he had wiped the
whole colony out. What about the
thousands of eggs still down in the egg
compartments and the thousands of
young ants in the chrysalis stage—those
white “eggs” about which the nurse ants
display such scurrying anxiety when a
nest is broken into? And the thousands
of nurses themselves? For it is only the
foragers and their guards that leave the
nest to wander in the upper air. So if
every one of these were destroyed there
would still be sufficient stores of food on
hand to enable the nurses to hatch out
another complete regiment of foragers.
Finally, no ant colony can be considered
as extinct while the queen remains alive,
since she has the capacity of laying
enough eggs to repopulate the nest. Thus,
the best way to exterminate ants is by
poison; which will sooner or later be
carried to the queen as her maids of
attendance feed her.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Three good Australians
are just now replacing another three of
the kind for a year of service in one of
the world’s loneliest jobs—weather obser-
vation at Willis Island, some 275 miles
eastward of Cairns (N.Q.). All are volun-
teers, one from the Commonwealth
Meteorological Bureau, the others from
the A.W.A. Every three hours they send
a message by wireless giving all requisite
details for weather forecasting, particularly
with respect to cyclonic developments.
Their only contacts with fellow-men will
be during the brief periodic calls of the
lighthouse steamer Cape Leeuwin. Cook-
ing, sewing, repairing and maintaining
the station aqd equipment will also keep
them occupied, with reading, gardening,
fowl-keeping and fishing as relaxations.
Credit for the nationally valuable job
is the due of that doughty seaman Cap-
tain John King Davis, Director of Navi-
gation and former Antarctic adventurer.
Told by officialdom that it would be im-
possible to get men game enough to face
a cyclone season on the lonely little low
coral-and-sand islet he got six months’
leave and did the job himself. Where-
upon, bureaucracy gasped and gave in.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: When moths are released
in his cage Joe, my pet fat-tailed gecko,
will do a fixed point at one and, if it
should flutter up to the roof of the cage,
his head and eyes will slowly follow it.
In doing so he may disregard another
moth Within easy range. By the time his
searching eyes have reached the roof the
original moth most probably will have
flown down again, but Joe keeps on star-
ing, at the place where it should be until,
after perhaps half a minute, he is quite
satisfied the darned insect is no longer
there. This looks as though Joe ranks
for intelligence down with the Mongols.
Actually his behavior has a definite
adaptive value. He is far too slow to
catch a moth by chasing it round; his
very living depends on picking a mark
and concentrating on it absolutely until
either he has it in his mouth or he’s satis-
fied it’s gone for good. In case anyone
feels like retorting that reptilian be-
havior is almost purely instinctive let
him, before replying, watch an infant
skink—one of the little lacquered fly-
catchers —learning to stalk flies.
ENVY.
Somewhere in the west tonight a man is riding
home,
Riding home along the pathway of the sun,
Where the mellow autumn shadows reach shyly
out to touch him
And the ripe grass moves where wind-waves
roll and run.
There is darkness in the hollow where the
twisted swamp-gums are
Standing calm along the borders of the
stream;
And he sees the swinging circle of horizons vast
and lonely,
And at hand the homestead window’s warm-
ing gleam.
He has been abroad since morning on a humble
sort of job,
“Bound’ry ridin’ ” on a station of the plains,
With his steady horse beneath him and his
padding dog beside him,
And none to praise or blame him for his
pains.
There were plover on the pine-ridge where he
ate his midday meal,
e And a wagtail entertained him for a span,
And he watched a wedge-tail eagle, high and
far and wheeling,
Like a thought beyond the common reach
of man.
Then through the lazy afternoon the silent
horseman moved.
Sitting loosely, with a hanging bridle rein;
And the amber-eyed merinos raised their woolly
heads to watch him,
Saw him pass, and to their feeding turned
again.
So he rode the spreading paddocks while the
tranquil daytime passed,
Unhurried, calm, and sometimes with a song;
Finding pleasure in the color of the bushland
all around him
And amusement in his quiet thoughts and
long.
And, sure, his lot is lonely, and, sure, his life
seems dreary,
Measured by the standards of the town.
But he has no crowd to plague him, no city
noise to daze him —
He doesn’t care if stocks are “up” or
“down.”
And though I’m in the city, “doing well,” as
people say,
I long to be, when daily work is done,
Somewhere in the west tonight, just riding,
riding home,
Riding home along the pathway of the sun.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


WAVE ABOUT TO BREAK.
We pay to see the imitation,
The thing itself is free, . . ,
The seething, breathing, thundering, blundering
Old green sea.
Gratis we see the giant comber
Charged with lust and pride,
Wrathful, boastful, lunging, plunging
On to suicide;
Nothing to pay for the spectral sunbeam
Not seen, but hardly guessed, ...
A glimmer, a shimmer, lightening, brightening
The monster’s crest.
We pay to see the vaunted, painted
Wave assault the cliff,
The snowy, blowy, feathery spume
Frozen stiff;
We pay to see the foam flying
Off the cockney screen
Into our staring, glaring faces,
Salt and clean.
m.l. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Greenhide Bob”; “No more private
detective work for me,” said Monkey-
strap. “We was in from Hazard Creek
for a spell, an’ the rum was good. About
12 o’clock Jimmy comes in with a tale
that there’s burglars breakin’ into the
bank, an’ a scream had bin heard from
inside. We hops up t’ the bank, which
is all in darkness ; but there’s a faint
light in the shed next door. We sneak
through the back gate, an’ there’s a
winder, open, with a candle burnin’ in-
side. ‘Cop this,’ sez a voice in the dark,
an’ somethin’ comes through the winder,
I grabs it. It’s hairy, an’ warm, an’ wet.
‘What the hell’s this?’ I whispers, ‘it’s
the ruddy bank manager’s head,’ sez the
voice. ‘I had ter cut it orf.’ I drops the
thing an’ runs, yellin’ murder. Out comes
the police sergeant an’ the rest of Border-
ville in night shirts, some without, carryin’
lamps an’ candles. We goes back t’ the
corpse, an’ there’s the butcher, laughin’
his ruddy head orf, holdin’ a sheep’s head,
covered with blood, just in from the
slaughteryards. Y’d have thought it was
funny, t’ see the way them cops laughed! ”
* * * *
“Emjai”; Tinkering with rivers by the
uninitiated often leads to unexpected re-
sults. At the junction of the Ovens and
King Rivers (Vic.) there was once an
ideal swimming hole, shelving sandy
beach on one side for the kiddies and 20
feet of water under the diving-tower and
spring-boards, with a fine stretch of deep
water for aquatic events. Slantwise par-
tially across the mouth of the King was
an old log which had lain there for
donkey’s years and doubtless played a
big part in directing currents which built
the sandbank and scoured the deeps.
An enthusiastic Improvement Com-
mittee pulled out the log. After the next
flood the sandbank was no more, there
were inches of water where there had
been feet under the diving-tower and silt
deposit had built up downstream to spoil
the stretch of water. Neither man nor
Nature is likely to provide another ob-
struction to restore the old conditions.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Lucky and Waterwheel
were working a shaft in the auriferous
country out of St. Arnaud (Vic.) and had
bottomed at about 30ft. and were driv-
ing north on promising stone. They
took turn about below, a half-day each,
and that afternoon when they reached
the hole after dinner Lucky got into the
bucket and was lowered by his mate.
After a time Waterwheel was struck by
the complete silence from below and
tried to peer down. He could see the
candle, but no sign of movement. “You
all right. Lucky?” he cried. An urgent
“Sh-sh!” floated up the shaft. Puzzled,
Waterwheel waited. Nothing happened.
“What’s wrong?” he sent down the shaft.
This time the whisper was more urgent.
“Sh-sh. Keep quiet, can’t y’! ” Water-
wheel scratched his head, looked at the
surrounding landscape in,bafflement and
then became exasperated. “Hey,” he
called, “whatinblazes are y’ up t’ down
there?” “Wind up, wind up,” boomed
his mate frantically. Waterwheel
jumped to the windlass and wound. Up
came the bucket and he was about to
grab it when he sighted a hefty black
snake weaving about in it, grabbed the
long-handled shovel, hooked the bucket
from the shaft and chopped its occupant
in half. “Whyinell,” he roared down the
shaft, “didn’t y’ tell me there was a
flamin’ snake?” “Couldn’t,” came the
answer. “He was asleep on the candle-
ledge. Your blasted yellin’ woke him
up an’ he dived inf the bucket. Lucky,
ain’t I?” Waterwheel’s opinion must be
censored.
* * * •
“Wanderer”: Fishing on the Balonne
River (Q.) I noticed a dead white crane
floating in shallow water, and decided
to use it for shrimp bait. On lifting it
clear of the water 1 found a carpet-snake,
also dead and full of water, attached to
the bird. Closer examination revealed
that the top portion of the crane’s bill
[iad penetrated the lower jaw of the snake
from the inside of the mouth. A tall
gum with a limb overhanging the river
almost directly above the scene of the
tragedy appeared to solve the mystery.
Apparently the crane was camped on the
limb for the night and “Joe,” who was
about eight feet long, attacked in the
hope of making a meal. In the ensuing
fight they both fell from the limb into
the water. Neither being able to close its
mouth, they both drowned.
“ Natio nality?”
“Zake”: Unlike the abo with whom
he has shared this continent for so long,
the frill-necked lizard, that horrific-look-
ing but rather genial fellow, gives serious
thought to the future tucker supply. Nor
is his cache one for which, like other
denizens of the bush, he has to pummel
his memory to find again. All frilly has
to do is distend his frill. Among its many
folds he can select a defunct grasshopper
or other and lesser gastronomic delight
which he has parked there against the
lean time.
* * * #
“X.E.D.”: Morgan, confined to his
mattress with a heavy cold and what re-
mained of the bottle of rum, dwelt dis-
mally on the prospects of his ewes lamb-
ing satisfactorily under any but his own
supervision. “But I’ll have t’ git some-
one t’ do the mornin’ rounds, Fred,” he
said, “An’ it ain’t much use havin’ a
bloke old Kelpie won’t foller, ’cause he’s
the on’y dawg y’ c’n rely on t’ find ’em
in that scrubby paddick. Ring up Alby
Morris an’ see if he’d come f’r a few
days.” “But Alby’s not much of a hand
with sheep,* y’ know,” Fred said. “Y’d
git someone better than him.” “Yairs, I
know,” Morgan said wearily. “But he’s
the on’y one I know that Kelpie’ll foller.
Y’ see, we found this out by accident a
couple o’ munce ago —Alby’s got ezackly
the same scent t’ a dawg as me own! ”
* * * v
“Esk D.”: With a heavy scowl Dad
Ramswool strides on to the verandah.
“Why, whatever’s wrong?” Mum asks
in tones that show she fears the usual
worst. “Ar, it’s them blasted cats agen,”
Dad roars. “Sure as I git softhearted an’
let y’ keep one it ain’t long before it’s got
kittens, an’ now the place is overrun with
the pests. A man can’t walk f’r the things,
an’ it’s a sin the way they’ve cleaned up
the birds wot useter keep the caterpillars
an’ grubs orf the veges. But that’s nothin’
t’ what that flamin’ Tom’s done now.”
“O-oh, Dad, what has he been doing?”
Mum asks. “Well —er,” Dad says, “I
sooled the dogs on t’ the old loafer an’
he lit out up the wireless pole, fell orf
into the tank an’ got hisself drowned.
Now I’ll have t’ climb out on the roof an’
git him out or he’ll taint the dripkin’
water. Gripes, Mum, I dunno' why y’
ever wanted them mischievious animals
about the place.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; About all the white man
has been able to do with the bark of the
cadjeput, or paper-bark tree, is use it for
the lining of hanging flower baskets.
Binghi, of the Kimberleys, puts it to
better ends. A fairly big cadjeput will
yield a sheet four or five feet wide antf
up to ten feet long. This bark consists
of a dozen or more paperlike layers, the
outer ones soft and ruffled, capable of
inducing warmth. So here is a ground
sheet. A similar sheet makes a blanket.
So Binghi faces the winter or the wet.
Further sheets solve all housing troubles.
Lengthy sheets bent in the form of an
inverted U and with the ends buried in
a shallow trench make a tent. Half a
dozen side by side, and with plenty of
lap, make a weatherproof house for a
family. A single sheet, too, is not to be
scorned as an overcoat. Have seen an
anciept gin crouching over a fire burning
on a hollow stump endure through a
night of pouring rain with only a sheet
of paper=bark spread across her skinny
back ana head. Buckets, too, are made
from cadjeput, the side stitched down,
the bottom stitched in, seams and joint
rendered watertight with melted gum.
And, of course, Mrs. Binghi uses the
bark as a cooking utensil: wrapped
around a fat mullet or barramundi and
laid on hot coals it cooks the contents
to perfection and then serves as a platter
that requires no washing-up.
» * * «
“Bo,” with a bridge yarn;
Stumpy had done a 12-mile stretch with a
heavv swag up along a bad W-corrugated road
that over the last mile or two had given his
feet curry. His tucker-bag was as empty as his
pockets as, dog-tired and irritable, he at last
reached the township to learn that his mate
Chunky, whom he expected to be waiting for
him at the pub, financial, had late that after-
noon filled up at the beer bowser and gravi-
tated towards his camp under the bridge,
another two miles on the other side of the
town. Perforce Stumpy dragged his battered
feet bridgewards, buoyed up by the faint hope
that Chunky would have acted with noble self-
abnegation and kept half a billyful of beer for
It was pitch dark when Stumpy got to the
bridge. No sign of his mate, nor did he get
any response to a call. Then he caught sight
of a faint glow from a dying fire from under
the bridge on the other side of the river.
Heartened, he made his way across the bridge,
which was a lengthy one owing to the gently
sloping nature of the river’s banks At last,
through the chinks in the decking, he saw the
glowing embers beneath him. This time his
call elicited a response albeit a somnolent one.
With every yard saved meaning less of pedal
agony, Stumpy thought of the walk he could
save to the end of the bridge and down the
bank. “How far’s the drop, Chunky?” he
called. Chunky’s mental processes weren’t
exactly jet-propelled. Half a minute later there
floated up his drawled opinion that it was
“on’y a few feet.” Without hesitation Stumpy
dumped his drum over the side, suspended
himself from a girder to the full length of
his short arms, and let go. Twelve feet below
a “cat’s-egg” bush broke his fall.
After he’d scraped the bottom of his oath-
bin for his choicest bits of invective he roared,
ISSSf&S'&Zi
answer, “where I come from a few can mean
anything from three up to a dozen.” “But, y’
blasted ape,” shrieked Stumpy, as he pulled
thorns from his hide, “why couldn’t y’ ’ave
given a man the office to go a bit further along
to where it’s a shorter drop?” Chunky thought
ponderously for almost a minute. “What would
’a’ bin the good?” he wondered at last. “They’s
bank!” 88 §row ‘ n ''"“ y “ P
♦ * * *
“B. A. Ker”; A few miles north of
Wollongong (N.S.W.), snuggled behind a
sand dune that rolls down to a magnifi-
"I'll overlook it this time, but We don't allow customers in the lounge in
their shirt sleeves”
cent expanse of surf, there is a grove
whose natural beauty has always fasci-
nated me. Fringed on the lower side by
swamp-oaks and carpeted by their pine-
like needles, it rises to patches of bottle-
brush and luscious green couch. On this
higher land the gnarled and twisted blood-
woods and gums grow. Day or night it
is an enchanted forest, especially at night
when the moon is shining through the
fantastically twisted limbs and “the little
people” are there —stirring through the
bottlebrush, scratching the bark on the
gums. On the thick horizontal branch
of the big dead stringybark near the track
a big silver-grey silhouettes himself as his.
back arches like an alley cat as his sus-
picious eyes follow me around. From
the jagged hollow near the top of the
dwarf ironbark a smaller possum
emerges—sometimes scampering before a
mate who is the partner in the following
acrobatics. It was on this spot that
I found the reformer camped. “I don’t
know where this council’s brains are,”
he said. “Here’s a place that could be
made into somethin’ real decent. All
they’d have to do would be to reef out
all these ugly, rubbishin’ trees and plant
neat rows of camphor-laurels,”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Insect intelligence
—or just instinct (B. 2/4/’47)? It’s hard
to say. The trapdoor spider builds its
home in a manner and at a site which is
invariably best suited to its purpose.
Swarming bees dispatch scouts to seek a
hollow tree in which a small opening
leads to a roomy cavity. For about eight
months of the year the spiders, which
inhabit my paddocks, ignore the hornets
which, their breeding season over, have
no use for spiders. But during four sum-
mer months the approach of a hornet is
sufficient to send the web-spinner scurry-
ing out of sight. He knows that the hor-
net is seeking a living incubator at that
season. Instinct, or reason? The ants
which infest the higher levels —I’ve never
seen their nests flooded—prepare days in
advance for an approaching storm and,
.during the blow, take advantage of each
break to effect repairs. Once sought to
determine a hornet’s I.Q. It carried a
spider to within a few inches of its nest,
then deposited it and carried out a recce.
Satisfied that its home was inviolate, it
returned to where it had laid its victim.
It located it where I had placed it a
couple of feet away, brought it back to
the original position, then dropped it and
again investigated the nest. I moved it
again and the procedure was repeated.
What looked at first sight like a planned
action —the investigation of the nest —
was obviously instinctive. Reason would
have told it that the nest, having just
been inspected, was free from danger.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We paused at the top of
the range, and idly I surveyed the scene.
Mile after endless mile of timbered
ridges and tops, the majority almost un-
scalable, jostled each other for standing
room as far as the eye could reach.
“They’re talking about making a tourist
resort up here,” I murmured, eyes still on
the silent grandeur. “That’ll mean a road
in somewhere, and maybe a ski run on
old Feathertop.” “A ... a road!"
Sevehtyfiver was hanging on every word
like a man listening to his death sen-
tence. “Don’t suppose it’ll come for
another 50 years yet,” I parried. '“You
know what the city’s like.” “Yair,” he
nodded. “Where they pull their houses
down just to build ’em different. Where
they plant a few trees from some God-
forsaken country, then chop ’em out
again k’ put in somethin’ else.” He
looped an arm over the neck of his old
dumper, and roved troubled eyes across
the granite slopes climbing to the hori-
zon. He took in the light and shadows
in the gorge below, and the lone wedge-
tail hanging against a background of blue,
“It means progress,” I pointed out, “and
trade for the nearest towns.” “Money.”
His voice echoed from the untamed
slopes like a moan. “Course I don’t
want t’ be unreasonable, Sol,” he ipur-
mured presently, “but I don’ go down
muckin’ up their backyards,”


te m w ’
have to sell/
for a
whatever vou
want to buy, A.M.L. & *• w
A6.22.1f
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND, (863)
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACCA, MOREE, HENTY AND HAY
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
To Remedy
BONE
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
- All particulars from :—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
r Va
il.
C‘- \ IL J ) .
DESTROY THESE PESTS
- OnogaS
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
IS THE REGISTERED BRAND OF
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Established 1898)
Farm Qates ♦ “R inglock” Fence • Wrought Iron Work
Prefabricated Farm Buildings • Ornamental Qates and Fences
Playground Equipment • Stock Transports • Tubular Equipment
for Dairy Sheds • CLpin Wire Machinery and Window Quards
Tennis Court Enclosures • Flywire /• Steel Scaffolding .
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - ADELAIDE - PERTH
CGB/6 —————n
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Flock Improvement.
“Murrawong”: Conditions have never
been more favorable for improving
merino flocks than today. Practically any
type and age of merino can find a buyer
at high prices. A breeder can cull as
heavily or lightly as he wishes in the
knowledge that he can dispose of every-
thing at a satisfactory figure.
Sheepmen now appreciate the fact that
overstocking doesn’t pay; some are
rather inclined to understock. Heavy
taxation has forced many to cut their
flocks down considerably and both the
flocks and the runs will show the benefit
very quickly.
Current competition for stylish wools
should encourage breeders to improve
flocks ; in times of low wool prices it’s
the nondescript wools that are passed in,
while well-bred types still sell. Many
graziers will be looking for better-type
rams at a higher than usual figure this
year. Good rams will exert great influ-
ence on a flock, but it’s waste of time
and money joining them with nondescript
ewes. The ewes should be rigorously
culled within the next few months and
the culls disposed of.
At a time like the present, one can
afford to class all the breeders. The best
time is just before shearing and, although
this is not always possible on account
of lambing, the sheep should have as
much wool growth as possible. Before
beginning, fix the objective firmly in the
mind. It should be to make the flock
as even in every way as possible, so
that at shearing the number of fleece
lines will be reduced to a minimum and
the main lines of each flock bulky and
even in quality, and also to improve the
general standard by getting rid of any
constitutional weaknesses apparent in it.
While the woolclasser can keep the fleece
lines even, remember that the evenness
of “broken” and “pieces” lines depends
on rigid culling.
Sheep will be classed from two aspects
—constitution and covering. Constitu-
tion must be first and any sheep with
constitutional defects ruthlessly dis-
carded. Never mind the wool; get rid of
over- and under-shot jaws, narrow chests,
devil’s grip, cow hocks, legginess and
small or stunted animals. Every ewe
should be able to breed and rear a
lamb. Many good ewes cannot breed
because of damage to the vulva at shear-
ing or are unable to rear a lamb because
the teats have been cut off by the shears.
These points cannot always be checked
at classing, but whenever ewes are being
handled they should be looked for.
If constitution is satisfactory examine
the wool. It is impossible to generalise
here. Sheep may be getting bare* on the
points or the bellies, getting too plain
in the neck or too wrinkly on the body or
too woolly on the face. Except for out-
standing cases, these faults call for cor-
rection in the choice of rams, but don’t
fail to consider the season and the pre-
vious season and their effects. A sheep
does not recover from a bad drought in
a matter of months.
Ailments of Cattle.
“Rooster”: It’s dangerous to diagnose
and treat them without the aid of a vet.
Sometimes, however, a vet. is not to
hand, and a general knowledge of specific
symptoms will help considerably.
Hoven, or bloat, is brought on by fer-
mentation of excess green, succulent
foods in the first stomach. Green clovers
or lucerne are nearly always responsible,
"All the accidents happen THERE —
We’re thinkin' of puttin’ up a
safety fence.”
particularly new spring growths. There
is a tense swelling of the left flank, bulg-
ing outwards and upwards ; there may
be difficulty in breathing, and staggering
when made to move ; the animal is dis-
inclined to eat; in severe cases the back
is arched. Relief may be obtained in
mild attacks by exercising the animal,
keeping it on the move until the fer-
mented gases are belched out. Stockholm
tar or grease smeared on a piece of flat
board and rubbed on the tongue will in-
crease salivation and assist in belching.
If this is ineffective give a drench made
up of turpentine 20z., bicarbonate of soda
30z., raw linseed oil half-pint. In severe
cases it will be necessary to puncture the
wall of the paunch through the left side
at a spot midway between the last rib
and hip bone, and the same distance be-
low the spine. A carving-knife, well
sterilised, will do the trick if a trocar
and canula are not to hand ; the knife
should be turned and left in till all the
gas has escaped.
Parturient apoplexy or milk fever may
develop after the first appearance of
milk prior to, or after, calving. It is
primarily due to a temporary calcium
deficiency in the blood. Usually it affects
only easy milkers, and follows after an
easy birth. There is less chance of
attack if cows are not too fat or well fed
just prior to calving time. It occurs
within a few hours after calving, rarely
beyond a week. The cow usually sways
about, then sinks helplessly to the
ground ; after a short while the head be-
comes permanently turned towards the
flank, which may fill with gas; appetite
is lost and rumination ceases ; eyes and
tongue protrude; dung and urine are
retained ; milk may leak from the udder ;
the cow will not drink.
Immediate treatment is to prop the
cow up on her chest in a recumbent
position by supporting with sacks filled
with straw, and turn her from side to
side every four hours. Empty the rectum
by using the hand well lubricated with
soap or oil. Inflate the udder, using
for choice the standard milk fever out-
fit, or sterilised milk tube attached to a
bicycle pump, first cleansing the tips of
the teats with methylated spirits, then
inserting the tube directly into the teat
canal. Sufficient air should be pumped
in to distend each quarter firmly. There
is no necessity for tying the teats to hold
the air. Never drench a cow whilst in
this condition; wait until she is on her
feet. A dose of Epsom salts may then
be given, followed by a stimulant drench
of pulverised nux vomica four dims, and
carbonate of ammonia 20z., dissolved in
half-pint of warm water and a cup of
treacle. Vets, are now using a special
calcium preparation applied intra-
venously.
Vaginitis is a disease of the genital
organs, particularly of heifers and young
cows. It may result,in a temporary
sterility of the animal and if not checked
will infect the whole herd. Symptoms
are slight swelling of the vulva, and sen-
sitiveness of the region. The vulva, when
closely examined, is seen to be red and
covered with a purulent discharge of a
greyish-white color. In advanced or un-
treated cases little eruptions of a pimply
nature occur on the lining of the vagina.
Strict isolation and cleanliness are essen-
tial. The vulva and vagina should be
douched with a warm solution (one in
500) of permanganate of potash, or, better
still, with a solution of sulphate of zinc,
40z., water 1 pint. Add l|oz. of this
solution to a gallon of water and
douche the cow daily, using the whole
gallon, whilst there is any discharge. The
bull should be similarly treated and all
services stopped while he is affected.
Molasses for. Stock.
“Plane Creek”: Molasses on green
chaff makes the chaff much more pala-
table and somewhat more nutritious.
Very few, however, regard it as a sus-
taining ration for working horses or milk-
ing cows. Expert tests have shown that
molasses contains little or no protein—
which gives stock lasting strength and
stimulates milk production in dairy cattle.
Molasses contains somewhat more than
50 p.c. of carbohydrate matter in easily-
digested sugar form ; this gives the animal
temporary strength. It contains also
certain valuable mineral salts including
iron. Given freely, it predisposes idle
animals to fatness, but on the other hand
it can cause scouring and consequent loss
of condition. A neighbor gives his
draught horses large quantities of mol-
asses instead of chaff when they are not
at work. It makes them pig-fat and
gives their coats a great shine ; but when
he puts them to work, the heat soon tells
on them.
Most Queensland cane farmers give
their draught and saddle horses and house
cows from half to one 21b. fruit-tin of
molasses to every kerosene-tin of feed.
Very thick molasses is hard to pour, so it
is sometimes thinned down with cold water
before being used. This is done by
pouring molasses into a vessel and adding
water while stirring until the molasses
is thinned but still fairly thick. Only a
few gallons of molasses should be watered
at a time, and it should be used as
quickly as possible.
Blackberry Pest.
“E. 2”: Landholders in mountain
districts are finding blackberry control to
be a serious problem. It has taken years
of backbreaking toil to clear the farms,
and, though a fair number of clumps
hung on tenaciously, the pest was suc-
cumbing to consistent cutting and grub-
bing. War-time man-power shortage
allowed the ’berry an opportunity to re-
gain its hold on some farms, and its
spread is particularly noticeable on
Crown lands and forest areas.
It is no uncommon sight to see the
tangled masses covering hundreds of
acres aqd streams becoming overgrown.
The plant is remarkable in that it can
compete on better than even terms with
virgin bush, and its quick-recovery after
fires allows it to get ahead of indigenous
plants. Birds, rabbits and other animals
scatter the seeds far and wide, aqd flood-
waters deposit them thickly on rich graz-
ing flats. Farms are reinfested with an
annual crop of blackberry seedlings by
these agents, and they are difficult to
eradicate on permanent pastures and
rough slopes.
The ’berry has got beyond the old
methods of cutting by slasher and


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
School resumes 29th May.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Me
ifim
»W
%
Why drag around, dull, listless and sluggish?
Why tolerate that sick headachey feeling, that
miserable bilious condition? You must clear
your system of poisonous wastes before
you can feel right or be right. Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills, gentle in action, will
help promote the daily regularity so essen-
tial for toning up the liver and kidneys. The
ingredients are purely vegetable and act as a
general corrective of constipation. Try a dose
to-night and see how much better you feel
to-morrow. Ask for and insist on. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
■
to*
tee
IHffl
• u>lbo |o\.
fg
Security for your
dependents can
be easily and de-
finitely assured
by a life assur-
ance policy with
Equitable Pro-
bate and General
Insurance Co,
Ltd. Fulfil this
family responsi-
bility to-day.
R. V. PERKINS
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
t GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTO.
//ecJoff/ce37H73@(Jee/i!t, Srisfiarte
WINCELLO HOUSE, ANOEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horderns )
" Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
mm
mm
■
mm.
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m.
mm
m
mm
m
m
m
mm
m
I
BS
m
m
am
i
BBBBb i
'
m
m
m
W
m
am
m
m
mt
wm
Mi
m
m
m
m
m
Sm
m
r/A
and
f
4M6
'The Bowls used by Sir Francis Drake and
generations before him were “woods.” The
name survives, but Bowls made of wood are
now obsolete.
Wood varies in density, warps and shrinks
as a result of climatic changes—hence the bias
and balance of wooden Bowls are uneven.
Some years ago an Australian Bowl Manufac-
turer, Mr. W. D. Hensell, decided that a Bowl
made of synthetic plastic should realise all the
characteristics required for a perfect Bowl.
Ellitane proved the perfect material—of even
texture, of correct specific gravity, true in bias
and in balance, unaffected by extremes of
climate and by years of play.
There remained the problem of the perfect
Jack. Porcelain Jacks are not true spheres,
varying in weight and size. Now the perfect
Jack is being made by Mr. Hensell from a
special Beetle plastic—true in shape and
weight, homogeneous and permanently white.
Henselite Bowls and Jacks are unique. As
befits the best in the world, they are exported
from Australia to every country where Bowls
are played.
Ellitane and Beetle plastics are made by:—
1
**
BEETLE ELLIOTT PLASTICS PTY. LTD
35 TERRY STREET,
ROZELLE, N.S.W.
’Phone; WR2SZI
16 ROND STREET,
MELBOURNE
’Phone: MUIS6B
mower ; burning and grubbing and sprays,
though claimed to be effective, are much
too expensive where large areas have to
be tackled. Cost to the farmers m trying
to keep the pest within reasonable
bounds, a never-failing source of work
and-worry, must be thousands of pounds
annually. The difficulties are aggravated
by the presence of the large expanses of
blackberries on bush land bordering the
farms. Research on measures of black-
berry control is needed on a far greater
scale than at present. The situation calls
for the establishment of a research station
to deal solely with the pest. And a move
to clean up the ’berries on bush land is
long overdue.
Reserves of Fodder.
“E. 2”: A fairly large percentage of Vic-
toria’s dairying country, particularly in
the east, is untroubled by drought except
in extra bad seasons. Even then the dairy
districts are last to feel the strain and
could carry on without losses if fodder
reserves were up to standard. These dis-
tricts are favored with two good seasons
out of three, and have developed largely
through great advances in pasture im-
provement. But fodder conservation is
still not practised to the extent it deserves,
and stock are needlessly forced to struggle
through hard winters. Too many herds,
calving in late winter and early spring,
come in in poor condition that is not
picked up for a couple of months.
Dairymen should learn, by computing
their fodder requirements for hand-feed-
ing over a given time, to keep on hand
sufficient reserves to carry them through
the worst season. Even if not required
for starving stock, hand-feeding through
winter and -lean periods is sound practice,
ensuring that stock don’t fall away in
condition too much at any time and
preventing overgrazing pastures. One of
the rules for a successful milking season
is having the cows in strong, well-fed
condition at calving-time.
Spread the Manure.
“Sarina”: Although chemical analysis
shows some grasses as being considerably
richer in milk-producing protein than
others of similar characteristics, the
figures should not be always regarded as
accurate. The protein content of grasses
is directly influenced by the nitrogen in
their soils and a nitrogen scarcity means
a protein deficiency in the grass, for pro-
tein is a nitrogenous compound.
Nitrogen, however, should not be scarce
in soils under pasture, for the excreta
of dairy-cattle contain this element. But
it may be concentrated in various parts of
a paddock if the manure is allowed to
remain in heaps. Harrowing spreads
cattle manure very effectively.
If the manure is left in dumps small
parts of the paddock will be over-supplied
with nitrogen, and will show very green
grass, whereas aw,ay from the manure-
heaps the grass Will be dull green as a
result of nitrogen starvation. Cattle will
not eat the lush feed around the manure-
heaps, but will concentrate on the starv-
jng grass elsewhere. Result is that they
do not get the maximum value from the
pastures. There is also wastage of the
unwanted rank grass. Harrowing to
spread manures makes for a uniformly
rich pasture and eliminates wastage.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Many pig-raisers living in
or adjacent to fruit-growing districts do
not realise the food value of fruit. In
a well-balanced diet 61b. to 71b. of apples
will produce as much growth as 11b, of
wheat, barley or pollard. Pigs of wean-
ing to bacon weight should be fed daily
half a gallon of separated milk (or meat-
meal), loz. mineral mixture (four parts
ground limestone and one part salt), 21b.
crushed wheat, barley or pollard, plus as
much fruit as they can eat.
“Myrrhee”; Care of a horse’s feet
should begin as a foal. Keep hooves even
in length to avoid limb malformation.
The handling will quieten the youngster.
Shape of hoof and quality of horn differ
according to climate and soil.- Horses
with strong feet and working on soft
soil may be worked without shoes, but
the feet should be examined regularly
and the wearing surface kept level with
a farrier’s rasp. Don’t rasp the outer
surface; this will remove the protective
coating on the horn, causing it to become
brittle and crumbly. Don’t interfere with
the frog except to remove foreign
material, nor pare the sole or the bars
of the heel. If the natural growth of
horn isn’t sufficient to keep pace with
wear the horse should be shod.
“Bai”; Flyproof doors and windows
can be patched with pieces of wire gauze
cut square and sewn in place with thread
or fastened with brass paper-fasteners.
Another plan is to stick on patches of
mosquito netting and varnish them.
“A.H.”: Having an apple-tree that was
not doing well, a Vic. Mallee woman was
told to empty the contents of the sheep’s
paunch around the butt of the tree. This
was done whenever a sheep was killed
and the stuff dug in and well watered.
The tree yielded seven cases of beautiful
juicy large apples the next season.
“Kenwood”; “Will C.” recommends
Poinciana regia, or “bird of paradise
tree,” for east-coast homes (B. 16/4/’47),
but he must be thinking of east-coast
Queensland. Sydney Botanic Gardens,
which are almost frost-free, had a speci-
men which grew over 20ft. high, and after
about 30 years produced a few flowering
branches one year, and died. The tree
flowers well in Brisbane, which seems to
show that not only freedom from frost,
but tropical or sub-tropical heat, is neces-
sary, such as it gets in its native Mada-
gascar.
“Wilco”: Mixtures containing arsenic
should not be placed in metal containers,
which they speedily corrode. A copper
or wooden vessel will not be injured.
When poisoning green timber, use a
copper poisoning-can, for preference, or,
failing that, an old earthenware teapot,
for pouring the poison. Bluestone com-
pounds are also injurious to metal vessels
but harmless to wood or earthenware.


w
L,, «
Rplft
1M
V*
•r
r
0
Trrrf
How many lady drivers were
there in Australia
in that year?
There were less than 200 ladies with
car driving licences. But already in
that year Goodyear test cars were
running approximately 1,000,000
miles per year to ensure greater
mileage and safety.
Actual use has always been the final
test at Goodyear. Testing is brutal
and rugged. Wears out other tyres
while Goodyear is still clicking off
thousands of miles at top speeds.
Extra mileage demands the finest
materials, and Goodyear has devel-
oped the world’s greatest resources
for tyre research and development.
The convincing testimony of this is
the fact that Goodyear has remained...
WORLD’S FIRST CHOICE
EVERY YEAR FOR 32 YEARS
°ftie
Goody
car
°ntrib
OflO/i
yr e
cvel
°Pfn
ent
Wrodu
. a *ght
ced
the
side
tyre
tyre
fitted
the
Ve hicle
on
all
Wotor
day,
19 13
In
Multiple
trod
ced
ply
tyres
cord
lnc reas
de
P e ndabil it
cood/tear
—you don’t stay first unless you’re best.
Cl 5-47
It your
dog's coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he la list-
less, won’t eat
or is out o 1
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN EOTION t/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/6
BOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
dfg
dfg
BARKO
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
nervous speakers
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
tVip Lessons of which are specially compiled
tor HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BKYEN HOARE,
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
of them —only a few used out of the box.
No use thinking of the waste. Box and
all he buried in the corn paddock—he
had recently scuffled the corn, so there
would be no tell-tale fresh earth. Same
with the socks. He buried them too.
There might be questions about the worn
and ragged soles. Wonderful how the
details came to him. There is a courage
in details . . .
A courage, too, in detaching himself
from the happenings of the night. Or
was it the effort of a vast fear? He could
hardly resist some queer urging to go
down to the creek —and see.. That was
sheer madness. As hard to keep his eyes
from that direction, and to stand and
listen. And there was all the dread of
waiting for the news, and the moment of
breaking it to him. But he must forget
—and live a lie. Most of all, Madge
mustn’t know.
IT was one of the young Doolans —a
1 distant sort of cousin who found
Boxer.
He leapt into fame, and the hero
worship he got from his mates compen-
sated for the horror. At first young Mat
had raced home and shrilled out—
“ There’s a dead man in the creek —I
seed him!”
The news spread quickly. There would
be no work that day even if people had
been so inclined after the picnic and the
dance. Again there was gathering to-
gether—with a great difference.
There was much talking: “You’d
hardly know it was Boxer” “Got
him—my oath!”... .“Must have poked
the gun right into his face.... “Who
on earth could”
“Funny, when you come to think of
it, right at that very spot”
But that incident at the picnic, on the
very spot, was not much talked of. There
was no wish to make much of it, though
it was tucked away at the back of the
mind. If it was mentioned at all—“Aw—
that was nothing—nothing to it at all.
Just a bit of an argument. Boxer was
tight, anyway.” And deep down there
was not much of real sympathy for Boxer
—only a horror at the suddenness of his
taking off.
There was an inquest—in the Hall.
Nothing proved beyond that it was mur-
der. Murderer unknown.
Old Sergeant Sim took charge of the
case. “Shrewd as they make them, is
the old sergeant.” But Sergeant Sim
didn’t look shrewd. He had kindly dark
eyes, a beard streaked much with grey.
He went over to Tom Hayes’s place.
Tom was up the paddock somewhere.
Tom was upset about the dreadful affair,
Mrs. Tom said. There were hot scones,
and the Sergeant must try them. He
did, and some tea. The two kiddies,
Nellie and Jim —also called “Podge”—
peeped through the crack of the door, and
decided it-was all right. They were nice
kids, and the Sergeant was fond of chil-
dren. He made much of Nellie and Jim,
felt their weight and was suitably shocked,
caught “piggies,” and counted ribs, and
got shrieks of merriment from them.
Easy enough to see that Mrs. Tom was
the best of mothers —she had happy
children.
But he must be getting along, too.
TOM was stapling some barbed-wire
1 round a new paddock. The Sergeant
agreed that stapling was good enough,
though wire ties were better. Best of all,
put it through the post. A lot more
work, of course—but an excellent job.
They sat in the shade of a wild apple
near the fence. Tom said he was going
to ring the tree—no good near a crop,
and the Sergeant thought it a pity, such
a beautiful shade.
Tom was not quite at ease—but the
Sergeant didn’t notice that. Tom got out
his plug and filled his pipe. His hands
shook a little, but the Sergeant didn’t
see it. He filled his own pipe from
Tom’s plug. A long pause, and both men
gazed over the new clearing.
But Tom couldn’t endure silence long.
Nothing to the Sergeant’s visit, of course.
Nothing at all. But—well, he must know
once and for all. He didn’t mean to ask
it, but he did: “Do you think they’ll
get the chap who who shot Boxer
Doolan?”
“Gawd only knows,” the Sergeant broke
in quite briskly.
Tom struck a match, and sucked in
strongly. The pipe wasn’t out really, but
again the Sergeant didn’t notice.
“You see,” he said, very unofficially,
“in cases like this, you must find a motive.
There isn’t any—not that I can see. Just
meaningless—it might even be an acci-
dent. Fellow concerned naturally doesn’t
like to come forward —looks too bad for
that. But if it was murder it was a brutal
one”
The Sergeant for the first time looked
straight at Tom. “A brutal one, I say.
The fellow who did it may have had
some mighty reason for doing it —or
thought he had. But rightly he should
hang for it. He covered his tracks well.”
Tom’s pipe seemed to go out again.
Again he lit up, and the Sergeant once
more gazed at the clearing.
“It could have been anyone, Tom. I
don’t think we’ll ever know. What have
we to go on? —that he used smokeless
powder and No. 4 shot. Plenty of people
can use smokeless powder and No. 4 shot.
And what would they do afterwards?—
get rid of any other cartridges of that
sort. Bury them most likely. And clean
the gun in case of search.
“So you can see how impossible it is,
to sheet home the crime—a very brutal
one, I say. Of course, some might
reckon this Boxer got what he deserved;
He might have, too. But I wouldn’t like
to be the man who took the law into
his hands in that way.”
The Sergeant closed his mouth with a
snap almost. He could do that at times.
Momentarily it made him quite grim.
But it said, too, that the subject was
closed.
- Then he relaxed, knocked out the
ashes of his pipe on his heel. “I’m going
to cadge another fill of that tobacco, Tom.
And then I’ll be going. Yes, back to
town. I can do no more about this busi-
ness. Just write it off as a bad debt, as
they say.”
Then very irrelevantly and mildly—
“ Those are great kids of yours, Tom” . ..
OF course, everyone “knew.” But
further than talk it never went, and
nothing was ever proved. Boxer just
became one of those half-and-half myster-
ies.
But the pleasant spot in Doolan’s pad-
dock down on the Willow Ponds had
seen its last picnic. You couldn’t have
a picnic there—not there! Boys some-
times visited the place —with all the thrills
of fear —and pointed out “the spot.” But
the creek ran on with its endless gurgles
and chuckles, the she-oaks sang in their
high-pitched voices, and the red-gums
waved their thin dry banners. The place
was most suitably haunted.
Tom—decent fellow, Tom —was more
shy and sensitive than ever. And the
kids —great kids they were—remained as
happy as ever. Happier, if possible.


aluiaqs
r
m
m
m
m
i
AHUBRA
HATS OF
aUALITY
Idem
CONSOLE MODEL 327
Five Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
TABLE MODEL 847
Four Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
Without electricity . . . you can bring the
choice of the world’s programmes to your
home. These new Dual Wave Receivers
maintain the high level of performance asso-
ciated with the famous “His Master’s Voice”
trade mark.
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
true-to~life RADIO
Ask your nearest H.M.V. retailer to demonstrate
these new H.M.V. radios.
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
R3/47
SMOKE-OH
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Don’t gush over your hostess and praise
everything.’’— Sydney ‘‘T elegraph.”
She might expect you to come again.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The stickiest glue ever made—strong enough
to suspend a 45-ton locomotive —has been re-
ported to the American Chemical Society.”
—Brisbane “Telegraph.”
But hardly strong enough to make poli-
ticians stick to their election promises.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Record after record has been the record of
the revived 1947 Royal Agricultural Show.”
—Local paper.
So the* editor records it in his records
of records.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Watch, lady’s stainless steel, inscribed ‘A.
Mutton,’ Roseville.”
—North Shore ( Sydney ) paper.
Sheep, sheep, come home!
“What is glory V'—“S.M.H:*
“This Week domestic helpers will rise a couple
of steps in the social ladder with the opening
in Mayfair of a swanky new college called
the National Institute of Houseworkers.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
Each graduate has the chance of be-
coming a General.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Navy cannot pipe Mr. McKell on
board.” — News item.
And he hasn’t any service ribbons with
which to deck himself.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is on record that the Duke of Marl-
borough before the battle of Blenheim had to
order his officers not to carry their cosmetic-
boxes with them into battle.” — “New Idea.”
Apparently he didn’t like a compact
formation. «
“Waiter Knew Raid Was On.” — “Sun.”
Somebody gave him a tip.
v 4* 'l* 'l'
“Books Gaoled for Bribery.”
— “Sun” heading.
When they come out they’ll turn over
a new leaf.
4* 4* 4*
“Disposals Commission to sell old State
coach.” — News item.
Surely His Magnificence could have got
a couple of trotters to pull it!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If that chin has the slightest shadow be-
neath it, try this exercise whenever you have a
moment through the day: Tilt the head back
slightly, with the mouth wide open, and then
s-l-o-w-l-y close the mouth by pulling up the
lower jaw.”— Woman's paper.
But be careful, dears, not to crunch
the glass between the teeth.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mason to Make His Own Pictures.”
— “Sun.”
He’ll soon be on the rocks if he can't
get enough film cement.
“Carol finds the telephone gone and, queerer
still, a half-smoked woman’s cigarette.”
—Story in “New Idea.”
She had evidently put herself out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Couldn’t it be made a law that all de-
partment stores must cover their windows when
changing the clothes on their wax models?”
< — “D. Telegraph.”
Wax though they are, they certainly
look brazen.
l*
“For sale: Grandfather’s Clock, striking
quarterly.”— Suburban paper.
Its work is purely seasonal.
New Identity.
“U.S. lawyers are hard at work on the case
in which Frank Sinatra knocked down with one
blow a newspaper columnist who had lampooned
him.”
He could command, you’ll understand,
A weapon of a sterner brand
More lethal than the human hand
With which in righteous wrath to smite
his
Calumnious antagonist;
So if, to floor the columnist,
Sinatra had to use his fist,
It’s likely he had laryngitis.
And now that he’s turned pugilistic,
Since one who dotes on Frankie’s distich
Is often termed a bobby-soxer,
The trait ascribed to Dr. Spooner
Provides a title for the crooner.
It’s easy, see —a “sobby” boxer.
P. M. Lusk.
It seems to me a waste of time
To strive in lengthy prose or rhyme
To state just what this glory is;
For surely there is none but knows
That that’s the place our money goes.
BERT.
Return to Sanity.
“Antoine, the world-famous hairdresser who
brought in the shingle cut after the 1918 war,
says that it will be back in fashion this year.”
—Sydney “D.T”
Yet, while not chiding the perversion
Of styles built high or hanging low.
I’d say, were my opinion sought.
There’s need for some pronounced
reversion
To simpler modes of long ago
When women looked a shingle short.
D. H. E.
Footlight Fancies.
“A new Soviet play by Simonev called ‘The
Russian Question’ will be produced at 500
Soviet theatres. Its hero is a U.S. newspaper
correspondent, Smith, who becomes so ashamed
of himself ‘dishing up poison to Americans
with their breakfast’ that he sacks his boss,
McPherson Cormick.”
The new Red Revolution Theatre in
the Grimsky Prospekt was packed.
It was the gala opening, with the
premiere of Simonev’s new anti-capitalist
drama selected for the event. The theatre
had just been completed after delays
caused by a shipment of American lend-
lease cement having been lost somewhere
on the Russian railway system for 18
months, and the original timber for
which, looted from one of the occupied
countries, had been sold privately by a
high party official, since “liquidated.”
Only a minor incident had marred the
opening. After the worker-audience had
been marched in by their guards, seven
men, all looking exactly like Stalin,
appeared in the perfumed, red-plushed
box specially reserved for the Red Fiihrer.
Four workers, absorbed in their pro-
grammes, had failed to spring up quickly
enough to chant the “Heilski, Fiihrer” as
the seven men in the box stood up to-
gether and gave thq clenched-fist salute.
The four were marched out by tommy-
gunned guards.
Hundreds of N.K.V.D. spies either sat,
sprinkled through the audience, or moved
about between acts. One, who had
(forgotten to remove his heavy black
moustache, was disguised as an ice-cream
boy. This might, to a foreigner, have
seemed strange, as the selling of ice-
cream carries the death penalty in the
“This one'll be easy —I got an
eighteen-foot grey nurse with this
Water-pistol once."
•
Workers’ Paradise. Actually the cones
were cardboard dummies, but a
placard he bore as well announced to
the enraptured toilers that if the 11th
Five-Year Plan was a success they would
be allowed real ice cream, which workers
in the enslaved capitalist countries could
never hope to get. With true Oriental
subtlety, other N.K.V.D. spies were dis-
guised as N.K.V.D. spies.
As the third act entered its dramatic
stage the comrades leaned forward on
the hardwood seats, goggle-eyed. There
was McPherson Cormick, the hated
capitalist newspaper owner, cowering at
his desk, centre stage, while the honest
foreign correspondent, who had at last
seen the light, looked at him with eyes
which blazed with scorn.
The foreign correspondent was dressed
in typical American pressman fashion:
striped trousers, morning coat, lavender
gloves, a purple shirt with a red tie which
carried a gold hammer-and-sickle stick-
pin. His grey belltopper and walking stick
lay on Cormick’s table.
He was speaking in the American
idiom common to U.S. newspapermen.
“Fie on you, Cormick,” he exclaimed
to the capitalistic vampire who paid him
his pittance of 1800 dollars a week, “for
a right scurvy poltroon. ’Twere’ a das-
tardly thing to expect an honest wage plug,
to prostitute his noble profession by
criticising the men in the Kremlin, who
are the epitome of kindliness, whose
every waking thought is the promoting
of peace, a consummation frustrated only
by America’s expansionist, war-mad aims.
Odds blood! I have decided on direct
action.”
“You ain’t goin’ to fire me, bud, are
yuh?” quoth Cormick, fear written large
on his evil face. “Y’ wouldn’t shoot the
woiks?”
The f.c. looked at his boss scornfully.
“That is the treatment you would in your
arrogance mete out to others,” he said
coldly. “Do you expect me to overlook
your alteration of my reference to M.
Stalin as one of saintly life and substi-
tuted the phrase ‘a bigger mass murderer
than Tamerlane.’ ” Your paper has
consistently misrepresented the Soviet as
being the country which holds up the
work of every international conference,
whereas all the world knows it is Britain
and America that by their unreasonable
attitude in not yielding to every Soviet de-
mand throw the spanner in the works.
No, Cormick, you’ll have to go. I’ve
stood enough”—and Smith struck a
highly dramatic attitude.
Cormick cringed again before this re-
morseless logic and the white-hot anger
of his wage-plug. His voice took on a
wheedling tone. “Yo’re sure a nice guy.
Smith,” he said. “Kaint you-all shoot
a glad mitt an’ let’s do a deal over a
rye? I’ll bump y’r pay dirt up to three
grand per. I ain’t no tightwad bum, by
General Jackson! ”
“No!” the f.c.’s voice fell upon the
craven capitalist’s ears as the trump of
doom. “No, capitalistic cutthroat, you’re
through. Collect your cheque on the way
out. No” —as the ex-newspaper magnate
grasped his ex-employee imploringly
around the knees “You’re fired.
Scram!” ~ The former newspaper
emperor crept brokenly out, the curtain
slowly fell, and thunders of applause
rolled.
As the happy workers were being
marched out of the theatre by their
guards one of them, Ivan Gibberoff,
whispered to the man alongside him, “Say,
palski, I sure wouldn’t mind giving the
sackski to the boss of the collectivised
offal foundry I work at.”
But Ivan was stiff, having picked for
a confidant an N.K.V.D. agent. Ten
minutes later Ivan was full of holes. He
had learned, a bit late, that Joe is the
One Big Boss of all happy workers, and
if they express a wish to fire him he fires
back —with hot lead.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Picnickers
Adelaide is scared of the fruit fly, so
the Government has paid hordes of
pickers to remove every vestige of fruit
and vegetables from the gardens of the
unoffending public. At least 13 square
miles of gardens were denuded at a cost
of £50,000 before the “all clear” was
announced.
We have had the pickers. The head
of the gang arrived an hour earlier than
the picnickers, which gave us time to do
a bit of picking on our own account We
worked furiously, snatching the largest of
the green lemons from the trees, the
tomatoes for green-tomato pickle and
the ripest of the muscatels.
Then they came —a happy crowd. After
a little game of “two-up” and some choice
language they began picking. One of
them, with a business-like air, deftly cut
a shrub to the ground. When mother
cried out in horror he muttered “It’s only
a castor-oil tree. I’ve seen plenty of ’em
growin’.”
Our garden is the old-fashioned kind,
with fruits and flowers growing con-
tentedly in the same beds. The dahlias
will never lift their heads again, and the
ripening marrows will never live through
the shock. Unfortunately, passion-fruit
and grapes cling to the same trellis. The
visitors liked the passion-fruit. We would
have liked it, too. Not one orange
remains.
After the exodus one small tomato
plant remained, but two hours later one
of the lads returned. “Could I use the
’phone?” He could and did, but as he
was leaving he pounced on the little
tomato and yanked it out by the roots.
—M. M.L. (S.A.).
Short Cut to Socialism
I have just been re-reading the Com-
monwealth Government’s White Paper on
Full Employment in Australia, published
in May, 1945, and a horrible thought
strikes me. The panacea for unemploy-
ment to be administered by our benevo-
lent Government is an expansion of Gov-
ernment spending as private capital ex-
penditure falls off in the initial stages of
recession. In other words, a transfer of
men from private industry to tax-
financed Government payrolls to avoid
an overall decrease in spending.
Now, from where will come the neces-
sary stimulus to initiate the retransfer of
these men into industry and off the public
payroll? The men, no doubt, are just as
happy under Government as under pri-
vate control —probably happier in the
knowledge that they can push the Gov-
ernment around.
Employers who went out of business
are by now drawing fat pay envelopes as
departmental heads or lesser officials, and
efforts to expand by private firms still
in business are dampened by heavy dis-
criminatory taxation. In short, it is in
nobody’s interest except the taxpayer’s to
have these men placed in private industry
again, and when was he ever considered?
What a wonderful short-cut to social-
isation for a Government with leanings
that way!— Pan (Q.).
While goods are becoming scarcer and
scarcer, money is becoming more and
more plentiful. The big unions are de-
manding more and more of it, and
the pensioners are putting in their claim
for another IDs. Even the Federal Gov-
ernment appears to have more money
than it can spend—l read that it was able
to spend only £285,209,000 of the
£404,976,000 budgeted for the year’s ex-
penditure. The reason, as usual, is the
shortage of materials and manpower.
I wonder what the outcome of it all
will be? Shall I have to take a three-ton
truck to work to collect my wages? Or
will the wife have to carry a chaff sack
of money slung over her back when she
goes shopping? Or shall we return Once
more to the barter system of the early
days?—A. E. (Q.).
Houses Under Construction
If, instead of talking about the houses
it will build in the next three years, the
N.S.W. Housing Commission would
finish some of the thousands already
started, the shortage might ease sooner.
The Commission finds something in-
tensely satisfying in the phrase “houses
under construction,” but the house-
hungry public would find a grbat deal
more satisfaction in “houses completed.”
It may be very encouraging to see large
groups of buildings lifting their naked
roof-timbers to the heavens, but the effect
wears off after they have been standing
in that condition month after month.
Three or four months is the normal time
for building an ordinary brick house. At
Concord (N.S.W.) there are Commission
houses that have been “under construc-
tion” for 12 months, and are not finished
yet.—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Price and Quality
“Sam’s” friend (B. 9/4/’47) who re-
jected the high-quality car because it
would last a lifetime was showing sound
commonsense. English manufacturers
find American competition hard to buck
because they cling stubbornly to the old
tradition of quality. “Made to last a
lifetime” may be an excellent dictum
applied to axe-handles. It’s stupidity
when applied to the manufacture of com-
modities in which new features are being
incorporated daily.
It’s impossible, for instance, to build
a car in 1947 which will be so well con-
structed that it will compete in perform-
ance, speed, mileagfe or comfort with a
1960 model. It couldn’t possibly incor-
porate any of the inventions added to
automobile construction during the inter-
vening years.
Firms and people who consider it
necessary to be abreast of the times
arrange to trade in their cars yearly for
the latest model. The ideal car would
be one which would give efficient service
until the next model appeared, and which
could be manufactured at a price that
made its relegation to the scrap-heap
practicable and economical. —Gravel-
snatcher (W.A.).
Taxation
A lieutenant in the A.W.A.S. earns
just under £250 a year, - an amount
which is tax-free for members of the
forces. Unfortunately, as well as that
sum, I received, an income. from other
sources. That, added to my army pay,
brought me into a taxable group.
My assessment was l4s., leaving
me £3 14s. a year poorer than if 1 re-
ceived no income outside my army pay.
It serves me right, I suppose, for having
bought Government bonds. —Ex-VFX
(W.A.).
An interesting sidelight on the recent
ruling by the N. S. Wales Full Court on
the secrecy provisions of the Income Tax
Act is the extent to which, as demon-
strated by the Act, the growth of bureau-
cracy has intruded into the private affairs
of every citizen. Under the old Income
Tax Assessment Act of 1922-30, authority
to divulge taxpayers’ secrets was given to
the Commissioner by Section 12 (4),
which, in legal jargon, with a wild con-
tempt for stops, provided:
Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Section, the Commissioner, the Assist-
ant Commissioner or a Deputy Commis-
sioner may communicate any matter which
comes to his knowledge in the performance
of his official duties to a Board of Re-
view appointed under this Act or to the
Commissioner of Income Tax for any State
or the Officer or Authority administering
an Act of a State relating to Stamp Duties
or Succession Duties or to the Commis-
sioner of Pensions or the Repatriation Com-
mission for the purposes of administration
of any law of the Commonwealth relating
to pensions.
The same authority as it appears today
in Section 16 (4) of the Income Tax
Assessment Act of 1936-46 is as fol-
lows :
Nothing in this Section shall be deemed
to prohibit the Commissioner, Second Com-
missioner or a Deputy Commissioner or
any person thereto authorised by him from
communicating any information to —
(a) any person performing in pursuance
of any appointment or employment by the
Commonwealth or by a State any duty
arising under any Act administered by the
Commissioner of Taxation or the Com-
missioner of Land Tax, for the purpose
of enabling that person to carry out any
such duty;
(b) any Board exercising any function
under any Act administered by the Com-
missioner of Taxation or the Commissioner
of Land Tax or under any State Act ad-
ministered by the Commissioner of Income
Tax of , any State or any . member of any
such Board;
(fc) The Commissioner of Taxation of any
State or the authority administering any
Act of a State relating to Stamp Duties
or Succession Duties if that authority is
authorised by law to afford similar in-
formation to the Commissioner, Second
Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner;
(d) the Commissioner of Pensions or the
Repatriation Commission Tor the purpose
of administration of any law of the Com-
monwealth relating to pensions;
(da) the National Insurance Commission
for the purpose of administration of any
law of the Commonwealth relating to in-
surance ;
(e) the Commissioner for Maternity
Allowances for the purpose of any law
relating to maternity allowances;
(f) the Director-General of Health for
the purpose of the administration of any
law of the Australian Capital Territory or
of the Northern Territory which is adminis-
tered by the Minister of State for Health;
(g) the Commonwealth Prices Commis-
sioner ;
(h) the Secretary, Department of Defence,
the Secretary, Department of the Navy, the
Secretary, Department of Air, for the pur-
pose of administration of any law of the
Commonwealth relating to payments in
respect of dependants of‘’members of the
Defence Force.
Of the original six bureaucrats to whom
secrets might be divulged in 1922-30 all
are retained by the 1936-46 Act, and to
them have been added the National In-
surance Commission, the Commissioner
for Maternity Allowances, the Director-
General of Health, the Prices Cpmmis-
sioner, and the Departments of Defence,
Navy and Air. Whether the National
Insurance Commission is a ghost or a
prophecy only time will tell, but why
does the Director-General of Health need
access to personal incomes?
No doubt some justification for the
existence of Section 16 (4) would be
forthcoming if it were ever challenged.
But if, as the Chief Justice remarked,
“the promise of strictest privacy en-
couraged the public to make fullest dis-
closures to the Taxation Department,”
then the fewer people who have access
to income-tax information the better. —
Another Tax Agent (Q.).
Air Pioneers
I notice that Trans-Australia Airlines
has been naming all its aircraft after
Australian explorers. It would be more
in keeping for an airline company to
name its aircraft after such men as
Ross Smith, Kingsford Smith, Charles
Ulm, Frank Neale (who has more flying
over inland, Australia to his credit than
any other aviator), Anderson, P. G.
Taylor and Hudson Fysh (the only
“Heads she sits on my knee, tails on yours!"
original managing director of an avia-
tion company still holding the same posi-
tion at the end of 26 years). Then there
are Ray Parer, Pard Mustar and a, host
of others who blazed the air trails of
this continent.
With the advent of the new Convairs,
T.A.A. might take the hint. — Recco
(N.S.W.).
i c ir j„ oir
Living in Sydney
I came to Sydney on a holiday. In the
Queensland country town where I ha
been living everyone had seemed quite
contented with near-basic-wage jobs and
had managed to live airly comfortab y
on their wages. Rents there had been
lbfZ, b i e fc,ofhf„T didn ’ tneedmUChin
Family altos have since forced me
to prolong my. stay in .Sydney, and to
avoid dipping into my bank account I
have taken on a job at the near-basic
wage of £6 a week. Working hours (44)
are spread over five days. Travelling to
and from work takes an hour and a half
daily. Adding the hour for lunch, t is
means that I am away from home for
Hi hours each day. The weekly budget
is something like this. Fares 6s. 6d.,
lunches ss, papers 2s„ pocket money
Hs. 6d.~a total of 255. The £4 15s.
I hand to my wife, who assures
me that food, gas and light, soap and
toilet necessities and pocket money
amount to £3 a week.
That leaves 355. for rent of a furnished
flat—if we could get one. I haven’t
mentioned taxation—that is cut out by
my Army pension.
After puzzling over this budget, which
allows no margin for clothes or emer-
eencies I asked a fellow-employee how
he managed to live on that wage. His
reply was “You’ve got to have a side-
line—cabinet-making or something like
that. I’ve got one that’s worth thirty-two
bob a week, and my wife does a bit of
dressmaking. You can’t manage with-
out a sideline.” Another man told me
that he works in the bar of a local pub
on Saturdays. A railway guard told me
that he depends on overtime to keep him
going. “We , all squeal if we don’t get
about 108 hours a fortnight,” he said.
So it seems that the 40-hour week is
necessary, not to allow the worker more
leisure, but to give him more time to de-
vote to his sideline or to overtime, while
he hopes that he will still be able to show
a margin of profit over the increased cost
of goods. The only logical solution is a
30-hour week. Then, it would be possible
to work for two different employers and
to earn double the.basic wage each week.
But I still want to know how a man
with a wife and five children who is un-
able to discover a profitable sideline or
to claim overtime manages to live in
Sydney. And how is the average man
going to get on when —as is not unlikely
—there is a slump in sidelines?—C. R.
(N.S.W.). ■
Darwin
At last, after two years of talking, the
Commonwealth Government has started
to rebuild a new and up-to-date Darwin.
No, the buildings aren’t palatial Govern-
ment offices or cottages for workmen.
There is no talk even of a new jail,
though the old one can hold no one who
ever wants to escape from it.
No, the Government has decided that
Darwin’s most urgent need is a new
cemetery. So workmen are now clearing
and levelling the ground, which is on the
road to Darwin’s favorite picnic beach
about seven miles from the town. The
Parap cemetery, where all the pioneers
are buried, is a ruin today, with most
of the old tombstones damaged and de-
faced by vandals. The Gardens cemetery,
being more in the public eye, is in better
condition.
All the victims of the Darwin blitz lie
buried at Ade]aide Ri 70 miles
from Darwin They unfeasy
s j eepers brs£ be i n g buried roughly on the
bea £ hes ’ round D B arwin> the „ disinterred
and j rans f erred £o Berrimah, eight miles
£rom Oarwin, and finally shifted to Adel-
ajde River ’ J
And now the powers controlling
Dar ™ >? a ve decided that the most un-
gX ifa”
8F* ™ e 1S a n e w cemetery. Mon kepos
I JN - 1 -£
Clothes Rationing
Recent dealings with the Rationing
Commission in this State convinced me
h ; js a .. bureau .. which could we |i
aboll - sbed A s “Ess” savs (B
J® b °! ished ’ ~A s p • f
16/4/ 47), many lines of rationed clothing
are not in short supply.
Early this year I lost 65 coupons
worth of clothing. With the formality
of a written declaration I had no trouble
in getting a refuncLof 59 coupons. The
ease with which I received the extra
coupons—compared to the harassing ex-
perience of a friend in exactly the same
circumstances in 1943—surprised me and
prompted the conclusion that rationing
of clothing isn’t necessary, but is con-
tmued to keep droves of officials m ttieir
Labor-established and public-maintained
sinecures.—D. H. R. (Q.).


Science and Religion
Attacking Sir Harold Jones, “Pikestaff”
opines (B. 16/4/’47) that “Many of our
religious leaders maintain a discreet
silence about the discoveries of the
physicists.” But surely it is not their
duty to publicise such things—that is not
their office. Moreover, to follow
twentieth century developments requires
mathematical ability of the highest order,
to expound them requires the greatest
expository gifts. Research into the struc-
ture of the atom long ago moved beyond
anything that can be easily explained—
it has moved into abstruse mathematical
equations, concerning which it is only
right for non-scientific laymen to observe
silence.
The physicists of our time not only
stand with Sir Harold Jones, but have
been rather distinguished by belief in
God. I instance Eddington, Jeans,
Heisenberg, Planck and Millikan.
Modern scientific theory conceives the
Creator as .working outside time and
space, which are part of his creation, just
as the artist is outside his canvas.
The conflict that “P.” perceives between
Science and Religion is a figment of his
imagination. He obviously is un-
acquainted with the work of the top-
rank physicists who give Sir Harold Jones
ample support for his claim that “astro-
nomical theories present no conflict be-
tween scientists and religion.” Truly
they don’t. Indeed, there is a growing
body of opinion that the principle of
entropy has sounded the death-knell of
the evolutionary theory on the cosmic
plane. Astronomers can find no evidence
to support evolution in spheres of obser-
vation. “P.” might meditate upon that.
—M. H. (Q.).
The Melbourne Strike
As I write, for 10 days I, and most of
my friends, have hitch-hiked to work be-
cause the suburban trains are not running.
The Tramway Board’s buses have been
taken off the road. Trams are running
a depleted service. Thousands of rail-
waymen and others are idle, and
the majority of workers —including many
thousands of trade-unionists —are suffer-
ing daily hardship through transport and
other shortages. And this is all because
of the action of a comparative handful
who, against the wishes of the great
mass of Melbourne unionists, insist on
inflicting suffering and loss on their own
families and the community rather than
accept the verdict of properly constituted
tribunals.
It seems inconceivable that, in these
circumstances, the strikers should receive
any assistance at all from unionists who
are not directly concerned in the dispute.
Yet railwaymen are backing up the strik-
ing engineers; as are other transport
workers; financial support is being given
by other unions. What chance is there of
getting our economy on a sound basis
again when trade-unionists will not even
stick to the rules of conciliation and
arbitration for which they fought so long
and valiantly in the past?, Wuss-
lean (Vic.).;
Fear
“Vess” (B. 26/3/’47) is a long way off
the beam when he wants to eliminate fear
from life. Fear is a God-given instinct,
a basic and essential element of human
nature, just as necessary as the sex urge,
parental love and the creative and gre-
garious tendencies. Fear is necessary as
the watchful instinct of self-preservation.
It is indispensable to a healthy vigilance,
warns us against destroying forces and
prompts us to take defensive measures.
There is in man something inherently
indolent and lazy and everyone will slack
unless kept up to it. Fear of dismissal
if he doesn’t do a fair day’s work will
prompt and prod a mao along to fair
effort. We all need fear. In the Army
I’ve heard too often, “Well, the Army
can’t sack us,” and work has been
neglected. When a man gets the idea
that he cannot be dismissed we will be
well on the way to a land of drones.
There is little question of employers
indiscriminately dismissing workers to
keep them in a state of abject sub-
mission. It takes too long and costs too
much to train new staff. If a man is
reasonably steady and capable the em-
ployer is anxious enough to hold him.
—Alpha (8.G.0.F., Japan).
No Recruits
At the end of 1946 a master at one of
Sydney’s largest secondary schools
arranged for a talk to be given fifth-
year pupils by an officer of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. Various careers in
and out of the department and connected
with the scientific and advisory side of
the land were outlined; the boys werfe
told that attendance at an agricultural
high school was not necessary, and that
the special training needed would be
gained at the university.
The callings described needed recruits,
and those who entered them would be
doing interesting, well-paid work. Yet
not one of more than 100 boys who
heard the talk decided on any of the
occupations mentioned. Those who did
not aim to enter one of the older pro-
fessions preferred clerical work or a
sales-staff job, the latter being the fav-
orite.
That, in a representative secondary
school, there should be so strong a prefer-
ence for salesmanship over a vocation
devoted to the improvement of our land
is no compliment to our education system.
The salesman does nothing creative, but
the agricultural expert and his scientific
colleague play vital roles in their country’s
economy. What could be more satisfy-
ing to a young man who has gained real
benefit from his schooling than a life-
work of such importance? Den
(N.S.W.).
Drivers’ Licences
In Mount Gambier (S.A.) a Victorian
resident was fined £1 for driving a S.A.
car in S.A. —he was in S.A. on holidays.
The trouble was that his only licence was
a Victorian one. With inter-State travel
as heavy as it is, it is time drivers’
licences were made a Commonwealth
affair. It would save the border police a
lot of unnecessary work. — Girrawheen
(S.A.).
Jobs
The Adelaide Exhibition is full of
marvels, but to me the most interesting
exhibits are the workers and the
watchers.
The last exhibition was held 11 years
ago, during the depression, when jobs
for girls were as scarce as they are now
plentiful. There was always a crowd
admiring a group of smartly-uniformed
young women packaging a well-known
commodity. The task was simple, clean,
repetitive, but not laborious. The
workers were audibly envied by the
feminine onlookers for having such com-
fortable and secure employment.
This year a similar group is doing prac-
tically the same work for the same firm,
but this time I heard them being pitied
because they had to do such monotonous
ta“sks. “I couldn’t stick that slavery for
a week” is a fair sample of the opinions
expressed. v
The blind workers have always a large
audience. They are the happiest toilers
in the place. While concentrating on
their brush-making, wickerwork and
weaving they appear to be quite con-
tented, smiling at their own thoughts or
whistling to the music of bands or radios.
Is it because their choice of jobs is
limited that they make the most of what
they have? Is it because positions are so
plentiful that “seeing” workers in general
are so discontented, demand so many
amenities and “chuck up” their jobs so
often? Perhaps we will have to wait
until the next depression for the answer,
—Psycho (S.A.).
Stamps
The latest mail from Canada is franked
with a commemorative stamp in honor
of the centenary of the birth of Bell,
inventor of the telephone. The stamp is
larger than any we have used in this
country, and if any philatelist tells me
that it is the world’s largest I’ll take his
word for it. Canadians apparently
realise that overcrowding will spoil any
advertisement, and have found a paper-
size to suit their design. We appear to be
bound to two sizes and crowd our story
into one or the other.
I’ve kept up a Tegular correspondence
with both the U.S.A. and Canada for
20 years. Changes of design are very
frequent in American stamps and many
are commemorative. Most are presented
in such a way as to send you in search
of some reference book to find out the
story behind the issue. The American
stamp-issuing authority thus presents a
good deal of American history and geo-
graphy to a large audience. Australia
could well take a leaf from America’s
book. Postage stamps are the cheapest
form of advertising. We should have
more frequent issues of stamps, each
adding a little to the world’s knowledge
of us.
There is no lack of subjects suitable
for designs. The Commonwealth owes a
lot to intrepid navigators, but not one
has been honored on its stamps (N. S.
Wales did put Cook on one of its stamps
a good many years ago). If we follow
our present craze for centenary issues it
will be 1970 before lames can hope to
have this rectified. Tasman could have
had a run in 1942, but no one appeared
to think it worth while. Australia’s love
for Flinders must wait until 1974, the bi-
centenary of his birth.
Australian Governments have plenty to
say about the need for attracting tourists
from overseas, Since 1912 no Australian
scene appeared on its stamps. Tas-
mania did issue a series showing the
scenic beauties of that island. The
Americans made a fine series of their
National Parks in the years before the
war.— Noonamah (N.S.W.).
The figure 1,209,403,416 doesn’t repre-
sent the man-hours lost in useless strikes
in N. S. Wales during the last five years ;
it is the actual tally of commemorative
postage stamps printed by Australia from
the first such issue—the Canberra stamp
in 1927—t0 the recent Mitchell stamps.
The face value of the stamps totals
£12,557,087 17s. Bd., and, since com-
memoratives are essentially collector
stamps, it is safe to estimate collector
sales (sheer profit to the post office) at
£1,250,000.
That figure, impressive at first glance,
is actually only the shadow of lost oppor-
tunity. It covers 44 commemorative
stamps issued over 20 years, but as the
stamps are generally issued in groups of
three or four values, the number of such
groups is only 17—less than one issue a
year.
Other countries more alert to the
revenue and publicity value of com-
memorative stamps (France and the
U.S.A., for instance) have proved that
the philatelic market will readily accept
three or four such issues in a year. There-
fore that profit of £1,250,000 could have
been quadrupled. Carefully invested, it
might at least have provided a trust fund
from which to pay pensions to decayed
“Labor” politicians.— Hist (N.S.W.).
The Barrier Reef
The Queensland Government Tourist
Commission, having sampled the best
hotels in the north and consulted a num-
ber of ineffectual committees, returned
south with an amazing discovery—“the
Barrier Reef is a Number One attrac-
tion.” Nothing, however, is to be done
until “conditions normalise themselves.”
A second decision is that the accommoda-
tion available is not suitable for tourists
from overseas.
Presumably, between now and “nor-
mality” there will come forth a plan to
build throughout the north gigantic hotels
exceeding in wonder, if not in beauty, the
Barrier Reef itself. And wealthy tourists
will flock from overseas for a poor imi-
tation of the standardised ostentation
readily available to them in America or
the Mediterranean.
If the north is to attract overseas
tourists, its appeal will lie in the very
absence of such standardisation, in its
difference, its simplicity and its natural
beauty. The thing is to make these
natural attractions accessible without
spoiling them with artificiality. Proof of
this is found in <he enormous appeal of
Banfield’s writings, not to Australians, but
to weary readers all over the world who
deluged him with letters asking permis-
sion to come and live on Dunk. No
advantage has been taken of this invalu-
able publicity gratuitiously accorded the
Barrier Reef by Banfield.
The original home he built on Dunk
might well have been refurnished with
his personal effects, his books and papers.
“Now get hack in there and he quiet or I'll send you home!"
to serve as a museum and library of
Barrier Reef lore which would attract
scientists and naturalists from all over
the world. Instead, it was used as a
cowshed by the R.A.A.F. during the war.
The story of Banfield, his self-effacing
life and ultimate tragic death upon
Dunk Island is a legend so compelling
that it would rival Gauguin’s home on
Pago Pago as an attraction for the curious,
Apart from the wealthy overseas tourist,
some immediate practical attention might
be given to the modest southerners who
made up the bulk of tourist traffic to
North Queensland before the war. Most
of these people return south without hav-
ing got any closer to the Barrier Reef
than Magnetic or Green Island or one of
the other groups along the coast. As for
Barrier Reef cruises operating since the
war ended, one vessel advertised rates of
£l7 10s. per head for a week’s cruise.
That is a stiff hurdle for the average Aus-
tralian tourist.
The single deterrent to the
southerner contemplating a trip to
the reef is the unknown expense factor.
It can be obviated. There is no reason
why the Tourist Commission should not
co-ordinate the existing facilities into a
scheme akin to “Cook’s Tours” whereby
the intending tourist could walk into any
Tourist Bureau and, for a first and last
payment, buy a month’s vacation in the
tropics, accommodation included and
transport provided. —H. G. (Q.).
The Farmer’s Lot
I’ve just had a good holiday on the
South Coast (N. S. Wales), where dairy-
farmers seem to have an everlasting
grudge against every Government.
From daylight till dark they growl about
income tax, land tax and every other
tax, the high cost of food and the low
price of butter, the high wages that they
have to pay and the low prices that they
get for pigs and pumpkins.
Despite their grumbling they seem to
me to be far better off than city people.
Most of them have comfortable homes
with electric light, radios and refrigera-
tors, and they have an abundance of most
of the things almost unobtainable by city
people. For the most part, farmers kill
their own meat and keep enough
cream back from the factory to churn all
the butter they want. Shipping strikes
and high prices don’t affect their vegetable
supply—they grow their own.
During the month I spent on one farm
X put on a stone in weight, mainly be-
cause of the abundance of butter, meat,
bacon, eggs, vegetables, cream, fruit,
mushrooms and all the other things that
are rationed or in short supply in the
cities. There were dances and talkies in
the near-by town, and no shortage of
petrol for the family to drive in whenever
they wished.
I was reared on the South Coast and
have a great love for it, but ever since I
can remember farmers have grumbled
about taxes and Governments. If they
took stock of their blessings they would
realise that they are much better off
than most people in Australia today.
—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
The Spirit of Peace
Unfortunately for “A.L.B.’s” ideal (B.
16/4/’47) U.N.O.’s new home will be
a veritable Babel of polyglot and antag-
onistic religions and ideologies. The
Cross, the Crescent, and the Hammer and
Sickle are only three of a host of symbols
that are sacred to some and hated by
others of the builders of a new world.
The only way to keep the peace in
such a mixed multitude is to preserve a
discreet silence on all religious questions.
Many of the most tragic problems to
be discussed are rendered almost insoluble
by the bigotry of warring faiths and sects,
To expect infidels of all kinds to worship
under the same “dome” with believers of
every class is hopeless. The mere sight
of the conflicting ikons and images would
stir up age-old quarrels,
Fortunately, religious education is not
on the agenda of U.N.O. Otherwise
its tremendous task would be doomed to
failure before the foundations of its new
habitat could be dug.— Phil Actry (S.A.).


it
MS
✓
\
/
&
0
© e>
Qo 0
(25
K
111-1*
A.W.A. RADIO ELECTRIC WORKS
ASHFIELD, N.S.W. f
on
©
CD
L
■m
C °DrJ|r|Ul *
- ■
o
It is with great pride that A.W.A. announces the finest and most advanced
broadcast receivers ever made in Australia. This has been made possible
by war and post-war developments in research, design and production,
which A.W.A. engineers are now applying without restraint to the manu-
facture of finer radio equipment for the home. No one can witness a dem-
onstration of the brilliant performance and qualities of these magnificent
new A.W.A. Radiolas without being convinced of their superiority. They
are the world’s finest broadcast receivers.
The range of new A.W.A. Radiolas includes: Compact and beautiful man-
tels at amazingly low prices Brilliant dual wave models outstanding
in performance and value Eight and five valve “all wave” receivers
with short wave bandspreading Console and table radio-phonograph
combination models with automatic record changer Magnificent modern
cabinets Types for all city and country requirements, -electric power
or battery operated.
Authorised Radiola Distributors will gladly supply further details, and
arrange for deliveries as early as is possible.
df
gd
THE WORLD’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BY
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Other products made by A.W.A. include: Broadcasting and wireless telegraph and telephone stations. • Airport and aircraft radio apparatus of all
types. © Wireless stations for ships, direction finding apparatus, radar, automatic S.O.S, transmitters and receivers, lifeboat radio equipment, navi-
gation instruments. • Handset telephones, road traffic signals, test instruments for research and industry, induction heating apparatus.
• Centralised radio and sound amplifying systems.
