

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3500
Wednesday, March 12, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
GEORGE SQUARE: GLASGOW.
TTNLIKE Edinburgh, Glasgow has few remains of its past, but
numerous modern buildings give proof of the great commercial
importance of this sprawling city on the Clyde. Examples of
Glasgow’s imposing structures face on to George Square. There
are the Municipal Buildings, a magnificent block in the Italian
Renaissance style," surrounded by additions which house the muni-
cipal departments. The General Post Office, the Merchant s
Hqjjse and the headquarters of the Bank of Scotland all face on
to this spacious square. Dominating these buildings is the central
column eighty feet high surmounted by a statue of Sir Walter
Scott. Equestrian statues by Marochetti stand near by as memorials
to Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. Elsewhere in George Square
there are statues of Sir Robert Peel, David Livingstone,
James Watt, Robert Burns, Sir John Moore, Lord Clyde,
Thomas Campbell and several other celebrated figures in Glasgow’s
history.


UmJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send , withovt obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin/’
M l/ Name
ily Address
S-B. 247
The Red Page
“THE BREAKER.”
Forty-five years ago—on February 27,
1902—Harry Harbord Morant, “The
Breaker,” was shot in Pretoria Jail, just
before the conclusion of the Boer War,
by order of a British court-martial.
He was then a lieutenant in the body,
hardly a regiment, of irregulars known as
the Bushveldt Carbineers, commanded
by an Australian and including many
Australians transferred or re-enlisted
from Australian contingents. Along with
him was shot Lieutenant P. J. Handcock
of the same corps, and on a third officer,
Lieut. G. R. Witton, the sentence of
death was commuted to imprisonment.
The charges against them were that they
had murdered certain Boer prisoners-of-
war who had surrendered to them during
strenuous and protracted patrol opera-
tions in the remote districts of the north-
eastern Transvaal —operations to which
the Bushveldt Carbineers had been speci-
ally assigned, if not therefor enlisted.
Originally all three enlisted in Aus-
tralia—Morant in the Second South Aus-
tralian Bushmen’s Contingent, Hand-
cock in the N.S.W. Mounted Rifles, and
Witton in the Victorian Mounted Rifles.
Witton, after his release on special par-
don, wrote a full story in his book Scape-
goats of the Empire, which may still be
picked up in Sydney’s second-hand book-
shops. Its perusal will move no Aus-
tralian’s anger today, as did the first
accounts of the tragedy when they
reached this country in the late summer
of 1902. The defence that the Car-
bineers were irregulars waging a retalia-
tory campaign against guerrilla bands of
Boers, not on commando, but in maraud-
ing bands, and using every trick that the
Germans later perfected, that the Car-
bineer patrols had become exasperated
by treacherous shooting from farmhouse
roofs, and so forth, availed not at all.
If the British High Command at that
time was assured of the justice of these
sentences it showed extraordinary dis-
interest in expediting news to Australia
of the trial and of its conclusion. Had
there been anything then like the war-
porting of the late conflict, to tell how
the first military inquiry at Pietersburg
was interrupted by a heavy Boer attack,
how the prisoners were released and given
arms to assist in defence of the block-
houses, and how Morant and Handcock,
scorning the loopholed shelters, lay on
the roof of one blockhouse firing until
the attack was finally repulsed, the Aus-
tralian public might have raised more
than an uncertain voice in protest and
before it was too late.
A special committee of Australians in
Pretoria for many years preserved “The
Breaker’s” grave as the greenest in Pre-
toria Cemetery, and perhaps does so
still. When I visited it in 1913 the ceme-
tery caretaker was a West Australian,
an ex-sergeant of that first all-Australian
expeditionary force, and he treasured as
a souvenir of a brave man the cigarette-
case from which “The Breaker.” drew his
last smoke before he faced the firing
party.
Till his latest breath, which was only
a few years ago, Mr. J. F. Thomas, a
solicitor of the northern rivers, who,
then a major in the N.S.W. Mounted
Rifles, defended the prisoners at their
trial, never ceased to condemn the in-
justice which had ignored the conditions
of the time and place. In a goodbye
letter “The Breaker” besought Thomas to
“write to my Governor and my girl in
North Devon, and see The Bulletin
people in Sydney town and tell them all
the facts.”
Much harder to come by today than
Witton’s book is Frank Fox’s Bushman
and Buccaneer, published as by “Frank
Renar” from the printing-house of H. T.
Dunn and Co. in Balmain in 1902. It is
a slim little volume of 63 pages contain-
ing all that could be collected of “The
Breaker’s” life in Australia and was sold
at the time for one shilling. I asked
James Tyrrell recently whether he ever
came across it nowadays, saying that I
had a copy with a few emendations in
the margins by the author, evidently in
preparation for a reprinting which never
came to pass. Tyrrell said the little work
was worth three guineas today. -
Apart from the sidelights it throws on
“The Breaker’s” Australian career, Frank
Fox’s pamphlet preserves the best of his
verses written for odd country papers
but mostly for The Bulletin, and no-
where else are they collected. It includes
especially the “Envoi” which Morant
wrote on the back of a sketch of him
by Fred Leist, done after a cross-country
post-and-rail hunt in Rooty Hill district,
the last “The Breaker” rode before he
left Australia, and also the moving “Gaol-
wall Inscription,” the requiem composed
for The Bulletin by “Mousquetaire,”
who was Gordon Tidy. The former
runs:
When the last rousing gallop is ended,
And the last post-and-rail has been jumped,
And a cracked neck that cannot be mended
Shall have under the.yew-tree been dumped,
Just you leave hiin alone in God’s acre
And drijnk in wine, whisky, or beer —
“May the saints up above send ‘The Breaker’
A horse like good old Cavalier.”
(Signed) His Nibs, “The Breaker.”
Gordon Tidy, who esteemed “The
Breaker” the more because of the inti-
mate affection of their mutual friend,
Will H. Ogilvie, wrote a memorial of
him in five eight-line stanzas which begin
with all the brutality of the firing volley
and carry in a mounting refrain the in-
“THE BREAKER.”
terpretation of the saving grace in his
character which kept Morant his friends
despite all shortcomings:
They say his debts he oft forgot,
But one he settled up;
They say he used to drink a lot—
His last was a bitter cup.
And right or wrong, and weak or strong,
I can’t keep back the tear
For the devil-heart, the revel-heart
Which ceased its beating here....
Some heels may spurn “The Breaker’s” grave,
Some mouths thereon may spit,
But some have owned to hands that gave
A wreath to even it;
And here’s a meed of poor word-weed
Would fain express the tear
For that Other-heart, that Brother-heart
That ceased its beating here.
Morant’s Australian story belongs to
an age long dead and gone—an age when
Cobb and Co.’s coaches still served the
countryside and the waler held that pre-
eminence as an advertisement abroad of
this land which has since passed to Aus-
tralian cricketers. At about the time
that Joseph Furphy was weaving his
philosophic Tom Collins way among the
bullockies and the station landscape of
the Riverina, and a little before Sarah
Campion’s Mo Burdekin started his pros-
pector’s odyssey through the Wet and
the Dry of northern Queensland and the
Territory, the breezy figure of “The
Breaker” began to enliven the back-
country between these regions.
His origin was shrouded in some
mystery. He came from England in cir-
cumstances not uncommon in that era,
but without remittance money ; and at
such rare times as he referred to his'
early youth, he revealed that he had been
intended for the Navy and claimed
membership of a respectable family and
a birthplace in Devon. Before he left
Adelaide for South Africa he established*
from current letters, which he showed his
friends there, that he was the son of
Admiral Digby Morant, sometime Gover-
nor of Devonport Dockyard. But with
the people of the Bush, to whose life he
rapidly adapted himself, his reserve about
personal details was not to be violated. To
them he was first and foremost a wizard
with a horse, also a loyal mate (albeit
a bit of a scamp in money matters), and
one who took life’s ups and downs with
unruffled good humor. The back-
country people had never before met an
Englishman who could sit a buckjumper
like a native. He had a face, as the
phrase went, that you could cut wood
on, and he had the reputation of being
able to smell a bottle of whisky from
five miles off.
He would take a bet with anybody
about anything, especially if it concerned
his ability to put “good old Cavalier”
over some impossible-looking fence.
Fox wrote of him: “His supreme daring,
his wonderful horsemanship, his buoyant
good humor, his hardy drunkenness —all
tended to make Morant a very king in
the Australian Bush, and the fact that he
could break words to his will as well as
horses, and rhyme prettily, added much
to his popularity. There is no bush town
which Morant visited—and droving in
Queensland, N. S. Wales, South Australia
and Victoria he visited very many—that
has not today (that is 40 years ago)
sincere mourners for ‘The Breaker,’
men ready to swear sturdily that he was
no murderer and to blame anybody but
him for those tragedies on the South
African veldt.”
It was as “The Breaker,” the writer of
verses, that city people also came to
know him. He produced verse with
astonishing facility, and rarely amended
wha't he first wrote, a neglect which con-
temporary critics were disposed to
lament. Beyond all doubt, at such times
as the better man in him struggled for
redemption from the roysterer’s life, he
saw in this work —particularly after he
joined the company of contributors to
The Bulletin’s columns— a chance of
a way out. Many of his jingles he com-
posed as he rode along with a-draft of
cattle, chanting them to some droving
mate. Ribald these often were and meant
but to speed the hours, but there was
promising stuff in “Who’s Riding Old
Harlequin Now?”: —
Are the pikers as wild, is the scrub just as dense,
In the brigalow country as when
There was never a homestead and never a fence
Between Brigalow Vale and The Glen?
Do they yard the big “micks” ’neath the light
of the moon?
Do the yard wings re-echo the row
Of stockwhips and hoof-beats? And what sort
of coon
Is riding old Harlequin now?
And those who would catch a vision of
the days of “a saddle for a pillow and a
blanket for a bed” can find it as truly in
“The Breaker’s” verse as in that of others
ranking more strictly as poets —in, for
instance, “Since the Country Carried
Sheep,” and his “Stirrup Song”: —
It was not only in that vein that “The
Breaker” could turn his metres. It is
said that he persuaded many a woman
to love him by quoting Herrick and
Moore, but he could also write in this
fashion himself; “While Yet We May,”
for instance: —
Ancient wrinkled dames and jealous—
They whom joyless Age downcasts —
And the sere, grey-bearded fellows
Who would fain re-live their pasts—
These, the ancients, grimly tell us:
“Vows are vain and no love lasts.”
Fleeting years fulfil Fate’s sentence,
Eyes must dim and hair turn grey;
Age brings wrinkles, p’raps repentance;
Youth shall quickly hie away,
And that time when Youth has gone hence
We —and love —have had our day.
Let the world and fuming, fretting,
Busy worldlings pass us by, * .
Bent on piles of lucre getting—
They shall lose it when they die;
Past and future, sweet, forgetting—
Seize the present ere it fly.
Your bright eyes are soft and smiling,
Pouting lips are moist and red,
And your whispers wondrous wiling—
Surely they would quick the dead;
And these hours they’re now beguiling
All too hasty will have fled.
Years may bring a dole of sorrow,
Time enough to fast and pray.
From the present pleasures borrow
Let the distant future pay;
Leave the penance for tomorrow —
Sweetheart, live and laugh today.
Of all the “writing fellows” of that
time “Banjo” Paterson perhaps knew
him best, and it was to Paterson that
“The Breaker” used unfailingly to send
from somewhere “back of Bourke”
advance notice of an approaching journey
with a draft of cattle to Dubbo, or some
other outpost of civilisation, whence a
dash into Sydney might be possible. To
ride in the Amateur Steeplechase at
Randwick, or to show with Cavalier
those Sydneysiders of the Hunt Club the
way across heavy country, or to go on
a spree with any of the literary brother-
hood willing, especially if he could cele-
brate also his own appearance in print —
this was the other side of the man who
mostly just drifted, about the New South
Wales back country. Yet maybe there
they understood him best.
I remember as a boy of 13 regarding
him as a sprt of a hero. Such hero-
w’orship came easily to a bush youngster
watching him handle an unbroken horse.
He gave me his quartpot after he had
boiled it for the last time on the banks
of the Murray before he boarded the
steamer for railhead on his way to enlist
in Adelaide. He gave me, also, on the
eve of departing for South Africa, the
studio photograph of himself reproduced
on this page. Here’s to his.memory!
F. M. CUTLACK.
We’ve drunk our wine, we’ve kissed our girls,
and funds are getting low,
The horses must be thinking it’s a fair thing
now to go.
Sling up the swags on Condamine and strap
the billies fast,
And stuff a bottle in the bag, and let’s be off
at last.
The Phase of the Hunchback .
In The Traveller (Faber), a longish
poem in easy, quatrain form, Walter de
la Mare takes a journey into a desolation
of stone and ice, an enormous visionary
landscape:
Westward to eastward, wide as gaze could scan,
Shallowly troughed, the void savanna swept:
The dead of all the armies doomed by Man
Might, biding ransom, in its folds have slept.
It does not need hil phrase “a waste
of stone” for the poem to bring “The
Waste Land” to mind; for although De
la Mare has borrowed nothing—neither
vision nor technique—from Eliot, it is
obvious all the way through that he is
traversing essentially the same territory;
This sterile world! —no weed here raised its
head;
No bird on dew-plashed wing, his ear to bless,
Flew up to greet the dayspring; but instead,
A tense unfathomable silentness
Engulfed the enormous convex, stony-still,
Of hueless, lucent crystal where he lay,
Shivering in fever in the sunless chill.
Its centre now scarce half a league away.
Others have been there before Eliot
and De la Mare. Browning, for instance,
in his “Childe Roland”:
Burningly it came on me all at once.
This was the place! Those two hills on the
right,
Crouched like two bulls locked horn in horn
in fight;
While to the left a tall scalped mountain. . .
Dunce,
Fool to be dozing at the very nonce,
After a life spent training for the sight!
What in the midst lay but the Tower itself,
The round squat turret, blind as the fool’s heart,
Built of brown stone....
It is the country where Caliban was
born. Coleridge went there by sea and
found “the nightmare Life -in - Death.”
And Christopher Brennan, though he did
not quite penetrate to the visionary land-
scape, stopped not far short of it:—■
.... the earth huddled her heat
within her niggard bosom, and the dead stones
lay battle-strewn before the iron wind.
What do these poems mean? They are
best summed up in a quotation from that
queer book ot W. B. Yeats’s A Vision:
“This is the phase of the Hunchback ;
the last, most terrible phase when a man
is alone with himself.” The worst thing
a man has to face is himself: desperately
to sum up, facing eternity, what he is,
what he has done, what he has made
himself ; what his life is worth and what
his death may be worth.
Each poet reacts to that final test in
his own way. De la Mare fades out dis-
appointingly at- the end as if, having
stated his vision of hell and his hope of
heaven, he were content to let the whole
thing drop, even his punctuation marks
drifting tiredly into eternity;
Sweet is that Earth, though sorrow and woe it
have,
Though parched, at length, the milk within its
breast;
And then the night-tide of the all-welcoming
grave
For those who weary, and a respite crave:
Inn at the cross roads, and the traveller’s
rest.. .
But Browning blew the slug - horn
“dauntless” at the Dark Tower; and the
peace of Brennan’s “Wanderer” is of
resolution rather than of oblivion —night
and day alike, he says, refuse to let him
“faint in soft fire and delicious death”;
and saying this to myself as a simple thing
I feel a peace fall in the heart of the winds
and a clear dusk settle, somewhere, far in me.
It is a clear dusk, not “the night-tide
of the all-welcoming grave.” Browning
will go on fighting in eternity; the
Wanderer will at least keep wandering.
De la Mare, perhaps, has written his
poem too late in life ; though, indeed, he
has never had the vigor of Browning.
The Traveller is not De la Mare at his
best. If he says good things in it:
Even the little ant, devoid of fear, -
Prowling beneath the shadow of a man,
Gonscious may be of occult puissance near.
Whose origin it neither recks nor can—
he has said much the same thing more
adroitly and more excitingly many times
before. Brennan’s journey had a bit
of Sydney landscape to help the reader
along; Browning’s is full of passion and
excitement and he had somewhere definite
to arrive at —the Dark Tower. There is
vision in The Traveller but neither action
nor, to any noticeable degree, characteri-
sation —the two essentials of narrative
poetry.
Still, for its vision, it is certainly a
poem to read. Abstract as the landscape
is, compared to Browning’s (and it is
not helped by some wishy-washy draw-
ings by John Piper), you do feel that this
is a country De la Mare has actually
seen and travelled, in vision or in dream.
As in “Childe Roland,” you feel that the
poet has been stricken by his agony into
a place beyond life and beyond time. He
is on a peak from which, much more
vivid and convincing than Milton’s
second-hand heaven and hell, the earth it-
self looks like a spiritual landscape;
visited by the divine, but at the last
stony, monstrous, the abode of the hunch-
back, a purgatory.


Julius
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
60 Measured
Fittings
BRISTOL.
Swing to style in this new and different toe. Being a
“Marlow,” with so many fittings, foot comfort is
assured. In soft, pliable Black Box or Tan Willow Calf.
When you take your stand on the Tee
THE ESSEX (Below)
From the first stroke to the final putt—in round after
round—Julius Marlow Coif Shoes prove their worth.
These famous golf shoes with their specially designed
soles are reinforced to resist strain and hardest wear.
Available in Brown Calf only.
.
■
55
/
Mett’s Multiple Fitting Shoe
Section—Ground Floor, George Street.
ALL ONE
PRICE
3510
COUNTRY CLIENTS
PLEASE NOTE!
When you visit Sydney’s magnificent
Easter Show, be sure to come along to
our Multiple Fitting Shoe Section and
have your feet accurately measured by
a trained fitter. Your measurements arc
then recorded in our Footwear Register
and this means that you can at any time
or place, confidently order your pair of
JULIUS MARLOW shoes by simply
quoting your name.
SAXON
So you suffer discomfort because of your
short and broad foot! There’s no need to—
not while the Saxon Shoe is available to give
you that little extra in the width. You’ll revel
in the luxurious comfort of this superior shoe.
ANTHONY HORDERNS 9
“The Senior Store”
TELEPHONE; M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


INTERESTING BOOKS
A DOCTOR IN PARADISE, by S. M. Lambert.
For twenty years the author has travelled the South Seas, and his book
Is packed with strange stpries. Illustrated. 16/6 (post. 6d.).
BRIDE IN THE SOLOMONS, by Osa Johnson.
An outstanding account of South Seas adventure. Illustrated. 14/D (post. 4d.).
THE EARNEST DRINKER’S DIGEST, by O. A. Mendelsohn.
A short and simple account of alcoholic beverages (with a glossary) for
curious drinkers. 17/6 (post. 6d.).
UNDER ALDEBARAN.
A collection of verse, by James McAuley. 6/- (post. 4d.).
ANZAC TO AMIENS, by C. E. W. Bean.
A shorter history of the Australian Fighting Services in the First World
War. Illustrations and maps. 25/- (post. Bd.).
AUSTRALIA IN WORLD AFFAIRS, by H. Y. Evatt.
With a foreword by Sir Frederick W. Eggleston. This second volume of
Dr. Bvatt’s speeches covers the period 1945-46 of the San Francisco
Conference. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
CHRISTOPHER BRENNAN, The Man and His Poetry.
Two lectures delivered at the Canberra University College in August, 1944,
by A. E. Chisholm. 5/- (post. 3d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
MA 6511.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
BRANDAUERS
6'*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO.Lmf BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Jtjter a lowj s ? °j
{ration
concen
m
mm
%
'mm.
mm.
sgpl
w».
Wm§>^
■. ■ y m .'• i
s y - :g
r"' l|> ::::
’6: v>: : : : :W:-: : x-; •«
WHISKY
IS
tAe Jr
In a long conference, when big decisions are being debated,
most men find that intense concentration and the sway of
argument build up considerable inner tension.
As an aid in relaxing the tension when the conference
adjourns, such men usually finl that the moderate use
of whisky suits them particularly well.
For one thing, well matured whisky is exceptionally pure,
and aids digestion.
For another, the quantity needed for healthful stimulation
is relatively small.
The secret is moderation, plus insistence on sound quality
and adequate maturity. The best Australian brands of
whisky are excellent in quality and purity, and have been
aged for the exceptional period of over 5 years.
Inserted on Behalf of the Brands of
The United Distillers Pty. Ltdl
The Distillers Corporation Pty. Ltd.
and Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd.
WU/33
TIME MUST WAIT
When whisky is maturing, time must wait. Our
policy is to age stocks for five years at least before
sale. Therefore, when temporary shortages occur,
please be patient. Your reward will be consistently
high quality. •
Missing Friends.
ESTATE URBANIA MARTHA NORTON (formerly
Burnett, n6e Cunneen), of Ashgrove, Brisbane, wire
of GEORGE NORTON.—CORRIE CUNNEEN, a niece
of the abovenamed deceased, or any person knowing
her whereabouts, is requested to communicate with
JAMES DRAKE & WALKER, Solicitors, A.M.P.
Building, Edward Street, Brisbane.
TO WINIFRED JUNE MARY TAYLOR AND FRANK
GORDON both formerly of Comer Harcourt and
Brunswick Streets New Farm Brisbane but now of
parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that FRANK
STANLEY TAYLOR has commenced divorce proceed-
ings against you WINIFRED JUNE MARY TAYLOR
on the ground of adultery and-you FRANK GORDON
have been named as co-respondent Unless you enter
appearance in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne on or before the Twenty-
seventh day of March 1947 and file answers m the
said office on or before the Seventeenth day of April
1947 the suit may proceed in your absence and you
the said Frank Gordon may be ordered to pay costs.
—P. J. RIDGEWAY & PEARCE, 879 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of recitation “The Little Red Hen.”
—3952. „ _ .. „
To buy copy of “The Bulletin Reciter,
3956.
Information Sought.
On what basis may a town in N. S. Wales
be± declared a city ?
Under the provisions of the N.S.W. Local
Government Act; 1919, the Governor may
proclaim as a city a municipality which (a)
during the five years immediately preceding
the proclamation has had an average popula-
tion of at least 15,000 persons; and (b) has
during that period had an average gross in-
come from all sources of at least £20,000; and
(c) is an independent centre of population and
is not a suburb of any other municipality or
centre of population. In New Sputh Wales
at the present time there are 16 cities, exclu-
sive of the City of Sydney. Four of these,
namely,, Armidale, Bathurst, Goulburn and
Grafton, were proclaimed under the provisions
of the Crown Lands Act, 1884, prior to the
Local Government Act coming into force.
* * * =>=
Is there any formula by which horse-power,
steam, can be compared to horse-power, diesel?
Horse-power is the rate of doing work, namely
33,000 foot-pounds per minute, which is equiva-
lent to 33,000 pounds lifted a distance of one
foot in one minute, or 3300 pounds lifted a
distance of 10 feet in one minute, or in varia-
tion of feet and pounds, which when multiplied
gives 33,000 foot-pounds per minute. The
measure of horse-power is irrespective of
whether the work is done by steam engine,
gas engine or any other kind of power.
What h.p. quadruple expansion steam engine
would be required to do the same work in a
fishing craft as a 44-h.p. diesel working at
750-1000 r.p.m., the steam engine to be driven
off a Derr-type automobile steam generator?
It is assumed that you desire to replace a
44-h.p. diesel engine working at 750-1000 r.p.m.
in an existing fishing craft with a steam engine
which has four cylinders and is supplied with
steam from a Derr-type automobile steam
generator. A four-cylinder or quadruple ex-
pansion steam engine of thfs size is most un-
usual, but you may have one in mind which
has been developed for a steam car or some
similar vehicle. The engine would still have
to develop the same horse-power, /.e., 44, as
the diesel engine to drive the fishing craft at
the same speed. Assuming that the revolutions
of the propeller as at present fitted are satis-
factory, then, if the same engine does not run
within the range of 750-1000 r.p.m. that the
44-h.p. diesel engine runs, the gearing con-
necting the two would have to be modified to
keep the propeller revolutions the same.
* * * #
How to waterproof a tent without oil, i.e.,
nlui}i mixture ?
The tent is steeped thoroughly in a solution
of aluminium sulphate in lukewarm water,
lib. per gallon of solution, at 85 deg. to 90 deg.
F. It is then removed, and, without allowing
it to dry, is passed though a soap solution,
1 in 20, ordinary laundry soap, at 120 deg. F.
The tent is then rinsed thoroughly in pure water
and allowed to dry. The aluminium stearate
stays in the fibre as a waterproofing agent.
Brief Answers.
R.A.C.: Write Society of Australian
Genealogists, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney....
Mats: Advice can be obtained from Melbourne
firms which handle dyes, such as Imperial
Chemical Industries, 380 Collins-street; Robert
Bryce and Co., 526 Little Bourke-street; James
Hardie Trading Co., 581 Little Collins-street;
N. W. Richards and Co., Ltd., 87 Roden-
strect; and Dychem Trading Co., Ltd., 573
Lonsdale-street L.G.W.: The tonka bean is
the seed of a tropical South American tree
(Dipteryx odarala ). It has a pleasant odor
due to the presence of coumarin. It is used
in the manufacture of coumarin, for perfumes,
as a flavor for tobacco and in making artificial
vanilla extracts... .R.B. : (1) There are many
good mosquito repellents on the market.
Main ingredient is citronella oil. _ (2) Useful
spray is: Pyrethrum powder 40z., oil of winter-
green 20z., kerosene 1 gallon. Mix first in-
gredient with the kerosene and allow to stand
in closed container for a week, shaking
occasionally. Then strain off the liquid and
add the wintergreen. Spray with large atomiser.
T.H.: Scalp dandruff is not always of local
origin; health debility and uric acid accumu-
lation are factors to be considered. Massage
with the finger-tips daily, applying a bay rum
lotion to the hair roots occasionally if the hair
is inclined to fall. Shampoo with sulphur soap
and hot water once weekly after applying the
following pomade overnight: Salicylic acid 5
grains, milk of sulphur 15 grains, almond oil
2 drachms, solution ’of coal tar 10 drops,
yellow vaseline loz M.K.: (1) The book has
been long out of print. (2) Open air beneficial
when chill avoided. There is nothing in theory
of moonlight effect. Lunacy and moon in-
fluence is explained in old-time lunar cycle.
Best avoid extremes; sleep in a well-ventilated
room W.M.H.: The recognised boxing
champions of Australia are: Flyweight, Mickey
Hill; bantam, Mickey Francis; feather, Eddie
Miller (said to have retired); lightweight, Vic
Patrick; welter, Tommy Burns; middle, Dave
Sands; light-heavyweight, Dave Sands; heavy-
weight, Jack Johnson S.C.: Sid Godfrey
beat Harry Stone for lightweight championship
of Australia in 1921, and lost title to Hughie
Dwyer in 1922 G.M.E.: Cannot trace. Can
you furnish further particulars? A.T.T.D.:
Newspapers published in N.S.W. are prohibited
under the N.S.W. Lotteries and Art Unions
Act from publishing such details G.S.:
Echidna is the vernacular name of Tachyglossus
aculeatus, also called “native hedgehog,” “native
porcupine” and “spiny anteater”... .E.G.G.:
Write Dept, of the Treasury, Canberra, A.C.T.
H.L.: Write John McKellar, Hon. Sec.,
International P.E.N. Club, Melbourne Centre,
6 Ormsby-grove, Toorak, Vic 8.5. H.: Cuth
Literary Agency, 117 Macleay-street, Potts Point,
Sydney R.F.V.; “Le Bulletin du Com-
merce” and “France-Australe,” Noumea, New
Caledonia A.R.C.: (1) Thackeray’s The
Hewcomes was first published by Bradbury
and Evans in 1853. (2) R. Doyle. (3) Two
volumes. (4) Dark green cloth. (5) £2 10s.
8.G.8.: If commercial abrasive cleaning
powders will not shift, try kerosene A.W.R.:
(1) This is probably aluminium chloride. It
is used widely in the chemical industry and as
a flux in zinc galvanising. (2) Advertise in
the Inquiry Service of the “Australasian Manu-
facturer,” 16 Bond-street, Sydney C. 8.:
Send a sample of the water to the Government
Analyst, William-street, Brisbane, with a cover-
ing letter setting out the circumstances....
M.F.D.: If requested the Institution of
Engineers, 157 Gloucester-street, Sydney, will
be “willing to nominate not fewer than three
suitable consulting engineers E.S.G.; (1)
See Writers and Artists’ Year Book, 1946, at
the nearest public library. (2) Matter for
negotiation E.D.: (1) The Deputy Indus-
trial Registrar, Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, 119 Phillip-street, Sydney, will advise
regarding the provisions of the Federal Pastoral
Workers and Dairying Industry awards. (2)
Get in touch with the Deputy Commissioner
of Taxation, Commonwealth Bank Building,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT r OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARK GEORGE DEWHURST late of Tenter-
field N. S. Wales and Hobart Tasmania.—TAKE
NOTICE that DORIS MARTHA DEWHURST has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 377 of 1947 under the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1945 (Commonwealth of
Australia) Part 3 on the ground of your desertion
without just cause and excuse for two years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office King Street Sydney
on or before the 14th day of May 1947 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—(L.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
TO STANLEY SIDNEY NEVILLE GEORGE form-
erly of Barton Street Rainsworth Brisbane in the
State of Queensland but whose present whereabouts
are unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that an action has
been commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Summons No.
145 of 1947 by JOAN GEORGE your wife in which
she claims a dissolution of her marriage with you
and by her petition filed herein she alleges that in
the month of November One thousand nine hundred
and forty-three you deserted her without cause and
have since continuously deserted her without cause
for three years and upwards and it has been ordered
that service on you of the said writ and petition be
effected by the publication of this notice once in the
“Courier Mail” and once in the “Telegraph” both
newspapers being published in Brisbane in the
State of Queensland and once in “The Bulletin” a
newspaper published in Sydney in the State of New
South Wales If you desire to defend this action
you must within sixty days from the doing of the
last of the said acts enter an appearance at the
Registry of the said Court and in default of your so
doing the Plaintiff may by leave proceed in the
action and judgment may be given against you in
your absence. DATED this Twenty-fifth day of
February, 1947.— (1.5.) J. J. HERLIHY, Acting
Second Deputy Registrar. W. J. KENNEDY,
McCORMACK & CO., Solicitors, Heindorff House, 171
Queen Street, Brisbane.
TO GORDON CHARLES HIGGINS formerly of 286
Hay Street East Perth in the State of Westen Aus-
tralia.- —TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued in the Supreme Court of Western Australia
citing you to appear and answer the petition of
PHYLLIS MARION HIGGINS of 67 Hampton Road
Beaconsfleld in the State of Western Australia
Married Woman praying for a dissolution of marriage
In default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence in respect thereto AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within 30 days after the date of this publica-
tion to attend in person or by your Solicitor at
the Supreme Court Perth in the said State and there
enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.— (l.s.) G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
HARDWICK, SLATTERY & GIBSON, of Victoria
House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
sH®^
At all times, and
especially in the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper-
ties which remove all trace (*. -ujh
ofrohefanessandsoreness.
One of the famous
Cuticura Soap,
ment
r Po
Cuticura Soap, »•
528
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel —And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn't
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you. feel "up and up." Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3. .
New
Cream Deodoranf
safely
Slops Perspiration
i
mu
Does not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
B Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
3 A pure white,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can b*
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Arrid i« the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-day I
ARRID
2/m a jar At all chemists & stores
Also in 9 Jd. jars eellin * ,oilet ooda
Distributors; Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
Blue Gillettes —
sharper than
a surf jean 9 s
scalpel!
Ĵ
The sharpest edges known to science, electrically tempered to glass-
cutting hardness. Built on sturdy supporting shoulders for extra strength
and longer life. Every blade anchored in its wrapper, to ensure that
the keen cutting edges reach you untouched and undamaged. Only
Gillette, constantly seeking better methods,
can give you such perfection and shave
you so quickly and cleanly.
s
m
m
<
5S>
<s>
<?•
o
u
&
|do
I
5b
*Goad Marnings 9
begin with Gillette
BUY TEN AT A TIME
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS*
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re trib u uti^,vol^ ar J ly .
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
T.O’L.: Come again J.T.: A glimmer.
P.K.S.: Thin S.K.: Promising incidents,
excellent characters; but story trails away to
nothing... .5.0.: Heavy... .R.McG.: Sugary.
... .R.F., 8.G., L.N., J.8.Q., S.M., and many
others: There is no golden road. Read intel-
ligently and widely, model your writing on
that of the acknowledged masters of the cratt.
Shun ready-made plots and slick devices and
read, study, but do not slavishly imitate, the
best of The Bulletin short-story writers,
bearing in mind that the best of these have
faults, and applying the lessons learned to
your own fields of experience. Also, whatever
your market, type and double-space... .C.A. .
“Black Cat” streaked off in the outgoing mail.
J.G.; “No wheedling cry for succor, mine.
True, but exclamation marks aren’t same
thing as ecstasy... .Anon: “Dampiera too
slight R. 8.: Your plane never gets off the
ground.... H.D.A.; Bright but brittle....
L. Nothing new in those... .R.M.: Flat
and mechanical Bake: Half-baked,... S.M.:
Don’t you think that Shelley, from whom your
poem is derived, would have altered his style
a bit in the last hundred years?... .K.H.: ‘I
have an ambition to be an author of some
renown.” Then don’t rhyme “sleep” with
“feet” Delta: Muddy Alexandra: You d
better seek easier worlds to conquer... .E.W.,
M. and Filius: Mr. McKell seems to have
stirred the poetic mind to unheard-of frenzy.
E.J.C.: “I laid me down in slumber and
behold a vision rose.” It might have been the
milkman K.D.R.: “Our Pledge” is un-
redeemed... .J.O’G.: Try it on the girl....
Walrus: Take them to the carpenter.. . .J.A.:
Harrowing... .8.F.5.: It seems like “copy-
work” because you generalise instead of getting
down to fact. And that’s why the letter is
more interesting than the poem... ,1.W.;
Simplify V.G.L.: A very wooden tree
M.C.: Ever tried prose? 1.E.H.: Preaching
seldom makes poetry... .0.8.5.: Far too sweep-
ing a generalisation... .K.N.E.; For a woman’s
paper Bellerive: Terrific peals the thundery
....R.G.S.; If you call with a poem of 3000
lines you will be shot. If you post a sample
of say, 50 lines, it will be read with loving
care Ecila: “Dog Eats Dog” aroused a
feeble yelp of approval.. . .P.C.: Slight, but it
has charm W.C.: “If spirit mattered as
matter matters today.” A sort of mutter in
metre 0.8. P.: And when did “linger” begin
to rhyme with “timber”? E.D.: Just a fall-
ing leaf 1.M.T.; Well, it is probably the
first time the sunrise has been described as
Aphrodite kissing Faust E.MJ.: “The notes
for this poem were made from the upper deck
of a Dudley double-decker bus in 1944.” It
appears to have met with an accident. .. .N. 8.:
“Then suddenly with maniacal shriek Jove
loosed the sharpened dagger streak.” Out with
a maniacal shriek... .Aldo: The old house is
top ruinous altogether... .M.G.P.: Outlaw
bucking home Norway Bill: No go, Bill
G.M.H.: Not “terrible” but didactic and
sentimental J. 8.: Nothing new in that one.
. ...M,R.: For a woman’s paper N.McM.:
Usual “back-to-the-bush” poem.... W.N.S.:
Keep coming. Both too doleful this time....
Smoke: Welcome back, but there’s no fire in
that one D.H.R.: Feeling, thought, but no
picture P.R.L.: “Dream Isle” is a night-
mare Q.P.: Try again, and give more space
between the lines for sub-editing C.M.:
Your golf story hopelessly bunkered S.T.V.:
Fair etfort, but plot too slight for 3000 words.
C.W.P.: “The Cuckoo” fluttered round the
office for a while and then nestled peacefully
in the w.p.b T.R.0.: Why not teach your
bushmen to speak good Australian? Yankee
slang not acceptable V.X.: Subject interest-
ing, but would take too much cutting. Boil
down, add a little seasoning and serve again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Col: Picture of elongated gent, and short-
legged dame does not appeal.. . .P.E.P.: Per-
severe draughtsmanship promising J.H.;
Gags date back to the papyrus scrolls of ancient
Egypt... .Naut: The Maritime Services Board
would never o.k. the wharf you drew... .K.R.:
Your airman gags will stay grounded L.S.:
We don’t like the look of the cross-eyed bull.
B.F.: A long way yet before your work
will see printers’ ink T.R.: Why so much
detail in your drawings? Try to get results
from fewer lines Mattie: Drunk gags too
sober T.A.T.: Jokes about religious bodies
not acceptable R. 0.: Your aeroplane pic-
ture crashed.
A STORMY NIGHT.
(While encamped in a spacious shed outback.
Recollections of a country tour in a two-horse
waggon, dating back to my early twenties.)
Terrific pealed the thunder
Midst lightning, wind and rain.
WeTl been blown to eternity 'j
Encamped upon a plain.
Heavy showers descended
Through the wretched night;
Glistened pools of water
In the morning light.
The violent storm was over.
We wended on our way—•
Twenty miles we covered
By the close of day.


THP
? X XJULi
• *
rip '’■■■ •. s ; ••
v *x, >::• ;;:-:.: :>
* * ‘ *vf§
/'
: : , : :
'’, ' ' ''
V'
*X *• ■•• / v ■
‘ Y. :
, ;
-■ v ■' ■ : '
.. ■ ■ ■
V ■
...
-■•■?>■ •
««
i? %
' *
mx • s
WM
,<. / •V v'
SRK-
VI
® ■<;■
?:■• >■: ,*<• >; ‘ $#:&• vjg> : :->^.
- •
Abbotsford fts> Victoria, Australia


UNDER THE SHININC SURFACE
BY DOUGLAS
STEWART
THE mottled trout, suspended in a
shaft of sunlight in the Waingon-
goro, believes he sees a sunken log,
long, thick and slimy under the big
dark stone. The trout is mistaken ; but
so, too, is the monstrous eel if it thinks
that it is a stump, a calf or a particu-
larly large bullfrog that squats motionless
above him where the rock shines silver-
grey. For the air is as sweetly deceptive
as the water beneath it; and the bull-
frog is Polpy Polperro.
Master Polpy, who wears on his podgy
red face a yellow fluff like the feathers
of a new-hatched chicken, is supposed
to be weeding his father’s carrots. He
does this with a length of stout cord,
and a hook of a size to hold a shark,
and, impaled and squirming on it, a worm
as pink and almost as thick as his nose.
Which, gently, he lowers into the water.
That is enough for the trout. He has
not grown a foot long and a pound in
weight beneath the shining surface of the,,
Waingongoro to be told now that it
rains worms, especially on a sunny after-
noon ; and attached to a cord. He zig-
zags in the current. And, ha! the log has
eyes, has it, small and evil? and a head
that slowly turns ; and a great and gaping
mouth —the trout streaks for safety. He
never saw such an eel in all his life.
Nor has Master Polpy, though he has
known for many a day that eels of
various shapes and sizes are to be found
under the big stone. Inch by inch, with
a hand that trembles slightly, he lowers
his bait to the monster. And upon the
sand it lies, six inches away from that
dark and mighty head. *
And millimetre by millimetre slides the
eel towards the worm. The watcher
cannot see it move, but every second it
is closer. There is a glimpse of its
yellow side, of its silvery belly. The light
brown sand, golden where the sun strikes
down ; the clear flowing water. And the
pink and luscious worm. He noses it.
Then, millimetre by millimetre, imper-
ceptibly as before, retreats.
The boy crouches on the rock, the eel
lurks beneath it; the monster of the
water wrapped in shadow, the earth-
monster in leaves and sunlight; and both,
it would seem, enchanted into a dream
by the singing of the river. But there is
a splashing and a crashing
and, a.clamor of high-pitched voices.
“Come on, Goog, we’ll give it a go
by the big rock!”
“I reckon we’d ’a’ done better where
we were. I got a bite back there.”
“Garn! You wouldn’t know a bite
if you got one. You had a bite from
the current.”
“Aw, no, Bandy, I reckon I got a bite.
Pretty big he was, too.”
“Here, look! Do you see that? Look
at that kid sitting on the rock there! ”
“Cripes, Bandy, he gave me a fright.
What’s he sitting there like that for?”
“Blowed if I know. Will I chuck a
rock at him? Come on, we’ll chuck
rocks at him.”
“You chuck rocks at me and I’ll tell
me ole man to turn the bull loose on to
you.” Polpy stands up and glances wildly
into the branches above him, as if he is
thinking of climbing a tree. As, indeed,
he is.
“The bull wouldn’t cross the river after
us.” That is the lanky one called Goog ;
a trifle nervous of the bull, judging by
his popping blue eyes,
“You needn’t think I’m scared of your
bloomin’ ole bull. Or your bloomin’ ole
man, either. We got a right to go eelin’
in this river anywhere we like.” A des-
perate character. Bandy; with his bandy
legs and his bandy ears and his horrible
jeering voice.
“There’s a yool here!” Perhaps, thinks
Master Polperro, it would be better to
placate these mighty strangers.
“A what?”
“A great big yool. Under this rock.”
“He means there’s an eel., Cripes,
Bandyl”
“Yool! Hoo! Why can’t you say eel?
I’ll bloomin’ well chuck a rock at you.”
“You come over here and see. A great
big yool. Biggest you ever see.”
“Garn, we’ve seen bigger eels than you
have, haven’t we, Goog?”
BANDY, that desperate character, is
nevertheless intrigued. “Come on,
Goog, we’ll cross up the top there. By
cripes, if he hasn’t got an eel I’ll push
him in the river.”
Hoping very much that he still has
an eel (or yool), Master Polpy peers over
the edge of his rock.
He still has a yool; which, when the
Waingongoro reflects two popping blue
eyes and two bandy ears as well as that
fluffy pudding Polpy Polperro wears on
his shoulders, is admitted; grudgingly at
first and with suspicion, then with awe.
“By heck, Bandy, he’s a beaut!”
“Give us a bit of room, can’t you! ”
After all, it appears, one is not going
to be pushed into the river and drowned
by the terrible strangers, nor even beaten
about the head, nor chased howling up
the hill to one’s father. It is in quite
an affable and gratifying way that the
ferocious Bandy elbows one aside.
"You can’t catch him! I’ll show you!
Got a bit of liver for him! Fair death
on eels, liver is.”
What Bandy produces from the sugar-
bag, presented to him by the dutiful
Goog, would be fair death on anything.
Though, indeed, Polpy is pleasantly im-
pressed by its odor.
“Hums a bit, doesn’t she?” says Goog.
“She stinks!” cries Bandy exultantly.
“She’d fair stink you to death. She’ll
fix him!”
With an impressive pocket-knife, hav-
ing six blades, a bottle-opener and a use-
ful gadget for extracting stones from
horses’ hooves. Bandy carves at a purple
and flabby object laid like some obscene
sea-monster on the stone; and baits his
line; and impressively lowers it into the
Water three inches closer than
Polpy’s worm to the gigantic head
of the eel. The lord of the Wain-
goro moves not. Goog’s line fol-
lows. The eel remains unimpressed.
“Won’t take a bait,” says Polpy. “Too
cunnin’.”
“By cripes,” says Bandy, peering at the
three baits in a row on the sandy bottom,
“I wish I had a rotten egg. That’d fix
him.”
“What do you do with the egg?” says
Polpy.
“Gam, don’t you know that? Make
a hole in it, see, with a pin; and put it
in the water. The smell attracts them.”
Master Polpy digests this information
in silence. The sun shines on the rock
and reaches with golden fingers through
the dark-green leaves of tutu-scrub on the
cliff to the clay, the moss and the ferns.
The stream glitters. Far across and far
above the green paddocks a skylark sings.
But neither the great drowsy solitude
nor the pleasure of brooding about a
rotten egg can curb .the energy of Bandy,
Beneath him, not six feet down in the
clear water, lurks the biggest «el in the
river. And the whole meaning and pur-
pose of life, if it be not to torment
Polpy Polperro, is to catch that eel; and
take it back to town in the sugar-bag
and show it; and skite about it. You
could have it exhibited in the fish-shop
window.
“I reckon I’ll jag him with my hook,”
says Bandy.
“You might only scare him,” Goog
protests. “He’d swim away. We’d lose
him.”
“You get out of my bloomin’ road.
I’ll jag him.”
“You can’t jag him,” says Polpy.
“You’d scare him. He’s not your yool,
anyhow.”
Treason! For a moment, before he is
fully aware of the necessity to murder
Polpy, Bandy can only gape.
“You couldn’t catch him,” says Goog,
shrill with righteous indignation, “so he’s
our eel.”
Bandy stands. He reaches for Polpy.
He has him. “Yool! Yool! I’ll give
you yool! Try in’ to stop me jaggin’ my
own eel!”
“Well, I found him first,” says Polpy,
trying to back away.
“Didja then!” With which cry of rage
Bandy leaps upon him ; and perilously,
with grunts of rage from Bandy and
squeaks from Polpy and excited noises
and hoppings on the part of Goog, they
scuffle on the rock above the stream.
“I’ll bloomin’ well push him in the
water! ”
AND so the good Mr. Skintle, angling
upstream in his heavy thighboots of
rubber, sees in the bright eddies of the
sunlight a scene of ferocity and carnage.
“Now, boys,” calls the good Mr. Skintle
sharply across the river, “what’s the
trouble?” A lean, vigorous man with a
small, close-cropped moustache ; canvas
bag on his back, gaff slung pi his belt,
rod in his hand.
“You don’t want to fight like that,”
calls the good Mr. Skintle, “You might
fall in.”
“It’s a yool! ” shrills the nervous Goog.
“Eel, you fool! ” shouts Bandy.
“Where?”
“Under this rock here, Mister. You
come and look. Biggest eel you ever
saw in your life!”
Mr. Skintle wades across the stream
through the rapids, scrambles around the
base of the high bank and kneels upon
the rock. Where he is given further
orders. “Get him with your gaff. Mister.
You jag him for us with your gaff.”
“I’ll get him, boys.” The good, the
kind, the brave, resourceful Mr. Skintle
is only too willing to oblige. He lies flat
on the stone and cautiously inches into
the water his bright and piercing gaff.
“He’ll get him for us, he’ll get the yool
for us, Polpy!” Goog dances.
“It’s not a yool, it’s a neel!” says the
ferocious Bandy. “That’s right, Mister.
A bit this way. By cripes, I wisht I had
a gaff like that. Steady, it’s touching
him. It’s under him now. Fair under his
belly. You got him. Now!”
Mr v Skintle strikes, his arm jabbing
swiftly upwards, Goog falls over. Polpy
meditates flight. “Cripes, you got him! ”
yells Bandy. But with a great heave that
nearly drags Mr. Skintle into the river
the eel breaks free, taking the gaff with
him; and, fascinated and appalled, the
spectators watch the mottled cane handle
careering downstream.
Now the bold Bandy leaps to action.
“After him! Quick! ”
And along the bank they rush, and
across at the shallows below the next
pool where the track from Polperro’s
farm slopes down to a ford. And gaze
at the empty water; and wade and
search and splash but know not where
to look, until the alert and nervous eyes
of Master Goog observe the handle of
the gaff, deep below the surface, pro-
truding from a ledge ; and Bandy, while
Polpy meditates flight, seizes it and finds
the eel still attached and, straining, yells
for Mr. Skintle; who strides to him
swiftly, takes the gaff and drags the eel,
its great body writhing round the gaff-
handle in the shallows, in triumph to the
pebbly shore.
In the lives of four brothers of the
angle it is a solemn moment, rich wi’th
love and joy. And, as dire things are
done with stones and sticks to discourage
the monster from returning to the depths,
it fs celebrated with fitting frenzy. Then
is the eel measured, and estimated to be
five feet long; then is its girth taken —
sixteen inches; then is it weighed on the
noble Mr. Skintle’s fisherman’s spring-
balance, and found to register 22 pounds
—splendor beyond the dreams of man.
And, dark along the back, yellow on the
side, silver on the belly, and ugly as
nightmare the prize lies stretched upon
the shingle.
“Gripes!” breathes Bandy. “Thanks,
Mister.”
“We’d better be going, Bandy,” says
Goog. “Ole man’ll belt me if I’m late. I’ll
hold the bag open and you shove him in.”
Skintle, noble Skintle, what has hap-
pened to you? Like the bristles of a pig
now seems that small moustache, the
only decoration on that straight, narrow
face. How small and mean and sharp
is the mouth beneath it! And what of
the brotherhood of fishermen? “You
leave that eel'alone!” snaps the kindly
Mr. Skintle.
And what of the rights of proprietor-
ship? “It’s our yool!” cries Goog with
passionate indignation.
“You just leave it alone, that’s all.
Clear out of here!”
Leave our eel alone! Clear out of
our river! Scowling and muttering
Bandy leads his cohorts a few yards
downstream towards the ford. And there,
not quite loud enough to be heard, for
Mr. Skintle is an active man, growls like
a bandy tomcat,
IT occurs to Mr. Skintle that, despite
1 the disturbances, there might still be
a trout in the head of the pool where
the current flows swiftly at the base of
the cliff. He fishes.
A gentle and absorbing pastime. Wad-
ing in his rubber thighboots, watching
the movements of his line down the
rippling water, Mr. Skintle moves slowly
upstream; nor, as 1 he glances backward
before turning the bend, does he feel
anything but a grim satisfaction at the
sight of three scowling boys kicking the
stones by the ford. His great eel lies
motionless as a log. Well, he will fish
the next run before picking it up, for it
will be heavy to carry. Flick goes the
rod; gently on the stream alights his
white-winged Coachman.
And so the theft of the eel—or, rather,
the recovery of rightful property —is ac-
complished with the greatest of ease.
With absurd, intolerable ease. For it is
now revealed to Bandy—and even his
companions are dissatisfied with so cheap
a victory—that the true meaning and
purpose of existence is to goad Mr.
Skintle to madness.
High on the cliff above the reach
where the foeman is fishing stands Bandy
and, heaving with both hands, he raises
aloft like a banner a sugar-bag containing
22 pounds of eel. And from his throat,
with the long-drawn note of a trumpet,
comes a cry of “Tried to pinch our eel!”
“He plays in the Sally band! ” says Goog.
{Continued on page 32.)
The Stormbird.
After the sullen day of low-hung rain
Now in the evening, with the strong wind
blowing
Cool from the sea, the clouds unfold and
break
In mountains and chasms, lift from the
world’s edge, showing
The pale, serene blue-green of the glassy
sky —
But how have these torn clouds grown so
suddenly splendid?
So huge in their rolling across the dome
of the light —
The heavy falls of their storm-grey-purple
blended
With cream and tawny'billows, as soft as
smoke,
And above all the white, the ice-bright
wing-tips soaring.
While against the wild glory a ridge of
blue-black trees
Toss their heads, straining to the wind’s
dark roaring.
Beauty to make a dead man hap for joy —
Yet under it all a voice of foreboding is
calling;
It is not the hoarse creek, brawling in
rain-gorged spate
Through the damp hollow where now
the dusk is falling.
It is the sharp, incessant note of the
stormbird
i hat through all the hills around goes
swooping and crying
And day-long in the garden, though a
week past
There was no echo of him, nor glimpse of
him flying.
I cannot remember in any other year
His voice stabbing into my brain so,
evening and morning.
Yet others heard it, perhaps, when I was
deaf
Because it was then their time to give
eai to his warning.
And now it is mine, and I listen, but
cannot guess
What it is he warns of, or what is the
end of the story,
But know it is more than stormy weather
he cries for
Under the coming night and the sky’s
wild glory.
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE,.. MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON. Manager.
USE NUGGET-
OLD AMN /T KEEPS
YOU BRIGHT FOR
MANYAMUEr
t>A
O
h
NUGGET
SHOE POLISH
'N£ Daily
doss qp
NUGGET
cots /r{
'*•7
NP4S/57
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —•
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FED-UP WITH PALESTINE.
The illustration on this page is from
an advertisement in the N.Y. “Post” of
January 6. And here is some of the
text from the ad., which was inserted by
the Jewish “American League for a Free
Palestine”:
A schoolteacher from Palestine passing
.through Italy en route to visit his mother
in Czechoslovakia was killed on December
28 in a Roman political prison. Israel
Epstein was an advocate of freedom for
Palestine, and the long arm of British terror
reached out to strike him down far from
home/ and among strangers —to show
“plearly that Britain has declared a war of
destruction against the whole Hebrew
people.”
Epstein was thrown into prison in early
November, when British prestige in Italy
demanded a victim —no matter who, so long
as he was Hebrew —in reprisal for the
bombing of the British Embassy in Rome.
He was held under no charges, could speak
to nobody, could obtain no habeas corpus.
Four weeks passed, and the Italian police
chief, Bottino, recommended his release for
total lack of evidence linking him to the
blast. American military authorities in
Rome approved. But Epstein remained in
prison, while the British arranged to deport
him to their concentration camps in the
hell of Eritrea.
Then, suddenly, after six weeks in prisra,
Epstein was killed. His body was buried
immediately—in secrecy, without religious
ceremony. Slick work —no autopsy, no in-
quiry, no explanations. Another innocent
victim was hidden away to be forgotten.
Brutal as it is, this advertisement repre-
sents a good deal of American Zionist
anti-British propaganda, which has in-
creased in savageness since the war in
Europe ended and as the Jewish terrorists
in Palestine have spread out their trail
of murder. Such advertisements—usually
running to full pages in such expensive
advertising mediums as N.Y. “Times,”
and hence. representing a fortune spent
over the past year or two —easily lead in
their kind of expression of American
Jewish opinion.
Lately wearing patience pretty thin in
Britain, culminating in Mr. Bevin’s out-
burst, in which he named and blamed
President Truman for interference in
Palestine affairs when an agreement was
all-but concluded between Arabs and
Jews, such propaganda is well matched
by news reports of the sort being recently
sent out of Palestine by the N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” representative Homer Bigart. In
one report Bigart gave space to a story
about captured suspect Jew terrorists
being made to run the gauntlet between
rows of British soldiers, who belted them
with rifle butts and sticks. Bigart capped
that by repeating the story of a terrorist
that prisoners were taken to a room
where British soldiers “slashed at them
with razor blades, tearing off their clothes
and inflicting cuts.” Then, according tp
this yarn, the prisoners were “dragged
outside and forced to run naked around
the compound while the troops laughed
and threw stones.” In the morning, the
tale proceeds, “a doctor came and ex-
amined the prisoners and told the
soldiers ‘Boys, they are all right if you
want to play with them again.’ ”
Anyone knowing anything at all about
British troops and British doctors will
know such yarns as the wildest of rub-
bish, but they no doubt serve their pur-
pose.
Anti-Zionist Views
Occasionally the less vocal section of
U.S. Jewry counters with ads. opposing
Zionism and all its works.
One of these anti-Zionist full-page ads.
in N.Y. “Herald Tribune” of January
14 quoted Isidor Singer, “an American
authority on Judaism,” as stating that, of
the nearly 2,000,000 Jewish community in
New York, “there can hardly be found
10,000 confessed Zionists —mostly Russian
immigrants of the first decade, with a
few pseudo-romantic Yankee Jews as
official leaders.”
Sponsored by the “League for Peace
with Justice in Palestine” (claiming to
represent “Americans of the Jewish faith”
as well as “Americans of the Christian
faith and of Arab ancestry”) the ad.
further blamed Zionism for “increasing
anti-Semitism throughout the world, and
in the United States more particularly.”
It declared that “in the Arab States, in
the Orient, in Africa and throughout the
British Empire where anti-Semitism
was scarcely known in the accepted sense
of the word, it is today intense, due to
Zionist activities.” It proceeded:
The Arabs have offered a very sane
approach to the solution of this situation.
Arabs have already taken 500,000 who
escaped into Palestine, a country of only
10,000 square miles, while the rest of the
world with 50,000,000 square miles only
took in about the same number in the
same time. Throughout the history of
Europe persecuted and oppressed Jews
have always found a refuge with security
and opportunity in the Arab countries. The
recent murder of 6,000,000 Jews in the
Christian countries of Europe is surely
neither the fault nor the responsibility of
the distant Arabs. Official spokesman for
Syria, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Lebanon, Iraq,
Yemen and Trans-Jordan, Abdul-Rahman
From a N.Y. "Post” ad,
U.S. JEWISH ANTI-BRITISH PROPAGANDA.
Azzam Pasha, Secretary-General of the Arab
League, stated on October 3, 1946, that the
Arab States were ready to help find homes
for the Jewish refugees in an international
conference on the Jewish refugee problem
separate from the Palestine negotiations.
Zionists should sponsor that conference if
their primary interest is the “rescue” of
the victims of Hitler’s massacres. But that
might end “lush” jobs for “professional”
Zionists.
“Arabs Arming”
The anti-Semitism mentioned is seen as
turning to anti-Americanism, the ad,
quoting as an example the Arab daily
“Al-Misry,” published in Cairo (interest-
ing, also, as something rarely, if ever,
presented in cables —an expression of
Arab feeling):
In the U.S.A. there is a Jewish colony
in the political field they have made
themselves a power they can bring their
influence to bear on the White House....
Zionism has won the President to its side.
... .Arabs have lost hope in the fairness
of America’s President, her Senate, her
Congress, and her press Arabs should
immediately resort to the following: (1)
America’s policy should be denounced by
every means at the Arabs’ disposal. (2)
It should be made clear to America that
she has no right whatsoever to meddle in
the affairs of Palestine and that if she is
really anxious for the Jews’ welfare she open
her gates to them. (3) All American goods
and products should be boycotted
(4) No further contracts or economic agree-
ments of any description should hence-
forth be concluded with America. (5) All
present economic agreements including oil
concessions should be considered with a
view to cancelling them.
As a further example of mounting
Arab feeling, which has for so long been
strangely quiescent, a “Collier’s” repre-
sentative in Jerusalem, Edward P.
Morgan, recently reported Arab leaders
as now heating up “the fires of national-
ism” and “building military organisa-
tions.” The correspondent believes the
Arabs do not intend “to hold fire in-
definitely” ; their own politics may be
“shot through with internal strife,” but
“the drive for independence holds all fac-
tions outwardly together.” They are
“busy acquiring arms,” and, according to
Morgan, British authorities have said
openly “So long as the Jews stay armed
you can’t blame the Arabs for being con-
cerned about their own defences, too.”
Morgan declares, however, that “accusa-
tions that the British Army is systemati-
cally arming the Arabs can be almost in-
variably traced to deliberate smear propa-
ganda or irresponsible bar-room gaff.”
He expects that “if the Arabs decide on
violence again” they will “strike as
guerrillas.”
U.N.O. Move Embarrassing
Now that Britain, as announced by Mr.
Bevin, has given U.N.O. the job of cutting
through the tangle, there is expected to
be a considerable change in American
Zionist quarters. The London “Times”
special correspondent at U.N.O. inter-
preted the “cautious nature of the com-
ment” in America on Britain’s decision
as showing that “the relief which may
be felt by the British Government is
matched by the embarrassment of other
interested parties.” While the U.S.
Zionists, after all their anti-British propa-
ganda, found “it difficult not to applaud
the British decision,” the correspondent
sees them as not at all happy about what
might be the outcome of putting the
Palestine problem up for decision by “an
assembly of nations in which the Arabs
have five votes and the Jews, as such,
none, and in which the moral
authority of other members to support
the Zionist case is qualified by their re-
luctance to admit Jews into their own
countries.” ' 1
The “Times” man sees the U.S. Gov-
ernment as also not exactly happy over
the turn of events: “The interest which
the U.S. Government has taken in Pales-
tine, mainly in the direction desired by
the highly vocal section of public opinion,
has been joined for the first time to re-
sponsibility ; and neither the immediate
nor the long-term political interests of the
United States are identical with support
of the Zionist cause point that would
cause permanent off|pce to the Arab
world,”
The fact that U.N.O. sits in New
York, where the Zionist strength is
greatest and its propaganda loudest, linked
with a Presidential election coming up
next year, further increases the embar-
rassment of the U.S. Government. Be-
cause of this, along with Britain’s known
efforts to reach a solution and the belief
that “the Soviet Union may hesitate to
come down too decidedly in favor of
the Arabs in a city that is the most vocal
centre of those elements of American
opinion which at once support the Zionist
cause and are most critical of the U.S,
Government in its policies towards the
Soviet Union,” the correspondent expects
that a decision may be reached which
“does rough justice to both Jews and
Arabs.”
Arab and Jew Standards
Whatever the decision, it is almost cer-
tain to satisfy neither party. The nature
of the deadlock which Britain at long
last finally got fed-up with trying to
resolve was made abundantly clear by
Mr, Bevin when, in announcing the deci-
sion in the Commons, he gave both the
Arab and Jewish standpoints:
For the Arabs the fundamental point is
that Palestine should no longer be denied
the independence which has now been
attained by every other Arab State, and
that in accordance with the accepted prin-
ciples of democracy the elected majority
should be free to determine the future
destiny of the country. They regard the
further expansion of the Jewish National
Home as jeopardising the attainment of
national independence by the Arabs of
Palestine, which all the Arab States de-
sire, and they are therefore unwilling to
contemplate further Jewish immigration
into Palestine. They are equally opposed
to the creation of a Jewish State in any
part of Palestine.
The Jewish Agency, on the other hand,
have made it clear that their fundamental
aim is the creation of an independent
Jewish State in Palestine. With this in view
they first proposed that his Majesty’s Gov-
ernment should continue to administer the
mandate on a basis which would enable
them to continue to expand the Jewish
National Home until such time as they
had attained by immigration a numerical
majority in Palestine, and could demand
the creation of an independent Jewish State
over the country as a whole. When it was
made clear that his Majesty’s Government
were unable to maintain in Palestine a
mandatory administration under the protec-
tion of which such a policy should be car-
ried out, the representatives of the Jewish
Agency that, while still maintain-
ing the justice of their full claims,, they
would be prepared to consider as a com-
promise proposals for the creation of “a
viable Jewish State in an adequate area
of Palestine.” While they were not them-
selves willing to propose a plan of par-
tition, they were prepared to consider such
a proposal if advanced by his Majesty’s
Government.
His Majesty’s Government have thus
been faced with an irreconcilable conflict
of principles. There are in Palestine about
1,200,000 Arabs and 600,000 Jews. For the
Jews, the essential point of principle is the
creation of a sovereign Jewish State. For
the Arabs, the essential point of principle
is to resist to the last the establishment
of Jewish sovereignty in any part of
Palestine. Discussion in the last month
has clearly shown there is no prospect of
resolving this conflict by any settlement
negotiated between the parties.
If the conflict is to be resolved by
arbitrary decision, that is not a decision
which his Majesty’s Government are em-
pSwered, as mandatory, to take. His
Majesty’s Government have of themselves
no power under the terms of the mandate
to award the country either to the Arabs
or to the Jews, or even to partition it
between them.
“The Zionist Illusion”
Oddly enough, an American writer, in
a most striking analysis of the Palestine
problem published in the “Atlantic
Monthly,” makes out the strongest case
in support of the Arab side so far read.
The writer, W. T. Stace, is Professor of


What a Trustee should know.
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS : '
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F; W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
ELM.
WEIGHT
APPUOX.
TONS
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.
J
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty.,
Ltd. VICTORIA —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick,
Melbourne. Q’LANI> —Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
W‘.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Robert. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI —The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q’LAND OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
Philosophy at Princeton University, and,
in view of its interest and unusualness in
the spate of writings on Palestine, some
main points of his long and carefully
analytical article, entitled “The Zionist
Illusion,” are here given in condensed
form:
The Arab case is, in essence, this. The
Arabs constitute a large majority ot tne
inhabitants of Palestine. This is not only
true now, but it has been true since some-
where near the beginning of the Christian
era —that is to say, for nearly two thousana
years. The Arabs in Palestine are opposed
to any mass immigration of Jews. Ihere-
fore the majority of the inhabitants ot
Palestine are opposed to such a mass immi-
gration. According to the principle of selt-
determination, which is the accepted prin-
ciple of international justice, the atlairs ot
a country must be governed by the wishes
of the majority of its inhabitants,- and any
attempt of an outside country to override
by force the wishes of such a majority is
“aggression.” Therefore the actions ot
Zionists, of Great Britain, and of America,
in seeking to force on Palestine a mass
immigration of Jews contrary to the wishes
of the Arab majority, constitute acts ot
aggression and are contrary to the principles
of international justice, self-determination
and democracy.
The Zionist case rests upon five main
arguments. The first is that Palestine was
a Jewish land in ancient times. It was tor
long ages the national land and home ot
the Jews. It may reasonably be said to
have “belonged” to the Jews. Moreover,
they did not leave it of their own free
will. They were forcibly dispossessed. And
this gives them a claim to re-enter it now
and to make of it again a national home.
What force is there in this contention.
The question can only be answered after
we have decided what are the grounds of
right by which any nation can claim the
country which it occupies. The answer is
clear. No nation has any right to the
land it occupies except long possession.
What right have Americans to live m,
occupy, and-control these United States/
No right whatsoever except the fact that
they have actually lived here for two or
three hundred years. The same is true of
every other people in the‘world. In most
cases there was not even the pretence of
purchase which we find in America. The
British, the French, the Germans, the
Japanese, the Zulus, have no claim to the
countries in which they live except long
possession.
Judged by this principle, which is the
only possible principle to apply, the Arabs
have a far better claim to Palestine than
the Americans have to America. For they
have effectively occupied the country lor
nearly two thousand years. There may have
been always a small Jewish minority in
Palestine, just as there has been in America
a small Indian minority from the time of
its white occupation until now. This would
give the Jews in Palestine a right to vote
and to proper treatment, just as it gives
the same rights to Indians in America. But
that is all.
These considerations make it clear that
the fact that Palestine was a Jewish land
in ancient times cannot possibly give Jews
a right of mass entry there now. No
matter how a people came originally into
possession of a country, whether by aggres-
sion, war, or in any other way, we have
in the end—that is to say, after a suffici-
ently long period —to admit their exclusive
right to it, which means of course that all
prior claims are extinguished. For that is
the only basis on which any people can
ever claim the country which it inhabits.
What is a “sufficiently long period”? Cer-
tainly two thousand years is : Thus the
first Zionist argument is entirely without
force.
The second argument is that Palestine
has for the Jews a peculiarly sacred re-
ligious significance. Can we admit religious
feelings as giving any sort of claim to mass
immigration into a country? Would wp
allow such a claim in any other case /
Obviously not. Thailanders could not
assert a right to migrate into India because
they are Buddhists and India, where the
Buddha was born and lived, has a special
religious significance for them. And
Britishers and Americans who are Christians
could not claim a right of mass settlement
in Palestine on the ground that it has for
them, just as much as for the Jews, a
deep religious significance.
The third Zionist argument is that the
British Government in 1917 promised the
Jews that they should have a national
home in Palestine. A moral claim is here
based on the general principle of the
sanctity of promises. The question which
has to be asked is whether the British had
any right to make promises about the dis-
posal of Palestine contrary to the wishes
of the majority of the inhabitants of that
country. It is plain that, according to the
principles of democracy and self-determina-
tion, which are the accepted principles of
international justice, they had not. Their
action in doing so was an act of aggression.
Therefore the Balfour Declaration gives
Zionists no moral claim, and if they in-
sist on its fulfilment, they are accessories
to aggression. ■
We come to the question whether the
homelessness of the Jews, to which we
must add the frightful sufferings which they
have undergone and are undergoing, can be
made the basis of a claim to mass immi-
gration into Palestine. We may list this
as the fourth Zionist contention.
No humane person can view these facts
without profound feelings of pity and
shame —pity for the victims, shame foi the
cruelty and wickedness of our human kind.
But we have to ask what moral claims can
be founded upon it. There arises, most cer-
tainly, a claim to generous treatment by
every country in the world. But just be-
cause the facts yield an equal claim against
all civilised countries (except that the claim
is stronger against those countries which
have been most responsible for the suffer-
ings), they cannot yield any special claim
against Palestine. The claim is against Eng-
land, America, Russia, France and Pales-
tine too (if Palestine is a humane and civil-
ised country), but not more against Pales-
tine than any other country.
The last argument commonly put forward
for Zionism is the fact that Jewish immi-
grants into Palestine have already enor-
mously improved the country, and that
further immigration will result in further
benefits to it. This fact is to be .admitted,
and it is unnecessary to go into any details
regarding the economic and cultural im-
provements made in Palestine by the Jews.
DARK ANGEL IN THE HOLY LAND.
The question is whether they constitute a
valid argument for Zionism.
The hole in the argument is that it can
he used to justify almost any aggression
whatever—at any rate, any aggression by an
advanced and highly civilised nation against
a more backward one. The principle is
clear. A highly civilised people, by con-
quering a backward people, will nearly
always improve their country. And there.-
fore, if this argument justifies Zionism, it
will justify any aggression of a more civil-
ised against a more backward .people. And
this we cannot admit without undermining
and in the end destroying the conception
of international justice to which we profess
to adhere. .
It seems to me that the principle that a
people have a right to force an entry into
another country if they can show they are
improving it —which is the real basis of the
Zionist contention, though this is not the
way they put it —is so dangerous in the
present state of the world that it ought
not to be allowed. It is better to err on the
side of overzealousness against aggression,
and to refuse to countenance even what
might be regarded as a sort of justifiable
aggression—what a dangerous phrase!
than to adopt into our philosophy of inter-
national relations a principle which can be
so easily twisted to justify any aggression
or any war whatsoever.
The logic of the case as a whole is too
clear for any error in the general conclu-
sion that, in the dispute between Jew and
Arab, the Arab’ claim is correct and the
Zionist claim is without any foundation.
This is the inevitable conclusion to which
an impartial judge would come.
And Professor Stace adds:
When Mr. Bevin said that America was
pressing Britain to allow more Jews into
Palestine because we do not want to allow
them into America, his remark was greeted
with a howl of execration. Naturally,
since the truth hit home and exposed our
wickedness and hypocrisy! But his obser-
vation is just as true of the British Empire
as it is of the United States. We have to
face the plain truth, however unpleasant
it may be —however shameful if you like
that none of the great nations want these
refugees, and they are therefore attempting
to thrust them on a little Arab country.
And the reason why America in particular
tries to force the pace, while Britain hangs
back, is simply that the Jewish vote is
, powerful in America while Arab influence
is important to the British Empire.
Cloudy U.N.O. Outlook
How fed-up Britain has become with
the whole Palestine business was shown
by the Opposition’s reaction to Mr.
Bevin’s announcement.
Mr. Churchill’s criticism was not
levelled at the decision but at the idea
of Britain having to go on bearing the
responsibility, and suffering the casual-
ties, not merely till next September, when
the U.N.O. Assembly meets,, but for as
long thereafter as it rakes U.N.O. to
find a solution for a problem which the
British Government confessed it had
found insoluble.
Mr. Churchill was cheered when he
asked how Mr. Bevin justified “keeping
100,000 soldiers in Palestine, who are
needed in Britain, and spending
£30,000,000 to £40,000,000 a year from
our diminishing resources upon this vast
apparatus of protraction and delay.”
Neither Mr. Churchill nor any other Op-
position member, however, had any alter-
native to offer against the Government
plan to send the case to U.N.O.
Like Mr. Churchill, London “Times”
does not look on the delay side of the
business with any relish. It will mean,
the “Times” states, that “added burdens
will fall upon British troops and police in
sustaining a regime which is now uni-
versally recognised to be provisional and
transitory.” As the fierce terrorist out-
break about a week ago showed, “added
burdens” was an understatement meaning
further considerable losses of British
lives.
As the “Times” sees it, the U.N.O. out-
look is decidedly cloudy, with a long
delay very probable. It sees the Zionists
as counting on support (for an indepen-
dent Jewish State) “both from the Powers
which cherish a humanitarian sentiment
for the plight of the Jews and from the
Powers eager to find an excuse for de-
porting them into Palestine.” On the
other hand, U.N.0., being pledged to
promote the independence of. small
nations, “is likely to sympathise strongly
with the Arab demand that Palestine shall
be given independence forthwith on the
basis of the existing population.” This
Arab demand the “Times” expects will
be supported “by the votes of dll the
Eastern members, by the currents of
idealism, which, as General Smuts,lately
found, are so powerful in the Assembly,
and by those Powers who contend,. that
the influence of the British Common-
wealth extends too widely over the earth’s
surface.” The “Times” summed up:
The Arab’s of Palestine will find them-
selves in a strong position. In itself their
claim to independence is unanswerable. To
combine this independence with the survival
of the National Hofne will now be the
task confronting the statesmen of the
United Nations.
As in America, the British decision has
been noted as causing some embarrass-
ment among the parties in Palestine.
There “Many Zionists seem t 0....
feel that they will have a hard row
to hoe in gaining support in the inter-
national field, and, though they are said
to have made a beginning by canvassing
among South American States, they will
need all the support in Britain that they
can get.”
Extraordinary Precautions
As well as having to send British
women and children out of Palestine,
extraordinary measures are being taken
to keep murders, kidnappings and flog-
gings of officials down to a minimum.
. An idea of the life is shown by a cir-
cular setting out the precautions being
taken to guard the officials on their way
to and from work in Jerusalem. Every
morning the officials have to report
punctually in Bethlehem-road, at a point
known as area A. There a convoy is
ready for them, with an armored car in
front and another at the rear, and thus
guarded, either in buses or in their own
cars, they move like a train through the
town to areas B and C, the King David
Hotel and the Government offices.
If a ca* in the work-convoy breaks
down, it’s the job of the rear armored car
to stay with it till it’s got going again.
There is only the one convoy—to work
in the morning; home in the afternoon.
Anyone not punctually there in the morn-
ing misses his day’s work ; if he lets the
convoy go without him in the afternoon
he sleeps in his office.
Also, anyone who wishes to see a
doctor or a dentist, or who wishes to
leave the guarded area for any other
special reason, has to give notice before
4 p.m. on the previous day, and when
he moves off he goes with a guard.
It can be taken that when these arrange-
ments were made the British Govern-
ment was already convinced that deciding
on Palestine would have to be done by
U.N.O. and was well aware that that
means protracted proceedings, with
Britain still having to shoulder the burden
of maintaining order. As the sharp
Bevin-Truman exchanges indicated, the
U.N.O. move was not before its time,
since, as N.Y. “World-Telegram” column-
ist William Philp Simms has put it,
“Palestine has now become a delicate
subject in Anglo-American relations” ; it
might well be called the most delicate
subject.
A N.Y. “Times” correspondent at
U.N.O. expects the case to “prove
troublesome for the United States....
since the Palestine question has frequently
played an important part in U.S. politics.”
The correspondent quotes the British
delegation at U.N.O. as “glumly sure
that the United Nations will find that
the Palestine problem will rank with the
atom in difficulty.”


As the only Company of its kind in Australia
with offices and factories in every state of
the Commonwealth, Claude Neon occupies a
♦ « *
position of unquestionable leadership in the field of luminous-tube
products for out-door advertising displays and interior Fluorescent
Lighting. The magnitude of Claude enterprises warrants a sub-
stantial year-after-year investment in research and planning .. .
your guarantee of the best that modern science and engineer-
ing can produce, when you buy Claude products. In addition,
Claude Neon is in continuous direct touch with overseas laboratory
» *
research so as to ensure that every technological, advance is made
speedily available to Australian users of luminous-tube products.
Claude Neon Limited
FIRST IN FLUORESCENT
\ .


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3500
Wednesday, March 12, 1947
WAITING FOR THE VERDICT (IF ANY).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SHOWDOWN AT MOSCOW.
The auguries for the meeting of the four
Foreign Ministers at Moscow were hardly
propitious. Indeed, the strain put upon
their Governments’ relations with each
other during negotiations for the settle-
ment of minor questions will encourage
no hopes now of speedy agreement as the
Allies come to grips on the problem of
Germany.
Nearly two years have elapsed since the
victorious armies met at Berlin over the
prostrate enemy and imposed an un-
conditional surrender; nearly 18 months
since Mr. Stalin, Mr. Truman and Mr.
Attlee composed at Potsdam a working
basis for the political procedure in de-
militarising Hitler’s broken people, and
the dconomie restoration of an industrial
organism vital for the revival of Central
Europe. That agreement has remained a
dead letter. The lowest common denomi-
nator of the Allies’ principles, therein
thought to have been determined, proved
quite illusory.
Historically, of course, the Allies—or
at least those belonging to Europe—
should be well versed from experience in
the quarrels which beset a triumphant
coalition after the overthrow of an
aggressor whose temporary .domination
of the Continent had furnished that
coalition with its one binding ingredient.
The situation is not new, and merely to
lament the poverty of statesmanship in
Western Europe would take insufficient
account of the economic exhaustion
wrought by “total war.” Mr. Bevin spoke
a bitter truth when he told the House of
Commons that what he wanted for asser-
tion _ of British influence in European
councils was not a great army but
40,000,000 spare tons of coal.
True, if the National Government in
Britain had been continued, and if Mr.
Bevin’s party had not taken the wrong
turning in late 1945, many mistakes
and miscalculations might have been
avoided; and the United States might
not have been deflected by distrust of
socialism in Britain from playing a
stronger hand. But if Britain should fail
in the bid that must be made in Moscow
to pull the so-called United Nations to-
gether again, at least she will have earned
no reproaches on the score of her high
principles and her efforts to establish
them. She has striven beyond her war-
sapped strength to save Europe both by
her example and by material provision
for starving peoples which by every
current test she could not afford.
To save the world for democracy, to
re-establish the freedom and dignity of
Europe’s peoples under the standards of
Western civilisation, really meant some-
thing to Britain, The time has comb for
a demonstration of what that objective
may mean to others who have professed
collaboration in the cause.
In the first instance the ball passes to
America. It is doubtful even yet whether
the American Government and people,
for all the liberality which they have put
forth to succor Europe and Eastern Asia,
realise the full burden of responsibility
they have inherited with the power and
wealth the United States accumulated
during the war.
The Foreign Ministers’ Council con-
vened in Moscow, then, faces much more
than the delayed settlement for Germany
—and, as a sideshow, for Austria —
around the table which their Soviet hosts
are, as usual, heaping at the outset with
excessive food and drink. It is confronted
with a situation snarled up by mutual
suspicions and diplomatic hostility, which
gestures from the West of even the most
carefully calculated mixture of firmness
and friendship have seemed only to
aggravate.
“If we can agree on Germany,” said
the French Foreign Minister on the eve
of his departure for Moscow, “we shall
agree on everything. But if we do not
agree on Germany, then God help man-
kind!” That expresses in almost the
same words what his British and
American colleagues have said before
him, and. indeed Mr. Byrnes’s declared
view at the end of last year’s acrimonious
series, of the Council’s sessions was that
there must be a final showdown at the
Moscow meetings. The crucial question
is not so much the future of Germany
as what Russia wants from her war
partners to make her a sincere collaborator
in the United Nations’ Organisation. To
put that question bluntly and seek a
frank answer has been proved idle.
Stormy sessions in every kind of inter-
national gathering have convinced Britain
and America that the only practical
course is to drive through the detailed
agenda of the “peace” conferences and
negotiate on each head as permanent a
settlement as can be made.
The auguries, to repeat, are not propi-
tious. To begin with, it is a reflection
upon the procrastinating weakness of the
Allied Governments, as occupying Powers
in Germany, that on the very eve of the
conference a wide-ranging conspiracy
among minor surviving Nazis should have
been exposed. Plans were first unearthed
by the British Intelligence service last
summer. The plot was allowed to de-
velop, the Americans in their zones were
informed, and thq two authorities laid
their counter-measures in unison. Later
they took the Soviet authorities into their
confidence. Shortly after mid-February
the British and American net, skilfully
cast, made a great catch, and a fortnight
later the Russians announced the smash-
ing of some Nazi terrorist gangs as
though it were some smart and quite un-
related stroke of their own. As a reminder
to the occupying Powers on an inexorable
common interest in this problem, the
event may serve a useful introduction to
the Moscow debates, and the timing of
the Anglo-American swoop would sup-
port that theory.
Essentially the handicap under which
the Western democracies struggle is that
they have been in retreat from what the
Russians call their imperial positions, and
they must find means to check that re-
treat, as well as the momentum of
Russian power-politics asserted directly
against them. Britain is in process of
withdrawing from India, Burma and
Egypt, to mention only three countries ;
and the compound effect is to throw all
Asia into increased turmoil and to lead
Russia on into the eastern Mediterranean.
The U.S.A. is quitting China, and what-
ever gloss may be put upon that decision,
the consequence can only be to leave the
way clearer for Russia in that quarter
too.
Because these are Anglo-American dis-
comfitures they are Russian gains; but
the triumph Russia is working for is the
, isolation of Turkey and the culmination
of her ambitions in the control of the
Dardanelles. Washington’s interference
in the Zionist war with Britain over
Palestine is now being shown up in its
full stupidity. With her own adversity at
home draining her strength Britain is
unable alone to uphold the stand she has
taken in both Palestine and Greece ; to
abandon one of them would, as a con-
fession of exhaustion, imperil both, and
Russia would speedily take her place.
Washington may well feel rudely
awakened by the shock of the British
appeal for help in Greece.
Manifestly if this sort of retreat is not
promptly checked there will be no chance
of withstanding Russian demands in
Germany or anywhere else, and U.N.O.
will become a corpse quicker than even
.the League of Nations did. , It was
Resigned to prohibit war by assertion of
its own international force, but the chief
Powers are slower in nothing than in
implementing the clauses of the Charter
requiring this force to be set up. Mean-
while a first-class war has begun again in
China, another is threatened between the
races of India in anticipation of India’s
“freedom,” and in Palestine and Greece
invasion is proceeding by infiltration of
armed bands. And there is Communist
Albania, whose mining of two British
destroyers in the Corfu Channel, with
serious loss of life, brought the igno-
minious answer of a protest to U.N.0., to
be heard—after the Soviet representative
on the Security Council had objected to a
hearing— at least a twelvemonth after the
foul crime was committed.
Britain cannot abdicate her position in
the world without provoking war. Her
gradual retreat from her old familiar beat
as the world’s policeman must be com-
pensated by the installation of some other
guardians of international society’s right
to peaceful intercourse.
With America’s help Britain has drawn
the line beyond which there can be no
withdrawal in the Levant, in the Adriatic,
and above all, in Germany. The merger
of British and American zones in western
and southern Germany is an irrevocable
step in dealing with Russia, and upon
Russia’s* reaction will depend whether
Germany shall be split in two at the Elbe,
and Central Europe with it, by the “iron
curtain.” The French Government
is seemingly so convinced of this trend
that its fears concerning British policy
for the Ruhr appear to be. evaporating.
Differences on the point had previously
militated against signature of an Anglo-
French alliance, but at Dunkirk, on his
way to Moscow, Mr. Bevin met M.
Bidault and they cemented that long-dis-
cussed pact without mention of the Ruhr.
Despite the circumspection by both parties
to avoid anything in the treaty, or in the
manner of making it, which would offend
the Soviet, the Russians will be indeed
obtuse if they do not distinguish the
warning that if they should perpetuate
the cutting off of Eastern Europe, then a
closer merging of interests throughout
the West will surely follow.
New Pin-Up Boy.
The change in tne attitude of Sydney
newspapers to Mr. Calwell is astonishing.
Not very long ago he was their political
a\4ersion No. 1. One of their editors
published a front-page article branding
him as a liar and challenging him to issue
a writ for libel. This he did, claiming
£25,000 damages, but after preliminary
proceedings in the High Court he
abandoned the action, thereby, of course,
rendering himself liable for costs.
Now the same Mr. Calwell is praised
in the identical quarters in which dis-
praise, to put it mildly, was his regular
portion.
Mr. Calwell is extolled on the score of
his immigration policy and administra-
tion, which thus far has yielded nothing
but the advent of a band of bricklayers,
carpenters and the like, taken from the
all-too-small building-labor force in war-
devastated Britain—where, in the worst
winter in modern times, a great part of
the nation is still ill-housed or not housed
at all—to build homes for Government
employees in Canberra, and the arrival of
large parties of European Jews, with lots
more to come, who never have any
housing troubles. One of his critics on
this head is Mr. Bolton, the Diggers’
President in N. S. Wales, who is con-
cerned particularly for the multitude of
houseless servicemen. One of Mr. Cal-
well’s champions, and withal a champion
of Jewish immigration, is a young gentle-
man on the Sydney “Sun,” who—after
devoting to execration “American troo.ps,
especially professional soldiers from the
Southern States ; the new State Migration
Minister Mr. Finnan; R.S.L. president
Bolton ; the R.S.L. attitude” and Gullett
and Beale, Ms.H.R. —wrote in this
strain;
Mr. Calwell has been consistently con-
structive, wise and liberal in his migration
policy Mr. Calwell says last year only
2 per cent, of 34,500 entries were “refugees”
—about 700. Those (like Mr. Bolton) who
sneer at these figures are accusing a Crown
Minister of lying. Mr. Calwell doesn’t lie.
So the young gentleman differs from
the editor of the “Daily Telegraph.”
In point of fact Mr. Calwell’s figures
are worthless. He has given the number
of arrivals, or says be has, but not the
number of departures. Yet from his own
statistician’s office has come the statement
(February 11) that during 11 months of
1946 there were 28,047 departures and
only 16,675 arrivals; in August, a
“good” month as months, go, 2606 de-
partures (“permanent”) and 1941 arrivals.
Among the departing guests there were
assuredly no Jewish refugees. They come
to stay.
On this subject Mr. Calwell, the truth-
teller, is never explicit, nearly always
evasive. Only has he given way to a
burst of candor; that was when he said
in the Maccabean Hall, Sydney, that he
had signed 2000 landing permits for
people of the same race or persuasion as
his enthusiastic audience. When an Aus-
tralia House man let it out that Jews in
Europe had received 6000 Calwell landing
permits, good for 10,000 persons, the
Minister neither admitted it nor denied
it. Driven into a corner, he seeks refuge
in words like “about” and “a limited
number” where precise information is
required and is at his disposal, and in
such bald and unconvincing statements
as that “some landing permits have not
yet been presented in Australia,” and
that “many of these will never be pre-
sented.” He is never so shifty as when
another shipload of Jews, shipped at
Port Said, Marseilles, some Dutch port,
or Shanghai, is on the water.
Professing a zeal for British immigra-
tion, though all his extravagant plans
have gone west save only the arrange-
ment for the 600 building laborers whom
the British Government was openly re-
luctant to lose, Mr. Calwell announced
on February 5 that he had virtually com-
pleted negotiations for the chartering of
the Aquitania. He was promptly and
somewhat testily corrected from Aus-
tralia House, and it had to be admitted
last week that the charter was still under
discussion.
Mr. Calwell coined or appropriated the
term “Red Fascists” for his Communist
opponents when they were his oppon-
ents. He dropped the expression when
he became a Minister, and was rewarded
by being granted immunity from Com-
munist opposition inf his electorate of
Melbourne ; and he has transferred his
rage to critics of the favors he grants to
refugees. His choice term for these critics
—borrowed from Communists or fellow-
travellers —is “Jew-baiters.” With far
greater warrant his colleague, Mr. Ward,
might be called a “Briton-baiter” ; but
that is another pair of sleeves. Mr. Cal-
well’s new-found press friends, together
with chair-warmers on the “Labor” side
of the House, are playing up to him by
accusing Australians in sweeping terms of
anti-Serriitism.
There was no such thing in this country
until the beginnings of an alien problem
loomed up and the manners and practices
of refugees excited remark. Australians
of British descent, Protestants and
Catholics, accepted the community to
which John Monash and Isaac Isaacs be-
longed as Australians of the Jewish faith,
and shared its pride in the lives and
achievements of these men. It was re-
served for a Jewish audience in Sydney,
predominantly refugee, no doubt, to do
what no Australian audience of British
descent had ever done or ever thought of
doing—hooted and reviled the name of
Isaac Isaacs because, with the courage
and lucidity of mind which have always
distinguished him, the old man warned
the fierce, unreasoning Zionists that their
policy for Palestine was in essence the
same as the Nazi policy for Germany,
and that, unaltered, it would inevitably
be accompanied by Nazi methods of
barbarism. How right he was!
There is still no feeling against Aus-
tralian Jews who regard themselves as
Australians and do not take up the
irrational and dangerous position that
Zionists have assumed throughout the
English-speaking world. Every real Aus-
tralian honors the first' Australian-born
Governor-General, and no real Aus-
tralian would think of holding it against
the favorite comedian of the day, and of
many days, that he belongs to a Jewish
family that came from the Netherlands.
It is a fact that Jewish refugees are not
popular ; but, herding in cities as they do,
and obtrusively alien as so many still
choose to be —there is no need for going
into details—would they be popular any-
where? And since extreme Zionism has
chosen to transfer its hate from Nazi
Germany, against which it financed and
armed no terrorist bands, to the country
which, above all others, was the pro-
tector and champion of Jews, the country
first among equals in the British Corn-
wealth, could they expect to be popular
in any British community?
Though the Jewish war on the British
in Palestine affects Australia in obvious
ways, it is never mentioned by Mr. Cal-
well or by any of his supporting band
of “Labor” politicians and newspaper-
men who are so free with charges of
anti-Semitism and xenophobia against
their countrymen. Also on their list of
tabooed subjects are the Communist spy
plot in Canada, to which Jews from
Europe were parties (one, an M.P., was
sentenced to a long term of imprisonment),
and the prevalence of Jews in the govern-
ing class of the new Communist Europe,
notably the “Rumanian” terrorist, Anna
Pauker, a worthy successor to the Jews
Bela Kun and Samuelsky, who imposed
on the beaten Hungarian ' people a
frightful regime of murder, robbery and
rape, the memory or which is still in-
fluencing the Hungarians in their brave,
though apparently hopeless, struggle
against the Communising of their country.
These “Labor” politicians and news-
papermen talk and write as if all
European Jews were persecuted innocents,
suffused with love for Britain and the
British peoples, as was taken for
in 1938. Those at whom they rail know
better, and the nation itself has a right to
expect the “Government” to protect it
against the entry, in the guise of refugees,
of Communists, spies in the pay of Russia
and sympathisers with the Palestine
criminal's whose hands are stained with
British blood. No protection is afforded ;
“Palestinians” themselves have been
allowed in even while “Palestinian”
bombers, sowers of land-mines and
tommy-gun toughs were adding horror
to horror in the land which, in the Nazi
fashion, they claim as their own. In his
Form 40 Mr. Calwell has made it possible
for unmarried and unnaturalised refugees
to secure the admission of Jews from
Europe, with no questions as to origins
and associations asked at either end.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Bring on the Gag!"
With Assembly elections in South Aus-
tralia, Westralia, Queensland and N. S.
Wales, if not Victoria, coming on, Federal
“Labor” went all philanthropic for a
week. The promise of tax-cuts was fol-
lowed by a vague proposal for national
insurance, incorporating endowment
policies, provident funds and the like.
There was a hasty retreat from this pro-
posal when its bearings were dimly
realised ; but while philanthropy was still
the order of the day the “Government”
announced what was styled “an immedi-
ate gifts to Britain”; a £25,000,000 re-
duction in Australia’s sterling balances
held in London, reckoned at £223,000,000.
Half the countries of the world can
claim sterling balances in London; and,
“living on tick,” as Britain is (words used
by a “Labor” Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer), the Old Country, with the
ravages of winter added to the ravages
of war, is in no position to attend to
them. In agreeing to the £25,000,000
reduction, the Federal “Labor” Gov-
ernment was merely making a virtue of
necessity.
Realising the essential facts, Dr. Earle
Page, who visited Britain in 1942 and
on the strength of his commission from
Mr. Curtin became a member of the
British War Cabinet, decided that a mere
bit of writing in a ledger would be of no
use to Britain in its extremity. He had
given notice of intention to move that
Australia should make a gift of
£25,000,000 of foodstuffs “to help to
alleviate the undernourishment of the
British people and encourage them in
their heroic efforts towards recovery.”
Having no illusions about the “ ‘Labor’
Government” that opposed the Food-for-
Britain movement when it was intro-
duced by private people, though a cor-
responding movement was supported by
the N.Z. Labor Government, the veteran
could not have expected that a day
would be fixed for the discussion of his
proposal; but, on the day set apart for
private members’ business —once a month
—he came armed with facts and figures
relative to Australia’s capacity to aid
Britain substantially.
He had ascertained that a small cut in
the weekly meat ration, half a pound
per head —to which he might have
added real and not shadowy measures
against blackmarketeering in the meat
trade—would enable an additional 10,000
tons of meat to be sent to Britain in three
months. With incentive payments and
diversions from the cream and ice-cream
businesses there could be sent to Britain,
also this year, another 25,000 tons of
butter and cheese, as well as 3000 tons
of peanut butter and oil. But he was
unable to develop these theories, for his
motion was gagged.
While Canada and South Africa, and
even Fascist Argentina, have made
great gifts to the British people—
substantive gifts, not merely a reduction
of sterling balances —Federal “Labor” has
exacted top price for every pound of
goods it has sent. It is true, deeply true,
that “righteousness exalteth a nation,” and
a generous gift of foodstuffs to Britain
in its dire emergency—the people cold
and hungry, crops already jeopardised, if
not ruined, and export trade, on which
so much depends, wrecked for at least
a year—would not only be in keeping with
the traditional generosity of the Aus-
tralian people, nobly exemplified in the
Food - for - Britain parcels, but would
add cubits to Australia’s stature among
the nations. Yet the generous veteran
who made the proposal at the seat of
government was gagged!
“Labor” has no courage, and no imagi-
nation, and no heart. *
Gifts, is it?
At the end of the First World War
Australia was in debt to the British Gov-
ernment, on account of loans made for
war purposes, to the extent of £49,500,000,
plus £42,696,500 due for “maintenance of
Australian troops,” though not “in and
around the Pacific.” Funding arrange-
ments were made for this debt, and by
1931 the total had been reduced to
£79,724,220. When the depression hit
world trade for six, appeals werfe made
to the British Government, and it was
agreed that principal and interest
payments should be suspended. They
are still suspended. The sum in-
volvfed, including exchange, was in the
vicinity of £7,000,000 per annum, and in
15 years.that works out at a rather tidy
sum, none of which the Australian tax-
payer has been called on to pay.
It is no use arguing that the arrange-
ment was tied up with a general sus-
pension of interest payments and that
America and other countries wfere in-
volved. As far as, Australia was con-
cerned there were only two parties con-
cerned, this country and Britain. There
has never been any suggestion from
“Labor” that thfe £7,000,000 p.a. was a
“gift” from Britajn, and it was not a gift
in any sense of being usable. It was a
recognition of a situation. It was at the
time virtually impossible for this country
to continue the payments and they were
waived. It will be equally impossible
within the forseeable future for Britain
to repay in goods the huge sterling bal-
ances piled up in London by India, Egypt,
Argentina, Canada, Australia and other
countries that escaped the direct impact
of war.
To pretend that the “Labor”
£25,000,000 is a gift, in the sense that a-
food parcel, paid for by a private citizen
and posted to Britain is a gift, is heartless
hypocrisy.
Anarchy on the Wharves.
Around our coasts from Darwin to Syd-
ney and from Sydney to Fremantle, the
sight of a ship seems to stir every
Commo in the maritime unions with a
desire to halt it or keep it tied ug. Car-
“ENTER THESE ENCHANTED WOODS, YE WHO DARE!”
“If Mr. Ward chooses to vote against Bretton Woods in Parliament, ignoring the
party-room vote he could precipitate the division which so many observers are saying
is inevitable in time.” — “S. M. Herald’s” Canberra man.
goes running into millions of tons are
piled on wharves, in storage sheds, even
on open spaces. Day by day perishable
commodities are ruined by delay or
damaged by the elements or being carted
from port to port in an effort to find
somebody to unload the ship and, hav-
ing unloaded it, to reload it with some-
thing else. And the wreckers treat the
palsied “Government” and its Stevedor-
ing Industry Commission with boisterous
contempt.
This commission, one of the multitude
of war-time improvisations, was to have
put a stop to wharf hold-ups and quicken
the turn-round of ships. During its
melancholy existence the hold-ups have
increased and the turn-rounds slowed
down —to such an extent that overseas
and coastal ships spend two-thirds of
their time in port (one-third before the
war) and men “earning” £l7 to £lB a
week are in addition drawing “appear-
ance money”: from the “Government”
at the moment, though it is to be a per-
manent charge, extorted by a levy, on
“employers.”
In 1945-46 the S.I.C. cost £120,000.
The 1946-47 estimates awarded it
£136,540. It would have been dear at
twopence.
The Communists in control of the
wharves banned nightwork, allegedly to
back up a claim for a fortnight’s annual
holiday at £8 16s. a week, though they
were offered the holiday at £6 Is. 3d. a
week for men who regularly attended the
pick-ups. There was also a claim for 165.-
a-day appearance money. In all these
Communist-led strikes the original claims
always get lost and something totally new
and twice as impudent generally appears.
The banning of night work seemed to
leave the futile S.I.C. no alternative but
to talk about “suspensions,” which gave
the Communists the weapon they wanted
to call a general wharf strike. As usual,
the responsible Minister, in this case the
burbling Ashley, appeared late on the
scene, called “conferences” with the
Communist Healy, burbled about noth-
ing in particular and withdrew, to an-
nounce later that the whole thing had
been referred to the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court. But Comrade Healy
had announced that he would have noth-
ing to do with the Arbitration Court —
he wanted the S.I.C. Then he said he
wanted a new Stevedoring Industry Com-
mission. Even while he was being
obliged by way of enabling legislation
his gang declared another ban on over-
time and threatened to extend it into a
general strike.
One inevitable effect of these criminal
stoppages and “go-slow methods” (the
expression used by British Food Minister
Strachey) has been the piling-up on the
wharves of food for Britain, now suffer-
ing greater hardships than any period of
the war, save for the bombs and flying
bombs and rockets. And so it will go
on until imported Communists waging
wicked war on the nation and its sister
nations are taken by the scruff of the
neck and thrown out of Australia,
and until their home-grown confederates
are reduced to harmlessness by measures
such as were taken by the U.S. Govern-
ment against Lewis and his crowd, mea-
sures which stifled a coal strike, and the
constitutionality of which has been up-
held by the U.S. counterpart of our
High Court.
The 40-hpur-week Fraud.
The proper title for the N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s “Industrial Arbitration (40-hour
Week) Amendment Bill”, is “The Arbitra-
tion Abolition Bill.” It revokes the
statutory-power of the Industrial Com-
mission to make declarations fixing
standard working hours, and increases
wages by requiring all wage-rates, weekly
or piecework, under existing or future
awards to he increased to provide the
same remuneration as the worker would
have received for longer hours hitherto
ruling. This is a, long step towards
abolishing the Arbitration Bench and sub-
stituting the political auction-floor as
the seat of industrial justice.
Probably Mr. McGirr and his Minister
No-Labor are already getting cold feet
and hoping greatly that the Leg. Council
will not allow the Bill to become law;
yet the egregious Mr. Hamilton Knight’s
second-reading speech was palpably
directed, not to the Assembly (which,
under a “Labor” majority, does not
matter anyhow), but to the urban mob
which must be fed on racing fixtures and
lotteries. To be sincere he should have
said, as he (or his leader) probably did
in Caucus: “With this BUI, whether
passed or defeated by the Council, we
can go to the electors without fear. With
it we can forget McKell and his Gce-
geeship, and the lack of houses, and the
strikes we shied from tackling, and the
maladministration and go-slow which are
bankrupting transport services and in-
dustry. Either we’ll be the noble boys
who weren’t afraid to cock a snook at
the Arbitration Court and legislate a
short-cut for the unions, or else we can
howl at the Council for frustrating us and
get a mandate to abolish that too.”
But what Mr. Hamilton Knight said
for his Bill —and it was all he could find
to say—was that the loss of production
which “might ensue” from less work
would be but transitory until improved
mechanisation overtook it, and would not
be great if the workers “became more
contented.” Hurrying on from that very
slippery ground, he pleaded urgent cause
from the industrial chaos threatened by
prolongation of the Federal Court’s hear-
ing of the 40-hour claim —although the
unions’ own stonewalling of that hearing
through many months last year aroused
protests from the Court itself. Then he
produced this astounding commentary on
the effect of his bill on housing costs and
delays which none of the McGirr party
ought to be allowed to forget:
The fact that the people are clamoring
for houses shows that they are in a pros-
perous enough position to pay for them.
A perfect paraphrase of Marie Antoin-
nette’s historic retort to her people’s com-
plaint of lack of bread in 1789 —“Then
let them eat cake!”
What this Bill would do to the rural
industries is inestimably serious. The
Knight blight would overwhelm all others.
One would think the man had had trouble
enough as things are in trying to keep the
dairyfarmers swefet in economic serfdom.
The remark of Mr. Drummond (C.P.)
that there were enough shortages already
without shortening working hours was
astonishing in its moderation.
But the McGirrs must rush in where
the Cains and the Hanlons fear to tread.
Mr. Cain in Victoria is waiting to receive
the heritage of N.S.W. business which
will fall to him when the Ma State cuts
its industrial throat. Mr. Hanlon in
Queensland will, on consideration, not
legislate for a 40-hour week “unless neces-
sary”—that is, he will wait to see what
the Federal Court does first. That
Court’s Full Bench, for its part, has de-
clared with an emphasis marred by only
one dissentient (Judge Foster) that it is
tolerating no union dictation as to how
it shall conduct its procedure. It re-
fuses to hear the hours case separately
from that for the revised basic wage.
And if ever the day comes when, in
reaction from this “Labor”' outfit, the
electors swing heavily the other way,
and if a Liberal-Country majority should
respond with legislation in a depression
year for return to 48 hours as necessary
in the public interest, altering awards
automatically as Mr. McGirr now pro-
poses to do—what constitutional, protest
would “Labor” have any right to make?
It Happened in September.
In Sydney last week, nearly seven
months after the Opposition-leader’s elec-
tion meeting at the Maccabean Hall,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, was the scene of
violent Communist rowdyism, 14 men
pleaded guilty to charges of creating the
disturbance. Were they sent to jail with-
out “the option”? No ; fined £5 each.
And this some months after one of their
companions had been sentenced to a
month’s imprisonment —his case is still
the subject of an appeal.
British law and practice treat
rowdyism designed to prevent the right
of public meeting as a very serious
matter. That Maccabean Hall meeting
was one of the most disgraceful ever
held in modern Sydney, Mr. Menzies
and others being in actual physical danger.
The police must have known that the
ugly business was organised by Com-
munists, and they must have been struck
by the association with it of persons con-
cerned in Communist larrikinism of the
kind.
One of the men fined £5 was James
McLaughlin. A James McLaughlin was
fined £5 in 1942 for larrikinism at an
Australia First meeting. At the Adyar
Hall on Feb. 19 that year, a speaker
(according to contemporary press re-
ports), was pulled down and kicked
while on the floor, and fittings in the hall
were damaged by a ruffian swinging a
piece of pipe on a wire.
Parliament should secure assurances
proper to the occasion as to the reasons
for the long delay in carrying through the
proceedings against McLaughlin and his
companions in the recent case and satisfy
itself that the defendants did not receive
preferential treatment. Communists in
N. S. Wales appear to have a lot of luck
when they fall into the hands of the
authorities, and the Bench rarely seems
to hear all that might be said of them.
The C.P. “Tribune,” triumphantly
raucous at the time of the attack on Mr.
Menzies’s meeting, showed an unusual
reticence about the police-court cases on
March 4. It failed to report them.


iPilii
SIS
\ X f
II
11 6575
t,< x J
. >■• //.a .■. .j /. '■' z'& * 1 '/ ..
CRAVENA
quality is something you
can rely ou always
CARRERAS LTD.-OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
.
w
POLITICAL POINTS
“Labor” promises of tax-cuts and 40-
hour-week laws notwithstanding, Playford
and his Liberals had a sweeping victory
at the S.A. elections. All their sitting
members with “Labor” opponents were
returned with increased majorities ; three
of their old companions, not in the last
Assembly, unseated the “Labor” mem-
bers who had unseated them —Moir in
Norwood, Whittle in Prospect and former
Attorney-General Jeffries in Torrens—
and the three Independents, MacGillivray
(Chaffey), Fletcher (Mt. Gambier) and
Stott (Ridley) got in again with Liberal
support. Should the three turn against
Playford, though this is most improbable,
it won’t matter, for the Old Digger
Premier is sure of 22 party votes —there
are 39 members. In contests with
Ministerialists, “Labor” slumped every-
where; even Richards, the leader, saw
his majority shaken in Wallaroo. Its one
scrap of consolation is that the four Com-
munists who came out against it lost
their deposits.
There is no arguing against the Lib.
and Ind. majorities in S.A, With postal
and absent votes to be .counted, though
they couldjrmke no material difference in
Lib. and Ind. electorates, they-amounted
to 272 in Norwood, 958 in Onkaparinga
(three candidates), 1352 in Prospect, 895
in Ridley, 1394 in Torrens, 2680 in Unley,
644 in Burra, 1430 in Flinders, 4073 in
Glenelg (three candidates), 1151 in
Gouger, 1684 in Light, 5286 in Mitcham,
2101 in Mt. Gambier and 2820 in Alex-
andra (three candidates). By contrast,
Corcoran (“Lab.”) was only 41 ahead in
Victoria and Quirk (“Lab.”) a mere 21
to the good in Stanley. Loss of both
seats would reduce the “Labor” follow-
ing to 12.
While packing his bags for Yarralumla
and the swearing-in, McKell, Gee-Gee,
read something in the papers which must*
have given him a bad quarter-hour. It
was to the effect that a Dashing Young
Bookmaker named Browning, whom Mc-
Kell had extolled, not for dashing war
service against the Japs but for a sort-of-
a-kind-of philanthropy, had been ordered
to pay a tax penalty of £474 for “under-
statement of. income” amounting to
£5236. Another member of the Brown-
ing family was cast in a penalty of £lOlO
for an “understatement” of £4565. These
“understatements” and many others
should move the A.J.C. and the V.R.C.
to call upon the parties concerned to
show cause why their licences should not
be cancelled. It is useless to expect
“Labor” to show any relaxation of its
favors to bookmakers, though in N.Z.
bookmaking is illegal.
Although there have been more stop-
pages with serious effects—Bunnerong is
living from hand to mouth and S.*A. has
once more been very hard pressed—the
N.S.W. coalminers have voted against a
general strike. Possibly, being themselves
mostly of English and Welsh descent, they
were influenced by the grand example
set by British coalminers during the pro-
longed and deadly freeze. If so, it may
not be too much to expect that it will be
a continuing influence, as should be the
case.
Lang’s “Century,” sometimes uncannily
right in its forecasts of what the Caucus
boys are cooking up for the country,
predicts that Chifley will step down, or
up, from the Prime Ministership in July to
become Governor of the Commonwealth
Bank. H. T. Armitage was appointed
in 1941 for a seven-year term; now 66,
he’s not keen about seeing the rest of it
out, but has agreed to .carry on until the
end of June. Under Chifley’s Bank Act
the governor is appointed and his salary
and allowances determined by the Gov-
ernor-General. King Billy is now G.-G.,
and he knows who put him there.
What the Prime Minister complacently
described as a £25,000,000 “gift” to
Britain, in the category of “a contribu-
tion to Britain’s war costs in and around
the Pacific,” was announced as a decision
of Caucus a few days after Dr. Page had
given notice that he intended to move
for a gift of £25,000,000 —in food, not in
figures. Putting up Calwell to do his
immigration stuff for more than half the
time that should have befen set aside for
business introduced by private members
was one of the “Government’s” ways of
preventing the doctor from raising the
question. Then, at Chifley’s instance,
there was an utterly abominable re-
course to the gag.
“Gift” to Britain! Even a people used
as the British now are to a monotonous
diet and meatless days cannot —even
when snowbound as many have been —
eat book entries.
A couple of years ago one Claude
Jones sued Anthony, M.H.R. for Rich-
mond (N.S.W.), for alleged defamation
and was non-suited. The costs, £149 17s.
3d., have never been paid, and on
Anthony’s petition the Communist’s
estate was sequestrated in December,
■1944. In the Bankruptcy Court last week
Jones asked for a discharge on the ground
that he could not earn more than £5 a
week as an “election campaign director
for the Communist party,” £5 a week be-
ing a flat rate for “all people the party
employs.” He got his discharge, though
its operation is suspended for six months.
Next time Queensland ' unionists are
ordered by the Corns, to strike for a
basic wage of £6 10s. a week they should
ponder the statement of Comrade Jones.
If Chifley is looking for someone to
kick over the S.A. election he couldn’t
overlook his Army Minister, Chambers.
Chambers told the S. Australians that
with a “Labor” Government in S.A.
they could expect the Premiers to move
for the abolition of State Parliaments.
To a people who have little for which
to thank Canberra, and much for which
to curse it, the prospect was too much.
The Government shied like a frightened
mare from Joe Abbott’s proposal for a
royal commission on the activities of the
Communist party, and it had no answer
to Archie Cameron’s query as to why it
is necessary that, in a country which has
no trade and practically no diplomatic
contact with the U.S.S.R., we should
have here a Soviet delegation as big as
the rest of the other countries’ delegations -
put together. The measure of the Gov-
ernment’s discomfiture was shown by the
mean flippancy of the Prime Minister's
counter to Anthony’s suggestion of a
royal commission; “The Communist
party and the Liberal party are con-
stantly under review.”
Playford, replying to a Labor.charge
that during Federal “Labor’s” term of
office he hadn’t been as co-operative as
a State “Labor” Premier would have
been, said he had given a hundred per-
cent. support to six Prime Ministers ; and
he named them: Lyons, Page, Menzies,
Fadden, Curtin and Chifley. Pardonably
he forgot Forde, who was P.M. for seven
days, July 6-13, 1945.
The'“Empire Communist parties’ ” con-
ference in London must have been a
weird show. According to one of “S.
M. Herald’s” London men, half those
present came from Commo parties in
Palestine, France, Central Europe and
Poland, and most of those ivho could be
classed as British subjects were from
India and Malaya. Before this quaint
mob the efforts of a “British” delegate,
in jubilation over the approaching doom
of the Empire, were well matched by an
“Australian,” one Henry, who declared
that “the White Australia policy is an
insult to our dark brothers of the north,”
and that the Communist party must end
it. The “British” delegate bears the fine
old Anglo-Saxon name of Rajani Palme
Dutt.
By private arrangement or pure coinci-
dence the British “Labor” Government
strengthened Chifley’s hapd just when he
was about to tackle the Ward faction on
the Bretton Woods agreement, which he
did in Caucus, securing a majority.
Dalton, the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
obliged by completing the preliminary
financial commitments Britain accepted at
Bretton Woods. At the same time one of
Dalton’s colleagues agreed with Cal-
well that the migration agreement,
on which his Government has gone
as cold as the freeze, should nominally
start from March 31. That was merely
a polite gesture which means nothing ;
but on Bretton Woods Dalton was in
earnest.
It was strange to find the Tasmanian
Ms.H.R. Gaha and Duthie suggesting in
Caucus that acceptance or rejection of
the Bretton Woods agreement should be
put to a Parliamentary vote. That would
be the democratic way, but democracy
and Labor long since parted company.
Caucus made the decision: 33 votes for
% and 24 against. So, unless there is a
palace revolution (always possible), this
country is not to be a prey to Ward-
Lang isolationist ideas, arising from the
conviction that the whole world, Com-
munist countries excepted, is in a con-
spiracy, concocted by them foreign
bankers, to Roon poor old Austrylier.
N.Z, “Labor” is not allowing tariffs,
preferences and general trade policy to be
decided for it at Geneva by counter-
parts of Dr. Coombs and his host of
“bookworm economists” (Lang’s'expres-
sion, and one paper made it “bookworn”).
From the other side of the Tasman Nash,
the No. 2 Minister, is going to Geneva
after preliminary discussions in New
York and London, and experienced men
from five departments (Finance, Customs,
Industry, Agriculture and External
Affairs), as well as men from the Customs
and Marketing branch of the High Com-
missioner’s office, will be among his
advisers. Others will represent the Fede-
rations of Farmers, Manufacturers and
Labor.
In a fatuous moment Pollard, Scully’s
successor as Minister of Agriculture and
Commerce, was sent to S.A. farming dis-
tricts to beat up votes for “Labor.” This
when Pollard had been driven to admit
that his “Government” had arranged
to let N.Z. have S.A., N.S.W., Victoria
and Westralian wheat, 18,000,000 bushels
at least, at ss. 9d. a bushel for four years,
the current export price being 14s. 6d.
and the Chicago price 16s. 2fd.A. Pol-
lard couldn’t help making heavy weather
of such a job.
Considering the examples presented by
the American Generals Marshall, Bed-
dell Smith and others, Blarney might have
fairly aspired to play a part in poli-
tical or diplomatic life, but he was con-
tent with seeking a place on the V.R.C.
committee. A very modest ambition, but
a section of owners and trainers tried
to thwart it, working up a cabal
against the veteran of three wars. They
failed, though Blarney was elected with-
out an absolute majority. Perhaps Old
Tom had in mind the experience of Major-
General Hobbs, his colleague in the first
German war. On his return to West-
ralia in 1919 the Fifth Division com-
mander came out for the Leg. Council.
He was beaten out of sight by Lovekin,
a Perth newspaper proprietor who, while
Hobbs was engaged with the Turks and
the Germans, made a fortune by traf-
ficking in newsprint. Hobbs thereupon
abandoned public life, perhaps with bitter
(though unvoiced) thoughts of how soon
his country had forgotten its war leaders.
With 80 p.c. of butchers’ shops closed,
Melbourne housewives are facing the
prospect of a complete meat famine. At
the same time, while only enough sheep
and cattle are being bought in Mel-
bourne to feed hospitals, N.S.W. agents
are reported to be buying all the fat
stock they can lay their hands on in
the Southern Riverina and border dis-
tricts, fixed-ceiling prices of most meat
lines being higher in Sydney than Mel-
bourne. The dispute between butchers,
graziers, wholesalers and retailers, the
Provisional Meat Council and the Meat
Board has been, taken to Cain for con-
sideration, and more conferences are ex-
pected. The fact not likely to be con-
sidered is that pastoral properties have
been understocked for years, and are
likely to be so for a long time. Nature,
not officialdom, having been the deciding
factor, naturally producers are loth to sell
at current prices.
Discussing the shipping of 2600 hogs-
heads of Australian wine to England, an
English member ofthe crew of the
freighter which carried the precious cargo
remarked ruefully: “What is the use of
wine in Britain? It only makes you want
to eat more ; and there is nothing to eat.’
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” reports that
fish-control authorities in that city caused
more than 60001 b. of fish to be dumped
while sales at the fishmarket were kept
at maximum ceiling prices. This although
(as Alderman Howard, the council's
health committee chairman, declared)
there was ample freezing storage avail-
able. Fishermen wanted to consign
40001 b. of fish to the country, and actually
put their catch on trucks, but were
ordered to dump it at the Murarrie fer-
tiliser works. In Sydney a catch of
whiting, unsaleable because of control,
was given away.
There was laughter from even the
Ministerial side of the House when the
Government Whip, Fuller, tried to put
into words his tangled feelings about the
petrol shortage in his electorate. It
swelled to roars from both sides when,
as “S. M. Herald” noted, Archie Cameron
“took Mr. Fuller’s speech and tossed it
round, pawed it, bit it, and then finally
buried it —one of the neatest pieces of
verbal fencing in the year.” And it takes
something for a Sydney paper to admit
that Cameron is something more than a
“hillbilly,” as writing boys designated
him for years when they condescended
to notice his existence.
Spouting in south-east S.A. Pollard,
who must sometimes wish he’d never
heard of wheat* said that even if his
“crowd” failed to have its “stabilisation”
plan “implemented,” it would never allow
dealers and gamblers to get control of
farmers’ crops. Pollard’s crowd got con-
trol of the farmers’ crops, sold their wheat
to an N.Z. “Labor” Government for about
9s. below the export price and will make
the taxpayers pay the difference in respect
of 18,000,000 bushels. No “dealer or
gambler” ever dreamed of a wheat scheme
like {hat.
There is a pretty little clause in the
McGirr 40-hours Bill which may be un-
wittingly double-edged:
Any person making a contract or agree-
ment, express or implied and whether
verbally or in writing, which provides for
the working of hours in excess of those
» prescribed by or under this part.... shall
re liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty-
pounds, recoverable before an industrial
magistrate.
The intention is clear enough. But sup-
posing some gratified unionist, having
done his 40 hours in five working days
for his regular employer, should seek to
make a bit of tax-free income on the side
by. doing penalty-rate odd repairing or
plumbing jobs for some labor-starved
home-owner —what then? Surely this
casual employer would have to make
sure that the odd-job man had not already
qualified for compulsory leisure under
the new law. The Bill says expressly
that he must not work more than 40
hours during the week. And if he should
demand overtime rates when he hires
himself, would he not be confessing that
he was exceeding the limited working
week?


THE WINNER.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: Well, the Tests are over, the
captains if not the kings have departed,
and, as usual, the matches which pro-
duced the least runs proved to be the most
exciting. Those scribes who from an
oblique position about 200 yards from
the wicket questioned l.b.w. decisions
given by a keen-eyed expert dead-on to
the batsman 22 yards away must now
seek some other means df drawing upon
themselves desired publicity. Radio
listeners will be spared the invariable
“they’ve gone through for an easy single”
—always good for 20 airings per hour.
Those who coughed up 14s. Bd. for a
reserved seat at the final Test and were
refused admission or a refund on the wet
Saturday (the refund was granted, some-
what belatedly) are now beginning to
simmer down. Yes, the Tests are over, and
father’s blood-pressure may now go down
again. Oh, no, it didn’t hit around 200
because of the state of the game, but —
say, could any paterfamilias find an
answer to the inevitably expressed query
by either his wife or one of his daughters
half an hour after the match started and
we or they were none for 18; “Who’s
winning?”
* * * #
“Nakh”: The rage for labor-saving
devices caused a strange misunderstand-
ing in Melbourne. Army Disposals an-
nounced that it was selling a portable
duster, and it got an inquiry from a house-
wife elated at the thought that scientific
ingenuity had devised a new device for
cleaning floors and carpets. She was
informed that the dusters were surplus
plant from former army farms in the
Never Never.
* * * *
“C.C.”: Our mob had just landed in
the Cape York area to do a spot of
roadmaking and wharfbuilding. In the
usual panic of getting supplies ashore one
case marked “medical supplies” dis-
appeared. The .0.C., a youngster of 23,
called a muster parade to locate the
missing box. His inquiries brought no
response, so in desperation he admitted
that the “medical supplies” were a dozen
bottles of wine, “purchased by the officers
themselves,” and asked anyone with know-
ledge to step forward. There was no
response, and the fate of that box re-
mains one of the best-kept secrets of the
war.
* * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”; Most men who
survived Jap prison camps can tell stories
about escaping death by a hair’s-breadth.
Take the case of Paddy and Jim. Paddy
went down with malaria five minutes be-
fore working-party parade ; too late to
arrange for a hospital convalescent to
take his place. Jim, a permanent cook
and Paddy’s cobber, smuggled the sick
man into the kitchen and took his place.
Out with the work-party he took Jim’s
old job in the cement pit, shovelling con-
crete into a three-ton bucket which was
hoisted up a 30ft. shaft before being
emptied into the moulding of an iron-ore
viaduct. Where the bucket rested, on
ground level there was a 6ft. steel cage
housing part of the machinery for work-
ing the hoist. During the morning some-
thing in the cage jammed and Jim was
ordered to start things moving again.
The bucket was in the air, but eyeing it
rather dubiously the Australian, armed
with hammer and cold chisel, managed to
squeeze himself into the opening. One
light tap and crash!—down came the
bucket. There was no room to duck.
When we got him out he was pale but
smiling, and there was a streak of white
across his hair from the cement-coated
bottom of the bucket. His height was
sft. lOin. Had it been Paddy? Well,
Paddy was 6ft. 2in.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Three times recently the name
of J. B. Chifley has appeared on the draft
list for meetings of the Commonwealth
Historic Memorials Committee, view to
portrait for the Parliamentary collection,
and each time the name has been struck
out by the hand of Mr. Chifley. This is
carrying modesty—if it is that—too far.
If the P.M. is remembered 300
years hence it will be because some dis-
tinguished artist painted his picturesque
frontispiece with or without the pipe.
Who would remember that innocuous
Spanish monarch Phillip IV of the horse
face if he hadn’t been painted by Velas-
quez? Would anybody ever have heard
of the politicians, businessmen and
burghers painted by Rembrandt if they
Yes, but THEY’VE got sliding seats.”
hadn’t given up a few hours of what they
possibly thought was much more im-
portant business to sit for the relatively
unknown painter? A long line of Scot-
tish worthies have become immortal, not
because of anything they said or did, but
because they sat for Raeburn. Of course,
even if Chif. gets himself painted his
chance of being remembered is about
one in a hundred, that being the historical
odds against a committee selecting a good
painter,
* * * *
“Niloc”; Near my office is a coffee-
shop whose title brew, as coffee, would
make good dingo bait. However, they
make amends by turning out a rattling
good cup of tea. The other day two
regulars belled for tea. The waitress
approached: “We’re out of tea. Will
you have coffee?” “If that’s all you’ve
got, we’ll take water,” wisecracked 'one.
Without hesitation she brought it, and
under her gimlet eye they dared not say
“We were only joking.” Unaccustomed
to the liquid, they downed it, to emerge
pale and shaken into their ruined day,
♦ * * *
“C.Q.”; The number of old Cobb and
Co. drivers attending the annual reunion
in Melbourne is steadily dwindling, 22
rolling up this year. Harry Hutchinson
was the oldest at 88, and the average age
was 76. Cobbs received their deathknock
in 1902, 52 years after they started, when
the first petrol chariot stuttered across the
Victorian-N.S.W. border, though the co.
was a long time dying—the last coach
made its final trip in Queensland in 1924.
There is enough early Australian history
in the country’s first organised attempt at
transport to make a fine film, and there
are still a few of the coaches mouldering
away in odd corners. Askecl by Govern-
ment officials to recommend some new
ideas for future stamp issues, Daryl Lind-
say suggested a Cobb and Co. coach.
It might be coupled with a Skymaster or
a rocket.
* * * *
“934”: I’m not surprised to hear that
2315’s mob stood firm when exposed to
danger (B. 12/2/’47). Any unit of the
old A.I.F. could be depended on to do
so. But what I’d like to know is who
was responsible for ordering the men on
the horse deck, with prospects of get-
ting a tin fish into the ship’s ribs. The
correct station wquld have been the boat
deck. We had some queer duds up top
at that time, but the man who put men
in such a deathtrap must have been the
champ. For cool courage and discipline
under fire for the first time my vote goes
to some early reos to the 9th L.H., land-
ing on Gallipoli on August 7, 1915.
They were lined up for inspection and a
few words of encouragement, by that
fine old soldier Colonel Niell, killed later
the same day when shrapnel started to
fall. The first burst took a heavy toll, but
not a man moved till ordered by the
colonel to take cover, and then there
was nothing that looked like panic.
* * * *
“Oxbox”; Strange air-cargoes (B.
19/2/’47)? At my R.A.A.F. station in
S.A. an arrangement existed whereby we
sent to Melbourne fresh fish, crayfish and
oysters for the fortnightly stand-down.
On the day of the stand-down an Anson
would depart early for Port Lincoln,
collect fresh sea foods and arrive back in
time to transfer the cargo into a spic and
span “Aggie,” which sported a group-
captain’s insignia on its snout. This
arrangement was quite above board, as
the trip to Port Lincoln was in the train-
ing syllabus. Thus l.a.cs. Debonair and
Dashing did their navigation exercise on
that trip and l.a.cs. Goon and Drongo
did theirs on the trip to Essendon.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The well-recognised fact
that press photographers aren’t human
and can hop up in front of a prima donna
at a concert and take a shot of her throat
in full song was responsible for an amus-
ing incident at a house auction in Mel-
bourne. After 200 house-hungry people
had bid against one another to the
ceiling, the auctioneer suggested that all
the names should be put into a hat and
one drawn out by a completely impartial
person. Trouble arose when it came to
choosing a completely impartial person.
Somebody proposed an elderly gentleman
who hadn’t participated in the bidding,
but it was suggested that he might be in
collusion with a son or a daughter. Finally
the-auctioneer’s eye lit on a press photo-
grapher who was surveying the spectacle
with the same objective eye that he would
cast on a bomb outrage or a street col-
lision. The very man!
• * * «
“Bohemian”: History was made
recently in a M.L. Supreme Court when
the foreman of the jury returned with a
verdict. “How do you find?” the fore-
man was asked. “We find the jury guilty
on all counts,” he gravely informed the
Court. The Judge gravely commented:
“In that case I am surprised you have
made no recommendation for mercy!”
Then the foreman realised his slip and
laughed.
*•* ♦ »
“Septimus Warwick”: Squatting has
reached such limits in Brisbane that a
journalist wrote a skit on an imagined
“squat” in the million-pound City Hall.
The next day three families of squatters
moved Into the old Town Hall building,
which happened to be vacant, at South
Brisbane. They have had to move out
again ; but a cartoonist of another paper
is w'ondering if anyone will get ideas from
his sketch of Parliament being invaded
by squatters.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Harold Hardupp”: N.S.W. Lands
Department has a legacy from the “bad”
old days when everything except money
was so plentiful that some goods were
given away to attract sales of others.
Seventy years ago a Sydney tailor, Kurtz,
gave away a block of land with every
suit of clothes. He had bought a large
tract of land near Kurrajong known as
Bilpin’s Forest and split it up into 2000
blocks, and now nobody knows who are
the owners of most of these blocks. Most
of the suit-buyers were quite uninterested
in blocks of land, almost inaccessible at
the time; most of the others lost their
interest after a few years, and only one
woman, who became a property owner
through the demise of a male relative, has
regularly paid the 2s, 6d. p.a. rates on
one block. Colo Shire has asked for
the resumption of the land for soldier-
settlement, but the question of ownership
is so involved that the legal adjustment
would probably cost more than the land
is worth.
♦ afe * *
“Findy”: Sighing for the days of wax
matches, “Harold Hardupp” (B. 5/3/’47)
recalls notices requesting visitors to re-
frain from striking them on the walls.
Why anyone should Want to strike
matches on the walls when the seat of
his pants was available I do not know,
but the par. brings to my mind a some-
what similar plea for the protection of
walls I saw in a pub in Port Pirie (S.A.)
20 years ago. Pirie in those days boasted
a particularly virulent breed of mosquito
which, having immunised itself against
the sulphur fumes from the smelters, was
equal to anything. The hotel rigged its
beds with nets, more for appearance than
anything else, as when I saw them they
were full of holes made either by mos-
quitoes trying to get in or by human
beings trying to get out to escape the
mossies that-had got in. On the walls
was a notice: “Guests are requested not
to kill mosquitoes on the walls.” Splashes
of blood all over the walls showed what
the guests thought of the management’s
request.
* * * *
“X.S.”: It was a disappointed thief
who counted his gains after smashing a
hole in a Brunswick (Vic.) shoe-store
window and pinching the displayed foot-
wear. They were all odd ones.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A local Squeers runs a
regular campaign on fitness and when, in
a general-knowledge paper, he asked
“What is the most important thing in
life?” he expected “Good health” as the
answer. But many of the answers gave
him a shock. Three scholars guessed
“Bread” and others gave answers varying
from “God” and “Love” to “racing”
and “Mr, Chifley.” One kid pinned his
faith to “Good roads.” The youngster
who gave that answer also declared that
“A pedestrian is a person who gets in
the way.” That kid’s father has a car.
* * * *
“Strip”: “E.MJO.” (B. 26/2/’47), with
his story of the barrowman and his lot-
tery prize, reminded me of many similar
cases. Most of the big winners seem to
get rid of the lucre at a fast gallop. One
died of heart failure when he read the
good news on his way home from work.
A lucky family syndicate raced each other
to the losing post in record time. They
threw parties, bought cars, dressed in
flash clobber, conducted ail their corres-
pondence by telegraph and cable, and
ended up deep in debt. A miner I knew
was notified of a legacy of £6OOO, pay-
able in six months. Every penny was
mortgaged before the due date. One
of my mates, a factory hand, was be-
queathed £5OOO. In two years he was
back in the old job. Twelve months later
he had a similar windfall. Being more
expert this time, it took him only 18
months to get back into dungarees. No
doubt he would have done the hat trick
if he’d had three rich uncles.
* * * ♦
“Plop”: Members of the United
Nations Council can now get their re-
spective translations of what is going on
quicker than it takes to say “Molveto."
The means for this are small individual
radio sets whose immediate ancestor was
the army “walkie-talkie.” Weighing only
one pound, the new sets are suspended
by a strap round the diplomatic neck and
are tuned to the wavelength on which
that particular translation is coming
through. The old style of handling the
language difficulty was with earphones
which kept the reps, well tethered. Now
they will be able to slip out for a quickie
and still be able to hear the worst.
*■* * *
“Horse-face”: During the war when-
ever I heard some disgruntled misfit
grizzle “What has the worker got to
fight for?” I thought of a trench near
Delville Wood, in the Kaiser’s war. A
mob of us were arguing, and the subject
of criminals came up. We agreed that it
would be a good idea to empty the jails
into the labor battalions. After a
while a quiet bloke shoved in his oar with
the suggestion that the crooks might
prefer something nearer the fighting-line.
Asked what he knew about it he replied,
“More than you. I’m a burglar. I was
doing a stretch in Boggo-road when the
war broke out. They refused to let me
out to enlist and finish the stretch after
the war, so I was a bit late in getting
here. But I know this—9o per cent, of
our mob joined up, and they’re still in it.'
BRETTON WOODS.
“According to a Gallup poll, only one Australian
in ten showed a rudimentary knowledge of the
Bretton Wooda agreement. Fifty-one per cent,
admitted they had never heard of it.”
They 1 shook their heads a shade perplexedly
In token that it meant no more to them
Than either the Mendelian theory
Or the so-ealied binomial theorem,
In fact a trifle less. One may suppose
There can be few who haven’t heard of those.
Some, one may well imagine, looked as blank
As if required to say if they might be
Theosophists, or converts, full and frank,
To Einstein’s views on relativity,
Or humanists, or Douglas Credit fans,
Or any other of these o'ccult clans.
Strange, you may think, yet no more strange
than true
That half of these accommodating souls
Who bare the secrets of their bosoms to
The assiduities of Gallup polls
Revealed themselves as neither knowing where
Are Bretton Woods nor just what happened
there.
In every ten there was but one to hit
The target, we are told, and seize the chance
To demonstrate at least he knew a bit
Concerning international finance,
A subject which I’m not among the few
Experts entitled to discuss. Are* you?
All that I’ve learned is that agreement went
To something upon that historic spot
Which Chif. and Dedman reckon excellent
For us, and Ward and Lang condemn as rot —
And you may note it takes a lot to bring
That pair in harmony on anything.
Come, Evatt, even defter than the rest
In fluent argument, can’t you contrive
To get some facts and figures off your chest
Establishing how many beans make five,
And give your countrymen the genuine goods,
The dinkum oil regarding Bretton Woods?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“O. de V.”: In a quiz staged by a
commercial broadcasting station a team
of parsons was matched against a team
of publicans, and although the competi-
tion was remarkable for the number of
questions left unsolved, proceedings were
enlivened by two bright spots. The first
came from a parson who, when asked
how many inches were in 3ft, 6in., threw
in the sponge with the halting admission
that he was not very good at arithmetic.
But the reply that brought down the
house was in answer to the question
“What is the name of the town of
approximately 5000 inhabitants situated
nearest to the Dead Heart of Australia?”
Quick as a flash it came, and I still don’t
know whether from a parson or a beer
purveyor —“Queanbeyan.”
* * * *
“Zake”; A leather apron patently pro-
claiming him a lorry-driver, he button-
holed me along a crowded Sydney
George-street foofpath and—shrewdly
guessing I wouldn’t be a flatfoot in civvies
in view of the fact that I’m about a yard
shorter than the average cop—hoarsely
whispered something. I opened up with
the set formula I use for hums when
he broke in with: “I got six pairs o’
nylons left. Y’ can ’ave ’em for”
Now, as a chronic victim of the Tax
Rebate and other rackets I regard nylons
as a menace, and as the wife is in hardi-
hood training for her sixth stockingless
winter I’m content to let it go at that.
So I interrupted him with: “Sorry, Dig,
I never wear ’em. If I could only get
the right-sized girdle so I could have
something to clip the tops to I might”
But by that time the blackmarketeer,
with a wild look in his eye, rushed off
and cast himself (I hope) under a tram.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Russia’s press, lately finding
faults in its own backyard, has been
slapping them down with long-handled
admonition. The Navy magazine “Red
Fleet” recently hoed into its sailors for
singing those hepeat “trivial bourgeois
“ What's your main act ?”
songs ‘Tipperary,’ ‘Tavern in the Town’
and K-K-K-Katie’.” Being sailors, and
human, they probably invented some
words of their own, and may have de-
served the criticism. However, some
Russian cows which were mentioned by
another publication could have been
nothing more than innocent bystanders to
the affair in which they figured. They
had lived lives of tranquillity on a farm
directed by M. Kukosenkov, and until
their manager decided to hit the press,
they were serenely happy. Then Kuko-
senkov, evidently a better farmer than
mathematician, blithely announced in
“Trud” that he had raised 16 cows, with
a total weight of 405.6 tons. Next issue
of “Trud” hotly denied the figures, put-
ting them down to “a few drops of ink
and a monstrous irresponsibility” on the
part of the farm director. Now steeped
in scandal, the cows will probably give
nothing but curdled milk for the rest of
the current five-year plan.
* * * *
“Shep”: Strange objects seen in the
sky recently near Port Augusta (S.A.)
have been objects of equally strange
speculation. These sky objects were first
spotted one morning coming out from
the sea between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. They
were seen by various independent indi-
viduals and for once, with this .type of
phenomena, ail accounts curiously agree.
They are described as five large egg-
shaped objects, as big as a locomotive,
and pinkish-grey in color. They appear
to have been travelling at a height of
about 6000 ft., and the whole thing only
lasted about 15 seconds. Theories
advanced are that they may have been
spirals of dust, falling meteors or unusual
mirages. S.A.’s Government astronomer
discounts all, especially the mirage one,
and has gone to some length to prove
that the phenomena could be due neither
to an “inferior” nor “superior” mirage.
Meanwhile, letters still flow into the
press, advancing theories. Hot favorite
with me is the one that they were most
likely five flocks of galahs migrating
from arid districts in the far north. These
biAls usually fly high and in tight for-
mation. This would account- for the pink
and grey color.
* * * *
“Mr. Dribble”: We all know him, the
spruiker who sits behind us at the movies
and says what’s coming next or what’s
going on in front of your eyes. Well, he
bobbed up again at our local theatre the
other night, where the opus showing was
the life of George Gershwin, “Rhapsody
in Blue.” The whole row was seething as
the comments continued unabated, but
the climax was reached where young
George G. (in process of receiving a
classical music education) sits at the piano
and begins to thump out a Chopin piece.
This was the spruiker’s big opportunity to
air his vast musical knowledge, and so
in a loud whisper he announced to his
confidante, “That’s his ‘Rhapsody in
Blue’!”
* * * *
“Martemus”: Story of the major’s
crabs which went a.w.L (“Jasby,” B.
12/2/’47) gives me courage to shed light
on a complete beano (oflficers for the use
of) which “went off” at Sydney Show-
ground early in the war. Having cleaned
every dirty dixie owned by the Eastern
Command, I was asked by the head slave
in the officers’ mess if 1 liked savories.
Anticipating a cheese straw or decorated
biscuit as a reward for my labors, I
violently disclaimed any such fancies. I
was then put on special duty. The
brasshats were to throw a Christmas party
for their wives and girl friends that after-
noon. Tables were heavily laden with
savories, sandwiches, cakes, etc., and beer
there was in plenty. A fatigue party was
due at any tick of the clock to carry in
chairs and trestles. I was posted as a
one-man barricade between the fatigue
party and the savories. A dozen or so
oyster patties had been dealt with when
the trestle-bearers appeared. It being
ill-mannered to speak with one’s mouth
full, I said nothing as they helped them-
selves to the feast. Within ten minutes
every man who could clout on to a chair
“This pet carpet-snake'll do until We get into production again."
or a trestle was carting it into the mess.
They made a plague of locusts look like
finicky eaters. Not a bottle or a crumb
remained. Neither did I. When the
provosts picked me up at home two days
later, they advised the wife to get a job
that would keep the home going for at
least 10 years. From Victoria Barracks
I was whisked over to the Showground,
presumably for torture. “Hey, you!”
barked the nicest gentleman I ever met
in the army, “your blankety draft is due
out in ten minutes. Grab your kit and
join it.” Never did a warrior set forth
to battle with a lighter heart.
* * * *
“King John”; Having settled down to
the first quiet reading I had been allowed
for months, I, felt genuinely happy: The
feeling did not last long, for the first
article I noted was beaded: “Does your
schoolboy son act like a younger edition
of Mickey Rooney? Is he a brown-as-a-
berry imp, who can’t keep out of minor
scraps? Is he good and lively?” I read
on and found that author Moore Ray-
mond, at present in Australia on behalf
of’Alexander Korda, is looking for a
mischievous boy to play the lead in the
film “Smiley.” He is also looking for a
typical Queensland town for the film’s
setting.
»** • -
“Bukra”: Regarding military law (B.
5/2/’47), what is the definition of black-
mail? A lieutenant blackmailed me for
months. In Egypt our slit trenches were
for ever filling up with sand and were
scooped out, per written orders, by roster.
Whenever I was careless with my gear,
my boots, or my razor, or unkind to a
sergeant, or committed any of the other
countless military £ms, my superior officer
silently pointed to the slit-trench. There
was cunning. It was a silent threat, since
I had committed a crime for which I
should, in strict‘martial legality, have been
arraigned before the O.C. It was also,
of course, a lawful command —but an
unjust one, as orders for the cleaning out
of slit-trenches had already been given.
« * * *
“Kerunch”; Ship movements in the
First Worltl War were not the fine
art achieved in the later scrap, and
before the Admiralty laid down
definite convoy routes ships’ captains
went through cases of headache
powders seeking courses which would be
unpredictable to Fritz. One skipper, asked
the secret of his apparent immunity from
attacks despite countless Atlantic cross-
ings, said “It’s easy. Years ago I spent
some time in a stockbroker’s office. You
know those graphs showing the fluctua-
tion in the market price of stocks and
shares? Well, just before I sail I buy a
financial journal, cut out one of those
graphs, stick it on my chart and plot my
zig-zag course from it. Any Hun who
can predict that deserves to get me.”
* * * *
“Colbun”: The rules of several Aus-
tralian clubs whose members are now ex-
pressing scathing disapproval of the
McKell appointment provide automatic
honorary membership for every Gov-
ernor-General, ex officio. Should “Batt-
ling Billy” decide on a policy of social
gaiety and distinguished entertainment at*
Yarralumla, with periodic official visits to
State capitals, it will be distinctly inter-
esting to see whether the rule will be
amended. Or, if not, what kind of a re-
ception he will get from “silvertail” clubs.
» * * *
“Allwet”: Bland Holt was always in
trouble when he raced horses across the
stage, but the horses weren’t always to
blame. During the run of his racing
melodramas in Melbourne an ex-jockey,
known as Tich, was in the cast. Tich
was an artistic horseman, and usually
staged a punishing finish on the favorite
to win in the last stride. One night, owing
to some error in timing off-stage, Tich
came into view in fourth position, and,
despite his utmost endeavors with the
whip, finished a poor second. A hoarse
voice roared from the gallery: “Up to
your old tricks again. Tick? They rubbed
you out at Flemington for this, and they
ought to rub you out here, too.”
* * * *
“Plop”: A little help from the
Irate and a legal defence in blank verse
prevented Antonio, the Merchant of
Venice, from losing a pound of the best.
However, the most recent case having a
poetic defendant was not quite so suc-
cessful. Charged with combustion in a
“non-smoker,” an American decided to
give the verse idea a fly, and tried to win
over the judge with eight stanzas of
terrible doggerel. While the poet poured
out his soul the Judge seemed to be dood-
ling. After the jury brought in a verdict
of guilty ’Sonah passed sentence:
I like the verse; it’s very fine;
But next time heed “No Stocking” sign.
For this offence, two dollars fine.
n * * *
“Granny Smith”; On a Queensland
soldier-settlement just after the Kaiser’s
War I met a settler who also had reason
to curse cuffed trouser-legs (B. 25/1/’47).
A bank clerk, he was balancing his cash,
when the absence of a sovereign in his
total led to a row with his boss and his
angry resignation because he was accused
of carelessness —he an original Anzac!
After chucking the job and marching
home to his pub in a rage he found the
shiner in the cuff of his pants. But he
had had enough of banking, and went
ahead with the selection of his block at
Pikedale.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: My greatest
grouch against Government lotteries is
that prizes go so often to the undeserving,
and that presumption is not based merely
on the people who, one ahead or one be-
hind me, in a queue, have carried off the
bacon or part of it. I regard the constant
groucher as the least worthy of all
humans, and a champion groucher pre-
sented herself in a Dago fruit shop. Her
complaint, “Lottery no damn good,”
caused an inquiry. Yes, the lady had won
prizes. “Jus-a ’undred once, den-a feefty,
a few tenor and now and den fif-a pounds.
But notta a big prize-a. Lottery no damn
good,” she gnashed. Thinking of friends
who are happy if they cop a fiver I was
shocked at her ingratitude to Lady Luck.
A few weeks later she did win first prize.
That was months ago, and recently I
noticed her name again among the lucky
ones —second prize this time. Probably
she goes on grumbling that, yes, she has
won a first prize and a second prize and
a few other prizes, but there are lots of
lotteries in which she hasn’t won any
prizes at all, and the lottery is no damn
good. That’s why I’m against lotteries.
A luck that bestows its favors on such a
groucher is unworthy of respect.
* * * *
“Serge”: A,poem, and salute of 20
salvoes, proclaimed that it was Artillery
Day in Moscow. Translated into English,
the scansion of either item is difficult
to follow, particularly the verse;
But whenever the banners of future wars raise
their furious howls,
We are always ready to give a simple and
weighty proof of the might of the Soviet-
land ;
Let them see that our sights are true,
The Strength of the Soviet Artillery, friend of
all people who do not desire another war.
Any apparent contradiction in the last
few lines might be due to the remarkable
difficulty of translating Russian into
English, or vice versa. Moscow Radio’s
dictionaries have become dog-eared in
the search to find a concise expression for
“The Big Three.” The recent smile in
its voice showed that it had found one,
and Moscow announced that the “Troika”
had done such and such. “Troika” is a
Russian term for three horses harnessed
abreast in a cart.
ART CRITICS.
Strange that, whenever new designs are placed
For coins to take the impress of the Mi ,
Or stamps upon our envelopes to paste,
So many self-appointed critics haste
To air their views in print.
Their estimates serve only to confuse.
And should you feel inclined to make a choi e
You’ll find it, I imagine, hard to choose.
Such is the wide divergence in the views
These commentators voice.
Some reckon the delineations true
Products of art, gems that are genuine,
Chefs d’oeuvre no ordinary chap could do.
Others disdainfully compare them to
Something the cat brings in.
Yet from each one who has a word of praise
You’ll read of two inordinately vexed.
And as their hands in protest shrill they raise
You seem to hear them bellow “Spare me days.
What next, good Lord, what next?”
“Who shall decide when doctors disagree?”
But here’s one inference I can’t evade:
No critics so censorious can be
Concerning any artist’s artistry
As those of his own trade.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


y
: &
& A.
■'l:/'
I
m
; '
V,.\.
SSfiS
llwlS
88$
sn
„ . \ xJN
I . " ' S* ‘
•v-*;- ■••■ ;
®B®
mmm
s
i *
, ■ ***"' a * fljB|M
WKSm^
■
Wum^m
Wsmmllk
*•*
mssam
mmmmm
■ »
M
HSSPSSS MBBBM , - \ .R B ' "w^!
- ‘
■
NOWHERE TO LIVE...
LITTLE TO EAT...
Europe’s bitter winter is taking terrible toll of lives of
thousands of homeless unfortunates, A vast number of
men, women and children are on the verge of starvation
and only prompt and generous aid can save them.
Huge sums are required for the purchase of food,
medicines, clothing, blankets, footwear and other neces-
sities of life. Every day counts, so please give us your
help quickly, to prevent mass starvation and epidemics.
We shall do the rest and allocate relief impartially where
the need is greatest.
THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
O QUAKERS)
INTERNATIONAL RELIEF COMMITTEE
in collaboration with the
OCCUPIED EUROPE RELIEF SOCIETY
Please forward your donations to
THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
N.S.W.: 119 Devonshire St., Sydney. Vic.; 20 Russell St.,
Melbourne. S.A.; c/o Mr. George Hutchesson, Box 779 G.P.0.,
Adelaide. W.A.: c/o Mr. J. H. Crosland, Albany Rd., Gosnells.
Q’LAND: c/o Mrs. H. F. Jones, Thozel Rd., Nth Rockhampton,
or Miss Kate Sauer, 8 Balaclava St., Woolloongabba. TAS. : c/o
Mrs. Ruth Erskine, Burdoc, Rosetta. N.T.: Box 48, Alice Springs.
Tmtf DIESEL FUEL
INJECTION EQUIPMENT
Anticipating the demand for a Diesel Fuel Injection Service
in Australia, PYROX PTY., LTD., many years ago established
service facilities in all States, thus making possible the rapid
development of Diesel power in this country.
In all capital cities, repair and maintenance services and spares
for all leading makes of British, American and Continental
Fuel Injection Equipment are provided by PYROX. Injection
parts not obtainable through ordinary trade channels will be
manufactured by PYROX according to specification.
TOX DIESEL INJECTION
SERVICE
IN SYDNEY - - - - PYROX PTY., LTD.
Australian Enterprise Australian Skill Australian Achievement
fesq
S 3
>9
to
Xl*
an
StedJM
RUM
BOTTLED OVERPROOF IN BOND
jjVJRPROoT
THE SERVICE MAN
Espionage and Parliament.
The debate on atomic-bomb espionage
was conducted in Canberra on the usual
political lines, with the usual determina-
tion of the Government to avoid at all
costs either real action or inquiry. And
it was reported in the usual way. Any-
body reading the Sydney “Morning
Herald” or the Sydney “Sun” might
have believed that what had taken place
was not a discussion of a frightening state
of affairs brought on by the Opposition
but a triumphant revelation by Dr. Evatt
of stupendous and heroic plans by the
Government to keep out all enemies.
Mr. J, P. Abbott, who moved the ad-
journment of the House to have the
matter discussed, said that Igor Gou-
zenko, cipher clerk to Colonel Zabotin,
military attache to the Soviet Embassy in
Ottawa, had declared to the Canadian
Royal Commission:
Holding forth at International Confer-
ences with voluble statements about Peace
and Security, the Soviet Government is
simultaneously preparing secretly for thfe
Third World War. To meet this war the
Soviet Government is creating in democratic
countries, including Canada, a fifth column
in the organisation of which even diplo-
matic representatives of the Soviet Govern-
ment take part. The announcement of the
dissolution of the Comintern was prob-
ably the greatest farce of the Communists
in recent years. Only the name was liqui-
dated, with the object of reassuring public
“Orders said it was a full-dress parade, sir."
opinion in the democratic countries. Actu-
ally, the Comintern exists and continues its
work, because the Soviet leaders have
never relinquished the idea of establishing
a Communist Dictatorship throughout the
world.
To many Soviet people here abroad
it is clear that the Communist party in
democratic countries has changed long ago
from a political party into an agency net
-of the Soviet Government, into a fifth
column in these countries to meet a war,
into an instrument in the bands of the
Soviet Government for creating artificial
unrest, provocation, etc.
~ . , , .
Mr. Abbott gave further samples from
the Canadian Commission’s report on
Communist espionage: —
r. XT . . - , , c
Dr. Alan Nunn May obtained samples of
Uramum 235 enriched and Uranium 233,
Mjich I l ®, d *jXl red V^ ut - -A n^ lov
(Staff of the Military Attache). The Rus-
ga . rded as of such importance
that Motmov, Assistant Military Attache,
Moscow with them.
In the field of radar, information of
the greatest importance in this field was
communicated to the Russians by agents.”
The wiring diagram of the VT fuse, then '
top secret, was in the hands of one of
the agents whom the Commission reported
on-
Eleven of the 14 Canadians convicted
were university graduates, six from Me-
Gill. Methods of recruiting agents into
the network were through Communist
party study groups, secret cells and the
Canadian Association of Scientific
Workers.
No name was more repeatedly and
prominently mentioned than that of Fred
Rose (Rosenberg), M.P., a Jew from
Poland,
Proceeding, Mr. Abbott said he men-
tioned this matter of the Canadian ex-
posure “because we are faced with a
Similar problem in the Commonwealth
owing to the rocket project. On Feb. 20
we ? ere SSdiec * that every precaution
was . beln S ,aken a S a ' nst H°w
“ uld P recau “° n be taken while
the Pub ] ,c S t e ™ ce and sclent,f,c t a f, enc ' es
were Wanted w.th Communists?
While I do not say that certain people
are Soviet agents, I suggest that their
associations are such, and their line of
conduct so typical, that they may easily be
under suspicion of doing the work that
that they
will welcome an opportunity to clear their
names, and an inquiry may reveal to them
! he natu , re of associations which they have
innocently made, and from which they
would start in horror did they understand
their significance. If they are not innocent,
J hen ’ of course > the y deserve no considera-
lon'
Mr Mountjoy
Mr. Abbott turned to the appointment
of Mr. Mountjoy, ex-M.H.R„ to the
C.S.I.R. :
I do not suggest for one moment that
the Government does not desire to keep
the rocket and other defence secrets secure,
but I think that it has been very rash and
incautious in some of its appointments,
and that a strong feeling of friendship for
those whom it has appointed has sometimes
inhibited its sense of danger,
Such an appointment was that of
Donald Mountjoy to the executive of the
C.S.I.R. He may be a loyal subject, but
many of his associates were Communists,
and his attack on Barclay was a typically
Communist effort. The Minister for De-
fence has denied that he is a Communist,
and yet what reason is there to believe
from his utterances in this House that he
is not fully in sympathy with the Russian
aims? He scarcely ever opened his mouth
in this House without lauding the Soviets.
He could play much the same part as Fred
Rose, M.P., played in Canada as the right-
hand man for the Soviet espionage sys-
tern. I do not suggest it, but he is in such
a position he could,
Not the least dangerous of the Com-
munists are those like Dr. Alan Nunn May,
whom the Canadian Commission described
“as an ardent but secret Communist.”
Mountjoy's name is tainted, to say the
least, and yet he is chosen for the C.S.I.R.
executive, where he would have great
opportunities of placing Soviet agents into
scientific positions, where they might be
able to obtain details of the rocket experi-
ments
There should certainly be an inquiry into
the antecedents of Mr. Mountjoy, his
connection with officers of the Soviet Lega-
tion, as to w h e ther Mountjoy sought the
position to which he was appointed, or who
recommended him to the Minister for the
position
~,, \ ~,, • . , „
Members of the Communist party,
Mr. Abbott continued, “appear to be able
to obtain privileges that others could
not, as shown by the ease with
which Messrs. Jack Henry and Gerald
p ee l, Australian delegates, obtained pas-
sages t 0 atte nd Empire Communist party’s
conference in London ; the passage to
New Zealand for Mr. Elliott, secretary
0 f the Seamen’s Union ; the permission
given to Jean Devanny, formerly one of
t h e most notorious Communists in Aus-
tralia, to visit, in 1943, the forward areas
j n Northern Queensland in order, so she
S aid, to write a book about the Aus-
tralian soldiers:
she is a novelist, two of whose books,
“The Butcher s Shop and The Virtuous


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In* Divorce.
TO THOMAS EDWARD KENNEDY late of Glebe
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that ELLEN VERONICA KENNEDY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 710 of 1947 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an -appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before the 11th
day of April 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from N. D. THOMAS, Solicitor, 51
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—(x,.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
TO GORDON HIPWELL GOSPER (generally known
as Jim Gosper) late of Richmond. —TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY MARIA GOSPER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 522 of 1947 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend the suit you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 21st April 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition Without charge from B. A. McBRIDE, Soli-
citor for the .Petitioner, 164 Pitt Street Sydney.—
(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
I, KURT VON STUTTERHEIM, of German nation-
ality, born at Ahorn, near Coburg, Bavaria, and
resident seven and one half years in Australia, now
residing at 76 Roslyn Gardens, Elizabeth Bayj intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act, 1920-1936.
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of ’Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
PRICE 2/-.
iiiiiii
r
i
; . -V • •
[L v
: : : xV
i'/iH :Wt>,
tdM z
Z%MM
> x'x-
;•:>•' y¥.‘ /si*
: -. ■. •.'
SgjSSafiSJ
mmmm
wmmm
Product of the same organization that produced
the valiant Hudson Bomber and the famous P-38
Lightning, the Lockheed Constellation now offers
swift, comfortable schedules to most world capi-
tals. Among the great airlines selecting Constel-
lations for their leading flights are: aer uncus
. . AIR FRANCE . . . AMERICAN OVERSEAS AIR-
LINES . . . BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORF. . . .
EASTERN AIR LINES . . . KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIR
LINES . . . KNILM ROYAL NETHERLANDS INDIES
AIRWAYS . . . LAV LINEA AEROPOSTAL VENEZOLANA
. . . PANAIR DO BRASIL . . . PAN AMERICAN WORLD
AIRWAYS . . . QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS, LTD. . . .
and TRANS WORLD AIRLINE. Book passage with
travel agent or airline.
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, Burbank, California, U.S.A.
%<' 1 .
iiii
«i»
...
AW.f mmmSZdtAtk/i
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM, MAY sth- 16th. 194 Z
This is your first opportunity in seven years to
see your old suppliers in Britain and to meet new ones.
Overseas Buyers are invited to Britain for the
1947 British Industries Fair. It will enable them to
establish personal contact with the makers of the
immense range of United Kingdom goods displayed
in the London (Lighter Industries) and Birmingham
(Hardware & Engineering) Sections of the Fair. The
careful grouping of exhibits will assist buyers to
compare the products of competing firms with a
minimum of time, trouble and expense. Special
arrangements to suit individual markets can be dis-
cussed and terms and conditions of business settled
direct with the manufacturer, since only the actual
producer or the sole selling agent may exhibit.
For full details of the 1947 Fair apply to the nearest British
Commercial Diplomatic Officer or Consular Officer, or the
British Trade Commissioner in your area.
BRITAIN PRODUCES
THE GOODS
Courtesan,” are under ban in Australia as
obscene publications. When there was the
greatest difficulty to get permission tor
ordinary journalists to go to the forwaid
training areas, this lady was not only given
permission but, through the Commonwealth
Literary Fund, was made a grant of £l-0
of Government money to pay her expenses.
The executive control of this fund is in the
Prime Minister’s Department.
Association of Scientific Workers
“The Canadian Commission,” the
member for New England (N.S.W.)
proceeded, “said much with regard
to the Canadian Association of
Scientific Workers, .which was founded
by some of the named 14 agents of the
Soviet. Its executive positions were
largely held by these men, and it was
used as a recruiting ground for getting
scientists and others connected with
scientific work into the espionage net.
This body claimed to have affiliations
throughout many countries. Here there
is a similar body known as the Austra-
lian Association of Scientific Workers.
One of the most prominent members of
this body is Dr. Makinson, Lecturer in
Physics at the University of Sydney, and
late of the C.S.I.R.
“Dr. Makinson has admitted in the
press (“D.T.” 13/9/ ’46) that he is a
Communist. In a letter dated July 12,
1946, Mr. L. W. Hibbard, who I under-
stand, works in the radio physics
laboratory of the C.5.1.R., Federal sec-
retary of the association, states that the
Australian body has developed close re-
lations with similar organisations, inter
alia, Canada. He also says that the
association has drawn heavily on C.S.I.R.
for its membership.
“Mr. Callaghan, who the Communist
Tribune’ stated was in charge of the Com-
munist Party Scientific Bureau, was on
the committee of the Australian associa-
tibn. He was a bio-chemist at the Royal
North Shore Hospital, and was respon-
sible for moving the resolution (‘S.M.H.’
13/9/’46) demanding the release of Dr.
Nunn May, vice-president of the
Canadian Association of Scientific
Workers who was tried in Britan and
sentenced to ten years. Mr. Sid Conway,
another Communist, was also mentioned
as connected with the body ; also McD.
Richardson, who works a£ A.W.A., and
Henry,, who, I am told, was in the
C.S.I.R. Both were stated to be Com-
munists and also members of the
A.A.S.W.
“It would appear that the A.A.S.W. is
following a very similar pattern tb that
of the Canadian body. No doubt many
of its members are genuine scientific
workers and not Communists, but these
latter, having got control of executive
positions, use the body as a means of
forming secret study groups.”
Dr. Evatt Replies
Dr. Evatt declared that he agreed on
the need for the greatest possible pre-
cautions. The way in which an em-
ployee of the Soviet Embassy to Ottawa
was treated by other employees of the
embassy after he handed information to
the police showed a ruthlessness, a des-
peration, which was very striking. A
great warning was involved in this. He
agreed that the possibility of the Com-
munist party passing information to
Russia could not be overlooked. Security
officers reported that so far nothing unto-
ward had occurred. But they agreed with
the necessity for redoubling precautions
against the possibility of abuse of citizen-
ship.
There had been serious developments
lately in connection with industrial dis-
putes based upon political demands. He
thought they might reach intolerable
proportions.
The issue was whether the Communists
were so treacherous that they would hand
over defence secrets to a foreign Power.
The Canadian revelations did contribute
to a disastrous result. It showed the
need of taking extraordinary precautions
against that happening in Australia.
A highly secret document pre-
pared two years ago on Communist or-
ganisation showed that Commonwealth
Departments are alive to the danger. This
document “could not be published in the
interests of security.”
The Stevedoring Bill
Dr. Evatt did not answer Mr. Abbott’s
demand for a Royal Commission. Neither
did any other member of the Govern-
ment. During the week in which
the motion was debated the Government
was pushing through the Stevedoring
Bill with all the weight of its majority
and accepting no amendments.
That bill virtually makes the secretary
of the Waterside Workers’ Federation,
one of the Communist Healys, and the
union’s other nominees on the Stevedor-
ing Commission part of the statutory
Government of the Commonwealth.
Healy is a member of the Communist
Central Committee. His assistant secre-
tary is also a leading and privileged Com-
munist. And branch secretaries are Com-
munists.
The appointment of these comrades
places them now in a position to obtain
vast quantities of information vital to
security. i
In the event of war it would place them
in a position privileged to know every-
thing that there is to know about Aus-
tralian shipping movements and what is
carried in Australian ships. Even now
they are in a position to learn what rocket
material is carried in ships, its dimen-
sions, where it is landed, how it is
handled, who handles it, what importance
the rocket authorities attach to it.
A Royal Commission certainly is
needed into the whole question of
security, as every Australian is likely to
admit who reads the Communist party
rules which provide that the Australian
party’s decisions shall be subservient to
the determinations of international con-
ferences.
But there is to be no Royal Commis-
sion.
Decorations and Omissions.
“Ek Dum”: Very belatedly the lists of
decorations for the last South-West
Pacific campaigns have been issued.
These have been much more lavish than
the decorations issued in the Middle East
campaigns, but short in recognition of
some of the most gallant episodes of the
war. Unless there is to be a supple-
mentary list some omissions are inexplic-
able.
One notable omission concerns those
who took part in the 1943 incidents of
the Sandakan campaign. It would have
been a perfectly normal gesture had some
of the gallant Indians, Malays and
Chinese who gave their lives for Aus-
tralians been recognised posthumously.
And the failure to effectively recog-
nise the sacrifice of Captain Matthews,,
who was executed at Kuching after the
failure of his widespread escape organisa-
tion, brought about by the treachery
of an Indian sweeper, is more than aston-
ishing.
Captain Matthews could well have sat
down as many others did and waited on
fate. Instead, the whole of his actions
from the time of his internment to the
time of his death was harassing to the
Japanese, and would have been likely to
end in the rescue of the many Diggers
who afterwards died had it not been for
the single act of treachery which was not
due to any laxness in his own organisa-
tion.
As a result of his efforts some Aus-
tralians escaped, and most found their
lot a little easier.
When Captain Matthews was arrested
he was, like other Australians, tortured.
And since he was the heart of the con-
spiracies in the camp more efforts than
usual were made to extract confessions
from him. Had he given way dozens
of his fellow-soldiers would undoubtedly
have been destroyed. But he was so
reticent under all persuasion and
cruelty that it was only through the base
invention of a Japanese interpreter that
“evidence” was obtained on which to
execute him.
On the day he was executed he be-
haved with a debonair gallantry which
was an inspiration to the rest of his
comrades.
The British have given officers of par-
allel records the George Cross.


J
//■///
N X X ' * * ' ' ' / ' ,
i
V\\\''
THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
WHEN IT’S AN EXIDE YOU START!
EXI D E
BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY„ LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
IffZ-fX
PERSONAL ITEMS
Bearing gifts from Yale University to
the Mitchell Library and from the
Library of Congress to its opposite
mlmber in Canberra, Dr. Wilmarth
Sheldon Lewis, chairman of the Council
of the U.S. Library of Congress, is in
Australia on a month’s lecture tour at the
invitation of Melbourne University, The
Mitchell gift is a Joseph Banks letter
mentioning “Bligh’s unfortunate mutiny.”
A Yale man, Lewis edited that institu-
tion’s edition of the letters of Horace
Walpole, and one of his Sydney lectures
was qn the subject of Walpole’s library.
He served with the American artillery in
World War I; in the return bout he was
appointed to the U.S. Office of Strategic
Services. He’s a great believer in the de-
velopment of cultural relations among
English-speaking countries.
Thomas Alexander Wells, who last
Week was moved to comment scathingly
on the conditions under which Justice
finds itself forced to function in Darwin,
has been Judge of the Supreme Court of
the Northern Territory since 1933. His
first association with the judiciary was
as a member of the reporting staff of
N.S.W. Supreme Court. That was back
in 1913, and he left it to fight in France
as a gunner with the First A.I.F. After
his return he gained his Law degree at
Sydney Uni. and was admitted to the
N.S.W. Bar. During the last war his
Court functioned at Alice Springs, and
he has now delivered an ultimatum that
he will hear no more cases in Darwin
until proper facilities are provided.
Wells’s comment was that he understood
the war was over, but apparently it was
still on when it suited the Government,
and not on when it did not suit it.
Gas and other strikes have stimulated
the inventiveness of at least one man in
Melbourne. He is E. Cartwright, chief
engineer of the Austin Hospital at Heidel-
berg. The report that a respirator patient
in a Sydney hospital had died when
electric power stopped set him thinking
about alternative methods of obtaining
power. He experimented first with a
steam engine and then decided to devise
something simpler which could be used
if necessary in the sufferer’s own home.
His final solution is simplicity itself. Con-
veying water from the ordinary garden
tap, he applied it to a pulsator which
follows the lines of the hand pump with
bellows, driven by hydraulic action. It
worked perfectly, the flow being con-
trolled by a regulator valve and the turn-
ing on and off of the tap. Cartwright
doesn’t intend to patent his invention ;
he has children of his own. His device is
likely to have a worldwide application.
Major-General Kippenberger, entrusted
with the compilation of M-L.’s war
history, is gathering a Brain’s Trust round
him that should make a great fist of the
work. Geoffrey Cox, who served London
papers in Europe prior to the war, in-
cluding the Spanish civil war, and was
with the Kiwis in Greece and Crete, has
beep added to the staff. Daniel Davin,
like Cox a M.L. Rhodes Scholar, himself
served with the Kiwis, and published a
novel in 1945. The two will work from
the London end. In M.L. J. L. Secular, a
leader-writer on the Auckland “Herald,”
and W. G. McClymont, a master at Otago
Boys’ High School, have also joined the
staff. McClymont has already published
a volume on the Greek campaign,
“Becks” on a rising diplomat:
Junior member of the Big Four at the
Moscow Conference is Frenchman Georges
Bidault. Until the fall of France Bidault’s
career was inconspicuous. , Bom in 1899, he was
just old enough to be called to the colors to-
wards the end of the first German war, after
which he became a teacher, specialising in his-
tory. In the 1930’s he combined this with the
job of leader-writer for a small Paris paper, and
in 1935 ran unsuccessfully for the Chamber of
Deputies. Hitler’s war saw him in uniform
again, with an extra stripe—he had finished the
first scrap as a corporal—and When France was
overrun he was captured when his regiment was
cut off at St. Quentin. In the second year of
the Vichy regime the Nazis released all French
soldiers who were veterans of the earlier war,
and Bidault returned to France to become Pro-
fessor of History at Lyons. While holding this
post he became a member of the French under-
ground movement ; and in 1943, when Moulin,
the leader of the resistance group, was executed
he found himself chosen as president of the ;
National Council of Resistance. In this capacity ,
he later accepted the surrender of the com- ’
mander of the Nazi garrison in Paris and wel- ]
corned De Gaulle to the city. De Gaulle made 1
him Foreign Minister in his Provisional Govern-
ment,, and he attended conferences in London,
Moscow and Paris and led the French delegation
to the ’Frisco Conference which laid the foun-
dations of U.N.O. Politically he became the
leader of the M.R.P. and last June was chosen
President of the Provisional Government. In the
shifts of political fortune during the past few
months Bidault has emerged again as Foreign
Minister and.he went to Moscow after negoti-
ating a 50-year pact with Britain, signed by
himself and Bevin within sight of the sands
of Dunkirk.
The Archibald Watson Prize ? founded
in memory of the man who was Professor
of Anatomy at Adelaide University from
1885 to 1919, goes jointly to Clement
Vernon Love, of Westralia, and Gerald
White Milton, of Calcutta. The award is
made annually for proficiency in practical
surgery.
Heth’s of all the
panoply of war —will be recognisable
from Damascus to Merauke as Brigadier
John Stevenson, C.8.E., D. 5.0., E.D.,
one of the fine galaxy of young brigadiers
whom the war threw up in the Second
A.I.F. Born in 1908, he began his mili-
tary life in the Bondi militia district, got
away early, had command of 2/16th
Battalion, the only Australian battalion
brigaded with the British in the capture
of Damascus, held his command for the
Kokoda trail show, and assumed com-
mand of the 11th Brigade in March, 1943.
The father of the Merauke force —the
Dutch gave him the cross of Orange
MERAUKE TO NAURU.
Nassau—he served later .in Bougain-
ville and was elected to take the surrender
of Ocean Island and Nauru, afterwards
returning for a little service in Rabaul
before retiring to the quiet shades of
N. S. Wales Parliament House, where he
ft secretary to the Joint Houses. He is
a councillor of the United Service Institu-
tion and chairman of its library com-
mittee.
Another protege of Adelaide’s Science
Professor Kerr Grant —W. I. Berry Smith
—goes to Birmingham with a C.S.I.R.
studentship to study nuclear physics under
Oliphant. While at Saint’s he won
several scholarships, topped the State
in leaving honors in 1937, and at'Ade-
laide ’Varsity collected first credits in
physics and maths, and the John L.
Young Scholarship for research. Since
1941 he has been associated with the
C.S.I.R. in Sydney and Melbourne. He’s
a son of tjie leader of S.A. “Hansard”
staff.
“C. 8,” Phillip Hudson, architect and
Digger, has a grievance. He it was who
made the winning design for the Shrine
of Remembrance in the Domain in Mel-
bourne. Now he learns that the trustees
are offering £4OO in prizes for ideas on
how the Shrine could be adapted to com-
memorate more specifically those who fell
in the latest war. His just contention is
that he should have befen consulted before
the matter was made a subject for public
competition. An English Court once held
that an artist had a perpetual vested in-
terest in his own work. Lord Lever-
hulme, contemplating a holiday and
hastily packing his art possessions in safe
places, found a portrait by Augustus
John too large to go into the safe, and he
and his butler trimmed bits off it. He
was much astonished when the incensed
John sued him for damages to his
aesthetic reputation. Hudson says that he
spent 11 years of his life on the Shrine;
it was his whole life, and he hopes no-
thing will be done to destroy his labors.
A fine record of scholastic achievement
in engineering is that of 30-year-old Dr.
Dino Anthony Morelli, back from the
U.S.A. for a year of lecturing at the
Queensland University as the final stage
of his Eliza Hall Engineering Scholarship.
Born at Bibinda (N.Q.), he graduated
BE. at 21, was awarded the scholarship
in 1940, and qualified as M.Sc. (Civil
Engineering) in 1942. In California he
gained a M.Sc. degree in Mechanical and
Aeronautical Engineering at the Institute
of Technology and qualified as Ph.D. at
Pasadena. During this period and after
he did research work on jet and rocket
propulsion of V2-type weapons, and on
hydrodynamic problems involved in
launching torpedoes from aircra’ft.
Publicity officer for A.N.A., Capt. J.
Francis was educated at Kogarah High
School and Sydney Technical College and
prior to World War I qualified as an
electrical engineer. In 1916 he joined
the R.F.C. and qualified as a pilot. After
the armistice he took up civil aviation as
a career, toured Australia first - for an
assurance co. and then for a radio
concern —the second job took him 60 ; 000
miles to visit 430 towns. In 1926 he
became instructor to the Victorian Aero
Club and four years later opened up the
Tasmanian Aero Club and was chief
instructor until 1936. Francis joined
A.N.A. on its formation, flew many
of its planes and was commandant
of its flying school before he became
publicity-officer. During the war when
A.N.A. became charter operators for the
USAAF he was sent to Brisbane as
manager, retilrning tp publicity in 1945.
He holds No. 4 commercial pilot’s lic-
ence.
Gillespie Douglas, here pictured by
Mcßeath. first started taking a keen in-
terest in the welfare of dusky Australians
eight years ago. As president of the
Aborigines Uplift Society in Melbourne
his voice is heard over the air, and after
crying in the wilderness for a long time
has even penetrated to the outskirts of
Canberra. Mcßeath, after 10 minutes
with him, came away with the impression
that there are parts of Australia where,
so far as Binghi is concerned, “the game
isn’t fair.?’ Gillespie Douglas, apart from
his work in this connection and his busi-
ness with English worsteds and rare
metals, has written volumes of prose and
verse, much of which has been published
or broadcast. His family runs to a
garden-loving wife, a returned-soldier
son and a collection of rare orchids. He
was born in Geelong, son of Archibald
Douglas, one of Victoria’s leading Gaelic
ABO WELFARE.
scholars, a founder and first president of
the Commun na Feinne, the predecessor
of the Caledonian Society, A photo of
the old man resplendent in kilts still
hangs in the meeting-house at Geelong,
looking like one of Raeburn’s Scottish
worthies.
A couple of years after Charles
Kingsford Smith disappeared on his last
tragic flight his 18-year-old nephew,
Rollo, entered the R.A.A.F. as a cadet.
When the war came Rollo was specialising
in navigation; he holds a First Class
Navigation certificate, a distinction shared
by only a few Australians, among them
P. G. Taylor. In Britain he flew R.A.A.F.
Lancasters with 467 and 463 squadrons,
taking command of the latter squadron at
24. Followed appointments as chief in-
structor with R.A.F. Stirling and Lan-
caster training units and command of a
Mosquito squadron in the Pathfinder
Force. Rollo Kingsford Smith took part
in 33 missions over Europe, and the
ANOTHER SMITHY.
ribbons shown in this sketch by Prior in-
clude a D.S.O. and D.F.C. Now Ops.
Officer at R.A.A.F. Eastern Command, he
looks forward to meeting old hands of
463 and 467 squadrons at a reunion to be
held at Air Force House, Sydney, on
March 21.
Douglas Sladen, dead in England at
91, had several links with Australia. After
leaving Oxford, where he took a first in
History, won his Blue for Rugby and
collected all the shooting cups about the
place, he came to Australia at the invi-
.tation of his uncle, Sir Charles Sladen,
a one-time Premier of Victoria. After a
few years as Professor of Modern His-
tory at Sydney Uni. he went back to
England with an Australian bride, two
published books of verse and an abiding
regard for Australian balladists which
led him a few years later to publish two
anthologies, Australian Ballads and
Rhymes and A Century of Australian
Song. Adam Lindsay Gordon’s reputa-
tion in England owes much to the en-
thusiasm of Sladen, and it was due to his
advocacy that a bust of Gordon was
placed in Poets’ Corner in the Abbey.
Sladen was one of the most widely-
travelled of English writers, and the
majority of his 60 published works was
in some way connected with the manners
and customs of the lands he had visited.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 53, William Grant Buckle, a
past-president of the Federal Chamber of Auto-
motive Industries, and one-time holder of the
Sydney to Melbourne light-car record. An old
Digger of Fifth Brigade Artillery in World War
I, he helped many of Sydney’s A.A. defences in
the last scrap.
In Melbourne, at 55, Walter John Price,
senior classical master at Trinity Grammar
School. He served with the 10th Battalion in
World War I, was president of the R.S.L.’s
Kew sub-branch, and was Mayor of Kew in
1940.
In Brisbane, at 83, George Henry Thomas
Jones, one of the last surviving pioneers of the
North Coast, and an active figure in its early
public life.
At 76, in London, Dorothy Vane, the last
of the old Savoyards who could claim to have
been rehearsed by Gilbert and Sullivan. She
married Norman Menzies, who owned the
hotel which bears the family name in Mel-
bourne.
In Sydney, Henry Hunter White, grazier and
member of the board of the National Bank. An
A.J.C. member since 1900, he was a committee-
man from 1910 to 1940, owned the Havilah
Stud at Mudgee and bred many good per-
formers, including Rogilla. Trainers were always
on the lookout for Havilah youngsters, par-
ticularly as Hunter White leased them on very
generous terms.
In Georgetown, (N.Q.), at 86, Albert Hay-
man, of Morunie Station, a pioneer cattleman
and for many years a leading figure in Gulf
Country affairs.
In Brisbane, at 81, Anthony James Gum-
ming, formerly Government Printer for Queens-
land. He brought Queensland’s Printing Office
into the first rank and maintained it there
for many years. And he was a sterling
character of whom many good stories are told.
In London, Captain John Cameron, who
commanded the N.Z. - Shipping Co.’s Remuera
when he retired after 23 trips on her between
Maoriland and England. The skipper was an
authority on Pitcairn Island and delivered
lectures on the subject to passengers. He
always relished a call at Pitcairn.
In Adelaide, at 85, John Brooker, founder
of the jam-making co. bearing his name, which
started in a back-yard shed, now has a two-acre
factory and talks of enlarging.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
Nice job the other day for the wife
of State Premier McGirr. She went to
Bankstown to crack a bottle of cham-
pagne over “Waltzing Matilda” and there-
by establish the bomber’s official right to
the name given to it by Captain Geoffrey
Wikner, who first flew it to Australia.
There was quite a ceremony at the Banks-
town aerodrome, and no\% the Halifax
bomber will fly the Australia-China air
route for Air Carriers, Limited.
“Matilda’s” first waltz will be to Hong
Kong.
Looking as pretty as a picture on which
Kate Greenaway and Dante Gabriel
Rossetti had collaborated, Pam Kelso
wore a bouffant frock of white marquis-
ette and lace at her wedding to Colin Sut-
cliffe at St. Stephens, Macquarie-street.
Her veil was of cut tulle, and her Juliet
cap of pearls had been worn by her
mother, Mrs. Jacjc Kelso, at her wedding.
Jean McQuiggan, the bridesmaid, was in
water-melon pink georgette. The Jack
Kelsos, members of a family with Rand-
wick associations for most of a century,
have taken up a Queensland station pro-
perty, Greenhills, Meandarra. Coiin is
the son of the T, N. Sutcliffes, of Wood-
lands, Barmedman ; he and his best man.
Bill Kelly, went straight from Scots Col-
lege into war service with the R.A.N.
The minister. Rev. Cunningham, an old
friend of both, shared the captivity of
the Eighth Division.
There was a blithe air about Randwick
on Saturday. Women seemed determined
to wear the best of their summer wai" 1 -
robe on this hot autumn day shot through
with sunlight. To be noted: the crown-
less hat has lost nothing of its favor. Of
this type was Brigid McPhillamy’s envi-
able large black straw blooming with
large white daisies. Mrs, Alan Toohey
was there to cheer on the family’s Corona-
tion Lad. Mrs. Alan Potter wore a white
straw hat with her rose-patterned blue
silk frock. Zara St. Claire was one of
the day’s smart —black and white silks
her choice. „
Week-end engagement of interest was
that of Pamela Calder and Jim Maple-
Brown. Pamela is a daughter of the
F. A. Calders, of Darling Point;
he, is the only son of the Irwin
Maple-Browns, of Springfield, Goulburn.
A note from R. R. McD. Parr, secre-
tary of the Town and Country Polo
Club, tells of the Children’s Gymkhana
out at Kyeemagh on Sunday, March 23.
The starting time is a quarter to eleven,
and only children under 16 may compete.
The gymkhana will be a sort of dress
rehearsal for the children’s events at the
Show, and should be very helpful to in-
tending young competitors in the R.A.S.
arena. A polo match to be played after
the gymkhana is timed to begin at three-
fifteen. Gate money goes to the N.S.W.
Police Boys’ Club. There are four cups
in addition to ribbons to be competed for
by the young riders.
Bright time ahead for Mrs. James
Gibson, of Kirribilli. She has gone off
for a holiday to Woomajah, Boorowa,
the home of her brother, O. C. Hancock.
Mr. and Mrs. Hancock have some horses
entered for the Canberra and Yass races,
and Mrs. Gibson’s visit will coincide with
all the race gaieties.
A night of oppressive humidity failed
to stem the surge of Chopin-lovers to
the Sydney Town Hall on Saturday, when
Viennese pianist. Paul Schramm gave a
recital devoted entirely to the Polish
composer’s works. The great work
was, of course, the great B Flat
Minor Sonata, a performance which
made the audience feel more like kneel-
ing than sitting. Paul is a genial fellow
as well as being an ideal Chopin exponent,
and his explanatory remarks between
items —he even read aloud a furious
criticism of himself for having added 24
“chimes” to his version of the National
Anthem, humorously referring to them
as “the Schramm dis-grace notes” —obvi-
ously found favor with the audience.
Musicale tonight at the Mosman home
of Mr. Justice De Baun to aid the funds
of the St. Aloysius College fete. Mrs
De Baun is one of.the energetic workers
for the gala which will make carnival in
the college grounds on April 29, after-
noon and evening. Mrs. De Baun has
gathered a company of good musicians
and singers for tonight, and between the
music Doris Fitton will talk on the drama.
English stage and screen actress Megs
Jenkins, who arrived in Sydney last week
by flyingboat from Maoriland, lost no
time in starting her season at the Minerva.
The night after her arrival she was
winning Sydney hearts with her Gwenny
Thomas, the simple little maid-of-all-
work who had loved the late Chris-
topher Bean. Megs was guest of
honor at a very small party given by
Sydney’s Mayor Bartley and his wife
in the civic, drawing-room last week.
Another guest was Charles Wilmott,
representative of the British Council
for the encouragement of the Arts. After
“Christopher Bean” Miss Jenkins will
star in “Wind of Heaven.” She is due
back in London in the middle of June.
Just-beginning lawyers in Sydney are
very interested in the coming marriage
of Peggy Hickson and Roger Lakeman.
Peggy, just about 20, graduated in law
at Sydney University at the end of last
year, sharing a special prize for Private
International Law, and is now working in
the offices of her father, solicitor R. J. L.
Hickson. Roger is an ex-serviceman and
graduated in the same faculty of Sydney
University—with Honors. He is son
of the late Allen Lakeman and of Mrs.
Lakeman of Mosman, one time of Mount
Gambier, S. Australia. St. Phillip’s on
Church Hill is booked for the wedding
on Easter Saturday. The two intend to
practise their profession together. Peter
Pan photograph of Peggy.
The Woollahra Music Club had its
first meeting of the year in the Roland
Foster eyrie at Darling Point. In addi-
tion to plans for the new series of musi-
cales there was quite a ceremony of
presentation. Mrs. C. Lorenz, tireless
worker for the club since its beginning,
was presented with a real princess of
black suede bags, gold-tipped and all.
Former president, Mr. Justice Roper,
handed over the gift. New president.
Banker Roy McKerihan, was seen giving
the bag a discerning glance or two, as
though he were measuring up its cubic
capacity for coin of the realm. On
March 20 at the White City clubhouse
the first concert of 1947 will have for its
star Laurence Godfrey Smith, and there’s
no better pianist in Sydney. With him
will be associated Cedric Ashton, ’cellist,
and George White, violinist. Ray-
mond Nilsson will be the evening’s tenor,
accompanist Jean Schudack. Both
Laurence Godfrey and Raymond are
among the soon-bound-for-England.
Matrimony has been at large in the
Allen Innes home at Vaucluse. Daughter
Marygowan, who served, with the
A.A.M.W.S., married her ex-Flying
Officer Frank Blundell on the first day of
March in the church of St. Michael’s,
Vaucluse. Frank’s parents are the H.
Blundells of Caringbah, near Cronulla.
The Allen Innesses are well known
New Guinea personalities; Mrs. Innes
is one of Sydney’s versatile writing
women. lan Innes, who preceded his
sister into wedlock by a few days,
took for bride, also at St. Michael’s,
Vaucluse, pretty Gwendoline (Shawn
to her friends) O’Keefe, whose
parents are the Victor O’Keefes of
Mosman, formerly of Camberwell, Vic-
toria. lan, who has just had a novel (a
war story) accepted for publication,
served first with the R.A.A.F., was
loaned to the R.A.F. and was for five
months lost, presumed dead, in France.
However, he managed to do quite a job
with the Maquis, and was awarded the
Military Medal.
The Business and Professional Women,
whose president is Dr. Edna Nelson, chose
the deck of a Sydney ferry for their
international night, held in association
with the world-wide organisation to
which their club belongs, and there was a
symbolic and very impressive “lights-
up” ceremony with candles. There were
also, of course, refreshments and music
and a succession of speeches, to which
Professor Bland contributed —in no wise
awed at being the sole representative of
his sex.
From Melbourne
Rounding off a week of coming-out
parties and race festivities, Sir Winston
and Lady Dugan gave a dance at Gov-
ernment House, Guests were mostly in
the first bloom of youth, with a sprinkling
of the young marrieds. There were very
few sophisticated goWns, the romantic-
period style being first favorite. Off-the-
shoulder gowns with tiny waists and bil-
lowing skirts accentuated youthful
figures; older dancers chose gowns with
draperies outlining the bodice or skirt; the
new spiral skirt, with its deep centre-seam
slit, was popular. Never has the ball-
room at G.H. provided a setting for more
beautiful materials. There were shim-
mering satins, heavy brocades, fine lace
and equally fine crepes. White was the
most popular choice of the evening.
Flowers were well in the picture they
were worn mostly as adornment for the
hair, and here there were no elaborate
curls or styles. Well-brushed, gleaming
locks, cut shoulder-length or, in the case
of older guests, an Edwardian hairdo,
were popular.
Banks of ferns, with glowing masses
of hydrangeas grouped among them, were
arranged around the ballroom, while on
the tables in the State diningroom', where
supper was served, were set bowls of
mixed flowers, appearing lovelier under
the soft candlelight. At nine-thirty the
Vice-Regal party entered the ballroom ;
Sir Winston being indisposed. Lady
Dugan was accompanied by the Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring. Lady
Dugan was a gracious figure in her trained
gown of silver lame shot with turquoise-
blue brocade and fashioned with a large
bustle bow on the skirt and with the
bodice featuring a heart-shaped neck-
line. A diamond tiara and clips were
accessories. Lady Herring chose a gown
and matching jacket of midnight-bue
brocade shot with silver. Mrs, J. Hasel-
den, sister of Sir Winston, wore a jacket
suit of watered grey satin with silver
embroideries on the bodice. Wife of
Major G. C, Maxwell, A.D.C. to the
Governor, chose soft blue for her gown,
which- had the off-the-shoulder bodice
and bouffant skirt. Rosemary Nome’s
gown of white slipper satin had the full
skirt trimmed with narrow ruchings of
the material. Penelope Nettlefold’s,
lovely period frock was of heavy gleam-
ing satin in faint rose pink, and the wide
bouffant skirt and slim-fitting bodice was
a very flattering line. Mrs. A. A. Lord
had gold sequins trimming the shoulder-
straps of her tomato-red crepe frock.
Virginia Russell, of Nawallok, Beau-
fort, wore a slim-fitting beige taffeta frock
patterned in pastel flowers; her sister
Robina wore an attractive gown of gold
taffeta. Veronica Street, of Eildon, Lis-
more, wore her coming-out frock of aqua
brocade ; Jill Manifold, a fellow-debut-
ante, chose a white cobweb lace frock.
Veronica Syme had pale lime green and
black satin forming crossover straps on
her white satin frock with its wide green
velvet sash. Robin Mackay’s frock was
of powder-blue moss crepe. Diana
Medley wore an old-world frock of gleam-
ing gold taffeta. Angela Cross, who
leaves soon to join her parents in Eng-
land, wore gardenias with her deep-cream
satin frock. Julia Mary Rouse was
attractive in a white linen lace frock.
A much-admired frock of white net, cut
on period lines and with tiny pastel
flowers finishing the off-the-shoirider line
and tiny sleeves, was worn by Phelia
Grimwade. Wing Commander Hugh
Conagham and Flight Lieut. A. Suther-
land accompanied their wives, both of
whom wore smart white gowns, Mary
Guy Smith, who was with her fiance,
Major M. Keeble, covered the crown of
her head with deep red roses which
toned in with her floral crepe frock.
An At Home given at G.H. by Lieut.-
Governor Sir Edmund Herring (in the
absence of Governor and Victorian Chibf
Scout Sir Winston Dugan, who was in
Canberra) was made the occasion of
award-giving to three members of the
Boy Scouts’ Association for outstanding
work in p.-0.-w. camps. Recipients were
Revs. A. R. Macneil and J. McChesney
Clark and Mr. R. C. Shelton. Guests in-
cluded members of the council and
executive of the B.S.A. and their wives.
Bows, sashes, side-drapes—all the
elegance of more gracious days—rioted
over Fleraington on Saturday at the Aus-
tralia Cup meeting. Pleats, falling straight
when the wearer stood still and swinging
out fanlike when she walked, were a
feature of many styles.' The printed
frock was first favorite. Large flowers in
gay colors splashed on a white back-
ground was a popular choice. Modern
in inspiration was the patterned frock
worn by Mrs. Ralph Michaelis, wife of
U.S.A. Air Colonel R.
Michaelis. Slim fitting, it was of dull
white silk on which was printed in black
large picture hats, with scrolls in fine
black lines erupting over the surface of
the material. Pushed-up sleeves were seen
in a frock of printed crepe ; the skirt was
draped up into soft folds across the hip-
line, to cascade down the side. Navy-blue-
and-white was popular as a color com-
bination. Lady Dugan’s navy-and-white-
patterned frock was worn with a large
navy blue coarse straw hat banded with
red velvet ribbon. With her navy-and-
white frock Rosemary Norrie wore a halo
hat of silk straw in navy with a posy of
white flowers set at the side. Penelope
Nettlefold’s lavender-blue silk frock was
on tailored lines, her wide straw hat being
of russet-brown to match other acces-
sories. Mrs. Leslie Coleman was smart
in a dove-grey cr£pe frock which was
highlighted by beading round the collar
and hipline in green and cyclamen.
Shirley Watts favored a primrose-yellow
black-printed frock with a small burnt-
straw hat trimmed with field flowers.
Jean Darragh’s red silk frock was worn
with a wide black straw hat tied with blue
veiling.
Mrs. Andrew Tennant (S.A.) struck an
unusual note with a tan linen suit, a
yellow blouse and natural-straw bowler
banded in tan ribbon. The Robinson
lady chose a pastel-blue linen suit and
natural-straw hat. Mrs. A. L. Walters
wore a black coat over a black frock
which had faint gold stripes ; her small
hat had a brilliant lime-green feather
curled at the side, with a fine black veil
adding to the glamor. Mrs. George
Mendes was also in black, her mush-
room-shaped felt hat having a high trim-
ming of deep-red roses in front. Mrs.
Allan Bragge, of N.S.W., chose an inky-
blue crepe suit which featured a pleated
skirt. It was worn with white accessories
and a little white bowler hat with blue
feather and veil. With an attractive white
crepe frock with the wide shoulders gold-
studded, Roma Rountree wore a large
white straw hat trimmed with field
flowers and pale-gold veiling. With her
simple black frock Mrs. Leith Crow wore
a hat fashioned of turquoise grosgrain
ribbon, the crown folded over to one
side where it ended in a large tassel. The
upswept side was trimmed with gold!
thread and cyclamen beads.
The Swedish Church was the venue
for the marriage of Marie-Louise (this
is her picture), younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. F. E. Manniche, Murrum-
beena and formerly of Denmark, to
Kenneth Guy Maclaine, younger son of
Mr. K. J. Morrison, of Winton, Queens-
land, and the late Mrs. Morrison. Pastor
Sunderlin officiated. Marie-Louise chose
an Edwardian gown of parchment-toned
crepe lame embroidered in a silver tulip
design, with the back of the skirt caught
into a bustle and falling away into a long
train. Her veil of old Limerick lace was
lent by Mrs. A. H. Wilmoth and was
caught with a halo of blue delphiniums
which matched the bouquet she carried.
Suzanne Wilmoth was bridesmaid, her
period frock being of hyacinth-blue and
silver cloque. Twelve-year-old Mary
Meehan, niece of the bride, was train-
bearer ; she wore an ice-blue voile ankle-
length frock and carried a lily-of-the-
valley posy. The reception was held at
the Danish Club, where guests toasted the
health of King George and King
Christian. Mrs. Manniche received her
guests in a black ensemble. Sister of the
bride, Mrs. J. F. Meehan, wore a green-
and-gold-patterned gown. Mrs. H. B.
Homberg’s frock of black and silver
lame was worn with a short black velvet
jacket.
At a dinner-party given in the Matthew
Lang Cellars (so full of the past history
of this city) by James and Janet Bowen
Pain, the host and hbstess. showed what
could be done with wine in preparing
dishes for the table. Oysters were done
in a wine sauce; there was cold claret
soup ; the fish was done in wine aspic.
Even the cantaloupe was filled with wine
jelly topped .with cream. Guests-of-honor
at the party were Strella Wilson, Mrs.
Alyce Reid (who has just returned from
America) and M. Dominique Modesti,
who is shortly returning to Paris. Janet
received her guests wearing an attractive
silver-sequin-trimmed frock.


IM
6s
If so, your days are possibly so fully occu-
pied that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its 68th year of experience as
Attorney or Agent, and is well qualified to
relieve you of worry in arranging invest-
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if you will call or write at
your convenience.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
/Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Effg.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. 31. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Bitchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. ;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 8.0.
N.S.W, Manager: J, W, Bussell French,
Incorporated* in Victoria in 1878.
1^
M
m
ROYAL
EASTER
SHOW
29th MARCH
to
9th APRIL
AGRICULTURE :: HORTICULTURE :: CATTLE ::
TROTTING :: BUCK JUMPING :: SHEEPDOG TRIALS
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
( Dividends
, Pref.
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£> £>£, & &
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. = 25,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. .. 22,289
Goodwill disappears, £1671 .. .. 20,618
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 5,618
Share issue exes, w/o, £1671 .. .. 7,289
1937.. 52,643 90fi0 8000 10 p.c. » 25,375 {. j Q2l
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. ..j ’
Reserves.
1938.. 54,563 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 26,000 1
Written off, £lBB5 f 3,657
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. ..J
1939.. 40,094 6975 f 6200 f 6 p.c. = 16,800 1
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. .. J
Surplus sale property, £4275 .. .. 13,051
1940.. 20,386 6975 t 6200 f 3 p.c. = 9,000 11,212
Expenses charged to goodwill, £7396. . 3,816
1941.. 31,558 6975't B2oof 6 p.c. = 18,000 4,199
1942.. 34,035 6975 f 6200 t 6 „ „ 18,000 7,059
1943.. 41,426 6975 t 6200 f 6 „ „ 18,000 17,310
1944.. 45,538 6975 f 6200 f 6 „ „ 18,000 31,673
Added capital reserve, £1323 .. .. 32,996
11.025 9.8
p.c. p.c.
1945.. 61,098 11,025 9800 8 p.c. = 24,000 49,269
Added capital reserves, £2037 .. .. 51,306
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1946.. 71,725 9,000 8000 8 p.c. = 24,000 82,031
f Pref. div. subject to Interest Reduction Act.
An encouraging performance and at-
tractive shoeing. Circulation figures for
the co.’s publications are not broadcast,
but earnings suggests increased sales.
The “Daily Mirror,” “Truth’s” young
sister and competitor of the “Sun,”
Sydney’s other evening sheet, appears to
be giving a good account of itself, finan-
cially and otherwise. It first appeared
in 1941, and cost remarkably little in in-
tangibles to establish—£7369 was added to
goodwill. “Truth,” the weekly on which
the business was founded, is published in
several States. A controlling interest is
held in “Truth” (N.Z.), and there are the
Sydney “Sportsman” and the jobbing
section of the business, all contributing
to the pool.
Thanks to an increased flow of news-
print, the size of the journals also in-
creased, so revenue benefited from extra
advertising as well as sales. But the
price of paper continued to advance, and
so did that of ink and many other
materials used in newspaper production.
Costs were further increased by cessation
of the pooling arrangements for Sydney
deliveries, by an increase in the number
of editions of the “Daily Mirror,” by
power restrictions, reinstatement of ser-
vice personnel and the expanding cost of
newsgathering.
The £71,725 of profit (£10,627 stronger
than the previous year’s), was the best
since the co. took over from John
Norton’s trustees in 1925. It was written
after allowing something for taxation
and £20,521 (down £777) and deprecia-
tion, and was sufficient to pay the prefs.
their full contract rates (£17,000) and
show 18.2 p.c. on the £300,000 of ord.
capital as against 14.6 p.c. and 9.5 p.c.
for the two preceding terms. That leaves
out of the reckoning £2037 added to
capital reserve (£52,639), which has been
built up mainly out of share premiums.
The ord. div., to which a couple of
points was added in 1945, remained at
8 p.c., the outlook being clouded. The
9 p.c. first and 8 p.c. second prefs., which
suffered a 22\ p.c. cut under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act for five
years to 1943, have had their full con-
tract rates for the last three terms.
Since the close of accounts more im-
ported paper has become available and
advertising space and rates have increased ;
but the cost of the said paper is now
over £4O a ton as against £3 5-odd a
year or so ago. There has been a lift
in the basic wage (7s. a week interim
with the final figur£ to come), an upward
revision of award rates for journalists is
pending, and so is a 40-hour week. The
co. will do well if it’s able to maintain
last year’s level of net earnings. Still,
the wide margin between earnings and
distributions gives the 8 p.c. div. a com-
fortable appearance.
From the investor’s point of view the
position will look more attractive when
the outside debt is substantially reduced:
1936. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Pref. capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord. capital.. 230,000 300,000 300,000 300,000
Other labilities 20,811} 317 -J O2 493 ’ 028 572 ’ 424
Freeholds, etc. 174,398 244,524 256,287 261,062
Plant, etc. .. 151,462 256,039 283,818 285,582
Investments .. 96,050 103,022 217,705 208,185
Stocks.. .. 27,628 143,486 154,432 175,522
Debtors .. 50,728 91,268 143,891 209,672
Cash, etc. .. 2,272 8,120 12,108 24,558
When the books last closed there was
19s. Bd, of outside money at risk in the
business for every pound of tangible
assets belonging to shareholders. The
more or less liquid surplus (£54,505 in-
cluding investments, mainly sharehold-
ings) was £9397 stronger than at the
previous balance.
On the market the f.-p. pound ords.
advanced from the old official ceiling of
295. 6d. to 335. 9d. The return at the
higher figure is 4.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The first prefs. at 31s. and the
seconds at 28s. yield 5.7 p.c. in each case,
so long ds payment at full contract rates
continues,
Australasian Catholic Assurance ■
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514 f 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937*. 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,765 t 946,439
Loss property, £1574 944,865
1938.. 334,349 41,147 101,026 191,188 t 1,136,053
Added property reserve, £llB4 .. 1,137,237
1939.. 369,776 51,115 107,750 209,923 t 1,347,160
Added property reserve, £1852 .. 1,349,012
1940.. 399,134 116,314 117,299 164,533 f 1,513,545
Loss property, £124 1,613,421
1941.. 429,941 105,993 123,892 200,056 1,713,477
Added property reserve, £525 .. 1,714,002
1942.. 437,430 186,011 114,336 135,9781 1,849,980
Loss property, £942 .. .. 1,849,038
1943.. 445,567 250,201 107,901 87,465 f 1,936,503
Loss property, £ll .. .. ~ 1,936,492
1944.. 459,563 271,863 105,387 81,SC2f 2,017,854
Added property reserve, £lB.. .. 2,017,872
Profit on sale securities, £3538 .. 2,021,405
1945.. 472,184 221,854 111,712 137,630 f 2,159,035
Added property reserve, £8 .. .. 2,159,043
Profit on sale securities, £833 .. 2,159,876
Unexplained addition, £592 . . 2,160,468
1946.. 489,204 207,317 122,290 158,609 f 2,319,077
* Net funds apart from capital,
t After paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
This healthy and progressive young life
office is in no way connected with, the
defunct Catholic Life Assurance Office of
Australia, Ltd., now being liquidated by
the Federal insurance commissioner. The
25-year-old A.C.A. was set on its feet
by E. J. Mooney, who was chairman and
managing director until his death shortly
before the close of last accounts. His
son, D. J.. Mooney, who grew up in the
business and has been a director since
1934, steps into the twin appointment. It
is reasonable to assume, therefore, that
the same cautious policy as was followed
in the past will be continued in the future.
The busirfess, which consists largely of
industrial contracts with a small amount
of fire and accident risks, is spread
throughout all the Australian States ex-
cept Tasmania. Policyholders are en-
titled to not less than 90 p.c. of the
profits earned in the life department,
which means that the co. has to earn £9
for policyholders before shareholders be-
came entitled to a pound. Bonuses to
policyholders have continued to flow at
satisfactory rates since the end of the
first decade, a creditable performance.
The Government’s repeated turns of the
cheap-money screw, and the louder calls
of the taxgatherer, pegging of rents and
rise in costs generally, cut into the surplus
available for distribution, with conse-
quent reduction in the rates of bonuses
paid to policyholders—a common experi-
ence. The management, however, made
a single bite at the cherry ; that was in
1940, since when bonuses have continued
on an even keel.
The amount of new business written
isn’t broadcast, but the steady expansion
of revenue suggests continued progress.
Last year’s income' of £489,204 (up
£17,020) was made up of life premiums
£382,879 (up £13,769), fire premiums, etc.,
£2871 (down £3B) and interest and rents
£103,454 (up £3289). Claims were
£14,537 lighter, thanks to a contraction of
£28,294 in maturities (£161,981). After
paying all legitimate claims and exes.,
£157,441 (up £16,278) was added to the
life fund, making it £2,288,502, which
has the support and assistance of £30,574
of other reserves, as well as £14,610 of
paid-up share capital, owners of which
received a moderate 7 p.c. div. (£988).
Leaving taxes (£12,491, up £333) out
of the reckoning, exes, took 28.2 p.c. of
the year’s net premiums, compared with
26.7 p.c. in the previous term and 33.8
p.c. in 1940. The gross interest return on
mean assurance and other funds, .includ-
ing capital, was 3s. 6d. lighter at
£4 11s. 9d. The net return (after de-
ducting taxation) was £4 os. 7d., a
satisfactory figure. The co. values its
policy liabilities on a 3 \ p.c. net premium
basis. .
The year’s surplus earnings and more
besides went into Government securities
(up £205,697):
„ 1941. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £14,010 £14,010 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* .. 38,012 36,777 33,461 71,268
Freeholds.. .. 619,912 681,125 710,990 706,969
Equipment 15,431 15,498 10,575 10,578
Shares’in other cos. 11,647 11,672 22,572 50,780
Mortgages.. .. 886,987 930,760 765,724 746,097
Loans on policies 126,076 131,321 90,986 88,926
Debtors . . . . 4,378 4,843 4,932 3,082
Govt, securities.. 95,302 115,506 5 85,890 791,587
Cash, etc 6,965 10,626 15,437 6,937
* Includes unsettled claims.
As home and other building gets under
way more attention is likely to be given
to mortgages %(down £19,627 last term),
on which a slightly better return is to be
had than from Government stock.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
/ Dividends <
Net Pref. Towards
Sept., Profit. 7£ p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.*
£> £> £, £ S
1936.. 8,704 7,500 Nil 1,204 40,903
1937.. 40,312 7,500 Nil 32,81 2 8,091
Reserves.*
1938.. 41,703 7,500 Nil 34,203 26,112
2! p.c.
1939.. 32,984 10,312 6,250 16,422 42,534
Goodwill written off, £60,476 .. 103,010
194 0.. 29,81 0 11,2 5 0 6,2 50 1 2,3 1 0 115,320
Cost asbestos deposit (’£14,524), now
treated as asset .. .. .. 129,844
1941.. 27,131 11,250 Nil 15,881 145,725
24 P-c.
1942.. 23,521 11,250 6,250 6,021 151,746
Plant-expansion reserve appears,
£10,977 .. .. ’ .. .. 162,723
19 43.. 29,7 25 11,25 0 0,25 0 12,225 1 74,948
194 4.. 42,3 02 11,2 5 0 6,2 5 0 24,802 199,750
1945.. 29,205 11,250 Nil 17,955 217,705
Premiums, new share-issue, £36,127.. 253,832
Written off to plant expansion,
£20,167 .. .. ’.. .. 227,665
1946.. 32,580 16,875 Nil 15,711 243,376
* After deducting intangibles, now £25,900.
At the start the parent organisation
(Hume Pipe Co.) and W. R. Hume were
handed 165,000 and 85,000 f.-p. ords.
respectively for rights. The public put
up the cash by taking 1\ p.c. pref. shares
—84,433 at par at the beginning, 5567
f.-p.’s were issued in payment of the
1933 div., 50,000 at par in 1939, and
100,000 at a premium of 7s. 6d. each in
December, 1945. The hand of the high
priests of the Treasury is seen in the
premium, which has been placed to re-
serves. It reduces the net return on the
shares to a shade under 5\ p.c. What
virtue, if any, there is in the owners
(shareholders) of a business charging
themselves a premium on money put up
by themselves to finance expansion of
their own undertaking the Treasury has
never bothered to explain.
The co. turns out concrete-lined steel
pipes from plates fabricated by B.H.P.
Chief source of income is public expendi-
ture on water-supply schemes, etc.,
development of _ which has been delayed
since 1939. Meanwhile, defence contracts
helped to keep the pot boiling. Until
a couple of years before the war it was
doubtful whether the business would re-
turn anything to the vendors of the rights;
but improvements in processing reduced
costs, and earnings benefited. The policy
has been to “build up reserves as an
alternative to paying ord. divs.” So
although the ords. have had only three
lots of 2\ p.c. since the co. was formed,
they can now see practically the whole
of their capital intact (nine years ago it
was all represented by intangibles) with
prospects of more regular but moderate
divs., which will help to swell earnings of
Hume Pipe.
The co. now has more orders on hand
than it can cope with. Last term opera-
tions were restricted by shortages of steel-
plate and manpower. The improvement
of £3381 in net earnings was due to re-
duced provision for taxation (£lB,OOO,
down £11,000) and depreciation (£14,767,
down £1588). The £32,586 of profit
coveted pref. requirements and 6.2 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 7.1, 12.4, 7.4,
4.8 and 6.3 p.c. back to 1941,
A better aqd more even flow of
materials to the construction scene would
improve turnover and reduce exorbitant
construction costs, which are increased
not only by waiting and delay, but by


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON£
OSCI.UVAN
pthti) ~,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype & Linotype Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Copperplate Printers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope & Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rubber Stamp Manufacturers
Rulers, Bookbinders, Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists & Illuminators
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twine
Telegrams and Cables
“jacksul,” Brisbane
y6sW*....
Making provision for the
family’s future welfare is a
big responsibility. It can be
so easilyand definitely fulfilled
by taking out a suitable life
assurance policy with the
Equitable Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice on all insurance
matters on request.
R. V. PERKINS,
General ’Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
& GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD,
faaJoffic(> : 37/-37i£?i/ee/tft, Brisbane
WIH3EUO HOUSf, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
coaiHS house, coams st:, Melbourne
fJi E
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and Conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and Incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
fmportance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Execulor with your present appointee. An
Interesting explanatory booklet will b© forwarded on request
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - I.ewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—D. S. Parker. Secretary—E. B. Overton, A.P.I.A*
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE:' 'BU 5901. Bo* 543 5.P.0., Sydfioy.
BP *44.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ 00. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
c, *R UR A L BANK LBN DS MONEY FOR PERS O N AL NEEDS
Z
<
z
o
sDs
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with z
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able <
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come J
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a *
period of years. in
RURAL BANK I
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY %
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST %
* * so33N ivNosaad boj a3now so n3i >i nv a ivanuV
wgtt co<s,
So*e&cA sAcud*#*//
J
That afternoon stubble is embarrassing and unnec-
essary. Your morning shave with Gem keeps you
dean all day and right through the evening. Save your
pride and your skin with Gem.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
labor stretching out work when materials
are short in order to avoid lay-offs.
Next table shows how the new capital,
share premiums and an extra £45,664 of
outside money was used:
1939. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £500,000
Sundry credit’s* 174,529 355,074 337,212 382,870
Freehold and
leasehold .. 20,002 39,150 60,433 81,120
Plant.. .. 126,663 148,377 165,854 211,170
Stocks .. 59,681 162,183 165,521 165,103
Contracts .. 65,p65 118,383 82,251 129,886
Book debts . . 126,626 178,245 166,060 215,824
Cash and de-
posits . . 36,174 52,247 55,795 67,896
Shares in other
cos. . . 194,628 268,117 204,628 264,628
* Including tax provision.
Shareholdings include a £75,000 interest
in Hume Pipe (Far East), a good
dividend-payer pre-war and now getting
into operation again. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£461,461) was £64,418.
At 325.' 6d. the prefs. return 4.6 p.c.
Cover is 595. sd. in net tangibles.
Ora Banda Amalgamated Mines (N.L.)
Adelaide-controlled Ora Banda Amal-
gamated, Grant’s Patch (W.A.), will pre-
sent accounts as at June 30, 1946, on
March 12, nine months after balancing
date. Revenue for the year was £2931,
expenditure *£12,653. The loss (£9722)
increased the p. and 1. debit to £10,218.
There was £1996 coming to outsiders.
Current assets totalled £6476, plant
£11,316, and leases and development
£73,986.
1 Until Dec. 31, 1945, the mine was on a
maintenance basis under Government
grant. Since the close of accounts the
Federal Government advanced the co.
£20,000 at bank interest to develop the
lower levels. Thus far little attention
has been given to these levels, because
high-grade stuff was met in the oxidised
zone, where a new lode is reported at the
143 ft. level (just above the sulphides) in
Mackenzie’s lease. Developments at
depth (Nos. 6 and 7 levels) in this lease
are reported “very favorable.” ‘Whether
that means that the lode lives as a con-
tinuous body from 143 ft. to No. 7 level
remains to be proved, and so does size
and average value.
A feature of the mine has been that
the ore-bodies occur as discontinuous
lenzes. Four lots of rich oxidised ore
have been put through the public battery.
Head values were first 326 tons 21.7dwt.,
second 228 tons 19.2dwt., third 578 tons
19.5dwt, fourth 889 tons (from new
lode) 19.3dwt. The last lot gave B.Bdwt.
over the plates, with 10.5dwt. in the
sands. These high values are not indi-
cative of run-of-mine ore. Until .the
extent and value of the new lode are
proved, and a lot more work is done at
depth, the future of this' mine remains
speculative. There is 100 tons of semi-
sulphide ore at grass, estimated to aver-
age 7dwt., and 504 tons sulphides, esti-
mated at B;sdwt. On Nicholson’s lease
insufficient work has been done to indi-
cate possible developments there.
The board says the £20,000 Govern-
ment loan has run out because estimates
went awry, and because of the work done
in the oxidised zone. To cover “current
liabilities” and bring the mine to “a
profitable position,” those on the register
at March 20 will be offered 100,000 new
ss. shares, to be issued as fully-paid on
payment of 2s. 6d. each. The issue has
been underwritten from an unstated
source. The scrip, which had dropped to
2s. 2d. in the market early in 1946,
fetched 4s, at end August last. Recent
sales were at 3s. 7-jhd. Paid capital is now
£lOO,OOO in ss. shares. At 3s. each
the market value of the undertaking will
be £90,625 when the new issue is fully
subscribed.
Considering the obstacles in its path,
Bulolo Gold Dredging (New Guinea) has
made a good getaway in the rehabilita-
tion race. The Upper Baiume 2800-h.p.
hydro-electric plant has been re-equipped,
and, with the aid of some improvised
gear, No. 1 dredge commenced digging
again on February 20, and has been in
steady production since. Subject to
arrival of certain equipment, dredge No.
2 will set in at the end of this month.
No. 3 and No. 7 machines are expected
to start up about end May. Commence-
ment dates for the remaining four dredges
have not yet been decided upon. Here
are some details of the co.’s eight all-
electric bucket dredges;
Rated Power
Monthly Size Require-
Capacity. Buckets. merits.
No. 1 .. 250,000 c.y. 10 c.ft. 700 h.p.
No. 2 .. 250,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
No. 3 .. 250,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
No. 4 . . 250,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
No. 5 . . 300,000 „ 10* „ 1400 „
No. 6 . . 150,000 „ 6 „ 450 „
No. 7 .. 300,000 „ 10* „ 1400 „
No. 8 . . 300,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
Nos. 5 and 7 each have a total digging
depth of 125 ft., of which 85ft. is below
waterline. Total monthly capacity of
the entire fleet is 2,050,000 c.y. Estimated
gravel reserves total 150,000,000 c.y., of
which 129,000,00 c.y. is to be dredged
and the balance sluiced.
« * * *
Spargo’s Reward Gold (W.A.) still
awaits a reply to its application for a
Commonwealth loan of £20,000. At a
meeting in Perth the other day the acting
chairman told shareholders thgt there
was no definite indication whether the
co. would or would not get the loan, but
the board was hopeful.
* * * *
“O.B.”: In announcing a poor return
from Evanston Gold (W.A.) the manager
says the result was due to plant being
“run in” with low-grade developmental
ore. He adds that better milling ore is
now being drawn from a source where,
in his opinion, there is a mine of im-
portance. Shareholders, who haven’t had
a very good spin so far, hope that he is
right.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Liquidation of Blue Bird (W.A.), a
spectacular little Norseman gold pro-
ducer for a short period, has been com-
pleted. Creditors received 16s. 3d. in
the £in full settlement. Shareholders got
nothing.
* * * *
Recent increases in the basic wage are
expected to add nearly £lOO,OOO p.a. to
the Westralian goldmining industry’s
payroll. First increase of Is. 4d. a week
added about £21,000, and the additional
ss. just announced by the Arbitration
Court means another £79,000 or there-
abouts. The extra £lOO,OOO represents
14 p.c. of gold dividends paid last year.
As the industry produces an article at
a fixed price it cannot pass on the in-
crease in wages to the consumer.


WHEN BELOW PAR
Try Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills
Even those folk who usually enjoy good health do not
always feel right up to the mark. At times they have
their bouts of perhaps Biliousness, Constipation or
Rheumatism. When these attacks do occur, a course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found helpful.
They stir the Liver, aid the Digestion, and regulate
the bowels, thus helping the system back to normal.
DR. MORSE'S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
They Make You Feel
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
J
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first*
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telenhones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
sS.
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of cord,
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horc/erns)
J
A ta * te
11 to
go®
F7d.
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD.
Established 18i8.
Ĵ
m
■i
cr4- c^foiel
FACING R PHRK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and bustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
SK
Thone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
SUNDRY SHOWS
TWO PLAYS IN ONE.
Sydney Minerva’s “The Late Christo-
pher Bean” was adapted by Emlyn
Williams from the French of Rene
Fauchois ; and, shining through the play
as presented, you can see the ghost of the
original.
It is a popular illusion that the Frenqh
writers —because they are franker and
gayer on the subject than the English—•
are interested only in love. What has
most fascinated them, from Balzac to de
Maupassant, is money. Avarice'—the
passion with which men defend their
own wealth or snatch at that of others—
is the great traditional theme of French
literature, and it is the theme of Fauchois.
He takes a country doctor—Dr. Hag-
gett in Williams’s adaptation—owner of
some of the canvases of an artist
who has died poor and neglected and
who, at the point when the play opens,
has just been “discovered.” Dealers offer
huge prices, the doctor and his family
see a fortune dangling before their eyes
—if only they can remember what they
did with the pictures, or if they can lay
their hands on those in the housemaid’s
possession.
So there is a play with an immediate
and wide appeal, for everybody at some
time or other has dreamed of owning
valuables of this sort —old furniture,
pottery, Aunt Adeline’s stamp collec-
tion. But, more than that, there is a
profound study of humanity, for Fauchois
is saying like Balzac that what people
really love most is money. The cor-
ruption of the doctor into a swindler,
grasping and frenzied, is kept at the level
of comedy; but it is the true comedy
of character, sparkling with ironic under-
standing.
Williams’s adaptation is not quite the
same thing. It stresses the light comedy
of the situation rather than the fury of
avarice. Dr. Haggett, living in the north
of England, fits uneasily into the French-
man’s skin; you can see him clearly as
the decent English doctor; you cannot
quite believe in him as a swindler. His
wife seems to have been inconsistently
rendered into English, for at one time she
is said to be a smalltown wowser and at
another she is hankering for handsome
dresses and a holiday on the Isle of
Wight. And his elder daughter’s com-
pletely shameless passion for the security
of marriage would seem more natural in
rustic France than in its present setting.
There are two plays in one, then;
and some of the actors are playing in
one, some in the other. In Williams’s
shallower comedy there are Norman
Blackler, Nellie Bramley, June Mendoza,
Cynthia Carroll and (with a somewhat
synthetic Scottish accent but a good
Scottish self-confidence) Donald Bam-
forth —the doctor and his wife and family
and the young housepainter who turns
artist and elopes with the younger
daughter. All these give firm, capable
performances in a pleasant, not quite
convincing family comedy in the north
of England.
In the other play—the shadow of the
French original—there are Megs Jenkins,
playing the housemaid who has been in
love with the dead artist, Frederick
Hughes as an art critic, Charles Kilburn
as a forger of pictures and Victor Lloyd
as Rosen, a Jewish dealer. Mr. Lloyd
seemed restrained and unhappy, lacking
altogether in the Gallic fire of the writing
and the Hebraic fire of Rosen. But the
other characters, in their performances
as well as in their lines, might have
stepped straight out of' Balzac. Mr.
Kilburn’s polished scoundrel —though he
didn’t make enough of his exit —was as
fine a piece of work as Frederick Hughes’s
polished and gentlemanly art critic (a very
rare specimen). These- two deserve
special notice, for not ohly did they do
better than Williams’s adaptation re-
quired, but they lived up to the very high
requirements of Megs Jenkins’s perform-
ance, which was flawless, a model of
timing, a model of exquisite style.
It is this ghost of a French play that
is the work of art at the Minerva; but
the adaptation has its own quality of
entertainment; and the two together
make an evening too delightful to miss.
Even the intervals on the first night never
lacked for interest; for there was not
only the famous tank of goldfish to be
observed, but Mr. “Chips” Rafferty in
his beard.
"The Just Vengeance."
This modern passion play by Dorothy
L. Sayers, staged at Melbourne Town
Hall by the Methodist Young People’s
Department, was a remarkably intelligent
production. If there was any fault to be
found it was in the setting. The scene is
Lichfield Cathedral, England, and the
contrast between the photo of that
glorious edifice on the programme and
its representation on the Town Hall plat-
form was all the difference between
Captain Cook’s cottage and a Housing
Commission dwelling.
Dorothy Sayers’s theme is justice,
human and divine. Man makes good
and evil in his own image and calls it
impersonal justice, and it produces
beggars, paupers, boys who are sent up
chimneys to sweep them, unemployed
men, lunatics, grand inquisitors and war-
crimes Judges. The way the complex
argument is handled is ingenious.
A young airman, shot down and killed
during the war, finds his way to Lichfield,
his native city, and meets George Fox,
the first Quaker, marching up and down
the streets crying woe on the bloody city.
All the action goes on in the airman’s
mind, and he is shown in images by the
spirits of the city examples of human
justice that have occurred in Lichfield
since the days of the ancient Romans.
The airman who believes “in man and in
the hope of the future, the steady growth
of knowledge and power over things,” is
disillusioned, and he starts thinking back.
Adam invents the axe and hands the im-
plement to Cain and Abel. Abel wants
to share but Cain doesn’t, so the first
piece of machinery becomes an instru-
ment of power and murder.
The greatest drama ever staged is then
presented. The Persona Dei appears on
the steps of the cathedral. He is be-
trayed by Judas, charged by the High
Priest, and the young-airman momen-
tarily finds himself howling with the mob
for Barabbas; then he recollects himself
and makes the unconditional surrender.
The Cross is brought on and erected, but
the figure on it has become an invisible
presence. This was an extraordinarily
impressive device, and probably the
nearest approach on the stage to what
the painters have done with the Christian
story. It was only marred by the bad
acoustics of the Town Hall.
The actors, from the Persona Dei and
Mary to the Angel of the Annunciation
and Samuel Johnson, who is miraculously
cured of his scrofula despite his protests,
provided hardly one awkward moment,
and the airman was particularly effec-
tive. Dr. Herman Schildberger directed
the - Brighton and Camberwell Phil-
harmonic Societies through Anthony
Hopkins’s impressive music, and Alan
Tregaskis was at the organ. Producer-
director Irene Mitchell steered soldiers,
martyrs, saints and semi-sacred figures
through the awe-charged subject-matter
with perfect discretion.
Travelled Art.
Roland Strasser, the Viennese artist
who won the Prix Salon in 1913, is a
traveller as well as a painter, and at the
end of the war was living in Bali, which
he was forced to leave hurriedly upon
the outbreak of a local war and leave the
bulk of his pictures behind.
In Sydney one or two have already
been shown—the large portrait of Mrs.
Strasser, for instance, with its distin-
guished, though rather cold, treatment of
black satin, green jewels, and the graceful
movement of hands. Now David Jones’s
Gallery has 48 of his oils, watercolors
and drawings, sufficient to show that the
portrait was no flash in the pan, and
cause for regret for the work left in
Bali.
Strasser, obviously, is interested in re-
cording his travellings in paint, yet in no
shallow, “picturesque” manner. Man,
primarily, interests him. And woman.
The entire Elizabeth-street wall of the
gallery is lined with native women —not
great paintings, really, slight and color-
ful, in the style of better-type illustrations
for a travel magazine, but each is femi-
nine, faithful racially, and different.
In the large oils there are more
women. “Girl from Tegalan,” for
instance, rich copper skin, strong-boned
face with heavy pouting lips, a subtle
withdrawn sideways look and fine arched
eyebrows raised. A flower in her black
hair and a vivid sarong, or whatever
it is women in those parts wear below the
waist, make the picture a combination of
color, grace, voluptuousness and sinewy
strength that is truly remarkable.
Hands interest Strasser, and in paint-
ings of natives from widely separated
parts of the world he exploits their pos-
sibilities intelligently.
In paintings of men with fighting-cocks
he has made equally vivid imprints, using
such details as the shining lights in the
cock’s tail feathers, the ruffling over its
breast feathers where the man’s hand
has sunk in, its jewelled head and the
brassy sparkle of a sword handle.
Landscape is not well represented, but
one, “Summit,” though it is primarily
dramatic, with a tiny figure of a man
dragging an animal, is splendid. Be-
hind the figures is breaking what looks
like an immense surf, towering, recoil-
ing. Mist, apparently, over very high
mountains. The fittest description is
Katherine Mansfield’s brilliant passage on
a breaking wave. It has the same emo-
tional intensity and the same brevity.


No, 3 of Series
Flashlamp Battery. . .
m
THE source of light in pocket torch or flashlamp
is the dry battery. This is simply a chemical
means of generating small quantities of electric
current. In the centre of the battery is a carbon
rod—this acts as the positive terminal of the minia-
ture generating station. Packed around the rod is
a mixture of crushed carbon, manganese dioxide and
ammonium chloride. Round this again is a wet
paste made from flour, plaster of Paris and calcium
chloride mixed into a saturated solution of am-
monium chloride. All this is packed into a zinc
case which acts as the negative terminal of the
battery as well as its container. When we 'switch
on’ the torch, we cjose the electric circuit and start
a chemical reaction in the battery which generates
enough current to light the bulb. Flour is, of
course, a natural product, but the
British chemical industry provides
everything else which goes into a
pocket torch battery.
J
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
•* • > • • • ' - i.**- ■
Sound Investment —Savinas Certificates IL-3.7-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Pretty well every torture of suspense known
to racing was inflicted on those who supported
Sydney James for the Australian Cup. Alter
waging a head-and-head struggle down the
length of the straight the Westrahan gaUopcr
still had to survive first a photo.-finish and then
a protest before receiving the surely well-earned
verdict.
With the withdrawal of Russia the unusual
aura of “class” about this year’s field vanished,
and a comparatively ordinary bunch of 16 laced
the starter. Most fancied on the day was Chene
Marie, who gave backers and owner O. Porter
another severe let-down. Out of luck of late,
W. Beresford rode Sydney James and gave his
mount every chance, securing the box seat in
the initial scramble and coasting along com-
fortably till the time came for a forward move
entering the straight. From there to the judge
it was Sydney Janies and Field .Balloon hamtner
and tongs, with Ellipsis a moderate third, to-
wards the finish Sydney James on the inside
shifted out carrying Field Balloon with him
which occasioned the unsuccessful protest.
Sydney James, who won the last Perth Cup
in record time, is an old gelding rising nine.
As could be expected from his name, he is a
son of the Buchan horse John James, but the
actual explanation of his naming is that his first
owner had those Christian handles.
Confident of his mount’s ability to go every
inch of the mile, Purtell on Attley in the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes did not allow Flight to do the
pacemaking as she prefers to do and as she
did when she downed Attley at 10 furlongs
the previous week. Attley gained the advantage
in the jump-off and held it throughout. To-
wards the end Flight showed no inclination to
persevere, Don Pedro, the only other runner,
going past her to bag second money with
10 lengths to spare. Flight won the race last
year when the distance was 14 furlongs.
Probably the best of the Melbourne two-year-
olds, Chanak brought his record to five wins
from eight starts by taking out the Gibson Car-
michael Stakes of seven furlongs. Conceding,
a great deal of weight to a big field and on a
heavy track it was an excellent effort. Better
Days ran Chanak to a neck at the finish, but
was receiving 371 b. from the winner. Two
Kings (thifd) was second topweight with 8.3
against Chanak’s 9.8.
Atoning for his stiff luck in filling a minor
place in the Newmarket for the second time,
Four Freedoms registered a convincing win up
the straight six in the Leonard Stakes. Burne-
voke and Solray were closest, followed by Lin-
coln, who is showing improved form. Near the
front all the way in the Farewell Handicap of
10 furlongs, Peter Blank ran to the front and
appeared to have the race in safe keeping with
half a furlong to go, but was unable to with-
stand the punishing finish produced by Silver
Rocks. Rubontine showed improvement which
earned him third money. Silver Rocks had not
scored for some 18 months, but was well backed
on Saturday.
The bookies did seem justified in asking
punters to lay them the odds on Azores with
Meenan up and only three opponents in the
Hurdle, but the good thing beat only one home.
The favorite’s stablemate Kookaburra was the
winner all the way and well clear of Foxard at
the finish. All three placegetters are by The
Buzzard, if that means anything in a field of
four. A one-man protest meeting alongside the
enclosure dispersed in about as long as it takes
a policeman to say “Move along there, please.”
• * * *
They raced at Flemington also on Wednesday
last, when the best effort seen was that of the
three-year-old Amelia in licking Russia, Leonard,
Logical and Knockarlow at w.f.a. in the King’s
Plate of 14 furlongs. Enjoying an advantage
of 181 b. in the weights, which told on the very
heavy track, Amelia beat Russia by eight
lengths. Another filly in Filgaro was respon-
sible for a good performance, accounting for
Chartist, Royal Mark and other fair two-year-
olds in the Ascot Vale Stakes. They had to
run a circular six furlongs, the straight six
course being in a hopeless state. The vague
familiarity of the name Filgaro is explained by
the filly’s breeding: by Lo Zingaro from Filial,
she’s a full sister to the hurdler Garofil.
* * * *
Country and inter-State visitors to Sydney for
the Show and autumn racing will find quite a
lot of changes at Randwick. The old judge’s
box, in place longer than most racegogrs can
remember, has vanished, replaced by an un-
sightly steel tower about 50ft. high and 10ft.
square. The judge and hiS offsiders are housed
in a glassed-in ’ compartment about 15ft. above
the ground. A room at the top of the tower
contains the photo-finish gear and operators.
The height apparently necessary for the opera-
tion of the camera has resulted in a fine crop
of eyesore edifices on Sydney tracks. The old
sighting board at the finish at Randwick has
been replaced by a more substantial structure a
foot or so thick and housing part of the photo.-
gear. Starting boxes are to be installed at the
mile barrier in time for the Doncaster.
Loud cheers were not much in evidence on
Saturday when Skip Bomber popped up for an
untimely win in the Warwick March Handi-
cap of about 12 furlongs. At intervals over
the past four months the Harinero horse has
won three races at Randwick, each one preceded
by a few runs which would not justify backing
him with peanuts. High Tension was the
runner-up in the Warwick, followed by In-
VKtus. Ridden by E. Fordyce, Skip Bomber
trailed the field to the home turn and then
secured a run which took him from last to
first between leger and finish.
Despite his excellent record Earl Pentheus
had only 7.9 in the seven-furlongs Denham
Handicap, owing to the presence of such
B a Jlopers as Good Idea, Blue Legend and
Wellington, who were weighted round the 9st.
mark. Restrained in fourth place for the first
five furlongs, the Pentheus gelding looked
ready to strike all the way. G. Podmofe let
J . run 1° *he front near the distance and
rf£L u? an ea , sy win from Melgoda and
m r een whom there was only a half-
w“ue Legend’s run, his first after a con-
nrPnarif^ Spe i ’ W u S odiously in the nature of
snrwic 0n f °n the blg autumn, races, and as
such was excellent. * 4
Some 30-odd youngsters contested the March
Nursery run in two divisions; each produced
an exciting finish, but quite the best perform-
ance was that of the grey Nizami filly
Ring (T. Mullane) in winning the first division
from Coronation Lad and Bluesaic. Conceding
Coronation Lad 101 b. the filly fought on very
gamely to win by a neck. Connections are
confident of her chances in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, but, while the Nizami stock has shown
sticking ability as well as early speed, it is diffi-
cult to imagine Temeraire being beaten by the
filly or any other two-year-old at present racing.
The second division of the Nursery produced
a dcad-heat between Nickel (W. Pratt) and Con-
ductor (F. Williams), with Keewatin a close third.
Having his first start in a race, Conductor ran
greenly, which possibly cost him a winning
margin.
Starting a warm favorite for the Three-year-
old Handicap of a mile, Royal Spirit (H.
“Look, elephant sign! We're in luck after all."
Hanley) finished on strongly from the leger to
down Smooth Action and Trajant. Smooth
Action, part-owned by S.T.C. treasurer George
Ryder, is proving very expensive for connec-
tions, having been backed and beaten on a suc-
cession of occasions; however, he’s running so
well that he cannot fail to re-enter the winning
list before long.
Royal Spirit is by Marconigram, as is the
two-year-old dead-heater Conductor, and also
Marlume, who won the first division of the
Edensor Park Handicap from Barnsley and
Craftsman. In the second division the Em-
borough gelding Souvenir accounted for Con-
stable and Fort Denison. A feature of betting
on this race was the considerable plunge on the
maiden performer Critique, backed from 25 to 1
down to 9 to 2. Critique was severely kicked
at the barrier by Bourke whose display of
cmnkiness led the starter to recommend that
he be barred in future. Ridden by H. McCloud
in the 12-furlongs Trial, Cape Neddick, a son
of Melbourne Cup winner Marabou, just out-
lasted Collegiate, with McKechnie third. The
three placegetters were equal favorites at 5 to 2.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Trial: Prince Consort, 1; Tamasha, 2; Tatt-
ling, 3. Flying: Blue Legend, 1; Despatch
Case, 2; Good Idea, 3. Rosehill Cup: Courier,
1; Air Flare, 2; Buzz Off, 3. Welter: Smooth
Action, 1; Euryalus, 2; Fort Denison, 3.
Two-year-old: Nizam’s Ring, 1; Caruso, 2;
Conductor, 3. Novice: Collegiate, 1; Menelik,
2; Young Andrew, 3.
* * ♦ ♦
The M.C.C. tour;
Just enough rain broke in to give the fifth
Test at Sydney Cricket Ground a “sporty” in-
terest and allow the bowlers a measure of re-
venge. The wicket wasn’t seriously affected,
but there was a bit of “life” in the pitch, and
England’s 280 was the highest innings tally.
That gave England a first innings lead of 27
(Australia 253), but, chiefly through a devas-
tating bowling turn by McCool (5 for 44), Eng-
land crashed in the second knock for 186
(Compton 76), leaving Australia needing 214
to win. Things looked glum with Barnes (30)
and Morris (17) out at 51, but Bradman (63)
and Hasselt (47) slowly added 98 for the third
wicket. The needed runs were scored in time
for the raw-throated barrackers to rush for a
“quick one” before the bar doors closed.
Throughout the match—played as cricket
should be, with plenty of good humor in it —the
bowling' of Bedser and Wright was a treat to
watch. They plugged along with wonderful
length; Wright’s figures, 51 overs, 5 maidens,
198 runs, 9 wickets, and Bedser’s 49 overs, 11
maidens, 124 runs, 4 wickets.
Among the “hard-luck” stories of rqissed
chances, Bradman got a life at 2 and then
went on to make 63. England had even worse
luck: Hutton, after scoring 122 not out on the
first day, had to go to hospital with tonsilitis.
Wally Hammond, who couldn’t play in the
final match, summed up in the Hammond spirit:
“The Australian team was superior in all de-
partments of the game We look forward to a
continuance of that comradeship that has always
existed between England and Australia on the
cricket field, and in every phase of our national
life.”
On this tour M.C.C. played 25 matches, of
which three were won (Northam, S.A. Country
and Victoria), three lost (Tests) and 19 drawn.
In the five Tests Australia scored 3374 runs
for 64 wickets, averaging 52.71; England, 2866
runs for 95 wickets, averaging 30.16.
With three wins and two drawn games, it’s
the first time the “ashes” have been gathered
by Australia without defeat since Warwick
Armstrong’s XI won in England in 1921, also
with three won and two drawn. In the previous
season (1920-21) in Australia, Armstrong’s team
won all five matches against Johnny Douglas’s
XI —the record.
Centuries scored in Tests are now Australia
112, England 107. Bradman (two) lifted his
tally to 17; and Morris (three), Hassett, Miller,
Lindwall, Barnes and McCool (one each) made
their first Test centuries. For England Comp-
ton (2), Edrich, Washbrook and Hutton also
got into the hundreds.
In the 148 Tests played Australia has won
60, England 55, and 33 have been drawn.
Bradman, as he has done for many years,
tops the Test averages with 680 runs, av. 97. T,
next coming Miller, 384 av. 76.8; Barnes, 443
av. 73.8; Morris, 503 av. 71.8; M’Cool, 272
av. 54.4 and Hassett 376 av. 53.7. Lindwall
took 18 wickets av. 20.7; McCool, 18 av» 27.3;
Toshack, 17 av. 25.9; Miller, 16 av. 21.3 and
Johnson, 10 av. 30.6. It’s a long time since so
many wickets were split up among so many
bowlers.
For England the tops have been Hutton, 415
runs av. 51.8; Compton, 459 av. 51; Edrich,
462 av. 46.2; Washbrook, 363 av. 36.3;
Yardley, 252 av. 31.5. Wright took 23 wickets
av. 43.6; Bedser, 16 av. 55.7 and Yardley 10
av. 37.4.
Rain washed out the Vic.-S.A. final match
for the Sheffield Shield at Melbourne with the
scores, S.A. 222, Vic. one for six. Victoria
(27 points) takes the Shield, with N.S.W.
(15 points) next,' then Queensland (8) and
S.A. (5).
* * * *
Adelaide has held its long open-sea
swim, the one mile 350 yards from
Henley to Grange jetties along the coast
(74 starters, and no fear of sharks). For
a change, the race was not given away to
youngsters. The winner was a lifesaver
of 40, and the third man, only a yard
behind, is 58. Fastest time in the sea
was 26min. 55sec.; the winner (34min.
12sfec.) had 12 minutes’ handicap.
* * * *
. A junior champion eight was won on
the Port Adelaide river by a seven-oar
crew. No. 3 broke an oar at starting,
and the crew pluckily went on without
him; luckily for them, the only oppon-
ent swamped midway.
* * * *
The French scrapper Marcel Cerdan,
holder of the European middleweight
title, was given a great boost after beat-
ing Georgie Abrams in America. The
N.Y. “Times” boxing writer commented:
“Marcel Cerdan will do! The French
clouter from Casablanca is just about the
most tornadic piece of fighting machinery
the Old World ever has sent to America.
at * * *
Taller and longer in reach, Melbourne
flyweight “Spider” Tymms (7st.
beat Jimmy Hogg (7st. 13i1b.) at Leich-
hardt —for three rounds. After that
he was outfought, Hogg winning well on
points, mainly with clean straight lefts,
m m * *»
Showing a bit better form, the Ameri-
can negro Clint Miller (9st. lib.) beat
Alby McCarthy (9st. 3ilb.) with a couple
of weighty wallops in their Melbourne
Stadium encounter. The bell saved Mc-
Carthy in the sixth round, and when he
stopped a very heavy one witli his temple
in the seventh the ref. called it a night.
* * * *
As invariably happens when any two
men, horses, dogs, cats, roosters or armies
are evenly matched, the scrap between
Australian welter champion Tommy
Burns and the American negro O’Neill
Bell at Sydney Stadium was a dingdong
go from start to finish. Both scaled lOst.
71b., and, though he had an eye bunged
tight in the third, Burns gave his best
showing to date in battering Bell down
for a t.k.o. win in the eleventh round.
Pell is still getting treatment for his
damaged ribs. Still, Burns is probably
being overrated in consequence. After all,
Vic Patrick, a lightweight, beat him, and
would do it again any night of the week.
Also, Bell is about seventeenth in U.S.
boxing ratings, and is not to be confused
with the Tommy of that moniker and
cullud hue whom Ray Robinson beat in
the world welter title fight. Either Robin-
son or that other Bell might be a different
story.


s=»
El -
fa ta ia m
aia/aia]
a ioj ia ia
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C. ;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Safeguard your
dependents from losses
due to inexperience
yERY few men have any actual experience
of Trust administration. Should they be-
come Executors and Trustees they are engulfed,
suddenly, in administrative procedure and tech-
nical problems with which they are not
familiar. They find, too, that a great deal of
time is demanded of them in this work.
A growing appreciation of these difficulties
is evidenced by the increasing number of men
who appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) as . Executor and Trustee. By this
choice they safeguard their dependents from
inexperience, and assure to them the protec-
tion of a financially strong organisation
specially constituted for Estate management
and free from personal business distractions.
In this important role. Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited) provides the under-
standing of a friend and the collective
judgment of many trained minds.
Call or write for a copy of the Company’s booklet, “Your
Executor and Trustee,” which others have found most
helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AJTD AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION ETrs'ii'n
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £IO.OOOL
Southern and Biyerina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Garwood St., Wagga Waerea
Northern District Representative: F. X. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurfnce
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tam worth.
Western District Representative: J. L. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
Are Your Savings
Working For You?
Are you getting adequate returns? Seize
the opportunity now to invest safely in
SELECTED SECURITIES
UNIT TRUST
which provides the opportunity to share in 20
of Australia's leading Companies, and participate
in the industrial expansion within the Common-
wealth.
Income is Paid Twice Yearly
by Selected Securities Unit Trust, while your
Capital is safeguarded by Custodian Trustees:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., a
British office since 1835.
Call or Write, Now!
Ask for Booklet No. 2BN, which fully explains
everything. Post free.
Australian Fixed Trusts Pty. Ltd.
(ESTABLISHED OVER 10 YEARS)
Managers for
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
AND SELECTED SECURITIES UNIT TRUST,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. B 5294. G.P.O. Box 4028, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Bretton Woods Again
A majority of the Federal Parliamen-
tary Labor Caucus has decided that Aus-
tralia should accept the Bretton Woods
plan. Among other things, this means
that Labor’s Right Wing, led by Prime
Minister Chifley, has triumphed over its
extreme Left faction, led by the ebullient
Minister for Transport, Mr. Ward. Mr.
Ward’s opposition to the plan was a
crafty manoeuvre designed to further the
political ends of himself and his friends,
rather than the economic welfare of the
country.
To appreciate what the decision—
yet to come before Parliament —means,
Bretton Woods needs to be viewed in its
proper setting. It is one of the instru-
ments of the United Nations Organisa-
tion, which is an international body that
has taken the place of the now-defunct
League of Nations. The broad, overall
aim is to promote peace and world pro-
gress through international co-operation,
with emphasis upon “full” employment
and maintenance of high and stable levels
of effective demand.
U.N.O, functions through its Security
Council and its Economic and Social
Council. Declared role of the Security
Council is to stop public brawling
among the nations, though it has
no mandate to change the condi-
tions which make brawls likely. The
Economic and Social Council is charged
with the more positive function of pro-
moting international 'co-operation in
economic and social fields, and in par-
ticular with co-ordinating the “specialised
activities” of (1) the Bretton Woods plan ;
(2) the Food and Agricultural Organisa-
tion ; (3) the International Labor Organi-
sation ; and (4) the International Trade
Organisation, whose first meeting will
be held in Geneva next month.
The “babes” of Bretton Woods are the
International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank for Reconstruction and De-
velopment ; and more is expected of the
first than of the second. Broadly speak-
ing, the main purposes of the Fund are
to stabilise exchange rates and facilitate
free conversion of one currency into an-
other. The 40-odd member countries
comprise all the major trading nations of
the world, including Australia, but ex-
cepting U.S.S.R. and New Zealand —the
lastmentioned is expected to become a
member very soon. Voting power is in
proportion to a country’s contribution,
which is based upon its status in world
trade. The U.S.A. and Britain therefore
have most votes. But the Fund is for-
bidden to interfere with the domestic
policy of any of its members, who can
withdraw from the Fund and get their
subscription back if they ask. While
members they agree not to vary their
exchange rate by more than 10 p.c. with-
out permission of the Fund, and also to
forego the right to use exchange restric-
tion.
in international trade stability of ex-
change rates and free convertibility are
two very important factors which benefit
both buyer and seller, because they tend
to (1) keep price fluctuations within
narrower limits than would be otherwise
possible; (2) eliminate serious losses
through sudden and arbitrary alteration
of exchange rates; and (3) prevent con-
sequent abrupt shrinkage .in volume of
trade, All this should mean much to Aus-
tralia, about one-fifth of whose national
income is derived from external trade.
Mr. Ward has frequently said that
Bretton Woods amounts to a “re-
enthronement of the gold standard,” with
vague evocations of the 1929 depression.
This bogy is easily laid by considering
the impact of a world depression upon
Australia under conditions of the former
gold standard and those of the new
arrangement. Under the conditions of
"Which o' you jokers Wrote that ?”
1929 the crash on Wall-street ushered
in a slump in commodity prices
all over the world, including the
prices of Australian exports. Gold
then had to be shipped from Aus-
tralia to meet import costs and commit-
ments ; reduction of their bullion re-
serves caused the banks to call in credits,
and a deflationary process was set under
way. But under Bretton Woods mem-
bers of the fund can temporarily hold
off the threat of exhaustion of their
monetary reserves by exercising their
drawing rights against the fund. In Aus-
tralia’s case an amount of £62 million
would be available to call on. Instead of
deflation there would actually be some
expansion of international credit by
drawing on the fund —a fact that has
led Mr. Dedman to remark that Bretton
Woods “is not only pot the gold
standard, but the very reverse of it.”
The Fund commenced business on
March 1, some 30-odd countries having
declared the initial par values of their cur-
rencies—other'members sought, and were
granted, more time to determine
parities. The first step has been thus
taken along a rough and stony path which,
it is to be hoped, will eventually lead to
ordered exchange arrangements. The
road is rough and stony because war
radically changed the economy of many
nations, leaving some with over-valued
and others with under-valued currencies,
while some have only begun to recover
from the disruption and devastation of
war and to restore order and productivity
in their economies. Moreover, for the
time being, price has ceased to be the
main factor in supply; availability of
commodities has stepped into its place.
That the Fund is alive to its problems,
and is prepared to handle them with
sympathy and understanding, is plain
from the following statement of its execu-
tive directors:
We recognise that in some cases the
initial par values that are established may
later be found incompatible with the main-
tenance of a* balanced international pay-
ments position at a high level of domestic
economic activity When this occurs,
the Fund will be faced with new prob-
lems of adjustment and will have to recog-
nise the unusual circumstances under which
the initial par values were determined. It
is just at such times that the Fund can
be most useful in seeing that necessary ex-
change adjustments are made in an orderly
manner and competitive exchange deprecia-
tion is avoided.
The Fund realises that at the present ex-
change rates there are substantial disparities
in price and wage levels among a number
of countries.. In present circumstances,
however, such disparities do not have the
same significance as in normal times
For many countries now concerned with
combating inflation there is a danger that
a change in the exchange rate would aggra-
vate the internal tendencies toward infla-
tion.
The Fund has reached the conclusion
that the proper course of action is to
accept as initial par values the existing rates
of exchange.
The executive has thus started off by
following the line of expediency and
pausing as little disturbance as possible
to the status quo. In future “fundamen-
tal disequilibrium” will be the official
justification for changes in parities
beyond the discretionary percentage
allowed ; and there is bound to be diffi-
culty in interpreting this phrase.
Although it cannot be expected that
the mechanism will b.e free from the flaws
inherent in a new invention, the approach
to exchange flexibility has been conceived
in a spirit and elaborated with a con-
sistency broad enough to give it a chance
of being workable. Nothing can hap-
pen to Australia inside the Fund that
could not happen in worse degree outside.
Following War I country after country
established parities by independent a.ction,
without much regard to the inter-relation-
ship of currency values. Had the prob-
lem been attacked by concerted inter-
national action, then there would have
been a better chance of securing a set
of workable exchange ratios from the
start, and consequently less exchange
dumping and competitive depreciation.
This led to a series of other defensive
measures, including tariff adjustments and
quota restrictions, all of which had dis-
astrous effeots upon the stability of
prices, • wages and employment every-
where. This time the important thing is
that the Fund has started operations in
advance of post-war adjustments, not after
them.
Today details concerning prospective
new share issues often become general
knowledge weeks before any announce-
ment from the co. concerned. Proposals
for the formation of new cos, are also
often broadcast before any details have
been authoritatively announced. Pre-war
directors decided on the terms of
an issue, which were then an-
nounced through the press forth-
with, thus placing shareholders and
intending investors on an equal
footing. Nowadays, with the time
lag which occurs between the
directors’ decision, application to
the Capital Issues Board and re-
ceipt of their approval or other-
wise, greater opportunities exist for
leakage, owing to the increased
number of people in possession of
such confidential information. In-
vestors should consider this possibility
before dealing in shares which have
appreciated sharply, as the price may well
have fully discounted a prospective new
share issue.
* * ♦ *
The underwriter’s “paradise” of 1946
is no more. Two Melbourne flotations
readily taken by investors late last year
are now selling at a discount on issue
price. Thompson’s pound ords. are at
19s. 9d. and K, L. Tractors’ 10s. paids at
9s. 3d. Under control conditions sub-
scribers had to hold their shares five
months before spiling, and the “stag” was
not a factor to worry about. Now new
issues will have to stand the test of a
free market following flotation. Under-
writing brokers will, no doubt, attempt
to select the long-term investor in their
allotments as against the “stag.” For
their part investors should remember that
allotment of shares in a new venture does
not necessarily mean immediate capital
gain, especially during the establishment
period, which might cover a year or two.


Ĵ
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
lorm, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
tTW US „ SEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27). 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
DEVELOP
your
OVERSEA TRADE
with the help of the “Wales
99
Future expansion of Australia’s oversea trade raises
many problems requiring expert knowledge.
The Bank of New South Wales can help to solve
these problems. It invites enquiries from business
houses, whether large or small, regarding its un-
rivalled range of services to importers and exporters.
These services include trade introductions, finance,
obtaining and making payments overseas and cover-
ing exchange risks.
At principal branches, there are overseas departments
staffed by experienced specialist officers, who will
be pleased to discuss your oversea trade problems
with you.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
OVER 7,000 OVERSEA AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
Yl-29 A
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Australasian Catholic
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
The A.C.A.
ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
This Company is in no way connected with
the Catholic Life Assurance Office of
Australia Ltd., which is being liquidated
by the Federal Insurance Commissioner.
The Right Honorably the Prime Minister,
Mr. Chifley, said that the Australasian
. Catholic Assurance Company Limited was
in no way to be confused with the company
which is being liquidated. (Sydney Morning
Herald 21/2/’47 s )
For and on behalf of AUSTRALASIAN
CATHOLIC ASSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
D. J. MOONEY,
MANAGING DIRECTOR
Branches in all States
Head Office: AC A Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
The Folly of Obstructionism
Continually attacking the moral fibre
and commonsense of the wage-earning
classes are reactionary agitators or ob-
scurantists. An obscurantist is described
by the Shorter Oxford Dictionary as
“one who obscures; one who strives to
prevent inquiry, enlightenment or re-
form.” These obscurantists have a
mumbo-jumbo all their own; they wor-
ship at the shrine of class - hatred,
“national 3O-hour working week.
State control of financial and industrial
functions and Government regulations
that demand the filling-in of forms by the
civilians. They are against free speech
by those who oppose them, especially at
trade-union meetings at which votes are
cast, and they oppose the secret ballot.
They claim to be the most “advanced”
and enlightened of people. Their ulti-
mate destiny, if they are allowed to work
it out on the lines they indicate, is chaos.
Almost every day there comes to hand
some evidence of trade-union activity
attempting to discourage the most eco-
nomical methods in production or ser-
vice. Where it has been easy enough to
make a certain number of manhole
covers in a certain time a union has in-
sisted that the output be cut down so as
to spin-out the work. Carpenters have
refused to install cupboards in houses
because members of a cabinet-makers’
union were turning out the cupboards
too cheaply.
There has been a slowing-down in the
amount of work done per hour by wharf-
laborers in all parts of the Common-
wealth —a grievous and discreditable
slowing-down, considering the times. No
logical explanation that would fit in with
democratic ideas has so far been offered
in defence of these go-slow tactics.
Usually those who go slow are by any
fair comparison highly paid. They may
have found war-time and post-war taxa-
tion severe on increased earnings. But it
was their War, the same as it was anyone
else’s. The democratic view is that all
should help to pay for the war. A mere
selfish instinct cannot be offered as a
justification for the denial of a demo-
cratic responsibility.
Where radical Labor has no particular
desire to reduce production it has often
succeeded in doing so through the indus-
trial friction generated. The Labor move-
ment is making it harder and h'arder for
any person, whether he be a “boss” or a
wage-earner, to exercise his initiative.
There is a Labor political “grapevine”
entwining itself around most of the in-
dustries, professions and public func-.
tions of the country. There is a growing
desire on the part of trade-union bosses
to dictate to wage-payers. They are
making it exceptionally difficult for em-
ployers to train an adequate number of
youths in new trades. Apprenticeships
are limited, thus restricting the number
of skilled tradesmen made available to
the country even in times, say, of acute
housing shortage. There is a primitive
selfishness in many Labor principles that
has been made even more anti-social
after elaboration by Communist practi-
tioners.
Australians, as well as the citizens of
other countries, depend for their econo-
mic welfare, including their living stan-
dards, upon the actual production of their
country and the planning for greater pro-
duction. Over a matter of years living
standards depend not only on present
output from each worker but also upon
the aims of the working population as to
the future. If the productive people of
a country, or a strong militant section
of them, aim first of all to induce a
breakdown of their country’s industries
in order to achieve a political and eco-
nomic revolution then it is obvious that
during the period leading up to that
breakdown general living standards must
suffer. This suffering is usually held up
to be a fruit of the system of private
enterprise, not a result of the teachings
or interference of anarchists and Com-
munists. But it has still to be shown
whether, under a system of State control
of industries, any better results could be.
achieved than under private ownership
of industries—that is, assuming that
present methods were given a fair go.
After human beings have done much
damage to a thing it is natural enough,
perhaps, for some of them to want to
scrap it and start all over again in a new
style. It is irksome for them to try to
retrace their steps and find where they
went wrong in the first place. But by
that going-back and profiting by their
mistakes they take a definite step towards
improving their economic and political
structure. The annihilation of an entire
“system” is not going to remove the in-
herent problems of mankind. Better to
try to adjust the present methods, which
are evolutionary, so as to meet these
problems than to go over on a national
scale to an entirely new method of Gov-
ernment that is entirely theoretical and
which seems bound in the long run to
fail. The chief enthusiasts among those
advocating a Communist system of Gov-
ernment are those who hope to pick up
plums among the positions of power in
the “new order.” People should fie as
sceptical of militant advocates- of new
forms of government as they should be
of importunate company promoters.
Every time a trade-unionist does less
than a fair thing in the way of work for
pay received he strikes an immediate
blo'w at his own standard of living and
that of his fellow citizens. If he persists
in doing less than a fair thing he strikes
a succession of blows, and not only en-
dangers living, standards but also under-
mines the whole economic system of his
country. With some notable exceptions,
there is a movement throughout the
Commonwealth by union bosses to slow
down activity to a point where the whole
economic workings are jeopardised. On
the surface this seems gross stupidity.
Much of it may be. But where a Com-
munist hand can be detected the reason
may be that revolution is the ultimate
aim. In their dislike of the “bosses,”
often a synthetic or cultivated dislike,
many trade-unionists who are not quite
sure about anything political are playing
into the hands of the Communists.
It is positively certain that many trade-
unionists don’t realise that go-slow and
similar tactics attack their own living
standards. They don’t realise that in
striking one blow against the boss they
strike two against themselves. The issue
is quite simple. A nation’s living standard
depends upon its production, and, in Aus-
tralia’s case, over .seven million people dip
into that production and draw their share.
People earning tinder £8 a week draw
more than 70 p.c. of it. Any steep fall
in that production will hurt wage-earners
severely. After all, th.ey are the big con-
sumers. They can only remain so as long
as they are also the big producers.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Kes”; In a paddock on Pros-
pect Hill, close to the spot where Law-
son (the explorer, not the poet) built his
home. Veteran Hall, an equine employee
of the N'.S.W. Water Board spends his
leisure hours. At one place a disused
quarry cuts deeply into the hillside, and
it is to this spot the old brown draught-
horse always gravitates. Standing on the
brink, he stares at the bottom for several
minutes, then launches himself down the
30 or 40 feet of almost sheer descent. A
mountain goat could scarcely keep on
all fours down such a grade, but the
moke doesn’t seem to mind the wear and
tear aft. Sorting himself out at the bot-
tom, he steps out of the debris that
avalanches around his legs, walks over to
a sawn-off post that stands upon the floor
of the quarry and rests his belly on the
top of it. There, with his legs straddled
ridiculously wide so that the full weight
presses his tummy hard on the post, he
will stay for half an hour or more, an
expression of blissful contentment settling
on his homely old dial. Perhaps he is
subject to some internal ache; an ache
which he discovered by accident can be
relieved by pressure. But there is noth-
ing accidental about the procedure now;
the skin-rasping descent is mad? for one
reason only: the pleasure of being able
to sprawl across that stump.
* * *
“Narrin”: I was coming home the
other evening across the paddocks; red
clay, gibbers, bindi-eye and bareness, re-
lieved only by the smoky darkness of a
distant clump of black-oak. Along the
netting there was an ancient kero.-tin,
rusty, dented and well set in the red silt.
Because old tins often have interesting
things under them I stopped and kicked
it over. There was a brown-grey streak
that F just had time to identify as an
ordinary mouse before it reached sanctu-
ary at a handy crabhole. Under the tin,
in a round hollow in the ground, was a
neat, circular nest of woven speargrass
stems. Evidently Mus musculus was a
lady who had been caught napping by
Nature during a long trek. Whenever
I want a symbol for gameness now I’m
going to think of that tiny brown mam-
mal making tracks across a wide, dry,
blistering landscape, in constant danger
from hawks, foxes, goannas and abo-
riginal mice, and stopping calmly in the
middle of —to her —a hundred-mile desert
to prepare a place for her family. It’s
a mighty long way from the pantries and
barns of the Europe her kind came from
to an old tin on an open gibber plain.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: With the end of February
summer was officially terminated. But
what has happened to the cicadas
(“locusts” to the small boys), whose
strident singing has always been such
a feature of hot days and evenings in
Sydney’s bushland suburbs? For Sydney
to go through the summer without a
song from a cicada is. certainly some-
thing for the scientists to ponder. Most
of the writers about cicadas seem in
doubt about the time the cicada spends
developing underground. Some estimates
are as high as seven years. Perhaps
their absence this summer may provide
a reliable clue —seven years from now,
or whatever the period is, the effect of
a cicada-less summer should be apparent.
* ♦ * i»
“Blime”: Andy dropped from the
saddle, threw the reins over the nag’s
head and strode for the salt hut to mix
and distribute a sheep lick. Presently
the horse discovered that he was free and
wandered off to feed contentedly until
he saw Andy returning. Then, holding
his head high and wide to miss the reins,
he streaked for the far fence. Half an
hour later he was still swopping ends
“Were more interested in something to eat!”
4
of the paddock in delighted bursts of
speed, while, dripping sweat and ven-
geance, Andy followed. The sun slipped
lower, and it grew late as each new
manoeuvre on Andy’s part was frustrated
with maddening persistence. Then a
lucky break cornered the nag behind a
heap of sticks. Hitting the saddle, the
rider made him pay for his sins by a
long gallop home, followed by a vain
wait through the night by his empty
feed-box. Two days later Andy again
visited the area, dropped the reins, and
■made for the hut. The horse lifted his
head to watch the departing figure. He
took in the length of paddock, looked
sorrowfully at the hot, dusty road home,
then with a deep sigh picked up the reins,
tossed them over the wire and hitched
himself to a fence-post.
* * * *
“Lub”: The bank manager’s wife,
who’d bought one of Tom’s foxies at a
pretty stiff price,, sought a refund
or replacement, “r really wouldn’t have
taken him if you hadn’t guaranteed he
was properly house-trained,” she com-
plained. “Too right he’s house-trained!”
Tom said. “Any dawg o’ mine that ever
poked its nose inside collected me number
nines in the slats. If that one gits inside
agen,jmissus, just knock it rotten or hoist
it out with your number nines an’ then
it’ll know to keep outside.”
* * * m
“Wippegong”: Amidst the irritations
of this “settling down again” period, one’s
respect deepens for those citizens whose
customs and character are untouched by
the troubled years. My lads, exiled in
the city for the duration, had not been
together to the old valley, nor had they
heard bellbirds. So we made the trip,
but when I said that we’d go and see
the birds the eldest asked how 1 ! knew
they’d still be there. “They will,” I
told him. “They’ll be thickest just up
stream from the bridge where the timber
road crosses the creek. If we sit on the
bridge quietly and watch where they dive
into the ti-trqe we’ll find a nest with
young well-feathered; you might have
the luck to handle a fledgling. Then as
it’s a good season in the valley there’ll
maybe be a pair building a last late nest.
They’ll be working quietly, but when
they’ve added each bit of grass-root they’ll
fly up into a gum above, wipe the beak,
then ring for you. The afternoon is
coming up thundery, so they’ll be feed-
ing low and ringing like the chimes of
heaven ; and if you walk very slowly and
don’t wave the arms about you’U get
within a yard of them.” The boy
grinned, but it was even as I said. Eight
years since I had watched them there,
but it could have been yesterday ; and so
long as little brown creeks gurgle out
from the hills their colonies will gladden
the gullies—one group of territories that
need no adjustment.
¥ * ♦ ♦
“Greenhide Bob”: We were shifting
17,000 wethers off the shears from
Burrumbilla, on the Bourke side of
Cunnamulla, to Ambathala, on the
Paroo, in an extra-dry . year. The
men were typical Australians of a
day that is dead, but the horses
were scarecrows, the sheep almost
skeletons, the dogs limped from the
bindi-eyes until we had to make leather
boots for them to keep them at work,
and we had several dry camps on the
red-hot plains between the belts of
scrub. Yet there was no swearing. When
anything particularly exasperating hap-
pened to one of the horsemen it was six
to one on his saying, mildly, after a
pause to master himself, "Charley
Hogan! ” putting a world of meaning into
it. I sounded them out for the explana-
tion of the mystery. It appeared that
on the Way down with cattle from the
Flinders there was one among them called
Charley Hogan. If a horse trod on his
foot, kicked him in the shin, shied and
threw him, bit him or bucked him off,
he’d rise to his full height of six feet two,
open his Ned Kelly beard and roar; “May
the Lord strike a hump on yer
back as big as the dome
of St. Paul’s, yer
with admiration to Charley Hogan all
they needed to express their feelings in
acute moments was to breathe his name.
Everybody knew what it meant; and,
anyway, the boss objected to swearing.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Whilst I can’t praise the
camel much as a kicker (B. 5/2/’47) I
have much respect for his (or her) bite.
And I wonder, casually, just how those
devotees of the modern “white-kanaka,”
strip-to-the-waist cult would fare as oont
conductors. On one caravan to which
I was attached Flash Dick was fond of
slouching around in a sleeveless singlet.
One day big Tarl, a vicious bull, just
playfully reached out and lifted a section
of skin from the flash bloke’s left arm.
Camels bite according to season, so a wise
valet garbs his arms, the usual target, with
loose cloth upon which the long chisel
teeth expend themselves fruitlessly.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In the interests of
scientific investigation I’ll concede “Boga-
duck’s” point (B. 5/2/’47) that water-
divining is a fake. The movement of the
twig doesn’t indicate the presence of an
underground stream, and the almost
100 p.c. success of a diviner of my ac-
quaintance is pure coincidence. In re-
turn will “Bogaduck” admit that all
amateurs who credit themselves with
divining power are not dishonest or
under the spell of some self-hypnosis?
Take any number of people of both sexes
and all ages, introduce them to the divin-
ing stick, instruct them in the correct
holding and turn them loose in any pad-
dock, Within five minutes more than 50
per cent, will have discovered their latent
ability and you’ll have a paddockful of
enthusiastic diviners discovering water
with sticks that move in varying degrees
according to the holder’s oomph, politi-
cal pull or what-have-you. No unbiased
observer, watching the pull of the forked
stick, can doubt the existence of some un-
controlled force or credit the diviner
with ability to move the stick by finger
muscle. That movement, I agree with
“Bogaduck,” has no connection with the
existence at that spot of an underground
stream; but I am quite unable to ac-
count for it otherwise. Can “Bogaduck”?
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Evidence in a recent
Brisbane Supreme Court case has pro-
vided another tragic warning against care-
lessness with outboard engines. On May
28, 1946, a local resident went out fishing
in a hired boat from Redcliffe, Moreton
Bay, taking his own outboard as power.
Next day his boat was found at high-
water mark on a beach some ten miles
away, minus the engine, but otherwise in
sound order and with his fishing tackle
and lunch undisturbed. He was never
seen again. On a previous trip when his
wife had been with him the thumbscrew
grips on the boat’s tuck had come adrift
and the motor had fallen into the water.
He had dived in and recovered it, the
boat being at anchor. Other evidence
showed that one of the thumbscrew cups
was missing and that he was in the habit
of using coins to make it grip. All pre-
sumptive evidence pointed clearly to the
conclusion that the engine had fallen
off, that he had dived in after it and had
failed to regain the drifting boat. Other
fatal accidents of the same kind are on
record. The obvious and effective
method of avoiding such mishaps is,
firstly, to keep thumbscrews or other
gripping gear always in sound order;
next, to have a stout lanyard fitted to
some convenient part of the engine frame
with its other end made fast in the boat.
A portable battery in a watertight case
with adjustable switch-fittings is a valu-
able protection against engine failure in
lonely or current-swept waters and a not-
able aid to starting,
* * * ♦
“Nor’-west”: Speaking of albatrosses
attacking a “man overboard,” Lars Lar-
sen, mate on the Sea Bird, a W.A. coastal
trader of the early part of the century,
used to show hands and forearms scarred
with what must have been terrible lacera-
tions. An apprentice on Loch Torridon,
he went overboard in that ship’s 1892
run from the Cape to Port Phillip. In
the tumbling sea he was becoming over-
whelmed when a big albatross swooped.
With a drowning man’s desperation he
grabbed the bird’s legs, and with a
drowning man’s grip held on. It, of
course, took quite a time to bring the
flying sailer to, drop off a boat and row
back the mile or so to where Larsen
had dropped. But he was still there, sup-
ported by the madly-fluttering bird when
the boat arrived. He afterwards said it
wasn’t until he was half-way back to the
ship that he realised what had happened
to his hands. With its hooked beak the
big bird had slashed them practically to
shreds.
» ♦ • •
“Propalong”: Joe came back from the
army with a Jap helmet and the pin-up
craze. The former he gave away; the
latter entirely transformed the old Hop-
bush camp. When Joe went out to
Hopbush the place, a sort of dark, cob-
webbed tin cave, bore evidence of the
last pin-up spree; smoke-tarnished and
faded magazine illustrations of boxers,
horses, stud rams and fine cattle. Joe
got rid of these 30-year-old relics, and
the walls acquired a patina of feminine
curves and pulchritude. As the boss re-
marked, the place was, like a harem after
a slave-market bargain sale. But Joe
liked it; made the place feel like home,
he reckoned. Well, we of the mustering
camp stopped at the Hopbush one night
in the early summer. The youngsters
did an art-gallery crawl round the walls
and then we pulled out the tar drums and
sat down to tea. “Struth! ” cried Ginger,
as he dragged the treacle-tin sugar bowl
across the plank table. “There’s a
blanky lizard in the sugar.” “Hey! Don’t
go hurtin’ him—that’s Measles,” ex-
plained Joe, giving the reptile a stubby
forefinger to use as a ladder. Measles
was the first; the rest followed. There
were lizards under and on the table;
they marched over the damper, waded
through the jam, played races over the
enamel plates and lined up to sample the
stew. There were enamelled skinks, little
darting chaps endlessly in pursuit of flies;
there were geckos, velvety, spotted and
striped ; there were miniature dragons;
there were saurians by the score, all lively
and all at home. “Gripes,” said the boss,
fishing Measles from his pannikin, “what’s
this — a ruddy zoo?” “Aw,” explained
Joe, “I bin bringin’ in a few. Y’ see,
the flamin’ silverfish was gettin’ me pic-
tures.”
HARRY MORANT.
Harry Morant was a friend I had
In the years long passed away,
A chivalrous, wild and reckless lad,
A knight born out of his day.
Full of romance and void, of fears,
With a love of the world’s applause,
He should have been one of the cavaliers
Who fought in King Charles’s cause.
He loved a girl and he loved a horse
And he never let down a friend,
And reckless he was, but he rode his course
With courage up to the end.
“Breaker Morant” was the name he earned,
'■ For no bucking horse could throw
This Englishman who had lived and learned
As much as the bushmen know.
Many a mile have we crossed together,
Out where the great plains ‘lie,
To the clink of bit and the creak of leather —
Harry Morant and I.
Time and again we would challenge Fate
With some wild and reckless “dare,”
Shoving some green colt over a gate
As though with a neck to spare.
At times in a wilder mood than most
We would face them at naked wire,
Trusting the sight of a gidyea post
Would lift them a half-foot higher.
And once we galloped a steeplechase
For a bet—’twas a short half-mile
With one jump only, the stiffeSt place
In a fence of the old bush style.
A barrier built of blue-gum rails
As thick as a big man’s thigh,
And mortised into the posts—no nails —
Unbreakable, four foot high.
*
Since both our horses were young and green
And had never jumped or raced.
Were we men who had tired of this earthly scene
We could scarce have been better placed.
“Off!” cried “The Breaker,” and off we went
And he stole a length of lead.
Over the neck of the grey I bent
And we charged the fence full speed.
The brown horse slowed and tried to swerve,
But his rider with master hand
And flaming courage and iron nerve
Made his lift and leap and land.
He rapped it hard with every foot
And was nearly down on his nose;
Then I spurred the grey and followed suit
And —praise to the gods —he rose.
He carried a splinter with both his knees
And a hind-leg left some skin,
But we caught-them up at the wilga trees
Sitting down for the short run-in.
The grey was game and he carried on
But the brown had a bit to spare;
The post was passed, my pound was gone,
And a Hugh was all my share.
“The Breaker 7 ’ is sleeping in some far place
Where the Boer War heroes lie,
And we’ll meet no more in a steeplechase—
Harry Morant and I.
Scotland.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


DOG LATIN.
My terrier barks, he yelps, and whines, and
howls,
And often, secretly and deeply, growls,
And these five words, which hardly ever vary.
Make up the whole of his vocabulary.
Five wits, five words, that’s all the creature
wants,
Not counting sneezes, choking fits and pants.
His bark denotes excitement or great joy,
A walk, a visitor, the butcher’s boy,
Or in the stilly night his loud reply
To the fierce challenge of an enemy;
His whine extreme anxiety expresses,
The pressure of intolerable stresses;
His yelp, his exclamation mark of pain,
Corrective kicks inflicted not’ in vain,
Or educational nose-rub in the stain;
His growl, burlesque it may be or in earnest,
Threatens, and is, of all his words, the sternest.
Out of his deepest nature springs his howl,
Music and moonlight loose it from his soul.
m.l. Arnold Wall.
* , * *
“Old-timer”: Young Fred, who was
always inventing things, heard about some
cove up on Lake Hattah who used a
swivel-gun mounted on a punt to bring
down wild ducks for the city markets,
and began to talk about adapting the
notion for rabbits. He got a length of
3in. galvanised pipe, plugged one end,
drilled a touch-hole and mounted the
thing on an arrangement of logs and wire
and rope, placing it just outside the back
door, where it commanded a corner of
the young green crop. Then, with the
cannon charged and shotted, he waited
until about 100 bunnies were feasting
one evening, sighted his piece and put a
lighted wick to the touch-hole. There
was a roar like the Last Trump, a vast
flash and cloud of smoke; both back
windows collapsed, a hunk of pipe kicked
a hole in the 1000-gal. tank, a corner of
the skillion caught fire and we dragged,
a bruised and blackened Fred out of
the ruins. He got to his feet, wiped
blood and dust from his face, looked
round dazedly and sighted some grey fur.
“It worked!” he croaked triumphantly.
“It was a bit overloaded, but it worked.”
Then we told him thfit the grey fur was
all that remained of the house cat, and
he crept away to invent something else.
* * * »
“Wamberal”: Tell “Gravelsnatcher”
(B. 5/3/’47) that bloodworms are still
popular bait around Sydney, where they
are called “Botany bloods” and come
out of mud banks. Last month a couple
of small boys appeared with a tin of ’em
to fish for whiting on the Tuggerah flats.
They departed two minutes later
richer by 10s., while the .buyer went
among the clouds of holidaying anglers
and turned his investment over at about
200 p.c.
♦ * * •
“Bo”: When miserly old Watkins passed
out, his only son Jeff started searching
for the fortune that he knew must be
somewhere on the 160 acres of land or
buildings thereon. Jeff had lived alone
with his parent over the last 20 years,
and the postmistress’s expressed opinion
that “You can’t live with someone that
long without growing like him” was
unanimously endorsed by the township.
Then one day about six months later,
when Watkins, Jnr., then almost 68, was
beginning to despair of ever getting his
claws on the family wad and had even
got sick of cursing his secretive sire, the
big black-spotted fox terrier belonging to
“They tell me there's flying-fish around here."
his neighbor Ramsden came home to his
master, after a digging session under the
big old pear-tree inside the Watkins’s
boundary fence, holding in his mouth a
thick leather package tied with green-
hide strips. On opening it Ramsden
nearly fell over to see it crammed with
notes of various denominations to the
tune of over £6OOO. He took it to Wat-
kins, who joyously fell on the treasure,
counted it twice and remarked with a
somewhat suspicious glance at Ramsden
that he thought there would have been
more than that. Then he asked his neigh-
bor where he had come upon it. Ramsden
explained. Jeff tucked the wallet into his
pocket, stooped and patted Ramsden s
foxie, straightened and said, Well, y r
dorg’s done me a good turn. 11l do. 1 ! 1 ®
same for him. He come rabbitin
with me this afternoon!”
* * * *
“Zake”: An acquaintance just back in
the city from a sojourn in thick scrub
country between Gloucester and Nundle
(N.S.W.) commented on the comparative
absence of bird life, with the exception
of an occasional wren and coachwhip
bird. Actually, few birds favor thick
scrub as a home, though they have a
preference for the fringe of it. Immedi-
ately an area of thick scrub has been
cleared for cultivation, however, you 11
see them move in, particularly such fowl
as magpies, flycatchers and mudlarks.
The feathered ones fond of thick scrub
are usually those shy of human company,
such as pilot-, regent- and bristle-birds.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A particularly vile, sacrilege
has been discovered by a walking party
in the Macpherson Ranges. The red
granite headstone on the grave of J, K.
Westray, the splendid young Englishman
who lost his life on February 20, 1937,
in a gallant attempt to get help for two
fellow-survivors from a crashed A.N.A.
airliner, has been broken and portion of
it taken away, apparently by “souvenir-
ing” vandals. Is there nothing these
rascals will spare?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were on wages,
living in a hut connected by telephone
with the boss’s home in town, five or six
miles away. After about a week that
phone would ring about 6 a.m. and the
boss would put over some unimportant
instruction or other. The third time it
happened Mat swung out of his bunk,
listened, hung up, eyed the instrument
malevolently and went to light the fire.
We’d woke up, of course, that the boss
was checking on us, but we said nothing,
being in need of the job. After the fifth
time, however, Mat began to mutter to
himself about “Trumps who got out in
their pyjamas, rung a man up an’ then
hopped back into bed.” Then came a
night of bitter frost, and dead on the
tick of 12.30 a.m. Mat whirled the handle
and called the boss. When the boss
answered Mat said “Our clock’s stopped.
Could you give us the right time?” There
was an astounded silence, except for the
frost cracking the roof; then over the
wires came the reaction. “Here,” cut
in Mat, “break it down. You ring us up
in the mo rain’s, don’t y’? Cripes, if we
ain’t got the right time howinell will we
know whether we ought t’ be up or not?”
There was another silence, then a faint
click as though a receiver had been gently
and carefully hung up. We enjoyed
peaceful mornings after that.
* ♦ * »
“Colonial Cove”: Referring to “G’-
snatcher’s” philosophical remarks (B,
5/2/’47) re the genesis of nectar-bearing
plants and nectar-gathering insects, what
puzzles me is why Australia, and parti-
cularly the West, came to be one of the
most prolific nectar-bearing regions of
the globe, yet was so scantily endowed
with nectar-gatherers. Of course, she
had her native bees, but they do not
appear to have done anything very much
in the way of the storing of honey. True,
the aboriginals did collect an occasional
“sugar-bag” but nothing like what might
have been expected in a land where grew
such nectar-bearers as the banksia and
the flowering xanthorrea or blackboy;
from which the blacks sucked the super-
abundant sweetness, occasionally dis-
solving it out by soaking in water. But
there seem to have been no vast swarms
of bees to gather and accumulate this
—until the whites brought the Euro-
pean bee. Further, during an extensive
“On behalf of the Convicts Association , ' Whac K o ' Jones ll lay this stone”
reading of the archives of the Swan
River Settlement, consisting of thousands
of personal letters, I never came upon
one account of the finding and robbing
of a hive of native bees. Yet s.-w.
W.A. is above all parts of Australia the
most nectar-bearing.
“Aperist”: One of the odd things
abouf the bee is that it readily flounders
into and becomes drowned in its own
product. A pool of liquid honey any-
where in proximity to a hive will speedily
become an Apis graveyard. The ex-
planation is that in a well-conducted hive
no such thing as loose liquid honey
exists, therefore Nature has made no
preparation whereby the insects can deal
with such phenomena. Which again
shows that the bee was perfected millions
of years before rude, greedy man came
on the scene to wreck hives and tear
combs apaat, leaving pools and streaming
cascades to clutch at feathered legs and
clog gauzy wings.
« * * •
“M. 8”: I notice a reference by
“Shamuseen” (B. 5/3/’47) to the “pre-
cigarette era.” Has it struck him that he
is now in the post-cigarette era?
* * * *
“0.G.”: If “N.7Y.” would like to trot
out his hard-hitting donkey (B. 5/2/’47),
I’ll back a giraffe. The most nonsensical
thing a lion can do is to attack a giraffe,
a single blow from whose hoof can
break a lion’s shoulder. One landed in
the right place, on the attacker’s head,
usually spells “finis.”
* * * ♦
“X.E.D.”: Courteous when offering
Sandy a job on the farm, Briggs proved
a cantankerous employer. Sandy
put up with it for a week, noting
the curious fact that his boss mel-
lowed and became quite affable in the
evenings after work. Calling in
to giVe notice, Sandy found him-
self accepting Briggs’s genial hospitality
before he could bring up the subject. “It’s
got me beat,” Sandy blurted out later.
“One time y’re as nice as pie t’ me an’
the next y’re yappin’ an’ growlin’. I ain’t
used t’ workin’ f’r a moody boss.” “But
I ain’t moody,” replied the surprised
Briggs. “Y’ ain’t workin’ f’r me t’day,
so 1 c’n meet y’ on an even footin’, jist
the same as after the day’s work. But
when y’re on the job y’ ought t’ know
I’m boss, an’ it ain’t the thing f’r me
t’ be familiar or easygoin’ with me em-
ployees. FT instance, if the blackberry
inspector or the skinbuyer called it might
give him the wrong idea about who’s
runnin’ the joint. Now I s’pose y’ll
know what’s goin’?” “Yair,” answered
Sandy, grabbing his battered lid. “I am.”
* * * *
“Metax”: Why hasn’t the art of
falconry been developed more in this
country? If batteries of hawks could be
trained to go out and catch rabbits and
bring them home to the feet of their
master they would feed themselves, pro-
vide their owner with a profitable trade
in skins without excessive effort, and help
to rid the country of our feed-consuming
pests without the need for an army of
Government “experts.”
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’m waiting, not
very hopefully, for the time when man,
in the bulk, will augment his superior
intelligence with the knowledge and the
accumulated wisdom of the insects.
* These tenacious enemies of civilisation
cap determine the sex of their offspring
and construct habitations in which the
temperature and humidity will remain
constant through drought, flood, heat-
wave and cold spell. Within the com-
pass of their collective knowledge insects
can predict weather changes and foretell
droughts and floods months in advance ;
inflict on a living body a form of
paralysis whereby it is preserved indefi-
nitely as food in a state of suspended
animation ; evolve and operate a social
system in which the freedom and life of
the individual is willingly subordinated
to the welfare of the community; deter-
mine accurately the direction of the mag-
netic north ; communicate through long
distances unbridged by any mechanical
agency ; locate food at fantastic distances
and bridge and tunnel to it with an
engineer’s precision. And they can ac-
complish all this by the employment of
faculties contained solely within their-
small bodies. Those faculties, coupled
with the stature of the higher animals,
would produce a race of beings to whom
a journey to the centre of the earth or
the moon would be equally simple. For-
tunately, the foundations of man’s
supremacy were firmly established in the
dawn of life when, given apparently
equal opportunities, one set of plantlike
ancestors —ours —chose a respiratory
system equipped with lungs which pro-
vided the opportunity for growth; the
other group —the insects —evolved a
simpler system of breathing and con-
demned their descendants to eternal
dwarfdom. Strange that beings possess-
ing such intimate anatomical knowledge
and gifted with a keen intellect should
have missed world domination by such a
small margin.
* * * »
“Bull-ant Bill”: Recent Abo. argu-
ments about how an electric fence really
works have interested Old Joe. “That
there frequency bloke’s got the dinkum
oil on it,” he decided today. “I mind
the time I wus stayin’ at me sister Jane’s
an’ got yarnin’ with young Joe, ’er lad
wot she named after me. Smart cove,
Joe, an’ doin’ well out uv a garage wot
’e’d started. ’E’d got one uv them there
magneeter dinkuses for testin’ spark-
plugs, wot yer work with a ’andle. A
kid comes in frum down the road an’
starts messin’ about with it. Joe tells ’im
ter leave it alone, but the nipper keeps
on foolin’ at it. At last Joe sez ‘ ’Ere,
if yer want ter mess around with that, do
it good an’ proper. Get ’old uv that
there wire.’ The kid grins an’ gets ’old
uv it. ‘Now give that there ’andle a real
quick swing round,’ Joe tells ’im. The
kid swings it good an’ ’ard, lets out a
’owl like a dingo pup, drops the wire,
bolts outer the door, an’ never comes
back. That’s frequency —frequenter yer
turn it ’arder the shock.”
♦ * * *
“Chuck”: Wap was stayed up with the
front of the bar, talking to Simon, when
the dog-lover strolled in. “What’s that
sheepdog o’ yours like. Wap?” he asked
interestedly. “Any good?” Wap’s eyes
narrowed slightly. “Too right he’s good,”
he declared heartily. “Not much t’ look
at, but what’s that matter long’s he does
the job?” “Mustering, droving, forcing,”
prompted the newcomer. “Does he do
the lot?” “Yair, everythin’,” declared
Wap. “Real good all-rounder, ain’t he,
Simon?” “How’d I know?” murmured
Simon, refusing to be drawn. “Which
dog is it?” “Well, cripes, I only got the
one; y’ oughter know him,” protested
Wap. “Worth money that dog, if I do
say it meself.” The dog-lover banged
down his glass and turned for the door.
“That’s awright then. Wap,” he called
back. “It’s just that I got a spare pup
that looks like makin’ a champ, an’
thought if your old bloke wus no good,
I’d give him to y’.” Wap’s jaw dropped.
“Blime,” he snorted disgustedly, “an’
I thought he wanted t’ buy me flamin’
useless mong!”


THE TOP PRICE warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F.
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863)
4 Bligh Sheet, Sydney
Branches ai Newcastle. Wagga, Moree. Henty and Hay.
A 7.22.1
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
Sterilised
To Remedy 'BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
— All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
DESTROY THESE PESTS
with
OnogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
CARRIES WATER FOR ONE MILE
AT PRESSURES UP TO 100 POUNDS PER SQUARE INCH
Your water-conveying problems are ended when you install “MAXIMUM"
connecting pipes with the famous Flexible Coupling which is the only one on
the market with such all-round flexibility and ease of connection. “Maximum"
piping will fit all usual irrigation systems, is extremely adaptable, and each
For . . .
o IRRIGATION
• TANK TO HOME
• DAMS TO PADDOCKS
(ILLUSTRATES IRRIGATION)
11 Am
il wm
1
installation is individually designed and built to fit your
particular needs. Thanks to the “Maximum” Coupling,
pipes can be connected by a simple movement to any
inclination up to 15 degrees in any direction and remain
watertight. Write or enquire now!
Agents: Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence St.,
Sydney, M 2977. Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124
Melbourne St., South Brisbane, J 1456. Pascoe & Co., Ltd.,
282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia, M 7127.
Welling & Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon St., South
Melbourne, MX 4889.
Manufacturers:
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY—MA 7858
(M.3)
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"SON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Wool Blending.
“Murrawong”: A scheme inaugurated
in Sydney to improve the marketing of
wool by cutting down the number of star
lots is going well. The proportion of
star lots to big lots has increased to such
an extent that it is slowing up wool dis-
posals considerably, and with subdivision
of large properties this delay must in-
crease.
The scheme consists in blending of
similar types of wool belonging to differ-
ent owners and comprising four bales and
less which would normally pass through
the star-lots section. The brokers’ expert
selects various lots of similar type and
value and these groups are then sent to
a repacking firm where each group is
blended and pressed up again into a num-
ber of bales which will appear in the big-
lots catalogue. The weight of wool be-
longing to each participant is credited to
him at the price per lb. at which the
blended wool is sold.
It will most likely be put into general
use in the near future. The cost to the
grower is small, and is more than bal-
anced by the better competition and
prices obtained in the big catalogue. In
actual figures it means a saving of about
400 lots per day and the switching of
about 700 bales from the stars to the
main catalogue. These 700 bales com-
prise lots of one to four bales, and the
average offerings of the blended wool has
been in the neighborhood of close on ten
bales per lot.
' The idea is practical and has come to
stay. It must not be confused with wool
pooling, as only even, well-classed lots
can be used in this way. Anything
irregular in quality or in mixed bales
would have to be thoroughly sorted and
put through a pooling system. So far
the experiment has been confined to
locks, stains, bellies, pieces and broken.
No fleece wools have, yet been included,
but there is no reason why, at a later
stage, they shouldn’t be.
Molasses as Drought Fodder.
‘Archaps”: The just-ended drought in
coastal cattle-fattening areas of Queens-
land gave some cattlemen a chance to
test it, and the molasses came through
well. One cattleman spent 15s. per head
to feed cattle, and made 50s. per head
more for them than he was offered previ-
ously by the same buyer. Another kept
2000 head in condition with molasses.
Heavy molasses —weighing about 141 b.
or 151 b. to the gallon—is equal in energy
value to two-thirds of the same quantity
of maize. 'This shows what a cheap
drought fodder molasses could be if a
co-operative effort were made to buy it in
good seasons for use in dry ones. Cane-
growers, however, do not appear to be
particularly interested in molasses, which
they regard as a by-product having com-
paratively little value.
In 1945 Queensland produced
19,353,629 gallons of molasses. Distil-
leries took 9,380,679 gallons, 3,074,755
gallons were used as fertiliser —and a
good fertiliser it i 5—4,675,9095 —4,675,909 gallons
were used as stock food (working horses,
etc.), 1,748,299 gallons as mill fuel and
423,085 gallons for other purposes.
Graziers who found molasses such a
good drought standby expect a heavy
demand for it in future dry periods, and
through their organisation are investigat-
ing the possibilities of a sufficient quantity
of solidified molasses being stored for
future use. The Government could give
impetus to such a scheme by allowing
money spent on fodder reserves in a good
“Knew a bloke who slipped off the springboard
and nearly hung himself on one o’ these
lawyer-vines."
season as a reduction for income-tax pur-
poses in the year of purchase.
Molybdenum.
“Bogan Joe”: The C.S.I.R. has been
experimenting with the addition of small
quantities of molybdenum in deficient
soils. Sub. clover and other legumes are
particularly responsive to this treatment,
as it enables them to make use of the
nitrogen in the air. Other plants are de-
pendent on the nitrogen compounds in
the soil, but legumes can use the nitro-
gen “fixed” from the air by bacteria
living in the nodules on the roots of
the plant. The bacteria, in turn, benefit
from the starch manufactured by the
plant, this give and take between the two
organisms being known as symbiosis. It
would appear that molybdenum is needed
by the bacteria for the fixation of the
nitrogen. When molybdenum was sup-
plied lime was not required for the nor-
mal growth of sub. clover. On the other
hand, the provision of adequate phos-
phate ensured a maximum response
from molybdenum.
Roots for Stock.
“W. Court”: Good crops of swedes
and kohlrabi can be produced on the
Queensland coast during the cool months
from April to August. Main point is not
to seed until the worst of the rainy sea-
son is over, for, hardy though both veges.
are when established,
heavy rains batter them
flat when mere seedlings.
They’re great standbys
for feeding to pigs and
cattle, and the green leafy
tops are relished by poul-
try. The farmer with a
few head of house cattle
and a few pigs can keep
his stock supplied by sow-
ing a row or two about
every three weeks until the
winter is over.
This method has never
failed us, and we have
grown some splendid
swedes. If the land is of
doubtful fertility green-
manure it with cowpea or
even with grass. Two
ploughings, one up and
down to bury the legume,
the other across, should
make the field just so.
Having rolled or harrowed
the field, divide it into
rows 3ft. apart with a rake
or hoe. A sprinkling of
super, or blood and bone
with the thinly-sown seed
will speed the crop.
The seedlings may be
thinned out within a few
days or left undisturbed
for three weeks if the sur-
plus plants are to be saved
and transplanted. Swedes
require from 12in. to 18in.
of space in the rows, and
kohlrabi about 12in.
Champion Purple Top and
Elephant are good varieties
of swedes, and both the
purple and green rabis are
satisfactory.
Oats in Victoria.
“Myr”: Main varieties are Algerian
and Algeribee. Vic. Department of
Agriculture cereal experts point out that
these late-maturing types produce a grain
suitable for the oat-milling trade arid
stool better than the early types. They’re
adaptable generally to Victorian condi-
tions and in southern Victoria recover
well after grazing. Conseqhently they’re
favored by dairyfarmers who sow in the
early autumn, graze until the spring and
then get a hay or grain crop following
normal spring rains. In northern Vic.
and the Mallee, where spring rains are
uncertain, the earlier-maturing Mulga
and Dawn are preferable. They produce
more winter feed than Algeribee or
Algerian, particularly if sown thickly.
Varieties recommended: Wimmera
and northern districts, for grain and
general purposes, Algeribee or Algerian;
for early feed or early hay. Dawn, Fulg-
hum, Guyra, Belar and Mulga (very
early); Mallee* for general purposes and
early feed, Dawn, Fulghum, Belar and
Mulga ; for hay or grain, Algeribee or
Algerian. Southern districts, for general
purposes—hay or grain; Algeribee or
Algerian. For spring sowing in very late
districts, Tartarian.
Aerial Dusting.
“Prof.”: Aerial dusting of orchards
for the control of pests is increasing. The
spectacular results obtained against mos-
quitoes by spraying D.D.T. from aircraft
in the Pacific area showed what could be
done. In Victoria a Beaufort aircraft
equipped as for mosquito control was
modified after a test against Rutherglen
bug.
For this test a 15 p.c. solution of
D.D.T. in a mixture of two parts mineral
turpentine and one part fuel distillate
was applied at the rate of five gallons per
acre. A good kill was recorded, but the
bug totally disappeared after a rain be-
fore the experiment was concluded.
Attention was then transferred to the
Australian plague locust. This time a
newer and cheaper chemical, five per
cent, gammexane, was used in a solvent
consisting of fuel distillate 75 per cent.,
benzol 20 per cent, and lubricating oil
six per cent, at the rate of four gallons
per acre, resulting in nearly 100 per cent,
mortality in all stages.
In New Zealand copper-deficient soils
arp being top-dressed from „,The
bluestone used is crushed and a half per
cent, of magnesium carbonate added to
allow the powder to run freely from the
hopper. With the apparatus used copper
sulphate was applied at the rate of 31b.
per acre over 1100 acres in nine hours
over country inaccessible to farm
machinery. Doubtlessly other minor ele-
ments such as cobalt, molybdenum and
manganese could be applied in the same
way.
Smut in Barley.
“Bogan Joe”: There are two distinct
types, loose smut and covered smut. The
former is caused by a parasitic fungus
(Ustilago nuda) and is characterised by
the replacement of the heads by a loose
mass of black spores. It is only to be
noticed at heading time, before the
powdery smut mass is removed by wind
and water action. The bare central stalk
of the head is then left alone. Infection
occurs in the flowering period, when the
fungus enters the seed and remains dor-
mant until planted. As the germ is con-
tained within the seed, dusting is of no
practical value, and the only cure is new
seed from reliable sources.
Covered smut is the result of Ustilago
hordei and is quite a different pro-
position; this time the grain is replaced
by a black smut mass which remains en-
closed in a thin greyish membrane.
Infected heads don’t fully emerge from


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
II your
dog's coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
dim on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
tag jf often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
BARKO ff^dlne P ™“ your dog alwa y® with
_ Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
SKIN LOTION 8/8
amn lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/S
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
J
BARKO
the Advantages of
this 4WWSP roofing
Bisheet!..
lilllllMlllf/JiY'', jS
Wfi
((\'w
s '%,
W
fife
" r oof
£ss
e m 3f
Co n
for
s *nr.
**ter
Wo.
Go
n
s °sts.
ste r
e m s
9 Because of its greater covering
capacity, Lysaght's 10 x 3" COR-
RUGATED GALVANIZED IRON
permits of faster construction,
requires fewer roofing timbers and
cuts costs all along the line. Add
to this its extreme rigidity, great
tensile strength and longer life
and you'll find why it pays to
specify Lysaght's 10 x 3" Corru-
gations on all your building
projects!
LYSAGHT’S
GALVANIZED IRON
Ll47a-5270 ,
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
Sydney • Melbourne . Brisbane
Adelaide • Perth
Ik
m
%
m
mm
/
w
v- : 4*
3V •
Hi* I
y * S~ - -
''V
X
lit • • • but
IB
fAey certainly have X-ray minds!
Whilst the salesman is extolling the virtues of a shining new appliance with
glistening porcelain enamel finish.. .whilst he is stressing the delicate stream-
lines, the chromium and the nickel .. . the mind of the modern customer is
apt to X-ray into deeper considerations. "What's underneath all the
trimmings? What's this appliance built of? How long will it last? Can it
stand up to years of hard work?" The manufacturer who makes Comrol
Steel Sheets his basis of quality is never afraid
to bring such mental questioning into the open.
When his salesmen state frankly and with pride
that the product is built of Comrol Sheet Steel,
they are answering every possible query on the
question of quality, value and efficiency.
SJtH SHUTS FOR INDUSTRY
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
Head Office and Works—Port Kembla, N.S.W.
P T Y. LTD.
ARMCO (AUST.) PTY. LTD., GENERAL SALES AGENTS: SYDNEY; Kembla Building. BRISBANE: Commercial House.
MELBOURNE: Temple Court. ADELAIDE: C.M.L. Building. PERTH; John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd,
WELLINGTON. N Z,: John Lysaght Ltd.
a
3
the boot or are born on short heads
which appear later than normal healthy
heads. It is generally rather hard and
difficult to rub off and remains within
the enclosing membrane until broken in
threshing, with the resultant scattering of
the smut spores \pver the healthy seed.
The smut fungus enters the tissues of the
young plant and, developing with it,
ultimately replaces the head with a mass
of smut.
Control is possible by formalin treat-
ment. Grain should be placed on a
clean floor and shovelled whilst half a
gallon of mixture per bushel is sprinkled
on. After the seed is uniformly wet it
should be covered for four to five hours,
then thoroughly dried and stored in clean
bags and sown as soon as possible. Two
ounces per bushel of Ceresan or Agrosan
(lusted over the grain is also effective,
but in view of their poisonous nature
extreme care is necessary in their use.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Because bleached wheat
is sometimes badly injured in harvesting
it is safer to dry-pickle it for seeding.
“Calos”: Fertiliser should be applied
to pasture land as soon as summer is
over, 2cwt. per acre being a heavy dress-
ing even for the poorest soil. Late
winter and spring dressings appear to
give good results, but it will be noticed
that the grasses so forced will not stand
up to the heat of summer as well as those
manured in the autumn. Of course,
much depends on the annual rainfall
and the time may be expected. As
in every other branch of farming, experi-
ence is the best teacher. Where weeds
are plentiful run the sheep on the
land, and if they drift away from the
weed-patches the latter should be fenced
in with them. This plan is more satis-
factory than mowing the weeds.
“Johnny”: Calves raised on the bucket
do a lot better if rice-pollard, or a pre-
pared calf-food containing rice, is added
to the separated milk. Stubborn calves
can be handled by using a length of soft
rubber hose and syphoning the food into
their mouths —the flow can be regulated
by pinching the hose. When blood-
scours occur an addition of two or three
ounces of the following to every four
gallons of food is a sure cure: Dissolve
as much permanganate of potash as will
lie on a threepence into two gallons of
water.
“Myrrhee”: To make a palatable dog
biscuit take 81b. of finely-ground wheat,
boil a sheep’s pluck and run the boiled
meat through a mincer. Add this and the
liquor off the meat to the ground wheat,
together with a tablespoonful of salt and
knead into a firm dough. (Cooked veges.
could be added if desired.) Roll into
a sheet about half-inch thick and cut into
three-inch squares. Bake until- hard. This
quantity will make about five dozen bis-
cuits. .
“M.R.C.”: “Bennie’s” method of
correcting divided mercury in a ther-
mometer (B. 5/2/’47) is delicate and un-
necessary. Ask any nurse to instruct you
in the particular shake she gives her
thermometer before using it. As a sur-
veyor, I’ve repeatedly to use the nurse’s
shake to a thermometer, carried for de-
termining temperature expansion of steel
measuring band, in which mercury has
become divided through a fall or jar.
“Sarina”: Large “pudding” stones in
hillside cultivations will be split into
movable chunks if heat is applied to
them, and they are then allowed to cool
off. Best time for rock-breaking is dur-
ing the winter months, when cooling will
be both rapid and destructive. Make a
good-sized log-fire on the rock and keep
it burning freely until nightfall. Some
blokes get the rocks very hot with fire
and then throw water over ’em, but this
is dangerous and usually unnecessary.
“A. B. Marker”: Kurrajong as a
drought reserve is a very poor substitute
for grass. Experience has proved to me
that one bag of oats has more nutriment
than the biggest kurrajong in N.S.W. At
best kurrajong is only a filler. I have
over 300 kurrajongs.
“Plane Creek”: If you want to un-
screw a tank tap without losing all the
water, partly fill a sugar-bag with sand,
tie the bag to a long pole, and lower it
into the tank so that it comes to rest
against the opening. As the tap is un-
screwed the weight of water pushes the
bag into the aperture and blocks it so
well that only a small quantity of water
will be lost.
“Will After applying any wash
or paint to a corrugated-iron roof, dis-
connect the spftuts from the tanks be-
fore the first rain. This will eliminate the
risk of tainting the drinking water. Also,
the first fill of water in a newly cemenfed
tank usually has a very strong cement
taste and should be emptied out. The
next lot of water should be fit for drink-
ing.
“Gravelsuatcher”: It pays to go
through the cauliflower crop when the
heads are beginning to show and bend
an inside leaf over the head to protect it
from the sun, A second run through the
crop before cutting will reveal fresh
heads, and a large outside leaf can be
broken off to cover those nearing
maturity. When cutting- commences the
leaves used for covering, although
withered, can be transferred to more
backward heads. This slows down the
cutting, but pays dividends in white
heads.
“Johnny”: Black comb (a form of
internal influenza) amongst fowls is easily
recognised—a whitish scour, comb turns
a bluish-black, fowl becomes dopey, re-
fuses food, and does not go on roost at
night. Withhold all grain food, and give
Epsom salts —two tablespoons to the gal-
lon for the first day or two, then reduce
to one tablespoon to the gallon. Treat
whole flock—individual treatment is not
advised as the affected bird usually dies.
When improvement is noticed some grain
may be given, and if possible provide with
an abundance of green feed daily. Good
lucerne chaff, soaked for a few hours and
dried off, is a good substitute.


In hot, trying weather,
a drink of Wolfe’s
Schnapps with iced
water, soda or other
cordial is a wise rule
to follow “for your
health’s sake.”
WOLFES
y
or
T
FES
SCHHAPPS
PD
Q
V
m
Srassi-
i;::::V:i
i
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
A&BREKS TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £47,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
% £7,000,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
HARTS
Circular Charts Jo* aU type* oi
Recording Instruments tor any clas»
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed G*« our quota
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STHEEI PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. Q 10.
“Skintle, Skintle, plays in the Sally
hand!” hoots Bandy with monstrous
derision,
“Won’t go fishing on Sundays,”
prompts Goog.
“Won’t go fishing on Sundays! ” yells
Bandy.
Mr. Skintle lays his rod down.
It is enough for Polpy. Running with
a low-slung, bowling movement he de-
parts for his father’s white-painted farm-
house, which can be se*en a couple of
hundred yards further up the hill. Mr.
Skintle unclasps from his belt his bright
and piercing gaff. “By heck,” says Goog,
“he’s after us with the gaff! Come on,
Bandy, quick!”
But Bandy, gibbering with rage and
dancing on the clifftop like a Maori
doing a haka, is moved to poetry ; and
wild and loud he chants: —
Skintle, Skintle,
Wont go nshmg on Sundays!
Mr. Skintle, it appears, is not addicted
to poetry. Remakes a convulsive move-
ment with his gaff and bellows “You
wait till I get hold of you!”
By way of introduction to his next
stanza, Bandy throws a stone at him;
and then things happen with wonderful
and fearful rapidity All in a flash Bandy
observes that Polpy is entering the gate of
the farmhouse—which suddenly looks very
far away—that Goog is scooting after him
like a hare on his lanky legs; and that,
silent, purposeful and murderous, the
good Mr. Skintle is bounding across the
ford with his gaff. “Oh, crikeys!”
“He’ll kill us, he’ll kill us!”
“He might, too. He’s got a gaff!”
All in a flash, it seems, in one mighty
explosion of terror, it is up the hill and
through the gate and into Polperro”s
kitchen with a second’s interval for
yelping explanations to a short, thin,
hard-faced woman and a short, stout,
red-faced man—then through the door
and into the bedroom and, as the hounds
of hell start baying in the yard —“I’ll get
you, you young devils!” —then with a
dive under the great double-bed ; where,
panting, gulping, they lie with heaving
chests among dust and fluff and all else
that the long white counterpane may
conceal in the heavenly dark.
Voices, terrifying and reassuring, the
sounds of a battle for life or death, float
from the kitchen.
Harsh and menacing, like the grinding
of terrible teeth: “There! It’s there in
that sugar-bag.”
Shrill and feminine: “You’re not going
to touch the boys’ eel.”
Deep, warm and drawling, with a
strange English sound —far, oh, far from
the green fields of Cornwall they sat
them down and milked the cow —“You
don’t come into my house, Mister.”
Then, harsh and hideous: “It’s not the
eel. They gave me cheek.” And, bring-
ing blessed relief —though far from com-
plete—to two who shiver in the fluffy
dark: “It’s the bandy one I want.”
“You!” whispers Goog, with an in-
voluntary nudge that conveys to Bandy
the foul suggestion that he is expected
to offer himself up.
And again from the kitchen; “A dirty
great yool that only a- Maori would eat.”
“I wasn’t going to eat the thing. I’d
have shown it in the fish-shop window.”
Treachery of treacheries!
The strong, slow, burry voice again:
“You just better take yourself off. Mister.”
AND there, observed from the window,
he goes! Straight, lean, dark,
muttering with his moustache of pig’s
bristles, the thief of eels, the man who
would do murder with a gaff.
“A dirty great yool that only a Maori
would eat,” Mr, Polperro repeats in the
kitchen. “Did you weed them carrots,
Polpy?”
“Yes, Pa,” says Polpy.
All is warmth, all is commendation,
all is skite. “By, cripes, he wasn’t goin’
to pinch our eel, was he, Goog? We’ll
take it home and show it in the fish-
shop window. Him goin’ to put it there!
By cripes, eh, Mr. Polperro, lucky he
didn’t have a go at you with the gaff.”
Pleased with all the world, Bandy rubs
deeper into his shiny-seated blue shorts
some of the fluff he has collected under
the bed. And suddenly the thin and
hard - faced woman begins to laugh.
“Under the bed!” she hoots. And
points. And a slow grin, showing the
yellow teeth that g p the short black
stem of his pipe, illumines the stodgy
face of her husband. “Under the bed!”
she sobs. “Under the bed with the!
With the ho! With the ho, ho, ho!”
Certainly that china utensil, lurking
in the shadows under the shining white
folds of the counterpane, is a fit enough
subject for ribaldry. But this wild female
hooting, and the yellow grin of the turnip
—'there are depths too profound for
understanding. The mighty Bandy,
master of eels and men, blushes as he
sneaks from the kitchen ; and, dragging
the sugar-bag after him into the sunlight,
scarlet goes the dutiful Goog. And when
they look back to the house. Master
Polpy Polperro, obscurely triumphant,
makes a very unpleasant face at them
and says “Yah!”


NEW ZEALAND
V
SIX SERVICES WEEKLY
Increased frequency of services and increased
accommodation now make it possible to meet
the personal preferences of air travellers to
and from New Zealand.
Advance reservations may be made for almost
any day in the week.
In a speedy flight you may relax in comfort—
with first-class steward and stewardess service *
-—enjoying the best of food and personal
attention.
Go by AlR—rand fly your freight, too—by
Tasman! J
Reservations jfor passengers and freight can be
made through any office or agent of QANTAS
EMPIRE jAIRWAYS, principal agents in
Australia fc jr ~ . ,
sr
mmm
fi'.-y---:
m
r * r. v .
Hedj office: Mechanics Bay, Auckland, N.Z.
M
ihe li’ii I
HATS 01
aUALITY
SMOKE-OH!
TO the Bestl
With the Bestl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Purse lost, small navy, notes, at week-end.'
, —“D.T ”
Swiss admiral fretting?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For sale, secondhand baby s pram, best
offer.” —Suburban paper.
Not a 1947 model child!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In Kentucky, no female may appear in a
bathing suit unless armed with a club.”
—“D.T.”
Whacko!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A conversation between two new-style
immigrants meeting in King’s Cross or St.
Kilda after a separation would be interesting.”
“Oi oi Ikey! All veil mit you now?”
“Yeth, Abie, all veil—in fact, Calvell.”
“£12,000 for her bust.” — Sydney “Sun.”
Should even be able to get some bottled
beer Tor the party with that.
“Radio star likes oysters.”— Radio blurb.
There are times when listeners would
be satisfied if he emulated them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Calwell insists that Jewish refugees are only
one per cent.” — News Item.
What! Not cent, per cent.?
“Investor blames failure of patent medicine
for his bankruptcy.”
—Evidence in Bankruptcy Court.
It proved to be just a drug on the
market.
4* 4* 4* 4* ...
“There’s a move to stop ageing politicians
from providing youthful photos of themselves
for the Parliamentary handbook.”
—Sydney “Sun.*
It is denied, however, that Chif. sub-
mitted a print showing him sucking a
dummy instead of a pipe.
“Well, there's the callboy—I've got to get out of
some of these things for my next number .”
“Childrens’ Radio Network Sought.”
— “D.T.”
That should dispose of the impression
that commercial stations already catered
for only those under 12.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Films are drugs.”
Even some of the cast act dopily.
•J*
“Scientists conceded that the mad Babylonian
king, Nebuchadnezzar, filled himself with vita-
mins by eating grass with his cows.’!
—“Sunday Sun.”
“Australians are among the world’s most
bath-conscious people.”— “D.T.”
They’re soaked by the taxation people,
sponged on by State politicians and
showered with “reffos.”
Affinity.
“The wife of a Belgian living near London
told the police that her husband put her in the
pigsty when he got drunk, and installed the pig
in her armchair.” — “D.T.”
The lady, you’ll assume, applied
The generally sound corrective
That wives are wont to use, and tried
To swamp his drinking with a tide
Of highly critical invective;
Till, sated with this verbal diet,
He sought the spiritual tonic
Of getting tdrunk in peace and quiet
And found himself, you can’t deny it,
A pot-companion more laconic.
While out among the grunting herds
It scarcely would concern him whether
She was declaiming bitter words
To fit the case —regarding birds
Of (so the proverb goes) a feather.
P. M. LUSK.
The New Army.
“The Army will never get recruits until the
Government realises that servicemen have
human rights.”— “S.M.H.”
The sergeant-major said to me :
“The colonel’s asked you out to tea.
He wants to know if you would like
To take his daughter for a hike,
Or would you rather have a game
Of cribbage with the colonel’s dame ?”
The surgeon-major said to me :
“I thought, Dig, you’d been on the spree,
The sudden way you took the knock.
But now I see you’ve had a shock.”
2315.
Sure Sign.
I’m getting old. Tis not that time
Has scored my brow with furrows deep.
( Some, at my age, are in their prime
And many quaint illusions keep.)
I’m neither grey nor waxing fat,
I’m free of prejudice and quirk.
It’s simply this — I’m learning that
True happiness is found in work !
P. O. M. C.
The fact that madness didn't pass
With vitamin satiety
Affords us proof the nibbled grass
Was of the “nut” variety.
D. H. E.
Home of the Wonder-workers.
“A mining machine which tunnels without
throwing out any earth has been invented in
the Urals.” — Sunday ‘‘Sun.”
It was Scientists’ Day in the Soviet
capital, and the U.S.S.R.’s greatest in-
ventors were being presented by the Red
Fiihrer with their rewards for the year’s
work.
Uncle Joe’s room in the Kremlin re-
flected that simple way of his life of which
even more simple fellow-travellers love to
tell.
The plain pine floor of the enormous
chamber was bare save for six of the
thickest pile carpets that had been looted
by the Red Army from those countries
with which they were now at peace. The
walls were stark in their kalsomined
severity—at least the few inches of them
were that were visible between the dozens
of priceless old masters that had been
ravished from the art galleries of those
European cities that
the Red Army was
occupying.
Uncle Joe sat
shirt-sleeved at his
great glass-topped
desk (ex-Vienina) in
an atmosphere that
would have frozen a
softer man to death
had it pot been that
it was air-condi-
tioned by Lease-Lend
machinery that never
reached the hospital
for which it was in-
tended. The strict
asceticism of the
Fiihrer* even em-
braced communica-
tions. Except for the
eight ivory handset
phones (made in
Germany) in front
of him, the superman
who single-handed
overcame the ob-
structions and in-
efficiency of Eisen-
hower and Mont-
gomery and smashed
the whole German Army, despite the
Anglo-American equipment which had
been sent deliberately to sabotage his
efforts, was completely cut off from his
fellow-beings.
The first world-famous scientist —all
Soviet scientists are world-famous —to be
presented was Professor Ratbagovitch, in-
ventor of the solid egg-cup, regarded as
one of the most brilliant feats of invent-
ing in the coruscating history of Soviet
science.
Designed to fit in with the Soviet way
of life, which prescribes the death penalty
for any citizen caught boiling an egg, the
solid egg-cup not only made it impossible
for a boiled egg to be held in it, but ob-
viated the need for having it hollowed
out, thus effecting a great saying in man-
power and cutting tools.
On accepting the 20,000 roubles passed
over by Joe the prof, bowed and said
proudly: “I will use this, my Fiihrer, as
a deposit on a new suit I hope to buy
from one of the State shops.”
The next recipient was Professor Nut-
ski, who had expressed his unique inven-
tive powers by* evolving a vibrationless
concrete-breaking drill.
In answer to a question ,by Joe, Prof.
Nutski explained that he was first promp-
ted to invent -a new drill by noting that
all the Lease-Lend pneumatic drills used
in Russia had the usual D-shaped grip
handles. It struck him that this served
as a perpetual, silent propaganda for the
so-called Democracies which might even-
tually produce dangerous thinking among
the Fatherland workers. He therefore
concentrated on inventing a handle in
the shape of the letters U.S.S.R. It was
admittedly awkward to grip, but its propa-
ganda value, directed at the masses,
would be enormous.
“In the main, though,” went on Prof,
Nutski, “I invented the new drill to con-
serve power. Although I know our
country produces more power than the
rest of the world put together, I deem its
conservation a vital necessity, in view of
the next fourteen five-year Plans. The
new drill is eight times heavier than the
power-operated ones the British and
Americans use. This one of mine is
operated by five men. Now, instead of
one man suffering the effects of vibration
to his biceps, all the five men have to do
is lift the drill up and keep banging it
down on the concrete until it breaks. It
will help solve our unemployment
prob”
But that’s as far as the professor got
He was whisked out by two men of the
N.K.V.D., who thereupon proceeded,
with the aid of sundry ropes, a rack and
a revolving drum, to instil into the pro-
fessor the fact that to mention anything
about the unemployment problem in the
U.S.S.R. was unhealthy.
Professor Booboff, inventor of the
famous tunnelling machine, was next.
As he was about to hand him the Order
of the Mangy Wolf, Eighth Class, the
Red Fiihrer asked the professor what be-
came of the earth which was not thrown
out by his tunnelling machine.
“Tq be frank,” Prof. Booboff replied,
“I haven’t worked that out yet. It just
seems to disappear into nothing some-
how.”
Joe leaped up. “You are a traitor,
Booboff,” he squeaked. “If we were to
use your tunnelling machine extensively
our sacred 'Soviet soil would be used up,
gone nobody knows where.” He signalled
the waiting armed guards. “The Order
of the .303 Dum Dum is substituted for
this” And he tossed the Order he
held in the w.p.b.
A few minutes later Professor Booboff
was being invested with the new Order
against a high wall.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Country Life
I suppose it’s my own fault for being
foolish enough to fancy country life, but
I live in a township about 50 miles from
the city, along with 299 other inhabitants.
It’s a decent little place as far as it goes
—stores, post office, hall, a couple of
churches, a pub, tennis courts and
croquet, lawn and so forth. There’s a
reasonably good bus service (private en-
terprise), and a train which runs more or
less to time. .
If someone sends me a telegram, how-
ever, I have to go . along to collect it —
a friend warning me of. an approaching
visit usually arrives before his informa-
tory telegram. There’s a , telephone at
the post office, but it’s; shut from Satur-
day midday until Monday morning.
When it is working one; waits at the
counter for anything up to three or four
hours to get a call through ,to the city.
I can send a telegram, but as these have
to be despatched per ’phone in ah open
room a couple of feet from people wait-
ing for mail, all my business is known
to the general public as soon as the
telegram starts on its way.
We still wrestle with kerosene lamps and
candles since, although this is a “Hydro-
Electric State,” our guarantees weren’t
up to what the Commission wanted. The
Wife has also tp cling to the stove-heated
flat-iron and dream fondly of things like
electric toasters and kettles as something
which the children may see. And our
Parliamentarians tell us the country is
the backbone of the State! — South Esk
(Tas.),
Widows* Pensions
Why should there be such a distinction
between widows of soldiers and those
of civilians? The former, it seems, are
paid £2 ,10s. a week irrespective of length
and nature of husband’s service, their
own age or their income. Yet the
civilian’s widow may get £1 7s. 6d. if she
is over 50 years of age and has no more
than £1 a week income. Their children
are reckoned worth 17s. 6d, and 10s, re-
spectively.
Take the cases of two women I know.
The first, a war widow, gets £2 10s. pen-
sion and a good salary from a Govern-
ment department. She calls her pension
“pocket money.” The other, a widow
of a civilian who lived a long and useful
life and who raised a family of six sons
without any outside assistance, is now
left with yet another child after her
husband’s death. She gets 275. 6d. and
10s. for her child. She may, if she is
able, earn another £1 a week.—T. M. S.
(S.A.).
Hostels
With thousands of other servicemen
during the war years I enjoyed the facili-
ties offered by clubs and rest rooms
established by different welfare organisa-
tions. The empty hours could always be
filled by tea at some hostel, then a smoke
and a yarn with other fellows in a modest
but comfortable lounge. The more ener-
getic could play billiards or table tennis.^
With the end of the war the hostels
closed, there being no apparent re,ason
for their continued activity. Today, in
every capital city at lunch hour, shops
and business houses disgorge employees
by the hundreds, a great many of whom
are young men and women between the
ages of 16 and 24. Some crowd into
busy restaurants to wait anything up to
half an hour for service. Others, with
unappetising cut lunches, head for the
nearest park or gardens, which may be
blocks away. Others stay in their stuffy
offices.
If hostels such as those that catered
so well for the forces were revived they
would be very popular. Serviced either
by volunteers or paid helpers, their
rooms would offer congenial surround-
ings for meals or snacks for young
workers during the lunch hour. If they
need financial assistance they should find
plenty of ready subscribers. —D. H. R.
(Q-).
Colac in the News
It is a town of about 5700 people in the
Western District of Victoria, a part not-
able for the production of fine wool, fat
lambs, potatoes, dairy produce and foot-
ballers. By direct air-line from Sydney,
no deviations, it is about 500 miles; by
rail, about 700; by road —if you know
your roads—about the same. It is poss-
ible, by diligent search among Sydney’s
million and a half people, to find some-
one who has ( a ) lived in Colac, ( b ) spent
a day or so there, (c) passed through it,
or id) heard of it.
Ours is a big country, and it is to be
expected that there are communities —
like Colac and Sydney—so far apart in
time, habits and interests as to be
strangers to each other. All the same,
this sort of parochial ignorance is pass-
ing. Travel and communication are so
advancing that, in time, it may be poss-
ible to find in Sydney even two people
who can answer (a), ( b ), (c) or (d).
Indeed, the episode under notice brought
the two places close to each other for an
hour of mutual interest and intimacy.
In Colac one Wednesday there hap-
pened an event of vast national import-
ance, At once telegraph wires hummed,
other messages were stood aside, harried
newspaper staffs racing to beat the dead-
line paused, pencils flew, typewriters
clattered, linotype machines tinkled and
proof-readers became alert. In at least
one big Sydney newspaper office the
presses were stopped and new lines were
inserted in the “stop-press” column. Any
news item from anywhere that could do
all that must, necessarily, be of tremen-
dous import. Hence it was that, a few
minutes later, Sydney people, perhaps
concerned with the plight of snow-bound
Britain, found the breath-taking message
in red type:
COLAC RACES.
Warncoort. Corinthian Handicap.
Navarro 1, Patio 2, Old Bailey 3. Prices:
9/4, 3/1, 5/1.
“Where there are Irish there’s sure to
be fighting,” and where there are races
there’s sure to be reporting in Sydney,
in print or over the air.—S. H. C. (Q.).
Tuberculosis
“Pawang” (B. 5/2/’47) and “Ad Rem”
(B. 19/2/’47) confused primary and
secondary infections.
Primary infection is common —50 per
cent! of people aged 45 in a city the size
of Adelaide show a positive Mantoux
skin test, indicating that at some time
they have played host to the germ. In
98 per cent, of these positive skin testers
the infection has been a passing phase,
as the natural health of the host isolates
the genu in a hard little capsule about
the middle of the chest. The host is not
aware that anything untoward has hap-
pened. The remaining two per cent, will
break down, eventually be diagnosed and
need treatment.
As a rule the only people who
know they have been primarily in-
fected are trainee nurses and medical
students who are regularly skin-tested
and X-rayed. After three years of
clinical studies in a hospital, all 30-odd
members of my year were infected and
only one man had to receive treatment.
This was in a group of people subject to
daily spraying with the germ by patients.
After the primary phase there remain
two dangers—that the person becomes
reinfected or that his health deteriorates
and allows the germ to break free of its
capsule and spread. The patient then
enters the secondary phase—clinical T.B.
—and may be very sick. If he is still
moving freely among the community he
begins to infect other people.
Mass X-ray is definitely the shot. It
catches people with active secondary in-
fections and removes a source of infec-
tion to others. With good State laws
and adequate hospitals, no case of pul-
monary tuberculosis should be fatal.
There are only three causes of a fatal
termination —delayed diagnosis, lack of
beds for treatment and inadequate com-
pensation to the patient’s family, which
means he often leaves hospital pre-
maturely because of the dollar position.
Those who feel strongly on this sub-
ject are pattents and those whose job
it has been at some stage to say “Your
baby died of tubercular meningitis, and
I want you and your family to be tested
to see if thejre is any chest trouble pre-
sent.” There usually is. The Govern-
ment intends to spend a lot of money
making doctors into civil servants. They’ll
catch a lot of votes, but they won’t catch
the unsuspecting T.8.-spreader. Only
sufficient money to microradiograph the
people will do that.
If the money is provided T.B. can
be wiped out in this country —without
streptomycin, the value of which remains
to be proved.— Jock (Vic.),
Buying a House
Having tried for months to buy or
build a house, I gave up in disgust, only
to have luck take a hand. I called on
an ex-Air Force friend to buy a suit,
and was told he had no suits for sale
but did I want to buy house?
By doing everything according to
Hoyle we have, in the short space of two
months, arranged finance, mortgages and
even have the official approval of the
Treasury for the transaction. And now
I have before me the account from my
solicitors. It is a few shillings under
£5O, of which the Government gets by
far the largest share in the form of £1
tax for every £lOO of the purchase price.
That from a Government allegedly in
favor of helping ex-servicemen! Apart
from fees to Government departments all
the rest of the work involved in buying
the house —solicitors’ charges, probate
valuations and the like —was done for
half-price.
Most servicemen buying a home
have to float a loan through a bank or
building society. In these circum-
stances, any cash they have is needed for
furnishing and fittings. For me, £5O out
of £2OO-£3OO was a big slug just for
legal technicalities. Can’t the Govern-
ment waive its claims where an ex-
serviceman proves that he is buying a
home for his own use?— Broke (N.S.W.).
Shortage?
For weeks now I’ve been reading about
the appalling shortage of timber for home
building. At the same time my
work has taken me about most of the
suburbs of Sydney and along the Harbor
and river foreshores. Wherever I’ve gone
I’ve paid particular attention to the
timber-yards, expecting to see them about
empty.
Most yards I’ve seen, however, are
hives of industry and, as week suceeds
week, the stockpiles seem to grow. Are
these mountains of timber all too green
for use, or.is it all the wrong kind of
wood? Anyway, it seems crazy to read
of timber being unobtainable and, at the
same time, to see millions of feet of the
stuff stacked in the yards. Anyone ex-
plain, please?— Woqdpecker (N.S.W.).
Schooling
“Wombat” (B. 19/2/’47) effectively ex-
poses the weakness of a curriculum that
neglects the mental development of the
pupil while concentrating on manual
training. The “humanities” don’t pro-
duce visible results so rapidly as do the
handicrafts, but they are necessary to the
growth of the whole man, and their
absence makes itself conspicuous through-
out life.
Ignorance of history, literature, and
art leaves even a genius narrowminded,
superstitious, and intolerant. Reasonable-
ness is the result of wide knowledge. The
present tragic state of the world is en-
tirely due to the actions of a few clever
men of very meagre education who
gathered round them others of the same
class. Their ideals, ambitions, and
rffethods were necessarily crude because
of the utter absence of intellectual refine-
ment.
Hitler is the supreme example of what
can happen to a man who sees only one
side of a question because he has never
been taught the lessons of history or the
wisdom of the ages. Nazism is simply
glorification of manual ability and
the suppression of abstract thought.
To take an opposite example: If we
catch an aborigine young we can teach
him to build a fence or mind a machine
without raising his social status. On the
other hand I have met an aborigine who
was fitted to mix in the best society and
was welcomed in refined homes. The
only difference between him and others of
“Yair, this joint's a hive of industry."
“So you admit there ARE drones here!”
his race was that he had been taught to
read worthy books, to listen patiently, to
speak courteously, and to think clearly,
He was not* only “trained,” . but edu-
cated. —Strap (S.A.).
—
The Secret Ballot
The N.S.W. referendum on closing time
for pubs was an expensive but useful
lesson on the value of secret voting. The
opposing forces, judged by the way they
showed their hands and shouted their
slogans, were about equal. Both parties
used big print and made loud noises on
the platform. No onlooker, partisan or
neutral, could have assessed the relative
numbers behind the two sets of propa-
ganda. It’s safe to say that the leaders
on both sides were surprised at the final
count.
The rights and wrongs of the case are
not in question here, but we have been
shown that the blunt pencil in the booth
expresses individual and public opinion
better than the most eloquent articles or
orations.
The obvious moral is that the secret
ballot ought to be used in the conduct
of union business regarding strikes. The
decisions are often of great national im-
portance and can" seriously affect the
welfare of each unionist involved. The
secret vote is the only possible way of
measuring the mind of the majority, and
the man who objects to the method
tacitly admits that he is conscious of
being in the minority.— Demos (S.A.).
Unpaid Service
In the midst of all these strikes, isn’t it
time the employing section showed back-
bone? Wharfies, coalies or ironworkers
would rise in instant revolt if asked to
give even one minute of unpaid service.
Yet how many hours is the businessman
compelled to render, absolutely unpaid?
Collections of sales tax, wages tax and
payroll tax are all done for nothing. And
on top of all that, coupons! To cap all,
there are the savage penalties inflicted
for any slight delay in carrying out such
unpaid services. A Perth firm was fined
£lOO for a few days’ delay in rendering
the wage tax collected from its employees.
A test case might show that the
Commonwealth Government has not
the power to demand such unpaid ser-
vices.—Unext (W.A.).
The Abo,s
■ There is something incongruous in the
spectacle of Victorians getting all hot and
bothered about the troubles of the abo
in the Never Never when their own in-
digenes have almost vanished.
When 15 years ago Percy Leason set
out to paint the portraits of all the sur-
viving full-blooded blacks in Victoria he
could find only 30 after searching the
whole State. Most were old men, so there
must be far fewer now. Miscegenation
has no doubt increased the number of
half-castes, quarter-castes, etc.
In none of the schemes advanced for
the assistance of the remaining abos has
there been any suggestion of a realisa-
tion of the real nature of the problem.
When we think in terms of weeks or
months there is certainly a problem of
the disappearing abo, but if we think in
terms of centuries, the problem fades
into thin air.
No Stone Age men or Early Britons
walk the streets of London, and there
are not even any Romans, Saxons, Jutes
or Normans. The Early Briton was
absorbed into the Saxon and so forth
and so on, and are any of them the worse
for it? They would not have even known
that it was happening. The black is obvi-
ously fated to merge into the white
Australian, and in a few short generations
there will be no full-blooded Binghis,
except, possibly, in some remote and in-
accessible desert region.
Anthropologists and others will only
tend to slow down the process a trifle
and may even make it more painful by
trying to preserve the abo in his pristine
state of nature, which has been knocked
endways by the radio, newspapers, motor-
cars and aircraft.
When the natural abo comes in con-
tact with missionaries, Government
officials and other spearheads of civilisa-
tion, his customs, arts and crafts, which
were necessary tol his survival in his
primitive condition!, become superfluous
and ridiculous. Racial exclusiveness and
the prejudice aboujt color are the real
nigger in the woodpile, and a recent sug-
gestion that a new name—“Euralian”—
should be given to the half-caste is only
another manifestabjon of the latter.—
Nakhoda (Vic.),


What a Day Meant
C. F. J. Smith, a returned soldier and
airman from World War 11, was lucky
enough to draw a block in a ballot last
December. The block was a valuable
one in the Wilcannia district near Smith’s
home town of Broken Hill. He had in-
spected the land and was well pleased
with it. When his application came up
for confirmation, however, it was dis-
covered that it had been lodged a day
before he applied for his Qualification
Certificate under the War Service Land
Settlement Act.
This Act requires that, before making
an application for land, a soldier must
apply for his Qualification Certificate.
Consequently Smith’s application was
invalid, and the Land Board had to dis-
allow it. The Board cannot be blamed ;
but imagine this Digger’s feelings!
Intending applicants who are forward-
ing both applications by post should
allow several days or a week to elapse
after posting the Qualification Certificate
form before sending on the land applica-
tion. Smith said he posted both appli-
cations on the same day. Unfortunately,
as the land application is directed to the
Western Lands Commissioner while the
Q.C. goes to the Under Secretary for
Lands, they did not arrive at each office
simultaneously. But surely the man
should not be punished for being pardon-
ably ignorant of the ways of politicians 1
—A. C. (N.S.W.).
Post Offices
To the ordinary functions of post
offices, mails, telephones and telegraphs,
there has been added a multitude of
duties.
Post offices pay military, air force and
naval allotments, invalid and old-age
pensions, war pensions, widows’ pensions
and child endowment. They accept
repayments of housing, repatriation,
war-service homes and Rural Bank loans
and take money for Commonwealth
loans.
They act as agents for the Com-
monwealth Savings Bank, carry out elec-
toral duties and represent the Liquid Fuel
Control Board. They sell income-tax
stamps, beer-duty stamps, swine-tax
stamps, State duty stamps, savings stamps
and savings certificates. They distribute
almost every form issued by almost every
Government department. Broadcasting,
meteorological observations and pouring
bad beer down the drain for the Customs
Department are also in the day’s work.
A postal officer must have some know-
ledge of all those duties and a consider-
able knowledge of most of them. So far
there appears to be no indication that
any Government is in a hurry to recog-
nise the fact in a tangible way with an
increase of pay to postal officials as some
recompense for their greatly increased
work.—jACK (N.S.W.).
Clear as Mud
This contributor is happy to announce
that he is now in a position to explain to
taxpayers how assessments are arrived
at, Explanation, without more ado;
Take, for example, a married man with
two children who earns less than £lOOO a
year from personal exertion, has normal
medical and insurance expenses, and gets
a trifle of interest: —
“If the taxable income exceeds £3OO but
does not exceed £lOOO the rate of tax for
every pound of taxable income up to and
including £3OO shall be 44d. and the rate
of tax for every pound of taxable income
in excess of £3OO shall be 96.01 d., in-
creasing uniformly by .Old. for every pound
by which the taxable income exceeds £301.”
That worked out, you try this:
“If the taxable income exceeds £3OO but
does not exceed £lOOO the rate of tax for
every pound of taxable income up to and
including £3OO shall be 19d. and the rate
of tax for every pound of taxable income
in excess of £3OO shall be 66.01 d., increas-
ing uniformly by .Old. for every pound by
which the taxable income exceeds £301.”
Now add the first and second results
together, halve them and you have the rate
of tax on the man’s income, if that income
was all from personal exertion.
(At this stage have a stimulant.)
Now, since the man earned a fiver in
interest, we begin again and we find that:
“(a) For every pound of taxable income
derived from personal exertion, the rate of
tax shall be ascertained by dividing the total
amount of the tax that would be payable
under the First Schedule if the total tax-
able income of the taxpayer were derived
exclusively from personal exertion, by the
amount of the total taxable income. ( b )
For every pound of taxable income derived
from property, the rate of tax shall be
ascertained by dividing the total amount of
the tax that would be payable under the
Second Schedule if the total taxable income
of the taxpayer were derived exclusively
from property, by the amount of the total
taxable income.”
You have arrived at the gross tax. Now
for rebates. There is £lOO for the wife,
£75 for the first child, £3O for the second,
plus medical and insurance expenses. Mul-
tiply that total by the personal-exertion
rate of tax plus the rate of social-services
contribution.
There are rebates on the loan and savings
interest (remember that £5). If the bonds
were bought since January, 1940, it’s easy,
oemg 2s. in the £. If bought before then,
the rebate is the difference between the
present rate and the rate in 1930.
(Forty-eight hours’ rest is recommended
here.)
Fresh again, and with the figures before
you, now test the result to ensure that it
does not exceed the following:
(a) For the purposes of assessments for
the financial year the sum of the rebates
allowable under this Division shall not ex-
ceed the difference between the total tax
payable before allowing the rebates and an
amount equal to 50 p.c. of the amount of
tax which would have been payable (after
deducting all rebates) if the rates of tax
set out in the Income Tax Act, 1945, prior
to any amendment of that Act, had been
applied in the assessment of the taxpayer
and the amendments made by the Income
Tax Assessment Act (No. 2), 1945 (other
than the insertion of this paragraph), were
disregarded.”
The rebates having thus .been established,
they are deducted from the gross tax and
the net tax remains—at least, it should
remain. Now, with the income-tax rates
as a base, we can calculate the social-
services contribution. Absurdly simple:
“For every pound of contributable in-
come the rate of contribution shall be the
lesser of the following: (1) The rate
obtained by dividing by the amount of the
contributable income an amount equal to
the amount of income tax for which the
contributor would be liable to be assessed
for the year of contribution if ( a ) the rates
of income tax payable for that year were
the rates of tax declared in the Income Tax
Act, 1945, prior to any amendment of that
Act, reduced by 12J p.c.; and (6) the
rate of tax to be applied for the purpose
of ascertaining the amount of any rebate
were the rate ascertained in accordance
with the provisions of the Income Tax
Assessment Act, 1936, as amended up to
and including the commencement of the
Income Tax Assessment Act (No. 2), 1944;
or (2) The rate of 18d.”
This is not an appropriate time to start
thinking of Easter gifts. Besides: —
“(3) Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act, the amount of contribution
payable by a person for the financial year
ending June 30, 1946, shall be one-half of
the amount which would be payable by
him apart from this section.”
Finished? Not quite. There might be
10s. more or 12s. 4d. less interest on the
“I'll do the same for you some day when I get a car.”
loans and savings next year, so we have to
work out a provisional income-tax and
social-services contribution. Provisional in-
come tax is arrived, at by taking the tax
on the interest; but the provisional social-,
services contribution needs some thought.
It’s done like this:
“221YJ (v) For the purpose of ascer-
taining the provisional contribution payable
in respect of the income of the year of
income ending June 30, 1946, or the
accounting period (if any) adopted under
this Act in lieu of that year by a con-
tributor who is or was liable to pay income'
tax in respect of the income of the year
next preceding that year of income, that
contributor shall be deemed to have been
assessed to social-services contribution on
the income of that last-mentioned year, and
the amount of income deemed to have
been so assessed shall be (a) an amount
equal to 43J p.c. of the income tax pay-
able by the contributor in respect of the
income of that last-mentioned year; or
(b) an amount of 9d. in the £, whichever
is the less.”
Nothing remains but to consult a
specialist irj nerve diseases.—S. H. C.
(N.S.W.).
Production and Labor
Production, the experts tell us, is the
only means whereby we can hope to ap-
proach Mr. Chifley’s “golden age” ; and
even the Government itself proclaims be-
lief in that solution. Unfortunately the
State and Federal Governments between
them have one out of every four work-
ing people employed as public servants
who, on the whole, produce nothing more
than sheaves of forms and yards of red
tape. Their work, on present evidence,
seems more calculated to hinder and stop
production than anything else.
Ask any factory manager or private
employer what is the biggest single factor
affecting production. The answer in-
variably is not materials, not factory
space, but labor. And, obviously, while
commissions, boards, bureaus and the like
continue to absorb potential labor pri-
vate enterprise and productive effort will
suffer.— Hut 60 (N.S.W.).
Charitable Funds
Ingenuous official admissions that thou-
sands of tickets in N.S.W. “art unions”
have gone astray bring up the matter of
the control and supervision of the funds
of charitable, sporting and other kindred
organisations.
As a bank officer over 27 years I have
been associated with a number of such
bodies. In the main they are run by
well-meaning people who, in many in-
stances, have little knowledge of business
methods.
I have audited a number of books of
such institutions and have occasionally
written officials regarding the lax
methods of keeping the accounts. Gener-
ally the attitude is that they do not wish
to question in any way the work of the
secretary or treasurer lest he resign.
In my experience funds and goods col-
lected by such organisations are not
always fully used for the specific purpose
for which they have been collected. Any
move by the Government to increase
controls of these funds will be well
directed.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
The Doctor
“Simple Simon” (B. 19/2/’47) de-
nounces the B.M.A. and individual
doctors for not approving of a medical
social service scheme. I am not of the
profession nor in any way connected with
the 8.M.A., but I’ve been very closely
associated with doctors in an official
capacity. Indeed, I have seen thousands
of medical reports from hundreds of dif-
ferent doctqrs all over N. S. Wales, and
can claim to know a great number of
them either personally or by repute.
It’s not very difficult to determine rela-
tive ability—some are quite brilliant, while
others are just mediocre. For this reason
alone it seems reasonable to allow choice
of doctor by individual patients. But I
do know that the profession has very high
ethical principles, and that the great
majority of doctors are not influenced by
the financial positions of their clients.
This is not done as “charity” but from
purely humanitarian motives and
medicos do not advertise their benefac-
tions. A specialist is always worthy of
his hire, and yet practically every doctor
in Macquarie-street has given free treat-
ment and advice without being asked to
reduce fees.
“Simple Simon” overlooked the main
stumbling-block towards free service for
everyone, and that is the attitude of the
patients themselves. Every doctor knows
to his cost that a very large proportion
of his patients are malingerers and hypo-
chondriacs. His surgery is generally
crowded with such on “lodge” nights, and
often finds that the poorer classes are in
the majority, mainly because of lack
of general intelligence. Treatment of
simple disorders and minor ailments —
prescribing castor oil or bismuth, or
applying a bandage to a cut leg—takes
time which could often be better spent
on more serious casfes.
Conditions like these are likely to be
more frequent if free medical treatment
is made general. Also, methods of treat-
ment would tend to become orthodox and
lessen the doctors’ initiative when the
waiting list is increased ; and hypochon-
driacs demand the same amount of
attention as thfc genuine cases. If our
present medical students are only being
trained to become “panel” doctors with
a uniform salary we can expect only
mediocre proficiency from them in the
future. Brilliancy in the profession is
acquired by hard study and oppor-
tunity to deal with difficult cases. The
panel system limits such as these, —
C. E. T. (N.S.W.).
Defence
“Tidak Makan” (B. 26/2/’47) states a
self-evident truth, but it is being ignored
more pointedly every day. Mr. Dedman
has revealed that Australia’s defence
forces have been reduced to 60,133 for
all three services. This is 7367 below the
strength accepted by Cabinet at the end*
of 1946 as the minimum possible interim
defence force. Weapons and war
materials are being scrapped as quickly
as men. The country is fast reverting to
early 1939 ways.
I attended a four months’ Militia camp
in ’39. I was one of the lucky privates,
with a real .303 on issue. Most of the
chaps drilled with broomsticks. During
the last couple of months we got on to
really advanced training manoeuvres.
The manoeuvre was “the battalion in re-
treat.” We had the game sewn up when
the camp ended, but we’d have been
bushed if the order to advance had been
given by mistake.
Nine months on R.A.A.F. aircrew re-
serve was a bit thick. But there were no
planes for new trainees. So finally the
A.I.F. got a new recruit for its artillery
reinforcements. I was on a gun crew
for five months before I actually saw a
dial-sight. We were using an improvised
arrangement fashioned from two bits of
metal and a wealth of imagination. The
dial-sight was broken, incidentally, or we
wouldn’t have got it at all.
By then the Japs were Into New
Guinea and coming south fast. So we
were packed off to an Armored Division
in Queensland. Our arty unit was
camped 70 miles from the mob we were
supposed to be supporting. Unfortun-
ately our gun tractors didn’t have 70
miles left in them and were all practi-
cally grounded until they could be re-
placed. Guns? A mixture of 25- and
18-pounders and 4.5 howitzers. Ammu-
nition? A wooden practice round the
Q.M. found by accident when he was
cleaning up one day. Nothing “live.”
Once—and I’ll swear to this —we did
a divvy exercise. The artillery tractors
and gups were taken to the manoeuvre
area, 70 miles off, by train. And they
come back the same way.
This division was the last white hope
if the Nip landed in Queensland. This
was between March and June, 1943. Later
in the war, of course, things improved.
But I remember boongs spending weeks
laying down New Guinea airstrips when
a bulldozer would have done the job in
a day. And chaps coming back from
patrol and passing their boots and pants
over to an outgoing patrol. In Canberra,
meanwhile, the Army Minister was em-
phatically denying there were any equip-
ment shortages up north.'Complaints were
so bitter from all ranks that the officers’
privilege of censoring their own mail
was withdrawn.
As a p.-0.-w. “Tidak Makan” missed
most of this. When he reads about it
maybe he’ll realise even more fully how
important is his plea for an ample defence
force in Australia, amply equipped. We
were lucky last time. Mug Gunner
(Vic.).
S.P. and Racing
“A.S.” (B. 22/l/’47) complains that
the police do not take action against s.p.
operators. Personally I don’t approve of
gambling on ethical grounds. It is trying
to get something for nothing and without
rendering due service. It is an expression
of a widespread desire of many these
days to take from life and give nothing.
Still, we may as well honestly surmise
that the gambling spirit is in us all—if
we buy a block of land or a parcel of
shares we take a chance on a rise and a
quick profit.
I favor s.p. because it is less likely to
be costly for the small bettor or man
who likes to have a moderate interest in
certain races. The cost of taking your
wife out to the races on Saturday after-
noon runs to about two pounds, which
is beyond the means of the average
man. Also, it is a psychological
fact that in crowds a man is less emotion-
ally stable and cool reason is less in
control. He is, therefore, likely to bet
more extravagantly than when calmly
putting on a few shillings s.p.
I know that the clubs need crowds
to keep up the courses, pay expenses and
provide prizemoney. I don’t often go to
the races, but I let my head go recently
and thought that the comforts and
appointments were a credit to the clubs.
Bjit af Moonee Valley, for instance, the
horses went direct from saddling en-
closure to barrier, and all the public saw
of them was flashing past and walking in
after the race. The people in the Leger
saw practically nothing, and might just
as well have been home listening to the
radio. —R. M. L. (8.C.0.F., Japan).


m
• *
i
ssseßk Bcsch /sswu hm®* A&y ;4?s*2
PRODUCTS
HiliililMbMtMilMiHUlMMMliMMUa
s®
i
a
I
-
ViCitl
m
m
m
m
I
§
i
»
B
Mi
m
imp
m
m
m
■: '
1
Rh
ii
a
V
? A r
i>••:■>; .:>,
i- • •'
.l
.- ? >. ylr.V.i', v :
;\ «* •; •
ll-
a:
''y^p
iiil
m
wm
OA*
' '■' :
m
S9i
Ax
V SX\
rV-
M
Ni
M* 5
iippi
: . .
• • / ■: X V ; ■
ligil
>;St:SSj:fS|gg
/
1.. - * - •'■■ ■
<*■^l
'*»■>'-
Jc?
a : ■■■
Iflli
.
■
jpSsg
wef«jc£V V*g
.
fed
iv\£Vv;
s*s
Ax
k.
:' : : : ■•■. :'•
■.xi
i
■
2§ X ‘A
■ ••'. • - :
:• : v
w
• v :
!A
i&l
«' ■■ : : ;
: - ■■' XI
1 -
11
X
■
PM
W&4.
r y ?
*S®
I-.: ;.s : .v
Sx»*x
<&. *
‘
HE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
Industrial drama is graphically por-
trayed in the above picture showing
molten iron being poured into an open
hearth furnace at The Broken Hill
Proprietary's Newcastle Steel Works.
The manufacture of steel provides em-
ployment opportunities for thousands
of workers, and its subsequent shaping,
transport and fashioning into the count-
less steel articles used in our daily life
helps fill the nation's pay envelopes.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
also at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, London and Singapore*.
