

DRY
A PRODUCT OF THE
sssgg
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,Vol. 68 —-No. 3539
Wednesday, December 10, 1947
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a. Newspaper,,
Seppelts
NORTH BERWICK’S PRIDE IS THE DOUGLAS’S TANTALLON CASTLE
STANDING at the entrance to the Firth of Forth, twenty-three
miles from Edinburgh, North Berwick is a royal and muni-
cipal burgh which annually attracts thousands of holiday-makers.
Chief point of interest in the district is “Tantallon hold,” referred
to in Scott’s “Marmion.” This castle, pictured above, was built in
some remote period of Scotland’s history by whose hand is not now
known, but was formerly owned by the Earls of Fife and more
latterly by the Dalrymple family, who carried out several restora-
tions. Off the coast opposite Tantallon may be seen the Bass Rock,
a mass of basalt rising to 320 feet. There is a ruined castle on
Bass Rock which was formerly used for the confinement of English
prisoners and Covenanters. The rock may be landed upon during
calm weather from a small boat hired from Canty Bay on the
mainland.


11l
til
ill
nl HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU! •
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Front a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin." ' ‘
My Name
« 1( -i a; * ( . 4
tly Address
W 7 AGffi...*,»«,
BOOK SUGGESTIONS FOR CHRISTMAS ...
KING COTTON, by Thomas Armstrong.
A novel about the cotton trade. Another
great triumph for the author of “The
Crowthers of Bankdam.” 15/- (post 9d.).
VAIL, D’AEVERY, by Frances P. Keyes.
A sequel to “River Road,” and one of her
finest novels of Louisiana. 13/6 (post 5f1.).
THE HOUSE OF WINSTON BEAKS®, by
Edith McKay.
A new novel of Queensland —the story of a
successful draper and his family.
- 9/6 (post 4d.).
GREEN GRASS OF WYOMING, by Mary
O’Hara.
A fine new novel by the author of “Thunder-
head” and “My Friend Flicka.”
11/- (post 3d.).
FORTUNE, SMILE ONCE MORE, by Mary
Eloyd Williams.
The love story of an Australian convict and
a beautiful lady’s maid in early San Fran-
cisco’s days. 11/6 (post 4d.).
FETING DOCTOR CAEEING, by Ernestine
Hill.
The true story of one of the greatest human
achievements in Australia’s history—the story
of the Flying Doctors. 10/6 (post 5d.).
BURMA SURGEON RETURNS, by Gordon S.
Seagrave.
The sequel to “Burma Surgeon’’; tells of
the return to Burma of the Seagrave Medical
Unit. 10/6 (post 4d.).
THIS IS AUSTRAEIA.
A magnificent edition—4oo pages of excellent
photography. (Size 12 x9J inches.)
37/6 (post 8/-)-
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD., 424 George Street,
Box 1521, GJP.O,
The Red Page
"SINGING TO THE CATTLE."
If only because it does not contain an
essay on Tom Collins, Brian Elliott’s
Singing to the Cattle (Georgian House)
should be welcomed by all students of
Australian literature. Tom is a good fel-
low, and a classic, and a bore, and lately
we have had altogether too much about
him.
Another negative but positively delight-
ful virtue that may be claimed for Sing-
ing to the Cattle is that Mr. Elliott,
whatever his private politics may be, does
not criticise literature from the Leftist
viewpoint. This enables him to make a
little joke sometimes. He is able to
criticise Bernard O’Dowd as a poet in-
stead of having to wave a banner for
him as a social reformer. Though he
mildly disapproves of the Nietzschean
tendencies in Baylebridge’s philosophy
he does not have to be tormented on the
subject. He is left free to be tormented
by Baylebridge’s poetry.
It is not really courteous, either to the
individual or the nation, to begin a re-
view of a book of critical essays by con-
gratulating the author on not being
totally unfitted for literary discussion ;
yet, the general run of Australian criti-
cism being what it is 1 , some amazed ad-
miration of Singing -to the Cattle is
irresistible. Mr. Elliott is even able to
write entertainingly about Steele Rudd
and to evaluate him not as the mouth-
piece of the cocky farmer, ground down
beneath the heel or the wheel of capital-
ism, but as an artist and a humorist. He
is worth quoting on what the commer-
cial radio has done to the immortal Dad
and Dave; —.
The original stories were a richly
humorous interpretation, based firmly in a
real state of affairs. Dramatisation, the
localisation in the theatre or, equally
disastrous, in that unreal, completely dimen-
sionless world of the radio theatre —forced
an entirely new and incongruous function on
Davis’s figures. They were required to
amuse rather than to interpret. They were
required to cease being comic in order to
become comical; to leave off being laughed
with and to content themselves with being
either sentimentally slobbered over or
simply laughed at. This was conditioned,
of course, by the shift of the social
incidence: the pieces had to please the
theatregoers, the ruck of city audiences.
The suburban masses were in no position
to judge sympathetically of the Rudd
family’s misfortunes. So the Rudd family,
instead of remaining splendidly at the level
of the genuinely comic, descended to be-
come a set' of vulgar clowns designed to
appeal only to the jejune tastes of the
metropolitan mob.
It would be misleading to suggest, how-
ever, that Singing to the Cattle is fully
as satisfying in its field as, with its humor
and with the sturdy humility of the fair
dinkum, is On Our Selection among the
minor classics of Australian fiction. The
Steele Rudd article itself, admirable
within its limits, is somewhat meagre—
no mention of that marvellous boy Joe,
a youth to be compared with Huck Finn
and the ragamuffins of Saturdee; no
mention of that wildly funny scene when
Cranky Jack sees his bearded face In the
mirror, cries out “Me father!” and tries
to slay his parent with an axe; no men-
tion of Dad’s sublime rages. To discuss
these specific details was not, of course,
necessary; but the article might well
have been expanded. The virtue of T.
Inglis Moore’s Six Australian Poets was
that he attempted criticism on the major
scale, the full-length essay, not the
“note,” not the “preliminary study,”
short, easy, deliberately minor.
Lacking detail, the Steele Rudd article
also lacks gusto—a complaint that may
be made against the boolf. as a whole,
though most of the other essays are
longer and more satisfactorily illustrated
by quotation and example. There’s not
much fun in Singing to the Cattle, few
fireworks. This, again, may be regarded
as a negative virtue—the absence of ith-
passioned error—accompanying which is
ttie charm of a tranquil and diffident
ucidity. It is certainly not necessary for
? f ? terS *° roar; y £t Arnold
a HnH l °S u?°, W ? te tem Perately, have
tainty and authoritynot to betound^fn
S"raShe? tam k a pleasant
If there is a major fault in the care-
fully qualified essays it is, perhaps, that
Mr. Elliott confuses the wish to. produce
great art with the fulfilment of that
wish. It is noticeable that nearly all his
essays deal with writers whom he him-
self, while searching for merits in their
work, regards as inferior or eccentric:
some very minor versifiers preaching and
practising nationalism in contemporary
Australian poetry; the earliest bush bal-
ladists ; William Hay’s novels; the poets
of the Celtic Twilight; Baylebridge;
O’Dowd.
Without grave insult to Australian
poetry as a whole, one cannot reason-
ably maintain, as Mr. Elliott does, that
a writer 4 who has written only one poem
“which is able to stand by itself as a
work of art” and who “lacks completely
every sort of charm” is nevertheless
“among the best of our Australian
poets.” One may respect the personality
of men who had high ideals and pas-
sionate seriousness, who labored hard
and copiously in the arts, who produced
monstrous and unreadable books, but
that does not qualify them —except per-
haps in the older sense of the term ; and
Mr. Elliott uses it in its modern impli-
cation —for the magnificent label of
“genius.”
Consider, for instance, the essay on
Baylebridge, whom Mr. Elliott considers
to have had “genius of a kind.” Mr.
Elliott regards Baylebridge as “the prime
example of a ‘hard’ author; hard to get,
hard to read and hard to like.” He says
that the poet reminds him of the frog
who wanted to be as big as a bull. He
says he doesn’t know whether Baylebridge
was a man inspired or “an incurable
bigot, a bore, a flag-flapper and a hum-
bug.”
These are unkind terms to apply to a
genius, even a “kind of genius.” Does
Mr. Elliott, then, find artistry in the
poems to compensate for all he dislikes
in the poet’s work? One cannot believe
that a critic of his sensibility really thinks
that the piece he quotes, with very tem-
perate enthusiasm, is anything more than
prose (and gawky prose at that) mas-
querading as verse:—
And, quickened thence, I knew
That the conception that flowered thus
And the reconception in me
Were essentially one thing—•
That mine was the post-dating
Of the meaning that wrought there.
And this but the ante-dating
Of my own—
and he concludes his survey of Life’s
Testament feeling “rather quizzed than
poetically moved.” And yet, Baylebridge
has “genius of a kind” and is “certainly
one of Australia’s six most important
poets.” Good poets don’t leave one feel-
ing “quizzed” but exalted. Though part
of his admiration derives from Bayle-
bridge’s prose, Mr. Elliott is obvi-
ously transferring his respect for
Baylebridge the man—“one readily
credits him with a strong personality, and
a vigorous and energetic spirit”—to
Baylebridge the artist. Anybody—a dust-
man —with a strong personality and a
vigorous and energetic spirit may have
“genius of a kind”: but not necessarily,
it should be made clear, of an artistic
kind.
Some minor points could also be made
against the book. It would be as well,
for example, to spell Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald’s name correctly... An otherwise
excellent survey of some Australian his-
torical novels emphasises the necessity for
the “interpretation” of history without
reference to the prime function of the his-
torical novel as of any other: the por-
trayal and dramatisation of character...
It seems hardly fair to link Hugh Mc-
Crae’s satyrs (which are a vital, personal
fantasy) with the thin and derivative
fairies of Victor Daley and David Mc-
Kee Wright . . . “Banjo” Paterson was
not a “Bottom Dog”: it was the horse-
man and the aristocrat who disliked “the
moneyed classes in the cities, politicians
and officialdom generally” ... The
Animals Noah Forgot is too delightful,
and too skilful, to be dismissed as
“some children’s verses” . . . Mr. Elliott
seems to overrate D. H. Lawrence as a
poet. . . And, lastly, the theory that “the
whole vigor of the [old bush] ballad
tradition” arose from *the necessity of
“singing to the cattle” needs considerable
modification: wherever men are lonely
and living in primitive conditions they
make ballads to amuse themselves, to
express and immortalise themselves.
The desirability of informing the cattle
that there was a drover about must have
helped to spread and preserve the bush
ballads, but, after all, English songs would
have suited the bullocks just as well.
But it is, surely, an interesting book
which raises such points for discussion.
And Singing to the Cattle is more than
interesting ; it is a genuinely valuable con-
tribution to Australian criticism. Minor
complaints aside, the expert and merci-
less analyses from which Mr. Elliott pro-
ceeds to his (frequently) merciful and
erroneous conclusions leave nothing to
b© desired. If he entitled his next book
Bellowing at the Cows we might have
more consistent criticism, but we would
undoubtedly lose something in civilisa-
tion and urbanity.
"Camellia Quest."
Hats, poets and painters who fall tem-
porarily out of fashion may draw some
encouragement from Professor E. G.
Waterhouse’s Camellia Quest (Ure Smith
Pty., Ltd.), for, the world being an absurd
planet, even the camellia, it appears, lost
public favor in Australia from about
1900 to 1920.
In the early days, when, according to
the historical novelists, the population was
chiefly occupied in drinking rum and
grabbing land or, at best, importing sheep,
the flower was cultivated and prized. A
single plant, “Jenny Lind,” sold in London
for £2OO in 1855, and in Australia there
was as much enthusiasm as in Europe.
Even in “S. M. Herald’s” report of the
Horticultural Improvement Society’s
Camellia Show of July, 1856 —“Fore-
most in every arrangement for competi-
tion and in every prize awarded to
Camellias we must name Mr. Guilfoyle”
—one can detect the note of lyricism.
Michael Guilfoyle, whose “Exotic
Nursery” was located at Double Bay,
Sydney, comes second on Professor
Waterhouse’s li?t of pioneer camellia
fanciers. First are the Macarthurs, of
Camden Park:
Camden Park was the first great source
of supply for camellias within Australia.
Some 68 camellias are still growing on the
estate. A number of these must date back
to 1840 or earlier; others are seedlings
of Macarthur’s raising. A number of these
plants are still strong and vigorous, while
others are in a sad state of decline and
cannot survive for long. In recent years
one after another has died out. It has
been possible to identify a number of them
from color-plates and descriptions in
camellia literature and from a few of the
original labels found embedded in the
trunks of the trees. This camellia plan-
tation remains an important source of
study for the camellia lowr, and it should
still be possible to make further identi-
fications.
Though a few such paragraphs are of
historical interest and though the book
has been decoratively produced with four
paintings in color and six in black-and-
white by Adrian Feint and Paul Jones (a
new variety of camellia grown by Pro-
fessor Waterhouse has, incidentally, been
named after Mr. Feint) Camellia Quest
can hardly have been intended for general
reading. Embodying Professor Water-
house’s expert knowledge and the results
of his researches at the Mitchell Library
into the Camden Park and other records,
it is “a beginning... .with an attempt to
trace Australia’s contribution in produc-
ing new varieties of camellias.”
The edition is limited to 550 copies,
and the publishers say that similar mono-
graphs, published in Europe in the middle
of last, century, are now “rarities of
colossal cost,”
For Christmas Dinner.
Most books that come in for review
are, one way or another, food for thought.
William Wallace Irwin’s The Garrulous
Gourmet (Shepherd Press) is a little dif-
ferent, being, as the title suggests, thought
for food. It is, in fact, a cookery book.
It tells you how to serve Romanoff Straw-
berries, for instance;
This simple but marvellous preparation
is said to have been a favorite with that
mystic ass, the Czar Alexander I of Russia
—he that was so often beaten by Napoleon.
To make it, crush ripe strawberries to half-
fill an ordinary table glass, pour in enough
red port to fill up the glass, stir, cover with
a little saucer to keep in the perfume and
let it repose in the refrigerator for 24 hours.
To serve: Strain well, pressing to get out
all the scented liquor, and pour it over a
bowl of well-sugared strawberries. Tell the
family to snuff up that odor, for it smells
as delightful as it eats.
A cookery book need not, of course,
be literary, or even literate, to be useful,
nor to be popular, nor to make attractive
idle reading for those who like to indulge
in a sort of gastronomic window-shop-
ping. Angus and Robertson are reputed
to have had such enormous sales for their
eminently practical American cookery
book that novelists’ mouths water at the
thought and poets go mad and hang
themselves. Mr. Irwin, as the quotation
shows —and it is less garrulous by half
than his usual recipes—serves a little light
literature with his 'meals. He talks while
he cooks, makes jcjkes and makes phrases.
Too mqch of that sort of thing would
make him a dilettante. He might write
about food the way the Sitwells write
about art and history and poltergeists—-
a great deal of padding to a very small
helping of pudding. But the admirable
thing about The Garrulous Gourmet is
that Mr. Irwin dojes not fall into this
trap. If he loves words well, he loves
food even more ; and so, if the compari-
son is not too august, he is a kind of
culinary Izaak Waltpn—for the value of
The Compleat Angler is not only that
it is a graceful work of literature, but
that it is, to this day, a practical hand-
book for fishermen. And The Garrulous
Gourmet is a completely practical book
for cooks.
More than that, it is practicable. Deal-
ing only with French cooking, it might
seem like a beautiful dream to the ordi-
nary housewife—if any man’s wife can
safely be called ordinary. But Mr.
Irwin’s subject is not the haute cuisine of
the Parisian restaurants, but French
home-cooking; how to make “La Bonne
Soupe” out of the humble potato and
the sacred vegetable of the Welsh, the
übiquitous leek ; how to make the perfect
Sauce Bercy for a grilled steak, and how
not to pour this masterpiece over the
steak ; how to make chive cheese, though
not how to buy the beer that should go
with it; how to serve cold fish on a hot,
night; the perfect way to cook green
peas; how to prepare Napoleon’s dish,
Chicken Marengo ... dozens of such
recipes, all presented in a manner per-
fectly easy to follow and with so pleasant
a flow of anecdote, light wit and high
spirits that, if the dishes did not demand
to be tried out, one could read the book
simply for amusement.
The author, unexpectedly, is secretary
to the American Chamber of Commerce
in Paris. Apparently he has friends in
Australia to whom he sent the mss. of
The Garrulous 'Gourmet. When it has
been read and digested as widely as it
deserves to be he should have a lot more
friends in this country. The book should,
of course, make an ideal Christmas pre-
sent ; the more so since the format is/
appetising and it is garnished with light-
hearted drawings.
Reviewed Briefly .
Paddle-Wheels Away ! by Will Lawson
(F. X. Thwaites Pty., Ltd.). A Murray
River steamer story wherein Dan Dailey,
apparently kicked out of his Monaro
home, takes to the Murray, eventually
buys a boat, calls her Shadrach after an
incredible abo. cook with an incredible
education, loses her, joins the police,
arrests a bunch of the striking shearers
who burned the Rodney, and providen-
tially inherits the Monaro station when
his creator seems stuck with him. There’s
a nostalgic interest for old river roamers
in the boats and pubs and landing places.
♦ * * *
Galloping Wheels, by Will Lawson and
Tom Hickey (Angus and Robertson): A
readable yarn about a boy from the
country who wants to be an engine-driver,
and becomes one; taking in the Eveleigh
Workshops, and railway routes through-
out N.S.W. The chief merit of the book is
that—after the Americans —unfamiliar
materials are utilised, and, in the mechani-
cal sense, the wheels really do gallop. A
foreword by Hartigan, the N.S.W. Rail-
ways Commissioner, and illustrations by
Such.
* * * *
Poppy Faces the World, by Pixie
O’Harris (Angus and Robertson), is a book
for schoolgirls in which Poppy Treloar
enters the art world, courageously faces
misfortune, meets an agreeable young
man who is subsequently bombed by the
Japs and, generally, has a jolly time.
Good of its kind.
* * * *
A Nation Grew Wings, by Bruce
Graham and Frank Smyth (Robertson
and Mullens); The joint authors describe,
with admirable clarity and comparative
brevity, the history of the R.A.A.F. Beau-
fort in New Guinea. No. 100 Squadron,
joined in Milne Bay by No. 6, augmented
at Goodenough by No. 8. Good photo-
graphs add to the clarity of the picture.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
&<'<*
f
It’s a problem isn’t it, to think of something useful and
attractive for a man who has just about everything . . ,
However, Anthony Horderns’ can make shopping as simple as A B C
this Christmas, and suggest you cal! into the store and see their very
extensive range of Christmas gifts.
s'
i
I
U|
a
il
S 8
A-
:
T
■<. ..
H
I S <
m
m
m
m>
mm
II
-.
Mill
■
mm
111
ss
«
/
i&l
:«ii
H
w
’PHONE; M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
A. —“Classique” Braces in striped web-
bings with braid ends. 4/-, 5/6,7/9, 8/5
B. — Crocodile Crain Calf Leather
Tobacco Pouch, rubber lined and fitted
with slot to hold cigarette papers . . 15/1
With gold shield for engraving . . . 20/-
C. —Greenandco Nickel-plated Cigarette
Lighter fitted with wind shield and tank
to hold lighter fluid. Price 13/9
D. — Smokers’ Stand in chrome with a
mirror tray, complete with match box
holder and glass ash tray. Price, 63/-
E. — Flexmastcr Slippers, in Brown only,
Grecian or Albert style full and half
sizes. Price 23/-
F. —Art Silk Brocade Dressing Gown in
Green, Blue or Maroon. Sizes SM, M
and OS. 10 coupons. Price, £2/14/-
Also in check wool, medium weight.
Sizes SM, M, OS. 6 coupons. £2/11/-
C. —Wonderful assortment of Ties, in-
cluding Fancy Foulard 5/5, and Fancy
Art Silks 5/3, 7/3, 11/9. “Weimar”
Striped Wool 4/6
All Dressing Gowns, Ties, Braces, etc., available Mercery
Department, Ground Floor, George Street.
Tobacco Pouches, Cigarette Lighters, etc., available Tobacco
Department, Ground Floor, George Stteet.
Slippers from Mens Shoe Dept., Ground Floor, Pitt Stteet.
Smokers’ Stand, Fancy Goods Dept., Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
if
|i!l
I
ill
mt't
RJW}* Mm
■ li
■
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
fs
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con- , ara _ = ___ OT __.
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
BARKO
A Compendium of the Elements of Law
in Language Intelligible to the Layman.
OUTLINE OF
LAW IN AUSTRALIA
By JOHN BAALMAN,
Barrister-at-Law.
Law enters into nearly every relation of
social and civic life from birth to death.
A grasp of its main principles affords
an incomparable intellectual training.
PRICE 17/6
1947
THE LAW BOOK CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA PTY. LTD.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane.
LEARN TO MAKE A
CLOV fK
Entertaining is twice as easy twice as
happily informal if a cocktail which
“hits the spot” is served.
Here is one which tastes delicious, is
quite simple to prepare, and has that
“difference” which makes people look
hopefully for a second one.
I
'v
■
■iht
M
< .-?,
v:-' -
=V
ft®®
Hi
llli
Mix Vickers Gin and Italian
Vermouth in the proportion of
2 Vickers to 1 Vermouth,
according to number of cocktails
required. Add white of one egg
and juice of half an orange. Add
crushed ice, whip, strain, and
serve with a cherry.
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
From the world's most famous and popular recipes
50 reliable, appetising and easy-to-make cocktails
and long drinks have been collected in an attractive
FREE book. You may have a copy with pleasure
by writing to The United Distillers Pty. Ltd,,
P.O. Box 759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
it**
VGIS/33
Missing Friend.
COOKE.—IF ISAAC ROBERT COOKE, formerly of
Tilbuster Creek, near Armidale, Dumaresq Shire,
New South Wales, a Brother of the late Edward
James Cooke, of 62 Leamington Road, Southend-on-
Sea, Essex, will communicate with CALLINGHAM
GRIFFITH & BATE, Solicitors, 1 New Square,
Lincoln’s Inn, London, England, he will hear of
something to his advantage.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Whereabouts of W. W. Reynolds, one-time
cycle salesman of Sydney.—4lsB.
To buy portable typewriter.—4ls9.
To buy or rent house in Lismore (N.S.W.)
in exchange for house at Ryde, Sydney.—4l6o.
To buy copies of The Black Police of Queens-
land by Kennedy, The Black War in Tas-
mania, definitive edition of Poems of Henry
Lawson (3 vols.), and files of The Bulletin
(1914 to 1918).—4161.
Information Sought.
Particulars of the Beyers and Holterman gold
nugget ?
It was discovered in 1872 in a lode in Beyers
and Holterman’s claim at Hill End (N.S.W.),
a mass of gold found in situ. The largest such
mass of gold ever found, it weighed 75600 z.,
being 4ft. 9in. high, 2ft. 2in. wide, and was
originally valued at £12,000.
* * * *
(1) Method of mosquito control in a septic-
tank system ? (2) How to get rid of mosquitoes
on a verandah?
(1) Mosquito-proof the induct and educt vents
and see that manhole and expansion-eye covers
fit tightly. (2) Use one of the commercial house-
hold sprays, containing both D.D.T. and knock-
down agent, such as thanite, lethane or pyre-
thrin. The presence of these materials is stated
on the label.
* * * *
Biographical details of A. J. Cronin, author
of “The Citadel’’ ?
He was bora July 19, 1896, at Cardross,
Scotland, and was educated at Dumbarton
Academy. His medical studies at Glasgow
University were interrupted by World War I,
in which he served as sufgeon sub-lieutenant.
In 1919 he sailed for India as ship’s surgeon,
held various hospital appointments, and prac-
tised in South Wales. In 1925 became an
M. and practised in London until his health
failed in 1930. It was while convalescing in
the West Highlands that he wrote Hatter’s
Castle, which became a best-seller. Since then
he has devoted himself to writing.
3£ Jjc 5k *
After whom is the Condamine River ( Qld .)
and Condamine-street, Manly ( N.S.W. ), named?
Thomas de la Condamine, a resident in
N. for some years and held in high re-
gard by Governor Darling. He was born 1797,
and after passing through Sandhurst was in
1825 commissioned lieutenant in the 57th
Regiment. He joined Darling’s staff as aide-
de-camp and military secretary, but his chief
interest appears to have been in education,
valuable assistance being rendered by him in
connection with early efforts to provide techni-
cal and other scholastic facilities. He also
helped to found, in 1826, a circulating library
which was the nucleus of the present N.S.W.
Public Library. He returned to England with
Darling, and died 1873.
* * * *
(1) What was the cost of the Tjrans-Australian
Railway and from what source was the cost
derived ? (2) Was the construction of the
railway financed from the note issue without
cost to the Commonwealth?
(1) It was completed in October, 1917, and
the capital cost at June 30, 1918, was £6,899,000.
Further capital additions brought the total cost
at June 30, 1947, to £9,361,000. This amount
was provided from revenue account £2,723,000,
and from loan account £6,638,000. (2) Of the
£6,638,000, approximately £5,300,000 was bor-
rowed from the notes fund and £1,338,000
borrowed partly from other Commonwealth trust
funds and partly from the public. The greater
portion of notes-fund moneys lent to the
Treasury for this purpose was profits derived
from interest on investments.' These loans were
subject to interest at rates varying from 3i
per cent, to 4} per cent, per annum and a
sinking fund of 10s. per cent. p.a. was pro-
vided. When the note issue was handed over
to the Commonwealth Bank in 1920 debt to
the amount of approximately £3,428,000 in re-
spect of the East-West Railway was redeemed
from the accumulated profits of the notes fund.
The balance of the debt on account of the
railway forms part of the public debt of the
Commonwealth which matures at various dates
and is being redeemed in the ordinary way
through the National Debt Sinking Fund.
* V * *
Where and when was Primo Camera born ?
From whom did he win the world’s heavyweight
boxing championship, and who beat him for it ?
Where is he now?
Camera was born in Sequals, Italy, on
October 28, 1906. Won world heavyweight
title when he knocked out Jack Sharkey (sixth
round) at Long Island City, N.Y., on June
29, 1933. Max Baer tk.o.’d Camera (11th
round) for championship in same stadium on
June 14, 1934. Camera is now an outstanding
attraction as a wrestler in New York and other
American cities.
Brief Answers.
H.L.: The Valkyries in Scandinavian myth-
ology were the messenger maidens of Odin.
, Their special function was to kill the heroes
selected for death in battle, and to conduct
them when dead to Valhalla A. 8.: (1) Fees
and agent’s charges incurred in the granting of a
patent are regarded as expenditure of capital or
of a capital nature. (2) In cases where income is
derived from the use of a patent and such
income is being shown in income-tax returns
lodged, expenses not of a capital nature would
be an allowable deduction J.K.: Larry
Foley was born at Sofala, near Bathurst
(N.S.W.), on December 24, 1847, and died at
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, on July 12,
1917. He won bare-knuckle heavyweight cham-
pionship from Abe Hicken at Echuca (N.S.W.)
on March 20, 1879. Foley never fought for
the Australian heavyweight championship under
Marquis of Queensberry rules... .A.T.H.: The
'widow may apply for a widow’s pension under
the Federal Social Services Consolidation Act.
H.A.C.: The widow may be eligible for
a partial Age pension if she has had 20 years’
continuous residence in Australia and is other-
wise qualified to receive a pension. _ If her
interest in the estate of her husband is valued
at £650 or more, n 6 pension would be payable.
Not possible to state the amount of pension
to which she would be entitled, as the value
of her assets is not known. • Forms of appli-
cation may be obtained qt the post office
A.J.W.: Maximum selling prices of motor
tyres of all types are fixed by Prices Regulation
Orders Nos. 2815, 2883 and 3050. These
maximum prices refer to sales in any part of
the Commonwealth. Copies of the Prices
Regulation Orders may be obtained from
N.S.W. Prices Branch, 115 Pitt-street, Sydney,
at 3d. per copy... .G.R.: Food for Britain
Appeal, 114 Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
I.S.McK.: The New Guinea coin is not valu-
able. There are good supplies in Sydnqy and
the local selling price is 6d. The letters On the
reverse side are ERI in monogram... .F.E.C.
and S.C.P.: Cement and Concrete Assoc, of
Australia, Yorkshire House, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney J.D.: The Douglas aircraft which
departed from- Biak for Australia on Septem-
ber 18, 1945, was not heard of after take-off
and extensive searches along all possible routes
have failed to reveal any trace of aircraft
or passengers... .E.G.: (1) An ordinary edition
which has the same color-plates as the de-luxe
sells* at 245. 4d. and can be bought from
Spencer’s Bookshop, Melbourne. (2) Yes,
write to the National Art Gallery of N.S.W.
for further information T.H.K.: (1) and (2)
Write Victoria Racing Club, Melbourne. (3)
Scratchings include only those on the day of
the race....R.F.H.: (1) Yes, but you cannot
use the words “architect” or “architectural”
in describing your drawings or your work. (2)
No, persons doing such work charge what they
can get G. 0.5.: Trees are always difficult
to raise from seed. Method usually is to soak
seed for at least half an hour in hot water
and then plant in a box or seed-bed containing
equal parts of bush humus, coarse sand and
loam. A covering of glass is often a decided
help, but it should be lifted as soon as seed-
lings show; and the soil must be kept moist.


Divorce Notices.
Xjj THK SUPREME COURT OFJNEVVSOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM YEO HADLOW.—TAKE NOTICE that
ALICE MAY HADLOW has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2047 of 1947 on the grounds of de-
sertion for 3 years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 2nd of January 1948 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
W. D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JAMES GARDNER.—TAKE NOTICE
that ANNA WILHELMINA GARDNER has filed a
Petition in Divorce No. 4502 of 1947 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend the suit
you may enter an appearance by the 6th day of
January 1948 at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney and a copy of this peti-
tion may be had without charge from S. S. MIT-
CHELL, Solicitor, Bank Comer, Wickham. —(1.5.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO BERTHA JANE REED late of C/o Mrs. Lucy
Metcalf 8 Cook Street Lidcombe.—TAKE NOTICE
that CHARLES REED has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4613 of 1947 on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend this suit you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the sth day
of January 1948 A copy of the petition herein may
be obtained without charge from MESSRS. MAN-
NING RIDDLE & CO., Solicitors, 14 Martin Place,
Sydney, Agents for JOHN FOXTON LE FEVRE,
of 22 Main Street, Lithgow, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner. — (1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO C/^
-9,
n
Sweet
dD
ry
an
Cinzano, the world's best Vermouths and
the world's finest aperitifsl
9/«P/
SHinOHlaan
VZNID
ORY
CINZANO &a
m •voiin uy
SAVE mHT
ocw
■:>k'
WtK YOU
m
USE
SH TW[I6HT ttst*» l
Finished In woven-striped, wafer-
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
it increasing.
Made
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
m
mm&m
W&
II
m
m
if
-Kv
sags
M.
u
s
'I.,
yys^M
■#W/M
vm
m§m
SANTA CLAUS
DEPENDS ON YOU
Many people have a vague idea that sometime in the futuie
they’ll come to own a good deal of money. They don’t know how
or when, but go along from day to day believing that in some mysterious
way a financial Santa Claus will surely fill their stockings.
It’s easy to be lulled into this false feeling of security . . . much easier
than to make the effort of saving money.
But only one Santa Claus is going to look after you—and he’s yourself!
Be your own Santa Gaus . . . start saving to-day for the benefit of future
years . .'. to make sure of security and prosperity later, when you and
your family are older.
Save regularly, and invest your savings in Bonds and Savings Certificates—
your funds increase at better than bank interest, with absolute safety.
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR FUTURE
AND AUSTRALIA’S
1. Buy only what you really need.
Spend wisely—get full value. Save
all you can. 2. Pay no more than
the fixed or regular prices. Always
surrender coupons. 3. Don’t waste
money on blackmarket goods.
4. Pay your way. Settle your debts.
Buy for cash. 5. Invest your
savings, at better than bank
interest, in Commonwealth Bonds,
Savings Certificates and Stamps.
Later on you’ll have the money,
plus the interest, to spend on better
goods in plentiful supply at better
values. Hold all the Bonds and
Certificates you own.
Save for Security-
BUY BONDS AND
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
N 532.113.117
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor. •
M. de L.: Impossible to say more than that
they are fairly good for schoolgirls... .P.S.C.:
Try something shorter for “Smoke-oh”
1.A.M.; No more like that, please. We’re
trying to keep the Religious Editor off the beer
this Christmas.... Spud: You will not be
planted here... .0.C.D.: Goodge did the dismal
stockman much better... .A. 0.; From “more’
to “quite” your metre falls to pieces ; and
even among the good lines you rhyme “saw”
with “floor” and the “condone” phrase is
meaningless. And yet it has charm J.P.:
Both lightweights.. . .J.A.W.: It might win a
pale smile from a nice-minded little girl....
Stung: Terribly true but truly terrible
H.G.8.; He is paid.... J.L.0.: To “wanton
with the wind atop the lea” is unnatural,
un-Australian and unconvincing... .T.R.:
Drought’s out... .N.Y.: Try elsewhere....
W.T.: “This is just a mere sample of what
I can do.” You must be a fair terror....
G.R.L.: “On tricksy feet she trod, I tr° w -”
Yes, and she tripped and fell headlong in the
first stanza... .A.R.: Don’t know where you
could place “Bone of my Bone” —unless in a
kennel... .M.L.8.: “Love Song of a Limpet”
should appeal very much to limpets....
D.M.H.: “Could you cut it for me?” It
needs mincing... .Bellerive: A timely warning
against saveloys:
A tame effort... .R.S.R.: It sent
us to sleep... Fair to middling....
P.R.M.: Too slight K.H.; The theme may
have been used before —but never, We feel cer-
tain, in print R.E.: You’ve broken new
ground; it’s a pity that you don’t dig deep
enough L.D.: Stereotyped plot and too
little action R.1.M.: For an old salt Shorty
is a dreary yam-spinner M.M.: You take
a walk in the dawn, speak to a charwoman
and pat a cat. Well! well! W.M.: “I
have sent you two stories to reject this time.”
Thanks, but don’t make it half a dozen next
time... .M.P.: We’ve met several hundred dogs
like Jingoes Z.Y.: There are thistles in that
corn C.H.D.: Turn it into a paragraph....
W. 5.8.: At the moment half the rural popu-
lation of Australia appear to be taming wild
stallions F.W.K.: We’ve lost count of the
number of times that returned p.-0.-w. rice
plot has drifted into 252 George-street....
A.F.T.: Much the same old mug’s-luck-at-the-
races yarn G.F.S.: Neither is likely to see
print. .. .J.C.: Give us something Australian.
H.M.M.: Not shouting for the members
of the Ladies’ Sewing Guild R.J.0.: A
-near-miss J.W.: “Is it merely the wander-
ings of a dreamy mind?” We’re afraid 50....
E. : A daily that prints such gory little
episodes might snap it up.... V.L.N.: “Wind,
heat, dust —and another 50 miles to go before
a man could quench this thirst.” Strewth!
Life must be crook in your part of the world.
A.G.: The humor is labored F.L.:
What you’ve jotted down in an effort to burst
into the literary world doesn’t amount to any-
thing C.A.V.: All that it achieved was to
put another wrinkle in our forehead H.S.:
Is “His Maiden Speech” a maiden effort?....
P.G.A.: Idea has been worked to death
F. : Somehow we managed to struggle to
the end J.G.: We’ve had our fill of comic
Irishmen 8.M.5.: Commendable patriotism,
but poor writing R.E.M.: Drastic pruning
might make a story out of it J.S.G.: Threw
it to our pet crocodile J.T.: Could spot
the finish of both a mile away... .W.M.G.:
You bury some promising stuff in a mass of
cheap melodrama C.P.D.: An old yarn in
ready-made clothes 8.T.: Boil it down to
a good 20-line paragraph A.M.; This is a
poor market for raw blood and bones J.K.:
That bush course has been cantered over too
often J.M.W.: But it doesn’t get to any-
thing A-S.D.: Must be a lot better than
that to pass the doorkeeper W.H.: Don’t
waste so many words getting to the point
E.M.F.: You’ve got ideas, but you tie your-
self into dreadful knots M.C.C.: Humorous,
but labored. See if you can simplify it
N.L.: Afraid you’ve not got much knowledge
of the things you’re writing about S.C.V.:
Both matter and manner fall short R.S.R.:
Not enough marrow in its bones P.C.; The
same old yarn told in much the same old way.
F.L.: “The Belle of the Bush” didn’t get
near enough to give us the glad eye
T.W.M.: Put it into one-fourth the space
W.F.H.: A good subject handled very badly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.F.P.: Your maiden with the spindle-shanks
was given her marching orders..R.B.: Not
the first steeplejack to confess that he would
hate to be an aviator... .^A.W.S.: You managed
to draw the kid’s money-box, but you made
an awful mess of Chifley Art
lessons are called for T.A.: You handle
a pen as if it were a crowbar L.H.: No
laughs in what the little girl said to her doll.
J.M.A.: That effort won’t buy you any
Christmas beer T.K.: “X know that I’m no
artist.” We can endorse that statement
J.O’B.: It’s no use drawing with a blue pencil
on brown paper... .E.S.: We faintly remember
tossing that drunk out a few months ago
M.L.: No cheers for your flag-waving politician.
A.D.F.: That gathering of humans re-
sembles a clump of ringbarked trees S.B.:
This week’s untidiest scratcher G.L.: Can-
not detect any merit as yet W.C.: Not in
the market for drawings of screen stars, especi-
ally drawings copied from photographs....
L.R.M.: Rejected your sketch of Evatt sucking
a lemon branded U.N.O S.S.: Fireman-and-
the-Indian-rope-trick gag is very old G.R.:
Art is almost passable; humor is lamentable.
... .T.C.A.: Our advice is to drop them down
the nearest disused mine shaft A
poor and blotchy bunch K.G.: Not one
of the seven caught the Art Editor’s eye...'.
A.L J.: Surely you don’t believe that the Capital
and Labor see-saw gag is original.
A DREAM OF ELEPHANTS.
After eating a roll
And a hot saveloy
I’d a elephant dream—
When I was a boy.
Out in the jungle in
The pale moonlight
I visioned the brutes in
.My dream of the night.
Uprooting trees and
Treading down grass
Onward with fury
The herd did pass.
The early sun in
My room did gleam
When I did awake
From my avid dream.


'Welcome to New York —
now we can really do business!’
«
v\
fa
np O-DAY more and more business men are using the
Speedbird service. Commerce has been given a new
power: to send the right man to the right place—and to
have him back at his desk within the week.
Every year 8.0.A.C. carries 150,000 passengers on 72,000
miles of routes. These passengers are flown by 8.0.A.C.
pilots, of whom 100 have over a million miles’ experience
each. Men who have learned how in the 28 years of
8.0.A.C.’s flying experience. With its associated air lines,
8.0.A.C. links together Britain, Australia and New Zealand,
Middle East, India, the Far East, the African Continent,
Canada and the U.S.A.
Australian Representative: Shell House, Carrington Street, Sydney.
General Agents: Qantas Empire Airways, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
Townsville, Cairns, Port Moresby, Lae, Rabaul, Darwin,
Booking Agents in all cities.
TS A SMALL WORLD BY SPEEDBIRD
df
BOAC
Q.E.A. operate the Flying-boat service
between Australia and Singapore , and
the Lancastrian service between Australia
and Karachi. T.E.A.L. operate the
service from Australia to New Zealand.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOC. WITH QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS, SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
12/ A U
‘Cooking” Tyres
to prove the strength
of GOODYEAR TYRES
mm
If your hand was under those lamps ouch!
Infra-red rays are keeping that Goodyear tyre at
212° F. hot enough to boil water. Held against
the revolving drum with a pressure equal to that of a
fully loaded car, it’s as if the tyre were speeding
along the road hour after hour while being literally
cooked in the steady, merciless heat. This is how
Goodyear tyres are tested to prove they will stand heat
and stand it long after ordinary tyres have failed!
Here is one more proof that Goodyear tyres are the
best you can buy . . . another reason why Goodyear
tyres have been the world’s first
choice for 32 consecutive years.
m
■
i
GOOD/YEAR
1
TYRES
i
as
■
m
d
i
B 5
More people, the world
over, ride on Goodyear
tyres than on any other
make.
C24/227
Gradma Sells
Persimmons
By GEOOF. BINGHAM
GRANDMA sells persimmons. She
sits all day on the front verandah,
waiting for the buyers to come.
Her hands are folded on her lap,
for she has long ago given up the silly
idea of sewing. “Nothing in it,” she says.
There is nothing in anything, it seems,
other than selling persimmons. She
calmly takes the money when they give
it to her, nods, nods all the time until
they are out of the gate, into their car or
utility. She watches them drive away,
listens to them change gears as they pull
up the gradual slope of the hill, and
knows that in the spot where the tallow-
wood grows beside the road they will
pause, almost as though they were about
to turn around, com 6 back to buy more
persimmons.
Here they change gears, and Grandma
nods to herself, opens her hands and looks
down at the threepences and other silver
coins nestling there. Usually she is paid
in threepences, as though people think
that if they rid themselves of a few spare
threepences they are not spending any-
thing, really. Grandma then closes her
hands and waits for more buyers to
come.
ALL sorts come. There are those, very
keen, but just a little sly, a trifle slick.
They come from the city, and they think
Grandma will sell them persimmons, al-
most for nothing, like the cream they
want to buy from her and butter if she
has it. When they find they may only
buy persimmons they decide they shall
go back tb the city and say, “Persim-
mons? Persimmons? Why, I know a
place along the Coast Road where you
can get them for nothing. Next to
nothing, anyway.”
They say, earnestly, “You know, these
country people don’t know what they are
giving away. Sixpence a dozen the old
girl asks, and down here you pay one and
and sixpence a dozen. Look at that now!
Penny ha’penny down here, ha’penny up
there.” They are very pleased about that.
Grandma sits on the front verandah,
and looks at the yellow persimmons and
then down at her hand with a few three-
pences in it. She has sold a dozen to the
last car. Clever man that, by his own
reckoning. Clever all right. He thought
he was getting away cheaply. You could
see it in his face, looking at the persim-
mons, calculating how much there was
in just one tree, the tree from which he
had picked his golden beauties. A man
could make a bit, just out of that one
tree. Grandma had sat on the verandah
and watched. Finally he had only taken
a dozen. Pity, he had thought, driving
away, all that money going nowhere.
Two threepences in Grandma’s hand.
“If I had to box ’em,” she thinks, “buy
the boxes, pack ’em, then hammer the
lids down. Then get Jerry to take them
in the service-car to the station. What
would the boxes cost? What would nails
cost, and Jerry taking them to the station
—that is, if Jerry remembered to call and
take them.” .
Grandma looks down at the three-
pences and thinks about agent’s fees; or
agent’s bills, for Perce Anderson got a
bill back for his peas.
THERE are others who buy Grandma’s
persimmons. Some of them stop in
rather nice cars, polished cars; no
scratch on the paint, no mud on the mud-
guards. Polished - looking men and
women, but only polish Grandma is in-
clined to think. They want persimmons.
“Good gracious,” says the man as he
comes through the gate. “We are in luck,
that’s if they’ll sell. Persimmons!
Haven’t seen them for years, Didn’t
think you could get them.”
The polished man, who has his wife
with him, says, “I say, are your persim-
mons for sale?”
“They’re for sale,” says Grandma, look-
ing straight at him.
“Then I’d like a dozen,” says the man.
He looks at his wife. “Perhaps we could
even make it two dozen, eh?” He feels


i
WetaLorL
is a specialised section of the
Wunderlich manufacture of
building materials of quality.
Expert craftsmanship in press-
ed, stamped, wrought or cast
metals to classic or modern
designs is a feature of our
services to Architects and
Builders.
Enquiries are now invited
from architects planning for
future ecclesiastical, institu-
tional, and commercial build-
ings in which Wunderlich
distinctive metal-work can be
advantageously employed.
.
AN EXAMPLE OF WUNDER-
LICH METAL CRAFTSMAN-
SHIP. THE COPPER SPIRE
TO ST. STEPHEN’S
CHURCH, MACQUARIE ST.,
SYDNEY.
VISIT THE WUNDERLICH SHOWROOMS:
or ’phone MX 2411 or write to G.P.O. Box 474.
m 3
Architectural metalwork
i \ IN BRONZC - ALUMINIUM • STAIN L-ESS ST£€L • ETC
WUNDERLICH LIMITED (Established over 55 years), BAPTIST ST.,
REDFERN, SYDNEY. Branches; NEWCASTLE, N.S.W; BRISBANE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON. PERTH:
associates, H. L. BRISBANE 8C WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
%
I
V
/
555
a
w
6610-4.47.
he is being benevolent towards both his
wife and Grandma.
“Sixpence a dozen,” says Grandma
“Ah” savs the man. He looks about
for the fellow who is going to pick them
for him, but there isn’t any fellow. He
looks a bit uncertain, but Grandma seems
not to care whether he takes them or not
so that eventually he walks over to the
tree, a little self-consciously, and begins to
pick persimmons, mainly from the lower
branches. All the best fruit has been
picked lower down, as he is not the first
polished person to have stopped at
Grandma’s and, polish and all, he looks
tor the best, sees them higher up, begins
to reach to them, cannot, grasps a branch
and hauls himself high.
Tie comes out of the vest, clothes a
bit awry, but he forgets that in the fascin-
ating search for the best. Nothing stops
him ; he is out, determinedly, for the best,
The woman gives a smile to Grandma,
and a queer look to her husband, whom
she seems to see in a somewhat different
light. He looks flushed about the face
and wears a triumphant expression.
Sometimes the polished people have
little polish. They are ever so polite to
Grandma. They don’t mind getting up
the tree. They speak in polite distant
voices, man to his wife, wife to her man,
as though they really don’t know each
other, haven’t known each other for a
long time. Might be the first time they
have met
“Oh, I say, dear, do you really think
we need a dozen? You know, we won’t
be into Sydney before Monday, and that
is a long time to Ikeep the, m
I don t know dear,“V s “
as he climbs the tree, that you cam
keep the ones tha t aren t too ripe some
considerable time perhaps,
Id be careful, dear, says his woma ,
watching him climb that you don t get
your trousers caught in some of tnose
branches.” 5j m - n(r » care .
I am, dear, he says, meaning
ful, and not sounding too intimate,
I have some hard ones, dear, he tells
her.
“Let me see them, she says, and ter
man dutifully shows them. She looks
them with a stare as hard as the unrip
fruit
“Oh 5j dear, they will never open. You
can’t pick fruit like that, dear,
Well, he can but he wont. ?) Cant put
them back on the tree, dear, he says.
Grandma is watching them from me
verandah, so he can’t drop them,
He gazes a trifle sadly at the three h
has picked, and finally throws them to his
woman. After that he picks the
the most golden you might say those with
a touch of red on the curved bps.
he gets quite enthusiastic, lor althoug
he has picked a dozen he sees a couple
of beauties, further up, and he may n
resist them. He throws them down,
Thats over the dozen, dear, s
says. ™
Oh, they’ll make it two dozen. They
make it three. One and sixpence in
(Continued on page 32.)
Leichhardt Pantomime
Prologue.
iConlinm^
The orchestra tuning up. Time for hand-
shaking, review,
For visitors to gape at the pictures, the
chandelier,
All eager for promised action: perhaps this
dramatic screw
Will run spirals of gold and silyer over the
quickening weir,
India, China sluiced south to Port Essington!
An unknown protagonist will pace the boards
arid couple ,
Ships and counting-houses in the ruby s
monotone
With ruts and flames of antiquity buried in
the opal.
The spotlight wanders about, falters for a while
on Sturt:
Useless the flare —he stands blazing in his own
white world;
Light has rapped at his skull, pushed into his
heart,
Shrivelled, consumed him. Light has tracked
and curled
Its searing wake over touch and' vision and
retreat —
Still light lashes at his eyes. People are ques-
tioning:
Shall he answer them ? open their veins with
a bitter lancet of heat?
Ash in his crucible their ambitions and traffick-
ing ?
The inland sea. Yes! There were sea-length
waves and surge;
Sand’s arched and massive velocities topped by
a foam-glitter;
And where sun grazed salt-glazed rock and the
light’s discharge
Circled its fabulous rings of tremor, there was
water.
Here is the centre of their island. Shall he tell
them of Poole, of death ?
Sand and wind will lay siege to the dead. He
will lie again
Racked by the light and the heat, dragged from
his fortress of earth,
Burning and burning the bones that had long
forgotten rain —
Fused-out, brittle, the limbs, dazzled in day-
light the stare;
No rain will fall for Sturt. He burns back
there.
Impasse at the centre. But the overture
Swings into gallant stride: there are other roads,
Good country to the east.
Flares sinking now,
Flame spirited into smoke and lugged aloft
To swim uneasily for a space, like a pallid
whale
As oceanic shadows converge upon it —
A tug at the base of the curtain: crossbow-
jolt
Feathering wind with romance (or destruction),
Face us, O unknown Merlin of the roads!
Your tall blue hat sparks moons and zodiacs,
Your brisk and flickering fingers tweak good
venture
From the loaded air of expectance I
The curtain rises.
The Two on the Map.
The Prince summons the elements. Impressive
tableau.
Honor, courage, ambition, rearing from madness
Three tablets for all to read. At the rail of
the ship
I read, while futilities slipped back from me,
Paled out and set, like stars. There were fresh
stars,
Lovely and cruciform, nor could butting winds
Ruffle their snowy altitudes and calms,
Nor fretful clouds, blown fleece of circumstance,
Cling long to their widespread arms — ambition,
honor;
Then dawn; then sun —blinding streak through
the hawse
That flashing cable! Beaches and sudden hills
Dominant, swept with chivalry. Courage in the
glow.
So prodigal a battery of brilliance that the
spirit
May learn the ways of the sun.
In the pillaged places,
CANADA.
In ransacked Europe, 1 found no ebullience.
But darkness, horizonless. Always the drifting
eyes
Around me, searching for something; in
cathedrals,
Libraries, palaces, in the riddle of the old
mirror —
But finding nothing, book nor labored stone
Nor glass, that has not known the famished eyes
Year after year; as from soured plots of earth
Only a grudged but inevitable harvesting.
Antiquity shackles them to the chain-gangs of
the dead;
Season and calendar bring no change, renewal:
Still from the white charity-robe of winter
Projects the tawny angular despair
Of wall and tenement.
Southward the new, the visionary!
This is a land where man becomes a myth;
Naked, his feet tread embers for the truth;
Desert will claim him, mountain, precipice,
(Larger than life their terrors, more beautiful
Than the forms of life their shapes of peril);
beauty
Shed, league by league, the dense wrappings of
living,
The past, dishonor. No famished eyes but his
Will know her radiant body—the dark hunters
Are eyeless and incurious as death,
Mountain or precipice.
Living as a bird lives,
I try my wings, alert, until in the heart
Breaks free the fiery migratory lust
For Spring, unblemished, starry, virginal,
■A lonely source whose waters seek no sea.
A servant-girl is hiding in the stairway,
Watching the Prince.
Leaps to the stage with a patter of rhyme
The funny old leader of the pantomime I
It’s hard to judge from a front-seat view
Whether he’s Leichhardt or whether there are
two;
He’s lean and lanky as a pair of skis.
His stuffed coat-pockets bounce on his knees.
His weak blue gullible Santa-Claus eyes
Wink in and out of a squall of little flies.
Beetles, round, oblong, bulging and flat,
Dangle from the rim of his stove-pipe hat
And, as he capers to the jolly brass band.
Beetle twirls beetle in a sarabande,
While his beard jigs about on his pepperpot chin
Like q grog-shop tune on a mandolin.
He mounts like Quixote on a spavined old nag
That can kick the slogan from a sugar-bag;
He mayn’t know north from south, but he’s
clever
At playing with windmills in the Never-Never.
Off! with a cooee and a ribald song,
One stirrup short, one stirrup long.
Some disapproval and murmuring, at this stage,
Answered by a down, besmeared with flour
and ketchup,
Lolloping forth from the wings. His spiel as
follows:
“So all of you, my friends, have conquered
laughter ?
That creased and monstrous painted effigy
That sags and billows behind you—at the desk.
The typewriter, in the shaving-mirror?
You may write words or ride in omnibuses.
Give lectures, name a river, kill a man,
But always the obscene, the senseless titter
Tenses your shoulder-blades. Start up in fury,
Double your fist and strike I Strike till the
painted
Mouth splays with blood, from the glass
goggling eyes
Tears trickle, and the pudgy limbs go loose—
What have you forced but laughter, tears of
laughter ?
The fat doll shaking with it, a giggling scream
Babbling and fluttering round you. There’s no
violence
Can silence laughter.
Well, then, laugh with the thing I
Turn on it with ugly mimic carnival,
Guffaw and shout and stamp, until your voice
Cuts off its air, splinters its blinking eyes,
Till its head rolls off in a corner and its powers
Settle like chains tossed down —
This not the Prince but his creator knew:
Not Leichhardt. No, friends. Not the Doctor.
(To be concluded.)
FRANCIS WEBB.


. cv
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. It
keeps his lender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trio-Cuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
dsf
SOAP
The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy,
Designed for the precision workshop, the
MARS Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. All essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
* “ “ ®U gear teeth are generated.
' m
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
yiC. Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
d
fd
I
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Qld. op
“Meehanite”
Metals
HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American , African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
CASE FOR UNIVERSAL TRAINING.
One of America’s leading scientists, one
of its leading educators, one of its lead-
ing industrialists, two of its leading
churchmen (one Catholic, the other
Protestant), with five others of like calibre
no military men among them —were
appointed by President Truman to go
into the whole question of universal
military training. After six months’ study
this committee —as representative of the
nation as could be selected—submitted
its report, unanimously in favor.
The committee found that one of the
deterrents to the effectiveness of U.N.O.
was the belief of other nations that
America was stripping itself of the
strength necessary to support its moral
leadership and was thus “encouraging
Powers which may not share its peaceful
aims to plan campaigns of aggression.”
, So far from accepting the notion (a
leading Canberra excuse) that the atom
bomb has rendered trained fighting forces
obsolete, the committee asserted:
The addition of the atomic bomb to the in-
calculable horrors of modern war has eliminated
the concept of zones of safety in any future
attack on this country. By making war uni-
versal, devastating and immediate in its impact,
new developments in warfare have created a
need for trained men in every city and town —
men who would be ‘available at once in an
emergency.
In the current American “Foreign
Affairs” the same point is made in a very
striking article by John J. McCloy, presi-
dent of the International Bank for Re-
construction and Development and
former Assistant Secretary of War. Mc-
Cloy lists the September, 1940, decision
by which, “for the first time in the his-
tory of the country, universal service in
time of peace” was introduced in the
U.S., among the most important of the
great military decisions of the war.
“The example of 1940 should be borne
in mind by all those who are tempted to
advocate lesser measures when the de-
fence of the country is involved,” insists
McCloy; and it needs only a little
thought to appreciate the implications of
his further statement: “Without that
1940 legislation there would have been no
attack in 1942 in Africa, nor could such
an attack as the United States was able
to maintain through 1943/ have been
possible.”
In other words, the war would most
certainly have been terribly prolonged
and could easily have been lost without
that almost accidental peace-time en-
forcement of universal service. There
would almost as certainly have been an
invasion of Australia, where—before the
war, as again now —reliance on the
“voluntary system” meant the minimum,
instead of the maximum, defence. That
invasion could have happened but for
another U.S. universal-service decision,
a mighty narrow one—the one-vote mar-
gin by which Congress at that time de-
feated the proposal to release all
draftees who had served one year. “Just
four months before Pearl Harbor,” Mc-
Cloy points out, “the United States came
that close to losing an effective army.”
Since the fact that the U.S. had a suffi-
ciently effective army saved Australia,
the importance of that hairline vote to
this country is very obvious.
Looking to the future, McCloy could
have been writing with the present Can-
berra level of mentality in view: “There
are,” he says, “those who constantly re-
peat, on the occasion of every considera-
tion of such a measure, the utterly dis-
credited theory that modern war requires
simply a highly-trained professional force
of moderate size. Wishful thinkers are
prone to urge that science (rather than
men) wins wars, that mass armies are use-
less, and it becomes the fashion to play
with crisp phrases such as hard hitting,
streamlined, scientifically trained, highly
mobile, as applied to military units, all
adduced to contend against the necessity
for training all the eligible man-power of
the nation for modern war. The demands
on trained and disciplined man-power in
atomic war, if it should ever come, will,
of course, be greater than ever before.”
The Truman committee did not claim
universal training as a “cheap and easy
ticket to security.” To provide “the mea-
sure of strength necessary to deter an
aggressor” there* would still need to be
scientific research and development, in-
dustrial readiness for war, a striking’ air-
force and other like preparedness. How-
ever, with that stipulation, the committee
unanimously recommended the adoption
of universal training, mainly on the
following grounds; —
These pre-trained young men would be ready
to cope with _ the unprecedented problems of
internal security that atomic warfare would
bring problems of such magnitude that our
failure to meet them at once, wherever they
developed, might lose us the war overnight.
We have given careful attention to the argu-
London “News Chronicle.”
REPEAT PERFORMANCE?
ment most frequently put forward against the
adoption of a universal training programme;
namely, that the development of the atomic
bomb and other instruments of mass destruction
has eliminated the need for mass military
lorces in war-time. We reject this conclusion
because our analysis of the possible types and
conditions of future warfare convinces us that
increased, rather than decreased, numbers of
trained troops would be quickly required for
home defence, for effective counter-attack and
tor complete victory.
Specifically, we believe that a universal train-
ing programme would provide the following
benefits:
It would shorten the time in which our effec-
tive fighting force could be mobilised in case of
war.
It would give our young men the essentials
of military training that would be the basic
prerequisites for technical, specialised or unit
l-nmg in an emergency, and training saves
It would improve the efficiency, quality and
alertness of the regular forces in peace-time.
It would help produce qualified reserve
othcers m numbers mat would assist in meeting
the officer requirement s of the regular service!
and the civilian components and to staff the
crisis 5 nee(^ a^er mobilising for any future
It would establish a pool of young, physi-
cany ut and trained reserves who could be
mobilised if a future crisis arose.
It would provide a large trained group in
every community capable of withstanding and
dealing with the problems of civilian defence
and mass disaster resulting from severe bombing
attacks. &
It would provide a mechanism that could be
converted immediately into a war-time selective
seivice system, and it would make possible a
continuous inventory of military skills, aptitudes
and leadership qualities that could he used
advantageously in making military assignments
should war come.
It would help to channel qualified young men
into programmes of scientific and vocational
training in fields important to national defence.
it would bring together young citizens from all
parts of the nation to share a common experi-
ence and to fulfil a common obligation to their
country, thus contributing to national unity, the
foundation of our security.
It would give greater military strength at less
cost than would be provided by exclusive re-
liance on a large standing military force, since
it would be impossible to obtain enough volun-
teers for the professional force required for ade-
quate defence and since the cost would over-
burden the national economy even if such a
force could be raised.
The training programme favored: —-
On the basis of all these considerations we
recommend that it be made the obligation of
every young man upon reaching the age of 18
or upon completing or leaving high school,
whichever is later, to undergo a period of
training that would fit him for service to the
nation in any future emergency.
This period should generally be divided into
two parts. The first would be six months of
basic training in camps or aboard ship. The
second would include a number of alternative
programmes or options, one of which would
have to be chosen on completion of the basic
training.
The whole defence argument of the
report applies to Australia every bit as
strongly, if not more so. But there was
never a time when Canberra was less
likely to put the country’s lasting security
before temporary security of office.
DE GAULLE.
In view of the re-emergence of General
de Gaulle on an anti-Communist and
pro-American (Marshall Plan) platform,
one section of James F. Byrnes’s book
Speaking Frankly has special current in-
terest ;
In the fall of 1944 the Soviet Union and
the Provisional Government of France had
entered into a treaty of friendship [arranged by
De Gaulle], It was immediately obvious at
Yalta, however, that the treaty and the friendly
words exchanged over it by the diplomats had
not changed Marshal Stalin’s opinion on the
contribution of France to the war. He thought
France should play little part in the control of
Germany and stated that Yugoslavia and Poland
were more entitled to consideration than France.
When Roosevelt and Churchill proposed that
France be allotted a zone of occupation, Stalin
agreed. But it was clear he agreed only be-
cause the French zone was to be taken out
of the territory allotted to the United States
and the United Kingdom, And he especially
opposed giving France a representative on the
Allied Control Council for Germany.
“1 am in favor of France being given a
zone,” Stalin declared, ‘‘but I cannot forget
that in this war France opened the gates to
the enemy.” He maintained it would create
difficulties to give France a zone of occupation
and a representative on the Allied Control
Council and refuse the same treatment to others
who had fought more than France.
Churchill argued strongly in favor of France’s
being represented on the Council.
Stalin, however, said General de Gaulle was
“very unrealistic,” and reiterated that even
though “France had not done much fighting
in the war, yet De Gaulle has demanded equal
rights with the Soviets, the British and the
Americans, who have done the fighting.”
President Roosevelt did not take issue with
Stalin on De Gaulle. The President had great
admiration for France and its people but he
did not admire De Gaulle. On several occasions
he referred to a conversation at Casablanca in
which De Gaulle compared himself with Joan
of Arc as the spiritual leader of France, and
with Clemenceau as the political leader.
Further illuminating comment on the
personal feelings of the leaders affecting
the, course of events is made in references
to De Gaulle in a “Foreign Affairs”
article, by Andre Geraud. “Hardly had
General de Gaulle set up his regime....
than he decided to sign a treaty of alliance
with Russia,” says Geraud. “Today we
know more about General de Gaulle than
we did in 1944. His personal hostility
to Communism in all its aspects has be-
come patent. The fact that the treaty of
alliance with Soviet Russia took pre-
cedence in his mind over the treaty of
alliance with England (which, in practice,
would have involved a bond of alliance
with the United States) can be accounted
for only by the very vivid memory he
kept of the high-handed treatment which
both President Roosevelt and Prime
Minister Churchill meted out to him time
after time,”
Geraud further explains that De Gaulle
went to Moscow and signed the Franco-
Soviet pact “in the belief that through
Russian support France would quickly
get a position of something like equality
in the councils of the great coalition.”
The snag was De Gaulle’s ideas about
Poland. The Russians wanted their
friends installed as the Government of
Poland: “They had carefully planned a
diplomatic action to that end to which
De Gaulle was expected to give momen-
tum.” De Gaulle refused, and stuck to
it. In consequence, on Soviet insistence,
“he was left* outside the Yalta confer-
ence.” By keeping him away from that
evidently most disastrous of conferences,
the Russians “made it much easier to
achieve their own and Poland’s desires
in the location of Germany’s eastern
frontier.”
The exclusion of De Gaulle, in
Geraud’s view, may have had other im-
portant bearings on the present and
future shape of things; “If General de
Gaulle or a representative of French in-
terests had shared in the territorial dis-
cussions at Yalta and at Potsdam
pointed objections would certainly have
been raised against the inordinate transfer
ot territories and populations in the east,
which have the effect of shifting westward
towards France the centre of gravity of
German power, German nationalism and
German plans for revenge—wherever they
happen to take shape.”
Whatever the historical verdict on De
Gaulle may be, or whatever may now be
ahead of him, he has most distinctly
been, all along, above everything else “a
representative of French interests,” and
easily the most spectacular one. The tim-
ing of his fresh appearance in the spot-
light has clearly been influenced by the
mounting to a crisis of the U.S.-Soviet
clash ; affecting France through, on the
one hand, thd vital necessity to it of aid
under the Marshall Plan, and, on the
other, by the desperate Soviet bid to ob-
struct that plan’s working—the French
Communists acting obviously under in-
structions to do their fifth-column worst.
The strikes and clashes in France were
expected as certainties after the sweeping
De Gaulle successes in the political
French municipal elections. “We are
witnessing,” N. Y. “Times” has com-
mented, “a carefully-calculated and con-
certed preview of Moscow’s new tactics.”
On the timing of the strikes, it added:
Why did the leaders of the strong Com-
munist parties in France and Italy wait until
now to do what they might have done with
more effect a year or two years ago, when their
power and popularity were greater?
The reasons are not far to seek. The first
is the discovery that they cannot win by
democratic means. They have demonstrated
that they cannot hold the nations of Eastern
Europe in line except by coercion and sup-
pression, and in the West the remaining hope
of acquiring power is by violence. The second
reason is the realisation that the idea of the
Marshall Plan is in process of being translated
into action. An English visitor', returning to
Washington for the first time since the debate
in Congress on aid to Greece, is amazed to
find less opposition to a plan involving billions
than there was six months ago to an appro-
priation of $300,000,000. The Soviet strategists
must be even more surprised to note that the
European Recovery Programme is taking prac-
tical shape, is already stiffening resistance to
Communist plans for political conquest.
“The Communists,” N. Y. “Times”
further commented, “are pushing the pace
because they can no longer count on
time. Until recently they have practised
the tactics of delay on the theory that
they had only to wait while all the other
parties collapsed under the weight of
problems they could not solve.” Hence
the present current desperate bids, the


Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householder s’.
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
f
(Ml
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over «
period of years.
BUBAL BANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
The British Labour Minister, in introducing the
“1946 Assurance Companies Act,” stated that “The
1946 Act”:—
“Acknowledges the inherently international
and comprehensive character of insurance.”
The Labour President of the Board of Trade in
the House of Commons also stated that it would
be proper to inform the House of the attitude of the
Labour Government toward the future of British
Insurance business. The Government, he stated, had
no intention of interfering with the transaction of
Insurance business by private enterprise. It is, he
stated the desire of the Government that Insurance
should be, in the future, as in the past, dealt with
on an international basis and as business of an inter-
national character.,
FOR 69 Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
fire _ ACCIDENT — MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
earlier tactics, on which Moscow counted
very heavily, having proved a washout.
De Gaulle, as interviewed for London
“Times,” sees his Rally of the French
People as the one effective counter to me
Moscow tactics. He spoke of xt as an
elemental force which corresponds ex-
actly to the promptings of the Trencn
people’s instinct and reason : ,
I say “instinct” because the French people
feel threatened by the same menace from
within and from without, and therefore had
developed a deep urge to rally for die common
weal; and I say “reason” because the French
people realise every day more clearly the dis-
advantages of a weak State and the n ® e d
construct another form of State to remcc y
He compared “this force” the Rally
—with others in French history which
had swept all before them ; it was evi-
dence that “France is pulling herself to-
gether.” He showed contempt, however,
for those in control of France, compar-
ing their parties to Kipling’s chattering
Bandar-log (the Monkey-People), who
claimed to be kings of the jungle, the
implication being an early election and
its answer De Gaulle. ___
U.S. PRESIDENTIAL.
It is no exaggeration to say that while
they are on Presidential elections in the
U.S. take precedence over everything else,
national or international; there could
hardly be a better time for another
country to start trouble than when
Americans are thus divided in the thick
of their election year.
They can be regarded as being in the
thick of one from now until next Novem-
ber, with, consequently, many things
American needing to be weighed in the
balance of Presidential politics. In the
past that has applied to American politi-
cal leaders’ interference with J. Bull’s
difficult enough job in Palestine, and in
the months ahead many other things in
U.S. foreign policy will be similarly in-
spired.
For example, former Secretary of
State James F. Byrnes—who can scarcely
be said to have soft-pedalled his views
on dealing with a continuing obstruc-
tionist “foreign Government” —lately ex-
pressed qualms on one aspect of what
could be ahead in the Presidential cam-
paigning :
In the months ahead of us there will be
many political speeches. I can think of nothing
more unfortunate than our foreign policies
being made a partisan issue and the two great
political parties competing for the very doubtful
honor of having urged the most belligerent
policy toward a foreign Government.
According to N. Y. “Daily News”
columnist John O’Donnell, favorites in
the Presidential crystal ball at present
are Truman and Wallgren (Democrats),
Dewey and Stassen (Republicans). Others
tip Taft to oust Dewey, and O’Donnell
admits that Taft’s stocks have soared
since “the lacing he handed Truman” on
the union-restrictions bill.
Referring to his fellow-tipsters,
O’Donnell adds: “But all the boys are
hedging their bets on the threat of war
with Russia. If we are actually at war,
or the Truman Administration follows
the Roosevelt political strategy of back-
ing into war to nail down the votes by
alarmist declarations, the guess is this:
MacArthur will stage a triumphant return
from Japan in the early spring of 1948
and either become the Republican
nominee for the Presidency or dictate
through his delegates at the convention
the Republican standard-bearer. The
Democrats in this event will ditch Tru-
man and name either Marshall or Eisen-
hower.”
The mention of Eisenhower brings 1 in
an odd sidelight on how all things get
tangled up with the Presidential hullaba-
loo. Eisenhower was first named a few
months back as a possible candidate.
Then, but not till then, somebody dis-
covered that it was Eisenhower, and not,
as had been accepted for years, Morgen-
thau, who invented the absurd plan for
turning Germany into a “goat pasture”!
Merely being named as a Presidential
prospect is, of course, the highest of com-
pliments ; but you want to be ready for
the brickbats.
Chicago “Tribune,” which takes as
poor a view of Truman’s foreign policy
as of Roosevelt’s, has run an article by
a political correspondent on President
Trutsian’s strong position:
The politicians are waking up to the fact
that the most active candidate for President
in the 1948 election—and, perhaps, the most
formidable —is the man in the White House
today. . ... .
Mr. Truman is not only an active candidate
to succeed himself but he is his own campaign
THE GREAT DROUGHT.
Washington “Post.”
manager and he is working at the job every
waking moment. Moreover, he is imbued witn
a newly found but ever deepening confidence
that he can defeat any of the current Repub-
lican Presidential possibilities. And /®w Re-
publican leaders look for a walkaway in 1948.
The Republicans, the “Tribune”
correspondent declares, “unquestionably
would be beaten if the election were to
be held this year.”
Also for what it may be worth 11
months hence, at the present stage the
very sound N. Y. “Times” Washington
correspondent Arthur Krock reports
Democratic confidence that “President
Truman will be re-elected regardless of
the make-up of the Republican ticket.’
Two of the list of reasons given by
Krock for that optimism are; (1) The
recapture from the Republicans of the
State offices in Kentucky and local
offices in the pivotal city of Louisville, in
a contest where the Republican sank
to 42.6 per cent, of the total, or near its
lowest point for 24 years in a State elec-
tion. (2) The growing testimony, Gover-
nor Dewey’s being the latest, that the
Republicans nationally have found no
alternative proposal for the Administra-
tion blueprint to restore world economy.
In the view of the “Christian Science
Monitor’s” chief Washington correspon-
dent, one thing certain. is that “there will
not be a serious candidate for the 1948
Presidential nomination on either the
Republican or the Democratic ticket who
is on the really isolationist side of Ameri-
can foreign policy”:
President Truman and any conceivable Demo-
cratic alternative—and no alternative is con-
ceivable at this time will be fully inter-
nationalist. Gov. Thomas E. Dewey, Harold
E. Stassen, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower,
Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, and Gov. Earl
Warren are thoroughly internationalist on the
Republican side. Senator Taft has stressed
in private conversation that he intended to take
no isolationist position.
Thus the tipsters gaze into the crystal
ball —and mostly see what they want to
see. _____________
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Russian Proverb. —As quoted by Vyshinsky,
letting fly with vocal violence in U.N.O. on
the theme of Turkish propaganda attacks ana
provocative acts against Russia: ‘ Though it
is he who flogs, he cries out in pain.
* * * *
A Bit Shy on Humor. —“One gleam of hope
in the international mess” noted by a N. i.
“Daily News” writer is “the happy fact that
the Commies have no sense of humor. In-
stancing the “sweaty earnestness of the high
priests of Kremlin propaganda” as lending
itself to effective ridicule, the writer quotes
from a Soviet broadcast to Greece, as taken
down and translated by the monitoring de-
partment in Washington: “The British intro-
duced Hashish, and now the Americans have
flooded the market with drinks which they call
Coca Cola. The object of these drinks is the
same; namely, to drag our youth into alco-
holism because they contain cocaine. Demo-
cratic men and women, pursue your fight against
the spreading of narcotics with which home
and foreign corrupters are trying to destroy
our youth.” Fierce stuff that Coca Cola,
Senatorially speaking.
v * * *
UJY.O. Change— One oddity in the way of
change towards making U.N.O. work better
is a proposal to begin the roll-call of votes,
not with the first nation alphabetically listed,
but with a country drawn by lot. Reason (as
given by a N. Y. “Times” correspondent, who
hailed it as “most revolutionary”): “This new
practice was recommended because most absten-
tions [in voting] occur among the nations highest
on the roll-call, who adopt a ‘wait and see
attitude.”
* * * *
Under Many Aliases. As an incidental
aspect, an attempt being made by Los Angeles
' County to clean its offices of Communists gives
an idea of the number of “fronts” the Corns
work behind. Each of the county’s 20,000
employees has to sign a declaration setting out
his allegiance to the U.S., that he has not
belonged to any organisation advocating its
overthrow, any aliases he has ever used, and
that he has never been a member of any of
145 Communist-front organisations, names of
which are listed.
* * * *
British Freedom. —Pointing out, in a “Foreign
Affairs” article, that “it is apparent from our
history that Britishers do not long accept to
live under an order which diminishes their
freedom” (the signs of which are now evident
in Britain, Australia and N.Z.), Anthony Eden
adds: “But they cannot preserve that freedom
without the rule of law. During the seventeenth
century the principle gradually emerged [in
Britain] that the law is above the executive,
and never has this conception been more im-
portant in all lands than it is today.”
* * ♦ *
Coins’ Murder Weapon. —A threat to the life
of Gouzenko, the Russian Embassy cipher clerk
whose exposure of Soviet spying brought about
the very revealing Canadian spy trials, caused
the Canadian authorities to take added P re "
cautions to protect him. So far they hay®
been successful, but, as George E. Sokolsky
has reported in N. Y. “Sun,” that has not been
the case with others —mostly ex-Commumsts
who have taken the Gouzenko stand and con-
sequently been marked down for Com murder:
“The risk these ex-Communists take is very real.
Already there is a growing list of Americans
who have lost their lives in this fight. Juliet
Stuart Poyntz disappeared in New York m
broad daylight as she was about to make a
dramatic switch. Carlo Tresca was shot down
on its streets. Walter Krivitsky was mysteri-
ously killed in Washington. George W. Albert
was murdered in San Francisco. And there
have been others.”
* * * *
U.S. Takes Over Greece—Y isiting Athens,
Washington “Post” staff writer Marquis Childs
reports on the Americans now on the job in
Greece; “Gradually the impact of the American
aid programme is becoming evident. There are
signs of greater stability and confidence. Mem-
bers of the Greek Government seem eager to
co-operate with the mission. In fact, they
appear often too eager to surrender authority
to Americans.” How completely the Americans
have taken over is indicated by the writer s
further report: “Aid Director Dwight Griswold
has a separate press conference each week for
American correspondents, to whom at times
he may want to speak frankly off the record.
He has been criticised for excluding the British
correspondents from this conference. But it
seems to me a perfectly legitimate prerogative
in the circumstances.”
* * * *
The U.N.O. Flop. —N. Y. “Times” writer
Anne O’Hare McCormick has reported a dis-
cussion by foreign-affairs experts in which the
question arose “What is the most alarming
development in the world today?”
unanimous agreement on the answer; The
decline of public ’confidence in the United
Nations.”
* * * ♦
How War Could Start. Advancing, in a
“Foreign Affairs” article, the thesis “We must
hope that time and the success of freedom and
democracy in the Western world will convince
both the Soviet leaders and the Russian people
now behind them that our system is here to
stay,” former U.S. Secretary of War Stimson
sees a danger: “This may not be possible;
dictators do not easily change their hearts, and
the modern armaments they possess may make
it hard for their people to force such a change.
Rather than be persuaded of their error, the
Soviet leaders might in desperation resort to
war, and against that possibility we have to
guard by maintaining our present military ad-
vantages. We must never forget that while
peace is a joint responsibility, the decision for
war can be made by a single Power; our mih-
tary strength must be maintained as a stand-
ing discouragement to aggression.”
* * * *
Grey Communism. —Describing State Social-
ism, as he had seen it operating in Europe, as
“a kind of grey Communism,” Scripps-Howard
special correspondent Henry J. Taylor com-
mented in a broadcast: “Next to Germany, the
worst two examples of distressed nations in
Europe are Great Britain and France, both
being unquestionably in dire distress, but
ironically they are also the richest nations in
Europe and among all the countries capable of
any measure of self-help they should be the
leaders. Both countries are in the middle of
a gigantic socialist-labor experiment which, in-
stead of producing the good things of life as
promised, is producing only shortages instead.”
He found things different in Italy, Belgium
and Switzerland: “Living conditions in these
three countries are better than any place in
Western Europe. The people are working hard,
their Governments for one reason or another
are largely leaving them alone, and the countries
are getting ahead.”
* * » •
France Takes the Saar. “While America,
Great Britain and Russia vehemently dispute
the restoration of the great German industrial
potential,” a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” correspon-
dent has reported from Germany, “the one
nation that has so often been the victim of
German aggression is taking the greatest risk
of all. France is going to rebuild the Saar.
The Saarland, in the French Zone of occupied
Germany with a population of about 800,000
and covering approximately 730 square miles
on the borders of France and Luxemburg, is
on its way to becoming detached from the un-
happy Reich, attached to France economically
and endowed with a liberal amount of political
autonomy—under French supervision. France,
America, England and most Saarlanders agree
on the deal; the only objector is Russia. But
with or without a change in the Kremlin’s
position, the Saarlanders are drafting a con-
stitution and designing a flag which, with a
mixture of gratitude, diplomacy and sycophancy,
compounds the French, English and American
ensigns. And the French, for all practical pur-
poses, have presented the world with a fait
accompli in taking over the Saar: they have
sealed it off from the rest of their zone of
occupation by means of a customs cordon; they
have provided the Saar with its own currency,
the Saarmark; and they have adroitly convinced
most Saarlanders that their economic future is
with France.”


Factory Space
Available
m
I
M
m
8S
I
m
i
i
SS
MBS
B
“A,” above, shows
alternative arrange-
ments. If door is
required, window
above must be
deleted.
*
*
mm
w 'i\
:>s
-
m
1 1
> .■ ■ ■■ ■" ■-■' ■ ■
#%«■■■ am ■ m u B m m
:
i
7
These all-steel prefabri-
cated buildings provide an
answer to the factory space
problem where an easily erected
and completely fire, weather and
vermin-proof building is required.
Their usefulness extends to the farm,
where they would make ideal shearing sheds.
Due to material shortages, uncovered frame-
work only can be provided at present. However,
these buildings are designed to take iron or fibro
covering without modification.
The 40ft. Armco building can be provided with alternative
door arrangements, as illustrated, and. in lengths of any
multiple of 15 feet. Uncoyered frames are also available for
Armco Prefabricated Steel Buildings in 20ft., 30ft. and 60ft. span.
ARMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PT Y. LTD.
PREFA BRICA TED
STEEL BUILDINGS
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney N.S.W.
422 Collins Street, Melbourne . Victoria
319-325 Queen Street, Brisbane Queensland
C.M.L Building, 41 King William Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
AJ -47


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3539
Wednesday, December 10, 1947
“IS THERE A DOCTOR IN THE HOUSE?”
“According to Drew Pearson, the two U.N.O. men who swung the most important influence in securing the Palestine partition plan were Australia's Dr. Evatt and
Brazil’s Dr. Aranha.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
*'‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE MUCH-PROMISED LAND
Despite the gloss being put upon it, the
U.N.O. decision for a partition of Pales-
tine is a confession of failure. Two
generations of the world’s living people
have learned the horrible futility of war
as a settlement of any question and the
vanity of aggressive nationalism in a
civilised human society. If the United
Nations Charter, founded on experience
of the League of Nations, meant any-
thing, it promised surely not the multi-
plication of small nations, but the gradual
disappearance of national lt
was to inculcate peace, and if necessary
enforce it, according to the law of the
modern Medes and Persians in the Secur-
ity Council, which, as regards this essen-
tial principle, should alter not.
If U.N.O. were what its founders
hoped, there would have been no par-
tition of Palestine, because the Security
Council would have forbidden the de-
velopment of a separation devised in an
atmosphere of violence and by all the
signs likely to produce open hostilities
as its first fruits. An international law-
giving authority of standing would have
elected for a Holy Land federation within
which Arabs, Jews, and Christians would
have been induced to learn tolerance and
collaboration. That indeed was the
solution urged by the minority of
U.N.O.’s commission of inquiry. The
majority chose partition. Solomon is this
time using the sword on the infant.
The weakness of the decision is evident
also in the refusal of the United States
to undertake any commitments which
would require American armed forces to
keep the peace between Jews and Arabs
after the British withdraw. Even the
Hearst press in America, which praises
the decision as “a great act of courage-
ous collective statesmanship,” admits that
“there is no certainty of its practical
success, because of the difficulties of en-
forcement and the fact that it [the plan]
includes no detailed programme of its
own administration.” That, apparently,
will be y/orked out by the Commission of
Five elected by U.N.O. to administer
Palestine in the period between the British
withdrawal (stated as August next, but
probably much earlier) and the date of
full independence for the Jewish and
Arab States, This commission, consist-
ing of Czechoslovakia (chairman), Den-
mark, Bolivia, Panama and the Philip-
pines—most of them strangers to stable
government —is charged with the job of
keeping the peace between the two parties
—a task which Britain has decided is
too much for her —and without any
armed forces for the purpose.
There is no Arab-country member, or
member from a country with Arab sym-
pathies, probably for the reason that “all
the nations of the East,” to use the Arab-
delegation phrase, voted against “this
fantastic resolution.” With the Jewish
case so greatly preferred, the call for
restraint by the Jewish population,
terrorists and other, is now more urgent
than ever. The Arabs have declared their
implacable hostility to partition, in prac-
tice as in debate, and the British Gov-
ernment has washed its hands of the
whole business.
The British go out with honor. They
know the better course, and it was stated
by Mr. Bevin six months ago in the Com-
mons. He had called a conference with
the Arab leaders last September “at which
[he said] I felt that I had the right
approach at last.”
The Government has come to the con-
elusion that, after all the force we have
seen throughout the world in the last 25 '
years, force applied to this problem will
not provide a final solution, and might
produce wide difficulties which may lead
.... to another .war.
But just as Mr. Bevin thought he was
getting somewhere with the Arabs Mr.
Truman, for political purposes, came out
with a statement that he would press for
immediate immigration of another
100,000 Jews. “I went to Mr. Byrnes,”
Mr. Bevin said, “and told him that I be-
lieved we were on the road if he would
only leave us alone. I begged that the
President’s statement should not be
issued”—begged in vain. From that
moment the British Government decided
that its mandatory job was hopeless—
provocation of the parties from outside
had made it hopeless—and it handed the
responsibility over to U.N.O.
There it was somehow supposed that
the British would go on garrisoning
Palestine indefinitely, keeping order at the
cost of British blood and treasure, with
irresponsible jibes from the sidelines, until
U.N.O. felt itself ready to request the
British to quit. It was even supposed
that Britain would undertake the burden
of carrying out whatever policy U.N.O.
might concoct. These illusions were dis-
pelled, as soon as Dr. Evatt’s Palestine
sub-committee met to consider the par-
tition report, by a British Government
statement distinguished for its dignity
and clarity.
It was made clear earlier this year that
His Majesty’s Government would be in the
highest degree reluctant to oppose the
Assembly’s wishes in regard to the future
of Palestine. At the same time....a dis-
tinction was drawn between accepting a
recommendation, in the sense of not im-
peding its execution by others, and accept-
ing responsibility for carrying it out by
means of British administration and British
forces....
His Majesty’s Government are ready to
assume responsibility for giving effect to
any plan on which agreement is reached
between the Arabs and the Jews. If the
Assembly should recommend a plan which
is not acceptable to the Jews and the
Arabs, His Majesty’s Government will not
feel able to implement it. They are not
themselves prepared to undertake the task
of imposing a policy in Palestine by force
of arms In the absence of a settlement
they must plan for the early withdrawal of
the British forces and the British ad-
ministration.
By way of removing any lingering
hope that Britain might be willing to stay
on to defend the U.N.O. Commission of
Five at its work, a concluding sentence
was added to the British statement:
If no basis of settlement can be found
any recommendations made by the
General Assembly should be accompanied
by a clear definition of the means by which
they are to be carried out.
There are no such means. All the
paeans of-praise from Dr. Evatt’s faithful
press-boys about the great work done on
the Palestine Commission by this “elo-
quent, brilliant, egotistical Foreign Minis-
ter of Australia,” who “has startled the
world by his ability to raise Australia’s
tiny voice into a challenging roar,” do
not disguise the fact that the decisions of
his commission were for a policy promis-
ing nothing so much as to throw the
Holy Land into a most unholy war. The
decision is, as Mr. Bevin has held, one
of force, and there is no force provided
to execute it —only “local militias in each
of the new States to deal with local dis-
turbances only.”
That U.N.O. can make a better job
than Britain of the business of persuading
heterogeneous elements in a State to live
together in fair political harmony was
never regarded as likely. The proof will
now be seen. It is true that the British
had to permit the division of Ireland,
and latterly of India; but the divided
peoples in India show as yet no desire to
abandon such common aims and prin-
ciples as membership of the British Com-
monwealth permits them, nor is it defi-
nitely established that Eire has found any
“better ’ole” for shelter from an unrest
in the outside world even profounder
than its own cherished discontent with
Britain. At least these partitions were
executed by agreement, and with a
supreme regard for the keeping of the
peace.
Now we shall see what U.N.O. can do
in that line, and how much better and
wiser and more successful this inter-
national association is than that which
the British peoples devised in develop-
ment of Britain’s much-maligned art of
Empire-making. After all, that “hateful”
imperialism seems to have had something.
"Who'sat 'E Like Drive?"
The only conclusion to be drawn from
references to New Guinea-Papua by the
Minister of External Territories is that
the inhabitants, to a man and a woman,
must be living in a state of delirium.
Colonel H. T. Allan called public atten-
tion to what was happening to planters
and others who were trying to re-establish
themselves in the Territory. What
Colonel Allan said was reinforced when
Mr. Anthony, M.H.R., moved the ad-
journment of the House to call attention
to settlers’ grievances.
Mr. Anthony’s summary of the situa-
tion was that there had been “a complete
breakdown of administration and ser-
vices” in Papua and New Guinea, with
timber and most privileges reserved for
pampered natives; with finance against
copra unavailable unless delivered
to pool depots; with no ships to carry
it to the depots, no houses for many
planters and others, who were living in
tents ; with waste and ruin everywhere.
According to Colonel Allan the food
shortage in Rabaul is' such that inhabi-
tants look on it as a gala day when
it is announced that “tinned meat will
be made available on Wednesday from
the Administration stores.” Army-residue
flour, to be issued if a ship comes in, is
two years’ old. The soap to be got is
Army flaked soap, about as dissolvable
as reinforced concrete. Petrol can be
had this week, 50 drums of it, if a ship
arrives. Last Thursday the place was
without milk and without pressure-lamps
and parts, and had scarcely any trade
goods for natives.
There are hundreds of white residents
ready to support these allegations. But
let them pause, since they will find Mr.
Ward is a match for them, he having
taken the precaution of endowing New
Guinea with one civil servant or more
for every private inhabitant. For ex-
ample, a Mr. Leighton who was men-
tioned in Parliament as having been a
“campaign organiser” for Mr. Ward and
who, Mr, Ward says, is not a Com-
munist.
Mr. Ward, faced with the charge that
the goldmining industry has died because
there is scarcely a vestige left of the labor
force of 10,000 available before the war,
and that native labor in general is so
short as to spell ruin for many planters,
replies glibly that labor is plentiful, hav-
ing actually increased from 20,000 to
30,000 during the last year. The labor
force before the war was 40,000-odd,
and it did something which the present
labor force is severely discouraged from
doing unless employed by one of the
big monopolist mines or planting firms
which the Government professes to hate.
Native labor, in fact, used to work
instead of sitting under the palms having
Communist leaflets read to it.
Despite the fact that Mr. Anthony
offered a list of names, the Minister
brushed aside with contempt his statement
that settlers (including womenfolk) were
living in tents. If there is one thing
which any resident of New Guinea should
be sure about, having regard to the
vagaries of the climate, it is whether or
not he is living in a tent. But to those
who allege that they are their ruler
replies that “an investigating officer” has
proved that “no white settlers are living
in tents, and if there are any it is because
they want to do so.”
Copra production, according to Mr.
Ward, is increasing; the native is bliss-
fully happy; the whites are satisfied, and
every accusation made by Colonel Allan
—a veteran of Mont St. Quentin and
Tobruk, whom the Government itself
appointed to its production board a few
months ago—is “without foundation.”
The pity is that, being so delighted with
the progress of his realm, which he now
proposes to invest with a new capital and
a council which will be entirely sub-
servient to the Administrator, the Min-
ister is so strangely averse from talking
about them. The debate was closed
abruptly by the vigilant Mr. Scully, whose
sole Ministerial duty consists in stifling
Opposition criticism. Mr. Anthony, seek-
ing to reply to some remarks of Mr.
Ward which he branded as misrepresen-
tation, was cast out of the House for a
week. Prevention of debate on New
Guinea affairs has become one of those
“ ‘Labor’ principles.” But oral and
printed discussion cannot be gagged
altogether— at least, not yet.
Copra is higher in price than ever be-
fore in history. Timber is in greater
demand than at any time within living
memory. Gold is a valuable asset. But
the copra industry is dying where it is
not falling into the hands of mon-
opoly firms from overseas. The gold-
mining industry is a shadow of its pre-
war self. Shipping is totally inadequate.
Private banking has given way, at least
in Rabaul, to a totalitarian financial
monopoly. And the native everywhere is
getting out of hand, as a result of
“anti-imperialist” pampering and the
elevation to headships of villages of
cheeky fellows to whom all masters are
the same, and who served the Japanese.
The state of the Territories can be
judged on Mr. Ward’s own figures,
which mean that it is possible only
to recruit 30,000 men for industry out
of a total counted population of 700,000.
The state of industry can be judged on the
number of Europeans leaving the Terri-
tory, and on the reports of company and
other meetings. The rubber industry is
dying on its feet. Export of baby food
from Australia to the Territories is
banned. So is the ownership of vessels
over 25 tons by lonely planters, who, if
they stood on their own sea-legs, would
interfere with the development of
socialism and monopoly.
The desperate nature of the labor posi-
tion and the pitch of civilisation to which
the efforts of Mr. Ward —who has never
been in the New Guinea Territory, though
he once ventured ashore in Papua in his
bare feet —is indicated by the pleading
advertisements which appear in the Edu-
cation Department’s native newspapers.
A sample:
WHO’SAT ’E LIKE DRIVE?
Plenty work ’e stop.
You come, that’s all!
Plenty work long drive ’im truck ’e
stop, long all truck belong Government
long Lae. Pay belong this fella work ’e
good fella too much —all same £2 ’e go
on top £6, one month. Suppose man ’e
like this fella work, ’e come up long
Kiap, now talk-savvy.
This actually appears in the Lae “Gara-
mut” (Anglice, “drum”), though it is not
as simple to read in the original text,
since socialism would not be socialism
if it had not engaged a bureaucrat to
devise a phonetic alphabet which meta-
morphoses “Who’sat ’E Like Drive . . .
plenty work ’e stop” into “Husat I laik
Dariva . . . palanti wok istap.”
Mr. Ward’s administration, like his
pidgin and his education service, is pre-
tentious, expensive and circumlocutory,
not to mention disturbing and destructive
to European and native civilisations alike.
Mr. Chifley should take this Minister
and his agents in hand before somebody
in U.N.O. with a humorous turn of mind
secures an. efficient grasp of how they are
running the most important Pacific man-
date. Latent in what Mr. Ward is per-
mitting is the material for the worst
advertisement this country has ever had.
“Who’sat ’e like drive?” Mr. Ward
may, if he is not careful, find the wrong
nation answering that advertisement in
respect of New Guinea.
From Gold to Brass.
The “Labor” Prime Minister who i«
July, 1946, as reported by the Melbourne
“Age”—then ever so friendly—saw Aus-
tralia moving securely into a Golden
Age now sees its “industry and com-
merce” drifting into increasing “incon-
venience and hardship” which he cannot
avert.
He said this in a prepared statement
to Parliament, which in his time has be-
come a mere instrument for registering
the secret decisions of Caucus', in the
closing hours of a session during which
he and his crowd gravely divided the
nation, effected a separation between
country people and city people—though
not all city people —when unity is the
nation’s greatest need. The statement
was deficient in candor and was padded
with claptrap.
The excuse given for the new issue of
“inconvenience and hardship,” with their
inescapable effects on employment, was
that “Australia owes a great responsi-
bility to Britain, whose people showed a
wonderful spirit during and since the
war.” Granted ; but recognition of “the
great responsibility” and the “wonderful
spirit” did not come, or at least was not
translated into policy, until the British
“Labor” Government had got the affairs
of the nation into such a mess and
thereby started so palpable a slump in
“Labor”-socialist stocks that the existence
of all “Labor” Governments was
threatened. This belated regard for
Britain was invisible two years ago, when
Food Controller Murphy and Minister
Dedman tried to stop the Food for
Britain movement in its beginnings. In
the previous year Mr. Ward, from his
place on the front Ministerial bench, de-
livered one of his' poisonous attacks on
“British imperialism” and one of his
equally poisonous panegyrics' on Soviet!
Russia. His troubles about the British
people except as vote-fodder whose party
preferences, if transferred on a vast scale,
must influence the vote-fodder in Aus-
tralia.
So in economic matters, though not in
banking or industrial matters, “Follow
the British ‘Labor’ Government” is now
the Canberra programme. Mr. Chifley
has nothing else to offer, or to propose.
He won’t entertain the idea of an Ameri-
can loan to tide Australia over the period
of dollar difficulty, and if there was ever
any thought of discussions with the
Canadian Government it was subordi-
nated to the craze for “settling” the
affairs of Indonesia and Palestine.
Wage-pegging was abandoned as
a concession to Communists, who
engineered destructive strikes' against
it. Abandoned with profit to “Labor”
politicians, who at Canberra and
Sydney awarded themselves thumping
salary-increases, but with inflationary
effects, which have been increased
by the introduction of the 40-hour
week. And, shutting its eyes to the
terrible situation in France, the “Gov-
ernment” is letting the leaders of the
Communist conspiracy commit fresh in-
dustrial outrages, the most criminal of
which threatens to make the dollar posi-
tion worse. In contempt of the new and
very expensive “streamlined arbitration”
by union secretaries and the like, some
of these ruffians, by stopping wool move-
ments, have secured the cancellation of
the sales on which so much depends.
Trains have been wrecked in France,
towns have been seized, blood has been
shed by Communists exploiting the mass
misery which their congeners are set on
producing here and hoping that their
hour had struck. It is a grim warning
to Australia ; but the warning goes un-
heeded by a “Labor” Administration
which governs only those who are willing
to be governed and which, where Com-
munists are concerned, has a yellow streak
as broad as a whale’s belly.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Another Police State.
That very unusual “Labor” politician
W. F. Sheahan, who as' an Old Digger
Minister is earnestly trying to fulfil his
party’s promises of farms to servicemen
—it is not his fault that the promises,
issue of which began over six years
ago, are still 98 p.c. unfulfilled —was' seen
last week in another role, also very un-
usual for a “Labor” politician. He came
out as a champion of civil liberties, and
not a bogus champion like the kind of
“Civil Liberties” organisation which,
tremendously indignant at the mild war-
time ’ proceedings taken against Com-
munist saboteurs, folded up when retired
bank and assurance men and Old Diggers
of the Australia First League were in-
terned without being charged, much less
placed on trial.
Having learned that a Gundagai con-
stituent, the wife of a bank manager,
had been subjected to a police inquisi-
tion concerning the United Women’s
Citizens Movement against Socialisation,
Mr. Sheahan said, “This is either a stunt
or an excessive use of police powers.”
In another statement he pointed out that
“there is no law that interferes with the
liberty of expression of opinion, and any
interference by the police with the ex-
ercise of that liberty would be dangerous
in a democratic community”:
Any body of decent citizens is entitled
to the right of assembly to discuss matters
of public importance subject, of course, to
no breach of the peace being committed.
I shall want to know whether the inves-
tigation or interrogation was carried out on
instructions from police headquarters in
Sydney.
It was, as a matter of fact. The instruc-
tions, it transpired, came from that ex-
traordinary Police Commissioner Mac-
Kay, friend of “Romano” and “The
Flying Pieman” to “Labor” till “Labor”
took him into favor. They were issued
not only arbitrarily, but clumsily, in the
Mac Kay fashion, and were interpreted as
arbitrarily and clumsily. According to
the Mac Kay report to Premier McGirr:
On November 25 I wrote personally to
the Superintendents of Police at Tamworth,
Parkes, Wagga, Goulburn, Dubbo and
Newcastle directing them to cause inquiries
to be made, in a discreet and unassuming
manner, in connection with... .the Citizens’
Rights Committee, which I was informed
was being organised at the principal country
centres for some political or other pur-
pose .... somewhat on the lines of the New
Guard. My object in making these inquiries
was so that I could take action to main-
tain peace and good order and inform you
of developments.
There yvas a Citizens’ Rights Committee
formed by a constitutional lawyer, a
Presbyterian minister turned politician
and other persons equally mild when, in
consequence of an unlawful waterfront
strike, urgently-needed perishables were
rotting in ships’ holds. The United
Women’s Citizens Movement against
Socialisation has nothing whatever to do
with that Citizens’ Rights Committee or
any other which may have taken the
label. Why the Gundagai lady should
have been interrogated has not been ex-
plained by Mr. Mac Kay, Mr. McGirr
or anyone else. But Mr. McGirr, one
of those Catholic “Labor” politicians who
crawl to Communists, even to the extent
of copying their terminology, is all for
the Mac Kay inquisition and has publicly
congratulated Mac Kay on having “done
his duty in a most thorough and efficient
manner.”
Professing to be satisfied that there are
proposals to “re-form the New Guard to
fight nationalisation of banking”—though
of this there is no evidence and if the
evidence existed the police could surely
take proceedings for a threatened breach
of the peace—Mr. McGirr laid down the
proposition that “it is the duty of the
Commissioner to know exactly what is
occurring in the State in matters of this
nature.” In short, it is part of the Com-
missioner’s job to take powers of inquisi-
tion and surveillance over “any body of
decent citizens” exercising the hitherto
unquestioned “right of assembly to dis-
cuss matters of public importance,” as
Mr. Sheahan puts 1 it.
So, with McGirr as Premier and Mac-
Kay as Commissioner, N. S. Wales joins
the dingy collection of police States.
It's Only YOUR Money.
It was tardily admitted last week, too
late for any debate in the closing Parlia-
ment, that under the Drakeford-Coles-
Taylor regime Trans-Australia Airlines
had lost £505,900 in its first year. In
effect, nearly 25 per cent, of capital “ad-
vanced from the Treasury,” and that in
10 months of actual operations. So
“Labor’s” thoughts turned to another way
of squandering funds extorted by its sky-
high taxes.
The prognostication in these columns
(B. 18/6/’47) that the suggested new
Commonwealth Shipping Line would start
with a nucleus of 20 ships, A and D
classes of the war-time shipbuilding pro-
gramme, is borne out by the announce-
ment that “Labor” is setting up an Aus-
tralian Shipping Commission on similar
lines to its Airlines Commission, and
“with a basis” of 13 River (A-class) ships
—9OOO-tonners—and six D-class —2500-
tonnerS.
There will also be attached the two B-
class ships—6ooo-tonners —left over from
the war; war prizes (including the
Reynella of recent “danger-money”
notoriety), and 17 ships under charter
from the British Ministry of Shipping.
At present the Australian-built ships
are under charter to Australian shipping
companies. The temptation to put the
Government into the shipowning busi-
ness again —plus pressure by the Sea-
men’s Union, whose Communists not only
maintained but increased their strength
at the union elections —is expected to
prove irresistible.
The former tommonwealth Shipping
Line, started after World War I and con-
tinued at an annual loss till 1927, ran the
Australian taxpayer into a loss of nearly
£6,750,000 as a running concern before
its ships were finally sold. Since they cost
£l5 millions to purchase or construct, and
their valuation was written down by £lO
millions before the Government passed
over control to its Shipping Board, the
chancy nature of the shipping business
in Government hands should have been
“A CUCKOO IN THE NEST.”
(Alternative Title: “Rookery Nook.”)
“T.-A.A. losses in 1946-47 (‘ten months of actual flying’) were tardily revealed last week
—£505,927! In addition it was admitted that Mr. Drakeford, the Ministerial boss of the
concern, had used up £56 5 2 on ‘visits’ to N.Z., the U.S.A. and Britain.”
fairly drummed into the heads of Aus-
tralian electors.
Probably another generation will con-
sent to learn the hard way. Not so the
Canadians, whose Government has just
sold its whole war-time merchant fleet —
mostly 10,000-tonners —at ruling prices,
getting out while the going was good.
That Government doesn’t yield to Com-
munists. It prosecutes them.
Unlucky Coincidence.
The Malay seamen who married in Aus-
tralia are to be sent back to Singapore
“in about six weeks.” Clumsy Calwell
asserts that two of them “have wives in
Malaya,” and in the same strain of out-
raged morality has made other assertions
which don’t improve the position, nor are
they likely to avert the threatened
Malayan boycott of Australian trade.
There already exists a Malayan boycott
of Australian “Labor” lotteries, the
Malayan authorities refusing the Aus-
tralia-degrading business the service of his
Majesty’s mails.
To the House at Canberra Clumsy Cal-
well said he did not intend to alter his
decision “about the repatriation of alien
refugees and evacuees who came to Aus-
tralia during the war and were not eli-
gible to become permanent residents.”
Nobody questioned him about Singapore
proceedings for the deportation of an
“Australian” which unfortunately coin-
cided with the local agitation in the in-
terest of the Malay seamen.
The “Australian” is a Polish Jew,
Israel Hersz Kinstler, aged 43, who is
wanted on a charge of taking to and
trafficking at Singapore in illicitly-
acquired Westralian gold. According to
a statement made in the presence of an
Australian Customs man and a Singa-
pore police superintendent, Kinstler
came to Australia in 1942 and was
“naturalised during the war.” Quick
work, but unfortunate in view of the
rumpus over the Malay seamen who are
to be deported with or (in the Soviet
style) without their wives and children.
Blair Athol Coal.
“O.T.’s” rhapsody in C:
Ignoring the squeals of the Communist bosses
of the Miners’ Federation, Mr. Hanlon has
pushed on with the agreement between the
Queensland Government and The Electric Sup-
ply Corporation (Overseas) for the working of
the Blair Athol coalfield. Outline, as given in
the Premier’s speech in Parliament:
Company to work the field by opencut
methods. Decision on railway route to
depend upon surveys. Company to pay
cost of harbor works; towns along the
route to have a commissioner re-
sponsible to the Government. When
company cannot obtain land by negotiation
Government may resume at company’s
cost. Railway to become Crown property
in time. State to receive royalties of 6d.
a ton ofl the first million tons in any year,
3d. on the second million and Id. a ton
thereafter. Crown to have right to acquire
the undertaking 50 years hence on basis
of cost of land and works, less deprecia- -
tion.
Generally, Queensland is pleased with the
whole show. So is the rest of Australia, ex-
cept the Communist narks and stick-in-the-mud
“Labor” noodles, who mumble that “Hanlon is
letting ‘the movement’ down.” They want
“socialisation,” which Mr. Hanlon’s depart-
mental advisers have estimated would cost
Queensland £BOO,OOO a year.
J. R. Kemp, Co-ordinator of Public Works,
worked it out that on a production of 1.3
million tons a year, a million tons for ex-
port could be put into ships at a cost of
235. 7d. to 255. 4d. a ton.
Mr. Kemp estimates capital cost of works,
railways and ships to handle 1.3 million tons
a year at £17,500,000 to £20,000,000. Taking
shipping and N.S.W. ran freights charged last
June, he put the average price of N.S..W. coal
delivered at Melbourne at 375. sd. a ton and
at Adelaide at 38s. 3d., saying that prices were
kept at those levels by “subsidies and rail-
freight concessions.” Cost of Blair Athol coal
delivered to each city he reckoned at between
545. Id. and 555. lOd. and between 61s. 7d.
and 635. 4d. respectively. N.S.W. coal prices
and rail freights have since jumped through the
roof.
Blair Athol coal won’t be available to Mel-
bourne and Adelaide for some time. Costs and
prices may alter greatly by the time it is available.
All the same, there’s a determined air about
Mr. Hanlon and this Blair Athol project, the
company itself clearly means business —it ex-
pects to make a start in February—and from
that people in the south can take hope of being
freed from the caprices of the N.S.W. coalies
and their Communist bosses. Which accounts
for the Communists’ yelps of pain and their
efforts to clamp a Communist-bossed “Joint
Coal Board” on Queensland.
McGirr Has an Alibi.
Mr. McGirr, State leader of the N. S.
Wales branch of the socialisation party,
could not have expected that the Legisla-
tive Council would pass' his Superfluous
Minister’s Bill to “control” (that is,
acquire) building materials and property.
There is very little from lond to finished
houses, from cement to refrigerators
that under the measure, as drafted, the
Minister could not have stepped in and
grabbed wherever he found them.
If the people would stand that sort
of interference by any Government they
would stand anything. The McGirrs can
have had no sort of doubt about that,
and they made the bill hot enough to
assure that the Upper House would toss
it out. The point is that Mr. McGirr
knows he has no more chance of build-
ing 90,000 houses by 1950 —as he
promised during his election campaign
last April—than he has of being made
Grand Master of the Orange Lodge.
Even if he could socialise every coal-
mine, brick and bag of cement in N. S.
Wales, and everything and everybody
equipped in the remotest way to serve
the construction of houses, he could not
do it. He knows that, and he wants an
alibi.
What alibi than to cook up a
socialisation bill, which every crank in
the “Labor” party and its Communist
offshoot could expound as a miracle-
worker, and get it thrown out by the
Council. Then he can tell the electors
that he was prevented from carrying out
his pledge by the “Upper House reac-
tionaries,” the “enemies of ‘Labor’ ” and
so forth.
If the McGirrs can build 12,000 houses
a year for each of those years they will
be doing about as well as union go-slow
tactics', the 40-hour week and stoppages
in key industries and transport services
will allow. If they would bring down a
bill to “control” some of the Commo-
run unions they might do something to
shift the log-jam. But nothing of that
sort can possibly happen under “Labor.”
There was no control over the prices
“Labor” bid for office at the elections.
The 90,000 houses in three years to be
created under Government control was
one of those bids. What disposition
there is in the McGirr crowd to allow
private enterprise a free hand to tackle
the job is revealed by the bill which the
Council has knocked out. It was
designed to eliminate private enterprise
altogether from the building industry.
Advance, Australia Fair!
Sixteen years ago the American maga-
zine “Fortune” sent a writer to this
country and published the results of his
researches in an article, “Australia for
the Australians.” It summed us up as
“a pastoral nation,” whose people “live
in cities by the sea, work for a fixed wage
and run their continent to suit them-
selves.” A gambling nation withal:
Gambling and sports quite definitely come
before sex.... Every day in the year (except
Sundays) there is a horserace; and every
day every Australian considers betting on
it A great lottery organisation flourishes.
We’ve gone far since then. In Sydney,
at least, throughout the football season,
you can “get set” on a Sunday football
match and there are now five Govern-
ment or “semi-Government” lotteries do-
ing enormous business : tickets, 2s. 6d. to
£1 ; prizes £5OOO to £25,000, tax-free. The
female leg is the stock subject of the news-
paper photographer, and young women
who “model” gowns and breast- and
hip-coverings have been placed on a par
with film actresses.
Industry and politics 16 years ago;
Australian industrial life is the slave of
what is called the Three Sacred Eights—
Eight Hours’ Work, Eight Hours’ Play,
Eight Hours’ Sleep.
Now, the 40-hour week has arrived
and the 30-hour week is heralded. But
the central fact remains;
Having left a small rearguard in the
interior to raise the wheat and breed the
sheep which support them, Australians live
.in great cities on the coast... .Their slogans
are a White Australia and Australian
Standards for Australians.
It’s unnecessary to worry about that
“rearguard” outback. As for White Aus-
tralia and maintenance of Australian
standards, “Fortune” need only study our
policy to our “Indernesian comrades”
and the Dutch “exploiters,” together with
our powerful connections with Moscow,
to realise how we’ve risen above such
foolishness.
There was a word for Canberra;
With no business, no industry, and
nothing but Government chores to do,
Canberra has begun to bore its popula-
tion
Outmoded, for Canberra has done more.
It has maddened and amused and alarmed
the Australian population ; has become
the arbiter of the nation’s export 1 and
import trade, and the seat of every
bureaucratic dictator.
And lastly, Utopia:
The conception of the Australian as the
ultimate development of modern man
pictures the Australian as having passed
through the phase of incessant labor
and having reached a Utopia of mediocrity
wherein the individual urge is simply to live
■ well, work as little as possible and worry
about nothing.
Sixteen years is a short time in human
development and we can be excused if
there are still Australians who believe in
work and ambition and thrift and want
to rise above mediocrity. No effort is
being spared by the four “Labor” Gov-
ernments to overcome these reactionaries,
and if the stubborn fellows can’t be
taxed out of their old-fashioned notions
then they’ll dashed well be legislated out
of them. Whereupon, maybe, the Ameri-
cans can send us another writer, who will
stand even more astonished than his pre-
decessor.


a ss7
CRAVENA
quality Is something you
can rely on always
y
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
> * .y.
POLITICAL POINTS
At such of the N.S.W. municipal elec-
tions as the Sydney Government per-
nutted to take place, “Labor” fared
badly, except in places like Broken Hill,
and Communists: fared worse, though
voting was compulsory. Chifley himself,
an Abercrombie Shire Councillor since
1932, finished a bad third in a field of
three, being ousted by a young farmer,
R. T. Nightingale. The poll was headed
by W. Maynard, with whom the P.M.
was bracketed, though Maynard is not a
“Labor” man, and who attributes
Chifley’s defeat to the bank grab. Hence
<a Nightingale sang in Abercrombie
Shire.
As a sequel to its defeats at the muni-
cipal elections, N.Z. “Labor” saw its
majority in Westland, securely held for
many years by the late Minister O’Brien,
fall from 4716 to 1814 The lady Minis-
ter of Health, Miss Howard, did the
candidate no good by saying she
could not give a straightout answer to a
pertinent question put to her on the plat-
form: “Is ‘Labor’ 100 per cent, opposed
to Communists? At that she was more
candid than most of the Labor mem-
Sf rs u m „ Australia, where even Catholic
Labor members string along with Com-
™^r linB ‘° them WhCn CraWli ” S
. ' .. - ... ..
Financial results of airline operations
for the year to June 30.
LosjAn ■toTSSfif £tS“aySS? :
£505,927.
A.N.A. (company): Huge taxes paid.
Accounts incomplete, but an interim 5 per
holders distributed .among share-
A few hours after these astonishing facts
A tew hours alter these aston shmg tacts
™ ft m AMa ii fLI
gun-pomt from the A.N.A. booking
office in Martin-place, Sydney,” which
arouses moody speculations. The case is
in the hands of Mac Kay, that terror to
“Fascist” housewives, who tracked down
the slayer of the Pyjama Girl-a hat-
, C , T >nrr , n *; t , ■ .j* 1A
xfu ! P Romano s—mside 0 years.
Nobody can say that the Chifleys don t
maich with the times. Hitherto they
have been content with throwing public
money down the sink. Now they throw
11 * n * e air ‘ , XT Cwr T> ID 1
McKenhan, of the N.S.W. Rural Bank,
has great plans for taking over premises
of the trading banks in country towns if
and when the Bank Grab becomes fact.
In that case he would have to buy them
from the Commonwealth Bank against
which he proposes to compete, and at the
Commonwealth Bank’s price; but that is
just by the way. A few months ago
Moi/ ",
was proclaiming that anyone who
talked depression should be jailed. Since
then Chifley and his not-so-merry men
have talked of little else.
„,o, , , , ,
From Tuesday of last week, except that
there was no Saturday sitting. Justice
Reed, of South Australia, has been hear-
ing evidence at Hobart touching the
charge, outlined in the Assembly by
Opposition-leader Campbell, that four
road operators,” through one J. T. Sul-
livan, had paid £5400 to Premier Cos-
grove to secure immunity from opposition
by Government-owned services. Sullivan
stated m the box that the money was
not for the Premier personally but for
Labor -party funds. He admitted be-
mg a rather heavy P unter and having
once been disqualified for inconsistent
running, but denied having laid the
odds for the three other operators who
~ ere paying this money for party funds.
Transport Commissioner Wilson, for his
part, denied that the Premier or his
Transport Minister had ever dictated
policy to the commission. Certified bank
statements were presented on behalf of
the Premier, Mrs. Cosgrove, the A.L.P.
organisation and the four road operators.
During the week it was alleged in the
Leg. Council that money had been paid
“to delay the Bookmakers’ Bill,” but an
application for extension of the inquiry
to cover that charge wqs not pressed.
Tasmanian “Labor” is full of trouble,
though not yet acquainted with grief.
Dr. Turnbull (B£ss), its majority on the
Assembly floor, absented himself from the
last November party meeting, but was
all there in the House next day, moving
the adjournment to call attention to “the
disgraceful state of affairs at the Lachlan
Park mental hospital.” To a rasping
interjection from Housing Minister
Reece the doctor replied, “There is no
need to get panicky; we must learn to
take it.” But do “they” ever learn “to
take it”?
“N.Q. Register” had a look at the
census returns from shires in North and
West Queensland and could hardly be-
lieve them:
Population.
Shire. Sq. miles. 1933. 1947.
Barkly Tableland 16,580 747 380
Burke 17,780 355 250
Carpentaria .... 25,488 695 611
Croydon 11,140 316 164
Diamantina 36,362 214 222
Boulia 24,994 605 676
Etheridge 16,025 1,085 856
Cook 48,999 2,036 1,134
“An indicatioq,” says the paper, “of the
remarkable drift to the cities during the
past 14 years.” Yes, and: of the remark-
able inertia and complacency of Big-City
Governments.
Victoria’s Parliamentary “Labor” party
forebofe to blame Chifley for the Novem-
ber rout (though Keon, Cremean and
other members were free with their re-
marks on the effect of Communist sup-
port for the bank grab), but it has re-
minded the P.M. and McKenna that it
doesn’t blame Cain. That philosophic
character it “unanimously” re-elected its
leader, and. Field having lost his seat, it
gave Cain Bendigo’s Galvin for deputy,
Galvin is a somewhat different “Labor”
politician, and his rise has been rapid.
Born 43 years ago in fashionable Belle-
vue Hill, Sydney, he went to Scotch Col-
lege, Melbourne, and thence into the
Victorian Railway Department, there to
become an engineer. He became M.L.A.
for Bendigo in March, 1945, and in six
months was a Minister; Lands and Water
Supply. He is almost the only “Labor”
member whose majority did not suffer
materially last month.
Where is the sense in having an Arab-
Jew war over Palestine when the Miracle-
Workers settled the Jewish question long
ago? For witness here is the Dean of
Canterbury in his Socialist Sixth of the
World, written in 1941:
JEWISH PROBLEM SOLVED.
Jews are the world’s standing problem.
The Soviet Union has found the best
solution given to the Jews the District
of Birobijan, some 250 miles from the
Pacific; an area twice the size of Palestine,
a land as large as Holland and Belgium put
together. In Birobijan the Jews began to
build up the first and only Jewish autono-
mous territory in the world, with Yiddish as
the official language.
Unfortunately the “solution” has been
arrested by three factors: (1) Few Jews
ever went to “the only Jewish autono-
mous territory”; (2) fewer stayed; (3)
non-Russian Jews are not admitted to the
Workers’ Fatherland. But the Red
Dean remains as credulous and conceited
and intellectually dishonest as ever.
Any doubts the Hanlon Government
may have had about its determination to
preserve Queensland from the Chifley-
Communist “Joint Coal Board” must
have evaporated * last Wednesday. On
that day the State was invaded by Wil-
liams (Wales), Communist president of
the Miners’ Federation and party and
Queensland coalies stopped work to hear
Williams, Millar and Grant. It cost the
coalies about £7500 in wages and the
State 7000 tons of coal. What did the
miners hear?
Development of open : cut mining in
Queensland by British capitalists menaces
the livelihood of every underground miner.
Development of Blair Athol will lead
to cut-throat competition... .British im-
perialists will make great profits and then
go home, leaving nothing but derelict towns.
Hitherto the Communist tale has been
that underground mining menaced the
life of every miner.
The umpteenth “vigorous campaign to
stamp out blackmarketing,” this time in
petrol, has burst upon the jaded com-
munity. When Parliament was about to
“break up for Christmas” Harrison said
he had heard of a garageman who was
offered 500 Dec. petrol tickets a week be-
fore they were issued ; and thereupon the
“vigorous campaign” was announced.
Officials had “their plans ready”; the
“drive on illegal petrol sales will reach
its peak” and “severe measures will be
adopted.” An incredulous public has
heard it all before.
Queensland has been promised a
“drive” against blackmarkets in meat and
clothing, “the most concerted since the
illicit use of these commodities began.”
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” has been told
that Rationing officials have “now col-
lected sufficient evidence and are ready to
take action.” So far, no known black-
marketer has lost a minute’s sleep or been
seen burning the evidence in the back-
yard.
Aloof and alone, like the deserted
leader, of a desert tribe, J. T. Lang can
still turn an apt phrase. He got one out
when “Parliament” was debating the bill
to extend war-time control of prices and
“charges” by referendum:
This measure envisages a managed
economy, which Mussolini called Fascism
and Stalin calls Communism. It envisages
a form of State in which the godheads are
the bureaucrats, a system based on the in-
fallibility of the official mind.
Still, the Big Fellow needn’t worry over-
much. There’ll be plenty of those who
now sneer at him out in the desert them-
selves before long.
Ward, spouting bank-grab stuff to
an audience at the Lawson Labor
College, indulged in a sneer at the High
Court’s Christmas vacation (he has never
shown any signs of grudging politicians
their Christmas vacation), and said “I
don’t think we are going to get as speedy
a decision as we hoped for.” The rest of
his “speech” was full of “ifs” and “un-
lesses.” To get at the real thought in
the Ward “mind” it is necessary to amend
slightly the sentence quoted. In Parlia-
mentary language: delete the words “as
speedy a” and “as” and insert the word
“the.”
“Miss Australia” can’t go to the U.S.A.
or Canada, Chifley having refused her
dollars. Yet she could do more for this
country among peoples naturally in-
terested in free and frank young Aussie
maidens than has been done by all the
dollar-squandering “Labor” politicians
and all the staffs of the costly outfits Dr.
Evatt has set up in Americas,
The denial of dollars to Miss Gain-
ford coincided with the tardy “release”
of Chifley information (incomplete in at
least some cases) as to how dollars (un-
specified) have been burnt up by touring
“Labor” politicians. Dr. Evatt leads with
£33,287, and more bills to come in.
Drakeford’s expeditions cost £5612,
Keane’s £3414, Ward’s £2303, Grant’s
£2272 and Collings’s £2365. Collings is
an octogenarian. And all this with the
cost of the Calwell pilgrimage and those
of Amour, Daly and other minor
“Labor” politicians and a host of union
bosses (some of them Communists) to be
added to the list.
There should be some interesting plead-
ing in the N.S.W. Assembly this week
when McGirr brings in his bill to expand
the activities of the Rural Bank to allow
that institution to engage in general bank-
ing business. The Premiers of Victoria,
S.A. and W.A. have indicated their in-
tention of starting or expanding State
banks if the Federal Bank Grab survives
the High Court and Privy Council ap-
peals. They can justify their, action by
their opposition to the Chifley Plan and
by their general distrust of Federal
“Labor,” but the McGirr won’t be able
to say a word against the Canberra
crowd. “Labor” men must hang together,
and to suggest that a State “Labor”
Premier can’t trust a Federal “Labor”
Treasurer is unthinkable. Or is it?
Not content with hogging all the credit
for winning the war “Labor” is now de-
termined that if there is to be another de-
pression “Labor,” and “Labor” alone,
shall be entitled to the blame for it. For
when to price-control, rent-control and
job-control is added a Government
monopoly of banking, there will be no
one else left to blame.
The only thing McGirr did not say,
in his N.S.W. Budget exposition on hous-
ing plans, is that the cost of a pre-war
cottage has been raised out of reach of
tjie would-be small-home owner. McGirr
has “increased the limit of advances,” and
“raised the permissible limit of home pur-
chasers” (to such extent does “Labor”
regiment our lives), but all this is only an-
other way of saying that “Labor” policy
has made the cost of building well-nigh
prohibitive.
Moving-picture people rush to make
“epics” of the brief brawl of Eureka,
now a Communist symbol, and the hum-
drum task, performed every year by many
a drover as a matter of course, of driving
a few hundred station cattle across the
well-watered and well-organised N.T. !
stock route to the Queensland trail. It
is characteristic of the breed that such
magnificent stories as the story of the
origins of Newcastle are neglected. i
Although Victoria has got rid of its j
“Labor” Government it isn’t likely to get
rid of its effects for a long time. In the
building industry everything is in short
supply; even the small but essential nail. ,
One concern is running its houses to- [
gether with as few nails as possible and
then assuring buyers of houses that it will
return and hammer the rest in when or
if they are obtainable. j
British “Labor’s” determination to get
out of Palestine, and its objection to the
American request that it should hang on
for a while, recall the party resolution
adopted “at Whitsun 1943”;
This conference reaffirms the traditional
policy of the British Labor party in favor
of building Palestine as the Jewish National
Home. It asks that the Jewish Agency be
given authority to make the fullest use of
the economic capacity of the country to
absorb immigrants and to develop un-
occupied lands.
The thing is unctuously quoted in Prof.
Julius Stone’s “Stand Up and Be
Counted”; angrily addressed to Isaac
Isaacs when the wise old man came out
against extreme Zionism —events have
proved him right and Stone wildly wrong.
The Stone lucubration would make a fine
theme for one of the Saturday-night dis-
sertations which A.B.C. hires the author
to let loose.
Points made by an Adelaide “Adver-
tiser’’ correspondent in a Canberra article
on increase of members:
The Government is committed to
abolition of the Senate, but it cannot in-
crease the size of the House without in-
creasing proportionately the size of the
other Chamber. If 48 Senators were de-
cided upon, 30 would have to be chosen at
the next election, and the loss of five
States would put Labor in a minority vote.
An increase of 24 Senators would mean
that Labor would need win three States
to retain a majority. The implications
were overlooked when Caucus decided to
have a larger Parliament.
What a lot ofthings Caucus “overlooks”
when it makes decisions!
Negro cotton-growers in Alabama
(U.S.A.) have been told by one of those
publications for “promoting friendship
between America and Russia” by Com-
munising the negroes that Soviet farms
are now growing cotton in pink, brown,
blue and green shades. Obviously the
most popular shade is pink, for special
consumption by greens, who become blue
when the truth comes out and are then
browned off.


WATCHDOGS OF DEMOCRACY.
"Police questioning of opponents of the Bank Grab, one a bank manager's wife at Gundagai, was ‘justified' by N.S.W. Premier McGirr, who said police
Commissioner MacKay had done his duty in a most thorough and efficient manner."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Llantana”: The picture was a tech-
nicolor short, dealing with Hollywood
methods of creating scenes in far-off
lands. The shapely guide led her party
of tourists —and the audience—from set
to set, through Holland, Spain and so on.
Then came England, represented by the
changing of the guard outside Bucking-
ham Palace. The . theatre echoed with
male laughter of the lusty ex-service type.
The Grenadier Guards were carrying out
Yankee drill routine!
* * * *
“Flathead”: A chap out our way was
doing a brisk little business in
lawnmowers. His first victim, Jones,
bit when the stranger announced that
he’d mow his lawn for “half-a-dollar.”
Jones produced his mower and didn’t
miss the implement until a week later;
he held no suspicion about the stranger
“because he looked so bloomin’ honest.”
Meanwhile, the honest type had contacted
Brown, who lived a block away, cut his
lawn for him, and, as Brown had no
mower of his own, very obligingly
sold him one for two pounds. Then,
after a fortnight, the stranger called back
on Jones: “No. I put your mower back
in the shed like you told me. I’m very
sorry to hear that you’ve lost it, but I
know where I can get you a very good
secondhand one for a couple of quid.”
Jones coughed up, and at the time saw
little resemblance between this new
mower and his old one. Realisation came
when Brown, a cobber of 20 years, ob-
served the machine while passing and
bellowed that Jones was a thief. After
the dust died down they compared notes
and learned sadly that the cherub-dial
had last been observed in the act of
boarding a train heading west.
* * * *
Spokeshave”: There is one Melbourne
woman who views with dismay the pro-
posal to increase the city’s building limit.
She has never been inside a lift or on an
escalator in her life, although her busi-
ness often takes her to the top floors of
buildings. Elevators are surrounded with
unfortunate associations for her owing
to the fact that her first acquaintance
with one, 50 years ago, was when her
mother left her for a moment standing
in front of a lift well. She pressed a
button and the lift appeared. The thing
that horrified her and sent her scream-
ing down the passage was that there was
no one in it.
* * * *
Heresone : I hate to disillusion
Clooter” (B. 19/11/’47), but in my
schooldays it wasn’t unknown for a
boy to pass the Senior,” our equivalent
of the “Leaving,” twice. He might get
the minimum number of four subjects
needed for a pass, but fail in one
needed for matriculation. So it would
be back ta school for another year, and
as one subject couldn’t possibly keep him
busy, he generally repeated at least four
subjects and tried for another Senior
pass. . Obviously such a feat didn’t imply
a brain far above average ; rather the re-
verse, which knocks a few props from
under the P.M.’s argument. I knew of
one lad who was really proficient in
sport, but regarded lessons as an unavoid-
able side-issue. The first time he sat for
the Senior he passed—just—but as he
was mainstay of the football and cricket
teams the school raised no objection
when he elected to sit for it again next
year. That time he failed, so tried again.
With the score two to one against him,
his father’s purse, or patience, gave out
and he had to leave the pursuit of cul-
ture and find a job.
* * * *
X.S.”: A woman in a Victorian
country district had been causing con-
sternation amongst the local population
by threatening people with a shotgun. A
neighbor rang up the police-sergeant and
informed him. “Has she got a licence?”
asked the copper. “Oh, yes,” said his in-
formant. “Well,” he replied, “I can’t do
anything until she shoots you.”
* * * *
“Findy”; A Sydney artist who fancies
himself as a connoisseur of cheese met
his match when someone presented him
with a chunk of Limburger. All went
well till he got it home and unwrapped
it. His wife and children hastily deserted
the room, leaving him and the cheese
to fight it out. The cheese won, but he
managed to retain sufficient strength to
force it back into its wrappings, put it
"No wonder he has a duodenal—he's been bolting his food!”
in a cupboard, open the windows and
persuade his family to come indoors
again. Next day at lunch a friend com-
mented longingly, “What wouldn’t I give
for a taste of real Limburger again?”
The artist astounded him by responding,
“Well, if you really like the stuff, I’ve got
some at home right now that you can
have.” The cheese-lover accompanied him
on the way home to pick up the prize.
Arriving at his flat the artist found
that his wife had consigned the
cheese to the rubbish-bin. Leaving her
to carry on bright conversation with the
visitor he rushed out and rummaged
among the cabbage-leaves, potato peel-
ings and other refuse until he found
the rejected dainty, fortunately still well
wrapped-up. Off went the friend exud-
ing gratitude. The artist turned to his
wife. “Just as well you put extra wrap-
pings around it,” he said. “I had to,”
replied his wife, “otherwise no self-
respecting rubbishman would have carried
it away.”
* * * *
“S.S.” : There’s no pleasing these police-
men. A few months ago a citizen stopped
a fiver for calling one a “mug copper,”
and the other day a taxi-driver addressed
a copper as “dear”; when threatened
with arrest he said: “All right, dear.” The
S.M. when hearing the case said that he
could not imagine anything more insult-
ing than calling a policeman “dear.” An-
other fiver.
* * * *
“Clooter”: The issue of new ration
books the other week brought forth the
usual crop of funny stories, some spon-
taneous, some concocted. There vsks the
Queensland woman who collected four
books, promptly lost them, went back,
filled in the usual statutory declaration,
was told she’d have to get a J.P. to witness
it and asked the clerk why a fountain-pen
wouldn’t do. The clerk discovered she
thought he meant “Jay” nib. A cove
turned up at another office sans the re-
quired name-sheet and explained that be-
cause he was literally a tea drunkard he’d
tried to cure himself by not applying for
tea rations the year before. Another
cove turned up with only half the name-
sheet and became annoyed when denied
his coupons. “Dash it,” he roared, “any
bank will give a man half the value of
a torn note with the number on it.”
“Go,” replied the fed-up clerk, “to the
head office and apply for a half-ration
book.” My own yarn is of the nicely-
spoken and obviously well-educated
young matron who had everything in
order, chatted pleasantly and interest-
ingly to the elderly clerk who filled in
her books, thanked him, then fished in
her bag and asked, “How much is it?”
* * * *
“Plop”: Down south on my radio’s
dial, where advertisements are plentiful
and good music practically non-existent,
a voice was canvassing for some sort of
club. “Every month,” it said, “we ’old
meetings with similar clubs. Last week
we ’ad the Sinatra Club—the Frankie
Fellowship—and next month we are go-
ing down to National Park with the Perry
Como Club. We take a gramophone and
play records of these masters.” The
station’s.,announcer interrupted him here
to shoot in an advt. about “Whosit’s
Lumbago Cure,” and then: “I want you
to tell the listeners about your own club,
the Spike Jones Fraternity. But first sup-
pose we play them Spike’s latest record.”
Whistles blew ; screams rang out, and I
counted half a dozen revolver shots —
my radio commenced jumping on its
stand and I pushed it back ; its valves
seemed on the point of bursting, so I
spoke soothingly to them. When the din
died down the announcer told me that I
had been listening to “Liebestraum,”
and followed this revelation by declaring,
quite seriously, “That ought to get some
members.”
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: A young chap in Sydney
lost his life the other day when- he tried
to fix an electrical fault. The younger
of the two morning papers headed the
story “Man Electrocuted by Vacuum-
cleaner, and said that his sister had
turned off the switch while he repaired
the cleaner and that police believed “the
current shorted through the switch and
electrocuted” him. This was a libel on
every vacuum-cleaner in the city. What
had happened was that the poor chap,
finding that the points from lead to
cleaner wouldn’t fit, tried to adjust them
with a pair of scissors while they were
alive. But a proportion of that paper’s
readers will now have a fixed belief that
vacuum-cleaners are dangerous, whereas,
used with ordinary intelligence, they are
as safe as the old house-broom.
* * * *
Laetitia”; Mention by “Spare Corp”
(B. 19/11/ 47) of the Pork and Beaners’
guard-mounting prompts poignant recol-
lection of such ceremony in a Brisbane
militia camp in 1940. A young gentle-
man, he marched in as a private, was
promoted to corporal on the second day
and sergeant on his third day .of soldier-
ing, though, even to us sweats of six
weeks’ service, his ignorance of the mili-
tary art was patent. With much malice
aforethought on the part of the C.S.M.,
the new sergeant found himself n.c.o. of
the guard within a few hours of his pro-
motion to a three-striper. That night the
adjutant was present at the mounting
ceremony. Everything went swimmingly
till the guard-sergeant bellowed a “Right”
instead of a “Left Form.” Every man-
jack of us knew that someone had blun-
dered and normally would have executed
the right manoeuvre despite the erroneous
order. However, resentment at the sarge’s
whirlwind promotions was paramount,
and we obeyed. Native agility saved the
adjutant from being mown down by the
tread of marching men. Over flower-beds
and notice-boards we pursued our in-
vincible way and even the C.O.’s H.Q.
hut would have gone down before us
had not the adjutant recovered to bellow
“About Turn!” We did three extra
guards for our performance, but it cer-
tainly had its effect on the military career
of the sergeant. A week later he was
gazetted a loot.
* * * *
“ ’Any Garto”: This is really doing it
the rough way. The P.R. photographer
entered a Nip hospital to photograph
Jap medicos in action. No sterilisation,
no masks or gowns. He could even cough
when the layer of dust wiped from the
operating-table tickled his nostrils. In
came the patient, to be pushed on the
slab. A few jabs of a needle and the
doctors set to work. For half an hour
they hacked heatedly at that hernia,
sewed up the slashes as best they could,
then waited until the patient came to.
Into bed then? No chance! Momma-
san backed to the table. The medicos and
assistants bundled the “bod” on her
back, then, as if humping a sack of spuds,
she set off down the road.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”; This is a warning. Bought
a parcel of Christmas toys and had it put
away to be called for. Collected it
about a week later and took it to the
office, intending to smuggle it into the
house and leave it wrapped until
Christmas Eve. A friend, knowing what
the parcel contained, wanted to see if the
toys would suit his own purposes, so we
opened it. Somehow, several of the con-
tents had been smashed while in storage.
Confronted with the damage, the store
made no bones about replacing it,* assum-
ing that somebody had dropped a heavy
weight on the parcel. But what chance
would there have been of replacement
had I stuck to my original intention of
not opening the parcel for a month?
* * * *
“Loc”: Any enterprising young lad
whose dimensions will allow him to crawl
to the point directly under the kiosk on
our ferry-wharf will thereby be able to
regard Rockefeller as a piker. My own
threepenny contribution to the treasure
fell from a limp, astonished hand when
given a packet of smokes there six months
ago, and since that time I have seen close
on a quid go the same way. Similar
secret piles of oof must be common.
There was even one at Canungra, the
Army jungle-training centre. Part of an
assault course there was a row of poles
along which the troops had to shin up-
side-down in the manner of monkeys.
Not until a chap named McNeil had lost
a pocketful of pennies was the miniature
lake beneath inspected. Among the mud
Mac found two wallets containing notes
and enough coins to finance a bender
which made the rest of his days at Can-
ungra pass almost happily.
» * * *
“Minto”; Unofficial messages from
aircraft were forbidden during the war,
but one radio-operator on the Brisbane-
Hollandia run found a way out. The
aircraft left Brisbane every Sunday
night and returned in the &arly hours
of the following Thursday. The radio-
operator’s" wife lived in a Brisbane
suburb directly under the path of
the returning aircraft, and he built
her a receiver tuned to the wavelength
of the aircraft’s transmitter. Before go-
ing to bed on Wednesday night the wife
would turn on the receiver and place it
near her bed. When the aircraft was
over the house the operator would press
down the microphone button and murmur
“Home in 20,” “Home in 20.” The kettle
would be boiling as he walked in the
front door.
* * * *
“Fung Bung”: Discovered the other
morning, during a stroll round South
Melbourne, that the Chinese joss-house •
built nearly 100 years ago when Mel-
bourne’s Celestial population was larger
and wealthier than it is now is still in
existence. I knocked on a gate and un-
earthed an ancient and courteous cus-
todian who was obviously as proud of
his fane as if it was Westminster Abbey.
Outside, the joss-house looks neglected,
but inside the richly-carved interior,
replete with gilt scrolls, drums, bronze
urns, stone lions and banners, I found
signs of recent worship and the ashes of
burnt incense on the altars. Fine old
stiff-backed chairs, altars encrusted with
ornament and beautifully-carved repre-
sentations of the Buddhist heaven all
looked well cared-for, and there was a
lofty spiral staircase which seemed a
miracle of craftsmanship. Most of the
younger generation are Methodists or
Presbyterians, but apparently the older
folk still cling to the tradition, and go
along to the temple to burn a joss-stick
to Fo or buy a lucky charm before Cup
Day.
A CHICAGO FORECAST.
Atomic bombs can annihilate all life on earth,
but, if war ceases, atomic energy can make men live
as long as Methuselah, and most human ailments will
be cured as rapidly as they are diagnosed.”—Pro-
fessor Hutchins, Chancellor of Chicago University,
Atomic energy, it’s oft contended,
May give the k.o. to the human race,
Leaving all life incontinently ended,
Of all creation not the faintest trace;
But, if on peaceful purposes expended,
’lwill make our earth a more amazing place
Than any featured in the most extreme
Attack of jimjams or the craziest dream.
Old as Methuselah! Well, there were giants
In those dim prehistoric days, 1 guess,
Stout chips frond Adam’s block who bade
defiance
To mounting years and senile torpidness.
Nine centuries (if you can place reliance
Upon the Book of Genesis), no less,
With sixty-nine to add upon the board
Noah’s indefatigable granddad scored.
Who wouldn’t like to live as long as he did?
The great majority, I fancy, would,
If they were sure of having all they needed,
A temper and digestion extra good,
And pleasant certainty that they’d succeeded
In piling up an ample livelihood
For rainy days. But who would know a thing
Concerning what the centuries might bring?
How would they fare, our legions of physicians,
If one atomic dose could cure all ills
And maladies sustained by all conditions
Of human beings, from cholera to chills?
And how the blithering blazes would morticians
Contrive to render (or to pay) their bills
If pretty nearly everybody had
A chance to live as long as Lantech's dad?
Think what innumerable new inventions,
What notions still undreamt would get a spin
In those long lives Professor Hutchins mentions
As blessings world-wide peace will usher in!
And at what tale of years will old-age pensions,
1 can’t refrain from wondering, begin?
And won’t this world of ours in days to come
Be overstocked with genera hominum ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: The ancient ruin—“thirty quid
the pegged price an’ y’ can have it by
takin’ the set o’ tyre-levers for another
hundred” —was being given a rather too-
critical inspection by the short and very
fat prospective buyer, and the racketeer
was getting a bit narked. “Gosh! ” com-
plained the p.b., gazing up at the wheel.
“It’s that high off the ground a man’d
get giddy if he looked down. And the
running-board’s so high I’d have a
job climbing up on it.” The racketeer
looked the rotund one up and down and
spat out: “It’d be a damn sight easier
for you, mate, to chuck yerself down on
the ground and bounce up into the seat!”
* * * *
“Shavia”: Not only files and docu-
ments follow a service bloke around (B.
19/11/’47). I “escaped” from No. 1
Embarkation Depot, Ascot Vale, leaving
an unpaid mess-laundry bill of sixpence.
A guest of the Hun 15 months later, it
turned up in an envelope bearing six
cancelled addresses. It had been for-
warded from No. 1 E.D. to Reception
Camp, Bournemouth; 27 0.T.U., Litch-
field ; 460 Squadron, Binbrook ; R.A.A.F.
H.Q., London; Luft 111, Sagan (Ger-
many) and from there to Luft VI, Hey-
derkrug (Lithuania). In the disordered
evacuation from this camp, in the face
of the advancing Russian forces,
got lost, but when I received my final
settlement from the R.A.A.F. A.F.O.
there was the debit, “Mess Bill, 6d.”
* * * *
“Lim-Limbu”: Disposals sales? A
Salamaua man made what he thought
was a good buy, but he’s still moaning.
The item he bought was “Six Sacks
of Books.” Lugging his purchase ashore
he opened the sacks. They were full of
books all right, but all copies of the same
book.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A dodge that may have
been learnt from Bali has been used by
German blackmarketeers smuggling live-
stock ; during a raid in Hamburg six
small pigs were found slumbering in a
basket, chloroformed by the smuggler.
Travelling years ago on one of the little
steamers that carry pigs reared for non-
Mohammedan Chinese in Java by the
pork-eating Hindus of Bali, I was struck
by the extraordinary calm and endurance
of the porkers. As each was stuffed
into a loose rattan framework which
exactly fitted its recumbent figure
and one pig was piled upon another to a
depth of at least five layers their passive
acceptance of intolerable conditions
surprised me. A Malay quartermaster
enlightened me. Each babi as it came
aboard had received an opium injection.
Humane? The quartermaster smiled.
The company, a native one, wanted to
encourage tourist traffic, he explained,
and squeals from the cargo would disturb
the passengers. #
“Tetapi”: Nothing has brought home
to me more poignantly the plight of
foodless Britain than the cabled an-
nouncement that the King’s Lynn (Nor-
folk) Fur and Feather Show has been
cancelled. This famous old tradi-
tional occasion goes back to the
days of my great-grandfather, who came
from those parts. Reason for the
cancellation is lack of entries, members
having found that it pays better to sell
their rabbitskins for 15s. and eat the
contents.
* * * *
“Numbskull”: There’s no excuse for
the fellow who calls his own name and
doesn’t recognise it (B. 12/11 /’47), but
when someone else bawls it out and gets
mo response things can be different. It
happened to me. The train had just
pulled in at a fair-sized station when the
blare came over the amplifiers: “Mr.
Numbskull wanted at the stationmaster’s
office.” It kept up with monotonous per-
sistency all the time I was sinking a few
glasses in the refresh. Then a passenger
touched me on the shoulder and re-
minded me that my name was Numb-
skull, Had it been before the war the
title “Mr.” would have sent me strutting
off to the S.M.’s office with my chest out
“Darn that Army Disposals paint !”
at the first call, but during my years with
the R.A.A.F. I had been addressed by
nothing else but Dill, Drongo, Mug or
occasionally L.A.C., and I had forgotten
my real monicker.
* * * ♦
“Waarom”: The Australian Wool
Board needed a shepherd’s crook for one
of its instructional films, and sent to the
International Wool Secretariat, London,
for it. That body sought the aid of the
Glasgow “Herald,” and one was duly
produced, a genuine antique, 100 years
old. Making the crooks used to be one
of those crafts which were jealously held
in families and handed down from
generation to generation, and the recipe
for manufacture was patience, the ripe
horn of a ram, a wood-rasp, a broken
bottle, a pot of boiling water and a vice.
The Australian institution needn’t have
bothered to go further than its own
country. There are at least two in
N.S.W., and Mrs. West, of Hampton,
Melbourne, has the real article, 150 years
old, brought out by her father from
Inverness.
» * * *
“Melbn”: Chairman Bell, of the Mel-
bourne Tramways Board, has refused
to follow Sydney’s lead and instal
honesty-boxes in his contraptions. In-
stead he posted a notice informing pas-
sengers that they, and not the conduc-
tor, were responsible for paying fares,
penalty being £5. Apparently ticket-
scalers were under the delusion that if
they weren’t asked they didn’t have to
pay. Several citizens have since been
almost trampled to death by others try-
ing to reach the conductor with their
tuppence.
* # * •
“Hellvius”: There was once a lawyer
in a church —it may sound fantastic, but I
have the rector’s word for it. “This
solicitor,” he told me, “was the ; best man
at a rather fashionable wedding. The
bride was late, and as he stood there with
the groom I saw him twitching at the
mouth. So while we waited I engaged the
unhappy fellow in conversation: T hear
you’re a lawyer. Grand profession. In
what line do you specialise?’ Now the
acoustics in the church are very good,
and when he stammered out the- reply
‘Divorce’ quite loudly, you could have
heard it at the font. The big congregation
buzzed, and the lawyer’s jaw fell inches
when he realised what he’d said.”
*** • *
“SG.R”: Some inhabitants of the
“boob” (B. 5/11/ ’47) did their sentences
’ard ; on others the effect of a stiff sen-
tence was compensated by an absence
from the fighting which they loathed.
But one man I visited in the clink, a
sensitive type who was bagged along with
others for fraud, was strutting, hands in
pockets and head down, when I saw
him. “How are you getting on?” I
inquired softly, expecting a mournful
tale. “Oh, my whistling’s improving,” he
chuckled. He won a bar to his M.M.
later.
* * * *
“Jasby”: Reports of the waning powers
of penicillin are disappointing, but if the
sulpha drugs suffer a similar decline in
potency one citizen who will give
three hearty cheers will be the romantic
novelist. Till sulphanilamide ousted it
from their stock-in-trade novelists always
had their own cure for pneumonia, and
it never failed. When the hero through
his own fatheadedness had seemingly
cruelled for all time his chances of getting
the heroine to accept him there was
always one shot left in his locker. He
could go down with pneumonia. It
didn’t matter much how he caught it. He
might dive into an icy stream to rescue
the heroine’s little brother —a creature
whose existence, incidentally, may have
been regretted by the reader and all other
characters since page one. He might
stand out in the rain all night
staring in dumb devotion
at his beloved’s window, or,
more sensibly, he might go
on a drunken spree, reel out
of the bar at closing-time,
collapse in the gutter and
sleep there until pneumonia
had him fast in its fell grip.
From that point any reader
knows the pattern. Famous
physicians despair for him.
His life hangs by a tenuous
thread. There is one faint
chance. Whose is that
name he murmurs again
and again in his delirium?
Ermyntrude Fitzgigglepipe?
Someone remembers the
wench. She is brought to
his bedside, and the sight of
his pallid countenance suc-
ceeds where 20 chapters of
manly endeavor have failed.
She realises that she loves
him. Her gentle hand goes
to his fevered brow. At
her touch a faint smile suf-
fuses his pain - wracked
features. “Ermyntrude,”
he murmurs and falls off
into a restful sleep. The
crisis has passed. “Young
lady,” says the most famous of the
famous physicians, humbly, “all our
skill was of no avail, but your love has
saved him.” Sulpha drugs put an end
to all that. May their powers soon
diminish.
* * * *
“Eve”: I’ve discovered she was right,
but it means I don’t go back there for
my morning coffee. As she planked the
milk down on to the table she accident-
ally knocked it all over my black coat.
As I jumped she said, reassuringly,
“Don’t worry over it, love. Water never
leaves a stain.”
* * * *
“Melbn”: “E. 8.” says the habit of the
trees in Morrison-place, Melbourne, of
leaning towards one another (B.
26/11 /’47) is due to the growth of leaf
on the sunnier side weighing them out-
wards. If so, how does he account for
the upright growth of trees in scores of
other streets in the city where the con-
ditions are similar? Dozens of explana-
tions of the Morrison-place phenomenon
have been given, but none of them has
been any more satisfactory than the
Greek myth of the trees that inclined to-
wards one another when a jealous god
turned two lovers into myrtles.
* * * *
“Tummas McN.”; Touching this absent-
mindedness about married names (B.
3/12/’47). Among others who took a
benevolent interest in my courtship of
the missus in a country town was a dear,
kind soul, a good churchman and charity-
worker, a stout friend and one who
proved most generous with a wedding
“I must have got Canberra, Mum —the set's dropping its aitches again."
gift. Naturally, of course, he was some-
what straitlaced, and now and then some
of us would put a slightly spicy joke
over on him. After the marriage we
lived in that town, the constant objects
of his benevolence, for a year, then
moved. Two years later I struck him in
a city, obviously just off a train. He
put down suitcase and bag and shook
hands most warmly, with earnest inquiries
as to my health, progress and happiness.
Then he asked, with deep interest, “And
do you ever see Miss So-and-so [mean-
ing the wife, but reverting to her maiden
name] now, Tummas?” Unable to resist
it, I replied, “Oh, bet your life. I even
share her bed a good bit.” Slow horror
succeeded his first look of shock and,
before I could do anything, he picked up
his bags, shuddered and departed. I’ve
never had a chance to explain.
* * * *
“Bug”: One of the marvels of our
neighborhood is a young chap with a math-
ematical brain. On Saturday mornings he
busies himself at the butcher’s, operating
the till with his left hand while he pencils
out problems in the differential calculus
with his right. During the week,
when he journeys to town to work
in an accountant’s office, he can be
seen reading tomes labelled “Rela-
tivity” with the same eagerness and
speed with which normal types devour
novels. I used to envy him greatly,
but changed recently when I sat be-
hind him at the flicks. The film had
risen to its climax where, with a setting
of a deserted lecture-room of a university,
a male and female member of the faculty
were engaging in a highljf-educational
clinch . “It’s * wrong,” murmured our
Einstein to the lass beside him, “Yes,”
she replied, “but isn’t it wonderful?” He
snorted and then muttered: “I’m referring
to the algebra on the blackboard —the
equation’s wrong.”
If! * * *
“Oates”: To the list of “ologists” add
the Brisbane bookie who invites Leger
patrons through the press to patronise
“Brown, Doublesologist.”
* * * *
“Yank”: Henry Wallace, who is re-
garded as a weird phenomenon even in
America, grows strawberries. He also
edits a magazine called The New Repub-
lic, wherein he recently devoted some
space to his world-saving agricultural
plans: —•
I intend to cross my American straw-
berries with Russian ones to produce a
highly vigorous variety with a superior
taste Seeds are the symbol of life, and
my experiments have assured me of the
wonderful possibilities for a world with
peace and plenty for us all.
Mr. Wallace’s article might have carried
more weight with the general American
public had he not, while speaking to
7000 Communists at a Boston rally the
next day, attacked several well-loved
national institutions, including ex-service-
men’s associations, Wall-street and “capi-
talists who make stuff like Coca-Cola.”
He * * ♦
“V. Cluse”: Everybody in our street
has kicked, cursed or cuffed the old Irish
setter that lives near the bottom of it.
A raider of garbage-tins, chaser of cats,
rooter-up of newly-sown garden plants,
he further exacerbates the street at night
by bellowing mournfully at the stars.
Occasionally he waits upon small humans
bringing home milk or meat, and by
skilful threats and grimaces deprives them
of the goods. Car-drivers hate his habit
of chasing them in and out of their
garages, or lying blissfully in the middle
of the road on hot days and nights.
Maddened coves have threatened to shoot
him or to take his owners to law. Many
a woman, airing the Pom or Peke, has
had to defend her darling against
attempted murder and suffered torn
clothing and loss of dignity in the process.
The other week the inevitable car got
him, and though he escaped fractures it
tore large lumps and left him to
lie wounded and miserable by his own
gate. Since when a procession of citizens
has called upon him with food titbits, ex-
pressions of concern and advice to his
owners as to the best forms of treatment.
And the unknown car-driver who caused
it would, to judge by what has been said,
be lynched if he could be identified.
THE CAUTIOUS OPTIMIST.
“ Aslfpd in San Francisco whether he believed war
with Ssia to be inevitable, Dr Bvatt replied, ‘Put
me down as a cautious optimist.
An admirable frame of mind,
A tip for “Safety First.” And certes!
Advice as wholesome as the kind
Wise old Polonius gave Lsertes.
In every walk of life exists
Clear scope for cautious optimists.
The sporting cove who firmly hopes
His horse will win and scorns to doubt it,
Yet knows too much about the ropes
To risk an odds-on bet about it,
I take it you may fairly list
As being a cautious optimist.
The damosel who has a string
Of sighing swains around to linger
But waits for an engagement ring
To sparkle on her dainty finger
Before possessively she’s kissed —
She too’s a cautious optimist.
The bard who pens some lilting rhyme
And confidently thinks to vend it
For ready cash will waste no time
Anticipating how to spend it
Until the splosh is in his fist,
If he’s a cautious optimist.
And doubtless should you ask the Doc.
If he believes the Law’s decision
Will give our banks their final knock,
Read them a sentence past revision,
He’d disingenuously insist
He’s still a cautious optimist.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Ideal lor private or hire boats, the "Seasprite" will fit snugly
into the boot of your car for travelling. Weighing only 40 lbs.,
the motor is easily carried with its built-in carrying handle Simple
controls and easy starting are combined with solid power and
you get 5 hours of trouble-free" pleasure boating per gallon.
Enjoy a really Distinctive holiday with a "Seasprite”.
69'/o
INCLUDING
SALES TAX
*.
it
it
it
3-3 HORSE-POWER -WATER-COOLED
LIGHTWEIGHT - 40 LBS„
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
INSPECTION INVITED
Teims available - Deposit
£2310 0 and 16* Weekly
over 18 Months
c.
Out&HrtcC
a
if
as
«
dsf
AUSTRALIAN MPRINE
ENGINE C?P T . V LTP
59-63 IT LOTROBf ST
mtsouiNE. ci.
FULL
MECHQNICRL SPEC
UJ RI T E OR CALL
IFICO T I 0 N S
IN A MODERN KITCHEN
m
\ I
IS YOUR SLAVE
I
Cooking with an ASA is so easy, so
clean, and so much better. Day or
night it s ready whenever you want to
use it., ASA burns continuously - a
hot oven whenever you need it.
Fuel cost? Incredibly small. AGA's
amazing heat-storage principle enables
it to give maximum efficiency with a bare minimum of fuel
in fact it is the only cooker in the world that is guar-
anted not to burn more than a stipulated quantity (which
varies with each model).
As for kitchen comfort, AGA cookers are scientifically insu-
lated. AH outside surfaces (except the hot plates) remain
cool, which means a comfortable room temperature at
all times.
Investigate ASA cooking. Call at any of our branches for
a demonstration, or write tor illustrated booklet showing
how ASA cooking will save you time, work and money!
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street. Sydney: 432
Bourke Streets Melbourne; Currie
Street, Adelaide; Cnr, Margaret
and Albert Streets, Brisbane;
Tasmanian Agents: A. G,
ster & Sons Ltd., Hobart;
Agents: Malloch Bros. -
Perth.
Web-
W.A.
Ltd.,
jtea, /Gleaming enamel
(surface for easy.
v CLEANING J
■frt
F F °a favour}
' 7)
US
%B&gs\
A f%\
2%
G Uar
m \a
mm
- T
THE SERVICE MAN
More Light on Sandakan.
Ek Bum”: It is plain from various
portents that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will sooner or later have to face
a widespread demand for a full inquiry
into its conduct of the war in the Pacific.
Its handling of the allegation made by
Mudslinger Mulcahy, against
A. M. Blam, M.H.R., that while a
prisoner-of-war he had shown his gold
pass to the Japanese in order to gain
special treatment, and some facts which
emerged during the debates on the
matter, tend to establish a prima facie
case for an inquiry into the question
why no attempt was made to rescue the
2750 men, or the dwindling remnants of
them, in the little-guarded camp at San-
dakaq.
Mr. Chifley, in agreeing to refer the
Blain case to a Committee of Privileges
but only under public pressure which
he could not resist—made his position
clear. He held that the bringing by a
“Labor” member, under privilege, of the
most foul and abominable charge that
could be brought against a soldier—and
entirely baseless, as many affidavits and
letters proved to the hilt —was merely a
matter between two “decent chaps.” He
“ Listen , mate —I fish without burleyin'!”
publicly pronounced the slanderer, who
produced not a vestige of evidence to
support his charge and who, when chal-
lenged, aggravated his offence by re-
ferring to his victim as of “low men-
tality,” “one of the most gentlemanly
members of the House.”
After subjecting Mr. Blain to the ordeal
of a debate of which the heart was a
moving speech by Mr. McEwen, deputy-
leader of the Country party, who sub-
mitted evidence which could not be ques-
tioned, the Government, on a party divi-
sion, rejected an amendment tabled by
Mr. Menzies. The Opposition-leader had
invited the House to declare that “the
conduct of the honorable member for
the Northern Territory, while a prisoner-
of-war in the hands of the Japanese, was
marked by courage and fidelity,” and that
“the honorable member, whilst a prisoner-
of-war, did not wrongfully misuse his
Parliamentary privileges.” Yet the Prime
Minister had himself admitted that Mr.
Blain was “a very gallant soldier” and
that “whatever differences we have in
politics, I do not think anyone would fail
to regard Mr. Blain as a very decent
person.”
The House then decided that the
charges should be dealt with by the
Committee of Privileges, which consists
of four Government members—Dr.
Evatt and Messrs. Clark, Sheehan and
Williams —and members Harrison and
Abbott, and possibly another, from the
Opposition. Mr, McEwen resigned from
the committee in view of the fact that he
had tabled the evidence in the matter.
None of the Government nominees is a
returned soldier. The two Opposition
members are Old Diggers.
Mr. Blain’s Letter
The incident has a significance deeper
than the mere matter of an attack on an
individual.
It was made clear that in 1943 Mr.
Blain, with the knowledge of his
superiors and at the imminent risk of
his life, sent out of the camp a letter to
Mr. F. M. Forde, then Minister for the
Army, advising him of the plight of the
A.I.F. in Sandakan camp. Made clear
also that the bearer of this letter was
available in Australia; that, as an
escapee from the camp, he knew all
about the means of ingress and egress,
the strength of the Japanese guard and
all other matters.
Yet, though the matter was discussed
by the Advisory War Council, no
Minister was sufficiently interested to see
this man.
It is evident also that there were In-
telligence men in Sandakan, and that
their reports, according to General
Blarney, were such that it was planned
to drop paratroops into Sandakan and
rescue the prisoners. A.B.C. has reported
General Blarney as saying that decisions
in the matter were taken by the military
command and not referred to the
Ministry.
If this is so it reveals a very serious
state of affairs. The presumptive mili-
tary command knew that there was a
strong chance of rescuing the whole or
part of 2500 Australians rotting and
tortured in Japanese hands, and that
when it could not effect their rescue
through lack of aircraft it did not repre-
sent the position to the Government and
demand that aircraft should be made
available. Such a condition of affairs is
unbelievable.
The whole matter is one which the
R.S.L. sfiould take up and have clari-
fied. It is one on which the Government
cannot escape an investigation, because
public demand for one will be over-
whelming when the details sink in.
Papers Need Tabling
When Parliament again meets the Op-
position should demand the tabling of
(1) the letter which Mr. Blain sent to Mr.
Forde through the Japanese lines; (2) the
reports of Captain Steele and his com-
panions, who escaped in June-July, 1943,
and whose arrival in Australia has never
been publicly mentioned, save on this
page; (3) the • reports of Intelligence
men who were in Sandakan or the
vicinity in 1943, 1944 and 1945 ; (4) de-
tails of the scheme of rescue mentioned
by General Blarney.
There can be no security considerations
which dictate the suppression of these
documents in the third year since the
Japanese laid down their arms, if the
Government is not afraid to have them
see the light of day.
George Cross for Captain
Matthews.
“Ek Dum”: Barely mentioned in some
of the newspapers and unmentioned in
others was the fact that the King had
awarded the George Cross posthumously
to Captain Lionel Colin Matthews, M.C.,
of Eighth Division Signals, afterwards
Intelligence Officer to “B” Force, P.-0.-w.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JEAN THOMASINA WOODCOCK formerly of
109 Stanley Street Sydney in the State of New
South Wall-TAKE NOTICE that RONALD FRED-
ERICK WOODCOCK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4419 of 1947 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause of excuse for 3 years and
unwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the oth day ot
January 1948 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES,
Solicitor, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH EDWARD BUCKLEY.—TAKE NOTICE
that OLIVIA MARY BUCKLEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4487 of 1947 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you might enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 12th day of January 1948
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15
Bligh Street, Sydney. —(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ELSIE MAY WAY late of Prince Street Mor-
peth—TAKE NOTICE that RUSSELL EDWARD
WAY has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2894 of
1947 on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance on or be-
fore the 2nd day of January 1948 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from W. J.
ENRIGHT & SON, Solicitors, 467 High Street, West
Maitland, or their Agents, -TAYLOR & KEARNEY,
City Mutual Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets,
Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO NX73962 THOMAS HENRY SNELL late of 153
Parramatta Road Annandale. —TAKE NOTICE that
MURIEL CATHERINE SNELL has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4057 of 1947 on the ground of your
desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by sth January 1948 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from D. K.
DONALD, Solicitor, 17 Martin Place, Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO NORMAN KELVIN McCOY also known as Jim
McCoy and Max McLelland late of Newcastle Iron-
worker and formerly 155742 A.M.F.—TAKE
NOTICE that AMY McCOY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3656 of 1947 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 12th January 1948
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from FITZGERALD, HALLIDAY & CO., Solicitors,
Scone. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce,
—Protect your Property—insure with —
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
•Phone: BWBI3I (3 Lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
li
■'. Q.. .
14HT >:
cy
' £s
m
m
m
13^
m
m
m
m
m
&
M
©
©
o
/SB?
*
m
m
Cb
and qour future secure
A skilled Sergeant, of 4 years’ service,
living away from home and camp can
earn up to £l2/1/6 per week in the A.R.A.
THE ARMY ALSO OFFERS
• SECURITY AND A CAREER
• GOOD PROSPECTS OF PROMOTION
• GRATUITY
• MEDICAL AND DENTAL SERVICE
• EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES
• GENEROUS LEAVE
• TRUE COMRADESHIP
• OUTDOOR LIFE AND SPORT OF ALL KINDS
__ JOIN THE
Australian
Regular Army
•SEE YOUR AREA OFFICER OR THE COMMON-
WEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE NOW .
“RAPID” ACTION
CONCRETE BLOCK AND BRICK
MOULDING MACHINE
m
m
A Complete Plant in Itself
An Immediate Solution for Homebuilders
• 5 Models Available
• Hand-operated, Semi-automatic
• Eliminates Tamping
• Capacity 3 Blocks per minute
• Featuring Curved Blocks for Silos, Tanks, etc.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS —
INSPECTION INVITED
HALL & PYNE
Manufacturers of Special Purpose Machinery
63a Warren Road, Marrlckville, Sydney.
’Phone: LL2441
Camp, Eight-Mile Peg, Sandakan, in
1942-43.
The George Cross ranks with the V.C.
and is a rare decoration, often more
hardly earned. It is usually awarded to
military personnel only for continuous
and steel-cold fortitude and self-sacrifice.
Captain Matthews earned his post-
humo.us decoration by months of self-
sacrifice for his fellows, the while he
planned escape attempts from the foul
Sandakan camp, nearly all of whose in-
mates perished in the end.
He was the organiser of the inside plans
which established communication with
Dr. Taylor in Sandakan, and secured
medical comforts and food for the ailing
troops. He it was who cheered everybody
and organised everything. And whatever
he did put him in hourly danger, since he
was a fine six-foot Australian whose nick-
name was “The Duke” —he strongly re-
sembled the Duke of Gloucester. He
could not move without being noticed.
When, as a result of the treachery of
the Indian mender, Dominit Kah, in
September, 1943, operations of Captain
Matthews were betrayed to the Japanese,
the captain held the lives of everybody
connected with him in the hollow of his
hand. Under extreme and continuous
torture, he kept their secrets safe, refus-
ing to reveal any detail. Thus, being
captive to a barbarous enemy, he laid
down his heroic life.
At his “trial” in Kuching, this grand
Australian’s demeanor was proud and un-
yielding. He alone of all the whites was
sentenced to death. He was segregated
from his companions, but, passing within
sight of them, he signalled his sentence
to them cheerfully.
On a hot noon he and a number of de-
voted Chinese, Indians and natives were
taken out to pay the penalty for their
loyalty and staunchness..
The manner of his death is not abso-
lutely known, but the Japanese had a
story that, standing at attention, he was
shot in the forehead, having refused to
have his eyes bandaged. Typical of the
man.
Captain Matthews left a widow and
two boys, who live in South Australia.
The survivors of the Eighth Division will
not forget them.
Another Evatt Chicken.
“Ek Dum”: As in India, so in Pales-
tine, the departing British will be
mourned most by those who have been
most execrating them, and whose criminal
elements were murdering and mutilating
their protective troops and police only a
few weeks ago.
In 1917, at the request of Dr. Weisz-
mann, whose alcohol-producing processes
and other scientific contributions were of
the highest importance to the Allies, Mr.
Lloyd George arranged that Palestine,
snatched from the Turks, should become
a National Home for Jews, without
“prejudice” to “the civil and military
rights of existing non-Jewish communi-
ties in Palestine.” Palestine was, actually,
not much of a home for anybody. Its
area is about the same as that of one
of the larger Northern Territory stations.
In 1922 its population was 752,000, mostly
Arab. Though Crusaders, Mongols,
Egyptians and Turks ruled it off and
on, the Moslems had taken it oyer
in a.d. 637, and had provided the domin-
ating racial section ever since.
By 1945, after quarter of a century of
heavily-subsidised 'Jewish settlement the
population had grown to 1,834,900,
579,227 being Jews. Nearly half a mil-
lion of them were post-war immigrants
and their progeny, though natural
increase had been small. The Arabs in
the same period had nearly doubled in
numbers, going from 560,000 to 1,082,887
—almost wholly through natural increase.
Yet the Jews claim the country and the
right to bring in more Jews, though all
fertile soil is occupied.
Not Mixers
Arab and Jew have never shown any
disposition to mix. They were hindered
by a deadly hatred, intensified by the
fact that the Jew tends to stay in the
cities and act as a middleman, while the
Arab is, in the main, a rural dweller.
Of the whole Jewish population 74 p.c,
lives jn 27 urban areas. In Jerusalem
there are 87,000 Jews out of a population
of 157,000. Tel Aviv, a Jewish founda-
tion, has only 600 or 700 non-Jews in
166,000; half the inhabitants of Haifa
are’ Jewish and there are many other
smaller towns almost wholly so.
With the Indian example staring them
in the face, it should have occurred to
prudent and sensible men that partition
of Palestine would be loaded with dyna-
mite. Yet a U.N.O. committee headed
by Dr. Evatt recommended partition to
the U.N.O. General Assembly, and the
General Assembly adopted it by the
necessary two-thirds majority, Britain and
nine other countries abstaining.
There were immediate and bloody con-
sequences, foreseeable and foreseen by
those who have travelled Middle East
lands not under British control in time
of “peace.” ,f Aden had clashes so bloody
that the entire Jewish community, running
into four figures, had to be gathered up
and protected by British soldiers, rein-
forced by parachute troops, from the
Suez Canal zone.
In Palestine itself within a few hours
there were many dead and wounded
Arabs and Jews. Eirestick and gelignite
were freely applied. Both sides were
mobilising armies. Beyond the frontier
Syria and Lebanon were marshalling their
forces such as they .are.
The Jehad
In Cairo the Arab League, whose H.Q.
is in the Egyptian capital, took the first
step towards declaring a jehad through
the length and breadth of the Moslem
world. This was accompanied by the
usual type of hysterical riot and destruc-
tion directed against the only two nations
at all likely to give real aid and protec-
tion to minorities—Britain and the United
States.
Shrieking mobs of Egyptians rushed
the British Consulate-General at Alex-
andria, brandishing iron bars and knives
—without Britain Egypt would be a
sodden and shabby medieval despotism.
In Bagdad mobs raided the U.S.
Embassy, wrecked a British kindergarten
and stoned the 8.0.A.C. offices Irak
obtained its freedom and independence
from the willing and helpful hands of the
British.
Meanwhile various Zionist propagan-
dists are shouting at the British for pro-
posing to “desert” Palestine and leave
it to the tender mercies of the Arabs.
And a Boston rabbi announced plans for
a Palestine expeditionary force from the
U.S.A. to be led by “American 'generals.
It can be taken for granted that these
commanders will not include the murder
advocate Ben Hecht (still drawing dollars
from Australia) and other loud-mouthed
vilifiers of British rule in Palestine.
Russia’s Chances
An obvious danger, especially if Syria
and Lebanon become involved, is that the
U.S.S.R. will take advantage of the with-
drawal of British forces to “defend” the
Jews —those Jews against whom, until a
little while ago, Moscow was viciously in-
citing tire Moslem world. There need be
no question about this being done if the
least excuse is given. A foothold in Pales-
tine would put Turkey in pincers, secure
control of British-American oil pipe-
lines from Persia and bring Moscow into
a position to, menace the Suez Canal
route,


1947
9
A CENTIIBV-^
tomrwmg
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dr. Neil Hamilton Fairley, C.8.E.,
F.R.S., one of Australia’s most dis-
tinguished war - time physicians and
now Wellcome Professor of Tropi-
cal Medicine in London, had a
unique war-time distinction. He was
accorded an air priority second oply
to General Blarney. On one occasion it
didn’t work, though. He lobbed on an
airfield in New Guinea and, being des-
perately anxious to get up front, he ap-
proached the sergeant and demanded a
seat in a plane just leaving. “Don’t care
who you are,” said the sergeant. “I
couldn’t give you a seat in that plane if
you were a major-general. It’s first
priority, it is.” The doctor watched the
plane take off and then asked who was
in it. “There’s 1 nobody in it,” said the
sergeant. “Only mosquitoes and white
mice marked ‘Neil priority.’ ” Dr. Fairley
was born at Inglewood (Vic.) and edu-
cated at Scotch College and the Uni-
versity of Melbourne. He was chairman
of the committee which advised General
MacArthur on tropical medicine, hygiene
and sanitation, and it is generally con-
ceded in expert circles that he, more
than any other man, won the war in New
Guinea.
Among 11 ex-servicemen ordained at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, last
Sunday was Major-General Coles Alex-
ander Osborne. In the First World War
he served with the British forces in
France, first with the Army, later with
the R.F.C. After the Armistice he was
transferred to the Indian Army and
attached to a Sikh regiment. In 1938,
after a spell in Britain, mostly spent on
the Operations Staff of the War Office,
he became Deputy-Director of Training
in India and was later Commandant of
the Staff College at Quetta and Director
of Military Operations, Indian Army. In
his new calling he will be assigned to
special duty among the men of the Sydney
diocese. The ordination service was
conducted by the Primate, Archbishop
Mowll.
A man to whom the news of unrest in
the Arab world will be of more than
passing interest is! Squadron-Leader
Harold Hindle-lames, now on a brief
visit to this country, who has spent a
considerable part of his life in the Middle
East and is familiar with most of the
Arab States. In 1915 he was an air-
observer with the R.F.C. in Palestine and
the Hedjaz, and when the war was over
he was stationed for a while at the
R A F. headquarters in Heliopolis, after
which, still with the R.A.F., he became a
Tribal Liaison Officer in Irak, Koweit
and along the shores of the Persian Gulf.
During the 1920’s war wounds caught up
with him and he was invalided out of the
service and spent two years travelling in
North Africa and Spain. Later he visited
Irak, Transjordania and Saudi Arabia,
and when Hitler’s war came was in
Egypt. He rejoined the R.A.F., but was
seriously injured in a car accident. After
recovering from that he became Adminis-
tration and Security Officer at the Near
East H.Q. of British Airways—a job that
took him all over North Africa and the
Middle East. Diggers may recall a wel-
fare centre at Benha, in Egypt, which
was designed and run by Hindle-James.
North Queensland has lost “Sap,” for
many years a farm-and-garden writer on
“N.Q. Register” and Townsville “Bulle-
tin. He was W. S. Mather, a Towns-
ville native who hardly ever left the
North, no part of which could hold an
agricultural or horticultural show with-
out his presence. He was a juclge of
fruit, vegetables and flowers' and had a
“fan-mail” from garden-lovers that many
a film-star would have envied. A Fellow
of the Royal Horticultural Society of
England, he was 65 at the end.
“C. 8.”: Hephzibah Menuhin, who
helped to lift the Brahms Festival at St.
Pauls Cathedral, Melbourne, on to the
igher planes of music, is a strange phe-
nomenon among great virtuosi. She
wants to be a psychologist and never plays
the piano except when she has' a request
to Play m a concert. She then practises
intensely. Yet she confesses toTfeel-
u aste when she approaches the
piano because it is a memory of the
severe discipline imposed on her in child-
hood, when she had to sit at the instru-
ment for 10 hours daily. Without this
discipline, of course, she could never have
become a pianist of world distinction,
whose performances on her rare excur-
sions to Melbourne from husband Lind-
say Nicholas’s grazing property in the
Western District are, according to Mel-
bourne’s leading pianists, absolutely flaw-
less. Lindsay Biggins, who turned the
pages for her at the cathedral, was an
infant prodigy himself. He won the under-
-12, under-14 and under-20 all in the
same year at South-street, and is now one
of Melbourne’s best-known teachers.
From “Pinana”;
I met Father Hayes (B. 26/11/’47) at Laidley
(Qld.) about 1930 when he came to the beau-
tiful valley parish to relieve the regular priest.
He immediately paid his respects to the families
m the valley—told them he was interested in
collecting old Australian relics, aboriginal im-
plements and any stray Joe Blakes, lizards or
other crawling things. Stuff that had lain in
sheds or under houses for years was rooted
out and enthusiastically pounced on by the
little priest, who heaped it into his battered
Chev. and bore it off in triumph to the pres-
bytery, Show him a piece of rock and he
would tell you at once where it came from,
and often his knowledge of country he had
never seen was uncanny. He seemed able to
form a picture of the terrain from a few rock
specimens. About that time f had picked up
a blackened honeycombed piece of stone some-
thing like clinker, though heavier. I decided
this was one for Father Hayes, so I tailed
him up and asked his opinion. I was a lad
of 10, but he explained that the piece of
rock was a fragment from outer space—a
meteorite. It was not unusual to find them,
he told me, but few people noticed them be-
cause they didn’t use their eyes. He wound up
by saying that any more such finds would be
welcomed at any time. Sad to say I have
never since contributed to what must now be
one of the finest collections in the country.
Nobody in the Labor party will ever
be able to complain that Allan Dawes,
newly-appointed publicity adviser to the
Liberal Party Federal Secretariat, crept up
on him unawares, since Allan’s looming
bulk is the biggest advertising force
which has ever been hurled against
socialism. In S. M. Bruce’s day Allan
was a Melbourne “Age” man and Mol-
lison scholar in Japanese at Melbourne
University. Since that time he has been
with Sydney “Sun,” “Daily Telegraph,”
Melbourne “Argus,” “Star” and “Herald,”
on which he has been a special
writer since 1941. For a space he
was with the New Guinea Government
and wrote a very fine handbook on the
Territory, and he was a member of the
Australian press delegation to Canada in
1944. He is best known to the more
modern newspaper world as a very cap-
able war correspondent with S.W.P.A.
from the entry of Japan into the war on-
ward, and as the author of a good war
book. Soldier Superb . In 1946, Melbourne
University awarded him the A. N. Smith
Memorial Lectureship. From all the hard-
ships of battle Allan Dawes emerged
PRESS AND PUBLICITY.
bigger and better until he has attained
his present formidable proportions, so
delicately hinted at by Heth. Shakspeare,
in a near-sighted old age, might well have
rushed up to him in the street and
greeted him warmly as an old friend, but
there is nothing Falstaffian about him—
rather a “hint of Ariel and a touch of
Puck and something of the Lesser Cate-
chist.”
Dead and buried in Sydney before
many of his legion of friends were aware
that he was ill, Ernest Samuel Marks was
a fine example of the type of citizen Jewry
can produce when it turns its face on
narrow nationalism and identifies itself
with the life of the community in which
it dwells. Marks was an alderman of
Sydney City Council for 26 years and was
Lord Mayor in 1930 —the first after the
re-establishment of the Council; he also
represented North Sydney in the N.S.W.
Assembly from 1927 to 1930. He had
been chairman of the United Charities of
N.S.W., deputy-chairman of the State
branch of the Australian Red Cross and
was associated with many charitable
organisations. A great follower and
patron of sport, he held office in the
governing bodies of Rugby Union,
amateur athletics, swimming, coursing,
boxing and wrestling. He was President
of the Jewish War Memorial Fund,
honorary secretary of the Anglo-Jewish
Association of N.S.W., and president of
the N.S.W. Shakspeare Society. A
bachelor, he was 75 at the finish.
“King’s Pawn”: Britain may have lost
its best chess-player for half a century
by the death of Gordon Crown, barely
18. Young Crown, by regularly win-
ning his games, frequently with bril
fiance, forced his way into the
national team against Russia, and,
playing on fourth board, took one
game from Notov, who is a chess
grandmaster. A couple of weeks
later, in a radio chess match with
Australia he recaptured from Dr.
M. Gellis, Victoria’s ace player,
a game Gellis seemed to have at
his mercy. Improving with every tourney
and benefiting by encounters with the
best players, Crown looked like becoming
another Blackburn till he collapsed while
undergoing an operation.
Frank Sandland Hone, who delivered
this year’s Anne Mackenzie Oration at
the Institute of Anatomy in Canberra, is
an Adelaide medico who first hung out
his shingle in 1894. He is a councillor
of the Royal Aust. College of Physicians,
Honorary Director of the Adelaide
Radiotherapy Clinic and a member of
the Council of Adelaide Uni. In the
course of his address he uttered a neat
epigram “We must never mistake Can-
berra wealth for Commonwealth,” and
had something to say on self-interest
which he felt was at present dominating
Australian fife. This, he claimed, “must
pass, because it is self-destructive, but
in the passing it might damage and scar
our national fife.” The Hones have been
looking after the health of Adelaide
citizens since beyond the memory of liv-
ing men. Frank’s father was a doctor
and two of his sons —Frank and Gar —
are in practice in Adelaide. Another son,
Brian, was S.A. Rhodes Scholar in 1930
and is now head of Cranbrook School,
Sydney.
George M. Hume, who has been ask-
ing Melbourne’s City Fathers to push the
city’s skyline higher than its present 132 ft.
limit, belongs to a big estate-agent firm,
and was one of the first to apply modern
methods of town-planning to suburban
subdivisions. Roads; were made and
planted, electric cables taken under-
ground, houses built and furnished and
buyers moved in to a suburb already in
working order. Hume, a councillor since
1943, is chairman of the town-planning
committee and takes his job seriously
After the committee’s master-plan is
issued he is off to U.S. and Britain to
look into the way things are done in those
parts.
A unique award for bravery was made
when Sir Winston Dugan handed a letter
autographed by Viscount Montgomery
and British Foreign Secretary Bevin to
a 14-year-old Boy Scout, Laurie Scott, in
Melbourne. Laurie has lived in an iron
lung with infantile paralysis, and the
souvenir was given for “his outstanding
cheerfulness and determination in over-
coming physical handicaps.” He has
taught himself to paint and write and is
studying now for his intermediate exami-
nation.
Addressing the Millions Club in Syd-
ney last week. Sir Charles Hambro,
chairman of the Fairbridge Farm Move-
ment, had a couple of things to say before
he got on to the real subject of his dis-
course, Fairbridge boys. First he told
members that, despite rumors, the sole
purpose of his Australian visit was to
inspect and report on the Fairbridge
farm schools —he’s a director of the Bank
of England and of Hambro’s Bank,
so the furphies are understandable.
BANKS AND FARM SCHOOLS.
Secondly, he told them that Britain,
though shaken by the war, was definitely
not down and out. Hambro, sketched here
by Dubois, was at Eton when the first
war broke out, one of the shining lights
of the cricket eleven and its captain in
1915, after which he joined the Cold-
streams, seeing the war out with them.
During their Australian tour he and his
fellow-Fairbridgers the Earl of Scar-
borough, Lieut.-Col. Harry Logan and
Mrs. Robert Wilberforce have visited the
movement’s farm schools in W.A. and
N.S.W. Migration of Fairbridge boys
has now been resumed, and Hambro as-
sures an expansion of the scheme that
has given Australia so many fine citizens.
Going abroad with a scholarship front
the National Health and Research Coun-
cil, Dr. G. H. McQueen, of the Central
Board of Health, is the first South Aus-
tralian to gain a fellowship since the in-
ception of the Council’s annual awards in
1937. Holding diplomas of public health
and tropical medicine and hygiene, he
was an officer of the Commonwealth
Health Department in New Guinea for
10 years before the war, when he enlisted
in the A.A.M.C. and was mentioned in
dispatches. He joined the C.B.H, after
his discharge last year.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 75, John Ash, former Com-
monwealth note and stamp printer. Prior to
coming to Australia in 1927, he was chief
printer for the “Illustrated London News.”
He was on the council of the Working Men’s
College for 17 years and its president in 1934.
At Rockhampton, at 84, William Henry
Kettle, a director of Queensland Primary Pro-
ducers’ Co-op. Fifty years ago he founded
a stock-and-station business in Clermont and
later he acquired Prairie station in the Capella
district. A keen horseman and sportsman, he
was president of Central Queensland Cricket
Association.
In Sydney, at 58, Dr. Henry A. Ridler, senior
gynaecologist and obstetrician at the Royal
Hospital for Women, and lecturer in Clinical
Obstetrics at Sydney University.
In Adelaide, at 79, Horace P. Beaver, former
town clerk of Adelaide, and one-time accountant
of the Abattoirs Board. A Londoner, he joined
the City Council in 1904, and had been town
clerk for 22 years when he retired 10 years
back.
In Hobart, H. C. L. Batt, one of Tasmania’s
leading yachtsmen. With his brother “Skipper”
he won innumerable “A”-class races on the
Derwent, the Forster Cup 10 times. ~ He was
at the helm the Saturday previous to his death.
In Sydney, at 38, Dr. Windsor McLean,
until his retirement at the beginning of this
year City Medical Officer in Brisbane. After
leaving Brisbane he took charge of the W.A.
Red Cross Blood Transfusion service, but moved
to Sydney a couple of months ago. Meningitis
claimed him.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
His Excellency the Governor, Sir
Winston Dugan, was resplendent in the
uniform of his British regiment when he
arrived to open the new Parliament. He
was attended by Viscount Dunwich, in
Navy uniform, Major George Maxwell
and Captain John Blood, both wearing
the uniform of crack British regiments,
and was accompanied by Lady Dugan,
who had white accessories with her navy
ensemble and navy hat with a full choux
of white flowers slanted at one side across
the upturned brim.
Mrs. Hollway, who came with the
Premier and his mother, wore a
navy frock with low-cut neckline ;
her white-straw sailor hat, worn well
off her face, was trimmed with
wide navy ribbon. Mrs. Hollway, senr.,
covered her pastel-pink frock with a
loosely-fitting black coat; pink flowers
trimmed her black hat. Mrs'. John Cain’s
jacket suit was of black moire silk, the
skirt featuring a fish-tail back and bustle
bow ; her large upturned hat of mist-
blue straw matched her gloves. Mrs. J.
G. McDonald, wife of the Deputy-
Premier, chose a blue-and-white figured
silk frock and small navy-and-white
straw hat. Mrs. R. Sarah, wife of the
Clerk of the Legislative Council, chose
a black suit with silver-fox collar and
small yack hat. Mrs. E. R. Hughes’s
junior-blue ensemble was worn with a
small upturned white felt hat veiled and
banded in navy.
Mrs. A. A. Dunstan’s floral frock was
worn under a black coat; her black hat
was small. A large black straw hat worn
with a saxe-blue frock and black coat
was worn by Penelope Nettlefold. Mrs.
A. A. Lord’s fine navy wool coat
matched her frock ; her large brilliant-
red straw hat was upturned and banded
at intervals across the brim with wide
navy satin ribbon. Mrs. Kent Hughes’s
patterned frock was worn under a black
coat with a smart black hat. The new
Speaker’s wife, Mrs. T. K. Maltby, chose
a black skirt worn with a tunic heavily
embroidered in white; her forward-
tilted black hat was trimmed with a
Patou-pink ostrich feather. President of
the Legislative Council, knight Clifden
Eager, was accompanied by his wife and
daughter Anne. The Lord Mayor, Cr.
Ray Connelly, and the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Bernard Heipze, and Sir Edmund
and Lady Herring chatted on the lawns
at afternoon tea.
A ship fashioned of red and white car-
nations and blue cornflowers', flying a
“bon-voyage” signal and flanked by red
candlesticks embedded in clusters of
similar flowers, formed the chief table
decoration for the luncheon party given
by the American Women’s Auxiliary at
the Brighton home of Mrs. Alan New-
ton to farewell Mrs. Richard Boyce,
wife of the U.S. Consul-General, who is
returning to Washington. On behalf of
the auxiliary its newly-elected president
Mrs. Harold Rabling presented the guest
of honor with six cocktail napkins, each
of which was embroidered with the name
and emblem of an Australian capital city,
and six small plates bearing aboriginal
designs. These are for use on the cock-
tail bar of Queensland maple which Mr.
and Mrs. Boyce will instal in their Wash-
ington home.
Co-hostesses with Mrs. Newton, who
wore an attractive navy-silk floral-
patterned jacket-suit, were Mesdames C.
Deems, A. E. Hotchkiss and Mark
Graham. Mrs. Rabling allied a black-
spotted aqua-blue wool jacket with a
black skirt and added a smart touch with
a wide-brimmed black straw hat. Among
recent arrivals was Mrs. N. B. Sauve
from Texas, a former member of the
W.A.C.S. who served in the Pacific. Mrs.
W. Keilough, a member of the auxiliary,
who is flyiqg back to America soon for
a brief holiday, wore a black moire suit
and flowers in a black straw curvette.
Among others at the luncheon were Mes-
dames A. M. Coates, M. Picot, Herbert
Allen and W. Graves.
The altar of Trinity College Chapel
was decorated with white lilies for the
marriage of Norma- Nation, eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Ogg,
of South Yarra, and Thomas Vernon,
only son of Mr. L. V. Ottaway, of East
Melbourne, and the late Mrs. Ottaway,
at which the Rev. H. W. Nunn officiated.
Norma pinned a spray of orchids to the
shoulder of her gaily-patterned silk
afternoon frock and used navy acces-
sories for contrast. Diana Ottaway, the
bridegroom’s sister, attended the bride;
her ice-blue moss-crepe frock had navy
accessories. M. J. Southey was best man.
Later Mr. and Mrs. Ogg received their
guests at an informal party at 203
Domain-road. Mrs. Ogg pinned gar-
denias in her navy frock ; her navy hat
carried white flowers. Among the guests
were Denise Whybrow, in a black jacket-
suit and curvette of black straw with
large pink roses pinned at each side ;
Mrs. John Ellis, an ex-W.A.A.F. who
hails from Northern Ireland, in navy
draped frock and high-crowned white
sailor hat trimmed with cherries and veil-
ing ; Mary Graves (she will marry Harry
Ogg, the bride’s brother, at Christ
Church, South Yarra, late this month),
whose navy-and-white patterned frock
was worn with a small navy hat; and
Jean Campbell, in black silver-em-
broidered taffeta frock and tricorne hat
of black velvet trimmed with veiling.
The success of the Ballet Rambert,
now attracting large audiences to the
Princess, is due to the hard work and
the vital personality of its founder,
Madame Rambert, pictured here.
Madame Rambert is married to Ashley
Dukes, author of The Man with a Load
of Mischief, and has two grown-up
daughters. Madame Rambert was trained
by the great Cecchetti and later became
attached to the Diaghileff Ballet and
worked with the famous dancer Nijinsky ;
she helped in the Stravinsky Ballet which
was produced by Nijinsky. Madame
also began the first English ballet com-
pany, which has produced its own
choreographers, designers and musicians.
“Mr. Punch” was the chief offering of
the new ballet presentation, the main
role being danced by Walter Gore, who
was also responsible for the choreo-
graphy. Ardent balletomane Lady
Fraser, wearing a black beaded frock
and Persian-lamb coat, had in her party
the J. Bowen Pains, she in black and
wearing a summer ermine bolero. Syd-
ney visitors included artist Heira Roberts,
wearing a tailored black taffeta evening
coat, and Nedra Coleman, who wore a
short pinky-beige bolero over her black
dinner gown. The Vyvyan Hollands
were keen followers of the art; Mrs.
Holland in black with a silver fox coat
and a cream lace fascinator over her
hair. Just back from Japan, where she
served for two years as an A.A.M.W.S.,
was Betty Davidson ; her silver-patterned
lame coat was fashioned from an obi
(the sash Japanese women wear with
their national costume).
Today Mrs. Wallace Mitchell and her
band of helpers are raising money for the
War Nurses’ Memorial Fund with a
gala matinee of “Annie Get Your Gun.”
Each 'day Mrs. Wallace Mitchell depu-
tised helpers to go to various spots around
the city to sell tickets for the monster
Christmas stocking which is being raffled
for the appeal. Just before helpers
scattered to* their jobs Mrs. Les Sangster
cheered them on the way by giving a
small luncheon party at the Florentine.
Among her guests were her sister, Mrs.
Inez Alouche, whose black cloque jacket-
suit was worn with gold jewellery and
small black hat; Mrs. M. Zimbler, tailored
in grey, with a small ribbon-trimmed
grey hat; Mrs. N. Lynch, sweeping
feather in upturned hat of sage green
and matching frock ; Mrs. Bill McDer-
mott in a suit which had black Persian-
lamb lapels and pockets and a black hat
trimmed with red-and-white-striped rib-
bon. The hostess was a study in brown
and aqua blue, her fox cape also being
in blue toning.
From Sydney
If you were one of those looking on at
the 500 or so V.As. parading at Vic-
toria Barracks last Saturday you prob-
ably thought how spick and span and
altogether right Mrs. Persia Porter looked.
Mrs. Persia Porter, who is honorary
Director of V.A.D., fcd the march in her
blue uniform, over which she had labored
for an hour with a length of muslin and
an iron taking off the laundry gloss. All
the V.As. wore their summer blues, and
they looked as nice a company of girls
as had ever paraded before any Lieut.-
General. Lieut.-General Berryman,
G.O.C. Headquarters Eastern Command,
took the salute and he also presented cer-
tificates of appreciation for war service.
This country cannot overestimate the
work done by the V.As. during the two
world wars. They have been a tower of
strength to the three Services—no task
too great, no task too small to gain their
enthusiastic support.
Perhaps you have wondered why the
Town Hall is holding most of its recep-
tions between 11.30 a.m. and one o’clock.
Well, it’s because at the fiye-o’clock-
onwards party the guests are inclined to
drop in late, stay later, and there is too
much onwards about the “do” for a
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress thought-
ful of the Civic staff. Most people are
finding the midday get-together a happy
innovation; and last Friday the
Mayoress’s drawing-rooms were crowded
out when pretty and fragile-looking film-
star Jean Simmons was the guest-of-
honor.
This young English girl, who is to star
in “Blue Lagoon,” made an instant im-
pression. She has a quality of smiling
stillness refreshing and cool as the bluely-
green-printed silk frock she wore. Her
hat was of exotic straw, black and off-
the-face. Her wrist-length gloves matched
her frock. Jean, who uses little if any
make-up, has a cherry-smooth skin. Her
manners are as pretty as her looks. The
Governor’s daughter, Elizabeth North-
cott, came along to greet the English
girl. With Miss Northcott came Sheila
Collett and Flight-Lieut. Nash. Im-
portant people were Adelaide’s Lord
Mayor McLeay and his wife. Her grace-
ful black frock had the longer hemline,
and her hat was of fine black straw, wide
of brim and worn off the face, Consul-
General for U.S. Orsen Neilsen and Mrs.
Neilsen, the Ernest Watts, the Aldermanic
Becker couple, Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere
and many of the committee of the
“Captain Boycott” film gala, at which
Jean Simmons was a guest in the evening.
Sheila Graham, of Gordon, who a few
weeks ago was a bridesmaid at the vice-
regal Northcott-Coburn wedding, was a
bride in her own right last week. With
the blessing of St. Martin’s in Killara, she
became the wife of Dr. John Heaton
Simpson. Sheila is the elder daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. R. V. Graham, of Gordon.
The late Lieut.-Colonel R. C. Simpson
was the groom’s father.
On December 23 in their Killara home
Janet Rowland-Smith (pictured here) and
sister June will hostess a Christmas party.
This is none of your cocktail-and-nibble
affairs, but an honest-to-goodness Christ-
mas supper party with all the trimmings.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
At No. 5 Elizabeth-street, the head-
quarters of the Society for the Adult Deaf
and Dumb, there’s a display of photo-
graphs of film-stars covering the past
decade. A steady stream of film-star
fans are turning into the doorway to gaze
on the old loves such as darling, gladly-
irresponsible Zasu Pitts, alluring Jean
Harlow, Leslie Howard, Grace Moore
and even Charlie Chaplin. Mr. A. C.
Tinsdale, who instigated the show and
loaned his own collection of 1500 photo-
graphs, has also arranged a guessing com-
petition ; the entry fee of sixpence
will swell the funds. At the top
of the room against the Flag of Aus-
tralia are set photographs of the Royal
wedding. In this, as in every way of
bringing the photographic display up to
the minute, the film companies have been
very generous. The opening speech was
made by Mrs. O. Colverd, and for the
first afternoon there was a tea-party re-
plete with rich and irresistible cakes made
by Mrs. Tinsdale.
Sydney’s show of the week was “The
Water Babies.” This is one of the loveliest
stories in the world, and it came to life in
the Theatre Royal by the grace of little
children (over 130 of them from three
upwards) who danced and mimed their
way through the adventures of Tom, the
pathetic little sweep who longed to
be clean. Clever Heather Gell
directed the whole, and Charles
Kingsley himself stood up in one of the
right-hand boxes and retold his tender
little story. Leonard Thiele, who was the
Charles Kingsley of the piece, was a
strong rival to small Tom —mothers and
aunts and grown-up sisters thought him
wonderful. The Toms of the cast were
Nicky Yardley and John Meillon. The
Ellies were Deirdre Taylor and Gretchen
Morse.
The scent of gardenias drenched the
foyer of the Royal at the opening per-
formance. These romance-breathing
blooms were sold in the cause, which was
the Kindergarten Union. Some clever
person had also thought of providing
masses of flowers, and these were bought
in sheaves and sent backstage to innumer-
able Prawns, Starfish, Water Weeds,
Coral, Sea Birds and Ice Fairies who
formed the joyous and unconventional
ballets. The children in the crowded
audience, incidentally, admired the Sea
Birds and the Starfish, but they simply
doted on the Prawns. Edith Lanser’s
stage designs cleverly gave the illusion
of a shimmering under-the-water world.
Well-known A.B.C. violinist Daisy
Richards led the orchestra.
For 40 years Mrs. Bertie Kelly has
been a member of the women’s committee
working for St. Vincent’s hospital. For
many of those years she has been presi-
dent of that committee, and has been un-
sparing in her labor of love. Now, since
her last protracted illness in St. Vincent’s
private hospital, Mrs. Kelly has decided
to relinquish her presidency. This deci-
sion has been received with the deepest
regret. Mrs. Bertie has been for years an
acknowledged leader in all good causes
She is clever, witty, and has the gift of
making and keeping friends. Some idea
of her popularity can be guessed by the
number of flower tributes sent to the hos-
pital during her recent illness —over 200.
On her way to Maoriland Edith Baird,
well-known teacher of the Ballet, and
the first to give lessons in the art over
the 8.8. C., was given a party after her
own heart. Up in the Ballet Club Eunice
Weston, of Melbourne, was examining
students for the British Ballet Organisa-
tion diplomas, and Miss Baird was invited
to “sit in” while slim youth fluttered
about the studio like white butterflies.
Later there was tea poured by president
Vera Lacey. Sheila Whitock, Miss Hy-
land and Edna Moncrieff, a young rela-
tion of Gladys, who is about to depart
for England and matrimony with a son
of the world-famous Espinosa, were other
guests.
The evening of the Maurice Gulsons’
party was soft and still, and the 60 or
more guests on the terrace and the
verandahs drank in the rain-washed air
served by the fair barmaid Nature, to-
gether with something more potent mixed
by the cocktail-shaker within. Masses of
hydrangea mingled their pale pinks and
pale blues in the reception-rooms. Mrs.
Gulson’s long black afternoon frock had
the inspiration of Egypt in the gold
scarabs richly embroidered on yoke and
extended shoulder-line.
Shirley Wilkinson, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Wilkinson, of Killara,
and Brian George Wileman, elder son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Wileman, of New-
castle, will be married at Shore Chapel,
North Sydney, on Wednesday, December
17. The reception will be at the Pickwick
Club. Judith and Penelope Wileman are
booked as bridesmaids, and Robertson
Sheaffe and David Osborne will attend
the bridegroom. Shirley is a graduate in
Arts and Brian has just completed his
final year in engineering at Sydney Uni-
versity. He was formerly a flight-
lieutenant in the R.A.A.F. Mrs. R. H.
McKerihan hostessed a linen tea tor the
bride at her Edgecliff home recently.
A linen tea, in these days of coupons, is
prized beyond rubies.
In May Hollinworth’s production of
“Hamlet” man of law Kenneth Pawley
is the young Prince who weighed the
pros and cons of the case till the
bill of costs brought disaster on all.
Gertrude, the Queen, who only once
leaves the Crown of Denmark off her
head, is played by attractive Gwen
Harrison, and the only other girl in e
piece, Ophelia, was Jean Edward, a
nymph graceful even as a watery corps
—a jug of water flung over her in th
dressing-room accounts for the dampness.
The small stage is vibrant with color,
and the final scene is worthy
long and loud cheer for director May
Hollinworth. Front-seaters at the open-
ing were knight Ben and Lady Fuller.
There were painters, writers —plain and
script —among the listeners. Rosemary
Budge was there, a medical man or two,
and tall Matron Goodwin, a regular at
symphony concerts and ballet shows, was
an applauder.


"WHY IS MASTER ALWAYS
TALKING ABOUT A GOOD
INNINGS
*
"EVERYONE HAS A GOOD'TNNINGS
IF THEY'RE SATISFIED WITH A
FAIR SHARE OF 'BLACK « WHITE"
y
v,i
" v
■^v
_V
n
By Appointment
to H.M. King George VI
ds
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co., Ltd.
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
Filter
Cyhndtr
GUIHRIO6E,
GEORGE ST,
CAMFEROOffN,
SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
F I LTE R
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1937. . 543,242 6 p.c. = 526,800 16,442 6,295,941
1938.. 547,835 6 „ „ 526,800 21,035 6,316,976
1939.. 550,876 6 „ ~ 526,800 24,076 6,341,052
1940.. 544,771 6 „ „ 526,800 17,971 6,359,023
1941.. 547,123 6 „ „ 526,800 20,323 6,379,346
1942.. 548,004 6 „ „ 526,800 21,204 6,400,550
1948.. 543,004 6 „ „ 526,800 16,204 6,416,754
1944.. 551,050 6 „ „ 526,800 24,250 6,441,004
1945.. 552,907 6 „ „ 526,800 26,107 6,467,111
1946.. 569,385 64 „ ~ 537,775 31,610 6,498,721
1947.. 617,532 6| „ ~ 581,675 35,857 6,534,578
It is impossible to say exactly where
shareholders stand until the legal battle
now under way to test the validity of the
Government’s new legislation to nation-
alise the trading banks is over. This
legislation came into force on November
27, when it received Royal assent. Among
other things, it provides that the Trea-
surer, by notice in the Commonwealth
Gazette, can fix a day on which the
shares on the local register of Australian
banks shall become vested in the Com-
monwealth Bank.
On that day the directors of the banks
affected shall cease to hold office. Also,
with approval of the Treasurer, the
governor of the Commonwealth Bank
may appoint new directors to replace
those elected by shareholders but re-
moved following gazettal of the notice
just referred to. Moreover, the new
Government-nominee directors are to
have power to sell the business, including
shareholders’ assets, to the Common-
wealth Bank, which is to pay “fair and
reasonable” compensation. What is
“fair and reasonable” is to be determined
by agreement between the Common-
wealth Bank and the directors of the
private banks who have been appointed
by the governor of the Commonwealth
Bank, or, failing agreement, by a special
Court of Claims appointed by the Gov-
ernment under the Act and against whose
decisions there is no appeal, A share-
holder who fails to deliver his scrip to
the Commonwealth Bank within two
months of the shares becoming vested in
that institution will be liable to a penalty
of £IOOO.
Immediately the bill received Royal
assent it was announced on behalf of the
Government that notices of the Com-
monwealth’s intention to acquire the
shares of the private banks would not be
issued pending the hearing of certain
appeals to the High Court. On Dec. 2
four applications came before Mr.
Justice Dixon, of the High Court, for
injunctions to restrain the Government
from putting the Banking Act, 1947, into
operation. The applicants were the
States of Victoria and South Australia
and the Australian trading banks and
the English banks trading in Australia.
The matter was adjourned until Dec. 15.
The improvement (£48,147) in the
Wales’ net earnings last term reflects the
expanding trade activity that goes with
rising costs and higher prices. The
£617,532 of profit, written after allowing
for taxation and other contingencies, was
the best since 1930. It was 7.03 p.c. on
capital, or a modest 4 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and visible reserves
combined). The div., steady at 6 p.c. for
the nine years to close of accounts in
1945, crept to 6| p.c. in 1946, and to
6| p.c, last term, when the final was at
the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
Deposits, which almost doubled under
pressure of inflationary war-time finance,
increased by £13,047,244 (approx. 6 p.c.)
last term. The growth in advances (made
in accordance with central-bank direc-
tion), was £19,825,054, and low-interest-
bearing liquids were drawn upon for
£6,779,910:
1939. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital . . £8,780,000 £8,780,000 £8,780,000
Notes . . . . 81,159 81,006 81,003
Deposits, bills,
etc 111,769,712 219,827,558 232,874,802
Liquids . . 30,193,019 90,769,747 83,989,837
Deposits* . . 452,211 66,463,751 66,518,678
Advances . . 93,077,235 74,528,463 94,353,517
Premises .. 3,300,000 3,566,000 3,560,000
Other assets.. ‘ — 2,000 2,000
* Statutory deposits with central banks, Australia
, and N.Z.
Liquids, which amounted to 64.6 p.c. of
liabilities to the public, include Common-
wealth Treasury bills (£5,000,000), Gov-
ernment securities (£31,712,304) and'
special accounts with the Commonwealth
Bank (£65,120,000) and Reserve Bank of
N.Z. (£1,398,618) totalling £103,230,982.
More was thus being used to assist vari-
ous Governments than to assist traders
and others. Advances were only 40.5
p.c. of deposits as against 79.4 p.c. at the
close of accounts in 1939.
Capital is in 439,000 £4O shares paid
to £20 each—the other £20 is a contin-
gent liability callable only if needed on
liquidation. Net tangible book value of
the undertaking is £15,314,577, or £34
17s. 9d. per share ; and assets, especially
freeholds, are known to be worth more
than their book value. Lowest figure at
which the Commonwealth Bank is
authorised to buy such of the co.’s scrip
that comes into the market is £36 15s. —
market price on August 15 last. The
market figure had risen to £39 10s. in
November, but fell to £37 15s. following
publication of the accounts —a bit better
than 7 p.c. was expected as a final dis-
tribution. The return at £37 15s. is 3.7
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis an equivalent return from Govern-
ment bonds at 3i p.c, would call for
£19,669,120, or £44 16s. Id. per share.
Since the close of accounts the central
bank has directed the trading banks
(under the 1945 Act) to tighten up on
advances. The aim is to prevent develop-
ment of secondary inflation by forcing
traders to meet certain of their capital
requirements by new share issues rather
than by bank overdraft. While there is
something to be said in favor of this aim
at the moment, there is much more to be
feared by way of inflation from a Gov-
ernment policy with emphasis on expendi-
ture while employment is at the full.
What the small businessman in particu-
lar has to guard against is the possi-
bility of finding himself overcapitalised on
a permanent basis when the trade pendu-
lum swings the other way and demand
becomes increasingly capricious, unpre-
dictable and volatile. Those best able to
judge whether the current level of busi-
ness activity should be financed wholly
or in part by injection of more permanent
capital into any particular venture are
not the new high priests of finance, but
those who know the problems of the
business, present and prospective, at first
hand —the owners or controllers of the
undertaking,
Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd. (Townsville)
c—' Dividends
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£, £, £, £,£,
1989.. 22,466 8,571 p.c. = 8,705 5,190 28,147
Premiums on leases, £1265 .. .. 29,412
Taxation charged reserves, £6416 .. 22,999
1940.. 19,347 8,571 Nil 10,776 33,772
Premiums on leases, £1204 .. .. 34,976
1941.. 14,407 8,571 2$ p.c. = 5,804 32 35,008
To tax reserve, £10,000 .. .. 25,008
From reserves re leases, £3490 .. 21,518
1942.. 14,490 8,571 2J p.c. = 5,804 115 21,633
From reserves re leases, £10,000 .. 11,633
1943.'. 30,586 8,571 5 p.c. = 11,607 10,407 22,040
From reserves re leases, £4032 .. 18,008
1944.. 38,850 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,350 34,358
To staff fund, £5000 29,358
From'bad-debts provision, £10,000.. 39,858
To reserves re leases, £6,359 .. 45,717
1945.. 38,882 8,571 6 p.c. = 13’,929 16,882 62,099
To staff fund, £1180 60,919
From reserves re leases, £2282 .. 58 637
1946.. 35,693 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 13,193 7l’,830
From reserves re leases, £4077 .. 67,753
6i p.c.
1947.. 45,039* 9285 p.c. = 15,090 20,664 88,417
* Includes £5500 originally provided for War-time
(Co.) Tax.
Rapid improvement in the reserve posi-
tion since 1943, combined with im-
portant additions to the co.’s range of
interests and the prospect of in-
creasing activity in North Queensland,
has raised Samuel Allen’s stocks consider-
ably higher in the market’s estimation
than at any previous time in the past
two decades.
Principal asset is a chain of hotels in
the thirsty latitudes between Bowen and
Cairns ; they numbered 26, all freeholds,
in 1932 and the board speaks from time
to time of “further consolidation.”
Headway is also being made in the
general-merchandising sections of the
business. New regional agencies acquired
include those for Ford motors, Philips
and E.M.A.I.L. electrical goods and
Century batteries. In association with
Ford, co. has opened a showroom, work-
shops and service station at Townsville,
with further extensions in prospect. It
has also joined Blue Star Line,
Mount Isa Mines and others to form a
stevedoring and wool-dumping co.
Partial paralysis of coastal shipping
in recent years has rendered the old-
established shipping-agency section of the
business unprofitable. There were signs
of a recovery towards the end of last
term, larger imports from the south hav-
ing a beneficial effect also on the co.’s
merchandise stocks, which rose by 47 p.c.
As a result of increased activity, the
board had to call on outsiders for an
additional £134,425: —
1941. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £375,000 £375,000 £375,000 £375,000
Overdraft .. 150,503 45,878 26,157 134,507
Sundry creditors 134,477 117,180 153,571 179,646
Properties and
plant . . 414,968 360,509 362,834 389,112
Shares . . 19,954 13,570 20,570 19,939
Stocks .. 82,298 122,652 123,869' 181,496
Book debts . . 188,022 157,049 169,747 198,818
Cash . . 300 4,197 4,098 8,080
Since the close of accounts an issue of
122,500 £1 ords. at a 4s. premium has
been approved by Canberra, and is now
about half-called-up. It will raise paid
capital to £497,500 and will add £24,500
to reserves. Book debts shown above
are subject to a special reserve of
£10,284; whilst creditor includes £10,076
which might eventually be transferred to
reserves —it represents net premiums
paid for unexpired hotel leases. The
21,669 shares held in the subsidiary—-
Holliman’s retail business in Towns-
ville—are shown in the books at 18s. 4d.
each; their net asset backing is 26s, 8d.
on the subsidiary’s figures.
Last year’s turnover was a record, and
gross profit at £216,249 was up £31,391.
General expenses, excluding tax, repre-
sented 63 p.c. of gross, compared with
66 p.c. in 1946, but tax rose by
£7500, after deducting the original provi-
sion made for War-time (Co.) Tax. Net
profit, at £45,039, was £9346 better and
represented 12 p.c. on capital compared
with 9.5, 10.4, 10.4, 8.1 and 3.9 p.c. back
to 1941.
Turnover has continued to rise since
the close of accounts and the chairman
is hopeful that returns from shipping
will improve with resumption of
private control. But higher gross earn-
ings are likely to be offset in part by
rising costs, particularly of labor. A
full year’s div. on the new capital at
6i p.c. will call for a further £7962.
Capital at June 30 last comprised
232,144 £1 ords., 71,428 first and a like
number of second £1 prefs., both
cumulative to 6 p.c. and participating
point for point beyond that figure with
the ords. The prefs. participate fully,
but without preferential rights, in the
proceeds of a wind-up, and enjoyed the
same rights as the ords. to take up new
capital; they are, in effect, preferred
ords. with cumulative 6 p.c. div. rights.
Until last January, they were pegged offi-
cially at 2s. 3d. more than the ords. (24s.
6d. compared with 22s. 3d.). Since
then the market has tended to equate
the ords. with them in value. At
current prices of about 30s. for each
class of share, ex rights, the yield is 4.3
p.c. on basis of last div. Net asset back-
ing is 24s. 5d. a share.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
t Dividends ,
1st 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Be- Re-
July Profit. 5.4 p.c. 6.2 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1938.. 26.850 1627 3255 19,084 2,884 13,741
1939.. 31,969 1627 3255 19,084 8,003 21,744
1940.. 29,195 1627 3255 19,084 5,229 26,973
1941.. 32,439 1627 3255 19,084 8,473 35,446
1942.. 31,592 1627 3255 19,084 7,626 43,072
1943.. 23,970 1627 3255 19,084 4 43,077
2J p.c.
1944.. 11,697 1627 3255 9,542 — 40,350
1945.. 18,567 1627 3255 9,542 4,143 44,493
5 p.c.
1946.. 36,464 1627 3255 19,084 12,498 56,991
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1947.. 44,076 1800 3255 22,901 16,120 73,111
This co., which enjoys a prominent
position in the high-grade furniture,
furnishing-drapery and China business,
has £464,187 of capital to feed in 30,000
first 7 p.c. and 52,500 second 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 381,687 ords. Under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act —it has long
outlived the purpose for which it was
originally created —the pref. divs. are sub-
ject to a 22\ p.c, cut, reducing them to
5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively, with
the right to advance with the ords.
beyond these points to their original


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
NOTICES,
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Persons, etc., insuring with any
insurance company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 7909-7944.
All persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees, or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District,
and every other Fire District in the State ot
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1944, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State; are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1947.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1948,
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
NOTE: Returns are required only or the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act. . ,
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1944.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales returns show-
ing the total amount of the premiums received
by or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1947, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1944, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act. .
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1948;
subject to a penalty not exceeding five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Beign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident marine
ATLAS
assurance company, ltd.
(England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the'
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 24J) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
contract rates. Hence payment to the
firsts rose from 5.4 p.c. to 6 p.c. last term.
After a four-year drought the ords.
got 24 p.c. in 1934, followed by 4.5 p.c
and then 6 p.c. in 1937. The rate dropped
to 5 p c in 1938 and remained steady for
the next five years, followed by two lots
of 24 p c during what was virtually the
standstill portion of the transition period,
and then 5 p.c. and 6 p.c. last term.
Average ord. div, over the last 14 years
is a wink under 5 p.c.
Latest profit is the best since the
borrow-and-bust boom of the 1920 s. The
improvement (£7612, making the gain
£25,509 over the last two years) reflects
the hunger of a market still starved for
furniture and furnishings, etc., as well as
the inflationary trend of the cost-price
structure. Official sanction of a lift in sell-
ing prices helped to cushion the bump
from rising costs, and increased turnover
did the rest. Limiting factors in sales have
been labor, materials and the rationing
of furnishing fabrics (owing to the cot-
ton position) rather than demand.
' The £44,076 of profit was enough to
meet the full contract rates on each lot
of prefs. and show 9.9 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 7.7 p.c. for the previous
term. It is not clear from the published
figures whether the allowance for taxa-
tion (£39,606, up £12,197) includes pro-
vision for War-time (Co.) Tax, which is
to be abolished in respect of 1946-47
earnings. If it does, and appearances
suggest so, then the year’s profit is under-
stated to the extent of this provision. A
point was added to the div., making it
6 p.c., and £16,120 was put on the shelf,
lifting the lay-by £73,111 in excess of
goodwill (£67,660), not treated as an
asset in the table.
The sharp growth of £104,418 in the
stocks item is a hedge against rising
prices, scarcity of supplies (especially
cotton fabrics) and delays in delivery: —
1989. 1943. 1946. 1947.
Capital . . £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* .. 99,981 93,456 57,406 85,966
Freeholds, etc. 272,252 272,252 272,252 272,252
Plant, etc. .. 26,586 15,185 4,732 2,285
Stocks .. 181,718 193,357 175,195 279,613
Book debts, etc. 117,088 131,658 141,677 78,833
Cash .. .. 250 250 6,250 6,250
* Including provision for taxation.
Outside liabilities, which include provi-
sion for taxation, increased by only
£28,560, and debtors’ balances, etc., were
reduced by £62,844. The more or less
liquid surplus (£278,730) was £13,014
stronger than at the previous balance.
In the market the ords. shot up from
25s. 9d. to 27s. 6d. following publication
of the accounts. The return at the higher
figure is 4.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution.
At 27s. the second prefs. yield 4.5 p.c. on
a 6.2 p.c. hand-out. The firsts seldom
appear on ’Change. Net tangible cover
is £17 8s. 2d. firsts, £9 13s. 3d. seconds
and 23s. lid. ords.
Eldorado (paid capital £31,006 in f.-p.
2s. shares), which took over the old
Eldorado (Central Australia) Gold Mine
in 1938 for £20,000, has given a good
account of itself. The mine (bottom level
300ft.) is on the e.-w. line of lode south
of Tennant Creek, where the ore bodies
(shistoe and haematite) are irregular and
the distribution of gold is erratic, making
it difficult to estimate either ore reserves
or average grade with any degree of
accuracy. However, the co. has paid
divs. totalling 200 p.c. over the last four
years, and there appears to be at least
a couple of years’ very profitable work
ahead, with the possibility of more pay
stuff being disclosed as development pro-
ceeds. Here are treatment, recovery and
profit figures: —
Div.
Ore Head Gold A —~ n
Treated,Value, Recovered, Profit. Per 2s. Total.
Tons. Dwt. Oz. £ Share. £
1944.. 5385 21.39 3,497.24 8,029 -/6 7,750
1945.. 5134 39.77 7,172.45 41,517 1/6 23,254
1946.. 4844 25.74 4,519.87 19,918 1/- 15,503
1947.. 6534 24.81 5,646.25 28,760 1/- 15,503
The improvement in last term’s net earn-
ings was due to increased tonnage and
lower costs. Recovery was 17.28dwt.
(down 1.38dwt.), leaving 7.53dwt. in the
tailings, which are to be cyanided when
equipment arrives and more labor be-
comes available. There was a drop of
19s. in total costs (87s. lid. a ton), thanks
to better output, improved stoping con-
ditions and reduced expenditure on plant
and maintenance. Since the close of
accounts a 6d. div. has been paid?
* * * *
From London: Gt. Boulders have
risen a shilling or two on reported good
developments. The best one is said to
be at 3100ft., where ore showing telluride
and free gold has been exposed. There
is talk of another effort being made to
remove the co.’s domicile from London
to Australia. The previous attempt, made
during the war, was scotched by the
British Treasury.
* * * *
Mines Consultants, Ltd., has been put
off the stocks in Victoria with a nominal
capital of £100,000. Among other things
the objects are to act as mine managers,
technical advisers and mining consult-
ants. Subscribers to the memorandum
are J. P. Fitzgerald, G. F. Davies, G.
Lindesay Clark, F. F. Espie and F. W.
Bott.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
Wednesday, 26th November, 1947
EXTRACTS FROM CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH
Bank Chairman says
COMMUNISTIC LEGISLATION FORGED BY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
PEOPLE REVOLTING AGAINST CONTROLS
“There is nothing original about
nationalisation of banking as a process
by which the State can gain control of
each industry and each individual. It is
the course which has been urged by ex-
treme Socialists and Communists for
many years. Wittingly or unwittingly,
the Federal Government is committing
itself quite openly to a piece of Com-
munistic legislation, of which truth the
Australian people would soon become
painfully aware if this power were in the
hands of a Government that was unable,
or unwilling, to resist the pressure of full-
blooded Socialists or the Communist
party of Australia,” said the Chairman
of the National Bank of Australasia,
Limited, Mr. H. D. Giddy, at the annual
meeting of shareholders, held in Mel-
bourne; on 26th November last.
“The collision,” continued Mr, Giddy,
“between those who advocate a system
of tight State control and that large sec-
tion who demand reasonable freedom
for the individual is of profound signifi-
cance. Certainly State control had its
run during the war years, much of it then
being inevitable, and there are those who
urge its permanency. But its marked
effects upon living standards and freedom
of activity are undoubtedly reviving a
determination by the mass of people to
be free to choose their mode of life.
This is not a new phenomenon. In their
long domestic history, the British peoples
have periodically revolted against those
who would filch from them their indi-
vidual rights and their individual liber-
ties.
Neither Kind of Dictatorship
Wanted.
“The springs of this revulsion lie deep
in the human heart, for though men and
women rightly seek protection from the
ravages of economic depression or
economic exploitation, they refuse to
have their personal energies and desires
frustrated in a vice of Government con-
trol and dictation. They do not want
political dictatorship by either the arro-
gant theorists of the Left or selfish re-
actionaries of the Right, for in many
countries bitter experience is slowly but
surely imprinting on the mind of man
that hand in hand with political dictator-
ship goes economic poverty.”
Gulf Between Nationalisation and!
Democratic Control.
The Chairman went on to say that
“we must have an orderly monetary sys-
tem conducted in the best interests of the
people as a whole. In a modern demo-
cracy such as ours, I also admit unhesi-
tatingly that the general management of
finance and money properly comes within
the scope of Government policy.
“But there is a vast gulf between the
orderly management of currency and
credit and the assumption by the Gov-
ernment of complete ownership and con-
trol of all banking, taking with it com-
plete control over the financial affairs of
every individual bank customer and plac-
ing the Government in a position to con-
trol the money of every member of the
community. The gulf is so great that it
could very well mean, from the point of
view of individual Australians, the differ-
ence between retention of their demo-
cratic rights and liberties and utter sub-
jection to the State.
Full Powers of Control Exist Now.
“It is useless for the Prime Minister to
argue that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment does not possess adequate powers of
control over the Banks and Banking be-
cause of fears for the security of the
1945 legislation. With the exception of
one minor clause, which, let me em-
phasise;, was rejected by the High Court
not on banking grounds, but on the
grounds that it was Commonwealth legis-
lation which discriminated against the
States, not one word of the two Bank
Acts passed in 1945 has been challenged
or altered. They stand today just as
securely as they stood in 1945, indeed,
just as the National Security Banking
Regulations stood from 1941. To my
knowledge, there are no grounds upon
which the powers under these Acts can
be overthrown except by. the ordinary
process of amendment by the Federal
Parliament.
Gloomy Prophecies Overthrown.
“The diversified lending of the Bank
over the past year reveals the extent and
elasticity of the assistance rendered to
industry and to individuals This lending
is indicative of the virile reconversion to
peace-time activity which, in general,
Australia has been fortunate enough to
make since the cessation of hostilities. It
is interesting to note, too, that the Aus-
tralian people have confounded all the
forebodings, current in a number of
circles during the war, that afterwards
there would be left a vast surplus of un-
employed people to be kept, in some
shape, by their Governments. Contrary
to those feelings and expectations, pHvate
initiative and enterprise have once more
come into their own so strongly that there
is very great pressure upon our domestic
labour market. Indeed, our most serious
shortage is workers —people —lack of
whom is complicating production in exist-
ing establishments and halting further
expansion everywhere.
Loans for Many Purposes.
“The most striking individual increase
in our Assets is under the heading of
Loans and Advances, which now stand at
£43,419,249 —an expansion for the year
of £10,635,068. This strong demand by
industry for banking accommodation has,
to a varying degree, been common to all
the Trading Banks. Insofar as our own
Bank is concerned, we find that the in-
crease for the year is spread as follows;
P.c.
Agricultural and Pastoral .. L8
Dairying and Farmyard ,. .. 10.0
All Primary Industries .. ... 11-8
Commerce 31.5
Manufacturing 18.6
Housing 9.5
Construction and Power .. 5.4
Transport and Communication 2.6
Finance • • . • • 3.1
Government and Public Bodies 2.5
All Other 15.0
Total 100.0
o Unswerving Loyalty of Staff.
“I wish to make special reference,” con-
tinued Mr. Giddy, “to the behaviour of
our Staff since the announcement of the
Government’s nationalisation proposals.
Not only have our Staff continued to play
their invaluable part in carrying on the
Bank’s affairs with cheerful enthusiasm,
but they have also displayed a loyalty to
their Bank which has never faltered.
Their behaviour under the strain of the
threatened destruction of their chosen
way of life has been beyond praise. It
is I am sure, quite unnecessary for me to
emphasise that their attitude towards the
proposed nationalisation of banking is
the attitude of free men and free women
capable of thinking and acting for them-
selves. Any suggestions to the contrary
are not only entirely untrue, but are an
insult to one of the finest bodies of men
and women in the whole comjmunity.
Union with the Queensland National
Bank, Limited.
“The most important happening in the
Bank’s activities during the past year
was the culmination, in March last, or
negotiations between the authorities or
The Queensland National Bank Limited
and ourselves for the union of the busi-
nesses of the two Institutions. For a
very long time a particularly friendly
association had existed between the two
Banks, and the time seemed to have
arrived when the best interests of the
public, the staff and the shareholders of
both Banks would be served by com-
plete union. Accordingly, on 26th March
an Agreement was signed providing for
the taking of immediate steps to this end,
and the exchange of shares, of which
you have already been advised, proceeded
to completion without the slightest hitch.


Trinity Grammar School
SUMMER HILL AND STRATHFIELD
A Church of England School for Boys
;
a
y
am
...***: ,
r * -
v..
(The additions to School House, Summer Hill).
The School accommodates Its 500 boys In three separate, but closely
allied, establishments; the Senior School at Summer Hill, and the
Preparatory School and Junior House at Strathfield. Boys of protestant
denomination are taken from Kindergarten to Matriculation Honours in
all subjects. A number of valuable scholarships is awarded annually.
The new additions to School House at Summer Hill, and the recently
acquired Junior House at Strathfield, provide unsurpassed boarder ac-
commodation. The School has 17 acres of fine grounds and playing
ie s and an up to dale Swimming Pool with filtration plant.
Although the completed building scheme will provide considerable
extra accommodation, immediate enrolment for 1948 and subsequent
years is advised. For School Prospectus and all other details apply
to the Bursar at Summer Hill.
Headmaster:
r . Wilson Hogg, M.A. (Ox on).
Angus & Robertson’s Book Selection
If ES SAIS, by Walter Murdoch. An outstanding selection. 13/6 (post 6d )
GOU] ? ME T, by Wm. Wallace Irwin.
ourselvef as m c a o k o e ks dellShtfUl reading even for tllose of us who d ° not consider
12/6 (post 4c1.).
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS, by Rolf Boldrewood.
A story of life and adventure in the bush and in the goldfields of Australia.
DOCTOR CABLING, by Ernestine Hill. 10/6 <P ° St 6tL) -
ihe I lying Doctor service of Australia. Illustrated. 10/6 (post 6d.).
DELIGHTFUL GIFT SERIES, each 3/9 (post 3d.).
THE TURQUOISE CUP, by Arthur
Cosslett Smith.
THE APPLE TREE, by John
Galsworthy*
THE BAR SINISTER, by ’ Richard
Harding Davis.
THE PERFECT TRIBUTE, by Mary
Raymond Shipman Andrews.
MISS EMILY IN BLACK LACE, by
Nina Murdoch.
THE QUIET MAN, by Maurice Walsh
LITTLE BROWN HOUSE, by Marie C
Oemler.
THE WELLS OF BEERSHEBA, bv
Frank Dalby Davison, author of
Man-Shy and Busty.
An Outstanding Selection of Books for Boys and Girls is on Display.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. MA 6511.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Hamlet with a Vengeance.
Kenneth Pawley played Hamlet with
a vengeance at Sydney Metropolitan
Theatre: a tense and energetic Hamlet,
a jittery Hamlet, a Hamlet contorted with
agony. As a piece of acting it would
have held an audience spellbound at
Sydney Royal.
It could be argued, of course, that
Shakspeare’s Hamlet, until the very last,
goes without his vengeance; that Mr.
Pawley was too dynamic for a character
shocked into paralysing melancholia. Yet
Shakespeare’s Hamlet certainly has his
moodsi of fire; and an apathetic and
lugubrious Hamlet might be tedious. So
Mr. Pawley could be justified. He was
at his best in depicting Hamlet’s sudden
changes from madness to uneasy sanity.
Jean Edward’s Ophelia, red-haired and
graceful, looked exactly like the paint-
ing by Millais and had the same beauty
pathos. As the grave-digger scene
shows, and Hamlet’s bitter speeches,
Shakspeare was tearing the mask off
things in this play, and a wilder Ophelia
should have emerged with the Rabelaisian
songs in her mad scene.
It was difficult to see Gwen Harrison’s
Queen Gertrude as a lady of passion and
darkness, and Robin Lovejoy’s Polonius
was too frail, corpse-like and lacking in
pomposity to be fair game for Hamlet’s
mockery. But these were minor flaws,
none conspicuous enough to mar what
was, on the whole, a magnificent produc-
tion. Hazlitt said “Hamlet” shouldn’t be
acted, yet only by such a performance as
this can one fully perceive the terrific
realism of the graveyard scene, the
comedy of the strolling players and the
significance of Fortinbras at the end—
coming in, like Edgar in his shining
armor at the end of “King Lear,” to re-
deem the tragedy from hopelessness and
to restore the note of heroic resolution.
* * * *
Sydney Minerva’s “Sweetest and
Lowest,” described as “intimate, sophisti-
cated revue,” was on the whole as inno-
cent, as well-meaning and as ineffective
as a school break-up concert. One did
not need to be Wee Georgie Wood’s
proud father to extract some amusement
from his caricatures of a small boy and
a fairy, nor Sumner Locke-Elliott’s doting
aunt to enjoy his skit on the Eureka
Stockade; but otherwise, after two false
starts, the show begins with a feeble song
and a feebler ballet called “Fencing for
an Opening,” and continues to fence all
night. The trouble lies partly in the Eng-
lish setting—Max Oldaker, for instance,
sings very spiritedly a song about “Vienna
steak ’ and “spam,” which means nothing
at all to an Australian audience ; partly
in the fact that the lovelies have too
many clothes and not enough legs ; and
partly in the fact that too many of the
Australian topicalities (some get laughs)
are timid or obscure. The Comic Genius,
who alone could have infused vitality into
this show, lives about 20 feet down in the
ground under Sydney Tivoli, and nothing
will persuade him to change his haunts.
* * * *
Brisbane Repertory’s last show for 1947
was Daphne Roemerman’s production of
the Wodehouse translation of Molnar’s
“The Play’s the Thing.” Its brilliant wit
was well brought out by a competent
cast, most of whom have played an
amazing variety of parts during the year.
It was Peter Buchanan’s third act, and
he didn’t miss a trick. Harold Cox was
delightful as the pessimistic Mansky, and
Cecel Knopke effective in the droll grave
role of the manservant. Coila Mc-
Cracken was inclined to shout, but at
least the back rows didn’t miss a word,
and she caught the exaggerated tempera-
mental demeanor of the prima donna.
Alex. Foster seemed uncertain of some of
his lines on the opening night, but got
many laughs in his witty part. Tony
Dick as the young composer and Bill
Williams as the fussy secretary were both
completely in character.
* * * *
There was standing room only and not
much of that at Thea Rowe’s final con-
cert for the year at the Macquarie Audi-
torium, Sydney. Judged by the applause,
Miss Rowe’s interpretation of traditional
English, Scottish, Irish and Manx folk-
songs seemed to uncover a lot of Eng-
lish, Scots, Irish and Manxmen in the
audience. “Ride a Cock Horse,” “Rory
O’More,” “The Dumb Wife,” “King
John’s Christmas,” “Oranges and
Lemons,” “The False Knight” and
“Christmas Is Coming” were all pre-
sented with that particular brand of
comedy and miming that puts Miss Rowe
in a class of her own.
Brahms Festival.
Everything was beautiful at the fifth
chapter of the Brahms Festival at St.
Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne—the shape
of the building, the music, the playing,
the exemplary behavior of the vast audi-
ence, the performance of the Queens-
land String Quartet under Ernest
Llewellyn, and of the soloists, Thomas
White and Hephzibah Menuhin.
The stream of quiet persuasive music
flowed through three compositions—the
quintet Brahms wrote at 60 when he had
become enamored of the clarinet, the
quintet, written at 33, for the piano, and
the quartet, written in a suicidal moment
at 22, the quality of which is as marvel-
lous as the others. White is an amazingly
good clarinetist, and the sounds he got
from his instrument were as rich, round
and varied as Miss Menuhin’s perform-
ance on the piano.
If there was a discordant note it was
the lighting, which abolished half the
mystery of the cathedral. An experience
the writer remembers is of a Bach festival
m pre-war days in Milan Cathedral.
There were hooded lights for the per-
formers only. The rest of the illumina-
tion came from floodlights pouring
through the stained-glass windows and the
effect was unbelievably lovely.
"Messiah."
The Hurlstone Choral Society certainly
pulled no vocal punches in the great
choruses when Handel’s masterpiece was
presented at the Town Hall in conjunc-
tion with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under the baton of the Society’s con-
ductor Vivian Peterson. There was a
spiritual surge about the “Hallelujah”
as it climbed the scale in ever-growing
volume until harmony veritably thundered
around the hall, yet always was a fine
balance between the voice sections main-
tained The only chorus which fell away
from the high standard was “Since By
Man Came Death”; here the voices
dragged while the orchestra was half a
beat ahead. The soloists were sound,
with Noel Melvin’s resonant baritone
outstanding. His diction throughout was
flawiess and his singing of “The People
that Walked ill Darkness” was a gem
ot artistic expression. Leah Morris’s
soprano and Heather Kinnaird’s contralto
were used with sensitiveness and judg-
ment, although Miss Kinnaird’s volume
was scarcely adequate. Reginald Wil-
loughby used a flexible tenor nicely in
such airs as “Comfort Ye” and “Thou
Shalt Break Them.” The exquisite re-
pose of the Pastoral Symphony, with its
!? n £ the Calabrian piferari which
Handel heard in Holy Week in Rome
and, with due acknowledgment, incor-
porated into this interlude, was well
sustained by the orchestra.
Artbursts.
Robert Campbell, one-time of Tas-
mania, and now curator of Perth Art
Gallery, is showing watercolors at
George s Gallery, Melbourne, He seems
to contemplate a landscape much in the
Japanese fashion and reduce it to a
simple hieroglyph which is, so to speak,
a mnemonic for the subject. The most
Japanese - looking of the pictures is
“Rough Weather on the Tamar” in
which the flying spume is well suggested.
“Launceston, Morning Light,” is another
suggestive bit of understatement. Camp-
bell gets the varying moods of Nature
very nicely in “Early Spring, St. Leonards,
Tasmania,” “Coast Road, North Beach,
W.A.,” and “Sunset over the Vineyard.”
Heavy contrasts don’t suit his brush,
however, and there is an attenuated
quality about some of his pictures.
* * * *
Julius and Tina Wentcher, showing at
Kozminsky’s Galleries, Melbourne, ap-
parently belong to the stream of Middle
European artists who migrated down
through Asia and the Indonesian archi-
pelago to Australia in the early stages
of the Hitler terror. Java and Bali have
a fascination for them, and their subject-
mattep is always exotic. It would be
interesting to see how they would handle
a kangaroo or a gum-tree. Miss Went-
cher shows a portrait of Daryl Lindsay
—the lineaments of the National Gallery
director have been faithfully depicted,
though without much inspiration.
* * * *
A show of its sculptural treasures by
the National Gallery in Melbourne
ranges over the whole world and cen-
turies in time from ancient Athens to
modern Sydney and from China and
New Guinea to Easter Island. The
amount of technical skill the Solomons
Island carver brought to his food-bowl
in thp chm*, „ u -c • c
SKUI ot the unknown hand which carved
the Greek Aphrodite, and there is a dif-
ference of form and subject-matter be-
tween the “Kissing Babies” of Rodin
and the seated Kwanyin, done by some
sculptor of the Sung dynasty of China.
Yet there is a common quality of obser-
vation running through them which
makes them artistic brothers. The gross
and grotesque figure of a woman from
New Guinea might have come out of a
“Contemporaries’ ” exhibition.
At the Films.
“Temptation Harbor” (Grosvenor,
Melbourne). Everything about this
British picture is excellent. The action
is centred in a signal-box on a harbor
wharf with the activities of a seaport
providing a concentrated background.
Mallinson, the signalman, sees a man
murdered and thrown into the water,
dives in to the rescue and comes out with
a suitcase containing £5000. The psy-
chology of the story centres in the
struggle between his desire to keep the
money and facilitate his marriage with
a French showgirl and his social con-
science. I he Hollywood tendency would
have been to turn this into a mere crime
story. This film keeps a tight hold on the
human standpoint. The murderer turns
out not ,to be a villain, but a man in the
grip of the same struggle. The signalman
is faced with the frightful alternative of
either leaving arnian to starve to death in
a fishing hut or giving himself up after
having murdered the murderer. He does
the latter. There are no villains in the
picture—all are simple, misguided people.
Robert Newton turns in a superb per-
formance, as do all the others.
* * * *
Back in the old days when this scribe
wore short pants, ripped them locust-
hunting in the school-yard trees, and pos-
sessed the best cigarette-card hoard in
the State, there was a grim type at large
in the Third Form by the name of Fatty
Gray. Towards the end of that year,
when Christmas tides had been reported
from the “rat-hole,” and the double-
drummers were giving of their best. Fatty
threw a spanner in the pleasantness of
things by declaring “There ain’t no Santa
Claus.” Although he was thrashed for
the blasphemy, aye, and even given the
ultimate in punishments by having his
head held under a tap, his announcement
brought on doubts that could not be
passed off. So, if any others of the Third
have escaped the Head’s prophecy, that
they would all come to sticky ends, go,
blokes, to the Sydney Mayfair, where you
will see Fatty’s declaration completely
and satisfactorily contradicted. In “The
Miracle of 34th Street” Edmund Gwenn,
as the whiskered old fellow himself,
proves undoubtedly that Santa Claus does
exist, doing it quite legally in a com-
pletely hilarious sitting of the United
States Supreme Court.
* * * *
“Desire Me” (Sydney St. James):
Greer Garson is the lonely waiting wife
who refuses to believe that her Breton
husband has died in a German prison
camp. Her belief is severely shaken by
a fellow-prisoner who turns up to prove
that her husband is dead and to take his
place. Most of the running time is used
to wring the situation dry of whatever it
offers before the husband turns up.
Robert Mitchum as the husband and
Richard Hart as the interloper are no
more credible than the gas-stove in the
kitchen of the lonely Breton cottage
* * * *
“Deadlier Than the Male” (Sydney
Empire): A jealousy murder opus, dead-
lier than either of ’em. Claire Trevor,
Lawrence Tierney and Walter Slezak are
the main members of the cast before gun-
fire obliterates two-thirds of them.


/Vo. 1 of a series
r|
6ani»bU(l^e
m
-fe
i
cun iorC,
This early wheel-lock Handbuschse sporting rifle with its ornate
buck-horn stock, shows all the consummate skill of the 17th
Century gunsmith. Although its range was limited, and its
accuracy doubtful, the Handbuschse sporting rifle was among the
finest weapons of its day.
Modern -weapons demand high grade ammunition. Sportsmen of
today have a sure guarantee of consistent excellence in all 1.C.1.
sporting ammunition.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Veilmond gelding Native Son returned
another first-class Villiers trial at Randwick on
Saturday, spreadeagling the Varroville Handi-
cap (6f.) field with a burden of 9.7. He drops
to 8.11 for the mile Villiers, which he won
last year with Bst. #
Starting from outside the barrier stalls, Gay
King, who’s showing something like his best
form again, jumped smartly to gam the lead
as they settled down; Fordyce had Native Son
well up with them. Past the distance Native
Son produced the powerful late run which
wins his races, and hit the finish two lengths
to the good from Gay King, with Beau Robert
a promising third. A good but repeatedly
unlucky horse, Barnsley made up a lot of
ground in the straight to finish fourth at a
distance possibly too short for him.
When weights were issued for the Summer
Cup, Monsoon, at the time still eligible for
restricted company, got in very nicely at 7.5.
Saturday’s Homebush Handicap gave The Buz-
zard’s five-year-old son his third successive win
over the Randwick 12-furlongs trip, and the
extra furlong of the Cup should not be beyond
him. He started the run of success by taking
an Encourage with 9st., and raced himself out
of restricted company in winning a Mixeu
Stakes on the same mark. For the Homebush
he dropped to 7.7 and gave an exhibition of
genuine staying ability to down Cape Neddick
and favorite Sweet Chime. Cape Neddick
finished on well, beaten by less than a length,
but he meets Monsoon on a couple of pounds
worse terms in the Cup.
A glance through the records of the Summer
Cup shows that one should look among the
lightweights for the winner; last year it went
to the maiden performer Haxton with 6.12. Out
of the last 20 winners 14 have carried 7.10
or less.
Samuel Hordern’s once very prominent racing
colors were seen for the first time in many
years, and seen to advantage at that, in the
Strathfield Nursery. The white silks with the
red sash and pale-blue cap were carried suc-
cessfully by Dynamite (A. Mulley), owned in
partnership by S’Samuel and his son —a good
omen for the younger Sam, who is up for
election to fill a vacancy on the A.J.C. Com-
mittee. Dynamite produced a remarkably good
first-up effort to • just shade Phalanx, with
Partando third.
Bought as a yearling for 2000 guineas, Dyna-
mite is a three-quarter brother : in-b!ood to the
speedy fillies Chaperone and Civic Pride. He’s
by Ajax from the Marconigram-Aulone mare
Dyne; Aulone was the dam of Chaperone and
Civic Pride. The Marconigram blood may add
staying ability to the Ajax speed, which Dyna-
mite certainly has.
Third, after running greenly, in the Gimcrack
Stakes at her only previous start, Silverfel (A.
Ward) was far too good for other fillies in the
Greystanes Juvenile. She took charge more
than three furlongs from home to win com-
fortably from Revenir and Sheba, and clock
l.li for the five furlongs; Dynamite took 1.2.
Like Dynamite, Silverfel was an expensive
yearling at 1100 guineas, and similarly is a
three-quarter sister to a Gimcrack winner—the
very speedy Scaur Fel, whose crankiness even-
tually led to her being barred both in Sydney
and Newcastle.
In other events at Rand wick, Move On (W.
Briscoe) won the 12-furlongs Novice in a photo--
finish from Ruawalla and Steady. The judge’s
assistant got a good bite from the mob by
putting up No. 14 as the winner; 14 was Silver
Buzz, nowhere near the three contesting the
close finish. Divisions of the Welter went to
Fra Diavolo (V. Faggotter) and Killiecrankie
(J. Thompson). Native Son’s owner, W. W.
Kirwan, landed the first leg of a nice double
when his Agincourt colt Sir Raven accounted
for Bolivia and a rapidly improving Prince
Mohican in the 10-furlongs Three-year-old
Handicap.
* * * •
With J. Purtell back in the saddle, Gayness
notched up his third successive win by taking
the Ascot Cup at Mentone on Saturday;
apprentice C. Waymouth had ridden him at
Flemington the previous week. Gayness and
hurdler Latani have given the Mcßae stable
a great run of late.
Purtell rode a classic race, taking advantage
of Noble Prince’s pacemaking. Early m the
piece he moved up to run along beside the
pacemaker, and when Noble Prince weakened
at the home turn he shot Gayness ahead to
gain a break which enabled him to hold ott
the fast-finishing Spearmain ; Star Act was third.
By Caithness from Gay Element, six-year-old
Gayness is a half-brother to the oft-unlucky
Lawrence. .....
Giving himself a double, Purtell rode another
finely-judged race on Greensborough, downing
Flemish and Peter Gazelle in the six-furlongs
Holyrood Handicap. Conceding other runners
from 121 b. to 321 b., the Emborough horse
was also giving several of them a lot of start
as they entered the straight, but his brilliant
finish pegged them back, the trip being cut
out in 1.13. Greensborough is a dabster on
the Mentone course.
Dick Turpin gave bookmakers a good result
when he won at 50 to 1 at Caulfield, but punters
had their revenge, backing the Dark Lover colt
from fives down to 7 to 2 in Saturday’s Cotten-
ham Handicap for three-year-olds. Saturn,
however, was favorite at 5 to 2 and looked
the winner as he went to the front near the
distance; Dick Turpin (W. A. Smith) gradually
wore him down to win by a neck after surviving
a protest. Owner G. L. Scott was a bit stiff
to miss out with Saturn, who would have com-
pleted a double for him, his two-year-old Solar
"Are you sure the natives will know how to skin the beast?”
Bear filly Atomic Lass (A. Breasley) having
downed the even-money favorite Garugal and
Siren Song in the Macauley Handicap.
Backers of favorites also came a cropper
in the Trial Hurdle, as did their fancy. Start-
ing at 7 to 4 Grey Gull didn’t fly high enough
at the third hurdle and tossed his rider. The
jumping standard of the whole field was near
enough to lousy, but Query (J. Taylor) had
more speed than the others on the flat and
scored from Return and Mitchell.
Spoiling the bookmakers’ pleasing vista of
beaten favorites, the Beau Pere gelding Beau
Juste started at twos for the Norfolk Handicap
and outstayed Stenographer and Golden Mark
over 13 furlongs. Beau Juste also broke the
drought for rider J. Crilley, who hadn’t hitherto
been on a winner this season. The bookies
retrieved their coin when Laudate at 16 to 1
tossed Bray Law and Paytoo in the Yarborough
Handicap concluding the day. Favorite St.
Buzz ran stone last from go to whoa.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Maiden: Partando, 1; Bailey
Bridge, 2; Au Secour, 3. Two-year-old Maiden
(fillies): Parmassa, 1; Revenir, 2; Flume, 3.
Mixed Stakes (7f.): Except, 1; Caruso, 2;
Cherry Lad, 3. Mixed Stakes (10f.): Frontal
Attack, 1; Binnia Gift, 2; Menelik, 3. Flying:
Dowborough, 1; Tamaroa, 2; Lackaboy, 3.
December Handicap: Frontal Attack, 1; Open
Air, 2; Sweet Chime, 3. Welter: Glencrag,
1: Hava Chat, 2; Lady Marie, 3.
The Wallabies beat Ireland 16-3 at
Dublin, doing the job comfortably with
clear superiority in backs and forwards.
The team now has two Tests under the
belt. Despite criticism its record com-
pares more than favorably with other
Australian sporting activities, and makes
the last year’s international venture of
the rival code, League, look remarkably
silly. Yet Union has never had a tenth
of the newspaper space and ballyhoo
League has always had available in the
Sydney press.
Some of the criticism levelled at the
selection of the Wallabies was on in-
clusion of “passengers”: a criticism still
valid. Dr. Phil Hardcastle, a heavy
forward somewhat lethargic in the trials
here, went with the team, intended to
do post-graduate work and now, accord-
ing to reports, is on his way home. An-
other medico, Dr. Clem Windsor, has
played very little, the fullback’s job being
left in the safe hands of Piper.
* . * * *
Muddy First Test:
The Indians may have reckoned the best
thing that could be done with the Brisbane
Test wicket would be to export it somewhere
for growing rice. On it Toshack, in particular,
served them curry —his figures, 19 overs, 7
maidens, 11 for 31; theirs, innings totals of
58 and 98. First Test to Australia (with a
flying start while the wicket was good) by an
innings and 226 runs.
By way of plum sauce for the curry, back
in 1936 Australia (v. M.C.C.) also crashed for
58, with blobs on the board for Bradman,
Fingleton, Badcock and O’Reilly. Also, in
Melbourne in the 1931-32 season, Australia
routed S’Africa for the low-double-totals record
of 36 and 45 (12 sundries in the tally), and
outed Maoriland at Wellington in 1936 for
42 and 54 (10 sundries). Lowest innings in
a Test is S’Africa’s 30 (v. England) some 50
years back.
* * * *
Giving Amarnath and Mankad a much-needed
spell (both had played in ill seven matches of
the tour) the Indians piled up a bright 333 v.
Queensland Country XI at Warwick (Q-).
Kishenchand (75 not out), Adhikan (70),
Nayudu (59) and Rai Singh (32, including- two
sixers) delighted the crowd. Warrener (3 for
49), Webb (2 for 42) and Cockburn (2 for 31)
got the wickets.
* * * *
In their first bid for the Sheffield Shield the
Westralians walloped S. Aus. by an innings
and 124 runs, and at Perth last week, after
dismissing Victoria (fresh from bashing Queens-
land by 7 wickets and N.S.W. by 9 wickets)
for 370, had 307 for two wickets on the board
at close of play on' Saturday. The reliable
Harveys (Merv 141, Neil 94) got the bulk of
Victoria’s runs. Cumming bagged 3 for 44;
Bandy 2 for 16. After Carmody had gone
for 20, Edwards (104), G. Robinson (121 not
out; he had hit up 90 v. S.A.) and Watt (54
not out) started the West off well.
* * * *
Clarrie Hayes, the 24-year-old sprinter
credited with some remarkable times in
athletic competitions with the troops in
Japan and brought down by the Army to
give him a chance in Olympic selection,
gave those who questioned his times
something to chew over by running
100yds. in 9.9 sec. on a rain-sodden track
a couple of days after arriving here.
With only four days’ training, he won a
220yds. inter-club race at Henson Park
(N.S.W.), his time comparatively slow at
23sec.; on the same track Treloar won
over the distance in 21.9 —an inter-club
record.
* * * *
Always aggressive, Kev McCarthy
(11.2) did most of the leading and out-
punched Ron Mcßae (10.101) at Leich-
hardt, but some McCarthy subterranean
wallops and his own snappy straight lefts
had Mcßae a shade in front at end of
round 10. In the last two rounds Mc-
Carthy rocked in solid rights that won it.
* * $ *
Jackie Daniels (10.61) and George
Sands (10.61) bumped heads in the fifth
round of their Melbourne engagement,
and Sands’s cranium coming off second-
best, it was Daniels on a t.k.o. Daniels
had looked a cert, anyway.
* * * *
World title:
Despite the scribes, who reckoned it’d be a
walkover for the champ., some 18,000 packed
Madison Square Garden for the Louis-Walcott
heavyweight title scrap, and they saw anything
but a walkover. Maybe they had the oil that
J.L. was never keen to meet this contender.
Anyway, they saw the full 15 rounds ot
occasionally fierce and always clean light; Louis
the aggressor throughout; Walcott using a
counter-puncher’s strategy—backing away all
the time, but countering Louis’s leads, hitting
harder than Louis, and twice flooring the
champ.: sensationally for a count <pt ‘ two
in the first round, and, more effectively, tor
“seven,” in the fourth.
What vulnerable chink there has ever been
in Louis’s iron defences has been to a good
right, and it was a dandy right that floored
him both times. After the second of them—
a hard straight drive to the jaw—he took a
couple of rounds of cagey fighting to recoven
He shaped more like himself in the seventh
round, brut Walcott was still well ahead at the
end of it. In the eighth the mark of the
challenger’s good rights was showing on Louis s
puffed left eye.
The ninth could stand as a great round any-
where. Early in it Louis, with his peeper
closing up, took plenty more as he tried to
force the fight home, with his right at the
ready for a knock-out. Maybe Walcott wasn t
hitting so hard now, because Louis took the
punishment and kept after him, and by good
ringcraft and a steadying left hook got nun
where he wanted him, against the ropes,
Walcott trying to slide out of the trap, but
pinned there for a battering that staggered
him, but failed to down him. Walcott still
had enough in him to fight back, and Louis
was giving ground at the bell. A clinking round.
For the rest, Louis continued the aggressor;
Walcott fought morq on the retreat than ever.
In the last round Louis was chasing his man,
but Walcott was still making him miss and
was getting home with his counter-punches,
still much harder than Louis’s. A more aggres-
sive showing by the challenger over the last
couple of rounds might have won it for him.
The ref. gave it as Walcott; the two ringside
judges said Louis, one of them by a close
margin. " . . , T
So a slower, and now not invincible, Louis
keeps the title. Right enough, too. A champion
deserves the benefit of any doubts, and should
be beaten well and truly. Walcott fought well,
but he fought on the run; and, after all,
Louis was still there, and chasing him, at the
final bell. , _ . ...
Walcott (baptised Arnold Cream) took his
ring-name. from a great colored pug of the
’nineties; a ten-stoner who, after using up all
the welters of his time, beat middleweights and
heavyweights. Australians who fought that
Walcott were Melbourne’s Dan Creedon, who
died two or three years ago, anfl Sydneys
Mick Dunn, almost the sole survivor of an
unsurpassed generation of Australian boxers.
Modest and quiet-spoken Mick was on his feet
at the end of 10 furious rounds.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872. ’
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOySE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance atjowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED,
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creelc Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
dsf
CD?
< 'ICDC,
<— S-zetawt# &rzc& czcpcz&i'z, .•
’^cz/czn&S
-ict/zo. -&ZDZO4-4
/
Prices : 30/-, 37/6, and 44/9
Obtainable from Stationers,. Jewellers and Stores
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
255 A George Street, Sydney
3/127
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS
OSUIXIVAV
r TJXV D ,
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants t
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” window face
ENVELOPES
- NATIONAL BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
''NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
NATIONAL” WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Available for Immediate Delivery.
VERTICAL TURRET LATHES.
Eight-tool Revolving Turret.
Ideal for mass production of such small parts
as flared nipples, unions, nuts, set-screws,
washers, clevis pins, small bolts and nuts and
special parts that require knurling, counter
boring, tapping and recessing, and a thousand
and one jobs in brass, bronze, aluminium, steel,
etc. Further details from: N.S.W. Thos.
Herbert and Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street,
Sydney; VlC.—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.),
Sydney Road, Brunswick, N. 10; Q’LAND—
Mars Machine Tools Manfg. Co. Pty., Ltd.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Dollar Dilemma
Australia is confronted with the prob-
lem of restricting dollar spendings to
dollar income ; and the country’s quota of
petrol, cars, machinery, newsprint and a
hundred other items is to be cut severely.
Britain can spare us no dollars, and
Canada is short of U.S. funds.
The thing that will be most resented
about the Federal Government’s action
in slaughtering dollar ifllport licences
wholesale is that the slaughtering is
lett to the discretion of such a politi-
cally partial and socialistically extrava-
gant body. Tens of millions of dollars
.have been dissipated needlessly by the
Administration, beginning with
wanton outlay on the grand scale (such
as that on aircraft for the unwanted
T.-A.A.) and ending with the sheer
dollar-wastage involved in the jaunts of
the likes of Amour and Daly.
At this stage, too, Mr. Chifley is show-
ing a regard for Britain’s economic
problems not previously obvious when
food gifts were contemplated, and very
rarely exhibited by his own deputy when
engaged abroad in remaking the world.
“Labor’s” sudden concern for the Old
Country is so belated as naturally to
prompt a host of questions, one of them
being as to whether, if Churchill were
in power, dollar co-operation would be
denied Britain just as aid in Burma by
A.I.F. divisions from the Middle East
•was refused by Mr. Chifley’s predecessor.
The Chifley Ministry, by its condone-
ment of Communist activity, by the treat-
ment of the Indonesian question (which
has made it difficult to use the N.E.I.
as an alternative source of petrol, for in-
stance), by its reckless bank-nationalisa-
tion plans, by its partiality towards its
friends and party-members and by its
obviously grudging appreciation of the
work of private enterprise, has done
nothing to breed confidence in the com-
munity when it comes to Canberra’s
arbitrary cutting-down of dollar import
licences.
But the fact that this dollar
scarcity is real and inherent in the present
world economy. It even existed, in less
acute forms, before the war, most par-
ticularly on the continent of Europe,
where Germany and Italy imposed de-
tailed control of imports, especially from
the dollar area. Britain is now critically
in need of every dollar used by us.
The United States has resumed its role
of being the world’s greatest exporter,
while its imports are considerably less
than its sales abroad. It stopped render-
ing lend-lease aid to Britain almost imme-
diately Japan signed surrender terms,
and its Congress has been a reluctant
lender of dollars to Europe since. The
Washington Administration even had
some difficulty in getting Congressional
approval of the loan to Britain, most of
which went in about a year, instead of
the three years anticipated.
Prices have risen steeply in the U.S.A.,
reducing the buying-power of the loan,
and the convertibility clause, which
operated after the middle of this year,
brought a rush of conversions of sterling
into dollars by foreign countries. Even-
tually convertibility was suspended with
the approval of the United States ; but the
remaining balance, reported by Mr.
Chifley to be around S4OO million dollars,
has been frozen for the present even so
far as use by Britain is concerned.
Mr. Chifley has stated that the United
States is exporting three times as much
in dollars as it imported, adding, how-
ever, “I have no criticism of what
America is doing today. What it is doing
is the result of democracy.” Put that
way, it sounds almost like a lament on
democracy, much the same as the tone of
his speech introducing the bill to nation-
alise the trading banks.
The Congress of the United States,
representing a free-enterprise country, has
certainly been loath to take a broad view
of world ecbnomic affairs, and many of
its business enterprises have a salesmen’s
complex which takes little notice of buy-
ing countries’ dollar difficulties. And the
speed with which lend-lease was termi-
nated did not give Britain full recompense
for its sacrifices in the common war effort.
But it is not improbable that greater and
more sympathetic aid would have been
available to Britain if that country had
remained equally democratic, and if Aus-
tralia and New Zealand were not com-
mitted to the socialistic folly now so
plainly evident, especially in the Canberra
bank-nationalisation proposals.
The Prime Minister says Australia’s
dollar deficit in 1946-47 was SIOO million.
That is, exports to that extent failed to
pay for imports, politicians’ and
civil servants’ joyrides and those of
their attendants, other travellers’
dollar expenses and interest and divi-
dends payable in the dollar area. This
was in a year when wool exports to the
U-S-A. brought in a very high revenue.
Whitehall, according to Mr. Chifley, be-
came concerned about the drain on the
dollar pool, and asked that Australia
should live within its own dollar income.
Mr. Chifley does not consider, even after
the projected slashing of import licences,
that we shall have achieved dollar self-
sufficiency until figures for 1948 can be
taken as a whole. Imports for 1947-48
from the U.S.A. and Canada are expected
to cost us £9O million Australian. Mean-
while exports to the dollar area and else-
where are held up by Communists in the
Clerks’ Union, against whom Mr. Chifley
has never had a reproving word to say.
The Curtin and Chifley Administrations
showed, in the vital years, a carefree,
almost contemptuous disregard for the
need for ample domestic production and
a healthy overseas trade. A few years
ago one would have thought that the
word “trade” stank in their nostrils, and
Ministers were encouraged to overlook
the assistance that lend-lease gave to our
economy, even though it was paid for in
kind.
Mr. Chifley will find the chopping-
down of dollar imports compara-
tively easy—on himself. What he
should be doing at the same time is to
use all his powers to get our own produc-
tion and transport services going full
blast, adding to our dollar resources by
exports the United States at present can
take a much larger volume of Australian
production, including lamb and woollen
textiles —and reducing our dollar needs
from the same pool of production.
Credit Restrictions
Mr. Chifley has admitted that the Com-
monwealth Bank has instructed the trad-
ing banks to restrict the extension of
credit in some directions, the instructions
having the concurrence of the Govern-
ment. The P.M. is of the opinion that
some companies should increase their
share-capital instead of relying on over-
draft and that production of certain lines
is being overdone, while there was
Treasury concern about the speculative
use of overdraft accommodation.
Asa general policy, a cautious attitude
towards credit-expansion in times like
the present is to be commended ; in the
immediate case much depends, of course,
upon the precise restrictions imposed by
the central bank. The P.M.’s remarks
as to companies increasing their capital
—in itself rather a reversal of form —
raises the question of the propriety of
capital-issue control and the enforced
issue of shares at a premium. Some com-
panies are finding it necessary to use
cheap overdraft accommodation in order
to maintain their dividends under condi-
tions of price-control.
As to overproduction of certain goods
—well, only a percentage of industry can
be suffering from this condition of things,
most articles still being in wholly inade-
quate supply, and the export trade is
starved. Nothing should be done to re-
strict the supply of funds needed in
producing for export, especially to dollar
areas.
Mr. Chifley mentioned that bank ad-
vances had increased by £65 million since
December last year. The high cost of
imported goods would tend to increase
the need for bank accommodation in
respect of stocking-up alone ; and higher
costs are forcing up the price of domestic
merchandise, a trend that will be accentu-
ated when the 40-hour week operates
throughout the Commonwealth.
It is a pity that the central bank’s con-
cern about bank-credit inflation cannot
also have some influence on Budgetary
inflation, for which the Government is
directly responsible. It is time Canberra
viewed this matter in all seriousness.
The trading banks themselves will be
wise if they discourage the extension of
credit to finance purchase of farm-land
based on returns from present prices for
wheat and wool. Even if these prices
remain high, cbsts may not yet have
reached their peak.
North Broken Hill Shares
At last week’s price of about 80s. per
ss. share the sharemarket capitalised
North Broken Hill at £11,200,000. Last
half-yearly div. was ss. a share, repre-
senting a rate of 10s. (or 200 p.c.) a year.
If that rate is continued it will call for
distributions of £1,400,000 annually,
whereas last year’s declared profit (to
June 30) was £1,137,436.
But metal prices have risen steeply
over the past nine months. During the
year to June 30 last the average received
by the Pirie Smelters for lead was £7B
Australian a ton, compared with £44 in
the preceding year. Present London price
of lead is about £ll2 a ton in Australian
currency, and spelter has risen also. The
Barrier mines have lately been getting
about £95 a ton for lead, f.o.b. Port Pirie.
North s output last year represented
about 50,000 tons of lead and 30,000 tons
of zinc, plus silver. Allowing for Aus-
tralian consumption and lead bonus, etc.,
to miners, profits for the current year
should be nearly double those for last
year, and the interim div. payable on
Dec. 18 should be easily repeated as a
final, provided metal prices are main-
tained. About 77 p.c. of Australian lead
is exported, the rest being sold at a fixed
price of £22 a ton (the same as for
spelter).
, i*? J VOdd shorta S e continues,
the U.S.A. being now a substantial im-
pel ter as well as the world’s largest pro-
ducer. Much depends, as regards price,
upon continued industrial activity in the
United States. At North’s annual meet-
ing (Oct. 31), chairman M. H. Baillieu
commented;
My forecast is that, for the current finan-
cial year, we can expect a larger income
from our investments; prices of lead and
zinc should be somewhat higher, but
present indications are that the return from
silver will be less. .Beyond that, it is dif-
ficult to express an opinion. There are
now more factors to be considered than
formerly. If supply and demand only had
to be considered, we ought to receive good
prices for lead and zinc for some time to
come; but it must be remembered that the
present phenomenally high prices for these
metals is bringing about some restriction
in their use, as well as stimulating a search
for new sources of supply. With the excep-
tion of the U.S.A., there is also the ques-
tion of the consumers’ ability and willing-
ness to buy our exported production in the
very unsettled conditions of world trade
and finance.
North Broken Hill’s proved ore reserves
total 5,174,000 tons, enough, at last year’s
rate of milling, to last for nearly 15
years. And more will probably be re-
vealed by the diamond-drill.


BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES. THE LIABILITY OF THE MEMBERS IS LIMITED.
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th SEPTEMBER, 1947
LIABILITIES £
Notes in Circulation .. 81,003
Deposits, Accrued Interest,
Debate, Bills Payable and
other liabilities, Including
reserves held for doubtful
debts and other contin-
gencies .. .. ..232,874,802
Paid-up Capital .. .. 8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 6,150,000
s. d. £
0 0
0 0
232,955,805
0 0
0 0
s. d.
0 0
Profit & Loss £966,251 14 9
Less Interim
Dividends to
30th June,
1947 .. 428,025 0 0
538,226 14 9
15,468,226 14 9
248,424,031 14 9
/
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as
per Contra .. .. .. .. 17,091,792 5 6
£265,515,824 0 3
ASSETS £ s. d. £ s. <L
Coin, Bullion, Notes and
Cash at Bankers.. .. 24,276,236 19 8
Short-dated Treasury Bills —
Australian .. .. 5,000,000 0 0
Government Securities—
Australian, New Zealand,
British and Fijian .. 31,712,30317 6
Due by other Banks .. 5,026,45912 9
Bills Beceivable and Eemit-
tances in Transit .. 17,974,836 12 1
Special Account with Com-
monwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia .. .. .. 65,120,000 0 0
Statutory Deposit with Re-
serve Bank of New Zealand 1,398,678 0 0
150,508,515 2 0
Loans and Advances to Customers .. 94,353,516 12 9
Bank Premises .. .. .. .. .. 3,560,000 0 0
All other Assets 2,000 0 0
248,424,031 14 9
Inabilities of Customers and others on Letters
of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as per Contra .. 17,091,792 5 6
£265,515,824 0 3
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1947
' ’ £~~ s. d.
To Interim Dividends as under, paid in terms of
Clause 105 of Deed of Settlement out-of the
Year's Profits:—
For Quarter ended —
31st Dec., 1946, at 6/6 per share Australian
Currency .. .. .. .. .. 142,675 0 0
Slst March, 1947, at 6/6 per share Australian
Currency .. .. .. .. • • 142,675 0 0
30th June, 1947, at 6/6 per share Australian
Currency .. ~ .. ~ .. 142,675 0 0
£428,025 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows :
To Quarter’s Dividend to 30th
September, 1947, at the rate
of 7/- per share Australian
Currency .. .. £153,650 0 0
To Balance carried forward 384,576 14 9
538,226 14 9
£966,251 14 9
£ s. d.
By Amount from last Account .. .. 348,721 310
„ Balance of Year’s Profits, after deducting
Rebate on Current Bills, Interest on De-
posits, providing for Income, Land and
other Taxes, reducing valuation of Bank
Premises, providing for Bad and Doubtful
Debts, fluctuations in the value of Invest-
ment Securities, and other contingencies,
and including recoveries from Debts pre-
viously written off as bad .. .. 617,530 10 11
£966,251 14 9
RESERVE FUND
To Balance (used in the business of the
Bank) carried forward to next year ..
£ s. d.
6,150,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
£ s. d.
By Balance brought forward from last year.. 6,150,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
B. HEFFER, General Manager.
A. STEWART-RICHARDSON, Chief Accountant.
Audited, llth November, 1947.
F. U. WAY, F. D. HOBBS, Auditors.
AUDITORS’ REPORT
We have examined the annexed Balance Sheet, made up to
the 30th September, 1947, and report that we find the several
items therein stated to conform to the balances in the General
Ledger, and to the Balance Sheets of the respective Branches
and Agencies of the Bank collectively.
We have counted the Cash, and examined the Bills and
other Securities held by the Bank at the Head Office, in
Sydney, on the 30th September, 1947, and hereby certify that
we have found them correctly stated.
The Cash, Bills, and other Securities held In London, and
at the Branches and Agencies in Australia, New Zealand and
Fiji, on the 30th September, 1947, have been certified to as
being correct by the usual documents.
Bant of New South Wales, Sydney, F. H. WAY \ Anrlitnrs
11th November, 1947. F. D. HOBBS/ AUCmors -
DECLARATION
We, Francis Harmsworth Way, and Francis David Hobbs,
of Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, being duly elected
Auditors of the Accounts of the Corporation of the Bank of New
South Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare that the
foregoing Statement of Accounts is, to the best of our several
and respective knowledge and belief, a just, tore, and faithful
statement of the Accounts of the said Corporation, and that this
Declaration is made by us after diligent and careful examination
into the state of such Accounts, as far as the same have come
within our cognizance ; and we do severally and respectively
make this declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of an Act of the Parliament of the State of
New South Wales, passed in the fourteenth year of His Majesty,
King George V, intituled “ Bank of New South Wales Act,
1923.”
Declared before me at Sydney, this 11th November, 1947.
T, LEWIS, J.P. F. H. WAY.
F. D. HOBBS.
The Mask on Living Costs
Following the projected rise of a
ha’penny a pound in the price of refined
sugar (taking it to 4i-d., which was the
price for nearly 10 years prior to the de-
pression), butter has now gone up
3d. to a pound, and cheese has been
raised by a penny, with corresponding in-
creases in most milk-product charges.
Butter, cheese and sugar sell for a great
deal more overseas. In the Sydney
and Newcastle metropolitan areas
there has also been a recent increase
in the price of bread, even though the
wheatgrower gets under 6s. a bushel for
wheat consumed in Australia, compared
with around 20s. a bushel for export.
Housing costs have approximately
doubled, according to expert authorities,
largely because of higher labor costs, and
notwithstanding the pegging of the price
of lead and spelter at around £22 a ton
for Australian consumption. These
metals fetch approximately four times
that much abroad.
Government subsidies and “assistance”
to producers have been costing the Aus-
tralian taxpayer from £25 million to £30
million annually. Woollen manufactures
have been subsidised, in view of the
steep rise in wool prices, and some im-
ports, tea in particular, have also been
subject to subsidy. Notwithstanding all
these efforts to combat inflation, the
Federal basic wage now averages over
£5 10s. a week, compared with 79s. be-
fore the war, and all but 7s. of the rise is
accounted for by living-cost increases. If
all subsidies were wiped out and other
members of the community granted an
increase in money incomes proportionate
to the rise in the basic wage it is obvious
that the level of costs and prices would
reveal itself as being considerably higher
than what we are at present accustomed
to.
Almost without exception it has
been increases in labor costs and
of Government services which have
forced the rise in prices in Aus-
tralia. Permission to raise prices has been
granted by the Prices Branch only after
consideration of the case presented by
manufacturers and distributors. Possible
exceptions are producers and distributors
of perishables, such as some fruits and
vegetables, who are allowed to work on
the basis of supply and demand to a
limited extent. Blackmarket prices are
not taken into account by the Common-
wealth Statistician when computing living
costs.
The manufacturer and distributor
have had little to do with the
price-inflation evident within the Com-
monwealth, and the influence of higher
overseas prices for many of our raw
materials has also been cushioned where
portion is used for home consumption,
though imported products generally are
much dearer than before the war, and
the effect of overseas costs upon our
economy has been real enough.
But many of our prices, especially as
regards food, represent a minimum
measure of the inflation that has taken
place in this country. It is likely, too,
that even if wool and wheat prices fall
overseas, the trend in costs here will be
upward for some time to come. The full
effect of the 40-hour week is not yet
evident in our production expenses, and
there is little evidence that output per
man-hour is generally improving. ,We
have tried to insulate our economy from
the disturbing effects of overseas price-
inflation, but have been unable to stop
costs-inflation internally largely because
militant Labor and Communists have had
too free a hand and Governments have
been too extravagant.
If Labor at this stage began to show
signs of co-operating with other sections
of our society in order to achieve
economic stability and bring about a real
increase in living standards through
greater production per man we might be
able to turn our understated cost of liv-
ing to some advantage. But the way we
are going npw, with badly-needed dollars
being lost to us through waterside-
workers holding up wool shipments to
the U.S.A. and with A.C.T.U. rejection of
incentive payments for higher output, it
seems certain that before long our real
costs will throw off their mask of sub-
sidies and other artificialities and stand
fully revealed. If this unmasking can be
delayed until world price levels find a
firm footing so much the better, provided
it is not delayed so long that unrevealed
inflation has multiplied itself through
Labor’s greediness, politicians’ foolish-
ness and businessmen’s despair.
For the second year, Maoriland’s Gov-
ernment has made a success of a “tap”
loan. When it netted £18,300,000 in 1946
it was so surprised and satisfied that it
decided to carry on, with the terms the
same—15 years at 3 p.c. This timet it
passed the £18,000,000 nearly a month
earlier, and hopes to top £21,000,000.
If an extra million or two come in from
trustees and institutions, who find this a
convenient lodging-place for surplus
funds, M.L.’s financial “wizards” won’t
mind. They can do with the cash to
finance works programmes, after squar-
ing-off old loans. As an added bait to
investors, death-duty stock has been in-
cluded in this year’s issue. Finance
Minister Nash claimed a year ago that
“tap” - borrowing reduced inflation
dangers, but there’s not much in that.
Prices and wages in Maoriland have been
spiralling more this year than last. Stock-
brokers think the claim nonsense, and
declare that all loans should be for fixed
amounts and have definite closing dates.
But easy money has tempted M.L.’s
Government, and it has got away with
it. In a tighter money-market a “tap”
loan would be a flop.
» * * •
Larger sales and lower taxes have
given a fillip to Maoriland’s textile and
wool - manufacturing enterprises, but
thumping high costs are forcing concerns
to dip deeply into reserves or share-
holders’ pockets, or both. Still, develop-
ment is going ahead at record pace, with
British and Australian stimulus. While
the two big million-pound companies,
Felt and Textiles and Korma Textiles,
are putting smaller ventures in the shade,
one of the pioneers, Tattersfield, Ltd., of
Auckland, 35 years old, is holding its
end up in good style. With only £55,000
of capital, its profit is £18,863, four times
covering the 8 p.c. div., and reserves have
bounded up by £14,463. J. W. Tatters-
field, veteran founder and still the guid-
ing spirit, today has one main ambition
—to get into carpet-manufacture. “Costly
venture,” he says, “but It will be a grand
industry for N.Z.” Shareholders are
warned that there won’t be much for
them for a few years from this move —
only 8 p.c. divs. for a while yet.
* * * *
Motor-tyre production in Maoriland,
timed a while ago to begin this year, is
now set back to 1948. Plant and raw
materials are the troubles. Reid New
Zealand Rubber Mills, Ltd. (its £1 ords.
at 28s. 6d. on ’Change), still hopes
to be first to test the market when its
Auckland factory, now taking shape near
Penrose, swings into action, and Dunlop
N.Z., Ltd., Wellington, aims to be second,
but “delays and disappointments” con-
nected with plant deliveries haven’t
helped it. In third place is the Christ-
church member of the trio, Firestone
Tyre and Rubber. No one seems to know
yet whether the three cos. will be zoned,
restricted to making certain types and
sizes of tyres, or at liberty to go all-out.
IMPERIAL SMELTING
A MARKED IMPROVEMENT.
The annual general meeting of the
Imperial Smelting Corporation, Limited,
was held on November 12 in London,
Mr. John R. Govett, the chairman, pre-
siding.
The following is an extract from his
statement circulated with the report:
The net profits for the year ended June
30 last showed a substantial increase.
Two factors are in the main responsible
for the marked improvement, viz., a
wider margin between costs of raw
materials and operation charges on the
one hand and realised prices on the
other, and the effects, of the rigidly con-
servative policy followed by the Board
during the past few years. It would be
unwise to anticipate a continuance of
the former. After payment of the divi-
dend on the per cent. Preference
shares the directors recommend a divi-
dend of 5 per cent., plus a bonus of 1
per cent., less income tax, on the Or-
dinary shares of the Corporation. The
carry forward to the current year has
been increased by £42,252 to a total of
£103,354.
The revenue received in the way of
dividends from our wholly and partly
owned subsidiaries and investments in
associated enterprises continues to be
satisfactory. Orr’s Zinc White, Ltd.,
Pricker’s Metal and Chemical Co. Ltd.,
National Alloys, Ltd., Cuprinol, Ltd.,
British Titan Products Co., Ltd., Fisons,
Ltd, Capper Pass and Son, Ltd., The
Wolverhampton Metal Co., Ltd., etc., all
show good trading results. Our associ-
ation with these companies provides con-
siderable advantages in both the develop-
ment of our own industries and the tech-
nical education of our staff.
Production Maintained.
Fuel and power shortages and disloca-
tion of services last winter interrupted
production at each of our principal
works, the most serious being at Widnes,
where production of lithopone stopped
entirely for three weeks and could only
be resumed at about 75 per cent, capacity
for several month's. Notwithstanding this
setback average production over the
whole period was well maintained. Zinc
production exceeded that of the previous
year, largely due to a record output from,
and improved efficiency in, the operation
of the. vertical retort plant. The
tion of sulphuric acid was the highest} in
the history of the Corporation. These
achievements in the face of unfavourable
conditions resulted from the efficiency
and high morale of our works manage-
ment and operatives. The difficulties
caused by shortages of fuel and other
supplies were minimised by the helpful
co-operation of regional officials of the
various Ministries. Shortages of con-
structional materials and delays in de-
livery have slowed up our programme of
modernisation and expansion. .
Throughout the year the products of
our works —all of National importance
—continued to meet a heavy demand
from fessential industries. Under the
officially controlled distribution of our
lithopone, the home paint trade has ab-
sorbed 75 per cent, of our production,
leaving only 25 per cent, for other trades
and export. The high performance of
our latest type of vanadium catalyst
(N.P.7) in Government acid plants during
the war has confirmed the excellence of
this I.S.C. product. It is now being
adopted by leading sulphuric acid manu-
facturers in this country and abroad.
While business continues at a high level
and absorbs practically all our supplies
the obvious uncertainties now developing
prevent any reasonable prediction of re-
sults for the current 12 months.
The report and accounts were unani-
mously adopted and a special resolution
was passed approving an alteration to the
Corporation’s Articles of Association,
amending Article 99 to enable the Board
to appoint a person who might, or might
not, be a member of the Directorate as
President of the Corporation,.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Propalong”: We had wonderful spring
rains this year and the country responded.
The flats waved with bright speargrass,
the sand disappeared under a lawn of
spinach and annual saltbush, all over the
gibbers the bindi-eye turned green.
Great season, eh?” I said to Heavibales
from the Gap. “It’s all right,” he
grunted, “but we ought to have had the
rain earlier.” Then I met Fleecewool
from Twenty-mile and mentioned the
good year. “Blasted grasshoppers’ll be
thick, you see,” he grumbled. When I
met Fatlamb trucking prime wethers at
the Siding I risked the same comment
and was told that the “blanky rabbits’ll
be dead crook,” Longstaple got in ahead
of mo when he called in at the week-end.
“All this blasted green feed,” he growled.
—-flies’ll bo eating the flamin’ sheep
alive.” In desperation I rode in to the
township to wash away the prevalent
gloom. There were four long-faced
Merino-fanciers in the bar, “Look here,”
I said, before anyone could get out a
grumble. “It’s a great year. There may
be rabbits and grasshoppers and flies, but
prices are sky-high. Anybody who’s got
sheep is going to make money this year.”
Old Locks from the Soakage looked up
morosely from his schooner, ran his
tongue over his teeth as if tasting a
bitterness that came not from hops, and
growled out, “And what the hell will
there be to buy with it?”
* * * ♦
“F-WJ.”; “Theo D. Lite’s” theory (B.
5/11/ ’47) that the moon and sun by
their attraction pile up the ocean water
at the equator has long been blown out.
It is the horizontal component of attract-
mg forces of the moon and sun that is
predominant as the tide-producing force.
i he response of the oceans to these tide-
producing forces is a peculiarity of the
various ocean basins. Some basins re-
spond only to the sun, some only to the
oon and some to both, giving complex
es- At Tahiti, high- and low-water
ccur regularly at the same time every
day throughout the year, indicating a
solar tide. If, as “T.D.L.” suggests, the
naal water is piled up around the equator,
“} e . height of the ocean tide should
rail off in the higher latitudes. Record-
ings contradict this,
m ** * *
p * ick ” * rom his vegetable patch
pubba Graham leaned across our divid-
ing-fence and called me over. “You’re
just in time to see the wife try out her
brainwave,” he declared. “She got the
idea from The Bulleteen, and rigged up
a shanghai and practised till she got her
eye in. Now see them tins up on the
homestead-fence”—he indicated a row
which ranged from treacle-tins on the
left up to a kero.-tin on the right—
‘well, they’ve all got different meanings.
Reading from the left they say ‘Bring up
some spuds; next turnips, next lettuce.’
He was interrupted as a pebble lifted a
big red tin from the centre of the row
“It works!” cried Bubba. “That one
means ‘Go and see if the postie’s left
anything.’ Great idea, eh? Saves her
bellowin’ out her tonsils.” Bubba lit a
smoke and we yarned on many topics.
We were finally interrupted by another,
most imperative twang—this time the
kero.-tin, “And that,” said Bubba with
his ribs vibrating, “means ‘Don’t bother,
you lazy ape. I’ll go myself.’ ”
* * • *
“Horseless Horseman”: Before I am
called on to declare my “score of game-
birds ahead of wattle-birds on the menu”
(B. 19/11/’47), here it is. Black and the
other ducks, plain-turkey, spoonbill, rail,
snipe, bronzewing and the other pigeons,
the quail, scrub-turkey, jabiru, sea cur-
lew, land curlew (different family),
Mallee hen. Cape Barren goose, magpie
goose, young swan, white cockatoo,
brolga, young mutton-bird, nankeen
crane and galah. As there are three
kinds of wattle-birds, all much of a
muchness to eat, I have fisted all the
wild duck as one, and the same with the
snipe, quail, rail and pigeons, though
there is a vast difference in flavor between
a bronzewing and a Torres Strait member
of the tribe. And before the Council
passes its judgment I am referring to
"Look out—he's getting ready to spring!”
reasonably well-nourished and youngish
birds. For instance, a not-so-old white
cockatoo in the Mallee wheat-belt during
summer months eats like cockerel, but
his middle-aged cousin in a dry time out
on the Thompson, near the Comer, is
very nearly as tough as the country there.
Also, when I mention mutton-bird, I
mean chicken taken from the burrow and
cleaned of fat and oil, and grilled pro-
perly, not one of those compressed car-
casses you see in shops preserved in fat
and salt. Incidentally, the best eating of
the lesser-known game birds is the spoon-
bill.
* * * *
tt “Pater”: When the youngster inquired
“How does a homing pigeon find its way
home?” I silenced him with the all-
embracing “because,” but later pondered
deeply on the matter. Encyclopaedia
Britannica’s brief note:
Upon being released the homer ascends
rapidly in spirals until, apparently descrying
some familiar landmark on the horizon, it
will fly straight and swiftly towards it.
But this does not explain in any way
how the pigeon with a brain the size of
a blueboiler pea can be carted 300 miles
into the bush where it has no “familiar
landmarks” and soon turn up again in
its city loft. Man would stand a fair
chance of losing himself if he tried the
same stunt armed with maps, compass
and a knowledge of the exact point from
which he was starting homewards. An-
other authority I struck was a Yank pro-
fessor, who declared with much gusto:
The pigeon is equipped with an enor-
mously sensitive nagivation device that can
determine minute differences in the earth’s
magnetic field and the rate of the earth’s
surface turning beneath it. This apparatus
may be located in a mysterious nodule at
the end of the bird’s optic nerve.
My own theory is that as the bird flies
it claps its feet together, and on receiving
the radar echo back from earth mentally
plots its course with logarithms. Do any
of you Aboliars really know?
* ♦ * *
“B. A. Ker”: Can “Macnell” or some
other saltwater naturalist describe a
shark’s egg—and prove to me whether
I’m a pigheaded arguer or merely a
sensible observer? When extraordinary
storms tear the kelp loose from the ocean
bed, tons of reeking vegetation are de-
posited at points along the N.S.W. coast.
are numbers of egg-shaped—
and-sized articles that match exactly the
leathery-brown mass. Many fishermen
contend that the ovals are sharks’ eggs,
and to prove it break open the kelp-like
skin, revealing a gelatinous substance in
which a perfectly-formed embryo shark is
set. Weighty evidence, but I still think
that the resemblance is coincidental and
alleged eggs vegetable, not animal.
And while we’re on that subject, what is
the name of the shellfish that appears to
be half-vegetable? About the size of a
medium pippie, it has a light-blue shell
and is generally found in a colony
attached to a piece of driftwood by what
could only be described as a stalk. Fresh
out of the water the shells wave about
on their inch-long stems like short, top-
heavy tentacles. As a layman I tinker
with the thought that this species followed
the anemone in the evolutionary step
from vegetable to animal life.
* * * *
Old-timer”: Bill McViand’s missus
was washing out a few of the kiddies’
clothes, the kiddies themselves playing
about the yard, when she felt a tug at
her skirt. Expecting to see one of the
children, she looked round and almost
fainted at sight of a large brown snake,
which had its mouth closed on the hem
of her skirt and gave it another tug even
as she looked. Torn between fear and
horror, and hysterically calling to the
children to keep away, she stood momen-
tarily paralysed. Then the snake let go
and squirmed away, its head turned back,
watching her. As her nerves settled she
saw the snake stop, turn towards her,
then resume its way. Mrs. McViand
picked up the mallee-slasher and took
after that snake. It appeared to await
her, but before she could get near enough
for a swipe it set off again, still
looking back as before. Bill’s missus
kept after it, at the same time keeping
an eye out for the children, knowing full
well that they’d join the chase at once
and anxious for them to keep away. By
this time the snake was near the under-
ground well, whence she had just begun
to realise came some sort of a noise. She
ignored the snake and raced to the well,
and there, hanging from the cross-beam
which supported the pump, was an even
larger snake, and hanging to the snake,
just managing to keep his head above the
water, was little Billy. That’s why, if ever
you call at Bill McViand’s Mallee farm
you’ll see by the gate a big notice:
Persons Killing Snakes on This Pro-
perty Will Be Prosecuted.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; Unknown Victoria isn’t con-
fined to Rodondo Island, off Wilson’s
Promontory. The rugged Snowy River
Gorge, 40 miles from Buchan, where the
marble and the caves are, is uninhabited,
is geologically virgin country, and noth-
ing has been reported from it since it was
surveyed in 1890. The surveyors must
have had a tough job, for in places the
cliffs fall sheer from 2000 feet, and it is
negotiable only by packhorse. Mel-
bourne National Museum sent two
men and two women to investigate
its shells, minerals and fauna, with a par-
ticular direction to keep an eye open for
the rock wallaby. This pretty creature is
supposed to have been extinct in Victoria
for 80 years, but examples have recently
been reported.
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: It doesn’t follow
because Binghi isn’t attracted by bright
beads and gewgaws that he is “the world’s
prime realist” to whom “a thing pos-
sessed utility, or it did not” (B.
12/11/’47). All attempts to introduce
blankets into his scheme of things have
failed, not because the articles are not
useful, but because he is incapable of
thinking beyond his immediate needs.
The covering that warmed him last night
is unnecessary today, so it is left with the
ashes of his fire. Tonight he’ll freeze
again. As for beads and other personal
adornments, the reason for his apathy
lies deeper. The South Sea Islanders
valued them as added attractions and aids
to courtship, desirable where private en-
terprise in that field was unhampered.
Binghi lived, loved and died within the
bounds of rigid controls; if he were
not actually betrothed at birth, his choice
of a mate was strictly limited. Without
the need to make himself attractive, his
interest in his personal appearance or in
his mental and physical advancement was
stifled —probably the earliest case on
record of racial degeneracy because of
a too-great interference with the indi-
vidual liberty.
* * * *
“Ellen-street”; Whyalla has had more
than its share of pats on the back. Let
me in with a word in favor of Port Pirie,
on the opposite shore of Spencer Gulf,
and in a sense the parent of Whyalla.
Pirie, built largely on ground that
was at one time marshy swamp,
has always been up against it in
the matter of town-beautification. Years
ago a huge working-bee from the
Smelters converted waste-land into a
children’s playground, but trees planted
died as soon as their roots got down a
few feet and grass refused to grow in
the salty soil. But in the last 10 years all
that is changed. The problem has been
tackled scientifically. The Smelters’
nursery has supplied over 8000 trees,
patient experiments have found out which
types do best in the climate, 30,000 tons
of garden soil, ashes and other materials
have been transported to chosen areas,
granulated slag from the Smelters has
been proyed the answer to the problem
of how to grow lawns in sterile soil, and
green grass and young trees now flourish
on land that was-' salt swamp. All labor
was voluntary, trucks and lorries were
supplied by the Smelters, driven by men
who gave their services free. Taken all
round, the chain of parks and play-
grounds is as r fine an example of civic co-
operation as could be found in Australia.
* * * *
“Bear Cub”; I am surprised to learn
that a presumably tough mob of bush-
whackers jibbed at eating eels because
part of the catch was found to be a
sizable black snake (B. 12/11 /’47). Out
with our troop of scouts, the kids
demonstrated their general bushworthi-
ness and tough Aussieness by catching a
sft. black snake, known in s.-w. W.A.
as the dalgite, cooking and eating it.
After decapitation and drawing, the sinu-
ous comestible was coiled round on a
hot hearth, damper-fashion, covered with
hot coals and cooked to perfection.
Looked something like a cross between
fish and chicken, but tasted as dry as a
lump of stingray.
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Why worry about a
timber which comes from so small a tree
as the corkwood of northern W.A, (B.
26/11/’47)? In, near-by Papua and New
Guinea, growing in estuaries and along-
side rivers where the logs could be rafted
to the ship’s side, is a timber as light in
every way as balsa and even stronger;
it would be ideal for the ultra-light
packing-case needed for air freight. Logs
of it can be procured up to 10ft. or 12ft.
in girth, at least 60ft. long and as straight
as gun barrels. I haven’t the many native
names for it —it varies from one district
to another —but everyone up there knows
it well.
» * * *
“Lim-Limbli”; Here’s another piece
of direction-finding-by-the-stars lore.
The northernmost star of the three form-
ing Orion’s belt rises due east and sets
due west for any observer in any part of
the world. Try it some time and see if
your established east point is correct.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: That parasitic fig at
Semima (B. 26 /11 / ’47) was pretty big,
but it is outclassed by one near Clark
and Hanley’s sawmill at Kerai, on the
Atherton Tableland (N.Q.). Right in
the centre is a maze of huge trunks, fused
together, which are 120 ft. in circumfer-
ence ; all traces of the original host tree
which they strangled must have vanished
centuries ago. Outside this again, de-
scending from the larger limbs, are
further huge trunks which have grown
from aerial roots; beyond them again
are further roots which have nearly
reached the ground. High above is the
vast leafy crown of this patriarch, among
whose upper limbs grow the largest nest,
staghorn and othe# ferns I ever saw.
Local timbergetters say that they have
never seen a larger fig than this one any-
where in the rain forests of Queensland.
Several other trees worth seeing grow on
the Tableland near Lake Barrine ; two
brown kauris growing a couple of feet
apart are known as “The Twins,” and
near by is the biggest kauri on the Table-
land, with a bole like a factory smoke-
stack. Across the road is the biggest
cedar left in Australia. When red cedar
was still a comparatively cheap timber it
was estimated to contain £5OO-worth.
Today you could add a thousand pounds
to that, and still be underestimating its
value.
THE HORSEMASTER.
They gallop across his memory, they canter
through his sleep,
Thundering round the longhorn steers or
ambling after sheep;
Drowsing under a peppertree in the early
summer sun
He sees the long-legged walers and the lean
stock ponies run.
Rider of rebel horses, whom never an outlaw
beat
Since he rode one out of a buckjump show
and down the dusty street —•
Old Johnny O’Mara, neat and trim, from spurs
to the batswing tie
He wore when the stations stretched as far as
the trees against the sky.
Those days he was rounding brumbies up on
the Big Mimosa side
When no one wanted scrubbers and you couldn’t
sell a hide.
How the wind flung out their matted manes,
their wide wet nostrils filled,
As wild across the ironbark hills the stallions’
whistle shrilled I
They crashed through the black pine thickets
on ridges rough and hard,
Through bendee brakes and siftpn bush towards
the homestead yard;
There from a forcing-pen they rushed, stuck
with a sharpened shear,
To die in a last blood-spattered run that kept
the horseyards clear.
Then up on the Dargo High Plain, on a rugged
summer lease,
Racing the snow, with branding iron and knife
for the increase;
The fierce cold-country cattle, dogged from gully
and from glen,
Pawing the moss and bellowing, charging the
mounted men;
Stung by the plaited leather, thrown by the
greenhide rope.
Soon they were mustered together and shep-
herded down the slope.
But the gamest riders lingered where the clean-
skin horses were—•
There was foam on the bit and bridle, there
was blood on the silver spur.
And the bush folk tell of the dingo he hunted
from Specimen Hill
To the chock-and-log fence of the station, with
a stirrup-iron swung for the kill. '
The dingoes have gone with the stations;
there’s hardly a horse to be seen;
And he is a lone old-timer, living back in the
days that have been.
Let him dream in the shade! He is riding the
fleet chestnut filly again
With hands strong to steady her striding, his
face in her flying mane.
And if she should fall at the hurdle and he
never rise from the place
He will go to the horseman’s Hereafter with
a smile on his wind-lined face.
N.S.W.
ROB WEBSTER.


“Bo”: When Tetley crossed the high
bridge across the creek on his way in to
the township that morning there had
been no notice up. Now, on his way
back, he was confronted with a crude
sign, “Danger, Detour.” As he had six
bags of super, on his utility he couldn’t
take the risk, so he crossed the creek at
the ford a half-mile down. The road
took him back along the creek to the
other side of the bridge. On that side
was a similar notice. Prompted by curi-
osity he stopped the truck and investi-
gated. The bridge looked exactly the
same as when he had passed over it
earlier in the day. Then he noticed a
swaggie below. On a grill of fencing-
wire were a couple of chops, and the diner
was tearing into a third he had taken off
the fire. Tetley scrambled down the
bank. “What’s dangerous about the
bridge, do y’ know?” he asked. The
swaggie looked up, the blackened fhop
poised in his fist. “Yair,” he said, “the
white-ants that get shook out o’ the
timbers whenever a truck rattles over ’em
—this mornin’ I got me burgoo full of
’em an’ they may be poisonous!”
* * * *
“Lub”; The new bloke on the road
job had been giving out a lot of plain and
fancy skiting about his prowess with his
docks. Ben could stand it no longer and
offered to take him on at lunch-time.
They got stuck into iff in the shade of a
couple of greyboxes, and Ben, threatened
with a series of hidings if he was beaten,
tore in with a great deal of vigor and
little science. After half-a-dozen swings
we picked the new chap out of the dust,
doused him from the waterbag and
waited on his comments. “Well, that
fixed him,” he grinned out the side of his
swollen mouth. “Y’ don’t have t’ land
punches t’ win these rough-an’-tumble
fights. I bet I’ve made his knuckles that
sore he won’t git over it f’r weeks!”
* * * *
“Niloc”; Alf’s pet galah Methuselah
was putting up an effort worthy of the
original. One morning Alf noticed a
pigeon’s egg which had somehow sur-
vived the 30ft. drop from a nest in the
coral-tree close to the old chap’s cage.
With a good eye for mischief, he planted
the egg in the bottom of the parrot’s cage
and headed for town. On returning at
lunchtime, Alf found his wife highly ex-
cited: “Cocky” had “laid an egg.” He
greeted the news with “Impossible!” and
registered great astonishment when led
out and shown the galah giving the goog
the icy. The joke was too good to let it
rest there-. Alf procured from the grocer
during the next month a variety of stale
hen-fruit, ranging from a tiny pullet’s
egg up to a mighty effort of some enter-
prising duck. But the bird, at last deciding
that he’d “had it,” summoned .up his un-
feathered rage, and slew every one of the
elliptical intruders. On sniffing that her
growing suspicions had been correct,
Mrs. Alf awoke and, according to her
spouse, “bit like a mowong.”
* * * *
“Bush Pedant”; Have heard it argued
many times in pubs, around campfires
and in literary societies whether the name
of the man who first traversed the head
of the Bight, and whose name is now
given to the trans-Bight highway, should
be pronounced as “Air” or otherwise.
“Air” isi favored by the W.A. Educa-
tion Department. I turned up both
Webster and the Oxford Concise. Both
I find givet it as “Ey-ar.” Now does that
settle it?
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Under the impact
of white men abo, morality tends to go
to pieces, but never with the consent of
the old men of the tribes. So when
Lamey, a fast young East Kimberley buck,
returned from a season on the cattle
stations and started to get fresh with
other men’s wives, the abo. Court went
into session. Prominent among witnesses
were Chunmar and Chuboi, whose wives
Lamey had attempted to steal by offering
inducements to go off on bush walkabout.
The Court warned the culprit to mend
his ways. It was ignored, Lamey con-
sidering himself too civilised to be ham-
pered by “blackfella nonsense.” At a
second sitting, at which the accused was
not invited to be present, the death
penalty was ordered. Also, since Lamey
was a powerful fellow, four executioners
were appointed. The execution was
carried out in what to white ideas
“Don't panic , warder , we're only playing snakes-and-ladders."
were circumstances of treachery, but to
the abos. justifiably safe and normal,
the culprit being coaxed away from the
camp and then speared. A white-fellow
trial resulted in a verdict of “Justifiable
homicide.”
* * * *
“Alpine Willie”: Rabbit-snake stoushes
are commonplace in these highland parts
(B, 19/11 /’47), and I’ll hop out from my
dogwood gunyah to lay odds on the
bunny every time. Brer, shaping up to
Joe like a boxer, makes a few passes to
get the reptile angry enough to rear up to
a suitable height; then in he springs for
a throat-grip and disembowels the critter
with one powerful sweep of a hind-leg.
But I’d like to warn “Narrin” there’s a
certain risk to the spectators viewing the
contest at anything less than 20 yards.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Rusting does harden
or temper steel (B. 5/11/ ’47), or at least
it imparts to it something that only time
and “weathering” can. Steelworkers
seeking some special piece of metal will
scrounge through a heap of apparent
rubbish to find a rusty lump that hardly
seems to warrant a second glance. Some
firms will guarantee the metal in a par-
ticular job as “weathered,” and European
firms keep a special heap of old steel
for this purpose. A rusty scythe-
blade will take and keep a better edge
than a new one, a fact not entirely due
to the thinning effect of the rust.
* * * *
“W.E.N.”: Wheat crops are certainly
good this year, but old Nabawa Ben has
the daddy of ’em all. “I rode the old
grey mare into that crop o’ mine on the
crick,” he said, “and she couldn’t git
through it, so I dug the spurs in and she
climbed right up on top of it and crossed
the paddick without touchiq’ the ground.”
“Cripes, it’ll go down if y’ get any
weather, Ben!” we said. “Go down,”
he snorted. “How could it? The blasted
stuff wouldn’t have anywhere to fall!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Looking for Mat in a
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) street I was
astonished to see him in conversation
“Next birthday I'd just give him a ladder."
with a pretty girl sitting in the front seat
of a car. He sighted me, raised his cady
to the girl and joined me. “Who’s she?”
I asked. “Aw, I dunno,” he replied,
“some cocky’s daughter, I reckon” ; then
he went on talking about the fencing
contract we were after out on the Gun-
dagai side. Towards evening he went
off for a hair-cut, and you can imagine
my feelings when 1 sighted him about
an hour later, in a cafe, seated opposite
the same girl and eating ice-cream.
I went off to the pictures, wonder-
ing where I could find another mate like
Mat. When I got back to the pub he was
there. “We’re set,” he announced,
“leavin’ after breakfast.” I looked blank.
“Yair,” he added, “we’re goin’ out in
that car y’ saw t’day. She an’ her old
man’s makin’ for Goulburn or some-
where an’ I got round ’em t’ give us a
lift. Better’n humpin’ our gear twenty-
five miles.” He paused and frowned.
“But cripes,” he added, “if I had to go
through that again I’d sooner walk it.
Wimmen! ”
* * * ♦
“Gumsucker”: As one who in youth-
ful days swung a sledge and even got as
far as nailing on a shoe, I agree with all
“Wippegong” (B. 5/11/ ’47) says re the
vigor of the blacksmith’s life. But there
was one thing he missed, now almost a
thing of the past —the sheer delight in
shoeing a heavy draught. Whether it
was instinct or intelligence I don’t know,
but nearly every one of those heavy
draughts used to work it out that a visit
to the smithy spelt a good loaf. Did
“Wipp” ever hear his smith curse when,
fitting a shoe or rasping down the nail,
the heavy draught leaned on him? Some
that visited our smithy were champs;
standing on three legs with the other, a
hind, of course, held up between the
farrier’s knees, they would sag over until
it seemed to the farrier that he was sup-
porting a ton. No wonder the smith
needed that billyful of suds; but that,
like the heavy draught, has nearly gone.
* * * *
“Ell”: The snarls of mock fury as Stan
wrestled in sport with the orchard watch-
dog were horrible to hear. So was the
dual howl of pain that tore the air when
he accidentally trod on a hind-paw and
the hound, momentarily forgetting it was
all good clean sport, snapped once and
ripped a two-inch gash in Stan’s cheek.
After half-a-dozen stitches, inserted by
the town sawbones, had effectively
stopped him from poking his tongue
through the hole to see how big it was,
we repaired to the barber’s for an over-
due haircut. The scissors-wielder was a
lively little bloke with an overpowering
curiosity added to the loquacity of his
trade, and his haircuts usually extended
to 45 minutes, with the essential features
of a Parliamentary broadcast and the
prosecuting counsel’s cross-examination
thrown in. Goggling at Stan’s ravaged
jaw, he started the ball rolling with the
stock question: “What happened to the
other bloke?” Stan, his mouth in no
shape for extended conversation, jerked
his head at me. “He’s O.K. now,” he
mumbled. “Touch of the sun, I s’pose.
We just took the knife off him and tied
him up for a couple of hours.” The
barber trimmed Stan’s hair with one eye
on me and the other on the door, and as
he flipped off the sheet his “Next, please,”
lacked the usual brisk enthusiasm. “Not
too much off,” I told him coldly. “I’ve
found out that hair grows out of your
brains, and if you take too much off at
once it’s liable to send you nutty.” We
observed with unholy joy how he casually
tidied into a locked drawer three Bengal
razors and a spare pair of scissors. Now-
adays we achieve a silent haircut in three
minutes flat.
1 * * * *
' “Naturala”: “Narrin” (B. 5/11/ ’47) is
perhaps unaware that without the humble
bee (bumble to him), red clover* the
pastoral standby of Gt. Britain, wouldn’t
grow ; the h.-b. being the only member of
the Apis family with a nectar-dipper
long enough to reach down into the
flower of that plant. So, when red clover
was taken to Maoriland, the humble bee
had to be taken also. But who would
have thought of that other than one of
those cracked scientists? Westralia had
a similar experience. For half a century
certain fig-trees flourished most umbra-
geously, but failed to produce mature
figs, although embryos were in plenty.
Then one day a scientist arrived with
some tiny wasps from Arabia. The fig
is a multiple fruit which flowers inwardly.
With this particular Smyrna fig the open-
ing was so small that only this particular
tiny wasp could gain entrance. Hence-
forth it did its job of spreading fertilising
pollen inside the figs, and today one of
W.A.’s specialties is fig jam. I suggest
that the reason why those bumble bees
were washed so carefully was that they
were about to be released inside a glass-
house, where the results of cross-pollina-
tion or otherwise could be studied.
* * * *
“Flip”: The story that he’d once been
seen experimenting with a rocking-chair
on his verandah, trying to discover
whether rocking with the grain of the
floor was easier than rocking cross-grain
but with the wind, may have been a bit
far-fetched ; nevertheless Harry Barr was
widely recognised as Bombina’s laziest
inhabitant. When a chap turned up with
a easeful of “labor-saving watches” he
was immediately directed towards Harry.
“I have a great line here, Mr. Barr,” the
go-getter commenced. “Self-winding
watches. Wind ’em up and they’ll go for
years. Nothing to go wrong. The secret
is a balance mechanism inside which re-
sponds to movements of the wrist. Every
time you walk 10 yards the swinging of
your arms will wind the watch for 24
hours. They’re a great bargain, Mr.
Barr, and a man of your position in this
town can’t afford to be without one.”
Harry sensed a trace of sarcasm in the
salesman’s voice. He shook his head and
drawled: “Mate, when I walk I don’t
swing my arms.” The salesman dropped
his bag with a thud that must have wound
his watches for eternity.
* * * *
“Dronestung”: Salt is one of the
minerals eagerly sought by bees, and a
watering-place sprinkled with brine will
attract them from hives up to a mile
away. The most likely use for the stuff
would be in preparing food for the bee
larvas, for it’s in the height of the brood-
rearing season that it seems most urgently
required. Bees will even work dry salt,
tonguing it vigorously as if to moisten
particles to be drawn up by that organ.
The functions of Apis are most complex,
and the alchemy by which they convert
sugars to honey- and wax-production
isn’t rivalled by any other creature. The
need for salt, preferably in the water-
supply, may be a factor enduring since
the time when salt water was far more
plentiful than today.
“Prop”: If “Adelaide” (B. 12/11/’47)
thinks prickly-pear was only an “orna-
ment” in his State, he wants to get off
the asphalt for a day or two. I know
one district, only 40-odd miles from-
Adelaide, where the pest was planted to
provide hedges. The hedges spread until
many were yards wide and high and
impenetrable. The district’s cow-coekies
seemed quite satisfied, but a newcomer
to the district was not. He found his
land overrun with the rabbits that bred
in safety in the spiky jungles. He lost
stock, too, when cows in a dry time took
to munching the succulent stalks, with the
result that spines embedded in their
mouths caused such inflammation that
they couldn’t feed. Being an energetic
sort of chap with a marked aversion to
red-tape, he sent to a relative in Banana-
land for a parcel of the cactus-eaters.
These he introduced to the pear round his
property, where they thrived and spread.
Then the fun began. The insects extended
their good work to the holdings of less
energetic cockies, presently leaving the
paddocks fenceless. Some of these cow-
cuddlers put off the strenuous job of
fence-erecting until the war started and
materials became scarce or unobtainable.
If a man could have been lucky enough
to get the job of pound-keeper in that
district he’d have been able to compete in
the flash-car market with bookmakers
and Federal “Labor” politicians.
DEAD TIMBER.
Now gnarled and old, their sap long sped,
Grey giants in the forest dead,
Mighty of trunk, their limbs stretched high,
Making a mesh against the sky.
But see! here at the set of sun,
Transformed they tower, every one,
Rising from out a purple mist
And built of gold and amethyst.
High to the left, high to the right,
Was ever there more wondrous sight?.
These columns tall of crimson lake
And all the colors sun can make:
Here, pink and gold, against the green,
With blue and indigo between;
And sapphires set at each deep base,
And opal hung in sunlit space.
See! Orange peaks and golden spires;
And crimson heights like reaching fires:
Columns of ever-changing light
In shining palace, height on height.
These trees are dead, and yet they grow
In golden columns all aglow —
Dead timber, grey and old and white •
Now fiery pillars warm with light.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSION.


THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
N
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
Ifin. Ring Surcingle, best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Corner
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone: FA 5013.
WISE IN THE WAYS OF BUYERS AND SELLERS
When you market your wool clip through A.M.L.&F. you can be assured
that it will be displayed to advantage, valued wisely, and sold by an ex-
pert alert to the mood of the market . . . an auctioneer who is known and
respected by the buyer as “an A.M.L.&F. man.” Get the best possible
price for your wool. Team up with A.M.L.&F., the organisation with
84 years of extensive experience in the service of the man on the land I
Australian,
Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1865.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henly and Hay.
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS"
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL and A CERTAIN
KILLER
V-
m
\V
Utj/s
n
4 <
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE: MA 6311.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Mules Operation.
“Outback”: A recent blowfly wave in
Queensland tested the modified Mules
operation, and it came through satis-
factorily, at the C.S.I.R.’s Gilruth Plains
experimental station, Cunnamulla.
There all the sheep with the exception
of a small control group have been
Mulesed. Between shearing in April and
crutching in late September, little trouble
was experienced from blowfly strike on
treated sheep. Of 406 ewes treated in
1941, only seven (two per cent.) were
struck; of 2380 ewes treated from 1942
to 1944, only 17 were struck (one per
cent.) and of 1100 ewes treated in 1945
none was struck. In the untreated control
group of 174 sheep, 22 strikes (13 per
cent.) were recorded over the same
period.
Many graziers have voiced their
approval of the Mules operation, among
them E. H. Corbould, Noondoo, s.-w.
Queensland. Only the 1945-46 ewe por-
tion of his flock has so far been Mulesed.
During the June fly wave the breeders
(with rams joined) were inspected every
five days and on each occasion 8 p.c. of
struck sheep was dressed. The Mulesed
sheep were examined every 10 days, and
only 0.5 p.c. was struck. At lamb mark-
ing in October 54 ewes, equal to 2j p.c.
of the non-Mulesed ewes, were dressed,
but only six (0.25 p.c.) Mulesed ewes were
dressed.
Lameness in Horses.
“Rooster”; Close observation is the
rule where injured jointsi are concerned
(B. 12/11/ ’47). Watch the horse in
action. Qbserve how it approaches,
passes and limps away. The head nods
periodically when the front leg is
affected ; the croup or rump drops when
the hind leg is injured. Nodding or drop-
ping occurs on the side opposite to the
lame side. It needs only careful examina-
tion and careful feeling to locate the
source of the trouble. - If it’s serious
there’ll be signs of inflammation such
as hot or puffy swellings would indicate.
Outward wounds should be bathed with
mild antiseptic solution and a linseed
poultice applied.
Injuries to tendons and nerves, even
muscles, come under the heading of
strains or, more properly, sprains. In
severe cases constant application of cold
water is necessary, followed by a blister
to the joint (one of biniodide of mercury
to eight of vaseline).
Foot troubles are frequently im-
properly diagnosed. Capped hock is a
swelling and soreness on the point of the
hock is often caused by striking it on the
stable wall. Laminitis is an inflamma-
tion of the tissues connecting the hoof
with the bones of the foot. Thrush,
affecting the frog of the foot, can always
be recognised by the resultant foul-smel-
ling discharge. Observation, cleanliness
and careful treatment, with accent on
preventive treatment, are essential in all
forms of lameness. But no pulling of
limbs.
Preventing Colic.
“Bill C.”: Some horses live to old age
without being troubled, in others the ail-
ment is almost a weekly event. It is
commonest amongst neglected horses.
Faulty teeth are a chief cause. Unless
the teeth are in fair shape a horse can-
not chew its food properly. The un-
chewed food leads to such disorders as
indigestion with either constipation or
scouring. Constipation always accom-
panies a true case of colic.
It has long been believed that colic is
caused by driving a horse hard in the
heat and then letting it drink a lot of
cold water. The cold water might cause
internal cramps, but would be more
likely to cause scouring than constipa-
tion.
Working horses should be watered be-
fore being fed, not after. Many horses
save themselves a lot of discomfort by
stubbornly refusing to eat until they have
quenched their thirst. A big midday
meal and heavy drawing work directly
afterwards have killed many a good
horse. The evening meal should be the
biggest of the day.
A horse with good teeth may make
trouble for himself by bolting large
mouthfuls of feed. The remedy for this
is to provide a special narrow manger,
obliging him to feed more slowly.
Mastitis.
“Prof”: Sulphanilamide, administered
either orally or suspended in oil and in-
jected directly into the affected quarter,
has given good results in recent years.
The latter method has been successful
in this S.A. district, being particularly
effective against those cases that flare up
suddenly—long-standing cases often fail
to respond. Penicillin is giving consis-
tently good cures, and is expected to be
available shortly. Reports indieate that it
will be done up in paste form in lead-
foil tubes for squeezing directly into the
quarter, A course of the treatment will
cost about 125., and it is expected to cure
95 p.c. of cases. Massage and hot-
foment treatment are still recommended
when drugs are not immediately avail-
able or when a diseased quarter fails to
respond to treatment.
Owing to the formation of scar tissue in
severe cases drop in milk yield is almost
certain to occur, even if the disease is
completely cured. Prevention is there-
fore the safest means of control. In the
dairy everything that comes in contact
with the cows’ teats must be thoroughly
sterilised and the order of milking so
arranged that all suspects and cows that
have previously had the disease are
milked last. Periodically yards and bails
must be cleaned out to keep down dust
and mud, common sources of infection.
To reduce the risk of injury, which often
initiates the disease, machines should
never be run over the 141 b. mark and,
if possible, the cows should be dehorned.
We have endeavored to leave the teat-
cups on only long enough to remove the
bulk of the milk —no mastitis in three
years is the result.
Soil Analysis.
“Myrr”: The N.S.W. “Agricultural
Gazette” sets out some of the points to
be observed when soil samples are sub-
mitted to the Department for analysis.
Take the sample from an area where the
soil is uniform, avoiding mounds, depres-
sions, former tree sites, burnt stumps and
badly-drained locations. If more than
one soil type occurs in the area, submit
a separate sample of each. Dig a hole
Ift, deep, one side vertical. Cut a slice
lin. thick off this face down to the level
of any obvious change in color or tex-
ture. Take several such slices from dif-
ferent parts of the one-soil type, break
them up by rolling backwards and for-
wards in a large bag, and select a half-
pound of this mixture as the sample. If
damp spread out to dry before placing
in the container.
Send to the Chief Chemist, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Sydney, mark the
package “soil sample” and write name
and address on it. Then send a covering
letter containing the following particu-
lars; (1) Area of which the sample is
typical; (2) Nature of the subsoil —clay,
rock, gravel, etc.; (3) Situation of the land
and whether it is drained or not; (4)
Crops to be grown ; (5) Cropping history
(if any) and fertiliser treatment.
Corrosion Prevention.
“Endeeay”:- During the war valuable
equipment had to be protected against
weather until it was ready for use, and
much research went into the production
of suitable protective materials. Aus-
tralian scientists were able to evolve the
necessary formulae for the tropics, and
special oils, greases and compounds were
“Watch where his head goes!"
made which saved millions worth of
machinery.
It was soon found that mineral oil and
petroleum jelly gave very inadequate pro-
tection against corrosion and special
materials had to be added. These cor-
rosion preventives were required to give
protection during transportation and
while in storage ; they had to be cheap
and freely available; they had to be
easily removed by kerosene and petrol.
Paint was used wherever possible, but
is hard to remove and could not be used
on machined surfaces, gears, bearings,
etc.
The Standards Association issued a
specification covering several grades of
oil, grease and lacquer-like compounds;
the latter could be sprayed or brushed
on to highly-finished surfaces, and could
be readily removed when required.
Although mainly designed as corrosion
preventives some of the oils were re-
quired for general or substitute lubrica-
tion as well.
The materials are freely available to-
day and are being used by manufacturers
of farm machinery and tractors to keep
them in good order prior to delivery.
Much farm machinery is used season-
ally ; rust can deteriorate it while it is
standing idle. There is a long-standing
criticism of farmers who give their
machines no protection. These war-time
developments could be of great value in
preserving the agricultural equipment of
this country. Storage under cover gives
protection against the weather, but, par-
ticularly in the coastal areas, a great deal
of corrosion can occur inside a properly-
constructed shed. By careful applica-
tion of corrosion preventives to bright
metal parts these can be kept in excel-
lent condition from one season to the
next. Even in the open air corrosion
preventives will help, although the period
of protection is necessarily shorter as
sun, wind and rain deteriorate the coat-
ing and so allow the elements to get at
the metal surface. ,
Corrosion preventives are not expen-
sive, and when properly applied will more
than repay their cost with longer
machine life and greater freedom from
repairs.
Checking the Water.
“Aerogenes”: In a paddock too small
for detailed contour-ploughing a near
approach to it can be got by ploughing
straight furrows directly across the aver-
age line of fall, regardless of how that
fits the shape of the pad-
dock. There will be some
sharp turning and awkward
triangles to cut out, but the
saving of both soil and
moisture is well worth it.
The whole object can, how-
ever, be defeated by doing
a neat job of ploughing on
the headlands. The usual
ploughing there will leave a
final furrow to start a gully.
The plough should be
lifted out on to the straight,
before the turn is com-
menced, leaving a series of
open, unconnected furrow
ends to check the flow of
water. Headlands need not
be ploughed at all, but can
be planted with grass or a
cover crop to bind the soil.
A satisfactory effect of
cross-ploughing can be got
by varying slightly the
angles of the different
ploughings, aiming the first
one up the hill a little and
the next one down the hill,
just enough to cross the first. If,
for any reason, it is necessary
to plough right out to the fences,
it is best to finish off by going right
around the edges of the main ploughing,
throwing the furrows towards the centre.
Then the last round should be made an
interrupted furrow, by pulling the plough
right out of the ground at frequent inter-
vals, going along and dropping it in again,
five to 20 yards of each, according to the
slope. This leaves no long empty furrow
where the water can develop pace and
volume enough to bite into the farm’s
vitals.
The Percheron.
“E.H.S.”: The Clydesdale and Shire
horses are capable of hauling much
greater loads than the Percheron or the
Suffolk Punch, but they are too slow for
anything but heavy work, and require a
much larger ration. The Percheron has
held a leading place in Europe for gener-
ations ; and is* also largely used in the
United States and Canada as well as
throughout South America, where it


Pike Brothers Ltd.
QUEEN ST, BRISBANE, Q
Naval, Military and Civil Tailors
and Robemakers
Have pleasure in announc-
ing that they are again in a
position to supply Clerical,
Legal and University Gowns
made from the Finest
British Alpaca.
PRICES FROM EIGHT GUINEAS
LOOK I
Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
dsf
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue ana
grooves, sands,
drills boles, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
eluding saw and planer
blades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning lathe outfit,
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
Sin cutters £B/5/-. ’ d °
" r ° i6
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
Immediate
Delivery.
‘Ovaltine’ goes to
THE ANTARCTIC !
Expert dieticians who drew
up the specially balanced diet for the
Australian Antarctic Expedition nat-
urallv included • • •
1,00(5 one-pound tins of it. _
They well know by scienlihc
test, that ‘Ovaltine’ contains all the
food elements necessary to build and
sustain perfect physical fitness and
to provide the nourishment and
energy needed by men exposed to
the rigours of the South Pole.
‘Ovaltine’ is the world’s supreme
tonic food beverage.
Ovaltine;
Builds, Protects, Nourishes, Sustains
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids . Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Ply- Ltd.. Kinq Street. Sydney.
o;
CHARTS
Circular Charts la all type* of
Recording Instruments (or any class
o( Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. I Til. BRISBANE O'lO.
c/vlote lltatt
D FINE HOTEL
leading hotel*. but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
| Phone BW 1361 (10 line*)
i C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
MORE IN ONE
* SPECIAL GUN *
“AND RIFLE 011“
i A KANTEED TO KEMOVB TO LIN-
ING AND BUST, PREVENTS PITTING
This oil was used exclusively by the
American armed forces in the S.W-PJX.
ALL HARDWARE AND SPORTS STORES.
Australian Agents :
Gold Star Products, Chnllora, Sydney.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE
FARM.”
Price 1 1- from Newsagents, or 1 Ri-
posted from Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
.V
li
o'V*
\«
+** #*'
v ~ O'*
%v*
• - .>
. <v
t"* **&.*£
.«»>»
* O: v
CO’ ..!«
*** ■& .
% ik> vr
/r^
m
S'
YOUR PROBLEM OF SHIPPING
SMALL PACKAGES
THEM TO A MULTI-UNIT
PACK WITH A
GERHARD
Tension*!
Strapping
System
GERRARD Packaging Engineers are
freely available to demonstrate How
1. Shipping regulations can be observed.
2. Your handling costs lowered.
3. Your Product given better Protection.
Enquire at:
GERHARD WIRE TYING MACHINES
CO. PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND ST., W. MELBOURNE, C. 3
269 SUSSEX ST., SYDNEY
240 BARRY PARADE, VALLEY, BRISBANE
168 GROTE ST., ADELAIDE
W. H. EVANS LTD., 115 ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH
M
\
ms
i' ’■
does heavy draught work, all light haul-
age being done by mules.
A muscular, compactly built, attrac-
tive dappled grey, with occasional varia-
tions to black or brown, the Percheron
has fine legs and exceptionally sound.
feet and exhibits surprising activity tor
an animal of its weight. This, combined
with fine muscular development makes
it an ideal lorry horse. An excellent all-
round farm horse, a good doer, tractable
and reliable, the Percheron will work
and maintain his condition on about
one-third less feed than the Clydesdale.
Stopping Pests.
“Herbie” : The humus pit may be built
up by dumping all fallen leaves (camphor
laurels excepted) and vegetable waste and
flower-garden trash without risk of roster-
ing fungoid diseases or of propagating
colonies of plant pests. When building
up the pit spread a thin layer of soil on
top of each 6in. or Sin. of compost
matter and dust the soil with powdered
bluestone. This treatment will keep the
pit in healthy condition and the blue-
stone, when the compost is dug m, will
clean up the soil and kill the weeds.
After taking off a crop of spuds or
tomatoes, dust the plot with bluestone,
let it lie for a day or two and then turn
it in. Fly-breeding on manure dumps
can be minimised by lightly spraying the
dump once a month with a Rucide solu-
tion —one part of Rucide dissolved in
20 parts of very hot water. Spray walls
of stables and cow-sheds with this mix-
ture,
Preserving Eggs.
“Plane Creek”: Every farm should
store some eggs, Waterglass or sodium
silicate, one part to nine or 10 parts or
cool, boiled water, is the ideal egg pre-
servative, The eggs are simply packed
evenly in a kerosene-tin, cask or crock,
a tray or plate set upon them to keep
them down, and enough of the solution
poured in to cover them. Set the con-
tainer in the coolest part of the house and
the eggs are good for from three to six
months.
Failing waterglass, eggs may be pre-
served by smearing them generously with
vaseline or melted paraffin wax, and
packing them in tins. Before waxing
them, they should be rubbed over with <
rag dipped in chloroform. The chloro
form vapor enters the eggs and destroy
all fungi or bacteria present which other
wise would ruin them.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Calves troubled by .worms
should be dosed with phenothiazine as
follows: Four to six months, |oz. of
powder in water j six to 12 months, 2OZ. ,
12 to 18 months, foz.; 18 months to two
years loz. Dose should be- repeated in
10 days, and in badly-affected animals
continue at same intervals. If a serious
outbreak occurs it will be necessary to
handfeed on crushed grain—oats if pos-
sible —and give skim milk.
“Sarina”; The tetanus germ cannot live
when directly exposed to the air, which
is why tetanus rarely develops from open
wounds. Any wound in a horse s hoo.
should be irrigated with warm water and
antiseptics and then blocked with cotton-
wool dipped in kerosene. The horse
should then be turned into a clean, grassy
paddock until the wound has healed.
Tetanus germs congregate m moist stable
manure. Once the disease has developed
there is little chance of curing it.
“Will C.”: A safety-box for poisoning
rats on chicken runs: Make a good-sized
box with a hinged lid that may be shut
down and padlocked. Cut plenty of holes
low down in the sides of the box, holes
large enough to admit rats. The poisoned
bait is placed inside the bbx and the lid
closed. The rats smell the food and
enter the box, the chickens not being
endangered.
“Myrrhee”: Mix loz. of calcium arsen-
ate and lib. of bran (approx, nine break-
fast cups) and make into a mash with one
pint of water. Scatter the mixture lightly
on the garden beds in the late afternoon.
It’ll keep moist longer and be more effec-
tive in destroying snails and slugs. An
alternative mix is jib. of finely-powdered
metaldehyde with 11b. of bran in a pint
of water. Scatter round the plants in
the form of small pellets. The killing effi-
ciency can be increased by adding loz. or
calcium arsenate,
“Sari”: Eggshells should be broken up
fine and mixed with the' hen s morning
mash. The shells consist chiefly of car-
bonate of lime, which must figure pro-
minently among the minerals taken in by
the laying hen. But do not throw out
unbroken shells to the fowls or you 11
teach them to eat eggs.
“Mr.”: Attacks of milk fever usually
occur from 12 to 72 hours after calving.
Symptoms are well enough known, yet
few are aware that the temperature of
the sufferer is below normal, although
the trouble is described as a fever. Vets
of the Vic. Department of Agriculture
recommend an injection of calcium boro-
gluconate under the skin. The solution
can be made by dissolving of boro-
gluconate in boiled water. Most cases
recover after one injection, but those
failing to respond can be given a similar
dose in three or four hours’ time. Pro-
tection can be given to cows prone to the
trouble by injecting calcium boro-glucon-
ate immediately after calving.
“Billjim”: A good dog biscuit can be
made by mixing 81b. of finely-ground
wheat with a boiled sheep’s pluck. Run
the boiled meat through a mincer, add to
the wheat and mix well. Pour in the
warm liquor, adding on© tablespoonful
of salt, and knead like bread into firm
dough. Roll out into flat 3m. squares
and bake till hard. This mixture will
make about 60 biscuits. Cooked vege-
tables, minced and included before
kneading, will add to the nutritive value.
“Gip”: Sharp and clean tools do twice
the work in half the time, do it more
easily and last longer. When finished
using tools clean and place them under
cover. Greatest harm is done when they
are left in the ground or lying on top
of it.


TILLEY
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
PRODUCTION FOR EXPORT
WE ARE PLEASED TO INFORM OUR
FRIENDS OVERSEAS OF NEW AND
IMPORTANT PREMISES ACQUIRED TO
FACILITATE PRODUCTION FOR EXPORT.
ALSO OUR POST-WAR MODELS ARE
NOW IN FULL PRODUCTION AND WILL
BE ON OFFER IN ALL PARTS OF THE
WORLD. TILLEY STANDARDS ARE MAIN-
TAINED AND INCORPORATED IN COM-
PLETELY MODERN DESIGNS OF LAMPS.
BRENT WORKS,
HENDON, N.W.4
NEW BRENT WORKS,
CRICKLEWOOD. N.W.2,
THE TILLEY LAMP CO. LTD* of ENGLAND
London Offices and Showroom : 33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
T. H. BENTLEY,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
Pty. Ltd., 123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Grandma’s hand. No boxes, no nailing
down the lids, no depending on Jerry to
pick up the blessed cases. Anyway, how
would Grandma pick them? Perhaps
Grandpa might pick them.
Not Grandpa. He sits inside, for he
a fire, even if autumn is yet young,
He 11 have nothing to do with persim-
mons. He curses those trees at night,
when the flying foxes swoop down from
beneath the mountain, and commence
their bickering and squabbling, keeping
it up all night.
/, f r rTT r t- j „ , , .
I—l ULLO, hdy, says the man who is
out to do business. He might be a
barrowman (on a holiday, of course).
He has green corduroy trousers, his
sleeves are rolled up and he wears bright
tan shoes. I see you have persimmons
there, hdy, he says.
Sixpence a dozen, says Grandma.
Sixpence a dozen, now. cries the
barrowman, his eyes lighting up. But
natural cunning makes him conceal his
su [P ri ?f- , A
Tell you what, hdy he says. 11l
take twenty dozen straight and give you
fourpence a dozen.”
“Sixpence a dozen,” intones Qrandma.
“But, lidy,” he says, “I’m giving you
an offer for twenty dozen. No risk on
your part. The risk is mine. What might
happen, eh? I might lose half of them
through being overripe. Anything might
happen. I take the risk. Now come on,
lidy, I’ll give you fourpence a dozen.”
Grandma doesn’t care if the whole lot
goes bad on him. She don’t care if he
never makes a bean out of them. She
doesn’t even bother saying, “Sixpence a
dozen,” but just opens her hand, and
the barrowman sees the silver threepences
and sixpences in it, and he nods, gives a
bit of a grin, .forgets all he might lose,
becomes hearty again.
“I’ll take ’em,” he shouts. “I’ll take
’em if I lose the lot. Sixpence a dozen.”
He takes them. Bert, his cobber.
stands beneath the trees and catches all
the barrowman throws to him. He puts
them in a sugar-sack, two sugar-sacks,
three sugar-sacks.
“How many’s that, Bert?” he asks, and
Bert says it must just be about enough.
and they both give Grandma a look to
see if she’s been counting, and she is
staring at them, so they think she must
have been counting and they say, loudly,
that they reckon it is enough, near
enough, as though they might be leaving
a few of their own, and the barrowman
wipes his hands on his apron, pushes
the apron aside to find money in a trouser
pocket, and he gives it to Grandma, a
new ten-shilling note. Forty sixpences,
eighty threepences. Grandma looks down
as h, wonders a little, would rather eighty
sma ii coins.
The barrowman goes off through the
gate sa ying he’ll take the risk, lidy, dashed
if he won ’ t
Grandma crushes the note in her hand.
kas sharp little corners where it is
folded, sharp like the man who gave it
jj eri Grandma smiles grimly. Never
an end in the world to the people who
think are a fool
A UTILITY-TRUCK creeps down from
■''•the North. It groans on the
hills, creaks when it nears Grandma’s,
squeaks a little, staggers along carrying
a burden of children and camping-gear,
It sags past the persimmon orchard and
hesitates. It groans and stops. Children
fling up a canvas tarpaulin, peer out.
They see the persimmons.
“Look, Dad, persimmons!”
Dad crawls out from behind the driv-
ing wheel.
“I know,” he says, a trifle irritated,
That’s why he stopped, he tells them,
He’ll see if they are for sale,
He feels in his pockets before he goes
through the gate, as though he has made
a fool of himself before, buying things
and then not having the money; as
though, too, he has often dreamt he has.
Grandma nods to him. She iikes this
sort of a sale. “Sixpence a dozen,” she
says as he raises his hat. The man nods.
looks grateful, likes Grandma’s voice,
wanders a little, not knowing where to
commence, what tree to choose. Finally
he remembers and calls to the children,
and they come tumbling across to him,
through the fence, and up into the trees.
He is bolstered up now by a handful of
children, mad© a man by fatherhood.
“Now, don’t break the limbs,” he
warns. • He shouts an order to this one
or that, and stands a trifle importantly,
with his legs apart; but after a time he
becomes a little anxious, for the family
has deployed in different directions.
Only Dick is up the tree above.
“Come down, Dick,” he says quietly.
He raises his voice to the others. “Come
on, Rob, Betty, Allan. That’s enough.
We don’t want to take the whole
orchard.”
“Neither you do,” says Grandma, a
trifle grimly. “You couldn’t afford it.”
Six dozen makes six sixpences. Five
sixpences and a fumble for the other.
“Let the children have that dozen,”
says Grandma. “The ripe ones.”
Well, they have them, anyway, their
noses pushed into squashed fruit, golden
fruit, broken fruit with juice orange-red,
oozing. Some of them have found the
date-plum persimmons, as dark as dates,
and as sweet.
The man is going out the gate when
he sees some yellow flowers. “Calen-
dulas,” he says, in surprise, turning to
Grandma.
“Marigolds,” says Grandma, nodding.
“English marigolds,” the man says.
“I’d like some seedlings if you have any
to sell.” He fidgets hurriedly in his
pocket.
“Take what you want,” says Grandma.
“There’s plenty of them under the old
plants.”
“For my heart,” says the man. “The
old ticker plays up a bit. Make a soup
out of them, you know, and you can’t
beat it. Try to get the seedlings in town,
can’t get them.”
He stoops down and scoops a handful
of them from the soft wet soil. Grandma
will not take a penny. She nods seri-
ously when he repeats gratefully that
they are for his heart.
She watches the utility stagger down
the road, hears it lurch and groan, sees
it sway, and finally disappear over the
hill. She smiles then. Grandpa will
snort when he hears that one —marigolds
for the heart!
T' HERE is one more visitor for
* Grandma, one more at least. Another
of those polished cars. The man who
gets out of it is qpright, overpolished.
His wife is a stuck-up piece of goods if
ever there was one, thinks Grandma, and
although she is rarely moved by impulse,
she thinks now that she would like to
show these two a thing or two.
They come through her gate as though
they don’t want to, really, and wouldn’t,
actually, only that they want persimmons'.
The woman looks haughtily at Grandma
and says, without a look at her husband,
“How much are your persimmons?”
Grandma thinks she won’t sell them
at all, but then she thinks she will.
“Shilling a dozen,” she says for the
first time in her life of selling persimmons.
“A shilling seems a lot,” sniffs the
Woman.
Grandma opens her hand, closes it.
Ten shillings in that hand, two-shilling
pieces, shillings, sixpences, threepences.
“We’ll have a dozen, George,” the
woman says to her husband. She pays
the shilling into Grandma’s hand. The
shilling is highly scented, like the woman.
She then waits to have the persimmons
picked. She even gives a glance along
the verandah to see where the man is
who will pick them. Grandma’s hand
closes overf the shilling firmly.
“Pick them yourself,” she says. “Every-
one does.”
“I beg your pardon?” says the woman.
“They all pick them,” says Grandma
firmly. She holds the shilling tightly.
“Don’t expect me to,” she says, even
more firmly.
George picks them, but George does not
want to. George takes the fruit from
the lower branches. He will not be urged
up trees. He hands each to his wife.
Eleven persimmons. He holds one in his
hand, stares at it, puzzled.
“What,” he says to Grandma, holding
up the persimmon, “is this?”
It is a persimmon with some dark
muddy stain on it.
“Flying foxes,” says Grandma. She
nods. “Vomit.” The man stares at her,
“They all vomit,” says Grandma.
Click, they are gone, the gate shut,
the polished car rolled away and dusk is
rolling in. Grandma will soon go inside.
First she commences to count the
coins. Threepences are herded in fours
and sixpences in twos. Silver sheep.
Heaps of threepences'. There is a delight
in fathoming the number of shillings in
that handful of small coins. Down the
road the clip-clop of a horse.
The horse is cantering now, pushing
aside the silver-purple, the mist that
lowers about the orchard, fumes gently
along the rows! of trees. Well, no one on
horseback ever buys persimmons.
The horse is at the gate. It stops. The
little halfcaste boy from the blacks’
camp. Bad lot those blacks, Grandma
thinks.
A WISTFUL small face above the
shaggy old bay. Looming large in
the evening that bony bay. Two props
for its front legs and the boy perched just
behind the props, his large wistful eyes
looking at the golden persimmons
through the gloom. He does not see
Grandma on the verandah.
“Want some persimmons?” shouts
Grandma. She really thinks you have to
shout at dusk in order to be heard.
The halfcaste boy looks mildly scared.
He is about to urge on his swaying
horse, then thinks differently.
“Good evening,” he says’ to Grandma
in an ultra-polite voice.
“Good evening, yourself,” she says.
The small fellow upon the horse makes
a serious face. He speaks in a quaint
manner, known as old fashioned. “I
would like some persimrrjons,” he says,
“but I haven’t the money.”
She knows he isn’t trying to . get a few
for nothing. He is in earnest, the little
fellow. Besides, he has interrupted her
counting. Grandpa is inside beside the
fire ready to snort. Plenty to tell
Grandpa. Marigolds for the heart!
“Go on,” she says' abruptly. “Take
some. Take as many as you like.”
“Thank you,” the small fellow says,
with an upward lilt in his voice. “That’s
good of you.”
“Fuh!” she snorts, and gets down to
counting her sixpences, lining them up
again in fours, piling them high. She
takes no notice of him when he finishes
picking his golden fill, his hoard that
tumbles about him in pockets and shirt
front, which 'slumps him a bit as he
climbs on to the bay horse. Then he goes
off in the gloom, and she wonders
absently, as she gathers up the last of the
coins, how the bay mare is able to carry
such a load.


T
T
DOE TOr
SUMMER HEAT
freshen ub
with C
WOLFE’S
<zJmmdbc
SCHNAPPS
Put the spring back into
yo,ur step with an occa-
sional Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Served with iced water,
soda or other cordial, it
is a most healthful and
refreshing summer
drink.
WOLFE'S
AROMATIC
WS.f&g.J2
SPECIAL OFFER
STOCKS LIMITED
BUY YOURS TODAY!
■V^
wT
gjeM
GEM SET
• GEM RAZOR • 2 GEM BLADES
• SERVICEABLE BAKELITE CASE
GEM
DOUBLE LIFE'BLADES
“KEENER THAN EVER 99
NOW 5 FOR 1/9
From most Stores, Chemists and Tobacconists.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Besil
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDY
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dear Ruth: I love you, even though you
have a brat for a kid sister.”
—Suburban paper ( agony column).
Somebody’s been asking too often for
disappearance money.
-I* 4* 4* 4*
“I can’t claim to own a talking cat but I
have a cat that can read.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
That’s a nice way to talk about a lady!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Will someone please define a drip?”
—“New Idea.”
A drip is one of those who soak.
Not in the sense of making merry,
But just a poor misguided bloke
Who slips when leaping for the ferry.
B.
Silly Session.
“Over actuality cooking broadcasts for men,
latest in radio, wives have become indignant.”
• —The “Listener.”
“Righto, chaps, I’ll assume that you
have digested last week’s recipe and have
locked her in the broom cupboard. Using
the same easy-to-follow technique we are
going to make a cake. First light the
oven ; then spread your ingredients on
the table.
“You don’t know where the ingredients
are? Flour you’ll find in the ‘sugar’-
tin ; sugar and dried fruit in little bags
hidden under the sink. We’ll have to be
sparing with these as the wife has prob-
ably planted them for Christmas and re-
gards them with some affection. Throw
a handful each of flour, sugar and fruit
into a bowl together with an egg and
some butter. Add some water and mix
to the consistency of glue. Knead till
it bites back, place on a tray and shut
in oven . . .
“Your wife shows signs of breaking
through ? Bring in an armchair and use
it as the basis for a stockade, remember-
ing the old army strategy and leaving
yourself a clear retreat . . . Next pick up
the pieces of bowl and hide. Then,
chaps, open the oven and regard your
cake.
“Rising too fast? Slam the oven door —
that’ll flatten it . . . Lookout, boys, she's
breaking through. The cake would have
been delicious, but you’ll have to take
my word for it. Now for the retreat —
gosh, the kitchen door’s slammed shut!
The enemy’s among us; here she
‘You advertised for a traveller with personality !”
comes . . . left hook . . . body-scissors . . .
“Same place, chaps, same ward. I’ll be
seeing you.”
Plop.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Why do women wait till the last moment
before getting out money?”— “New Idea.”
Because it’s always at the bottom of
their handbags.
4* 4* # 4* 4*
Retaliation.
Could I converse with charm and wit
I’d even up the scores
With dull companions—as a tit-
For-tat I’d bore the bores.
Brian Bureau.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The color of your hair is the key to the
color of the clothes you wear.” — Beauty guff.
It simply must fit your locks,
■i* 4* 4* 4*
“Meeting a girl’s parents for the first time
can be something of a strain.” — Daily paper.
So make sure you’re not tight when
you arrive.
“What do women talk about?”
Just about all the time!
Reduplication.
“An Australian woman who recently be-
came a Moslem says every man should have
four wives.”
The prospect, though, may fail to please
A chap who has by slow degrees
Succeeded in completing swarms
Of useless triplicated forms; ,
For, having studied in that school,
A man would surely be a fool
To undertake another spate
Of trouble in quadruplicate.
A nd since the Moslem after-life
Involves continuing the strife
With houris up in paradise.
For most of us it will suffice
To stick to playing flats and sharps
On mercifully speechless harps.
P. M. Lusk.
A Fair Cop.
“A policewoman who hadn’t been getting
her alimony cheques for 20 months finally found,
arrested and personally hauled in her welshing
ex-husband.”
I've always pictured lady cops
As outsize girls whose duty stops
At guarding social matrons' pearls
And keeping track of wayward girls.
An odd exception though, this sleuth.
Who could affirm in very truth
She followed where the quarry ran
And, Mountie-like, brought in her man.
D.H.E.
Perfectly Satisfied.
“Shigeyoshi Horizaki, chief of the detective
section of Tokyo’s Metropolitan Police Board,
has expressed satisfaction with the sharp in-
crease in crime. He sees in it evidence that
social conditions are returning ‘to normalcy,’
and that the public is regaining its ‘psychological
calm and stability.’ ”
“Honorable crime-wave,” expounded
Horizaki-san cheerfully, “are like cele-
brated jostling mass of salted aitch-two-
oh that rushes in where angels fear to
tread water through beetling heads of
Bay of Fundy, bursting ebulliently
and with spectacular gusto in all direc-
tions, indicating vital spark reappearing
in national set-up and confirming honor-
able Shakspeare-san’s dictum that needs
most when driving like devil.
“Much apprehendings and lumbering
into boobs also is sign annual of increase
in grey-matter fertility among honorable
thieves and others steepful in general
vagabondage. Such challenge acts as tonic
sol fa on Nippon’s police high-ups,
sharpening nous and causing sleuths to
leap into collar like honorable chief four-
footed pal of man when heated spud
pushed under caudal appendage. Also
stresses re-emergence of leader of Greater
East Asia Co-Prosperity stunt from sad
dismallings and putrid apathy after cop-
ping whale of a hiding from honorable
decadent Western Democracies. Jap
spirit now chockful of leguminous veget-
able which are necessary to string before
cooking, all because divers miscreants
and evildoers booting over traces, mas-
saging skulls of unsuspecting Tokyoans
with substances coroner categoricises as
blunt instruments, with accompanying
pinchings of filthy lucre.”
“But haven’t Tokyo’s police any mis-
givings as to the possibility of the crime-
wave getting completely out of hand?”
Horizaki-san put his head back and
laughed till the whole of his four front
teeth were horizontal.
“Nipponese Sherlock Holmeses, like
honorable self,” he beamed, “work on
principles that stitches in time apt to
gather considerable abundances of moss.
When economic matters cronk and black
clouds of despair descend, as honorable
Milton-san so truly magged, upon fret-
ful quills of porcupine of trade, honor-
able criminals caught up in fierce mael-
strom of doldrums, turn thoughts to
better things of life. Instead of sticking
up paymasters, soak up sake in plural
quantities and bash wives over bean for
light sport.
“When rapings, being discovered in
shut-up buildings in dead of night with
possible lack of lawful intents, forgings,
bumpings off, inconsiderable larceny and
common or garden snavelling break out
with malice aforethought, police chief
shoot cadies up in air with whoopful
shouts of purest ecstasies, and rush to
invest wad kept socked away in old oak
chest in gilt-edged industrials.
“Honorable self,” went on Horizaki-
son complacently, “are bearing like Caesar
of old banner with strange device. I am
about to launch vimful campaign to
encourage much expanded and more im-
proved crime-waves. Jap police big-shots
convinced this is top-hole way to get
back to piping and cigaretting days of
peace when millionaire-sans chucked
thousand-yen notes around like steel
joists, and first mates of industry with
noses sharp as self-propelling pencils
babbled o’ green fields and pastures new,
when honorable purveyors of homicide
operating again with skilful enthusiasms
and like deep and dark blue oceans heav-
ing considerable weight around, sure
sign that once more outside world, trying
to ignite safety-match on honorable phos-
phorus strip on side of box, will much
cursefully realise Nipponese factories
again bowling along at much-enhanced
m.p.h., Mitsui-san and Mitsubishi-san
rushing round again in classy Rolls-Fords
complete with television, central-heating
and cocktail-bar, workers tightening up
nuts joyfully and fixing divers gadgets for
12 yen a day and half-pay for all Sunday
work, geisha girls sporting non-electrics
and latest California-style unmentionables
and kimonos of swami, baseball players
happily socking pill over pitcher’s head to
gleeful roarings of prosperity crowds,
honorable Emperor bumping along on
snowy cavorting steed to much bowing
and scraping of lowly citizenry, with
good time being had by all, especially by<
honorable citizens with sloping foreheads,
jemmies and cans of ‘soup’ for busting
strong-room doors off honorable hinges.”
“But in our Western countries, Mr.
Horizaki, it is the aim of high police
executives to wipe out crime.”
The chief of Tokyo’s detectives was
about to scratch his head in puzzlement
when he remembered that he’d spiked
his hand on his hair before.
“As honorable Voltaire-san observed
at Battle of Gettysburg,” quoth the great
Tokyo sleuth, “better a chicken mayon-
naise with a bottle of something kickful
than a stalled oxen and much hatred
therewith. Honorable self surround all
criminals and push all into clink until
only honest citizens left, then honorable
self has chucked self out of cushy job
with perks. Square up!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. pep line; all others 2£d. per line.
Controls
A large trading concern in Melbourne
employs 40 persons to handle rationing
matters alone. Most are juniors engaged
in pasting snippings on to sheets, but
juniors are almost at a premium on to-
day’s labor market. Further, this
specially-created department is controlled
by an executive man at a good salary.
There is no recompense to the store for
this drain on resources.
Forty in one store alone! How many
all over the Commonwealth, and at a
time when manpower is the spot where
the national shoe pinches most? And
how much overburden on the time and
nerves of harassed clerks and accountants
in the small places? I know, only too
well —the first week of each month is for
me a welter of “Little Men’s” forms and
returns for this and that. Admittedly,
rationing may be necessary for a while
yet, but I quote this instance as an ex-
ample of the enormous segregation of
valuable labor when a Government de-
cides to “control” something.
There is the other side of the picture
too —the rabbit-warrens of public-service
clerks in every capital and large town
dedicated to the “Guv’mint.” What it
costs us to kid ourselves that petrol is
rationed is anybody’s guess!
Besides the increased cost in wages to
administer Government schemes which
must be borne by that modern Job the
businessman, there is the actual charge of
the mulctings themselves. Sales Tax has
been scaled down here and there, but the
annoying Pay-roll Tax remains. A trifle
of 6d. in the £ on wages, perhaps, but I
know personally of small manufacturers
who are practically at the point of seek-
ing subsidy to keep their business alive
to whom this extra pinprick is real money.
When a man is just managing to keep
afloat and rations his own drawings down
to the level of wages, that £100 p.a. (or
whatever it costs him for the privilege of
being an employer) would sit comfortably
in his own pocket.
I’m wondering how long it will be be-
fore Australia will perform a Dance of
the Seven Veils and shed all these infernal
trappings of over-government. It would
be grand to get back to a state of nature
again.— Tinmuth (Vic.).
Lotteries
Some super “economists” have sug-
gested the “implementation” of a lottery
worthy of the Atomic Age ; international
in its scope, astronomical in its prize
figures. Magnificently simple in concep-
tion, the idea is to enrich the British
Empire by gambling instead of working ;
to turn John Bull into a super spiv, living
on his wits instead of paying his way by
honest toil.
The basic plan is not new. It differs
only in size and degree from a “bob-in”
office sweep, a two-up game or a flutter
at Monte Carlo. It originates from the
very selfish desire to get rich quick at the
expense of others. The Village Black-
smith looked the whole world in the
face and owed not any man because his
brow was often wet with honest sweat.
If he had spent his time and “invested”
his earnings in gambling he might have
become idly rich or bankrupt. In either
case the result would have been a loss of
production and a loss to the community
as a whole.
Individual gamblers are either poor or
spendthrift. National gambling would
only magnify the two evils enormously
Without adding anything to the common
wealth, the industrial output or the
general health and happiness of the popu-
lation. Gambling in shillings or millions
may not be sinful, but it is silly.
For confirmation take a referendum of
i * st te . n s P° rts ” y°u meet next Mon-
day morning.— Mug (S.A.).
Lawson’s Home
Labor, in tacking Henry Lawson’s
haTadonted W P ° Htical coUe § e in Sydney,
the McKefl hl r ™ P ° et In 1941 when
the McKell Government took over the
State Lawsons many admirers with a
Labor bent were certain the Govern-
ment would buy, as a national memorial
Lawson s old slab-walled home at Eurun-
deree (near Mudgee, N.S.W.) which had
bee » bu lif, the P° e t’s father.
Mr Clive Evatt, then Minister of
mltt?r tl0 Thp Vin f Ce n a k f en interest in the
matter. There followed six years of writ-
mg, talking and investigating, during
which we were led to believe “Labor”
would repair and furnish the place as it
was in Lawson’s day ; camp oven, black
billy and all; with the addition of photos
of the bard, a plentiful supply
of his books and a caretaker intimately
acquainted with Lawson’s life and works
—just as Scotland has honored Robbie
Burns. We were given visions of tourists
streaming to Mudgee to see the home
from where Lawson drew his first inspira-
tions.
All these years while “Labor” has ear-
bashed and spilt ink and done nothing,
termites have energetically worked in the
posts, the slabs and flooring, and have
brought to ruin the home of Lawson s
childhood and youth. The owner has had
to demolish it. What better symbol of
inactivity could be found for the “Labor”
movement than this heap of junk riddled
with ants? —K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Mosley and Communists
Sir Oswald Mosley, responding to what
he called “a universal demand” for him
to start “a political movement,” intends to
re-enter the political arena. He spoke
to a meeting of some 900 members of
his clubs. They were admitted by ticket
and guarded at the doors by stewards,
who wore red-white-and-blue armlets
embossed with a letter “M.” Some had
found black shirts.
With their memories still fresh, the
British people are tired of .jliis kind of
thing. Mosley cannot hope for any
steady success with his project, in which,
after all, there is nothing particularly
new. It’s the same old thing over again,
and the worst kind of nuisance. As a
price for the privilege of free speech the
disturbance can be ignored. But as a
strain on an already much-reduced police
force it is not inconsiderable.
Fascists and Communists have much
in common. In the extreme it is hard to
see where one ends and the other be-
gins. Both thrive on unrest and discon-
tent, and the more disturbed the ground
the better are they able to sow their
crops. If there is a difference it is that
the Fascists demonstrably seek out the
tefiderest spot and inflame it with all
speed. The Communists are subtler and
more dangerous. They are careful in
their search. Having found a troubled
spot they set about to aggravate it, not
by preaching Communism but by pres-
sing other issues.
British people have use for neither. In
the municipal elections 194 Communists
were nominated—and 194 were rejected.
An expression, of opinion couldn’t be
more definite. But while the fanatical
red-hots who cling to Mosley can never
have anything but a nuisance value, the
loss of all the seats in an election isn’t
the death blow that it sounds. The
spread of Commpnism, to a greater or a
lesser degree, is going on the whole time
and particularly in trade-union circles.
British people might well be more aware
of this than they are.— Herbert Holman
(London).
Failing Cattle Herds
There were some wry grins among
Queensland cattlemen when P. B. New-
comen, president of the Graziers’ Associa-
tion and wool and meat adviser to the
Australian delegation to Geneva, came
back from that place to announce that a
trade concession on beef and veal gave
Australia a chance to insert meat into
the U.S.A. “when seeking outlets for in-
creased beef production.” About the
same time two unrelated observers were
saying that Australian beef export had no
prospect of longevity unless there were
several changes.
One was Lord Vestey: —
Australia is headed for the stage when,
home consumption will take all the beef
you can produce. Much more intensive
development is necessary to stave that off.
My firm holds Territory leases and the
Territory is crying out for development. The
Government should grant long leases there.
Small men can’t develop it, yet the short-
term leases we hold don’t warrant the
spending of much money. People with the
capital to develop the country should be
granted long leases and closer settlement
could follow the development.
The other was W. A. Beattie, of the
C.S.I.R., who has travelled 9000 miles
through Queensland and who gives its
beef-export trade another 13 years: —
Drought and strikes will be reflected
seriously in Queensland’s cattle figures from
1950 on. Graziers were caught when the
1946 meat strike threw fats back on to
their paddocks, and the drought caused
heavy losses of cows and calves which will
take years to recover. What is needed for
increased production is improved transport
and more labor. There is shortage of
materials for dams, windmills and other
improvements. A lot of good grass country
is going to waste because there is no water
for stock. Uncertain land tenures make
the position worse. People aren’t keen
on improving properties while they run the
risk of thereby having their rents increased
or the land resumed.
Mr. Johnson, the Canberra Minister
tor the Interior, felt called upon to reply
to Lord Vestey, though not to Mr.
Beattie. He said N.T. leases ran to 42
years and most of the Vestey leases
were granted for that period, some of
them having 18 years to run. There was
now a restriction on areas by which
nobody could hold more than 5000 square
miles, and that was fair enough.
Considered as an essay in sardonic
humor these Ministerial statements are
very entertaining. Bovril Estates holds
much more than 5000 square miles in Vic-
toria Downs—the best mixed country in
the N.T. Alexandria is over 10,000 square
miles. The member for the N.T. com-
plained last session that its owners had
been given preference over a soldier
applicant for a 2000-square-mile block
which had fallen in for resumption. The
only excuse the Minister had to offer was
that this had happened while the N.T.
was unrepresented in Parliament, the
member being a p.-0.-w.
Vesteys, under “Labor” rule, have in-
creased their holdings by purchase. Their
stations at the present time are several
times the 5000 square miles which Mr.
Johnson says is the limit, and their
properties and those of Bovril have
nothing like the progressive improve-
ments which mark Barkly Tableland
stations. Judged by results absentee
ownership is a brake on stock increase.
On any 500 square miles of Lake Nash,
or —especially—Austral Downs, Brunette
or Alexandria, the improvements greatly
exceed those on the whole of absentee-
owned Victoria and half of Wave Hill.
Resumption and subdivision of these
properties for the benefit of, returned
servicemen would be in the national
interest. Such settlers would get a
good start and considerably increase
cattle population during the present
tax-free period.
Queensland beef figures show the posi-
tion pretty clearly in Mr. Hanlon’s State.
The State’s herds last March totalled
4,613,000 head, nearly half a million
fewer than in 1914. The Australian beef
export total of 83,622 tons for 1946-47
was only about 18 p.c. of Australian beef
production, though beef is rationed on
the home market. And in 1945 a Royal
Commission reported that much of the
Queensland cattle country was underde-
veloped or underproducing, that if noth-
ing was done Australia could shortly ex-
pect a beef famine in certain months of
each year and would either have to do
without or draw] on frozen stocks at the
expense of the export trade.
These things cannot be explained away
by mere assertions as to length of
leases and limits of area. Their mean-
ing cannot be ignored by the industry or
by the politicians who control its
destinies. —O. Dalby (Q.).
Not Wanted
The N. S. Wales “Government” seems
determined to drive away all overseas in-
dustrial enterprises which would bring
added wealth and much-needed decen-
tralisation of industry to the State. A
year or two ago Lord Nuffield was as
good as told that a racecourse was more
important to the people than Nuffield
“Now this Bank Bill’s through, bang goes our liberty!”
industries. Wasting no time arguing, he
searched for a site elsewhere.
Now Courtaulds are meeting with
similar treatment. First, the Hunter
District Water Board and Newcastle City
Council raised objections to their tapping
the sand for water at Tomago. These
objections were overcome, but were fol-
lowed by lack of co-operation from the
“Government” in the matter of building
materials for the factory. It was “under-
stood” also that the “Government” was
prepared to build a large number of
houses for the factory employees ; now it
seems that this commitment cannot be
met for “some time.”
After all these setbacks, Courtaulds
could surely be pardoned for looking for
a factory site in a more accommodating
State. But at the first mention of their
doing so, Mr. McGirr accuses them of
“playing one State against the other,”
and “messing about” for two years. He
claims that their shrewd and hard-headed
representatives were sent to drive as hard
a bargain as possible with his “Govern-
ment.”
Any “messing about” has been on the
part of the “Government.” The firm’s
representatives have only been suffi-
ciently “shrewd and hard-headed” to
realise the futility of trying to deal with
our N. S. Wales “Labor” politicians.—
Mac (N.S.W.).
Fakes
I don’t think “M.T.V.R.” (B. 8/10/’47)
will do much good worrying over his
discovery that our beach “sun gods” are
lamp-tanned. Australians are becoming
more and more fake as time goes on.
Our nation of “sportsmen” is only one
busted bubble —for one player there are
a thousand onlookers.
Anyway, don’t we live in an age of
fake and bamboozle? The movie-makers
have brought faking and dummying to
a point where it is acclaimed by a silly
populace. We have fake pronunciation
—especially of foreign words and names
—by radio spruikers with fake accents.
We have fake statesmen and we take
satisfaction in a fake national progress.
Is it any wonder then that dictators—
in as well as outside the country —ache
for power over such a mob? For all
our shouted solidarity and culture, we
are as easily led, by the right sort of
fake leader, as are sheep. Our so-called
civilisation is mainly a gadget-ridden
society governed, in the main, by emo-
tional prejudices—and they’re mostly
fake, too.
Oh, for the day when, as Matthew
Arnold put it, “right reason and the will
of God prevail.”— Pomroy (S.A.).
Loan Publicity
Although Commonwealth loans are
always oversubscribed, extensive and
extravagant publicity is always usual,
allegedly to coax small investors. We
now have the upkeep of a permanent de-
partment, complete with Deputy Com-
missioner, etc., to arrange this publicity,
and although loans are raised only
periodically, these officials are employed
for 12 months of the year.
I know of two ex-servicemen who were
working as bondsellers. They remained
on the job only until such time as they
could get other employment. Their
reason was that they were being well-
paid for doing next to nothing. Not
that they were above taking the lucre,
but they couldn’t see the good thing
lasting for long. That was two years
ago. Apparently they could have had
jobs for life.
On the nights of the National Quiz
contests radio listeners have a. choice
of that programme or nothing, which is
rather exasperating for those who dislike
such stuff. If extensive radio publicity
is necessary for Commonwealth Loans
it would be better to present a first-class
Australian musical or variety programme
or even some historical drama. Also, at
least one A.B.C. network could offer an
alternative programme for those who
prefer a choice in their earbashing.—.
Nic (Tas.).


The “Little Man”
The writing is on the wall for the
“little man.” Conditions of labor and
the very inefficiency of labor itself make
the situation too hot for him.
For 10 years 1 was a country store-
keeper in a small timber town in Wes-
tralia’s south-west. When I first started
it was nothing to be doing business at
midnight, there was no half-holiday for
the shop nor any week-end for the pro-
prietor. Good grocerymen were obtain-
able for £4 or £5 a week and arrange-
ments about holidays and days off were
purely mutual. There was no overtime.
Profits were reasonable, kept in check by
competition and the city stores. Gradu-
ally conditions altered with the introduc-
tion of a weekly half-holiday and stricter
hours. These benefited the staff more
than the owners if they lived on the
premises, as nothing deters the “knock-
knock” customer.
With the war the country storekeeper
became a glorified commissariat, with
lessi and less say in the running of the
business. Certain conditions became
easier, too —deliveries were cut out and
cash-and-carry was adopted in many
places. Service to customers deteriorated
into a slap-dash, take-it-or-leave-it atti-
tude, with nerves on edge over constant
coupon-clipping, general* futility and
battling with Government departments
just beginning to feel their oats.
No sane storekeeper was really happy,
and the rudeness of the “No” was
usually in direct proportion to the
sense of frustration experienced by the
salesman.
Post-war trading brought severe up-
heavals —renewal of delivery, the bug-
bear of country stores with inadequate
staff, and no let-up in war-time restric-
tions, which, if anything, became worse.
Profits were pared down to a minimum
and still are.
Ominous rumblings on the “Labor”
front forecast the 40-hour week, perhaps
the 36-hour week, higher wages and more
and more responsibility for his employees
thrust on to the employer —holiday pay,
sick pay, overtime, strict hours, insur-
ance and whatnot. A review of the situ-
ation forced me to the conclusion that I
was fighting a losing battle. If my wife
and I cared to work 18 hours a day for
seven days a week we might just get by,
but otherwise the outlook was hopeless.
No country store can operate on a 40-
hour-week with bush-workers to be
looked after miles out in the scrub.
I got out “to carry on with work” I
can do myself. Keep away from labor is
my advice to the aspiring young man, but
what ultimate effect this will have on the
economy of the nation is anyone’s guess.
If conditions make it impossible for,
say, the country storekeeper to operate
what will happen? Similarly with other
small shows where a man could once
make good with two or three to help
him. He cannot face the enormous
responsibility now. Insurance in the
timber game is £11 10s. per £100 wages
paid. Government insurance offices
charge more.
We will have to realise that the whole
country cannot be run on this big
monopoly stunt, with marble showers for
all wage-earners and social security pro-
vided by the boss. This country is not
out of the horse-and-buggy days, and it
can’t afford such luxuries. There’s a
lot to be done before we can afford
them. —R. H. G, (W.A.).
Men on the Land
“Hadley Propsting” (B. 26 /11 / ’47)
made my heart bleed. Admittedly. the
farmer and grazier have their troubles,
but who hasn’t? This continual moan
makes me wonder why so many returned
soldiers are clamoring for land. It seems
there must be two classes—those who
have had it and those who want to have
it. When a farmer does decide to sell
out, or sell part of his holding, there is
no dearth of buyers—usually adjoining
owners who have sons who wish
to follow in Dad’s footsteps.. Perhaps
they get their happiness from this con-
stant growling.
“HP.” admits that wool-growers may
show a good profit for one or two years.
Well, we all have to take the good with
the bad, and I’ve yet to meet a grazier
who would change places with anyone
else. Most of them think it is the best
life in the world. How’s this for a con-
crete instance of a very small grower?
A year or so ago he bought 40 or 50
old ewes at 15s. 4d. each. The lambing
was 100 per cent., and the lambs have
been sold for £2 Is. 6d. each. In addi-
tion the fleeces realised £45, and there
are still some odd bits to sell. The
grazier still has the old ewes and is
growling (according to plan) because he
can’t get some more at the same price.
“HP.” goes on to growl about the
various imposts he has to contend with
in the way of increases in wages, etc.
Well, the farmer himself doesn’t do so
badly with hand-outs from the Govern-
ment in the way of subsidies, drought-
relief and other grants. And isn t the 25
per cent. London exchange rate, which
operates almost exclusively for the
primary producers’ benefit, to be con-
tinued? Scyneone must be paying that
25 per cent., and a very nice hand-out it
is.— Harry the Horse (Vic.).
For Politicians
Considering the hours spent debating
the Banking Bill in the Federal House, all
politicians should be better versed in the
country’s financial standing.
Our politicians have made great in-
creases in social services, wages and,
incidentally, their own salaries—all at
the expense of the taxpayer. It should
not cost the Government Printing Office
very much to publish a financial state-
ment, for the benefit of every politician,
showing the exact position of our national
debt, and under what interest we 7,500,000
people are struggling.
This may cause them to think a while
on the future of the young Australian
and what little chance of survival our
country has when it is rapidly sinking
deeper into a morass, with further huge
loans being floated while we try to live
within our incomes. I dread to think
how long a private enterprise would exist
if run on similar financial lines, and it
is private enterprise that gives employ-
ment to the vast majority of workers m
this country. —L. W. M. (N.SW)
Australian Apathy
Why are we Australians so apathetic?.
Why do we stand for strikes, high taxa-
tion, shortages, an overburdened trans-
port system, etc., and do nothing about
them but mutter among ourselves?
Even a recent “Bank Protest Meeting”
couldn’t rouse any interest in our town.
Our district is strong for the Country
party, and the majority of about 2000 of
us are “little” men, violently opposed to
any form of Government control. We
should have welcomed the chance of a
public demonstration against the “nation-
alisation” proposal. The speaker travelled
200 miles to address us and we responded
with a roll-up of about 90. Saturday
morning, too, when everyone was in
town! We listened politely while the case
was ably and forcibly put before us, and
applauded as gently as a speech-day
audience at a school for young ladies.
No cheers, no enthusiasm, no questions
and no personal words for the speaker.
Apparently no interest at all.
That the Communist element among
us is not apathetic is all too obvious.
It’s time we woke up and realised that
we must work if we are to keep Australia
a land of freedom and true democracy.
—Mac (N.S.W.).
Utopia
At present visiting our shores is a well-
known British, town-planner. One of his
jobs is the laying out of a new English
city to house 60,000 people. The scheme
will be as precise as a chessboard and
as artistic as a floral-carpet. The in-
dustrial, residential and shopping districts,
with schools, parks, pubs and theatres,
are to be scientifically spaced and rigidly
regulated to hold separate communities of
10,000 inhabitants. Construction will
occupy 15 years.
The prospect has pleasing features, but
ope wonders where the planners will find
citizens content to live like pawns on a
super-duper board. Industries that cannot
expand, and shopping districts that
cannot spread, can’t be very enterprising
or progressive. And before the city
beautiful is built its architectural and
sociological ideals are likely to be obso-
lete.
Most of our cities have just growed
like Topsy, but they have grown and
prospered amazingly. Canberra is the
ideal exception, but it produces nothing
of practical value, and, judging by the
movements of leading citizens, it is a good
place to get away from on every possible
occasion. It may be a sinless Eden, but
it is the abomination of desolation during
the long week-ends.—S. (S.A.).
In Defence of Work
I’m an employee—a wage-plug, if you
like—and there are many mornings when
I face with distaste another day of work.
Why can’t I be “free” to lie abed for
another hour or so, and then spend the
rest of the day pottering about? But,
when I do have two or three “statutory
holidays” in a row, I soon get tired of
pottering, and, at the end of ray eagerly
anticipated annual holidays, I find my-
self positively and disgracefully keen to
go back to my job. In short, I like
work, and life without it would be bod-
ing and demoralising.
I’ve always imagined that most men,
except the no-hopers, were like that. I
have also believed that civilisation, with
all its advantages, was founded on work.
Machines I have regarded as ingenious
contrivances for making more of what
mankind needs —shoes, say—in a day ;
not merely the same number of shoes in
a couple of hours. After all, there are
still enough people In the world going
unshod to absorb the extra shoes I and
my machine can turn out in the course of
a fair day’s work. By giving them shoes
I am raising their standard of living, ex-
tending the benefits of civilisation to
them. For “shoes” read any darned
thing that man eats, wears, or enjoys.
For 40 years I’ve held that work in
moderation is both a blessing and a neces-
sity, and I now feel that moderation has
been very nicely defined by the 40-hour
week. I can contribute a lot of shoes
to the world’s welfare in those 40 hours,
spread over five or six days, without any
strain on my endurance and still with
reasonable leisure for pottering.
I’m not surprised that the Queensland
“ Cripes, not a bad pair o’ pins!”
Trades Union Congress has decided to
campaign for a 30-hour week. Politically
it is unsound to permit the voters to
feel contented —in fact an atmosphere of
contentment is fatal to ambitious union
bosses. But I do hope that the common-
sense of the workers will not allow them
to take this new bait seriously, that they
will see that 30 hours of work a week
is not sufficient to fill a man’s life com-
fortably and, more important, that this
country cannot produce enough consumer
goods in that time to maintain its own
standard of living.
What really frightens me is that “Mr.
H. Waite, another ironworkers’ delegate,
said the time was approaching when
capitalism would collapse. Under the
new order which would follow the
workers would not need to labor more
than three or four hours a week” (my
italics).
As a delegate, Mr. Waite has presum-
ably been selected by his fellow-men to
represent them; he has been picked out,
to some extent, as a leader. It frightens
me to learn that one who presumably
has influence among his fellows can seri-
ously picture a “new order” under which
men are to be happy loafing; or that
civilisation can hold its present standards
(much less progress) under a “three- or
four-hour” week.
I’m all for the equalisation of the
burden of work, but I cannot envisage a
happy, contented, fully-fed, -housed and
-clothed world, amply supplied with
radios, cinemas, motor-cars, refrigerators
and all the other gadgets to make life
easy and pleasant, if everyone is to
spinebash for all except three or four
hours a week. a .
To be sure, there are races living on
those lines today. Their skins are black,
they wear no clothes and they live in
squalor in their humpies in the jungles.
We have come a long way from then-
state ; do we want to go back? — Hist
(N.S.W.). .
Root of the Matter
The other day two returned soldiers
spent their deferred pay and all their
savings to buy the Imperial Hotel, Heli-
don (Q.). Precisely two hours later they
were bluntly informed by the Licensing
Commission that the licence of the hotel
was to be cancelled from March 31,
1949, because the hotel is badly in need of
repairs. Both Diggers, who saw years of
service, were stunned by the edict, but
intend to appeal against it. Building
materials are so scarce these days that it
is impossible to repair shabby dwellings,
although some people, who have the cash
to pay through the nose for things, can
get whatever they want. Anyway, the
Licensing Commission should not have
the power to make a decision in this
respect —it will not take effect for about
15 months, and much can happen in
that time.— Snorter’s Mate (Q.).
“Somerset”. (B. 26 / 11/’47), recalling the
haywire state of affairs that existed when
we abandoned a camp in the Gulf
country (n.-Q.), didn’t mention the petrol.
During the mad panic which preceded
our departure thousands of drums of the
stuff came and were stored at convenient
places in the bush. Orders said this had
to be done, but the authorities did not
seem keen to have a record. Some or
the juice was used for seaplanes, but the
great bulk was stored for miles back into
virgin country. So rushed were our orders
to leave that the petrol was left there. As
far as I know it is Still there today.
J. B. R. (Vic.),
„
Add to the remarks of Video (B.
26 /11 / ’47) that, in 1941, the same Syd-
ney flapper weekly ran an illustrated
story by a lady “war correspondent con-
cerning the grand times being enjoyed by
the Eighth Division in Singapore. She
went on to tell of the “glorious social
life” and how these soldiers in Malaya
were able to go to dances and dance with
Chinese taxi-girls. She portrayed them as
having a really swell time. Before the
Nips came down south a few copies got
back to the A.I.F. in Malaya, and were
those fellows sore! The few that came
back when the Japs threw in the towel
have never forgotten that article. —
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.),
I have a house being built. Just after
the outside walls were started I decided
to rearrange the layout of the bathroom,
the only alterations entailed being the
making of a new window frame and
moving the door frame a few feet. The
builder agreed, and I was quite willing
to pay any extra costs, but he confided
that he didn’t like to make the altera-
tion because it might hold up the brick-
layers for half a day, and “they don’t
like that sort of thing.” It seemed that
he was actually scared of incurring the
bricklayers’ displeasure!—Torch (W.A.).
Private banks are one of the causes
of war,” according to Senator O’Byrne,
at Canberra. Nationalised banking did
not prevent Stalin from making war on
Finland, or from grabbing hunks of
property from all his neighbors who were
too weak to fight. Neither did it pre-
vent him from making a pact with Hitler,
the signal for the latter’s aggression
against Poland and the start of the war,
Stalin helped defeat that inoffensive coun-
try, not foreseeing that the war he had en-
couraged would later devastate his own.
Neither Hitler nor Mussolini used the
word nationalisation, but their respective
parties had as complete a control over
the money affairs of their countries as
Stalin has in his. There is sufficient proof
that socialisation, or nationalisation, or
whatever you choose to call it, seems
more a cause of war than a cure for it.
—E. & O. E. (Tas.).
.
1 know of many children who just
drift through school with the sole
thought “I’ll be able to leave school as
soon as I have had my birthday. Why
not a leaving standard ? It womd in-
duce pupil and teacher to exert more
energy and influence to attain a better
standard of education.— Bob (b.A.).
his assent to the Banking Bill
]yj r McKell clearly demonstrated his
allegiance to “Labor” first and Australia
His action cannot be de-
any other way after the results
elections in three States where the
ectors expressed their opinion of Mr.
1 , policies through the ballot-box.
n mey s p uiiL s
Jindivick vjn.s.w.;.
j n Bathurst and Orange (N.S.W.) I
gaw j a e quant ities of S.A. honey for
saJe desp ite the fact that the surrounding
districts are note d for honey production.
Nq dQubt western n. S. Wales honey is
so jd in S.A. In Sydney stores you can
all in Sydney in suffi-
gent quantity
~:-s s i- ... e ~
W. 1. i.


If cars flew signals...
-c-
I A^V
giving
WAY
On the high seas that’s what those flags mean. On the highway they
mean, “I share the road.” On your car they tell the world that you
are a courteous, careful driver, watchful for the safety of others on
the road. Do your share in the drive to cut down accidents. Join the
Share-the-Road League and put the League Badge on your car. It
establishes you as a courteous and careful driver-—it is the hall-mark
of the unselfish motorist. Membership of the League is open.
eOIBDKI uca
SHARE-THE-ROAi
G=>
LrunJ
E 3
SD
G=l
Lord
which stands for SAFE, SANE DRIVING
HOW TO JOIN.
You can join at garages and service stations throughout
the State ... or at your nearest Shell Office, Depot or Agency ... or by filling in the form
below. You will receive all the information regarding your membership card and the
“flag” badge as shown above, but in full colours, for your car.
FILL IN ENROLMENT FORM...NOW
and post to the Shell Company of Australia in your Capital City.
THE PLEDGE. THE RULES.
I pledge myself to support the Australian Road Drive safely at all times; observe all the rules of the road; show courtesy
Safety Campaign and to obey the rules of the Shell to other drivers and to pedestrians; display the “Share-the-Road”
Share-the-Road League. badge on the back window of your vehicle.
NAME (Block Letters) MAKE OF CAR
HOME ADDRESS
v.-V;? © ss#© t y' s Sa k e us e : ;
SHELL MOTOR OIL
