

The House of Seppelt ... producers of
GREAT WESTERN Sp arkling Wines
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/ VoL 68 —No. 3526
Wednesday, September 10, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MECCA OF ALL TRUE GOLFERS IS ST. ANDREWS
AS well as possessing the most historic golf course in the world,
St. Andrews has many claims to historic importance. This
view features the ruins of St. Andrews’ ancient castle, which, at
first the residence of the bishops, was later the scene of many
interesting episodes. James 111 was born here in 1445, and on the
open space in front of the castle the burning of the Reformer
George Wishart took place —by order of Cardinal Beaton, who
was himself assassinated within the castle by Norman Leslie in
1546. St. Andrews is traditionally believed to owe its name and
origin to the fact that St. Regulus, bearing the bones of the apostle,
settled here in the seventh century. Near to the castle ruins stands
the venerable shell of St. Andrews Cathedral, erected as a priory
in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. After the Reformation, the
Cathedral fell into disrepair; how only some walls and towers
remain as a mute reminder that once this was among Scotland’s
noblest buildings.


fiiuJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, withovt obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
SB. 247 AGE
RECENTLY PUBLISHED
GEORGE AND MARGO
By Roland Hoffman. A deeply-moving
story of a man and his house of dreams, 8/6
PATHS TO THE GAI/LOWS
The factual, thrilling stories of real-life
crime, famous modem murder trials .. 6 6
murder in white pit
By John Barrington. The limited edition
of the mystery romance that thruJed
Europe . * *' 1 8
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty. Ltd.
Central House, Eittle Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
A BREEZE FROM THE SEA.
Vance Palmer’s Cyclone (Angus and
Robertson) is hardly likely to blow the
roof off the Australian literary world.
Seeming to lack inner conviction, or at
any rate that impassioned conviction
which is to be found, say, in the novels
of Christina Stead, it might more aptly
be described as a sea-breeze.
And as such, beyond the fact that any
new novel by Vance Palmer would be
welcome, it has both charm and quality:
a delicate exploration of the currents and
cross-currents in the relations between
men and women ; an evocation, in equally
delicate prose, of the seascapes of North
Queensland:
Slipping on her kimono, she went out
to the front verandah. The house faced a
track leading to the swamp, where blue
cranes waded among the water-hyacinths
looking for frogs. A lilac shimmer came
from it in the morning light, giving it a
touch of magic, making you forget it was
a quaggy waste that exhaled a sour breath
at noon and released a horde of mosquitoes
at sundown. A few hundred yards away
it joined the saltwater creek, and on’ the
other side rose the hills, clothed with
masses of lush rain-forest from which
peeped the roofs of comfortable bunga-
lows. Banked-up tides brimmed full under
the bridge that connected the high country
with the flat, and near the wooden coping
a dark figure—Nicky, the half-caste—was
squatting down picking prawns out leisurely
from his net.
Nicky plays no active part in Cyclone,
yet, curiously, he makes a stronger im-
pression on the mind than the char-
acters who talk, move and are involved
in the central drama. The same is true of
two other natives, a speechless Malay,
whom even a cyclone cannot disturb —
“Like a hibernating bear the Malay
blundered out of the hold, saying nothing,
showing no curiosity as to what was
afoot, simply standing and staring into
the dark” and a drunken Murray
Islander:— ■
“That Jap skipper,” said the Murray
Islander, “he up-hook when the big wind
come and sail away. Sail away and leave
me an’ the other boy picking up slugs on
the coral. ‘You bastard!’ we sing out,
‘You Jap bastard!’ But he don’t stop;
he sail away. What he owe us, he was
finking about, over free months’ wages
we don’t draw. An’ the tide come in with
the wind behind it. We two fella, by cripe,
we finish damn’ quick if Captain Halliday
don’t beat in an’ pick us up. Cap’n Halli-
day, he don’ care how hell-hard the wind
blow.”
These people, even if they are speech-
less or outside the main stream of the
plot, carry conviction; they give the
novel its principal attraction, its des-
criptive authenticity. More than that,
they are, in a minar way, .Conradian
figures: symbols of humanity, man time-
less on the earth and steadfast on the
sea. Vance Palmer’s is essentially an
art of simplicity, and these little sketches
are the simple truth ; there is no attempt
to dignify the natives beyond what one
feels is their due.
But when, self-consciously striking the
Conradian note with his principal
characters, Vance Palmer tries to per-
suade the reader that his Brian Donolly,
wading ashore after a night of swim-
ming in a cyclone, is “life itself”:
There could be no mistaking that fair
head and sun-darkened torso, those power-
ful shoulders that could so easily lump a
two-hundred of flour across a twelve-inch
plank; yet, for the time, the oncoming
figure seemed stripped of everything in-
dividual. It was life itself that was driving
on through the sand; blind, battered, yet
moving to some pulse in its secret core—
there is not the same conviction. Rather,
there is an impression of pumped-up
enthusiasm; of over-emphasis; not a
man on a beach but a lay-figure
surrounded by words.
If Brian Donolly were no more than a
“fair head and sun-darkened torso” he
might be merely a figure from the cover
of a magazine; a convention or an
abstraction. He is more than that, for
there are moments when his temptation to
“drift in the sun” becomes alive and
interesting and when his gaiety has vital
warmth*; yet he is not fully alive in the
way that the speechless Malay is. He
talks, sometimes, like this;
“You and me, Ross, we’re old soldiers.
Ready to carry one another’s pack or stick
together in a jam.”
And phrases of this sort, improbable in
actuality, reveal the limitations of Vance
Palmer’s portrayal of him: he is partly
real, partly an idealisation. He is a kind
of essence of mateship, as his wife, Fay,
who says, “You think I am using Joan,
Brian, to keep you at home?” is the
essence of a troubled wife and mother;
as Con Daly is the essence of a glamor-
girl, Randall the essence of a playboy,
and as Corcoran —“I’m a born neutral.
No passion to speak of, plenty of. reason.
I always try to look at both sides, from
the other side”—is the essence (and very
much the idealisation) of a newspaper
editor.
_Since the characters lack the full flavor
of reality, it is difficult to feel that it is
really worth while calling up a cyclone to
settle their troubles: to prevent a young
literary man from becoming involved in
a brawl between businessmen and un-
employed cane-cutters (an episode which,
in any case, seems forced); to restore
Brian Donoliy to his family and stop him
drifting in the sun ; to drown a man who
seeks death because his wife has been
unfaithful to him. These are interesting
events, thoughtfully discussed in quietly
distinguished prose, but—as the characters
are drawn—hardly of cyclonic dimen-
sions.
It is significant that, as if aware of
some falling-short in dramatic tension
and seeking to compensate for it by over-
emphasis, the novelist endeavors to make
his cyclone more than a cyclone, a super-
natural event: for Fay, who also magni-
fies a snake into a dragon, dreams of the
wind as an eagle “watching with baleful
eyes for a chance to strike in earnest”
and Brian, when the storm strikes his
boat, hears “demon voices, some wailing,
some triumphant, bringing images of
devils riding and hounds giving tongue.”
What was really required to bring this
Story into the class of Moby Dick and
Lord Jim —two novels mentioned in the
course of it —was not demon voices, but
more convincing human voices. •
Gold, Grizzlies, Indians .
Angus Grahame’s The Golden Grind-
stone (Digest Publications, Melbourne) is
a factual account of a Scottish-Canadian’s
adventures during the ’96 Klondike gold-
rush. The adventurer, whose story Angus
Grahame has recorded and edited, is
George M. Mitchell, who, as Grahame
-.pictures him, is still to be seen in Quebec
—as a businessman in a bowler hat:
You may think of him on a summer
afternoon at the Garrison Club, sitting with
a guest at the small iron table under the
black walnut; they have tea and toast,
and Mr. Mitchell is lecturing the stranger
for the good of his soul. It may be five
thousand tons of beans, piled upon a rock
in the Gulf of St. Lawrence with a nasty
flaw in the insurance; Mr. Mitchell knows
what to do, who will take on the salvage,
and how the insurance company may be
made to take a charitable view. Or it may
be sugar—big forward purchases made and
the bottom dropping out of Barbados.
But the picture which the reader of this
book should chiefly try to form is Mr.
Mitchell in his den....its walls hung with
guns and rifles, pictures of dogs, Indians’
knives and embroidered leatherwork and
the piece of mammoth’s tusk that he had
found in the Valley of Noises.
For the Australian reader the surpris-
ing thing about The Golden Grindstone
is its realism. Since Jack London, tales
of prospectors in the frozen North,
wolves and huskies and what-not are
common enough, a convention of howl-
ing blizzards and hearty voices. But,
just as one feels that Angus Grahame
has seen Mitchell, sitting at a table lectur-
ing a stranger on sugar, so there is a
clear impression that Mitchell has seen
his wolves and grizzlies and Indians.
And it is a chastening thought that,
whereas scores of Australian writers have
seen Old Australian Characters with
appropriate bush inlpedimenta, very few
have bothered to look at them at Rand-
wick, or coming from the Sydney wool
sales to have a drink at Aaron’s or the
Metropole, or down at Melbourne for
the Cup. Despite taxation, they still
do these things, and a glance at one
aspect would lighten up the blue cattle
dog and greenhide whips and blackened
billies.. Put them, as it were, into per-
spective.
The realism is maintained throughout
The Golden Grindstone. And, for a
Canadian reader, the description of the
early part of Mitchell’s travels, along the
Mackenzie, and along the Wind River,
and through a variety of perils (among
them monstrous mosquitoes) is probably
very interesting: and anyone with a keen
geographical sense and the wit to follow
the frequent maps might well find it
absorbing. But, as narrative, it drags.
Although, here and there in salty pockets
are Mitchell’s observations, richly flavored
with his outlook and personality. He
doesn’t like Americans; he dislikes Rus-
sians ; has no time for the Eskimo,
although he admits that other white men,
who knew more about them than he
did, spoke fairly of them—the Arch-
bishop of Rupert’s Land, for instance,
who lived, with them for 30 years. ?
There are brawls, shootings, Miners’
Courts. But the most interesting part
of the book deals with the Indians, with
whom Mitchell lived after he broke his
knee. And, concurrently, there are bears,
wolves, moose and caribou. There is the
ceremonial song the Indians sing to a
bear after they have slain him: —
We apologise for depriving you of your
life—you who are the real owner of the
forests and woods and rivers, which God
gave you to be your own place to live in.
We are compelled to take your life from
you in order that we may live—for our
own immediate food and also to take your
wivk'and 6 children?’ ~ may Sl ' PP ° rt
And there is the dramatic council meet-
ing Mitchell called when threatened with
death He escaped, mainly by claiming
an mhmate acquaintance with Queen
_ ... f . ... .
“Well, one day Queen Victoria will ask,
‘Where is Chief Mitchell?’ Nobody will
know. Then, when she can get no answer
from her councillors, she will send out
the°counny”—— SC ° UtS WiU
Through it all comes a nicture of the
through it all comes a . P icture °t “Jf
fowie ""a 8 full '5
prejudices, and with not a little conceit,
With a dty. and very grim humor, the
wisdom of a practical man , and wit
stout, almost incidental courage.
Of death there is plenty: even a chap-
ter on torture, although Mitchell’s Indians
had ceased the ceremonious practice of
it, and the account is secondhand. And
a grim, dramatic little picture of a
murder by Eskimo (Mitchell uses Eskimo
for the plural) whom Mitchell hated,
despite the Archbishop of Rupert’s
Land: —
Suddenly while they were parleying an
Eskimo on each side seized his arms and
wrenched them back very quickly, so that
, his shoulders must have been dislocated.
Then the thud man took his snow-knife,
ripped the other one s: seal-skin shirt open
down the front, ?nd began to scratch he
belly from the midriff downwards with the
point—first- gently and then with increasing
, .. .... , ,
The murderer said: You ve a louse on
you, biting you; I I dig him put—dig him
out—dig him out’—all the time he was
cutting into him.
The Eskimo Mitchell also states, were
unclean. But he has a high opinion of the
Indians, found they weren t stolid at all,
but very excitable, though possessed oi. a
real dignity And despite bad Indians
—one _of whom tried to slay him with a
silver bullet—and other unamiable Indian
customs, such as their tolerance of
Wisteneaus, medicine men who allegedly
dined on new-born babies, Mitchell seems
sorry to leave them. And so is the reader.
"The Wits Are Out"
In the centre of Gavin Casey’s novel
The Wits Are Out (Angus and Robertson)
stands a ten-gallon keg of beer. And
this noble object, and its contents, are
treated with a becoming reverence:
They went out to the keg, feeling warm
and friendly towards each other, and
superior to the mob. The beer still gurgled
in a rich brown stream, cold, refreshing
and strong. They settled down to friendly
drinking.
The proud owner of the keg is
a nondescript person named Bill, a
motor salesman. Bill, for a Casey hero,
is a merry fellow. Early in the book he
has “trouble to stop himself from laugh-
ing” and he “lets his face fall in mirthful
wrinkles.” Five Times he “chuckles” or
“giggles” and on page 157 he positively
“bellows with mirth.”
Bill may well yield to a little mirth
now and again, for when the novel opens,
on Saturday afternoon, he has already
had “a few beers” —say, four—on knock-
ing-off at lunchtime; and by the time
the party ends, early on Sunday morning,
he has had, as far as can be accurately
computed, another 24 beers in large
glasses, as well as at least two sherries.
Allowing him a few extra glasses for
times when he “settles down to serious
drinking,” Bill has had altogether between
35 and 40 drinks —not an impossible total,
if memory serves correctly, but certainly
enough to make him chuckle.
Since the novel, in addition to Bill’s
chuckles, has a comparatively happy end-
ing, it is obvious that Gavin Casey has
made a determined effort to cheer his
hero up. If he, and Bill, and 40 beers
can do anything about it. The Wits Are
Out is not going to be so dismal a novel
as was Downhill Is Easier.
This is a creditable attempt. But the
things that make Bill chuckle are not, it
must be said, usually very pleasant; and
when they are his mirth quickly gives
way to a gloom quite as black as that
of Downhill Is Easier.
His almost insuppressible laughter and
“mirthful wrinkles” on page three are
aroused by the fact that, hanging about
the kitchen and “snarling,” he has made
his wife burn the food she is cooking
for the party. His chuckle on page four!
though one of simple amusement at his
children, is quickly extinguished by the
hope that there was something with a
little more dignity and decency ahead of
young Bill than being a motor salesman
His “giggling” on page 14 is the realisa-
tion that he has “made an ass of himself’
by losing his temper with his wife An
page 13. . He is “tickled” on page 56
because a character he dislikes has fled
to escape being bashed by a drunk. Both
he and his wife are giggling on page 61
because they have arranged to make Bill’s
boss, whose presence at the party they
resent, drunk on whisky. The “impulse
to chuckle” on page 114 comes just after
Bill nas manhandled and attempted to
bash another of his guests. When he
chuckles on page 138 he is just about
to throw a log of wood at a couple mak-
ing love and his “bellow of mirth” on
page 157 comes just after he has led a
drunk to be sick over another pair of
lovers in the dark.
Bill is, in fact, in spite of all the
attempts to warm him up, a dismal fellow.
His pleasure in the party keeps “seeping.”
Sometimes, in the familiar Casey formula,
he “feels good,” then he “feels bad,” and
though he goes to bed “feeling grateful
and optimistic” one cannot help suspecting
that next day he will feel very bad in-
deed ; and, as life goes on, feel worse
and worse and worse. And, besides being
dismal. Bill is a monster. Chivalry to a
drunken friend is all very well, but it is
not nice to wish to kick an erring wife’s
teeth in ; nor, having bashed her lover
with a log, to wish that you had bashed
her instead. Nor, for that matter, is it
nice to stamp on the toes of guests you
have invited to your party but do not
like. It is not, indeed, in any way a
nice party:
The rest sat about and let their beer go
flat. The women... .felt neglected and
slightly resentful of being robbed of the
fun of the party. They were aware of
changes that the years had worked, when
they remembered attentive males and con-
trasted them with the husbands with thin-
ning hair and thickening bodies who pre-
ferred clustering around a barrel of beer
to their company... .They wished they had
been flash prostitutes They felt nervous
and irritable, and their heads started to
ache, and the flat beer didn’t improve
things.
*
Of course Gavin Casey overdoes the
gloom and squalor; there is, apparently,
nothing he enjoys so much as writing'
a thoroughly miserable story. There is a
measure of truth in the midst of his
exaggeration and, regarded as a puri-
tanical attack on beer, Bill, ambition,
love, marriage, adultery and children
who may grow up into motor salesmen—
on the whole tragic-comedy of life—
The Wits Are Out is not unimpressive.
But it takes a Swift really to make a
work of art of social satire; for, beyond
his wit and imagination, those qualities
of entertainment in which Casey is alto-
gether lacking, Swift had that kind of
genius which, seeming to attack the
human spirit, affirmed by its violent
splendor the very thing he was denying.
Casey’s attack, being minor, is merely
depressing. Moreover it is muddled ; for
it is not at all certain that Casey recog-
nises he is attacking all his characters
and that he is showing his hero as a
monster. Does he know, for instance,
that Bill has invited the boss to the party
for only one reason —to make himself
miserable and the evening a failure?
Where Swift and Sinclair Lewis frankly
attack man for making life what it is,
Casey prefers to side-step by attacking
life for what it has made man. Bill, the
assumption is, was a beautiful baby, or
a beautiful adolescent, but life warped
him.
This sort of writing passes for “real-
ism” ; it is, more correctly, satire con-
fused by sentimentality. And, beyond
that, a fantasy and a formula. It is as
impossible to believe that Bill was ever
a beautiful baby or that people would go
to his parties as it is to credit that old
Kingston (a railwayman at the party]
had “never had any fun in his life
except the rather grim fun of talking
Bill. The novel in its total effect repeats
Casey’s familiar lamentation and in
details repeats and elaborates a shor.
story published in It's Harder for Girls-


Anthony Horderns 1 presents
w
The brilliant new
HENDERSON
Australia's finest
fur felt hat
23'6
In glowing shades of light grey, medium grey, blue and
brown, in all head-sizes.
■
m
m
r
\
■ : y:y
|||
HHI
i M
y
Hi
v;
m
-
ivvv.
■ _
■
■
m
mm
m
i
i
m
V
iH vv
WBP
W
i
V . ;
.
.... J
CREST
ROYAL
• ' :
mm
mm
jpim
% ... ?
Created for men who demand hat craftsmanship at its best. “Royal
Crest” introduces the slightly tapered crown in conjunction with
2|-inch brim. It’s another example of a Henderson touch that
starts a trend. In Appearance, Quality and Value, “Royal Crest”
represents the finest Henderson ever. You’ll find it comfortable
and companionable. Notably styled and meticulously crafted from
pure fur. A hat of traditional Henderson quality.
Men’s Hats are on the Ground Floor , George Street .
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE: M 2-401, DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C, C.P.0.. SYDNEY,


Are you without a
VALE T?
This superb
IMPORTED RAZOR SET
available everywhere!
IT I
These Valet features bring new enjoyment to
your daily shave . . .
• Self-stropping. A few quick strokes on the
strop give you “new blade” speed and com-
fort with every shave.
• Simple in construction. Easy to clean,
nothing to unscrew, nothing to take apart.
• Easy-opening clips.
Blade changing takes
but a second.
THIS SET CONTAINS
VALET RAZOR, STROP
AND 3 BLADES
w
10'3
STROPS
ITSELF
AND EVERY
MORNING GIVES
A PERFECT SHAVE
Serve the ALL-ROUND Favourite
Serve QILBEYS allround
vs®
>
. dm
<gi
Lj
i
|y
m
id
'■M mm
v>- ■
1
3&%1:£
ire > N|
'il:?
v
s
i»
3*
fpf?
W
iff.
.yd:
"
v, VL%#vl
'* —■ ■- si ““
The unanimous choice of Gilbey's is not alone an acknowledgment
of its excellence it is a recognition of the versatile character of
“this splendid spirit. As the base of your most ingenious cocktails,
or the foundation of the finest long drinks, Gilbey's is unquestionably
the "all-round" spirit.
S
00 n
say
Qilbeys
THE WOR L 6> STANDARD BY WHICH All GINS ARE JUDGED
G/1696
. Missing FriencU.
TO ALLAN KENNETH ROSS formerly of Erica in
the State of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife has commenced divorce proceedings against
you on the ground of desertion Unless you enter
an appearance in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of the State of Victoria in Melbourne
within 21 days from the date of publication of this
advertisement the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs If you intend
to defend this suit you must also file an answer
in the said office within 31 days from the date
hereof—ROY SCHILLING, LL.B., 379 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Proctor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.—
In Divorce.
TO DALLAS ATHELSTON DENEHEY formerly of
Fitzgerald in Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that a
Petition has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a notice to you to appear and answer the charges
of GWENDOLINE JOYCE DENEHEY of 13 Baker
Street Lenah Valley in Tasmania praying for a dis-
solution of marriage In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereof AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the purposes
aforesaid within thirty days after the date of pub-
lication hereof an appearance must be entered at
the Principal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. —(1.5.) J. K-
REX, Principal Registrar.
N. 8.; Friends of the abovenamed DALLAS ATHEL-
STON DENEHEY who may see this.advertisement are
requested to bring it under his notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.—
In Divorce.
TO ERIC GEORGE STEPHEN WILLIAMS formerly
of Peddar Street New Town in Tasmania.—TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear and answer
the charges of SIGNA MARY WILLIAMS of 13
Arnold Street Glenorchy in Tasmania praying for
a dissolution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address tfie
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereof AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid within thirty days after the
date of publication hereof an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart—(LS.;
J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
N.B. — Friends of the abovenamed ERIC GEORGE
STEPHEN WILLIAMS who may see this advertise-
ment are requested to bring it under his notice.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Short History of English Literature,
by B. Ifor Evans, Boswell’s Life of Johnson,
Modern Plays (Everyman’s edition), collected
essays by Addison, Bacon and Hazlitt, and
Modern Verse (World’s Classics edition).—4oBB.
To buy books of poems by Roy Campbell.—
4090.
To buy Ewart’s Flora of Victoria. —4091.
Words of verse beginning:
Because you would not think, we had to die,
0 world, there is a better way to serve.
—4089.
To buy copy of “Knowing,” printed by
D. W. Patterson, Melbourne, and “The Hun-
garian Dance,” No. 6, by Liszt, for piano.—
4087.
Information Sought.
Description of India’s new national flag?
It is a horizontal tricolor with bands in deep
saffron, white and dark green in equal propor-
tion. In the centre of the white band there
is a wheel in navy blue, the design being that
of the wheel which appears on the abacus of
the Sarnath lion capital of Asoka.
What constitutes a highway, road, street,
avenue and parade in N.S.W. ?
Under the N.S.W. Main Roads Act public
roads in N.S.W., except those within the City
of Sydney, may be proclaimed as main roads,
the most important classes being; (a) State
highways, which form the principal avenues of
road communication between the coast and the
interior or throughout the State and connect
similar avenues in other States. (b) Trunk
roads, which are the secondary avenues, form-
ing with the State highways the framework of
a general system of intercommunication
throughout the State, (c) Ordinary main roads,
which are those roads that carry a proportion
of through traffic but are primarily of service
to fairly confined local areas. The Standards
Assoc, of Aust. has issued a “Glossary of
Terms used in Road Engineering” in which
higltway is defined as a principal road in a
road system, a road as the entire way devoted
to public travel, including the footway or other
public places if such exist, and a street as a
road within an urban (as distinct from a rural)
district. Although the terms “avenue” and
“parade” are not defined it is apparent that
these fall within the same definition as for a
“street.”
We have a small waterhole on our Cunna-
mulla (Q.) property with bore water running
through it. Would it be possible to stock it
with fish, and, if so, what species do you recom-
mend ?
The fish likely to be most suited for intro-
duction would be the golden perch or yellow-
belly. They grow to a length of 24 inches and
a weight of at least 101 b., though examples of
such size are rare. Young fish could possibly
be obtained from waterholes adjacent to the
Warrego or Paroo rivers by means of hand
scoops during the dry-weather periods. It
is not recommended that such species as the
cod be introduced, as in such a small area they
would prey upon each other until only one or
two survived, their nature being both pug-
nacious and voracious.
What are the rules regarding a scrummage in
Rugby Union games?
In all cases when the referee orders a scrum-
mage, or one team exercises its right to claim
a scrummage, the referee shall award to the
team which is not responsible for the stoppage
of play the right of putting the ball in the
scrummage. >n case of doubt the referee shall
award such right to the team which is terri-
torially on the defensive. The referee may
order the ball to be put into the scrummage
on either side.
1 am a so-called acid subject with rheumatic
tendencies. Are oranges, lemons, etc., harmful
and what is a suitable diet ?
The citric acid content in oranges and lemons
is converted into carbonates in the system, so
these cannot be classed as harmful. The acid
subject must curtail sugar and starchy foods,
boiled potatoes, tomatoes, grape-fruit, stone-
fruits, jam, cheese, rice and tapioca. Permis-
sible diet includes mutton, lamb, chicken,
rabbit, fresh fish, cabbage, spinach, celery,
cauliflower, onions, pumpkin, marrow, weak
tea, cocoa, milk, butter, toast and clear soup.
Avoid pork, ham, veal, corned beef, preserved
meats, peas, beans, cucumber, sauces, pickles
and pastry. Drink liquids freely between meals.
Brief Answers.
A.A.: Les Darcy was the second child in
a family of eleven... .A.D.: (1) Eduard
Gnutzner was a German painter of some note,
born 1846, died 1878, and is recorded as having
several pictures in various European galleries.
(2) Impossible to value a picture without having
seen it. Suggest that you approach any repu-
table Melbourne art dealer... .A.A.H.: Write
United Kingdom Information Office, Prudential
Bldg., Martin-place, Sydney, for booklet “Post-
war Britain, 1946” A. 0.: “Nirvana" Com-
mercial Cake Decoration (235. 9d.), obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .F.C.; Write N.S.W.
Agricultural Dept., Farrer-place, Sydney, for
leaflet on blackberry eradication F.S.J.:
Article “The Underground in Borneo” appeared
in The Bulletin of October 9, 1946, and “The
Underground at Sandakan” in the issue of
October 16, 1946... .R.D.L.; See John D.
Fitzgerald’s Studies in Australian Crime, page
131, and Pugh’s “Almanac” for 1899, page 89,
at the Public Library, Hobart K.W.: Write
to S. F. Ferguson, Director, Australian Asso-
ciation of British Manufacturers, 84 William-
street, Melbourne J.8.C.: Clarice Young,
3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, undertakes the
restoration of old paintings... .K.E.C.: Such,
a list could be compiled from the various
commercial directories published in the different
States and available at the Public Library ot
N.S.W., Macquarie-street, Sydney... .A. 08.:
Seed stocks are scarce owing to post-war diffi-
culties, but the seed may be obtained from
Hazelwood Bros., Epping (N.S.W.), or other
commercial nurseries. Failing these sources it
is suggested that you collect your own seed,
which ripens from December to February. L
frosts are not too severe seed can be sown in
autumn; if severe, sow in spring. They can
be sown in seed box or bed and then trans-
planted. However, the best method is to sow
the seed directly into burnt jam-tins, which can
be cut away when plant is large enough to place
in permanent position... .W.J.: Regulation’s
controlling the sale of land are still operative.
Suggest that you write to Land Sales Control,
Mercantile Mutual Bldg., 117 Pitt-street, Sydney.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOSEPHINE ALICE BATTYE late of 8 Gosford
Road Broadmeadow and to DONALD MASON late of
162 George Street Redfem. —TAKE NOTICE that
THOMAS CARLTON BATTYE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2020 of 1947 on the ground of your
adultery and that he is claiming damages against
the co-respondent AND TAKE NOTICE that if you
\vish to defend you may enter appearances in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the 3rd October 1947 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from S. E. COOK &
SON, Solicitors, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.—(l.b.)
0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF. NEW SOUTII
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HAROLD ROBERTS also known as HAROLD
FONTAINE late of 59 Lavender Street Milson’s Point
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that WILLIAM ALEXANDER HORNSEY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 220 of 19.44 against LOLA
Daphne Alexandria hornsey on the grounds
of her adultery with you If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Regis-
try Supreme Court Sydney by Ist day of October
1947 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from C. W. ROBINSON, Solicitor, 74 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
TO GORDON JAMES WORBOYS late of Phillip
Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA
WORBOYS has iiled a Petition for Restitution of
Conjugal Rights No. 2138 of 1947 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 18th November 1947 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from MESSRS. Mc-
FADDEN & McFADDEN, Solicitors, of 26 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce. .
Legal Notice.
SNOWBALL—IN THE MATTER of the Estate of
JAMES SNOWBALL late of Stirling Street Perth in
the State of Western Australia Retired Builder De-
ceased.—WlLL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
GORDON BRUCE SNOWBALL, son of GEORGE
HUNTER SNOWBALL, late of Stirling Street, Perth,
in the State of Western Australia, and a grandson of
JAMES SNOWBALL, late of the same address, or
the whereabouts of any child of the said GORDON
BRUCE SNOWBALL, please communicate with THE
WEST AUSTRALIAN TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED, of 135 St. George’s
Terracd, Perth, in the said State. The said Gordon
Bruce Snowball was last heard of in Sydney in the
State of New South Wales in the year 1914, he
being then 23 years of age.—HARDWICK, SLAT-
TERY & GIBSON, of Victoria House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for The West Australian
Trustee, Executor and Agency Company Limited.
STORY
OLYMPIC
GAMES'
STAMINA
At the ancient Olympic
Games, the roughest event
was boxing, or the “Cestus”.
Knuckledusters were in or-
der! Hands were bound with
leather straps strengthened
with nails, lead buckles or
bars. Competitors fought
naked. Some did not survive
the contestl
r
j
a
lv
I
k
YOU MUST HAVE StortUnCL TO B B
AN OLYMPIC GAMES CHAMPION!
StoutciM. is built into Olympic Tyres by skilled Aus-
tralians, using the finest raw materials in> Australia's
most modern tyre plant. ♦
TYRES
100% AUSTRALIAN
AND CHAMPIONS
OF THE ROAD!
A product of the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Ltd.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Question and Answer:
No. I
The more significant
of the qualities and
aptitudes developed
by Pelmanism are:
OBSERVATION
SERF-CONFIDENCE
WILE-POWER
CONCENTRATION
DECISION
ORGANISATION
JUDGMENT
SOCIAL EASE
INITIATIVE
and a
THOROUGHLY
DEPENDABLE
MEMORY
APPROVAL.
The Pelman Course is approved
by the War Office, London, and
under the Commonwealth Re-
construction Training Scheme,
LIFE and BEHAVIOUR?
We are often asked if Pelmanism is a course in psychology.
Psychology has been termed the study of behaviour, behaviour
not only in the social circles in which we move but also in our work,
play and leisure interests, in all the countless acts, many of them
unpremeditated, which are part and parcel of the process of living.
, The function of Pelmanism is, by increasing the efficiency of the
individual, to shorten the time taken over necessary and useful acts,
to eliminate those no longer useful but continued by force of habit,
to find new and more effective ways of doing things, to intensify real
interests and to discard those which dissipate time and energy without
enlarging life or personality, to create good habits of mind and
memory, to encourage feeling for what is in the pupil’s best interests
and to develop the power of thought and judgment so that the “drive,”
the energy which feeling gives, is controlled and directed into pro-
ductive channels.
Every printed line in the Pelman Course, every exercise, every
word in the personal instruction given, is concerned with the pupil’s
behaviour as an individual in his gainful occupation, in his social life
and in the other employments of his leisure. The answer to the question
is clear: Pelmanism is psychology applied to one practical end, the
successful conduct of life.
“The Efficient Mind” describes, in detail, The Pelman Course and the full personal service
which the Pelman Institute gives. Copies are posted free.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements
to meet the financial restric-
tions and enable residents of
New Zealand to enrol for the
Pelman Course of Training
without delay. Write in the
first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
TO The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
194
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
W.McK.: It’s hardly an improvement to
rhyme “hope” with “yoke” Victorian Awma:
“My friends suggested I submit the poem to
you.” Drop those friends P.S.L.: When last
sighted “Grasshopper Green” was hopping madly
up George-street to the G.P.O C.M.: A
touch of lyricism, but they’re very thin ashes.
....G.A.8.: Too long and too flat, but they’re
dinkum. Why not try writing your reminiscences
l in prose? And there are Abo. pars M.L.:
Verse ragged, humor forced L.O’D.: Your
poem on the Bathurst ghost is a blood-curdling
scream D.E.T.: Apparently you have had
an illuminating thought. It is expressed, how-
ever, in total darkness J.C.: Try it on the
girl.... The Stranger: That poem’s no stranger,
anyhow M-D.S.: Have a look at Paterson’s
“Black Swans”... .J. 1.8.: Contributions from
that “area” would certainly be welcome; but
they’d have to be much better than the sample.
....Manfred: Four Flush Annie is too Ameri-
can for this market Bellerive: Fare forward,
traveller: —
R.A.C.; Condense and avoid the use of so
many adjectives J.P.: Didn't we disqualify
that jockey a year or so ago? K.8.J.: Board-
ing-house story too much like James Edmond’s
“A Row in Our Boarding House” A.P.:
Your street musician was ordered to move on.
N.D.: “Recollections of a Philosophical
Anarchist” is hardly our meat Q.W.: Jungle
story too improbable P.M.A.: So they’re
still selling that sundial to country chaps?
F.W.S.: Steele Rudd in a modern setting
O. : You’re nearly half a century behind
Jack London P.H.G.: At present our cata-
combs are cluttered with “beautiful dusky
maidens and drunken brutal skippers” C.S.:
Story of saloon-bar brawl between poet and
potman never came to life L.P.: Found
“The Amazing Adventures of Augustus Apple-
cart” dull and dreary... .W.H.8.: “May it
please your editor.” Sorry, William, it didn’t.
A.A.M.: “This story was written beneath
the light of a hurricane-lamp in a little bush
shack.” .It was rejected beneath the light of an
electric globe in a large city office EJ.R.:
Too sentimental for u5.,..C.F.: “All her life
Elsa lived in cramped quarters.” She should
be at home, then, in the w.p.b R.T.:
Another outback feud settled by marriage
P. : Well, at least we now know how to
deal with bailiffs A.J.T.: Found your
shyster lawyer an engaging rascal; his frauds,
however, are hoary ones D.M.W.: You got
away to a good start, but stumbled badly in
the middle C.P.: “Ralph was tall, dark and
handsome; Silas was mean, hairy and under-
sized.” Ralph, of course, won “fair and
beauteous Helen” G.H.W.: Reads more like
a contribution to an encyclopaedia than a short
story L.M.: * We didn’t mind your hero
being a philatelist, but we got fed-up with his
long, technical descriptions of his collection
N.H.: Put it aside and come at it again later.
D.H.B.: “I’m bursting with a hundred
ideas for short stories.” Couldn’t you burst
somewhere else? ... .M.C.W.: “Mail Car”
couldn’t make the grade... .E.O’S.: You have
an eye for local color, but you’re a muddling
story-teller... .M. 8.: We’ve lost count of the
times we’ve met that trick ending... .J.L.M.:
You have more optimism than talent
C.R.S.: An unreal situation slickly described.
J.B.H.: Can’t see you earning a crust with
your pen....5.L.: Far-fetched plot and stilted
dialogue J.C.A.: As yet, they’re only can-
didates for the w.p.b E.H.N.: Have you
ever sailed in a whaler? K.D.: Take your
thugs away W.J.C.T.: A p.-0.-w. story
needs to be more than a mere recital of bash-
ings and beatings R.L.: What are you trying
to write—slogans for a desk-calendar or a short
story? W.Y.: Heaved out of the window
bank manager who put £5OOO of his bank’s
money on a neddy that won at 100 to 1
G.S.S.; Surely you didn’t expect us to swallow
that improbability? R.R.F.: “Slugger”
Brown was knocked out in the first round
T.S.F.: A feeble little effort... .A. 8.: Not for
us L.T.: “Candid Confessions of a Candid
Cameraman” might suit a daily W.W.: We
meet few as poor as that sample S.V.H.:
Harold and Mabel are trudging their way home.
F.G.: You’re still an apprentice at the
game R. 8.: A rejection slip was pinned it
in record time.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.R.: An untidy collection of misplaced
scratches G.W.: Why give your maidens
broomsticks for legs?..: .PJ.T.: Spent several
minutes trying to unravel cartoon on the inter-
national situation, then gave it up G.FJD.:
Picture of battered-looking swagman seated be-
side a campfire, minus caption, hardly sufficient
for us A.P.: You’ll be turning them in next
on the back of tram tickets W.H.H.: Send
your English squires and yokels to London
“Punch” T. 8.; At least you’ve broken new
ground—you’ve shown Chifley smoking a cigar.
D.L.: It’s about time that drunk paid a
visit to Alcoholics Anonymous S.G.P.:
Your drunk has also had more than a fair
innings H. 8.: If that’s what you saw at
Wynyard statloif you had better go Home
another way D.F.: You just about managed
the laurel wreath, but made a poor job of the
rest W.J.J.: Best feature of your effort was
the rolling-pin A.C.H.: Original gags are
always wanted and are paid 7s. 6d. each on
acceptance M.C.8.: The lad needs a few
years at an art school P.S.: Send you a
cheque! More likely it will be a bill from our
optician 8.M.M.: Promising; keep on try-
ing 8.P.H.: They’re dressed like American
cowboys and talk like English rustics M.F. :
Was not amused by the chain-smoker nor the
maiden with pitchforks for hands... .W.M.:
Faint scribblings on brown paper dropped
gently into the basket P.E.J.: That’s one
fish we’# prepared t® let get away from us
H.Vi: The barmaids look comely, the beer
inviting, but the jest is several decades
old D.E.: A.cartoon that needs to be ex-
plained in a three-page covering letter is of no
use to us L.L.: You’re still a scratcher
M.T.: Bright drawing handicapped by a dead
joke.
TRAVELS IN A WAGON.
4.—THE MORN OF THE MORROW.
The sun shone out,
’Twas calm and fine
When we set off at
The hour of nine.
We called at a inn
In a social way—
For flowing bowls
The chief did pay.
The route was lonely—
All that we seen
Was an old hay cart
And spaces of green.


YOU NEVER
CAN'T TELL
By Brian James
THEY called it a
street, that is in
the grand and
exaggerated map
of Laidla\t it figured
as Graham - street,
though in reality it
was rather a meaning-
less lane. But Laid-
law was like that,
once you were away
from the town proper
there were endless
lanes—provision for a
future that never
came.
These town blocks
of hope and pro-
phecy were merely squares of cultivated
land—maize and cow-cane and potatoes,
or more likely paddocks for the herds of
Jerseys, sleek in the lush days, and angular
and bony as only JerseyS can be in the
dry times.
That was like Laidlaw, too —a touch-
ing faith in Providence to look after
those cows, so a silo or a stack was never
even thought of.
Graham-street started at a river curve
and finished nowhere in particular. Most
of the way it ran parallel with the
Graham, with the square paddocks be-
tween, except in one part—about 200
yards—where it ran along the river bank.
Up and down went the street, in the
undulations of little hills and Inflows,
which were #nerely the ancienqWanks
and beds of the Graham. Ncfw the
Graham in its present confines ran
smooth and majestic to the sea ; and be-
hind the broad easy curve of its path,
beyond the countless trees of Laidlaw,
and its one tall spire, was the blue of
the dreaming ranges where the river had
its birth.
(~* RAHAM - STREET had only two
houses in it, the homes of two dairy
farms. They were about a quarter of a
mile apart, perhaps a shade less than that,
and between them was*the swell of a
ridge and two dimpling hollows.
One of these houses was pretentious,
red-roofed, nestling among the varied
greens of camphor laurel, jacaranda and
fig. It was the home of the Spilmanns.
Every detail of it, apd of the sheds and
outhouses, fences, paddosjcs, cowyard and
dairy was proof of the oft-repeated state-
ment : “There’s no doubt about it, but if
you want to see a good farm you have to
go to the Germans: you have to give
them that.”
Not that Otto Spilmann was so very
German any more, except in name, some-
what so in appearance, and what three
generations in Australia had left of his
peasant descent and outlook.
There were other things, too, largely
founded on the quick and sketchy genera-
lisations of neighbors who were not of
German stock.
“He’s well in,” they would say in a
tone of reproach. “He’s well in, all right
—and so he ought to be. Hard as nails.
Tough, too, on his family—you don’t
find any of them talking out of turn, you
bet. That’s the German in him. They
are all like that.”
OTTO was nearly fifty, and looked no
more than forty. And he was worth
looking at twice, if for nothing else for
his air of well-being and health and his
easy strength. There was nothing of
the giant about him —not much above
middle height, but all of it powerful.
Light brown of hair, blue of eye, straight
of nose, and a fair moustache clipped like
a neat toothbrush: there was nothing
formidable or sinister about him per-
sonally, except a general suspicion that
he was not to be trifled with.
There was Mrs. Otto —of Scottish
descent she was, though she must have
forgotten about it,
people said. A good
friendly _ soul, and
easygoing, consider-
ing. There were six
children —“The Ger-
mans again ; they do
like a lot of
children.”
The oldest, a son,
worked on the dairy
and farm with his
father ; the two eldest
girls worked in
town, cycling to and fro every day; the
next two, a boy and girl, went to the
local high school; and the youngest,
coming after a wide gap of years, was an
attractive-looking lad of nine.
Young Charlie was. the apple of Otto’s
eye—Charlie could do no wrong: he was
the hope of the family. Otto may have
been’a trifld severe with his other children,
carping and censorious at times, but he
was nothing but kindness and affection
to Charlie.
One gathered that Otto could never
be very deeply hurt through the older
part of his family, but he was extremely
Vulnerable through Charlie.
Nor did Charlie ever seek advantage
from this favor. There were a candor
ana honesty, a sense of fitness and fair-
ness to him that had a touch of quaint-
ness in it.
At night Otto always asked Charlie —
“How did you get on today?”
“Real well, thank you. Dad.”
“What lessons did you have?”
Charlie would tell him, and his father
would sift the lot through to make sure
there was no culpable neglect on the part
of Charlie’s teacher. Then, “What did
you play?”
“Marbles are in again, Dad.”
“Qki you win qny games?”
“Anew, Dad. But I lost mostly.”
“Keeps, eh?”
“Yes, Dad.”
“Who beat you?”
“Dicky George—he won four off me.”
Otto frowned. “The Georges were
always like that. Never could do any-
thing or play anything unless they were
taking someone down.” *
“Oh, Dad, he played fair. It was just
my bad luck. Anyway, Dicky is a better
player than I am.”
“That’s just it, Charlie. He plays with
you because he knows he can beat you.
I know the Georges.”
! Otto!” interposed Mrs. Spil-
m" “it’s only a game after all, and
if a boy plays far keeps he must be pre-
pared to lose. Isn’t that so, Charlie?”
“Yes, Mother.”
But Otto still didn’t like it. Stupid
no doubt to take such a trifle to heart,
but Otto couldn’t help that.
“After all,” argued Mrs. Spilmann,
“there’s no harm done; and Charlie
must look after himself. You can’t
always be taking his part.”
Otto grumbled under his breath about
the Georges “knew this one’s grand-
father, and they were always the same.”
THE other house in Graham-street was
the Careys’. In every way a contrast
to the Spilmann place. There was a
large air of neglect about everything the
Careys were or possessed.
The house was bare and squalid-look-
ing, proving somehow that a city is not
necessary for a slum —you can have one
in a single house in the middle of a
paddock. The sheds all leaned, and one
of them had long since flattened to the
ground as though it had been sat on
heavily. It remained where it fell. The
Carey fences also leaned, and many a
rotted post was kept up by wire—such
knotted, tangled, kinked, rusted wire.
There was only the one tree on all the
30 acres of the “farm,” and that a bunya-
pine, down the slope a little in front
of the house. It was the only thing that
flourished really, and once it nearly had
sentence of death passed upon it for
dropping a huge cone and killing a calf.
Con Carey was a big, loosely-built
man with a fine genial way of taking
humanity in big, broad swathes. Very
friendly, with a turn for loud wit, and a
gusty laugh of his own always to accom-
pany it.
Political, too ; he had been in the thick
of every election
fight for over 30
years). His political
faith was pinned to
the future when
“well thrample the
oppressors under
our heels.”
In the matter of
work he relied on
the prowess of the
past, a dim and
nebulous past;
“Once I could,” he
often said. “There was) nothing I
couldn’t do then. But not now.” No one
else had any clear recollection of the
great and active days of Con Carey.
Con’s mother had been a Spilmann,
aunt to Otto. So Con and Otto were
cousins. Neither was particularly proud
of the blood relationship. And notwith-
standing his mother, Con hated the Ger-
mans in general and Otto in particular.
Con considered he derived entirely from
his father, and had what he called “the
law ,and the commonsense of every
civilised nation” to prove it.
Most of the circumstances of that long-
ago marriage of Otto’s auntie to the
elder Casey had been forgotten, and those
that remained crystallised into the vivid
remembrance that a Spilmann had left her
church to marry a Carey, and that the
elder Spilmann had never forgiven her
for it, and subsequently a bitter feud had
its being in the will of that ancient
Spilmann.
When he died he left his daughter,
Mrs. Carey, nothing. Not that he had
such a lot to bequeath, but what there was
went to his sons and other daughters.
A few hundred pounds at most, but not
a penny to Mrs. Carey.
It rankled deep in the Carey breast—
“hate from the very grave, so it is, and
it’s not me would be lik-
ing to be where he is for
it,” said Carey senior.
Con inherited the
burning grievance, and
added special trimmings
to it from time to time,
as the occasion arose.
There were such constant
reminders of it too, for
the Spilmann house, and
the well-cultivated Spil-
mann padocks, and the
sleek and shiny Spilmann
cows were always in his
gaze to keep it alive,
“Look at it! ” he would
often say to one or other
of his children. “Look at it, I say!”
pointing to the Spilmann home.
“How did he come by the place, you
might well be asking*me? And by
depriving us all of what shoulj| have
been our own!”
'■"THERE was a Mrs. Carey, who®had
I been a McNamara no less, and a grand
family they were in spite of the “come
down,” and let people talk as they liked.
The “come down” of the great Mc-
Namara tribe had eventuated when old
Phelan McNamara had got into jail
over his misreading entirely the brands
on certain bullocks, and him with an
explanation that would have melted a
heart of stone, so it would. But there
were certain “yellow boys” on the jury,
and no honesty or fair play in the hearts
of certain others on that same jury, for
Phelan’s brother-in-law had “fixed” them
with a five-pound note apiece. At least
the brother-in-law said he did. But the
“Come down” had happened nonetheless.
But never a McNamara head was held
any the less high on account of it —it
being the result of so much fraud and
religious bitterness and straight-out envy
of the greatness and prominence of the
McNamaras.
It is sad to relate that at times, and
all too frequent they were, Con found it
difficult to forget that his wife’s father
had “done a stretch” for stealing bullocks.
And when he so failed to forget, the
in the home of the Careys could
be heard over the green lanes, and beyond
the broad Graham itself.
And Mrs. Carey would remember with
startling distinctness that “there had never
been much to any Carey she had ever
known,” and that Con “was half a Ger-
man by birth and a complete one by
nature.” And most unfairly she would
twit Con about his “Protestant relatives.”
But all these were interludes at most,
and quite frequently there were peace and
harmony in the home, what time Mrs.
Carey with her large mottled arms on
her hips would stand by the stove and
listen to Con’s account of the good one
he’d just been putting over Alderman
Brogan—“a flash lot the Brogans are, any-
way”—or how he let Senator Figg have
it straight from the shoulder at the big
meeting at the Town Hall.
T N the midst of such strained relations,
I the intercourse between the Careys
and the Spilmanns was slight, and as far
as Otto could manage it, reduced to the
ultimate minimum.
When Con and Otto worked in the
adjacency of paddocks, Otto passed the
time of day and made innocuous remarks
on the weather or such things in purely
perfunctory manner. And Con generally
managed to score off him in some way or
other, for Otto was slow of wit, and
slower still in taking offence or making
a quarrel.
Con would say later —“Stuck up he is
and flash, and hardly a word to say.
I’d like to be breaking the bloody neck
off him, I would,”
There might well
be some doubt of
Con’s ability to per-
form this feat of
violence, but Con had
great faith in the
beneficial effects of
breaking necks he
often did it, verbally
at least.
Con found young
Charlie especially
offensive to the sight.
The slim upright
figure, the neatness
and cleanness o f
attire, the quite un-
conscious superiority.
the personality, that in one so young
promised so much, even the contrast with
his own nondescript brood, obvious but
not admitted, all filled Con with an un-
reasoning rage.
Sometimes Charlie drove the cows past
the house in the evening when they had
been feeding on the river bank and a
stretch of reed beds.
If Charlie passed by closely enough he
would greet Con with unaffected polite-
ness, and Con would make rude and
cryptic remarks —not too cryptic either —
about smart young fellows. Not too rude
either, for Con knew he couldn’t go too
far with young Charlie
and escape Otto.
Once Con did say to
Charlie after a comment
upon the dry weather,
“If you are so fond of
water, I’d like to chuck
you into the river. I’ve
a good mind to,”
Charlie, usually of the
placid and sunny disposi-
tion, was upset over it,
and showed it to the
jealous eye of his father.
The reluctant truth was
screwed out of him, and
Otto for once was
thoroughly roused. He went straight
over to see Con,
At first Con tried abuse and bluster,
but, drunk as he was, he caught some-
thing in Otto’s eye that sobered him.
And then he knew he was wholly afraid
of Otto, and hated him more on account
of it.
“Sure, Otto, I never meant a thing. As
if I would. It was just a bit of fun, that’s
all.”
Otto despised the crawling and fastened
the true value to it.
“Look!” he said, “you are never to
speak to that boy again. Never!” Otto
didn’t threaten —there was *no need to—
he just looked it, and Con understood.
WEEKS and weeks later, in early
November, there was much rain on
the lower Graham and much more on the
upper reaches. The river had a fair
fresh in it, not a flood, nor likely to be,
for the rain had ceased and the river could
easily get rid of the water without break-
ing its banks.
It was a lovely timk after the late
spring rains, and already the slopes and
hollows were bright green, with that
touch of gold that goes with quickly
springing grass.
Milking in the Spilmann yard was
nearly over.
“I say, Charlie, where’s Buttercup?”
“I brought her up. Dad.”
“You’re slipping, Charlie —she’s not
here.”
Buttercup, in the rigid economy of the
yard, was the last to be milked. Charlie
ran his eye over the herd, and sure
enough Buttercup was not there.
“I could have been sure, Dad, I brought
her up.”
But she wasn’t there. The cows had
been on the river flat this day, not on
the reeds, of course, on account of the
fresh. Strange she hadn’t followed the
others. No cow likes being left behind.
Where on earth could she have got to?
In any case there was no place much
where a cow could hide, even if she
wanted to.
“I’ll trot along and find her, Dad.’
“No!, I’ll go as soon as I’m finished.
Or, Jack can.”
“It’ll be dark by then. Let me go
now. And I’ll be back before it’s dark
properly.” ,
“Don’t be long, then, Charlie. Shes
most likely got into someone’s paddock.
Charlie set out in the gathering dusk
in the direction of Careys’. As Otto
bailed the last cow he saw Charlie skip
down the slope of the ridge and dis-
appear into the hollow. He went on
milking.
Just as he finished, Buttercup put m an
appearance at a very fast run with a
long slab of a Carey kid urging her on.
He had brought her in from the back
of the farm —another “street,” or grassy
lane, that paralleled Graham-street.
It was no pace for a milker to travel,
and it all seemed so unnecessary. Otto
was annoyed.


<•
m
i
S 3
i
*1
a
sc»
■\*
m
m
Wl '#
«KB*s
Jm
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
TEA
FOR THE
WORKERS
Choose the
water-boiling
equipment
that will prereat
time loss
WELL-RUN tea service is an asset
to any industry. But remember that it is the
water-boiling equipment which controls the
speed of service. Carefully chosen equipment
can save the workers’ time and ensure that tea-
break's are kept strictly within the appointed
period. Type of fuel, position of water supply,
available space, number of personnel and fre-
quency of breaks—all these determine the type
of water-boiling equipment needed. There are
times, however, when some of these points are
neglected in the original planning or when
changed circumstances arise, with the result
that, instead of the water-boiling equipment
fitting satisfactorily into the tea-service, the
latter stumbles along in an attempt to accom-
modate itself t'o the watfer-boiling equipment.
* ' * ~ 1
The Tea Bureau has given much help and
advice to managements and welfare commit'-
tees either planning new tea-services or adapt-
ing old ones to current needs, and will be happy
to place the benefit of their experience at your
service, freely, and at no cost. A brochure
giving details of the advisory service offered b s y
The Tea Bureau will be sent free on request.
;
m
f\¥y
V -'
THE TEA BUREAU
If you have any Tea problems, write or ’phone The Tea Bureau, (Service Dept.),
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney (Tel. 8W6692) and 47 Queen St.,Melh. (Tfl.C.llOO)
“Hey!” he called, “what’s the hurry?”
The Carey offspring—he was about 12,
and owned the name of Fergus- —worked
his face into a grin. “She’s bullin’, father
says, and he says to take her right home.
She broke through our fence.”
“All right, all right,” said Otto. “But
you shouldn’t rush a cow like that.”
He dismissed the matter of Butter-
cup’s love affairs, and the existence of the
Carey bull —a noisy and useless animal,
anyway—and the state of the Carey fence.
Fergus, ignored, lingered awhile un-
certainly, then ran home through the
paddocks. It was nearly dark now, deep
dusk, and an endless chorus of frogs
greeted the soft evening.
Otto said, “Young Charlie ought to be
back.” The light was on in the dairy,
and Jack was just completing the wash-
ing up of the separator.
“Oh, he’ll be back any time now.”
“But he won’t know that Buttercup is
here, and he’ll keep on looking.”
“Not he,” said Jack carelessly.
BUT Otto was worried, foolishly
worried as always where Charlie
was concerned. He went to the front
gate, flanked by the two big camphor
laurels, and looked down the lane. A
figure appeared from the opposite direc-
tion. .
“that you, Charlie?” But the figure
grew to a man. It answered “No! That
you, Otto?”
It was Con Carey, seen now to be
slightly weaving, and in a friendly state
of drink. Otto thought of Buttercup, but
didn’t mention her.’
“Your Country party man’s going to
be slugged next month —see if he isn’t,”
Con began. But Otto was not in humor
to be political, even in a friendly way,
with Con Carey.
“Oh, well, good-night, Otto, me boy,”
and Con disappeared in the direction of
his home, where lights shone in every
window, and a lane of light streaked
towards the street. Just like the Careys,
Otto couldn’t help reflecting; every light
on, need it or not.
Now he gave a long-drawn whistle,
by placing two fingers in his mouth, a
shrill and carrying whistle that faded
at last, and only the endless croaking
of frogs filled the darkness, and the
weird sounds at intervals of water birds
from the half-submerged reeds, and that
distant uncertain mooing of cows.
There was no reply —only the frogs and
the waterfowl and the cows.
Mrs. Otto came out. “What is it,
Otto?” she called.
“Charlie’s not back looking for a
cow, and she’s home long ago.”,
“Oh, he’ll be here soon enough.”
“Well, he must be a long way off.
He doesn’t answer.”
But Otto didn’t go inside —he went
down the lane in the direction of the
Careys’, He met Carey, coming, for
some reason or other, or for no reason
at all, from his home.
“I shay, Otto, whash th’ whistling for?”
“I am looking for Charlie.”
Con lost his fictitious friendliness at
the name.
“Whash wrong withJ Charlie?”
“Nothing—he’s looking for a cow.”
“You ought to keep bloody cows out
of my place. Pound them nex’ time.
D’y’ hear? Pound them! You and y’r
Charlie! Pound them, d’y’ hear?”
Otto didn’t stay, and Con called out
after him “Pound them nex’ time!”
He ran now —back home. Perhaps
Charlie was there now returned the
other way. He knew really that Charlie
wasn’t there —but —he might be just the
same.
He pulled up at the gate. The front
door was open, and he could see Mrs.
Otto walking down the hall. She was
steady and unexcited. Otto stepped on
to the verandah.
“What’s wrong, Otto —you look . ,
“Is Charlie back?”
Mrs. Otto called to the kitchen where
there was the usual hubbub. “Is Charlie
there, Elsie?”
The noise stopped. “No, Mother,
why?”
Mrs. Otto caught alarm from Otto’s
face. But she said, “Oh, he’ll be back in a
minute, Otto. Why do you worry so?”
There was an impatient edge of re-
proach to her tone. Nonetheless so that
her own fear was rising. Needlessly so,
and that was Otto’s fault.
Otto went out again—the night was
full of stars now, cooler, and a brief
straying wind was sifting through the
jacaranda at the back of the house.
Foolish to panic like this! But Charlie
was such a strange soul —took things to
heart. Otto recalled with a twinge how
Charlie once couldn’t find some calves
that strayed, and how he found Charlie
that time coming along the lane —weep-
ing and heart-broken.
That was last summer, and the calves
were over, in Telford’s paddock all the
time, and not a thing wrong really. He
shouldn’t have let Charlie go after Butter-
cup.
Blast the Careys! And their fences!
And their bull!
There was only the river—and Charlie
wouldn’t go near that . . . Any minute
now—wandered far when he couldn’t find
Buttercup. That was all. Stupid to go
on like this. Any minute now . . .
He didn’t whistle again. He listened.
“Is that you, Charlie?” No reply—only
some undefined sound in the tussocks
across the lane —a hare, a dog, something.
No answer.
I F was Mrs, Otto who set the family
' to search.
Jack, the oldest of them, and a slow,
rather stolid but a most dependable
fellow, grumbled a bit. “Blime! this is a
lot of fuss for nothing—Charlie’s all
right. Still looking for that cow, that’s
all.”
Nor were the two girls who worked in
town very impressed. It seemed to them,
too, a deal of unnecessary alarm.
“You stay here then, Elsie, and I’ll go,”
said Mrs. Otto. Mrs. Otto was thor-
oughly frightened herself by now.
They went. It was an hour and a half
since Charlie had set out. A little more
than that really.
They went up and down the lanes, and
the cross lanes, through paddocks where
feeding cows loomed large in the star-
light, and stopped eating, and blew
inquiringly and mildly through their
noses.
Other cows were lying down —great
dark masses they seemed —and chewing
cuds softly. And the frogs chorussed on.
One or other of the family kept up
an intermittent call of “Char-lee!” but
Otto didn’t whistle any more. Nearer
neighbors were visited, and they knew
nothing. Hadn’t seen Charlie. They
joined in the search.
{Continued on page 32.)


SMOKERS
Direct from Manufacturer to You
Special money-saving offer of high-
class toasted pipe tobaccos blended
with the best imported tobaccos.
RICH DARK MEDIUM PIPE
MIXTURE, 15/- per lb. Posted,
MEDIUM HIGH-CEASS PIPE
MIXTURE, 13/6 per lb. Posted.
HIGH-CEASS TOASTED READY-
RUBBED FINE CUT TOBACCO,
17/- per lb. Posted,
Make your post box your nearest store.
Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
11 Commercial Road,
VALLE¥, BRISBANE.
U/>e “MARS” PLAIN MILLER
m
i
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
ŵ
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planer*
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane.
Licensed Manufacturers in Old. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
ẁ
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VlC.—Servian Machine Tools fAust )
Bninswick, Melbourne. S.A.-Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide. W.A.—The Western
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chownnghee Rd. BOMBAY PROVINCE—R S Mehta
& Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay, HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co.; Ltd M
The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagli Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1888.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £51,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EMPIRE BLOC ON JAPAN
There was scarcely a report of the
Empire conference at Canberra that didn’t
carry a line emphasising that “the talks
are not aimed at the creation of an
Empire bloc which would vote solidly
at the [Jap] Peace Conference.”
The general American opinion has
been that that was exactly the purpose
for which the conference was called. For
example, “World Report,” in an article
very friendly to Australia, stated flatly
shortly before the conference opened:
A solid voting bloc of the five members of
the British Commonwealth that will participate
m the Peace Conference now is being sought
by the Australian Government. Australia also
wants to lead the group. If successful, she can
enter the conference as a primary Power, on
a par with the United States for the first time.
The “bid for leadership and unity” on
those lines, “World Report” added, was to
be made by Australia at the Canberra
conference. While on the subject, the
publication had other things to say about
Australia, among them that “As an indi-
cation of goodwill toward an important
neighbor, Australia intends to admit a
small number of Indians into her country
each year. This is her first departure
from the long-standing ‘White Au%alia’
policy.”. Also:—
Military recognition, which Australia won
through her contribution to Japan’s defeat, is
being retained by supplying most of the Empire
forces occupying Japan. The fact that an
Australian general commands this force adds
to Australia’s prestige. A five-year plan for
the defence of Australia is being put into opera-
tion by the_ Chifley Government as evidence
that Australia intends, to remain strong mili-
tarily.
Somebody should tell the usually well-
informed “World Report” that the picture
of Australia standing “strong militarily”
should have been published in the joke
department. Anyway, regarding the
Canberra meeting, the publication further
stated:
Heavy reparations are being demanded from
Japan. Lined up with Australia are such
nations as China, the Philippines and India, who
want a share of Japan’s industries and also
hope to capture some of her pre-war markets.
On the subject of the much-denied
Empire bloc, Chicago “Tribune” expressed
its views in its usual forthright fashion
on July 8; —
A conference has been scheduled for August
in the Australian capital at Canberra to estab-
lish an agreed policy which Britain and the
Dominions will seek to follow toward Japan.
That is so much the general American
view that no amount of denials from
Canberra would be likely to down it,
though the reported agreement to give
support to America would make that im-
material. Chicago “Tribune” expanded
on the subject:
As to the Empire contention that MacArthur
contemplates too soft a peace, the facts are be-
yond dispute that, under his direction, the
occupation of Japan has been successful, where-
as the occupation of Germany, Austria and
Korea have been miserable failures. MacAfthur’s
achievement has been possible for two reasons.
The first is that, instead of pursuing a vengeful
policy on the order of the Morgenthau pro-
gramme to destroy Germany’s economic poten-
tial, MacArthur has sought amelioration, on the
sound ground (hat the sooner the Japs can be
put back on their feet, the sooner they will
cease to be public charges of the American tax-
payer. The second reason for MacArthur’s
great accomplishments is that he has not been
hampered by jealous and scheming Allies hang-
ing on his arm....
When the British and Australians pat them-
selves on the back about their contributions to
the defeat of Japan, they are not kidding even
themselves. Japan went down before America
while Britain was fighting on the periphery in
Burma and Australia was confining her exertions
to a small strip of the New Guinea coast.
Since both Burma and Papua were imperial
possessions, the imperial effort consisted of a
none too successful endeavor to get back the
Empire’s own.
The latest report of the American Navy,
showing that the British, Australians, New
Zealanders, Indians, Chinese, ‘Dutch and Rus-
sians together sank only eight per cent, of
Japanese shipping lost in the war, while the
United States sank 92 per cent., is an index
to what these nations contributed to Japan’s
defeat and a key to what ’ voice they should
be allowed in making the peace. On their
showing, a seat in the ante-room would be
about right.
It would be waste of time pointing out
to the “Tribune” that —to say nothing of
the Australian land-fighting effort —the
British in Burma caused over 50 per cent,
of all casualties caused in battle in the
Pacific war. But maybe it does no harm
now and then to see ourselves as others
see us.
Not all opinion is satisfied
that everything is as sweet and snug in
Japan as the “Tribune” appears to accept.
Some do not wholly accept General Mac-
Arthur’s more guarded—though still, they
suggest, far too rosy—view of the position
there. “We know that the Japanese have
adopted a democratic Constitution,”
former Under Secretary of State Sumner
Welles has commented, “but we are not
Chicago "Tribune."
TIME TO LEAVE THE NEST.
told that this Constitution was written for
them by the American occupation authori-
ties Not bv the widest ctretrb nf the*
• * • TTY, Dy td IT l 7, 9* the
ima graation can that Constitution be re-
garded as any spontaneous expression of
the will of the Japanese people . The
meaning of democracy is as little under
?u ° Y - + S a | under ‘
stood by the vast majority of the Japanese
people as it was 10 years ago.”
Also (from Tokyo) N Y “Herald
Tribune” writer A T Steele has mm
lr b , uae wnter A - Steele has com-
mented:
The Japanese political situation presents a
perplexing problem to the Allied Powers and
more especially to the United States. Once
the occupation ends, the effective carrying out
of the MacArthur reform programme will
depend heavily on the sincerity and energy
of the Japanese Government in power. If we
are satisfied with a Government that is simply
anti-war, anti-Communist and pro-American,
we have it now. Indeed the conservative parties,
which together control the majority of Jap-
anese votes, would probably be.content to see
Japan become a sort of economic and strategic
satellite of the United States, provided there
gere adequate guarantees against aggression
The dilemma is aggravated by the fact that as
long as the occupation continues, no Japanese
Government can be much better than a puppet,
with all a puppet’s weaknesses. Able and self-
reliant leaders will be hesitant to come to the
fore until foreign controls are reduced.
The Yoshida Cabinet, which ran Japan during
the last year, did, to be sure, enact the most
sweeping series of reforms in Japanese history.
But one would have to search very hard to find
any substantial reforms that were not the out-
come of MacArthur directives accompanied by
American pressure. In practice the Japanese
have tended to become less, rather than more,
self-reliant. Directives have sometimes been
promptly executed, but more frequently the
Japanese have had to be pushed, prodded,
nudged and advised all the way.
General M.acArthur’s own views were
given in a remarkable interview he granted
to the entire corps of foreign correspon-
dents on March 17. There he urged a
peace treaty with Japan “at the earliest
possible moment,” and, with its signing,
“the termination of all control over the
Japanese by the Allied Headquarters as
at present constituted.” General Mac-
Arthur also stated that “Japan today
understood perhaps better than any other
country in the world that war did not
pay.” He said he believed that democracy
was in Japan “to stay” and “this will be
followed by the spread of Christianity,
to which democracy is second.”
Regarding all of which, one line of
American comment is to the effect that
it is still something that has been imposed,
and that whether it will last once the
Japs again have Japan wholly to them-
selves is quite another thing.
U.S. VIEWS BANK MOVE.
N.Y. “Times” financial writer George
A. Mooney reported on August 24 that
the Chifley bank nationalising move is
being watched with “sceptical interest”
by American bankers. The move has
“implications for their own operations.”
Mooney quoted banking spokesmen as
pointing out that nationalising the Aus-
tralian banks would follow action which
has already placed under State control
the Bank of England, the Bank of France
and the four leading deposit banks of that
country, the banks of Czechoslovakia
and Hungary, and the special national-
istic arrangements affecting the central
bank of Argentina, as well as the Gov-
ernment-directed banks of Russia:
Such arrangements, apart from being con-
trary to American principles of free enterprise,
are objectionable because of their influences
*)n American banking methods. The traditional
privacy between banker and customer is violated
by reason of State controls; political influences
become paramount in the relationships between
the banks of the individual countries, and each
time a new nationalisation programme is under-
taken, impetus is given to the State-owner-
ship movement, with consequent effect upon the
remaining private bank operators throughout
the world.
One U.S. banking spokesman quoted
by Mooney stated:
• Nationalisation is in the worst interest of the
individual citizen since it makes the bank’s
records immediately available to the official
bureaucracy, including the tax authorities, and
its staff liable to coercion by the political
powers. Further, the spokesman asserted, such
control has a direct effect on trade policies and
is likely to determine them in accordance with
the political prejudices rather than the country’s
best interests.
Altogether, Mooney reported, the
Chifley Government move was receiving
special attention “because of its possible
effects on traditional banking relations
with Australia.”
A STRONGER AXIS.
In N.Y. “World Telegram” William
Philip Simms has recalled that a
former U.S. Secretary of the Navy pre-
dicted that if Russia, Germany and
Japan ever got together it would be a
combination to challenge the rest of the
world : “That combination corhes closer
to being a possibility today than ever,”
with Russia stretching out from Berlin
to the Kurile Islands; and “American
troops will not remain for ever in Japan.”
Given full national recovery in each
country, the new Axis envisaged wquld
hardly be a mere challenge; it would be
practically invincible. According to N.Y.
“Post” world affairs writer Edgar Ansel
Mowrer, there are moves towards it al-
ready. Questioning as fallacious the
notion that in the event of permanent
disagreement between the Soviet and
Western Democracies the Germans would
swing West, Mowrer comments:
At present, thanks largely to the incredible
brutality of the Red Army, most Germans are
still anti-Russian. But the lure of what is called
an “eastward orientation” is strong in Ger-
many. Germans bitten by the world-rule bug
believe that as the leading partner in a Russo-
German combination, Germany could yet realise
its ambitions. Only Russia can restore the
lost territories.
In the Western camp Germany would at best
be merely one of several associates with little
or no chance of bossing the show.
Many German officers, including members
of the new German general staff being forged
in Moscow, stubbornly put their faith in Russia.
If reinforced by a mass Communist or unity
party, they might well swing the German nation
into the arms of Stalin.
[A writer in Washington “Post” directs atten-
tion to the fact that, while the Russians have
tried a few SS leaders and Gestapo members,
they “have refrained from even indicting any
of the high-ranking German generals they
captured.” These include Field-Marshal von
Paulus, who “was called the ‘Butcher of
Kharkov’ and accused of the murder of tens
of thousands of Russian civilians,” but who
later “joined the Free-Germany Committee and
today is evidently so highly in favor with the
Russian authorities that they have abstained
from indicting him as a war criminal.” That
goes for all the rest of them.]
In Mowrer’s view, a bad peace treaty
will speed the process of turning Germans
towards Russia: “Any German peace
treaty that leaves Germany weak and
mutilated of former territories will never
be accepted.” Such “mutilations” look
a certainty.
It could also be to the point regarding
an eventual Russian-German combine
that at the Moscow conference the Ameri-
can proposal for a 50-year Four Power
treaty of mutual defence against Germany
met a decidedly hostile Soviet reception.
That and other Soviet moves have been
interpreted as attempts towards winning
Fritz over. On this, the N.Y. “Times”
correspondent at the conference. Drew
Middleton, made a frank report, insist-
ing:—
The most important objective of Soviet policy
for Germany is the ideological and political
mastery of the country and its people. It
represents both the dream of Communist plan-
ners for the last 80 years and the apex of the
new Russian nationalism.
As well as eliminating fear of invasion
from the west, the motive, in Middleton's
view, is to secure “a Germany, Europe’s
great technical and industrial laboratory,
joined to Russia in one Communist
wholfe”:
Once conditions are right—that is, when a
politically unified Germany encounters an
economic crisis which the Russians will help
to bring on by keeping the standards of living


Interesting Books! Angus & Robertson Ltd.
THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING, by Constance Talbot.
Over 750 Explanatory Pictures. Easy directions for beginners. Advanced
instruction for experts. Index of over 2000 items. 31/- (post Bd.)
THE SHUTTLECEAFT BOOK OF AMERICAN HAND-WEAVING, by M. M.
Atwater.
Being an account of the* Rise, Development, Eclipse, and Modern Revival of
a National Popular Art 33/6 (post Bd.)
HANDICRAFT WOODWORK, by A. L. Keeble.
Drawings, Design, and Practical Work. A guide for teachers and students
of handcraft. 15/- (post 7d.)
SCIENCE BOOKS AHEAD, by- Professor A. M. Low.
Written simply and familiarly for the benefit of the non-scientific inquirer
showing how, in a hundred different directions, science is. guiding the destinies
and contributing to the well-being of the human race. 19/6 (post lid.)
NUTALL’S SIMPLIFIED DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
20,000 words and phrases in common use, 12,000 examples in phrase and
sentence, 1000 idiomatic phrases, phonetic pronunciations, full list of “Basic”
words. 512 pages. 6/- (post 6d.)
THE NEW SCHOOL TIE, by G. C. T. Giles.
This is a vital book on a vital subject by one of the most vigorous personali-
ties of the educational world. 7/9 (post 3d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON ITD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA 6511.
Safeguard the future
... of your family
... by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he has these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENCE
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Paviell
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.;
O. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY pt..a..
low and eliminating its foes by. the“fu
of “denazification”—the Communist party wi
take over and transform Germany into the most
powerful satellite in the Soviet system.
As Middleton reports it, there can be
no really effective economic unity in
present Germany, with equal trade be-
tween the four zones, for the simple
reason that, apart from war damage, the
mass removals of agricultural and indus-
trial equipment have left the Germans
of the Russian zone with “literally
nothing which they could exchange at
present for products of the west.” As
for the other (rebuffed) Soviet objective
at the Moscow conference-political
unity; sure to be tried on again at the
seemingly foredoomed November meet-
ing—what this would mean for the
American and British zones would be
“infiltration of Communist party organ-
isers” :
Their job would be to impede production
through strikes and absenteeism —blaming these
on the policy of the occupation forces while
at the same time they preached their gospel to
a people whose standard of living would be
falling.
The process has been worked with
variations in other countries, and “it will
be worked in Germany”:
It goes step by step; artificial strangulation
of a country’s economy; creation of a great
mass of hungry and discontented folk; appear-
ance of a militant, well-disciplined Communist
minority capable - of seizing control.
Hence, in Middleton’s view, Germany,
in what is called the “peace-making,”
“is the great ideological battleground. If
the battle is lost there it is lost every-
where else on the Continent.”
One important element would sefern to
be overlooked in all these ambitious
schemes —the Germans themselves. What-
ever they may become, under “Eastern
orientation” or any, other fancy name,
about the last role they can be pictured
as filling is that of a Russian satellite.
The Russian planners of a Soviet-
German Axis might do worse than read
up the moving poem about the young
lady of Riga.
DIVIDED FRANCE.
Writing in “Life” on the current tangled
state of things in France, former U.S.
Ambassador at Paris William C. Bullitt
has looked into what has happened to the
old French vitality:
The First World War took much of it. Vic-
tory in that war cost France, whose popu-
lation was only 40 million, 6,161,000 casualties,
while Great Britain and the whole British
Empire combined suffered 3,190,000, and the
U.S. 350,000.
The Second World War drained French
vitality far more profoundly and terribly. In
1940, after the French Army had been over-
whelmed by waves of Nazi planes preceding
waves of tanks, Hitler set out to reduce France
permanently to the status of a poor, weak
country that could never again hope to oppose
Germany’s will. He organised the exhaustion
of France systematically, and his success was
so great that the most careful estimate yet made
of the damage inflicted reaches 4,900 billion
francs. Nearly all French men, women and
children were in some sort war casualties. By
organised undernourishment the Germans under-
mined their strength arid health for more than
four years.
In consequence, the present “battle for
France is raging in an exhausted country.
The French are tired. After "seven years
of war and pillage, undernourishment and
daily want, they are desperately weary ;
so weary that many are apathetic, living
in anxiety without much hope.”
Bullitt sees France as now “once
more a battlefield in a dark conflict which
involves her independence, her liberties
and her ancient faith.” That conflict,
on the political plane, is seen by a Lon-
don “Times” special correspondent as
hinging on what is going on in inter-
national politics—the greater conflict be-
tween the Soviet expansion bid and the
U.S, moves to block it:-
The dependence of Right and Left in French
politics today on Washington and Moscow re-
spectively, though not formal, is incontestable.
This is not to say that Communists and M.R.P.
[new Catholic Right] do not represent specifi-
cally French points of view; but these points
of view are in both cases strongly influenced
by what goes on in the world outside. For
this reason it is hardly thinkable that the
compromise which is so urgently necessary can
be found in French politics unless it is first,
or simultaneously, found in the sphere of in-
ternational relations.
In the “Times” writer’s view, “the
situation offers prospects of industrial and
perhaps political disorder which can only
be called extremely grave.” Others put
this more bluntly. They call the possi-
bility “civil war.” In Bullitt’s view:
Guns are not firing— not yet—but all the
power that Stalin’s international machine can
muster is being used, stealthily and inexorably,
to crush democracy in France and to instal
a puppet Government obedient to the Soviet
dictator.
If it came to a trial of force between
the conflicting elements—as Bullitt fears
it might, and as he believes it would on
drders from Moscow —“the Communists
would have not only their control of the
C.G.T. [the nationwide federation of
unions of French workers of all sorts]
but also their underground army of ap-
proximately 150,000‘men, well organised
and armed”:
They are ready to seize arsenals and airfields.
Perhaps 40,000 of the 'Communist underground
army are in the Paris area. If they should
lead a march of the Red suburbs on Paris,
who would oppose them? The Paris police
force before the war was a superbly efficient
London "News Chronicle."
WHO’S WALKING WHOM?
organisation and entirely non-political, every
member being forbidden to join any political
party under penalty of dismissal. Today it is
riddled with politics. Approximately 25 per
cent, of the force are members of the Com-
munist party, perhaps another 25 per cent,
are Communist sympathisers, approximately 15
per cent, are definitely anti-Communist, and
the rest have no particular political convictions.
The Paris police, therefore, cannot be counted
on as before the war to maintain order in any
and all circumstances.
What of the army? Its total strength is now
350,000. But approximately 115,000 are fight-
ing in Indo-China, and other forces are
stationed in Madagascar, Tunisia, Algeria,
Morocco and the French Occupation Zone in
Germany, so that in France itself there are
only 70,000.
In Bullitt’s view, apparently, an open
test between the conflicting elements of
today’s divided France would see early
Communist successes, but that might not
apply in the long run. Bullitt sees as
a gleam of hope that the Government in
France “will do everything in its power
to avoid such a conflict, and that may
determine the outcome if the conflict
should break out”:
For the French do not want any more fighting
of any kind. They want quietly to rebuild their
country and their personal lives. Whichever
side starts trouble, therefore, will have the
sentiment of the country against it. That should
be decisive.
That, perhaps, should also be decisive
in France going all the way with partici-
pation in the Marshall plan; the last
chance the French, with the rest of
Europe, will have of sharing in more of
America’s generous aid, which will cer-
tainly not go to a Communist France.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Houses for Export. —That is, Australian
houses! The authority is “World Report, in
an article which reads more like a Canberra
handout than the usual careful reports in that
publication; “Other items Australia is produc-
ing and hopes eventually to export include elec-
trical appliances, mining equipment, farming
machinery and prefabricated houses.” This
should put “eventually” in a class with Meso-
potamia and the other blessed words.
* * * * •
N.Z. Takes British.—A table of world im-
porters of British-made motor-cars last year,
published in “World Report,” is headed by
New Zealand, which took 7076; next come
India, 5430; Denmark, 4997; S’Africa, 4885.
There are seven more before Australia, third
from the bottom of the list with 1317. In fact,
excluding Canada, which is self- or American-
supplied, Australia is ahead of only Egypt.
* * * *
Dame Lyons from the Tropics. —ln a “United
Nations World” (July) article by one Jules
Archer, writing on the subject ol “Grievance
Day at Canberra,” a notable member suffers a
remarkable change of clime and should hear
from Mr. Blain; “The next griever was Dame
Enid Lyons, a white-haired lady member from
tropical Darwin.” A further extract from Mr.
Jules Archer might suggest a certain lack of
taste on somebody’s part:—
Dame Lyons went on the grieve about in-
heritance taxes. “I must admit that death
duties have never appealed to me,” she said
wistfully, “as a very ethical source of revenue
for the Government. It is perfectly all right
to hit a man on his feet, but when he is
down”
“He doesn’t know anything about it when he
is dead,” Minister Lazzarini interrupted her
cheerfully.
“ -he cannot hit back,” she continued,
ignoring him.
“He ceases to worry about taxation when he
is dead,” assured the iconoclastic Minister for
Information and Immigration, Arthur Calwell.
“Under the Government’s Gift Duty Act,”
Dame Lyons went on unperturbed, “a kind of
inquisition goes on which, I think* is not at
all desirable in the interests of any member of
the community.”
“Where does this inquisition take place?” Mr.
Calwell jeered.
“All over Australia!”
“What —not in the hereafter?”
* * * ♦
Britain’s Reversed Role.*- Chicago “Tribune”
quotes a U.S. Department of Commerce report
as showing these reverses in Britain’s textile
industries, “long important in the economic life
of the nation”: Before the war Japan was the
chief British competitor. Britain is to import
Japanese cotton cloth. In pre-war years the
British used to ship fine cotton yarns to Ger-
many. Cotton yarns are to be brought into
Britain from Germany for use in the Notting-
ham lace and net industry. Before the war ex-
ports of cotton goods and cotton yarn pro-
vided Britain with a substantial amount of her
power to purchase imports. Exports totalled
nearly 1.4 billion yards in 1938. For 1946 the
figure was a little over half a billion. In 1938
exports of cotton yarn totalled 122 million
pounds. The total for 1946 was only 19 million
pounds. The same applies to the coal industry.
Britain was the greatest coal exporter before the
war. Now production isn’t sufficient for domes-
tic requirements.
* * * *
Indonesian Trade. —A big U.S. trade interest
in a settling of the fighting in Indonesia is
shown by “World Report” figures: “American
investors want to realise some return from their
$500,000,000 investment in the Indies. Ameri-
can oil interests, as an example, could be pro-
ducing 20,000 barrels of gasoline daily, thereby
helping to relieve the shortage at home, if the
war clouds were to disappear. American con-
sumers want to obtain more of Indonesia’s
spices, kapok, twine, palm oils, cigar tobacco,
quinine and rubber.” The fighting has been
holding up exports of “approximately
$100,000,000 worth of these scarce items.” The
publication puts the Dutch occupation costs at
$1,000,000 a day, including “maintenance of an
army of nearly 100,000 men and an extensive
naval blockade,” as a result of which “the
Dutch financial position in Indonesia is serious.”
However, “prospects of U.S. aid are bright”
once the place is settled, the U.S. Export-
Import Bank having $100,000,000 earmarked
“for East Indian purchases in the U. 5.,” with
“an even larger loan under consideration” by
the World Bank. “Repayment does not pose a
serious problem, since Indonesia can export
many products the U.S. wants to buy.”
* * * *
Other Nations’ Vetoes. Stated in cable
columns on August 26, regarding France’s veto
of a Russian proposal on Indonesia, that “this
was the first time any country other than Russia
had used the veto.” Not exactly correct.
France itself joined Russia in one of its vetoes,
June 26, 1946; a minor matter of procedure.
Britain and U.S. together twice used the veto
on August 29, 1946, first on the application of
Albania, then on that of Mongolia, each seek-
ing U.N.O. membership; blocked again more
recently, when the Soviet vetoed the application
of Eire, Trans-Jordan and Portugal. The U.S.-
British votes, however, are not considered vetoes
by several delegations, among them the U.S.,
Britain and China, who hold that a resolution
not receiving a majority of seven votes would
fail to carry anyway. Against that the Soviet
delegation contends that any negative vote by
one of the Big Five Powers is a veto, whether
decisive or not. Total Soviet vetoes at that date
were 16, making the Security Council such a
nullity as to force the U.S. to go to the
Assembly by way of getting some positive
action.
* * * *
The Liberties Go. —N.Y. “Daily News” on
the subject of “Freedom Under Socialism,”
with reference to Britain, among other places:
“It seems that when these great lovers of the
people—the Communists and Socialists —come
to power anywhere the first thing they do is to
turn around and begin forcibly taking away
liberties which the people previously believed
■sacred. All kinds of plausible explanations are
offered, but the liberties go down the drain
just the same.”
* * * *
England Expects. —Noting that the pleas of
Attlee and *Co. for more production “are fall-
ing upon ears a little hard of hearing, so far
as British labor is concerned,” “Wall-street
Journal” makes the terse comment: “It appears
that the average British worker, quite willing
to die for his country, is a little hesitant about
working for it.”
* ♦ * *
Churchill’s Memoirs. —The U.S. “Editor and
Publisher” reports that Mr. Churchill is getting
more than $1,000,000 for his memoirs, which
will work out at a shade over a dollar a word.
Looking for comparative high payments, the
publication lists the $300,000 for the serial
rights to General Pershing’s memoirs (1930)
and next to that the $250,000 paid for the
Kaiser’s memoirs.
* « * *
Oil Oasis. —One of the oddest spots landed
on by “Christian Science Monitor” editor Erwin
D. Can ham in a general world tour was a
U.S. oil-concession in the Middle East, with
more than oil in its future: “The plane circled
to land amid the blistering sands of Arabia.
There, in the vast expanse of desert with only
a lonely Arab nomad here and there, we got
into shining new American cars and rode a few
miles to an absolutely isolated American com-
munity, where in air-conditioned comfort we
had a breakfast that included Sunkist oranges
and Mclntosh apples from Oregon and all the
rest of a typical American meal. It was the
settlement of the American Arabian Oil Com-
pany where over a thousand American men and
a few hundred American women and a number
of children are living and working the richest
oil deposit so far known in the world. In
this area of 50 oilfields, any three of which
can exceed the production of the entire United
States, the humid desert looks empty, barren,
utterly unrewarding. Yet men with know-how
have found this vast and useful trade. It is
useful not only as oil, for this oil and the
machines that can be bought with it and fuelled
with it can pump up water which lies at sea
level under all this sterile sand. And that
water can turn the Arabian desert into a won-
derland of vegetation.”


m
MS
mmm
i'lf •
■i
m
Hi
r.
m
m
Your child should have every chance
in life. To be successful he must be
provident, and towards that end the
METROPOLITAN DEFERRED
ASSURANCE PLAN was designed.
The METROPOLITAN Deferred Assurance Plan
r
Annual Bonuses—Prompt
Claim Settlements.
All classes of Life Assurance
transacted.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
At the inception, a parent provides for the child’s
later protection, with minimum premiums.
Such a policy then becomes a most practical gift,
appreciated from the fact that it provides for a maxi-
mum of benefits for a minimum outlay.
It repi esents- on the attainment of a child’s majority
not only the strongest inducement for thrift, but a
protection for the responsibilities ahead.
interested parents can secure an appropriate leaflet (Table
Q) from any office or representative of the Company.
A
U
S
TR
I
3
A
A
ASSURANCI COMPANY LTD
HUNTER. AND BLI G-ti STR.EETS. S Y D N E Y,
Incorporated in Queensland, 1895.
DIRECTORS.
w. A. H. ALL WORTH (Chairman). J. A. HENDERSON.
COL. ALFRED SPAIN. P. H. PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
E. W. ROBINSON.
Asst. General Manager and Actuary: Secretary:
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A. GEORGE LESLIE, F.C.I.S.
~O - P AY’S PROTE CTION TO-MORROW’
S ECU RITY


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3526
Wednesday, September 10, 1947
THE JUNGLE BREAKS IN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Sneer, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
HISTORY AND GREATNESS.
On the surface it probably seems a very
small matter that Mr. Don Cameron’s
Post Office made a' mistake in choosing
the wrong generation to depict on the
stamp which celebrates the hundred-and-
fiftieth anniversary of the discovery of
coal in Newcastle. History may even
give a smug chuckle at the error, which
Mr. Don Cameron characteristically
denies; for it was not Lieutenant Short-
land, father or son, who actually found
coal on the Hunter, but a party of fisher-
men who were there the yeaf before.
These, like the humble fellows who saw
the Brisbane River before Oxley, and the
kangaroo-shooter who guided Blaxland,
Lawson and Wentworth up the Blue
Mountains, receive no more credit than
the escapees who found a way across the
Hawkesbury and trailed the Wollombi
track to Coal River before the Parrs,
Howes and Singletons.
There is nothing dull or drab in early
Australian history, especially that which
deals with the development of centres
like Newcastle. Any man who can fol-
low the strange events of the period of
foundation without being deeply moved
and exhilarated must have water in his
veins. The happenings of Newcastle’s
birth period seem often to belong to an-
other world, rather than merely to an
age in which there lived and moved
people who might actually have been
known and seen by old men and women
still alive. A lady approaching the
century who dared an sjieroplane
journey from Sydney the day this was
written was 19 when the founder of
permanent Newcastle, Lieutenant Men-
zies, of the Marines, died obscure and
forgotten in Hastings, England. Since
that neglected Empire-builder set out from
Sydney Cove with 11 soldiers and 34
convicts in irons, all Irish and all still
sore after Australia’s “Vinegar Hill,” to
establish the coal industry and Newcastle,
the white population of this continent has
increased from 7000 to nearly 7,500,000.
Immense has been the human accom-
plishment in building in so short a span,
on a site originally so remote from the
sources of European civilisation and so
perilous of access, a city second to none
in technical resources in the world, its
industries based on native energy and
native talent amounting to genius, its
harbor among the world’s greatest and
best-known commercial havens.
But the greatness and swiftness of the
development sprang naturally from the
hardihood of the founders; men of an
epic world too little appreciated, who
were not only of human fibre unsur-
passed, but who possessed minds which
could give birth to phrases and ideas
worthy of immortality.
Who recalls in full the story, of which
that of Newcastle’s beginnings is part
—only one of a hundred of that time —
of the little warship Reliance, which
brought her oozing timbers to Sydney
Harbor under command of Governor
Hunter, with the old Supply limping in
her wake? Yet it is all in the Historical
Records, pure gold ready to be dug.
The Reliance is American-built. Her
timbers are black birch, ill-suited for Aus-
tralian seas, as her form is ill-suited for
the peculiar Pacific roll. But in her
there are many stout hearts. Her surgeon
is “a man whose ardor for discovery was
not to be repressed by any obstacles nor
deterred by any danger.” His name is
Bass. There also is a midshipman,
Flinders, who finds, when he meets the
other, that they “run together like mer-
cury.” They have a little boat of “about
eight feet keel and five feet beam, which
from its size obtained the name Tom
Thumb.” It becomes a famous name.
They explore Botany Bay and its sur-
roundings in it.
By the time Australia has done with
these two members of the crew Australia
knows them well. They are, in fact,
tolerably well known by the time the
Reliance has gone on a voyage in 1796
to the Cape under Captain Waterhouse,
the second captain. They reach the Cape
to learn that Colonel Gordon, the Com-
mandant, is dead. He was a Dutchman
who had astonished Bligh and Macquarie
by singing to them in Gaelic, though he
had never been in the Highlands.
It is discovered that his livestock are
for sale. The complement of the Reliance
buys them. The rotting black birch war-
ship is not much of a vessel in which to
carry cattle—she is about a third the size
of a Manly ferry steamer —but these
hardy forefathers care nought for trouble
or inconvenience. Indeed, “each officer
has, on his own account, given up during
the passage the comforts of his accom-
modation on board and filled them with
such animals as their respective cabbins
[sic] were capable of taking in.” On'
that 8000 miles voyage a lieutenant was
apt to find a dead cow in the cuddy or a
mare in the galley, for, apart from a few
public stock, the officers had as many as
13 cows, seven calves, seven mares and
84 sheep aboard, including the first
Merinos To come to Australia.
When they arrive in Port Jackson a
crabbed military man, an arid, sneering
dyspeptjc, waylays Captain Waterhouse
and buys a few of his sheep. Thus he,
John M‘Arthur, gets the credit of being
founder of the great Merino industry.
These men now set out to repair their
sorry bark in a hurry so that she may
carry wheat to Norfolk Island. It takes a
long time. Much of her Noah’s-ark
voyage from Africa has been made with
the pumps going; for “several of the
butts in her guard-board streak are en-
tirely destitute of oakham” and the rest
of her is to match, her timbers badly
split and leaking right down to the keel.
It is while she is being patched up
somehow that Lieutenant Shortland is
detached from her for what is routine
duty, according to the tenor of the age.
Irish convicts have seized the Govern-
ment’s best boat on the Hawkesbury, put
the coxswain and three men ashore and
left for parts unknown. The marooned
sailors walk barefooted from the Hawkes-
bury to Sydney. Lieutenant Shortland is
sent off in a whaleboat to row the hun-
dred miles or so to Port Stephens and
catch the rascals. He does not catch
them, but he discovers his “fine coal
river” and names it casually after Gov-
ernor Hunter.
The Reliance waddles across the
Tasman to Norfolk Island. She comes
back with a full complement of seasoned
voyagers. They include an unusual
surgeon, twice acquitted of highway
robbery. With him is his family
of three, the eldest a reddish, un-
gainly boy with a squint which debars
him later from his father’s profession.
He is destined to become Australia’s first
Australian-born civil servant, explorer,
poet and barrister-at-law; its first great
patriot, father of its constitution —Wil-
liam Charles Wentworth.
The little Reliance is past caring. Her
impact on events thereafter consists
largely in the regularity with which she
keeps Mr. Flinders tied to her side and
away from his exploring. From within
her rotting planks have issued on to Aus-
tralian soil the very seeds of the country’s
greatness ; the sheep, the wool, the coal;
the boy who grew to find the passage
across the Mountains which led to the
fields of Ophir, and who lived to found
her freedom on a solid basis.
There is an Odyssean greatness about
it all when it is met at close quarters in
the quaint and simple language of the
time, and in the actual handwriting of the
participants, just as there is a breath-tak-
ing surge about the immense panorama
of events which succeed it so quickly.
The green empty valley of Lieutenant
Menzies’ “King’s Town,” as he calls it,
is pimpled with huts and the clanking of
chains is heard when he hands over to a
successor whose name is a Thackerayan
novel in itself —Lieutenant Cadwallader
Draffin. By 1812, six years later, there
are a hundred miserable wretches, twice
or thrice convicted, hauling coal out of
a wet adit in their chains or waist-deep
up the river collecting lime. By 1814 coal
is regularly exported by the Government
to Bengal from “our Newcastle.” Four
years later Mr. Greenway, the architect,
has planned the causeway to Nobby’s.
Captain Wallis has built a church from
the plans of another convict, Mr. Lycett.
Macquarie himself has been there
twice —once in the little 80-ton Lady
Nelson, breakfasting with his lady off the
cabin floor because the weather will not
let them stand up. On his last voyage
he has explored the three rivers as far as
Maitland, with the help of 52 attendants
and a band. Now, 21 years after the right
Shortland paid his first visit and made his
little “eye sketch,” it is hard to recognise
the spot, for even in the Macquarie age
it has developed “from the appearance
of a humble hamlet to the rank and capa-
bilities of a well-laid-out regular clean
town holding nearly 700 people.”
Young Mr. Wentworth, now in his
chambers by Tom Pinch’s fountain in
the Middle Temple, muses on the possi-
bility of Newcastle’s outstripping Sydney.
This it does not do, though it expands
with a remarkable rapidity, as the initial
land grants are made outside it —one of
the first three to Greenway at Tarro. In
the ’twenties, the Australian Agricultural
Company makes it its base and goes into
the coal business, beside expanding its
pastoral activities far up into the New
England, and up the coast. At 3.13 p.m.
on June 13, 1831, the Sophia Jane, the
first steamer Australia or the Hunter has
seen, ties up at the Watt-street wharf.
From that moment may be dated the
beginning of Newcastle’s modern great-
ness. It has drawn ships like a magnet
for more than a century to carry coal
to foreign ports and to feed Australian
industries set down beside raw materials,
Home now of the greatest industrial
giant of the Antipodes, Broken Hill Pro-
prietary, Newcastle enables many thou-
sands of Australians, from the Hunter
to Iron Knob, and from Lake Macquarie
to Yampi Sound, to live in a state of
prosperity, comfort and security scarcely
known in any other clime.
The enterprise of Newcastle’s big com-
panics, and their offshoots in the Ilia-
warra. South Australia and elsewhere
was the vital factor in enabling Australia
to expand its war industries in World War
H. Newcastle will become' more and
more a factor in Australian defence.
That such a community should be able
to develop to its present stage during the
lifetimes of a couple of human beings is
something for any nation to be proud of.
it has not happened in ancient or modern
times save in countries populated or
ru i e d by English-speaking peoples. Our
teachers of history should take note of
that and trv to instil into Australian
youth pHde in such achievements of their
race> jf commemorations like that now
t> e i ng held in Newcastle help to do that
they are worth while.
Planning to Catastrophe.
At Geneva, of late, that ambitious inter-
national planning body the Food and
Agricultural Organisation has been
making the world’s flesh creep. F.A.O.
believes that ideas based on laws of
supply and demand in international trade
are utterly wrong and bad for everybody,
and must be planned away into limbo.
Apparently when every human being is
assured of three feeds a day and full and
constant planned employment, then will
the world’s peoples enjoy that freedom
from fear and want which, the planners
believe, is all the freedom they desire or
deserve. By all the signs, it is proposed
to frighten the otherwise Disunited
Nations into accepting the new inter-
national planning bureaucracy as the only
alternative to blue ruin.
This is a specimen of current flesh-
creeping grimaces from F.A.0.:
The under-developed countries of the
world include some 40 of the 60 inde-
pendent nations and most of the colonial
areas. Their population is about 1500 mil-
lions out of a world total of 2200 millions.
This great mass of people suffers severely
from poverty and malnutrition... .Between
1931 and 1941 the population of India
grew by 50 millions. Even this high rate
was exceeded in Java, Philippines, Formosa
and Siam. There are no trustworthy
figures for China. At the present pace
the population of Asia will increase,within
20 years by more than 400 millions.
F.A.O. warns us that it is no good saying
the under-nourished conditions in many
regions have always existed. The period
of white overlord rule in Asia has re-
duced death-rates, cut down disease and
averted famine. Now, with native peoples
going their own wild ways, planning is
their only possible salvation.
The world’s food production, declares
F.A.0., must be doubled during the next
generation in order to assure enough to
eat for every man in the planners’ ordered
universe, and this “problem” is some-
how “a challenge” to poor old Western
Civilisation; that is to say, to the “ex-
ploiters,” who have just been ordered by
the under - nourished to quit. A
secondary argument is that the two-thirds
Asiatic majority of the world’s popu-
lation, having insufficient to eat, have
consequently not enough energy to carry
out developments necessary to provide
for themselves. Whether these people, or
any of them, want their lives so altered,
or altruistic Western planning to do the
trick, has not been a matter for inquiry.
The planners instinctively know what is
good for them.
Of course it is not enough to adver-
tise a crisis for the “under-nourished”
world only. The much more limited
world which the planners are addressing,
and from which it will recruit its bureau-
cracy and raise its funds, must be made
to feel its flesh creep, too. So we are
warned that, just as after World War I
the recovered nations could not absorb
the increased production which the war
had stimulated, and headed into the
economic depression of 1929-31, so, if
nothing is done to absorb the much
greater production after World War 11,
an even greater disaster will befall us all.
“Proposals for food and agriculture must
be worked as part of a combined opera-
tion attacking this problem.” True, apart
from the undeniable current food short-
age, the world’s • greatest source of em-
ployment, counting Asia, is agriculture.
Incidentally, that is to be re-planned, too.
These new prophets of catastrophe are
very like the old. Malthus laid it down
that the world’s population universally
tends to outrun its means of subsistence
and held that it must be morally educated
to check its fecundity. But the nineteenth
century had certain advantages over ours.
To Malthus’s bogy that every unit in-
crease in world production meant a new
mouth it was replied that each unit also
meant another pair of hands; and in
those times that went. Nowadays it is
less conclusive an argument; and as
bureaucracy enrols its ever-bigger armies
of officials for all this planning, naturally
fewer hands are available for mere work.
The Socialists’ sentencing of private enter-
prise to abolition must also severely re-
duce production and particularly produc-
tion for export. Dr. G. L. Schwartz has
aptly said; “The secret of the nineteenth
century’s economic development was that
people over a great part of the world
were able to get up in the morning, haul
on their clothes, and go out to reduce the
scarcity of something, undisturbed by the
mountebankeries of politics.” And
Leacock agreed with Dr. Schwartz.
Australia grew into its present lusty
adolescence on the same principles. It
will never fulfil its promise under Socialist
dictators, nor will Britain recover its old
physical hardihood and commercial
strength under thraldom to the mounte-
banks of Labor-socialism. If this is
“organisation,” sings A. P. Herbert, then
Return, sweet Chaos: come the Bad Old Days
Before the Wise Men watched about our ways,
When Ministers had not annoyed the Sun,
Not much was Planned, but many things were
done
Concerning this planning in general,
and F.A.O.’s gigantic food-planning in
particular, certain observations are per-
tinent. The F.A.O. report, like all other
“blueprints” produced by “organisers,”
ignores them. A considerable part of
the world, the U.S.S.R., is not a member
of this planning corroboree or even a
consultant. Soviet Russia, indeed, jeers at
and obstructs the efforts of theorists who
are, if anything, playing the Communists’
game for them. Nor has F.A.0., or any of
the other O bodies from which Russia
withholds herself, the slightest information
about whether Asiatic peoples desire all
this planning or will accept it. And there
is, of course, no certainty that if such
consent were canvassed and secured it
would induce Asiatic nations, thus made
lustier and hardier, to forgo all thought
of war —the underlying assumption.
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt were
not so naive, when they drew up the
Atlantic Charter, as to assume that “free-
dom from fear and want” could be had
for the asking at some international
conference. What they declared was that
“they hope to see established a peace
which will afford assurance of” those
freedoms. And they assuredly did not
hail them as a substitute, under some
planners’ dictatorship, for those freedoms
which the civilised world was fighting to
preserve from National Socialism.
In short, poverty is an affliction, but
slavery is worse, and the bureaucrats’
Utopia is a state of slavery. Lord Bruce,
who is regarded as likely to succeed
Sir John Orr as Director-General of
F.A.0., developed suspicions about this
over-planned regimentation of food-
production when he accepted the chair-
manship of the preparatory commission
of F.A.O. to draw up recommendations
for the present Geneva conference.
F.A.O. had conceived a universal regula-
tion of boosted food-production to meet
future demands; Governments would be
told what to grow and how much, and
these Governments would issue orders—
under centralised' control —to the mere
farmers and graziers. Surpluses, it was
suggested, would be delivered to a World
Food Council and shovelled out as needed.
Lord Bruce knew that would not work.
His conviction was that Governments
should be responsible for their own sur-
pluses, and that the conference should
elicit voluntary proposals from those con-
cerned. Even so the American represen-
tatives on the commission filed a caveat
or two, by way of stipulating that bene-
ficiary peoples should bear some of the
operating costs, and should not at other
times use home subsidies to restrict trade
in such staples. Also by what device,
they asked, would farmers in heavily-
producing countries be assured of re-
munerative prices; and could Govern-
ments, heavily committed to financing
over-production (in the local market
sense) be prevented ever again from turn-
ing wheat into alcohol distilleries, feeding
it to cattle, or burning it for fuel?
The planning which, under control
schemes, simply commandeers the far-
mers’ output will not produce abundance,
or indeed anything but agricultural revolt
In the “developed” countries the planners
cannot yet, two years after the '^ ar -
end, give their “common man” the house
or the fuel or-the simplest supplies that
“uncontrolled” private enterprise onu
assured him as a matter of course.. L ,
their own sphere of “policy’ these
planners cannot bring about co-operatio.-
among themselves, as “Governments.
While we must suffer under planners,
it is a relief to hear those relatively tre.
Americans tell them where they get o


PLAIN ENGLISH
History's Little Ironies.
Old bones must have stirred in old
coffins when a “Labor Minister implored
the British farmers to double their pro-
duction so as to make their country in-
dependent of food imports for which
there are no dollars.
The farmer has been the neglected
child of the British economy for nearly
a century. At the instance of the Man-
chester school, agriculture was exposed
to the full blast of Freetrade. Cobden
and Bright were so infatuated with their
fetish that they “openly declared their
opinion if there were not an acre of
land cultivated in England it would not
be the worse for the country.” These
words were quoted in the House of
Commons by Disraeli, and he made them
the text for perhaps the greatest of his
speeches:
You have announced your object to be
the monopoly of the commerce of the uni-
verse, to make this country the workshop of
the world. Your system and purs are
exactly contrary. We invite union; we
believe that national prosperity can only be
produced by the prosperity of all classes.
I speak not as your enemy when I say it
will be an exception to the principles which
have hitherto ruled society if you can
maintain the success at which you aim.
Although you may for a moment flourish,
although your ports may be filled with ship-
ping, your factories smoke on every plain
and your forges flame in every city, I see
no reason why you should form an excep-
tion to that which the page of history has
mournfully recorded, that you should not
fade like Tyrian dye and moulder like the
Venetian palaces.
For a time Britain remained “the work-
shop of the world,” but before many
years were out “the workshop” was en-
countering increasing opposition from
Protectionist countries, and land indus-
tries, subject to still fiercer opposition,
were in a bad way. Except for the produc-
tion of pure-bred stock, in which Britain
has retained its pre-eminence, in a bad
way they have remained with almost dis-
astrous material results in two wars. And
though the “bold peasantry,” whose fate
inspired Goldsmith to a poetic prophecy,
has never been wanting when wars came,
it has never been predominant as it was
at Quebec and in the Peninsula and at
Waterloo.
If our rulers had any imagination and
any sense of history, they would be
moved by the appeal of this British
“Labor” Government to the neglected
farmers. From our land industries Aus-
tralia drew tough fighters—no tougher—
in the second A.1.F., as in the first; in-
deed, most of the V.Cs, in the Second
A.I.F. came from farms and stations. But
the position of none of the land industries
can be regarded as sound. On all of
them rests the blight of city politicians,*
union bosses and “controls,” City chaps,
a lot of them Communists, have had an
A.C.T.U. congress in Melbourne, at
which they decided on a 24-hour general
strike on October 20 if a 40-hour week
is not granted by that date. They decided
also on the “nationalisation,” not only
of banking but also of the iron and
steel industries.
No farm or station could be run on
the A.C.T.U. basis, especially as the 40-
hour week is the limit; overtime is dis-
missed as “bourgeois” or something like
that. The A.W.U. and Westralian
unions might have impressed this truth
on the congress of city chaps if they had
taken part in the proceedings, but they
were not present.
Knockout.
The Sydney daily papers were a prey to
gloom last week because their favorite
pugilist, who has Italian written all over
his countenance, was knocked out by an
American negro. For days the defeat of
their idol was their principal topic. Two
days after the catastrophe the “Daily
Telegraph” made him the subject of a
page of pictures, a two-column article
and a leader with a melancholy note:
If there hadn’t been a war Patrick might
have gone abroad in his prime and brought
us home a world’s championship.
If there hadn’t been a war! And this
from the “Daily Telegraph,” doughtiest
champion of dear old Czechoslovakia in
1938! After all, its hero spent his
period of service on the home front —
in a salvage unit or something of the
sort. He was spared the asperities of and
the bitter sequel to the “D.T.’s” “Fight-
for-Australia-in-Java” campaign, which
would have been a marvellous improvi-
sation of genius if it .hadn’t gone wrong.
In fact, the young man came out of
the war without wounds, scrub typhus,
malaria, beriberi, dermatitis or any of
the ills which afflicted scores of thousands
of servicemen who were in the front
lines. His military service was so innocu-
ous that it admitted of his boxing oppo-
nents in Australian cities to his own
material benefit and to the entertainment
of Mr. Ward and scores of other “Labor”
politicians and thousands of “sports,” in
no wise jaded by their exertions in the
common cause. They also, and the horde
of blackmarketeers, unlike the wrecks
who returned from the horror camps,
emerged from their war in rude health.
After the negro had done with him the
youth had to receive hospital attention
for superficial wounds. On his discharge
he received a popular welcome which
would assuredly have been denied to all
the V.Cs. had they and not he been dis-
charged from the same institution at
the same time.
For 35 minutes’ brawling with padded
fists he drew a cheque for £2OOO. Forty
or fifty thousand servicemen would take
half a dozen hidings for much less than
£2OOO if it were paid in the title deeds
of a house.
Spring Comes to Queensland.
It caught the State Parliament in an
uproar over Opposition allegations that
the elections reeked of “irregularities.”
The Opposition argued that the
Hanlons got back to power on a total
minority vote, that electoral boun-
daries were illegal, rolls “stuffed,”
postal votes “managed” and voters’
identities revealed. It asked for an elec-
toral tribunal to investigate the charges.
To all this “Labor” had one reply—
“ Tory.”
Housing is a tragedy. Materials are
scarcer than ever, costs are up as much as
50 p.c. on pre-war figures and a house
that once took nine weeks to build'now
takes nine months. Would-be soldier-
settlers are in a worse plight. Only four
out of 2000 seekers have settled on
pastoral blocks. Nobody can find the
300 sheep farms which the Government
was talking about last year and there is
the same wrangling over values and areas
between State and Federal officials as is
holding up soldier-settlement elsewhere.
ROWLEY JAMES TO THE RESCUE.
“Father or son, what did HE ever do for the miners? Paint him out and paint
me in.”
Owners of, land “frozen” for soldier-
settlement can neither improve the pro-
perties, lease them nor sell them.
And shipping remains bad. Either
there are no ships or ships get into port,
remain there twice as long as need be,
get away and never come back.
Meantime the State Statistician reports
that last year’s drought cost the State
1 , oVnnnoo bead Four
deteriorated by 9,600,000 head Lour
is reckoned that 4000 people have gone
nnt Of dairvine in five vears
To all of this there might have been
added a coal strike. While Mr. Hanlon
was at the Premiers’ Conference in Can-
berra he learned that the Communist boss
of the Queensland coalies’ union was
threatening to stop all mine operations
and march on Parliament House unless
the jurisdiction of Joint Coal Board were
extended to Queensland mines. Jumping
mad, Mr. Hanlon said he would resist the
ultimatum; he wouldn’t have N.S.W.
control of Queensland coal. Then
he met the Federal Communist boss of
the Miners’ Federation, and was vouch-
safed a more or less beatific vision of
Joint Coal Board. The strike was called
off. The “Labor” party called this a
“yictory over the Reds” and Mr. Hanlon
went on the air to broadcast details of
“the successful fight.” Comrades Williams
and Millar seemed to regard it as a win
for themselves. In these matters the
public never wins.
Meantime the British Electric Supply
Corporation voiced its eagerness to get
at Blair Athol coal —200 million tons
of it, to be won by open-cut; million
tons a year. It said it would provide
its own colliers, build a line to Rock-
hampton and haul with Diesel trains. It
expects to put £18,000,000 into the show
and is now haggling with the Hanlons
about royalty. Blair Athol looms big
in Queensland eyes, since it opens enor-
mous possibilities, but there is going on
throughout the State a big expansion in
mining generally. New shows are being
opened, old ones revitalised and pros-
pecting is increasing. Given a decent
season, which is promised by the good
end-of-August rains and provided it can
keep people working, Queensland could
be over its troubles by Easter. In a world
crying for food and raw materials it holds
a wonderful hand.
Meantime canegrowers have been
promised another £4 Is. a ton. It means
another halfpenny a pound on the retail
price; but at that consumers will be
better off than in any other country, and
there are other considerations. The
“artificial industry” has proved its worth
in two wars and in succeeding periods.
More Councils Liquidated.
Despite protests from those most vitally
concerned N.S.W. “Labor” goes blithely
on its arrogant way towards wiping out
most of the local-governing bodies in the
County of Cumberland and setting up in
their place its misbegotten offspring the
14-City Plan. Last week Cabinet author-
ised Mr. Cahill, putative father of the
scheme, to prepare a bill for submission
to Parliament next session. At the same
time the proud father announced that
there was no intention of testing the
feeling of citizens by a referendum. This
despite the fact that his royal commission
in its report had recommended that
i n determining the scope of the ideal local-
government unit it must be made certain
that the unit will have a mandate direct
meantime outside the County
cases the sponsors are only too willing
■ bofs „ soc ialism-in-our-time
tnbutors towards it. Wollongong put
up a proposal to the Minister that it
should be amalgamated for
ment purposes with Bulh, Nor h II
warm and Central Illawarra There was
uo claim that the three other
favored the union; _there was in t
much opposition to the scheme, even
branch of opp -
m it. Mr Cahill ordered a department 1
inquiry. The inquiry reported in favor
°f the proposal and any day now t
more local-governing bodies will go out
of existence without the people of the
district having any say in the matter at a .
From the Blue Mountains comes a
similar story. One council in that saiub-
rious district has suggested to the Min-
ister that the interests of people in adjom-
ing, and not-so-adjoining, areas would be
better served if the authorities hitherto
directing their affairs were wiped out and
a Greater Something-or-other stuck up
in their place. The ever-willing Mr. Cahill
has granted an inquiry, the inquiry has
given the answer he wanted, and into the
discard go several more corporate bodies
—again without any reference to the
people most concerned.
Even the South Coast has caught the
vicious habit. Nowra, apparently suffer-
ing from land hunger, is asking for
absorption of areas as far off as Bate-
man’s Bay, 60-odd miles away. And if
Mr, Cahill has anything to do with the
matter it’s a trawler-load of South Coast
fish to an empty sardine-tin that they’ll
get it, with even longer odds that the
people won’t be consulted —he has already
refused to see deputations of protest.
Mr. Cahill it was who took away from
the people their right to be consulted. At
his instance subsection 5 of section 19 of
the Local Government Act was repealed.
This subsection made provision for the
taking of a poll in cases like those quoted
—a reasonable enough measure in a
country claiming to be democratic. But
N.S.W. “Labor,” like Chifley “Labor,” no
longer worries about being thought demo-
cratic. In all its actions it tends more
and more to follow the pattern of social-
ism, the reverse of true democracy, say-
ing in effect “We know what’s good for
the people and we’ll give it to them
whether they want it or not.”
The Red Tapeworm.
Such comment as passed when Mr.
Fadden recently demanded the Prime.'
Minister’s attention to the condition of
the public service was concentrated
chiefly on its swollen and still swelling
numbers with “semi - Government”
authorities included, now about one in
four of the working population of Aus-
tralia and mopping up more and more
man- and woman-power.
But it is* not the only point. The call
for efficiency arises from several direc-
tions —obsolete departmental methods
(which, if reorganised, would permit of
economy in staffs), the character of de-
partmental administration (that is,
whether departments make unnecessary
work for themselves and other depart-
ments), and overall planning (that is,
whether much detailed supervision should
not be removed from Ministerial atten-
tion altogether).
"There is a well-warranted popular con-
viction that the public services. Federal
and State alike, are run on wasteful and
obsolete lines. No “organisation-and-
methods” division exists to keep depart-
mental machinery modernised and effi-
cient, Governments are extending their
authority more and more over social
and business affairs, and even where this
is done through independent managing
bodies, political interference with such
management is undermining the value
originally attached to their independ-
ence. If increasing socialisation of
national working energies is to be
the rule then—quite apart from the
polemics thereon —it must be accom-
panied by a much more efficient
public service.
This matter is attracting serious atten-
tion in Britain. A Select Committee on
National Expenditure reported in 1942
that
it is not the practice to submit the general
layout of departments, and in particular
the distribution of responsibility at the top,
to periodical overhaul and review. _ Yet it is
against the organisation at the highest de-
partmental level that charges of congestion,
duplication, insufficiency of delegation and
slowness in reaching decisions are frequently
brought.
The “Times,” commenting on present
irritations, instances that the Board of
Trade receives 40,000 letters a day, which
greatly clogs its efficient working, and
this torrfent of correspondence is chiefly
provoked by the department’s own in-
different methods. This is only one ex-
ample, and the complaint can be matched
in Australia. Exacting questions in Par-
liament entail further enormous work on
all departments, and these arise from
the same cause —the public irritation with
and suspicion of administrative methods.
Significantly the Fabian Society, the
spiritual home of bureaucratic socialism,
is joining wholeheartedly in this criti-
cism. It has issued a report declaring that
public-service routine is “far behind out-
side practice,” and that many officials,
never having had outside experience,-“do
not realise how out of date they are. It
asserts that (as the “Times” paraphrases
it) “the infusion of traditional Civil
Service attitudes into the regulation or
operation of industrial and commercial
activities threatens to be a menace to
economic recovery.”
Ministers, the Fabian report says,
“ought to get tough,” and abolish controls
as well as create them. Without serious
reform “there may be only two choices
to agree to less Government activity, or
to \yatch the economic life of the country
gradually slowing down.”
That means us in Australia, too.


ŵ
CRAVE N A
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10‘s & 2«’s
CARRERAS LTD.—OVER ISO YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
£
ilii
6745
POLITICAL POINTS
Once the leading industrial State had
legislated for a 40-hour week in advance
of the Full Arbitration Court’s verdict,
judicial decision on the issue was fatally
undermined. The Court’s judgment on
Monday was, therefore, to be foreseen.
Indeed, the A.C.T.U. during the previous
week had challenged the Court with
threats of refusal to accept any other
award, in effect making the decision for
itself and fixing a date in October when
it would operate. The Court has fixed a
different date—January, 1948—and has
saved something for the principle of an
honest week’s work by ordering that no
industrial organisation under the award
shall impose any ban on overtime. Of
the question of a five-day week there is
qo mention.
Forty-hours is a blow at production
which will now be felt all through Aus-
tralia asi it has already been felt in
N.S.W. Commonwealth Ministers do not
really believe it can have any other effect,
nor do union leaders, nor farmers, nor
anyone else who gives two thoughts to
the national position or the state of the
world outside Australia. Forty-hours is
only another concession to the illusion
of easy times, easy money and the dodg-
ing of taxation by seeking overtime work
on what the Tax Commissioner recog-
nises as the blackmarket. The work-shy
fever now traces an upward track on the
sickness-chart of Australian industry.
The Chifley Government has cut down
foreign trade, and the experiment for a
hitherto complacent people of sitting
under the pepper-trees and watching the
“Golden Age” come to it likfe a faithful
dog should be highly instructive.
Anti-Australian and anti-Dutch reso-
lutions, a vote for a lawless general strike,
threats and charges of violence, police
protection of a delegate and arrests of
two others were features of the A.C.T.U-
congress in Melbourne. And all in and
about premises owned by people who
once refused to let them for an ex-
servicemen’s conference unless the ex-
servicemen refrained from smoking.
Peace descended on the closing proceed-
ings only when a strong, rich tenor voice
was uplifted in song. It came from
Harold Blair, the young abo. “dis-
covered” in a fertiliser factory at Ipswich
(Q.). The president, Clarey, with an all-
too-rare flash of humor —he never shows
any spirit—remarked that Blair was the
only man in his 30-years experience who
had kept a trade-union meeting quiet for
20 minutes.
After some argument with the Blind
Institute, which had the Melbourne Town
Hall booked on the same date, the State
“Labor” Government secured that build-
ing for a reception for McKell, Gee-
Gee. By a charming coincidence, the
A.C.T.U. proposes to hold its nation-wide
one-day strike the same day.
Chifley, in 1936:
In my opinion the best service to the
community can be given only by a banking
system from which the profit motive is
absent.
And if he gets, his way with the banks
“the profit motive” will be “absent.” It
is absent from all “enterprises” under
Government ownership or “control”;
railways, tramways, buses, ships, coal-
mines, treatment works, implement fac-
tories, world without end. Not inten-
tionally, but because it just happens that
way.
When Powers was raised to the High
Court Bench in 1913 there were protests
from the Bar that he had never prac-
tised as a barrister —he was Crown
Solicitor of Queensland for many years
and then first Crown Solicitor of the
Commonwealth. Within 12 years the pre-
cedent had been followed in Queensland
in the cases of Crown Solicitors Mc-
Cawley and Webb, each of whom became
C.J., Webb being transferred to the High
Court, though, occupied with the Tokyo
war-crimes trials, he has not yet taken
his seat. Now J. A. Sheehy, who was
in the Crown Solicitor’s office in the Mc-
Cawley-Webb time, has been appointed
to the Supreme Court vacancy caused
by E. A. Douglas’s death.
These Australian “Labor” dollar-cut
decrees would be accepted more philo-
sophically if they did not look so much
like desperate expedients of one scared
and incompetent “ ‘Labor’ Government”
to put a smoke-screen over another, so
that the general collapse of Labor-
socialism may be temporarily concealed.
And one privileged caste is to be spared
the new austerity. “A cut of the order
of 20 p.c. is to be made in the number
of U.S, motor chassis approved for im-
portation during 1948.” It won’t affect
the 30 new Buicks ordered by the
austerity Government for the use of it-
self, followers and officials; cost of
chassis is £940 apiece, with cost of bodies
and fal-lals to be added.
Moscow radio claims another record
—a Soviet parachutist jumped from a
height of 43,962 ft. It wasn’t high enough
though; when he got down the poor
fellow was still in Russia,
Because costs have risen since the
Advances for Homes Act was passed in
1944, the S.A. State Bank limit is being
raised from £lOOO to £1250. Announcing
this, Playford said that in N. S. Wales
he had seen houses costing £4OOO to
£5OOO which could be built for £2OOO in
S.A. Thereupon Richards, the “Labor”
leader, demanded a Housing Ministry and
a Building Commission, asserting that
with a Housing Trust and private con-
tractors everything was in a mess. The
gentleman should have a look at the
mess in N, S. Wales, which has a Minis-
ter for Housing and another for Building
Materials, controlling everything from the
first survey peg to the last roofing nail,
and erects masses of files but few houses.
In 1944 the Chifley-Evatts divided the
nation on an issue that had nothing to
do with the war —then still a struggle for
surviyal. In one of their advertisements
they alleged that “the prevention of soar-
ing prices and of profiteering, the protec-
tion of savings and the avoidance of in-
flation are possible only because of certain
temporary war-time powers possessed by
the Commonwealth Parliament.” They
asked for an extension of these powers
“for the first five post-war years only,” so
that “the prevention” might continue, ac-
companied by “post-war reconstruction
on a national scale.” With 25 months gone
since the Japs turned it in “the temporary
war-time powers” still exist, together with
profiteering and blackmarkets, and prices
have soared prodigiously these last few
months. And post-war reconstruction
there has been none, except for a
grandiose department—Chifley’s when it
was staffed with highly-paid theorists.
To the indignation of “the sports” in
Sydney and Newcastle, there is to be no
mid-week racing or night trotting with
bookmakers till 1949. “Labor” is not
renouncing one of its twin gods. Betting
and Booze, but with production so bad
and the general outlook so uncertain,
especially the size of its deficit, it simply
can’t do what it would like to do and
what it promised to do a few months ago.
It knows “the sports” will be on hand
with their votes at the next time of ask-
ing, however sharp in the meantime “the
hurt that honor feels.”
It is a long way from Newcastle to
Whyalla, and a longer way still to
Yampi Sound, but all three had an interest
in B.H.P.’s launching from its Whyalla
yard the largest ship ever built in Aus-
tralia, the 12,500-ton freighter Iron
Yampi. She is the first of four of her
class, intended for the company’s ore-
carrying trade from Yampi to Newcastle
and Kembla. Another keel was laid as
soon as Iron Yampi took the water.
Why alia has now turned out 15 ships—
one for every five or six months of its
existence—including five 9000-ton River
class, two 8000-tonners and one 6000-
tonner. The place, B.H.P. men declare,
is rapidly becoming a key-point of Aus-
tralian industry.
It was reserved for Cameron, the
P.M.G., to blurt out the objects of bank
“nationalisation”: “to lend money at cost
to (private) borrowers and the State and
Federal Governments.” What the money
borrowed “at cost” would descend to in
purchasing power the silly old gentleman
did not explain, but anyone with a bank
balance is privileged to guess.
In 1945 Menzies, recognising Don
Cameron as the fool of the family—or
at least the oldest fool of the family—
described him as “the man who, single-
handed, established and controlled and
brought to fruition Australia’s aircraft
industry”:
Darting about the aircraft factories, ex-
plaining, instructing, exhorting, organising;
here tossing an acute technical observation
to a designer (“that leading edge wants a
little more taper”); there solving a hold-up
in carburettor production; somewhere else
checking up on the accountancy. His only
regret is thaf he has had no time to find
out how it is that these aeroplanes can
leave the ground when they are heavier than
air. It is all so confusing.
Spoken in the House of Commons or
during an election campaign—as it was
here—this blast of irony would have made
any British politician’s reputation and
would have been quoted in newspapers
from Land’s End to John o’ Groats. But
Australians suspect irony, and the thing
probably did Menzies and his party more
harm than good.
J. G. Hargreaves, president of the
Queensland Master Builders, has told the
“Courier-Mail” that, whereas a house
could be built in nine weeks before the
war, it now takes nine months. This he
puts down mainly to shortage of building
materials, particularly from the south.
Almost simultaneously Mr. Matthews, the
Sydney Minister for Building Materials,
said he was going to tighten up restric-
tions on supplies.
Public reactions to Chifley’s 42-word
bank-“nationalisation” reduced “Labor”
apologists to startled silence. When
they recovered their vpices, one quoted
Shaw:
A national of municipal bank would
bring down -the price of capital, just as
nationalisation of the coalmines would
bring down the price of coal by eliminating
the profiteer.
Then word came from Britain that the
price of “nationalised” coal had jumped
4s. a ton, that production had gone to the
bow-wows and that a strike over some
small matter at Grimethorpe had spread
until 70,000 miners were out.
Pie having alleged that the Queensland
“Labor” Government had been returned
by means of “juggled electoral bound-
aries, stuffed rolls and corrupt campaign
practices,” Education Minister Bruce
“challenged” the Q.P.P. leader to produce
evidence. Pie weighed in with a photo-
stat copy of a statutory declaration by a
Townsville man to the effect that he had
heard Jesson (“Lab.,” Kennedy) comment
on a ballot paper, the corner of which
was unstuck, revealing the voter’s elec-
toral number. Remarks attributed to
to Jesson were: “I will give this
voting against me; I will see him trans-
ferred to hell out of it in six months.”
Amidst “uproar” Jesson shouted that it
was all a “pack of lies” and called on
Attorney-General Gledson to make the
Townsville man prove it.
In his farewell address at the British
Commonwealth Conference, Canada’s
Defence Minister Claxton gave the P.M.
credit for “a remarkable speech” at “a
private dinner given by the Government.”
An appropriate Chifley toast on that
occasion would have been “Dr. Evatt and
Mr. Macmahon Ball, and may they
never meet! ” The interesting pair, bosom
pals till their recent Tokyo reunion, are
not likely to meet for a long time. The
rejected Macßawl set out for home and
bother last week, farewelled by “50 high-
ranking non-American officials” and two
“tearful” Jap servants, who “hitchhiked
to the station to he present.” A day or
two later his erstwhile patron and chief
hit the well-known air track to San Fran-
cisco.
Menzies has been re-elected leader of
the Liberal party, and Casey has become
president of the party organisation. When
appointed as such Casey said “X have
made many friends and acquaintances,
and if I have any better friend than
Menzies I have yet to meet him.” He, of
course, was Lyons’s Treasurer when
Menzies was Lyons’s Attorney-General,
and when Lyons died Casey was Minister
for Supply and Development under Men-
zies until he went to Washington.
Enemies of both men have exploited the
idea of an enmity that never existed, a lie
now definitely nailed by Casey’s statement
that “it will be my enthusiastic objective
to work with Menzies as closely as one
blade of scissors with another.”
The ex-Communist Strachey, that
dismal failure of a Food Minister, has
come out with the proposal that Austra-
lians should cut their consumption
of meat and dairy produce by 20 per
cent, and ship to Britain the stuff thus
saved. It poses a nasty problem for
“Labor” —and it serves “Labor” right for
throwing itself in the path of Food-for-
Britain when launched,
* The Sydney Government’s notion of
forcing N.S.W. South Coast fishermen to
send their catches to Nimmitabel, on the
Monaro, where they are held in a freezer
until a train cin be found to lug them to
Sydney—motor trucks would halve the
time taken —was revealed in all its silli-
ness when nearly a ton of the fish, “in-
efficiently packed and handled,” had to
be dumped as unfit to eat. It occurred
during a fish shortage, trawlers being tied
up in protest against Government fish
“control.”
Casey, surveying the political scene:—
The Labor party has allowed Com-
munism to become enshrined in the vitals
of the Labor movement. It has been
largely built on discontent; Labor has a
vested interest in discontent. Labor re-
grets now what it has done, but that
fanning of the flames of discontent is now
bearing fruit in the flowering of Com-
munism.
A bit mixed as to metaphors, but solid
on facts.
Short history of S.A.’s betting shops:
In 1933 they were legalised. When the
seedy business was in its full stride there
were 38 in Adelaide city, 122 in the suburbs
and 146 in the country. In March, 1942,
the Playford Government banned both
horseracing and betting shops as a war
measure. The racing ban was lifted in
October, 1943, but the ban on shops re-
mained. In 1945 the Betting Control Board
was instructed not to license betting shops
in the metropolitan area, and to license
them in the country only after an inquiry
proved them to be “a reasonable necessity.”
Last year the 8.C.8. licensed shops at Peter-
borough, Quorn and Port Pirie. Now, in a
majority report, it states that “increased
betting facilities increase betting”; that it
was misled as to shops being “a reasonable
necessity” for Quorn and Peterborough and
won’t renew their licences, and that, as for
Port Pirie, it doubts the “reasonable ne-
cessity,” but will re-license and may hold
a “supplementary inquiry.” A one-man
minority report “dislikes the open invita-
tion to bet”,but prefers the licensed shop
to the illicit s.p. joint.
A very unusual board this. No other
board in the bulky catalogue of boards
has ever been known to hint that it would
be better dead.
From “J. Dory”:
“Bluenose” is adrift in two respects with his
comments on the Sydney fish business (B.
3/9/’47). It was not necessary to ask the Prices
Commissioner to reduce the price of fish during
the gas strike last December. And there is no
“racing man” who now owns Sydney trawlers,
though the fish-an’-chips business may reveal an-
other story.


RANK-AND-FILE VISION OF THE NEW ORDER IN BANKING.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Jasby”: No chicken, but justly proud
of his youthful appearance, Bert received
a blow to his pride the other week, no
less shattering through being delivered
indirectly. He called at a girls’ school
to collect his 10-year-old daughter. A
young teacher came to the door and in
addressing her he inadvertently used the
name of the elderly Principal. The girl
didn’t bat an eyelid, but went back to
the classroom. Presently out came Bert’s
daughter. “Isn’t teacher funny. Daddy?”
she remarked, “She said to me ‘You
can go now, Jeannie ; your grandfather is
waiting for you.’ ”
* * * ♦
“Clooter”; Those who complain that
humor has left the world seem to be sup-
ported by an incident which occurred
recently in Montreal, Canada. It was
gravely reported that when the private
affairs of a couple of young ladies who
had won a beauty contest were investi-
gated, they were discovered to be mem-
bers of the “oldest profession.” I’m
not sure what happened afterwards,
though I suppose nothing did, since so
far nobody has thought of making rules
disqualifying contestants on the grounds
of their avocation. All the same, it must
have been a dreadful shock to the elders
of the city, the organisers of the contest
and the defeated young women. On
the other hand, since most of these beauty
displays are a form of advertising, what
an advertisement the winners gained! In
other days the incident would have set
the whole world laughing, the pulpits
would have pointed their sermons with
it, every known and unknown professional
humorist would have flogged it to death ;
imagine what De Maupassant would have
done with it, or Shakspeare or Leacock.
As it is, except in secret circles, there
was hardly a ripple of mirth. Alas, this
is not only a mad world, my masters,
but a dull one.
• * * •
“D. Empson”: Adam McCay was not
only a writer of distinction but a spinner
of good yams. One I heard him tell
concerned Andrew Fisher’s visit to South
Africa for the opening of the Union Par-
liament, Adam being of the party. Pos-
sessed of a fine presence, Fisher was a
dull speaker, and he was duller than ever
on that tour, disappointing everyone.
Going to the Victoria Falls, he gazed with
an appearance of rapture at the mar-
vellous scene. “Ah,” whispered Adam
to a brother-scribe, “he’s going to say
something quotable at last.” What he
did say was “Fine body o’ waiter”; then,
as an absurd creature came out from
under a shrub— “Hoo, look at the
lizard! ”
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Thousands of school
children the country over will heave a
sigh of relief at the news that the study
of Latin has received, if not its death-
blow, at least a swinger from no less
eminent an authority than the University
of Melbourne, the Council having decided
to recommend that it be no longer a
pre-requisite for the entrance on the
LL.B. degree. This break with tradition
has more or less been thrust upon it by
the flood of ex-servicemen who had not
intended to do law and decided later to
become Gent. Ones. The Council is
apparently of the opinion that if students
learn their law direct they will be just
as well off as if they learnt a Latin tag.
There is a venerable don at Oxford
who still thinks Latin is a living language.
Annually at Christmas he goes down to
the town, climbs on a soap-box and de-
livers an oration in the purest Roman,
to the astonishment of the townsfolk.
“C. 8.”; The almost Chinese rage for
academic education which has smitten
post-war Melbourne has split the Uni-
versity into two parts, one part having
set itself up at Mildura. In China the
spectacle used to be presented of old
men of 70 sitting beside youths at the
annual Imperial examinations and there
was a modified parallel to it at the con-
ferring ceremony in Melbourne. One
young man received his degree of
Bachelor of Dental Science at the same
time as his mother got her Bachelor of
Arts Distinction.
♦ * * *
“S.R.R.”: As the founder and editor
of the “Diggers’ Digest,” I was interested
in “Scribe’s” par (B. 27/8/’47), but I’m
afraid he let his imagination run away
"Stop teasing the animals , Joe."
with him. Far from being “stonkered
by swivel-chair bureaucrats,” we were
given every encouragement in the ven-
ture. When the superintendent was asked
if he desired to exert any kind of censor-
ship he replied “Print what you like and
be damned to authority! ” As for “re-
turns in triplicate”—there was none.
» * * *
“Pitt St”: If there’s to be any prize
for the Federal public servant with the
longest and most highfalutin title, here’s
my entry. He’s Dr. H. Graham Andrew
and he’s Deputy Co-ordinator of Re-
habilitation in the Ministry of Post-war
Reconstruction.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Navy Office heads bound
for Manus in their Dakota were roused
from their discussions of quarters, fuel
installations and magazines by the signal
that always electrifies —s.o.s. from a
200 ft, schooner filling up 40 miles off-
shore from Moresby. While the Dakota
circled for the tiny speck below a Cata-
lina was dispatched from base, but
found the water too rough for landing.
Next came a high-speed Air-sea Rescue
launch, and boat and aircraft found the
sinking scooner at almost the same time.
The crew took to the boats as she filled
and sank. Seeing them safe the Dakota’s
captain winged off over the Owen Stan-
leys, arriving at Manus with half an
hour’s fuel left.
* * * *
“G.M.”: Accustomed as lam to watch-
ing Hollywood heroes get in and out
of difficult situations with consummate
ease, I must admit the lad I saw the
other night left me gasping. He was a
pilot on a two-man freight run, which
lifted bagged ore from an inland mine
somewhere in South America and flew it
over a mountain range to a sea port,
The gal friend had crashed on the moun-
tain in a little two-seater plane. The
hero was in action barely two seconds
after hearing the news. Handling a
DC3 with a nonchalance that would
make him the envy of any pilot’s mess,
he took off on a pitch-black night, located
the lass in a thickly-wooded and deep
mountain gully, and prepared to land.
And what’s more, he did. Then he
picked up the heroine, and took off again,
without so much as scratching the paint
on the shining Douglas. What I wouldn’t
give to be able to fly like that! But
then, I’ve only a couple of thousand
hours in my log-book,
* * * *
“Jemac”: New Guinea coast watchers
are one service that is being maintained
at better than pre-war strength. Seventy
teleradio sets are to be established in
plantations and villages along the coasts,
and operated by civilians, many of them
ex-servicemen who learned their New
Guinea trailing Japs. In peace the sets
will afford modern communication for
domestic purposes and valuable weather
reports, and in a scrap the war codes will
make of the chain a tightly-knit recon-
naissance circuit.
* * * *
“Loc”: A sergeant medical orderly,
Blue had applied his splints and bandages
successfully through many brisk practices
in the Islands, but his last period of duty
before discharge was the R.A.P.
at a school-cadet camp. Late one night
he was called to inspect a boy who,
according to the youthful runner, was
“really ill.” The lad’s temperature, loca-
tion of his tummy-ache and other symp-
toms convinced Blue that here was a
sure case of appendicitis. He rushed the
lad off by ambulance to the nearest
A.G.H. and woke up the company 0.C.,
who phoned the boy’s mother and said,
“We don’t want to alarm you, Mrs.
Jones, but your son has appendicitis.
We’ve sent him to hospital.” The mother
laughed, but at last she managed to
speak: “He had his appendix out last
year. It sounds as if he’s been drinking
lemonade again. Too much always
affects him like that. Is there any of it
at the camp?” “Yes, madam,” snorted
the 0.C., as he hung up the receiver and
roared for Blue.
jK * * *
“Bo”: Handclapping was once re-
garded as only a sign of approval of
the offering of orchestra, instrumentalist
or singer, but that aspect has long been
lost to Sydney concert audiences —they
clap anything, good, bad or awful.
Moreover, they clap a thing they’ve shud-
dered through with the same enthusiasm
as something beautiful, possibly in the
hope that the encore will be a piece they
know. But it doesn’t usually work out
that way. At a recent celebrity concert
the singer’s accompanist played as his
solo effort excerpts from Moussorgsky’s
“Pictures at an Exhibition.” This caco-
phonic horror went on for almost a
quarter of an hour, and when the key-
board belter wound up with a theatrical
flourish the audience, which had begun
to show signs of restlessness, burst into
hearty clapping. Naturally the flattered
executant, thinking they preferred such
tripe, gave as an encore a modernist
piece even worse than the first. They
deserved all they got.
* * * *
“R E” '• An Adelaide butcher, haled
before the Court on a charge of driving
under the influence, pleaded Not Guilty.
A constable related confidently how he
had observed the butcher steering an
erratic course along the roadway. He,
the constable, sternly ordered him to
pull into the kerb, Cagmag had to
be assisted from the car, and was in-
toxicated to such a degree that he could
not remain upright without the aid of
the restraining limb of the law. The
constable then pushed the vehicle nearer
to the kerb. “And,” interrupted the
judicial tones of the P.M., “what did the
defendant do then?” “He just stood
there,” replied the witness. “He didn’t
offer to help me.” “But,” continued the
P.M., “you said that he could not stand
upright without your assistance. When
you removed your arm, didn’t he topple
over?” “Er —no,” the copper hesitated.
Case dismissed!
* * * *
“Porkie”: As a Disposals auctioneer
and an old Light Horseman, I was rather
tickled at “Yarralena” and his “riding
saddles of an unusual design, each, having
two wooden bearers to rest on the horse’s
back” (B. 20/8/’47).* With courtesy, may
I point out that all military saddles of
World War I and II were of this design,
recognised by experts the best saddle for
military use, especially on long stretches,
where changes of mounts are limited.
Ask any Light Horseman. Sore backs
were few and far between in the Pales-
tine campaign.
* He * *
“Dong”; Separated by the surge of
the tram’s incoming passengers, the
middle-aged man and his wife were yards
apart when the conductor came along.
Pointing spousewards, the husband asked
for “two twos” and the conductor ripped
the tickets off and scrambled on. Then
the flaming red-head, whom he previously
had not noticed, addressed the husband
with a knowing smile: “Thank you very
much for paying my fare. But you really
shouldn’t have. My husband’s some-
where on this tram and he doesn’t like
that sort of thing.” Panic in his eyes,
the man looked along to his own wife,
just paying her fare and giving him the
icy. This is one of ‘ those unfinished
stories, but any husband should be able
to supply an ending.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A new sense of economics
seems to have penetrated through to
Brown Brother in New Guinea, who is
reported to be offering £l5 a week to
white men to drive jeeps. This amounts
to a revolution in native values. In the
early days of Bulolo a goldfields com-
pany brought over a Clydesdale from
the mainland to do haulage. A local
tribe stole the animal and slaughtered it
for the iron in its shoes. The traditional
axe in those parts has from time imme-
morial been made from shell to which
a handle of wood is lashed. The natives
didn’t try to beat out the shoes —they
adapted them to the tradition by bind-
ing a wooden stick on to the two ends
of each shoe and sharpening the curved
part. They got four axes at a cost —to
the company—of 50 guineas.
* * * *
“Melbn”: That hardy perennial the
Old Tin Shed in Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne, has come into the limelight again
—a claimant has turned up who says
her grandfather bought it from Batman
or someone and that an uncle once saw
the title. There have been scores of
claimants for the city’s leading eyesore,
but the Crown maintains that the land
has never been alienated. Regularly once
a year there are public demands for its
removal, but-it "persists as a quaint ex-
ample of Late Colonial galvanised-iron
construction in the heart of the metro-
polis’s bricks and concrete. Anybody
who could prove ownership would reap
a small fortune, but Melbourne citizens
are likely to cast a sentimental or re-
proving eye upon it foff many years yet.
♦ * * *
“Jonniarfi”: We were carting some
Nip prisoners from Finschhafen to
Moresby by air. Soon after take-off the
three guards fell asleep, and the baleful
glare of 30 Japs didn’t make the three of
us in the cockpit any happier. The pilot
thought out an idea to keep the guards
awake. Soon, community singing was in
full swing, one of the guards standing
on a parachute-pack to conduct. The
Japs were told “no sing, no kai-kai,” and
they beefed it out. In their wildest
dreams none of those Japs would have
pictured themselves flying at 20,000 ft.
over the Owen Stanleys singing “Old
Black Joe.”
“HATTY” HATS.
ẁ
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


“8.A.”; That barney over the Kelly
Gang film (B. 27/8/’47) may have oc-
curred at Greta or Glenrowan, but it
certainly did not happen in the Strath-
bogie country. None of the gang or
their relatives lived on the wild, little-
known tableland, but when the bush-
rangers held up the bank at Euroa they
made their getaway through the Strath-
bogie Ranges and the rough, scrubby,
heavily-timbered country on the upper
reaches of the Broken River, and so to
the Kelly selection near Greta. When tt
became known that the outlaws had made
for the ranges a few miles from the
scene of their coup, it was assumed, quite
erroneously, that they had shifted their
headquarters to the Strathbogies. During
their outlawry the gang ranged from
the Ovens Valley over the Upper King,
Whitfield Tableland and Wombat Ranges
(now known as Toombullup) as far west
as the Broken River. Tire only occasions
pn which they were away from their
mountain hangouts were those on which
they were engaged on their hit-and-run
raids on the banks at Euroa and Jeril-
derie.
j|g y* jJ;
“Bert’s Mate”: Here’s another angle
to weather forecasting (B. 9/7'/’47). Last
year my husband was taken out very ill.
As this is supposed to be an important
weather-reporting station I offered to
carry on. All went well for a few days;
then one night the wind rose to a gale
“Any more mistakes like that and you're fired!'
and the sea pounded on the beach. At
the 9 a.m. session I reported this. At the
3 p.m. session the voice at the other end
said “There is a memo here from the
weather office asking if your 9 o’clock
report was correct, as the forecast was
for slight to moderate seas.” As my
3 p.m. report was the same as the 9 a.m.
I did not reply to the memo. This
weather lasted for three days. On the
fourth day a small naval ship anchored.
and the crew came ashore, telling me
they had been trying to make the place
for three days but the seas were too
rough and they had had to anchor out-
side. They were still in the office when
I put through the 3 p.m. report. The
voice at the other end said, “There is
a memo here asking you to check on
your weather reports for the last three
days. We can’t understand the rough
weather; it should be slight to moder-
ate up there.” Just as I was go-
ing to reply a voice behind me boomed,
“Slight to moderate be damned! Come
up and see for yourself. The blasted sea
is rough enough to sink anything.” My
reports weren’t queried after that.
* * * *
“Hamer”: An octogenarian whose
passing got a casual notice the other day
was an idol of us kids in my long-ago
childhood. He had won amateur box-
ing and wrestling championships in more
than one division; was a victor in
athletic events, a footballer and cricketer
of note and a yachtsman in the 18-footer
division. He kept on being a sport when
years came to him; and the fact that he
was getting older did not keep him from
getting into the Boer War and World
War I —he was 50 when he enlisted in
that. But what is chiefly remembered
about him was his fond mother’s insist-
ence that he was a semi-invalid. In the
old “penny-farthing” cycle days he had
been mixed up in an accident which sent
him to hospital. “Harry has never com-
pletely recovered from that,” Ma used to
say. “He should take greater care of
himself.” The old lady, who lived beyond
90 herself, retained her curious maternal
kink right to the end ; almost her last
words urged her granddaughters to look
after their father, who was not as strong
as he seemed to be, and had never fully
recovered from the accident he had when
he was a boy
* ♦> ♦ *
“Mac Fergus”: Bruce, the Queensland
Minister for Education, defending the
appointment of a defeated Labor candi-
date (also an A.W.U. organiser) to a
teaching appointment at a State school,
referred the Teachers’ Union to From
Log Cabin to White House. “The story
of Lincoln,” quoth the Minister. At the
next Cabinet meeting he’ll probably
knock his colleagues sideways with a
quotation from Garfield’s Gettysburg
Address.
* * * ♦
“Hep-2-3-4”: Most Army issues had
well-chosen descriptive handles. An ex-
ception was Brushes, hair. Harder than
those used in the tougher type of street-
cleaning brooms, the bristles must have
been manufactured by smelting “dog-
biscuits” and passing them through fine
holes. They’d have torn the pelt of a
woolly rhinoceros. All troops agreed that
while the “Brushes, hair” were excellent
for scrubbing the week’s wash, use of
them on the human thatch could consti-
tute a “Self-inflicted Wound.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: According to a report from
Suva, natives in the Solomons have
started a sit-down strike for a 1200 p.c.
wage increase and unrest has spread to
the jungle, where a trade-union has
established illegal courts which are trying
cases in defiance of constituted authority.
This possibly accounts for the experience
of a young friend, an artist as well as
a musician. He announced that he was
going to the islands to paint like Gauguin.
Asked how he was going to make a
living he replied, “By piano-tuning.”
This sounded such a fantastic occupation
for such a primitive location that I
thought he had gone a trifle crazy, but
I have since learnt that he made £3OO in
his first month. Have the South Sea
islanders all acquired pianos from Dis-
posals?
r * * * *
“Yair”: A morning paper recently re-
ported that an American had invented a
two-eyed needle, A letter appeared next
day pointing out that the reader had
known of such needles for donkey s years
“I wouldn't stress that if I were you —the audience is getting restless."
and that they werfe English in origin. But
a lift-driver in a city departmental store
had taken the affair too much to heart
for a paltry letter to satisfy him. As he
stopped at the ground-floor for weeks
after he called out: “Ground-floor.
Haberdashery to the right—and two-
eyed needles, still selling there as usual,
and they’re English ; and if you doubt it
come down to the basement and I’ll tell
you more.”
* * ♦ *
“Smouge”: There were some Austra-
lian ships in that raid on Sabang (B.
27/8/’47). Norman and Nepal were two
and the ojd Adelaide was also there—
although she did not take part in the raid
she brought valuable provisions from
Fremantle to Exmouth Gulf, providing
some of the matelots with their first feed
of Aussie spucte for 18 months. “Mac-
nell” says there was no counter-attack
by the Japs. There was, but it was beaten
off by our fighter cover before it got
within 15 miles of the fleet, and all we
saw of the Nips was a streaky light on
the radar screen as they plummeted into
the drink.
* * * *
“D.P.H.”: The ban on street sales of
“art - union” tickets has stopped what
looked like developing into the best busi-
ness in Sydney. One Pitt-street seller
started raffling a Shetland pony, and to
help sales along he took the pony with
him. Then he joined forces with another
seller with another pony. Next along
was a street photographer, who took
photos of kiddies sitting on the ponies,
while the parents were buying tickets in
the “art-union.” Last along was a chap
to lift the young hopefuls on and off.
What a pity such an enterprise should be
nipped in the bud! '
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: As I write, many of
Brisbane’s suburban streets are aglow with
the soft pink and white beauty of flower-
ing bauhinea trees. In October they
will be replaced by the glorious blue of
jacarandas and the gold of the silky
oaks, wherever these taller visions of
beauty have not been destroyed to save
work in pruning them to clear overhead
wires. With the flowering of the jaca-
randas that front Parliament House there
always comes the year’s worst outbreak
of uproar and personal abuse among its
expensive denizens. By November the
pink oleanders will be blooming and the
glorious red of poincianas will usher in
the summer.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Cbg” in nostalgic mood:
Imposing bank premises are a feature of
Australian towns. The great majority of them
were erected in the days when domestic help
was cheap and plentiful. The architects of the
’eighties and earlier bothered themselves very
little with such trifles as convenience of layout,
and devoted their skill to size and imposing
facades. While the present occupants are only
too thankful in these days of house shortage
to have the use of the bank residence, the job
of keeping them clean is a never-ending one.
Six and seven bedrooms were quite common,
although the present-day families of the bank-
ing fraternity do not call for such lavish use of
space. Basement kitchens were often provided
with lifts, in which the food was hoisted (pre-
sumably stone-cold) to the upper regions. These
lifts now provide good fun for the children
of the- present managers. Another relic of the
older and more gracious ways of hvmg is the
bell system connecting the various rooms with
a peal of bells on springs in the servants (yes,
plural) quarters. It is pleasant to recall that the
old-time manager had only to pull the bell
handle to ensure a servant toiling up flights or
stairs to answer his call. The provision ot
internal lavatory accommodation was, of course,
unheard-of. Heating arrangements called for. a
lot of work, as upstairs fireplaces were found in
all bedrooms. All bedrooms and drawing-
rooms were placed upstairs, and when I say up-
stairs I don’t mean a short flight of properly-
placed steps but huge staircases with landings
(often back %nd front) with steep steps. The
old-timers must have had good leg muscles.
Great fun was had in the placing of the bath-
room —a sort of mezzanine floor was considered
a good place to put this almost superfluous
adjunct. Then the windows, reaching almost
to the ceilings of the very lofty rooms, were
all equipped with huge Venetian blinds —great
collectors of dust these —but that was the house-
maids’ worry. What prodigious feats of balanc-
ing wdre called for in cleaning the windows
and what ladders (borrowed from the fire
brigade) were necessary to clean them on the
outside! Countless yards of passages with
ups and downs, two or three steps cunningly
placed here and there to trap the unwary. And
last the kitchen, with a range large enough to
serve a good-sized hotel and ensuring prosperity
for the fuel merchant, and situated, very often,
outside the main building, necessitating the food
being carried considerable distances and through
two or three doorways to the dining-room where
sat the master ready to carve. Great old places,
but the modern maisonette has much to com-
mend it.
* * * *
“Orion”: The city of Nottingham
seems to have got something in its latest
burglar-trap. An ingenious police-
detective there hasi devised an installation
of alarm points on premises to be
guarded, which points are connected by
underground cable with a desk at police
headquarters. Up to 20 separate instal-
lations can be carried on one pair of
wires. Any action to sever the circuit
gives an alarm. The system is inopera-
tive so long as the premises are occupied
by day, but when the last person to leave
a building so protected closes a special
wire door, the signal is received auto-
matically at police headquarters and the
premises are then “under guard.” Within
a few seconds of ari alarm a message
is passed to police patrol cars. There is
no indication to the breaker-in that the
police have been warned. The Notting-
ham police think it is the cat’s whiskers.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Melbourne’s pole-
sitting competition was stopped by the
Health Department, the reason given
being that sanitary regulations had not
been conformed with. These modem
pillar saints are poor fish anyway, St.
Simeon, who invented this form of
asceticism in 420 A.D., sat on his perch
for 30 years as a penance for other
people’s sins—noble motive, though the
motion itself may have been silly. His
self-sacrifice was its own reward, but his
modern followers expected £25 for a
trifling amount of endurance, no more
than is exacted daily from the ordinary
citizen who has to strap-hang in the trams
or travel on crowded trains.
* * * *
“J.S.”: Missing files! I’ve often
wondered if a bundle has turned
up at Vic. Barracks yet. When
Horseferry - road folded up after the
1914-18 stoush, it had on hand a
number of awkward files on which
Australian H.Q. was awaiting urgent re-
plies. No one at that stage was a bit
interested, but those files had to be dis-
posed of. A genius conceived the idea of
carefully wrapping the offending docu-
ments and consigning them to the Com-
manding Officer, H.M. Troops, Bermuda,
with the remark that “when the bloke
who gets them wakes up, we’ll be well
and truly in Australia and demobbed.”
It’s not suggested that the Lands Sales
Control files are on the way to Merauke.
ROBIN HOOD REVIVED.
“Tn renlv to protests from the Kelly country about
a new Mm deaUng with the activities of the Kelly
gang the producer pointed out that the work pro-
posed to give a Robin Hood flavor to the bush-
rangers’ exploits.”
They’ll want a deal of whitewash, you may
think, the Kelly gang, , ,
To liken them to Robin Hood, of whom the
“CainSgafhe used to call, faint and far away.
In Sherwood, in Sherwood, about the break of
The Readiest romancer needs a decent lapse of
To g™a touch of glamor into lawlessness and
crime.
And were we to survey him as contemporaries
We might revise our estimate of legend’s Robin
Hood.
Those old-time robbers, Claude Duval, Dick
Turpin and the rest,
Owed rather more to fiction than to history, 1
suggest; . , ...
And had there been such articles as daily papers
Less lustre might have clung about the deeds
of highwaymen. .
Yet even now you’ll find a certain sympathy
survives . „ , , . „
For sturdy rogues, especially when hunted tor
their lives, , „.,
A very human feeling played upon by Boldre-
wood . , _ . .
Envisaging a Starlight on the lines of Robin
Hood.
“The evil that men do,” as Shakspeare’s Antony
depones, ■ , . , ...
“Lives after them; the good is oft mterr-ed with
their bones.” .
And, by and large, it may be so, but one might
cite a few
Names to display the converse as occasionally
true. . ..
Time takes the edge off black misdeeds, it
there’s aught else to stress,
And bitter memories fade in merciful forgetful-
ness.
Still, it should tax resourcefulness, I fancy,
hard and good
To reconstruct a Kelly as a modern Robin
Hood.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


To-day, after 250 years of continuous service, “Lloyd’s”
is probably the most prominent single name in the field
of international commerce.
The wealth of experience that* it has accumulated over the
years in all branches of insurance is available to you, the
private citizen, through the oldest and largest Lloyd’s
Brokers in the Southern Hemisphere—
EDWARD lUMIEY &-SONS PTY LTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY: 263 George Street and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle: 33 Watt
Street. Melbourne: 287 Collins Street, Adelaide: T. & G. Building.
Brisbane: A.M.P. Building. Perth: 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart:
82 Collins Street. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin,
NEW ZEALAND, and LONDON, NEW YORK, MONTREAL, PARIS, COLOMBO
and Singapore. el.is.is
On a winter’s day in 1903, along a
lonely stretch*of the Carolina shore,
two brothers, Orville and Wilbur
Wright, were about to demonstrate
that a powered heavier-than-air
“flying machine” would actually fly.
That they were successful is now
history. But the risk they took in
this epic flight has not diminished
with the passing years. To-day risks
of a far greater magnitude are
accepted and underwritten as ordinary
business routine by the world’s most
famous Insurance Organisation—
ẃ
The best
you can buy
You don't have to acquire
a taste for Cinzano Ver-
mouth, you appreciate it
first time. . . . You relish im-
mediately the edge it gives
to appetite, the refinement
of flavour and delicate aroma
it adds to Cocktails . . . at all
good hotels and licensed stores.
TRY A "TROPICAL"
For each person, crush a slice of orange
and a slice of pineapple in Cocktail
Shaker. Add ice, then 1 measure Dry
Gin, I measure Cinzano Sweet Vermouth,
'/a measure Cinzano Dry Vermouth.
Moisten edge of glass with orangd and
dip in crushed sugar. Shake well, strain
and pour gently . . . Deliciousl
9fSf
SHInON
Q
...
I
Airway Cases, li»
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
THE SERVICE MAN
Indonesia and the A.C.T.U.
“Ek Dum”: Incidents of the Mel-
bourne Congress of the A.C.T.U,—the
highest trade-union body in Australia,
whose president is a Victorian “Labor”
Minister, and which seems to be able to
the, “Government” to any action
it desires—-were mostly familiar, but
some were unexpected.
The usual gang of Communists were
present in force, as arrogant as when
they campaigned against the “imperialist
war” and demanded peace with the then
victorious Hitler. And they had an In-
dernesian to put the case for his and
their comrades; an offer to state the case
for the Dutch was refused. On the “In-
dernesian issue the comrades seemed
to be winning all along the line till a
strong new voice was heard.
It came from a Musicians’ Union dele-
gate, Robert Carroll. He himself was a
strange figure in that company, being a
Young Digger who became a prisoner-of-
war. What he said infuriated the Com-
munists and made at least some of the
‘moderates” look very uneasy. Said
delegate Carroll:
I was in Indonesia and I saw what went
on. It is time somebody told the trade-
unionists of this country the type of people
they are blindly supporting. Dr. Soekamo
and his followers are not the real repre-
“On a reefy, is she? Well, let me know when she's off again!”
sentatives of the Indonesian people. Dr.
Soekarno and his fifth-columnists were re-
sponsible for the deaths of many good Aus-
tralian servicemen. I often wonder whether
trade-unionists know whom and what they
are supporting in Indonesia.
I know from experience that the Indo-
nesians revealed our positions to the enemy
and sometimes murdered our men. Dr.
Soekarno’s alleged friendly guides murdered
five of my mates when they were out of
sight in a lonely part of the island of
Sumatra. I managed to escape from the
guldes -
Then Mr. Carroll suddenly interrupted
himself to ask: “Where is Dr. Usman?”
But Dr. Usman, the Indonesian “Govern-
ment’s” representative, had left a few
minutes after the trend of the speaker’s
remarks had become clear.
Mr. Carroll read a telegram from Dr.
Soekarno the Japanese Premier in
July, 1944: , TJ
together with Japan, in order to smash
and destroy America, England and the
Netherlands. We hail the success of Japan
tVfen'SS i a „ , .4 ea ball,e’S i Ti n y -,e. in M% e
this success bring final victory.
There was nothing new in this, as the
“Government” must know. The Bulle-
tin has been giving the facts—mostly
taken from the “Government’s” own
monitored records! of Indonesian war-
time broadcasts, for the best part of two
years, Nor was there anything new in
the Communist fury which Mr, Carroll’s
speech evoked, though he may have seen
counterparts in his prison camp. Dele-
gate Coull (Liquor Trades) shouted that
the speaker was “trying to mislead the
Congress.” Delegate Thornton (Iron-
workers) squealed that the Young Digger
would go a long way before he became
“a man to equal the type of Indonesian
trade-union leaders I know; I am proud
to call these people my friends and my
superiors in the trade-union movement.”
Comrade Wright (Sheet-metal Workers
and vice-president of the Communist
Party Central Committee) bellowed “How
much did the Dutch pay you, Carroll,
to come and say this?” But the Digger
held his ground. The conference then,
with its usual obedience to the Corn-
munists, passed a resolution for the for-
mation of a trade-union secretariat in
Eastern Asia, a move in line with the
policy of Moscow and Dr. Evatt.
Next day Mr. Carroll had to go under
police guard to avoid the experiences
suffered by the Australia First men and
others who have been targets for basher-
gang outrages for daring to oppose Com-
munism. Meanwhile the Communists
Thornton and McPhillips were arrested
and charged with unlawful assault on a
“Daily Telegraph” reporter who was one
of the paper’s war correspondents. An
“Argus” photographer complained that
he had been molested and that films had
been taken from him and destroyed,
In newspapers and at meetings other
Young Diggers supported young Carroll,
Private J. N. Arnold told the
daily press that “compared with the In-
dones'ians the Japanese were gentlemen.”
He said that he and five others had taken
to the hills when the Allies surrendered
in r av „ T u p T nr lnnpsiin« handed fhem
m Ja y a - IJ 3 Ana ° nesian ? handed them
over to the Japs, after making them take
off their boots and march 60 miles
through the jungle, starving and beaten
th Thev were rmt in work
° n * ne _ Ane y , were P ut m worK
parties under Indonesians :
The Indonesians’ favorite game was to
beat us with pickhandles till we couldn’t
stand, then report us to the Japanese for
loafing. When a mate and I pinched a
couple of potatoes we were beaten un-
conscious.
’ , -
Private C. R. Cavanaugh, a p.-0.-w. tor
three years, testified that when the
Japanese marched Australians through
the stre ets the Indonesians jeered at them
an( j threw stones. He said he “saw a lad
beaten to death with a pickhandle.”
And he added: “Any man who supports
Indonesians now is not fit to be called
an Australian ”
The champions of these ferocious
savages and of their leader, who accepted
a war-time decoration from the Japanese,
completed their work in jgdboum. .by
getting A.C.T.U. sanction for resolutions
demanding the withdrawal of all Dutch
servicemen from Indonesia and condemn-
i»« the Commonwealth Government’s
Act to defend the rocket-range project
against Communist spying.
If Australia can stand any more rule
by Communist ruffians through a pliant
Administration which seems to be abso-
lutely at their beck and call it will
scarcely deserve to rank among self-
respecting white nations. The country
would be shocked at what a properly
constituted and empowered royal corn-
mission would reveal about the nature of
Communist activities within the Com-
monwealth. But the Canadian example
has been lost on the “Government,”
which not only shows the white feather
every time the Communist leaders
commit their outrages but employs Com-
munists in the Federal service, one a
person who was jailed on a war charge,
and whose prosecution was marked by
a military statement that he would be


Missing Friends.
FLEMING, Dorothy Agnes Annie, born 1908 County
Antrim, Ireland, arrived Australia 1925, last heard
of at Wentworth Falls, or any person knowing of her
whereabouts or death, please communicate re the
estate of PAUL HARPER FLEMING, deceased, with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
RELATIVES of JOHN McTIQUE, late of Glenorehy,
Tasmania, are requested to communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Uohnrt. Tarmen'n.
RECRUITS
WANTED
for
IS YEARS SERVICE
in the
ROYAL'
AUSTRALIAN
NAVY
Good Pay. Free Medical and Dental Treat-
ment. Opportunities for Promotion, Travel,
Sport and improvement of education.
AGE GROUPS
(Tradesmen will be required to pass a trade test before entry)
ATT. CANDIDATES will be required to comply with
the Educational and Medical Standards prescribed
for the Branch they desire to enter and produce
Birth Certificate and a Certificate or Statement from
the Headmaster of their last school, showing the
highest Educational Standard attained.
CANDIDATES UNDER AGE OF 21 must have
parent’s consent.
EX R.A.N. AND RESERVE RATINGS
are invited to RE-ENTER for 6 or 12 years.
For full details apply to:
The Naval Recruiting Officer, Beach Road, Edgecliff.
F.M. 5001, Extension 1,
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep. Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or l/2£ posted from Bulletin Office, 252
Sydney.
recommended for internment after he
had served his sentence.
Round the World in Russian.
“Ek Dum”: World War 111, Commu-
nists v. The Rest, continues with a grow-
ing fury. In the stage of strategic man-
oeuvring, the Russians are generally get-
ting into position for the offensive.
A round-the-world tour of their activi-
ties produces startling consciousness of
how universal these activities are.
In Australia they have not merely car-
ried out their plan for preventing R.A.A.F,
refuelling of Dutch courier aircraft but
have imposed silence on the “Govern-
ment” —that silence which has become a
common and dangerous habit of the
guilty and incapable Administration. In
this case a statement is doubly necessary
because of the international issues in-
volved and because the R.A.A.F.’s shock-
ing action followed clamor by Com-
munists ; but statement there has been
none.
And the Communists had a host of vic-
tories at the A.C.T.U. Congress. For one
thing they carried a motion for the re-
peal of the Approved Defence Projects
Act, merely stopping short of ordering
the “Government” to abandon the
rocket-range project.
And their demand for “Australian
action at U.N.0.” against the Dutch in
their East Indies, weakly acceded to, has
closed in a Jogjakarta nomination of
Australia as representative of Indonesia
at the arbitration proceedings after the
Dutch had nominated Belgium. A sorry
anticlimax to the sorry manoeuvring of
Canberra.
“Democracy” in Korea
In Korea, General Wedemeyer,
formerly Lord Louis Mountbatten’s
deputy-C.-in-C, in South-East Asia, has,
because of Moscow truculence, failed in
the task of ironing out the differences be-
tween the Russians and the American
command over the proposals to allow the
Koreans to achieve united government.
It was agreed by the Powers that all
democratic political bodies in both zones
should be allowed to take part in the dis-
cussions. The differences arise from the
inability of the Allies to agree as to
what constitutes democratic bodies.
On the Russian side of the line there is
no problem. The Soviet Command sees
to that. The Koreans on that side of
the line know only one party. Those
trying to form non-Communist parties
disappear during the night, are found in
rivers or are beaten to death by strangely
military mobs.
In the American zone there are many
parties. These, though freely formed,
when introduced to the Russians as can-
didate members of the new constitution-
building body are rejected with scorn.
The intervention of State Secretary Mar-
shall merely drew from Molotov an un-
friendly and indignant remonstrance.
While the U.S. insisted on supporting
“Fascist bodies,” Molotov hinted, nothing
could be done. He “protested” against
the “intolerable” attitude of the United
States.
In the early days of September, the
chances of the acceptance by Russia of
the peace proposals for Japan, whatever
they may be, looked gloomy. The Rus-
sian proposals -are certainly likely to in-
clude something very much to the ad-
vantage of the U.S.S.R., the Chinese
Communists (the same thing in China)
and the Communists in Indo-China.
/
Persian Bear-garden
Passing through an intense zone of
Communist propaganda in Malaya and
Burma, the Indian situation comes into
view. Moscow Radio, once deeply eager
that the British should walk out of India
instanter and allow the Indians to start
from scratch, is now bitterly indignant
with them for doing it. It appears they
are on the side of the innocent Moslems
at one minute and on the side of the in-
nocent Hindus the next, being really
enemies of both. Russia is, of course, on
the side of the Egyptians in their struggle
to oust the “British imperialists.”
On the Azerbaijan border, in the Cas-
pian area, the borderlands were reported
last week to be full of strange refugees
“fleeing” before about 15,000 Kurds who
looked as if they were preparing to de-
scend on the Persians. Rumors and re-
ports were featured in London news-
papers, one being that 30 Russian divi-
sions were mustered close to Persia. Per-
haps these divisions and the Kurds will
evaporate if the Persian Parliament does
the right thing this week.
The Balkan Paradise
In Greece the normal raiding by Mace-
donian bands goes on, and public life
in Turkey was enlivened by the arrival
of three Rumanian officers who had com-
pelled the Russian pilot of an aircraft
to take them there. Their story of life in
Rumania sounded as if it might be a
chapter in the history of any badly-con-
ducted hospital for the insane. And Com-
munists . swept the Hungarian election
poll, conducted by Rakosi, signer of the
“Australian” Communist party’s charter.
The proceedings were described by
Western observers as characterised by the
grossest Communist frauds.
Warships and Poison Gas
At the same time it was reported that
the United States had rejected Russia’s
protest against a decision to increase the
industrial level in the British-U.S. zone
in Germany. The objective of the Rus-
sian actions generally {seems to have
been in recent times to create an excuse
to seize the Russian zone —all of Ger-
many east of the Elbe —and incorporate
it in the Soviet bloc of satellites behind
the Iron Curtain. Towards this end Field-
Marshal von Paulus, an infamous creature
when he commanded at Stalingrad, and
about 65,000 Germans who have likewise
ceased to be Nazi “beasts and thugs and
midnight stranglers” have been trained.
Somewhere hidden away in the U.S.S.R.,
if they still live, are a million or two
German prisoners-of-war who are denied
all access to their relatives and all the
privileges which would be sacred to them
under the Geneva Convention, if they
were in the hands of a Western ally.
They will never see Germany again un-
less as Russian slaves.
In the Baltic zone of Germany, the
Russians have been raising all the
German battle-cruisers and cruisers
within their reach, in flat defiance of
the arrangements at Potsdam and after-
wards. At the same time they have
been conducting a curious war with
Sweden,
Two Soviet diplomats —one a mili-
tary attache —were found in the recesses
of the Swedish Boden defence line sketch-
ing and photographing. The Swedish
Government protested. The Russians in-
dulged in their usual offensive bluster,
but, Sweden remaining unmoved, they
announced that they would withdraw the
offenders, though only because they were
to be sent to other ports. At that stage
a 12-year-old boy Was discovered draw-
ing a sketch of the Soviet Embassy build-
ing in Stockholm and there was a terrible
hullabaloo. The Swedes rescued their
young citizen.
Last week the resourceful Russians
were jettisoning large quantities of mus-
tard gas into the Baltic to “destroy” it.
By a curious coincidence they were drop-
ping it into one of the most important
Swedish fishing grounds off the Danish
island of Bornholm, which they had occu-
pied for a long time.
All along the Russians have resisted
ratifying the treaties with the Balkan
enemies and Italy until these countries
should have given their ratifications first.
Last week they suddenly and mysteriously
reversed their decision.
Red Ants in Britain ,
Moscow Radio and press meanwhile
are engaged in a tremendous campaign
directed (for British benefit) against the
“ruthless” American capitalist, who, with
the help of the British capitalist, is sup-
posedly squeezing the bread out of the
mouths of British toilers. In Britain it-
self there are the usual clumsy and in-
solent Communist attempts to use the
crisis to weaken, the country.
Coincidentally with the visit of Aus-
tralia’s old friend General George
Kenney to London there was published
a letter from the secretary to the Com-
munist party, Harry Pollitt, who, in
1940, led the demand that the British
workers should force the Government
to capitulate to Hitler. (“The capitalists
are getting your children killed! What
is there left to fight for? Demand a
negotiated peace with Germany now! ”)
Comrade Pollitt warns Mr. Attlee to
abandon his policy of dependence on
“ruthless and aggressive American im-
perialism.” Mr. Pollitt says also—
as does Moscow Radio —that Britain’s
only hope of emerging whole from the
present crisis is “to reduce the armed
forces by at least half a million and build
up friendship and close economic rela-
tions with the Soviet Union, the new
European democracies” —such as Bul-
garia!—“and the Dominions.” The
alternative is supposed to be that the
United Kingdom will be turned in short
order into “a colony of American
imperialism.”
Even the Trade-Union Congress has
signified that it is prepared to take the
risk.


THE
LONG
LIFE
BATTERY
EXIDE BATTERIES STILL KEEP GOING
WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
A
mm
i
Xj
EXIDE BATTERIES
OF AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
X 2.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Newcastle bishopric attained its
centenary a couple of months before the
coal and steel city started shooting off
rockets to celebrate its 150th birthday.
Bishop Tyrrell was consecrated in West-
minster Abbey on June 29, 1847, and
arrived in the new diocese six months
later. He chose the church of St. James,
Morpeth, as the seat of the diocese and
dwelt there 31 years. Present bishop,
Francis de Witt Batty, came to Newcastle
in 1931. Previously he had been a
London priest, chaplain to Archbishop
Donaldson, of Brisbane, Dean of Bris-
bane and, for a year, Coadjutor-bishop of
Brisbane. He has become completely
identified with the life of Newcastle
district and six years ago declined an
offer of the Adelaide diocese. Bishop
Batty has published several books of a
religious nature and, in collaboration with
C. T. Dimont, a biography of Arch-
bishop Donaldson. A man of strong
convictions, he turned down the chance
of acquiring a radio station for his
diocese because of the political strings
dangling from the offer. His spare time
is spent in his workshop at his hobby,
cabinet-making.
Addressing a batch of new-fledged
doctors. University Chancellor Mitchell
expressed the hope that South Australia
would contain them and the larger num-
bers of them to follow as the growing
State would need them all. In urging the
young men to stay South Australian the
professor was preaching what he has prac-
tised. Scottish-born, he came to Adelaide
in 1894 to take the Hughes chair in Philo-
sophy and Economics, so that, as pro-
fessor, vice-chancellor and chancellor, he
has put in 53 years at Adelaide ’Varsity.
In 1907 he published his monumental
Structure and G/owth of the Mind, a
tome which is the downfall of many
psychology students every year, though
most of them are sporting enough to
ascribe their failure to some peculiarity
in the structure or defect in the growth
of their own minds rather than blame
the 86-year-old professor.
There w'as no other nomination when
Lud Mayor Connelly got his third term
as Melbourne’s first citizen. His allow-
ance was raised from £2500 to £4000; a
Labor-group amendment keeping it at
the old figure of £2500 was lost on divi-
sion and a further motion from the group
that it be made £4OOO, £l5OO to go in
Food for Britain, was ruled out of order.
The date happened to be his birthday, but
that was only coincidental. A widower,
the devoted leader of that forlorn hope
a Brighter Melbourne has Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, wife of the musical professor,
to assist him as Lady Mayoress. She is
a daughter of David Hennessy, a
former Lud Mayor, who was the present
incumbent’s father-in-law.
One of the things Professor David
Jones, killed the other day in a motor-
car accident in England, told Australian
industrialists a few months ago was that
they had got to think of a much greater
coal production than the 12 million tons
a year which sufficed before the war.
Prof. Jones, who held the chair of coal
and metalliferous mining at Birmingham
University, came here chiefly to advise on
the combating of dust in mines, but
he said some important words on the
need for a national survey of resources,
and more economical habits in the use of
poorer coal for many furnaces in which
high-quality stuff is at present burned. In
The Bulletin office the professor left the
conviction that he was as amiable as he
was able.
Gerald Lightfoot, retired from the posi-
tion of consultant to the C.5.1.R., was
appointed secretary of the old Advisory
Council of Science and Industry in 1916,
and continued in the same capacity with
the present C.S.I.R. from 1926 to 1944.
He has seen the organisation develop
from a staff of four to over 2000, with
20 major laboratories and many field
stations. As Commonwealth representa-
tive on the Prickly Pear Board, he had
a big part in the work which resulted in
file eradication of our worst weed pest;
and he had no mean one in establishing
the Standards Association of Australia ;
last year he was at the British Com-
monwealth Standards Conference in
London. A Cambridge Science gradu-
ate, and a barrister of the Middle
Temple, he remains a member of the
Council of C.S.I.R. and of the Standards
Association, and chairman of the recently-
formed National Association of Testing
Authorities.
Heth’s study of Man with Pipe de-
picts Reginald Kirby, whose historical
romance. Dawn Journey, was recently
published in Sydney. Kirby is an English-
man who came to Australia about 10
years ago. At London University College
he specialised in history, and is now
turning his study to account. In Dawn
Journey historical characters —Garrick,
John Wilkes, “Hellfire” Dashwood, Ben-
jamin Franklin, Pontiac and others —
shoulder their way among the fictional
A NOVELIST.
personages who get themselves into and
out of scrapes in Farnolish manner.
No one can accuse Kirby of being stingy
of plot or action. There’s enough of both
in the book for half a dozen novels,
though apparently it by no means ex-
hausts the author’s resources; he has an-
other with the publisher and two more on
the stocks. During the war Kirby was
in New Guinea with the R.A.A.F. Re-
cently he has been a feature writer for
Melbourne “Agb.”
Men who knew “Jim”:
The passing of Sydney Fancourt McDonald
(B. 20/8/’47) revives memories of not only an
eminent physician but of a courteous gentleman
who, for over a quarter of a century, notwith-
standing a busy professional career, found time
to interest himself in aviation, its medical
aspects, and, in particular, in those who adopted
flying as a career. No one, not even official-
dom, had a more complete record of the medical
histories and personal characteristics of pilots
who passed through his hands, as representative
of the Department of Civil Aviation, than
“Sunny Jim,” to whom practically every commer-
cial pilot operating in Bananaland was personally
known. More than one of the old-timers of the
1921 vintage had reason to thank Mac for
their retention on the flying register. He
had an uncanny knack of finding out when Bill
Aileron was on a bender at Cloncurry or that
Jim Slipstream was recovering out Isa way.
A friendly note to the effect that his licence
was in jeopardy at the next examination would
invariably jolt the recipient back to the straight
and narrow. Occasionally a smart one to
dodge Mac would find it convenient to be in
another capital city when due for examination,
and thought hard when the central office in
Melbourne referred him back to Wickham-
terrace before renewing his licence. As con-
sultant physician in the R.A.A.F. Mac did
much to uphold the prestige and reputation of
its medical service under the able administra-
tion of D.G.M.S. Victor Hurley.
Gone to Philadelphia to fill a profes-
sorship at Strathmore College, Leslie Lip-
son, professor of political science and
public administrator at Victoria Univer-
sity College, Wellington, MX., since 1939,
when he was the youngest professor in
the British Empire. He went from the
Old Country to MX. after a brilliant
scholastic career at Oxford and Balliol,
and visited the U.S.A. as a Common-
wealth Fund- Fellow to study public
administration and political science.
Killed in an aircraft accident last
month Roy Chadwick was as much re-
sponsible for the success of the air offen-
sive against Germany as Mitchell, de-
signer of the Spitfire, was for victory in
the Battle for Britain. He *it was who
designed the Lancaster bomber, which
spearheaded the R.A.F, night raids on
Germany’s industrial heart. Fifty-four
at the finish, he joined A. V. Roe and
Co. as a youngster and for 35 years was
the firm’s chief designer. His first plane
was a trainer used in World War I and
in all he produced more than 30 types,
including the Anson, the two-engined
Manchester, from which the Lancaster
was 1 developed, and the Lincoln, which
has now superseded the Lancaster. The
York and Lancastrian airliners also de-
rived from the Lancaster, as did the
Tudor. Early this year Chadwick be-
came technical director of his firm. He
was working on plans for a gas-turbine
airliner at the time of his death.
Latest to be added to the ranks of
Melbourne’s K.Cs. is Joseph Francis
Mulvany, at present appearing for the
United Ship Service Co. in the inquiry
into the tragic fire on the Mahia. He
was born in Melbourne, educated
at Christian Brothers’ College and New-
man and admitted to the Victorian Bar
in 1929. Common law and equity juris-
diction is his special province ; he won
the action in which 10 jurymen sought
£50,000 damages from Melbourne
“Herald” after a verdict of theirs had
been discussed in a “Sun-Pix” leader. His
father is economic adviser to the Com-
monwealth Dried Fruits Control Board.
T. E. V. Hurley, the new president of
the Royal Melbourne Hospital, is an out-
standing member of his profession. He
served in both wars, with the A.I.F. in
the first and as Director-General of
Medical Services for the R.A.A.F. with
the rank of Air Vice-Marshal in the
recent scrap. He has been Stewart Lec-
turer in surgery at Melbourne University,
examiner in surgery in Melbourne and
Adelaide and was once resident m.o. at
the institution over which he now pre-
sides. Born in Melbourne in 1888 his
decorations include C. 8., C.M.G. and
V.D.
Prior was just about to put a cigar
between the lips of the figure in the
accompanying sketch when he remem-
bered it was Randolph Churchill he was
drawing, not Britain’s war-time P.M.
Actually seen full-face, there is no great
degree of resemblance between father
and son, but in profile it is another story
—the same heavy jowls, broad back and
massive, hunched shoulders. In manner-
isms of speech and gesture, too, there is
much of Winston in the younger man,
A CHURCHILL.
and he has plenty of his father’s forth-
rightness, as was shown at a Sydney press
conference in a slight passage of words
with a Communist reporter. Churchill
having remarked that he honored Russian
Communists as patriots, but regarded the
British, American or Australian variety
as traitors, the reporter announced him-
self a Communist. “Party member or
fellow-traveller?” flashed Churchill. At
the end of his Australian lecture tour he
goes to America for a return season,
giving Japan the once-over on the way.
But lecturing is only a between-seasons
hobby; at first opportunity he’ll be ham-
mering at the House of Commons door
again, most likely as Conservative candi-
date for Preston, which he lost in 1945.
This year’s Brownlow Medal for the
best and fairest player in League foot-
ball in Melbourne went to an ex-service-
man, B. J. Deacon, wlio plays centre
half-back for Carlton. At the inter-State
matches in Tasmania he won the Luke
trophy for the best and fairest Victorian
player and was placed third for the Tassie
medal, awarded to the best and fairest
player in the “carnival.” His recipe for a
good player is that “the ball should
always be the object.”
The appointment of Sir John Slessor
as commandant of the Imperial Defence
College creates history, as he is the first
air officer to hold the job, Slessor, bom
at Rhanikhet, India, in 1897, served
with the R.F.C. in 1914-15 and
was granted a permanent commis-
sion in the R.A.F. in 1919. Ser-
vice in India during 1921-22 was followed
by staff jobs at Air Ministry. Later he
commanded No. 3 Indian Wing and
took part in the Waziristan campaign,
1936-37. This brought him a D.S.O. to
add to Jus Great War M.C. During
World War II he was among other things
A.O.C. No. 5 Group Bomber Command,
Assistant Chief of Air Staff, A.0.C.-in-
Chief Coastal Command, Deputy-Com-
mander-in-Chief Mediterranean Allied
Air Forces, and since 1945 has beeh Air
Member for Personnel. He also spent
some time before the war at the R.A.F.
Staff College, and was an instructor at
the Army Staff College. He is the author
of Air Power and Armies.
Dead in Melbourne, at 83, Mrs. Isa-
bella Whalley, who, as an employee of
the Victorian Telephone Exchange Co.,
was the first “hello girl” in Australia.
Twenty lines were opened in 1881 on an
allotment where a branch of the Com-
monwealth Bank now stands and opera-
tions were impeded by the hordes of
citizens who came to see “the scientific
realism of the Homeric idea of winged
words” in action. Seven years later the
company sold out to the Victorian Gov-
ernment for £40,000. Mrs. Whalley
had arrived from London in 1867.
Into the Silence:
In Heidelberg Hospital (Melb.) as a result of
health impaired in Japanese prisons, Captain
A. W. Creese, master of the Hauraki .when she
was captured in 1942. His sturdy refusal to give
information about merchant ships in Australian
waters brought him beatings and torture. Bora
in Bristol, he was in sail before he joined the
Union S.S. Co., which he served for 35 years.
At Glenelg, S.A., at 91, George Benjamin
Bryant, who retired last year as g.m. of the
S.A. Brewing Company. Before joining head
office in 1917, he was branch manager for the
company at Port Augusta and Broken Hill for
many years.
At Sydney, aged 70, Frank Whiddon, Grand
Master of the State’s 90,000 Masons. He was
a principal of a wool-combing firm, president
of the English-speaking Union and a vice-presi-
dent of the R.A.S.
At Warwick (Q.), at 72, John Allman, Mayor
of the town for 10 years, a member of the Hos-
pital Board and of the Show Society committee.
For 26 years he was president of the Warwick
Turf Club and raced a number of good horses.
In Sydney, at 69, Edwin Abbott, former
Comptroller-General of Customs, from which
position he resigned in 1944, after 50 years in
the Public Service. From 1918 till his retire-
ment he was concerned in all the main tariff
changes and Empire trade negotiations.
George Washington Walker, dead at Sydney
at 87, was one of the “original” N.S.W. Rugby
Union reps. He was full-back in the 1882 and
1886 teams to Maoriland, and in the N.S.W.
XV v. M.L. at Sydney in 1884, and also pulled
on a jersey v. Queensland in TBB2, 1883 and
1884. In addition he repped for N.S.W. in Aus-
tralian Rules football, and between whiles was
a sailing enthusiast, cyclist, swimmer and quite
a good pug.
At Glenferrie (Vic.), at 82, William Alexander
Mitchell Chalmers, chartered accountant and
well-known Melbourne club man of other days.
A cousin of T. A. (Rolf Boldrewood) and Syl-
vester Browne of Broken Hill and Coolgardie
fame, Chalmers probably holds the distinction of
presenting the best first .balance sheet that ever
rejoiced Australian mining investors. It was
when, as secretary for Bayley’s Reward at Cool-
gardie, he showed a profit of £39,390, being
£14,790 in excess of subscribed capital.
In Adelaide, at 84, William Woide Goodhart,
for many years manager of Adelaide Steamship
branches in South and West Australia. First
president of the Adelaide Psychological Society
he was also for many years president of the
Ailiaijce Franfaise.
In Adelaide, at 63, F. W. Cornell, managing
director since 1919 of the concern his father
founded, a committeeman of the S.A. Tuber-
culosis Association and a keen golfer, yachts-
man and polo-player.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Newcastle is still echoing to the revelry
of its 150th birthday. To mark this great
event there was the clash of bells across
the spring air, there were the chant and
soaring dramatic outbursts of choirs, and
there was the beat of drums—-bands came
rolling in to the celebrations from far
and near, even from Maoriland. Long
before the first rocket ascended all hotels
and every spare bed in the city were
booked out. Among congratulations
came a telegram from Newcastle-on-
Tyne, and Tynesiders in Australia
take special pride in the achievement of
their birthplace’s namesake. Newcastle,
Australia salutes you!
All the yachtsmen around Kirribilli
are laundering their sails in preparation
for the opening of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron’s regatta on Saturday,
September 27. Racing will commence at
2.30 and yachts attending the rendez-
vous off the squadron’s grounds are re-
quested to moor north of a line between
the squadron jetty and Cremorne wharf.
The usual garden party will fill the
grounds with brightly-frocked or warmly-
suited women according to the winds that
blow. Throughout the afternoon the
band of the Eastern Command will play.
Further news from Major and Mrs.
Manley tells of visits to London and
Paris. In London they had a flat in
Whitehall overlooking the gardens and
the Thames and seven minutes from
Buckingham Palace. Mrs. Manley tells
of an afternoon spent with the Fisk and
Nock ladies in the former’s roomy flat
in Hyde Park Hotel. The three Aus-
tralians enjoyed their afternoon. They
watched the tennis at Wimbledon from
the super television set the Fisks have
installed in their flat. In America”, Mrs.
Manley bought an outfit for her English
visit. This included some nylons. Prices
for clothes in Paris (where they stayed at
the Grand Hotel in Place de TOpera)
staggered the Australians.
Randolph Churchill, blue-eyed, blonde
and burly, and 6ft. or so of him, in grey
home-spun, was the one man on the
horizon for both pressmen and press-
women last week. Even if he hadn’t
been so good-looking the aura of his
great father so encompasses him that
wild elephants wouldn’t have kept the
newspaper girls from last week’s press
conference, Randolph, whose eyes under
their heavy lids smile a good deal, can
yet take in his audience with a glance as
shrewd, sharp and appraising as any
Winston himself could dart at ffie Minis-
terial benches in the House of Commons.
Incidentally, Randolph is probably a
replica of Winston when he was a young
man in the Boer War.
There was everything at this conference
—a tea party and a tall, dark Communist,
who, after bus brush with Randolph, re-
freshed himself, disappointingly, like
everybody else, with a cup of tea —no
vodka at all,
Randolph has everything you’d expect
from one of a family famed for its charm
and four-square directness of speech. He
swung as dizzingly and adroitly as a
young man on a flying trapeze from one
answer to another of the many questions
hurled by his interviewers. He told
that sister Mary and her husband were
at present living on the Churchill farm.
And finally he left to keep appointment
with Dr. Evatt —and wasn’t he lucky to
find the Doc. in Australia! Randolph
lectures in the Town Hall on Sept. 13
and 16.
The Borovansky ballet is in its last
weeks at the Royal, and Sydney is still
packing in. Ballet attracts the school-ages
as well as the ’teens upwards, and last
Saturday’s bill featuring the Grieg Con-
certo Fantasy and Sea Legend once again
hit the popular fancy.
Film producer Harry Watt, the Ken
Halls, the Harald Bowdens, and every
other theatre and radio celebrity in
Sydney were at the premiere of Max
Alford’s “Awake My Love!” It was
quite a flutter of a night in the Indepen-
dents’ Theatre, and leading lady Diana
Perryman was a gracious presence in the
romantic part provided by the playwright,
and the ckarmful clothes designed by
Mrs. Max Afford. Max has brought
to the stage charm, an ingredient asi
essential to a play as to a woman.
Overseas Leaguers in this city are glad
to have secretary of the Sydney branch,
Kathleen Gaden, back at Martin-place
headquarters. Kathleen, who has been
in England for almost two years on leave
of absence, had a job in London at Aus-
tralia House in the News and Information
department, of which Tommy Dunbabin,
the encyclopedic Sydney journalist
now in New York and later bound for
Canada—was the head.
The Grand United Order of Oddfellows
has done a fine job in building its Cen-
tenary Centre at Northmead, Parramatta.
The Centre has been established to com-
memorate the 100th anniversary of the
founding of the G.U.0.0.F. in N.S.W.
Its main objective is the care of the
Order’s aged members or members’ aged
wives or widows. Here in their advanc-
ing years Grand United couples will still
be able to share a little home. Each of
the Centenary’s apartments is all electric
and contains a combined lounge and
sleeping annexe, a kitchen and a bath-
room. The Centre is set in 78 spreading
acres. The whole will be open to in-
formal inspection on next Saturday after-
noon.
Mrs. Ida Beeby, founder and Director
of Patch Theatre, in Western Australia, is
now touring this State and Queensland
as accompanist to American dancer Ted
Shawn. It was really through this enter-
prising enthusiast for the theatre in all
its forms of expression that the famed
American came to* Australia. The suc-
cess and growth of Patch are a crown of
laurel not only to its promoters, but also
to Perth audiences —the patchwork cur-
tain went up on the company’s first per-
formance on the night of the declaration
of war! Mrs. Beeby’s latest contribution
to the aesthetics of this country is her
book dealing with music through move-
ment. It is a book for teachers and is
named “Dance, Child, Dance.” The
illustrations are by Morry Hertz, of
the Patch Theatre.
An engagement that is “hot” news in
Newcastle this week is that of local
pianist John Hannell to Margaret Fox,
of Melbourne. Margaret is also a
musician —in fact, her brothers,
herself and two sisters all play different
musical instruments. The pair are hav-
ing a grand time enjoying Newcastle’s
150th Anniversary Celebrations, par-
ticularly the musical festivals. John’s
great-grandfather, James Hannell, was
first Mayor of Newcastle (1859) and that
city’s first member of Parliament in 1860,
and remained in office except for a short
term till his death in 1876. He also
founded the Newcastle hospital, the
cricket, the regatta and race clubs. John,
who is one of Australia’s brilliant musi-
cians, served with the A.I.F. in the Middle
East and New Guinea. His mother, Mrs.
Edith Hannell, is one of Newcastle’s
leading musicians and is president of the
city’s Music Lovers’ Club.
Miss Sarah Gregg Loseby, of Bowral,
attained her 100th birthday last week,
and the whole of the district rejoiced
with her. There was a special Thanks-
giving Service in St. Jude’s; and after-
wards Miss Loseby unveiled a plaque
marking the site of the first church and
school in Bowral. Then she went on to
the opening by Mayor W. F. Foley of
the Sarah Loseby playground for children.
After that there was the cutting of a birth-
day cake brave with 100 candles. Miss
Loseby was born in Bowral at Harby
Farm. Her parents came from England
in the barque Tropic in 1845.
Australian women who love the un-
usual will rejoice that the Modernage
fabrics put on the market by Silk and
Textile Printers, Ltd., promise to be more
plentiful than last summer. The designs,
glowing, bright and fanciful or dignified
in reflective beauty, are by a group of
well-known Australian artists in addi-
tion to members of Silks and Textiles’
own staff. The fabrics are suitable for
both dress materials and curtains. Aus-
tralia’s trees, foliage, shells and abo. lore
have inspired the pattern 0n many of
the shimmering lengths of silk and wool
shown at this year’s exhibition.
The show was held in the ballroom of
the Australia, and the wife of managing
director Claudio Alcorser paid neat com-
pliment to the artists by wearing a frock
of silk in the totem pattern. This is a
James Gleeson “barbaric arabesque in
black upon a Vivid silk.”
From Melbourne
The Governor, Sir Winston Dugan, and
Lady Dugan entertained at a late-after-
noon party at Government House over
.200 guests, comprising members and
ex-members of the three fighting services.
Branches of pink and white spring blos-
soms were set in tall silver vases and
were arranged between pink-shaded silver
candelabra on the long tables in the
State drawing-room. Lady Dugan re-
ceived the guests wearing a softly-draped
lime-green crepe afternoon gown beneath
a fingertip-length cocoa fox fur cape.
In attendance were Major George Max-
well, Capt. John Blood and Penelope
Nettlefold, the latter wearing a slim-
fitting jacket and frock of black crepe.
In the G.H. party were Mrs. J.
Haselden, Mrs. George Maxwell, wear-
ing a soft powder-blue frock, and Mrs.
A. A. Lord. Among the guests were
Capt. Charles Clark, R.A.N., and Mrs,
Clark; Commander H. W. Gault, Wing-
Commander Michael Cowan and his wife,
she in a brown ensemble with a matching
velvet halo trimmed with a large shoulder-
length bow. Mrs. John Black, wife of
Group-Captain John Black, wore a black
tailored coat and a straw hat matching
the posy of primroses worn on her coat.
Major-General and Mrs. W. W. Whittle
were accompanied by their daughter
Marjorie. Mrs. Whittle wore a frock of
turquoise-blue wool, which featured an
unusual scarf drape of floral silk which
started at one shoulder, threading through
the waistline to form a sash end over the
skirt. Other guests included Warrant-
Officer W. Wurts, U.S. Army, and Mrs.
Wurts, her suit of black-and-white striped
silk worn with a small black hat and
accessories, Group-Capt. and Mrs. S. C.
Probert, Squadron-Leader J. M. Suther-
land and Mrs. Sutherland, and Group-
Capt. and Mrs. G. C. Hartnell. Out-
standing as the only woman in uniform
present was Miss Jean Wheatley, prin-
cipal matron, R.A.A.F.
The small army of helpers performed
yeoman service at the Silver Fair for the
Y.W.C.A. Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald combined
remarkable energy and mobility. Mrs.
G. I. Stevenson presided over an impres-
sive array of silverware which had been
donated by well-wishers. Mrs. L. G.
McConnan remained cheerful despite
the loss of her handbag, Mrs. Essington
Lewis lent her considerable talents. At
the refreshment centre groups of
Canadians, Chinese and Scandinavians,
the last-named in gay national costumes,
waited at the tables. The fair was
officially opened by Evie Hayes, of the
“Annie Get Your Gun” company. Her
mother, Mrs. Eva Hayes, was among the
busy helpers at the American Hat Bar.
Evie’s husband, Will Mahoney, acted as
compere for the day. Mrs. George
Haines and Mrs. Dan Reddan did a good
job of work helping visitors find their
way to various stalls.
Pictured below is Mrs. Vyvyan Holland,
due to arrive in this country in a few
weeks’ time. Formerly Thelma Besant,
she went home to England to continue
her beauty-study and is attached to Cyclax
of London. Her wedding to Vyvyan
Holland, a son of Oscar Wilde, was
highlighted by the presence of Augustus
John and H. G. Wells; Lord Beaver-
brook was best man. With her husband
and small son accompanying her, Mrs.
Holland will stay in Australia for nine
months, visiting every State to give
lectures on beauty treatment.
Recently the Dorchester, London, was
the venue for the “Fifty Years of Fashion
and Beauty,” compared by Mrs. Vyvyan
Holland. The costumes were authentic
period gowns and were from the collec-
tion of Mrs. Doris Langley Moore. They
have been brought to this country by
Mrs. Holland and will be shown at a
fashion parade sponsored by the Whern-
side Auxiliary of Royal Melbourne
Hospital. Well-known Melbourne girls
will act as mannequins ; among them are
Mrs. Edmund Alcock, Robin Mackay,
Maureen Wilton and Mrs. Erl Grey.
Mrs. Holland will compere the show,
wh’ch will be held at the Mv°r Mtinl
Hall on October 7 and 8. Tickets can be
obtained from Ruth Wilson, 441 Wattle-
tree-road, Malvern, or Helen Atkins,
Evans Court, Toorak. The cost is five
shillings for each ticket and money must
be forwarded with application.
Although officially it is spring, race-
goers at Caulfield seemed only to half be-
lieve it. Anyhow, the fur was still teamed
with the tailored suit, the sombre-
ness 1 of which was often lit with lovely
spring flowers. Mrs. Maurice Sloman
was in black ; Barbara Sloman’s suit was
primrose yellow, her brown hat having
velvet facings. Margaret Lawrence wore
a grey tailored suit with a matching hat
trimmed with multi-colored ribbons. Mrs.
Norman Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C.
chairman, chose a sapphire-blue suit, the
coat, of the new three-quarter length,
having a nut-brown fur hem ; her match-
ing hat was in soft felt. Mrs. K. McLean,
wife of the vice-chairman, wore a grey-
and-white striped suit, her grey hat
trimmed with grey-and-white stippled
feathers set around the brim. Mrs,
Geoffrey Whitehead offset her grey out-
fit with a yellow bowler hat. Ronde
Rutherford wore navy accessories with
her grey flecked suit; Mrs. E. L. New-
bigin’s large black crownless hat was
notable.
Only close relatives were present at
the Church of England, Mt. Eliza, when
Dymetha Bennett, widow of Capt. Neil
Bennett, U.S. Field Red Cross, was
married to Eric Rummery-Blackford,
younger son of Mrs. Rummery-Black-
ford, of Kensington, London, and the
late Mr. Rummery-Blackford. Dymetha,
who has been an air-hostess with A.N.A.,
is the second daughter of Mrs. Dunstan,
of Frankston, and the late Mr. J. R. Dun-
stan. She was unattended, and was given
away by her brother, Robert Dunstan.
The bride’s ankle-length frock was of
primrose marquisette, with green sequins
adorning the bodice. She wore a wreath
of primroses in her hair and instead of
flowers carried a small gold bag.
The Oaklands Hunt Club drew a most
perfect Spring day for its first post-war
point-to-point steeplechase meeting at
Sherwood. Small children scampered
about with their pet dogs, braving the
impatient hooves of horses, and picnic
lunches were enjoyed on the grass. Coats
were discarded and spring suits and
blouses had their first airing. The Master
of Oaklands, G. A. Watkins, and Mrs.
Watkins entertained many friends at
luncheon. Son Peter was there with his
fiancee, Jacqueline Osborn, whose cherry-
red suit was worn with a matching beret.
Mrs. W. H. Magennis’s party included
Betty Briggs, who that morning had been
admitted to the Bar. Mrs. George Arm-
strong was accompanied by her daughter,
Mrs. Pamela Vestey. The smart green-
checked suit worn by Mrs. Vestey was
beautifully tailored and she was hatless/
Small sons Mark and Sam were in the
party.
Now almost recovered after her hunt-
ing accident of some months ago, Mrs.
George Maxwell, wearing an attractive
blue and grey checked skirt with a plain
blue jacket, was with her husband, A.D.C.
to the Governor, and Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Watts and their daughter Shirley,
who rode in the Ladies point-to-point
steeplechase. Mrs. John Bellair wore a
heather-blue tweed suit, and among those
who favored tailored grey suits were Mrs.
Douglas Faulkner and Mrs. E. G. Knox
Knight. Mrs. M. L. Baillieu chose a
suit of corn-gold wool and Mrs. Tom
Gillion, down from Armytage for the
day, a cherry-red coat and green hat
banded in cherry. With her was Mrs.
Jack Gallagher in brown corduroy velvet
slacks and deep mauve heather mixture
tailored coat. At their first point-to-point
were Robin Walters, schoolgirl daughter
of Air-Commodore and Mrs. A. L.
Walters, and Jeanette Kuhlken, from
U.S.A.
Huntsmen in pink coats, the singing
of lusty hunting songs and a stage decor-
ation of two life-size foxes, one a-top a
hollow log while the other peered from
its lair, sustained the right atmosphere
at the Wayside Inn, Wollert, when the
Findon Harriers gave a dance to aid the
Food for Britain Appeal. The Master,
Noel Mason, and Mrs. Mason received
the guests, Mrs. Mason wearing a white
feather cape with her aqua-blue satin
gown, which had cream lace on the
bodice. Guests, were the Master of Oak-
lands and his wife, her frock of Chart-
reuse and vieux rose taffeta being most
attractive. Ticket secretaries for the dance
were Mesdames Frank Dexter, Jack Scott
and Roy Batten. Mrs. Dexter’s bouffant
frock was of ice-blue patterned taffeta.
Mrs. Roy Batten wore a black net frock
patterned in red and blue flowers; Mrs.
Scott allied a black velvet jacket with a
black lace frock. Among the dancers
were Ailene Sullivan, from Tasmania,
who is staying with her brother at Bun-
doora ; Marjorie Shankland, who hunts
with Oaklands ; and Mrs. Des Brennan,
who wore a navy blue floral patterned
taffeta "own.


m
Who Will Look After
It Is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country, or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 68 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an im-
partial viewpoint and complete continuity of
service. Charges are fixed and moderate.
Consult your solicitor or write for Free
Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,559.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
Sir Dennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.8., Eng.
General Manager; W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WADES DIRECTORS;
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Deslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C. y
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Bussell French.
Incorporated in Victoria la 1878.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairmanj F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1938.1,340,461 12* p.c. = 670,562 669,899 7,983,749
Share premiums, £431,609 .. .. 8,415,358
1939.1,431,513 12* p.c. = 760,715 670,798 9,086,156
Share premiums, £139,073 .. .. 9,225,229
S'hare premiums capitalised,
£4,445,859 4,779,370
1940. 979,139 7* p.e. = 861,827 117,312 4,896,682
1941. 963,279 7* „ „ 854,770 108,509 5,005,190
Income tax short-provided, £585,282.. 4,419,908
1942. 687,711 6* p.c, = 821,103 4,286,617
Marine insur. fund included, £631,209 4,917,726
1943. 697,791 6 p.c. = 694,251 3,540 4,821,266
1944. 728,675 5 „ „ 694,245 34,430 4,955,696
1945. 759,367 5 „ „ 684,245 65,122 5,020,818
1946. 779,292 5 „ „ 694,245 85,047 5,105,865
1947.1,245,893 7* „ ~1,041,369 204,524 6,310,389
This big iron and steel organisation
is one of which Australia has good rea-
son to feel proud. It is the backbone of
the country’s heavy industries, has con-
tributed handsomely to our pre-war and
war-time economic development, and is
now vital to our recovery and wellbeing.
The scrip has all the essentials of a
sound industrial equity. The business is
highly efficient, well organised and dis-
posed to work to a common purpose ; it
is in a strong financial position, with
ample liquid resources ; demand, which
is running well ahead of production,
promises to be generous when the pre-
sent sellers’ market for consumer goods
has gone ; and a big programme of ex-
pansion and development lies ahead.
Moreover, the board’s declared aim,
namely, to keep selling prices as low as
possible consistent with quality and fair
treatment to both employees and share-
holders, is in keeping with fair-minded
public policy. Limiting factors are short-
ages of materials (chiefly coal) and labor,
rising costs and official control of selling
prices. And now, with the socialists and
Communists in full cry, there is talk of
nationalisation, of which more will be
said presently.
The improvement of £466,601 in last-
term’s profit and lift in the div. from a
moderate 5 p.c. to 1\ p.c, fitted in with
market anticipations. The price of the
f.-p. pound shares, which fluctuated be-
tween 455. 9d. and 50s. for the three
months to end March, shot up to 535. 3d.
in May and dropped to 48s, in July,*
following the McGirr Government’s
clumsy introduction of the 40-hour week
in N. S. Wales and trouble with the
Communist - controlled Ironworkers’
Union about staggering work in order to
minimise the effect upon production.
The price last week-end was 515., giving
a return of a ? wink under 3 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover is
325, 4d. in net tangibles on the basis of
consolidate figures of the parent and sub-
sidiaries.
Last week the Federal Congress of the
A.C.T.U. decided, by 173 votes to 128,
to ask the Commonwealth Government
to nationalise steel and coal as well as
the private banks. This is a clear-cut
case of political dogma and political
mysticism over-riding all other consider-
ations. None of the advocates bothered
to explain how such an act would be in
the national interest. First of all, what
is the iron and steel industry? There is
no single co. which makes iron and steel
and nothing else. Development of the
industry has been toward vertical inte-
gration, with control, as far as possible,
from raw materials up to the finished
article, which might be any engineering
product from a nail to a ship. The Gov-
ernment could, presumably, tear the co.
apart, nationalise this bit and leave that
free, though how such a ripping asunder
would be in the national interest it is
difficult to see.
Technically and financially, which
are the two main tests, .the case
for nationalisation falls to the ground.
Financially there is no problem.
Technically the Government is bound
to do largely the. same as the in-
dustry left to itself, but less efficiently
and at greater cost, and this at a time
when labor is scarce and when efficiency
and costs mean much to national pro-
gress and the standard of living. Among
other things, it would increase the pro-
portion of administrative and indirect to
direct productive workers, slow down
output per man-hour as well as distribu-
tion, increase selling prices and cause
dislocation in a wide range of pro-
ducts everywhere in demand along
the complicated route from raw
materials to the consumer. No
sane person with any knowledge of the
industry and its technical and widespread
ramifications could imagine that the
“smart alecks” of politics would more
efficiently direct the business than those
now in control of it. The Government
and people have much for which to
thank B.H.P. and its long-sighted policy ;
it was to the co.’s chief g.m., Essington
Lewis, that the Government turned for
advice and direction in production of
munitions and armaments; and the
co.’s patriotic gesture in supplying the
Government with steel, etc., at cost
during the war saved Australia millions
of pounds and won high praise from
Munitions Minister Makin.
There was no major interruption to
operations last term, and production im-
proved all along the line:
1942. 1946. 1947.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Coke .. .. .. 881,421 569,870 672,166
Pig-iron* . . . . 924,001 600,224 776,769
Steel ingots .. .. 1,013,187 702,780 803,844
Blooming mill . . . . 861,197 620,115 710,280
28in. and 18in. mill . . 653,865 464,967 547,462
Plate-bar mill .. . . 279,662 151,327 160,705
Merchant & skelp mills 204,244 134,923 168,005
Rod mill . . . . 134,766 84,942 115,830
Cold rolling mills .. 4,643 7,471 12,024
Steel foundry . . .. 7,551 4,911 5,937
Direct metal foundry .. 20,404 16,752 18,246
Limestonef .. .. 226,849 194,358 350,269
* Includes Whyalla.
t Rapid Bay and Melrose.
Output, however, is still about 20 p.c.
below the 1942 level and 12 months or
more behind the order book. The plant,
capacity of which has increased con-
siderably since 1942, is capable of meet-
ing the needs of the home market with
a surplus for export. Owing to lag in
production, the large and growing ex-
port trade the co, had built up pre-war
has virtually disappeared. Shortage of
coal and man-power is chiefly respon-
sible for the loss.
Complete mechanisation of the co.’s
colleries is proceeding, equipment being
pressed into service as fast as it comes
from the workshops; and technical edu-
cation of coalmining personnel is part of
the co.’s big staff-training scheme, thus
providing inducements for youth that lift
the trade out of the category of dead-
end occupations.
At the Whyalla shipyards two 2500-
ton freighters were completed and
handed over to the Shipping Board ; one
6000-ton freighter was launched and
another is on the slips. Also, two
12,500-ton vessels for the co.’s own trade
are building. These, and two more like
them, are to carry ore from Cockatoo
Island, Yampi Sound, where over a mil-
lion pounds is being spent on develop-
ment, etc., to the furnaces at Newcastle
and Port Kembla. Haulage is expected
to begin next year.
Figures in the introductory table relate
to B.H.P.’s account only. Here are com-
bined earnings of the parent and sub-
sidiaries :
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings:— 1941. 1946. 1947.
Working profit. . £5,815,816 £3,969,414 £5,868,843
Divs., etc. .. 169,395 271,356 285,570
Total.. . . £5,985,211 £4,240,770 £6,153,913
Depreciation .. 2,164,905 2,131,853 2,058,972
Taxation .. . . 1,963,076 1,087,364 2,057,550
Other exes. .. 272,882 246,010 274,406
Total exes. .. £4,400,868 £3,465,227 £4,390,928
Net profit .. 1,584,348 775,643 1,762,985
The business earns more for the Gov-
ernment in taxation than it does for
shareholders in net profit. The £1,762,985
(up £987,442) of profit was no more
than 7.1 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(£24,641,342).
The financial set-up of the big under-
taking compares as follows;
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
, —; B.H.P. , Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.!
1939.. £6,671,564 £10,735,845 £2,003,958 £3,469,520
1942.. 13,882,889 6,818,493 2,155,696 7,094,452
1945.. 13,884,902 8,047,923 2,165,794 5,730,653
1946- 13,884,902 7,959,125 2,159,764 5,585,567
1947- 18,884,902 8,586,827 2,169,613 7,365,509
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1939- £16,405,457 £2,889,077 £1,383,603 £2,202,750
1942- 18,929,700 5,340,173 3,480,561 2,548,221
1945- 15,065,784 4,931,703 2,214,720 7,616,961
1946- 14,370,499 5,267,098 2,038,263 7,913,394
1947.. 14,902,823 5,237,841 2,490,554 9,375,633
* Including proportion reserves, t Includes provision
for taxation.
Other assets include £5,860,218 of Gov-
ernment securities and £1,776,781 of
cash and deposits.
In association with A.I. and S. the co.
proposes to erect a big hot-cold strip
mill and tin-plate plant adjacent to the
steel works at Kembla. American ex-
perts —United Engineering and Foundry
Co., Pittsburg—will provide the engineer-
ing services in connection with design
and construction. Cost and date of
commencement of the work are not
mentioned.
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
t _ To Re-
June, Front. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
30,106 6* p.e. = 18,170 11,936 63,037
Staff fund, £lOOO 62 037
1938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65,770
1939.. 24,859 6 „,, 19 360 1 / ! !
Staff fund, £lOOO .. .. I M 99 70,269
1940.. 32,482 6 p.c. = 19,552 I „ „„
Staff fund, £2500 .. j 19 ,430 80,699
1941.. 26,881 5 p.c. = 18,486 < , SQ , fiR ...
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. I 3,895 86,594
1942.. 24,601 5 p.c. = 18,665 { q oftn , n
Staff fund, £2500 .. 3,436 90,030
1943.. 31,240 5 p.c, = 18,770 ) q q7O Innnnn
Staff fund, £2500 • .. .. J 9,970 100 > 000
1944.. 29,997 5 p.c. = 18,887 ( „ lnSfiin
Staff fund, £2500 .. ..I 8,610 108 > 610
1945.. 21,011 5 p.c. = 18,821 )
Staff fund, £2190 .. ..J “ 108,bio
1946.. 20,020 5 p.c. = 18,827 1,193 109,803
1947.. 20,047 5 „ , r 18,703 1,344 111,147
This co. handles more of the Northern
State’s wool and livestock than any other
broker operating- there. And most of
those on the share register, who are also
clients, have fared better than the divi-
dend column in the table'suggests. That
is because of the rebates received by con-
signors on handling and selling charges
—4O p.c. wool, 30 p.c. fat stock and
produce and 20 p.c. store stock —which
totalled £32,241 (up £7108) last term, or
8.5 p.c. on share capital. Taken in con-
junction with the profit figure, which im-
proved slightly and was £1344 more than
the 5 p.c. div. called for, it was a sur-
prisingly good result.
The year was one of drought for the
whole State, severe in places and damag-
ing everywhere. Driest spot was the
s.-w. corner, from Charleville through
Quilpie to the N. S. Wales border, where
heavy losses of stock occurred. Dingoes,
too, took a heavy toll —in some areas
they “virtually put whole districts out of
wool production,” the board says. It is
not surprising, therefore, that the co.
received 23,166 fewer bales of wool and
that 9056 fewer cattle and 295,026 fewer
sheep and lambs were put under the
hammer:
Year Wool, Sheep and
June, Bales. Cattlef. Lamust. Turnover.
1934.. 82,556 40,567 91,170 £2,841,731
1940.. 152,270 28,249 84,392 3,269.662
1941.. 155,382 32,647 81,746 4,124,373
1942.. 172,016 42,193 107,467 4,378,420
1943.. 166,065 33,043 180,501 5,074,105
1944.. 161,882 152,406* 977,047* 5,314,034
1945.. 130,611 110,808* 777,144* 4,792,126
1946.. 140,617 101,520* 1,089,781* 4,980,221
1947.. 117,451 131,561* 794,755* 6,867,738
f Brisbane sales only to 1943. * Total sales.
Nevertheless, there was a sharp spring
of £1,887,517 in turnover, thanks to the
rising prices—wool alone accounted for
£1,386,882 of the increase, and sales in
the produce department were 33 p.c.
better, owing mainly to lifts in skin prices.
The Australian clip realised £92,335,940,
or £34,175,938 more than its immediate
predecessor. The average price per
pound (greasy and scoured combined)
was 25,15 d., an increase of 56.3 p.c.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook over the greater part of Queens-
land has improved, thanks to recent
rains, especially in Capricornia and the
southern divisions of Maranoa, Warrego
and the Far South West. But further
falls are urgently needed in the Central
and Western portions of the State, which
did not benefit greatly from summer
rains, if satisfactory lambing is to be
assured. Dingoes are still troublesome—
they have inflicted greater damage in
Queensland and Westralia than in any
other State —and the spread of Noogoora
burr is beginning to cause concern. How-
ever, prices are high. The 1947-48 wool
sales opened in Sydney on September 1
with bids for all good and better-class
fleeces and best skirtings from 25 p.c.
to 30 p.c. above closing rates for June.
Average to inferior grades were up 20
p.c. to 25 p.c., and burry wools and
skirtings fetched from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.
more. There is the possibility that the
dollar crisis might affect prices later in
the season. The encouraging feature is
that the world is still short of wool
textiles, which augurs well for demand.
Greatest danger to the Australian grower
lies in rising costs and high taxation.
The high price of wool, etc., is further
reflected in a reduction of £42,028 in the
co.’s advances :
1940. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £330,621 £378,079 £878,210 £377,626
Liabilities* .. 481,068 576,200 613,978 663,375
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 199,401 271,753 268,816 260,503
Plant, etc. . . 40,378 18,966 18,649 20,57 a
Stocks . . —16,35 J 45,341
Advances . . 683,775 577,864 566,724 524,696
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 602 228,607 286,210 353,*04
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Liabilities (up £49,397) include £317,889
(up £83,484) held on trust for clients,
which was more than covered by cash,
etc. (up £67,494). The more or less liquid
surplus (£242,366) was £10,174 less than
at the previous balance.


DAVIES & COLOSON, Patent
Collins Street; Melbourne, 0.1.
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.
Attorneys,
Australian
-Advt.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN JJEW ZEALAND
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
lIIIMiiM
• umtjo Jammo fcA.
Jiio|uiuA^
w
Security for* your
dependents can
be easily and de-
finitely assured
by a life assur-
ance policy with
Equitable Pro-
bate and General
Insurance Co,
Ltd. Fulfil this
family responsi-
bility to-day.
R. V. PERKINS
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
& GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
Bea/0/ce 37/473 (?omft, Brisbane
WINCIUO HOUSE, ANOEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLUNS HOUSE, COLLINS 5T- MELBOURNE^
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
and pave the way for
a Prosperous Future
Write Now!
EVAN WORDEN
Box 17, P. 0., Chatswood, N.S.W.
*e^ sWIMe
At all times, end
smooth and charming. Cutieura
Soap has antiseptic proper
ties which remove all trace!
of roughness and soreness.
One of the famous trio—
Cutieura Soap, Oint-
ment, Talcum
Powder.
>3.
ŵ
STOftounßupture
Worries!
Mark® loeahan
ofYDURRUPIUEi
Try the new Roussel Ap
pliance Free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defi-
nitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed
no matter where you 7 _ „,,
live. Call or send stamp for details. Self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE BOUSSEX. APPLIANCE CO.,
/n«nt. 21) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
c/Vlote f tk ait
A FINE HOFEI
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotel*. but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
In
Thone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
i~U
CHARTS
Circular Charts l« all type* <»*
Recording Instruments lor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuran guaranteed- Get out quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
OUEEN STREET PTV. UK. BRISBANE. O 10.
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralla
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, as at 30th Jane, 1947
LIABILITIES. £ B. d.
Central banking Business—
Capital 4 ’2 f ??>2?2 2
Reserve Fund .. .. 711,815 6
Reserve Fund .. .. 342,290 19
Rural Credits Department—
Capital .. .. •• 2 >222’929 2
Reserve Fund .. .. 480,305 7
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital .. . • • • 2 > 3 ?|’lla *5 ii
Reserve Fund .. • • 58,880 4 11
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital 4,0 22’222 2 2
Reserve Fund .. .. 29,799 0 7
£18,015,315 18
Special Reserve—Premium
on gold sold ..
Notes on issue .. ..202,642,848 0
Deposits —
t&ssr*.f o
“i* 1 "" ° f 24,198,538 17
Other deposits, bills pay-
able and other liabilities
ffien 5 £r‘°”%7.«8,303 10
8
Total .. £730,883,858 17 6
ASSETS.
Gold and balances held
abroad (including money
at short call) .. • • 186,
Australian notes and coin 6
Cheques and bills of other
banks
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities (includ-
ing Commonwealth Trea-
sury Bills)
Securities of other Govern-
ments, and of local and
semi-governmental
authorities
Bills receivable and remit-
tances in transit
Bank Premises ..
Loans, advances, etc.
deducting pro-
for debts con-
bad or d0ubt-
,610,940
,943,114
19 6
4 10
6,458,222 17 0
470,597,029 4 7
5,803,971 2 5
13
,937,296
879,677
18 4
2 7
(after
vision
sidered
ful):—
Central
Bank (Commo-
dity Advances, etc.) ..
General Banking Division
Rural Credits Depart-
ment ..
Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment
Industrial Finance De-
partment
Other Assets
i,551,513
,455,476
903,968
(,026,380
;,701,098
,016,171
5 10
0 0
8 5
15 9
17 4
1 0
TOTAL . .£730.833,858 17 e
.—lnter-departmental accounts totalling £7,048,076 18s. 6d. have been oflset.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOB YBAB ENDED 30th JUNE, 1947.
350,169
175.079
175.079
150,000
£ 8. d.
Central banking Business —
To National Debt Sinking
Fund .. ■ • • •
To Commonwealth Bank
Reserve Fund ..
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account ..
Note Issue Department—
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account ..
To Commonwealth Trea-
General Banking Division—
To National Debt Sinking
Fund .. •• •• 175,213
To General Banking Dm-
sion Reserve Fund .. 175,213
Rural Credits Department —
To Rural Credits Depart-
ment Reserve Fund .. 18,287
To Rural Credits Develop-
ment Fund .. • • 18,287
Mortgage Bank Department-
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Reserve Fund .. 30,274
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance De-
partment Reserve Fund 23,514
Total
£5,083,493 9 11
£ s. a.
By Profits for year ended
30th June, 1947 — m »
Central Banking Business 700,318 19 4
Note Issue Department.. 3,942,383 17 7
360,427 2 6
36,575; 2 8
30,274 2 9
23,514 5 1
General Banking Division
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment .. ..
Industrial Finance Depart-
ment
TOTAP .. £6,083,493 9 11
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several
Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary. (Sgd.) H. T. A .MOTAGE .Governor
(Sgd.) E. W. CUNNINGHAM, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 26th Ai gi st, 194/
Commonwealtb Savings Banft of Hustralia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1947
LIABILITIES. £ S. d.
Eeserve Fund .. •• 6,000,626 18 6
Depositors’ Balances and
Accrued Interest .426,066,682 8 10
Other Liabilities (includ-
geuiS) ViS !? U fOl .. 12,803,599 17 6
TATtr. .. £443.870 908 210
ASSETS. £ s. d.
Australian Notes and Coin 476,616 6 8
Cash Balances and Money ,
at Short Call .. .. 38,747,738 15 X
Commonwealth Government
Securities (Including Com-
monwealth Treasury Bills) 369,487,730
Securities of Other Govern-
ments and of Local and
Serai-Governmentai Auth-
orities .. . • • • 30,574,147
Bank Premises .. .. 637,037
Other Assets .. .. 3,947,638
9 6
4 11
0 7
6 1
Total
£443,870,908 2 10
Dr PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1947.
To National Debt Sinking
Fund . • ■ • • • •
To Savings Bank Reserve
Fund
£ s. d.
440.347 2 B
440.347 2 5
TOTAIi
£880.694 4 10
£ 8. d.
By Profits for Year ended
30th June, 1947, after
provision for payments
amounting to £645,871
14s. 9d. due to State
Authorities under Savings
Bank Amalgamation
Agreements .. . •
Total
880,694 4 10
£880.694 4 10
we certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several
Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sad ) E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
(Sgd.) F. W. CUNNINGHAM, Chief Accountant.
(Sgd.) H. T. ARMITAGB, Governor.
Sydney, 26tb August, 1947.
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General
for the Commonwealth (Mr. A. C. Joyce).
New Broken Hill Consolidated
After nearly five years of war-time
delay, this co., of which much is ex-
acted has taken off its coat. It earned
a nrofit of £81,057 for the 12 months
of 1946 compared with a loss of £12,630
for 1945 That was after spending
£55 873 (up £31,012) on development and
allowing £47,700 for taxation The
profit was won from treatment of 86,527
tons ore, assaying 10.9 p.c. lead, 2 soz.
silver and 11.2 p.c. zinc, of which 44 804
tons were bought (&t cost) from Zinc
Corn The other 4U23 tons came
mainly from development work on the
co’s own property, which is contiguous
with the Corp.’s holdings on the south.
Under the new agreement with Zinc
Corp, that co. is to sell to New Broken
Hill (at cost) 10 p.c.
from the beginning of 1946, „ t
total lead content aggregates 30,000 tons.
On the basis of the present P
programme, this point will be
about the end of 1949. After that Zinc
Corp. has the right to buy a simd *
tonnage on like terms from N.B. •
from both mines will continue; to be
treated at the Corp.’s big all-flotation
plant. Production programme tor me
decade to end 1955 is as follows.
From From Total
Z.O. Leases. N.B.H. Leases. Total
IMB .. jss. s sas
SS :: SKS S.S
1949 .. 520,000 *73,000 693,000
ii a a IS
8 SS i»s jsfc
The lead and zinc lodes running through
the Corp.’s 1 property have been proved to
continue into N.B.H.’s ground for at
least 1000 ft., over which dist^ c ®
are expected to yield about 10,000,
tons of high-grade ore. Drilling and de-
velopment work to date confirm origin 1
estimates. On Nos. 17 and 18 levels th
lead lode has been proved to extend, in
high-grade ore, further south than was
expected. . , „„„
A drilling campaign is under way
to determine the position of the tootwai
shear and ore bodies in the area of t e
proposed upcast airway, about iuuurt.
south of the Corp.’s southern boundary.
The present 2600 ft.-deep downcast air-
way (13ft. 6in. diameter) is to be con-
verted into a haulage shaft and equipped
With 10-ton skips, and a new concrete-
lined service shaft is to be sunk and fitted
with a double deck 100-man cage etc.
It is proposed to carry both shafts down
to 3240 ft., with provision for extension
to 5000 ft., if necessary.
Over £1,500,000 is to be spent on
equipment and underground development
during the next five years or so. lo
help meet the outlay 1,354,358 new ss.
shares were put out early in 1946 at a
piemium of 10s. each. That raised paid
capital to £846,474, of which Zinc Corp.
holds about 30 p.c. When the books
closed current assets totalled £1,052,uuu.
Including tax provision, the amount com-
ing to outsiders was £67,216. If lead and
zinc hold around their present prices,
hopes are that the co. will reach the
dividend-paying stage by the end of 1947.
Wellington Alluvials (N.S.W.)
Wellington Alluvials, Ltd. (paid capital
£250,000 in 2s. shares), which kicked off
in 1936 with the blessing of 8.H.P., re-
corded a loss of £19,972 for the year to
end April last. That was after allowing
for depreciation (£14,202) and office exes.
(£397) Owing to war-time labor short-
age the 3,000,000-c,y.-p.a. electrically-
driven dredge, operating on the Mac-
quarie River (N.S.W.), was shut down
from Dec. 5, 1942, to Feb. 8, 1946. The
next three months’ work resulted in a
loss of £1074. From the‘start operating
results have been as follows:
Cub. Yds. Yield, Working
April, Handled. Fine Oz. Proceeds. Costs. Surplus.
1939*. 3,164,000 13,645 £122,548 £75,204 £47,344
1940. . 3,180,000 14,825 144,667 69,966 74,701
1941 . 3,260,000 12,830 125,816 67,404 58,412
1942.. 2,808,000 9,997 97,585 67,538 30,047
19431. 1,586,000 4,496 43,451 40,526 2,925
1944.. )j Dredge not operating.
met. ■ 641,000 1,859 18.291 15,748 2,543
1947.. 2,328,000 6,149 66,312 71,814 §5,502
« 16' months, t Dredge ceased 5/12/’42. t Dredge
started up 8/2/’46. § Loss.
The bucket line was largely renewed last
term, but treatment and recovery were
hampered by absenteeism, sunken timber,
unsatisfactory water conditions, excessive
sand and the fact that the machine, in its
return course upstream, had to work
through a patch of old tailings. Unit
yields, costs and profits compare as fol-
lows :
Yield, c.y.— N Cost, Profit,
Five years to Gold. Value. c.y. c.y.
Dec 1942 .. l.Olgr. 0.16 d. 5.50 d. 3.66 d.
11 Aprif S 1946 .. 1.65 gr. 8.12 d. 6.99 d. 1.13 d.
12 April, t 1947 .. 1.27 gr. 6.85 d, 7.42 d. 0.57d.f
t Loss.
Last term’s yield was equal to 63.7 p.c.
recovery. The jump in costs followed
rises of nearly 34 p.c. in the basic wage,
40 p.c. in power charges and 62 p.c. in
price of replacement parts, etc. Since the
close of accounts introduction of the 40-
hour week has further bumped up out-
goings. For the next 12 months or so it
is expected that the dredge will handle
2gr. dirt, from which little, if any, profit
need be expected with things as they are.
For the next succeeding six months an
average grade of 2£gr. is anticipated, and
for two years after that 2|gr., followed
by 3|gr. for the remaining life of the
property. Original estimates were that
there was about 60,000,000 c.y. of pay
wash available with gold at £8 an ounce.
When the books closed freehold and lease-
hold figured at £68,208, dredge and plant
£183,156, stores £20,787, debtors, cash,
etc., £19,130. There was £20,610 coming
to sundry creditors, etc.


KNOW THf (NTiMATf S€CR€TS OF
LfPE and HEALTH
IGNORANCE IS DANGEROUS! Will you Marry? Are you
Married? Have you a Family?
Then send the coupon below to EDUCATION PTY.,
LIMITED. Box 4444, G.P.0., Sydney, for a free booklet
describing fully the “Modern Home Medical Adviser,
and learn how easily you may obtain trustworthy
information to help you understand the human body,
personal hygiene, health rules, etc.
YOU NEVER KNOW WHEN SICKNESS, ACCIDENT,
OR EMERGENCY WILL STRIKE! No home is
complete without a modern, complete, and reliable
adviser on EVERY question of health and the body.
Here is the book you need, a NEW kind of book,
written by 24 leading specialists, each an authority
of the highest ethical standing. This book places
at your fingertips, in easily understandable form,
everything you want to know and SHOULD know
about THE FACTS OP LIFE.
WHAT TO TELL YOUR CHILDREN.
Here is the answer to the problem facing every
parent. The 81-page article on Sex Hygiene
is considered one of the most commonsense treat-
ments ever written—itself worth the modest price
of the entire book.
COMPREHENSIVE—UNDERSTANDABLE—
RELIABLE—OUTSPOKEN
Written Clearly, Ethically, Frankly, and
Authoritatively.
mw m mmy
S*>rH *Ki> <©i»po« < •" '* ■},■!
l*»iroi Bf<w 4*14 GP O f )p»*
•ot a F«eo RftnV«* Vtrik*) «!.*.
(oafenH ©♦ Sfw>l« »p *s*o
Pa n»f <<i>!air - ate v#*y
ar><f im<*i>i p'owa*
ronna* *p rpplo<-«4 tt »r>(i *a <>(•» ♦ii'i
tn »n( t>»» caiipnn Nam»"< I
>,*-■* Xa«pt
-put A»-f
NOW
To: EDUCATION PTY. LIMITED.
Box 4444, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me without obligation to me
of any kind, free descriptive booklet about
the “Modern Home Medical Adviser.” I
enclose two 2M stamps to cover postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
4709D3M.A.
m
i
A Few of the Vitally Important Subjects
Frankly and Thoroughly Covered.
Hygiene of Women, Dis-
orders, Exercises. The Meno-
pause (Change of Life). Sex
Hygiene, Teaching of sex
to the young child. Adoles-
cence, Physical behaviour in
middle and advanced life.
Physical factors in marriage.
Care of Mother Before and
After Childbirth. Care and
Peedihg of the Child. Infant
Hygiene. First Aid. In
accidents, falls, bleeding,
bruises, fireworks wounds,
burns, electric shocks, gas
poisoning, fainting, bites,
headaches. Prevention and
Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, Germs, Prevention
of Infection. Personal Hy-
giene. Infectious Diseases
of Childhood Diphtheria,
measles, scarlet fever,
whooping cough, chickenpox,
mumps, infantile paralysis—
how caused, how to Identify,
what can be done. Respira-
tory Diseases. The Common
Cold, how caused, preven-
tion, treatment. Summer
Colds, Pneumonia, Tubercu-
losis. Rheumatism, Arthrl-
tis. Gout, Disease of the
Heart and circulation. Diges-
tion and Digestive Diseases.
The Kidney: Its Diseases
and Disturbances. The Blood
and its Diseases, what is
a “Blood Count”? Wasser-
mann and Kahn tests.
Anaemia, Blood Transfu-
sions. Allergy and Hypersen-
sitivity, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Hives, Headaches, Eczema,
etc. Various allergic agents,
pollen foods, animal hair,
dust, smoke, insects, etc.
Specific treatment. The In-
ternal Glandular System.
Diabetes, Blood Pressure,
Cancer. The Skin, Eye, Ear,
Tongue, Nose, Throat, Styes,
Cataracts. Earache. Mas-
tolds, Hard Wax, Infection
of Ear. Inflammation of
Tongue. Plastic Surgery of
Nose. Nose-bleed, Sinus,
Sore Throat, Tonsillitis, Care
of the Teeth. Advice on the
Diet. Foods, fads and fancies.
Calories, vitamins, Acid-base
ratio in foods, alcohol, Diets
Pood poisoning. Posture.
Over 900 pages, 138 Illustrations, 6000 Items
CAS. H. 9.
SUNDRY SHOWS
DRAMA FESTIVAL.
This year’s drama festival of the
National Union of Australian University
Students at the Union Theatre, Mel-
bourne, was distinguished by a fine per-
formance of Ibsen’s “Hedda Gabler” by
Westralia, Jacqueline Kott giving a
sensitive interpretation of the disgruntled
Hedda which Steven Parsons didn’t quite
set off as Tesman.
The Tasmanian team presented “Of
Mice and Men,” and made a reasonably
good fist of Steinbeck’s proletarian
drama with its Freudian background.
Adelaide weighed in with “The Circle
of Chalk,” fitting itself into an alien tra-
dition with much more skill than might
have been expected and dressing it with
a sumptuousness that even Little Bourke-
street hasn’t equalled. The New England
University College improved on its last
year’s selection by staging A. A. Milne’s
“The Dover Road,” Gordon Knippner
and Pamela Cartwright catching its easy
humor nicely.
Melbourne University, having lately
been split into two parts, had two entries.
Headquarters, which last year covered
itself with glory by presenting a first-
class' performance of Ibsen’s “Ghosts,”
this time fancied “The Male Animal” of
James Thurber and Elliott Nugent. The
American comedy of matrimonial mix-
ups, politics and football was well acted,
but it was the sort of dramatic fare that
undergraduates usually delight in. The
Mildura branch weighed in with “Rope,”
Patrick Hamilton’s thriller on the theme
of the perfect, motiveless and passionless
murder which turns out to be neither
motiveless nor passionless, nor yet perfect.
The best of the actors was David Race,
as the cold, dry, antipathetic poet who
remorselessly destroys the last vestige of
pretence in the killer Brandon, reason-
ably well done by Owen Coltman.
Queensland lobbed in with “Danger-
ous Corner,” and it can be said that
Dorothy Bremner, Margaret Collins,
James Davenport, Alan Denby, Adrian
Jeffries and Rae Cox did Priestley’s opus
better than the professional company
which was putting it on at the same time
in a legitimate theatre elsewhere in the
city. Terence Rattigan’s “French With-
out Tears,” Sydney University’s nomina-
tion, was good entertainment.
"Annie Get Your Gun."
“Annie Get Your Gun,” showing at
Melbourne His Majesty’s and booked
for Sydney Royal, is straight from the
titanic workshops of Oscar Hammerstein
the Second. The piece is a breezy
business, though the action occasionally
gets into the doldrums, from where it is
promptly rescued by J.C.W.’s dancing
boys and girls. Like some musical
comedies, it is based on a real-life story;
but, unlike most musical comedies, it isn’t
placed in old Vienna or some romantic
European kingdom.
The real Annie Oakley was born on a
poverty-stricken farm in Ohio, and when
she was seven an old 40-inch Kentucky
cap-and-ball rifle recoiled and broke her
nose. Nevertheless she became such a
marksman that she could shoot the dew-
drop off the nose of her stepfather
(frozen to death in a blizzard), and 20
years later she actually shot a cigarette
out of the mouth of Wilhelm Hohen-
zollern. Edward, Prince of Wales,
squired her amongst the crowned heads
of Europe and arranged a match in which
she beat the Grand Duke Michael of
Russia. She died leaving five million
dollars,
Evie Hayes plays the historical char-
acter in “Annie Get Your Gun” with a
nonchalance that is charming. She
doesn’t mind throwing her body into
gawky poses, making raucous noises and
otherwise violating all the conventions
that govern the deportment of musi-
comedy leading ladies. When she be-
comes a lady and all tender and romantic
there is a touch of humor about her
metamorphosis. Webb Tilton, as the
equally historical Frank Butler, the rival
marksman of the Buffalo Bill Wild West
show, is destined to make love with her
through two acts and 10 scenes. He is
the sufficient answer to a matinee-girl’s
prayer as well as an agreeable singer, and
adds to the cheerfulness of the entertain-
ment, in which there is no traditional
funnyman though there is plenty of fool-
ing.
Half a dozen theatrical wardrobes
seem to have been, emptied to up-
holster the confection, and some of
the scenes are sumptuous in their
sartorial splendor, especially thfe one in
which Miss Hayes is initiated into the
Sioux tribal system. Claude Flemming
makes a staggering figure as the immortal
Colonel Cody and Sydney Wheeler, as
Chief Sitting Bull, runs him a good
second. The music is of the catchy sort
that is easily remembered and as easily
forgotten.
"Dangerous Corner."
Priestley’s “Dangerous Corner,” put
on to revive interest in the legitimate
theatre by Garnet Carroll and Whitehall
Productions at the Princess, Melbourne,
is a good example of its species, though
from the human viewpoint it is no more
interesting than a crossword puzzle.
Attention is focused on the problem of
who killed Martin Caplan, and the fact
that he was the victim of very peculiar
vices doesn’t add to the psychological
content, of the opus, but only makes one
think what a clever chap Priestley was
to think up that new angle on a thriller.
The philosophical motive is more in-
teresting. Mr. Priestley presents a family
which never talks about its feelings and
whose members are always polite to one
another. The truth is never spoken.
They are a nice, harmonious, well-ordered
group of people until somebody asks a
question about a cigarette box. One
question leads to another until every
member of the congregation is found to
be in some disharmonious relation to
some other, wives hating the husbands
they think they love and vice versa. The
way Mr. Priestley works his device out
is what is called good theatre.
There was a professional, machine-
like accuracy about the performance
which prevented it from sagging. By
some chance or other Richard Parry and
Rod Douglas, who had the two important
male parts, have a similar sort of de-
livery—a sharp, staccato, explosive bark
—and while they were at work, which
was the major part of the evening, it was
as if a couple of machine-guns were try-
ing to slaughter one another.
Reviewed Briefly.
Isaac Stern, the 26-year-old Russian
violinist, made an auspicious start to his
season at the Melbourne Town Hall by
giving a superb performance of Vitali’s
Ciaconna” and the intricate Sonata No.
3 in D Minor of Brahms. The quality of
his playing made it unnecessary for him
to embark on pure virtuosity as he
seemed to do later. The subtlety of his
playing and his feeling for the nuances
of the Brahms piece made the Prokofieff
sonata which followed sound a trifle banal
and lacking in imagination, Stern’s violin
and the piano under Alexander Zakin’s
fingers seeming like a couple of clever
kids playing separately at fireworks. Only
relative, of course; the brilliance of the
playing made the display so exciting that
there was little feeling left over for an
audience to expend on Wieniawski’s
showy D Minor Concerto.
* * * *
“The Ghost and Mrs. Muir” (Sydney
Embassy): Whimsical story of a widow
who rents a haunted seaside cottage. The
haunter is the ghost of a bearded sea
captain, who guides the widow’s type-
writer through the writing of a very un-
ladylike but profitable novel, and steers
her through sundry other difficulties of
widowhood. The spook is excellently
played by Rex Harrison and the widow
by Gene Tierney. George Sanders breaks
into the piece as an amiable philanderer,
destroying not only the widow’s relation-
ship with the ghost but also the pleasant
whimsicality of the film.
* * * *
“The Farmer’s Daughter”; Loretta
Young is the lass in this offering at
Sydney’s Mayfair. She is not satisfied
amid the mulga where she has to feed
chooks, milk cows, plough, harvest, shuck
corn, dig stumps, ringbark and chase
gophers, so she heads for the nearest
metropolis to become a nurse. Lost to
the medical profession she sets up as a
housemaid and shows such remarkable
talent at making coffee that she is ulti-
mately elected to Congress. The story
has been stretched so far that it occa-
sionally cries out from the rack, but it
is saved from snapping by some excellent
acting from Ethel Barrymore.
* * * *
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, has an
exhibition of drawings by Jean Bellette,
William Dobell, Russell Drysdale,
Donald Friend, some drawings “attributed
to John Sell Cotman (1782-1842)” and
drawings “from the sketch book of John
Harper of York.” The interest the
sketches might have, as a contrast of the
centuries, is rather spoilt by the sketchi-
ness of the exhibits. John Sell Cotman
catches a certain luminosity and a hint of
the infinity of distance in “Scene on the
Broads” and “Coast Scene.” But it is, at
best, a hint —tracing of immensity with
delicacy, which more often than not is
refined into the conventional prettiness
of postcards. And that, also, is the case
with John Harper of York’s Italian
scenes. “Irishman’s Head ” by Jean Bel-
lette, is impressive, with character and
warmth and humorous mobility; but it
has a glossiness, a romantic overtone,
reminiscent of a studio portrait of Errol
Flynn. “Sheet of Drawings,” by Russell
Drysdale, has promise, as drawings com-
monly have; Donald Friend’s “Native
Guitar Player” seemed more ambitious
than a sketch, but lacks the construction
to stand under a more uncompromising
title. Dobell has, among other exhibits,
a pleasing “Silver Point Study of Cockney
Girl.”
* # * *
The first thing that strikes the eye on
entering the show of Chinese sculpture
and painting at the National Gallery, Mel-
bourne, is the majestic figure of the Greek
Aphrodite. Although her presence in an
Oriental exhibition was no doubt deter-
mined by the difficulty of removal she
isn’t as incongruous there as might be
imagined. She has much more in common
with the squatting wooden god behind
her than she has with a lot of the
European sculpture in other parts of the
institution, and the portions of her body
carved by the old Greek sculptor have
more in common with the seated
Kwanyim opposite than they have with
the portions gummed on by the modern
restorer. Although the forms into which
the Chinese artists poured their inspira-
tion are so different from the Occidental
there is the same universal quality of
observation running through them.
Among the painting there is much that is
fantastic, but there is one head of a
woman which looks startlingly realistic.
Most of the exhibits were bought for the
Felton by H. W. Kent, the curator of
ceramics, who some years ago made a
present to the gallery of his own magni-
ficent collection.


No. 16 of Series
Saccharin ...
Hsw*r
m
w.
i=«s
SS!
tiM-
wes-sa
W i\
A
WHEN we drop a saccharin tablet into our tea,
we do not expect an explosion. Yet saccharin
is a close relation of the explosive tri-nitro-toluene
—better known as T.N.T. Both are made from
toluene, a water-white liquid obtained from coal tar.
Toluene is put through five processes, treated with
sulphuric acid, phosphorus pentachloride, ammonia
and potassium permanganate, to produce white
powder. The chemical name for this is ortho-
sulpho-benzimide,” popularly known as saccharin.
Saccharin is about 500 times sweeter than sugar,
and even as little as one part in 10,000 can be
tasted. It is a boon to those who are forbidden to
take sugar. It is also used for sweetening tooth-
paste, mouth washes and medicines.
All the raw materials which go to
make this useful synthetic chemical
are produced by the British chemical
industry.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
IL-30-1
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
About the only consolation left to punters
after Saturday’s racing at Canterbury was the
thought that at least they were never likely to
have a worse day. Shannon was the only suc-
cessful favorite, starting at 3 to 1 on.
The w.f.a. Canterbury Stakes of six furlongs
is something of a Munro special. Jim Munro
won it on Amounis in 1929, since when Darby
has been successful on Lough Neagh, Beauhvre,
Reading, Katanga, Sleepy Fox and now
Shannon.
Both Victory Lad and the Nizami three-year-
old colt Deep Sea were supported to beat
Shannon, having his first run on the small, tight
Canterbury track and not so well suited by the
short trip. The colt went closest; made the
running, was headed by Shannon at the top of
the straight, and hung on very gamely. Three
parts of a length in it at the judge, with Vic-
tory Lad a neck away third. Though the mar-
gins sound small, Shannon really won with com-
fort.
Tested for stamina over the nine furlongs of
the Canterbury Guineas, Temeraire appeared to
be found wanting, but it would be wise to
withhold judgment until he has contested the
Rosehill Guineas. At Canterbury he may well
have been short of a run, since his farcical
win at Randwick the previous week was no
preparation for a hard race against a good
bunch. Temeraire went down to pie Groom,
who had done a solid preparation with a
couple of hard races in good-class open com-
pany.
Swinging round and off balance as the barrier
went up, Temeraire lost a little ground and
then quickly raced to the front; behind him
Karachi and The Groom were on terms most
of the way. Though in front Temeraire was not
dominating the field as he usually does. Thomp-
son brought The Groom up to him near the
distance, and The Groom soon had his measure,
running on to win by a length. Karachi looked
like weakening halfway down the straight, then
came on again to finish a half-neck behind
Temeraire. Karachi will be very close to the
money in the Derby.
The Groom completed a family double, being
owned by Mrs. W. J. Smith, wife of Shannon’s
owner. By Hua from The Brueghel ma/e
Bridal Veil, The Groom started at 12 to 1, and
at that was confidently backed to do the trick;
even more so was Valiant Crown (6 to 1). After
racing erratically and being repeatedly checked,
Valiant Crown finished fourth.
There seemed to be far more betting on the
Canterbury Park Handicap than any other race
on the card, so the success of Wirralie at 33 to 1
must have been quite the bookmakers’ best result
of the day. Ridden by N. Sellwood, who does
most of the McCarten stable’s riding, Wirralie
led all the way to down Loyal March and
Decorate, the distance being nine furlongs.
Decorate may have been unlucky; he came in
with his off hind leg badly gashed.
Owned and bred by Percy Miller, Wirralie is
a four-year-old horse by Midstream from
Blackbird, being thus a full-brother to the
aptly-named Swan River. Wirralie has always
been a fair performer, and if he has struck
form now is likely to go on winning, especially
since he’s well down in the weights. Wirralie
carried 7.11 and clocked one second better
time than The Groom.
Darius, a New Zealand-bred three-year-old by
High Caste’s sire Bulandshar, gave spectators
their money’s worth of entertainment before
the running of the first Mixed Stakes of six
furlongs. Going out on to the track he stood
flat-footed, refusing to be led, dragged or driven
to the starting point; his trainer in exaspera-
tion and in vain belabored him with a flagpole.
Eventually the colt turned and contentedly
cantered off in the wrong direction, covering the
full six furlongs round to the start. The grins
were on the other sides of punters’ faces when
the same Darius flashed on the scene at the
finish to down the well-backed trio Slander,
Prince Midas and Penmore. Darius started at
20 to 1 and, remarkably since he was ridden by
J. Thompson, paid £l7 14s. 9d. for a win and
£3 11s. 9d. for a place on the tote.
The hoodoo which seemed to have stonkered
horses on the 9st. mark in these Mixed Stake
events was overcome for the first time by Rifle,
downing Legato and Kureebi over 11 furlongs.
Actually Rifle carried less, receiving 31b. allow-
ance for F. Walker, who rode a beautiful race.
Subsequently, Trover, also on the top mark but
receiving 51b. for J. Eaves, downed Pigeon Pie
and Critique over six furlongs. Pigeon Pie
should pay expenses for his trip to the city; in
the past he’s been racing with success round
Moree and Inverell. Another six furlongs
Mixed saw Leetona (W. Briscoe) defeat Diction
and Landmark. The Welter went to the vener-
able grey Granite, with Havoc, beaten only a
neck, showing the best form he has produced
since winning the Breeder’s Plate two years ago.
* * ■» *
The V.A.T.C.’s Memsie Stakes, run at Caul-
field on Saturday, was the first w.f.a. event
of the season and gave connections of the
Derby colt Chanak and the Caulfield Cup can-
didate Hindu Prince a chance to test their
hopes against a fair yardstick in Attley. Hindu
Prince disappointed; Chanak, not in the money,
did not disgrace himself.
Taking the lead inside the first couple of fur-
longs, Attley (J. Purtell) remained in front for
the rest of the trip. Hindu Prince had the run
of the race, but was not striding freely, and,
after making a brief bid at the top of the
straight, faded right out. The surprise packet
was Valcurl’s stout finishing effort to bag
second money, a length behind Attley and a
neck ahead of last year’s Memsie winner Noble
Prince, who just shaded his stablemate Chanak.
Attley ran the nine furlongs in 1.515, which
is good time for the race. Excluding his dead-
heat for first with Royal Gem when a three-
year-old, Attley has now won 16 races and
just less than £20,000 in stakes. He seems to
have an open go ahead of him to add com-
ing w.f.a. events to his good record, especially
with no Flight around to worry him over the
middle-distance journeys. Punters aren’t likely
to get many repeat offers of the attractive odds
available on Saturday; Attley was at 2to 1.
In the Heatherlie Handicap over the same
trip as the Memsie Stakes, the aged Enfield
horse Approve was able to win very comfortably
in three parts of a second worse time than
recorded by Attley. W. Smith had Approve
always handy to the leaders and, first into the
straight, he raced on to a most attractive win.
At least the bookies thought it attractive;
Approve was a 25 to 1 chance. Allied Power
was second, with a deadheat for third between
"Got a miner's licence, Basil?"
Star of India and Clatterbag, all three of them
well backed. In the same race two years ago
Approve was second to St. Fairy, who went on
to win the Caulfield Cup.
Another winner to be hailed with delight by
the books and cursed by the majority was
Robert Bruce, .starting at 50 to 1 in the 12-
furlongs Doona Handicap; he may have
thought it was spelled Dinna. O. R. Porter’s
latest aquisition, Carey, was again plastered to
favoritism, and looked like doing the job when
Breasley took him to the front near the dist-
ance. Weight, however, told in a close finish,
Carey carrying 8.9, while Robert Bruce had 6.7,
a 71b. allowance being claimed for the half-pint
sized apprentice D.- Cameron. Fungi was third.
Porter’s luck was a bit better in the six furlongs
Whittier Handicap, in which Denhoti (J. Gil-
more) downed Kind Link, Assam and 20 others.
Another to have the advantage of a 71b.
allowance was Fresh Boy, with B. Fames.aboard
in the first division of the mile Warriston Han-
dicap for three-year-old colts and geldings.
However, his winning margin of six lengths sug-
gested that he’d probably have won carrying
overweight. Behind him were a good pair in
Cyclades and Star Port. New Zealand-bred,
Fresh Boy is by Revelation, a good performer in
England and a specialist over the mile journey.
* * * *
Civilisation marches on —backwards. During
his conquest of Mexico the Spanish adventurer
Hernando Cortez found that his most effective
weapon was his little troop of cavalry. The
Mexicans looked on horse and rider as a sort of
detachable Centaur arrangement, something quite
out of this world, and they venerated the prads.
One of his horses falling ill, Cortez had to
leave it behind in the care of friendly Indians
who proceeded to regale it with “dishes of
flowers and messes of poultry.” The unhappy
beast soon tossed it in. Horror-stricken, the
Mexicans then carved an image of the horse
and enshrined it amidst other deities in the
local temple, where it was thereafter worshipped
to the echo. Today, in a new land discovered
since Hernando’s time, we find the immortal
Phar Lap’s stuffed hide enthroned in Melbourne
and his heart enshrined in the national capital.
Services are conducted throughout the land
every Saturday between about 1 p.m. and 5 p.m.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances): Novice
Handicap: Darius, 1; Diction, 2; Slander, 3-.
Tramway Handicap: Warspite, 1; Puffham, 2;
Prince Consort, 3. Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap: Prince Mohican, 1; Nomothetis, 2;
Conductor, 3. Chelmsford Stakes; Columnist,
1; Murray Stream, 2; Karachi, 3. Spring
Handicap; Sweet Chime, 1; Loyal March, 2;
Rimfire, 3. Welter: Silent, 1; Johnny Zero, 2;
Wirralie, 3.
* * * *
Coolness and accurate goaling enabled
Fitzroy to beat Richmond 16.7-11.9, the
82,570 who paid £7027 making a record
for a first V.F.L. semi-final. The teams
were so well matched that in the opening
quarter only two goals each were scored.
Richmond looked like putting up a lead
in the second, but rushed things, while
the cooler Maroons made every kick
count. At half-time Fitzroy had had
eight shots for 7.1, Richmond 12 shots
for 6.6. It’s Carlton and Essendon next
Saturday, loser to play Fitzroy and winner
of that to meet Saturday’s winner in the
“grand final.”
* * * *
In the Rugby Union semi-final at North
Sydney Oval Manly beat Eastern Suburbs
19-15. Alby Stone gave the East backs
a winning share of the ball, but they
failed to use it to advantage; and all
Manly’s team tackled as if they meant it.
Gordon beat Randwick 21-17, putting
Randwick out of the running. A hard,
tough match, with Randwick skipper Don
Furness playing a splendid all-round
game. Next Saturday Gordon and
Eastern Suburbs play it out, the winners
to meet Manly in the grand final on Sep-
tember 30. Manly looks a moral.
« * * «
With U.S.A. retaining the trophy, the
Davis Cup challenge round was a some-
what more even contest than indicated
by the 4-1 score; certainly not a
repetition of the walkover the Americans
had in Melbourne. Kramer was in a
class of his own, winning both his singles
in straight sets. Sehroeder, however, was
sufficiently hard pressed in both his
matches to suggest that the rubber might
easily have gone the other way, Quite
the best of the five matches was the
Schroeder-Pails singles, which Sehroeder
thoroughly deserved to win after Pails had
twice dropped a match point. Lasting
nearly three hours, the match went 71
games before Schroeder had the day, 6-3,
8-6, 4-6, 9-11, 10-8. Kramer won each
of his singles in under an hour.
* * * »
Denis Compton’s 101 in 108 minutes
for Middlesex v. S’Africa notched his
17th century this season in first-class
cricket, and wiped off Jack Hobbs’s record
of 16, made in 1925. In his last 25
innings Compton has scored 12 centuries.
His batting in the last couple of years has
been remarkable: 2403 in 1946 in Eng-
land, 2066 in Australasia in 1946-47, and
up to last week-end 3366 in England. He
needs only 152 to equal Tom Hayward’s
3518, scored in 1906. The consistent
batting of Compton and Edrich chiefly
helped Middlesex win the first English
county championships since the war.
* * * *
While one of the Filipino imports
scrapping in Melbourne hasn’t done any-
thing to write home about, the other.
Little Paras (8.7|), is a dandy little
fighter, as he showed in his good points
win over Davey Robinson (8.8.). Paras
got into the ring very much off-color,
but he went through with it, though after
getting the decision he collapsed and had
to be carried out.
* * * *
Ken Wenman (8-13) began like a sure
thing to beat Victorian Bernie Grant
(8-13=r) at Leichhardt, but he lost some
enthusiasm after Grant had been
cautioned for butting in the fifth round,
and Ambrose Palmer’s boy got it on
points, with a wide margin to spare. The
hooting of the verdict was up to the
highest standard of Leichhardt customers,
especially when they’re wrong.
* * ♦ ♦
The Patrick scrap:
Game as they make ’em, Vic Patrick (9.9)
took a terrific belting from American negro
Freddie Dawson (9.71) in a fierce 12 rounds at
Sydney Stadium, going down to a battery of
blows in the last round, and lying on the
canvas, an ambulance case, with both eyes
bunged up and bleeding, as they had been
through a good part of the fight.
Patrick ran into strife almost as soon as the
scrap started. He took heavy blows to the
jaw, and went back to his corner with his right
eye trickling red. He kept going after the
faster, back-moving Dawson round after round,
fighting for the body and taking head-jolting
rights in the exchanges, the Australian cham-
pion’s knees buckling from some of them,
his eyes. closed to slits and his face heavily
damaged.
By the tenth round Patrick looked done, but
he made a final desperate effort near the end
of the eleventh, sitting Dawson back through
the ropes with a great left and having him there
again when the bell went. ...
Dawson’s mouth was bleeding from inside in
his corner, but he came out for the next round
fighting savagely, as negroes can when they’ve
been stunned. Patrick had given the last he
had in him. He tried to defend against the two-
handed battery, but the strength had gone out
of him. He went down, staggered up dazed
at “eight,” took a couple of punches he knew
nothing about, and collapsed flat out.
On the night the Australian was no match for
the faster and much tougher negro. It had been
said for some time that Patrick had had his
best fighting days; that one of his eyes was in
poor shape, and his great left hand, his winning
weapon, turning dicky on him. But Patrick
was at a disadvantage that goes for all Aus-
tralian boxers these days. It wasn’t only that
he lacked recent fighting; compared with what
beat him, he lacked a whole experience-making
record of hard fights. From when he beat old
Tod Morgan, he has had an easy career. It
will find out any of them when they get up
against the solid experience of those who have
had to get there the hard way.


RETIREMENT
can be pleasant
Wmmm
m
YES, it can be pleasant, but it can be
hard if the means of comfortable living are
not available. A man can make certain of
a comfortable income during retirement. The
A.M.P. Society has a plan that costs much less
than most men imagine.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send a
representative to explain the plan that will
suit your needs best. t
ẃ
J'H/tOUGttlpS
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman.
SYDNEY OSMOND, General Manager.
H. B. G. WALKER, Manager, New South Wales Branch.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
When there is NO WILL
THE LAW DIRECTS HOW YOUR
ESTATE SHALL BE DISTRIBUTED
IF you do not make a V^ill—a
privilege that is usually an ob-
ligation as well—the division made
by law may not be as you would
have made it and may not be satis-
factory to your /dependents.
For example :
If you die intestate (that is,
without a Will), leaving a widow
and young children, two thirds of
the Capital of your Estate is auto-
matically locked up until the chil-
dren come of age.
If you are childless and die intes-
tate your widow does not receive
the full benefit of your Estate, being
entitled by law only to the first
£l,OOO thereof and one half of the
balance, the other half passing to
your own relations.
Whatever your wish you should
have it clearly expressed in a Will
that has been drawn by a solicitor.
Do not on any account draw the
Will yourself.
Of the utmost importance in the
making of a Will is the choice of
an Executor who is to administer
the Estate. Upon his trustworthiness
and ability your beneficiaries will be
entirely dependent.
There is a helpful and informa-
tive booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” which describes the ser-
vice Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited renders to the Community
in this and other capacities. It gives
some reasons why the wise man
(and woman) should take advantage
of its service. Call or write for a
copy today.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
•A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager. . '
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,667,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Garwood St., Wagga
Northern District Representative: E. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insuran
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative: J. E. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“Labor” and the Banks
The achievements of man in rendering
and perfecting a multitude of services to
his fellows within the framework of
democratic government, .at the same
time making incidental profits or losses
himself, are today being appraised with-
a variety of objectives by some who have
done little or nothing themselves to
benefit their fellow-countrymen.
We have the Communists aiming to
usurp control of all the industrial and
financial functions of the country, the
powers of government, and, finally, to
give themselves and/or the Soviet control
over the destiny of Australia and its
people. We have other “militant” trade-
union bosses, ever exponents of the
Marxist “class-war” philosophy, endeav-
oring to socialise industry and finance
and to dictate the laws of the land to
suit their own vested interests. We have
the vastly ambitious “intellectuals,” such
as Dr. Evatt, seeking to cut a spectacular
figure on the national or international
stage, but who weigh-in light when it
comes to political principles. We have
the spiteful larrikin type of politician, like
Ward, abundantly possessed of a desire to
drag down the institutions of his country
because they represent something better
than anything he has ever worked for.
And, finally—probably the most danger-
ous of all —we have the undemonstrative
but pigheadedly determined theorist and
“party” fanatic, like Prime Minister
Chifley, with little real knowledge and
less experience of affairs outside of poli-
tics and no prior training in the economic
or industrial workings of his country,
but who, because he does acquire a little
knowledge outside his original calling, is
regarded highly by the lazy-minded
cattle who follow him.
For the past five years we have seen a
decline in industrial discipline led by
the irresponsible and evil elements in
trade-unionism. We have seen the Labor
Government, from Mr. Chifley down-
ward, do nothing or say nothing seriously
calculated to stop this rot. We have seen
the law treated with contempt by the
trade-union movement at a time when
crime generally w 7 as becoming alarming,
and when any responsible set of people
would have been doing its utmost to pro-
tect the dignity and power of the final
protector of the individual citizen. And
all this time our standard of wellbeing
has been falling in terms material and
social. Industrial indiscipline in “Labor”
ranks, condoned in both trade-union and
Caucus circles, has been the root cause
of our whole miserable decline.
It is from the midst of this
Communist set-up, which is aiding and
abetting in the establishment of a
treacherous Indonesian republic at
our northern gateway, that the pro-
posed nationalisation of banking has
emanated. Finally fathered and an-
nounced (but not yet fully exhibited)
by Mr. Chifley, it has been the
baby of some of the worst anti-demo-
cratic elements in our community for the
past 20 years. It is seen now as a method
of bringing upon free citizenship and
private enterprise a form of economic
control no less severe than the legalistic
controls sought under the terms of the
“Labor” Government’s 1944 referendum.
In certain directions Government control
would be greater than anything previ-
ously threatened.
The coercive powers of regimented
trade-unionism have already been shown
to the Australian people in a hundred
ways; in the forcing of housewives to
cook in the backyard, in creating failures
in electricity supply (even in hospitals),
in reducing production, in making people
walk to work, in framing foreign policy
in respect of “Indonesia” and Russia, in
limiting the operational theatre of the
A.M.F., in delaying our entry into the
Bretton Woods plan, in dictating national
trading policy by boycotts on the
wharves, and in forcing the “Labor”
Government to fall in line on its side in
industrial matters disputed.
The ultimate in attempted coercion
may be thought to have been demonstrated
last week, when the A.C.T.U. congress
decided on a 24-hour general strike on
October 20 if a 40-hour week is not
granted by the Arbitration Court before
that date—and this at a time when the
Court was deliberating its' finding in this
protracted case! That the “Labor” Gov-
ernment has not rebuked the A.C.T.U.
for its gross contempt of Court and in-
dustrial law in this instance is but Un
illustration of how the “Labor” Gov-
ernment itself is committed to the policy
laid down by the A.C.T.U.
P. J. Kennelly, Federal secretary of
the A.L.P., said in Toronto (Canada)
last week that the Labor party was “the
mouthpiece of the unions.” For “party”
he might have substituted “Govern-
ment.”
The “Labor” party in Australia has
long deliberated its policy of nationalisa-
tion of banking, and there is no doubt
whatever that it believes remarkable
coercive powers are available in the con-
trol of credit, even to the extent of side-
tracking Parliament. “The movement”
is out to use monopolistic control of
banking and finance to further its
aims to the fullest possible extent.
What its aims are, what its sense
of fair-dealing among citizens is, and
what its regard for law and order amounts
to can be gauged from what has been
set down in the foregoing paragraphs.
Once in control of banking in its en-
tirety, “Labor” is no more likely to lose
an opportunity of exploiting the situation
(and the people) than it has been under
every other power it has possessed.
Periods of “moderation” in the be-
havior of the Labor party, whether trade-
union or Parliamentary, have only been
lulls for consolidation and preparation.
Whenever past financial mismanagement
has brought about economic conflict
among the people, then “Labor” has not
hesitated to use every coercive power in
its possession to save its own hide rather
than try to save the country as a whole.
Of course, “Labor” is a queer mix-up,
with its heritage of industrial and social
prejudices, its genuine trade-union prin-
ciples, its memories of “ancient wrongs”
extending into other centuries and other
lands, its “humanitarian” forebears, its
racketeers, “bashers” and passengers on
the organising side, its cranks, oppor-
tunists and sophists in the Parliamentary
arena, and its Communist infiltrations.
But “militants” and Communists domin-
ate its policy in Australia today, and that
policy aims at regimentation of the
people and a dictatorship not so much by
the proletariat as by trade-union bosses.
And through the control of the water-
front, the coalfields, the transport ser-
vices and now the banking system, the
predominating militant section is impu-
dently pushing democratic government in
this country aside. Democracy in Aus-
tralia is in danger from vested interests
and Communist treachery as it has never
been before.
The 1945 banking legislation was
objectionable inasmuch as it removed the
central-bank board and put the Treasurer
of the day in ultimate control of credit
policy, and at the same time gave the
central bank (ultimately the Caucus-
dominated Treasurer) full power to deter-
mine the class of advances that the trad-
ing banks may make, and to regulate the
volume of credit they could employ. If
the Government succeeds in taking over
the trading banks holus bolus it will be
in a position to appoint their staffs, dis-
miss the present boards and managers,
and discriminate and pry to the most re-
mote degree in the matter of advances,
deposits and banking service generally.
All this is happening to a competitive
banking organisation that has served the
people faithfully and efficiently in good
times and bad. Its credit policy on the
whole has been wise, and its strength
distance and counsel were of great help
to the common people during the denies
sion. But it has stood for the rule of
economic, industrial and social law and
is therefore to be outlawed by the lawless
of “Labor.” The rank and file of
“Labor” will be the worst sufferers if
complete “nationalisation” does indeed
become an accomplished fact.
Senator Cameron the P.MG said
last week that nationalised banking would
allow money to be borrowed “at the cost
of administration.” His statement co-
incided with the issue of the balance .
she et of the Commonwealth Bank, owned
by Senator Cameron’s Government. This
made a pro fit f or the year of £5,083 493
_ about twice as much as the ; arn j
of all the trading banks t together § Q
much for “cost-price” credit for bor-
rowers from Government-owned banks,
j n s ena t o r Cameron’s own department—
the pos t. o ffice—a profit of nearly
£ 4j 000,000 was shown in 1945-46 and
over £3,000,000 in 1946-47, the public
paying 2 x d . t 0 send a letter by ordinary
ma ji compared with 3 cents in the
u.S.A., where wag es costs are notoriously
high (In South Africa the rate is
c anada 4 cents.) A completely nation-
a]jsed ban king system is more likely to
become a taxing authority, like the post-
D g| ce , t ba n a source of “cost-price” credit
as dreamed of by Senator Cameron. The
cost b orrowing from a Government
bank no t subject to competition would
undoubtedly rise,
* * * *
The situation in Britain is generally
becoming recognised as being of the
shape outlined here over the past month,
The United States is reluctant to give
further dollar assistance to the United
Kingdom until Britain helps herself to
the extent of restoring lost coal produc-
tion and other output, and unionists re-
join the democratic front. The New York
“Times,” following criticism of the U.S.
gold-storing policy by Ernest Bevin, said
“the British Government should forget
about the gold buried at Fort Knox and
concentrate on the coal buried within its
own borders.” In addition to the special
and vital problem of coal, Britain has
manpower, debt and high-cost raw-
material difficulties, as well as inade-
quate food supplies for its working popu-
lafion; and there is the overall incubus
0 f the trade-union-dominated Attlee Gov-
ernment. The first move towards re-
covery must come from Britain and her
Empire, working together. After that a
good deal is morally due from the United
States.
* * * *
Canberra’s proposal to modify war-
time company tax has not yet been sum-
ciently explained to enable the business
community to know where it-will stand,
It is certainly not clear how private cos.
paying undistributed-profits tax according
to the war-time formula will fare. This
u.-p. tax greatly restricts the accumulation
of reserves for business expansion.


If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
ẅ
w
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SJKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
£
6R955 6R9ttlMCd
CAWTIOtfihY
look both ways,
Dashing through darefully never pays.
Don’t be a funker, don’t be a fool,
Courage with caution is wisdom’s rule.
Check coughs and colds, avoid all delay,
One prompt dose may mean health in a day.
All you need full relief to assure
Waits in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Precaution against influenza infection,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Care.
Proposed Bank Grab
Delights the Communists
Loudest in applauding the Chrßey Government's proposal to
nationalise banking is the Communist Party of Australia.
In their official organ "Tribune" (29/8/*47) the Communists
v
said: "The decision is one of the most important and best ever
reached by a Labour Government."
Four days later (2/9/'47) the Federal Congress of the
Australian Council of Trades Unions passed a resolution, moved
by a Communist, in almost identical terms.
Remember, the A.C.T.U. is the body that directs Labour's
policy.
No wonder, then, that the Communists are delighted .
Obviously the Chitiey Government has become the
instrument of Communist policy .
And Communist policy threatens the freedom of every
man, war'** e*rd ~' Uf, d in Australia,
Don't let this evil thing happen
DEMAND A REFERENDUM
It is your right!
Authorised by Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney
Broken Hill Prop., Newcastle (N.S.W.)
md Whyalla (S.A.), which also con-
sols the Port Kembla steelworks of
Australian Iron and Steel, says the com-
bined works had an out-turn of steel
ingots totalling 1,279,000 tons in the last
financial period. But in 1942 the cor-
responding figure was 1,663,000 tons.
Post-war output is thus down more than
20 p.c. “More than anything else, short-
age of coal and manpower has been re-
sponsible for this loss of production.”
The co. is ndw going ahead with the com-
plete mechanisation of its collieries, and
equipment is being pressed into service
as rapidly as it becomes available.
Youths are being trained in modern min-
ing methods, and the idea that coalmin-
ing is necessarily a dead-end job elimi-
nated. B.H.P. has for a long time pro-
vided Australia with the world’s cheapest
steel. The N. S. Wales Government re-
cently introduced the 40-hour week in the
State, and an interim increase of 7s. a
week has been made in the basic wage by
the Federal Arbitration Court. Costs of
materials have also increased. Although
it may become necessary to increase steel
prices, the co. intends to “do all in its
power to keep prices as low as possible
consistent with a policy of fair treatment
of both employees and shareholders.” A
plant to produce tinplate, hot coiled steel
strip, sheets and plate is to be erected
near the Port Kembla works. The war
upset previous plans in this direction.
* * * *
Three Australian banks have share-
registers in Maoriland, and M.L. share-
holders might not be as ready to sell out
as Australian holders of Bank of N.Z.
shares were when the Fraser-Nash Gov-
ernment nationalised M.L.’s biggest
financial institution nearly two years ago.
Chairman Andrew Hamilton, of M.L.’s
Stock Exchange Association, back from
attending the Stock Exchange conference
in Melbourne, saw trouble ahead if the
, Commonwealth nationalisation move ex-
tended to shares in Maoriland. The
three banks are New South Wales, Union
and Australasia, in which M.L, hold-
ings are substantial,
* * * ♦
There’s no mystery in Maoriland’s
money expansion. The Reserve Bank,
N.Z.’s counterpart of the Commonwealth*
Bank, says in its annual report that excess
of external receipts over external pay-
ments, coupled with accumulation of
overseas assets and of bank deposits in
Maoriland, is the root cause. If so, the
remedy is to increase imports. When that
happens the Reserve Bank expects a
good deal of the trouble to pass. For
the rest, it sees salvation in more produc-
tion. Sounds like an echo of political
pleading. It’s not ideas or advice M.L.
needs so much as the will to act. Some
arrivals from Britain have got under the
skin of Maorilanders by calling their
country a “lazy-man’s paradise.” The
criticism hurts, because there’s truth in it.
* * * *
Disillusioned Maorilanders are finding
they can’t have fat social-security pay-
ments, subsidies and overgrown State de-
partments without taxation at ceiling
levels. So trebling of State spending since
1939 means trebled taxes, and today M.L.
taxpayers are . carrying a load of
£113,437,000, only £1,520,000 below the
end-of-war peak. The average of £64 a
head compares with a mere £23 before the
war. Finance Minister Nash is handing
out another ss. weekly to an average of
160,000 recipients of adult “security”
benefits—the aged, the sick, widows and
war veterans —and borrowing another
£2,500,000 to nationalise coalmines, and
more to build houses, railways, hydro-
electric works and other schemes.
Wages and prices are marching on,
but basically no one’s any better off.
Some people have slipped back. Latest
blow is 15 p.c. higher train fares and
20 p.c. higher rail-freights. Both will
go into costs. The railways have been
struggling along /m pre-war rates under
a 45 p.c. rise in dperating expenses. Only
bigger output nf goods will put the
brake on soaring prices. But who wants
to work harder in Maoriland today?.
* * * »
Tecnico’s new issue of 49,600 new £1
ords;, 31 for 100, carries a premium of 6s.
a share. This Sydney co. is engaged in
producing magnetos, electric condensers,
vacuum-cleaners and other intricate
mechanical products, including several
Bendix patents. It is devoting special
attention to electric motor - driven
appliances. Tooling-up and stocking-up
are the main reasons for the current
capital issue. The premium asked for is,
of course, the Treasury’s idea.
* * * *
Four or five years ago a N.S.W. property
in a deceased estate was accepted by the
authorities for probate duty at the Valuer-
General’s figure of £2500, This year
Treasury approval was given to a sale of
the property at £3200. Within hours of
receipt of the Treasury’s consent came a
notice from the Federal taxation author-
ities demanding additional death duty on
the increased value —that is, on £7O0 —it
being argued, apparently, that property
worth £3200 now was worth the same
amount five years ago (the V.G. notwith-
standing), values having been “fixed”
meantime. But the “liaison” work and
espionage thus illustrated could hardly
have been better during the war against
Japan.
* * * ♦
Retailer stocks remain among the
highest-priced on Australian ’Changes,
especially when compared with their pre-
war valuations. The manufacturer is
bearing the brunt of economic difficulties
in Australia today; he has all the in-
dustrial, fuel and raw-material problems,
and when his product is passed to a re-
tail store the retailer has only to sell it
on a seller’s market, admittedly after
complying with numerous regulations,
etc. But when the manufacturer’s prob-
lems disappear and there is ample pro-
duction again competition will reappear
in its old form among retailers, and
price-cutting and dead stock will again
become bugbears. Taking this long view,
a number of retail-store shares appear
overvalued.
* * * *
Foreign insurance fields aren’t what
they used to be. “Legislative restrictions”
have taken the wind out of the sails of
underwriters in some countries lately, and
Sir James Gunson, chairman of N.Z. In-
surance Co., says that if the trend goes
much further some branches of world-
wide enterprises might have to close down.
N.Z. Insurance has had long experience
in adapting its affairs to requirements in
territories where it operates, but this
isn’t easy now. Under the new Argentine
law governing insurance, the N.Z. co.
has had to dispose of shares which gave
it a predominating interest in a local
offshoot. In the Far East results
have been more encouraging as rehabili-
tation proceeds in recent war areas, but
difficulties have grown in Netherlands
East Indies, in Indo-China and in China.
Currency depreciation hasn’t helped. In
India the outlook is troubled, and in
Burma political events are disconcerting.
Palestine is unsettled. Good progress has
been chalked up in the Middle East, East
Africa and the United States. In Egypt
the barometer is steady. But altogether
it’s a complex world picture.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: When Lawson took the
train to Bourke “In a Dry Season” he was
not impressed, I was more, fortunate, for
now the slopes are green, and beyond the
furthest young wheat the plains spread
out a carpet of the same restful color,
broken here and there by sheets of white
daisies. Little hollows and dips are
full, and ibis and white-necked heron
flap away lazily as the train draws
level. The Commercial and the Railway
stand across the way as before, but in-
stead of tired dusty horses, flicking at the
flies, there are usually a couple of mud-
spattered jeeps. There are fettlers’ camps,
but the kiddies playing around them
looked anything but hopeless ; maybe the
correspondence schools had something to
do with that—and a couple of freckled
brothers at Byrock wore Bird League
badges and knew why they wore them. It
was too late for shearers, but the train
was full of youngsters going home for
holidays—all the “best” school badges
were there aplenty—and their conversation
was little of the city they had left but
much of the land where they belonged—
they talked rainfall and roads, grass and
duck and sheep as their fathers do. At
a little siding nearing the Darling, the
lad opposite alighted to meet his mother,
waiting in the dusk; and as the two of
them strolled away to the utility stand-
ing at the' edge of the scrub, I won-
dered if these boys gained as much from
their schools as the schools do from the
boys and the homes that breed them;
999 * *
“Bo”: Herb Brodie, during the months
he had been riding the fences at the
outstation, got on reasonably well with
his pet goanna and his dog. When, as
occasionally happened, they sneaked,
away. Herb would carry on discussions
with himself. Then one day some of
the musterers from the head station
camped at his hut for ’ the night.
After tea Herb took his usual
fruit-case chair by the fire, lit his pipe
and sat gazing at the flames and mutter-
ing to himself. The things cleared
away, the musterers crowded round
the fire chiacking each other. After a
while Herb, without a word, got up and
went outside. About half an hour later
one of the musterers, remarking their
host’s protracted absence, went out to
what he was doing. He found Herb
sitting against a stump about 100 yards
away from the hut. “What are y’ doin’
a perish out here fer, Herb?” he asked.
The old boundary rider spat in the dust.
“Aw,” he said in a disgusted voice, “there
was so much yabberin’ goin’ on inside
there I couldn’t make out what I was
sayin’ to meself!”
9 9 9 9
“Propalong”; Eight or 10 miles from
our S.A. place the west Wilpenas rise as
a sheer wall of colored rock made up of
the exposed ends of the strata that slope
up from inside Wilpena Pound. In the
early morning the great barrier is a deep
blue until the sun, rising out of sight
behind Elder’s Range, picks out one
small rounded peak which becomes a cap
of brilliant gold above the mysterious
blue. From the peak long bands of light
radiate west and down, painting the range
in misty ribbons of changing blues and
purples. All day, with the sun behind it,
the massive wall hides in blue shadow,
but towards evening the sun paints it for
an hour or two in gorgeous pink and
copper and rose with wedge-shaped blue
motifs that are deep valleys and savage
gorges as a frieze at the foot of the wall.
The whole magnificent barrier is crowned
with peaks, Reggie’s Nob, Dorothy’s Hill,
Dick’s Nob, Grieg’s Hill, for example.
Mount Alec, on Elder’s Range and almost
in our backyard, may be considered as a
testimonial to the audacity of the Alex-
ander Elder who, 100 years ago, took
his bride to visit his station near Mt.
Remarkable, then in wild country popu-
lated with wilder blackfellows. But what
excuse there is for the perpetrators of
the names of the Wilpena peaks I don’t
know.
9 9 9 9
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was on the phone.
“Hullo, that Mister Twinbales? Yair?
Good-oh. Heard y’ wanted some buildin’
work done? Aw, I see, a barn f’r hay
an’ a coupler sheds t’ hold sheep in wet
weather. Aw, yes, we can do that kind
o’ buildin’. Done a lot o’ it here an’
there. What are y’ payin’? Aw, I don’t
reckon it’s enough; we generally ask a
quid a day. H’m, well, I dunno. Hang
on a minute,” He masked the mouth-
piece and turned to me. “How about
eighteen bob a day?” “Make it nine-
teen,” I said. “Hullo, Mister Twinbales?
How about nineteen bob? Good-oh,
that’ll do us. Do we bach, or will y’
tucker us? Aw, eat with you. Well,
that’ll be right. Aw, we could come to-
morrer, if that’ll suit. In the car? Who?
Your youngest daughter? Three daugh-
ters? Look after us, eh? Well, it’s bad luck,
Mister Twinbales, but me mate’s just got
“Hey, I distinctly said NO starch !”
word his father’s dyin’ or somethin’ an’
we’ll have t’ catch a train. Aw, you’ll
get somebody. Goodbye, Mister Twin-
bales.
9 * 9 9
“Point Charles”: A mystery which
puzzled Darwin for years has been solved.
While the worst of all beer-droughts in
N.T. history was afflicting a suffering
white population the abos. at Bathurst
and Melville Islands were able to stage
obviously beer-inspired corroborees of
the most lively description. All efforts at
locating their source of supply were un-
successful until a recent combination of
wind and tide revealed the secret to a
white-feller skipper prospecting for
trochus. A bombed vessel off the western
coast of Bathurst Island, apparently
of Panamanian register, had carried
canned and bottled beer as a substantial
part of her lading. Binghi’s salvage
operations whenever tide and weather
were favorable had provided ample
supplies for the jollifications.
* 9 9 9
“Cyda”: Is “Yarralena” sure that the
riding saddles he saw (B. 20/8/’47) were
of an unusual pattern? The Numnah
bars of a British military riding saddle
would look like “wooden bearers” to the
uninitiated, but when covered with Num-
nah pads of fin. felt and placed on a
four-folded horse blanket they are quite
comfortable for the horse, few ever suf-
fering from sore backs. The Numnahs
took the place of the padding usually
seen on civilian saddles, and were so
designed to enable the saddle to be
stripped completely down for cleaning.
I have no doubt that any military saddles
still in use in the British army are of this
pattern.
* * * *
“Saucy Varlet”: The whalers out of
’Frisco have a different explanation for
those scars on the whale’s nose (B.
13 /8 / ’47). In the north Pacific there’s
a deep-sea catfish that waits on the
whales’ entry into warm water. Having
a natural ferocity unequalled by any
other sea monster —for these catfish are
big fellows—they quickly drive off the
calves, and fasten on to the cows, gorg-
ing themselves with whale milk, of which
they’re passionately fond. The bulls
charge in to brush them off, and get
badly lacerated on the snout, but here
nature provides its own protective
measures. The whale’s nose being ex-
tremely sensitive, it emits a great spurt
of oil immediately on being tapped, to
which the catfish are acutely allergic. The
attackers promptly scurry for the shelter
of deep weed that lies on the ocean bed,
where they remain in safety from pur-
suit. As the whalers’ sympathies are
never with the whale, this is believed
to be the true origin of that rather quaint
expression “suffering catfish!”
9 9 9 f
“Metax”: “The best crop I ever saw,”
said Bill, “was at Dandelion Flat. It was
that heavy that when it was cut we had
to stook some of it in the next paddock,
and the old man went as crook as blazes
because the boys’ wanted extra money for
having to carry the sheaves so far.”
9.9 9 9
“Job”: One lazy evening we were
watching the twilight change colors over
the Markham from the foothills beyond
Lae. The floor of the valley was a great
kunai plain, perfectly flat and feature-
less, but on every spur the jungle started
suddenly and thickened rapidly on the
slopes until the range behind us was a
massed tangle of rain forest. An early
moon was just ducoing the leaves when
one of the fellows said “I’d like to have
a few acres of this back home,” I pon-
dered on that. “Wouldn’t be much use,”
I said at last. “At home somebody would
want you to weed out the kunai to plant
a lawn and cut down every tree to put
in a couple of pencil-pines.” He looked
at me hard. “Well? What’s wrong with
pencil-pines?” I made several attempts
to explain that pencil-pines' were very
nice in their place, and {hen I had to ap-
peal to the other fellows. No use;
I was the only one who thought
natural settings had anything in their
favor. As one member summed up for
the opposition: “The first thing I do
when I get home is to clear everything
off my block and put in some English
shrubs. You’ve got to admit that there’s
nothing as hideous as a straggling old
shaggy-barked gum-tree!” I don’t think
I have ever felt so suddenly lonely. Only
J. le Gay Brereton could comfort me;
When I observe how very neat
The trees are, ranked along the street,
I turn with pleasure, I confess,
To God’s supreme untidiness.
N 9 9 9 9
“lodge”: “Snuffler” Jackson awoke in
the saddle with a start. Dawn was break-
ing, the two hours of his watch were
gone, and so were the cattle. He cantered
into the camp and I heard him rouse the
boss drover. The blankets stirred and a
sleepy head emerged. “Wassermatter?”
inquired the boss drowsily. “Well, boss,”
went on “Snuffler” guiltily, “y’ know that
big roan bull in the lead?” The boss sat up
and looked at “Snuffler” hard. “Yeah?”
he said. “Snuffler” averted his eyes. “He’s
gawn,” he admitted, and continued: “An’
y’ know that li’l white cow on the tail?”
The other was properly awake now.
“Yes!” “Well, she’s gawn, too.” Short
awkward pause; , Then the boss bel-
lowed: “What the hell d’ you mean!
Are they all gone?” “Snuffler” stood up
and spoke softly. “That’s right, boss,”
he said simply, “they’re all gawn.”
* * * ♦
“Urana”: Rufus, the pony, had got
into the shed and was feeling very sorry
for himself, “He must have been at the
wheat,” said Bob, giving Rufus a
dozen packets Y of salts. They did
no good. “How about some beer?”
asked Simms, the neighbor, who
had dropped in. Ten lovely hard-got
bottles were wasted. Rufus still stood
with lowered head. The vet. was called
in and declared it an easy case. A couple
of bottles of his physic and he’d be right
again. But the powders he prescribed
did as little good. Then Grandpa re-
membered someone who had cured a
horse with blood-letting. We took a
bucketful from his neck, but the only
difference it made was that he became
weaker. Large doses of castor oil, bak-
ing soda and seidlitz powders brought no
change. “Better take him out to the
swamp and shoot him,” said Dad,
“there’s nothing else we can do.” It was
then that Mum appeared. “Before you
do can I have a try?” she asked. She
filled a kerosene-tin with warm soapy
water, which the thirsty pony drank
greedily. Not long afterwards it was
right as rain again. We found out later
it was not wheat he had been eating but
pollard.
9 9 9 9
“Korero”: I have beep studying the
lowly mosquito and my researches have
led to the following discoveries: (1)
Mosquitoes are worse in autumn than in
mid-summer; (2) as dogs have higher
body temperature than humans the
mossies give them priority of choice —
keep a hound near you; (3) if you swipe
at a mossie it feels the air-current created
and lets the breeze blow it out of
danger; (4) mossies dislike bright light;
keep your tent or room as bright and
airy as possible during the day and hang
an old hat somewhere in a dark corner
as a trap; a dusting of D.D.T. will deal
effectively with the pests that flock to
its obscurity; (5) they are poor fliers.
A tent or shack pitched to windward of
the nearest mass of bush, with nothing
intervening to perch on, will be free of
the pests no matter how they swarm in
the bush near by—always provided you
lace your tank with kerosene, keep your
shack’s guttering free of water and don’t
leave any empty tins about.
9 9 9 9
“Nor’-west”: Everyone nowadays, be-
cause of “The Overlanders,” knows of
Wyndham, where the spring tides sweep-
ing Up Cambridge Gulf touch 30 feet.
But Derby, at the head of the vast King
Sound, has the maximum tide rise for
the W.A. coast—36ft. Travelling south
225 sea miles one finds a 2000-tonner,
tied to the long jetty, high and dry at
ebb tide, left there by a tidal rise that
topped 28 feet. Port Hedland, a further
300 miles south, doesn’t do quite so well,
20 feet being its maximum. But after
that tides begin to slacken. At Onslow,
another 300 miles down, the spring
freshets attain to an anaemic nine feet.
At Carnarvon, a further 300 miles south,
a mere five feet of water climbs the piles
of the mile-long jetty. Geraldton comes
next at a further run of 320 miles; but
that port of Champion Bay is practi-
cally tideless —2ft. 6in. Fremantle is
about the same, and that goes for the
rest of the coast round as far as Esper-
ance. Have never heard it properly ex-
plained why the 1000 miles of coast
around Australia’s north-west corner
should have such a prodigious tidal rise.
9 9 9 9
“Chuck”: Frank put the newspaper
aside and wrote a letter. He was at the
post office when the reply came. “Hey,
Charlie,” he called to a neighbor, “I’ve
got a job in one o’ those Government
offices for a few weeks.” Charlie looked
interested. “Like what y’ used t’ have
before y’ come an’ took up that selec-
tion?” he inquired. “That’s right. Start
in a couple o’ days. I’ve turned me cows
out and fixed the sheep, so if y’ll just
ride over occasionally an’ look things
over, I think they’ll be right.” Four
weeks later Frank dropped from the mail-
car at the turn-off and ran into Charlie.
“Well, how’d y’ git on?” Chari, grinned
in welcome. “Good-oh,” chuckled the
homecomer. “Feel like a new bloke.
They wanted me t’ stop, but I reckoned
a month’d do. How’s things? Awright?
Y’ know, Chari., my place won’t run t’
luxuries,” Frank went on, “but, cripes,
after 10 years’ solid yacka on it, I jus’
felt I needed that rest.”
9 9 9 9
“Reims”: Can’t regard that 120 ft. root
growth (B. 16/7/’47) as a record, par-
ticularly as the tunnel to which the root
penetrated would provide drainage and a
source of air. Plants make for air-
pockets—passages left by decaying roots,
and pipes of underground drainage
systems, become choked with roots —and,
since a root must reach the vicinity
of the water-table its depth sets the
limit to penetration. Trees growing
on ranges in dry-summer areas must
push 1 , further down than “Zake’s” lucerne
to draw the sap which provides for their
daily evaporation. I had a grapevine
growing near a well, the water in which
never rose above a hundred feet from
the surface. When the vine was cut down
the water, which had been clear, became
colored, presumably by some fluid from
the dying roots.
IN THE RANGES.
High the blue and purple ranges
Where the deep cloud-shadows lie,
And the tall trees green and splendid
Stretch their limbs unto the sky;
Where the changing colors tumble
And the blues and purples run
To the dim and distant hazes
That unfold before the sun.
Full and clear the flute-like echoes
Of the mountain thrush’s song,
And the bellbirds in the saplings,
And the whipbirds’ mellow thong;
Comes the parrots’ sweet, soft whistle
Floating through the good green trees
And from out the honeyed blossom
Sounds the droning of the bees.
Tall the saplings, young and graceful
With their gum-tips burning red,
Flaming fire against the blueness
Of the wide sky overhead;
And the old tracks steep and winding
Through the soft red soil and clay,
And the gum limb's, clean as ivory,
From trunks of brown and grey.
Bright the colors of the ranges.
Like a rainbow wide and deep,
With the golden sunlight bathing
Green and gold and purple steep;
Where the smoke from distant rises
Is climbing to the sky,
And the scent of smoke and timber
With the clouds goes floating by.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Lub”: “The wild dawgs was bad out
Mulligan Flat way,” said Horace. “The
ringleader of the pack was a little creamy
bitch, nearly pure dingo they reckoned.
Hardly a night went by without a mob of
sheep bein’ raided, an’ the attacks were so
scattered that it didn’t give much of a
chance f’r trappin’ or shootin’. Poison
wasn’t any good, because the dawgs
wouldn’t come at dead mutton or return
t’ their kills. An’ they killed f’r the
love of it, bowlin’ over up t’ twenty
woollies in a night. Well, there came t’
the district a short, chunky cove, pretty
much a dingo himself t’ look at, an’ he
knew their language backwards. He
wanted a fiver each t’ clean up the dawgs,
an’ twenty quid f’r the leader. The
cockies agreed, and Ginger landed in with
eight skins a fortnight later, the creamy
bitch among ’em. The cockies gave a loud
cheer and paid up with the usual groan,
which was nothin’ t’ the noises they made
when they found their dawg troubles just
the same an’ the stiffener gone back t’
the parts far away from where he’d
brought the skins.”
* * ♦ *
“Bray Rock”: To anyone who has
viewed and heard the great Pacific rollers
driven by a strong south-easter crashing
stupendously upon the great coral cays
of the Outer Barrier Reef, it seems im-
possible that they should be supported
by anything less enduring than solid rock.
Yet, all present scientific evidence indi-
cates that only loosely coherent coralline
material with occasional thin limestone
bands exists for the first 400-odd feet
below the tough skin of living coral.
Below that again is loosely coherent
quartz beach sand, containing no truly
coralline material. Such were the find-
ings from the Michaelmas Cay and Heron
Island borings, which reached 600 and
732 ft. respectively! Boring on the actual
Outer Barrier is impossible, but both
bores were within 10 miles of the 100-
fathom line and expert geological opinion
considers that similar conditions would be
found under the main coral mass. Even
if a rock platform exists further down the
resistance of so unstable a foundation
through ages of wave and current action
is a geological miracle in itself.
* * * •
“Esk D.”: It is Sunday evening and the
parson, having given a service to a dozen
of his flock at Widgee Creek, is paying a
call at Darby’s. His knock at the door
echoes forlornly in the deserted shell, for
the Darbys are flat out in the clamor
and bustle of the milking shed. But the
tall, grey shape of the pet kangaroo,
guardian of the place, comes around a
corner in soft-footed bounds and stops
about two feet from the reverend, gazing
into his face steadfastly. There is
a mosquito astir; whatever its religious
scruples, it is intent on getting a sample
of Methodist blood into its system and
decides to probe the fount at the extreme
tip of the parson’s nose. The reverend
makes a swing at it involuntarily—a false
move, for Joe interprets it as a right
lead. A left counter knocks the parson’s
“Well, you said you wanted breakfast in bed.”
glasses off, the following right pokes him
in the ribs and he collects a biff on the
ear as he turns to run. But Joey, his
fighting blood aroused, grabs the tail of
his coat and tries to rip him with his
right toe. They mazurka round and over
the garden, till old Harry notices the fray
and hurries over with a large waddy and
sails in, hitting more parson than kanga-
roo, At last the panting and dishevelled
cleric gets through the gate and slams
it; whereupon Harry turns on him in-
dignantly. “That oughter learn y’!” he
roars. “A man o’ your size an’ perfession
should know better than come ’ere
teasin’ the kids’ pet kangaroo!”
* * * »
“Gravelsnatcher”; Is there anywhere in
Australia a soil that is stickier, boggier
and harder-setting than the heavy clay
of the Westralian wheatbelt? In dry
winters, when farmers draw supplies from
railway or town dams, I’ve seen the
water-wagons bog after showers that
wouldn’t run a trickle from the catch-
ment areas. But three months later those
roads formed and graded from the
natural soil, but not gravelled—were hard
enough to defy a twelve-horse team draw-
ing a dam-sinking plough. Six men
tried tb hold the plough, and a black-
smith toiled continuously sharpening the
reversible shares, but the ground won.
We finally resorted to explosives.
* * # *
“Colonial Cove”: Westralian celebra-
tions of the John Forrest centenary recall
that in retracing Eyre’s steps across the
Bight Forrest in 1870 did a very fair job,
allowing that he had every resource W.A.
could then place at his disposal, includ-
ing a ship which called in at Eucla, the
half-way house, with fresh stores. More
amazing was the crossing made by a pair
of adventurers four years later. In 1874
convicts still worked on the Fremantle
roads in chains. On the 14th of April
two chain-clankers made a break to the
“ Wanna race?”
near-by bush. Months-passed before any
word of them came to official ears; then
it was from Eucla, a good thousand miles
from the scene of their absconding. The
Dempsters were there at the time pros-
pecting for sheep country. Their schooner
brought word that the runaways had set
off for Fowler’s Bay, Eyre’s jumping-off
place. They were on foot, without food
or equipment of any sort. Yet by Janu-
ary, 1875, they were in Adelaide, after
eight months of travel. Bernard S., the
more prominent, was at once recognised
from descriptions forwarded from W.A.
Arrested and returned, he received as
reward for his marvellous effort of
desert travel a further two years in irons.
His companion managed to get as far as
Melbourne, but he too was unlucky.
Returned to Fremantle, he received a
similar allotment. Oddly enough Bernard
S. was not in any way of the hardy
bushman type. Originally from Man-
chester he was a jeweller by trade,
* * * *
“Goldie”: Darley was trying to interest
workshy Harry in a job underground at
his Bluebell gold show, and it looked for
a time that he might persuade the big
cove. “The wages sound all right, an’
I’ve been out o’ work a long time,”
admitted Harry. “But I’ve ’ad no ex-
perience in a mine.” “Well, that can
soon be fixed,” Darley said. “When can
y’ start?” “Aw, I dunno,” Harry said.
“I’m sort of keen on takin’ the job, but
there’s more’n me t’ consider.” “Don’t
let that worry y’,” Darley said. “I was
talkin’ t’ y’r missus on’y this mornin’, an’
she’d be pleased t’ see y’ workin’ agen at
any job.” “Aw, it ain’t her I was thinkin’
of,” Harry said. “We’d be toilin’
down the shaft all day, I s’pose? Not
that that’d worry me, o’ course—but
what’s me blue heeler goin’ t’ do with
hisself all day?”
* * * •
“Old-timer”: Little Curl’s briefest love
affair had to do with the daughter of a
drover who was bringing about 1200
ewes to the station. The boss took
Little Curl in the car when he went
out to see the sheep, then two days away
as sheep travel, and Little Curl saw,
holding the reins in the wagonette, a
plump brunette who appeared to eye him
with some interest. While boss and
drover talked, Little Curl got out of the
car and made himself known to the girl,
who told him the drover was her father
and, since he hadn’t been able to obtain
a cook for the trip, she had come along
with him. Little Curl permitted her to
understand that he was in the boss’s con-
fidence, that the station more or less was
under his control and that he was likely
to be a big man some day. She gave
him a warming smile, as he and the boss
drove away. Next day the hands were
startled to see Little Curl appear in neat
riding pants, his boots polished, his face
shaven and his neck enclosed in a starch
fence with a polka-dotted tie. In this
gear he hung restlessly about the station
most of the day and was at the road gate
when the sheep were counted through.
“You’re seven short?” barked the boss.
“They died,” began the drover. “Me
daughter” The girl broke in. “It was
entero-toxsemia,” she said. “I made a
post-mortem on the first two, diagnosed
and we got the necessary injections, but
lost five more before we could do all the
suspects.” “Me daughter,” said the
drover, proudly, “has jist bin made a vet.”
Little Curl withdrew silently. “Gripes,”
he said, later, “wouldna done any good
cornin’ home boozed an’ tailin’ her y’ had
a pain in the stummick.”
* * * *
“Kelms”; Coolgardie is erecting a plant
for producing dry-pressed bricks, and the
material to be used assays over a weight
to the ton. It would be hard to strike
earth in that locality that didn’t carry
some gold. In fact, that applies' to quite
a lot of W.A. Visited a mine out from
Toodyay, in the Darling Ranges, which
paid costs only of running and freighting
the ore to the nearest battery 200
miles away. That area isn’t considered
particularly auriferous, but a handful of
gravel, picked at random, assayed a few
grains. An old prospector reckons that
if sufficient colored labor were introduced
to turn the big State over to a depth of
four feet, the yield in floaters would
induce “Labor” to nationalise the
industry.
* * * ♦
“Notaden”: A recent newcomer to
Southport (S.Q.) waters is unlikely to
remain popular for very long amongst
line-fishermen. It is a well-grown
seal, released by its former showman-
owner at Surfers’ Paradise because its
food had been costing him ten bob a
day. At last report it had taken up
quarters under a jetty in the Nerang
River and was doing well in the tucker
line from admiring youngsters and passing
boats. Queensland has no seals of its
own, but from recollection of the pretty
creatures’ taking ways in southern waters
there’s going to be some lively language
flying on the breezes during the tailor
and mackerel seasons should this visitor
decide to do a bit of outside grub-hunting.
They are experts in snatching fish off a
towline without getting hooked, and will
grab them from an ordinary hand-line
within a foot of the boat’s side.
* * * *
“S. Post”: It was bad country and we
weren’t doing well at our ’roo-shooting.
One night an old stockman who worked
for a passing drover camped near by and
came across for a yarn after tea. I was
pegging out a miserable dozen or so by the
light of a carbide lamp when he stopped
to watch. As I unrolled a small badly-
ticked fatty-back with a large bullet-hole
in it he spoke: “Y’ only wanter use one
peg on that class o’ skin,” he drawled.
I bit. “One peg?” cautiously. “Yair.”
He growled a laugh. “Jest one peg in
the middle, t’ stop it fTm blowin’ away.”
“Zake”: He came to the kitchen door
of the little farmhouse carrying a battered
suitcase and asked for a job. The
stern-looking middle-aged woman who
answered the knock looked him up and
down, got half-way through telling him
there was nothing, then paused and said;
“Oh, I have a job for you. You can
skin and clean a couple of rabbits. You’ll
find them” The job-seeker held up
his hand solemnly. “Before we go any
further in these negotiations, missus, tell
me —do y’ want this be day labor or on
contract?”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: That report (B.
20/8/’47) which revealed a 14 p.c. failure
in divined wells as against a seven p.c.
failure in geological surveys actually shows
a credit balance in favor of dowsing. The
surveys would all be made by men trained
to the job. The divining would be done
by a variety of “artists,” any of whom
could be inexperienced or dishonest.
The occasional quack doesn’t discredit
medical science, and a few failures can-
not condemn divining. On the other
hand, geological surveys should tmer
fail.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Mrs. Amelia Johnstone,
who celebrated her 104th birthday in
Brisbane on August 21, affords yet another
example of resistence to the climate of
Queensland’s Awful North. Coming to
Australia from Ireland at 2\, three years
before Leichhardt’s last expedition, and
14 before Queensland became a separate
colony—she spent the next 40 years on
the bullock-wagon tracks of the far west
During the last 24 of them she bore and
reared 16 children and schooled them all
herself. Growing somewhat tired of
the track at last she settled in Cloncurry
(C.Q.) in 1885 and moved to Bris-
bane a mere 51 years later. She is still
mentally alert and full of life and humor
despite four years of blindness. Four
generations of living descendants range
from a daughter of 71 to a great-great-
grandson of two. Tom Aikens, 47-year-
old Independent M.L.A. for Munding-
burra, is a grandson —and a grandfather
in his own right.
DROVERS’ RETURN.
We were young and of spirit
And the worid was full of cheer
When we went away a-drovmg
With our horses and our gear.
And we crossed the Queensland border
And we made for Upson Downs,
Camping on the stock reserves
And drinking in the towns.
We’ll go no more a-droving, Mother,
Curse us if we do I
For the sand got in our porridge
And the blowflies in our stoo l
When we camped at Cunnamulla
With the weather warm and bright,
All the folk were fine and friendly—
There were dances every night.
Young Joe soon won a sweetheart,
A plump lass, dark and coy—
We heard the sound of wedding-bells
A-ringing for that boy. .
We’ll go no more a-droving, Mother.
Curse us if we lie I
For the fat girl had a husband
And he’blackened Joseph’s eye I
So we left for Dirranbandi,
/ Where our sheep had store of wells,
Where the great stars were our night-lights
And our watch the horses’ bells.
Oh, ’twas splendid in the mornings
When the sun rose on the scene
And all the earth was singing
And the stock-route lush and green.
We’ll go no more a-droving, Mother.
Curse us if we ought!
For the grass was full of prussic;
We're a hundred jumbucks short I
At last we crossed the Border
At a place called Mungindi;
And the town was short of watei
And the track was mighty dry.
Still, we headed for the southward
And as we crossed the plains
The blessed stormclouds gathered
And we hailed the pouring rains.
We’ll go no more a-droving, Mother.
Curse us if we joke!
The wagon in the black soil bogged
And pole and king-pin broke!
So here we are at home again,
Both broke and badly bent.
At Moree they seized our- horses
And at Marrabri our tent.
Young Joe and me walked sixty miles,
We’re footsore, worn and pale;
We left Dad in a hospital
And young Jim in a jail.
We’ll go no more a-droving, Mother,
Curse us if we do!
They can have their flaming Darling,
They can have the blank Barcoo !
N.S.W.
J. A. KAREW.


team up »»”' 1
whatever you want to Y
A6.H.U
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. ltd:
(INC IN ENGLAND, 1563) •
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACC.A, MOREE HENTY AND HAY
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYAN OGAS
(Regd.)>
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit .
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and A CERTAIN
KIEEER
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE; MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
v-
w
'THAT'
'V
9
%
The
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject
to accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and
uninterrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of
paramount importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing
this Company your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present
appointee. An interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on
request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T; W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Eee.
Manager—L, S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE » AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901 Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
5^
%
ess
H.P.
umuacfiXikM
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fluoride in Queensland.
“Archaps”: An interim report issued
by the committee appointed to investigate
the incidence of fluoride in ground waters
emphasises the seriousness of the posi-
tion. In some hundreds of samples of
bore water examined the fluoride levels
varied from the minimal toxic standard
of one part per million to 44 parts.
Clinical symptoms varied markedly with
age and degree of exposure. The severity
reached a climax at about 12 to 13
parts per million, when the bony struc-
tures of unborn mammals were affected.
The number of animals permanently
damaged might be gauged by a Depart-
ment of Agriculture statement that the
relatively stationary level of Queensland
sheep numbers, after making due allow-
ance for seasonal conditions, was in no
small measure due to fluorosis. The
committee has prepared an interim re-
port to indicate the nature and extent of
the effects of fluorosis on human health
and the livestock industries and to give
some outline of the methods that might
be adopted to mitigate them.
An analysis of the town bore water
at Julia Creek (n.-w. Q.) in February,
1941, disclosed the presence of 2.75 parts
of fluoride per million, and the com-
mittee suggests that in combating fluor-
osis in children the fluoride content in
contaminated waters should be reduced
to innocuous levels and that more use be
made of low fluoride water from roof
trappings, surface streams, etc. Water
for humans could be treated by passing
it through columns of specially-prepared
degelatinised bore or other fluoride-
arresting preparations, at a cost of up to
10s. per 1000 gallons, but lOd. per head
for sheep and cattle would be exorbitant.
More information is required regard-
ing the distribution and effects of fluor-
osis on livestock before remedial measures
are suggested. Artesian water is dis-
tributed almost entirely by open drains,
which causes considerable loss by evapo-
ration, with a consequent concentration
of fluoride in the water, especially at
points distant from bore heads, and in
tanks supplied by the drains. This con-
centration would be minimised if it were
economically possible to distribute the
water by pipelines, but, generally, the
most practical solution would appear to
be the provision of alternative water
supplies by excavated tanks to store rain-
fall run-off.
Fluorosis is a problem of considerable
magnitude in Queensland, affected waters
being widely distributed throughout the
State. On present information artesian
waters are affected most. There is evi-
dence to suggest that affected horses
might suffer more acutely than ruminants,
but. the condition was first recognised in
the sheep country, and most of the
detailed clinical investigations were made
in the sheep areas. The pain through-
out life suffered by badly-affected animals
must be no small factor in reducing wool
and meat returns, and the shortened
breeding life of ewes, the increase in
mortality in lambing and the lower lamb-
ing index is eventually reflected in Gov-
ernment revenue.
That Sheepyard.
“J.Mc.”: Have examined the “Handy
Layout” for sheepyards (B. 6/8/’47) and
offer the following criticisms: (a) There
are no feeding pens from the back yards
to the forcing pen. Unless at least three
“Cripes, I feel crook. Dad. I git sharp pains in me back when I chop."
men were available it would be almost
impossible to maintain an even flow of
sheep through the race; if spare men
were not available, and assuming that a
man with a “few thousand sheep” would
have mobs of, say, 500 breeding ewes,
imagine what a picnic one man would
have rounding them out of that big yard,
one small yardful at a time.
(b) Thfere is no escape gate at the
bottom end of the race for those occasions
(too numerous in these mid-Murray
parts) when sheep have to be examined
for flies, and need not be put through the
race.
(c) I bfclieve no yard can be complete
without a three-way race. We have three-
way gates and what with rams, strangers,
stragglers to mark, culls and odds and
ends even when there is only one division
to be made, the second yard very seldom
remains unused.
(d) As a result of (c) there is no open
pen at the end of the race full of moving
sheep enticing their cobbers in the forc-
ing pen to come on.
(e) A small yard to draft into for check-
ing purposes is always handy.
Dairy-cow Test.
“Myrrhee”: Although Jersey herds
won five of the six leading positions in
this year’s test for pure-bred dairy cattle
by the Vic. Department of Agriculture
(the other place was taken by A. E. T.
Payne’s Yarraview Guernseys) both
champion and reserve champion cows
came from other breeds. In the 272-day
period, J. H. Goddard’s Ayrshire, In-
verurie Thistledown, produced 13,8601 b.
of milk and 8091 b, of butterfat; her
milk tested 5.84 p.c. A Red Poll, Vic-
toria Electricity, from Werribee State
Farm, was second with a butterfat re-
turn of 7771 b., a world record for a Red
Poll. In making the record this cow
passed the previous highest for a cow of
the same breed —7061 b. of butterfat put
up by Muria on the same farm in 1914.
Electricity has averaged 5001 b. of fat
over a five-year period.
The herd is owned by a
medical man, Dr, A. R. Haywood, whose
45 Windrest Jerseys averaged 5801 b.
of butterfat. These cows run on a well-
improved farm near Hastings, on the
Mornington Peninsula, only a few miles
from Arthur’s Seat, the old station
homestead where George Gordon McCrae
spent part of his boyhood. Reserve
championship went to J. Stedman’s 30
Surrey Jerseys, which produced an
average yield of 5481 b. of butterfat.
Stedman farms about 500 acres of
irrigated country at Appin, in the Murray
valley.
Dairy Stocking.
“E. 2”: Generally, about 10 p.c. of
the total pasturage should be held in
reserve for hay-cutting or grazing in the
off-season, when it is necessary to keep
the dairy herd in good heart for the next
lactation period. Those who stock to
absolute capacity may do well in a run
of good seasons, but in a following
drought, even if able to struggle
through without losing stock, extra profits
will be more than eaten by high fodder
costs.
It’s safer and easier to milk a moderate
herd of high-producing cows, kept at
their top through the season, than to
flog the place with an over-large herd
and chance the seasons v The aggregate
for the milking seasons year by year is
what counts, not the extra-high returns
for the very peak. Though fodder is
cheap enough in times of plenty, the price
rockets in lean seasons, just when it’s
most needed. Build up fodder reserves
to allay risks of droughts and poor
seasons.
Sandhills.
“Meramba”: Our district is in the
South Australian Murray Mallee with
only an 11-inch average rainfall. Al-
though no two farms are alike the prin-
ciple of combating soil erosion on sand-
hills is still the same and .still to be
adopted by 90 per cent, of our farmers.
The method is simple. Sow cereal rye
on the sand with ,a combine after 50
points of rain during April, and always
before the initial seeding.
Sow everything except the big accumu-
lated dunes, which are left unsown.
These sentinels blow flat when the
crop around them covers the area from
which the dunes are being fed. The com-
bine delves into the arid-coral top in an
endeavor to bring it back into produc-
tivity. This portion needs super., but the
good soft driftsand, with water, produces
a 4ft. to sft. crop without super.
A drill is good for continued sowings
immediately after the main seeding has
finished if some of the area has suffered
from cutting winds. Fence the area or
keep stock off and plant with Pyp grass
from roots. Pyp grass looks like lignum
and the stock love it.
Lime and Clay,
“Big Billy”: Textures of puggy soils
may be improved by the application of
lime, combined with sulphuric acid to give
gypsum; irrigation soils do not become
hard and rubbery if lime is used. The
quantity to be applied depends on the
quality, as the finer the lime the more
quickly it acts on the soil. Burnt lime


For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock . . .
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders .. .
v BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne —758 K —712 F 688 Perth.
ŵ
„i s rooS*' s,m
R U M
OVERPROOF r
FESQ, fASSON &. CO. PTY. LTD. ESI tB4Bj«Q
L
Thanks to Steel Tubes, thousands of
square miles of once arid territory
now support vast mobs of cattle and
sheep. Steel Tube forms the bore and
pump casing that brings precious water
to the surface, and makes the pipes that
reticulate the bore water that means life
itself to the stock. Steel Tube forms the
new, highly efficient dip sprays, carries
light, power and telephone wires,
forms cow-bails and milk-cooling
equipment., Steel Tubes for the
expansion of Australia’s
primary production are
produted«by Stewarts
and Lloyds.
KSPI
m
'W'niri
‘ r'. '' -v -v■■ *
HS
mm.
% ■■
9 ii
m
im
m
•VJV
■sra
m
W v.
W
V v
•• vvV-'
ari
'o
O
SI 57
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD,
fS&lj Newcastle and Sydney, New
South Wales; Melbourne, Victoria;
Brisbane and Rockhampton, Queens •
land; Perth and Fremantle, Western
Australia; Hobart and Launceston,
Tasmania; Stewarts and Lloyds (South
Australia) Ltd., Kilburn, South Aust>
ralia.
is equal to double its weight of agricul-
tural lime. . •
Good lime should have a neutralising
value of over 90, but most of the so-called
earth lime—a soft lime dug from deposits
—may have a neutralising value of only
75. Be careful when buying cheap lime
to see that you don’t get a coarse product
with low neutralising value. If uncertain
whether your land requires lime, submit
soil specimens to agricultural officers, as
excess lime can have a detrimental effect
on plant life, chiefly by preventing it
from getting adequate quantities of some
foods such as iron and manganese.
Hewn Beams.
“E.H.S.”: Very strong and very
durable timbers are redgum, ironbark and
redbox, but where extra-long beams are
required bluegum, blackbutt, messmate,
mountain-ash and turpentine are generally
used. Trees required for girders, stringers
or beams should be about 2ft. in
diameter, straight and sound. The logs
should not be barked at the stump, as
handling and transportation of freshly-
barked timber are more difficult and
dangerous than when the bark is re-
tained.
Barking and squaring should be done
at the site of the proposed work, and the
log should be lined to give a beam of the
required diameter clear of sap-wood. For
the first side the log should be marked
at each end with a plumb line, and an-
other line drawn from the top of one of
these vertical lines to that of the corres-
ponding one at the opposite end of the
log as a guide for the “spotter” to follow.
An occasional reference to the lines on
the ends of the log will serve to check
any deviation from the vertical by the
workman. Each side should be treated
in the same way, and when the first is
finished, work on the other side should
be completed without unnecessary delay,
otherwise the log will warp or bend away
from the hewn side., thus making the
work more difficult for the hewer; Care
should be taken to observe this precau-
tion when dressing the remaining part of
the log.
If the work is done during the summer
the finished beam should be well covered
with bark or other protective material,
as exposure of green timber to the direct
rays of the sun is liable to cause warping
or cracking. Tools required—axe, cross-
cut saw, broadaxe and a marking line.
Hints for the Farm.
“F.L.”: In cold districts thoroughly
harden off early tomatoes and frost-
tender plants before transferring them to
the garden. Use seedling-boxes of good
size and set the plants a few inches apart,
shifting the boxes to a sunny aspect by
day and a sheltered spot at night. Pro-
tect the plants from cold winds and heavy
rain, water no more than is necessary to
keep the soil moist and apply liquid
mantire once a fortnight. Plants grown
this way may be pricked off and trans-
planted without disturbing the roots.
“Bumble”; Hive inspection should be
done in early spring, when days are warm
enough for bees to work. The hives
should be opened only during the middle
hours of sunny days, to avoid chilling
interiors and rousing the bees. Ensure
that the colonies have each a laying queen
and ample honey stores for brood-
rearing. Give those weak in stores a
frame or two of sealed honey from well-
stocked hives; failing this, feed with
sugar syrup at blood heat. Unite queen-
less stocks with weak colonies, placing
their box over that of the queen-right
hive with a sheet of brown paper between.
Leave an entrance for the top storey till
the stocks have united, which they do
without argument after gnawing through
the paper.
“Crank”: “Gip” (B. 20/8/’47) prob-
ably is in the supercharged class of truck
chauffeurs, but his effort in beaching his
truck would have been less back-break-
ing if he had first of all removed the
spark plugs from the engine and engaged
bottom, not top gear, thus avoiding the
pull against engine compression by re-
moval of the plugs, and increasing the
leverage on the driving wheels by taking
advantage of the lowest forward gear
ratio. It is assumed that the cylinder
head of the engine was not submerged.
The mention of a distributor rules out
the possibility of the engine being a plug-
less Diesel job.
“Milton”: A house-hungry young
man near Perth (W.A.) moulded blue-
metal reinforced cement bricks 3ft. by
6in. by 4in. with male and female joints
which automatically tied the bricks. He
erected the walls in a fortnight. Mortar
can be used if desired in the joints by
running it from a watering-can.
“Myrrhee”: The “cement penetration”
method of laying cowyard floors is easy.
Spread the metal (2in. to 2£in. lumps)
in a regular layer 4in. deep on a level,
solid foundation. Thoroughly roll or
tamp the metal and sprinkle with water.
Prepare a mixture of one part of cement
to three parts of clean sand with suffi-
cient water to make a thin, creamy emul-
sion. Pour sufficient of this over the
metal to fill all the intervening spaces.
In about 30 minutes coat the surface with
a layer of about |in. of stiff grout made
of one part cement to three parts sand
and work into place. If finish is desired
this surface can be hand-trowelled an
hour or so afterwards.
“Billjim”; Single plants of skeleton
weed can be got out by hand-grubbing
to a depth of two to three inches,
emptying a pint of salt on the exposed
root, pouring a half to one gallon of
water on the salt and then covering the
soil to prevent stock licking up the salt.
Patches are best dealt with by spraying
with sodium chlorate, lib. to one gallon
of water, in the rosette stage and re-
peating in four to six weeks.
“E.M.R.”: An old boot out of which
the toecap has been cut is excellent to
give pigs a drench. Merely place the toe
portion in the pig’s mouth and pour the
drench through the top of the boot. The
pig’s head should be raised only slightly
and the amount poured into the boot
regulated to allow the pig *to swallow
easily. The main thing in drenching is
not to hurry.
“Gip”: Don’t allow chickens access to
water other than in a very shallow dish
or trough with a cover of ±in. wire-
netting to prevent drowning. Change the
water daily, keep in a shady place and
keep the dish full.


Glamorous Interlude
m
■mm
FROM Aswan to Cairo the age-old course of the Nile penetrates
the very soul of Ancient Egypt. Along its banks stand awe-
inspiring monuments bearing witness to the splendour of a
bygone civilization. Luxor with its stately temples ; the Valley
of the Kings, Tutankhamen’s Tomb, Memphis, Sakkara, Giza
the Pyramids ! And finally, Cairo, that city of delightful contra-
dictions. Here especially does the sophistication of today mingle
with the strange history of the past, for the brilliant season
presents a round of social gaiety including music, dancing, opera
and every attraction for the sportsman.
Egypt offers a glamorous interlude and everywhere a
courteous, friendly welcome to those on their way to
Europe. Her luxury hotels are world-famous, and there is
no lack of first-class pensions. The climate is delightfully
exhilarating. Travel facilities are up-to-date. Many clubs
admit temporary members.
Special Tourist Visas obtainable In the British Common-
wealth and Empire, Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
m.
■ r-
-4:
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
n
as r f*
>1
■d
•d
u
•U
M
ui
: : :
;
g'j?.'.
I#
I=, fS
*r.t
AS
4VI
AA
mi
<‘^W///y// / /' / -
//.
m/A
mm
m
y;.'//..
7/A
a'
■SSI
%
iiiWii
i
o
grtifiL
tr '
*v
M
mu 1
&
m
mm
m
mm
Aluli
The Careys joined. They, not one of
them, had seen Charlie.
It was two hours now since Charlie had
set out. Someone said, “the river,” and
small groups of searchers went along the
bank, and gazed at the broad water, un-
seen but for a reflected star here and
there. Someone else said the police should
know. Otto, haggard and aged, said
“He’s gone!”
The police arrived —Sergeant Toohey
and three constables. Sergeant Toohey
was a grizzled relic of the older and
harder days, near retiring now, a kindly
gruff old terror. He spoke to Otto.
“He’s all right, you’ll see. We’ll soon
find him.”
But Otto said “He’s gone!”
THE night wore on, cooler still and
with a mild-weather dew, heavy and
wet upon the paspalum and water-couch.
Lights moved about in a crazy pattern —
hurricane lamps, torches and even a few
flares. Much of voices, the indistinguished
murmur of people talking, a loud call here
and there, and the anxious, hopeful greet-
ing of “Did you . . .?” “Have they . ..?”
“Is he . . .?”
Womenfolk occasionally heard in ex-
hortation : “June and Al, you had better
get home now —you’ll never be able to
get up in the morning.” Or it was, “Tom,
this will bring your bronchitis on again! ”
Or it might be a warning about lumbago
or rheumatism. But apparently no one
went home.
Old Sergeant Toohey and his con-
stables organised small bands of men and
big boys, and roughly systematised the
search by allotting areas to different
parties.
Jest as a spec, like,” the sergeant said,
as. he ordered a search of every patch of
cow-cane and paddock of the young
maize, lush and breast-high. Even the
rarer patches of uncut lucerne were
examined. And all of these were like
shower baths.
But the sergeant stuck to the bank of
the river, slowly falling after the fresh,
and where the banks sloped and tapered
gently, near the big bend. In fact there
was no steep bank hereabouts at all, and
now an irregular ribbon of yellow silt,
yards and yards wide and an inch or so
deep, marked the limits of the river’s re-
cent rise. And beyond were the reed beds,
showing in the uncertain glare of lanterns,
bedraggled and stained, with flags afloat,
drearily pointing downstream.
No likely tracks could be found in the
muddy silt—“ Nor it ain’t likely neither,”
said the sergeant. “But then again you
never can’t tell.” He knew young Charlie,
and felt that it was a remote chance
that he would wander into the river.
Still, as he so often summed up the
vagaries of fate—“you never can’t tell.”
The tracks in the mud were confusing,
too, increasing every minute by the
tramping to and fro. The sergeant re-
gretted that he hadn’t kept the banks
clear, but that was too late now, and in
any case there was the desperate need
of quick discovery.
Otto joined no band for long, nor did
he accompany any of them through the
widening circles. A heavy kind of des-
pair settled upon him—“ He’s gone!”
Someone broached the possibility of
Charlie’s having “cleared out.” “Boys
do that sort of thing, you know; you
remember young Alec Grieve” But
Otto only said “Alec Grieve!” with the
slightest touch of contempt,
AT last the trees and low hills on the
other side of the river stole out of
the night into dark masses of silhouette
against the brightening sky. The river
became a dull sad grey, with bands of
mist here and there; and then the cheer
of morning, with all its heartening sounds
of birds and roosters and cows. The sun
looked redly through the river mist, and
it was day once more. But no Charlie.
Where could he be? And what could
have happened? The river was the most
obvious and obtrusive possibility. Drag-
ging had begun as soon as it was
light enough, and went on endlessly. In
the fascination of the horror of it Otto
from the bank watched every move. But
nothing came of it. Sergeant Toohey,
however, had recourse to his “You never
can’t tell —what wid the current as it is
now, and so forth.”
Could it have been foul play? But
then, who on earth? And did Con Carey
know anything? Did he? A flicker of
murderous thought rose in Otto’s mind —
and then fell. Let Con be what he was
—no, it couldn’t be Con. But could it?
No! No! Whatever motive there might
be for some things—nothing for that.
Otto’s mind was beyond any acute
analysis, but he turned down the recurring
Con . . .
THE searching was given up at last.
Nothing more could be done. It was
humanly futile to continue. A mystery
if you like, that a boy could disappear
in that way, and leave never a trace. The
river of course was the best explanation,
and you could hardly call it a mystery
that Charlie was never found in the river.
Still . . . that river was as much out of
line with Charlie as the clearing out.
It was Mrs. Otto who took it hardest.
At first she kept up a hopeless sort of
hope “for Otto’s sake,” and did her best
to comfort him. But he grew out of the
need of comfort, and then she never will-
ingly mentioned Charlie’s name any more.
People thought she had forgotten easily,
and got over it well. A wonderful woman
Mrs. Otto. But she aged quickly, too.
The rest of Otto’s family had enough
of that merciful philosophy of youth to
escape the deep and lasting scar. There
was life still for them, and the brightness
*of the future.
But Otto came out of it best of all.
At first people didn’t like to mention
Charlie to him for fear of giving pain.
But as time went on, Otto began to pain
them by talking of little else. Always in
the present tense too, or in the future.
Very cheerful about it, and full of plans.
“Cuckoo, if you ask me,” was a vulgar
summing up, given after a decent interval
when the tragedy of Charlie had settled
itself into history.
And Otto would say—“ Now it stanch
to reason, doesn’t it, that he isn’t lost—-
not on a few hundred yards of clear
road? He’ll be back shortly—you see.
Theji in the gathering dusk Otto would
go through the gate and down the roaa
“Well, well, now!” old Sergeant Toohey
often said, over a pot in the back parlor
of the Lord Chelmsford, “a queer turn
that is, and you never can’t tell.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping.'Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
oSumvAif
mm ,
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
•i*c
Mr*
'x*.
rjJvS
7-r-:
gjej^
G*^
Ijßlfe
i
r
/
J
GEM Set
Today's Best Value
British made, this full Nickel Plated Gem Razor is offered,
complete with 2 Gem Double-Life Blades, in serviceable Bake-
lite Case for only 3/-.
Stocks are limited. Buy yours today. Obtainable from most
Stores, Chemists, and Tobacconists.
AVOfO *S O'CLOCK SHADOW*W/TH
GEM
RAZORS and BLADES
n
«
THEIR BREEDING
NAINTAI NANCE &
TRAINING
Revised edition of a
book on animal breed-
ing dealing specifically with
_ Sheep Dogs. Genetics, Planned
Breeding, technique of Mating, Pregnancy
and Lactation, Ante-Natal treatment, Manage-
ment at Birth, Weaning and the common ail-
ments of the dog. Perhaps the best guide on
the subject of training and management occu-
pies the second section. Dr. Kelley’s wide
experience as a breeder and trainer of Sheep
Dogs, together with the help of best-known
trainers, have made this part of great practical
value to pastoralists and all interested in
Sheep Dogs and domestic
animals. 210 pages,
simply written and pro-
fusely illustrated.
By R. B. Kelley , D.V.Sc.,
Animal, Geneticist, Council
for Scientific and Industrial
Research; Past President of
N.S.W. Working Sheep Dog
Society.
—— ———j
' m>> ' ORDER FORM.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. |
Please send me Kelley’s “SHEEP DOGS”
Price 12/6 (post. Id.), (a) For which I enclose
payment, (b) Charge to my account.
NAME
ADDRESS Techß.l.
ẁ
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“The good or bad that men do is always
found in their faces.” —Sydney “Sun.”
By newspaper feature writers?
4* 4* •Jr .
“Sometimes I think that music is the spoilt
darling of the arts in Australia.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Many can’t stand a bar of it.
HE* 4* 4* *J*
“For sale—Geese, Ganders, point of laying.
Sundays only.”
—Camberwell (Tie.) “Free Press.
Ganders especially are shy of laying
except on the Sabbath.
4* 4* 4*
“Color can mean a lot in woman’s dress and
in her surroundings.”— Woman’s paper.
A bright new frock around her and she
feels in the pink.
’•i*
“Young Petty Officer, wife and baby art
desirous of flat, house or suitable accommo
dation in graves, P/O Mess, F.N.D.”
— Vic. country paper.
“Oh, it’s quiet down here.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fans make the craziest requests.”
—Film Columnist.
Some even want a musical with a plot
in it.
“Big telescope sought for Australia.”
— “S.M.H.”
So that Calwell can see his million
migrants from America?
•Sr 4* 4*
“Aeroplane flights cure colds.”
—Scientific Magazine.
Provided you can cough up the fare.
“No dollars for tiles.” —says Chifley.
He hit the roof at the very mention
of it.
•J* *l* *J* "5* 55
“Graziers’ Council Fears Cattle Bottleneck.
—Brisbane “Telegraph.
Some bottle!
“Well-known golfers wed.” —Society Note.
Before he realised what she was driving
at, he was bunkered.
•F *F *F 4*
“For the first time in many years there is
no sacred white elephant in the Grand Palace
of Siam’s Royal Household in Bangkok.”
Of course, they could always borrow
one from our Housing Commission.
•F * *F
“Iceworks on fire.” —Sydney “Sun."
The firemen kept cool and didn’t do
their blocks.
"This electric eel is quicker than the immersion-heater."
The Hand That Racks ’Em.
“A rummaging detective found a pair of brass
knuckles in the home of Edna Franklin, had
to accept her explanation they were treasured
family heirlooms handed down by her departed
mother.” —Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.
You well might think the mother lucking
In femininity and charm,
And picture, with a vague alarm
Akin to fear of pistol-packing,
The worthy lady as attacking
Her spouse with this offensive arm
So capable of grievous harm
When once in earnest she got cracking.
Such notions do the lady wrong.
For I imagine her as strong
In knowledge of the power of brass
And letting misdemeanors pass,
Assured that if her man should blunder
In due course he would knuckle under.
BERT.
Deflated Ego.
“One of the runners-up in the beauty contest
complained that the winner wore a girdle and
falsies. Medicos examined her and found that
she had a padded bathing suit.”
Alas, it must be now admitted
That girl was right; for hips and bust
Were most unnatural, and lust
A rubberised contrivance fitted.
And my authority for that ?
The fact that she was turned down flat!
D. H. E.
Sky-high.
“Why Homes Fly Into The Clouds.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
Such are the costs of bricks and sand,
Timber and tiles, blackmarket land
And labor, most of us despair
Of owning e’en a shanty, and.
Instead, build castles in the air.
PERCY.
Pride and Prejudice.
“In an inter-union dispute on inter-State ships
carpenters claim they should be allowed to pre-
serve their status by dining with the engineers.
A spokesman for the engineers, who want to
preserve their status by not allowing this, said
they wanted to discuss their work without being
overheard.”
The third engineer of the S.S. Barnacle,
coming into the messroom for dinner,
noted with a scowl that “Chips” and his
offsider were already waiting for pro-
ceedings to commence, their knives and
forks held vertically.
This feud between the members of
their respective unions in the ship’s com-
pany had been a long-standing one.
It had started when one of the
engineers criticised the ship s carpenter
for flicking out of his soup with his
thumb and middle finger a junk of gristly
meat which had lobbed in the fourth
engineer’s jelly and custard. The chief
engineer had hotly contended that it was
not to be expected that one who followed
the unrefined trade of a carpenter would
know that the correct thing to have done
was to strain the soup through closed
teeth as he drank it out of the plate and
spit the offending gristly meat on to the
table in front of him.
A week or so later “Chips” had taken
the second engineer to task for gargling
his after-dinner port before swallowing
it. He had pointed out with some
asperity that only someone low in the
union-cwm-social scale like an engineer
would be unaware that one should only
first gargle a dry sherry.
Tempers had been further inflamed
between members of the two unions
at dinner one night when, between
the hors d’oeuvre and the roast pork, the
carpenter up at his end of the table was
giving a practical demonstration to his
mate on the correct method of boring a
clean hole in timber with a single-cutting
bit. When his pork had come along he
blew the heap of shavings along the
other end of the table, and it had taken
the third engineer about 20 minutes to
dredge them out of his mulligatawny.
The ship’s carpenter and his offsider took
the next day off to hold a stop-work
meeting to protest against the allegedly
insulting remarks about the Carpenters’
Union and its members that the engineer
had subsequently made.
To demonstrate to the carpenters the
wide gulf that separated their union from
the engineers the members of the latter
came to dinner wearing their sweat-rags
tied in a neat bow. Not to be outdone
in the social graces, “Chips” and his off-
sider responded by ostentatiously pick-
ing their teeth with 6in., 14-gauge nails.
Pride in their superior social status
stung the engineers to smoke double
Coronas with their soup. Next day
the engineers, coming in to dinner, cast
covert and puzzled glances at a bucket
sunk into a hole through the table beside
the carpenter, who in a loud voice re-
marked to his offsider that you’d never
expect a low hound like an engineer to
appreciate the uses of a finger-bowl while
eating. Since then arguments as to
which trade had the greater status had
caused the Barnacle to miss three trips.
Only that morning there had been a
serious demarcation issue.
The skipper had politely asked the
carpenter if he would be so good as to
replace at his pleasure a splintered panel
in the bulkhead. As “Chips” was about
to undo a couple of bolts and nuts that
were holding it in place, one of the
engineers happened to come by. None
but a qualified engineer, he maintained,
should be permitted to use a spanner on
a nut. If the carpenter insisted on going
ahead with the job they’d get the union
to declare the ship “black.” The skipper
decided to leave the bulkhead panel
splintered until, and if, they reached port.
As the third engineer went to the other
end of the table to where his colleagues
were sitting with their heads together
whispering about the newest process for
counteracting boiler scale, while ever and
anon they cast furtive glances to see if
the carpenter and his offsider were try-
ing to glean valuable information, he
reached up, unscrewed the lamp and
poured some of the kero, over his grease-
blackened hands, which he wiped on
the tablecloth. Then he glanced along
the table, sniffed and remarked that it
was just what you could expect from a
member of a union like the carpenters’ to
come to dine alongside gentlemen while
dressed in bib-and-brace overalls, and no
shave or wash for a week.
The carpenter, who had his good ear
stuck out obviously trying to snoop some
data on superheated tubes, bit and the
fierce argument that ensued was threaten-
ing to boil over into physical violence
when a steward poked his head in the
door.
“Thought I’d let y* know,” he said.
“Members of our union have just held a
stop-work meetin’, at which we passed a
resolution declarin’ that the, dignity of
our work entitles us to professional
status. As it would be considered un-
dignified for professional men to perform
menial service for anyone who only be-
longs to a common trade-union we won’t
be waitin’ on youSe blokes again. If y
want any scran y’ can get it yourselves
from the galley! ”
Bo.
Legal Backing.
“The escaped prisoners, momentarily delayed
when their getaway car refused to start, made
it after some helpful cops gave them a push,
—Sydney “Telegraph.”
Alas! There’s every cause to fear
No sanctions now will bind them.
When this example makes it clear
They have the law behind them.
B.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
How to Lose Frienck
It would be foolish to underestimate
the power of the Soviets to create
trouble, but Russia is fast losing many
of her friends and admirers in other
lands. The loss is her own fault.
I know several one-time Reds and Pinks.
One man in particular took the trouble
to learn to speak and read Russian and
was saving for a trip to the U.S.S.R. when
the war began. He did get there
—on two convoy trips to Murmansk.
His disillusionment was definite and
lasting.
Another, once full of fight towards
those who didn’t agree with Molotov
and Gromyko, now says “The British and
the Americans can’t always be wrong.”
The third person is a woman, and there
is something tragic about her disillusion-
ment. Her evidence was gathered “on
the spot.” She found that all goodwill
messages were removed from the sheep-
skins which Australians sent to Russia
and that the men to whom they were
issued were not told that they were a gift
from Australia. Similarly, clues to the
-country of origin were removed from
lend-lease supplies which Britain and
America poured into the Soviets.
Another man’s loss of faith received
its final blow from what might appear
to be a trivial cause. He read Gromyko’s
“Dog licks belly” reply to Kravchenko’s
charges, then burst out with “What a fat-
headed answer! Leaving the vulgarity
out, where’s the sense in it? A clever man
—or even one with a bit of common-
sense —would have said something like
‘Ah, yes. Sad, isn’t it? All countries
have their traitors who turn against their
fatherland in that way. You had one
you called Lord Haw-haw, didn’t you?’
But this ass has to say a stupid thing like
that.”
The last case is that of a woman who
used to read every Leftist book and paper
she could get. Now she says she feels “as
Tom Pinch felt when he at last saw what
Pecksniff was in reality.. The Russia I’ve
been admiring does not exist, never did
and maybe never will.”
Only a very clumsy Government for-
feits, through its own acts, the friend-
ship and goodwill of people in other
lands. If you can read overseas news-
papers without the cock-eyed Communist
bias, you will soon discover that it’s
happening all over the world. Further,
by claiming that Russia is never wrong,
Leftist papers and magazines show the
same clumsiness on behalf of the Soviets
as that shown by Russian representatives
at conferences. Nobody able to think
for himself can ever believe such stuff.
—Forty-Fiver (S.A.).
Free Education
I agree that the masses do not want
free university education, and are not
particularly interested in education gener-
ally (B. 20/8/’47). Gallopers, trotters,
dogs, billiards, hotels and picture-*
shows are much stronger magnets than
the cultivation of the mind. Unfor-
tunately these undesirable functions are
chiefly maintained by the workers at the
expense of better things.
The people who are really interested in
further education are those representative
of the middle classes who could not in
any sense be termed strong Labor sup-
porters. By sacrifice and hard saving they
provide their children with opportunities
of advancement and university education
if such are considered justified by their
teachers.
I remember once discussing the general
intelligence of electors with a Labor
M.P. He said that he doubted whether
five per cent, could make a commonsense
summary of the salient points of a
political policy. Yet that night he
addressed the electors, and referred to
the intelligence Of his audiences and the
thoughtful questions directed to him at
his meetings.
From that and other incidents I have
concluded that Labor, with limited ex-
ceptions, is not keen about free uni-
versity education. A highly enlightened
and well-informed community would
soon rid itself of many Labor men who
today are drawing substantial salaries as
union secretaries, organisers and Ms.P.
But the policy sounds well and appeals to
the thoughtless.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Socialism
Nobody would claim that pre-war
capitalism was perfect—only too often a
man willing to work went hungry—but
its one overriding advantage was that it
worked. It was a self-regulating system,
based on the fundamentals of human
behavior, and to the great majority of
people it gave a living and an oppor-
tunity, if they cared to exert thetnselves,
of rising in the world.
There is no need, now, to give socialism
a trial. It has been tried and has
failed at every point. The result is that
incentive to work and save is dying, and
our whole economy is running down.
Nowhere is there any sign that the trend
will be reversed without a reversal of
policy.
Socialism can be made to work by
substituting for the old incentives the
fear of the secret police. Most people
would regard that price as too high for
any degree of material prosperity. All
the evidence indicates that, at best,
socialism results in a living standard in-
ferior to that of the most backward capi-
talism. We must choose the system that
will work, and then try to improve it.
We cannot afford to be tied to a doctrine
that always drags its followers down to
poverty, slavery and misery.— Heresone
(Q-). _
Production and Progress
With industry struggling over the last
two years to meet an enormous backlog
in consumer goods, there has been little
competition between manufacturers. They
merely have to make an article to have
it snapped up.
A noticeable point about goods being
marketed at present is the absence of
any radical change in > design or inci-
“Going down! "
dental improvements. Patterns are
fundamentally similar to those set up in
anticipation of the change-over from
war contracts to peace-time supply. The
similarity is obvious in household goods,
furniture, cars, radios, refrigerators and
many other things.
Other factors besides the backlog of
supply influence this. With labor and
material short, executives are not pre-
pared to divert labor to tooling and
planning projects when it is urgently
needed in other sections of the factory.
The same applies to materials.
But how far will this reluctance to
sacrifice production for progress go?
Many firms are at present lulled into
false security by the maxim “Make it
and someone will buy it.” One con-
cern, asked why it didn’t paint bath-
heaters instead of sending them out as
naked iron, replied “Why waste time and
labor painting them when we can sell
them just as well as they are?”
Perhaps they can—now. Eventually,
however, the manufacturer who scorns
to sacrifice quality for quantity will re-
tain his customers’ goodwill and will be
less affected by the transition to a com-
petitive market than his profit-hungry
colleague,—R. E. (S.A.).
The Promised Land
There is little understanding of the
Palestine problem or of the reasons which
have led the British Government to
spend nearly £40,000,000 a year on con-
tinuing occupation of the land which is
to be partitioned—perhaps!
Occupation is continued because Britain
has accepted the role of referee between
the races ; because it has an agreement to
implement and because it must remain
in the area or else hand over the whole of
British naval oil supplies in the Mediter-
ranean to the tender mercies of Moscow.
The integrity of Turkey and the AEgean,
the preservation of the Suez Canal zone
from Russian conquest and the holding
back of the tides of Bolshevism from
Africa are all dependent upon John
Bull’s remaining where he is in the Middle
East, now that the Attlee Government, at
the behest of its extremists, has given
away all of the British Commonwealth
communication lines that it can possibly
surrender.
Misconceptions about Palestine, mostly
the emanation of Jewish-run news-agencies
in New York, produce a general impres-
sion somewhat as follows; The Jews have
been given the “right” to return to their
homeland. The cruel British are prevent-
ing them by force of arms in favor of the
lazy unproductive Arab. All this is done
for the benefit of the British capitalist,
and is an infringement of the principles
of democratic freedom and the right of
self-determination of small peoples.
The facts are somewhat different.
Palestine, except for small periods dur-
ing which the Crusaders and the Turks
held it, has been in Moslem possession
since 632 a.d. And before that the Jews
had not had possession of it for many
hundreds of years, save as a subject
people. If they are entitled to consider
Palestine as their homeland, and their
original occupation a warrant to take the
place over, a precedent has been set which
will upset the whole balance of the world.
The Welsh—the misconceptions of a
Welshman, Lloyd George, led to the
present position in Palestine —as the
remnant of the true original British race,
are indubitably entitled to England. The
Mediterranean, on titles gained by occu-
pation as jt stood 2000 years ago,
is undoubtedly “Mare Nostrum”
from an Italian point of view.
Palestine is not a large land
flowing with milk and honey in
which the soil has sprung into
a rich productiveness, thanks to
Jewish genius, since the Balfour
declaration of 1917. Palestine
has an area of only 10,000
square miles. It is smaller than
either Alexandria or Victoria
River Downs in the Northern
Territory. And much of it con-
sists of barren mountain land on
which a crow can scarcely live.
Its population increase from
752,000 at the 1922 census to
1,739,624 at the end of 1944 has
been achieved in the following
ways: The 590,580 Moslems
who dwelt in the country in
1922 increased to 1,061,000, en-
tirely as the result of a high
birthrate. The 83,000 Jews of
1922 have increased to 528,000,
“about four-fifths by immigra-
tion.”
The belief that they have
spread themselves over the land
and made it fertile and produc-
tive is pure fallacy. Of the half-
million who have come in or
were there before, only 13 per
cent, are engaged in agriculture,
which forms the basic primary
industry.
And this 13 per cent, includes
the organisers, the buyers and
other ancillaries to farmers. Jerusalem, a
city of 62,000 in 1922, has been
transformed into a city of 155,000
by immigrant Jews. Tel Aviv is
an entirely new city population
155,000, all Jews except about 500.
Haifa has grown in 25 years from 24,000
to 124,000 ; half the total are Jews. The
same is true of Tiberias and other cities.
Of 285 Jewish settlements, six hold 75
per cent, of Jews. The Moslem popula-
tion, rooted in the soil for 39 generations,
must feel very much as Queenslanders
would feel if the Watersiders’ Union de-
clared that State a national home for
Indonesians, and if the immigrants de-
cided to settle entirely in Brisbane,
Townsville, Rockhampton and Too-
woomba, and to live off the production
of the rest of the population.
If the British were to withdraw from
Palestine, the results would be grim. The
Sydney Watersiders, who are now eager
to be brothers to the Moslems of Java,
would soon be compelled to declare a
boycott of the Moslem two-to-one
majority in Palestine for failing to allow
the Jewish immigrant minority to run the
country. And relief funds would soon
have to be organised to feed the Jewish
population, in common with the rest,
since without the British, and with un-
restrained cargoes of Jewish immigrants
pouring in and squatting in the towns,
the whole place would soon be in a state
of famine.—V. E. (Vic.).
From the Soap-box
It was lunch hour and a factory gate
meeting was in progress. On the box
stood a fervid speaker with a foreign
accent. He came, he said, “to give the
workers a bird’s-eye view of world
affairs. ’ He was coatless—but only until
the whistle sounded. That he had forced
his presence upon the men was obvious
from the remark, “Why should we worry
about foreign affairs? Haven’t we our
own problems?”
Across the paddock some youths were
playing football. One felt that the Com-
munist would be better employed in
joining them than in dealing with world
affairs.
But he rambled on until the five
minutes’ warning bell sounded. Then
he asked for questions. An intelligent-
looking chap at the end of the line took
up the challenge. “You chaps are always
talking Socialism. What happened to
your scheme in Paraguay?”
That stumped the orator. He side-
stepped the issue by remarking, “Com-
munism is in force in Russia, and it
hasn t failed there.” But we all know
that Communism is not in force in Russia.
What they have there is a form of State
Socialism which simply means that the
Commissars, and not private individuals,
are the plutocrats.
As regards Paraguay, there is no
answer to it. In plain terms, it was an.
abject failure, as Mary Gilmore could
have told him. It failed for precisely the
same reason as every other Communist
venture must fail —because the ring-
leaders will not take off their coats. —
A. D. (S.A.).
Australians?
As a member of the Eighth Division, I
met many Dutch and Indonesians who
were also p.-0.-w. In that time I heard
nothing to indicate that the Indonesians
had the burning desire for independence
and hatred of the Dutch that are sup-
posed to exist today. From men taken
in Java, including survivors of H.M.A.S.
Perth, I heard depressing stories of the
cowardice and cruelty of Javanese, and
well remember the unstinted praise given
to the Dutch women in Java after the
capitulation.
Some of us found the Dutch hard to
get on with at times, but that was the
case, to a lesser degree, even with the
British —minor causes of irritation loom
very large in such circumstances. But 1
never met any Australian p.-0.-w. who
had much time for the Indonesians as a
class.
The Dutch Navy and Air Force did
excellent jobs and were highly regarded.
The Army was not too well thought of,
but almost everybody was in it, includ-
ing men advanced in years and physically
unfit. It is scarcely fair to judge them
by the exacting standards applicable to
picked and hardened troops trained for
battle.
I returned to Brisbane to find that there
was accommodation in the Trades Hall
for Indonesians, while many Australian
soldiers were homeless. Nobody seemed
to be concerned with the fate of marly
still interned in Java and at the mercy
of a barbarous rabble. I saw white Aus-
tralian girls arm in arm with Indonesians
in public places. The sight almost made
me ill,
I learned that the canaille of this
country were so vociferous as to create
the impression that public opinion was
against the Dutch. It made me feel
ashamed.
In the “Greater Asia” of October 9,
1942, published by the Japs in Rangoon,
was the report of a speech by Soekarno
—“a broadcast appeal to the 50,000,000
Indonesian people to throw their whole-
hearted support behind Nippon’s war
effort”:
Soekarno said that there were three ways
to co-operate with the Nippon military
administration; namely, spiritual co-opera-
tion, materialistic co-operation and co-
operation for the defence of the fatherland.
In rendering spiritual co-operation the
Indonesians must fully understand the noble
and lofty objectives of the present war, he
said. ■ j -
In other words, we should become
thoroughly conscious of the fact that the
present war is being fought not only for
Nippon but also for the Indonesians, and
we should be resolved to hold ourselves
jointly responsible. for the successful prose-
cution of the war in co-operation with
Nippon in face of self-sacrifices and diffi-
culties.
In the edition of January, 29, 1945,
there was something that gave much satis-
faction to our enemies:
LISBON* January 26:—A Melbourne
dispatch said that the sectional strikes in
various Australian industries, including coal
and transport, have reached such serious
proportions that Prime Minister John
Curtin today described the situation as
“lawlessness, naked and unashamed.”
It is disgusting to see the same people
who gave comfort to the Japs in those
days now supporting their puppets and
pretending to speak with the authentic
voice of public opinion. —Miles Gre-
GARIUS (Q.).


The Banks
That article “Socialism Through Bank-
ing” (B. 20/8/’47) should have been titled
“Dictatorship Through Banking. It was
by nationalising — i.e., confiscating the
banks that at least one dictator made
his start. I quote from “The Saturday
Evening Post”:
Take the business situation. Just before
leaving office in June, 1946, Peron’s puppet,
President General Farrell, issued a decree
which made every Argentine bank merely
an agent of a nationalised Central Bank,
and enabled the latter to seize every bank
deposit. Each bank had to get Govern-
mental approval of its individual loans.
Peron had Congress approve this decree
and gave Miguel Miranda, head of the
Central Bank, a free hand.
Peron, also,
forces a rancher to sell his cattle at $5O
a head, and then exports to England at
$175; or it [the Government] forces a
farmer to sell wheat at 75 cents a bushel
and exports this at $2.81 —in smh case
• pocketing the difference.
Shades of the Maoriland wheat deal!
—Secgen Ausdig (Q.).
Those Commonwealth Bank employees
who have hailed the nationalisation pro-
ject with joy may not be so happy if it
comes off. For a start, they are going to
meet some stiff competition when private-
bank staffs are taken over by the Com-
monwealth. The trading-bank boys are
well up on currency technique, and have
been well trained in competitive institu-
tions and in that kind of banking which
the Commonwealth hasn’t yet been able
to attract.
Then there’s the small matter of
salaries. If “Labor” takes over the whole
wofks the nation’s bank will become like
every other vast, bureaucratic organisa-
tion —tangled in red tape and overstaffed
to bursting. The thumping salary bill
would soon vaporise the fantastic profits
Chifley is relying on to pay interest on his
£lOO million or so expropriation bonds
or whatnot. And then? Down will come
all staff pay. After all, why pay the staff
of one national bank any better than,
say, P.M.G. employees?
Finally, the staff of Chif.’s monopolistic
bank would soon form into a big, efficient
union which would swamp or by-pass the
ineffective C. 8.0. Association, and have
things pretty much its own way with the
One Big Bank. And when that happens
the Prime Minister would not know
whether he was the tail or the dog—not
an uncommon experience for him, any-
way.—Murulla (N.S.W.).
As a minor industrialist with a modest
business I seek in vain for enlightenment
on the alleged benefits of nationalised
banking.
As in all national or international
matters of importance which call for the
sound, calm judgment of experts, the
question of banking in this Commo-
ridden neck of the woods has become a
matter of party politics with little regard
for logic or economics. The wharfie, the
coalminer and the professional agitator,
whose sole experience in high finance
rarely extends beyond the cashing of a
fiver in a two-up school or pub, are
vociferously articulate in their assurance
that “nationalisation” will benefit the
“worker” and liquidate the bloodsucking
money-changer and usurer and, ulti-
mately, the “boss.”
My associations with private banks
have been very happy. My bank man-
ager has always been my guide, philo-
sopher and friend. Never have I been
refused a reasonable request and I haVe
been afforded every possible assistance
and encouragement in carrying on and
extending my business. I’ve never wanted
to change, but if I did not like my bank
I could go elsewhere. Not so with the
proposed Government banking mono-
poly.
On the few occasions on which I have
had to transact business with a Govern-
ment bank I left with a feeling of frustra-
tion and fury. Even the simple matter
of cashing cheque was an ordeal com-
pared with trading-bank practice. Every-
thing is rigid and according to the book.
There is no resilience —red tape and
brusqueness go hand in hand. A deposited
cheque must be “cleared” before a penny
can be drawn against it, notwithstanding
the established credit of the payee and
payer. Government banks can never be
trading banks in the fully accepted sense
of the term —they lack the essentials of
courtesy, efficiency, elasticity, regard for
the convenience of clients and that
understanding which is so much a part
of private banks.
Government monopolies are “without
a body to be kicked, or a soul to be
damned.” If Government banks are
such a boon to the community why, with
the whole of the resources of the nation
behind them, have they acquired only an
infinitesimal share of ordinary banking
trade? And if they don’t afford ade-
quate and flexible service now in the face
of competition, what consideration can
clients expect under a monopoly?
Our experience with banks during Mr.
Lang’s rdgime, when private banks stood
up to their obligations and the Gov-
ernment Savings Bank failed, is an omen
of what we may expect in a crisis. Busi-
ness at present is tough, what with
bureaucratic and Commo control, but
with a banking monopoly it would be
hopeless. What sane businessman would
voluntarily entrust his affairs to the
tender mercies of an animated rubber
stamp with a collar round its neck, or to
an irresponsible political partisan?
The old catchcry that the banks and
the “moneybags” engineered the last
depression has by painful reiteration
convinced a surprisingly large section of
the community. But I have yet to learn
what benefit these “ghouls” hoped to
derive from such a callous, brutal and
stupid act. The bank certainly carried
me over the depression. But, of course,
I am Public Enemy No. I—a1 —a despised
capitalist, who works the clock round, in
the process ensuring employment for my
workmen, some of whom have been with
me for over 30 years.— Ajax (N.S.W.).
One More Slug
A peremptory demand addressed to
electric - light concessionaires by the
Westralian Electricity Commission calls
for a sum of Is. a year for each con-
sumer, the minimum to be £5. Thus, in
keeping with the whole present-day
set-up, a side-swipe is made at the little
fellow, with fewer than 100 consumers,
who is made to pay more than the pre-
scribed Is. per head.
The money so raised is to be applied
to the policing of safety measures for
the benefit of the general public. It is
pertinent to ask, then, if the contractor
is allowed to add this Is. per head to each
consumer’s bill every year. If the money
is to be spent for the benefit of the con-
sumer, then surely he can pay it. The
fact that he hasn’t been consulted as to
“ You'll have to take me home, George. I simply can't keep
my chest expanded any longer.”
whether he feels the new “policing” is
really necessary seems to be irrelevant.
No doubt the rising death-roll from
accidents in the home from domestic light-
ing and power appliances has influenced
the Commission in this move, particu-
larly as regards small country stations
using D.C. current, where the accident
rate must be particularly heavy, possibly
as high as .001 of 1 per cent. —N. G.
(W.A.).
Arbitration
Much has been made by supporters of
the “new deal” in industrial arbitration,
as reshuffled in the Commonwealth Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Act, 1947, of
the need for “streamlining” procedure
and for freeing arbitrators and concili-
ators from enslavement to principles.
There is something to be said for
simplifying the procedure which sur-
rounds an approach to the Court under
the existing - Act and regulations, but
the new Act, by dispensing with formali-
ties, goes too far. Experience of the
National Security (Industrial Peace)
Regulations has convinced me that there
are drawbacks to the free-and-easy ap-
proach allowed by these regulations.
Instead of giving proper notice of an
application for variation of an award,
setting out the grounds and other par-
ticulars required under the Arbitration
Act, an organisation with a grievance
nowadays merely gives the meagre notice
required under the Industrial Peace
Regulations. The respondent party often
knows nothing about the matter until
the case is heard in the Court.
There is also a tendency for all
matters, no matter how trifling, to be
treated as urgent. The smooth function-
ing of industrial arbitration demands
that at least the parties tb a dispute
should be properly informed of the
matter at issue. Under the new concili-
ation system it will be possible for a
Commissioner to order attendance of a
conference of persons (under a £5OO
penalty) who are entirely unaware of the
existence of a dispute, let alone the
merits or facts concerned.
As for enslavement to principles, the
critics of the present system of arbitra-
tion ignore the fact that the evolution
of some set of *ules or principles was
inevitable if the Court was to have any
chance of settling or preventing industrial
disputes. Lacking guidance in the
Statute itself, the Judges of the Court,
and in later years Conciliation Com-
missioners, evolved their own rules,
changing them from time to time to
meet new circumstances or new concep-
tions of industrial rights.
Unless there is to be utter chaos in
industrial affairs, the new commissioners,
with their vastly increased powers and
their nominal independence of action,
will sooner or later have to agree upon
the adoption of common principles of
industrial arbitration. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Pensions
The invalid pension is 375. 6d. a week ;
a widow’s pension ranges between 325.
and 425. 6d. according to stated circum-
stances, and, finally, a war widow’s pen-
sion is 555. The former two are subject
to the means test.
Assuming that recipients of each
pension do not own their own homes, and
estimating rent at the very conservative
figure of 255. a week, it can be sben that
the invalid has the princely sum of 12s. 6d.
to clothe and feed himself, the civilian
widow between 7s. and 17s. 6d., and the
war widow the magnificent sum of 30s.
as compensation for her husband’s fife.
Perhaps those who determined these
atrocious pensions could send out a tabu-
lated list to the recipients explaining
where they can get the necessities of life
with the meagre amount allowed them. —
Repatriate (Q.).
Immigration
Indiscriminate migration from Europe,
such as flowed to the United States in
the 19th century, would be no use to
Australia. For one thing, we could not
absorb it. There is no longer the possi-
bility of indefinite expansion of primary
industries through the opening up of vast
virgin areas of easily-worked land. Im-
portant requisites to success in farming
under present-day conditions are a fair
amount of capital, and training in scien-
tific agriculture. Neither would be
possessed by the mass of possible
European immigrants.
Secondary industries do not offer an
unlimited field for absorption of labor.
Entrance of a large number of poverty-
stricken people untrained in skilled crafts
would accentuate the problem of unem-
ployment. Normally there is no short-
age of labor in Australia—even in our
prosperous years there was a fair propor-
tion of unemployed in urban areas.
There is also the danger of unregu-
lated European immigration bringing un-
desirable Red elements. This factor was
of far less consequence to the U.S.A.
when European migration to that country
was at its peak. Most of the immigrants
were simple peasants and artisans who
hoped for better opportunities in the
new world. They commonly took little
interest in politics, and, anyway, the ex-
treme Left hadn’t the following it has
now in some European countries. —
Tom (N.S.W.).
No Midway People
The present Federal “Government” has
abundantly demonstrated that it is more
concerned with pleasing party than
people. It has done many things (its
party appointments of a Governor-
General and a host of lesser fry, for
instance) with no pretence of trying to
please the people as a whole. Even in
minor matters it has consistently declined
to adopt graceful compromises that could
please the party without unduly wound-
ing the susceptibilities of the “other side.”
One may at least give it credit for
honesty—it has never pretended to be
anything but a party Government.
One must also exonerate it from any
desire to ruin the country by its
banking legislation. If it ruins the
country, it also ruins the party and
itself. Whether its judgment is so
impaired by party bias that it may
inadvertently ruin the country is another
matter.
It is a measure of how far our demo-
cracy has deteriorated after years of
party politics that it is at least doubtful
whether an election tomorrow, fought
primarily on the question of the banking
legislation, and on the assumption that
that legislation is against the will of the
people, would not result in the return of
“Labor.” A referendum on the one issue
alone (the banking legislation) would al-
most certainly yield a “No” vote —an
election calls for a party vote while in a
referendum the electors are free to poll
according to their personal inclination
and judgment.
The fact is that there is now no repre-
sentation in Parliament for the “middle”
man, the honest reasonable live-and-let-
live citizen, bfe he working man or em-
ployer, farmer or clerk. He is fed up
with both parties, he mistrusts them both,
and at election time he votes with distaste
for whichever, according to his lights, is
the lesser of two evils.— Hist (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
Milk is to be dearer in all the States.
That means, as usual, the man with the
young family will have to foot the bill.
There will be no subsidy to keep the
price of milk down, as it is urgently
needed to help to reduce the price of
tea. — Wildo (Vic.).
“Ad Rem” (B. 27/8/’47) is off the
beam when he speaks of Repat. doctors
throwing “their lot in with a worthy
cause.” It is true that these young
medicos knew “the riches of private prac-
tice” but it .was not for any feeling of
self-sacrifice that they stayed with
Repat. That employment was a stop-
gap, at about £l5 a week, with time off
for post-graduate work until something
more enduring came along. After all,
buying a practice or a partnership needed
a good deal of money, as well as a
house or rooms in a suitable locality.
The majority of young doctors remained
in the Government service because the
pay and conditions were good and it was
not necessary to lay out a single penny to
gain their income. Also, most of them
went straight into the services from the
University.—R. W. (N.S.W.)
To relieve the overcrowding in the
medical faculty at Sydney Uni., why
shouldn’t girl students serve one year as
probationers in public hospitals to deter-
mine whether they are fitted for a medical
career? Such a scheme would eliminate
the unsuitable and relieve the hard-
worked nurses in hospitals. Loss of
time would be outweighed by the ex-
perience gained. Intending male students
could also serve for one year as wards-
men or ambulance officers. —G. M. R.
(N.S.W.).
Can anyone tell me why A.B.C. broad-
casts the rise and fall of rivers every
day? I realise the value of records for
future engineering and irrigation projects,
but why broadcast the fact that such-
and-such a river has had a fall of 2in. and
that Thingamajick creek has risen 3in.?
One day the announcer solemnly re-
ported that one river had a reading of
2|in. —a fall of quarter of an inch!
P. E. (Vic.).
Australian railways use rails with a flat
base and stud top; these are attached to
the sleepers with two spikes, one on each
side of the rail. When rails wear at the
ends they have to be renewed. In Britain
the rails have two stud shapings, top and
bottom, and the lower one fits into a four-
spiked cradle. When the rails wear they
are lifted and turned over and the second
surface is used. Australian trains vary in
the deadweight per passenger from one to
five persons per ton. If we were to use
duralumin and manganese alloys we might
carry eight per ton and show a slight
profit until officialdom and bureaucracy
caught up with it again.—Xerxbs (W.A.).
For many years Australia has im-
ported wattle bark grown in South Africa
from Australian seeds. Today the tan-
bark industry is most important in South
Africa, while Australians have done little
to build it up in their own country.
Wattle-trees could be used to check soil
erosion in many places and would pro-
vide dairyfarmers with a tidy extra
cheque.—W.P.T. (N.S.W.).


m
3
wm
1
*
H
*
w.
m
m
M
&
:■ 4:. ; :W
Sk
m
m
m
r
A
$
SJ
b
m
m
9
o*\f
m
m
■s^
■■■ ■-
V-*
O:
So\
r a>;in?'
?~V
5aS
srt
vvia
nss
sgg
"Vi
■ 'Sv
NS
/-v
sssn
5:.:>:.- : :
5?-i
wsp
3KBS&
o
us
> ::■
■
•%:.
■■ : s
r
mm
*
m
m
A
. |lsr V. ,*,.
X
WwMSw^SXil
mmmmmm
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
Wm
sourni Australia
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Offices also at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, London and Singapore,
ALMOST EVERY AUSTRALIAN
BENEFITS EVERY DAY FROM THE
PRODUCTS OF THE STEEL
industrial drama is graphically por-
trayed in the above picture showing
molten iron being poured into an open
hearth furnace at The Broken Hill
Proprietary's Newcastle Steel Works.
The manufacture of steel provides em-
ployment opportunities for thousands
of workers, and its subsequent shaping,
transport and fashioning into the count-
less steel articles used in our daily life
helps fill the nation's pay envelopes.
