

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 68—No. 3502
Wednesday, March 26, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
nvi-i ■ ■■ ...i
Seppelts
GLENGARRIFF CASTLE, COUNTY CORK.
QNE of the most beautiful of Ireland’s many scenic stretches of
country is Glengarriff Harbour, an arm of Bantry Bay, where,
in 1689, British and French naval forces were engaged. This
country was greatly admired by Thackeray, who wrote: “Within
five miles of the pretty inn of Glengarriff there is a country the
magnificence of which no pen can give an idea.” The castle of
Glengarriff, once the residence of the Earls of Bantry, derives its
chief interest from the glorious mountain scenery by which it is
surrounded. The castle desmesne is admirably planted and provides
SktcommS toOcXer 8r ° USe ** SeaSo ”’


sdfdsfsd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Bvoklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin/*
My Name
My Address
8.8. 247 AGE
The Red Page
A LIFE OF SHELLEY.
A life of Shelley is always fascinating
for the very good reason that in human
interest the man exceeded his art.
Edmund Blunden’s Shelley (Collins;
Angus and Robertson) is superior to
previous biographies in that it is shrewd,
careful, judicious ; and because Shelley is
its subject it is captivating.
Blunden catches the essentials of
Shelley’s character in two pages of his
second chapter. First, he quotes Hellen
Shelley on her brother’s passion for
demons:
“We dressed ourselves in strange costumes
to personate spirits or fiends, and Bysshe
would take a fire-shovel and fill it with
some inflammable liquid and carry it
flaming into the kitchen and to the back
door; but discovery of this dangerous
amusement soon put a stop to it.”
And next, again from Hellen Shelley,
there is not only the poet’s desire to
reform the world, but his peculiar
approach to love:—
“He had a wish to educate some child,
and often talked seriously of purchasing a
little girl for that purpose: a tumbler,
who came to the back door to display her
wonderful feats attracted him, and he
thought she would be a good subject for
the purpose, but all these wild fancies came
to naught.”
If ever there was a case in which the
child was father to the man it was
Shelley’s. He had a faith in science
which would probably have survived the
atomic bomb, and he was a born ex-
perimenter ; in manhood, as in child-
hood, choosing as the favorite subjects
for his experiments demons, the struc-
ture of society, and girls.
In Blunden’s book, as in others on the
subject, it is the element of fantastic
comedy in Shelley’s life that immediately
engages the attention. One should re-
member that'Shelley died at 29 and that,
just as Byron is too often judged on the
“Childe Harold” period instead of on
the years when he came to maturity and
wrote “Don Juan,” so Shelley is laughed
at for the things he did in his infancy,
in his schooldays at Eton, in his adoles-
cence at Oxford. There are not many
of us who would care to be remembered
only by the follies of 19. But, when that
has been said, Shelley does remain an
unusually entertaining character. Blun-
den gives this glimpse of the. experimenter
at work at Oxford:
The devotee crossing Magdalen Bridge
will now and then remember one of Hogg’s
best and perhaps truest stories. There the
young amateur in philosophy and theology
will still seem to be grasping the baby in
the arms of the young mother passing by,
and inquiring “in a piercing voice, and
with a wistful look, ‘Will your baby tell
us anything about pre-existence, madam?’ ”
Possibly, if there is any truth at all in
that anecdote, Shelley was indulging his
impish sense of humor. For, as Blunden
is careful to. assert, he could and did
laugh. He was certainly joking when,
travelling with Leigh Hunt in a coach in
which the only other passenger was a
starchy old lady who imposed on the
company her own frozen silence, he sud-
denly came out with his favorite Shak-
spearean quotation, startling the old lady
out of her wits—“ Hunt,” said Shelley,
“For God’s sake let us sit upon the ground
And tell strange stories of the deaths of kings.”
But more often than not, at least in
the stories told of him, Shelley’s humor
was unconscious. Only Shelley, passion-
ately admiring Godwin, would have in-
vited him to stay with him in Lynmouth
and then quietly departed for Wales,
leaving the philosopher to discover on his
arrival “The Shelleys are gone! Have
been gone these three weeks.”
The gods themselves, perhaps as a
warning to artists not to lose themselves
m political philosophy, seem to have
conspired to make Shelley ridiculous;
for Hogg, his philosophical twin-soul,
carried his communism to the extent of
attempting (in vain) to make love to
each of Shelley’s wives, first Harriet and
then Mary ; and Godwin, the philosopher,
revered above all men, sponged on
him all his life till Shelley’s “blood
boiled.” Even Harriet, when she ac-
companied him to Ireland where, single-
handed, Shelley proposed to effect com-
plete religious toleration as’ the first step
towards the reformation of the world.
,
f° u pd comedy in his methods of distn-
buting his Address to the Irish People: —
The moralist did not imagine that these
and Ur sundS C °He seSte^his rfadere-° “I
stand ba i cony of our window and
watch till I see a man who looks likely:
a ok J°, him X Harriet was
thoroughly on the side ofXe/lhelley and
the Cause.
Byron summed up on Shelley the
moralist in a single word when he gave
him the nickname “Shiloh” ; for Shiloh
was to have been the name of the modern
Messiah to whom the mad prophetess
Joanna Southcott was expected to give
birth. And Blunden, while giving Shelley
due credit for his sincerity and his aston-
ishing generosity, his genuine love of
liberty and his practical efforts to relieve
the wants of the poor, points out the
irony underlying all Shelley’s revolution-
af y activity: that the poet, though he was
short of ready cash at times, was a rich
man and an aristocrat.
How much of all this comedy, con-
scious or unconscious, is in Shelley’s
poetry? Of the unconscious humor there
is very little. You do not read Shelley’s
poetry as, respect for his genius notwith-
standing, you must read much of Words-
WOr ' h ’ S ’ ‘° f? at “' •I" ,he f life W °
a ?= aW ? re °? eccentricities of a man
of S emus ; m the poetry we meet only
the genius.
How much, then, of conscious humor?
Blunden instances “Swellfoot the
Tyrant”:—
Y From any ot he, hand it would be appreci-
ated as a vigorous and resourceful bur-
it containspassages as, witty.
mSor
that Shelley cannot make a joke has gone
on through the years.
But, just momentarily here and there,
Blunden succumbs to the intoxication of
his theme. “Swellfoot” was amusing in its
origin—Shelley hearing some pigs grunt-
ing under his window while reciting his
“Ode to Liberty”—and it is lively
throughout, Gilbertian in some of its
versification: —
'Semichorus I.
Sr'must with°the Lean-Pigs'
share Hie Lean
Order! Order! Be notrash!
Was there ever such a scene, Pigs!
nevef XwloXne a“dash ?
since j first began to wean Pigs .
But it is not really very funny . Be i ng
so c [ ose i y modelled on “The Frogs” of
Aristoph ' nes , the satire was in a sense
“dated” on the day it was printed, and
the attack on George IV for his attempt
Hivnrrv PumUnp ic in am; race
» divorce Oueen Caroline is n any case
dead because it is not sustained by
the portrayal of living characters. There
j s something crude about the depiction
Of the entire English nation as a herd of
.
PlgS- What remains alive in the play, as
in some of Skelton’s diatribes against the
Scots, is the poet’s fury ; but this is not
the same thing as wit, nor is it broad
human comedy in the Falstaffian sense.
Shelley put more genuine fun into a
few casual pieces—the “Hate Song” he
wrote for Leigh Hunt, for instance—and
into his fine translation of “The Cyclops”
of Euripides, in which both the Greek
and his interpreter show themselves sur-
prisingly human. But the total of comedy
.in Shelley’s poetry is slight. In this
respedt certainly—and no man is a com-
plete artist without comedy—the man ex-
needed the poet.
And as Blunden’s book is funnier than
Shelley’s attempts at comedy, so does his
account of Shelley’s love affairs exceed in
human interest the total of Shelley’s love
Poetry.
You could not say, as you could of his
humor, that Shelley’s love poetry failed,
The picture of Beatrice in “The Cenci”—
a play on which Blunden is somewhat too
severe—is a beautiful expression of
Shellev’s exonisitelv delicate understand-
i„J ofwomTantf ttroSurhis poetn.
chief Rories U
loves are commemorated in lines and
stanzas of the rarest quality •
warm fragrance seems to fall'from her light
dress
And her loose hair ; and where some heavy
Th( . hpr nwn „ need has disentwined
to^ate^TiiTA;
And in the soul a wild odor is felt
? e f yon , < ? th P sense ’*' k ® j hat me t
a mortal shape endued
With love and life and light and deity,
And motion which may change but cannot die,
some Eternity;
A shadow of some golden dream; a Splendor
Leaving the third sphere pilotless; a tender
Reflection of the eternal Moon of Love
r whose motions life s dull billows move,
A Metaphor of Spring and Youth and Morn-
J n g
Poetry so nearly perfect as this pas-
sage, mounting from charming reality
to the magnificence of vision, needs no
more factual information to make it
supremely interesting; nor is it neces-„
sar Y» within the confines of “Epipsychi-
dion,” for Shelley to be more explicit
about the identity of the lady who was
the “Comet” in his life, the lady who
was “poison” and the lady who was
“Storm.” We do not need, for the appre-
ciation of this poem, Shelley’s informa-
tive sub-title “Verses Addressed to the
Noble and Unfortunate, Lady Emilia
V , Now Imprisoned in the Convent
of ,” nor Blunden’s amusing com-
ment that Emilia Viviani was free to
walk out in the evening and meet the
poet. But somewhere in Shelley’s poetry,
if his work is to be of the compelling in-
terest of his life, we do need some of
the human reality of his loves-, the com-
plex and passionate dramas in which he
was involved.
And this —except in “The Cenci,”
which, as Blunden says, is too much on
the Elizabethan model —we do not find.
The moon making love to the earth in
“Prometheus Unbound” —exquisitely as
the orbs converse —is not an adequate
substitute for the strange and tragic
drama of Harriet.
It is, of course, not uncommon in the
world of the arts for a man’s life to have
greater interest than his work. Dr. John-
son is a classic example; Christopher
Brennan an Australian. Rich and color-
ful as “Don Juan” is—and Shelley, inci-
dentally, had the highest estimation of
it—one has to take in the letters to grasp
in its fullness the prodigal splendor of
Byron. Yet this is usually the character-
istic of minor artists, men such as the
“doomed generation” of the ’Nineties
who seem forced to live what they can-
not write. With major writers biography
adds very little to the statement of their
works. The world has obscured Homer’s
personality and done its best to lose
Shakspeare’s partly because the men of
their times find it difficult to admit their
towering genius, but also because no
record of their lives is needed: the full
richness of their experience is in their
works. No life of Dickens could equal
in interest the mass of his great novels.
Shelley was no minor poet, he belongs
with the giants. Yet even in his demon-
ology, as in his humor and his love
poetry, his life holds the attention —even
startles it —in a way that his poetry does
not quite succeed in. His death was
strangely foreshadowed. In the last year
or so of his life Shelley came several
times near to drowning ; he dreamed he
saw the dead Allegra, Byron’s daughter,
rise from the sea and clap her hands in
joy, smiling at him. Blunden, wisely re-
fraining from overdramatisation, is con-
tent to suggest that Shelley had “a psychic
nature,” and to record what appear to
be facts:
It was Shelley who unintentionally delayed
her convalescence. The anxiety over her
worst hours and a day of over-fatigue com-
mitted him to a night of terrible visions,
in which he alarmed everyone. In her
account of this Mary includes other strange
happenings, more like ghost visits than the
dreams which made him scream that night.
He had lately seen the phantom of himself
on the terrace, and it said, “How long do
you mean to be content?” More difficult
to explain was an apparition of him seen
by Jane, passing her window on the Terrace
and repassing, without a coat; Trelawny
was talking to her at the time, but he saw
nothing, nor had Shelley himself been any-
where near. Jane was greatly shaken, and
might well be, seeing that she was not of
a psychic type.
Demogorgon, looming like a mon-
strous darkness in “Prometheus Un-
bound,” is a shadowy figure beside the
simple realism of these pictures of Shel-
ley in his last days. The man is more
stirring to, the imagination in this respect
than his creations.
Shelley created or borrowed from the
Greeks many gods and demi-gods, spirits
and nymphs and mermaids, yet few that
have living personality, few that one can
regard as truly visionary beings, creatures
that really could exist beyond the con-
fines of mortal sight. They are beings
of fancy rather than of the truly creative
imagination, and too many of them are
mere personifications—facilely conceived,
bodiless. Whether or not you can be-
lieve in him as a derai-god, the Prome-
theus of /Eschylus, pinioned to his rock
in eternal hate and agony, is a living
figure, as is Hephaestus, reluctantly but
remorselessly hammering his fetters into
place. Shelley’s Promethean characters
are all either too noble or too abstract to
carry conviction. An Hour, submitted as
a living being, is no more convincing
than, say. Toothache,
We have Shelley’s own word for it in
his “Defence of Poetry” that his work
fell short of his personality:
The mind in creation is as a fading coal,
which some invisible influence, like an in-
constant wind, awakens to transitory bright-
ness When composition begins, inspira-
tion is already on the decline, and the most
glorious poetry that has ever been com-
municated to the world is probably a
feeble shadow of the original conceptions
of the poet.
Here is the fundamental difference be-
tween Shelley’s poetry and that of Shak-
speare or Browning, the fundamental rea-
son why his verse lacks the humanity of
his life. Shelley’s poetry came to him, so
to speak, the wrong way round; at least,
in the opposite way from the ordinary
process of the masters. One cannot con-
ceive either “Macbeth” or “Mr. Sludge
the Medium” as “feeble shadows of the
original conceptions of the poet,” yet
“Prometheus Unbound,” if far from
feeble, can probably never convey to the
reader what all its crowded and glittering
images first conveyed to Shelley.
Shakspeare worked with the figures of
ordinary men and women, portraying
them with such intensity that they took
on a visionary quality, seeming more
than mortal in the raging of their pas-
sions. His inspiration was not “a fading
coal” but a spark that blew into a flame.
He worked, as it were, towards
vision. Shelley saw his visions complete
and ran hastily back to earth with as
much of them as he could hold. His,
like Blake’s, was the mystical mind, which
is not quite the same thing as the poet’s.
Perhaps it penetrates further into the
realms of vision, yet what it has to tell is
largely incommunicable. Mystics such as
Blake and Shelley do not seem to belong
to this earth. W. B. Yeats had to fall
back upon diagrams to explain himself—
which he did not succeed in doing—in A
Vision and Shelley offers in “Prometheus
Unbound” a strange, unintelligible,
almost diagrammatic poetry:
And from the other opening in the wood
Rushes with loud and whirlwind harmony,
A sphere, which is as many thousand spheres,
Solid as crystal, yet through all its mass
Flow, as through empty space, music and light:
Ten thousand orbs involving and involved,
Purple and azure, white and green and golden,
Sphere within sphere; and every space between
Peopled with unimaginable shapes
With mighty whirl the multitudinous orb
Grinds the bright brook into an azure mist
Of elemental subtlety like light.
Blunden, who quotes this passage,
guesses that it refers to a “circle of #the
Sciences” —an “explanation” which
hardly seems adequate. The lines seem
to embody a vision of the entire universe ;
and, mysterious as they may be, they are
certainly poetry of the highest order.
Extraordinarily generous in his praise
of Keats and Byron—it was one of the
signs of his greatness —Shelley was always
modest about his own poetry. If he failed
in humor, was unconvincing in his
demonology, fell short in drama, he was'
often marvellously successful in bringing
his visionary landscapes undimmed into
his verses. They read, sometimes, like
light itself. “Prometheus Unbound,”
which Shelley thought his “best poem,”
exhibits all his weaknesses, from preach-
ing to abstraction, yet it is crammed with
images of love and of the landscape that
have a delicacy, a clarity and —to use one
of his own favorite words —an intenseness
hardly to be matched in the language.
His visionary poetry is coherent where
Blake’s is a babble, sparkling where
Eliot’s is glum. It is:
A paradise of vaulted bowers,
Lit by downward-gazing flowers,
And watery paths that wind between
Wildernesses calm and green
Peopled by shapes too bright to see.
At all times, so vividly did he live, so
copiously did he write, it is difficult to
remember that Shelley was only .29 when
he was drowned. Would he, if the death
of Keats (as Blunden seems to suspect)
had not tempted him to throw his life
away, have enriched the human interest
of his poetry? A promise to write a play
about the creation of the universe seems
ominous. Yet in “The Cenci” he had
brought his Muse down to earth, had de-
cided to lay aside his political theorisings,
and he had accomplished unity of con-
struction and the creation of character;
and Blunden holds that the fragments* of
the projected play on Charley the First
show an even firmer grip or character,
with less dependence on the Elizabethan
model. Most importantly of all, Shelley
had attained balance of mind in the years
in Italy with Mary and Byron. There
had been a strong growth to maturity
from the Shelley of Eton to the man of
whom Blunden writes:
If Miss Curran’s picture includes the
spirit-gaze of Shelley, it yet casts a feminine
softness and timidity over his memory; and
against such an association, upon the whole,
a single plain description can stand. It is
by Thornton Hunt, artist and author. “The
outline of the features and face possessed
firmness and hardness entirely inconsistent
with a feminine character For the most
part there was a look of active movement,
promptitude, vigor and decision, which
bespoke a manly and even a commanding
character. The general tendency that all
who approached Shelley displayed to yield
to his dictates is a practical testimony to
these qualities; for his earnestness was apt
to take a tone of command so generous,
so free, so simple as to be utterly devoid of
offence, and yet to constitute him a sort
of tyrant to all who came within his reach.”
Blunden’s biography is like the pen-
portrait he admires: “a single plain
description.” It does justice to Shelley as
a man ; it provides an invaluable com-
mentary on his poetry where it requires
such aid ; and, by judicious criticism and
quotation, it should do what is most wel-
come in all books of its kind, awaken
or reawaken interest in Shelley’s poetry.
Incidentally, since Blunden rightly finds
his loveliest quotations in Shelley’s land-
scape verse, actual or visionary, the book
reminds one that the biographer himself
has written a full-bodied poetry of the
countryside, assured of a permanent place
in English literature.
S.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
mmm
m
TH
V
4 '
||
1-jA
| •
pH
111 ll
ip*?P
i||* ;
/
*
I
iW
' VA * 4
m '
n
: ai
"S Mkl
iii
WE
invite you to inspect our
exhibition of Furniture and Furnishings at
the “House and Garden” Exhibition at the
Agricultural Display, Royal Easter Show.
The house has been furnished by us in the
spirit of the times —each piece of furniture
has its place, its use and its charm. We have
incorporated the beauty of the natural timber
grain in delightfully fresh designs, created
by our Furniture Designer, Miss J. Brown—
who has expressed the trend which English,
Continental and American decorators have
already foreseen.
E 3
®KS
o
Isn’t it wonderful the way new blonde furniture brings lightness and brightness to your bedroom? It’s
particularly delightful when the suite comes from Anthony Horderns’ and is finished in a natural Silver
Ash colour.
THE WARDROBE is 4 feet 72 inches wide, two thirds hanging space, one third fitted with four
dust-proof drawers, and one shelf.
*■’ / ' 1 " • \ ) ■
THE DRESSING TABLE is 4 feet long, fitted with a large round mirror, 3 feet in diameter; the
dressing table top is of plate glass, and three dust-proof drawers on either side,
THE LOIUGHBOY has three dust-proof drawers on one side and ample hanging space on the other.
The Bedstead is 4 feet 6 inches wide.
, This attractive Blonde Bedroom Suite was designed by Anthony Horderns’ and constructed by .our own
tradesmen who are skilled in their craft. Price , £B5/5/-
© Furniture Department—Third Floor. ’Phone: Extension 184.
AI
DERNS’
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT.
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


<p
*0
Tested and found correct! Over long dis.
tances at high speed Clyde-built locomotives
draw Clyde-built carriages in perfect safety.
The train lighting, too, is a product of Clyde
heavy duty plates.
CLYD
SAFETY
first
Drive a* y ou
would have the
OTHER fellow
BATTERIES
The efficiency of the Clyde product is also emphasised
in Clyde Batteries for cars, trucks, buses, radio and
home lighting. You can expect abundant power and
long life from these tested units —and you get itl
An advt. of The Clyde' Engineering Co. Ltd,, Granville, N.S. w)
Merchandise-Sales Division;—
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
HARTS
Circular Charts la* all types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O'lO.
EYE LOTION
' for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Ply- Ltd.. Kinq Street. Sydney.
II
o
m
m
after
_ Iff- C o L 0
THAT » ct
sau a s H
G I H
„, f wav 1 mad o it'-
‘‘this ls the eaS hW prick the skin
First.l orOU ? he \ps the
n f a lemon the whole
lou know) f d sliest
lemon into apg • * q{ suga r mto
2 dessertspoon 1 toss m a
the cut-up 1 n utmeg and
dyash of {o r the Vickers
6 cloves. No bb iers and
Gin —4 good The nlstir
some mint sp <3 d stra m it
the brew aPi addi ng ice
in to 4 tumblers,
and soda. Vickers
YOU'LL el 3°^ o
Gin Squash, < # always
always exce l unW ers-
drink of*e
'/a
A
GlO/33
times,’
FREE RECIPE BOOR
Recipe for 50 practical
long drinks and cock-
tails. Get your free
copy. Write to: The
United Distillers Pty.
Ltd.. P.O. Box 759 G,
Elizabeth St., Melb.
c
|£
I
G
IE
R
S
Y
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
English reader would like to correspond with
young Australians.—D/JX 820722, Ordinary
Seaman J. Adams, 84 Mess, Maintop Division,
H. Raleigh, Torpoint, East Cornwall, Eng-
land.
Canadian youth (16) would like to corre-
spond with young Bulletin readers.—Robert
Lachaine, 561 Gladstone-avenue, Ottawa, On-
tario, Canada.
To buy The Present Age from 1914, by Muir,
Selected Poems, by Yeats, The Waste Land and
Other Poems, by Eliot, One Hundred Poems, by
Slessor, Complete Works, by Synge, and Emi-
nent Victorians, by Strachey.—3974.
To buy copy of Art and Craft of Drawing,
by Vernon Blake.—3972.
To exchange copy of Digger Smith, good con-
dition, for copy of Backblock Ballads, both
by C. J. Dennis.—397o.
To buy copies of the works of the Indian
writer Sri Aurobindo.—3968.
To get in touch with persons who could
use the bean of the Carob-tree.—3969.
To buy Bach’s “Preludes and Fugues,” Book
I, and Chopin’s “Studies.”—3971.
To get in touch with the secretary, Ship-
lovers’ Society, Sydney.—3973.
Information Sought.
Is it possible to reproduce for advertising pur-
poses (1) photographs and (2) speeches of living
celebrities such as Churchill and Menzies 'I
(1) Copyright exists in favor of the author,
i.e., the taker of a photograph, not in favor of
the person the subject of the photograph. Thus
it would be an infringement of a newspaper’s
copyright in, say, a photograph of Churchill
taken by a staff photographer, to republish a
copy of the same photograph. Churchill him-
self would have no copyright in his own photo.
(2) Greater difficulty arises with regard to lec-
tures and speeches. No copyright exists in the
mere spoken word. But it a speaker reduces
his speeches to writing and publishes them in
book form he is entitled to copyright in them.
So, too, if a reporter takes down a speech
and his newspaper subsequently publishes a tran-
scription, copyright is held by the newspaper in
what is published. As many of the speeches
of the persons named have been published in
some written form, no doubt copyright in them
exists in someone. But to merely publish a
short extract from such a speech, attributing it
to its correct source, would not amount to an
infringement. Of course, persons may have
other interests in their own photograph. For
instance, it might (or might not) be libellous
to publish Churchill’s photo as part of an
advertisement for somebody’s pills without his
permission.
* * * *
When was the T’ang period of Chinese art?
What distinguishes it?
From a.d. 618 to 905, considered one of
the greatest periods of Chinese aesthetic output.
During this time the greatest poetry and the
most vigorous art works were produced. In
the paintings the Buddhist idea was pre-
eminent. Landscape painting was much in favor
and most interesting examples were produced,
as well as excellent articles in carving and
pottery.
* * * •
Suitable diet for a sufferer from ancemia?
Eat wholemeal bread in preference to white
bread, pastry and cakes. Include milk, eggs,
green vegetables, salads and fruits with'meals.
Especially useful are spinach, watercress,
tomatoes (skinned), oranges, grapefruit and
apricots. Take fish or lean meat once a day,
and minced or grilled liver twice or thrice
weekly. The liver diet has a marked effect on
true anaemia. For exact dosage the dried ex-
tract is prepared in many forms.
« * * *
In what year did Arthur Gilligan captain an
English XI in Australia and his figures for that
tour in Tests and all matches?
In 1924-25. In Tests, 135 overs, 14 maidens,
519 runs, 10 wickets; and he scored 64 runs,
averaging 9.14. In all matches, 321 overs, 36
maidens, 1182 runs, 35 wickets; and 394 runs,
av. 16.41.
* * * *
I have a quantity of rhubarb seed. When
and how should it be sown? .
Sow the seed while it is still fresh in light
sandy loam in narrow beds or drills. Germina-
tion is often poor. Seedlings should be trans-
planted 18in. apart to develop strong root
growth. Generally it takes two years before
plants bear stalks fit for cutting. Always re-
member that rhuburb plants are strong
feeders, and plenty of rotted manure should
be given the plants at all stages.
Brief Answers.
L.C.; (1) Phrenology is not a recognised
science. (2) It is based on the assumption that
“faculties” are localised in the brain, and that
these areas are in evidence on the skull. It owes
its vogue to the fact that out of some three
dozen “faculties” and their combinations a
“professor” of phrenology can construct a
variety of vague generalities, many of which are
bound to be endowed with special significance
to the subject... .V.McL.: Coal Dust cleared
7ft. llin. at Wangaratta (Vic.) on November 8,
1932. The horse was then the property of John
Phillips, Mount Keira, Wollongong (N.5.W.)... •
W.D.: Pearse’s Sheep, Farm and Station Man-
agement obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.... P.M.C.: Write
secretary, Incorporated Law Institute of N-S.w.,
3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.... J .M.R.; H. L.
Mencken in The American Language says that
ballyhoo is “a characteristic American word
signifying the harangue of a ballyhoo man, or
speiler (that is, barker), before a cheap show,
or, by metaphor, any noisy speech. It is from
Bailyhooly, the name of a village in Cork,
once notorious for its brawls”.—K.B.: Write
Divisional Meteorologist, Meteorological Bureau,
Brisbane N.H.: Arrack is a beverage made
in the East Indies from fermented rice, coco-
nut juice or other vegetable substances. At
its best it is transparent and of the color of
straw, and has a peculiar but agreeable taste
and smell. It contains 52 to 54 per cent, of
alcohol....D.McC.: Write “Fiji Times and
Herald,” Suva, Fiji M.A.: The “Braddon
blot” was a political catchphrase which arose out
of a Commonwealth constitutional provision, in-
troduced by Sir Edward Braddon, dealing with
the distribution of customs and excise revenue,
F.W.P.: It is a let, and the server has
two services to deliver. A player cannot call
“Not ready” and then have the service count
or not as suits his interest W.R.: Some
pouched mice make nests among branches or
in hollows in the trunks or limbs of trees.
Others live in burrows and some in holes among
rocks and under stones. Their diet consists
largely of insects... .J.L.: The term ‘‘The
high seas” is applied to all those places in
oceans not under the sovereignty of adjacent
States. Use of the high seas is free to all
nations, subject to certain international laws,
principal of which are that mutiny, barratry,
etc., are punishable wherever committed....
F M.: J. T. Lang, M.H.R., was born on De-
cember 21, 1876 A.J.W.: Ironbark makes an
excellent keel, and beech is suitable for plank-
ing, but for a heavy-working vessel spotted-
gum frames and kauri planking are best.
Oregon pine in heavy planking is excellent u
specially selected timber is used D.J.H.-
The Bulletin no longer publishes books or
that nature. Suggest that you get in touch with
any of the established Australian book pub-
lishers I.McD.: Hammond was a profes-«
sional cricketer until 1938. Since then as an
amateur he captained the English XI v. Aus-
tralia in Tests in England and on the 1946-4/
Australian tour N.8.P.: Write Cement and
Concrete Association of Australia, 14 Spring-
street, Sydney, for pamphlet “How to Apply
Portland Cement Plaster” 8.H.: (1) Have
posted pamphlets on “Sawdust Concrete as a
Building Material” and “The Art of Coloring
Concrete.” (2) The addition of a proportion
of sand to the mix will make it possible to
obtain a better surface finish. Experimenting
with the sawdust and -sand available will be
necessary to determine the best proportions
within the range suggested in the pamphlet
No colors- other than the pure metallic oxide
pigments suggested can be satisfactorily used
with cement. A polished finish can be obtained
by oiling with a drying oil, such as linseed ou
and/or by wax polishing W.H.G.: Write
Vic. Agricultural Department, Melbourne, for
pamphlet on the subject H.D.H.: All con-
tributions should be addressed to the editor,


Missing Friends.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM RITCfiIE formerly of 02
ibbotsford Street Abbotsford in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife MILDRED AMY EMILY RITCHIE of
■l2 Fitaroy Street East Geelong in the State of
Victoria Married Woman has commenced Divorce
Proceedings against you in the Supreme Court of
Viptoria on the ground of desertion during three
years and upwards Unless you ENTER AN APPEAR-
ANCE in the office of the Deputy Prothonotary of
the Supreme Court in Geelong in the State of
Victoria on or before the Second Day of April 1917
the suit may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs and also TAKE NOTICE
that you have until the Fourteenth day of April
1917 within which to file an answer in the said office
to your wife’s Petition. —ROGER O’HALLORAN,
McCann Street, Geelong, Proctor for the Petitioner.
ANY person claiming to be or knowing of the next
of kin of CHARLES ROCKLIFFE, deceased, born
at Cartmell, Lancashire, England, is requested to
communicate with the Public Trustee, Supreme Court
Building, Perth.
Divorce Notice.
TO DAVID MILLAR formerly of Darwin in the
Northern Territory and Adelaide in the State of
South Australia Carpenter.—TAKE NOTICE that a
Citation has been issued out of the Divorce Registry
of the Supreme Court of Western Australia citing
you to appear and answer a Petition by your wife
EMILINE McBRIDE MILLAR praying for a dis-
solution of her marriage with you IN DEFAULT of
your so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition proved and pronounce sentence in
respect thereto AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within Thirty days
of the date of this publication to attend in person
or by your solicitor at Central Office Supreme Court
Perth and there to enter an Appearance in a book
provided for that purpose.—(l.s.) G. T. BOYLSON,
Registrar.—L. G. WOOD, of 42 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY LOUISE HAZELWOOD late of Glebe
Point.—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM LESLIE
HAZELWOOD has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
4269 of 1946 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney on or before the 28th day of April 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. CLIFTON R. PENNY & DAVIES, Solicitors,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO SAMUEL EDWARD WELBY (formerly NX 12943
Sergeant Welby S.E.).—TAKE NOTICE that BERYL
WELBY has filed Petition for Divorce No. 3992 of
1946 on the grounds of desertion for 3 years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 21srt day of April 19*47 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from J. C. RICKARD
& DIND, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out
of Bed la the Morning Full of Vim.
“yef.should give out two poundi
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn't
w * n d. You get con*
snpated, Your whole system is poisoned
y° u teel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
® u * t jW *t the cause. It takes those
s°®“ °*o Carter's Little Liver Pills to get
tnose two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "up and up." Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
irftr na ffi e A jyg übborn ly refuse anything
I
J
m
DON’T MISS
The
HOMES
and
GARDENS
EXHIBITION
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
29th MARCH
TO
9th APRIL
unusual defective
story off he year...
“An interesting for-and-against
study of circumstantial evi-
dence ... a thesis which the
student can read with relish
and profit,”
—Melbourne Herald.
A textbook for those who
relish well-contrived murder
stories. Now available at all
book-sellers—a limited edition
for Australia of the crime novel
that thrilled England.
Price 6/6.
THE SHAKESPEARE
HEAD PRESS,
Box 4088 G.P.0.. Sydney.
* THE SHAKESPEARE HEAD *
PRESENTING* THE WORLD’S MOST POPULAR
ALL-PURPOSE WOODWORKING MACHINE
Over 60,000 units in use.
' ... - ■ • •
m
m
you. as an executive, are vitally interested in production methods
adapted to the post-war period—so different as regards labor and
material supplies to the days before 1939. The new era in wood-
working—in all types of industry—demands DE WALT.
This versatile all-purpose power saw is the machine that will give you
maximum production from your available labor force, and ensure the
most economical use of available material. To every operation
involving the cutting of wood—and other materials—DE WALT
brings new standards of accuracy and efficiency.
A few of the leading organisations now using DE WALT are—
Victorian Housing Commission, N.S.W. Public Works Dept., Broken
Hill Pty. Ltd., Bulolo Gold Dredging Ltd., Commonwealth Aircraft
Corp., Howie, Moffat & Co. Pty. Ltd., Ansair Pty. Ltd., Morts Dock
& Engineering Co. Ltd., E. A. Watts Pty. Ltd., Electrolux Pty. Ltd.,
Jarvi & Co. Pty. Ltd.
DE WALT
Makes Every Cut Possible
With a Circular Saw
And Shapes, Routs and Drills.
DE WALT Saws are available for early delivery at a range of prices within
the reach of every progressive building contractor and manufacturer.
Full particulars from the Sole Australian Agents
dfsdfdsf
IT RIPS
sfdsdfsdf
s ■ I
m
: ....
: m
IT BEVEIX CUTS
", * , ' ■■ ;
>%
tmM
■
II
IT DADOES
SELIGSON & CLARE (AUST.), LTD.
465 Collins St., Melbourne. 56 Clarence St., Sydney.
Visitors to Sydney for the Royal Show are invited to contact our Sydney Office who will be delighted
to arrange a demonstration. DE WALT sound films, illustrating modern woodworking and building
construction methods in use in U.S.A., may also be reviewed.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
G.C.G.: Your “Breeze” is Shelley’s “Cloud.”
. ...K.G.H.: “Old Gus” missed the bus....
E.J.T.: One astounding phrase—“ She loathed
the bubbles in his larynx” J.O’C.: Too
confused for a love lyric... .M.J.H.: Pretty
but very slight R.D.M.: Well, it would
appeal to grandfathers... .G.R.P.: Beach poem
very sandy D.H.R.: Contrast too obvious.
. ...0.C.D.: ‘‘Evolution” still at the primitive
stage M. 8.: Arnold Wall did it much better
a couple of weeks ago F.W.: Railway poem
rattles K.K.: “Waking” a nightmare
L.A.M.:
I’d fain caravan up to old Qucanbeyan
To see former old friends (if any)
And stroll through the park in the light or the dark
’Midst the trees which are varied and many.
You won’t have too many friends if you read
the rest of that poem to them A.W.: Write
about what you’ve seen A.8.L.: Croon
about crooners is worse than its subject
G.S.: Duet between Chif. and Bill insufficiently
uproarious E.M.R.: The usual sunrise
R.E.; The queer characters in your story should
do well as a sideline at the Royal Easter Show.
. ...C.M.; A prototype of one we backed on
Saturday:
L.P.: “The Co-op. Ball” bounced
8.J.L.: “Jackasses expired in force today” is
about the limit in naivety, and you have read
too much Hopkins; yet, if you’re young, there’s
a promising originality... .R.S.: Well may you
apologise to W. S. Gilbert... .Bellerive: Bring
in the rat: —
Johnnie: “Cloudbursts” a washout
C. An ancient theme M.M.: In both
cases you climb promisingly to a cliche
Any story written in light pencil
hasn’t much chance. Trim up, then type it or
use pen and ink....T.N.: Too many fake
rhymes N-X.: Don’t be afraid to get a
little local color into your New Guinea yarn.
Censorship not operating now. Try again.
. ...B.B.: Forced humor and much too long.
Bess: Flapper story anaemic, and not
suitable for this paper L.N.S.: That mag-
pie won’t chortle his verses in our columns....
H.Y.: Well written, but with plot so moth-
eaten that it could not stand the strain of
the rotary press R.R.: Spoilt by useless pad-
ding O.L.: Threw it down a lift-well...,
N.K.: Yours would have followed it but for
the return postage enclosed J.R.: “Happy
Ben” turned out to be a dismal fellow L.N.:
Try a simpler style T.E.T.: Much too wordy.
....R.Q.: Your suggestions for increasing Aus-
tralia’s population very complicated. Surely
there is an easier way... .O.M.: “Morgan’s
Cabbage Patch” needs some weeding....
D. : Verses about a silent golfer don’t ring
true S.S.: Surf story dumped R.R.R.:
Well done, but suitable only for a woman’s paper.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.V.T.: Your characters look like dummies
from a tailor’s vWtoiow J.H.: Gags failed to
raise a smile, eyMF when tried on the office
flapper... A little more care and you
should R.M.: Rehash of old
jokes will jfot succeed F.V.; Looks like a
copy froth rf Yankee paper. Your car has
right-hand drive, and traffic is on wrong side of
street... .Q.P.: Characters lifeless... .N.O.B.:
Study perspective P.I.P.: Why put oval
wheels on your dray? X.T.C.: Drawing
arrived in damaged condition. Try again and
be careful in posting R.M.: That gag about
six cats quitting the Ark has come down
through the ages.
“SON OF GUN.”
Having purchased some oak,
And fashioned a moke,
I read him the “Victory of Troy”
And when trained for the nice,
And swotting the case,
He resembled that Bernborough boy.
His power was stored,
In the works of a Ford
“Model T,” in his belly of wood,
For a jockey I took
Not a Munro or Cook,
But mechanic at home ’neath a hood.
The great day arrived,
And the bookies revived
After sighting my nag, “Son of Gun,”
They prayed to their gods,
As they shouted the odds,
And offered me thousands to one.
“They’re off,” cried the mob,
And my heart gave a throb
As I saw “Son of Gun's” progress rife.
But a bad change of gear,
That was heard far and near,
Brought us both a suspension for life.
ZOOLOGICAL FABLE
Said a rat to a cat,
“I outpaced you, Maria.
From safety I see you.
You blanky spitfire.”'
“Oh, yes,” said the cat,
“Next time I won’t fail.
I’ll grab you tight by
The end of the tail.”


OUT OF THE FOG
By CECIL
MANN
AS could be seen from the Round
Hill over the River, across the
bridge from the Town, the early
morning fog was a flat mass
stretching all along the Valley, with the
soft light flowing up in advance of His
Highness the Sun beginning to change
its grey level to milky white.
A witness on the hill saw that the fog
was not really still, but was moving in a
heavy, slow mass from west to east. On
the hill there was no breath of wind,
but evidently some 7 current of air chan-
nelled below was taking the fog gently
like a lazy vast white river away through
the Valley to the Sea.
Those stirring below it in the Town
and hidden beneath it in the Valley knew
it for what it was;
“Fair sorter fog!”
“Pretty solid one this, ain’t she?”
Frank Godwin, above it up on the
Round Hill, saw it as the stuff that
dreams are made on. But then he was
one who saw most things like that, and
about whom, because of it, there was
a variety of legend, not all strictly in
accordance with fact.
GODWIN, Frank Gregory —so his
name is to be found, not without
honor, in the Official Records. He was
a poet and he kept bees.
If that may make him seem doubly
doubtful to those familiar with both poets
and beekeepers, let it be said at once that
he did not, as some alleged, do the rounds
of his hives on a scooter. There was no
such vehicle about the place, though it
was true enough that the small, compact
cream-and-blue house he had there and
the double-bed and other furnishings and
contents of it were rather remarkable and
elaborate for a bachelor, especially one
of such strangely contrasting appearance
as Frank Godwin presented.
Nor was it true, either, that he kept
a miser’s hoard in a special compartment
in one of his hives amongst the bees,
which was another of the things said
about him. There is a lot of profit in
beekeeping, as there is in writing poetry,
but it is in both cases, and no doubt
rightly, more often than not measured
in passing experience and personal en-
joyment, rather than in any large amount
of hard cash.
To clear away any further doubts, let
it also be said that the honey from his
bees was excellent. A little tangy on the
tongue, perhaps, when the ti-trees were
white with thejr sweet-scented brushes
and noisy with the squeakings and
screechings of clinging greenleaks and
painted rosellas about the swamps, but
amber-clear and delicate to the palate
after the blossoming of the box-trees. Al-
together it made the name Frank God-
win, on the labels, homely and familiar,
just as his poetry (and other things) set
him apart there on his hill, with full
freedom to dream or see visions and to
wear what he liked.
In that, he liked little. Despite the
slight chill in the early morning air, he
was dressed, as usual, in khaki riding
trousers, no shirt, Digger hat, and old
military boots. He might have sprung
up there among his white beehives straight
from the red - brown gravel and the
prickly gorse of a place he had only a
few years earlier known as well as he
knew the landscape now about him—
that other place, the crumbling steeps and
gullies, the straggling trench lines and the
beach of Gallipoli, where he and his
brother Harry and Old Rosy’s son Carl
and others from the Valley were in at the
Landing.
Frank Godwin had not dressed in that
scant fashion when he first came back
to the Valley and set about making what
looked like a home for someone there
on the hill. It had come about after a
year or so of his living there by himself.
Now he presented a spectacle of half-
bareness : a lean body with the ribs show-
ing slightly through in a succession of
“Out of the Fog” is a further extract
—rearranged to be read as a short
story—from “LIGHT IN THE
VALLEY,” shortly to be published
by Dymock’s, Ltd.
brown ridges; arms and thin face
browned uniformly over; but still too
clean-looking in a wild kind of way to
be thought of as merely bedraggled and
unkempt, and that despite long yellowish
hair sticking out below the brim and
through some holes worn in his hat.
A sharper inspection would have shown
the hat and the riding trousers marked
with the Round Hill’s red dirt stuck
about them in patches with honey. The
hands, too, gnarled and rough, with the
fingernails not a model of manicuring;
and a sparse gingery growth about jaws
and chin.
None of this being absent whenever
Frank Godwin dressed himself for going
out by adding an old, rusty tweed, button-
less coat, and went over into the Town,
his presence was just as noticeable there
as if he had got himself up for that
very purpose of effect, as some indeed
stooped to think.
'"THIS gave rise to another of the pre-
I vailing ideas or legends about the
beekeeper poet.
“They tell me,” Tom Gillam said,
making conversation over his bar counter
one morning on seeing Godwin go past
the open front doors, “there’s some funny
reason or other why that beekeeper bloke
out on the Round Hill never has a bath.”
Nobody could have levelled an accusa-
tion like that at Mr. Gillam. There were
only about a dozen hairs on his head, but
they were brushed over his wide, bare
dome from ear to ear and stuck down
at such even spaces that, with his care-
fully clean-shaven face, he always looked
as if he had been shined with soap.
Mr. Gillam put his leading question
to Claude Innes with an air of disinter-
ested inquiry, while mopping spilt beer
from the counter with a sweat-rag.
“Yair,” Claude responded, “I been told
that.”
Claude did not come more than half-
chest high above the counter. He ac-
quired his veneer of dust driving one of
the Valley Ltd. service cars down the
River and back daily.
“They tell me,” Gillam resumed, “he
uses his bathtub for keeping honey in.”
“Did y’ say honey? Pretty lively sorter
honey!”
“What was that, Claude?” Gillam hung
the mopping rag on the beer pump and
leant an elbow on the couriter to listen.
“What sort of honey?”
That brought from Claud© Innes what
was for him an extensive monologue,
with the emphasis on the last word of
sentences nearly all through:
“Did y’ hear about that schoolteacher
cove Mclntyre down b’ the Reach? They
reckon he rode down there on his bike
by keepin’ one foot on the ground all
the way. She’s about five or six mile.
Y’ know that kid of his, Tom; he told
me about it. He’s a damn character that
bloke. He says to me: ‘Y’ know the
way me ole man’s always skitin’ about
how he rode a horse that slung Sku-
thorpe? Well, did y’ cop the beaut
stinker he’s" got and the plaster across
his nose? He comes home from bein’ up
seein’ Godwin Saturday night, and he
couldn’t even ride Jiis bed. He fell fair
out on his dial.”
Having imparted this more or less
coherent information, Claude Innes, who
gathered all sorts of odds and ends of
intelligence, along with dust and thirst,
on the car run, needed a little prompting,
served in a glass, but eventually it was
possible to deduce from his narrative that
beekeeper Godwin used his bathtub as
a vat for brewing a variety of honey beer
or mead, and that, on the unanimous
testimony of those who had tried it, this
beverage knocked any home-brew con-
cocted elsewhere from the ordinary in-
gredients into a rather peculiar sort of
cocked hat.
Unlike some of the other legends con-
cerning him, this one about the bee-
keeper poet—professionally interesting to
Mr. Gillam—had a fair measure of truth
in it. Poet Godwin probably bathed as
frequently as the average, and maybe
more often than the rules of poesy strictly
require ; but he did it in a round tub
over in the lean-to shed near his honey-
house, and the large bath he had
installed in his home-mining had become
part of his brewing plant.
And if the brew was a little potent to
weak and unpractised heads,' it was, like
beekeeper Godwin’s honey, clear and
clean to look at, as anything brewed in a
bath ought to be. Also, unlike what was
said of the product of some other Valley
home-brewers, it did not raise an am-
bition to get up a tree and chatter like
a magpie or go to sleep in a fork there
like a koala or possum, and it was most
delightful and enticing to taste.
' And poet Godwin had in his day tasted
of the very best, and hence was particular
and something of an authority.
IF the legend of uncleanness was most
I unkind and unwarranted, another of
the legends about the beekeeper poet was
of a more favorable sort. Like the other,
it was a shade wide of the mark, but it
had at least a distant relationship with
fact. It was formed by jumbling together
three things which were actually quite
separate, though in a way related —his
war service, his slight limp, and his medal
inscribed “For Bravery.”
In that then recent war, which he had
got into as a wiry stripling of 17, fob-
bing himself off as 21, Sapper Godwin
had been returning to his lines in a rest
area in France one dark night when he
had the great good fortune to fall down
a well. He did not, as any who have
made a like descent might expect, land
at the bottom with a wet splash. He
landed with a heavy, solid thud that
knocked him unconscious.
The well being both roomy, as belong-
ing to what had been a grand chateau it
should have been, and dry also, he lay
there in perfect safety, if not in comfort,
until eventually he regained conscious-
ness and sat up.
To many, no doubt, such an awaken-
ing could be a little disturbing. But when
one has had a whiz-bang burst in the
mud between his legs without hitting
him, as had happened to Sapper Godwin,
or seen a mate’s body sprawled out and
his head stuck in the mud several yards
away-from it, smiling, as Sapper Godwin
had, surprise loses a good deal of its kick.
By lighting matches and looking about
him and up the circular, brick-lined
funnel, Sapper Godwin that night soon
had his bearings. He felt a bit sore in the
left shoulder and about the left hip, but
he had comfort in recollecting that he
had been only 20 yards or so from the
tent lines when he had walked into the
well. Rather, he had walked on to it,
missing in the dark the square notice-
board with its “Warning: Dry Well” and
“Attention: Puits sans eau.” He recalled
going through the board roofing and
hitting the side hard as he fell.
No use, Sapper Godwin had thought,
trying to do anything about it now. Any-
how, his thought had run, she was worth
it. She was worth a lot more than
falling down a well. Especially so after
that night with her. Up till then all it
had looked like ever coming to was sit-
ting in their farmhouse, with the old man
and the old woman there, too, listening
to her playing the violin, and then having
to hoof the four kilometres back to camp
again. And, even that had been good in
a way. She played French tunes with a
swing and a lilt in them, and to Sapper
Godwin it had seemed to be drawing out
and expressing something in him that he
wanted to express himself. It was a
vague something, but getting it out of
himself even in that way had seemed
a creative achievement.
That last night the old man was sick
and the old woman was looking after
him, taking no notice of them, once in
fact winking quickly at Godwin when
she had to pass through the lamplit room.
Alone with him the girl was shy and he
was awkward. She had black hair down
on her shoulders, and blue eyes. She
was different from anything he had
picked up on leave in Paris or London,
She made him think of a girl or two
of the Valley. Saying goodnight to her
in the doorway, holding her close to him,
kissing her, and then, like a fool, letting
her break away and stand back in the
light, holding out her hand to him.
Still, very different from the rest of
them, and very pleasant to think about
with nothing else to do there but wait
till the others would be moving about
up on top. It struck him that that
wouldn’t have been the worst of places
in which to put in the rest of the war.
Of war he had by then been fed up to
the neck. In the phrase of the other war
that has happened since that time, he had
had it. He had been in it from the
beginning. There had been a twin brother
of his who fell riddled splashing through
the water before even setting foot on
Anzac. In France he himself had taken
a bit of a knock, collected his medal with
it, and been patched up for more of it.
And so there he was, fighting the war
again ; for the moment at the bottom
of a well. A matter of waiting, making
himself heard, and he’d be hauled up
and a good laugh had by all.
With that prospect Sapper Godwin had
settled down to wait patiently for even-
tual rescue when his right hand began the
discovery of his fortune. It transferred
to his awareness its feeling that under
the thin covering of earth he’d landed on
was some sort of bagging. Lighting more
matches and tugging at the bagging, he
proceeded to find that the solidness be-
neath seemed to be cases.
“■“THESE things,” Mother Instinct told
I Sapper Godwin, “weren’t packed
down here like this, Frank, just to stop
you from going through to the other
side of the earth and coming out down
there in the Valley, with an axe on your
shoulder and a box under your arm and a
kerosene-tin in your hand, going bees-nest-
ing.” He had always had a liking for bees.
He had found then that the cases were
well made and tightly wired around, and
were jammed in so closely that, with his
shoulder and hip hurting him, he couldn’t
shift them. Still, he felt agreeably con-
fident that the laugh they’d have when
they heard him and pulled him up
wouldn’j; be the last laugh.
He had been right in that, too, in
both respects. Laugh at him they cer-
tainly did, though that was nothing new,
either. God knows they needed something
to laugh at, and, though there wasn’t
much in the way of experience they
hadn’t sampled by that time, they’d never
till then had to pull a poet up from the
bottom of a well. Sapper Godwin’s re-
fusal to go sick with his crook hip merely
confirmed the idea his apparent relish for
up-the-line soldiering, and still more his
verse writing, had given them: “Not a bad
poor cow, for a poet, but a bit bats.”
But the last laugh Sapper Godwin
shared with his particular mate, Corporal
(Continued on page 24.)


JOHNNY WAIRUA'S GEYSER
By RODERICK FINLAYSON
JOHNNY WAIRUA, who lived in a
lonely spot known as Whitewater
Valley, owned, besides several acres
of scrubland and a whare, one boil-
ing spring and one bubbling mudhole.
His bit of land lay to the south of
Rotorua, well within the thermal belt,
and amenities like that are common in
such places, Mrs. Wairua used the boil-
ing spring instead of a cooking stove.
She put the pipis, brought from the
coast, and the spuds or kumara or taro
in a flax kit suspended by a piece of
fencing wire over the steam vent and
covered them with a sack. Soon they
were nicely steam-cooked and flavored
with sea-salt.
Every place has its advantages. Out
at the coast you could get heaps of
fish and mussels and pipis, and at White-
water Valley you could get plenty of
free hot water and steam. Johnny
drifted to and fro enjoying the special
advantages of both the coast and his
valley.
The Wairua family, Johnny and his
wife and the three boys and five girls
ranging from fourteen-year-old Timi
down to four-month-old Juliana —called
Petty for short —all bathed in a pool
scooped in the silica terrace formed by
the overflow of the hot spring. This pool
was fed with the boiling mineral water
and cooled according to personal require-
ments with cold stream water led in by
another channel ingeniously contrived. A
plug of sacking dammed each channel
so as to stop or start the flow of water
as required.
On cold winter mornings Johnny
Wairua often sat waist deep ,in the
luxurious steamy soft water to eat
the food that Mrs. Wairua brought him.
“You big lazy dog!” she would say,
handing him a strip of dried shark.
“Cleanliness is godliness, the preacher
say. By crikey, I’m a very godly man!”
Johnny would reply with a loud guffaw.
As for the mudhole—the Wairuas
didn’t use the mudhole at all except to
throw empty tin cans into it,
"THAT was all the Wairuas thought of
1 their “thermal wonders” —and all
they ever would have thought of them
if Johnny hadn’t gone to his uncle Tai’s
tangi at Rotorua. After the old chap
was buried, and before returning home,
Johnny had time to see how things are
done at Rotorua. The tourists around
the Maori village interested him fhore
than anything else.
Back at Whitewater Valley he said to
his wife, “Those tourist people they do
funny things. Why, they pay money for
anything! They pay good money just
to look at boiling pools like that pool
here—not even to cook their dinner over
them, eh? And mudholes, they pay to
stare at them, too. They seem crazier
over mudholes than over good clean pools
that you could use!”
“They have too much money, those
people,” said Mrs. Wairua.
Now up to this time Johnny and his
family had lived comfortably at White-
water Valley in his snug whare amid
poplar- and peach- and cherry-trees, tak-
ing things as easy as possible, cultivating
their patches of maize and taro and
kumara where the earth, warmed by
underground fires, was never chilled by
winter frost, and milking a cow or two.
They wanted nothing better. But Johnny
admitted that he had his eyes opened
by what he saw at Rotorua, “The Maori
there no better than me, eh, driving about
the town in fine big cars.”
Well, couldn’t he, too, have a car if
those tourist people came and looked
at his boiling spring and his bubbling
mudhole —and paid a little something to
see them, eh?
Johnny went down and had a look at
his boiling spring. He remembered his
father saying that at one time it was a
geyser sending shoots of water a hundred
feet high. “By golly! Guess some soap
do the trick,” he said to his wife, “Bring
me a bar —two bars of soap.”
In his red-and-black-striped football
jersey and old grey bags, big stout
Johnny, looking very knowing, sliced the
bar of yellow soap into slivers and threw
them with a professional flick of his
podgy hand into the vent-hole. The
boiling water foamed and bubbled angrily.
“Here she come!” said Johnny,
stepping well back.
But the water subsided sluggishly.
Johnny advanced cautiously and tossed
in another handful of soap shavings.
The water spurted up a foot or so in a
lazy plop.
“You leave the rest of my soap alone,”
Mrs. Wairua said.
“Oh, next time she play lovely,” said
Johnny. “Some of that scented soap
perhaps, eh?” he chuckled to annoy his
wife.
Then he made the kids rake out of the
mudhole what rusty tins they could see,
and he got Timi, the fourteen-year-old,
who, on the odd days he went to the local
school, sat in Standard Three, to paint
with tar on a piece of packing-case; “See
Big Gyser Boiling Mud Lovely Hot Bath
2s. 6d. Only Half Mile,”
This notice he nailed to a lone pine-
tree on the main road where the track
through the ti-tree to Whitewater Valley
branched off. it was summer and lots
of people touring the country in cars
passed that way.
NEXT day the kids outside Johnny’s
place rushed in shouting, “Pakeha!
Pakeha!”
Johnny went out smiling broadly and
saw two men, one elderly and gaunt, the
other middle-aged and beefy. They were
carrying their jackets, they looked red
and sunburned and hot, and their trousers
were caked with dried mud. They sud-
denly sank down on a tussocked bank,
and they didn’t smile back at Johnny.
“You like to see the geyser?” he
asked happily.
“That blasted notice said only half a
mile,” the younger man began accusingly.
“Oh,” said Johnny, surprised. “Oh, it
say one or two mile, eh?”
“It’s five miles if it’s a yard,” the old
gaunt man declared angrily. “And that
damn’ dusty goat track over hills and
rocks!”
“And having to wade those muddy
creeks! ” the younger added. “And what
is there when we get here?” He looked
around defiantly.
“Nice hot bath make you feel good,
eh?” said Johnny.
They followed him reluctantly to the
pool and eyed its steaming milky-blue
water. “That silty hole!” said the older
man. “I like a clear bath, something like
the Champagne Pool.”
“Or at least like the Crystal Springs.
You know the Crystal Springs?” the
younger man asked the older.
“Well, I’ve heard of another spring up
North”
“Oh, but if you haven’t tried the
Crystal Springs ...”
In the end they deigned to wash the
dust off their feet in Johnny’s pool while
Johnny fetched a bar of soap for the
geyser.
“Oh, a soaped geyser,” they sneered.
The water bubbled and churned up un-
easily and then sank out of sight. “Oh,
too bad, too bad,” Johnny said. “You
wait tomorrow?” he added brightly.
The visitors turned their backs on the
geyser. “Well, where’s the boiling mud?”
they demanded.
They peered into the pit. The oily blue-
grey sludge plopped lazily in tiny spurts,
like little muddy frogs leaping and fall-
ing.
The gaunt elderly man stood looking
down with a pious, sad expression as
though gazing into the grave of a business
acquaintance. “Doesn’t come up to
Wairakei mud,” he said at last.
“Well, I prefer Waiotapu mud myself,”
the beefy man said with a weighty air.
“Of course, at Yellowstone Park
now ...”
They began to walk away.
“Oh, I forget,” said Johnny, “the
half-a-crown each.”
“Half-a-crown! ” The beefy man
laughed sarcastically.
“Oh, give him a shilling each,” said
the old man sourly to end the matter.
And with that they trudged out of sight
in the scrub.
NO more visitors came. Johnny sent
his youngsters out spying on the
track from the cover of the scrub.
“Plenty pakeha look at the notice,” they
told him ; “but when they look along the
track they get in their car and scoot off.”
Johnny saw that something would have
to be done. “I make a road,” he an-
nounced at last.
Now making a road was too much for
Johnny even with the help of Timi, so
he v/ent to see his cousin Tu, whose land
lay between Johnny’s place and the main
road.
Tu was an easygoing, rangy man who
had always been a good pal to Johnny.
He listened gravely to Johnny’s grand
plans. “You help me make the road
then plenty rich tourist people come, Tu,”
said Johnny. “I share half the money
with you. That fair, eh, Tu?”
“Sound fair enough,” said Tu solemnly.
So it was arranged. Together they
widened the track through the ti-tree,
made corduroy roads over the boggy
patches, graded the approaches to fords,
cut embankments in the hilly parts, and
in the end, with skilful driving, a car
could get through—at least in fine
weather.
IT was a great day for Johnny when the
1 first car came. He ambled down to
greet the visitors getting stiffly out of
their car, a man in shirt and shorts and a
woman in green slacks and sun goggles.
“Good day! How you like our
wonderland?” he said.
“Oh, beautiful!” said the woman,
holding up her head and seeming to sniff
the beauty. The man just grunted and
went round looking at the mudguards
where the paint had been scraped off.
“Each two-and-six, please,” said
Johnny in a businesslike voice, very
pleased with himself.
“I should make you pay damages,”
said the man, slowly counting out the
money in small change.
“Oh, but this is marvellous, Bill,” the
woman said.
“Wait till I get the soap,” said Johnny,
hobbling off for it.
But all the good yellow soap that
Johnny flipped into the steam-vent made
as little show as ever, A few soapy plops,
that was all.
“By golly!” said Johnny, eyeing the
spring in a sorrowful way. “Steam not
properly up yet, I think.”
The visitors gave up holding their ex-
pectant expressions, and the man began
to growl again,
“Never mind,” Johnny said quickly,
“I think you stiff after the long ride, eh?
The hot bath-water cure you. Come on.”
And he led the way to the pool.
But the sightseers loitered behind to
stare in the door of Johnny’s house. They
nudged each other and whispered loudly:
“Look at the old woman in there, mak-
ing kits or something.” “Just look at the
place.” “Suppose they sleep on those
mats.” “Yes, isn’t it quaint?”
Mrs. Wairua continued weaving,
silently aloof.
“This way,” Johnny shouted sharply.
And the sightseers strolled over to the
pool.
“Oh, but it’s all open,” exclaimed the
woman.
“What that?” said Johnny.
“Don’t you provide any privacy for
people?” the man asked him. Johnny
just laughed a little puzzled laugh and
looked around.
“Well, I suppose we can undress in the
car if you back it up here and get rid of
the old dago,” said the woman..
When they were both wallowing in the
water and admitting that it was rather
good, out from their hiding-places crept
Johnny’s mob of kids, who surrounded
the pool at a little distance, their eyes
round and solemn and shining.
“Look at the pakeha,” they whispered
shyly, nudging each other.
After a while the man shouted “Go
away,” and they all took one step back-
ward. Then they just remained silent
and didn’t budge. At last the woman
made an awkward jump out of the pool
and into the car, where she wriggled into
her clothes.
The man lingered in the pool quite at
ease until young Tama, playing about,
pulled out the sack that blocked the boil-
mg water inlet. That soon made the
man scramble out.
The two sightseers left after getting
into their clothes.
After that incident Johnny put up a
manuka shelter around the pool—“to
please the pakeha.”
A few more visitors came in cars, some
bathed, some didn’t, they poked about
and peered in Johnny’s house, paid up
and departed. Johnny counted the
money. “By golly! it don’t seem much,”
said Johnny to himself.
AT the end of a week along came Tu.
“How’s things?” he said.
“Oh, all right,” said Johnny. “By the
way, I have the money I share with you.
Hey, Ma! Bring that money for Tu.
Now, all week 10 people come here.”
“That right,” said Tu, “I count them
pass my place.”
“Oh, you count them, eh?” said
Johnny. “Well, now, 10 people at nine-
pence each—how much that altogether
for you?”
“Ninepence? I get one-and-three each
man and woman,” Tu said,
“That not our bargain, Tu.”
“I can’t find any money,” shouted Mrs,
Wairua, coming out on to the verandah.
The men took no notice of her. “You
say I go half-share,” Tu insisted. “Well,
half the half-a-crown is one-and-three.”
“No,” said Johnny, “I say you share
half. Well, I take one-and-nine, you take
ninepence. That half.” Johnny waved
his hand generously. “I make it tenpence
if'you want to be too exact.”
“No,” said Tu, “one-and-three, not a
damn’ thing less, Johnny Wairua.”
“You saying I lie?” Johnny wanted to
know. “Or you trying the lie on me, eh?”
Tu turned his back and walked away.
Johnny shrugged and went back to his
house. “No matter about that money,”
he said to his wife. “Tu not himself to-
day.”
Next day a car arrived and Johnny
went out smiling as usual. “Good morn-
ing, eh? Half-a-crown to see our lovely
wonderland?”
“Ho, no!” said the fat pugnacious in-
dividual who got out first. “We paid
at the notice.”
“Who you pay?” Johnny asked.
“The big tall Maori at the house back
there along the track.”
“You shouldn’t pay that man, you pay
me,” said Johnny.
“That’s your lookout. We’ve paid,
now show us the sights.”
Johnny looked hurt. “Timi!” he
called. And leaving Timi in charge of
the bossy individual and his friends,
Johnny caught his pony and rode over to
his cousin’s place. Tu was sitting rocking
himself in the rocking-chair on his
verandah. “Here, what this mean?” said
Johnny, and he told his cousin about the
bossy man- in the car.
“You not share with me,” said Tu.
“Well now, I collect toll for people using
my land. This road cut up and damage
my land very much. It right they pay
toll. When they go on your land you
can charge them what you like.”
“But they won’t pay twice.”
“Oh, that your worry, I think,” Tu
smiled, rocking comfortably,
I OHNNY rode home thinking over
this sad break with Tu, but Wiri, his
lively young nephew who worked in a
forestry plantation at Rotorua, happened
to have dropped in for a visit and he
cheered Johnny up. After a while
Johnny told of his trouble.
“Why don’t you get the Government
people take over? That the big idea,”
Wiri said. And he talked Johnny in to
giving it a go.
Next day Johnny got the kids to roll
boulders down the hillside blocking the
track to keep any more cars out while
he went to Rotorua with Wiri.
Hfe went to all the Government offices
he could find, to the Railway Office, and
the Tourist Office, and the Land Court,
and the Tax Office, and everywhere he
went no one was interested in Whitewater
Valley and Johnny’s wonderland.
“I tell you what,” the men in those
offices said, and they told Johnny to try
the Council, or the Hotel Association, or
a f tition to Parliament. Anything to
get rid of Johnny.
He went back to the Tax Office. “You
say my hot spring no good. Then you
take off my tax,’eh?”
“What’s that? What’s the trouble?”
A little spectacled man who was paying
((Continued on page 48.)


Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio —
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder. s
sdfsdfsdf
safeguard the future
... of your family
... by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible arid capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal iiinportance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he has these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENCE
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Sir T. Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.:
C. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but it
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself: v f
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PROPHETS OF J. BULL’S DOOM.
Most of the current abundant specula-
tion in the American press on I Bull’s
survival chances decidedly does not agree
with the Chicago “Tribune” cartoon re-
produced on this page. It errs at the
opposite extreme—seeing Britain on a
slide, though anything but a joyful one.
Neither does it see poor U.S. struggling
up the slopes. It sees Uncle Sam sitting
pretty on top of the world. However, it
also sees Uncle Sam, as a logical conse-
quence’of Britain’s crisis, now faced with
the put-up or shut-up alternatives posed
by President Truman in asking Congress,
on March 12, to endorse immediate aid
to Greece and Turkey in their struggle
against “coercion and intimidation,”
meaning Russia.
A week before Mr. Truman spoke
“Wall-street Journal’s” Washington cor-
respondent Vernon Royster reported:
“The British crisis is pushing the Republi-
can Congress toward its first major
foreign policy decision”:
The Congress—that is, the Republicans in
Congress—must decide, and soon, how
much the United States is prepared to
assume of the world-wide political and
economic burdens the British Empire is
fast shedding.
“Britain’s domestic crisis and the
crumbling of its Empire,” Royster also
commented, are making the U.S. “face
openly the problem of its foreign inter-
ests.” About the same date N.Y. “World-
Telegram” Washington correspondent
William Philip Simms interpreted the feel-
ing there as accepting that the need for
U.S. aid to Britain was no less impelling
now than in the war-time of 1940. “The
British Empire,” declared Simms, “is in
process of liquidation.... If Britain goes
under and the Empire is left unprotected,
others will start picking up the pieces.”
Odds Too Much
J. Bull and Empire, in fact, are being
widely, if sometimes guardedly, repre-
sented as on the skids. Not, it should
be said, an altogether new view. The
same notion was widely held and much
canvassed just before the last war, and
again after the disaster of Dunkirk, to
be dramatically refuted by battered J.
Bull standing alone, by the Battle of
Britain and by all the rest of that heroic
triumph.
Despite all that, the view of Britain
certain to collapse in ruins is now being
more freely aired than ever. There is,
however, one marked point of difference:
the previously-canvassed notion —pre-
war at any rate —was that J.B. had be-
come obese and decadent; now the cir-
cumstances he is battling against are held
to be too much for him. Indeed, in this
view he is freely represented as already
done for. Thus the cabled comment of
N.Y, “Herald Tribune” of March 3:
“With the passing of the British Empire
one of the- greatest balance wheels of
the 19th century has disappeared.” As
another typical example N.Y. “Times”
had a leader on February 23 headed (with
at least a kind addendum) “An Empire
Falls —And Rises.” The “rise,” however,
was represented as much more in prestige
than in powfer. Another N.Y. “Times”
article on Britain (December 22) carried
the heading “Decline and Fall?”
Also, on February 24 the same news-
paper ran a dispatch from one of its
London correspondents, Michael L. Hoff-
man, describing Britain as “an old, run-
down country.” That was during the
freeze and the accompanying fuel crisis;
a disaster which was, with probably the
exactly right significance, referred to as
Britain’s “economic Dunkirk.” The re-
covery after Dunkirk apparently for-
gotten, that crisis was seen not merely as
disastrous, which it undoubtedly was, but
as fatal. Hoffman saw a slender hope,
but very slender:
Nothing b’ut an early and profound
change in the attitude of the British people
toward the problem of national survival can
prevent the present crisis from becoming a
steady slide into conditions of poverty un-
known in the Western world in modern
times. This is a strong statement, but it is
the conclusion one is forced to reach after
a careful probing....
The correspondent gave a sobering
finding on the state of Britain’s industrial
equipment. “The condition of Britain’s
provincial cities and factories,” he stated,
“comes as an appalling shock to an
American observer, not in comparison
with the best in the United States, but in
comparison with the average on the con-
tinent of Europe.”
“Shell of Former Greatness”
Also in the freeze-and-fuel crisis,
another N.Y. “Times” correspondent,
Herbert L. Matthews, described the post-
war Britain as “a mere shell of her
—Chicago “Tribune.”
THE SLIDE.
former greatness.” He granted that
Britain “still possesses faith and courage,”
but held that “these are not commodities
calculated to take the place of British
naval supremacy, British financial domi-
nation, British investments abroad, British
trade and everything else that went to
make up British material power.” As
seen by Matthews:
Britain is weak. A weak nation cannot
maintain a great Empire. Therefore the
British are being forced to liquidate much
of their Empire, at least in its present form.
As one more example of the discussion
inquiring into what is, as N.Y, “Times”
has expressed it, “changing the Empire—
indeed abolishing it,” William Philip
Simms gave this summing up in the
“World Telegram” under the heading
“Britain’s Sickness”;
Until recent times Britain was the heart
of the greatest Empire in history. Her
Empire occupied a quarter of the habitable
globe and included a similar percentage of
its inhabitants. Not only that, but she
loaned money to North and South America,
to Europe and Asia, and bought up raw
materials with the interest. Her ships
hauled these materials to Britain, where
British machines, labor, coal and British
capital converted them into finished pro-
ducts, which she resold and reshipped back
to the four corners of the world under the
protection of the world’s mightiest navy.
Britain became as rich as Croestis. But
those days are gone for ever.... The world
conditions which made Britain the richest
of all Empires will never come back. There
can be no such thing as a return to “the
good old days.” She will have to adjust
her national way of life to the facts of the
present and the future. She will probably
have to get along on less than formerly,
maintain a less costly establishment, includ-
ing a smaller Navy and Army. And she
may have to reduce her commitments, if
she is to make ends meet —commitments
upon which the sun still never sets.
As yet another typical example of this
current doleful and somewhat loudly-
shouted view, the “United States News”
says: “Britain, with only 48,000,000
people, in debt to most everybody, with
a badly-worn industrial establishment
.... is starting to Crack, or at least to
bend, under the strain.” And the N.Y.
“Sun” writer George E. Sokolsky has
spoken of the British recognising that,
two world wars having shorn away so
much, a third would leave them nothing ;
“Britain must have international peace if
it is not to become a minor State of
Europe.”
Leaving out the Chicago “Tribune,” it
must be said that it is all very kindly and
well meant. Because the moral generally
drawn is that it means Uncle Sam inevit-
ably having to share in protecting out-
post countries hitherto protected by J. B.
alone, it must have been very welcome to
President Truman as a “build-up” to his
extremely important policy statement.
Even Worse to Come
In Britain itself —though, as one N.Y.
“Times” correspondent puts it, people
are “more surprised than annoyed to
read excerpts from the American press
telling them that what is happening is
the ‘disintegration’ of the British Em-
pire”—the Government has been calling
for special effort by all hands in much
the same terms, though lacking the com-
pelling fire of oratory, that Mr. Churchill
used in the grim war days. Thus the re-
cent Economic White Paper, after out-
lining the Government’s production-for-
export plans, added;
These plans call for a great constructive
effort by the British people. This is a criti-
cal moment in our affairs... .There is now
no place for industrial arrangements which
restrict production, prices or employment.
One of the most arresting contributions
to the discussion in Britain has been a
London “Times” letter by economist Pro-
fessor Lionel Robbins, of the University
of London. Emphasising that the crux
of the immediate problem is coal. Pro-
fessor Robbins declares that “there never
was any hope and there is still no hope”
that nationalising of the mines can by
itself get Britain out of its difficulties “in
time to avert further disaster.” Nor, he
insists, can increased output a head: “We
shall be living in a complete fool’s para-
dise if we believe that output a head is
likely to improve to such an extent as
to meet the requirements that must be
met if we are to hope to avoid catas-
trophe.” The only solution, in Professor
Robbins’s view, is “another 100,000 men
—native or foreign—in the mines.” And,
he adds, “if regard is had to the way in
which difficulties of much greater magni-
tude were tackled during the war, it is
well nigh inconceivable that any ob-
stacle, technical or psychological, should
be sufficient to stand in the way of such
a solution”;
But if it is not so remedied, and that
quite quickly, I am afraid we are destined
to very grievous experiences. I make so
bold as to say that, unless something of
this sort takes place in the next few
months, the domestic situation next winter
will be as bad as it is now and the balance
of payments position decidedly worse. In-
deed, if nothing further has been done by
that time the hope of getting into some
sort of equilibrium before the American
loan is exhausted will have almost faded.
We shall be confronted with the prospect
later on of external difficulties beside which
our present troubles will seem insignificant.
“Could Lead to World Chaos”
No doubt Professor Robbins had bitter
thoughts on reading in the Economic
White Paper that the “target” for in-
creased mining labor force was set at
only 35,000 instead of the 100,000 he con-
sidered vitally necessary.
His is not the only severe criticism of
the Government’s failure in the matter.
In a striking article written in the depth
of the freeze and headed by N.Y. “Times”
“World Chaos Seen If British Collapse,”
Reuter’s financial editor Sydney Gam-
pell mentioned “some of the most re-
sponsible people of the world” as fearing
that Britain’s economic crisis could lead
to world economic chaos. “They fear
that unless current British and interna-
tional policies are rapidly reversed to
prevent it, either this year or next, the
biggest crash since the fall of Constan-
tinople—the collapse of the heart of an
Empire—will occur with reverberations
affecting the world for centuries.”
“These experts,” says Gampell, “believe
that present policies are leading to an in-
evitable crash, but that wisdom could
still reverse them toward prosperity.”
Since little of Gampell’s penetrating
analysis appeared in cable columns, an
extract is here given as helping towards
a real appreciation of what Sir Stafford
Cripps, President of the Board of Trade,
described, a month or two before the big
freeze added its chilling emphasis, as
Britain’s “really grave situation.” Seeing
the immediate problem as fundamentally
one of prices—“prices Britain gets for her
exports as compared with those she is
charged for her imports”—Reuter’s
financial editor commented;
The world may ask what really ails
Britain.
In order to increase coal stocks at elec-
tricity stations by a paltry half a million
tons, the equivalent of one single day’s
national coal output, the greater part of
Britain’s manufacturing industry has been
paralysed for a fortnight, and this is not
nearly the end. If this is thought irrelevant
by countries overseas, it may be recalled
that the failure of one Austrian bank
touched off the great depression of the
’twenties.
This is not the story of a couple of snow-
storms and their effects. It is the story of


The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
“MARS” Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. AH essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - - all gear teeth are generated.
sdfsdfdsf
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Piy. Ltd.
sdfsdfsdf
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd;
ViCTOKiA-Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne ;
Q’i,and— lntercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W.A.—The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth ; Tasmania— Charles Davies,
Ltd., Hobart; N.Z.-Motor Specialties, Ltd., Auckland;
Calcutta-Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.; Bombay
Provincb-R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay; HonukoNq
and Shanghai— The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
I
mm
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Qld, of
“MEEHANITE"
Metals
INTERESTING BOOKS
AUSTRALIAN BUSH SONGS AND BALLADS. Edited by Will Lawson.
5/- (post. 4d.).
WILDERNESS TREK. A novel of Australia, by Zane Grey.
9/6 (post. 4d.).
HIGH RIVER. A novel by Nourma Handford. Seldom has appeared an
Australian novel with such a wide humanity, humour and drama
contained within its pages. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
OUT OF THE STRONG. An engrossing story of life in the Outback in
Western Australia, by Patricia Costello. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
BALI. By Philip Hanson Hiss. Here is a book which truly captures and
reveals the wonderful life of Bali. Containing superb full-page
photographic illustrations. 31/6 (post. 1/*).
MILDURA CALLING. By Alice M. Lapthorne. Illustrated.
3/6 (post, 4d.).
NATURE’S LINGUISTS. A study of the riddle of vocal mimicry, by Alec
H. Chisholm. Illustrated. 2/- (post. 3d.),
AUSTRALIA, THE CATHOLIC CHAPTER. By James G. Murtagh.
Illustrated. 24/- (post. 6d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castiereagh Street, Sydney
MA 6511.
the awful debility in which a couple of
snowstorms could have such effects.
Britain, whose national existence depends
on exports, at present is not producing
a cent’s worth of exports. Her great ex-
porting industries are not producing enough
lor their minimum home markets, winch
means that they are producing less than
nothing for export. Only part of this
shows up in immediate exports, but the rest
will show up for many weary months.
To say that the vital export drive has
completely bogged down is an understate-
ment. Not if the Government's export
plan fails but if it succeeds, this export
volume for this year will fall short of the
mark reached as long ago as last July. For
the first half of 1947 it will be lower than
that.
The terrifying prospect is that the present
fuel gap is trifling compared with the loom-
ing dollar gap. The “Times” of London
puts it that American and Canadian credits
“will probably” run out before the essential
supply has been assured; that this is “the”
most likely immediate sequel, and if that
happens, “millions” may again b'e out of
work in the next and worse crisis.
Many now gravely question the feasi-
bility of the Government’s export target*
of 140 per cent, of Britain’s pre-war volume
by the end of 1947. Not if it fails but even
if it succeeds, the Government reckons
that it will leave a gap of £350,000,000
($1,400,000,000) in paying for imports at
only 80 to 85 per cent, of the pre-war level.
Recalling that Lord Reyes, who was
adviser to the British Government and
one of the chief negotiators of the
American loan, had “warned the Govern-
ment just before his death that it was
undertaking fatal commitments in the re-
habilitation of Europe and the Far East,”
the writer insisted that Britain is being
squeezed in the world market, a point
also made by London “Economist”:
“Britain’s only hope of attaining equi-
librium lies in a policy of buying in the
cheapest market and selling in the dearest.
Yet at the moment the world, under
American leadership, is expecting her to
do exactly the opposite.”
A Government Failure
Other criticism of British Government
responsibility has been more pointed, a
“Wall-street Journal” writer stating:
“The British Labor Government has been
in office less than two years; and it
would be difficult for a candid observer
to say precisely how much of Britain’s
economic hardships is an inevitable re-
sult of war-time impoverishment and how
much can be charged to the account of
excessive bureaucracy.”
On the wider subject of Britain and
Empire N.Y. “Times” London corres-
pondent Mallory Brown recently sug-
gested that there was “a basic reason
for the decline in Britain’s power at home
and abroad, less direct than the effects
of the two world wars but equally opera-
tive. Out of the industrial revolution of
the nineteenth century has come the
social revolution of the twentieth. Power
has passed to the masses under a Labor
Government dominated by the British
trade unions.”
One result of this, the correspondent
commented, “has been to entrust the
authority to rule an Empire to individuals
unaccustomed to ruling* It is true,” he
added, “that the change was cushioned by
the permanent civil service in Britain.
But even so the British grip on things,
both domestically and imperially, has
inevitably lacked some of the sureness
and firmness of the past.”
But No “Fire Sale”
While the position of J.B. is, and will
continue to be, grim, most of the more
responsible participants in the decline-
and-fall discussion are keeping their
fingers crossed, just in case.
Thus the U.S. publication “World
Report,” while stating that “British hopes
that resources and manpower could be
spread over the world to solidify her
Empire, to back up diplomatic moves,
are now to go glimmering” (and un-
limited British immigration for Australia
along with them), adds “Not that Britain’s
Empire is to fold up. There is no ‘fire
sale’ in sight.” N.Y- “Herald Tribune,”
despite its (cabled) “With the passing of
the British Empire,” has commented;
Britain’s greatest strength is the persever-
ance of its people. The islanders, those
who have stayed home and those who have
gone out to people and to rule distant
parts of the earth, are not in the habit of
ceasing their efforts, whatever the enterprise,
until the need for effort has ended. They
grumble, but they do not quit.
The “United States News” has put it:
“Not that Britain can be crossed off.
She can’t be; but ” And, as one
other example, N.Y, “Times” correspon-
dent Herbert L. Matthews, though seeing
Britain “a mere shell of her former great-
ness,” in the same article states;
Great Britain is retreating, but she has
retreated before and still won the last
battle. Those who are today chronicling
her misfortunes would be rash prophets to
say that Britain is defeated when the British
themselves don’t know it and don’t think
so.
Looked at from the positive angle, rather
than the negative, no one can deny the
greatness of the British Empire even in its
present weakened state, even without India
and without the domination of Palestine and
Egypt, even with its trade and economy
crippled as they are today.
Matthews concludes with a comment
on Britain made by Emerson 100 years
ago: “She has seen dark days before.
In the storm of battle and calamity she
has a secret vigor and a pulse like a
cannon.” It might pay all those con-
cerned about Britain’s and the Empire’s
“disintegration” to keep that pasted in
their hats, well to the front.
TURKS “REACT.”
In a dispatch from Ankara to N.Y.
“Herald Tribune,” Stewart Alsop has
chronicled “an interesting, unreported
incident” which took place
on the northern Turkish
border area claimed by the
Russians (B. 19/3/’47).
A raiding party 200
strong of Soviet Armenians
crossed the border and
advanced into X ur kish
territory. “It is difficult to
believe,” Alsop com-
mented, “that this raid was
organised and dispatched
without the consent of the
Soviet authorities.” Ap-
parently it was designed
“to test the reactions of
the Turkish forces, perhaps
with the hope, often pre-
sent in the Russian mind,
that the ‘oppressed and ex-
ploited’ inhabitants would
rise to welcome the in-
vader.”
There was nothing
doubtful about the Turks’
“reaction.” “The raiding
party was slaughtered
almost to a man.” A
sequel was a request from
the Soviet side of the
border for the cigarette-
cases, knives and other
personal effects of the
dead. “The Turks
obliged.”
Alsop added that this was not an iso-
lated episode. “There have been a num-
ber of such probing pinpricks.” 1 No
doubt the Turks “reacted” to them, too.
As Old Diggers know, Johnno is quite
partial to that kind of “reaction.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
World Army, Not Yet— ln case anyone
should be wondering what has happened to that
armed force that was to keep the peace all the
world over, there’s at least been no lack of
trying to get it started. According to a state-
ment by Mr. Mayhew (Under-Secretary,
Foreign Office) in the House of Commons, the
U.N.O. Military Staff Committee met 28 times
in the past 12 months, and “there have also
been numerous meetings of sub-committees.
The committee has been ordered by the Security
Council to weigh in with a report by April 30.
It could be written on a postage stamp.
* j* * *
Praise for Palestine Tommies. —Pretty well
every time Palestine comes up for discussion
in the House of Commons deserved praise is
expressed for the patience of the British Tom-
mies in the face of extreme provocation. As
one Lqbor member, Mr. Crossman, put it: “In
spite of many allegations of „ atrocities it is
incredible how little has happened in the last
seven months under the provocation to which
the troops have been subjected. A Palestine
Jew said recently, ‘Thank Heaven there were
not 20 American Gls blown up in the King
David Hotel, because then there would have
been a pogrom.’ ”
JK * * *
Chinee Welly Wild. —The Chinese reputation
for true Oriental politeness has been tarnished
a trifle in the demonstrations against America.
A N.Y. “Times” correspondent on the spot
has reported scores of banners bearing such
signs as “GI Get Out,” “The Army, Go
Home,” “Bloody GI, Go Home to Your Wife,”
and even “Bloody U.S. Army, Get Out Before
We Kick You Out.” “This,” exclaims one in-
dignant U.S. newspaper commentator, a
rather peculiar form of reverse lend-lease.”
9 ■* * *
Light on Lidice. — One of those odd, and im-
portant, bits of history that get passed over in
the general newspaper recording of passing
events crops up in the middle of a “Nineteenth
Century and After” article on Nuremberg. The
“Nineteenth Century” editor, F. A. Voigt,
writes: “The original action which led to the
reprisal at Lidice was the assassination of one
man, Heydrich, the German governor of the
Protectorate. Although this action could not
justify the destruction of a town and the mas-
sacre of the inhabitants, it was itself a violation
of the rules of war. It was not even an act
of vengeance by an outraged population. It
was planned, not in Czechoslovakia, but in
Britain, and was executed by air-borne emis-
saries from Britain. It was the more indefen-
sible because the originators and perpetrators
must have known that many innocent persons
would be made to suffer —and for an action
Which, so far from being a military necessity,
was not of the slightest military importance.”
* * * *
Russia Views U.S.-Britain. —Soviet aims to
divide U.S. and Britain have been noted in
several U.S. quarters, which will no doubt view
a “Pravda” article by Eugene Varga, “dis-
tinguished Soviet economist,” as a contribution
to that end. Pointing out that “the United
States lost one of every 500 persons killed in
battle, while one of every 100 was lost by
Britain,” Varga asserts that the fruits of vic-
—Rochester ( U.S.A .) " Times-Union .”
“MORE THAN HIS SHARE.”
tory were mainly gleaned by America, which
established naval bases throughout the world,
‘'pushed Britain out of China and made con-
siderable headway in the Near East,” Britain
receiving “only Italian colonies.” Varga sees
Britain’s Conservatives as opposing Bevin’s
foreign policy because it fails to defend the in-
terests of the British Empire against American
efforts to destroy the Empire’s economic bases,
one of these being imperial preference, “the
only barrier preventing United States competi-
tion from driving British industry from imperial
markets.” He insists that “the burden of the
joirtt war and the fruits of the joint victory
are inequitably distributed between Britain and
the United States.”
* * * *
J. Bull’s Shipbuilding. —As assessed by the
U.S. publication “World Report,” “British ship-
building is expanding rapidly into a boom that
eventually might go far to compensate for the
lag in tfc export drive.” The publication re-
ports 2,000,000 gross tons of shipping on the
ways in Britain, Scotland and Northern Ireland,
with 3,000,000 additional tons in orders on
the books promising to “keep British yards busy
through 1950.” Orders are from “all over
the world,” but a good part of the building
“will be retained by Britain for her own mer-
chant navy.” In the early 1920’5, “World
Report” states, British shipwrights met keen
competition from the U.S., but, though today
American builders are also receiving orders,
“uncertainties over the disposition of millions
of tons of Victory and Liberty ships dampen
their market.” Altogether, Britain is doing 52.7
per cent, of the world’s present shipbuilding;
the U.S., next biggest builder, has only 326,753
tons on the ways.
V * * *
U.S. Depression Forecasts. —Though the help
which the U.S. is expected to give various
countries in loans and other assistance over the
next few years is still put at astronomical
figures, pessimism about a depression that could
well upset all such plans seems to be mounting.
Recent forecasts reported by N.Y. “Sun” in-
cluded that of Robert R. Wason, a board chair-
man of the National Association of Manufac-
turers: “If depression is to be avoided taxes
on venture capital must be reduced and labor’s
monopoly must be ended. Except the new
Congress end the labor and tax abuses, we can
have depression in 1947.” The forecast of
William J. Baxter, of the “Baxter Internatibnal
Research Bureau,” was even more definite. He
said that Americans “were not only headed for
certain depression, but it will be the most seri-
ous one in our entire history.” Baxter blamed
“the burden of taxation made necessary by the
huge military expenditure, which in every other
country has always brought about a low stand-
ard of living.”
* * * *
Back to Civvies in U.S. —Showing how the
great bulk of those who served in the U.S.
forces have rapidly settled back as civvies, the
U.S. Veterans’ Administration has reported the
total of employed veterans as 10,700,000, against
some 700,000 looking for work. America pays
an “adjustment allowance” of $2O a week for a
year while any ex-serviceman is seeking work;
only 66,627 have drawn it for the full year,
which, says N.Y, “Times,” “speaks well for the
conscience and good sense of veteran's as a
whole.”
* * *
“We Stand By Britain.’’ —Under this heading
N.Y: “Times” recently published a leader advo-
cating the same U.S. support of Britain in its
peace-time struggle as that fine newspaper advo-
cated before and throughout the war. “The
gravest threat to the democratic system,” it
now asserts, “lies in the discouragement of
democratic peoples. If the British people lose
courage, for example, lose incentive to go on
fighting, lose the sense of invincibility they
continue to feel in today’s breakdown; if the
democratic forces in France, in Scandinavia, in
Italy, even in Germany, give up the struggle,
our democracy and the cause of democracy are
immeasurably weakened in the world. The
United States cannot let this happen.” Apart
from the single issue of Palestine, similar gener-
ous comment continues to hold first place in all
the more responsible American publications.
* * * jij
Outing “Human Rights.”- —As was no doubt
generally expected, the Soviet came down with
both feet on proposals of the United Nations
Human Rights Commission. N.Y. “World-
Telegram” reports the Soviet representative as
demanding the deletion of “The rights of life
and of personal liberty; the prohibition of
slavery and compulsory labor; the right to peti-
tion national Governments and the U.N.; the
right of property and the prohibition of unlaw-
ful expropriation; the non-retroactivity of penal
laws; the freedom of migration, and the free-
dom to resist oppression.” It looks a clean
enough sweep of most rights treasured outside
the U.S.S.R. William Henry Chamberlin com-
mented on it in “Wall-street Journal”: “Un-
questionably any serious effort to implement
these proposals would create embarrassing diffi-
culties for the Soviet Union and for some of its
satellite States.” At least it indicates a good
measure of optimism in U.N.O. quarters that
such proposals should have ever been put up
for Soviet acceptance.
* J|t * jh
Alphabetical Handles. —U.N.O. has become
like the already curtailed cur in practically all
overseas journalistic usage. It’s now just
U.N., sometimes put UN and sometimes Un.
Similar typographical changes are rung on
U.N.E.5.C.0., though they don’t clip it, no
doubt feeling that it’s curtailment enough from
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organisation. The U.N.E.S.C.O. (or
Unesco) aim is the tidy one of “wiping out
the illiteracy of more than half the world’s
population.” The other equally ambitious
long-handled one, U.N.R.R.A., officially wound
up on December 31, but will go on delivering
allotted goods to China and thereabouts till the
middle of the year. First prize for the queerest-
sounding of these alphabetical handles goes to
U.M.T. (or UMT or Umt): it’s U.S. short-cut
for Universal Military Training.
* jK * *
Nylon. —“ Having slain silk in the American
hosiery market,” says “Wall-street Journal,”
“nylon is engaging wool and cotton in a big
bout.” The aim is to “imitate and improve
upon both fleece and cotton staple.” The big
Du Pont nyjon concern is now putting about
18,000,001 b. of the synthetic fibre into women’s
stockings per yehr, and intends to push produc-
tion up to the rate of 54,000,001 b. by 1948 and
perhaps even to 70,000,0001 b. • later that year.
“Wall-street Journal” credits experts with be-
lieving that hundreds of millions of pounds of
nylon will be used yearly before very long:
“Facilities to reach for this big new market
are beginning to be built.” Already three times
as much nylon is being manufactured as in
1941, and the plants now going up will triple
the present output.


Before You BUILD
or
BUY a HOME
CONSULT
The
The
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited
Assets Exceed £49,000,000
Payments to Policyholders Exceed £52,000,000


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3502
Wednesday, March 26, 1947
OUR RULER!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE IDES OF MARCH.
It isi now evident that great numbers of
Australians who for years habitually
voted “Labor,” among them many trade-
unionists and their womenfolk, have
turned away from the party which, only
three weeks ago, was in office in the
Commonwealth and in five States, and
was confident of capturing the sixth.
These Australians were, in the main,
moved by gratitude and expectation of
favors, especially if there should be
another depression. Uninformed and in-
disposed to be inquisitive, they accepted
“Labor’s” claim, that “Labor” measures
had removed the threat of Japanese in-
vasion and won the war; had stopped
the rot and saved the country from the
consequences of the previous Govern-
ment’s “defeatist” home-defence policy.
History, impartially written, will niake
short work of these pretensions. It will
have a great deal to say about tragic
occurrences of the saving-the-country
period, the facts of which were con-
cealed by “Labor” at the time and are
concealed, though imperfectly, still. It
will lift the veil drawn by “Labor” over
the useless sacrifice of large bodies of
troops in Amboina, Java and Timor ; of
ill-trained and ill-armed reinforcements in
Malaya—those who survived these cam-
paigns and their ghastly Captivity have
been refused the equivalent of the “sus-
tenance” freely granted to home-service
soldiers and unemployed and of
civilians in New Guinea, all drowned in
a prison ship, who could have been
shipped to Australia in safety before the
enemy came down. And there will be
acid historical comments on “Labor’s”
restriction of conscript service, global in
the case of British and Americans, to
areas far south of the regions in which
thousands of Australian soldiers, seamen
and airmen were enduring the bitterness
of death (actual in a frightful number of
cases) in the hands of the Japanese, and
on Mr. Chifley’s conditional promise of
a “token force” as “Labor’s” contribution
to the armies of liberation.
However, “Labor” had its way with
electors all too ready to believe what
they wished to believe, and State “Labor”
parties cashed in on the glory which their
predominant partner had bestowed on it-
self. But after a year of peace with
crippling taxation, and with inaction and
worse in all other fields—-industrial, hous-
ing, soldier-settlement and the rest —
doubts of “Labor’s” capacity to usher in
the Golden Age promised by Mr. Chifley,
and to make it permanent, crept in.
This was shown in the 1946 contests
for the House of Representatives. They
cost the “Government” six seats, includ-
ing those of Army Minister Forde and
Repatriation Minister Frost, and would
have cost it more if the truth about the
sale of wheat to N.Z. “Labor,” 18,000,000
bushels at ss. 9d. (the present export
price is 165.), had been placed before
the farmers; also if the electoral rolls,
particularly in Parkes (N.S.W.), had not
been rotten.
Nevertheless, the “Labor” Senate ticket
prevailed in every State except Queens-
land. Its success in Tasmania, together
with the winning of three of the five Tas-
manian seats in the House, moved
Premier Cosgrove to cocksure anticipa-
tions of another two-to-one majority (20-
10) in the Assembly, the election for
which he had prudently decided to hurry
on. But in eight weeks there had been
such a change of sentiment that “Labor”
lost four Assembly seats, and had a few-
score electors in one of the five divisions
voted the other way it would have lost a
fifth, and its majority. As it was, Mr.
Cosgrove had to reconstruct his Govern-
ment, two Ministers being among the
missing, and, looking around his depleted
ranks, he may have cause to wonder
whether his new men will be as servile
as the old.
Mr. Ward had gone to Tasmania to
help Mr. Cosgrove and party, and to
spread round the constituencies his own
pet prophecy, which was that “Labor”
would rule Australia, all Australia, for
all time. To other States with Assembly
elections coming on four of Mr. Ward’s
colleagues were despatched: Mr. Pollard
and Mr. Chambers to South Australia
and Mr. Lemmon and Mr. Johnson to
Westralia, the lastnamed daring repeated
strikes on the Commonwealth Govern-
ment railways, which are under his
administration, and the possibility of an-
other On the Westralian Government
railways —there had been a bad one
on that dismally-insolvent undertaking
already. Meantime, “Labor” principles
and practices had comb under general,
and for the most part unfavorable,
observation, especially as there had been
unlooked-for additions. A short sum-
mary :
Adoption of the old Tammany business
of rewarding defeated party men with fat
billets, the beneficiaries ranging from the
rejected Army Minister to “Russia-is-
always-Right” Mountjoy, who, with Com-
munists in his own family circle, was given
a job on the C.S.I.R.
Pensions for retired or defeated N.S.W.
and Victorian State Assemblymen after ser-
vice in three “Parliaments” ; pensions far
more substantial than those granted to war-
wrecked servicemen and servicemen s
widows, with extension to Queensland and
the Commonwealth mooted.
Conversion of the Governor-Generalship
into fruit from the plum-tree, in the first
instance for a Sydney “Labor” Premier
who, as was shown when he threw himselt
into the Caucus struggle for the succession,
being then Governor-General designate, had
lost the confidence of most of his own
followers.
An epidemic of strikes and stoppages in
key industries, causing devastating inter-
ruptions of sea and land transport, power
and fuel supplies (even to hospitals) and in-
dustrial operations, and cruel shortages ot
essential materials and commodities.
Strikes all unlawful and all reducing indus-
trial arbitration to a nullity, but all un-
resisted by “Labor” on the principle that
the law of the push, when invoked and:
enforced by union bosses and mobs, is
supreme, whatever the consequences to the
majesty of government, private necessities
and the public safety. .
Total surrender to Communists, and in
particular to notorious Moscow agents,
whether they dictate foreign policy (as in
the case of the Dutch in their East Indies),
or sabotage domestic policy and boycott
the export of food and fate to stricken
Britain.
Going about South Australia, Mr.
Pollard blithered that “wheatgrowers
will not lose under the contract” — i.e.,
Mr. Scully’s arrangement with Mr. Sul-
livan —“because the Government will pay
the Wheat Board the difference between
the contract price and the export price.”
He did not give any estimate of what “the
difference” on a minimum of 18,000,000
bushels would be, nor did he stress the
point that the taxpayers would meet it
or that the wheatgrowers would be
loaded with their share as taxpayers. Mr.
Chambers came in with a whole issue of
pestilent nonsense, his prize effort be-
ing “the Australian worker has made up
his mind that there will not be any sur-
plus of commodities”; and so nothing
to sell abroad nor anything to exchange
for goods which Australia does not and
cannot produce: the economics of a
blacks’ camp. And Mr. Chifley was
represented in a full-page advertisement
with the five “Labor” Premiers and
Opposition-leader Richards, all with port-
raits and the P.M. saying to Mr.
Richards “Well, Bob, let’s finish the
job and complete the chain,”
When the votes had been counted “the
chain” of “ ‘Labor’ Governments” was
not only incomplete, but “Bob’s” party
had been reduced to depression-period
numbers. Seventeen in the last Assembly,
and with fond hopes of 21 at least, it
was down to 13, exactly one-third of the
House, and the electors of Stanley very
nearly made it 12. “Bob’s” own majority
suffered and so did those of all his fol-
lowers who survived the rout, while in
nearly every case Ministerial majorities
increased substantially. And for “Bob”
and his remnant there was no escaping
the fact that a saddening proportion of
unionists and members of their families
had transferred their support to the Play-
ford party.
There is no record of what Mr. Lem-
mon and Mr. Johnson said in Westralia,
but any effect they produced could only
have been’for the worse. And yet un-
opposed returns had given “Labor” an
apparently insuperable advantage: 15
“Labor,” 4 Opposition and an Indepen-
dent a bit “Labor’s” way—at least when
“Labor” had 30 or 31 of the 50 seats.
Moreover the arrangement of electoral
boundaries was tremendously in favor
of the crowd in office. They were not
exactly rigged ; but, “Labor” having for
many years refused the necessary redis-
tribution, the effect was the same: an
outsize in gerrymandering.
In Premier Wise’s electorate of Gas-
coyne and three other northern pocket
boroughs, all with “Labor” members,
the enrolment was 3093 all told, and it
was probably excessive at that. On the
eastern goldfields, where enrolment
figures were also doubtful (in four cases
they were not given), an average of
2000 electors or so assured “Labor” of
another six seats. On the other hand,
in 21 agricultural electorates from which
the Country party draws all its strength,
the adult population, as enrolled, ranged
from just under 3000 in York to just on
7000 in Swan; in Liberal-leader Mc-
Larty’s electorate, Murray-Wellington,
the number was 5559. And in 17 metro-
politan electorates, which always show
an increase from election to election, the
average, going on 1943 figures and allow'-
ing for the absence of precise in-
formation in six divisions, must have
been round 10,000. In Nedlands, which
“Labor” did not contest, the veteran Nor-
bert Keenan polled 9400 votes and in
Canning, Mr. Yates, another Liberal, had
to go to 7300 in gaining the seat.
Nevertheless, “Labor” suffered its worst
defeat for 30 years. It may have 23
seats when all the votes are in—there are
a few hundred to come from the Occu-
pation Force in Japan —but that estimate
gives it Pilbara, where thus far it is a
solitary ballot-paper to the good, and a
couple of other electorates in which it
was —and may still be —touch-and-go.
And this when except for one Parlia-
mentary term it had been in control of
Westralian affairs since 1923, and when
everything was in its favor, save only—
and this proved all important —the tem-
per of the people; a people baited into
hostility to “Labor” by its cowardice,
sloth, stupidity and Tammanyism, goaded-
to cold fury by the mob-caused unem-
ployment and shortages, and conscious
of the perils with which their country is
threatened and of the calamities that
may be in store for it unless it gets Gov-
ernments that will govern.
These feelings are not confined to
Westralia or to South Australia. They
will be evidenced in Queensland and N. S.
Wales when the electors of those States
go to the polls, and in Victoria, also,
when the Cain Government, which is
without a pledged majority and whose
Minister of Labor and leader of the
Legislative Council made himself “a
party principal,” as Dr. Evatt would
say, to the threatened May Day strike, is
sent about its business. An immediate
consequence of the McGirr Govern-
ment’s unutterably contemptible attitude
to Communist was a work-
ing arrangement between the Liberal and
Country parties. If they and their
Queensland counterparts pull together
and police the rolls three other “ ‘Labor’
Governments” will go down before the
year is far advanced, and the Chifley
Administration will be left in trembling
'and inglorious isolation on the mainland,
with the death-damp on its pallid brow.
Ringbarking Arbitration.
It is to be gathered from the 16th Com-
monwealth Arbitration Amendment Bill
that, in Dr, Evatt’s opinion, the Arbi-
tration Court system has failed, that the
expedient of special tribunals designed
to placate militant unions has also failed,
and that, in the “new province” of law-
lessness and disorder, the best hope is
some' thaumaturgic virtue in conciliation
by special commissioners.
A stranger would deduce that con-
ciliation is a new idea in our system
of administering industrial law, and that
Communists and fellow-travellers, whose
confessed aim is to sabotage the arbitra-
tion machinery, are only, waiting to be
persuaded by conciliation to obey the
law. If what the Government means
by conciliation is not'something very
different from the insurgent unions’
understanding of it, the latest reform
in arbitration will assuredly be no more
than a device for giving direct-actionists
everything they want.
It is on this point that Dr. Evatt and
his legislative proposals have been chal-
lenged. In no sentence of his speech
recommending the Bill to the House did
he express any belief that his new swarm
of Conciliation Commissioners would be
able to overcome that refusal of militant
union executives to accept discipline in
industry or the exercise of any authority
except their own. It is true that the
Arbitration Court has become congested,
and that serious delays have occurred in
getting filed claims heard and grievances
adjusted. It is equally true that Divorce
Courts have become congested. But it
would not lessen that congestion if Par-
liament were to enact that Judges in
divorce jurisdiction should act merely as
courts of appeal, and that hearing of
petitions should be handed over en-
tirely to; a corps of conciliators, who
would go into action without legal for-
malities on the first signs of a marital
dispute, would invade homes to obtain
background information, and, having
failed as peacemakers, would use powers
to pronounce decrees.
The nature of industrial stoppages, as
Dr. Evatt recognised, has greatly changed
since the early days of the Arbitration
Court, but he did not give # that change
its full value. The outstanding trouble
today is not so much that the Court is
slow to pronounce upon disputes submit-
ted to it as that strikes are ordered
against its awards or orders after a fair
hearing. That Court delays have occa-
sionally provoked strike action as a
means of expediting a union’s case is
a good debating argument; but it loses
much of its force in face of the com-
munity’s hard experience at the hands of
the coalminers and the waterside workers,
to whom have been given their own
industrial tribunals —which they have
flouted as readily as they have flouted
the Court. Indeed, the very efforts
to appease these unions by putting
their industries “outside the Court” seem
to have stimulated their rebellion against
authority. Their leaders have shown
clearly that they regard the conciliatory
approach as weakness, and concession as
widening of the breach for further de-
mands.
Mr. Fadden coined the terqj “ringbark-
ing arbitration.” Dr. Evatt’s measure
ringbarks it with a vengeance. “The Bill, ’
he says, “frankly turns away from the ex-
isting method, the settlement of disputes
by,judicial decision.” The Court is to be
retained, but as a sort of museum piece;
Its principal function will be to deal
with distinctively legal matters... .but
these will be considerably reduced.... The
awards or decisions of individual Con-
ciliation Commissioners will not be sub-
ject to appeal to the Court.
Of the four matters which the Court
will attend to, for sake of uniformity,
two —standard hours and the basic wage
—are being claimed by “the movement ’
as proper rather for Parliament to decide.
The Chief Judge will, it is proposed, be
occupied for the future in directing the
compilation of statistics. This, the
Attorney-General said, “will be of im-
mense value” —to Conciliation Commis-
sioners !
No wonder Arbitration Judge Foster
remarked from the Bench that all
we do now may be frustrated next week
the Government’s proposals alter the
powers and functions of the Court very
largely.”
When in 1929 the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment, despairing of the friction and over-
lapping of State and Federal jurisdictions,
proposed to hand over arbitration to the
States, “Labor” arose in anger and
carried the electorate with it in defence
of the Court. Yet what Mr. Bruce pro-
posed was honorable burial of that body
compared with “Labor’s” present treat-
ment of it under the new Bill. Dr. Evatt
had this to say in valediction:
The worker, the employer and the com-
munity have been far better off with the
Court than they could possibly have been
without it It has influenced Australian
economic life as a whole to an extent far
greater than its founders ever imagined pos-
sible. It has raised industrial conditions
gradually but effectively.... It has lessened
, the aggregate of industrial dislocation, it
has encouraged and almost made man-
datory the Australian system of elective
bargaining through registered organisations.
Quite so ; and great unions which it has
nourished in that very way have now
condemned it as obstructive to their ends
and processes, and sentenced it to death.
Henceforth Commissioners—ls for a be-
ginning-will take over the Court's
powers, and each in a particular indus-
trial group will interpret them in his own
fashion.
What sort of men will they be? Dr.
Evatt does not say. Indeed,, he cannot
know, for under the Chifley system of
appointing defeated “Labor” politicians
to Government posts, they may be any-
body. Wjiat Dr. Evatt hopefully bespoke
before the House was “men with a strong
sense of social justice, a high degree of
personal disinterestedness and that im-
partiality without which the trust of both
sides can never be secured” ; men pos-
sessed withal of “commonsense, human
understanding and courage.” This might
look better if almost simultaneously the
Attorney-General had not presented his
Bill for “settlement of industrial disputes
in connection with stevedoring opera-
tions,” which sets up not a single Com-
missioner, but a Commission of six (in-
cluding one Government officer without
a vote) to conciliate and arbitrate for
waterside disputes. The Stevedoring
Commission, whose existence will thus
be perpetuated, will carry on all the
functions for that industry of the Arbi-
tration Court, ahd it must surely be, in
its collective entity, as near an example
of the new conciliation system as the
Government can contrive.
Yet before the Stevedoring Bill be-
came law the Stevedoring Commission’s
authority was defied and its awards
ignored by the Sydney branch of the
union, and the bill cannot give the Com-
mission more power than it already pos-
sesses under extended National Security
Regulations. It concedes certain advant-
ages for which the coddled union has
been agitating, but that fact does not
mitigate the union’s rebellious attitude
towards either the Commission or the
Government. Yet all the Prime Minister
can say is that if the Sydney waterside
workers do not abandon their job-control
tactics he will not proclaim the Bill after
it has been passed. If that is an example
of what the Chifley Government calls
conciliation, it had best leave the Court
alone. The Court does at least preserve
some guarantee of impartial dealing in
industrial arbitration.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Ninety Millions for Wool.
Shouts of joy have hit the wfelkin from
sundry directions because the curren
wool clip is going to be worth abou
£90,000,000 Australian.
Of course, it’s a good thing to get hi
prices for wool, but nobody need imagin
that the country will be flooded wit
wealth as a result. Four years of drougl
cost Queensland about 10,000,000 shee
and N. S. Wales more ; and there wer
serious losses in other States. There ar
stations in Queensland and norther
N. S. Wales that will be shearing les
than half their normal musterings; anc
that is far from being the whole story.
The price of good breeding ewes ha
jumped. Shearers have been awarded th
40-hour week by the Industrial Commis
sion in Queensland and by the A.W.U
in other parts. Costs of aIJ kinds hav
risen enormously, and there is a cripplin
shortage of men and materials for im
provements, now urgent, that had to b
neglected during the war. And taxation
direct and indirect—or surreptitious—
remains ferocious.
Sheepmen will need all they will ge
of the £90,000,000 to weather the blow
they and their industry have had to take.
Towards Civil War.
There was nothing novel in the violem
proceedings witnessed in Sydney oi
March 18, or in the accompanying event
in other cities—in Adelaide a stoppage
of tram and bus services for lack o
coal on account of strikes, stoppages anc
go-slow; in Melbourne, a Communist
declared extension of the metal-trade
strike, to which a Victorian M.H.R. had
already applied the term “a nationa
tragedy.” Everything that happened or
that day, including the “ ‘Labor’ Govern
ment” buck-passing and surrender to
mobs, had happened before. It wa
Moscow with a dash of Wicklow over
again, though this time in larger doses.
For nine days that day Sydney had
been a dead port. In the holds of tied
up ships (88 at the week-end) lay 200,000
tons of cargo, comprising 17,000 tons o:
flour for Britain, where the tragedy o:
the freeze has been succeeded by the
tragedy of the floods, both threatening
another disastrous harvest; and, for Aus-
tralian delivery, 14,000 tons of raw sugar
400 tons of salt, 103,000 ,bags of Vic-
torian wheat—required as a consequence
of the N.S.W. crop failure —6000 boxes
of tea and 43,000 bags of Tasmanian
potatoes, the growth of which is sub-
sidised by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, and all rotting.
Deliveries of sugar to manufacturers
had ceased. Bakers were almost out of
salt, and greengrocers and grocers were
out of potatoes. Poultry farmers could
not get wheat. And all because so-
called “moderates” in control of the
Sydney branch of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, defying a direction of their
Stevedoring Commission, refused to allow
wharfies to‘work a few hours of easy
overtime, a kind of piecework at which
amateurs made £8 to £l2 at war-time
week-ends.
During the second half of 1946 average
hours worked on the Sydney wharves
by men who did work (only five-sixths
of the number registered) were 33.47 per
week, overtime included, and their weekly
earnings averaged £7 2s. 7d. For the Sep-
tember quarter the rate of discharging
general cargo was 18.23 tons per net
gang-hour compared with 22 tons in
1938, when gangs were smaller, and the
rate of loading frozen cargo, 15 tons per
gang-hour in 1938, had got down to
10.36 tons.
An M.L.C., and an M.L.A., in pursu-
ance of what they considered their duty
and in the exercise of their lawful rights,
decided to call a public meeting in the
Domain, securing Ministerial permission
—from Mr. Graham, who doesn’t seem
to be one of the bhoys— to set up a loud-
speaking apparatus. Their meeting was
broken up, and they themselves were
assaulted, bystanders with them, by a
Communist basher gang, which, collect-
ing its mob, afterwards repeated its South
Coast coal-stoppage performance of
surging up to Parliament House in in-
timidation of Ministers, in this case shout-
ing demands for the release of persons
whom the police had arrested. For their
own factional purposes the Communists
in control of the Federal executive of
the Waterside Workers’ Federation, the
Healy-Roach gang, had vetoed an ex-
tension of the strike to other ports be-
cause it had been ordered by the Cogh-
lan-Ferry gang of “moderates,” who are
very thick with Sydney and Can-
berra “Labor” politicians. But Com-
munists were on hand fof the bashing.
They always are.
The significance of the March 18 out-
rage lies not so much in the actuality of
what took place or in the fact that the
whole affair was arranged by officials of
the Central Communist Party Committee
—its organising secretary, Adam Ogston,
took part in the “demonstration” outside
Parliament House, and over the air and
at a meeting advocated the suppres-
sion of free speech for all save Com-
munists —as in the official attitude to it,
which has become chronic.
When the Opposition attempted to
debate the matter in the State House, it
was gagged. When a debate was initi-
ated in the Commonwealth Parliament
Mr. Chifley allowed it to continue only
long enough to pass the buck to the State
“authority.” When the legislators assaulted
in the Domain within biscuit-throw of
Parliament House tried to see Mr.
McGirr, Mr. McGirr ran away with the
remark that “Mr. Darby’s action was an
incitement to mob violence.” And in a
dreadful sense this was true.
Anyone who attempts to thwart the
wicked destruction of industry and
transport and the produce of Nature’s
bounty and man’s toil becomes an
offender against the law of the push,
which Communists have established
above the common law. And he must
take the consequences, bashing and per-
secution, unless the heads of the Police
Department can spare enough force to
protect him, and it seems they never can,
even when they have days of warning of
what is afoot.
And the bashed can hope for no
N.S.W. “ ‘Labor’ Government” sym-
pathy. As its Mr. McGirr indicates, the
“ ‘Labor’ Government” view is that any-
body who comes out against wrecking
and wreckers is an inciter to violence.
“GATHER ALL YE UNDER THE PLUM-TREE!”
“Federal ‘Labor’ members believe that public reactions would not be unfavorable to an
increase of Parliamentary pay to £1500 p.a., together with a superannuation scheme and free
train travel for life after two terms in the House and one in the Senate.”
“Steady, boys—plenty more super-plums to fall”
Now It's Paint.
Paint supplies are about to cut out be-
cause no linseed is being imported from
India, Australia’s usual source of supply.
Argentina, U.S.A., Canada and Russia
all grow large quantities of linseed, which
is the seed of the common flax. Flax will
grow in both tropic and temperate
climates, of which Australia has its share,
but so far nobody has bothered much
about growing it. Another source of oil
for paint is soy bean, but again only a
few people, notably about Armidale
(N.S.W.) are growing the bean, though
it is easy to grow, and is a crop of first-
class importance in America,
This shortage of linseed is no sudden
thing. It began to show up nearly a year
ago. Probably the Minister of Supply
knew about it; if so he didn’t tell any-
body. Anyhow, it wasn’t until last month
that Mr. Clark (“Lab.” N.S.W.) asked
Mr. Pollard what was being done. Mr.
Pollard made some vague references to
the State Departments of Agriculture and
the C.5.1.R., but produced no linseed.
A great many people are now mighty
interested in linseed. Unless it can be got
about 15,000 people will lose their jobs.
Paint restrictions have been clapped on
Queensland and will certainly follow in
other States. Nobody has been told any-
thing about it by any Minister or any of
the 1001 “controllers.” Nobody, that is,
except a Mr. D. Thompson. Mr. Thomp-
son was cornered by a Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” man last wfeek and gave
the only explanation so far given.
Linseed supplies have failed because the
Indian rice crop failed in 1945 and Indians
are now eating linseed. They will not supply
us with linseed unless we supply them with
the equivalent in wheat.
Mr. Thompson is Federal secretary of
the Painters’ Union, obviously the very
man to issue important national state-
ments. Perhaps he could help us further
by explaining why on earth Mr. Pollard,
who is selling 16s. wheat to N.Z. “Labor”
at ss. 9d., can’t send enough to India to
obtain supplies of linseed. At least
15,000 people would like to know
Back to "Beckett's Budget."
Through the courtesy of a reptile con-
temporary the Sydney public was last
week able to learn the explanation of Mr.
Eric Kennedy, of Asspciated Newspapers,
as to why Sydney journals are what they
are.
Mr. Kennedy had been listening to a
grilling from a Mr. Keeling, a Methodist
minister: “By sensation-mongering and
pandering to depraved tastes (especially
in the splashing of crime reports) the
newspapers are greatly out of touch with
the public.”
The Kennedy counter to this was that
newspapers “meet the standards their
readers set.” He continued (as reported,
in the third person, by his admiring col-
league of the daily press):
“Beckett’s Budget,” a newspaper pub-
lished in Sydney some years ago, had ad-
vanced views on salacity and crime. With-
in a few months “Beckett’s Budget” had
won a larger audience than any other
paper in Australia, but the police finally
caught up with it. The Sunday newspaper
with the largest circulation in the world,
published in London its principal con-
tents sport results and reports from criminal
and divorce courts sold 7,500,000
copies. The London “Times,” available
to 40,000,000 people, sold fewer copies than
any Sydney daily which was available to
only 2,000,000 people.
The minister might have pointed out
in reply that the New York “Times,”
the London “Times,” the “Daily
Mail” and many papers of similar
outlook have survived without following
the models of “Beckett’s Budget” and
“News of the World.”
If Mr. Kennedy was faithfully reported
he succeeded only in confirming a sus-
picion that has long been in many minds:
that the Sydney press has a low
opinion of its readers, believing them to
be interested in nothing but crime,
gambling and female flesh; and that this
explains why the political influence of
the daily and Sunday papers doesn’t
amount to a row of pins.
.
Money in "Militancy."
What favoritism these “militant” unions
manage to extract from Canberra!
The new stevedoring legislation levies
on employers special taxation of
for each of 30 million man-hours esti-
mated to be worked on the wharves by
Commo Healy’s union during the year—
the impost will, of course, be passed on
to producers and consumers. Of the
proceeds £360,000 is to be spent on
attendance money. And how may that
be earned? Mr. Menzies explains:
In Melbourne and Adelaide gangs of
waterside workers are notified by [A.B.C.]
radio broadcasts, at night and again early
next morning, when they will be required. '
Having heard the announcements the water-
side worker is entitled to attendance money
At Port Kembfe and Townsville this
information is conveyed by posting lists.
If the small boy of the family fails to find
papa’s name on a list, papa becomes
eligible for attendance money.
In any case wharfies’ pay was long
ago fixed on the consideration that,
their labor being casual, they should re-
ceive a full and proper week’s wages on
a 44-hour basis, though their time, being
broken, may be only 30 hours. The whole
condition of the loaded-hourly rate fixed
for them, as Judge Beeby explained dur-
ing their case in 1932, is that they do not
have a full week’s work—that they have
to attend some days without working.
That also is the reason for rostering of
work. Mr. Menzies gave the figures for
a January week in Melbourne —a speci-
ally good instance because in Melbourne,
average weekly hours worked have been
39.68. Yet even there
Twenty men, having earned £8 to £9,
drew also 12s.
Of 24 men who earned £9 to £lO, 23
drew 12s. and one 245. extra.
Sixty-eight men who earned £lO to £ll,
drew also 12s.
'Of 59 men who earned £ll to £l2, 54
drew also 12s. and five drew 245.
Of 37 men who earned £l2 to £l3, 35
drew an additional 125., and two 245.
Of 20 men who earned £l3 to £l4, each
drew also 12s.
Of 22 men who earned £l6 to £l7, each
drew also 12s.
The extra was in every case attendance
money.
And consider the seamen, whose union
is run by that other Communist secretary,
Elliott. A chosen crew got £320 “danger
pay” per man for 18 days’ service as crew
of the Wanganella while she was stranded
off Wellington, N.Z. And in answer
to Mr. Fadden in the House, Mr. Chifley
admitted that seamen enjoy ' under the
Taxation Assessment Act a special con-
cession granted to members of the de-
fence forces in war-time. A seaman pays
no tax or social service contribution up to
£250 a year, and after that level the de-
duction diminishes on a graduated scale
to cease at £587. “It is not proposed to
extend this concession,” said Mr. Chifley,
“further than the current income year.”
In addition, war-risk bonus continues.
It has cost the taxpayers £650,000 since
the end of the war in August, 1945 ;
and taxpayers are also, of course, meet-
ing the huge losses on Government
control of shipping. No wonder the
militants fight for Government control of
industry. They can both milk it and
defy its authority with impunity, as the
wharfies do.
Permits for State Bricks.
If there is nothing to conceal in the story
of how the N.S.W. “ ‘Labor’ Govern-
ment’s” spoilt child the Sydney Turf
Club, which was recently fined £lOO for
unauthorised building at Rosehill race-
course, managed to obtain nearly three
times as many bricks from the State
brickworks as it was authorised to draw,
then Minister Cahill (Works) has shown
himself singularly touchy under Opposi-
tion efforts at investigation.
Under fire from the other side Mr.
Cahill became positively bad-rtempered.
He described Mr. Turner, who urged that
the Auditor-General could examine the
books of the State brickworks and settle
the issue, as having a “filthy mind.” What
the Young Digger M.L.A. for Gordon did
was to point out from papers laid on
the table that, during the past 12 months,
while no bricks for non-housing purposes
could be supplied by private brickworks
without an order specifying the maximum
number of bricks approved for the job, it
had apparently been possible for persons
drawing from the State brickworks to
obtain bricks on presenting merely , n
official “consent to commence building.”
In other words, under a regime of sup-
posedly strict State control, with quotas
of overall output allotted for housing and
non-housing purposes, no builder could
get bricks from private yards without
presenting both a permit to build and
an authority for a declared number of
bricks. But at the State brickworks he
could apparently draw what he asked on
producing merely the former of these
authorisations. It is calculated that 25,000
bricks were drawn for Rosehill. There
was evidence among the papers tabled
of some authority for the obtaining of
10,000; but whether that authority was
presented was not clear.
The possible opening here for black-
marketing is obvious to the simplest in-
telligence. Mr. Cahill chose to ignore
the suggestion. That his Labor and
Industry colleague saw the point is evi-
denced in the exchange of letters between
the Ministers, read by Mr. Cahill. How
many other customers in the market for
bricks on a mere approval of an applica-
tion to commence building—which Mr.
Cahill confused with a permit for materials
—drew bricks, like the S.T.C., from the
State yards without any authority to use
a single brick is a story yet to be told
or disposed of.
When Mr. Cahill continued to refuse
papers and tried to dismiss the business
on the ground that the State brickworks
were now complying with the authorisa-
tion procedure required for private yards,
the Opposition-leader gave notice of
motion demanding a Royal Commission
to probe the matter. He probably won’t;
get even a hearing for the motion.


You can
always rely on
CRAVENA
■%,•***
BSS-7
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
A clause of the Stevedoring Industry
Commission Bill obnoxious to Ward
obnoxious because, for a miracle, it was
designed to protect producers and con-
sumers against having to pay appearance
money, at 12s, a day, to swarms of un-
needed wharflaborers —was approved of in
Caucus. There followed the House de-
bate ou Bretton Woods, which Ward had
denounced in pamphlets, radio mono-
logues, speeches at union meetings and in
party palavers ; in Caucus he pushed the
thing to a vote, on which there was almost
an equal division. After a non-party second
reading discussion of the ratifying
measure, there were 55 Ayes and 5 Noes.
Naturally cries for Ward to speak and
vote were heard, but he chose to make
himself scarce. The Bulletin always
thought this mob-leader was a squib, as
has been the case with most mob-leaders
in all agfes.
In situations corresponding to that
brought about by the latest of the litter of
Sydney waterfront strikes —called- off on
the 15th day—British Labor had idle
ships in the Port of London qnloaded by
the Army, and the ITS. Government had
Lewis and his cqalminers’ union prose-
cuted in a Federal Court, to the imme-
diate and probably enduring good of the
nation. Chifley did not even halt the
passage of the Stevedoring Industry Bill,
which gives the promoters of and parties
to the wicked strike appearance money,
two weeks’ annual holidays and their own
tribunal, with paid Communists on it;
and McGirr sided with the strike bosses
and mob as far as he dared.
On the word of a right-down regular
reffo., “a former German naval officer
and S.S. man” was among the 702
refugees who arrived by the Dutch ship
Johan de Witt. His own account is that
he is an Austrian with no more than
half-ari-hour’s fighting service—in Nor-
way.' Anyway, he came with his wife, a
Jewess, both having been nominated by
her mother in Melbourne. In his con-
fusion Calvell had the woman admitted
and the man shipped abroad, and
promised ‘‘further precautions to prevent
* other undesirables trying to break
through.” “Further” is redundant.
“Australian law not only permits
free speech, but guarantees it,” said Dr.
Evatt, discussing the Sydney Domain
riot. This Government thereupon applied
the gag for the fourth time in a fort-
night.
The attempts of “Labor” and of sec-
tions of the Sydney press to shake off
Communist associations is suggestive of
the efforts of a hairy dog to get rid of an
elusive flea. Belatedly recalling that he
was a member of “the anti-Communist
Labor party,” Rosevear denounced Com-
munism with bill, book and boot-toe. A
list of possible Conciliation Commissioners,
published about the same time, included
the vice-president of the Communist
Central Committee. Previously the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund had granted a
£4OO fellowship to a former Communist
historian and publicity officer.
A report that there were signs of the
meat dispute petering out made Mel-
bourne housewives feel that Chifley s
Golden Age was on the point of dawning.
Their hopes were dashed when G. G.
Jobbins, chairman of the State Electricity
Commission, announced that the juice he
supplies to every second home in Victoria,
and to most industries, was likely to be
cut off, all his plans for development of
his undertaking having been cut off, so
to speak, at the meter. At the same time,
the district committee of the Amalgam-
ated Engineering Union ordained that all
engineers should, be called off power and
transport services, which means that
4000 men employed on railways, tram-
ways and in power-houses, Mr. Coles s
Trans-Australia Airways and gasworks,
will be affected.
When a patient is threatened with
general paralysis he doesn’t bother much
about rheumatics, and a dispute be-
tween Jobbins of the S.E.C. and Ken-
nelly, his “Labor” Minister, sounds al-
most academic, Kennelly protested that
the Jobbins communication was the first
intimation he had that there was anything
wrong with the S.E.C. - and expressed
himself as “astounded.” The comment of
Hollway, the Liberal leader, was that the
Minister for Electrical Undertakings
liked to imagine that he always “had
one ear close to the ground” ; but that
ground, apparently, was in the-'vicinity of
the Trades Hall, not his Ministerial office.
Meantime Premier Cain, following
Premier Cosgrove, was saying that he
didn’t like Communists, so there!
The A.C.T.U. has called off the May
Day strike which was to have ushered
in the Commo-“moderate” declaration of
a 40-hour week in contempt of Arbitra-
tion Court proceedings. In the process
of calling it off P. J. Clarey removed a
great load from his mind and those of
his Ministerial colleagues, while denying
a wonderful theme to cartoonists. As
president of the A.C.T.U. Clarey would
have had to come out on strike. As
Cain’s Minister of Labor and Employ-
ment and leader in the Leg. Council, he
would have had to be held down in
his Ministerial seat lest he skittle his
“Government.” The “Government” is
already in so parlous a plight that an en-
forced dissolution of the Assembly, in
which the “Government” lacks a party
majority, is a dread possibility as soon as
the House returns from its holidays.
Meanwhile the Illawarra (N.S.W.) Labor
Council has branded Clarey and his
partners in the calling-off as “the greatest
political and moral cowards.”
The Commonwealth Auditor-General
is a walking encyclopaedia on the way the
money goes. In his report on the year to
June 30, 1946, he gives the accumulated
loss on apple and pear marketing as
£4,220,215, which loss was only one of
a series in different fields ; from the Army
there were pinched 43,159 shirts. “It’s
good to hear the honest watchdog’s bark,”
though “Labor” members never pay any
attention to it, much less make it the
subject of a debate.
The Old Bolshevists plumed them-
selves on the publication of the secret
treaties to which Britain, France and
Italy were parties in the 1914-18 war
and gained credit from the exposure for
many years. Thinking to put the USA.
and Britain in a jam, Molotov let it out
that there had been a secret protocol at
Yalta awarding Russia £2500 millions in
German reparations, partly payable “in
annual deliveries from current produc-
tion.” Churchill, it seems, objected to
this arrangement, and at Moscow
Marshal declared in blunt soldierly
language that it had been superseded at
Potsdam. But the disclosure will damage
Roosevelt’s reputation in his own coun-
try and give an impetus to the movement
to restrict Presidents to two terms.
“Open covenants, openly arrived at,”
was the first of Woodrow Wilson’s 14
points. What a descent to the secret
protocol at Yalta, agreed to by Wilson’s
Democratic successor, in repudiation, not
only of “open covenants, openly arrived
at,” but of the Democratic successor’s
own Atlantic Charter!
It was here remarked (B. 19/3/’47),
apropos of what the trial Judge called
“one of the most brutal and pathetic cases
in the history of Queensland crime,” that
under Queensland “Labor’s” no-hanging
notions, the relatives and friends of the
victim would share with “other taxpayers
the cost of feeding and housing her
murderer” for the rest of his life in
prison. They have been saved this ex-
pense ; the murderer hanged himself. Had
he been cut down in time “Labor” would
no doubt have called in a magistrate to
deal with him —not necessarily on a
charge of trying to break its own hanging
law.
An Australian wool clip worth
£90,000,000 will cheer up the new firm
of wheat and wool dealers, Chifley and
Co., since their 5 p.c. contributory charge
means a rake-off of £4,500,000. Added
to profits on trading in commandeered
wool and the N.Z. wheat deal —
16s. wheat at ss. 9d. —it makes a
business beyond the soaring ambition of
any private merchant or 'group. The
5 p.c. was substituted for the 25.-a-bale
levy and, as heralded, is designed (1) to
meet the wool industry’s share of the
cost of the Joint Organisation and (2) to
take care of interest payments, if any
arise on any Government expenditure
in purchasing wool under the disposals
plan and (3) to supply a fund for re-
search and publicity. A little matter of
£7,000,000 accrued profit from the war-
time wool business has already been
shoved into this research and publicity
fund. Sheep men, like wheat men, don’t
want to be “stabilised” in the “Labor”
way. They reckon that a contributory
charge of 0.5 p.c, would be ample cover
against costs under all three headings.
But it isn’t “Labor’s” policy to consider
the views of producers of commodities
like wool and wheat.
When 6436 votes had been counted in
East Perth (W.A.) the Communist Mount-
joy’s share was 398. Scarcely enough to
warrant the “Government” at Canberra
giving him the consolation prize of a
job on the C.S.I.R. alongside his “Labor”
brother.
A War-Graves man, his wife and baby
have been evicted by-Communists from
the military camp of which, “Labor” per-
mitting, they have taken possession at
Ekibin (Brisbane). Had the like happened
in “Labor” Britain these Communists
would long ago have been arrested and
sent to the Old Bailey; but with
“Labor’s” connivance they have seized
national property and exacted from
their dupes rent and charges for water
and lighting. In every other part of the
Empire the King’s writ runs against Com-
munist lawbreakers, but not in “Labor”
Australia unless they manhandle police-
men.
Resolution adopted at the N.S.W.
Graziers’ conference:
As a gesture of protest against the
murder of British citizens in Palestine the
Commonwealth Government should refuse
continued entry into Australia of unnatu-
ralised Jews in preference to British
migrants.
Let Calvell laugh that off—if he can.
N.S.W. Transport Minister O’Sullivan
contributed to his crowd’s pre-election
propaganda by stating that during the
eight months to February 28 tram
revenue was up £113,000, “chiefly the
result of increased supervision and col-
lection of fares.” Leaving aside the dis-
ingenuous suggestion that the trams are
paying their way, what a ghastly sabotage
of tram revenue must have been going
on in “the corresponding period of last
year” before the Government was goaded
into taking action by, among others, fhe
Auditor-General. As admitted in the
Budget, Government road transport ser-
vices (trams and buses) went into the red
by £95,000 in 1944-45 and £379,000 in
1945-46, and were estimated to lose
£508,000 for the year to June 30.
In the Westralian elections Liberal
leader McLarty appealed to electors to
“get rid of this cobweb Government.”
Liberal advertisements showed hospitals
and public utilities partly obscured by
cobwebs with a fat spider squatting com-
placently on them. Electors followed
the advice. “Cobweb Government” is a
term equally applicable to the N.S.W.
“Labor” mob, and it is up to the electors
to sweep them from office.
During a Senate debate on the Sydney
hold-up of shipping, an Opposition mem-
ber suggested the use of troops to un-
load perishable foodstuffs. Government
spokesmen mumbled something about
this being different from war-time. Their
obvious answer should have been “What
troops?”
In face of the chaos overtaking in-
dustry, particularly in N. S. Wales and
Victoria, as a result of union lawlessness
and the mob rule that is reaching out
from the Port Jackson waterfront, there
can be only one interpretation of the
behavior of “Labor” Ministers in Sydney
and Canberra, They have ceased to
govern. They have for so long permitted
violation of the industrial law that appa-
rently they cannot now recognise defiance
of authority when they see it. Now the
'basher gangs are out again and defiance
of the common law leaves the Chifleys
and McGirrs equally unmoved. With
the drift they have encouraged they do
not know how to assert any discipline.
They are scared stiff.
The ferocious Sydney Domain attacks
to which Darby, M.L.A., Bridges,
M.L.C., Cr. Cramer and others were
subjected were in line with what had
happened to others, even in the Town
Hall, which is regularly placed at the
disposal of Communists for “rallies”
without protest from the “Civic Reform ’
majority. Previous examples:
Australia First men were battered and
kicked while down when the Communists
took charge of their final meeting in
1942. Two of»the men, while before the
Commission wnich inquired into their in-
ternments, were waylaid by gangs and
beaten up. Two of their counsel were
threatened if they persisted in defending
them. . , . ,
The Citizens’ Rights Committee, which
believed that it could implement Dr. Evatt’s
slogan of free speech by holding an anti-
strike Town Hall meeting, and Mr. Menzies,
who believed that the right of a candidate
to put his case in safety-—despite a previous
experience—still existed in Sydney, were dis-
illusioned and taught that the only rule or
free speech is that frequently heard enunci-
ated from Communist platforms, “Free
Speech for the Communist party,” and the
Communist party alone.
And so it will go on until there is a
return to real government and the rule
of law. , ~
Queensland, first of the States to be hit
by the linseed-oil shortage, has been told
by the “Assistant Co-ordinator-General”
about a set of restrictions on paint use
which must be obeyed—or else. Only
one coat for outside walls, no oil-base
paint for inside and so on. Object of
the restrictions? To conserve supplies
and assist housing and other users? No ;
“to keep as many painters as possible
employed” —the 5 A.C.-G.’s own words.
It has been a bad month for Com-
munists everywhere but in Australia,
where “Labor? lets them get away with
anything. The position abroad:
In China a Chiang army drove the Corns,
helter-skelter, taking their “capital, Yenan.
At the same time Molotov’s clumsy attempt
to have the position in China debated by tne
Foreign Ministers, none of them a Chinese,
was bringing about nation-wide demon-
strations against Russian policy.
The French Communists had to face up
to a decision of moment to all France and
what is left of its empire—whether to sup-
port or refuse votes for the forces coping
with the insurrection in Indo-China. They
covered themselves with ridicule and igno-
miny by instructing the five Com. Ministers
to support the votes and the rest of their
deputies to abstain.
In Hungary Moscow-dictated attempts to
smash the Smallholders’ party and Govern-
ment by arrests and other forms of terror-
ism wefe arrested by firm American action.
In the U.S.A. the Truman Governments
championship of Greece and Turkey and
declaration of resistance to Communists
everywhere was followed by a Supreme
Court judgment upholding the Civil Ser-
vice Commission in its dismissal or a
Communist “sympathiser” from Federal
Government employment. That was tot-
lowed by a Presidential order for the dis-
missal of all Federal Government em-
ployees where F. 8.1. reports reasonable
ground to doubt their loyalty.
In Britain itself Military Intelligence has
asked for the denial of Government jobs
to Communists.
But Australia remains—easy-going old
mug-governed Australia!


“SHE’LL BE COMIN’ ROUND THE MOUNTAIN-IF SHE COMES.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Jasby”: Arrival of the American
Antarctic expedition in Sydney for a
defrosting spell was expected to herald
an open season for taxi-drivers, night-
club proprietors and girls who love sailors
with cash. But money wasn’t splashed as
freely as formerly ; like many other folk
the gobs probably realise the war is over,
One street photographer, though, met a
Yank who was pretty lavish with his roll.
Accompanied by two damsels who had
appointed themselves his Welcoming com-
mittee, he was snapped in Pitt-street.
When the photographer handed‘him the
usual card he passed it on to one of the
girls accompanied by a twenty-dollar bill,
asking her to collect the prints and post
them on to him. As she tucked the card
and money away in her handbag the
photographer murmured to the Yank
“Taking a bit of a risk, aren’t you?”
“Aw, no,” said the gob. “When I was
here during the war I used to do it that
way, and I always got the pictures.”
* * * *
“Barkly”: “C.Q.’s” par. (B. 12/3/’47)
reminds me of an interesting memento in
my possession. As part of Ballarat’s cen-
tenary celebrations an old Cobb and Co.
coach, with one-time drivers at the reins,
lumbered majestically up from Mel-
bourne carrying a souvenir mail stamped
“Cobb’s Mail Coach, 1938.” Special en-
velopes were sold in Ballarat for a shilling
each. I was 17 at the time, but with the
collector’s sense of optimism addressed
the envelope to myself and marked it “to
be opened by my grandson.” Catching
on, my grandfather gave me a tenner to
enclose in a letter I had written to suit
the idea. Every time I’m broke now I
grab a paper-knife, but somehow resist
the temptation. The only thing that
worries me is that my grandson-to-be
may find an Australian tenner valueless
if the country continues to run its pre-
sent madcap race,
» * * *
“McGlum”: A sidelight on th£ Vic-
torian metal-trades strike. Down at Port
Melbourne an old derelict scraping tune-
lessly away at a violin met with some op-
position. His rival for the stray coins of
citizens was a strapping young fellow
with a red tie, waving a collection-box
and crooning a new lullaby which might
put the combined unions of the metal
trades to sleep for good. The heartrend-
ing cry of “Help the Strikers” coming
from the gutter must be a new idea in
begging. The indignant violinist was play-
ing “If I Can’t Have Sunshine Without
Any Work, I’d Rather Stay Out in the
Rain.”
* * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”: A kapok-filled pil-
low picked up in a 12 feet by 12 feet
airless room in which 80 Dutch, Javanese
and Australian prisoners spent the first
miserable night of their captivity on
Ambon started my morale off on its
rough journey. Going back to Tan-
toey a few days later the Japs laughed
at my treasure and dusted my pants for
being soft. Later on, in the stifling hold
of the Taiko Maru, where squatting and
standing were the only possible relaxa-
tions, I strapped on the pillow and fcmnd
some ease. At Hainan it made dying men
comfortable. And it became a hiding-
place for many articles stolen from the
Japs and for precious possessions of many
men; watches, rice, yen, emetine, quin-
ine, vitamin B, dice and two-up pennies
all nestled safely in the kapok at various
times. The cover was mended until re-
pair became an impossibility. Then the
scraps made a G-string for myself and
I sold the filling. Some went for pack-
ing the gouged-out holes of tropical
ulcers, but most for padding the seats of
tattered shorts. It was surprising the
amount of protection one got against the
onslaught of Jap dog-wallopers upon
one’s bony bottom.
* * * *
“Watson”: I knew “The Breaker”
before the South African War, and I
am a veteran of that campaign, too. The
chief reason for his being shot (as every-
body said at the time) was to placate the
Germans over the death of the German
missionary Hesse, whom Morant was
falsely accused of having killed; —being
acquitted of the charge. I remember
Morant when he was breaking horses for
Philip Charley out at Richmond (N.S.W.).
One day the Windsor police ran
him into clink for something he was said
to have done in Sydney, It was late in
the afternoon, and the police jugged him
and his horse in a compound with great
high walls and a high gate with a lantern
over it, and then went home to tea.
“The Breaker” took a good look at the
gate, then mounted and, giving himself
the longest possible run, cleared it—-and
“Quick with the cobwebs and the eighteen-ninety label for this bottle
of plonk!"
did not hit the lantern,-either. It puzzled
the Johns t 0 work out how M orant and
his horsfe got out
** *<>rse got out. #
Curtain Rais er”: The long arm of
tbe international copyright laws has
reac h e d out and caused consternation
among amateur theatricians in Mel-
hourne. University Dramatic Club picked
Qn » Liliorn » for the most ambitious effort
of its history, and the Molnar piece was
t mtQ pro duction. Seven expensive
sets wer£ built a i arge cast ass embled
and there have been weeks of rehearsals,
Now the dub learns that the rights situa-
tion for the play is “ mG st complicated.”
The aut h or , who is a lecturer at Stanford
University, California, sold the rights to
p aramountj or Oscar Hammerstein, or
someone p ara mount is projecting
bugil engaged on a
y “Carousel.”
Joy Youlden, the pro-
b as an aunt who is staying with the
Hami^erste i ns j n N ew York, so there is
g that the mudd i e may be straightened
The show is due to open in about
f ortn j g bt.
* * * *
»Ti an f ana ”. Last vear the Adelaide
offered^ sale at awy
reasonable old taSS
r^° \ t "one used for
residential purposes at a camping ground
near Adelaide. The buyer of another
expressed his intention of dividing it into
several rooms. A further development
in the caravan situation appeared recently
in a newspaper photo., “Big ’Plane
as Backyard Toy.” It showed a small
boy sitting at the controls of a Lockheed
Lodestar ’plane, which was to be con-
verted into a caravan. Army Disposals
sold it for £25.
*
“Metax”: R.A.N. vessels seen hover-
mg along the Speck’s north coast for the
last couple of months did a bit more
than provide boy friends for coastal-
town flappers. In addition to having
men running along the beaches looking
through queer gadgets and sticking up
arrays of flags in remote places, echo
soundings have been taken along over
100 miles of coastline to a distance of
30 miles from the shore. Previous sound-
ings in this area were taken in 1839 and
(by the Beagle) in 1870. These two obser-
vations, with a few additions made by
H.M.S. Fantome, supplied all the data
available to date for chartmaking of this
section. Observations taken in Emu Bay
will save the Burnie Marine Board a pile
of work collecting data for its port exten-
sion scheme.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A call unique in Russell-
street annals brought a patrol car out to
South Melbourne on a report that a
shooting affray had started. It turned
out that a meat-starved citizen had seen
a rabbit lurking about the suburb and
had been trying to replenish his larder.
* * * •
“0.R.”: Statements made frequently
and publicly about the excellence of the
Maoriland medical service overlook com-
pletely the human factor. This reacts in
a lot of surprising ways. There is a dis-
tinct deterioration in the standard of the
medico being produced under the system.
The shyster lawyer arose because he went
into his profession with the idea of mak-
ing money out of it, rather than because
he had a genuine interest in the working
principles of the law. In Maoriland now
doctors’ rewards are more secure
than lawyers’, and bright young people
are rushing the course. Work is shod-
dier and more hurried. Every time a
doctor sees a patient the Government is
good for another 7s. 6d. It is not sur-
prising that the younger doctor, having
given his opinion or his treatment, is
prone to say “You had better drop in
P gain tomor y row whi i e I have another
look at that.” And earn another fee. To
the layman unsuccessful and lingering
treatments seem definitely on the increase.
In view of the fact that they have been
paid for in advance, through the nose
and under compulsion, this state of affair*.
isn’t good enough.
* * * *
“Galenus”: On August 27, 1946, a
baby was born in a Brisbane hospital with
most of his red blood cells already
destroyed and the certain prospect of
an early death if they were not replaced
by others of a different type. The condi-
tion arose from the fact that he belonged
to a different Rhesus blood group from
that 0 f his mother. It had been detected
some months before by a doctor, and
preparations had been made for dealing
with it. Immediately after birth baby’s
blood was drained away through the urn-
bilical cord and simultaneously replaced
by blood of suitable grouping. Four other
transfusions were given later through
veins in his ankles and arms. At six
months he now weighs 16 pounds and is
a completely healthy, active, lively baby,
normal in every respect. Also, a living’
example of the advisability of RH
blood-group testing for all prospective
parents.
* *
“Passun”: Those of us who were not
on our feet when the Yank recovery team
parachuted into Haisho had to wait
patiently on our bug-ridden bunks for
the first look at these unexpected angels,
Paddy, bloated with ben-ben and ex-
hausted by dysentery, couldn t stand the
strain and began crawling out into the
open towards the Jap guard-house, where
the Yanks were fighting to get permission
to enter our compound. It was heavy
going for Paddy, but he made the corner
of the hut, propped himself against the
wall and waited. A big moustached cap-
tain with horn-rimmed glasses headed a
party of nine hefty paratroops. They
swept aside the Japs guarding the gate
and sprinted towards the Australian
quarters. Suddenly sighting the phenome-
non that was Paddy they stopped to stare
unbelievingly at the awful sight. Paddy
tried to salute, squinted through his
almost blind eyes until he had the big
captain in focus, and then, unashamedly
allowing the tears to flow, joyously but
reverently said “I’ll be blowed if it isn’t
old Groucho Marx himself!” ,
* * * *
“Spoke”: Civilians .who root over the
piles of materials in the hands of Army
Disposals in Melbourne have not been
found wanting in ingenuity in the use of
queer adjuncts to modern warfare. One
dealer in antique furniture has discovered
that the electrical stethoscope invented to
detect the moment at which unexploded
bombs and mines would blow up is
equally efficacious in betraying the activi-
ties of borers at work in chairs and tables.
Another found that the same gadget could
record the characteristic sound of water
flowing through pipes, thus obviating the
necessity of digging up streets and pave-
ments to find cracks. A man who proudly
drove a “duck” through Melbourne was
possibly contemplating life on an island
in the Gippsland Lakes district.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A Fremantle (W.A.)
man believes that you can catch anything
in the ocean if you use the right bait and
give your luck a chance to operate. He
dropped his specfacles in a steel case into
30 feet of water and tried to salvage them
with a seven-pound magnet, giving up
when the line broke. A day or so later
an angler of a different school hooked,
fought, played and landed that magnet.
Hanging to it was the spectacle case.
* * * •
“Gravelsnatcher”; P.-0.-w. and sabo-
tage (B. 26/2/’47)? At one large Ger-
man hospital on the eve of a raid the
staff called for volunteers to assist the
totally-incapacitated patients to shelter.
There were some bad cases among the
p.-0.-w. in one ward —cases that baffled
the German quacks and even had some
of our own doctors puzzled —but the
times they put up in the sprint to the
shelters wouldn’t have seemed out of
place in a Stawell Gift. They would cer-
tainly have amazed the staff if the staff
had stayed to watch the exodus.
r * * * *
“Niloc”: “Thou shall not earbash,” a
saw of our oldest inhabitant, is what he
thanks as much as anything for his lon-
gevity, though in telling us how he has
observed that commandment he fre-
quently breaks it to the extent of several
“schooners.” If the old mastoid-punisher
were to trim his whiskers and buy some
horn-rimmed spectacles, a new shirt and
a ticket to America he would be on the
way to a fortune. In that land lecture-
giving is big business, and has been so for
generations. Dickens collected over
200,000 dollars in one tour. Since then
one speaker, by repeating his propheti-
cally-titled “Acres of Diamonds” opus
over 6000 times, made $4,000,000, which
he used to found a university. The title-
holder for single appearances is Prince
William of Sweden, who used to take
$7OOO ; H. G. Wells reached the $3500
mark. But those who should know say
Churchill could get $25,000 an evening
“if he just stood on the platform and
worked a yo-yo.”
* * * *
“E.D.”: We were on army manoeuvres
inland from Cairns (N.Q.).- All was jungle,
mountains and valleys. One night we
bivouacked in a small clearing near what
seemed in the starlight to be an old de-
serted hut. During the night there were
two “enemy with accompany-
ing small-arms fire. Next morning at first
light we discovered that the hut was oc-
cupied. An old-timer with a snow-white
beard greeted us cheerily. “Be gob,” he
said, “I thought there was an aerodrome
being built in me backyard last night.”
* * * *
“Splodger”: I’m one of those highly-
civilised things known as a suburbanite.
I mow the lawns, trim the hedges, take
note of what my neighbors are doing.
Lately the front footpaths needed mow-
ing. I tackled the job bare-footed. While
I was mowing some of the younger set
wandered by, their jaws going with the
persistence, but without the grace, of a
ruminating cow. They were chewing
gum. As I finished my mowing I trod
on something. One of those cudless crea-
tures had spat its gum. I’m now in a
position to recommend a form ®f refined
torture —chewing gum between the toes
of a bare foot. I’ve rubbed it, rasped it,
tried every soap that comes over the air,
worn the skin away till the pink shows,
and still I pick up pieces of fluff from
the carpet when I walk in my bare feet.
I suppose it will wear away in time. Ive
learned my lesson r beware of gum*
chewers. They are worse than expector-
ating llamas.
A TIP FROM BELOW.
“The Sydney University Teachers’ Staff Associa-
tion is considering registration as a trade-union to
enforce claims for increased salaries.”
Well, and why not? Should erudite professors
And massive scientists disdain to use
Means that the Law provides for the possessors
Of union tickets to enforce their dues,
Methods that slaughtermen and window-dressers
Alike employ to bolster up their screws?
Perish the thought! Awards that brawn obtains
Can scarce in equity be barred to brains.
It saddens one to find men whose vocation
Is stores of precious knowledge to disburse
Complaining of the scant remuneration
Bestowed upon them from the public purse.
Such niggardliness calls for reprobation,
And is there any form of sweating worse
Than that applied to those who do their bit
To keep the lamps of learning brightly lit?
Queer, is it not, that stars in art and science,
Men of acquirements proven and immense,
Should have to unionise for that reliance
Which brings employers to a proper sense
Of their true worth, and helps them bid de-
fiance
At last to “that eternal lack of pence
Which vexes public men” —as Tennyson
So subtly phrased it many a year agone.
I hold most politicians small potatoes,
Except perhaps in their own reckonings,
Contrasted with ouf academic Catos,
Custodians of our Pierian springs,
Potential Stuart Mills and modem Platos.
Still, getting made a legislator brings
One worth-while privilege, I think you’ll grant.
They fix their salaries. Professors can’t.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: In Sydney, at least, the public
servant most unfortunately placed is the
Government meteorologist. He becomes
the butt of city people’s bad humor
should a succession of wet week-ends
occur in midsummer, and harassed cockies
say nasty things if he doesn’t arrange the
prompt breaking of a drought. But his
chief bugbear is the daily press. As sure
as he tips a cyclone which gets itself
diverted on its way up from the south
and finishes up somewhere out in the
Tasman, the inevitable reporter will be
around for an explanation, resulting in a
long, involved technical affair ip which
nobody is interested. In a late instance
the boys with the pencils were on the
Observatory doormat practically every
day for a week following up the Case
of the Missing Monsoon. One of these
days, when a prophecy of “sleet and
fog” goes astray, a justly fed-up meteor-
ologist, asked for an explanation, will
snap: “The former got lost in the latter! ”
and will throw the pest to a pack of
hungry isobars.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Scientifically - minded
folk love to point out the mistakes of
poets, such as Shakspsare equipping
Bohemia with a seacoast, Coleridge
“Ah, Well — two's company !”
placing a star within the moon’s nether
tip and Keats crediting the wrong
bloke with the discovery of the
Pacific, But they’re just as bad them-
selves. Wandering round the Chemex
show at the Melbourne Exhibition Build-
ing, with its enormities of strange, deli-
cate and inhuman apparatus, one saw a 1
100-foot pendulum swinging from the
roof of the building, its purpose to prove
that the earth does really rotate on its
axis. It looked very impressive until
somebody pointed out a legend reading
“The faster the pendulum swings the less
the value of ‘G.’ ” It should, he said, be
not “less/’ but “greater.” Another
captious cove then capped this by re-
marking that the large glass globe along-
side it, representing the earth, was revolv-
ing in the wrong direction. It was, too,
and it couldn’t be altered as, if it had, the
wording on it would have to be read
backwards.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Evidently criminals
changed their outlook after World War I
(B. 12/3/’47). 1 was working in Parra-
matta jail in 1943, and patriotic fervor
wasn’t noticeable there. One boarder put
his viewpoint thus: “I’ve done 14 years
in boob, on and off; what have I got
to fight for?” Another, called up, went
a.w.l, and got away with if for
12 months by adopting an alias and
working as a casual laborer at the State
Abattoirs. A little private enterprise—in
fowlhouses at night—got him a six-
month vacation. But he was mystified.
“You know,” he said, “I wrote to the
Army explaining that I didn’t like soldier-
ing an’ wouldn’t make a good soldier,
anyhow, so it would be just as well to
gimme me discharge and save a lot of
trouble. But I can’t make it out; I
haven’t heard from ’em!” He did —the
day he was released.
* * * *
“Flathead”: With a copy of Federal
“Hansard” for material, any playwright
worth his dough should be able to con-
coct a tear-jerking tragedy. If he prefers
mirth to Macbeth, let him turn to British
politics, which, as “Col. M.” (B.
26/2/’47) observes, are still funny. J.
Bull’s Minister for Food, Strachey, was
recently addressed in the House by a
member who complained of the cruelty
practised in branding pigs by clipping
their ears. Another member leaped to his
feet and deplored the complaint, stating:
“A pig would always scream, even if one
picked it up and gave it a kiss.” Re-
marked Strachey: “On behalf of the
House I thank you for the benefit of
your experience. Though I would add
that many human beings would also
scream if picked up and kissed by a
strange member of Parliament.”
* * * *
“Macnell”’: The Royal visit to Simons-
town was not quite complete. There was
one —a loyal subject, a member of the
King’s Navy, whose efforts contri-
buted considerably to raising funds for
the war —who passed into the sailor-
dog’s limbo before the Royal Family
arrived. Nuisance was the biggest hound
anyone had ever seen. Our mess-deck
sweeper, one Maggot Adams, used to
ride comfortably on his back. Every
warship was his home; he had signed
with a plateful of paw the Articles rating
him an A.B. in the Royal Navy. Ashore
there was no waiting patiently outside a
pub—Nuisance was inside lapping up his
share. Like all sailors, he knew where
to head when he’d had enough. Marriage
was decided on, and on a British cruiser’s
quarter-deck* bedecked with bunting,
Nuisance and his knee-high wife were
spliced by the ship’s chaplain. An
entrance fee was charged, also a couple
of bob for photographs of the affair, and
sale of the resultant litter brought the
total amount raised for war purposes to
nearly £lOOO. When the lovable old
fellow took sick he was bedded down in
a cruiser’s sick-bay and attended by two
naval surgeons. To no avail, however,
and the Navy paid its last respects as be-
fitted a staunch messmate—with a guard
of Marines and a three-volley salute.
“Shift it along to his chest, Ronnie—I'm getting giddy up here.”
“Angel”: “Shep’s” strange objects in
the sky (B. 12/3/’47) may have been a
mirage, despite the S.A. Government
Astronomer’s assertions. In 1908 I was a
kid rouseabout on Birthday Station, 95
miles n.-w. of Port Augusta. One morning
a complete and perfect reflection of Port
Augusta township appeared in the sky
above some hills about five miles from
the homestead. The mirage lasted about
30 minutes, and one could pick out
familiar buildings and the wharf fronting
Spencer’s Gulf. Flinders Ranges could
be seen in the background. Others with
me at the time included the owners,
Walter and Charles Ives, and the manager,
Bill Smith. I have seen many' mirages
since, both in Australia and Egypt, but
they were tame and insipid by compari-
son.
* ♦ * *
“Blisters”: What’s the strength of these
cusswords, and why do newspapers ex-
press ’em in dashes and blanks? The best
effort of profanity ever I heard can be
printed in straight letters. It was uttered
by an embryo millionaire striving to emu-
late Kidman, who was reputed never to
swear, smoke or drink. One evening he
was trying to coax a fractious old ewe
through a gate. The thing showed all the
perversity of her sex and breed. After
a particularly exasperating adventure the
youth let the words come with a run:
“Oh, you jolly old acid-drop!” It isn’t
what’s said so much as the manner of say-
ing it that counts. The words seemed
harmless; but the thoughts behind those
words would have used up all the stock
of dashes in the printery.
* * * * »
Guy Innes (from London): I have only
just seen Will Lawson’s “Two Senti-
mental Blokes” (R.P. 18/12/’46), in
which he draws a parallel between C. J.
Dennis’s “Sentimental Bloke” and Wal-
lace Irwin’s “Love Sonnets of a Hood-
lum.” About 1906 Monty Grover, then
a colleague of mine on the Melbourne
“Argus,” lent me “The Love Sonnets of
a Hoodlum.” After I had read the
“Sentimental Bloke” some years later, I
asked Dennis whether he was indebted
to Irwin’s work for the idea of it. He
assured me that “The Bloke” was an
independent conception ; but that after it
was printed somebody, .struck by the
similarity of the plot of the two works,
had lent him “The Love Sonnets,” which
he read, in hospital during an illness.
This would be about 1915, when he was
confidential secretary to Senator E. J.
Russell.
* * * *
“W.A.C.”: Heard a radio speaker re-
fer to this as the Popcorn Age. An apt
expression for times when we can get
ample supplies of unnecessary articles but
find many essentials unprocurable.
* * * *
“Meekatharr-a”: The Mosquitos of
No. 87 Squadron (Photo Recce Unit) oc-
casionally carried a “strange cargo” (B.
19/3/’47) back to their base at Coomallie
(N.T.). The operation, euphemistically
termed a “navigation exercise,” consisted
of a flight to Broome (W.A.) for a few
cases of Westralian beer. It was a good
lurk, and whenever a Mossie shattered
the early-morning silence over Area H.Q.
the thoughts of waking sleepers turned
to the amber fluid. The “exercises” were
brought to a sudden climax by the early
rising of the Area 5.A.5.0., torn from
sleep by a Mosquito. He strolled into the
Ops. Room and asked “Where’s that
Anophelene going?” The control officer
chewed his moustache and murmured
something about “navigation exercise,
sir.” The old boy gazed at the move-
ments board which bore no reference to
an 87 Squadron Mossie: “Why isn’t it
on the board?” The control officer
chewed his moustache even more
anxiously, but the S.A.S.O, saved him
from answering by calling for his S.O.
Ops. Ops. denied, honestly, any know-
ledge of the business, so the S.A.S.O.
bore down on the phone and called up
87 Squadron. “Where’s that Mosquito
going, and who authorised the flight,” he
bellowed. A voice from 87 made the
disastrous reply: “To Broome, sir—navi-
gation exercise, authorised by S.Q. Ops.”
“Navigation exercises” declined sharply
after that.
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”; In a boyhood
which had some ultra-religious contacts,
t became well acquainted with that curio-
sity of literature the tract. The young
man slipped into sin by drinking a glass
of beer, and the downhill slide continued
until, having busted the bank, killed the
bank manager and broken his mother’s
heart, he faced the hangman with joy in
his buzzum because he had found True
Repentance. Writers of “S. M. Herald”
serials have thus far overlooked the fic-
tional possibilities of the tract. In the
third the “hero,” having started by
going a.w.l. from camp, becomes a
Murderer, A worldly mind might sug-
gest that what really landed Frankie in
the soup was being a mug s.p. bookie.
The s.p. merchant usually has a com-
plete scheme for laying off his losses,
which makes his book secure ; but Frankie
apparently doesn’t know the ropes. There
are other smart Alecs like him who have
been caught and have lost heavily. They
achieve a belated realisation that they
are mugs, and having mortgaged the
wife’s furniture to pay their debts settle
down to forget their s.p. misadventures.
* * %
“Squizz”: It is typical of British
understatement that the Rolls Royce con-
cern should be naming each member of
its rapidly-growing family of jet engines
after English rivers that “flow gently”—
or did until this month of floods. Its
original gas turbine was called Welland,
after a small river which in normal times
meanders placidly down from Northamp-
tonshire through the peaceful fen
country of Lincolnshire to the North
Sea. It was on the banks of this
stream that the late Sir Henry Royce
spent most of his infrequent idle
hours. Later jet engines are named after
the Trent, Neite and Clyde.
The Derwent engine which was in-
stalled in the record-breaking Gloster
Meteor must have created some furious
arguments in pubs, for there are rivers
of that name in Derbyshire, Yorkshire,
Cumberland and along the Tyne. Then,
of course, there is our own home-grown
variety in the Apple Island.
* * * «
“1631”: The years rolled back as I
read the troopship Marathon’s odyssey
(“Spare Corp,” B. 12/2/’47). The old
trooper was coming into the English
Channel from the Bay of Biscay at the
time of the U-boat incident. As one of
the reinstoushment sigs. on duty I had
a front-pew view. The appearance of
Von Tirpitz’s craft synchronised with the
providential sweep of the avenging de-
stroyer as she swept the Marathon’s stern
on an open throttle. The name Lapwing
56 showing on the greyhound’s free-
board was for ever emblazoned in our
hearts and minds. My Digger hat has
been off to the Navy ever since. I recall
on that voyage the presence of young
Lieut. Wilkins, now Sir Hubert of Arctic
exploration fame. He was charming,
cultured and immensely popular, despite
his being the Guard Officer at Capetown
where I was caught asleep at 3 a.m. while
guarding the main gangway.
ZOLAISM.
“Discussing the prize-winning novels in the Sydney
‘Morning Herald,’ speakers at a Feminist Club meet-
ing deplored the tendency of contemporary Aus-
tralian novelists to ‘revel in sordid and salacious
details’.”
If, as a novelist, prizes you’d collar,
Win competitions and rake in the plums,
Choose for your puppets a setting of squalor,
Hold up your mirror to life in the slums.
Bank on mean streets and on characters mainly
Mildly revolting and coarsely grotesque.
Or, to define it more briefly and plainly,
Be Zolaesque.
Pay no account to old masters of fiction;
Thackeray and Dickens no longer are dinned
Into our ears. They are dead as their diction,
Outed for models like “Gone with the Wind.”
Leave to the poets to fashion with unction
Pleasant portrayals of things picturesque.
Yours is a sterner, more sinister function:
Be Zolaesque.
Follow the Frenchman they termed “realistic,”
Shameless recorder of sin and of shame,
License unbridled his characteristic;
Hence we derive a new word from his name.
Reel out adventures salacious and sordid,
Tales of low life just a bit picaresque.
This is the tack for which\ points are awarded.
Be Zolaesque.
Never forget, when you’re planning a novel,
Quite as impressive a yam you can pitch
Writing of those in the gutter who grovel
As in describing the haunts of the rich.
Here is a recipe, maxim or motto
That I suggest you should paste on your
desk:
Whatever else you may aim at, you’ve got to
Be Zolaesque.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


THE SERVICE MAN
Cousens—and Chambers.
Mr. Abbott: The member for Bourke, Mr.
Bryson, made a slanderous reflection on the
courage of the white planters of New Guinea
and the white population generally. He said
that the planters in New Guinea and Papua left
as hurriedly as possible and flew to the main-
land when war was imminent.
Mr. Chambers; And so they did!
—Recorded in “Hansard ” before Mr.
Chambers became Minister for the Army and
appointed the defeated Bryson his secretary.
“Ek Dum”: Everything which happens
in connection with the Cousens case
makes the onlooker more uneasy.
Major Cousens, before he went to the
war, was the one radio announcer in
Sydney who was in direct opposition to
Communists. He was denounced by
them as a “Red-baiter.” When he, with
others of the Allied forces, was made to
speak over Japanese Radio the Com-
munists, with their usual ferocity, de-
manded that he should be treated as a
traitor when released.
The moment he was released the cry
went up for his arrest. And he was
arrested —he alone of many British
and Americans who were taken to Tokyo
for the same purposes.
He was kept for months under a blaze
of publicity while the Commonwealth
“Government” tried to discover means
of trying him. Its proceedings failed.
And now, when he has been released from
the Army, Mr. Chambers has asserted
in Parliament that the major could have
had a courtmartial if he had, desired it,
and has asked why he did not demand
one!
If this A.I.F. officer could have been
courtmartialled, not necessarily for any
offence, why did the Army not court-
martial him? It seems to be a vital and
unanswerable question.
Actually what happened was that the
Commonwealth “Government” had to
ask the State to prosecute him, because
there is no such thing as treason against
the Australian “nation” —a fact for which
some of those who have been so eager to
ruin this unfortunate man should pray
thankfully to their Red gods.
Major Cousens was duly put on trial.
Heaven and earth were moved to convict
him. So far from achieving that objec-
tive, the Crown, though it went to the
length of bringing Japanese to testify
against him, could not even provide a
case for trial.
Mr. Chambers then cancelled Major
Cousens’s commission.
C.O.’s Statements
Brigadier H. B. Taylor, M.C., V.D.,
Brigadier D. S. Maxwell, M.C., and
Lieut.-Colonel C. Anderson, V.C., M.C.,
who saw some of the fiercest of the
Malaya fighting (all veterans of two
wars), elected to make a public state-
ment :
Many people will have been pleased to
have heard Charles Cousens’s voice again
over the air from his old station. It seems
to be an opportune time for us, his
brigadier and his two commanding officers,
to give our opinion of him as a soldier.
Major Cousens, rejected by the Navy on
account of eyesight, enlisted in the 2/19th
Battalion, A.1.F., and was selected by the
C.O. to be adjutant. At no time did we
have cause to regret his selection. During
his time with the battalion he served as
2 I/C A Coy., O.C. A Coy. and 2 I/C of
the battalion. He was a loyal and efficient
officer, keen and enthusiastic at his work,
liked and respected by his fellow-officers
and all the n.c.os. and men who served
under him.
After the capitulation Major Cousens did
his best to conceal from the Japanese his
civil occupation, but he received instruc-
tions from A.I.F. Headquarters, Malaya,
to prepare and broadcast a message to Aus-
tralia. After this broadcast the Japanese
arranged for him to be sent to Tokyo. To
avoid this he volunteered to go with the
first working party to leave Singapore. He
reached Burma, and from there was taken
sack to Singapore and later to Tokyo. On
his return to Singapore he smuggled a
letter to Brigadier Maxwell stating that he
was being forced to go to Tokyo, express-
ing his complete loyalty and his intention to
use to the full any opportunity to better
the lot of his fellow-prisoners. In view
of our personal knowledge of his work in
the battalion and the way he fought during
the campaign we find it impossible to be-
lieve the accusations levelled against him
or to understand why he has been singled
out from all the other prisoners for the
treatment to which he has been subjected.
Perhaps the most difficult thing to under-
stand is why enemy aliens were brought to
this country to give evidence against him.
Every survivor of the Eighth Division
knows what the word of a Japanese is
worth.
The Star Chamber Sits
Mr. Chambers, however, has his own
views of fair play.
According to this extraordinary
Minister, after the N. S. Wales Attorney-
General’s decision a conference was held
in Canberra with the Commonwealth
Acting-Crown Solicitor as chairman. It
had before it exhibits and documents,
“including 50 scripts of Japanese propa-
ganda prepared by Cousens and broad-
cast by Japanese announcers.”
The commentaries, the Minister said,
had been “read and reread by re-
sponsible,” and “all have failed to find in
them any message or other information
of value to the Allies.”
This curious Minister added:
It is my opinion that no reasonable man,
no matter how vivid his imagination, on
reading the commentaries would fail to
agree with that conclusion. The confer-
ence recommended that in view of the
time that had elapsed the courtmartial be
not gone on with, but that the documents
clearly showed that Major Cousens was not
fitted to hold a commission.
“The documents! ” They were Japanese
documents!
In effect, Major Cousens submitted to
an exhaustive trial at which leading coun-
sel used every proper means at their dis-
posal to sheet home a prima facie case
which would enable them to place him
before a jury on a charge of treason. It
could not be done.
Mr. Chambers held his own trial. No-
body save he and his associates knows
what took place or what evidence was
“Try him with ‘ Awake, Awake, and Greet the Happy Morn !”
submitted. There was certainly no evi-
dence for the defence. The man whose
career was at stake did not even know
what was taking place, much less have
an opportunity to protect himself. At
the Chambers trial the much-injured
officer was .found guilty, in his absence,
on the same evidence, or some of it, on
which the N.S.W. Attorney-General
found that there was not even a case to
go to the jury. And on the findings of
his own grossly irregular tribunal, Mr.
Chambers, in the spirit in which he
traduced the people of New Guinea and
Papua, among them officers and men of
the immortal Volunteer Rifles, felt im-
pelled to apply the word “treasonable”
to Major Cousens’s actions. If there is
sufficient loyal evidence to justify the use
of the word there should also be enough
evidence to put the major again on trial.
Mr. Chambers says that it is too late
for a courtmartial. Yet if a courtmartial
were to take place now it would be little
later than the monstrous Star Chamber
trial, a travesty on every concept of
British justice and fair play, which took
place under his auspices in Canberra,
Counsels’ Statement
Major Cousens’s counsel at the magis-
terial proceedings, J. W. Shand,. K.C.,
and J. W. Smyth, were so moved
by Mr. Chambers’s disgraceful effort and
so stirred by sympathy for Major
Cousens that they took the almost un-
precedented course—“having been dis-
sociated from him since we appeared for
him”—of “making a statement without
his knowledge and that of his legal
advisers.”
On these gentlemen’s summary of the
evidence, Mr. Chambers has been guilty
of a mass of distortion and —though
they do not say so—is unfit to remain a
Minister of the Crown.
Among other things, these distinguished
.members of the N.S.W. Bar aver that
the position created by the action of the
N. S. Wales Attorney-General and his
highly-qualified advisers amounted to a
“decision” that “on the whole of the evi-
dence available no reasonable jury could
possibly convict.” They declare posi-
tively ;
It is startling to find that our own
authorities had failed to record these
commentaries [Major Cousens’s] for subse-
quent analysis by competent officers, and
that the prosecution relied upon carbon
copies handed over to them by the Japanese
Foumy Saisho.
The Chambers version:
News commentaries prepared by Major
Cousens and broadcast by Japanese an-
nouncers to America and Australia were
enemy propaganda of the most insidious
type, resembling closely that employed by
the late William Joyce (“Lord Haw Haw”)
from stations in Germany.
“Startling,” this, in a different sense
from that in which Mr. Shand and Mr.
Smyth used the term. It is startling
in another way to reflect that the Miss
Foumy Saisho whom the “Labor” Gov-
ernment brought to Australia, and who
was petted and publicised during the trial,
was the head of a lying radio gang who
ran a campaign aimed at Australian
soldiers. These our fighting men they
advised to surrender so that they could
go home and save their womenfolk from
being debauched by Americans.
Major Cousens’s Broadcasts
Messrs. Shand and Smyth proceeded
with their devastating communication,
which was given to the press:
The fact that the military authorities
have failed to find any message of value
to the Allies in scripts prepared by Major
Cousens is a clear reflection upon their
intelligence. To give only one instance we
mention Major Cousens’s broadcast to
Australia in relation* to the circumstances
of prisoners-of-war.
In this broadcast Major Cousens stated
that the prisoners-of-war were situated
at the former palatial British barracks,
which could only mean Changi, that
they were not unduly guarded and that in
the immediate vicinity there were civilian
internees who had access to the coast and
were completely unguarded. It might be
thought that such a statement would convey
to any person of average intelligence that
the prisoners-of-war could be communicated
with by a commando landing in the vicinity,
and that information of paramount military
value might have been secured.
They quote Mr. Chambers once more:
The evidence showed that an intelligence
officer at headquarters Eastern Command
had stated that in August, 1942, he heard
Major Cousens say in a broadcast from
Tokio that Australia should sever her con-
nections with the British Empire, sue Japan
for.a separate peace and take her position
as one of the component Powers in the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
This officer also stated he heard Major
Cousens say that Mr. Churchill had always
been a warmonger and his war leadership
would be disastrous to the British Empire.
Counsel comment witheringly:
'The Minister fails to state that on cross-
examination the intelligence officer con-
cerned agreed that he did not regard as
disloyal anything he heard until he was
■approached some short time before the
magisterial inquiry to give evidence.
It so happens that the intelligence
officer concerned was the same intelli-
gence officer who, during the Australia
First trials, gave a young fighting soldier,
who was being pilloried as a traitor, a
letter in his own handwriting expressing
confidence in the soldier and adding
that he had recommended the soldier’s
appointment to the Cipher Department
of the Army. For some unexplained
reason the intelligence officer did not
place this information before Judge
Clyne.
The present writer heard the broad-
cast allegedly by Major Cousens to which
the intelligence officer referred. It was
one timed with the Japanese drives on
Moresby and Milne Bay. As the writer
heard it it was delivered not by Major
Cousens but by a “Sergeant Macalister”
at Shanghai. And if it had been made by
Major Cousens it should have earned him
an 0.8. E. for the best piece of Allied
propaganda done over a Jap radio
station.
Mr. Chifley Prefers Scientists
“Ek Dum”: It was reported from Can-
berra by a special representative of the
Sydney “Sun” that Mr. Chifley “prefers
scientists, not generals, for the next war.”
This might be dismissed as wishful
thinking on the part of the “Sun’s” special
representative, but all of it is not. There
is corroboration in Mr. Chifley’s own ex-
pressed viewpoint and in utterances of
his Ministers.
Mr. Chifley has said in effect already
that manpower will not be needed for
the next war. It is asserted that “Army,
Navy and' Air Force are not likely to
get the expansion for which each is press-
ing,” since *the money for which each
is pressing will go into scientific research
and expansion.”
If this is true it is exactly what Com-
munists are after. And there are Com-
munists of a particularly brazen type in
the “Australian Association of Scientific
Workers,”
It has been said that the visit of Pro-
fessor Oliphant to Australia had a “pro-
found effect upon defence thinking.” The
professor presented a picture of “single
high-flying planes capable of devastating
cities with bombs compared with which
the bombs dropped on Japan can be dis-
missed as children’s toys”—a picture
which had a terrific impact upon
Cabinet’s defence “thinking,” particu-
larly Mr. Chifley’s.
Mr. Chifley, it seems, views the matter
from “the point of view of the practical
man who controls the purse-strings.” He
is “appreciative of the fact that Australian
finances are limited,” and that Australia
may “have to pay out large sums, possibly
more than she can economically afford,
for the maintenance of the big traditional
defence forces,” with the alternative of
relatively small but tremendously power*
ful weapons, for which the initial cost
may be heavy but the upkeep relatively
negligible. What can a nation “economi-
cally” afford where its safety is an issue?
Mr. Chifley is said to be prepared to
spend money —big money—“for research
and development of armaments' based on
the press-button theory.”
There is a lot more nonsense of the
same sort in the “Sun” article, from
which the quoted extracts are taken;
nonsense which it is hard to believe that
any responsible newspaper could publish
without bursting into giggles.
It is a stupid attitude to assume
that military thinkers are a lot
of dunderheads isolated from progress
and that their advice is bad. It is neces-
sary to realise that every “improvement”
in warfare — most of the real acceler-
ated developments in civil science—have
grown through action, with the military
forces, naval or air forces. The tank,
the fighting aircraft of all types, the con-
ception of the atom bomb as a weapon
of war, radar in World War II and wire-
less in World War I were all developed
under military auspices. Their adoption
for general use was hastened by military
pressure. Their applications in war were
made by the services scientists and not by
civil scientists.
Because an expert can make a big gun
it does not necessarily mean that he
understands the strategy and tactics of its
uses or the effects which can be achieved.
An axemaker is not necessarily a good
axeman.
And those who are preaching that the
matter should be left to scientists largely
consist of those who are Communists
and fellow-travellers or humanitarians
who are not prepared to accept that war
is part of the universal makeup which
goes with human nature, to recognise that
every effort so far to make a permanent
peace has made the world more unstable,
just as socialistic efforts to produce a
“new order” seem simply to destroy a
little more of the old one without re-
placing its amenities.
While Mr. Chifley is talking this non-
sense, every other modern nation is up
to its eyes in compulsory training
schemes. Not so Australia. Mr. Ded-
man, Minister for Defence, announced
last week that men were still being dis-
charged from the services, which, on Feb.
15, numbered: Army, 36,790; R.A.N.,
12,435 ; and R.A.A.F., 10,908 —a total
of 18,367 under peace-time strength.
The worst off is the R.A.A.F., on
which the efficiency of Mr. Chifley’s
scientific defence would depend.


GILBEY’S GILBEY’S GILBEY’S GILBEY’S GILBEY’S
There are many Gins
but only ONE
TV RFI/&
111)1(19
The delicate, true flavour of Gilbey's Gin is the
same today as always. The name Gilbey's on
every bottle is a guarantee that its contents
are gin at its best the world standard by
yfhich all gins are judged.
AN IDEAL ‘SHORT’ DRINK
2/3 Gilbey's Gin, 1/3 Dry
Vermouth.
X
m -
Of
ct
'Br-
os*
/a
w
&
v
S'.
A DELICIOUS ‘LONG’ DRINK
Gilbey's Gin, ice
and any mineral water, or
with squash and water.
Pen't say
an
THE WORLD STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED
1


SEPARATING
BesS
<«&* -%'*
* ■• ■ •«,-
: .
w
*«»
tm
ms
■jfe
c
FROM DROSS
A LL is not gold that glitters—so, when you choose Plastics, choose carefully.
The heavy demand for moulded ware in particular, coupled with the
shortage of correct materials, accounts for the occasional display of sub-
standard goods.
Responsible members of the Plastics Industry deplore this develop-
ment, which tends to bring plastic goods into disrepute. The difficulty of
combating this is obvious. Only YOU can help to defeat it.
Before you buy a plastic article, examine it thoroughly. Compare it
with similar articles you remember before the war, for thickness, colour,
design and finish.
Plastics have proved to be the best, possibly the final, answer to a
great many needs. They are helping to solve housing—and housekeeping —
problems, but should be chosen with care.
If the right plastics are not readily available, it is wiser to wait till they
are, rather than spend your money on inferior goods.
fe* 8812 «
| BEETLE ELLIOTT PLASTICS PTY. LTD.
TERRY STREET,
ROZELLE, N.S.W.
’Phone; W 82521
16 BOND STREET
MELBOURNE
’Phone; MU1568
*
Work of the R.A.S.
The Royal Agricultural Society of
N.S.W. had to wrap up its Royal Easter
Show after 1941 and pack it away while
the wars went on. Business is to be re-
sumed this week. To hundreds of thou-
sands to whom the Easter Show was an
apnual event its reappearance will be a
comfort, suggesting that despite present
troubles and others looming darkly some
of the old precious values are left, and
ure good old bush philosophy that “no
matter how bad things are, apples’ll grow
again and Mum can still make pumpkin
scones” is as true as it ever was,
The biggest and most varied and spec-
tacular entertainment in Australia, the
Royal Show will rage for 10 days and
several nights, and with it will rage the
BriXish Empire Exhibition, showing pro-
ducts of the United Kindom, Canada,
India, New Zealand, South and East
and West Africa, Zanzibar, Malaya, New-
foundland and Australia.
All this is very useful. It brings be-
fore the people some idea of the pro-
ductivity of their State, land men gather
among prize beasts or vegetables and
discover new aspects of their work or
wander among the machinery, the house-
wife eyes the beautiful fruit in stupe-
faction and wonders where it has been
hidden all this time, what time the small
boy and his sister stare pop-eyed at
everything. Actually the Royal Show is
the State, and, through the State, the
Commonwealth, on parade, and the worst
pessimist in the land couldn’t spend an
hour or two there without being affected,
However, spectacular exciting as
is the Show, it is merely a means to an
end. It costs a lot of money to stage
it and the Society has to depend on fine
weather and large crowds for its finance,
Its most valuable work is done far from
the Moore Park grounds and during what
most people might regard as the quiet
period between shows. It would take
a book to describe in detail the extra-
show work of the R.A.S., and only a
summary can be allowed to show where
the money goes and what value the
people receive for it.
Finance is found for the conduct of
field wheat, fodder conservation, maize,
potato and grassland improvement com-
petitions. There’s nothing spectacular or
particularly interesting—to urban people
—about any of them. But the R.A.S.,
working in co-operation with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, can take credit for
making N. S. Wales the greatest wheat
State of the Commonwealth. It has lifted
the average acre-yield of wheat by up-
wards of three bushels, set a standard
for quality of seed and crop purity, and
provided tests for new and improved
wheats which they might never have had
otherwise,
A wheat competition entails enormous
work and heavy expense. The State
wheat belt is divided into five zones.
Country show societies, branches of the
Agricultural Bureau and farmers’ organi-
sations are encouraged, financially and
otherwise, to hold local competitions in
their zones. A farmer may enter one or
more crops, selecting the best 50-acre
patch. Field officers of the Department
of Agriculture judge the crops for poten-
tial yield, purity, evenness, health and
cleanliness (freedom from weeds). Prizes
are awarded, and later all the winners
in each zone are visited by a wheat judge
and R.A.S. officers, usually accompanied
by four or five newspaper reporters, their
crops judged and awarded prizes ac-
cordingly.
It takes a week to judge one zone.
One competitor is here, the next 80 miles
away, the next 150 miles away and so tin.
For five days judge and party tour the
zone, covering a thousand miles or more.
This goes on throughout the five zones.
No one judge could stand up to it, as
anyone who has waded through a 40-
bushel crop will realise, so other judges
take over. R.A.S. officers have to be
relieved, too. Each one in charge of a
party has to arrange transport and accom-
modation, know the country roads with
all their deviations and short cuts, where
the winning crops can be found, and be
guide, counsellor and friend to all and
sundry. Floods, storms, breakdowns, fires
and accidents are encountered on the
tours and have to be overcome. R.A.S.
wheat parties have been bogged in the
black soil, struck by lightning, forced to
“Nothing like seeing the Show in comforl, George ."
travel all night. R.A.S. men have had
to leave a wrecked car and tramp miles
over flooded paddocks for help, re-
arrange schedules at a moment’s notice,
care for sudden illness and maintain! peace
and good fellowship among six men
cooped up day after day in a motor car.
To what end? So that growers, com-
petitors or not, can read of the success-
ful men and the details of their growing
practices, the amount of working they give
their land, the fertiliser and seed quantities
per acre, the variety of wheat which won
the prize. The points awarded to each crop
tell other growers where to look for pure
seed of a particular variety, what varieties
are becoming popular, how new varieties
are standing up to older ones in yield,
drought-resistance and other qualities, and
frequently suggest alterations in a man’s
particular farming practice which may
add to his income in succeeding years,
There is nothing spectacular about it.
But flourmillers, banks, country traders.
the Agricultural Department and the
State and Federal Governments think so
highly of the results that they willingly
accord the R.A.S. co-operation and, where
necessary, financial assistance to carry on.
Field wheat competitions are probably
the most outstanding success of the
R.A.S. in extra-show work. Grand re-
sults have come from fodder competitions
—where the same procedure of touring
and judging as in wheat is followed,
though under more exacting conditions
since it is done in autumn and winter —
and these, too, are backed by outside
private and official interests; but the job
of educating the Australian farmer to the
need for conserving fodder is a heart-
breaking one. All the same, far more
and better fodder is being conserved,
and with consequent fewer drought
losses of stock and production since
the R.A.S. began this work, and
the Society will push on with it.
Nobody hears much about it, but
an increase in fodder entries or a
statistical statement that more fodder is
stored in a certain district than was stored
before creates as much joy in the R.A.S.
as there is. over a reclaimed sinner in
heaven.
As with wheat and fodder, so, to a
smaller extent, with maize, potatoes and
grassland improvement. N. S. Wales has
never grown enough maize or potatoes
nor done enough pasture work. But
between the R.A.S. and the Agricultural
Department much has been done, not
perhaps in extending areas, but in increas-
ing yields and quality and in demonstrat-
ing how easy it is to graze two sheep
where only one grazed before.
Very much more is done. The Society
has under its care no fewer than 34 breed
societies covering registered studs of
beef and dairy cattle, heavy and light
horses, wool and mutton, sheep, goats,
pigs and dogs. This entails the keeping
of records, the constant checking and
listing of pedigrees and performances, the
printing of stud books, the registration
of ne\y animals and the holding of a
special sheep show in June of each year.
Which, of course, means a constant im-
provement in the quality of animals and
in the quality and quantity of products.
There is, too, the “wine show,”
whereby are gathered for the approval
of expert judges, samples of the country’s
finest wines, liqueurs, whiskies, brandies,
rums and gins. This show and the
“wine tasting” prove year by year that in
these products Australians can hold their
own against the vignerons, wine-makers
and distillers of the Old World. The
R.A.S. spares no expense to this end
and it gains no revenue from the “tast-
ing,” which is done before the Royal
Show takes place.
It needs little imagination to visualise
the amount of work these activities de-
mand or to realise that without some
great money-raising exhibition like the
Royal Easter Show the Society couldn’t
achieve a hundredth part of the things it
does achieve. Only its main
work has been touched upon, and that
but lightly—there is a multitude of other
activities, all important and all necessary
to the welfare and progress of the land in-
dustries—but it is clear that the suburban
man who takes his family to the Royal
Show for a day is doing something more
than provide himself and his wife with an
outing and his children with a ride on
a merry-go-round or a glimpse of a nine-
tailed gazooka from Galapagos.


TO USERS OF
INDUSTRIAL POWER
AND EQUIPMENT
m
Following the recent press and radio
announcements of our expansion pro-
gramme at Geelong, Victoria, involv-
ing an investment of £1,630,000 in
new buildings and plant to engage in
large-scale manufacture of tractors,
power units, and motor trucks, we have now decided
to establish, throughout the Commonwealth, separate
Industrial Sales and Service Organizations.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
This decision is in keeping with International Har-
vester’s long-established policy of providing special-
ized skilled advice and service for users of all
International Harvester products. The new Indus-
trial Sales and Service Organizations are being
established to provide this specialized service to all
users of International Industrial Power.
It is, therefore, our pleasure to announce to those
engaged in timber logging and saw milling; earth
moving, road making and stone crushing; mining
and pumping; land clearing and tank sinking; steve-
doring, wharf and warehouse storing; and other in-
dustrial activities, that the undermentioned organi-
zations have been appointed by us as sole dis-
tributors in their respective States of all International
Industrial Wheel and Crawler-type Tractors:—
sdfdsfds
Sole Distributors for International Industrial Tractor Power
New South Wales
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
Bowden Street, Alexandria, N.S.W. Phone: MX 3951.
• Victoria
VICTORIAN INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE PTY. LTD.
Power Street, South Melbourne. Phone: MX 1107.
Queensland
QUEENSLAND INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE PTY. LTD.
Sheep and Wool Pavilion, Exhibition Grounds, Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane. Phone: L 4158.
South Australia
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE LIMITED
22 King William Street, Adelaide. Phone: Central 4821.
Western Australia
W.A. INDUSTRIAL SALES & SERVICE CO. PTY. LTD.
Belmont Avenue, Belmont, W.A.
Tasmania
TASMANIAN INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE PTY. LTD.
Nettlefold’s Building. 113-115 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Phone: Hobart 7271.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. FACTORY. GEELONG
A Housing Scheme.
Probably because he has consistently
refused to permit the commercial ex-
ploitation of his building method, G. F.
Dampney has had a hard fight to get his
housing scheme going, though it is doubt-
ful if there is a better one anywhere.
After 30 years of experiment and re-
search Dampney has perfected a method
of concrete building which has won the
praise of architects and building experts.
It has three attributes: being permanent
and substantial, cheap to erect, and cap-
able of any design. There is a Dampney
homestead of 17 rooms at Porter’s Re-
treat, near Bathurst (N.S.W.), which is the
pride of its owner and cost about £2OOO
to build. There are other Dampney
houses, mostly around Newport (N.S.W.),
where Dampney himself lives in one, and
their average cost of construction today
is around £6O a square (a square is lOOsq.
ft.) which is far below the £lOO to £l4O a
square set out as the average cost of
home construction by N.S.W. Housing
Commission.
In the making of concrete there are,
as Dampney says, many mixtures and
many varied results. But selection of
materials by a good chemist and proper
curing produce a chemical rather than
a mechanical mixture, the resulting con-
crete being practically everlasting and
waterproof, whereas the purely mechani-
cal mixture especially if too rapidly cured
and made of poor materials, is very apt
to deteriorate. The Dampney system con-
sists of slabs joined together with a special
mortar, with a cavity wall, the mortar
being as strong and waterproof as the
concrete itself. The slabs are precast,
and can be suitably colored in the pro-
cess. They can be made in any
shape or pattern ; thus a wide variety of
house design is possible.
Dampney asks that shires, municipali-
ties and other local government authori-.
ties be constituted as housing authorities
to use his form of construction. Quality
of the materials to be guaranteed by
limiting their use to licensed makers, the
licenses to be issued only by men of in-
tegrity appointed by the local authority.
The existing Dampney Company would,
of course, control licensing generally and
would receive a small royalty to pay for
organisation, research and other expen-
ses. The selling price in any particular
locality would be fixed by the local
authority so as to leave manufacturer and
builder a fair profit; the Government
to have the right freely and frequently to
investigate all aspects of the system.
To which it can be added that Damp-
ney construction does not call for a large
labor force, nor does it entail the costly
and cumbersome “administration” of ex-
isting Government schemes. There are
.between 150 and 200 Dampney houses in
Victoria and N. S. Wales which range in
age from 30 to five years, and all of them
testify to the strength and permanence of
their construction.
Dampney is now inviting politicians,
construction and building people to a
demonstration of the Dampney house
and is prepared to prove his claim that it
can be built anywhere in Australia
quickly and at low cost. He knows that
the new Governor-General will support
his claims, since the house on the McKell
property at Goulburn (N.S.W.) is a
Dampney one and the owner has in-
formed the Commonwealth Housing
Commission of his satisfaction with it.
Plainly, the man has a housing propo-
sition of tremendous value and, since
community effort is being much talked
of and the need for homes grows more
pressing every day, his scheme deserves
the attention of everybody interested.
“Nakhoda”: Strange the different skills
that people have. A man who can handle
snakes may be no good with horses and
the bloke who is at home with horses
very often can’t face an angry bull, let
alone a wife with the tantrums. A farmer
near Melbourne has an uncanny ability
to face bushfires. His principle is that
it is far more dangerous to run away from
a fire than to walk towards it, and he will
walk towards a raging furnace studying
it as objectively as if he were working
out a mathematical problem. He claims
that most people who run away get
caught, but by walking straight towards
the blaze, like the coves in “The Over-
landers,” he generally finds a track
through. Local bushfires gave him a
chance for a demonstration. A change
of wind trapped a party of amateur fire-
fighters. He rallied them together and
told them to follow him. He walked to-
wards the fire watching its behavior, and
in due course got the party through, a bit
scorched but otherwise undamaged. He
can stand an enormous amount of heat,
a fact that might have a psychological
ingredient in it.
IT'S ON AGAIN
By EVE
MERRITT
I ALWAYS fall for the Sydney Show.
I So do my arches. By the protests of
some corns and one sparking bunion you
have the distance between (say) what was
once the Burma pavilion and the side-
shows, or from pigs to pies. The last time
I went to the Show I swore it would be
the last. The war upheld my resolution
for a while, but now the war’s over and
the Show’s on again, and here I am,
hardening my feet with metho, every
night and mentally reviewing mistakes I
made in other years.
The flea-circus usually fascinated me.
I’d lean over the exhibits for so long Fd
make the fleas nervous. One year I said
to their owner: “Where do they sleep at
night?” He didn’t laugh ; merely snapped
“On the exercise grounds, of course,” and
jerked his thumb towards two long-haired
dogs in a corner of the tent. I laughed.
That was a mistake. The dogs were so
insulted they rushed at me, and if I hadn’t
been a hop ahead of even the fleas I’d
have ended in hospital instead of in a
lather. So to Hades with fleas this year ;
I’ll head for the Fat Lady, thus seeing
the sideshows in a big way.
Another mistake I once made at the
Show was to look absent-mindedly for
the exit as soon as I’d paid my way
through the entrance. I not only had to
pay my way back in again, but I had to
endure for months after the alleged
humor of the two people who had ac-
companied me. And sample-bags can be a
downfall unless you’re on guard. You
think of some kid you know and buy a
couple of bags and a glittery doll on a
stick. Three hours later you’ve lost the
bags and tripped yourself so often on the
blasted stick that you finally snap the
doll off, break the stick across the edge
of a fortune-teller’s stall and start talking
to yourself in a way that makes the for-
tune-teller think you’re trying to out-do
her, and the look she gives you seems
like a bad omen for life.
Once in the pig pavilion—ah, apt
alliteration! —I leaned over the wall of
one pen for about 15 minutes, deep in
concentration. An attendant tapped me
on the shoulder. “What’s the matter?
Don’t you agree with the judges?”
I looked at the champion boar, turned
to the other bore, and said “I’ve been
wondering”
“Ask me anything,” he said kindly.
“There’s nothing I don’t know about
pigs.”
I said “Well, if you were allowed to
make a sandwich out of an entire pig—
that champion boar, for example—well,
to put the full pig into a sandwich, what
size loaf would you need to cut the slices
of bread off?”
A sudden look of suspicion appeared
in that attendant’s eyes. He walked
away and discussed me with another
chap. I slunk away, followed by the
scornful snorts of the swine. This year
I’ll keep my mouth tightly closed, no
matter what wisecrack occurs to me. It
is obvious that pig attendants have little
time for wit.
An exhibit which delighted me in the
old days was arranged by a brewery; It
showed a gigantic glass filling and refill-
ing with the beautiful brown stuff of
which D.T’s. and votes are made. I stood
watching that glass head itself perfectly
until a fatherly policeman walked up and
said “You stick to milk. If you get too
interested in the head on beer you might
lose your own.”
The Grand Parade is always worth
watching, though the seats on the grand-
stand should be soundproofed. Invari-
ably I sit directly in front of some cove
who once spent a holiday on a farm and
loudly explains everything with the air of
an expert. This gets me so annoyed that
at last I swing round and give him a sour
stare. He takes it for a glance of admira-
tion, and from then on I’m Red Riding
Hood dodging a wolf in the forest of
humanity. Then there is the small boy
who, when the cattle comes on, pipes up
“Are they the bulls, Mummie?” Mummie
says “Yes, dear.” “And which are the
cows, Mummie?” Mummie doesn’t an-
swer. Dad replies “They’re the little
ones.” “Why?” asks the pet. Dead
silence. “Can I have an ice-cream.
Daddy?” “Not just now, dear.” “Why?”
“Ah, ’struth,” says Daddy, “Who’d get
married?” Whereupon Mummie snaps
at him, he makes a swipe at his offspring,
who leaps back and falls on my new
autumn hat, crushing it to pulp. Every-
body stands up and yells at me to sit
down. I sit down.
Well, as I’ve said, the Show kind of
gets me. I look at the large healthy men
from the backblocks and the flags and
the leaping horses and the outsize pump-
kins and the battered pugs who’ll pay me
a fiver if I can go a few rounds with ’em
and I go home hot, exhausted, dirty and
irritable, to have a few rounds with my
neglected laundry. Yes, the Show gets
me. What narks me is that it gets my
money, too!


ANOTHER PORTRAIT ACCEPTED.


WOODWORKING
MACHINES h
HOME WORKSHOPS. MAINTENANCE SHOPS,
PATTERN MAKERS, SCHOOLS AND
FACTORIES
m
Designed for efficient production,
low initial cost and low operating
costs, these splendidly-constructed
machines have proved wonderful
investments for hundreds of buyers.
m
& ■ ■
m
X >■■■
m
McPherson
6-inch Sow Bench
This is a fabricated steel machine,* combining
strength with lightness.
Porous oil retaining bearings. One end of arbor
is fitted with boring chuck and pulley, other end
carries saw or other cutters. Table can be tilted and
locked. Can rip to centre of 1 I -J-inch board. Equal
to performance of other makes using 8-inch saw.
h.p. motor —40t)0 r.p.m. Size of table 14 xlB
inches. Ask for leaflet.
McPherson 9-Snch Wood Turning Lathe
Length of Bed 36 inches. Between centres 24 inches. Bed is
strongly constructed of Pressed Steel Section, forming an excep-
tionally rigid unit. Four Step Vee Pulley permits speeds from
3300 r.p.m. to 630 r.p.m.
Can be supplied with or without motor. This lathe is our latest
product and we are proud to offer it for the first time. Nothing
else like it in quality and price.
Hi
McPherson 12in. Wood Turning Lathe: Bed 53|in.
Designed primarily for general woodworking, it can also be used
as an efficient 1 6-speed Metal Turning Lathe by the use of a
countershaft unit. Headstock has indexing mechanism—SPlNDLE
I £-inch with f-inch hollow spindle for repetition work. Speeds
900 to 3400 r.p.m. Accessories include 4- and 12-inch Tool rests,
3-inch face plates, drive centre for wood. Tail centre for wood,
Headstock wrench. Full particulars on request.
Hercus 9in. Swing Metal Working Lathe
For precision work in Workshops, Tool
rooms, Maintenance Shops, Garages, Tech-
nical Schools. Bed 40 inches. Admits
between centres 2 1 inches—f-inch hollow
spindle. Full range of accessories and
extra equipment available. Full details are
given on an illustrated 4-page leaflet which
will be sent post free on request.
McPherson 6-inch Hand Planing and
Jointing Machine
Front table 7 inches wide by 37£ inches long.
Tilting fence can be adjusted to 45-90-135 degrees.
With Stand and Motor as illustrated, or ready for user s
own fitting to drive and bench.
McPherson 4-inch hand planing and jointing
MACHINE. —For work up to 4 inches wide, a smaller model
than the 6-inch, but built with the same sturdiness and
offers the same efficient service.
Full particulars sent on request.
\
WSPlicrso^
LIMITED
SELLING AGENTS FOR
ASSOCIATED MACHINE TOOLS AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD."
54 6 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
260 KENT ST., SI BATHURST ST., SYDNEY
116 WAY MOUTH STREET, ADELAIDE
53 2 MURRAY STREET, PERTH


0
jLdBML
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM, MAY sth-16th. 1947
This is your first opportunity in seven years to
see your old suppliers in Britain and to meet new ones.
Overseas Buyers are invited to Britain for the
1947 British Industries Fair. It will enable them to
establish personal contact with the makers of the
immense range of United Kingdom goods displayed
in the London (Lighter Industries) and Birmingham
(Hardware & Engineering) Sections of the Fair. The
careful grouping of exhibits will assist buyers to
compare the products of competing firms with a
minimum of time, trouble and expense. Special
arrangements to suit individual markets can be dis-
cussed and terms and conditions of business settled
direct with the manufacturer, since only the actual
producer or the sole selling agent may exhibit.
it For full details of the 1947 Fair apply to the nearest British
Commercial Diplomatic Officer or Consular Officer, or the
British Trade Commissioner in your area.
BRITAIN PRODUCES
THE GOODS
BOMt
BIF
VMM The British Overseas Airways
Corporation, in association with Q.E.A.,
will fly you from Sydney to London by Lancastrian
aircraft in 3 days (three services weekly), or by Flying
Boat in just under 7 days (three services weekly).
80-AC IN ASSOCIATION WITH QEA, „S AA & T' E• A
I
k
A
r*
\4
&
03/£e &Acs 2/ vtc -&ot y£*
ifouA ofc&c£ sKadotal*
Gem does away with afternoon stubble. One skin
level Gem shave keeps you clean all day and all
evening. Be kind to your face. Shave once and shave
clean with Gem. Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK.
SHAVE WITH
GEM
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
sdfdsfsdf
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities. Price 2/-.
—Protect your Property—insure with —
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: BW 8131 (3 Lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager,
James Hanna. Truth is reputed to have
been sought for long before that at
the bottom of a well, and what Sapper
Godwin had fallen on to at the bottom
of this one might even have satisfied, and
no doubt would have highly delighted, the
thoughtful Roman gentleman who posed
the eternal question: “What is Truth?”
As investigated subsequently with Cor-
poral Hanna’s assistance, the Truth that
Sapper Godwin had lighted on at the
bottom of the well was quite a number
of things.
To begin with, it was two dozen and
four cases of very choice old wine. It
was three cases of assorted fine old silver.
Most profitably of all, it was eleven
pieces of superb gold plate.
It was, moreover, some time after, a
much stouter Jim Hanna, whose glowing
red nose shone like a beacon - light
and whose hearty voice was to be heard
uttering his favorite phrase “Merci Mon-
sieur!” in part acknowledgement of the
unknown benefactor through all those
years in the hotel Jim bought back in
what, when over there in France, he had
always called with nostalgic patriotism
“Good old Sydney!”
It was, further, Frank Godwin’s ex-
cellent bee-farm up on the Round Hill,
overlooking the Town from across the
River, and with perhaps the finest view
to be had of the Valley short of going
right up-River and looking back down
along the whole winding length of it
from the western ranges at its head.
If, still further, it meant also a girl
who finally made the extraordinary
choice of marrying a Frenchman, with
his own farm, complete with its own
dunghill in the middle of its square
cobbled yard, rather than follow a strange
Australian soldier who talked about bees
back to his unheard-of land and the home
he was to put up there for her—well, as
she herself might have said, shrugging her
little round shoulders,' "C’est la guerre!”
And if the people of the Valley con-
tinued to put Frank Godwin’s partly
stiff leg down to his being whacked by
a German shell, and his own truthful
explanation of it down to a mixture of
hero modesty and to his being a bit
queer, C’est la guerre to that, too. There
was a grain or two of truth in it; and
what, after all, is any accepted legend
but the ghost of a truth in the body of
a fiction?
CTO much of that lucky discovery as
K -' he had sampled from the unsold
bottle or two broached with Jim Hanna
left Frank Godwin with the ambition,
sprung from its delectable taste, to try
tp do likewise in the Valley. The pro-
duct of his brewing in his bathtub and
other plant may not have been up to
the delicacy of rare old wine, but, any-
way, it suited his own modest require-
ments, and also it gave the intended
marital bathtub some purpose in the
house, which was more than could be said
for the wardrobe and the double bed.
Not quite so good a report is pos-
sible on the poetic product which used
from time to time to appear, by sanction
of editor Kirwan, in the “Star,” signed,
like the labels on the honey jars, Frank
Godwin. It was no better, but at least
no worse, than that of an endless pro-
cession—of all those on whom the gods
have visited their heartless malice by
locking up a poet securely inside them,
and then pocketing the key that would let
the prisoner out. The inglorious, though
—unhappily, it may be —not always mute
Miltons of the ages.
The poet thus locked inside Frank
Godwin struggled desperately to get out,
and the rhymes of the bush ballad school
which appeared in the “Star” were evi-
dence of the struggle. Unpaid for and
mostly unread, they made rugged read-
ing, especially with a line or two mis-
placed and an occasional word left out;
but at least they indicated the aspiration
of a poet, and that was enough for an
appreciation of the singular scene the
morning fog was making of the Valley.
Here the River, winding down from
the western hills, makes one of its sharp-
est turns and inside this horseshoe bend,
over across on the flat side that Godwin
looked down on, they had, back in the
beginning, set up the Town in contempt
of such risks as floods. But no one com-
ing to the Round Hill for the first time
that morning could have guessed that
the Town was there at all.
Nothing whatever showed above the
flat top of the fog except, as poet God-
win noted, the green tops of five widely
separated and evidently high trees. They
were the pointed tops of two big silky
oaks and the more bushy and darker
crests of three 4 huge fig-trees. .No other
sign of the earth showed through the
fog and, widely isolated there, each of
the treetops looked in that early light
like a small green island on a milky sea.
Poet Godwin not only knew quite well
the Town and all the rest temporarily
blotted out down there: to him one of
the silkies and one of the fig-trees had
particular and peculiar associations.
The fig-tree’s special interest came
from nothing more than his being him-
self a poet. Which it was of those trees
was now uncertain, lost along with all
but the vaguest details of the story; but
whichever it was it stood there as a living,
if ultimately perishable, monument to one
of poet Godwin’s own kind—to an earlier
poet; an articulate one who had drifted
into the Valley apparently by chance a
fair stretch of years ago.
Under one of those giant fig-trees
that earlier poet had rigged up a home
for himself. He had put up a couple
of posts and, using the high buttresses of
the huge trunk for walls, had added a
roof of either corrugated-iron or bark. The
legend was inclined to favor bark, usually
making it stringy-bark for better effect.
In that agreeable residence he had
built a stout bunk, and he had added a
table and even a door; and there, rent
free, in a surround of rusty tins partly-
covered with grass, figs falling on his
roof and round about, and flying-foxes
whooshing down and rustling in the leaves
high overhead at night, the poet had lived
and made his poetry.
Rheumy old fellows, who spent their
time standing warming their chilling
bones in the sun at the “Star” corner,
sometimes spoke of him, though it wasn’t
the poet himself they particularly re-
membered.
As an inquiring teacher from the new
High School found, their memories of
the poet were rather vague. They con-
sisted of little more than his living under
the tree, his addiction to fishing and also
to rum, and some unpoetical details about
the snoring-off of after-effects (which,
with the rum, the High School gentle-
man, who claimed to be related to the
poet, quite overlooked in writing his
article for the “Star” : a niceness of
consideration worthy of the attention of
writers of Australian literary biography,
if it has not already had it).
What the old fellows did remember,
with a clarity bordering on enviousness,
was a girl who also came there and lived
with the poet and eventually took him
away. Whether or not the girl had only
one dress, she wore only the one in the
memories of those possibly rakish old
narrators. It was a red dress.
Meanwhile, members of the Valley’s
dusky former inhabitants, along with
stray self-made outcasts, had lived simi-
larly under all the three big fig-trees,
until the Town began to acquire some
civic pride and they were all hunted
hence by the Council. Thus no one could
now point to such evidence as chipped-
out scars and old nail-marks and swear
for certain that it was this or that or
the other of the trees which the earlier
poet had honored by making its butt-
resses his home. And which had also
sheltered for a time the girl, whoever
she was, who came to him there, and
lived with him in his gunyah in that
love which passes understanding.
WHICH it was of the silky oaks that
had particular associations for poet
Godwin was not in any question; and
these were much more directly personal
associations. It was the silky down be-
low which were the three grey-painted,
stable-like cells and the grey-painted
weatherboard bungalow which were head-
quarters of law and order in the Town.
There had been a day on which His
Highness the Sun had been in one of his
cranky moods. To be fair to him, he
had had some justification for turning
cranky. His blue domain on that day


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
E.
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS*. SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS'
R KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
BRITSTAND
Us
St*
A
S
ROYAL • SYDNEY
MARCH 2 9 isa»ivAP RIL 9 • 1947
OLIVER “80
Hr
Visit the BRITSTAND
Exhibit ... Stand 51.
Machinery Avenue.
See This Equipment
On Display!
OL IVER WHEEL TRACTORS
The famous Oliver Wheel
Tractor, Model “80.” If you’re
not an Oliver owner yet, you’ve
a real pleasure in store. Oliver
owners will tell you just how
good these tractors are.
OLIVER-CLETRAC
TRACTORS.
See these great Crawler Tractors,
examples of a splendid range
available and ready to tackle the
toughest jobs. There’s a model
for every need, Industrially or
Agriculturally.
OLIVER-CLETRAC “DDH”
With TRAILBUILDER
Favourite amongst contractors
and timber-men. The latest
’dozing and clearing equipment
will be on view.
/"ir
HS 51 HYDRAULIC SCOOP
Make a point of seeing this latest
wh Britstand hydraulic scoop, first
)j\ preference of tank sinkers. Now
with 15in. spreading clearance,
and other features that keep this
Britstand product ahead of the
field.
HI-LIFT AUTO PATROL
The display of Britstand Road-
Making Equipment will open
your eyes. Here you’ll find
evidence of the tremendous ad-
vances being made to simplify
your road-making and mainten-
ance problems.
SEE THESE EXHIBITS ALSO. . .
STAND 51, ROYAL EASTER SHOW
Bottomless Hydraulic Scoop, Rotary
Scoop, Super-Rooter, Tamping Roller
(double drum), Rotary Fresno,
Buckscraper, Ripper, Graders, Mixers
... All BRITSTAND Products,
BRITSTAND LIGHT EQUIPMENT
You will want to inspect and select
your needs from the range of light
earth-moving equipment. . .Britstand
| Grader-Ditcher, Small Scoops, Ploughs
... all for early delivery. Ask your
State Distributor for all information
about OLIVER and OLIVER-CLET-
RAC Tractors, and BRITSTAND
Earth-Moving and Road-Making
Equipment.
sfsdfdsfd
CRAWLER
TRACTORS
and BRITSTAND Equipment
• DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. & N. GUINEA: Britstand Distributors Ltd., 56-58 Gardeners Road, Mascot, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Dominion Motors Queensland, 111 Campbell St., Bowen Hills, Brisbane.
VIC. & TAS.: Queen’s Bridge Motor & Engineering Co., 31-43 Queen’s Bridge St., Meltf., 5.C.4.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., 42 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd., 900 Hay St., Perth.
had been all bronzed over with a mass
of red dust blown there across the moun-
tains from the dry inland to the west.
Enough to anger a saint; and His High-
ness, for all his fine qualities, lacks
something of the blessedness of austerity.
A ball of molten rage, he blazed his
heat down with burning ferocity.
Beekeeper Godwin had that day been
working among his white hives. He had
been lifting out the frames of comb,
looking for the long black Queen to re-
place her with a beauty, slender and
yellow-bodied, that he had got on order
in a little cage sent from down south
through the post.
Stooping there in the blazing heat,
beekeeper Godwin had had one of the
oddest of the odd experiences with which,
as a poet, he was naturally familiar.
He had glanced up, had covered over
the hive and straightened himself. Stand-
ing there, a few yards away, looking at
him and grinning, was his brother.
Poet Godwin had not been really sur-
prised to see him. In their old days
in the Valley, before Harry had gone off
to Queensland, they would drop in on
each other just as casually. He had not
felt surprised, either, though it was then
some years since they had seen each
other, that Harry should have turned
and walked away through the thick heat
haze. He followed him automatically.
There had always been understanding be-
tween them which had never required
words. Only once had there been any-
thing in the nature of a difference, some-
thing he could not understand, between
them, and that had been a matter of
words.
It had happened when Sapper Godwin,
F. G., was sitting on deck near the
absurdly big mast of a dirty little Indian
coaster in Lemnos Harbor practising
Morse code on a buzzer, and Private
Godwin, H., had come up over the side
and perched down on his heels near him.
“I got the chance to come over in the
ship”s boat. They’re goin’ ashore to
pick up some bread and stuff,” Private
Godwin explained. Then, surprisingly,
“How can y’ stand that blasted buzzin’?”
Sapper Godwin stopped jerking the
key. “Aw, I suppose y’ get used to
it,” he said. “Have a smoke?”
After a while Private Godwin sur-
prised again. “The bream,” he said,
“oughter to be just about cornin’ in
pretty good down by the Reach.”
“Bit early for them, isn’t it?” Sapper
Godwin had commented, noting as he
did that this was something unheard of,
sitting there on a small steamer’s deck
on the other side of the earth arguing
the point with Harry.
But Harry didn’t take it any further.
Having put up that blank wall of differ-
ence between them, he sat picking at a
wart on his hand with the point of a .303.
Sapper Godwin buzzed out “H-a-r-r-y”
and stopped. He took a red-covered
Temple edition of “The Tempest” from
his pocket and let it open where the thin
ribbon marked the place. He went on
reading of old Prospero acting the rather
heavy father in reminding sprite Ariel
of what Sycorax had done back in
Argier: —•
she did confine thee,
By help of her more potent ministers,
And in her most immitigable rage,
Into a cloven pine; within which rift
Imprison’d thou didst painfully remain
A dozen years....
He looked over his brother’s head at
the great mast, straight and tall as a tree
of the Valley. Private Godwin watched
the harbor towards the shore for the
returning boat.
It was when it was nearing them on
the return trip that Private Godwin made
the remark that was to stay as a puzzle
to Sapper Godwin afterwards, because
he had then thought you couldn’t known
things like that.
“Did y’ know we’re moving off to-
morrow mornin’?” Harry had said, get-
ting to his feet. “I dunno ; I don’t like
the look of it. I reckon it’s cornin’ up
for me, Frank.”
H# put put his hand and they shook
on that puzzling remark. Harry went to
the side and clambered over, and that had
been the last they had seen of each other.
They had said Pte. Godwin, H., was
killed with the first lot wading ashore in
the dark to the beach. Sapper Godwin
had not heard that till some time later,
and by then he had long since lost his
capacity for surprise. When you have
seen such things as a big shell bursting
and blowing a military overcoat 30 or
40 feet into the air like a floating bit of
rag, and then, by the suddenness of its
fall, realised that what had been a man
was in the coat, surprise really does begin
to wear a little thin.
And then there had been Harry walk-
ing away again, up towards the half-
built honey-house, and beyond it to-
wards the road^
BEEKEEPER Godwin had followed,
slightly limping along through the
heat haze. He had gone out and along
the blue-metal road, down the hill and
across the white wooden bridge into the
Town. And so to the big silky oak near
the Police Station.
Harry went into
the tree, and that
was again the last
Frank Godwin saw
of him.
Frank Godwin
had stood in the
dock in the Court
House up by the
Railway Station.
He heard them
reading out the
charge:
“Frank Gregory
Godwin. Occupa-
tion, beekeeper. A person deemed to b 2
insane.”
In the name of civilisation, a criminal
offence.
Sergeant Shale had upended his grey-
headed six-feet-two and with the air of a
fatherly benefactor to erring humariity
deposed; “He thinks, y’ Worship, we’ve
locked up his brother in the tree outside
the station. His brother, y’ Worship, was
killed at the Landing at Gallipoli, and
this man has a splendid war record. He
was badly injured by .a shell in France.
Permanent limp from it, and other dis-
ability. Nothing but good known of him,
y’ Worship, by the police.”
“Remanded week observation.”
Mr. Summer, P.M., reached out a
pudgy hand for the papers of the next
case, and Constable Morris accompanied
the accused out.
At the end of a week, nothing worse
having been found to convict him than
two small books of poetry in his pocket,
they turned him free agqin.
Those who took the word ,of. Dr.
Hughes as final put it down to a Touch
ojt the Sun. Which could—perhaps—
have been right.
BEEKEEPER Godwin looked down
at the tree-tops islanded on the fog’s
flat top. His Highness the Sun, now tak-
ing over his Valley for the day, added
his spears of light to the faint air move-
ment channelling down the River’s course
from the west, and the flat sea of the
fog, rose-tinted where he touched its
edges, pale green in its depths, began
gradually to thin out and dissolve. Here
and there, the buildings of the Town
began to show in the transparent veiling.
To poet Godwin, a very different
Town from the real one he knew. The
mist thinning and drifting through and
over it made it seem in that clear early
light a place of dream and fantasy ; an
isolated place of unearthly loveliness ; of
old misted castles and battlements, case-
ments and round towers, abbeys and
cathedrals; of all things beautiful risen
again from the lost ages of Time.
The bees were coming out on to their
flight platform in front of the hives,
stepping delicately through the small dew.
Godwin took from his trouser pocket,
where he had been keeping it warm, the
small piece of board the size of a mouse-
trap, but with Life instead of Death in
it —scooped out to hold her food, and,
under a cover of metal gauze, the new
Queen herself ; a piece of Gold ; a piece
of Life ; a living thing and the maker
of all things living after her. Godwin,
towering among the white rows, waited
the warmth of the Sun before giving her
to the hive.
And now, as the fog floated through
the Town, thinning and dispersing above,
banking in the streets and lingering about
the buildings, the whole fantasy place
seemed to be floating, too, as if on its
way to the enchanted land whence it had
strayed in the night, and to which His
Highness the Sun was now urging- its
return, in due course to show in his light
there the more familiar reality of the solid
things in the place of the wisps of dreams.


.
\’'K
KS
GSM
S 3?
p
«!>
SP
\ >*
m.
ms-
WllW'"'
riMW**
W'"W"
’■■tv
lh
SSlwllttr
ggj^^g?v , ' , ‘'' p ps
«a»!!eii!^ Y> 1 |l
mil
ill ?
pfjSSSE "• •■ c
vwVi,
i ?
a * c
inn mi n
?J| t !
SrSfS V i
'lat'ipy" r
: ' -
''•W
•/ "CV-
T m6. , £s^V'
...
i
s -s
<l .^
V’i'V/V-
-QS'^S? 71
///' '■
(Mi
r
U M
y.i2
VAC.
pi
A *1
...
fIM?
//A"
%ourit*
r
'petrol!
m
m
V\otM§, W»
• //v- < . /
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
P4e>s
Rural Credit.
It was inevitable that once it began to
look into the system of rural credits in
this country the Rural Reconstruction
Commission would discover the country
storekeeper. It has done so, and, from
the purely scientific and coldly actuarial
viewpoint of such a body, doesn’t like
him very much.
While this [storekeeper] form of credit
has appealed to the farmer because of its
convenience it has many disadvantages
when used as a substantial source of credit,
some of which are: (a) The credit is not
usually well controlled; risks are taken
which result in prodigal granting of credit
and consequent interference with the main-
tenance of stability; (6) Reckoned in terms
of higher prices or inferior goods, and in-
terest charges on overdue accounts, the
cost of the credit is generally too high. The
large amounts which storekeepers regu-
larly write off book debts as the result of
the extension of too much credit to cus-
tomers who fail can only be compensated
by the recovery of higher costs from
farmers who pay, in the form of prices and
interest; (c) The farmer who extensively
uses credit from stores in financing his
business can easily be embarrassed in times
of difficulty, particularly if his storekeeper
has not sufficient financial reserves to carry
such customers over a difficult period; ( d )
When the farmer becomes indebted to any
extent to a storekeeper he frequently must
pay for the privilege of having the time
for payment of his'debt extended by be-
coming “tied” to the storekeeper for future
purchases. He is then no longer free to
deal in the cheapest market, and is Open
to dictation in the selection of his goods
and exploitation in respect of quality and
prices.
This finding has several things wrong
with it, not the least being the failure to
appreciate the very important human
relationship existing between the average
country storekeeper and his customers,
There are, it is true v grasping storekeepers
who set out to get all they can in hard
cash or assets from their customers, but
it is also true that they don’t last long,
“Bet the cows won't get through the wire now , Alf.”
for nothing will arouse the hatred of a
farming district more than a usurer. A
very large proportion of storekeepers
have very great knowledge of farming
themselves; they know to a T who are
their good and bad risks and they balance
their credit extensions accordingly.
What’s more, many a man with nothing
but an honest face and an obvious desire
to work has got his start as a bush con-
tractor, share-farmer or farmer purely
on the capacity of some country store-
keeper to judge his worth, whereas a
bank would have demanded some far
more tangible collateral before advancing
a penny for plant and tucker.
So far as the Commission’s findings
tire cqncerned there is probably a great
deal of truth in ( a ); but in this matter
storekeepers have been no greater
offenders than Governments ; and, what
with weather and export price factors
and capital city legislatures, farming must
necessarily involve credit as well as other
risks to a greater extent than industries
rigidly bound by company laws, auditors’
reports and other things.
In ( b ) the Commission is a little hasty.
The average country store, doesn’t carry
inferior goods—you have to leave
the country to live in the city to
discover that —and though his
prices may be higher than the
average suburban store, he has
extra freights to pay and he is
carrying a risk. But in the main
he daren’t overstep the mark,
since there is always a competitor
ready to take over his disgruntled
customers, debts and all.
The finding (c) is true enough.
It could go even further and say
that many a storekeeper has gone
down with the local community
in drought or falling prices, some
to walk out with a swag up, others
to sell out at a dead loss. But
it is not wise to condemn such
men, for without them and their willing-
ness to share the risk with their cus-
tomers, many a district would today be
derelict.
As for ( d) the “tied” aspect has two
faces. A storekeeper must, in sheer self-
defence, “tie” a customer whose debt has
got beyond reasonable proportions,
otherwise many such customers would
“wipe” the unfortunate creditor and go
somewhere else for both their goods and
credit. “Dictation” and “exploitation”
are unfamiliar terms in dealing with the
relations between storekeeper and farmer,
and though there are undoubted in-
stances of both, they would be so few as
hardly to merit attention.
It could also be added that the debt-
burden of farmers in the old days of
free enterprise and private dealing be-
tween man and man was nothing to what
it has become since farmers became
objects of party political solicitude and
consequent official interference with
markets and prices plus the offshoots of
high taxation, together with the rebound
on the farming community of shorter
hours in secondary industries and the
gradual centralisation in capital cities of
pretty well every aspect of land legislation.
As was at first remarked, the Com-
mission’s findings on the country store-
keepers are purely actuarial and judicial.
The human element simply does noti
come into it. They are given in the
Commission’s Fifth Report, which very
carefully and comprehensively examines
the various rural credit systems now
prevalent in Australia, finds most of them
wanting in some degree or other and,
probably obsessed by the lurking shadow
of the colossal debt which overshadows
our land industries, concluded that about
the best solution would be “specialised
rural credit services specifically adapted
to the requirements of rural industries,”
administered by a “Rural Bank Service”
operating on the branch system, with ad-
ministration vested in a corporate body
of not less than three selected individuals,
free in its judgment but generally respon-
sible to Parliament.
This organisation would conduct a
general rural finance business and would
take over existing Government farm
credit schemes ; the funds of each agency
would be controlled by the bank as agent
for the Government; revenues and ex-
penses would be paid into and drawn
from Government revenues; and, where
possible, existing schemes would be
wound up and efforts made to restrict
future Government-sponsored credit to
the Rural Bank Service or its proposed
accompanying service, the Development
and Reconstruction Service.
Whether or not the Commission pro-
poses that each State should set up such
a bank and D. and R. service or whether
it would like to see the Commonwealth
take over the whole box and dice isn’t
clear, but it has “assumed that the Com-
monwealth and States will desire to arrive
at a common agreement on the broad
lines of policy” and “The recommenda-
tions are therefore presented compgfhen-
sively as a suggested basis for a Gom-
monwealth-State conference.”
If such a conference ever comes about,
and if ever such a bank is established as
a Commonwealth affair, it will then be-
come necessary for somebody to make
it very clear that land production is the
rock of our national welfare, both finan-
cially and otherwise, and that the land
itself will never become the asset it ought
to be while it is made, as it is made under
the present political and financial system,
to carry costs and charges of practically
everything that the nation owns, from
the building of a wheat silo at Jeparit
to the erection of a Water Board palace
in Sydney. If ever such a bank as that
envisaged by the Rural Reconstruction
Commission is created, it would have a
duty in trying to re-educate Australians
as to their relationship with the land,
and to endeavor to bring them back
to it.


“Gome away with me,
Lucille..
I 's
msm
mm
m
.
'■ ■ ; ii
• '' ' " \' 11;
*5. 9m W'
L.
, .i* :5
In my merry Oldsmobile . . . Ah those memories of forty years
ago. But things have changed for the better since then. Why,
in 1902 the sugar farmer was happy if his cane yielded H tons of
sugar to the acre. Today, thanks to scientific farming and milling,
the normal yield is over 3 tons to the acre more than twice as
much.
Jf
1
■
m
m
mm
In 1922 Australia’s first airmail was flown from Charleville to
Cloncurry. Pilot Hudson Fysh (now General Manager of Qantas
Empire Airways) averaged 67 m.p.h. and took two days to do the
trip of 577 miles, which today would be covered in a few hours.
It was in 1922 also that the price of sugar dropped a penny a pound.
In 1933 it again dropped from 4\d. to 4d., where it has remained
for the last fourteen years.
40%
Since 1933
%
&/
ov
fi
- w-
f/
Price of SUGAR-NO RISE
■■■■Hiuioßaßaßaßana
(4 D a pound for last 14 years)
1933
1947
Since 1933 the price of food
and groceries has risen 38%
(Commonwealth Statistician),
but the price of sugar has not
risen. The sugar industry has
supplied sugar of the highest
quality at this low price be-
cause of efficient and scientific
methods in farming, nulling
and refining. Farmers who
grow the cane, the various
milling companies which make
raw sugar, as well as the re-
fining companies, are all
entitled to share in the credit
for this work by which the
public has benefited for so long. C.S.R. is proud of the pan
it plays in bringing this essential food to your table.
•an ANVdwoo oninusu ureas ivinoioo 3Hi
t MONTREAL
NEW
YORK
U.n
SHANNON
LISBON^*"
PT. ETIENNE
BATHURST &
Freetown*
ALGIER
sill
ACCR
CAIRO
LYDD
&
DEN
NAIROBI
DELHI
KARACH
JOHANNESBUR
LCUTTA
DURBAN
SOURABAYA
J>BOWEN
SYONEV
AUCKLAND
tf
Across
the world
When Britain planned her post-war network of air trans-
portation, the North Atlantic, Eastern and Southern routes
were allotted to 8.0.A.C. You can see the pattern of our
main line system in this map. As far West as New York, as
far East as Tokio, as far South as Johannesburg and Auckland,
run the lines to North America, the Middle East, Africa,
India, the Orient, Australia and New Zealand. That is our
part in the scheme of air travel: an important part, and one
we are proud to play. But, above everything else, a part
that has been very soundly rehearsed. Our men have been
pioneering, organising and flying the routes since the first
line to India was opened in 1929 : which gives us 17 years
of learning how.
Speedbird Routes to :
Great Britain, New Zealand, Canada, U.S.A., Middle
East, India, Far East, South Africa and West Africa.
Q.E.A. Operates the Flying boat service between Sydney
and Singapore and the Lancastrian Service between
Sydney and Kirachi. T. E. A. operate the route from
Sydney to Auckland.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
Shell House, Carrington St, Sydney
GENERAL AGENTS;
BO AC
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Townsville, Cairns, Port Moresby, Lae, Darwin . . .
Booking Agents In All Cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN
ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWA YS, TASMAN
EMPIRE AIRWAYS AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS.
7/AU
A MIXED GRILL.
“Wusslean”: A newcomer to the staff,
Cyril made every endeavor to overcome
the impression given by his weedy, under-
nourished form and effeminate features
by incessant reference to purely masculine
pastimes and habits. His evenings and
r ,, 1 A . ,
weekends, we were given to understand,
were free from the domestic duties which
some husbands undertook. He had made
t,- A .. ,
clear to his spouse at the commencement
of their married life the limits of his
obligations, and had never permitted
himself to bo whooHlpd napped or en-
muiseu to oe wneeaied, naggea or en
ticed into such unmanly tasks as drying
up and the like. Then came the Monday
when Cyril did not appear. Late that
mnrninp n • i -TT.
‘■A/r .u young girl came into the office.
Mother says to tell you father can t
come in today, ’cos he had an accident,”
she informed us all, adding by way of
ovntmotmn “u I , ?l 7. .
explanation, he got a clothespeg stuck
in his throat yesterday.”
* * * ■ *
“Bullengno”: Is there any older refer-
ence to gold in Australia than the
“curious mistake” which has been “per-
petuated from time to time in both
official and private publications”? It was
believed that Dampier had found gold on
the north-west coast in 1688 and that,
because of his discovery, Dutch charts
marked the region Provincia Aurifera.
The legend, although it still persists, was
debunked in scholarly manner by C. H.
Coote, of the Maps and Drawing Depart-
ment of the British Museum at the end
of the last century. His explanation is
worth recording:
Thelegenclpf Beach, Provincia Aurifera,
d °es not occur on the Chart No. 90,056
(i) Dampier’s, but amongst others on the
map of the world by Peter Plandps the
P u [ ch L^° gra P her ’ 1594 - The whole thing
is a myth and a geographical blunder of
the first half of the 16th century. You
will find it on Mercator’s large chart of
1569 > and on his earlier Earth’s Globe of
la4l * It arose from the curious misreading
of Marco Polo - s Reg i on ibus Orien-
talibus,” lib. 3, caput 2, inserted in Gry-
meus’s (S) “Novus Orbis,” 1537 (Yule’s
Marco Polo, Bk. 3, chap. 7, note 3) Beach
or Boeach is a misprint for Locack (Lokok,
the Chinese name for a former province of
Lower Siam). This was ignorantly trans-
ferred by the early 16th-century geographers
an imaginary great Southern Continent,
the n.-w. corner of which was supposed to
bp the two provinces of Beach, Provincia
Aurifera, Maletur Regnum with Lucack
Regnwn repeated, in ignorance of the
? dnE th,! re ?, ding ot
As Rl P le y bel,eve lt or not-
* * * *
“Puyyaka”: Skin allergies are queer
things. In a recent American case a
healthy young woman suddenly developed
severe recurrent itching and surface irri-
tation on her lips. After exhaustive tests
and dietary trials without result some-
body noticed that her fiance was in the
habit of waxing his very ornamental
moustache. He was induced to leave the
mo in its normal droopy condition and
the lady’s lips cleared up immediately,
Other lasses proved, to their great sorrow,
be allergic to nylon stockings. In
early examinations of A.I.F. recruits,
quite a few otherwise he'althy men had
to be turned down for tropical service on
account of patches of chronic skin-
irritation usually occurring about the left
breast or the front of the right thigh,
An M.O. developed it and found that it
was due to carrying a matchbox in the
handiest shirt or
T , • IA . O -n Uo
Wog Add ; London, m 1948, will be
f ~ , n
for the second time the playing field for
~ , * A > •' A t.
the modern series of Olympic Games. It
is 38 years since England was the scene
of these hostilities, and 50 years since the
series was commenced in Athens. Starting,
however, in the reign of King James I,
Britain held her own “Olympick” Games,
and they lasted for almost two centuries,
They owed their beginning to Captain
Robert Dover, who, as a practising
barrister, would have madb a good bottle-
washer. He shut up his brief-case and be-
came “The Great Inventor and Champion
of the English Olympicks, Nemicks and
Isthmicks; the Great Architect and In-
genere of the Famous Admirable Portable
Fabricks of the Dover Castle, her Ord-
nance and Artillery.” Having gained
Royal sanction, he built “Dover Castle”
(made of wood) in a natural amphitheatre
between Campden and Weston Suredge.
After a cannon had been fired from the
hoop-pine battlements, and a flag broken
thereon, Captain Dover would ridd out
to the multitude, decked out with a
charger and the king’s cast-off clothing
from the last year, and declare the games
“on.” Sports of the day included horse
and greyhound racing, cudgel fighting,
chess, footraces and a game known as
“balloon-play,” from which Test-match
addicts get their favorite sport.
* * * *
» H .A.D ”: Have met some careful and
thrifty people in my time, but the plum
goes to the fellow who asked his bank
f riAAA
manager tor an unsecured loan of £lOOO.
u i
-He bad the money m the savings bank,
but did not want > t 0 lose a m s onth Cl !
two . s interest. He was anxious to close
on a deal that would gross him about
£5OO within a period of six weeks. When
told that the bank would charge interest
on the overdraft he replied “You’re a
mob of money-grabbers.”
* * * *
“Boom”: One of the best pieces off
fiction ever written is contained in a
child’s picture book I bought my kiddie
for Christmas. It tells the legend of the
Three Little Pigs. The third pig wanted
to build himself a brick house, and one
day he met a man with a load of bricks.
The pig said “Give me those bricks to
build myself a house.” And the man
gladly gave him the bricks. If that isn’t
the tops in fairy stories, show me what is.


THE PRIZE LAMB
“C.S.”: We had some pretty good
lambs last spring, and when Father and I
were trucking the last 40 head the agent
looked them over and said “By George,
Fordcubbin, they’re real show quality,
ain’t they?”
Father grinned, but you could see he
was pleased. That agent wasn’t satis-
fied. “Why don’t y’ have a crack at one
o’ them Royal Show prizes—you know,
export laipb carcass? They give good
prizes.”
“Aw, I dunno,” Father muttered. With
all this filling-in of forms for petrol
and kerosene, seed and super, and acre-
age-permits and wire and pretty well
“Not brilliant, Jones —but it shows promise."
everything else Father’s pretty scared of
doing anything which might necessitate
signing this or that. Last year he even
refused to enter our stallion for the
local show because an entry form had to
be filled in, and if our brother Jack hadn’t
filled it in and got Mother to sign it
the old horse mightn’t have won third
prize. Even then Billy Hawkins, the
bloke over on Gudgeon’s old farm,
kicked up a row and wanted the Show
committee to disqualify our stallion be-
cause Mother wasn’t its owner, and Father
had to get hold of Jim Holt, the solicitor
in the town, and square him to get out a
bill of sale to Mother and date it back.
Our brother was very pleased with the
third prize ribbon, but Mother had to
hide it because every time Father saw
it he’d glower and pass nasty remarks
about “a bit o’ bloomin’ ribbon that cost
me the best part o’ twenty lovely quid.”
So when the agent talked about our
lambs going in the Royal Show Father
was in a hyrry to get home.
“Look, I’ll tell y’ what,” the agent
said. “I’ll get the meat-works t’ pick
out the best carcass an’ send it along in
your name an’ it’ll be all set. Eh?”
“What’s that goin’ t’ cost?” Father
asked.
“Nothin’,” laughed the agent. “Y’ see,
if y’ get a prize it’ll do us both a good
turn. Listen, we’ll go over to my office
an’ fix it up now.”
“Well, all right,” said Father, but he
looked around as though he wished he
eould make a break for the scrub.
At the office the agent got a telegraph
form and filled it in and got Father to
sign it, “Select best carcass consign-
ment arriving morning and forward
R.A.S. secretary,” it read. Father studied
it carefully and then signed his name.
Then we gathered our horses and went
home.
A few days later the post-office in the
town rang Father up and read a telegram
to him which ran “Highly appreciate
lamb excellent specimen Somerville
R.A.S. Sydney.” Father didn’t say much
for a while, but he must have been think-
ing about it, because that night he said
“Cripes, maybe we got a chance. That
bloke Somerville ought f be a pretty
good judge of lambs if he’s runnin’ a big
outfit like the Royal. He wouldn’t call
it a excellent specimen for nothin’.” He
stuck his chest out and called to me
and we went down to the creek paddock
and looked at the dozen or so lambs we
had left.
A couple of days later he said, casu-
ally, “Well, it’s a long time since I bin
t’ Sydney. Mightn’t be a bad idea if I
took a run down an’ see how that lamb
carcass gets on. Man might pick up a
few points seein’ all them carcasses.*
“Oh, that’s a lovely idea,” Mother
declared. “We could go down in the car
and”
“Here, I can’t afford to go cartin’ the
whole family down t’ Sydney,” Father
said, startled.
Mother didn’t say anything. She went
to her room and pulled out a lot of
paper patterns and some cloth and spread
it all out on the kitchen table and she
ahd our sister began gabbing about panels
and yokes and things. Father looked at
them and then he gave us boys a quick,
fugitive sort of glance and said, “Well,
damn me eyes! A bloke oughtn’t open
his mouth in this place.” Our brother and
I got up and ducked outside. Father
came out and sat on the verandah and
spoke to the dogs. We didn’t say
anything we were too engrossed in
visions of ourselves at the Royal Show.
Well, about a month later we left our
place in charge of Dick Norton, a neigh-
bor’s son, and set forth in the car. Dick
waved to us from the verandah and our
dogs raced down to the gate and shouted
and yelped and then went home, all ex-
cept Ruff, who galloped away through
the bush to the seven-mile, taking a short-
cut to head us off. But we turned up
Bennet’s Lane and cut across on to the
main road behind the. seven-mile, and
what Ruff thought when we didn’t turn
up I don’t know. Dick told us after-
wards that Ruff was away for two days
and then came home carrying a hind
leg and with his near ear torn, so I reckon
Ruff must have amused himself all right.
When we got to the Show the others
went off to look at the tattooed camel or
something and Father and I headed for
the Meat Hall. There were a lot of car-
casses there and it took us an hour to
find none with our name on it and an-
other hour to make sure, then Father got
very red in the face and silently led the
way back to the secretary’s office. There
was a crowd there, and from what I heard
most of them were trying to see some-
body to get free tickets for their aunts
and cousins, but Father shoved his way
through and rapped on the counter. A
young chap came and Father demanded
to see the secretary.
“I’m sorry,” the youth said, “he’s very
busy. Couldn’t you”
“He’ll be a darned sight busier when
I get hold of him,” Father roared? Every-
body stopped talking, and a policeman
looked at us and began to move our
way. Just then a military-looking cove
with a face like a Roman senator or the
Duke of Wellington came in and asked
what was wrong and the young chap
showed him Father.
I sent you a lamb,” Father said in a
steady voice. “The name’s Fordcubbin,
from Cowra way. It ain’t on show.
What’s the game?”
The military-looking cove eyed Father
and murmured thoughtfully. “Fordcub-
bin? Fordcubbin? Cowra?” Then he
grasped Father’s hand and shook it
heartily. “Come in to my office,” he
cried. “I remember you. Sergeant Nug-
get Fordcubbin, B Troop, the old 6th
Light Horse. Well, well, well. Come
in, man, don’t stand there gaping.” He
drew Father through the door and I
waited awhile, but nothing happened, so
I went away and tried to find Mother,
But the crowd was too big, and at last I
went back to our hotel. They came along
about 10 p.m. and Father came in about
11. He seemed very pleased with himself
and Mother had a job to stop him sing*
ing his old 1914-18 war songs. Nobody
seems to know what happened to the
lamb, but we’re enjoying the Show.
“Hamley Bridge”: Dunno whether
any of the Schwerz family from S.A. will
be tossing sheaves at Sydney Show this
year—some of them generally turn up
where such contests are run —but as one
who has dug a bit of hay in various
parts of this country, I’m beginning to
wonder how long sheaf-tossing as a show
spectacle will Iqst. Somewhere around
60ft. is the Australian record—Sydney
hasn’t seen a sheaf go up much more than
50ft. —but then it’s done with a sheaf
tightly bound up in hessian, a different
proposition from heaving up a bundle
of hay flying loose on the fork. Mechani-
sation can’t be far away from stack-
building, whereby a lorry load of hay
will be grabbed off in one lump, heaved
to the top of the stack and be there picked
to pieces by the turner as he passes the
sheaves over to the builder. Even the
“His dog died yesterdee , so he’s just takin'
Strawb f'r a Walkabout."
stack-builder is on his last legs, since
it is obvious that pressing and baling hay
is better than stacking it. Sheaf-tossing
looks like becoming a lost art, along
with scything, bag-sewing and wheat-
lumping.
* * * *
“The Doctor: Maybe some optimist is
thinking of putting up a high-jump record
at the Sydney Show, so it’s worth
remembering that the leap put up by E.
L. Payne’s Gold Mead at Cairns (N.Q.)
in 1946, Bft. 4in., is still the Australian
—if not a world —record and it’s a dashed
long way higher than the best Sydney has
so far produced, 7ft.* 6in.,- by Payne’s
All Fours and Chittick’s Dungog. Since
the average juniper is only about sft.
high at the wither, the job of lifting itself
and a nine or ten stone rider nearly its
own height again is a pretty tough one.
Still, there’ll always be a horse to have a
go at it, someone to ride him and a
crowd to cheer them on,
* * * «
“Bytui”: The imminence of the appear-
ance of the, tattooed lady and other
things at Sydney Showground reminds me
that although I’ve been in some big
crowds —Melbourne Cups and Melbourne
football finals and “Test” crowds and
Sydney “Metrop.” days and Friday
lott’ry queues—the biggest I ever got
among was the 187,000 at
Sydney Show one day in 1938.
That was the sesqui-centenary
year, when well over a mil-
lion people visited the Show
and jammed Sydney streets by
night, what time the saveloy
men made fortunes and
fathers of families aged over-
night. No such crowds have
been seen since, and there is
a distinct nostalgic flavor and
some querulousness in the
memory that, big as the
crowds were, there was ample
beer for everybody, to say
nothing of cigarettes, clothing
and accommodation.
* * *
“Namboyhe”: The 1939-45
wars stopped Sydney Easter
Show for six years. The 1914-
18 wars failed to do so. But
the “Spanish influenza” epi-
demic of 1919 stopped it.
This year drought threatened
it for a time, but saving rains
in many parts removed the
threat. Almost every year the
churches have tried to have
the Show closed for Good
Friday, so far without success.
* * *
“P.S.”: Next Tuesday will be a big
day for Junior Farmers out at Sydney
Show, for at 8 p.m. the final selection
of the A.B.C. “champeen” junior farmer
will be made and the lucky youth will
collect a month’s tour of New Zealand
farms, colleges and other things. There
have been elimination contests to select
representatives from each State, and
choice of the finalist will be left to John
Green, the 8.8. C. agricultural liaison
officer in Australia.
THERE ARE OTHERS
“Colm”: A somewhat astonished
American, after journeying around
American farms, announced his findings
on this commendable note:
Plants and animals from other countries
have contributed to the inheritance of our
most productive breeds. We must repay
that debt by offering our finest made-to-
order strains to replenish the war-torn
world.
Apparently overcome by modern
American farming marvels, he lost sight
of the fact that farmers and agricultural
scientists in other countries have been
developing new crop and animal types
since the Greeks discovered that grape
vines yielded better after being chewed
by asses.
The exuberant gent, lauds everything
from American hybrid corn to local
breeds of sheep, from rust-resisting
wheats to “icebox-fitting water-melons.”
One phenomenal animal he met was
a crossbred cow, “Bessy,” which dis-
tinguished herself by giving 10001 b. of
butter-fat in one year—“almost three
times the yield of the average dairy cow.”
With due respect to the worthy “Bessy,”
“Melba the 15th of Darbalara,” an Aus-
tralian Illawarra Shorthorn, holds the
local record with 16141 b. Even old
“Wagga Gladys,” an Australian Jersey on
the 12591 b. mark, would take a very
patronising view of “Bessy.” Evolved in
Australia, the A.I.S. is a hardy animal,
good doer and good producer and the
heroine of the N.S.W. South Coast.
And the American hasn’t got it on his
own in wheat-breeding. From Farrer to
the present day—all the way through the
long list from the early Federation to
Waratah, Nabawa, . Ford, Bencubbin,
Ghurka and right up to the Fedwebs,
Eureka, Quadrat, Pinnacle and so forth —
we’ve bred wheats to beat disease and
drought until today there is an Australian
wheat that will grow anywhere under any
conditions. About the only thing our
wheats haven’t beaten is the mortgage,
and not even the American can do that.
It seems redundant to mention merino
wool, but it’s ours, be cripes, and though
the sheep carries a Spanish name it’s now
about as Spanish as a kangaroo. The
Americans had a crack at improving it,
and though Australian breeders took to
the Vermonts at first, they’ve been
mighty anxious to get away from them
ever since. Nobody wants a*i animated
blowfly bait on the place.
And with the sheep are those purely
Australian prodigies the Kelpies and
Barbs, Unique and priceless in their
fields, they are probably the only dogs
in the world that would sooner work
than eat. As for the Queensland heeler
—in his particular job among cattle he
has no equal.
It is possible that Australia, which pro-
duced the first harvesting and shearing
machines, could also evolve an “icebox-
fitting water-melon” if we found a sud-
den need for one. However, in a lather
of exultation, the American winds up:
Not only have we built made-to-order
cattle, poultry and grains, but have bred
bees with friendly dispositions, hogs that
won’t sunburn, a cotton plant to meet the
needs of the mechanical picker, beans and
cabbages crammed with twice their usual
vitamins, air-conditioned lettuce that won’t
bolt to seed in the most torrid weather,
and potatoes that, resisting bugs and blight,
all but dig and sort themselves. And that’s
only the beginning!
What the end will be he doesn’t
prophesy, but it should be only a matter
of time before native Rhode Island Reds
are laying eggs of 24 carats —if some Rus«
sian scientist doesn’t get there first.


PARTNER OF MODERN INDUSTRY
GUARANTEES
• Maximum use of Storage Space
i -
• Faster handling of goods .
• Greater production facilities
88388
BIN
STORAGE
OPENSTORAGE
y uu
i_j|G|G|s
l_J u u u
uu u u
UI uJlylti
u y
TRAY
STORAGE
BOX
STORAGE
LIMITED
(A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY)
Sydney and Melbourne.
Represented elsewhere in Australia- and New Zealand bv.
Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.
Steelbilt Standard Shelving
is adjustable . . adaptable to all
methods of storage
Unique features are:—
• Shelving adjustments up or down on two
inch spacings.
• Standardised on the unit principle.
• Packs flat for convenient transport.
° Can be easily assembled in position by
. unskilled labour.
° Can be added to or altered if required.
Steelbilt experts will make a check-up in the
storage or handling of goods and materials in
factory, plant, warehouse, store or office with-
out obligation. Phone: MX 3371.
t'-'H
c
LOCKERS, CABINETS, STORAGE BINS, FILING CABINETS AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT


THAT’
'V:
%
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even th® most expert and conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Execulor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS —James Bums - R. J. Nosworthy ■ Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager-—I., S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.P.IA,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE:' 'BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
Blue Gillettes
have a sh
behind eaeh
edgel
Every cutting edge sharper than a surgeon’s scalpel, shaped in three
distinct facets forming a supporting shoulder which takes the .strain and
increases durability. Precision tested on micro-sensitive machines at every
stage, for complete uniformity. Gillette’s ceaseless research has proved
this the best way to make blades for shaves
that are quicker, smoother, better-looking
and more economical.
as?
i
li
m
m
<
c*
<s>
<s>
o
*
a
fA
s
to
*Good Mornings 9
begin with Gillette
BUY TEN AT A TIME
WHO WANTS A HORSE?
Breeding is the most important aspect
of horse-racing, indeed, the only
sound excuse for the sport. It is
not, the bookie or punter but the
studmaster who is the backbone
of the game. But the sales of yearling
bloodstock in Australia, though they have
their importance, very often set false
standards of values, and too frequently
colts and fillies fetch absurd prices from
wealthy buyers who seek them for no
other purpose than to make money.
At the recent Melbourne sales were
offered 284 youngsters, the progeny of
72 sires and the work of some 86 indivi-
dual breeders. For the forthcoming
Sydney sales are catalogued 606 yearlings
offered by 162 breeders and representing
102 sires. During the war Australian
breeders experienced a boom period de-
spite the curtailment of racing and a
recommendation by the Bloodhorse
that they cut their
sale drafts by 50 per cent. Despite these
restraints increased prizemoney enhanced
the potential value of yearlings, and a
war-time abundance of ready cash pro-
duced plenty of new owners ready to bid
high against each other for untried
stock. This year’s Melbourne sales, how-
ever, seemed to indicate the beginning
of the end of the boom period. Many of
those catalogued were withdrawn, but
altogether .219 lots were sold for an
aggregate of 135,895gn5., and an average
price of 620|gns. —in each case well
below last year’s figures.
At Australian yearling sales are
youngsters representing the best blood
lines. Many of tide sires are imported,
though most are Australian-bred. Best
prices at Melbourne were paid for
progeny of the imported Dhoti, and he
is worth considering. He was one of
two colts sent out to carry the colors of
the late Duke of* Kent, who was then
Governor-General designate. After the
Duke’s tragic death the colts were sold,
E. A. Underwood, of Warlaby Stud,
acquiring Dhoti. Since then Dhoti has
had great success at the stud, exceeding
even that of Heroic. His first crop of
two-year-olds, which included
Gem and Leonard, won over £7OOO in
stakes, though including only two
winners. The following season two- and
three-year-olds by Dhoti won 40 races
and £33,560 in stakes ; Dhoti thus moved
up to fourth place in the list of winning
sires with his oldest progeny only three-
year-olds. Throughout the current
season in Melbourne Dhoti’s stock has
been “in the money” practically every
race day. Little wonder that the half-
dozen Dhoti yearlings offered in Mel-
bourne made an aggregate price of
11,500gn5., an average of 1916igns. The
Dhoti-Sequoia colt, a half-brother to the
Melbourne Cup winner, Rainbird, fetched
3000gns.
Another Warlaby Stud sire popular with
the Melbourne buyers was Helios, whose
fine-looking youngsters brought prices ex-
ceeded only by the Dhotis. Helios is a
son of Hyperion, four times premier sire
of England, and his oldest progeny are
two-year-olds. Eleven Helios yearlings
averaged 1206igns. One very handsome
colt by Hejios from Miss Gallant went
for 3100gns,
Buyers had their first opportunity to
bid for progeny of the imported Zaimis
and found them attractive. Seven of
them averaged lOOOgns., a daughter of
Zaimis and Fission going for 2850gns.
Now standing at H. G. Raymond’s St.
Albans Stud, Geelong, Zaimis was a good
galloper in England, where he won five
races. He is by the Eclipse Stakes winner,
Caerleon, from the Cambridgeshire
winner, Zinovia. The Pharos stallion,
Hellespont, who raced successfully in
France, was the only other sire whose
stock brought a four-figure average price
—lO of them averaged 1090gns. Others
which made good prices were the stock
of Rogerstone Castle, Law Maker, Enfield,
St. Magnus, Caithness and Kinderscout.
An interesting aspect of the Victorian
sales was the coloring of stock offered.
Bays, numbering over 100, easily pre-
ponderated. There were equal numbers,
about 70 each, of chestnuts and browns,
but the handsome blacks were limited
to four; there were 13 indefinite colors,
and only one grey, a colt by Rogerstone
Castle, from Blue Orchid, which fetched
1150gns.
With over 600 yearlings on offer the
aggregate figure for the Sydney sales may
be higher than last year, but judging
from Melbourne results, the average will
be lower. AH the same, some good stuff
will be available. Ajax’s stock is al-
ways popular, and this year’s bunch of
14 includes a three-quarter brother-in-
blood to Chaperone and Civic Pride.
The first Ajax to appear in public was
Magnificent, a 1200gns. yearling that won
the Breeders’ Plate, Sires’ Produce, Cham-
pagne and Hobartville Stakes, and the
two Derbies. Since then yearling buyers
have eagerly sought another Magnificent,
but most of those which brought big
prices at public auction, though good-
lookers, and usually fast, have yet to
prove themselves, including the 5250gns.
colt, Tengur. Civic Pride, Chaperone and
Havoc, other good ones, were all raced
by members of the Thompson family
who breed the Ajaxs.
There are 14 of Midstream’s, which
usually command high prices, and they
include a full-brother to Shannon, and a
couple of others bred on similar lines out
of Magpie mares. Full brothers to Flying
Duke and Wellington (by Le Grand Duct,
Columnist and Sajakeda (by Genetout),
Katanga, Prince Standard and Haxton
will attract interest, as will the filly by
Pay Up from Port Dombey. A son oi
Fairway, Pay Up is at present standing
in England. Other sires like Titan,
Emborough, Manitoba, etc., are repre-
sented, plus several new sires whose get
is offered for the first time. These in-
clude Yaralla, Skipton, Rimveil, Dink (a
successful sire in New Zealand) and
Amaranthus. Yearling sales over the
years provide a long story of expense e
duds and bargain price champions,
failures like Dominant (6759gn5.) and
champions like Phar Lap and Flight,
bought for a song. But while the well-
bred ones are not always good ones, the
good ones are always well bred.


TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
Table Lamp Model
T.L. 13
This photo shows a 300 c.p. Tilley
Lamp for domestic use but there
are also 5000 c.p. Floodlights, Out-
door Lamps, Radiators, etc. All
bum Ordinary kerosene.
Tilley Lamps are made only at
Hendon, England.
BE SURE YOU BUY A TILLEY LAMP
LOOK FOR THE NAME!
A quality product born of long
Manufacturing Experience
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
MELBOURNE : T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, C.I.
Binghi's Place-names
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
To the average white Australian un-
acquainted .with the aboriginal dialects
of his country, the occasional place-names
he comes across haven’t much more in
them than a phonetic quaintness which
gives a distinction that is their principal
characteristic. A number of native names
has been enshrined in Australian litera-
ture, some locally and others through-
out the Commonwealth, whilst a few
have been adopted.
The late Professor Morris, of the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, divided the abo-
riginal words found in English into three
classes, viz: (1) Aboriginal words which
have been incorporated unchanged in the
language, and which still denote the
original object; (2) aboriginal words
similarly adopted, which have had their
original meanings extended and applied
to other things ; (3) Anglicised corrup-
tions of native words.
But the place-names denoting locality
all have their ancient meanings, generally
more or less poetic, and nearly always
eminently descriptive. The meanings of
a great number have, unfortunately, been
lost forever, but there yet remain many
whose significance has been noted and
recorded—notably by James Tyrell in his
Australian Aboriginal Place Names —and
from them the, newer Australian may
learn that the aborigine had a hdbit of
bestowing names upon natural and geo-
graphical features of the country of a
sort that is infinitely superior to anything
that has been done in a similar direction
by his successors.
Over a century ago Dr. John Dun-
more Lang expressed in verse his admira-
tion for aboriginal nomenclature in this
way:
I like the native names, as Parramatta,
And Illawarra and Woolloomooloo;
Nandowra, Woogarora, Bulkomatta,
Tomah, Toongabbie, Mittagong, Merop;
Buckoble, Cumleroy and Coolingatta,
The Warragumby, Bargo, Burradoo;
Cookbundoon, Carrabaiga, Wingecarribee,
The Wollondilly, Yurumbin, Bungarribee.
Seventy yetys afterwards “Banjo”
Paterson parallelled the above in “These
Names,” a set of verses included in The
Man from Snowy River. After the day’s
work in the woolshed a party of shearers
is sitting in the firelight swapping yarns,
and a “man from the bleak Monaro”
tells the others about Adjintoothbong,
Nimitybelle, Conargo, Wheeo and Bon-
bongalong: —•
Then the shearers all sat silent, till a man in the
corner rose;
Said he, “I’ve travelled a-plenty, but never
heard names like those.
Out in the western districts, out on the Castlereagh
Most of the names are easy—short for a man
to say.
You’ve heard of Bungrybambone and the Gun-
dabuley pine,
Quobbatha, Gifilarnbone and Terramungamine,
Quambone, Eunonyhareenya, Wee Waa and
Buntijo”
But the rest of the shearers stopped him: “For
the sake of your jaw go slow;
If you reckon those names are short ones,
out where such names prevail,
Just try and remember some long ones before
you begin the tale.”
And the man from the western district, though
never a word he said.
Just winked with his dexter eyelid, and then
he retired to bed.
When you look up the meanings of
some of these names you’ll realise how
expressive Binghi was in his system of
titles for the places he knew,, Parra-
matta means “plenty of eels” ; Illawarra
is “a high place near the sea” ; Woolloo-
mooloo means “a young kangaroo” ; and
Coolingatta “a splendid view.” And of
the western shearer’s little list, Quam-
bone signifies “a fog” ; Girilambone is
“the place of many stars” ; Terramunga-
mine means “a man with a broken
thigh” ; Wee Waa is “fire thrown away.”
In an introduction to Tyrell’s book
Keith Kennedy, president at the. time of
publication of* the Anthropological
Society of N.S.W., explains how the
meaning of many place-names has been
lost,
“Before the coming of the white man,”
he writes, “every natural feature of Aus-
tralia was known to its native owners,
and had an appropriate name in one or
other of the dialects of their melodious
language. Unfortunately, many of the
aboriginal tribes have become extinct, and
the opportunity for recording the mean-
ing of a great number of their place-
names has been lost for ever. However,
a few of the more intelligent of the early
settlers became interested in the primitive
people they had dispossessed, learning
their language to a greater or less ex-
tent and studying their customs.. . .All
Australians with a love for their country
and a sense of the fitness of things can-
not but regret that in very many cases
the aboriginal place-names were not re-
tained and their exact meaning ascer-
tained when the land in the more-settled
districts was being pioneered and mapped
out, and it is to Ije hoped that in the
future, when naming new localities, the
original native nomenclature will be ad-
hered to whenever possible by the
authorities. It is very confusing to use
names belonging to other parts of the
world which have no significance here,
and it is absurd to name places after
people of no special note or distinction.”
No Australian will disagree with that —
this country has suffered a lot from the
senseless foisting upon it of utterly un-
suitable and sometimes wholly ridiculous
place-names.
“T.McN.”: I suppose I’ll fall for the
Show next week in Sydney and take the
family out, but I’m taking a good supply
of headache powders in case I get stuck
in the crowd under one of the loud-
speakers around the ring. These things
are very useful for announcing the ring
events and results —it’s when they fill in
between announcements with metallic
praises of somebody’s baking powder or
motor oil or put on a “hill-billy” record
that the long-suffering citizen dreams
vainly of arming himself with a pair of
long-handled wire cutters.
* * * *
“Old Bill”: In the days of my youth
the windows of almost every newsagency
were festooned with a vulgar variety of
comic postcards. As a youngster, in
common with my schoolmates, I spent
hours inspecting free exhibitions of pic-
tures of corpulent women in gaudy
bathing togs being ogled by mashers in
straw boaters, or grinning workmen gaz-
ing through bathroom windows at obese
matrons in the tub. Shapely housemaids,
carmine-faced cophs* amorous policemen,
mothers of large families, ginger-mou-
stached old rakes, nursemaids, and lovers
canoodling on park seats were other
characters who kept us late for school or
who delayed us on messages. The gags
were crude, vulgarly suggestive and an
offence to good taste rather than of a
type to disturb a vice squad police ser-
geant. They lacked the sophistication of
certain present-day American magazines,
and were more in keeping with the so-
called humor to be seen in processions
of university undergraduates. I hadn’t
seen any for years until I saw a display
in a seaside bookseller’s window, gazing
at which was the usual crowd of adoles-
“He's just found out he's entered for the Royal Short—as dressed
poultry."
cents. Neither the comic characters nor
the jests have changed as other comic art
has ; they were definitely of a pre-World
War I vintage.
* * * *
“Seaforth”: With the return of the
printing trade to normal -conditions a
flood of new periodicals can be expected,
During the years of ,peace a flock of
magazines of diverse description was
hatched annually. Most of them did not
survive their first few flights, and a lot
of good money was lost on puny fledg-
lings that couldn’t attract readers. War-
time controls prevented the publication
of new ventures on the Inky Way, and
there must be hundreds of budding North-
cliffes toying with the idea of launching
their own sheets as soon as paper and
labor become available. Already “dum-
mies” are being prepared, printers are
being badgered for quotes and the hunt
for capital and advertisements is on. The
majority, of course, will die in their in-
fancy. Very few new periodicals cap sur-
vive these days without strong financial
backing, the sporisorship of an existing
newspaper organisation or the support
of some political, trade, professional or
religious group.


A SENSE OF HUMOR
By GLORIA
RAWINSON
t <1 I HERE’S my
\ A / Fttle beach,
yy hey? Now,
where’s my
little bear?” Big
Julia Haka always
entered Mr. Samuel Sung’s shop with
these words. She told Samuel, “As you
sell beaches and bears, so I think your
Daisy is sweet like them, hey?” Julia
had difficulties with her p’s and b’s, and
Mr. Sung frowned when he heard her
loud voice. He said “Good morning,
Julia. Mary is upstairs finishing her new
dress. You can go up, please.”
He spoke very carefully because Mrs.
Ganner, the schoolmaster’s wife, had just
entered the shop. The Manuka Point
School Committee, in an endeavor to
raise funds for a library and swimming
baths, had organised a Grand United
Efforts Carnival to be held that afternoon.
Mrs. Ganner, as chairwoman of the
Ladies’ Committee, had worked very hard
to make it a success, and she came into
the shop with a little flutter of excitement.
Samuel thought that she looked vexed
about something. He wanted her to
know that on this great day neither the
Hakas nor the Sungs would be found
wanting.
OOD morning, John,” she said
S-J abruptly. “One of the grapefruit
was bad. I have brought it back.”
He sighed. Mrs. Ganner never would
understand that as an educated Chinese
gentleman he disliked being called John.
He was priud of his shop and spent
many hours arranging fruit in Abracad-
abra lines. He never gave poor measure
or wrong change or put more than one
specked banana or peach in a customer’s
bag. Mrs. Ganner, of all people, to ac-
cuse him of selling bad fruit! Samuel
displayed his gold tooth.
“I am sorry, Mrs. Ganner. I shall
carefully replace it with a good one, A
fine day for our United Efforts, don’t
you think? I must not forget to ask
after your many children, six, is it?
Five?”
“They are all well, John. I want a
bag of potatoes and a bag of onions.
Please send them along this morning
without fail, won’t you? I don’t know
how I am going to get everything done
today.”
“You are so busy, Mrs. Ganner. I
will send them, and there will be no
bad ones among them in case your many
children should get sick. I am a father
myself, Mrs. Ganner.”
“Daisy is a nice little girl,” said Mrs.
Ganner without enthusiasm. “And much
tidier than the Pa children.”
“My wife is half-English, Mrs. Ganner.”
Samuel looked at her over his spectacles,
and decided, in spite of his, earnest
Methodist principles, he disliked her
heartily. “In any case,” he went on softly
and sweetly, “Our Lord would not mind
an untidy Maori in Heaven.”
Mrs. Ganner was immediately dis-
tressed. “Oh, Mr. Sung, I did not mean
anything at all! I would not hurt your
feelings for worlds! We all admire and
respect you and Mrs. Sung. We are so
depending on your wife and Julia Haka
to help us this afternoon, and my hus-
band is hoping that you will give him a
hand at the door.”
“1 shall be delighted. I have discussed
with my wife what we shall give the
United Efforts besides the fruit and
vegetables, and we have an offering. I
shall call Mary to bring it down.”
But Mary was already running down
the stairs, Julia thudding behind her with
the little girl. “Sam! Sam! Julie says
not! Julie says never! It should be mine
—or hers!”
Samuel gave Mrs. Ganner the most
beautiful of brief smiles. He alternately
nodded and shook his head, waving his
hand af the schoolmaster’s wife.
“I have already discussed our inten-
tion with Mrs. Ganner, Mary. No sac-
rifice is too great for the United Efforts.
It is the shawl, Mrs. Ganner, which my
great-aunt sent to me from Canton. We
wish on behalf of Mrs. Sung and daughter
Daisy to present it to the Needlework
Stall.”
He threw it lightly over the counter
and looked hopefully at Mrs. Ganner,
who looked at it and then said half-
heartedly “They are a bit out of date,
you know. Still, one could use it for a
bedspread, I suppose. Could you bring
it along with you, Mrs. Sung? lam in
such a hurry. Well, Daisy, are you
going to sing for us this afternoon?”
DAISY gave her a sly look but did
not speak. She had her father’s
habitual graveness. In his heart Samuel
was now wishing that he had kept the
shawl for Mary’s birthday as he had in-
tended before the United Efforts caught
him in its net. He folded it up.
“All shall be as
you wish, Mrs. Gan-
ner. The potatoes
arriving with the
onions to your home,
and the shawl, my-
self, daughter and wife to assist you
this afternoon. Daisy will sing her song,
and your many children will be there,
I hope. Ah, you see we have but one
lamb, an ewe, but your husband, how
lucky he is to have his fold so full of
sheep!”
Mrs. Ganner, after a swift glance at
Samuel, said “Good morning” very coldly
and went out wondering if he was im-
pertinent.
Mary watched her husband wrap the
shawl first in tissue paper and then in a
brown wrapper, and stuck out her lower
lip. “I don’t want to go to the old United
Efforts. It’s silly. A lot of people buy-
ing what they don’t want. I’d sooner go
to the pictures.”
Samuel shook his head. “I also feel
remorse at parting from this treasure, but
we must go to hear Daisy sing. Besides,
it is good for business. And we must
remember that Christians should not
judge their neighbors. Remember that
word, Mary,, that is pronounced yumor.
I do not wish Daisy to use the language of
Julia, who, although our friend and mar-
ried to your pleasant brother is, never-
theless, an uneducated woman who mis-
pronounces her words.”
As he made up his orders and served
his customers Samuel thought a lot about
the friendship that existed between the
Hakas and the Sungs. He wished now
that he had taken Julia’s advice and
kept the shawl.
He was proud of his sister-in-law,
though he admitted that in some things
Julia was a failure. She did not trouble
to dress herself properly. She smoked
continuously and swore often, and her
speech made Samuel shudder. But she
had a magnificent voice with which*to
praise the Lord, so one had to make
allowances for her. She was good-natured
and in some things very wise indeed.
Many young people took their troubles
to Julia Haka and, with laughter and
good advice, she helped them over rough
places. Therefore, pondered Samuel
gloomily, she was probably right about
the shawl.
MARY had recovered her spirits and
she flaunted her head proudly as the
little family walked across the street to
the school hall. But her happiness was
shortlived. She found, on inquiry, that
she had been given the task of dish-
washing in the hot little room at the
back of the hall where nobody could see
her new dress. After an hour her annoy-
ance had given way to temper, and Mary
Sung’s temper was ten times worse than
any passion Big Julia could work herself
into. Mary now was full of hatred.
She hated Mrs. Ganner. She hated her
husband. And she hated Big Julia Haka.
Julia had been put in a silken tent to
tell fortunes. Mrs. Ganner came in to tell
her. “I lent her that Chinese shawl you
gave me, Mrs. Sung, and • she is- making
a big hit.”
Mrs. Sung spat into the sink and went
on whistling her blind little tune. Then
she suddenly pulled off her apron and
threw it in a corner. “I’ve had it!” she
said to the astonished woman who was
helping.
Samuel, too, was sunk in deep gloom.
They were selling his fruit and vegetables
at cut rates. The schoolmaster had said
“Excuse me” in the middle of something
Samuel had been telling him and walked
away. A racemeeting in a neighboring
town had affected the attendance, which
was not nearly as large as the United
Efforts deserved. Samuel was left alone
at the door, but no more people were
arriving. Mary plucked at his arm. “Sam,
give me some money, quickly.”
He winced—there did not seem to be
much unison in this big effort. “More
money?” he asked. “And you, Mary,
with your temper up? And why? What
is the matter now?”
MADAM Bara’s
tent was covered
with black cats and
gold stars, A
witch’s hat hung up-
side down over the
doorway, and into this Mary dropped a
shilling and went inside. Madam Bara’s
head was hidden behind a screen, and it
was discreetly supposed that she could
not see her clients, who thrust their hands
into a small opening.
“Hey!” she said, as Mary’s hand went
under. “Hey! Now, look here, I see
you are not a pakeha girl and that you
have a foreign husband. Meddem, you
will know that what I tell you is what
I see written by the stars in your hand
and is in confidence. Your husband,
boor girl, is a pigamist. He already has
two wifes in foreign parts—China, I
think.”
“Julia!” Mary pulled the screen aside
and screamed “Julia, it’s mine, the shawl,
it’s mine!”
“Run away, Mary,” grinned Julia,
“You’ve had your hand read. Where’s
your sense of humor? Next, please.”
Samuel had heard Daisy sing. He had
heard, too, what he imagined was an
insulting titter. It went round the hall
when the schoolmaster announced “We
are now to hear little Daisy Sung sing.”
Daisy was unperturbed and had been
much admired.
But Samuel marched up to the stage.
“These people,” he whispered softly,
“have no manners. We shall find your
mother and go home.”
Mary beckoned to him. “It’s true,
Samuel! The shawl, they gave it to
Julie. She says you are a bigamist and
have a wife in China. She is telling
everyone that. The shawl is ruined, she
will burn cigarette holes in it, like the
tablecloth.”
“Unfortunate. Most. Most unwise to
make an hysterical scene here. We are
in a very outstanding position. Come
quietly outside.” Samuel spoke in
little hissing whispers. “We have had
enough for one day. I shall speak at
once to Julia. Her behavior is not Chris-
tian.”
He paid his shilling and entered the
fortune-teller’s tent. Julia recognised his
hand. “Ha! I see at once, a foreigner
with a deceitful wife behaving very
naughty. Your wife, sir, is”
“Enough, Julia,” said Samuel. “This
is not a joke. I wonder at you telling
unpleasant lies to old friends. Please
cease your visits to my family. From
now on our friendship is at an end and
we are all strangers.”
“I ought to read your head as well,
Sam, Don’t be childish. Mary was in a
bad temper. She is a spoilt girl. And
your troubles is from having no sense of
humor like me.”
“The word,” Samuel said coldly, “is
pronounced yumor—the h being silent.
Goodbye.”
He walked sedately back to his wife,
conscious for the first time of many
reasons why the friendship between the
Hakas and 'the Sungs should be severed
forever.
“In future, Mary, we are not allowing
our sister-in-law to come to shop or
home. We shall pray for her, but must
draw the line somewhere.”
He bowed politely to the schoolmaster
who, caught in a crowd behind the sweet
stall, was frantically waving to them.
“Sam!” Mary had quite recovered
from her bad temper. “Sam, don’t you
think we had better go back? Mr.
Ganner wants to speak to us. Look, he
is waving again.”
Samuel bowed again in the school-
master’s direction. He took the little
girl’s hand and Daisy looked solemnly up
at him. If she had any thoughts at all
her face did not show them —there was
a kind of bland blankness about her.
“We shall go home without intending
to ask why the wave. They must Know
the price of vegetables and that you never
put more than one large carrot in a
bunch. No, this has all been done for
spite, because they
think me a foreigner,
I suppose, and that
we are not as good
as they. And after
all we have done for
the United Efforts! And that
time I gave two tins of toffee
to the Methodist picnic! On
Monday, Mary, I shall go to
town and buy you a nice
present. What would you like?”
But Mary was not easily recompensed.
“Sam, I wanted the shawl.”
“Then I shall buy a shawl. I know a
merchant”
“But I wanted that shawl!”
Samuel gave a great sigh. The noble
path was strewn with tacks and broken
glass.
1T was pleasant, reflected Mary an hour
' later, to be home again, away from all
those spiteful people, and horrid Julia,
with the curried chicken in the oven and
the toast browning. Pleasant to hear
Sam’s rather nasal voice reading the Bible
to Daisy, who was not even pretending to
listen as she played with a saucer of water
in which some paper flowers were un-
folding.
Suddenly she gave a great snort and
threw herself across the table. For a
second or two Mary thought she was
choking, but the child regained her breath
and began to laugh. Great gusts of
merriment shook her little body. They
had never heard anything like it before.
Her straight black hair fell over her face
and she wagged her head helplessly
Samuel lifted her from the table but she
slipped from his arms and rolled on the
floor.
“What in the world has come over
her?” Mary stared at Samuel, who shook
his head and then bent over the saucer.
“She has never made such laughter
before, I have an idea that one of these
flowers has appealed to her sense of
yumor. Here is one that looks very
funny indeed, like a little, a little —well,
something very yumorous. Ha! ha!
Laugh and grow fat, as my friend the
Rev. Gillhen used to say.”
“It’s not,” gasped Daisy, “it’s not that
at all. It’s something else. It was when
I sang. Mr. Ganner said, O dear! He
said, ha! ha! He said ‘Daisy Sung will
now sing,’ and I sang and they heard
me sing and my name is Daisy Sung.”
“That is what, I presume, the people
laughed at. Yes, it is very yumorous,
Mary. Ha! ha!”
A knock at the door took him out of
the room, and when he returned he was
carrying a small paper parcel. He was
gloomy again as he placed it on the table.
Mary, turning the toast, asked “Who
was it, Sam?”
“Your brother Fred. I committed a
mistake unintentionally. In this case I
take the blame on all of my own
shoulders. I acted in haste and repent
in idleness. This is the shawl, Mary,
bought in cash from the United Efforts
by Fred and Julia Haka. Your brother
gave it to me with the words ‘Sam, you
old spectacled Chow, here is a present for
Mary’s birthday.’ Not a nice choosing
of words, perhaps, but it is the spirit that
counts.”
MARY, still busy at the stove, gave
her little daughter a slight push with
her foot. “Daisy, go over and tell your
Aunt and Uncle that we are expecting
them to dinner. Tell them there is
curried chicken and baked kumera.
That’ll fetch them! And, Sam, please
bring up some pickles from the shop.”
As Daisy entered the Hakas’ kitchen
she slipped on a squashed cream puff and
landed in a pool of water.
A vase, stuffed with purchases from the
flower stall, had fallen among a litter
of scent sachets, peg-aprons, pot-holders
and bags of coconut ice. Daisy recog-
nised among the sadly battered articles
the bookmarker on which she had em-
broidered an owl and “Here I fell asleep.
Aunt Julia had spent every penny she
had on the United Efforts.
Julia was recklessly shaking a pepper-
pot over a saucepan and Uncle Fred
sat tilted back in his chair with his feet
on the table. “So we are to come to
dinner, hey?”
“Yes, please, Auntie, there’s”
“Curried chicken,” grunted Uncle Fred,
bounding up and putting on his coat. 1
smelled it when Sam opened the door,
hey! ”
“Ah, God!” moaned Big Julia, “how-
foolish I do behave sometimes!”
She brushed her hand across her face.
“This bebber he has got in my eyes.
Look, we’ll take the rest of the cream
buffs. Here, Daisy, cakes for my little
beach, sweets for my own little bear!


THE REVOLUTIONARY RABBIT FUMIGANT
D
A
t
l
c
. %
GRAZIERS ARE SAYING;
DEADLY AND BETTER <
“It is most deadly and certainly better than any fumigant
I have seen.”
FASTER FUMIGATION
"I find that one man can fumigate quicker than four
can fill in the burrows.”
DIFFERENT
“Entirely different from any other fumigant.”
LIVES UP TO ADVERTISING
“It is not often a product lives up to the advertisement
like ‘Larvacide’ does.”
LESS THAN 1 p.c. OPENED UP
“I personally checked on 800 holes and only three were
opened, two of which were ‘doubtfuls’.”
ALL HOLES CLOSED AFTER 8 DAYS
“I saw 30 rabbits, mainly kittens, on top of a well-
worked warren. Gave Sees, to each hole—all closed 8
days later.”
METHOD
Cut back to expose holes not at first visible. Give each
hole a scc “shot”; fill in straightaway and trample down.
Rocks. If no soil about make best job you can with
loose rock filling. Drenching gun. You can use your
“Kettle” gun for drenching afterwards. Expose to air
and sun and rinse with a little petrol or carbon tetra-
chloride. On horseback. You can carry a 21b. bottle in
your saddle ba£ and a few 4in. hessian squares if going
out to treat scattered holes. Dogs will keep away from
“Larvacide” and we have no record of any harm to
them. No danger to stock, as dose is buried in burrows.
“Kettle Gun” on horseback. Slip rubber band under lid.
sdfdsfsdf
THE GREATEST
STEP FORWARD
IN RABBIT CON-
TROL SINCE RAB-
BITS FIRST BE-
CAME A MENACE
TO AUSTRALIA.
Halves Your Labour Cost!
With Larvacide, dogs and traps, you can get 1,000
acres of fairly heavily infested country well under
control in 7 days. This allows for 32-40 lb. of
Larvacide—4 men all told—approximate cost £45.
sdfsdfdsf
Moffat-Virtue Pest Arrestor
or Drenching Gun, £3
“Kettle Guns” have been in
short supply, but further
stocks are expected shortly.
Put LARVACIDE
in each hole
wifh: —
Moffat-Virtue Kettle
Gun.
Long-handled spoon.
Pieces of hessian or bag-
ging (4in. squares), cow
manure or waste wool.
Bottle with sprinkler
top cork.
20cc. hand syringe.
Rega brass atomiser or
suitable oilcan.
Bottle with two or three
holes punched in the
metal cap (replace with
sound cap if travelling
any distance).
NOW THAT "LARVACIDE" IS HERE
You can throw out-of-date methods on the scrap heap.
Even our own calcium cyanide, 88.5 per cent, pure, is
knocked on the head by “Larvacide’s” performance
under all conditions. Puffers and blowers, cumbersome
apparatus, bullocks and bulldozers, digging out. Yes, if
you think the pick and shovel is the best in the end
“Larvacide” can convince you otherwise.
SPEED SPEED SPEED
That’s “Larvacide”! Only a teaspoonful (sccs.) in each
hole clear of the filling-in dirt and the job’s done. The
rabbits die inside and when they don’t they die outside.
We say seriously—you’re out of date if you’re not using
“Larvacide." Save your feed, save your strength, save
your money and manpower—with "Larvacide.”
Loose rocks, rocky outcrops, reinhabited ploughed-in
warrens, “impossible” warrens, “difficult” warrens, sandy
warrens, dry country, moist country, if you have had no
rain for six months, “Larvacide” will kill for you.
MM
2*52=
aiUli
How to use it? Get a 21b. bottle and do 100 of your
worst holes and check it with whatever you like. Creek
banks, rocky gullies, all the tough spots, the rocky area
you fenced in and gave up as a bad job, the spots you
couldn’t handle with other methods—that’s where we
want you to try “Larvacide.” If they stay in they die,
if they get out they die. It is closer to a 100 per cent,
kill, rain or no rain, than anything you have had before!
Thinking of digging out? Spend 10 per cent, of it on
“Larvacide” and know low cost rabbit control. Five ccs.
a hole, just a teaspoonful. Don’t overdose and waste it.
You have had the “every rabbit, every time” story. You
have had “kills every rabbit in the dead ends” and you
know THAT for what it’s worth, in dry times particu-
larly! You know you have had up to 80 per cent,
ing up of warrens, yes, 4 out of 5, and your labor and
cash gone for nothing. Put an end to it with “Larva-
cide.” Twopence per hole and that’s the end of it. It’s
“child's play” to dose a warren with “Larvacide.”
m\\
m
f.
I
m
i
' 2®
A HOLE
LARVACIDE IS SAFE TO
USE IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE SIMPLE DIREC-
TIONS ON EVERY BOTTLE. Simple and easy
to handle, absolutely non-inflammable and non-
explosive.
Si TIMES HEAVIER THAN AIR !
"Larvacide” stays in burrows longer—keeps on killing
—no wonder, it is 5.6 times heavier than air.
It is just a one-second job to shoot a burrow. One
squeeze on the trigger handle of the Moffat-Virtue
Arrestor ("Kettle Gun”) and the burrow is fumigated.
A mere teaspoonful (sccs.) does the job.
>
Your
storekeeper
can get
“Larvacide”
for you.
SPECIALISING IN PEST DESTRUCTION
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • TELEGRAMS
2 Bridge St. 268 Flinders St. 161 Queen St. 12 Page St. W. G. Waldie, “KILPEST”
8W2341 Tel.; CLIII3-4 Tel.: 84336 Central 8005,489 Murray St. (Syd., Melb.,
Adel., Bris.)
Note: Stocks of “Larvacide” for Perth, W.A., available as soon as shipping conditions permit.
DON’T WASTE
MONEY ON OBSOLETE METHODS
Graziers who have spent £5,000 in past years in digging
out are now complete and enthusiastic converts to the
“Larvacide” control method. QuickI—chea 1 —cheap—and above
all, efficient. As one grazier said: “I doubt if any station
owner would believe the powers of this fumigant unless
he actually saw them for himself.”
Is this “ad” provocative? It’s purposely meant
to be. It is an invitation to you to get the
best. A 17/- bottle will convince you. We
challenge you to throw your prejudices over-
board and try “Larvacide.” Bulldozers and
bullocks, gadgets and gases anything you
have used or bought in the past twenty-five
years—
"Larvacide" Throws Down
The Glove To Them All I
A FRIENDLY CHALLENGE
“£1 A HOLE!”
The originator of “Larvacide” in Australia, Mr. B.
L. Houghton and his Company, issue a friendly
challenge:—
Pick out your worst group of 100 holes or more
and we will pay £ 1 /-/- to your local Hospital or
any named Charity for every hole over 1 per cent,
opened up from the inside within 24 hours. Each
hole or visible “lead” to receive 5 ccs. of Larv-
acide” and to be closed in the usual manner, War-
rens to be in normal condition. Dead rabbits on
the warren and within 60 yds. of the warren, or
dead rabbits with their bodies protruding half - way
in the mouth of a hole, to count in our favor. No
size or type of warren barred, no type of country
barred, rain or no rain. Your local committee of
three or more to observe and check
and their majority decision to be final.
Mr. B. L. Houghton or a responsible mem-
ber of his Company to be present.
KILLS IN
DRY WEATHER
Reports since July, 1946 (when
“Larvacide” was first offered),
show an average of LESS than 1
per cent, opening up from the in-
side. “Larvacide” still kills in dry
weather.
To Houghton and Byrne Pty., Ltd.,
2 Bridge St., Sydney. Telephone: 8W2341.
(Your State address is at left.)
Please forward to me by goods train, freight
on, F.0.R., Capital City:
A 21b. Bottles of “Larvacide” at 17/-
each.
B Cases of 12, Bottles each 21b. at
£lO/4/- per case.
C 301 b. Cylinders at £l2/15/- each.
D... 1801 b. Cylinders, 7/2 lb., at £64/10/-
each.
(Perth, W.A., prices slightly higher.)
E Please forward to me without obliga-
tion further information about
“Larvacide” for control of
(Please state pest and purpose .)
“Larvacide” can be sent by goods train only, can-
not be sent by post or passenger train, and it is
best for you and for us if we send it freight on
(except unattended sidings).
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin, 26/3/’47


Product of the same organization that produced
the valiant Hudson Bomber and the famous P-38
Lightning, the Lockheed Constellation now offers
swift, comfortable schedules to most world capi-
tals. Among the great airlines selecting Constel-
lations for their leading flights are: aer uncus
. . . AIR FRANCE . . . AMERICAN OVERSEAS AIR-
LINES . . . BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORP. . . .
EASTERN AIR LINES y. . . KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIR
LINES . . . KNILM ROYAL NETHERLANDS INDIES
AIRWA.YS . . . LAV LINEA AEROPOSTAL VENEZOLANA
. . . PANAIR DO BRASIL . . . PAN AMERICAN WORLD
AIRWAYS . . . QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS, LTD. . . .
and trans world airline. Book passage with
travel agent or airline.
Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Cal,, U.S.A.
Sole Australian Agents: RHEEM AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Aircraft. Sparc Pans. Accessories. Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
With lively recollections of petrol quality
most motorists
want
motor spirit
“Opinion Research”, which is supervised by Roy Morgan, founder
and manager of the Australian Gallup Poll, recently conducted an
Australia-wide poll among car and truck owners. One of many
questions asked was, “When the pool ends, which petrol are you likely to
try first?”
Nearly all named a brand in answer to this question. Of those who
so answered, substantially more than 50% said: “Shell”.
Shell petrol will very scon be in the pumps again.
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Inc, In Gt. Britain)
If 011, CAN. BE SURE
AIR-FREIGHTING PRODUCTS
Every week there arrive in Singapore
60,000 oysters in the shell, flown from
Australia in just under 18 hours and kept
company by such perishables as fresh
fruit, vegetables and flowers. Airline
companies which handle such freight and
are making provision to handle more of
it are confident that, as yet, air-freighting
of perishables is only in its infancy. They
are already delivering freight from Syd-
ney to London within 63 hours, and with
new types of aircraft should soon better
the record.
Over the Australia to England air route
wool samples are flown regularly to Brad-
ford, and many other land products are
dropped off at points along the way.
Places nearer home provide a growing
market for the Australian producer, the
airlines playing the part of fleet-travelling
salesmen capable of delivering samples
and goods within hours, where once it
took weeks.
Perhaps the greatest benefit from air-
freight goes to the man on the land. He
can be sure of getting his perishable pro-
duce fresh, say, from Brisbane to Clon-
curry, at a charge of only 9d. per pound
for it. Urgently-needed machinery parts
can be shipped by air to the nearest
’drome and rushed thence to the farm.
The Australian orchardist can ship his
fruit overseas cheaply, to arrive there
fresh and out of season and consequently
sell like hot cakes.
The development of air-freight for
perishables knotted many scientific brows.
It was learned that high altitudes play
strange tricks, and in the early stages
cream was found to curdle, sponge cakes
to collapse, pies to expand and bread to
go dry. The problem was solved by
“quick-freezing,” a development which
has given air freight an unlimited
future for handling almost any perishable
item. By a sudden dropping of its
temperature the scientist found that he
could arrest all chemical development
within the foodstuff, and yet, on cooking,
have it as tasty as the fresh variety.
Quick-frozen green peas, stripped of
their shells, can travel on overseas routes
from Sydney, pass through varying cli-
mates and, when thawed of their pebble-
like texture at the other end, be as succu-
lent as ever. Smoked turkey has been
found to fare exceedingly well, so in
America, about Thanksgiving time, there
could be an excellent market for Aus-
tralian gobblers.
Ahead/ air-freighters have shown
capacity to handle an outstanding variety
of goods. Certain bulky items will, of
course, remain the prerogative of land or
sea transportation, *but planes now on
the drawing-board will be able to ac-
commodate huge loads.
For instance, to fly on the “Kangaroo”
service this year Qantas Airlines have
purchased four giant Lockheed Constel-
lation aircraft. Already capable of carry-
ing 50001 b., the greatest load over dist-
ance of any commercial aircraft, these
planes will be fitted with the “Speedpac”
—a sort of middle-aged belly-tank —
which will add another 40001 b. to their
payload.
The prospects thus opening up for
‘Australian landmen are immense. Since
most of our fruits and vegetables ripen
at a time when their counterparts are
out of season in the United States and
other parts, rapid and cheap air carriage
puts within our reach markets which
were formerly completely beyond our
calculations. As with fruit, so eventually
with meats and fish and wines and manu-
factured products. The traffic will be
two-way, of course, but that is all to the
good, and the poet who once saw a
vision of ships “sailing down to half a
hundred quays” would doubtless be
dumb at the spectacle of flying ships that
will before long embellish Australian
skies.
The Manchester Method.
“Jumbee”: Some critics of this
method of rendering the merino crutch
unattractive to blowflies by creating a
bare patch thereon have claimed that the
wrinkles are burnt out by some corro-
sive action or other. This is far from
the truth, since the Manchester method
doesn’t touch the wrinkles, it merely pre-
vents the growth of wool on the affected
part.
Obviously, a bare crutch allows the
animal to remain clean and removes the
attraction for the flies. It costs about
Id. per ewe for treatment, and the job is
a life-time one, no crutching or jetting
against fly being necessary. Manchester,
who is a B.V.Sc. and is stock inspector
for the Charleville district (Q.), has many
testimonials to its efficiency. A photo-
graph of an old ewe which was given the
Manchester treatment at two years old
shows her at the age of ten carrying
about a year’s wool and with the parts
about the vulva as clean and healthy as
the day she was treated.
In the eight years since she was
treated, the ewe, with others of the flock
that received treatment at the same time,
has been immune against blowfly attack
and has never been crutched or jetted,
whereas other sheep in the same flock,
untreated, have often been struck and
have had to be crutched as often as three
times a year. Manchester’s method is
patented and has not received the same
publicity as have other methods, but
there appears to be no doubt of its
efficacy.
“Outback”: Starting life as a meat-
worker, John Kelly, of Brisbane, has
bought from Army Disposals the Cape
River meatworks, near Pentland (N.Q.),
and the Aitkenvale (Townsville) cold
stores and ice works, with a cold storage
capacity of 2500 tons. Launching out for
himself some years ago as a meat-
exporter, Kelly today has interests in the
Brisbane wholesale meat trade and has
his own grazing and farming properties,
on which he fattens a lot of the cattle he
kills for export and local trade. The
Cape River works were built by the Army
during the war to treat cattle for troops
stationed in North Queensland, and when
Kelly begins operations about the middle
of April he expects to put through 100
head daily. As it will be possible to walk
a large number of cattle to the works,
this should prove an advantage to N.Q.
cattlemen. Kelly has been buying cattle
for years, and few have a better know-
ledge of the industry.
* * * *
“Towser”: If Mr. Suburbia has
finished skiting about his poodle know-
ing the sound of the baker’s steps will
he come one further with me? I don’t
ask him to explain a simple thing like his
dog recognising the sound of the engine
of his car ; will he tell me how they know
the lights in the distance? I’ve repeatedly
had dogs which grew restless when the
lights of my car appeared over the top
of a ridge half-a-dozen miles away. My
wife and others have told me they knew
I was coming by the fact the dog
whimpered when my lights topped the
ridge, continued restless and became
more excited as the lights came closer.
There were dozens of other cars passing
every night of every week. The dog took
no notice of them at all.


Divorce Notice.
iU JiUJLiNEZ iirt LIGHT late of Maroota. —TAKE
NOTICE that ETHEL GRACE LIGHT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 753 of 1947 on the ground
of desertion during three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 18th day of April
1947 and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from DAVIES, STEWART & SHARPE, Solicitors, 7
Wynyard Street, Sydney— (jls.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
THERE’S S KG JOB HERD OF
Olympic
During the early
months of 1947 the
backlog of new
tyres may continue
... but you can be
sure that Olympic
will meet everyone’s
requirements—
quickly as possible
A Product of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE AND
RUBBER CO. LTD.
/faqofmy
eye
sometfi/ny
briefer "
ssassr*
W elding Gibson reckons
tainly bright, but Stan .
his future is eve emp loyee at
A
Chullora for the last 1 as j w ork
Gibson says . oQly close their
that if people ful ness of over-
eyes to the falf br g and save their
rated and shoddy goo
money tuitU tong moch better oft.
selves, we would a reg ular
“A| for ™ e ’ V V ®J°brightest thing to
Bond buying 18 * ... in Bonds,
do at the present ti tha n bank
surplus ffl ?^^bsohJtc C security*”
interest with * bs blood donor.
Mr- Gibs °* " s the blood you give.
“You don t mis ma de secur e,
and oomobpdy. W b ; ying Bonds yon
he says- t he money, and y
don’t really ™ ISS * sec ure I”
make your ow four children,
As a married ™* responsi bilities.
Mr. Gibson has | comp letely
“X flatter myse , futurc by my
Bonds, he
said.
Listen to the
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL
QUIZ CHAMPIONSHIP OF 19471
Second Country Semi-final.
All Stations,
Wednesday, 2nd April, 8 p.m,
(South Australia, 7.30 p.m.)
Von'f 6//nc/yourse/f/
Shutting yfiur eyes to the economic situation
to-day won’t help your future you need the
sure protection you get from Security Bonds.
By saving all the money you can, and putting
your savings and surplus cash into' Security
Bonds, you take two important steps to secure
your future.
!. You build up a fund of money with which
to enjoy better-quality goods, and a more
plentiful supply of goods, when production
gets into full swing again. You’ll get more
for your money later on.
I. Invested in Security Bonds, your savings
increase at better than bank rates of interest,
and with absolute safety. In any emergency,
your Bonds can be readily negotiated for cash.
Bankers, economists, trade union leaders all
agree Bonds are the best place for your
money to-day.
•f( The Third Security Loan opens on April 15: Bonds will
be available in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and
£l,OOO, paying interest at the rate of 3&% for 12 years or
2% for three years. You can make a fully-paid advance
subscription at once, and interest will be paid from the
date of your application. Invest to-day through any Bank
Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
rMAKE AN ADVANCE
SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
, Third i
[ Security Loan
IN A MOSCOW QUEUE
The writing boys are back in Moscow
for the “Peace” Conference, and one of
them, a Mr. Alaric Jacob, has written an
account of post-war Russian conditions
as he found them.
The vital sentences in his report de-
scribe his meeting with an honest toiler
in a theatre queue. Said this Russian
worker: —
I don’t work for a fixed wage and pen-
sion. In my factory the more I produce
the more money 1 make. People must have
an incentive, you’ll find.
In that sentence the unknown Slav—
a person “in felt boots and a grey skull-
cap” and obviously not a Sydney wharfie
—seemed to explode all the pretensions
of Australia’s Communists, who claim
to represent Holy Russia, “the Workers’
Only Fatherland,” and expose the falsity
of their descriptions of the Paradise which
they propose to create with the help of
the kind Uncle Joe, who is their supposed
inspiration. It might seem to the average
Commonwealth citizen who loves his
country, and sees where it is going in the
age of its “world leadership,” that it
would be worth a revolution —not social,
or with bloodshed—if Australians
could be generally inspired with
the same spirit as the man in the Moscow
queue, and that if Marshal Stalin could
be induced to preach such a doctrine
within the Commonwealth it \Vould be
right and just to welcome him with bands
and hang his neck with roses.
But unfortunately there is a sad dis-
crepancy between the doctrines taught
in Russia, where the toiling masses
are snugged down safely under the
tight hand of the Narkomindel, and
in Australia, where the worker still has
an effective vote and has no shadow on
his shoulder, unless he shows a tendency
to indulge in or advocate too freely the
base and sometimes illegal exercise known
as work —a crime, on occasion, worse
than any form of blackmarketing or
racketeering.
If the doctrine of the man in the grey
skull-cap is generally prevalent in Russia,
together with another doctrine which is
suggested as being operative by Russian
vital statistics, then whatever the condi-
tion of Russia and whatever its objectives,
Russia is a land of promise to which
every right-thinking man and woman will
wish luck and the reward of its labors,
provided it confines itself to its own
territories.
In certain Australian industries over
several months sections of the Iron-
workers have not averaged three hours
a day; and a member of any of the
Victorian metal-trades unions who has
worked an average of three hours a day
since before Christmas would have earned
the unenviable title of “scab,” and put
himself beyond the chance of working
even one hour a day in his own calling
for a very long time to come.
Moreover, the Communist agitator
over the last few years has achieved such
a triumph in his profession that any Aus-
tralian Government which attempted to
introduce even temporarily the measure
which the Russian Government has just
introduced as a permanent feature of the
Constitution —the 48-hour week —would
not last 24 hours. And any Minister of
the so-called “Government party” which
acts as a “stooge”—Mr. Chifley’s elegant
phrase, coined as a sneer at a good
soldier —for the Communist-led unions
who was asked to go on a platform to
preach that economic greatness in a
nation can emanate only from universal
hard work and high production ; who
was asked to say publicly that leisure and
sport were not the be-all and erid-all of
industrial life—that Minister would fall
into the Molonglo with fright.
The official organ of one of the few
unions in Australia which still hold to
the old British gospels, and which cleave
to the concept that unionism must pre-
serve the right of man to his own political
beliefs and not yield to those of tyrant
secretaries with foreign affiliations, wrote
the other day:
Australia is trying to live like a certain
rich man whose servants, when they came
to awaken him after a feast, found him
just a carcass.
In effect, we are crying, “Let us eat,
drink and be merry.” But we carefully re-
frain from completing the sentence, for we
don’t really believe that we shall die. “All
men think all men mortal but themselves”
applies to us as a nation. In a mad
scramble for pleasure, or that which so many
deem to be pleasure, we say, in effect,
“Never mind about the future; let us have a '
good time while we may. What does it
matter to us if we leave to our children an
Australia impoverished financially, morally
and mentally? They can look after them-
selves.”
Every word is true. Average decent
Australians, whether men or women, have
the natural constitutions of workers and
the natural ambitions of the British race.
But these are being killed within them
by the purposeful crowd into whose in-
dustrial and Governmental clutches they
have fallen ; men who urge the gospel
-- loaf; msn who urge allegiance to
the ideals of an Asiatic country rather
than to the splendid and constructive
ideas which hitherto have developed the
British Commonwealth in all its parts.
The curious paradox is that those who
preach and, with the power of unionism
at call, enforce the present doctrines, do
not themselves practise them. Whatever
may be said of the leaders of Commun-
ism in Australia today, it cannot be, said
that they work a 40-hour week or
subordinate their purposes to the acquire-
ment of leisure. In their fashion they
work like beavers, and any inquirer who
wishes to find spots in Australia where all
the theories of high rewards and long
rests and union conditions in general are
not observed needs only to invade the
inner circles of Communist agitation. In
these circles unscrupulous fanatics work
all sorts of hours, under the kind of con-
ditions they themselves condemn ; this
with singleness of purpose. By such means
they have become the real bosses, while
“Labor” politicians cry in the streets like
the mythical French demagogue “Where
is the mob? I am its leader!”
Let Communists secure absolute con-
trol of this country and it will be no time
before the duped Australian worker finds
out how sincere are his leaders in their
present ideals. He will learn that he has
no choice in settling the industrial policy
which he is told he at present controls.
Conscription, forced labor, police sur-_
veillance will all become part of his life.
He will*be harnessed to the purposes of
the World Revolution by “leaders” who
have thrown the carrot in the dust and
taken up the automatic and the whip.
The only means by which he can be
saved from this fate is a return to the old
commandments and the old standards.
In the first place, by a return to common-
sense on the part of what the new “demo-
crat” is pleased to call “the common
man.”


WHEN IT’S AN
£xt4e
/ //
m'
mm 4 *- 1
t&cfe' 1
V i
mr
MORE CARS ARE FITTED WITH EXIDE
THAN ANY OTHER BATTERY
— *
IDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
X 1.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
Duncan Ross McL'arty, who is to be
Premier of Westralia, has been a member
of the State Assembly since 1930. He
represents Murray-Wellington, is chair-
man of the Murray District Hospital, and
a past chairman of the dairying section
of the Primary Producers’ Association.
A Digger of World War I with a Military
Medal to his credit, he owns a farming
and grazing property in the electorate
which has made a habit of returning him
unopposed. He’s 55. Arthur Frederick
Watts, who will probably be Deputy-
Premier, represents Katanning. He is a
lawyer who has been leader of the
Country Democratic League and Oppo-
sition-leader since 1942.
Maoriland has selected Group Captain
A. E. Clouston as civil flying director.
A native of Motueka, Nelson, where he
was born 40 years ago, Clouston got his
pilot’s license in 1930 and was associated
with big flying feats before war broke out.
In 1937, with Mrs. Kirby Green, he made
a’ record flight from Croydon (Eng.) to
Capetown and back and in the following
year, with Victor Ricketts, flew from
England to New Zealand and back in less
than 11 days. His record during the war
was distinguished ; he won the D.S.O. for
operations against U-boats and the
D.F.C., the A.F.C. and bar for other ex-
ploits. At present he ; s in Germany in
charge of a transport group.
Le'hnard Charles Badham, K.C., of
Sydney, Chief Prosecutor at the Rabaul
trial for war crimes of leading officers of
the Japanese Eighth Army, is an Old
Digger as well as ; an experienced mem-
ber of the Sydney Bar. He is a grandson
of the Professor Badham who held
the chair of classics at the University of
Sydney in the ’eighties, and, his father
dying early, he was left as a youngster
of 15 to make his way in the world. He
began journalism on several country
papers, became editor of the Armidale
“Chronicle” and then went to N.Z. to be
associate editor of the Auckland
“Herald.” Returning to Sydney, he read
for the Bar without entering the Uni-
versity, which was beyond his means.
Having finished his examinations and
been admitted to the Bar in 1916, he en-
listed in the A.I.F. as a gunner and
served in a battery in France until he
was invalided home in 1917. Recovered,
he began practice and steadily built up
a name for himself in common law, and
especially in criminal cases. For some
months shortly before the latest war he
was an Acting District Court Judge. He
took silk in 1944. In the job in front of
him at Rabaul he should be thoroughly
at home.
Professor Burke, the new Professor of
Fine Arts at Melbourne University, per-
formed his first public office by judging
the £lOO Crouch art prize at Ballarat
and he broke at least one tradition by
not awarding it to a Melbourne artist.
E. A. Douglas Watson,*of Point Piper,
Sydney, earned the professor’s approval
with his interior “In the Gallery,” a
straightforward study of the National
Gallery, Sydney, which has already been
exhibited in Melbourne. Charles Bush,
of Essendon, won the £5O Minnie Crouch
prize for watercolors with “A Wet After-
noon at Port Melbourne.” Both were
official war artists in New Guinea and
neither belongs to the modernist school.
Many times during the past couple of
years when malcontents have stirred up
trouble on the waterfront Donald Vin-
cent Morrison, chairman of the Stevedor-
ing Industry Commission, must have
looked back longingly to the days of
World War I, when he had the relatively
reposeful job of observer in the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps. Morrison is a
Victorian who began his career of public
service with the Postal Department. After
the Armistice he put in some time within
the telegraphic branch of the London
Post Office before returning to Aus-
tralia, but after a year or so more with
the P.M.G. he became Chief Clerk at
the Melbourne Registry of the Arbitra-
tion Court. Transferred to Sydney in the
early 1930’s as Deputy-Registrar, he be-
came a Commonwealth Conciliation Com-
missioner in 1940 and succeeded Justice
Piper in the stevedoring job four years
later.
Two interesting old Parliamentary
names come back into S.A. politics. D.
P. Gordon is a son of David Gordon,
who was M.H.R. for Boothby, M.L.C.
and president of the Upper House, and
who had been chief-of-staff on the
old “Register.” G. S. Hawker is son
of the stockbreeder E.W., veyy prominent
at the end of last century. Both sons
were active in the 1914 war, and both
are now graziers and Ms.L.A.
Elected president of the Royal Agri-
cultural Society in Melbourne in succes-
sion to Charles Merrett, Cecil N. Mc-
Kay, managing-director of the Sunshine
concern, has been a member of
the R.A.S. since 1933. During the war
he made a trip to England to confer with
the British Government on how to win
the Battle for Britain on the soil front.
A son of the founder of the industry
which grew from a bark hut (still pre-
served at Sunshine) to a town, his hobbies
are flying, golf and rowing. He rowed
in winning King’s Cup crews. Cecil Mc-
Kay is 48.
Glen A. Gilbert, chairman of the U.S.
delegation for Picao, the international
civil aviation organisation which met
last month in Melbourne, is a 35-year-old
PLANES.
livewire who was trained in American air-
lines. He has been with Civil Aeronautics
organisation for ten years and during the
war directed air traffic control service for
Uncle Sam. With 15 years’ experience
he is still an active pilot. When he leaves
Australia he goes to Japan. That the
U.S, regards Australia as important in the
aerial future is shown by the fact that
Gilbert heads a delegation of 35. When
was directed to the American’s
hotel room he walked into what he
momentarily mistook for an experiment
in traffic manipulation but which turned
out to be a pillowfight. The argument
wasn’t about whether the chief airport
was to be in Melbourne or Sydney. Glen
Gilbert was born in Milwaukee. Since
the conference Picao has passed out of
the provisional stage and has dropped
the “P” from its title.
Two Maoriland architects, Fellows of
the Royal Institute of British Architects,
will have a hand tn the erection of the
National Theatre oh Thames Bank, be-
tween Charing Cross and Waterloo
bridges. Brian O’Rorke, son of an old-
time Speaker in M.L.’S Parliament, Sir
Maurice O’Rorke, ranks among (he elite
of British architects. He was responsible
for the decoration of the Royal train for
the London, Midland and Scottish Rail-
way Co. and did similar work for Im-
perial Airways and the Orient Line, the
Orion and Orcades showing examples of
his work and ideas in decoration. Associ-
ated with O’Rorke in planning the
National Theatre is Cecil Masey, who
worked for some time with Sir Edward
Lutyens, designing many imposing struc-
tures.
A notable event in Australian scien-
tific progress is the appointment of Dr.
lan M. Mackerras as Director of the
newly-founded Queensland Institute of
Medical Research. A Sydney graduate,
Mackerras has been, since April, 1946,
in charge of the laboratory of veterinary
entomology established by the C.S.I.R.
at Yeerongpilly for investigation into
control of cattle tick and buffalo-fly.
During the war years he did much valu-
able work with oversea field units operat-
ing against insect-borne tropical diseases.
His wife, also a Sydney University gradu-
ate in science, was meanwhile in charge
of an Army entomological research unit
in North Queensland, and is now a
member of the laboratory research staff.
Gyle Soilleux, who with four others
has been given the job of designing the
£10,000,000 palace or temple of the
United Nations in New York, is an Aus-
tralian. Born in Kew, Melbourne, he
was educated at Melbourne Grammar —
there he rowed bow in the head-of-the-
river race —became a ship’s radio-operator
and then studied architecture at the Uni-
versity of Melbourne. He joined the
R.A.A.F. during the war, was transferred
to its directorate of works and appointed
deputy-director. He is now ,in the
Federal Department of Works and Hous-
ing, and his big job since the war ended
has been planning the new Darwin which
is to rise out of the dust of Jap bombs.
It’s a far call from the tropical isolation
of the N.T. port to crammed Manhattan.
At least one of the Victorians who
sweated to complete a portrait for the
Archibald Prize and subsequently learnt
that their pictures never got further than
a Sydney storeroom has had some com-
pensation. Ernest Buckmaster’s portrait
of General Stan Savige has been pur-
chased by the 2 / 24th Battalion, its special
interest being that the general started
in the First World War with the original
24th. It is to be hung at the Legacy
Club in Melbourne, of which Savige was
the founder. Buckmaster was the Archi-
bald Prize winner in 1932.
Born of a musical family in Ballarat,
John Dudley, sketched here by Prior, had
his first singing lessons from his father.
In 1930 Bernard Heinze gave him his
chance as tenor soloist in a Mel-
bourne Philharmonic presentation of the
“Messiah,” and similar engagements fol-
lowed during the next few years, although
he had not at that time adopted singing
as a career. Lessons from Apollo Gran-
forte and appearances in “The Quaker
Girl” and “The Student Prince” decided
him to take the plunge, and in 1935 he
left for Britain, where after further stfidy
he joined the D’Oyley Carte Opera Com-
pany and appeared in many Gilbert and
Sullivan operas. During the early part
of the war Dudley devoted himself to
troop entertainment, but at the end of
1941 a chance came to join the Metro-
politan Opera Co, Since then he has
taken 45 different parts in 25D perform-
SONGS.
ances, as well as appearing at camp con-
certs and war loan drives ip Canada and
U.S.A. Now touring Australia under the
auspices of A.8.C., he will give his first
concert in Melbourne on March 29.
Other concerts will follow at Ballarat,
Albury, Sydney, Adelaide, Bendigo and
Brisbane.
A. G. Stephens, when a visitor to the
N.S.W. Parliamentary Library, decided
to immortalise the staff in verse. His
ode began:
They meet at Parliament House at nine,
Stern and straight in a sober line.
White, McLoskey, O’Brine and Rine —
And Quinn.
Today but two of the sober line remain
—McLoskey, who succeeded J. J. Quinn
BOOKS.
when he stepped down into honored re-
tirement, and his second-in-command,
White. O’Brien has passed into the
silence, and early this month “Rine,”
otherwise Desmond Victor Ryan, moved
north to take over the job of Parlia-
mentary Librarian in Brisbane. “Rine,” de-
picted here by Dubois, first started help-
ing N.S.W. members find their books in
1927, He holds Sydney University degrees
in Arts and Law, and was admitted to
the N.S.W. Bar 9 a short time ago. During
the war he fought in New Guinea with a
25-pounder regiment—he was a gunner in
the battery which, flown to Wau in
January, 1943, arrived just in time to help
repel the enemy from the airstrip. In
Wau Des had a narrow win in an
argument with a Nip bomb; later he
took part in the Wewak campaign. He’s
38.
“Lord” George Sanger, dead in Britain
at 79, was born in a circus wagon, and
spent most of his life in the family circus
that was started near the beginning of last
century by a Sanger who is reputed to
have fought at Trafalgar. The original
man’s sons, George and John, made it a
celebrated concern, and the former
adopted the “title” which the just-dead
George “inherited.” In its heyday
Sanger’s was the biggest show of its kind
in England.
To study the trombiculid, or scrub-
itch mites of the Asiatic-Pacific regions,
Herbert Womersley, Entomologist of the
S.A. Museum, goes abroad with a re-
search grant from the National Institute
of Health, U.S.A. Public Health Service.
He’s a Fellow of the Royal Entomo-
logical Society, London, the Linnean
Society, N.S.W., the Royal Society of
S.A., and an associate of the Linnean
Society, London. He was awarded the
Verco Medal of the Royal Society of
S.A. in 1943, for his research on mites.
M.L.’s new scientific liaison officer at
Washington is J. A. D. Nash, son of
Walter Nash, Minister of Finance. He
has been with the Department of
Scientific and Industrial Research for 12
years, and his job in the U.S.A. will be
to keep home technicians informed of
scientific trends over there. A few years
ago he held a similar post in Melbourne.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 59, Frederick Cornelius Lay-
cock, well known in pastoral and textile circles.
He was a partner in the Western district grazing
property of Mount Fyans, a member of the
firm of Laconia Woollen Mills, a director ot
Laycocks, Bradford and representative ot
the Australian woollen manufacturers on the
Central Wool Committee.
At Dunedin (M.L.), at 81, James Wallace,
for 33 years a member of the Otago Education
Board, 30 of them as chairman. Bora in
Dunedin, he was associated for half a century
with the printing trade.
At Wellington (MX.), William Watson, mem-
ber of the Stock Exchange, chairman of Shar-
land and Co., and a director of the Wellington
Woollen Co. Born in Colombo, he arrived m
MX. as a, child ; saw service in the First
World War, rose to the rank of major, ana
collected an M.C.


Missing Friend.
PETER, PLEASE WRITE HAMPSHIRE,
QUINTON.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
The great glittering ring of Easter, 1947,
will be the Show-ring. Thousands of
pounds on the hoof will pace and
trample the track in the great R.A.S.
panorama. Proud cattle and horses
(about 1400 of the latter) will be in the
parade. This year there is a record
number of women and child riders
entered for the Ring events. The Show
aims to be a smash hit. The Homes and
Gardens display will be visited by
thousands of home-hungry women.
There will be pigs and pigeons, and dogs,
and cheeses and preserves to be viewed.
And what about the wood-chopping and
the sideshows, and all the gay little
pavilion and bungalow places on and off
the avenues? This Easter Show fever is
catching—a hundred-to-one on you’ll be
a victim!
Leading hotels for the Easter season are
already booked out. The races before-
hand threaten to do in every woman’s
dough buying the clothes to go to them.
Parties, big and small, are planned for the
great week. The Union Club ha 3 sent out
invitations for a five-to-seven following the
Wednesday’s race meeting. The Royal
Sydney Golf Club is having two balls.
The C.W.A. ball promises to fill the
Trocadero on April 10, and the Masque
Ball for the Peter Pan Kindergarten, at
Romano’s on April 8, sounds very allur-
ing. That' active committee of the Food
for Babies Fund is cooking up a dinner
dance at Rose’s for the evening of the
9th —it is called, in case you wish to buy
tickets, The Easter Race Frivolity.
For 25 years the Country Women’s
Association has been working for the good
of this State, and of Australia. This
year it is celebrating its jubilee, and it
really can send up a rocket or two in
satisfaction for work well done. Big
fireworks of the celebration will be the
Blue and Gold Ball to be held at the
Trocadero on April 10. The ball is the
gala premiere of the appeal for C.W.A.’s
Seaside Homes Appeal. The total aimed
at is £60,000, and of course these mar-
vellous women will get it. Already Mrs.
Matthew Robinson has given £lOOO.
There’s a whole series of plans for digging
up the treasure. Ball tickets at one
guinea each can be bought at the C.W.A.
office, Endeavor House, or at the Metio-
pole, the Carlton and Usher’s. Pixie
o’Harris has done some posters full of
wistful charm, and these will be auc-
tioned at the ball.
C.W.A. president Mrs. Mac Smith came
down from her home, Boree Cabonne,
Borenore, for the first committee meeting.
She will also get further acquainted with
one-month-old o grand-daughter Felicity
Helen Service, of Elizabeth Bay. Mrs.
Colin Venn is president of the ba®. com-
mittee, Miss Warby is the treasurer, Mrs.
Harry Dangar and Mrs. John Laidley the
secretaries.
All the mothers of St. Aloysius
College’s present and former pupils are
busy preparing their stalls for the garden
fete in the college grounds on March 29.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly will open the fete at
three o’clock.
Though we may be saying soon “We
have no bread, no salt, no potatoes, no
soap, no cigarettes,” still we can joyously
add “but we have clothes.” Such style
and dash as Sydney women have not
seen for years have invaded our stores,
and ail clothes parades are packed with
wishful beholders, of whom so many have
cash, coupons- and materials, but no
dressmaker. On Brickfield Hill, Anthony
Hordern’s show is full of eye-blinking
attractions. Those topcoats with the full
swaying back, wide armholes and full
sleeves will be among things taken out
for airings these coming winter after-
noons. Some of the sleeves are of the
lantern type —all are very graceful.
Suits are not all the classic, severely-
tailored type. Many in this show had
basques and fur collars, and a band of
fur on the pockets. One lovely suit, of
sylphlike dimensions, was of cocoa-
brown wool, its coat loosely-fitting at the
waist flared into a basque longer at the
back than the front —according to the
book of words it was a Scarlet Pimpernel
style. A soft brown fur that came waist-
length on each lapel formed the collar.
The programmed cost of that was Is. off
£5B. Pleats, flounces and tunic tops are
new in evening frocks. There are even
crinoline effects and trains. In short, to
be feminine is to be elegant. Rather
reminiscent of a Phil May lady is the
frock in French silk velvet, with its large
bustle bow and slim fishlike train.
A Sydney woman, replete with lunch
just eaten at one of the good hotels, was
heard saying one day last week: “All
nonsense about this food shortage in
England: They have plenty there.” Well,
here’s an extract from the letter of a
woman living in the West End of
London: —
The dried fruits came as a great boon:
there is a definite shortage here, and even
the little that one can procure is of very
meagre quality compared with the succulent
morsels from Australia. *lt is generally
agreed among housewives here that the
tinned goods from Australia are far super-
ior to those sent us from U.S.A. Our
food gets gradually more and more re-
stricted, and now of course this phenom-
enal winter has added greatly to our diffi-
culties —quite impossible to plough the land
with the snow-drifts everywhere —and trans-
port being every day more delayed.. The
wretched hens get very little food so that
they are not very nourishing as food, nor
do they seem, on their diet, to be very
keen on laying eggs, and indeed one can
scarcely blame them with the temperature
nearly always at freezing!
Marjorie Northcott, elder daughter of
the Governor of N.S.W., Lieut.-General
John Northcott, recently announced
her engagement to Major Coburn, of the
Royal Electrical Mechanical Engineers,
8.C.0.F. ; and here she is. The wedding
will take place towards the end of the
year, when Major Coburn expects his next
leave from Japan. Norton Trevaire
photograph.
Happy return for tenor John Dudley
and his wife, who was Muriel Scott, of
Potts Point. They looked very happy to
be back in Australia last Thursday morn-
ing when seen at an interview in the
Kent-room of the Australia. John is tall,
dark and lean, so that his figure, as well
as his voice, is right for opera leads.
That the Metropolitan opera thought so
is proved by the fact that he had 250
appearances in the last four years with
the Metro. In the 12 or so years that he has
been away from this country he has sung
many parts in many lands. With their
parents came John, aged eight—and some
idea of where the money goes in U.S. is
gleaned from hearing that his school
f ees work out at about 100 dollars a
month-and Patty, aged two. The family
to Melbourne last Friday, where
opens his season with A.B.C.
In Ballarat, his home town there s a
great welcome coolang up for him. Works
m which John Dudley will sing m-
Matthew Passion, the
D rea m of Gerontius and the Canter-
bury the George Dyson ver-
sion.
The first of the season’s afternoon
parties in the Royal Empire Society s
drawing-room was a happy affair. Miss
Elizabeth Plummer had arranged the
programme. She had furnished an all-
star cast: Dr. Bamton, formerly director
of the Conservatonum ; John Antill, of
ballet renown ; World-famed Queensland
violinist Ernest Toy and his wife, and
young pianist Lawrence Davis, winner of
the A.B.C.’s recent contest. Mr. Toy
played his Gasparo da Salo violin, and
Mrs. Toy was his accompanist. The two
have had their own school of music in
Chicago. Their home right in the heart
of the city had spreading gardens—in one
part grew wildflower and shrub, the other
bloomed with cultivated flower and herb,
Now they are living up the North Shore
line and again have plenty of garden,
Over 80 associates applauded the
speakers and the musicians. Among the
listeners was poetess Mrs. Norman
Murray, of Longreach, Queensland. An-
other woman writer was Mrs. Percy
Spender, who with Miss Plummer host-
%ssed the afternoon,
Actors and actresses and people inter-
ested in the theatre throughout the
Empire knew Harry Burcher, who died
recently in London. Harry, who was
70 at his death, was producer of many
musical comedies for the J. C. Williamson
firm in the days oP»Alfred Frith, Maude
Fane, etc., his association being mainly
with the new English Musical Comedy
Company, as distinct from the Royal
Comics usually produced by George
Highland. Mr. Burcher was a great
friend to young Australians in London,
who were always welcome at his office
in the Williamson suite in the Haymarket.
From Melbourne
Kurneh, the South Yarra home of the
Norman Brookes couple, was the setting
for a later-afternoon and buffet dinner*
party, given so that friends of the family
could have an opportunity of helping the
Queen Victoria Hospital Building Fund.
Kitty Harrison, organiser of the Hos-
pital Appeal, who wore a formal jacket
suit of ice-blue crepe, presided over the
fine antique Chinese vase into which
guests slipped their donations. This was
found to yield over £lBOO. The hostess
received her guests in a long flowing skirt
of ice-blue crepe allied to a bodice
trimmed with silver sequins. Assisting
her were her two daughters, the Gengoult
Smith lady, in navy-blue with a small
matching hat, and Mrs. John Langley,
who wore black with touches of white
at the neckline. Mrs. Sebree’s pastel-pink
linen frock featured a narrow peplum of
Irish crochet lace. Mrs, J. A. Haselden’s
black frock was coin-spotted in white.
Penelope Nettlefold wore a primrose-
yellow floral frock and a small matching
straw hat. Mrs. Douglas Stephens’ high hat
was of black felt with touches of brilliant
red, the whole embellished with black
feathers. Red spots adorned the veil
worn over the face, and a well-cut black
frock set off the hat to perfection. Mrs.
Robert Staughton’s dinner-frock was of
navy georgette patterned in white. Her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Bob Staughton,
wore a corn-yellow jacket embroidered
in black silk with her short black skirt
and black hat. Mrs. Edric Henty’s frock
was of fine royal-blue lace worn over a
cerise taffeta slip, and was the new bal-
lerina length. Mrs, Wallace Mitchell
chose a black ensemble.
Barbara Newman, who combines
brains with beauty, is a young artist who
comes of a talented family. Her mother is
the well-known Betty Paterson, delineator
of adorable babies ; her aunt is Esther
Paterson, also a well-known artist. Bar-
bara, who is an old girl of St. Michael’s
Grammar School, studied at the National
Gallery for five years. During'this period
she gained seven prizes. Now Barbara
is on her own and is painting portraits
and landscapes. She has exhibited with
the Victorian Artists’ Society ; one of her
landscapes was bought by the Council of
the University Teachers’- Training Col-
lege. Barbara is also an accomplished
musician and can put on a respectable
burst of natatory speed.
The Victoria Palace banqueting hall
was massed with a glory of flowers when
president Mrs. J. J. Daly invited mem-
bers of the Catholic Women’s Organisa-
tion and representatives of patriotic and
other organisations, to meet Mrs. T. J.
Kiernan, wife of the Minister for Eire.
The guest of honor, who later charmed
everyone with some Irish songs, sung in
a rich, soft voice, wore a black suit with
silver fox furs and a large black felt
hat with an upward sweep. A presenta-
tion corsage of fragrant frangipani was
pinned in her suit. Mrs. Daly wore an
attractive frock of ice-blue crepe and a
flower hat; assisting her mother to re-
ceive guests was Marie, whose black
crepe frock had a yoke of pale blue
crepe. A picturesque figure was Mrs.
De Silva, a visitor from Ceylon ; her sari
of turquoise >silk was worn with gold
ornaments. Mrs. J. A. Haselden came
from G.H. accompanied by Mrs. A. A.
Lord. Mrs. E. B. Sebree brought her
daughter, Martha. Rita Miller, Valma
Lewis (she has just won the Clarke
Scholarship and goes abroad soon to the
R.C.M. for further studies in the piano),
Gertrude Healy and Rita Hope supplied
the musical items heard during the after-
noon.
Peggy, only daughter of the well-
known owner of the racehorse St. Fairy,
Mr. O. R. Porter, was married at St.
John’s Church, Toorak, to Arthur Keith,
second son of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Veall,
St. Kilda. Peggy chose a classical gown
of white moss crepe with a small train
and beaded scrolls on the bodice,
shoulders and waistline. Her tulle veil
was held in place with gardenias and she
carried a bouquet of gardenias and steph-
anotis. Betty Jones and Coralie Rich-
ardon were the bridesmaids; they wore
bouffant frocks of pastel-blue net em-
broidered in flowers and pinned garden-
ias in their hair. The wedding reception
was held at Grosvenor. Among the
guests were M. and Mrs. Dudley Gordon
(she was the former Jean Wallace
Mitchell), Betty Wallace Mitchell and
Sonia O’Brien. Mrs. W. Horsfall wore
black and one of the new high-crowned
French hats in royal blue.
Bowls of dahlias, antirrhinums and
clusters of blossoms of the lily of the
valley tree decorated the reception rooms
of Mrs. F. G. Kumm’s Toorak home
for the afternoon-tea party she gave to
members of the Executive and Staff of the
Y.W.C.A, Mrs. Kumm is President of
the National Y.W.C.A. and the party
served also as a farewell to Miss Wini-
fred A. Carruthers, National General-
Secretary and to three staff members,
Misses Sweetland, Martin and Wood. But
if it was a case of “farewell” it was
also an occasion of saying “Hail” to Miss
Leila Bridgman, who has accepted an
appointment as the National General-Sec-
retary. She will take up her new duties
on April 1. Miss Bridgman has been
Secretary for Training, but previous to
that she was General-Secretary for the
Y.W.C.A. in Singapore. She was interned
in Java until the end of the war. Mrs.
Kumm, on behalf of the Committee, pre-
sented to Miss Carruthers a beautiful
wristlet watch and books to the retiring
staff members.
During the war years Mrs. T. G. Jones
opened Ripponlea, her lovely home set
'in sylvan surroundings, to patriotic and
charitable organisations, and by doing
so many thousands of pounds has been
raised. As a tribute to her many
generous gestures over 200 people
gathered to give Mrs. Jones a
surprise party at her home; her
birthday was selected for the occasion,
and a pair of clips touched off the mark
of esteem. Prime movers in the organisa-
tion of the party were Mrs. Lionel New-
ton, whose tailored gown of white crepe
was worn with a white fox threequarter-
length coat with bands of silver fox
alternating with fox forming the sleeves,
and Mrs. Bertie Hotchkiss, whose fitting
frock, with heart-shaped neckline, was of
deep black velvet. Betty and Pat,
daughters of Mrs. Jones, also , chose
velvet, Betty in black with a frill of net
outlining the low neckline trimmed with
black sequins, and Pat in midnight-blue
with panniers at either side of the full,
flowing skirt.
A lovely frock of black moire
with the full skirt and bodice
trimmed with sprays of diamente flowers
and worn with a silver-fox jacket was
chosen by Mrs. Ada Coleman. Mrs.
George Mendes’s long formal gown of
white crepe went with a full-length white
ermine coat. Mrs. John McGrath’s
period gown of ruby-red velvet had a
draped hip swathe ending in a bustle-bow
at the back. Mrs. Ken Hooper chose a
filfny-lace frock of hyacinth-blue. The
guest-of-honor’s black-lace gown was
offset by a shoulder spray of white tiger
lilies. Mrs. J. F. Turner had rosettes of
black taffeta all over her black-net gown.
Mrs. A. Silk had sprays of flowers out-
lined in gold sequins and colored stones
patterning her black crepe frock, a slight
train finishing the skirt. Mrs. R. G. Lee,
from Adelaide, was smart in white crepe
trimmed with gold sequins. Mrs. H. J.
Crisp’s frock was worn with a matching
jacket. With Bill Horsfall was his wife,
whose brown dinner frock was worn with
gold ornaments and a Kolinsky-fur jacket.
Prof. Bernard Heinze, back in Mel-
bourne after his successful tour of
Canada, was welcomed home at an after-
noon-tea party, held in the drawing-room
of the Lyceum Club, by members of
the Ladies Advisory Committee of the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, headed
by Mrs. Herbert Brookes. Prof. Heinze,
in thanking the ladies for the party, said
he had no intention of forsaking Aus-
tralia for a position overseas, for in Mel-
boifrne he had found the task he wished
to make his life’s work. A special guest-
of-honor at the party was Mrs. J. A.
O’Donnell, of Adelaide, who is staying
with Prof, and Mrs. Heinze.
On hand with congratulations for Ella
Shields at the opening night of the new
Tivoli show were old troupers Carrie
Moore and Alice Wyatt. In a bright show
the “Rhapsody in Blue” ballet was out-(
standing. Among the many who enjoyed
the night were Garnet Carroll and his
wife, she in a simple black frock high-
lighted with ropes of twisted gold-colored
pearls worn as a choker and with match-
ing earrings, Mr. and Mrs. Wallace
Mtichell and the Norman Sprys, who
came with Dr. and Mrs. W. McDerfhott.


How Will My Estate
he Administered?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over 68 years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service*
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
I BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY, and
40 I COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S, Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng,
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
*
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.F.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O
N.S.W, Manager: J. W. Russell French,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 12i p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 105,492 I 49 198 360
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO ) ’ ’
Share premiums, £126,591 .. .. 324,951
15 p.c.
1988. .217,717 7500 14,000 137,562 ? ,== Q7O iq«
Staff fund and charities, £5500 j ’ 0
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 • • 192,439
Insurance, etc., reserve disappears,
£7500 184,939
174 p.c.
1939. .271.693 7500 14,000 194,950 \, n 9 , fi 189
Staff fund and charities, £5OOO f 6U ’ Z4ii
1940. .272,922 7500 14,000 194,950 7 ,- 9 9Sft fiK .
To charities, £5OOO .. .. { 51 ' 472 286 ‘ 654
Tax reserve taken in, £120,095 .. 406,749
1941. .282,566 7500 14,000 194,950 66,116 472,865
12i p.c.
1942. .253,790 7500 14,000 139,250 93,040 565,905
11 p.c.
1943. .148,303 7500 14,000 122,540 4,263 570,168
12 p.c.
1944. .176.574 7500 14,000 133,680 21.394 591,562
Added capital profits reserve, £1,725.. 593,287
1#45. .172,073 7500 14,000 183,680 16.893 610,180
Added share premium reserve, £7,500.. 617,680
1946. .188,830 7500 14,000' 133,855 33,475 651,155
Insurance reserve appears, £35,000 .. 680,155
16 p.c.f
1947. .270,232 7500 14,000 178,640 70,092 756,247
Staff bonus, £22,830 733,917
* Excluding depreciation reserve (now £362,919) and
deferred maintenance reserve (now £7500).
f Includes 2 p.c. victory bonus.
Popularity of the scrip of this big chain
organisation rests partly upon high earn-
ing capacity, in good times and bad, and
partly upon prospects of continued ex-
pansion of the organisation—parent and
seven subsidiaries, which together oper-
ate over 100 stores scattered throughout
all the Australian States and Maoriland.
A feature of the trading technique is
the handling of quick-moving, medium-
priced goods for cash—pre-war capital
was turned over five or six times a year
—enabling most lines to be cleared, the
bill paid and profit pocketed all within
the time allowed under ordinary trade
credit. This also reduces the risk of
loss from price fluctuations, and /small
personal service—the shops are a special-
ised development of the bazaar type of
trading—helps to keep overhead down.
Research and buying departments are
constantly on the watch to keep the
stores filled with new and other lines
having a high general appeal. Combined
with centralised buying, this makes for
large-scale production in manufacture,
to the benefit of both buying and selling
prices.
Since the public became interested in
1928, co.’s paid capital has advanced
from £63,264 to £1,391,499, which in-
cludes £75,000 of 10 p.c. and £200,000
of 7 p.c. pref. money. Of the £1,116,499
of ord. capital, £944,712 is bonus scrip,
scattered during the immediate pre-war
decade. Although cash issues during this
period brought with them £199,977 of
share premiums, they, too, were in the
nature of bonuses to shareholders be-
cause of the high premium the scrip
commanded in the market.
To finance further growth of the
undertaking, 1,116,499 new ss. ords.
(=£279,125) were offered, one-for-four
at par, to those on the register 'at Feb.
26. That will lift paid capital to
£1,690,624, on which pref. divs. and 14
p.c. to the ords. will together call for
£216,881, and only for four out of the
last 10 years has less profit than that
been shown. The decline in war-time
earnings was mainly the result of re-
duced turnover and increased taxation.
Last term more goods became avail-
able, turnover expanded, and net earn-
ings shot up £81,402, reaching £270,232.
That was after allowing £27,188 (up
£2746) for depreciation, and paying tax
assessments (£23,540) received in respect
*-of previous earnings. The profit shown
is therefore subject to all tax assessments
not yet received, and against which no
specific provision has been made. The
£270,232, which does not include
£35,000 dropped from somewhere
into reserves, covered pref. require-
ments and 22.3 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 14.9, 13.5, 13.9,
11.3, 20.8 and 23.4 p.c. back to 1941.
The div. was lifted from 12 p.c. to 16
p.c., of which 2 p.c. was labelled “Victory
bonus," and a similar bonus of like
amount was handed to the staff. In addi-
tion to reserves shown in the table, there
is £362,919 set aside for depreciation,
and £7500 for deferred maintenance.
Here is the financial set-up:
1940. 1945. 1946. 1947.
.££ £ £
Paid capital 1,388,999 1,388,999 1,391,499 1,391,499
Liabilities.. 316,798 375,815 503,888 394,979
Freeholds, etc. 36,717 41,148 41,148 41,271
Leaseholds.. 82,506 107,309 100,553 93,752
Plant . . 282,531 346,546 346,925 353,685
Shares other
cos., etc. 1,226,263 1,376,261 1,876,261 1,890,913
Stocks .. 465,024 613,022 656,694 786,796
Debtors . . *344,625 *137,450 *266,068 *252,656
Cash . . 6,479 202,846 235,906 124,477
‘lncludes advances to associafed cos.— £317
1940; £122,973, 1945 ; £248,952, 1946; £229,029’
1947.
Liabilities (down £108,909) and debtors’
balances (down £13,412) are largely
inter-related by inclusion of current
accounts with subsidiaries. The high
level of stocks (up £130,102) suggests that
goods are still difficult to obtain in ade-
quate quantities. '
The three main factors determining
the level of retail profits today are:
(1) turnover, (2) gross margins, and (3)
costs. In view of the conditions regu-
lating margins and costs, profit has oe-
come almost entirely a function of turn-
over.
The price of the f.-p. ss. ords., which
had dropped to 10s. 9d. in the dark days
of 1942, rose from the official ceiling of
265. at end of 1946 to 28s. in January,
and to 31s. Id. on announcement of the
new issue. Recent sales ex rights were
at 255., at which figure the return is 2.8
p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis. The market
has thus substantially discounted pros-
pects of future benefits. The rights are
fetching 19s. 4£d. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is 7s. B‘d. per
share, plus Is. 4d. in the depreciation
reserve, etc.
Kauri Timber Co.
. _ Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1937. . 67,772 6 p.c. = 45,000 22,434 181,759
Goodwill disclosed, £12,000 .. 169,759
1938.. 70,696 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,407 175,048
1939.. 65,227 6 „ „ 45,000 19,421 175,854
Goodwill written off, £2,000 .. 177,854
1940.. 70,335 6 p.c. = 45,000 23,166 180,023
Goodwill written off, £1,988 .. 182,011
1941 ‘ ‘ , 67,550 6 P-C. = 45,000 20,731 183,830
Added to intangibles, £56 .. 183,774
1942.. 55,866 5 p.c. = 37,500 16,218 185,922
Unexplained addition, £2OOO ~ 187,922
1943.. 54,189 5 p.c. = 37,500 16,639 187,972
Profit, sale of assets, £3938 .. 191,910
1944.. 57,346 5 p.c. = 37,500 19,831 192,425
Profit, sale of assets, £lBl .. 192,606
1945.. 59,839 5 p.c. = 37,500 21,240 193,705
Added intangibles, £4l .. .. 193,664
Profit, sale of assets, £6608 .. 200,272
Accident ins- res. appears, £4585 204,857
U 46,. 76,567 5 p.c.= 87,500 30,611 213,313
Profit, sale of assets, £lBOB .. 215,121
Unexplained additions, £llO .. 215,231
A heartening performance considering
the obstacles in the path of the building
and ancillary trades, ahead of which lies
a long and sustained demand. It is offi-
cially reckoned that 750,000 new houses
will be needed throughout Australia over
the next 10 years. Last year was one
of frustration, construction falling far
short of the target figure, because strikes
and other industrial hold-ups created one
bottleneck after another. These stop-
pages in the economic machine are part
of the Communist policy of disruption.
Few disputes are carried to the point
of settlement, the idea being to maintain
a series of running grievances which, with
an accompanying psychology of discon-
tent, will finally result in a breakdown
of the present system—so the dis-
ruptionists hope.
Not until there is a more even flow
of materials to the job will construction
be speeded up, and the present exorbit-
ant cost of building be reduced. Costs
are increased not only with waiting and
delay, but also because labor tends to
stretch out work in order to avoid lay-
offs when materials are short.
This Kauri co. is well equipped to
step up supplies immediately labor and
transport conditions permit. Its timber
stands are mainly in Maoriland, where
it also has large subsidiary milling inter-
ests, and in Westralia and the Solomon
Islands. Also there are large drying kilns
and box-making and plywood plants at
Melbourne and Brisbane. The npw
timber stand (mainly karri) obtained in
Westralia is being steadily developed, and
at Vanikoro, in the Solomons, 400,000 ft.
of kauri logs await shipment, and have
done so since the beginning of the war.
After allowing something for taxation
and £30,611 (up £9371) for depreciation
—included with profits and then shown
as written off in the table —the net result
of the year’s trading was £7357 better
at £45,956. That was 6.1 p.c. on capital
as against 5.1, 5,5, 5.2, 6.2 and 6.3 p.c.
back to 1940. It leaves out of the reckon-
ing a profit of £lBOB on sale of assets,
and an unexplained addition of £llO to
reserves. The div. was kept at 5 p.c.
The co. is now offering £400,000 of
4 p.c. debentures, redeemable at par
1962-67 ; and a sinking fund is to be
established. The issue, of which £50,000
has been reserved for allotment to share-
holders, has been underwritten by W.
M, Noel and Son, Melbourne. The
money is to be used to buy Globe Timber
Mills, Ltd. (Adelaide), erect new joinery
works, purchase seagoing vessels for
movement of timber, and to further
mechanise forestry work, thus quicken-
ing and cheapening production in the
logging section of the business. As turn-
over expands earnings should benefit, but
costs are on the up-grade and selling
prices are controlled; much therefore
depends upon what the Government does.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion:
„ , 1939. 1944. 1945. 1940.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 70,863 98,04 6 1 89,07 2 310,273
Properties .. 69,6 4 4 185,5 79 1 78,26 5 214,085
Plant, etc. .. 102,880 1 50,996 1 54,4 78 161,331
Stocks & stores 336,577 241,996 187,001 225,638
Book debts . . 214,811 160,588 161,931 201,104
Shares in other
cos. . . 173,96 9 2 4 6,5 6 6 3 79,93 4 440,657
Mortgages, cash,
etc. . . 75,091 77,427 104.821 55,100
Purchase of scrip in W. Booth and Co.
(Maoriland) added £60,723 to sharehold-
ings. The more or less liquid surplus
(£612,316) was £32,299 less than at the
previous balance, owing to the outlay
on fixed assets.
At 345. 9d. the f.-p. 255. shares return
3.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Net tan-
gible cover (book value) is 325. 2d. per
share.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 9,425 10 p.c. = 5,250 1
Stafif bonus, £1720 . . j 2455 11,130
1937.. 8,859 12 p.c. = 6,300 ) innn
Staff bonus, £1559 .. ) 1000 12,130
1938.. 11,376 12 p.c. = 6,300 \ 5076
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. I 1a,200
1939.. 5,928 11 p.c. = 5,775 153 15353
1940.. 5,746 9 „ „ 4,725 7 ’
Staff bonus, - £lO2l .. j 15,359
1941.. 9,017 14 p.c. = 7,350 )
Staff bonus, £3OOO .. j 14,0.6
From tax reserve, £1675 .. .. 13,701
Loss.
1942.. 83 5 p.c. =' 2,62 5 12,993
Unexplained reduction, £5OO .. 12,498
Profit.
1943.. 3,482 B p.c. = 3.15 0 332 12,825
1944.. 2,035 5 „ „ 2,625 - 12.235
1945.. 7,515 10 „ „ 5250 } ... .....
Staff bonus, £1750 ... f 513 12,(50
1946 11,129 15 „ „= 7874 ) lor , nn .
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. y 1255 IMOo
This co.’s figures reflect conditions in the
real-estate market in Sydney and its
suburbs. During the 1920’5, when proper-
ties sometimes changed hands two and
more times a year, divs. averaged 20.6 p.c.
Then slump and Langism brought a col-
lapse of values, and shareholders went
hungry for the three years to end 1933.
For the half-dozen years to end 1939
distributions advanced from 6 p.c. to
12 p.c., the average being 9.8 p.c. With
World War II came restrictions that re-
duced real-estate turnover to a trickle.
Still, following end of war with Japan,
there was a slight easing of the still
harsh restrictions, and the, figures began
to pick up again. Thus the co. has been
able to |iay divs. averaging 9.1 p.c. over
the last seven years.
The next table shows what happened in
the market:
SYDNEY PROPERTY SALES.
City. Suburbs. City. Suburfis.
’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO.
1926.. £7,000 £3,750 1940.. £326 £6,176
1928.. 2,7 5 0 4,8 16 1941.. 1,7 3 9 6,509
1931.. 36 4 48 4 194 2.. 187 1,933
1933.. 78 6 794 194 3.. 42 2 2,294
1935.. 1,23 8 2,339 194 4.. 398 1,878
1938.. 1,185 5,083 1945.. 2,112 3,064
1939.. 57 5 4,925 19 4 6.. 2,57 2 4,967
Government control over land transfers,
prices and building materials has given
rise to blackmarkets in land sales and
labor and materials, and has brought
about a crushing rise in costs as well. A
home built by the N. S. Wales Housing
Commission now costs about 25 p.c.
more than it would under private con-
tract, and the available supply of
materials is so far short of the number o£
houses in course of erection that many
jobs remain half finished, and are likely
to continue in that state for some time.
Thus is the Government creating future
trouble in connection with capital values
and rents. Combined with the N.S.W.
Fair Rents Act, it also means that private
building of houses as letting propositions
has become a thing of the past, while
tenants of Government-built homes will
have to pay more rent than they ought
In an effort to stop the blackmarket in
land transactions, the Government has
appointed a technical committee to de-
vise a formula for determining the in-
crease in capital value since Feb., 1942.
R. and W. got its full share of the
year’s increased sales. Net earnings


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 3(>o Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.. — Advt.
fl FINE HOTEL
A Kotel. certainly one of Sydney's
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
IHE WENTWORTH
in
<5
7^7
"Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype & Linotype Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Copperplate Printers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope & Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rubber Stamp Manufacturers
Rulers, Bookbinders, Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists & Illuminators
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twine
'jACICSOTS
OSULUVAN
TTYHD
MARK
BRISBANE
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Position Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position of
Assistant Metallurgist by The Raub Australian Gold
Mining Co., Limited, Malaya. Applicants should
hold University Degree or Diploma from a recognised
Mining School. Experience in Stamp Battery work
is preferable, but not essential. Commencing Salary
£5OO sterling per annum plus living allowances and
free quarters. Fares and reasonable expenses will be
paid to the Mine. The position offers opportunity fot
advancement. Application with references and par-
ticulars of age and marital state to The Secretaries,
CHAS A. CLARKE & SON, Box 277 D, G.P.0.,
rtMWsmtfmn
YOUR FOOTWORKS l
PDfFtCT AM I
YOU PORT WiAf '
SHOW A MARK/y
rr
OT7
'**£ daily
DOS € OF
HUGGBT
Does tr/
iVUGGET
SHOE POLISH
'Sfc:
NP46/51
Interim Statement by the Chairman
to the Members of
THE ZINC CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated in England with Limited Liability)
and
NEW BROKEN HILL CONSOLIDATED LTD.
(Incorporated in England with Limited Liability)
37 Dover Street,
London, W.I,
, March 14, 1947.
To the Members, . T « « u:n
Since the last Annual Meetings of The Zinc Corporation and New Broken Hill
Consolidated various developments of importance affecting the interests of both Companies,
have occurred which it is considered call for an interim statement to members.
OPERATIONS.
Main efforts are directed towards increasing the output and speeding up the development
in the leases of New Broken Hill Consolidated to the point of major production. Developments
in both mines continue to be favorable and quite up to our expectations. .
The present production programmes of the two Companies in which the year IV4o is
included —aim at the following output:
From
Z.C. Leases.
Tons.
1946 448,000
From
N.B.H.C. Leases.
Tons.
42.000
74.000
127.000
173.000
184.000
198.000
242.000
270.000
300.000
330,000
Total.
Tons.
490.000
584.000
666.000
693.000
693.000
891.000
935.000
963.000
993.000
1,023,000
1947 510,000
1948 .. .. ' .. .. 539,000
1949 ‘ 520,000
1950 509,000
1951 693,000
1952 693,000
1953 693,000
1954 693,000
1955 693,000
In my statement of July 17, 1946, I made extended reference to the effects of the War
on the Joint Working between The Zinc Corporation and New Broken Hill Consolidated Com-
panies. The arrangement, you will recall, covered the development and working of that portion
of the leases of the New Broken Hill Consolidated immediately south of The Zinc Corporation
boundary, which, from its proximity and its ore resources, obviously lent itself to joint opera-
tion. The war necessitated the utmost effort in the production of urgently required metals,
And to meet this necessity practically all available manpower had perforce to be concentratea
on mining and treating the readily available ore resources of The Zinc Corporation. The New
Broken Hill Consolidated suffered a considerable loss which called for adjustment between the
two Companies, and following my statement to you on July 17 last our professional advisers
were consulted on the extent and form of this adjustment. . - -
As a result, an agreement has been entered into under which The Zinc Corporation has
sold at cost to New Broken Hill Consolidated 10 per cent, of its annual ore production as
from January 1, 1946, and until the total lead contents of the ore so sold and delivered reaches
30,000 tons. Assuming the present production programme of The Zinc Corporation as set out
above is realised, the obligation should be fulfilled on or before the end of 1949. Thereafter,
The Zinc Corporation has the right to purchase a similar tonnage on similar terms from New
Broken Hill Consolidated , ,
It is considered that this arrangement is fair and reasonable to both Companies.
In future the production statements of both Companies will reflect the position arising
from this agreement.
SURFACE DRILLING.
The New Broken Hill Consolidated commenced last year a surface drilling programme
at a point approximately 3000 feet south of The Zinc Corporation boundary, wh'ch aimed at
determining a favorable site for a further shaft to be ussd as a Southern Upcast Airway.
The first diamond drill hole (No. 65), as was recently reported in the Press, has mter-
SeCte p r(^ e feet—ll feet—assaying 3.8 p.c. lead, l.loz. silver, 10.1 p.c. zinc.
From 2400| to 2432 feet mineralised quartzite. . „ ■
From 2432 feet to 2436 feet—4 feet—assaying 26.2 p.c. lead, 12.8°z., silver, 14.8 p.c. zinc.
From 2436 feet to 2439 feet—3 feet—assaying 0.-9 p.c. lead, 0.40 z. silver, 2.9 p.c. zinc.
From 2439 feet to 2441 feet silicified gneiss. .
The vertical depth of these intersections is approximately 18UO teet.
These results must be regarded as satisfactory and indicate the continuance of stiong
mineralisation at least to this point on the Company’s leases.
EXPLORATION.
NATURAL GAS AND OIL.
In July last I also referred to the activities of The Zinc Corporation in the search for
natural gas, the location of which in commercial volume would be of inestimable vaiuctoAu-
tralia as a whole, and to Broken Hill and Port Pme m particular. Th‘s o f our opera
tions has now been enlarged, and we have recently joined forces with the D Explomtm
Comoanv Ltd., a subsidiary of the Anglo-Iraman Oil Co., Ltd., and with the Vacuum un
Co PtvLtd in the search for both natural gas and oil within Australia. As a result we have
most ’experienced technical and operational personnel and whte the.chances o
success are multiplied, the burden of finance is more widely distributed. Together with our
associates we are actively engaged in a comprehensive geological and geophysical survey of
amas in
next 12 or 18'months we will have an indication of the possibilities of these areas. The
associated interests are also preparing for geological and geophysical investigation of a newly-
Sed formation in the North of West Australia and the Northern Territory and propose to
conduct similar work on structures elsewhere in West Australia. ,
conduct si world developments make the closest survey of Australia s fuel
resources imperafive The Mines Departments and their technical staffs of the States of New
Snuth WaleT P South Australia, Queensland and West Austraha have given us all the help possible.
We are particularly indebted to Dr. Harold Raggatt the Director, and the staff of the Common-
mi Mineral Resources Survey for their continued advice and assistance.
lh m exploration for other minerals being conducted by The Zinc Corporation m the
Broken Hill and other areas is proceeding, and details of these activities will be contained in
my statement at the Annual General Meeting. TOHN R GOVETT
*-«? Colins' Street, M.lbournn, C..„ Vico,in. »HN^OOVET^
1947 SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
and
STUD RAM SALES
Conducted by
THE NEW SOUTH WALES SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION
THE SYDNEY SHOWGROUND, MOORE PARK.
SHOW: sth, 6th and 7th June.
SALES ON SHOWGROUND: BRITISH BREEDS —6th JUNE. MERINO AND
CORRIEDALE —9th, 10th, 11th, 12th JUNE.
Merinos Corriedales. Polwarths, British Breeds and Fleeces. Junior and Senior
’ judging Competitions. Sheep Dog Trials.
ENTRIES CLOSE 3rd MAY (NO EXTENSION).
SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE SHORTLY.
„ G. c. somebvil.be,
Endeavour House, Secretary.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
sprang £3616, reaching 21.2 p.c. on capital
as against 14.3, 3.8, 6.6, a loss, 17.1 and
10.9 p.c. back to 1940. The div. was
lifted from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c., and £2OOO
was handed to the staff in bonuses.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows;
1939. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Capital .. .. £52,500 £52,500 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities .. 10,720 27,911 69,262 54,225
Freeholds .. .. 7,150 65,650
Advances . . .. 27,361 24,130 22,378 12,719
Shares in other cos. 2,966 2,966 2,966
Cash, etc. .. 49,221 69,268 104,272 45,631
Commission,
suspense, etc. .. 2,869 9,660 1,545 1,786
Sundry debtors . . 4,338 4,242 5,120 4,380
The growth in the freehold item (up
£58,500) reflects purchase of Eldon
Chambers, 93 Pitt-street, Sydney, for
£65,000. The co. was a tenant in these
premises for many years. Cash, etc.
(down £58,641), was drawn upon to meet
the outlay. When the books closed more
or less liquids exceeded liabilities by
£12,073.
At 345. 6d. the f.-p, 15s. shares return
6.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 19s. in net tangibles.
Lake View and Star, Ltd.
Headquarters are at London and always
have been, but the mine, comprising 42
mining leases and 23 tailings areas at
the southern end of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Milo (W.A.), is Australia’s biggest gold-
producer. A 57,000-ton-a-month flota-
tion plant handles ore from the numer-
ous and scattered lodes. Prospecting is
complicated by the intersecting nature of
the ore-bodies and by pre- and post-lode
faulting. Development is down to about
4000 ft., and ore reserves are about six
years ahead of the mill (working at
capacity), with good possibilities of addi-
tions of pay-ore at depth and in the. upper
levels. During the war development was
severely curtailed, the Ivanhoe shaft was
closed, and ore extraction was mostly
confined to the upper levels, the aim
being to get best tonnage per man-shift.
Financial results of the last three years 1
operations compare as follows:
Year, Tax Pro- Depre- Net Div.,
June Rev’ue. Exes, vision, ciation. Profit. 37-}p.c.
80, £ £ £ £ £ £
’44 726,170' 415,140 154,Q18 27,905 129,107 105,000
’45 707,560 431,870 137,394 24,417 113,879)
From tax reserve .. .. 36,597)105,500
Tax refund .. .. .. 40,114)
40 p.c.
’46 840,491 529,000 132,563 22,558 156,370 123,200
Bigger throughput was responsible for
the spring of £132,931 in last year’s
revenue. After meeting all legitimate
charges, including £5928 (up £4134) for
development, and providing for taxation
and depreciation, the net result (up
£42,491) was 27.9 p.c. on capital. The
declared' rate of div., steady at 21 \ p.c.
for the five preceding years, was lifted to
40 p.c. English income tax of 9s. in the
£, however, makes the 40 p.c. worth only
22 p.c. in the hands of shareholders. An
outlay of £33*260 on deferred repairs,
etc., was charged against reserves created
for the purpose.
Here are treatment and recovery
figures:
Men
Ore Cost Em-
Treated, Assay, Gold, Per ployed,
Tons. Dwt. Oz. Ton. Av.
1944 . . 315,175 5.27 —■ 21s. 7.92 d. 876
1945 . . 310,921 5.17 75,327 225. 9.60 d. 408
1946 . . 383,081 5.10 92,961 235. 5.85 d. 845
No work was done below 2600 ft. for the
first eight months of last term. The lift
of 7.75 d. a ton in costs reflects rises in
the price of supplies and lower produc-
tion per man-shift. Average rate of
throughput was 31,923 tons a month. At
end 1946 the figure had risen to around
46,000 tons a month', which augurs well
for the current year’s earnings. Most of
the additional manpower was employed
on reconditioning the. Ivanhoe and
Schaffer deep levels.
In addition the retreatment plant
handled 669,167 tons residues, averaging
0.83dwt., for a profit of 1.675. a ton.
Altogether this plant has put through
4,384,357 tons residues for a working
profit of about £328,000 —some 12-
months’ supply remains to be treated.
The year’s 14,636 ft. (up 4640 ft.) of
development added 310,981 tons to ore
reserves. In the Lake View section new
ore-bodies were opened up by cross-cuts
from the main lode at 300 ft. and 500 ft.
At 2555 ft. in the Horseshoe lease 538 ft.
of 7.4dwt. ore was disclosed over a
width of 58in. between 2000 ft. and
2630 ft.
At July 1, 1946, ore reserves were as
follows:
Tons. Assay. Value.
Positive ore .. 2,884,200 4.72 dwt. 20.055.
Probable ore .. 316,300 6.36 „ 27.025.
Broken ore .. 748,600 5.14 ~ 21.835.
Total . . 3,949,100 4.93* „ 20.955.*
* Average.
Over the twelvemonth the shrinkage was
72,100 tons in total ore and o.o2dwt. in
average- grade.
On the Porphyry lease, about 80 miles
n.-e. of Kalgoorlie, and in which Lake
View, Wiluna and Gold Fields Australian
Development each hold a one-third in-
terest, some 756,000 tons of 3i-4dwt. ore
has been blocked to a depth of 200 ft.
Since these grades now come within the
marginal category, the trend of costs will
determine future policy.
When the books closed current assets
totalled £809,261, of which £699,260 was
in Government securities, bullion and
cash. Including the final div., outside
liabilities amounted to £429,799. Pro-
perty and plant figured at £482,109. The
£560,000 of capital is in f.-p. 4s. shares,
which fetch 335. 3d. in the Australian
market, as against 265. 9d. stg. in London.
“Fine Gold”: Chairman C. R. Saw,
a Perth sharebroker, told a Melbourne
meeting of shareholders 'of Evanston
Gold (W.A.) that within the next few
months output would be built up to
4000 tons monthly, and that the grade
should be improved to at least Bdwt.,
thus returning handsome profits. Wes-
tralian critics think sophisticated in-
vestors will prefer to wait and see.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold production for the
first two months of 1947 at 114,831
fine ounces exceeds that for the corres-
ponding period of 1946 by 34,837 ounces.
The bigger' output reflects several rich
returns from prospectors and syndicates,
greater mining activity, and treatment of
higher-grade ore, which the larger pro-
ducers- are forced to mill in order to
keep pace with increasing costs.


2
must haves
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
6 x 24mm. Central focussing. Price £25/16/6
Separate focussing. Price £23/4/6
6 x 30.5 mm. Central focussing. Price £3O/19/6
Separate focussing. Price £2B/8/0
8 x 30.5 mm. Central focussing. Price £32/14/0
BAROMETERS
■ £S
M
H
m t
m
'wmmr
PMtOUDS
SEVEN-FLOOR GIFT STORE
CNR. KING AND PITT STREETS, SVDNEV • 8W2721
WORLD FAMOUS
BARR & STROUD
BINOCULARS i
FOR ACCURATE
WEATHER FORECASTS
English combination. Thermometer and Barometer
on mahogany panel. Brass finish. Dial 3 inches
in diam. Price _ 75/,
Finest quality combination Thermometer and
Barometer on neat metal panel. In colours, light
green or black, with chrome finish. Length 2li
inches. Dial 6i inches in diam. Price _ £6/3/-
• Mail your order early to avoid disappointment.
sdfdsfdsf
SUNDRY SHOWS
JOE BYRNE'S BOOTS.
In the first scene of Douglas Stewart’s
“Ned Kelly,” put on by the Metropolitan
Theatre under the direction of May Hol-
lingworth, Kevin Brennan, as Ned, ex-
plains to Living why Joe Byrne has
called himself Kelly.
Ned: Did you, Joe?
Maybe he knows there’s power in the name of
Kelly
As there was in the Clarkes’ name, Ben Hall’s
and Gardiner’s,
To make a coachman listen, a trap sweat
And a banker do his duty by the poor and de-
serving.
He is Ned Kelly; he’s the brains I plan with.
And Dan and Steve, with their guns out there
in the pub,
Are the boots and fists I fight with....
It is an effective speech, a summary
of the gang, and Brennan says it well,
with power, and violence, and an almost
introspective boastfulness. This note he
maintains, on the whole, throughout the
play.
At the last line it might, perhaps, be
natural to glance at the footwear of the
actors. The eye likes a concrete image.
But action progresses smoothly and
swiftly. There is, first, the fleeting defi-
ance of Living—which lost something in
the exaggerated frailty Robin Lovejoy
brought to the part. Then Richard
Meikle, a fine, youthful, enthusiastic
Mackin, the type of junior clerk one
might encounter in any office. And
Elliott, the schoolteacher, over-pompous
as played by Mervyn Gaul, but, like
Living, necessary to the development of
the thenfe. Both Frank Waters, as Byrne,
and Brennan, as Ned, are satisfying. The
one gay, the other grim. And finally there
is the delightful comedy of Tarleton, the
bank manager, dignified and indignant in
a towel. Phil Hosking, as Tarleton, was
excellent —incidentally bearing, a remark-
able resemblance to the Norman Lindsay
illustration of that character.
There is no time to look for boots:
interest is focussed on character And,
in any case, Kevin Brennan’s beard, on
first view, is a more absorbing piece of
dramatic furniture.
The next scene is in the pub at Jeril-
derie ; one of the best in the play. It is
not until later that one becomes aware of
Joe Byrne’s boots, good, solid boots,
suitable for bush wear.
But here again there are more im-
portant matters to be observed.
The characters of the gang come out
clearly as scene succeeds scene. There is
Steve Hart, a typical bush larrikin, weak
and rough and vicious. Dan Kelly, young
and brisk and impudent. Joe Byrne, gay
and reckless and intelligent, the most
interesting character in the play, because
his destruction is most perfectly traced.
And Ned Kelly, who.se violence is well
presented by Kevin Brennan, but whose
joviality is only hinted at. In the Glen-
rowan pub scene there is a gleam, as it
were, of this important side of Ned’s
character, when Joe —and a chorus which
was, unfortunately,, off-stage—is singing
the “Wild Colonial Boy.” Joe steps over
to the bar, throws his arm over Ned’s
shoulder, and with an admirable spon-
taneity Brennan throws himself into the
rollicking song. But it is only for a
moment.
David Cahill and Robert Goodsell, as
Dan Kelly and Steve Hart, were excellent.
Looking the parts, acting them, and
dressed in a fitting manner, down to the
details of what looked like ■ elastic-side
riding boots. It is only when Frank Waters
is exposed to the more demanding phases
of the play, the dramatic heights de-
manded in the hut, for instance, and the
breaking of his nerve at Glenrowan, that
his boots become important. They are,
or appear to bfe, army issue. Quite suit-
able for bushranging, probably, and it is
possible that Joe Byrne wore them. Still,
hardly in the character of the gay Byrne,
who delighted in baiting police and bank
clerks and schoolteachers and “flashing
about on horseback.”
There are other details which detract
from the general high quality of the play.
The shooting of Jack Jones, for instance,
which was too drawn-out and too pathetic
—in the play, as read, this incident passes
like a snap of the fingers, a building-up
to the shooting of Byrne and the final,
dramatic scene, Ned Kelly defying the
police and being shot down by them.
And Jack Jones’s sailor suit, with its Lord
Fauntleroy associations, was unsuitable
to the character of a tough bush young-
ster. And, making allowances for diffi-
culties of presentation, a window for
Byrne and the boy to be slain at would
have contributed to,realism.
With so many minor flaws mentioned,
it should be stated at once that the play,
as a whole, was well presented. But,
being a poetic drama, it calls for special
efforts in production and acting.
In a play, moreover, which deals
with a living Australian legend it is al-
most inevitable that there will be disap-
pointments. Byrne’s long speech express-
ing his despair is one of the most
momentous in the play. Dramatic
analysis and, at the same time, major
poetry. Waters’s delivery of it, without
being outstanding, was clear. The words
carried it. Then came the splendid, brief,
I need a woman.
To hold a woman is to hold the world
from the Pit.
This was said flatly, as though
Byrne were expressing a casual
desire for a glass of water. As though,
having got rid of the long speech, there
was no more fire in him.
Kevin Brennan’s acting might, in an-
other actor, be called good; or excel-
lent. In his boisterous violence his act-
ing was first-class. But, remembering
some of Brennans’ past achievements —
in particular Othello —his interpretation
of Ned Kelly was disappointing. It was
all on the same note.
This unfortunate impression was
heightened by a kind of whittling down
of minor characters. Elliott was a pom-
pous idiot, true, but improbably pompous
and idiotic as interpreted at Reiby-place.
Living was too frail; Reardon, that
sturdy railwayman who suggested to Ned
that he might be his match with bare
fists was, in the person of Frank Curtin,
a quaint bowed figure, and the very idea
of him fighting the burly Ned was comic.
David Saxby, as Gribble, was more comic
than powerful—good in a limited way,
but not exploring the full possibilities of
the character. Bracken, the policeman
at Glenrowan, also erred on the side of
frailty, as interpreted by Stanleigh Scott.
The prevailing impression, therefore,
was that all the power and violence was
one-sided. # This, particularly, .was obvi-
ous in the case of Rankin. As read,
Rankin, a normally brave man, comes
blustering into the pub at Jerilderie, and
is cowed and almost murdered by Ned,
On the stage Rankin is made to look a
timid, cowering figure from the first,
physically slight, and thus the scene is
robbed of 50 per cent, of its force. In
this respect Tarleton, Brett, the squatter
(played by Roy Gjedsted) and Richards,
the policeman (James Steele) are refresh-
ing, making an interesting and necessary
balancing of weight. Phil Hosking,
doubling for the part of the sergeant un-
successfully guarding Aaron Sherritt, is
also good, and Roy Gjedsted, also
doubling, is good, although a shade exag-
gerated as Aaron. Wanda Herbert, as
Rita Sherritt, is excellent.
In a play which deals so largely with
pubs more care should be taken in the
selection and acting of publicans. Cox,
the Jerilderie bung, was parsimonious
enough, but in speech and manner was
more like a grocer from the North Shore
line. And Mrs. Jones, played by Beatrice
Wenban, was not nearly jolly enough, and
was totally unappalled at the shooting
of her child.
Girding at minor characters, like the
criticism of Byrne’s footwear, in no way
■detracts from the play’s entertainment
value. But it is„ obvious that a major
play deserves the most thoughtful presen-
tation. Watching it come to life on the
stage —with all incidental imperfections—
it is obvious that the players have done
a lot with it—and a lot remains to be
done. And the provocative thought
arises that the play, translated into
celluloid, witjj horses and bush and gun-
battles thrown in, could make a film
which would at once satisfy the demands
of art and the public, and be as much
in the Australian tradition as the “Wild
Colonial Boy” or kangaroo-hide boots.
Some Melbourne Paintings.
Melbourne’s first full-scale outburst
of 1947 art shows in half a dozen
parts of the city gets progressively worse
in quality as the art fancier proceeds
from one inspection to the other. Ronald
Wakelin’s array of Sydney landscapes at
Kozminsky’s has technical dexterity of
a sort, but when one looks at his tight
pictures one sees the device first, never
the thing represented, and when the
observer goes out and looks along
Collins-street in all its autumn subtlety
he feels that Sydney, with all its draw-
backs, was never like Mr. Wakelin’s
pictures.
The device is again painfully apparent
in C. Dudley Wood’s display of oils and
watercolors at the Athenaeum and, what
is more disconcerting, one can recognise
the device as that of Blamire Young or
some other of Mr. Wood’s predecessors.
You don’t get Nature here, though there
are some slight indications of it in the
show of Anne Montgomery at George's.
Entitled “The Real Australia,” a joint
exhibition by two A.I.F. chaplains, W. J.
Salter and J. C. Salter, occupies the Velas-
quez. The two clerical gentlemen have
worked indefatigably to portray the face
of this fair land in every aspect, from the
snows of Mount Wellington to the bush-
fires of Gippsland, but convention every-
where defeats them.
Surprisingly, the Victorian Artists’
Society, which has earned the repu-
tation of hanging the greatest hodge-
podge of painting in Melbourne in its too-
frequent seasonal exhibitions, has this
year come out with the best in its history.
It claims to be the first of its kind to be
held in Melbourne, and is an effort to
present to the art-buying public artists
sketches and studies at prices that will
suit the leanest pocket. Many artists do
far better work in a spontaneous sketch
than when they are being pretentious and
important in painting a gallery picture.
Frank Andrew’s “Camp Sketch,” Peggy
Crombie’s “Cat with Flowers,” Mary
Mac Queen’s “Lane,” Douglas Green’s
“Air Strip” and W. G. Grant’s brief notes
of things seen and a dozen others are far
livelier than the society’s full-dress ex-
hibitions.
“The Secret Heart” (Liberty): Ladies
who like to cry in the pictures charged
the Liberty with their hankies at the
high port. However, the salty drops which
subsequently drenched this scribe were
not of sentiment, for the ladies, faced
with the alternatives of squirming through
the film to the end, or putting on their
shoes again and bolting, watched the pain-
ful dissection of “The Secret Heart” and
bawled tears of anguish. Not even Walter
Pidgeon, as an eligible bachelor, could
console them. Another of Hollywood's
Great Psychological Drama era, this out-
burst ' did have one good point in its
favor. It was so weak that it might very
well ring down the curtain on its kind
forever.


No. 4 of Secies
Ink. ..
<i e H 0./0 ts(
w
THEN you put pen and ink to paper to write a
letter you are starting' a chemical reaction. Ink
is made by adding a solution of ferrous sulphate to
an infusion of nut-galls mixed with a little gum
and a blue dye called a “sighting colour. A small
quantity of carbolic acid is sometimes added as a
preservative. The nut-galls contain tannin and
when ink is exposed to air, as it is when you write
a letter with it, the ferrous sulphate is oxidised and
a black deposit—iron tannate —is formed. As the
ink “dries’' the black iron tannate is left behind in
the form of your handwriting. Nutgalls and gum
are natural products, but for the blue dye, ferrous
sulphate and carbolic acid, the ink-
maker relies on the British chemical
industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
: ■■■
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates IL-18-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RLM
As the Doncaster draws near, each Satur-
day’s racing seems to complicate rather tna
simplify picking one for the rich mile. Several
new prospects forced themselves into ca '
tions at Rosehill on Saturday, while som
hitherto fancied disappointed ._
Connections of most of the Doncaster hopes
chose the seven furlongs and quality condition
of the Railway Handicap. Displaying a turn
of early speed, which was remarkable in view
of the type of race he usually runs, Tamaroa
(J. Thompson) was in front, or sharing tne
lead, all the way and won very comfortably.
A couple of lengths behind the winner, tne
former Melbourne galloper Bold Beau ana
Melgoda finished together, giving the camera
a chance to show that it can declare a deaa-
heat.
Tamaroa’s win was most promising as a
Doncaster trial, particularly because with 0.0
he was carrying 61b. more than he has in tnat
handicap. He showed that he has the speed
to be with ’em all the way, and he can see out
the mile; his latest previous win was at nine
furlongs.
Blue Legend shaped very poorly, being last
most of the trip and passing only a few tiring
horses in the final furlong. The only excuse
possible for him would be on the score ot
weight. He had topweight of 9.2, which is 5 lb.
more than his lenient Doncaster impost. Others
to fare badly were Native Son, Puiiham and
Despatch Case. Despatch Case again showed
that he can muster great speed for a short dis-
tance, but gives the impression that he would
have Buckley’s chance of seeing out an honestly-
run mile. Misguided punters had him favorite
for the Railway, for the second tirpe in the
three runs he has had in Australia. Despatch
Case and Bpndrodt’s other importation. Spam,
both the subjects of an absurd amount ot
ballyhoo, have been very expensive for punters.
So was Bendrodt’s War Eagle.
One or two others expected to be prominent
at the A.J.C. Autumn Meeting had a run in
the wi.a. Rawson Stakes of nine furlongs.
The race was run in curiously muddling fashion,
with the runners alternately moving up and
dropping back like an Oxford bump race.
Sweet Chime was the leader at the turn, fol-
lowed by Columnist (G. Weate), who soon ran
past her. The filly fought on gamely all the
way to the post, but the Genetout horse won it
well, Two Grand being third. Columnist car-
ried his hefty Doncaster weight of 9st., at
which he was conceding Sweet Chime 131 b.
Magnificent’s fourth was not a bad run,
but Russia and the New Zealander, Golden
Souvenir, equal topweights for the Cup, were
unimpressive, Golden Souvenir tailing the field
all the way. D. Munro was expected to ride
Blue Legend and Golden Souvenir for the
autumn double, but is reported to have lost
confidence in both mounts.
Temeraire faced his stiffest test to date in the
McArthur Quality Handicap for two-year-olds
and came through like the really good colt he
is. Surprisingly, since the handicapper was
limited to a 9st. maximum and 7st. minimum, a
fair-sized field of a dozen accepted, and this
nearly cost Temeraire the race. He missed the
start and had to be bustled along around the
others, not settling down to the job till the
race was almost over. The Groom, receiving
141 b. from the winner, hung on well at the
finish, and Cook had to draw the whip on
Temeraire to gain a half-length victory. In his
previous wins Cook has had to exert his strength
trying to hold the Felcrag colt back some-
where within shooting distance of the others.
Third was Deep Sea, rated by the handicapper
next to Temeraire with 8.6.
Beau Vite’s promising son Paktong had the
three-year-old Handicap field covered all the
wdy, and, going to the front near the distance,
finished the job well. The camera was called on
to affirm that Merry John had pipped Wirralie
for second money. Concise came home well
enough to be worth keeping in mind for a
similar event. Run in two divisions, the
Welter saw Glencrag (F. Walker) finish too well
for Dieppe and Persian Prince, while Fast Flash
(G. Weate) similarly accounted for Last Bowl
and Craftsman. Last Bowl deserves mention for
an apt bit of christening; he’s by Drake from
Chopper.
Open Air was made a short favorite for the
Rosehill Handicap, with Spam the best backed
to beat him; both let their backers down, though
Open Air managed to fill third place. Ironi-
cally, the winner was the 10-to-l chance Aval-
anche, one of Bendrodt’s cast-offs. Avalanche,
with a 51b. allowance for T. Mullane, carried
7st. and at the finish just had the edge on
Darnley.
* * * *
Since the camera has been in use on some
Melbourne courses it has only once indicated
a deadheat, which was for a minor placing.
Two successive Saturdays on non-camera
courses have produced altogether three dead-
heats, with another at Werribee betwixt Satur-
days. H. Badger, who is well in front fojr the
jockey’s premiership, has participated in five
deadbeats this season. Another feature of
recent Melbourne racing has been the extraor-
dinary number of protests —seven within a fort-
night. Since none of them has been dismissed
as “frivolous” it seems to suggest a degree of
careless riding which should be jumped on.
Scene of two of the deadbeats and one protest
was Mentone on Saturday. A lovely afternoon
attracted a goodish crowd, but Sydney and the
spelling paddocks have attracted the better
horses. Punters found the going very tough,
with one equal favorite their best result on the
day.
The punter’s friend was Blank Music (T.
Unkovich), sharing favoritism with Stormy Sea
for the Berwick Three-year-old. Ingoda Star,
with Hoppo up, tried to steal the race, bolting
into the straight a clear leader, but didn’t have
enough juice for the ten-furlongs trip. Hard
ridden. Blank Music scored by a neck from
Natural, with Stormy Sea next.
After his last-start win at Moonee Valley
stewards checked up on Blank Music’s brands
and discovered that the gelding was wrongly
registered as being by Blank from Toscanini ;
actually he’s by Blank from Artless. There was
evidently an accidental mix-up when the two
colts were sold at the 1945 yearling sales.
The deadheat finish to the Hume Juvenile
didn’t affect most punters, as neither Better
Days nor Field Dress, the only much fancied
runners, filled a place. It was a, rattling finish,
with less than two lengths covering the first
four. The judge could not separate Cohn s
Pride (W. Richards) and Florida (H. Badger),
and placed Sweet Magne third ahead of Better
Days. The Coronach filly Record Reign had a
run but gave no indication of justifying the ex-
penditure of 4700-odd guineas on her as a
yearling.
If any stable money is involved in her usually
short starting price the Oaks winner Chen
“Never mind his bluff about undercuts—get in there an' spill his gravy!"
Marie must be showing a tidy debit entry. The
handicapper appears to have her measure. Con-
fidently supported for the Waver ey Handicap of
13 furlongs, she managed only a struggling
third; with 9st. she was conceding: 191 b. ana
231 b. to the pair who beat her. The second
favorite” theorists landed the money on Glamis
Star, a couple of lengths too good for the
50 to 1 Solsgrace. ....
The first division of the Dromana Welter was
a definite tribute to the handicapper, whose
assessment of a 101 b. difference between Carey
(9.6) and Fine Fettle (8.10) provided a finish
which the judge could not split. Star of India,
equal favorite with Fine Fettle, was third, with
only a half-head to spare from. Prince Negri,
who may be heading for a win m this type of
company. In the second division The Sirdar,
going out at 11 to 4, was given every chance
but failed to finish in the first half dozen. The
winner, after surviving a protest, was Carag-
ham, with not much in hand from Cyclotron
and General Cunningham..
A daughter of Portofino and the Sydney Cup
winner Scarlet, Hispano hasn’t inherited much
of his dam’s staying ability, but managed to
see out the six furlongs of the Autumn Stakes.
D. Snart had the five-year-old gelding in front
after they had travelled a couple of furlongs and
was not thereafter headed, though at the finish
only a half head and a neck separated the winner
from the placegetters Great Win and Noble
Prince. Worth remembering, as the also-rans
comprised about the best field present on the
day. .
The Beach Hurdle went to Priority, a son of
Marabou, who’s get are always worthy of
respect in events where long and sound wind is
the prime requisite. Priority took command half
way round the two miles, was eight lengths
clear entering the straight and at the judge had
plenty in hand from Ruthless and Azores. At
recent outings Ruthless has shown improved
£om - , . » •
For Randwick (before acceptances);
Fairfield Handicap: (In the absence of
Temeraire) The Groom, 1; Nizams Ring, 2;
Royal Reward, 3. Cobbitty Handicap: Mono-
gram, 1; Concise, 2; Smooth Action, 3. Chip-
ping Norton Stakes: Flight, 1; Sweet Chime, 2;
Amelia, 3. Liverpool Handicap: Blue Legend,
1- Bold Beau, 2; Wellington, 3. Warwick
Farm Autumn Handicap: Rainbird, 1; Courier,
2'- Cape Neddick, 3, Cabramatta Handicap :
Melgoda, 1; Johnny Zero, 2; Fort Denison, 3.
« * * *
An exceptionally aptly-named colt won a
race at Werribee (Vic.) recently—Evzone. The
name is that of those rather cissy-looking but
nevertheless reputedly tough Greek troops whose
full-dress uniform runs to a sort of ballet
skirt. Evzone is by Dhoti (Indian for loin-
cloth) from All Frills.
* * * *
Once again in England a few score elderly
horses are finishing their preparation—this year
broken by the big freeze—for the killing four-
miles-odd of the toughest race of all —the
Aintree Grand National (“I’ll lay 3 to 1 against
any horse completing the course!”). Despite
stiffer qualifying conditions there were 82
entries, of whom 66 accepted, all aged except
Soda 11, a sprightly six-year-old. One Mac-
moffat boasts of 15 summers; pretty well half
entered were 10 or older. Their names range
in point of length from the terse E.P. to First
of the Dandies; one runs to an exclamation
mark —Oh Joe! France is represented by Kami,
while America has sent over Refugio. Those con-
sidered to have about the best chance of
seeing the trip out include Lovely Cottage,
Jack Finlay and Prince Regent, who filled the
places last year in that order. Last year Prince
Regent was topweight with 12.5, or 21b. below
the maximum, and started a hot favorite.
Though he failed with that weight, he’s been
bumped up to 12.7; Lovely Cottage has 11.3
(91b. more than last year) and Jack Finlay
has 10.8 (up 61b.).
« * * *
Hammond won the toss in the Test at
Christchurch on Friday and gave M.L.
first use of the soft pitch. Hadlee and
Sutcliffe helped the side with a good
first-wicket start of 133 and the M.L.
total was 306 for eight wickets when bad
light stopped play. On Saturday M.L.
declared with 345 up for nine wickets,
and saw M.C.C. begin badly; Wash-
brook out for two and Yardley for 22.
At stumps England had scored 265 for
seven, Hammond top with 79. Cowie
bagged six for 83.
$ * * *
Ten of the 17 players in the Indian
team to tour Australia played in the rep.
matches v. The Australian Services. It is
a good batting side with R. S. Modi (who
made 203 in the third rep. match and
topped the aggregate of all players with
344 ruffs, av. 86), Merchant (captain),
Amarnath, Gul Mahomed, Manked,
Hazare and Nayudu, all capable of mak-
ing centuries. The bowlers are medium-
paefed and spinners.
“L.L.”: The late F. S. Jackson had a
record unequalled in Test cricket.
When Joe Darling’s XI was in Eng-
land in 1905 Jackson won all 'five
tosses and also topped the averages with
492 runs av. 70.28 and 13 wickets av.
15 46. Darling and Jackson were born
on the same day (Nov. 21, 18fQ)—another
rarity in Test captains. It was Jackson s
113 in the fourth Test at Manchester in
1905 which helped England retain the
“ashes” (won the previous year by Plum
Warner). He was a good sort always
“Jacker” to Joe.
* * * *
An interesting survival in tennis. The
veterans’ double of S.A. was won by
a formerly well-known pair, Jack Rymill,
the old-time hard-hitting left-handed bat
who played for Australia against South
Africa (and is now a breeder of race-
horses), and Arthur Barrett, born in Vic-
toria, but an Adelaide maltster since
1914 Barrett has (after air service in
the first war) won a title as Lord Mayor
o£ his fy- ,
The Patrick-Marcus fiasco at Sydney
Stadium suggested that the name of sap
should be loud in the land. Patrick,, a
natural lightweight, is the one solitary
present Australian fighter with qualifica-
tions for top world class. Against him
Sydney Stadium matched ah import of
no fistic standing in his native U.S.A.,
reported to have reduced his weight in a
matter of weeks from over list, to the
lightweight limit, these days sensibly in-
sisted on by Patrick. As the worst sooth-
sayer in Christendom could have foretold,
it was a walkover, Patrick knocking the
weakened Marcus flat inside the first two
minutes. Yet this choice bit of match-
making drew an overflow house, some
5000 disappointed customers listening to
a broadcast outside. ,
* * * *
It looked very much if Ken Bailey
(10.3) was magged out of his clear win
over Frank Taylor (10.7) at Leichhardt.
In round five Bailey was cautioned for
resting his left hand on Taylor’s shoulder
and hitting him with a right. Taylor’s
seconds at once bawled out about it
thereafter every time Bailey even looked
like repeating the action claims for a foul
arose from the Taylor corner and ref.
Art Mawson ended up disqualifying
Bailey. There wasn’t a mark on the
loser ; the winner was a sight to behold.
* ♦ * *
Len Dittmar (ll.H) put it all over the
Sydney scrapper Owen Moase at
Melbourne Stadium, Much too good
from the start,' he dropped Moase with
a hefty right in the fourth round and
only toughness kept the Sydneysider on
deck for the next couple of rounds, when
ref. Jennings called it off. •


IL)
?«va
S 3 a
Sfa-'
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V.. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Yonr best friend
mar fail as
EXECUTOR
You take a risk if you appoint a friend as
sole Executor. He may die soon after you, and
your Estate may pass into the control of some-
one whom you would never have trusted. He
may maladminister the funds, or your Estate
may suffer losses through his neglect or inex-
perience.
Much better to appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your Executor, even if you
appoint the friend in conjunction. By doing
that you ensure absolute security, combined with
an efficient administration born of experience
gained in the management of thousands of
Estates comprising assets of almost every des-
cription.
A personal interview is suggested, or perhaps you
would prefer to write for the Company’s Booklet
“Your Executor and Trustee.”
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern ami Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St. Wagga Warga
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative: J. L. McElroy, 140 Lords Place Orange.
V
m
/
■ ■
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. ETO. Established 18’,8
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Where Are We Heading?
If an economy expands or contracts
according to the quality of the service it
provides, then recent events have plainly
demonstrated that “Labor” is leading the
country not to the promised heaven of
economic purity, but to the purgatory of
economic confusion. While industrialists
and traders generally are striving to bring
about expansion, and all the benefits that
go with it, by increasing the volume of
production and widening markets, Com-
munist and “moderate” union leaders
alike stand in the way of progress by per-
sistently jamming the economic machine,
and so reducing the national income, for
their own frivolous and unhealthy reasons.
And so long as this disruptive element
finds that its ends are best served by
holding the community to ransom, so
long will the community continue to
suffer scarcities, costs and prices will con-
tinue to rise, and the much-talked-of and
hoped-for high and rising standard of
living will become a will-o’-the-wisp, if
it has nof already done so. In the final
analysis it is the national income, calcu-
lated in terms of the exchange of goods
and services, that is the measure of a
country’s prosperity.
The latest hold-up of national pro-
gress was the Sydney waterfront strike,
which Prime Minister Chifley de-
scribed, with the detachment of the un-
concerned, as “unfortunate and un-
warranted.” It began on March 10, fol-
lowing suspension of wharflaborers by
the Stevedoring Industry Commission (a
body appointed by the Federal Govern-
ment) for refusal to work overtime in
order to clear the backlog of cargoes on
the wharves. It was settled on March
24, when a meeting of over 4000 members
decided by an overwhelming majority to
return to duty, to admit 500 new
members, and to work overtime two
nights a week until 9 p.m. when afternoon
shifts are not filled.
Meanwhile, 80-odd ships—overseas,
inter-State and intra-State—have been
immobilised, and hundreds of thousands
of tons of urgently-needed commodities
lie on the wharves and in the holds of
the ships. Also, some of the perishable
commodities, such as potatoes (43,000
bags), are now unfit for human con-
sumption. Furthermore, some of the
ships have turned about for overseas
destinations with their original manifest,
including tea, cotton, rayon and piece
goods, still in the hold. At the same
time cargoes continue to pile up in other
Australian ports for lack of transport,
while factory and other output slackens
and hands are rendered idle for want of
materials to work on.
In Melbourne the metal trades dis-
pute drags on, and last week-end trans-
port engineers ceased work. In each
case the union refused to accept the
Arbitration Court’s offer of a wage in-
crease over and above the 7s;-a-week
interim lift in the basic wage~an extra
9s. a week for the engineers, and for
metal trade employees an extra 7s. a
week for higher and ss. a week for the
lower grades. As the president of the
Australian Metal Industries recently
pointed out, “the prime cause of Aus-
tralia’s failure to cope with its post-war
difficulties is the answer given to the
people’s cry for more production by the
trades-union movement as a whole
The unions say the remedy will come
from reduced work and more wages.
This means lower production at higher
cost.”
We have not yet felt the full effects
of industrial stoppages and rising costs,
“ Thanks , mate —T'll Walk from here."
because present shortages , and high prices
have obscured their incidence. By look-
ing upon shortages and a temporary sur-
plus of investable funds as a golden
opportunity to feather its own nest at
the expense of the community, labor is
piling up a host of future trouble for
Australia. National salvatiorf lies in
maximum production, without which
neither the national income nor the
general standard of living will be main-
tained. It is impossible for trade and
industry to develop to their full capacity
if labor fails to square its actions with
the needs of the people as a whole, and
refuses to accept the overriding public
authority of the Court. Where militant
extremists have gained control of the
unions, the moderates consider themselves
tied to the wheel of Marxism, and being
whirled onward at a pace they cannot
control. This largely because of an in-
ternal system of open voting that was
outdated in the middle of last century.
First step to eliminate this position lies
with the Government, which should, as
Mr. Menzies long ago proposed, bring
down legislation to make voting in the
unions secret and compulsory on all
matters relating to industrial stoppages.
Men who know what danger is have
been asking awkward questions since
Maoriland Labor politicians let the Wan-
ganella’s crew get away with “danger
money” to the tune of over 18s. an hour
by using highwaymen’s tactics when the
ship looked like a certain loss. A place
like the Wanganella’s deck and cabins,
with tugs and escorts standing by and
Wellington’s coastline right alongside,
would have been as safe as a base camp
to men who got into the thick of things
on many fronts in war days. They laugh
at talk of “danger money” in a case like
the Wanganella’s; but they don’t laugh
about the fancy wages which they didn’t
get when they hazarded their lives.
Echoes of the Wanganella payments will
be heard when returned men meet in
Maoriland, for weeks and months to
come.
♦ * * *
Maoriland’s rickety stabilisation system
has led to a good deal of preliminary
sparring preparatory to the big Arbitra-
tion Court test to decide whether workers
should be granted a general rise in wages,
and if so how much. The farmers have
been taking shots at loopholes in the
system, and have scored some telling hits.
They ask why their labor on Saturdays
and statutory holidays should be
measured by a different yardstick from
that of wage-earners, who get overtime
rates if they work on these days and on
Saturdays ; and some go so far as to de-
dare, doubtless with their tongues in thei
cheeks, that no one should work at week
ends. A magistrate said a while ago tha
if all week-end work ceased and everyone
shared the privilege of a five-day week i
wouldn’t be long before the whole
country came to its senses and saw tin*
thing was impossible. No doubt th
crisis will be reached without coming to
a complete week-end standstill, though
no one can say exactly when.
* * * »
The announcement by two Australian
controlled Malayan tin cos. that thei
dredges had started up again put a littl
life into this dull section- of the share
market. Statistics, however, do not en
courage hopes of rapid and general re
sumption of dredging in southern Asia
Rehabilitation has been slower than ex
pected, and will continue to be hamperec
by shortages. Hence world production
of tin in 1947, estimated by the Inter
national Tin Conference last October ai
from 156,000 to 163,000 tons, is now
not expected to exceed 142,000 tons—
the figure for 1941 was 242,000
tons. World stocks are expectec
to fall below 100,000 tons for the
first time since 1941. Although this
stock figure is well above pre-war levels
when quota production operated, carefui
allocation of available supplies will con-
tinue until production in Malaya gets
more into step with demand. This" is
not expected to occur before 1948, or
1949 in Thailand. Addressing share-
holders in London recently, the chairman
of a large group of Malayan tin dredging
companies said “We have to learn from
experience how far, if at all, the increased
price of tin at £370 stg. a ton ex smelters
(£264 stg. pre-war) will compensate for
the increased cost of production and
other necessary expenditure.” Comment-
ing on labor troubles, he added that
“your company’s interests will un-
doubtedly be seriously harmed unless
firm and immediate action is taken by
the Government to put an end to stop-
pages and strikes arising out of fantastic
and impossible demands.”
«= * ♦ *
Applications for Ansett Transport In-
dustries’ new par issue of 100,000 5 p.c.
prefs. and 200,000 ords. (B. 19/3/’47)
exceeded half a million. The money will
be used to purchase 50 new road
cruisers; to buy more hotels, sites and
licences in various States ; to pay for
shares in Webster Rometch Astor Motors
(Tas.); for extension of the Essendon
(Vic.) factory, and for purchase of exten-
sions and additions to the Essendon
hangar from the Disposals Commission.
A monthly analysis of revenue shows an
increase from £20,000 for January, 1946
to £93,000 for January, 1947, the latter
being at the rate of £1,116,000 p.a. A
feature on the executive side is that the
average age of key personnel is under
40, and there are over 700 names on the
payroll. The old shares, ex rights and
ex dividend, are worth about 235. 3d. on
the market. With the expansion in the
share register many people will watch the
co.’s progress with considerable interest.
That there is a demand for the type of
services offered has been evident for
some time.
* * * *
The Philippines Government,
after taking into consideration such
factors as high wages and difficulties in
getting machinery, etc., has decided to
permit free and uncontrolled export of
gold. There are about 60 goldmines in
the Philippines, and before the war they
produced bullion worth 1,000,000 pesos
annually. Last year they operated well
below capacity, but hope to speed up
production during 1947.


Public Notices.
AGENCIES AND BUSINESS CONNECTIONS re-
quired. Write to S. R. ROSBROOK, A.F.1.A., 48
Russell Street, Toowoomba, Queensland.
BLUE ASBESTOS (Chrysotile). Persons interested
large deposit 30 miles rail to port communicate I). L.
FRASER, Craigilee House, Rockhampton, Queensland.
END your RUPTURE
A
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and 1!, days’ free
trial offer. No obligation,
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
( p ept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
AMAZING HAIR DISCOVERY!
m
Have a thorough examination
of your hair NOW before it
is too late, do something!
500 TRIAL TREATMENTS
to Readers with Hair Disorders
—Write NOW !
MOW you can test it yourself—try this
famous treatment in your own home,
under any conditions you like, and if it doesn’t
stop falling hair, rid you of dandruff, or im-
prove your hair and scalp beyond belief within
30 days, it COSTS YOU NOTHING—not one
penny! But you must hurry; this offer may
never be repeated. It places you under no
obligation; all you have to do is post the
coupon NOW!
TONICS ALONE WILL NEVER IMPROVE
HAIR CONDITION
sfďsfd
“Course a Blessing.”
“I am writing to thank you
for the wonderful results 1
have received from your Hair
Treatment, I can really say
it has been a blessing to me,
as my hair now looks really
better than I have ever known
it to look.”
Mrs. A. BURGESS,
8., Vic.
'T'HEY never have—because it
is impossible while the scalp
remains in a choked condition.
There is one underlying principle
that stops falling hair and stim-
ulates lively hair bulb action —
that principle is involved In the
New Murchison Treatment. It’s
a new way—entirely different and
successful. It attacks approaching
baldness, falling hair, etc., from
a new angle. With it you can
stop your future hair troubles or
it won’t cost you one penny!
POST COUPON AT ONCE I
SEND NO MONEY I
Mrs. A. Burgess
“COLOR RETURNED IN 3 DAYS”
“After the first
night’s treatment the
dandruff began to
disappear and at the
end of three days it
was completely gone.
The natural color,
brown, also returned
to my hair, and in a
very short period all
hair and scalp troubles
were over.”
L. PHILLIPS,
L., N.S.W.
sdfsdfds
30 DAYS’ TRIAL COUPON
J. Kelso Murchison,
Dept 94, Box 3573 RR, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Name
Address
(Enclose 2Ad. stump)
19/3/’47
L. Phillips
J
DESTROY THESE PESTS
with
(Regd.)
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM’*
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere .
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
u
■ b
...PROOF oi
most Efficient Lubrication
sdfdsfdsf
The gruelling motoring conditions of today
demand an oil with a high viscosity index—
which is one of the most important factors
In guaranteeing safe, complete lubrication
of your engine.
The oil which retains its free-flowing pro-
perties at low temperatures and its "body"
at high temperatures has a high viscosity
index. Neptune H.V.I. Motor Oil has a high
viscosity index . . . resists wear and friction
, , . lets maximum power flow from your
engine . . . and reduces your repair bills
to a minimum.
Ask at your local service station for Neptune
H.V.I. Motor Oil.
NEPTUNE OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales )
MARKETERS OF QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA SINCE 1909
Australian Newsprint Mills Pty.
This big and vigorous papermaking
concern at Boyer (Tas.) is to be converted*
from a private into a public co., and will
presently offer 750,000 £1 4* p.c. cum.
prefs. at par, partly to those on the ord.
register and partly to the public. The
return is in step with the market for
sound fixed-interest-bearing securities.
The issue has been jointly underwritten
by E. L. and C. Baillieu and lan Potter
and Co., the Melbourne stockbrokers.
In addition arrangements have been
made “with a financial institution” for
£1,000,000 of debenture money, on terms
and conditions not yet broadcast.
The £1,750,000 of new money is
wanted to step up production of news-
print from 30,000 tons to 80,000 tons p.a.,
and to repay the £250,000 of 4 p.c. pref.
capital now held by the Tasmanian Gov-
ernment. The repayment is related to re-
strictions imposed by the Florentine
Valley Industry Act (Tas.), which has now
been amended to give the co. complete
freedom in connection with its capital
structure. The £1,346,191 of ord. capital
is held by various Australian newspaper
cos., or their shareholders or nominees.
Prime mover, and largest shareholder,
in the undertaking was “Herald and
Weekly Times” (Melb.). Production be-
gan about the end of 1940, and during
subsequent war years, when the supply of
newsprint from overseas was reduced to
a trickle, the co.’s mills were the only
thing that stood between the metropoli-
tan dailies and four-page issues. The
present expansion programme, which in-
cludes going into the Florentine Valley
through a tunnel, is expected to occupy
about two and a half years. Contracts
covering output for ten years from July,
1946, have been entered into on a costs
basis which covers the pref. div, on the
proposed new issue.
Apart from the question of scarcity of
“hard currencies,” world demand for
newsprint promises to run ahead of pro-
duction for several years to come ; this
because of the expanded and still growing
demand for the stuff in U.S.A. and S.
America, and there is the still-deferred
European demand to be met as rehabili-
tation develops into recovery.
The statement by the chairman of
British Tobacco at the annual roll-up last
month that production and distribution
in Australia by the co.’s subsidiaries was
about 131 p.c. of the pre-war year is evi-
dence that the co. is doing its best to
satisfy demand. From a shareholder’s
point of view the heartening feature is
that demand continues to run ahead of
production. Not so heartening is the
prospect - of further steep rises in costs.
Since growth in population from end
1938 to end 1945 amounted to approxi-
mately 7 p.c., the average smoker is
puzzled to understand why supplies are
still so short at retail. He is still more
puzzled to understand where the in-
creased supply of cigarette papers has got
to. He also wonders whether efforts to
further improve output will amount to
much in view of the prospective
rise in Costs and shortage of female
labor in the factories. Meanwhile, he
continues to make a heavy contribution
to public revenue. More than 60 p.c. of
the amount paid for cigarettes and
tobacco goes to the Government in im-
port and excise duties; this after allow-
ing for recent increases in selling prices,
following withdrawal of Government sub-
sidy, Only twice in the last 25 years
have selling prices been lifted for reasons
other than customs and excise duties. The
market has always had a high opinion of
B.T. scrip. At the current price of 545.
6d. the yield is 3£ p.c. from a 9 p.c. div.,
which has been the rate paid for the last
six years.
* * % #
R. Muir and E. T. S. Pearce, respective
secretaries of the Queensland Cane-
growers’ Council and the Australian
Sugar Producers’ Association, are scared
stiff at the implications of the world
trade charter to be discussed at Geneva,;
If it’s adopted, both foresee economic
chaos in Queensland’s sugar industry and
a depopulation of the State’s tropic coast-
line. They’ve seen Chifley and Courtice
about it, and made these points as neces-
sary to keep the sugar industry going:
Maintenance of Imperial preference; Aus-
tralia to maintain a dear right to ban sugaj
imports; continuation of the local fixed-
price system; negotiation of international
commodity agreements providing permanent
allocation of export quotas.
The scared secretaries want the Australian
reps, in Geneva to remember that our
sugar stability is based on a Queensland-
Commonwealth agreement; that the em-
bargo on sugar imports to this country is
threatened by the charter’s quantitative
restriction clauses, and that negotiations
regarding tariff preferences seriously
affect the future of sugar exports. It
ought not to be necessary to remind
an Australian Government delegation
of such things; but in these days
of bureaucracy restatement of the
obvious has become more than neces-
sary,
* * * *
War in the Pacific ended with 517,000
persons on the public payrolls of Aus-
tralia, compared with 405,000 in July,
1939. One would have expected the
peace to have brought a reduction in
the number -'of civil servants. There was
indeed a temporary falling-away—in Feb-
ruary, 1946, the total had dropped to
506,400. But by October last year the
number had swollen to 534,600, which
represented 17,600 more Government em-
ployees than were on the public purse
at the end of the Pacific war. This not-
withstanding that total employment, in-
cluding persons occupied in the armed
forces, has fallen with the ending of
hostilities, even though actual “civil” em-
ployment rose from 1,991,000 in August,
1945, to 2,161,300 in October, 1946.
There are fewer people in the armed
forces and civil employment than there
were during the war, and this is probably
partly the result of women withdrawing
from both avenues, partly the result of
industrial disputes in key industries affect-
ing dependent trades. But the civil ser-
vice grows and grows, in part because of
the “Labor” policy of “full employment,”
partly as a result of political expedience.
Australia’s manpower resources are
plainly not being put to the best use
from a productive point of view. And
this misuse will make production even
harder later on.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: Down in the gully the
air was still. Ripe lillipillies dropped
on the dry forest bed, but the long fronds
of the bangalows hung motionless ; then
high above the turpentines a rushing
wind swept down the river as a grey
cloud sped over. They were some hun-
dreds of feet up, but the wings of those
topknot pigeons could be heard for a
quarter of a milfe. Is it that wings are
like racing engines—if you want speed
you must sacrifice silence? It took me
back to a summer night, on guard duty
around the hahgars,' when from one
corner a powerful light dung a beam
across the tarmac. In and across this
dazzling beam whirled the district’s full
assortment of moths, beetles and wogs,
but it wasn’t until you got the frenzied
swarm against the stars that it could be
seen there were others present. Just off
the light fluttered three or four owls —■
boobooks, probably—gathering insects as
they passed blinded into the dark. The
feast was continuous. The birds took
their fill within an hour; but not once
did they enter the beam, nor could they
be heard from six feet below. Much the
same as men: some tell the world where
they’re going; others —especially those
who prey over devotees of the bright
lights—move stealthily.
sS
“Jodwy”; My guess is that “sooming”
(B. 5/ 3 / ’47) was simply Kendall’s way of
spelling “zooming,” which Roget’s Thes-
aurus gives as an alternative description
of surging, meaning motion upwards. So
the poet could have meant an upsurging
of the sea. Most modern dictionaries,
however, limit the meaning of “zoom-
ing” to its purely aeronautical derivation
based on the sound of an aeroplane
swerving suddenly and steeply upwards.
* * # *
“Notaden”: The “Salmon Gums”
theory (B. 5/3/’47) that lightning-struck
trees meet that fate by reason of having
their roots in an underground stream
which earths the flash-current is certainly
wrong in the Victorian case which I
mentioned. A 10ft. road-cutting across
the sandy ridge on which the tree had
been struck, passing within a few feet of
the stump, showed no signs of under-
ground water, past or present. As for
lightning striking a dead tree, there is
a fine example in clear view from the
window at which I write. A 70ft. red-
gum, it was ringbarked nearly 30 years
ago. In November, 1945, a lightning
stroke shattered its branches and split the
trunk top with a crash that brought this
household out on the run to see what on
earth had happened. To test another
bush fallacy—namely, that lightning-
struck timber is of no use for firewood—
we tried some in the kitchen stove. The
verdict of the ruler of this abode still *is
that it couldn’t be bettered, and that
she’d like to see a few more dead ones
struck before this one is used up.
* * * *
“Pisces”: Next to the groper, perhaps,
the coral divers fear the black-tip shark
most of all. Rarely going over 6ft., and
with a comparatively small mouth, the
black-tip—so called from the jet triangle
on the tip of its dorsal fin —inhabits
estuaries and the edges of reefs, and is
given to working the flowing tide. The
danger is that they always work in shoals
of about half a dozen or more; and
if one charges a diver the rest auto-
matically follows the leader. Usually they
are timid, but if there is fresh blood
in the water or the diver happens to have
a small open wound, woe betide him.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Now that the Argentine
ant has become established (it has reached
Perth, W.A.), we may look forward to the
bulldog and other primitive types of ant
sharing the fate of our other primitives
which have suffered the competition of
imported species. Australia possesses up-
wards of 150 different species of bull-
dogs—which, curiously, are very highly
specialised as individuals, far ahead of
most of the world’s other ants. Bulldogs,
for instance, have eyes, well developed,
and capable, considering the size of the
owner, of seeing a long distance —as any-
one who has tried monkeying around a
bully’s nfest knows, and by the direct
manner in which the populace will surge
out at the intruder, and the distance he
will be followed. Most of the world’s ants
have a feeble sight, many species being
blind. But individual perfection counts
for little in the ant world; it is the power
of numbers and the gregarious instinct
that breeds the winners in a never-ending
conflict. But it would be a pity to see
“Don’t put your arm in, sir—he might tear your sleeve."
our bulldog ants following the procession
of disappearing “living fossils,” for our
ants qualify for that distinction more than
any other indigene of our continent. The
species, it is calculated, is more than
thirty million years old, similar forms
being found embedded in amber from the
Baltic, which dates geologically back that
far.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: It may sound like boy-
scout stuff, but here’s a few hints my old
man gave me when turning me loose.
Know the span of your hand, the breadth
of your thumb, the span from fingertip
to fingertip with the arms outspread.
Know the length of your shoe and of your
stride, so distances from an inch to a
hundred yards may be guessed pretty ac-
curately. Know the length of your gun,
or axe with handle, or any stick or lengthy
implement you are likely to carry in the
bush. From such knowledge the height of
a tree, for instance, may be calculated.
Stand your staff upright clear of the tree.
Measure the length of its shadow.
Then, with any of the above standards,
measure the length of your tree’s shadow.
Thus by a , simple sum in proportion you
will obtain the height of the tree within
a foot or so ; useful information when a
tree may be due for falling and it is
desirable to estimate what clearance it
will need. ,
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: John Becheviise says
“Rodondo’s” vegetation is completely dif-
ferent from that of other Bass Strait
islands (B. 19/2/’47). As there are more
than a hundred islands in the strait he
is, in the main, right, but the islands I
specifically referred to were only those
near at hand to his “lost-world” isle —
those between Wilson’s Promontory and
Kent’s Group. How does J.B. know Ro-
dondo to be different from these granite-
bound mountain-tops? Has he landed
—or has he met anyone who has—on the
East and West Moncoeur islets, or bold
Curtis, that lump of dirt and rock that
towers 1100 ft. high, or Con© Island with
its remarkable leaning pinnacle, or the
strange-looking Devil’s Tower? Hogan’s
group, I know, is different, and so, says
J. 8.", is Kent’s, but he doesn’t tell us why.
Instead he asserts that Rodondo differs
from the Promontory, a distinction which,
by the gums on the headland and the
sheoaks on the island, you may learn
from a steamer’s deck if you are unaware
that Bass told us the fact on his boat
voyage to Westernport 150 years ago.
J.B, also says “there exists no evidence
on record of any earlier exploration.”
That perhaps is so, since sealers, naval
survey, shore-parties and fishermen don’t
usually place bottles under cairns as the
“explorers” were reported to have done.
No, J.B.’s party wasn’t even the first
party ashore on Rodondo since the last
world brawl- That distinction goes to
Harry Crole, for 30 years a fisherman out
of Newhaven (Vic.), his sons and his
crew.
* * * *
“QwertYuiop”: The prospect of a
blackout of indefinite duration looms be-
fore thousands of outback Queenslanders,
They are down to their last lamp glass,
and further supplies are unobtainable.
Average pre-war yearly supplies of the
article have been reduced to one-tenth
or less, and there is no present prospect
of improvement. Cut-down bottles are
being tried, but without much success.
Candles cannot be substituted, because
none are made in the State and no sup-
plies have been received from outside
since last June. Acetylene and mantles
have been off the country market for a
long time. Even the good old fat lamp
is hampered by lack of suitable cotton
for wicks, an essential shortage which
applies also and more acutely to home-
made candles. Come along, you ancient
Aboliars, and lighten their darkness with
particulars as to how you got over such
deprivations in your day!
• * * *
“X.E.D.”: Harker, of the Bunglebobba
“Gazette,” used to go on a spree about
once a month, and it took the combined
efforts of his less-exhilarated cobbers to
get the week’s edition into circulation.
Even then the casual advts. often got
jumbled in the news and gossip column,
and something like the following would
appear:—
Mrs. Fitznoodle of the Gap is
For Sale. Muscovy settings
visiting her sister, Miss Beulah Hicks
in the wine cellar of White’s
General Store. Damage was confined to
15/- the setting. Guaranteed fresh eggs
Mr. Harry Timms is in hospital with
Fox Terrier litter for sale,
influenza. Friends wish him a speedy
Rev. Jones will officiate at the.
The rag wasn’t half as popular when
Harker sold out to an earnest young man
with a passion for reforming the district,
and track of the old boy’s excursions
with the bottle were lost to his admirers.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Like an excited bunch of
school-freed kids we piled into the big
wagonette, a huge, high-sided vehicle
capable of lumbering a ton, Bailey
tootled a “tally ho” on his cornet; Big
Joe flicked the whip over the pair of
high-steppers and, with a scabbling of
hooves on the sun-baked road, we were
away. It was fifteen miles to Needle-
wood, where “Ruffo’s Rough Riders” were
offering ten pounds to the rider who could
sit their Thunderclap, balance-riding, for
one minute. We were certain that Snow-
flake could stay with that outlaw, and
our pockets were stuffed with the money
to say he could stick him to a standstill.
We fooled and shouted and sang as we
bowled along the rutted road. Passing
the back station huts Little Joe let out a
wild “halloo” ; Big Joe got a crack out
of his whip that was like a rifle shot;
Bailey blew a blast on his cornet that was
ear-splitting ; the horses lunged at the
breastplates ; the wagonette lurched for-
ward with a new impetus—and Snow-
flake fell off it and broke his left wrist.
» * * ♦
“Bray Rock”: March is a busy and
exciting month for countless bird visitors
to Australian beaches. Modestly attired
in shades of brown, few kinds larger than
a pigeon, they are gathering in flocks
to practise mass flying tactics for the
journey to come. An amazing journey it
is, ending for many of them in Siberia
or even well inside the Arctic Circle.
There they will change their present un-
assuming garb for brilliant colorings,
their unobtrusive ways of life for a gay
season of courting and serenading, their
individual independence for great nest-
ing colonies where they will work hard
to bring up young families. With the
advent of spring they will come back
with their young ones over the same vast
journey, flying at night to avoid birds of
prey and guided by' the mysterious in-
stinct which keeps them to a true course
and time that no skilled navigator could
better. How, why, or when this strange
migratory habit began cannot even be
guessed at, but it must have been long
before mankind’s remotest simian an-
cestors came into being.
* * * *
“Bo”: It was Long Harry’s agonised
roar that brought Mick and Fred on
the run from the camp fire, and the acci-
dent provided an interesting example of
the different ways in which men react to
emergencies. Harry had been injudicious
on two counts: first, for sitting on a
log at all that had a wedge in it, and,
second, for selecting a log of such
notoriously greasy timber as tallow-
wood; for when the wedge suddenly
popped out the opening snapped-to, hold-
ing a very painful prisoner in a vice-like
grip. Mick started rushing round in
circles, then tried to pull the protesting
Harry off, then hysterically suggested
putting the log on the jinker and
driving it and its victim into the
township doctor 18 miles away. Fred
calmly looked in the surrounding bracken
till he found the wedge. Following the
line along closely from Harry’s im-
prisoned stern, he drove the wedge in with
great deliberation until the seam had
opened up sufficiently to set Harry free.
As Mick said afterwards, Fred just beat
him to the idea —he’d have been sure to
think of it some time during the day.
* * * *
“Greenhide Bob”: “I give a newchum a
lift on the packhorse between Eulo an’
Barringun once,” related Monkeystrap
Mick. “We camped at the Hazard Creek
letterbox for the night, a bit early, so
I started to make a damper. ‘l’ll get
some meat,’ says Choom, an’ disappears
up the track through the mulga to the
homestead. He comes back shortly with
a snifter big steak-an’-kidney pie in a big
blue enamel dish —says he wangled it out
of the cook, who was a female. When
we’d scoffed that pie Choom slings the
dish in the creek. I tells him what I think
of a dirty trick like that, gits the dish
out, cleans it an’ takes-'it back to the
homestead. There was thirteen gins
workin’ in the kitchen, an’ each one hit
me with somethin’. They sooled the dogs
on me an’ chased me down the track,
yellin’ blue murder. The head gin in
the kitchen had put the pie out to cool
for the silvertails’ dinner in the Big
House, an’ Choom had swiped it,”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: From the wilds of
Wasleys (S.A.) Chummy Schultz came
into Gawler, got aboard the first south-
bound train and 60 hours later walked
out of Central station, Sydney. “Yumpin’
yiminy,” he said to the taxi-driver, “she
haff changed since. It is now forty-free
year since I haff run avay from mein
sheep in der Harbor und now I am a big
farmer in South Oss.” The wooden face
behind the steering wheel changed not.
“Where d’ y’ wanta go, mate?” it asked.
Chummy wasn’t as chummy as all that.
“To der Royal Showgrounds,” he
snapped. “Und I vos not your mate,
mein friend.” In silence the journey was
completed. Chummy paid and got out,
but stopped dead when he heard a mut-
tered “Ruddy reffo!” Then he grabbed
an ear of that taxi-man in his work-
calloused paw and pulled the head to
which it was attached half out of the cab.
With his free hand he smacked the head
twice, then shoved it back. “Und next
dime,” he grunted, “don’t you run away
mit der idea fat I vos a blanky Sherman,
see! Might be I come oudt of South Oss,
isn’t it, but I don’t stand no tam cheek.'’
But by that time the taxi had fled.
THE MEADOW GATE.
The meadow gate was old, and in the wind
Banged to and fro, but never seemed to mind.
It opened into Wonderland where dust
Of little winding sheep-tracks had been creased
By fairy feet before dawn stained the east.
There in the springtime rose-gilled mushrooms
thrust
Their pearl-pale haloes through the earth’s
bro\Vn crust;
And underneath the hawthorns toadstools grew,
Quaint fellowS of the mould with high-peaked
hats,
Like witches wear. They smelled of grass and
dew
And crumbling sodden leaves. The pasture flats
Were gold with dandelions; while in among
The beryl lattices of wild sweet-briar
The sorrel thrust a mutinous red tongue.
Down where the creek flowed swift as silver fire
Dwelt witchery. The fluted ferns were wings
Of pixie people; and the waterfall
Where, insect-light, a rainbow nimbus danced,
Was some immortal Beauty’s evening shawl.
Even the stream-washed stones were magic
things
That must be touched with reverence. En-
tranced,
We used to lie among the tasselled grass
And watch the platinum sails of thistles pass;
And listen to larks singing lost in high
Lobelia spaces twixt the earth and sky.
And there were clouds —white as the glistening
flowers
Of cyclamen; sometimes these clouds of ours
Were lambs, and sometimes bears, swift to fulfil
The fickle conjuring wind’s erratic will!
We used to break wild radish stems, and taste
The pungent juices; and oft whitely laced
Each orifice among the rough grey rocks
Along the creek with fragrant clover chains;
And laughed to see the bees come in gay
smocks
Of gold and brown to rob our honeyed g:#uns.
Ah! could I but recapture the lost glow—
Pass through the meadow gate again, and know
The days that fled on fleet delicious wings,
I would not barter them for gold of kings!
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Mat’s Mate”; We were drafting sheep
and the boss was giving instructions what
to do with the ewes and weaners. “After
the third permutation,” he began, then
saw everybody gazing blankly upon him,
laughed slightly and went on —“after the
next run through the wether weaners
can be headed for the lane and let drift
up there till after dinner. Then we’ll
bring ’em back and box ’em in with the
ewes.” Work went on. I knew Mat
wouldn’t let that word go and wasn’t
surprised when we hit the town on the
following Saturday to see him make for
the library. That night the usual belliger-
ent local picked on Mat, danced round
him a moment or two, and then suffered
the common fate of his kind when they
fastened a quarrel on the big fellow.
Through the crowd pushed the Law, who
surveyed the fallen and then looked at
Mat. “What’s this? What’s this?” he
demanded. “Aw, nothin’,” Mat re-
sponded. “That bloke had a crack at me
but when he made the third permutation
of his feet I bowled him.” The Law
dragged the bully to his feet, and, giving
him a shove, growled “Go on, clear
out, you! You’ve been permutating
these parts too long!” It did happen, I
tell you. In Hare-street, Echuca, back in
1930.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: “Horseless Horseman” (B.
5/3/’47) needn’t wait for sunset to
stickybeak on platypuses. In well-shaded,
high-banked streams they often feed
"I must see that bird's pedigree before I admit his evidence
during the daytime, though they avoid
any sunlit patch of water and dive in-
stantaneously out of sight at the faintest
suspicious sound. As they have no ex-
ternal ears their internal hearing
mechanism must be remarkably efficient,
Viewed from above when swimming just
beneath the surface they have a curiously
reptilian appearance much resembling an
enlarged water tortoise. In addition to
the eastern-mainland waters mentioned
by “H.H.” they are plentiful in Xas-
mania, but apparently do not occur in
Westralia. Why? There must have been
plenty of freshwater lines of communica-
tion when they first evolved in Mesozoic
days. *
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In my paddock, up
where the big red-gum is flowering, I
have one of the most- efficient water-
lifting devices in existence. This pump
derives its motive power from purely
natural agencies, can deliver water in a
vertical lift to a height of over 300 ft.,
and will operate continuously for at least
100 years to come. It is sufficiently sen-
sitive to be affected by a change in
atmospheric pressure, but sturdy enough
to withstand the onslaught of wind, rain,
heat and whatever other natural phe-
nomena a machine operating without
cover may be expected to encounter.
Withal it is primitive. Its operation
assisted our remote ancestors to gain food
and shelter, and it will exist until the
last blade of grass withers, on this worn-
out planet. It comes in all sizes, from
miniatures with a lift of inches, through
all stages to the giant in my paddock,
and appears to work as efficiently in all
sizes. Its power and economy are the
despair of engineers who still hope, some
day, to produce a machine comparable
with that which has operated continuously
ever since Nature first invented, patented
and incorporated in all plants the force
which modern science enviously knows
as osmosis/
* » * *
“Old Pot”: One point missed by
“Tummas McNark” (B. 5 / 3 / ’47) concern-
ing the prawn-fishers at Tuggerah
(N.S.W.) was that the photo, showed the
holidayers tipping the just-caught haul
into a boiling pot. Prawns should never
be cooked like that; they should first
be dipped in cold water for a while to
shift the dirt and help them spit up
rubbish.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Backing experience
gained in the field against that derived
from a study of newspapers, I accepted
“C. D. Mine’s” suggestion (B. 19/2/’47)
that I engage a diviner and cut the stick
near the fork so that the cut will be
the weakest point. “If the thing is
genuine,” he says, “the stick should bend
or break at that point. It won’t.” It
did both, proving that some presumably
underground agency exerted an attraction
on that stick. That agency may not be
water. I have not claimed that it is. All
I ask, at the moment, is an admission
from armchair critics and test-tube
scientists that the attraction really exists!
That, or silence. Now will “C. D. Mine”
lay aside his newspaper reports, venture
into some open paddock in the vicinity
of a known underground stream, and
apply his own test, nicking both arms
of the fork below the point where they
are grasped? I’ll await news of his con-
version.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Pick yourself the loneliest
hut in the loneliest corner of the lonely
north of S.A., and as soon as you take
possession you’ll have company. You’ll
become aware of being stared at by a
bright golden eye—veined topaz would
perhaps be more correct —with a black,
vertical pupil. If there are a couple of
pairs of the eyes you may hear some
comment upon yourself; a tiny cr-r-rck
—cr-r-rck—cr-r-rck like the croak of a
miniature frog The eyes belong to soft
little bodies, velvety-looking in texture,
The bodies vary in color ; one may be a
darkish brown shading to a glowing
golden-brown on the sides ; another chap
will be grey ; another a dusky purple-
grey; another almost violet, rather like
a cross between a piece of purple slate
and an amethyst. The attached feet are
curious ; the toes, as far as the tiext-to-last
joint, are flattened, looking rather like
little leaves. The outermost joint emerges
not from the end but from the top of
the rest of the toe, looking like a little
curved claw. The innermost toe, how-
ever, lacks this queer joint. The beastie
has a rather independent tail, slippery
cunning and, if you do succeed in grab-
bing him, a protesting squeak. His
missus lays roundish, white, hard-shelled
eggs from which, in February or March,
emerge most perfect and active replicas
“The bath's fixed. Missus.”
of Mum and Dad. In your lonely hut
you’ll find the whole family good com-
pany and perfect fly traps. You can give
them any name you like from drop-tail
lizard to Peropus variegatus, but you’ll
find ’em good fun about the camp.
* * * *
“Greenhide Bob”: Ninepenny Clark,
Camooweal Starr and a few others
of the old Queensland droving days would
have thought they were seeing things if
they had caught a glimpse of the “drov-
ing” that goes on from the Tamworth
(N.S.W.) district. Huge trailer trucks,
the biggest the size of a tram, back into
a platform, fill themselves with sheep,
three stories high, and dart over long, dry
stages in half a day where it used to take
us three and four days to cross in a spell
of drought, sometimes delivering as many
scalps as sheep at the end of the trip.
A rough estimate is that a couple of
thousand woollies can be shifted in one
day across a dry three- or four-day stage,
with one man, no dogs, no horses, no
cook, horsetailer or bad language from
the man on the trail, and a correct tally,
with no scalps, at the end of the journey.
Also there are no night camps, no brakes
to build, no boots to make for the dogs
in bindi-eye country, no v boxing with the
sheep on the runs passing through, no
danger from poison weed, and no chance
for a Will Ogilvie or a Banjo Paterson
to weave a romance about the joys of
droving. These trucks have removable
tops so that they can be made to carry
poultry in pens, horses in stalls or ordi-
nary freight at will.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”; When the American
Captain Voss was making his lone trip
round the world in his tiny Tillicum he
tied up in Sydney Harbor near the latest
mission ship, the beautiful Southern
Cross. The Bishop of Melanesia and the
ship’s officers visited the Tillicum, and
were interested in Voss’s navigation by
means of a cheap boat-compass, a sextant
and a two-dollar watch. “You must have
sublime faith in Providence,” remarked
the bishop. Voss returned the visit and
was shown over the chartroom of the
Southern Cross, fitted out with every
known aid to navigation. Turning to the
bishop with a twinkle in his eye, he
drawled “I guess you guys haven’t got
much faith.in Providence.”
* « * *
“Sur Cingle”: I was shifting a pile of
stones the other day when a snakeling
dived under some of the remaining gib-
bers. In some trepidation (for that stone
heap also housed a nest of soldier ants) I
heaved away the rocks until I’d isolated
his snakeship under a last piece of slate.
He wanted to make a break for it but
wasn’t game; on account of the ants my
movements were frequent and übiquitous.
A few inches of him would dart out, first
on one side then on another of the stone.
He was about the most colorful ophidian
I’ve ever seen. His body was a pale
yellow-brown, very clean and vital; his
head was the chromatic exhibit. He had
large and brilliant black eyes, a shining
black nose, ivory - white “cheeks,” a
polished black band across the top of
his head, an area of glowing orange be-
hind that, another jet band across the
nape of his neck, and a U-shaped black
line behind that. I assimilated the colors
gradually because the splendid little head,
with its flickering black tongue, was in
almost incessant motion. Rather reluct-
antly I killed the little blighter and put
him in a handy tin. Less than an hour
latfcr I checked up on the scale patterns of
that foot-long wriggler for identification
purposes. By then he was just an ordinary
young brown snake, his body pale
brown with a little dull-green in it. The
head markings were an unexciting dark-
brown with the merest hint of orange at
the rear. If there’s a herpetologist on the
Council would he tell us whether a
snake’s decorations increase in brilliancy
under stimulating conditions —or was the
brilliance subjective?
* * * *
“Puyyaka”': A westward raft - drift
voyage from Peru, now being organized
by a party of Norwegian scientists, may
yield interesting results concerning the
prehistoric peopling of the South Pacific
islands. The generally accepted hypo-
thesis is that this came about through
eastward migration from Asia, but there
are cogent reasons for doubting its cor-
rectness. The two races, Polynesian and
Negrito, which prevail throughout the
South Pacific, are more closely allied to
existing South American races than to
any of Asian habitat, as are their cus-
toms and handicrafts. Geologists have
advanced good reasons for the existence
of extensive island groups in the eastern
Pacific within comparatively recent times*
and their plentiful habitation by man is
borne out by the giant statues and other
ancient works on Easter Island, far too
extensive to have been carried out by any
small population. Another argument in
favor of westward migration is provided
by the coconut, originally a native of
western central America, but from pre-
historic times transplanted by sea-drift
or otherwise to innumerable Pacific
islands. The number and variety of uses
to which, it is put increase in steady ratio
from east to west.
* * * #
“Plum”: When Choom forgot to per-
form his nightly chore of tying up lube,
the all-purpose hound, Harry and I took
the opportunity to dilate upon the in-
trinsic value of the tyke and the several
kinds of disaster that would fall on
Choom if anything should happen to him.
“Eh, lube can look arter hisself” was
Choom’s repeated opinion, but his tone
held less and less conviction as we re-
called the behavior of rabbits after dark
—how they mysteriously acquired bold-
ness and ferocity and ganged up to
attack dogs, even men, pulled them down
and inflicted ghastly wounds with their
sharp incisors. Came the moment of
decision, and we set out in search of the
errant lube with our jaws firmly set,
Choom’s in iron determination and ours
for a somewhat different reason. We
took the upper paddocks, the post of
danger, leaving him to scour the flats.
After 10 minutes of silent communion
with the stars we went calling anxiously
for Choom, located him with fervent cries
of relief and abused him for his foolhardi-
ness in going off alone when there were
rabbits about. “Ah’m all reet, lad, Ah’ve
got this,” he reassured us, waving a stout
cudgel. The following afternoon he dis-
appeared over the hill with a gun, re-
turning with half-a-dozen shattered
bunnies. Once again we abused him, this
time for shooting rabbits in the close
season. “Dunno what you’ll do when
the game inspector hears of this,” said
Harry. Choom’s broad grin was a bit
disconcerting. “Ah, well, ’appen Ah can
say it was self-defence?” he suggested.
BARTY’S BUS.
Though sometimes by a flood delayed
Or by a forest fire,
Tom Barton’s horses made the grade;
For spoke and hub and tyre
And rusty hames and harness frayed
Held through the dust or mire.
Tom had to meet insistent Change
Or ttirn it in; and thus
Appeared that institution strange,
Unique and ominous.
That terror of the bend and range
Far known as “Barty's Bus.”
Tom Barton’s hands so used to reins
Had been in coaching years,
A driving wheel confused his brains
And filled his heart with fears;
He quaked at all that appertains
To timely change of gears.
As “Henry’s” moods, by troubled course
Of use, he got to know,
He’d coax the engine like a horse
To make it start and go:
“Come back!” he’d mutter in reverse;
At stopping, “Steady! Whoa!”
And when his ancient model slowed
At hairpin bend or rise
He’d keep the middle of the road
And watch with anxious eyes
Lest any tourist incommode
His upward enterprise.
They took his dust. His number-plate
Was pressed by bumper bars;
At night—a warning eye of Fate—■
His tail-light told ail cars
“Don’t try to pass before the straight
A safer chance unbars!”
While from its loud exhaust a strong
Black smoke-cloud fouled the day—
Adown the highway, claiming long
His old Ford’s right-of-way—
He brought our bread and beef along
And took our mails away.
His face was stern and dignified,
He’d never brawl or fuss,
And to the very end he tried
To keep good faith with us.
We missed the coming—when he died —
Of Barty and his Bus.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRNDY.


See
RUCIDE
at the
ROYAL
SHOW
•
Stand No. 30
HORDERN PAVILION
K So
I
it3(l
4
m
OSI
7
19 im
m
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
T, R ™.d, bone flour
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.3 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
The spraying material unequalled for its
efficiency and longer-lasting protection!
Free from all solvents as used in emulsion bases, and therefore, harmless to foliage,
RUCIDE is literally a revolutionary new spray, making it easy, safe and economical to
apply the unsurpassed pest-killing efficiency of DDT wherever it is needed. Rucide
gives ultra-fine dispersion, maximum coverage and complete wetting. Rucide, once
applied, won’t wash off or blow away. . . .longer protection is ensured. Visit the
Rucide Stand and see what advantage Rucide offers you.
In Dairies, Stables and the Home, on Vegetables, Fruit Trees and Plants,
or as a Cattle or Sheep Dip, use Rucide and enjoy freedom from pests.
T Eaiusaaa
50% P P'ISO MER DDT
OBTAINABLE FROM STOREKEEPERS AND PASTORAL SUPPLIERS
TAUBMANS LIMITED. Chemical Products, St. Peters. N.S.W.
Vi
!\
\
\
\
FOR YOUR THIRSTY UNO
Just imagine! Precious water when
you want it! See the patented MAXIMUM
spray irrigation system which is extremely adapt-
able and built to fit your particular needs.
“\\\\\ ' \ T"\ v
"MAXIMUM" PORTABLE PIPING BEATS THE SUN
i 1 ... J _U „
Because of the ease and speed with which it can be fitted up and moved the
“MAXIMUM” system gives you extremely good coverage. Cost per acre
some purchasers say they have recovered their full outlay in one season.
FAMOUS FLEXIBLE COUPLING
Provides continuous spraying and changing of pipe positions
without stopping pump or motor. The “MAXIMUM” Coupling
can be coupled by a simple movement to any inclination up
to 15 degrees in any direction and remain watertight. IV rite
or enquire now I
Agents: Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence St.
Sydney; M 2977. Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124
Melbourne St., South Brisbane ; J 1456. Paseoe & Co., Ltd.,
282 Port Rd., Woodville, South Australia; M 7127. Welling
& Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon St., South Mel-
bourne ; MX 4889.
SSf MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
SYDNEY. MA 7858.
Vv i [/// -.viiiMl
m
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY. I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Copper Deficiency.
“Artunga”: The feeding of varying
amounts of copper as a supplementary
ration to high-producing merino sheep
on copper-deficient pastures at Robe
(S.A.) is yielding fresh results. In a
C.S.I.R. experiment, eight groups each
of 10 sheep were fed supplements con-
taining 0,1, 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 20
milligrams of copper per day, and all
were run together on a known copper-
deficient area.
The group fed 7.5 mg. showed the best
increase in wool production, those fed
larger amounts failing to show any
appreciable increase for the extra copper.
The average cut for the year from sheep
not receiving copper was 4.31 b. of scoured
wool, while those fed the supplement of
7.5 mg. copper cut 61b. per head. Ap-
praisal price of wool from treated sheep
was per pound higher, resulting in
a gross- return of Bs. lOd. and 13s. sd,
per head from the two groups.
The investigators have found that
although sufficient copper may be present
for normal development of the sheep, a
greater amount is necessary for the best
results in wool production. In future
experiments these sheep will be mated to
test the various levels of copper defi-
ciency on reproduction.
$
Drought-feeding Cows.
“K.W.R.”: Experts insist that corn or
sorghum silage alone is merely a main-
tenance food, not a milk producer. But
small additional ration of lucerne-
hay or other protein-rich concentrate,
silage reaches its true value, and can
form a substantial part of the drought
ration. On medium quality pastures of
the Darling Downs (Q.) a fair amount
of summer fodder crop is normally re-
served for winter grazing, and in addition
some feeding of winter green crops and
concentrates is practised. Although hay
and silage cannot be responsible for the
whole of increased production, it has
been ascertained that, taken over a full
lactation period, handfed cows do better
than cows with grazing only.
In the Pittsworth district herds of 25
to 50 cows fed during dry winter months
with sorghum silage, with lucerne hay or
cereal hay as a base, produced a 1946
butterfat average of about Those
not handfed, but which had some grazing
on standover crops, average only 1701 b.
Apart from maintaining production at
high level during dry months when dis-
trict average was well down, these cows
entered the summer in better condition
than those of neighboring herds.
In the Warwick district, two herds
handled mainly with lucerne hay pro-
duced milk equivalent to nearly 3001 b.
butterfat per cow, while an adjacent herd
averaged only 1451 b. per cow without
hand-feeding. It was significant that the
handled cows produced almost twice
as much butterfat as the others, and in
dry months almost four times as much.
On the Atherton Tablelands (N.Q.), a
mass survey of 50 farms was taken for
the driest six months of two successive
years. Of these farms 25 had silos and
25 did not, and they represented average
conserving and non-conserving farms.
Production increases on the 25 conserv-
ing farms, scattered over the Tableland,
ranged from 15 to 25 per cent., and, with
the usual pasturage available, production
over a drought period would have main-
tained a satisfactory level.
Lower butterfat content and weed-
tainted cream are often directly attribut-
able to faulty or inadequate feeding,
while a large herd of poorly-fed cows
can be reduced to a smaller here! with
higher production, if the best producers
are well-fed. Silo reserves will increase
winter and spring production and main-
tain stock condition.
Feeding off Sub.-Clover.
“Curlew”: Grazing sub.-clover until
about 10 weeks short of harvest is the
common practice in central Vic. A con-
siderable amount of feed is produced
during that time. The actual harvesting
costs nothing, and the manurq deposits
most of the clover seed back on the land
again, points that must be clearly borne
in mind. The fodder consumed has a
certain value, due to the quantity per
acre, and the use made of it. Dairy-
stock will probably prove the most profit-
able users. But that necessitates labor
and with 40-hour weeks and two or three
weeks’ holidays, to say nothing of in-
creased wages—it is hardly a proposition.
What other use can we make of the
clover? If we are to fatten sheep it would
be advisable to have the clover in, say,
four paddocks. Three could be spelling
and shifts made according to the number
per acre, always remembering not to
keep them too long in one paddock. It
it better to have short spells so that a
paddock is not grazed too bare, or carry-
ing too much pollution from the stock.
Buy the sheep about the middle of May—
the time depends partly on the season.
partly on the growth available, always
keeping the number of sheep in reason so
that they may be prime at sale-time,
probably some time between mid August
and mid September.
Sheep fatten quicker than cattle, and
their droppings are distributed better than
those of cattle and incorporate with the
soil much better. In our district, last
autumn was ideal for clover. Good
rains gave a fine growth, quite as good
as in spring. On an eight-acre paddock
early in April I turned four dairy cows,
also two springers, two year bullocks,
five young cattle, a 2j year steer,
largely Jersey bred. Early September I
got over £l5 apiece for the bullocks —•
heavyweights, Angus - Shorthorn, same
sale, struggled to reach £lB. Don’t forget
young cattle on the same feed will im-
prove in value better than heavyweights,
particularly as the warmer weather comes
in.
The four dairy cows were very prime.
One, about 15 years old, went out to
milk fever. The fat on her hips (pure
Jersey) was in great lumps. The other
cattle were all good. A miserable
“Quick, Joe! Don't move!”
runtv Jersey steer 2* vears old I killed
He must have been about 4001 b.-his
kidneys, with their accompanying suet,
weighed 301 b. Those who sampled
the meat agreed it was the choicest they’d
ever had.
N.Q. Pastures.
“Alpha”: Nothing would so contribute
to the future of cattle and sheep in N.Q.
as the widespread sowing of Stylosanthes
sundiaco, better known as “Townsville
lucerne.” Its worth justifies much more
vigorous steps being taken to propagate
it.
About 20 years ago a police patrol
from Coen, on the Peninsula, was out
after blacks for cattle-spearing and
visited Aurukun Mission, near the mouth
of the Archer River. It was in the dry
time before the storm rains and feed
was scarce. The police therefore packed
horsefeed with them, and in it was seed
of “Townsville lucerne,” which the
horses spread in the manure about the
paddocks adjacent to the mission home-
stead. It soon spread, and in a few years
proved too strong for the native grasses.
It has been a blessing in providing feed
all the year round for the milkers and
working horses. It dries off after the
rainy season, but unlike most Gulf grasses
retains its nutritive qualities.
The west half of Cape York Peninsula
and the Gulf cattle-country has to en-
dure a long dry period between the
breaking of the wet season at the end
of March and the storm rains in Novem-
ber. The burnt grass, so called because it
shoots up after the coarse and rank grass
is burnt off in May and June, carries
stock for two or three months, but
there is need of a dry stock food
to help them retain condition till
storm rains bring new feed on.
Stock generally lose condition
heavily in the three months before
the storms and ticks play havoc
with them. Stylo would help to
see cattle through this period.
New Victorian Oat.
“Mr.”: It is Orient, which stems
from a cross between Palestine and
Dawn, is early-maturing, short-
strawed and particularly suitable
for grazing by sheep in winter and
capable of producing a good yield
of grain after the sheep have been
taken off. Although not regarded as
a hay variety, it will produce good
hay with a high percentage of grsfin
to straw under favorable condi-
tions.
An outstanding characteristic is
its high grain yield after winter
grazing. Victorian Agricultural De-
partment regards it as a useful
variety for the Mallee where, be-
cause of the short season, early-
maturers are more reliable than
later types. In tests at Walpeup on
stubble ground over the past 11 years
(which includes three severe droughts)
Orient yielded 16.2 bus./ac. aver-
age compared with Dawn 13.8, Mulga
14.2 and Algerian 13.1. Where the
crop was grazed and allowed to re-
cover and mature grain the average
results for 11 years were Orient 10.3
bus./ac., Algerian 8.5, Dawn 8.2 and
Mulga 7.4,


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W- SEED CO., pox 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
11 your
dog's coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out ol
sorts—-he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course i .
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant
intr is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BABKO lod,™ “s^, on rowI>EK9 v,
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/C
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO lodine J
BARKO
Q,
■
GuKW*^.,
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
gg
Seen IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
, *» ijhe PAST 19 TEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
° REQUIRE EMPTYING.
• WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
"“-30 Bridge St., Sydr»«v.
Est. 1937.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Bnsba.ne.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western AusUalia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
Where does
VALUE BEGIN f
• Ronaldson-Tippett Value has its beginning on
the drafting board and the blue-print is the birth-
place of Quality. Here, for the guidance of tradesmen
who follow, the ideas and ideals of manufacture are
set down in plan and specification. Rigid standards
in material and manufacturing method lay the foun-
dation for the lifetime service which you may expect
of equipment bearing the Ronaldson-Tippett name.
The Ronaldson-Tippett tradition is one of Quality
founded upon the finest materials and the highest
degree of accuracy.
Because of this Quality, Ronaldson-Tippett equip-
ment is -the least costly in the end.
Your enquiry is welcomed!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office; BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors:
Ronaldson Bros. and
Tippett Pty., Ltd., Fraser
House, 42 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY. Queensland
Distributors: Ronaldson
Tippett (Qld.) Pty., Ltd.,
Pai bury House, 127 Eagle
Street, BRISBANE.
mr.
1
m
■’ s i
V'
BDMHLDSOM-TIPPETT
TEAM UP WTKJ * o«
have to sell*
for a Service
whatever you
want to buy. A.M.L.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND, I 563)
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACCA, MOREE. HENTY AND HAY
H
s
s
m
MM*
keep
insects
OUTmtk fiwmi
Flies and mosquitos spread the germs of dreaded
summer diseases and epidemics. Doctors and
public health authorities are continually stressing
the importance of protecting food against flies.
The only safe and adequate protection is flywire
on your doors, windows and fireplaces. Keep flies,
mosquitos and other insects OUTSIDE, and food
is safe at all times. Flywire protects the health of
your household and it’s the most economical way
of doing so.
Flywire is still in short supply—but large
quantities are being made—so keep asking!
Cyclone FLYWIRE
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH.
FW3/16
Farmers’ Schools.
“J. Lynch”: The Farmers’ School at
Port Lincoln (Eyre Peninsula) this month
was the second for S.A., the first being at
Jamestown late last year. S.A. Agricul-
tural Department is breaking new ground,
and the attendance of young and old
farmers from the 16,000,000 acres on Eyre
Peninsula represented almost the whole of
the various agricultural bureaux on the
west coast.
There were morning and afternoon
sessions three days on production of
fat lambs, diseases of farm livestock,
weeds, wind and rain erosion, water sup-
plies, fertilisers and their uses, poultry-
keeping, aspects of dairying and mixed
farms, pig production and branding of
livestock.
A bound copy of all the lectures was
issued to each “pupil” to take back to his
local bureau for discussion. Three more
schools are to be held.
Erosion Checks.
“Bill C.”: Bottlebrush and sheoak-
trees are about the best erosion-checkers
for creek-banks on the N.Q. coast.
They’re established along most per-
manent watercourses, but it would pay
farmers to plant out small specimens to
fill up the dangerous gaps between groves
of these trees. Sheoak seedlings are
usually to be found in scores in the
sandy beds of dried-up gullies; their
removal in moderation from such places
is all to the good. The place for shrubs
and trees is along the banks, not in the
beds of streams. Thanks to sheoak and
bottlebrush-trees, associated with Para
and Guinea grasses, the banks of a large
creek in this C.Q. district suffered little
damage during two phenomenal floods
in 1940. One flood followed a fall of
27in. of rain, 15in. of which fell in
three hours, the other came after 19in.
had fallen in 10 hours.
In both cases the flood waters poured
over the banks, but little scouring and
undermining of the verges took place.
Erosion control was most satisfactory
where the trees were thickest and where
they were naturally crowding and stunting
one another. Therefore, I believe that
close planting, which would keep them
down to large shrub size, would be pre-
ferable to wide spacing, which would
allow them to achieve true height. It’s
the mass of interlacing roots from
crowded shrubs that is so important in
preventing erosion.
Hints for the Farm.
“Johnny”: When counting sheep
count only the heads and not the whole
body; heads are more easily distin-
guished. Counting in twos is quite all
right; but marking off threes and count- v
ing them as one makes the job easier and
faster. When 33 sets of three have been
counted let one more sheep through and
call the hundred. The odd number at
the end of the count can easily be ascer-
tained by a little mental calculation.
“K.W.R.”: Graziers now arranging
ram requirements for the forthcoming
mating should not forget to see that the
mouth is neither undershot nor overshot.
This vital defect is transmittable to
progeny, and some time ago a Queens-
land expert reported that during inspec-
tion he had seen hundreds of lambs from
a day old and upwards showing this
defect. Unless the sheep has an even
bite reject it.
“West”: When working sheep, don’t
make the mistake of shouting and gener-
ally making a din in an effort to force
them through the yards. This only tends
to balk the sheep and makes the job
much harder —both on man and on
animal. Try working them with a mini-
mum of sound. When putting a mob
through a gateway bunch the sheep up
and ring them round towards the open-
ing. "A well-trained yard-dog with a
moderate amount of “tongue” is invalu-
able. The yapping of a dog does not
have the same balking effect on sheep as
does the voice of man.
“Richie”: Pigs can be helped to over-
come indigestion by feeding easily-
digested material and grinding the less-
digestible foods; giving them sufficient
feeding room and arranging some open
grazing where they may feed at their
leisure; introducing a daily ration of
fresh green lucerne and boiled wheat
which will balance the diet and aid diges-
tion. Coarse charcoal or coke placed in
a clean part of the sty offers a cheap
digestive aid which can be chewed and
eaten by the pigs as they feel inclined.
“Mr.”: For red spider spray with a
lime-sulphur solution diluted at the rate
of eight fluid ounces to five gallons
water ; or dust with mixture consisting of
equal parts by weight of fine sulphur and
hydrated lime. A second application
after a week is advisable.
“Bumble”: Hedges are invaluable for
fixed apiary sites or winter quarters for
migratory colonies, and they should be
planted where they will protect from cold
winds. Woodbine, lucerne-tree or other
good forage plants should be chosen, and
it’s best not to aim too high for the
easy collection of swarms. Ideal site for
a garden apiary of several hives is be-
tween the rows of deciduous fruit-trees,
which partly shade the hives during sum-
mer, and a hedge flanking the south will
cut off the chilly winds.
“Bai”: Stringless beans are replacing
the stringed varieties. The crop is heavier
and the beans more acceptable in the
kitchen and more popular on the market.
Gypsum is a suitable fertiliser, about half
ton to the square chain being the right
quantity.
“Plane Creek”: The newly-introduced
Gambia pea, or crotalaria, is a very
heavy-yielding green-manure crop, and
has the ability to resist dry conditions. In
tests by Queensland sugar authorities it
has been found to grow to a height of
7ft. and to give a ground cover for five
or six months. It is possible to get two
or three ratoon crops of the plant for
ploughing-under in a season by mowing it
when it is nearing maturity, whereupon it
will grow up again. Unlike cowpeas, it
is unsuitable for feeding* to dairy cattle.
“Myrrhee”: For snails and slugs use
one of these mixtures: Calcium arsenate,
loz.; bran, lib. (approximately nine
breakfast cups); water, 1 pint. Mix
poison and bran together thoroughly;
then make a mash with the water. Scatter
bait lightly on the soil along rows of
plants where attack is expected. A second
bait known as the 2 p.c. metaldehyde
mixture is made by using metaldehyde
(finely powdered), |lb.; bran, 11b. ; water,
1 pint; loz. calcium arsenate added will
increase its killing efficiency.
“Milton”: When turps aie prescribed
for certain internal troubles in the horse,
make sure to use vegetable —not mineral
—turpentine. All veterinary advice
should specify vegetable turpentine for
use internally; mineral turps can kill a
horse,


dojuttQ o sjoam
MOAWfg passa*(g~flajyi s t Anpo&
BSw < Jf :
m
m
iiiiili
■
I m i i
■sr*' *
■.
mm
JP -
l|&u. ■'
zZ
mm
~ ■,
■
:;!|:Y; : :^:Y:
9$ 'i
, , ... .A - •-<>■-■ -- '
,
■M
■y y
-mrnm
<
is
J I
: ;■- : ■ : ■' ■' ■
.
p
m
m
:
v
g;SSS
.A
* , ->
• : ' : : sis.: S
W>>:
i a
'* ' ;
X v''
- ■ > i
SSiSSiSivxSSS
Hi
¥
\ .■ x >
■ - - ••-,.> ..• *
lill lii li
:... - :• ""' s
liliiii
■ X i ii isfcj
5 ' ' g&gHi; |§
■
" ..
>•• V.
*1
■' •./.•vY ¥%
mm. • -•'■• m
People who picture diving as a romantic
occupation are usually not divers!
To the diver the job is both hard and
hazardous—and more particularly is
this true in wartime. And, next to
his mate “topsides” on the tender, the
diver’s life as well as the facility with
which he can carry out his job, depends
on the efficiency of his diving suit.
Dunlop technicians were fully aware
of these facts when, in 1939, they
were requested by the Australian Navy
to produce a new and special type of
diving suit similar to that illustrated
above. Said the Navy, in effect;
“This suit has to be tough because we
want it for specially tough and unusual
work. Here are the problems you
have to overcome . .
The suits when finally completed and
tested under actual working conditions
met with the unqualified approval of
the Navy divers and the Naval
authorities. Today, Dunlop diving
suits of this and other special types
are now first choice with Australian
Maritime Boards, Harbour Trust Auth-
orities and Pearling Companies.
The development of these new-type
Diving Suits is typical of Dunlop
development in every sphere of rubber
manufacture particularly in the
sphere concerned with the manufacture
of special protective clothing for all
kinds of industrial work. If you have
such a problem —or any problem for
which rubber in one of its many forms
may be the answer—please don’t
hesitate to write to the Dunlop Branch
in your own State.
DUNLOP fits
m.
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
quite a large tax asked Johnny. And
Johnny explained.
“I’m a balneologist, a bath-water man,”
said the little chap. “You go home and
send me some bottles filled with that
spring water and some of that mud too.
Beer bottles would be the thing,” he said
briskly.
And that’s what Johnny did, all this
time keeping the track blocked so that
Tu wouldn’t profit from cars using it.
Tu said he’d soon blast the boulders to
hell with a stick of gelly.
D UT before he worked up enough
energy to do that the balneologist
himself visited Johnny at Whitewater
Valley. He had discovered most valuable
curative properties in the spring water,
and he maintained that the mud would
surprise everyone some day with its re-
markable medicinal effects.
“My department is most interested,” he
said. “We want to expand all our re-
sources. Yes,” he said, “we would like to
develop this place.”
And after he went back to Rotorua
with his reports it turned out that all the
other departments that Johnny had tried
in vain to interest now wanted to develop
Whitewater Valley too. They bought the
site of the “scenic wonders” and declared
it a national reserve, they took from Tu
what land they needed for a “scenic high-
way”—of course they paid compensation
that was soon all spent by Tu’s wife’s
family.
Then they rigged Johnny out in a white
jacket with brass buttons and gave him a
peaked cap with Official Caretaker
stamped on its metal badge.
“Sign here,” they said, and the agree-
ment promised Johnny a weekly wage
that made his eyes roll. “Remember, we
expect strict attention to duties,” they
warned him. “Tidiness everywhere in the
reserve, cleanliness in the bathing
facilities, civility to all visitors, clearly-
kept receipts for all monies—and no
lips.”
“And no tips,” Johnny repeated
mechanically as he awkwardly penned his
name.
In no time almost they ran up a bath-
house, a tea-house, a curio-house, and
one of their ingenious engineers arranged
a system of pipes that led steam from
somewhere down below to the vent of the
boiling pool so that Johnny could make
the geyser play any time he wanted to
simply by turning a tap behind the door
of the curio-house —great shoots of steam-
ing water that everyone reckoned must
be at least a hundred feet high.
Then, by introducing small quantities
of various oxides into the spring water,
the departmental chemists gradually
tinted parts of the white silica formation
red and blue,
“By golly! The red, white and blue
terrace, eh?” said Johnny admiringly.
But Johnny’s quiet, easygoing days are
gone for ever.
NOW Tu slouches in his rocking-chair
on the verandah and watches the
daily procession go by. First comes the
early-morning southbound Road Flier
packed with tourists, at least half a dozen
American millionaries among them, Tu
reckons. Then come the mid-morning
sightseeing buses, packed again. The
afternoon round-trip bus passes about
three o’clock blowing its double silver
horns, followed by the Special convey-
ing wealthy invalids to the new spring
for hot-water therapeutics.
All day long the cars of individual
sightseers whizz along the new scenic
highway. And finally, in the cool of the
evening, Tu sees Johnny buzzing off in
his V 8 on the way to Rotorua for a bit
of a spree.
“Pah!” Tu exclaims to his wife. “Look
at that monkey there on his hurdy-gurdy!
Just a silly little pothqad, a doormat for
those damn’ tourists! Thank God Fm a
free man!” Tu shouts furiously.
But Tu’s opinions of him doesn’t seem
to affect Johnny’s enjoyment. Although
after he’s had a glass or two at his favor-
ite pub in Rotorua he sometimes wist-
fully thinks of that mighty daily stream
of tourists passing through Whitewater
Valley, and at such times he mutters to
himself “But, by golly, if only 1 collect
all the half-a-crown from all these big
tourist then all the bloody hard work
might be worth while!”


LT?
wm
mm
m
m
m
SSBW
1
j-Vx
m
sm
m
illiii
4
yp.'i
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
A
W
IEA &
PERRINS
% ECONOWV SAt/Cf
SOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With Bestl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Modem hairdressers have evolved some
startling styles.”— “New Idea.’''
And given us some dreadful frights.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It’s feathers for you, if you are to be chic
this season.” — Fashion note.
A little down and so much a week.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many women are shy when it comes to dis-
cussing beauty problems.”— Woman’s mag.
Preferring to face ready-made solu-
tions.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wife says husband talked to spirits around
home.” — “Sun.”
“A girl who was molested by a man hit him
on the head with a bottle of cordial.” — “Sun.”
She found him an easy nut to crack.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Next Sunday you will hear Galli-Curci sing
‘Soviet’s Song’ from Peer Gynt.”
—“Daily Mirror
The soprano will take several iron
curtain calls.
•J*
“For sale, Indian young roosters, good train.”
—Suburban paper.
They should be first-class fare.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted dog for boy; must be male.”
—Suburban paper.
Who’ll exchange?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man told me that the worst part of being
deaf was that be couldn’t hear invitations to
come along to the bar.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
“Girl Buyer from China in Sydney.”
—“Daily Mirror.
Fathers with saleable daughters, now s
your chance!
4“ 4* 4-
“New kitchen canisters are made of trans-
parent plastic.”— Science mag.
Housewives can tell at a glance how
much sugar is in the sago-tin.
“Do you know where radio script-writers get
their gags?” —Radio guff.
From dentists’ waiting-rooms.
4* 4* 4« 4*
A compere is a man who puts every-
one at his ease except the radio audience
and the contestants.
'There! You gain half an inch in height—a thing impossible if you Wore
one your own size!”
Whistle While You Work.
“Under a new U.S. legal ruling you can
whistle while you work, but not a ‘wolf’ whistle
—that takes a girl’s mind off what she is doing
and makes her want to do something else.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
The risk is nil that you will irk a
Conscientious modern wench
With any polka or mazurka
Whistled at your lathe or bench.
Moreover, "music” from the jungle —
Boogie-woogie stuff or swing —
Won’t make the operative bungle
The task in hand; she’ll merely sing.
But please beware of imitating
Wolf-calls, or you may earn the sack,
For girls, no longer concentrating,
May soon start going to the pack.
D. H. E.
I used to know a cove like that.
The spirits hid beneath his hat.
Until, that is, his thirsty throttle
Removed the spirits from their bottle.
YAIR.
That he is sad who cannot hear
Plain speech no one can doubt;
But worse the plight of him, I fear.
Who misses every shout.
BERT.
Culture.
The Director of Nationalised Opera
sighed in a long-suffering way and put
down the plans of scenes he had been
poring over as the door of his sanctum
was unceremoniously kicked open and
the latest addition to his staff waddled
in, an expensive cigar stuck at an aggres-
sive angle from the corner of his mouth.
The well-nourished newcomer was Tim
Mulcahy, sometime organiser of the
Winch-Winders and Joggle-Spreaders’
Union, and defeated “Labor” member for
Dryblower. Tim had long been regarded
in union circles as a dumbbell, whilst it
was joked in the party rooms that the
only time Tim ever opened his gob in the
Precincts was to swallow something.
A week after the Declaration of the
Polls, however, it was suddenly discovered
that Misther Mulcahy was the possessor
of Unique Intellectual Gifts, and his ap-
pointment as Special Cultural Liaison
Officer with the Nationalised Opera Com-
mission was announced. His salary was
£ s l2oo p.a., plus £3 a day general allow-
ance. plus £2 a day special living allow-
ance, plus 30s. a day entertainment allow-
ance. As well, he was entitled to a bonus,
based on a fixed percentage of the Com-
mission’s annual loss.
Defending the appointment in the
House the Prime Minister had laid great
emphasis on the wonderful advantage
which would accrue to the Commission
from the fact of the appointee’s never
having seen, or heard, or even heard of,
an opera —a point of which the Opposi-
tion had, in a spirit of filthy-minded vin-
dictiveness, made much.
The watchdog of the toiling masses’
cultural needs jerked a not-too-clean
thumb at the plans on the desk. “I ’ear
y’ puttin’ on a new op'ra —‘Forst’ or
somethin’.”
“Er —it is usually pronounced ‘Fowst.’
Yes, we propose to do Gounod’s master-
piece.”
“Goo-no? Never ’card of ’im. Dago,
I s’pose”
“No, a Frenchman.”
“Ar, wot’s the diff.? Frogs an’ Daigs,
they’re all the same —a lot of arm-wavin’
pansies. Wot’s the op’ra all about, any-
way?”
“Well,” began the Director, “Faust is
an aged philosopher and alchemist. He
is about to drain a goblet of poison to
end the misery of his loneliness and
futile life when some young peasant girls
pass his window singing happily.”
“Y’ll ’ave to cut that bit out—if them
sheilas was poor they couldn’t be ’appy.
Y’ might git over it, though, by gettin’
’em to sing somethin’ about just ’avin’
got a rise in the basic wage.”
“Quite so. Well, filled with a sudden
rage at sounds of the human happiness he
has never known, Faust invokes the aid
of Mephistopheles, the infernal king” -
“I ain’t keen on ’avin’ a king in it.
The Privileged Class ain’t ever done
nothink but’ grind the faces o’ the
workers, an’ ”
“This king is the king of the under-
world, the Devil. They agree on a pact
—the Devil will make Faust young and
handsome in return for his soul.”
“I see. That bit seems orright. Sorta
collective bargainin’, like the Trades an’
Labor Council’s always ’ammerin’ for,
tryin’ to save unionists from bein’ at the
mercy o’ the minyons o’ Capitalism on
the Arbitration Court bench.”
“Well, Mephistopheles allows Faust a
glimpse of the vision of a beautiful young
girl. Marguerite, which spurs Faust to
seal the bargain. Now a young man, he
accompanies Mephistopheles to a Fair,
where Mephistopheles magically draws
various wines from the same barrel.
The”
“We’ll ’ave to alter that scene. The
mob ’oo make plonk’ve never done any-
thing for the Party. Y’ better substichute
beer, an’ work somethin’ inter the song
about wot decent blokes the brewers are.”
“H’m. Well, Mephistopheles affronts
Marguerite’s brother Valentine, a soldier,
by proposing her health. - Valentine’s
brother-soldiers draw their swords.”
“ ’Ave y’ gotta bring five-bob-a-day
murderers into it? Cut out the soldiers
and make it a meetin’ o’ shop stewards.”
“The next act is the Garden Scene. It
is here that Faust sings his famous Cava-
tina ‘All Hail, Thou Dwelling.’ ”
“It ain’t necessary to make a song
about ’ail punchin’ ’oles in her roof, is
it? It might make the mob a bit snaky
thinkin’ about the ’ousin’ programme
bein’ ’eld up for bricks an’ tiles because
Vice-King Billy’s Turf Club snavelled
’em to build stables for their mokes.”
“Exactly. Well, while Mephistopheles
flirts with Marguerite’s duenna Martha,
Faust wanders off with his love. As night
falls Mephistopheles sings his great In-
vocation aria in which he calls on the
Powers of Darkness to bring temptation
and downfall to Marguerite. Faust re-
turns, bids farewell to Marguerite in an
exquisite duet, and is about to depart
when he is confronted by the sneering
Mephistopheles. They”
The workers’ cultural rep. here took
an angry step forward. “ ’Ere, ’alf a
mo!” he bellowed. “This Devil bloke
’ad been workin’ all day pourin’ wine at
the Fair, ’adn’t ’e? An’ ’e’s still work-
in’ at night. No mention o’ double time
or anything, so ’e must be a boss’s man.
It looks like capitalist properganda to me,
an’ this Goo-no bloke’s a Fashist. I’m
goin’ to see Eddie an’ Deddie about it.
If we can’t ’ave op’ras that stick to work-
in’-class principles we won’t ’ave none
at all, see?”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
All or Nothing
I’m* a widow with two children to
support. The Government allows me
37s. 6d. a week pension, plus 7s. 6d. child
endowment, and I am permitted to earn
just 12s. 6d. by my own efforts, making
the sum total of £2 17s. 6d. per week to
house, feed and clothe myself and two
children, and to educate them. And I
am not permitted by law to earn more.
I have no relatives from whom to
accept charity and a roof over our heads.
Therefore I must go to work and receive
no assistance from the-Government in
my battle against rapidly rising prices.
I earn the basic wage (plus 7s. 6d. en-
dowment for one child), that being calcu-
lated on the estimated .cost of living for a
single woman.
If the means test cannot be abolished,
must those of us who are prepared to
work for our fatherless children be for
ever penalised? I have no desire to sit
down and loaf while other people work
and pay taxes to keep me and my
children.
Would it not be possible for working
widows to receive endowment for their
first child, and for the pension to be
based on a sliding scale proportionate to
their earning capacity, with a maximum
of perhaps £6 a week? As it is, I must
do extra work at night to make ends
meet. It is not right that, while I have
to spend so much of my time and energy
fathering my children, I have so little in
which to mother them.
It seems a queer arrangement to me
that the Government says “Sit down and
do as little as possible and we’ll help
you, but get up and put your shoulder to
the wheel and you can push the whole
darned lot yourself.”—P. D. I. (Vic.).
Malaria
“Jock” (B. 26/2/’47) talks of malaria
dying a natural death after 18 months to
two years out of a malarial area. I
wish he were right. After nearly 20
years in the tropics one recognises malaria
when it pays a call as something more
than a mere “fever or headache.” And
I have a good many friends of the same
opinion. One man I know had his regu-
lar attacks for years when he was living
in Melbourne after a spell of service in
New Guinea.
Malaria, despite all that has been done,
is still a major problem. Without the
anopheline mosquito there would be no
malaria. In my day quinine was the
prophylactic, with plasmoquine in the
picture later. The latest drug, paludrine,
seems to be excellent both for treatment
and for prevention, and more than a
thousand synthetic compounds were tested
in the search for it. But it is still true
that neither it nor other drugs are pro-
phylactics in the sense that they actually
prevent infection. —Mai-Coolah (Tas.).
I agree with “Jock’s” comments upon
the “wog complex.” I had eight attacks
during my service, and so fearful was 1
of the fever’s effect upon my civvie life
that 1 scrounged hard and often for ate-
brin, eventually accumulating a couple
of thousand tablets against the day of
my discharge. To my surprise and grati-
fication I discovered I didn’t need them.
Yet 1 have only to wipe the sweat from
my brow, murmur against the heat or
complain of a slight headache and some-
one is sure to exclaim “Ah, malaria.”
It’s the same with a friend of mine.
Last winter he shivered at the breakfast
table. “I’m afraid Jack is in for another
dose of malaria,” said his wife to me later
that morning. It’s a complex all right;
and some ex-servicemen have looked
annoyed when I’ve said that I am appa-
rently free from the germ. Certainly
there are cases that do recur, and recur
badly, but for the most part the attacks
of which we hear are direct results of
the complex and not the “wog.”—fi. J. L.
(Q). 7
Music
When the subject of music crops up
the view generally expressed or implied
is that the sole raison d’etre of music is
to educate the listener. Hence any com-
position considered to be sub-standard
can be condemned in the strongest terms
because it doesn’t help to raise the
listener’s intellectual level.
For me the purpose of music is the
same today as when the first windy note
whistled out of the first hollow reed to
entertain the listener. Anyone who con-
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 23d. per line.
demns the many Spanier or Goodman
enthusiasts is a snob. That is amply
demonstrated by the usual reason given
—“they’re too uneducated to appreciate
anything better.”
Even if that were so, education to any
real standard is still very much a matter
of money. Those who have had least of
it work just as hard as the ’varsity
graduate, and are just as entitled to spend
their leisure hours listening to “the
Count” or “the Duke” in preference to
scholarly selections from the expensive
A.B.C. —A. J. M, (S.A.).
Tasmanian Milk Shortage
It seems incredible that Tasmania
should be suffering a milk shortage, yet
the deficiency for Hobart alone has
reached 8.00 gallons a day. s
For the principal cause turn to the
shorter working week, which is to be
shorter still. The present award for an
adult worker (leading hand) on a dairy
farm is £6 Is. a week ; the hours are eight
a day—s 6 hours. As almost any in-
dustry can offer 40 hours or less and
at least as much money for the worker,
farm labor cannot be obtained. So the
cow-cocky is selling off his precious dairy
cattle as fats. Again, prices for dairy
products are not attractive. And the
Federal Government has failed to
disgorge large sums of money owing to
the producers under the British Butter
Contract.
Many levelheaded farmers say the
damage has already been done. The eight
hours’ recreation, eight hours’ labor, eight
hours’ rest banners have all been burned.
—H. S. (Vic.).
What Would Authority Do?
Say a capitalistic monopoly were to
tie up all the arable land at the Mackay
Delta (Q.), squeeze out the small man,
ruin any opposition, stagnate about
100,000 acres of farmlands and cramp
the progress of the hinterland, what steps
would the people and those in authority
take? Suppose that the boss of those
capitalists were to decree that thousands
of acres of good fruitland were not to be
opened, that a harbor which cost nearly
a million should lie idle and that the
whole of the State should bow to him?
What would authority do?
Say that same trust of monopolists
went further and invaded the Atherton
Tableland. Imagine that the chief of that
financial octopus had his office in Cairns
—the natural and only port of the Table-
land—and that without doing a hand’s
turn he levied toll on that million-odd
acres of soil of unequalled fertility. Sup-
pose he decreed that, instead of being
developed to the full, the land should be
devoted to running a few scrag-ends of
second-class cattle and to a few timber-
getters. What would authority do ?
This isn’t any fanciful picture. I name
but two areas. To them can be added the
names of Gladstone, Bowen, Townsville
and, to a certain extent, Rockhampton.
And who is this bloated capitalist? Mr.
Wharf-lumper, take a bow! —N. Q. (Q.).
Area Schools and Education
“T.W.” (B. 5/3/’47) is confusing the
high school (which caters for older
children) and the area school. When a
small country school is closed in Tas-
mania all children of school age in that
district are taken by bus to the nearest
area or big State school. I’ve known
youngsters of five and six catching a bus
soon after 8 a.m. and returning after 5
p.m. with still a mile or more to walk
home.
In advocating decentralisation of
schools I was thinking not of the devas-
tation an atomic bomb would cause, but
of safety precautions that would have
to be taken —such as a whole population
going underground at a given warning.
In such an event the smaller the educa-
tional centre the better.
I doubt that the daily travelling in-
volved by attending a larger school will
“halt the drift to the cities.” Young
children get their first exciting taste of
travelling abroad, and the delights of
being one of a crowd, far too early. No
learning of rural pursuits is likely to
erase those first heady impressions.
Nor do I agree with “Wombat” (B.
19/2/’47) that lack of mental effort is
the weak spot in our schools—the child-
ren are whipped up to far too much of it.
The “weak spot” is the lack of teaching
in moral and spiritual principles—the
core of all real education; We haven’t
touched it. Without that the teaching of
even “blacksmithing, carpentry, plumbing
and domestic science in all its phases” is
like hanging so many gew-gaws round
our children’s necks. It’s a healthier race
spiritually that Australia needs. Jane
Edwards (Tas.).
Exports and Profits
The selfish and short-sighted demand
that the export of certain goods should be
suspended until the “needs” of Aus-
tralian consumers are fully satisfied
appears to be growing. It is, of course,
backed by the Communist press, which
sees yet another, chance to attack the
terrible crime of profit-making.
But how many people really under-
stand the profit motive? If tallow, for
“The builder thinks he might get enough for half the
house next year”
instance, sells at about £lOO a ton more
in Britain than in Australia, it is mainly
because the need of the British people
is far greater than our own —as their
meagre soap ration shows. When
goods flow to the dearest market, as under
free enterprise and free competition, ab-
normal profit is quickly extinguished. For,
with the supply increasing abroad, the
price there tends to fall, while the opposite
movement occurs at home. At the same
time, there is a further all-round fall in
the selling price, as more resources are
attracted into the industry concerned, thus
increasing production.
Nov/adays, of course, the mechanism
isn’t allowed to work. Instead of profit
destroying itself by overcoming scarcity,
“controls” maintain both the profit and
the scarcity, the benefits going to those
who are willing to use illegal channels of
marketing. The “One World” concept is
steadily gaining ground. Yet the profit
system, which magnificently implements
this principle, is increasingly scorned and
condemned.— Ellis D. (N.S.W.).
“Gadget Worship”
A study of American and American-
inspired advertising suggests that the ulti-
mate aim in life is to become a sedentary
button-pusher. Nothing, apparently, is
too much to pay for freedom from
physical exertion. It would seem that the
high price of a remote-control unit for
switching a wireless from one station to
another is well worth the convenience of
being able to change from Sinatra to
Crosby without leaving the dinner-table.
This mania for modernity in the way
of useless contrivances is becoming con-
fused with a sensible appreciation of
scientific development. A photo.-electric-
cell device for automatically opening
doors can be of valuable use in goods
yards, for instance, but in a household
garage is wholly out of proportion to
its cost.
Adding to the insult of having this
gadget worship preached at us.through
every medium of time and space advertis-
ing is the fact that most modern labor-
saving machines don’t save labor —they
create it. The motor car is a glaring ex-
ample. Before streamlining days the
petrol indicator was a simple floating cork
arrangement. It stuck sometimes but
could usually be fixed by a few pokes
with a long stick. In the latest cars the
indicator is a far more handsome-looking
thing, but, if it breaks down, it in-
variably stays that way. Repairing it
means removing the petrol tank, maybe
replacing a resistor, rewiring the circuit,
dismantling the dashboard—altogether a
big job for a skilled technician.
Hundreds of other examples, not only
in motor cars but in industry generally,
indicate the 'extent to which a veneer of
sales appeal is being used to exploit our
borrowed passion for the “new and im-
proved article.”— O’Took (N.T).
Still Interned
I am one of those Germans (B.
26/2/’47) still held behind barbed wire
who has no other desire than to be
repatriated to his own country.
“A.L.W’s.” argument that the delay in
our repatriation is due partly to the de-
struction of ships by our fellow-country-
men seems to me to have lost its validity.
The shipping short-
age certainly did not
prevent the repatria-
tion o f German
nationals from all
over the world. It
also did not prevent
the repatriation of
German p.-0.-w. and
officers from this
country. Only a
small number of in-
ternees, who had
already been en-
caged for a far
longer period than
anybody else, had
to be left behind.
We were given to
understand that we
would sail on the
Orontes and, accord-
ing 1 y, practically
dissolved our camp.
Everything that
could be sold, was
sold. We were vac-
cinated and in all
other ways pre-
pared for shipment
to Europe. Then,
at the last minute,
our repatriation was
cancelled. No in-
dications as to our
ultimate fate were
given.
In the meantime
we have been trans-
ferred to another
camp which consists
of several com-
pounds. We live in one and two
others are occupied by German
families who are also still deprived of
their freedom. We are kept here in our
compound under strictest military control
without any facilities for recreation,
sports or education. We are not even
permitted to contact our countrymen in
the other compounds during the day-
time —if we try, we are likely to be “shot
without warning.”
And all this nearly two years after
the end of the war!
This letter is not meant to be taken
as a cry for mercy, but I am wondering
about this much-talked-of “British justice
and fairness.” —W. R. (Vic.).
Fear
“Mass Psycho” (B. 5/3/’47) is wide off
the beam. “Something to scare the liver
out of us” will not produce a new and
better order. Men haunted by fear —
whether it be fear of hunger, fear of
unemployment or fear of enemies—don’t
make good citizens. Nor do they popu-
late. Nothing is more conducive to the
irresponsible philosophy of “to hell with
everything” than a perpetual sense of
fear about life.
The last depression supplies the best
answer to “Mass Psycho.” The fear that
gripped the world did incalculable harm.
We are still suffering the after-effects —
the fear of men that they will be once
again without economic security. That
they may be tossed on the scrapheap
under the indiscriminate “hire and fire”
system applauded by “Mass Psycho.”
And this fear is being capitalised by un-
scrupulous trouble-seeking union leaders.
No one disputes that lack of toil in-
evitably involves lack of progress or that
“if ye shall not labor, neither shall ye
eat.” But it is specious reasoning that
says “eliminate fear of want and you will
produce lotus-eaters. v Eliminate fear of
want and you will produce a contented
people, populous, and strong within them-
selves. — Vess (S.A.).
“Light in the Darkness”
I’d like to congratulate “Standby” on
his short story “Light in the Darkness”
(B. 19/2/’47). It’s one of the most vivid
yarns I’ve ever read—and I’ve been a
contributor to The Bulletin from the
time that C. I. Dennis first appeared in
print.
What may have something to do with
my appreciation is that at present I’m
in a hospital ward in which there
are a number of people suffering from
all degrees of eye trouble, and that 1
have experienced most of the incidents
related by “Standby.” The Sinai and
Palestine episodes were particularly
realistic, but the most vivid description
was that of the launch in a cyclone.—
R. S. G. (Q.).


The Builder
Whatever “2315” may believe (B.
26/2/’47), he is certainly wide of the
mark when he brackets the building con-
tractor with the “pug, jockey, Commo.
agitator” and others of that ilk.
The incidence of bankruptcy among
builders ' postulates that this industry
offers no short cut or easy route to
affluence. After 50 years in the building
trade I know that no other section of in-
dustry offers more essential, economical
and efficient communal service—particu-
larly during the war, when millions of
pounds’ worth of works and services were
completed on a cost -plus, fixed-fee basis
with an allowed maximum profit of 3 p.c.
—or even less. Does “2315” know of
any other business working on such a
low margin?
The successful builder is one of the
most efficient and versatile of executives.
He must have a wide and detailed
knowledge of costing, estimating, psy-
chology, etc., and must also be a trained
technician in about a dozen trades associ-
ated with the industry. In order to sur-
vive, under present conditions, he must
outdo an army supply officer in “scroung-
ing” for materials. Unlike the merchant,
he is not protected by fixed minimum
selling prices.
The builder is at the mercy of every
Commo.-inspired agitator in possibly a
score of trades directly or indirectly
associated with the industry. “Rafferty
Rules” operate on fiercely competitive
lines, and there is no “gentleman’s agree-
ment.” It is a case of survival of the
fittest —and only the very fit at that.
To get a job a builder must spend
hours, often days and weeks, preparing
his estimate. Invariably there are eight
or ten competitors flat out after the work.
Competition successfully met, his
troubles really begin. He is in constant
conflict with architect, client, suppliers,
sub-contractors, the “weather clerk,”
Commo. labor “leaders,” departmental
and bureaucratic “control” and a dozen
other things.— Ajax (N.S.W.).
Undermining Preference
The bill to bring the Repatriation and
War Service Homes Commissions within
the Public Service —and the Public Service
Union—makes soldier preference an even
sorrier joke. Casually introduced by the
Minister for Post-war Reconstruction, it
just failed to slip through as the inconse-
quential matter suggested by his disarm-
ing attitude. Similar restraint in publicity
has enabled it to escape censure from
ex-servicemen’s organisations.
Until now there have been at least
two Commonwealth departments where
preference has worked, and to get a job
at either you had to be a returned man.
In Repatriation it worked from the top to
the bottom. The League recommended
a man for the office of commissioner,
and usually its recommendation was ac-
cepted as the choice of the Diggers whose
affairs he would handle.
The Commission engaged staff from
ex-service applicants. It didn’t worry a
great deal with the examination require-
ments demanded by the Public Service,
but placed more importance on a good
service record and the likelihood of de-
veloping an understanding of Diggers’
problems. You commenced as a tempor-
ary hand, and as vacancies occurred you
were appointed—according to form
shown —to the permanent staff. There
are over a hundred such temporaries,
most of whom could have hoped for a
permanent job. Nobody warned them
that some day an Education Department
certificate would be demanded from
them. They’d have looked for another
job on demobilisation and would haVe
had as much as two years’ seniority be-
hind them by now.
Their position when the provisions of
the Public Service Act are applied will
be similar to that of men in the P.M G.’s
Department—they wifi remain “tempor-
ary” for as long as 20 years or be
ordered out to make room for new
P.S. appointees who may need to con-
sult the Acts to discover whether Alamein
and Kokoda were operational areas.
That is only the story of what is to
happen within the department. -How the
customers will enjoy dealing with their
successors should make quite a good one
also. High posts at the head of their
affairs will no longer go to men like
Cutler, V.C., but will be determined by
Public Service seniority.—J, K. D, (Q.),
Disabled Servicemen
The rehabilitation and effective train-
ing of disabled servicemen for jobs which
they can confidently handle need an
elastic and comprehensive programme
which should go on year in and year out
for a long time to come.
Employers should make special efforts
as a matter of policy to hire as many of
these men as they can. Charity need
seldom influence their decision, for
general experience is that handicapped
workers by and large stick more closely
to the job, have fewer accidents and pro-
duce more than do most workers whose
physical conditions and faculties are
sound.
It’s good business as well as human
kindness—two things which go together
more often than some suppose —to put a
generous percentage of these men on the
payroll.— Atlanta (Q.).
Sheepskins
For the last two years American
women have taken to wearing sheepskin
coats —euphemistically called mouton.
The fashion has spread, and science has
been able to turn shaggy skins into pretty
garments resembling expensive furs by
treating the wool on the skins with
plastic.
By skilful plastic treatment wool can
be given a wide range of colors and the
appearance of a variety of furs. US.
manufacturers have mostly used South
American skins, but in recent months
overseas buyers have pushed up Austra-
lian prices for quarter-woolled merino
skins from about 3d. to 20d. per pound,
and quarter-woolled crossbred skins from
2d. to 20d. The quarter- and third-
woolled skins are the right length for
making mouton coats.
For many years poor prices have
caused graziers to leave short-woolled
skins for the weevils to eat, and it’s a dis-
grace to Australian industrial initiative
that better use for them was not found
for this product. Basil alone should have
a thousand and one uses.
The Australian Wool Board is covering
the drawing-room at Australia House
with a sheepskin carpet made in Aus-
tralia. The price of imported carpets to-
day suggests that here is another avenue
in which sheepskins could be profitably
used.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
The New “Master Class”
The workers employ and pay union
officials who, with the never-ending
audacity of elected persons, usurp the
authority of the Government and the
Courts, dictate to their employers, insti-
gate strikes, declare industries “black” and
order workers to “go slow” or to strike.
If the workers do not obey this new
master class they are insulted, abused,
intimidated and victimised. They are
also fined by union officials without a
trial.
The excuse that “strikes are the only
weapons available to workers under the
present system” is utter nonsense. They
have the partisan Federal Labor Govern-
ment and five partisan State Labor Gov-
ernments. They have the Federal Arbi-
tration Court, and the State Arbitration
Courts in Queensland and West Australia.
They have Industrial Commissions, Con-
ciliation Commissioners, Classification
Boards and Reference Boards, Public
Service and State School Teachers’ Tri-
bunals, together with voluntary and com-
pulsory conferences of employers and
union officials. They also have the Vic-
torian Wages Boards which consist of
three employers and three employees, and
a permanent chairman. He had been
president of the Trades Hall Council and
was secretary of the Railway Union
when appointed chairman of the Wages
Board.
Factory inspectors are employed and
paid by the Government to police awards
and determinations. If an employer com-
mits a breach of either he is prosecuted
and fined. But when employees break
them no legal action is taken against them
or the union bosses who order them out.
The. workers’ rights have been taken
from them by the union bosses. They
will not allow the workers to decide by
secret ballot whether they will continue
to work or strike, and the workers submit
like dumb, driven cattle.— Civic Liberty
(Vic.).
One More Nail
Decentralisation of industry, is it? In
Central Western Queensland our only
long-standing attempt at secondary indus-
try is wool - scouring. This has been
brought to! a high state of efficiency, and
Queensland-scoured specialties are favor-
ably known and competed for in the world
market. This success has been attained
because of the natural suitability of
artesian waters for wool washing and the
unceasing efforts of the scourers.
The fight for wool to wash means
showing the grower a greater return by
scouring—unsympathetic rail freights for
washed wool compared with greasy tend
to discourage growers from scouring.
Now Joint Organisation’s contributory
charge of 5 p.c. is deducted from gross
proceeds of wool sold whether in the
grease or washed, so we have the cost of
scouring arbitrarily raised by 5 p.c A of
the scouring charge. In other words,
J.O.’s contributory charge, designed to be
deducted from gross value of wool, is, in
the case of scoureds, deducted from value
of wool plus the cost of partial manu-
facture.
So our masters, while paying lip-
service to decentralisation of industry,
quietly drive another nail into the coffin
of western endeavor.—Scourer (Q.).
'
The West -
“B.” (B. 12/2/’47) has the wrong im-
pression on the “plentiful” supply of
cigarettes, papers and other household
commodities in Westralia. A large pro-
portion of our supplies comes from the
eastern States, and with the present
shortage of transport we fare worse than
the east and have done so throughout
the war.
«tj „ nni . •
vant on Ws vfsit to Perth or he would
have seen a number of food-processing
factories, soap factories and a cigarette
factory, all within the city limits. Our
goods are equal to if not better than
those manufactured in the east, but the
present supply is inadequate because of
the manufacturers’ inability to get con-
tamers from the strike-ridden east
Incidentally, when I visited Melbourne
and iT t n ?u 115 , ycai a . rK ast t was
struck by the ample supplies of goods in
the shops, especially chocolate which
was, and still is, a rarity m the West.
As for N. S. Wales athletes obtaining
supplies of rationed goods, they appa-
rently got to know the right people.
N. W. S. (W.A.).
mo in uanninia
The effrontery of Tito in demanding
Carinthia from Austria is equalled only
by the injustice of the demand, ignoring
as it does the wishes of thousands of
people. • , •
I spent three years in Carinthia during
the war, and was in Klagenfurt, the capi-
al on May 8, 1945, when Tito s libera-
tors drove in on theheels of the Eighth
Army vanguard. They arrived in a
motley collection of vehicles, were dressed
in diverse uniforms—the only thing com-
mon to all was the red star on their caps
—and were well stocked with light
machine-guns and modern small arms,
Women accompanied them, similarly
attired and armed, shouting defiance to
the people of Klagenfurt. The salute to
the fearful Carinthians was the clenched
fist. Within 24 hours they were re-
inforced and their arrogance grew.
There was no fraternisation between
the “banditten” and the Tommies. Each
resented the presence of the other. Their
arrogance irritated the British and
angered the inhabitants and, as their
rough treatment and indiscriminte shoot-
ing increased, people wondered who was
in charge of the town. They feared the
British were moving on and leaving them
to the mercy of the gangsters. Their re-
sentment was not the natural feeling of a
vanquished people towards the victor. In
their defeat they expressed their respect
and admiration for the conduct of the
Tommies who strode about the- town,
often unarmed, whilst swashbuckling.
armed and munition-draped men and
"It's a trifle tight. Have you anything larger?”
w'omen of the Red Star proceeded to loot
and plunder, to the embarrassment of
the British officials.
We p.-0.-w. left Klagenfurt in this
chaotic and nervous condition, convinced
that Austrians of Southern Carinthia
had not changed their minds since the
plebiscite of 1920, when the inhabitants,
many of them Slovenes, decided to belong
to Austria rather than to Yugoslavia.
During the war October 10 was cele-
brated by the people as an anniversary,
although the birthday of the incorpora.-
tion in the Reich was ignored except by
Officialdom. Subsequent events have done
little to assuage the Austrian anti-Slav
prejudice, for Tito’s policy cuts across the
racial and religious affiliations of the
population.
What U.S. Senator Vandenberg calls
the “legalistic assassinations” of Tito’s
regime must arouse in the Austrian a
distaste which would be demonstrated by
a properly-conducted plebiscite. But, like
his Moscow boss, Tito dislikes properly-
conducted plebiscites. J.W. (Q.).
. . T . .
Compulsory Unionism
_ “Don” (B. 19/2/’47) says “the very
idea of freedom means that the rights of
the community must come first.” It seems
incredible that, in view of public suffer-
in * a ‘. ,he hands “I"” o ?**’“
their ranks. During
- , _ taEe - of the war didn’t,
„ D . unionis f s oppose corn-
,sion as to th / ar m£d forces?
£ r djd th faSne d torces do a service
t 0 the commun i ty ?
p h sounder f compul-
unionism than any “Don” advances
js wi , ho ut it many unions would lose
many good, honest Australians who are
now merely chained to unions they de-
test by the fear of being hounded out of
their jobs. If unionism were the great
benefactor that “Don” believes it surely
should function on a voluntary basis,
as do all our ex-servicemen’s associations.
Does the worker (pardon, unionist)
enjoy greater prosperity today than he
did 30 y ears a s° ? Hi 8 h taxes ’ hi s h cost
G f living, blackmarkets, restrictions.
shortages, lack of housing and constant
industrial turmoil do not help to make his
lot a very happy one.
Certainly we must have unions, but let
them be organised on healthy democratic
fi nes? w ith secret ballots and honorary
officials who have an honest interest in
the country and the men they represent.-
jnpanteer (N.S.W.).
“Don’s” defence is vulnerable on
two grounds. First, benefits. gained by
employees are not won only because
there are trade-unions in Australia—
working conditions and remuneration are
determined, not by trade-union pressure
0 n employers, but by the Arbitration
Courts. Second, Australian trade-unions
are more than organisations concerned
w j t h the welfare of the workers—they
take an active part in politics, and
may draw on their funds to promulgate
social and economic theories of a, highly-
debatable character. Nearly all Aus-
tralian trade-unions are affiliated with the
Labor party.
No organisation connected with politics
is fitted to enjoy the privilege of com-
pulsory recruitment. Does “Don” believe
that a worker who dislikes the so-called
“Labor” party should contribute to that
party’s revenue? Yet this, and worse,
would be certain accompaniments of
compulsory trade-unionism—unless the
unions were debarred by law from politi-
cal activities.
If the unions kept clear of politics
thousands who now fight shy of trade-
unionism would join voluntarily. On the
other hand there would be no enthusiasm
for compulsory unionism on the part of
those who now clamor loudest for it.
These people favor compulsion because
it would give the Labor party an income
from a greatly-extended field, and also
place the whole labor force of the com-
munity under the party’s domination. —
Den (N.S.W.).


1 ’_a^rf i -^WHr^ r v 4 V \-'^'/^ / jJSJTr
**’ I .> ,•
_ ? t
yrfc / '
jftjfV
a
.u
-H".
wikS*** 6 ]
.r
n
*•—
~Z2?£
iit\\ K fW >
' a- a VF7i
S%;
I^V
I f v
! \»w»r
9
C#^
r *s
,*>T
RP
W’V.V
VI;
<V
♦
BM
||S
i *«»■•* i «
M! •t c
r«f
r»V
■Oi-'i -ii
.. *W -*T
PUBLISHED. IN THE INTERESTS OF SAFER MOTORING BY
**”**■* THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers of "C.O.R Plus" Motor Spirits • "C.O.R" Power Kerosene • " CORALITE" Lamp Kerosene
'C.O.R Light Diesoleum" • " C.O.R" Diesel Oib • "C.O.R" Fuel and Bunker Oils
HEED ALL ROAD SIGNS
FOR SAFER MOTORING
Remember road courtesy means road safety.
Keep in your line of traffic;
don't be a "traffic weaver."
Keep your position on hills and curves:
pass only when you can see safely ahead.
Use hand signals correctly:
let others know-what you intend to do.
Exercise extra caution at intersections.
Observe police and traffic signals:
don't beat the lights.
Children are careless:
be careful of their movements.
When you stop, pull off the carriage way.
Keep to the left:
after passing vehicles return to the left.
