

. The House of Seppelt... producers of
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
The Bulltin
t
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68- No. 3507
Wednesday* April 30, 194/
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
GREY ABBEY: COUNTY DOWN.
HTHE magnificent ruins of Grey attest to the former splendour of
this early Cistercian house. Though now overgrown with ivy
and crumbling in decay, the stately Gothic windows of Grey
indicate the beauty of design for which this abbey was famed
throughout Ireland. Grey was built by the wife of the Norman
knight, John de Courcy, and daughter of Godred, king of the Isle
of Man, in 1193, Now —almost eight centuries later —it is still
possible to trace the large compass of the cells, /dormitories and
other buildings used by the monks of long ago. During the
rebellion of 1641 Grey was considerably damaged, but was later
partly restored by the first Lord Montgomery about 1685, and
enough of the building yet remains to excite the interest and stir
the imagination of the many visitors who never come to County
Down without paying their respects to this ancient memorial.


ţ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address .
8.8. 147 AGE
The Red Page
BABIES AND BUSHRANGERS.
Scene : The Bulletin office. Reviewer
seated at desk groaning and bellowing ,
Enter a baby.
Baby ( pointing a gun): Go’s oo?
Reviewer: Why, my little man, I am
a hapless reviewer of books about to face,
with unexampled courage, Frank Clune’s
Ben Hall the Bushranger, published by
Angus and Robertson.
Baby : Oh, you lovely mans! Dat my
dadda.
Reviewer: What? Mr, Clune?
Baby: Silly revooers! My daddums
Ben Hall.
Reviewer ( rushing for the door) : Oh,
by cripes, I believe you’re Baby Harry.
On page 21 you “babble happily ‘Moo-
cow. Moo-cow. Me help dadda! ’ ”
Well, I’m sorry I have to be going, Baby
Harry.
Baby ( drawing a second revolver from
his belt and pointing both): Bail up,
oo! Where oo think oo’s goin’?
Reviewer; Nice revooer go pub-pub.
Baby : Stand! Oo’s money or oo’s life.
What oo say ’bout Ben hall the Bush-
ranger, eh?
Reviewer: Well, of course it is Mr.
Clune’s first novel, Baby Harry. But I
really do wish he would pay some atten-
tion to the niceties of the English lan-
guage. It is just possible that a youth of
sixteen, arrested by the police, would
“yowl” the words “Ma! Ma! They’ve
killed me goanna! ” but I don’t think that
Mr. Clune, when he writes “ ‘Cripes,
you’ve gone balmy. No doubt about
that,’ groaned bewildered McGuire,” has
really considered the meaning of the word
“.groan.” A man might groan when
severely wounded; but Mr. Clune’s
characters, when they are not “quip-
ping,” “sraoodging,” “glooming” or
“grunting,” spend nearly all their time
“groaning” and “bellowing” in a most
heartrending and deafening manner. I
notice that you yourself, Baby Harry, are
reported to “lisp” the words “Where’s
Dadda?” I suppose you could lisp
“whereth” all right, though you are not
printed as lisping here or anywhere else
in the book; but, really, you’d have a
devil of a job trying to lisp “Dadda.”
Baby: Can tho! Can lithp “Dadda.”
Ooth a nathty captiouth revooer, and I’ll
thhoot oo wiv my gunth.
Reviewer {groaning, bellowing and
smoodging): Cripeth, Baby Harry, don’t
do that or you’ll thwing for it.
Baby ; Dadda won’t let pleeceman take
me. What oo say ’bout my dadda, eh?
Reviewer : The authorities. Baby
Harry, seem generally agreed that Ben
Hall was not a bad sort of bloke as bush-
rangers go, and —though Mr, Clune him-
self shows him not over-particular about
branding clean-skins —he may well have
been wrongly arrested the first time Sir
Frederick Pottinger gathered him in. But
I don’t know that it is altogether reason-
able to have your dadda bitterly com-
plaining that while he was held in gaol
on this possibly false charge his wife —
dat’s your mumma —skipped out with her
paramour Taylor. According to the his-
torian Charles White, Ben Hall was away
mustering, when Bridget eloped, and he
wasn’t arrested by Sir Frederick till some
time after that event.
Baby {bellowing): Oo bad mans. I’ll
plug oo full of holes as a sieve.
Reviewer {smoodging): All right,
then. Baby Harry, we won’t say anything
more about historical inaccuracies or re-
arrangements, even if Vane said that Ben
Hall wasn’t in the Carcoar bank robbery
and Mr. Clune says he was. Mr. Clune,
as he claims in his preface—or appears
to claim ; his prose is a little confused —
is using the licence “allowed to Sir Walter
Scott, or even—begging pardon—to Wil-
liam Shakspeare.” But I do find it diffi-
cult to believe in Ben Hall as an idealist
who declares an abo. stockman is “a real
Australian” who has “more right to this
• country than we hate”; as a perfect
(and simple-minded) democrat who can’t
understand why Sir Frederick Pottinger
calls himself “Sir” ; as a bushranger who
constantly yearns to be honest; as a
Robin Hood who declares “We’ll stick
up stores, banks, stations, make war on
the rich and help the poor like Robin
Hood in the old tale”; and as the inno-
cent idiot portrayed in the sentence
“ ‘What? Is everybody in Sydney a
rogue?’ asked Ben earnestly.”
Baby: Go’s a rogue!
Reviewer: It’s no go, Baby Harry. I
see no reason why Ben Hall the Bush-
ranger shouldn’t be read by all right-
minded small boys. But I don’t believe in
Mr. dune’s Ben Hall; I don’t believe in
his Sir Frederick Pottinger who spends
most of his time saying “That wretch!”
and sometimes, astoundingly, “Shut
up! ” ; I find it a little difficult to believe
in you, even on page 44, where it is
recorded: “‘Goo! Goo!’ gurgled Baby
Harry, pulling Ben’s beard zestfully.”
Baby: Go don’t believe in me, oo big
pig?
Reviewer: Well, hang it all. Baby
Harry, Ben Hall had two children when
he was arrested, and you’re not twins are
you? Where’s your sister?
Baby ( gurgling ): I murdered her.
Reviewer : Good heavens, as Mr.
dune would say, I must go for the police.
Baby ( zestfully sucking his revolver );
Oh, no, you funny mans, you can’t do
that. I’se goin’ to murder you now.
Reviewer: Good heavens!
Baby {shooting reviewer ); Shut up, you
worm, as Sir Frederick Pottinger would
say.
Lady Holland's Mirror .
Nothing so much brings the past to
life as the diaries or the letters of men
and women long since dead. Elizabeth,
Lady Holland was born in 1771 and died
in 1845 ; her letters to her son Henry
Edward Fox are alive and charming, like
a mirror from the salon of Holland
House that has retained the image of
every statesman, every writer, every
eccentric nobleman and every beautiful
woman who walked the gracious rooms
and talked politics, art and scandal.
The letters, edited by the Earl of
Ilchester, are published under the title
Elizabeth, Lady Holland to Her Son
(Murray ; Moore’s Bookshop), and cover
the years 1821-1845: from George IV
to Victoria, from Canning to Palmerston,
from Byron to Dickens.
First in the mirror, as of right, is Lady
Holland herself. The editor in his pre-
face, recalling his previous books on
Holland House, recounts the facts of
her career: her marriage at the age of
15 to a country squire many years her
senior,, her meeting with the young Lord
Holland in Italy, her divorce and remar-
riage to Holland. The letters show her
very feminine: much in love with Holland
throughout their married life, unable to
endure the pain of living at Holland
House after his death ; possessive with her
children, having difficulties with a mutin-
ous son who preferred to live abroad,
and keeping her daughter far too much
under the maternal thumb ; hating the
Tories and glorifying the Whigs; respect-
ing Royalty, but unable to resist the de-
light of Court scandal; jealous of rival
hostesses; fascinated by marriages and
liaisons ; loving all things lovely and gay,
hating violence and melancholy; enjoying
the country as well as the city ; a theatre-
goer, a lover of pictures, a reader of
poetry and novels and a sound critic of
everything she saw and read.
Her letters, never intended to do more
than keep her son informed about affairs
in England and restrain him from rushing
into marriage with the succession of
charmers who occupied his attention,
have no pretensions to literary style ; but
they make a captivating self-portrait of
a fine type of English aristocrat —a great
lady, and very much a woman:
I#dy H. Baring bounced forth in favor
of foreign countries, society manners,
climate, etc., and her intention of going
speedily. Upon being asked how her
bridegroom liked that plan she replied
“He is but a boy just out of college. What
can he know, or what can he like?” She
is just 17. One might have acquiesced
in her opinion as to his unformed and
unsound taste in choosing her.
The era of the Georges was, of course,
the great age of the Eccentrics. Eccentri-.
city was a cult among the nobility—a
sort of wit in action. If you could not
glitter in conversation, as the great wits
did, you could at least, like the ineffable
Lord Dudley, make a sensation by speak-
ing your thoughts aloud:
There has been a great party at Windsor
Castle, where Lord Dudley was conspicu-
ous from his temper and eccentricities. He
scolded Wyatville because he felt chilly,
■ the servants loudly at table for waiting
ill, complained of the bad chere, said he
had lately dined with a friend, a lady,
where the soup was hot, the wine cool,
and a fat woodcock. “Look at this
wretched snipe!” Objected to the Castle,
said a large house would be better, as he
did not believe the Danes were coming.
After Lord Dudley, the most notable
eccentric to be seen in Lady Holland’s
mirror is Lady Westmorland, who, visit-
ing Lady Tankerville at Paris, had her
head adorned with “a circle of stuffed
ihumming birds and parraquitts.” Lady
Westmorland also wore an alarm-clock
(or watch) which began to buzz at the
hour she had set for terminating tier visit.
On another occasion she was discovered
in deep mourning for a man who was still
very much,alive; and another letter des-
cribes her, at a watering-place, greeting
all the people who came to bathe, on the
assumption that they had come to visit
her.
There is also, among the eccentrics,
Bishop Pelham:
The silly Bishop Pelham married Lord
de Dunstanville and Miss Lemon. The
little he had to do he did ill throughout;
and to the consternation of the Clerk
closed the CeremQny by saying ‘‘‘You are
now God and Man” instead of “Man and
Wife.”
A note on Caroline Lamb brings drama
and tragedy into the mirror;
Lady Caroline Lamb was so outrageous
at the Horse Guards, to force her way
through at eleven at night, challenging to
fight the Sergeant on duty, that a mob
assembled, abused her. William Lamb
and servants took her by force; she was
intoxicated to a degree of fury. She
attempted to kill some of them.... All this
brought on by immoderate drinking on a
violent, ungovernable temper. She is kept
low, which means .being limited to one
bottle of sherry daily. There is some-
thing horrid in such a termination to a
person one has known intimately from in-
fancy; but she never had a particle of
good in her whole composition.
With the unfortunate Caroline, the liter-
ary figures of the day begin to appear in
Lady Holland’s mirror. When her son
met Byron, Lady Holland wrote dis-
creetly “Alliance with such a man is not
desirable and creditable beyond distant
admiration.” Except in comment, Byron
does not personally figure in the letters,
but Lady Holland meets Augusta Leigh
and finds her “plain and amiable” ; Lady
Byron is dismissed as “cold and obstin-
ate.”
There is much about Walter Scott;
how he wrote the siege in Ivanhoe while
confined to h'is bed “writhing in acute
pain”; how he told ghost stories but
thought only men with a touch of lunacy
could fully believe in them; how he
planned to force a “stubborn boy”—his
second son —to learn Latin by placing
him in a village in Wales where only
Welsh was spoken and where Scott hoped
“he will thus be driven to the language
of Cicero in preference to that of Shenkin
and Cadwallader.” Lady Holland com-
ments on Scott’s novels which, like
Byron, she read with avidity—“He should
never cross the Tweed.”
A personal sketch of Dickens, who
dined at Holland House, is lacking, but
there is a good deal of interesting com-
ment on his novels: high praise for “Pick-
wick” guarded approval of The Old
Curiosity Shop, dislike of his sentimental
Christmas offerings—“ Dickens’s Xmas
book [The Chimes ] I fully intended send-
ing you today, but it is such a failure
that I cannot finish it myself. So how
would you, who do not relish Dickens,
endure it?”
Rogers, the banker-poet, makes fre-
quent appearances. Macaulay, Dis-
raeli’s Coningsby, Rousseau’s Confessions
(“One abhors the man; not even the
magic of his style covers the atrocity of
his mind”) are discussed and* criticised;
as are Bulwer-Lytton’s “long admirable
play called Richelieu” and the leading
actors of the day: “Nothing could be
worse than Kean’s performance of Mac-
beth ; he is grown large, bloated and
vulgar... .Kean draws full houses, but
reverts to his toping habits. He was, I
heard, quite tipsy last night in ‘Richard.’ ”
Certain phrases in the letters are typical
of the writer and her time. It was a
period when rival hostesses were holding
balls from 4 a.m. to 7 a.m. —of all the
incredible hours! —when fortunes were
won and lost at the gaming tables, and
when the bloods of the town, needing
more space for the carriages at a steeple-
chase, bought a paddock to turn their
carriages in, and Lady Holland sums
the whole thing up in a sentence : “The
town is quite empty; people are sick of
Parlt. and pleasure.”
If Royalty may be included under the
heading “Parliament,” and art under
“Ple'asufe,” the whole book is about
those two subjects. Three Sovereigns
live in Lady Holland’s letters: George
IV, taking to his bed and starving when
Mrs. Fitzherbert had been unkind to
him —“He once had a vein opened and
would not let the blood be staunched till
Mrs. Fitzherbert came to him” —and giv-
ing his assent to the Catholic Emanci-
pation Act when the Duke of Welling-
ton, praised by Lady Holland for once
because she could claim a Whig origin
for the Act, had “conducted the matter
in true workman-like style”; William
IV, watching the progress of the Reform
Bill and being pursued (as Lady Holland
viewed the affair) by Lady lersey—“She
never quitted the King’s side, and talked
him into snoring; besides boring him, by
preventing his talking, which he likes to
do himself, a good deal” ; and Queen
Victoria, sparing the life of an ox be-
cause, at the Cattle Show, it had licked
the hand of Prince Albert ... an age
ending, a new age beginning.
Lady Holland’s mirror shows an old
and a lonely woman at the end; yet she
could still relish, for what it was worth,
a mild quip of Albert’s, commenting,
with the worldly wisdom of one who knew
kings and life, that it was “very well for
a Royal joke, and in a foreigner.”
An Ancient Mariner.
When, on page 19 of In the Wake
(Robertson and Mullens), Captain Gerald
S. Doorley trots out the old yam about
Sir F. N. Broome demanding that the
correct “handle” be affixed to his name
and then being addressed as “Broome-
handle,” one feels inclined to ask the
Captain, “Now wherefore stopp’st thou
me?” And when, on the same page, he
offers the mildewed chestnut about the
old lady who, on slipping on the brass
plate that marks the spot where Nelson
fell, remarked “I ain’t surprised that poor
Nelson fell here,” the reader might fairly
remark to Captain Doorley, “Hold off!
Unhand me! ”
Once out of the shoals and shallows
of his early days, however—he was born
in Trinidad in 1880—Captain Doorley
charts a placid, retrospective course
through 20 of his years at sea between
the turn of the century and the end of the
1914-18 war. Among his adventures he
went as third officer to the Morning, the
380-ton Norwegian whaler which was
sent as a relief ship to the Discovery,
icebound in the Antarctic.
Doorley joined the New Zealand U.S.S.
Company in 1905, and was chief officer
of the Waikare when it was wrecked in
Dusty Sound. In 1917, his ship, the
Aparima, was torpedoed in the English
Channel, losing 54 out of 110 of its
crew.
Doorley relates a stream of anecdotes in
an uncolored, almost disinterested style;
minor incidents often fall flat under his
matter-of-fact narration, but major hap-
penings come up very well —the Antarctic
voyage and the breaking of the ice around
the Discovery, the torpedoing, an Ameri-
can-New Zea Hand voyage in the ’flu-
stricken Navua and an account of a
wild ride at a sugar-loading outpost in
Fiji all stand out like brief, dramatic
sketches in the leisurely collection of
reminiscences.
With people Doorley is disappointing.
An early description of the mate of the
Auldgirth is a good photographic record:
He had a stubby iron-grey moustache
and a tuft on his chin. He wore an ancient
plum-colored felt hat jammed down to his
ears, and a black • cardigan-jacket—green
with salt water. In heavy weather he
waddled about the decks in long gum boots,
and a red bandana handkerchief twisted
around his neck. He chewed tobacco and
smoked alternately, the latter through a
discolored clay pipe with a home-made tin
cap which he referred to affectionately as
Jessie. He often discoursed to himself in
Gaelic, and occasionally burst into weird
and unintelligible song—
but of men like Scott, Shackleton, Maw-
son, Conan Doyle, Houdini and others
he gives only maddeningly brief and
casual snippets.
Shackleton, “a poet and a wit” ; Hou-
dini, “Conan Doyle was emphatic that
he possessed abnormal psychic powers
and was able to de-materialise himself on
occasion”; Conan Doyle, “sociable,
charming and intensely human It was
fascinating to see his pen reel off page
after page of small, neat handwriting.
His pauses were few, and his corrections
fewer.” All interesting comments, but
they are only as notes for a fuller picture.
The material, or the chance to observe
it, was there—consider this sidelight of
Scott, Shackleton and Wilson on their
return from the 300-mile trek over the
Great Ice Barrier:
The three explorers devoured at least
three platefuls of food to our one, and
still craved for more! Of course, after
the long-drawn-out weeks of starvation
the digestive organs could not cope with
such an orgy of gorging, and they were
violently sick; but they persistently shovel-
led lavish helpings of food into themselves
and repeatedly lost the run of most of it.
Indeed, even in the early hours of the
morning they were still at it! I was
awakened by hearing Captain Scott rousing
Shackleton, whose cabin was next to the
one I was in.
“Shackles,” I heard him call. “I say,
Shackles, how would you fanicy some
sardines on toast?”
The smell of toasting bread at the ward-
room fire soon - filled the place; and with
one eye out of my sleeping bag I could
see Wilson in his cabin opposite stoking
up like fury with the supplies Scott kept
passing into him. This’ awful ravenous-
ness, which struck me as being at once
humorous and pathetic, lasted for two or
three days.
Still, whatever he includes or omits,
Captain Doorley at least avoids that
topic cherished by ancient mariners—
“unsolved mysteries of the sea.” Par-
don, there is one. On a troopship during
the S’African war ' the sergeant-major's
wife was badly burned by a steam pipe
in the bathroom. The lady was duly
.rescued, but the captain and principal
medical officer were faced with a prob-
lem: —
By what acrobatic means did the ser-
geant-major’s spouse get the lower ex-
tremity of her back in contact with the
only steam pipe in that bathroom, which
ran along the overhead beams?
The mystery, it seems, is still unsolved.


Anthony
Horderns!
•
...then here's just what you need
(Illustrated doc\wise')
Light and compact is this Leather Suit Case, constructed from an attractive
grained hide, and featuring leather capped turned edges to protect stitching. It
is cloth lined, has a leather covered frame and two secure locks. In Brown or
Fawn. Size 24 in., £5/4/-; size 26 in., £5/12/6; size 28 in., £6/1/3
»
Here’s something everyone needs for convenient travelling—a Hatbox! This
one in delightful grained leather, horseshoe shape, centre lock with strap and
buckle fastener. It is cloth lined and features an inside pocket. In Blue, Brown
and Fawn. Size 16 inches. Price 90/9
Modern travel demands an Overnight Bag! Here is one fashioned from
grained leather and featuring the easy slide fastener. Cloth lined with inside
pocket, colours available are Blue, Brown, Tan or Fawn. Size 18 in. Price, 69/8
This Business Satchel is made from a beautifully grained leather and has three
press stud fasteners, a 2 in. gusset for extra capacity. It is available in colours
of Tan or Black. Size 15 in. x n in. Price 20/9
Attractive grained Leather Travel Bag in a convenient size, made on a strong
metal frame with two locks and strap and buckle fastener. Cloth lined, it has two
secure ringed handles and is obtainable in size 20 inches. Price 94/6
For the convenient carrying of business, music or other papers, we suggest this
delightful crocodile grained leather Attache Case. Light in weight and smart
in appearance, it features two secure locks, leather covered frame, overturned edges
to protect stitching and is nicely lined. Size 16 in. x 10 in. x 5 in. Price .... 38/6
• Travel Goods Dept.—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
fSsSSs
■
ve*?" 1
M.
**
» <*
mmmm
mmmm
« «
m
aI
m
W
Si
->
mi
li 1
88
mmmmmm
Bill m m
SWS
«ss
mmm
'm>.
s'#
li
iffi
r
«S»*
m
-
sss
hHI
: > >VvMi< a
fm- *
&v
' ■ :'■ n , v' - '- ..
1 V
v.-:.,:jv|
a
y;
V:
/
\ ;. • ■>
• V-
ill
: MggPs mmfwi
ps '
S&SBSSSS^
ii
y
i
Hill
' >
.*';
V
>v
iv*
•w
m
mm
•v
f x '...•
h-' i
m
m
m
m
/ ■■:
'K
■
■
<' ■'
m
X
m
m
%i
Np
m
w
iii&ll
7:..
Vl:'
? "
m
m
m
m
'■■■-.
A
£**>
” . •
mm
m
m
mm
m i
m
'V •
■■■• , ; >
I § i
•V-:
I
1
■'■■■:.■■’■ w '-c<..
H
. xV ><;j • .V
m*-
m
m
m
■
liiii
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


SOME CURRENT BOOKS
ANIMAL FARM. A Fairy Story, by Geo. Orwell. One of the most
brilliant satires of modern tipies. It is a history of a revolution that
went wrong —and of the excellent excuses that were forthcoming.
7/3 (post 3d.).
THE. GHOST AND MRS. MUIR. By R. A. Dick. A delightful book, full
of gay and vivid folk. 7/6 (post 4d.).
AN AUSTRALIAN IN INDIA. By The Rt. Hon. R. G. Casey. An
analysis of the political and economic factors of present-day India
based upon personal knowledge. 4/9 (post 3d.).
CRIMINAL DAYS—RECOLLECTIONS AND REFLECTIONS OF
TRAVERS HUMPHREYS. This is a book for the most part about the
past. The younger generation is looking forward to an England in
which life shall be freer, fairer and better. If they hold fast to the
ideals of justice and liberty they may attain some of their desires.
12/6 (post 5d.).
GENERATION OF VIPERS. By Philip Wylie. A brilliant and powerful
satire on American habits, customs, beliefs and methods of behavior.
19/3 (post 6d.).
OUR DREAMING DONE. By Ruby Ferguson. An unusual character
study, dominating a piece of romantic fiction. 11/6 (post 5d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney ma esu.
IOOBt 01
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won't eat
or is out of
sort* —he may
b e Buffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
dim on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAKKi 1
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotior
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BAHKO iodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDEIIB I/*
SKIN LOTION 2/i
lODINE DOG SOAP -/!
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
ť
BARKO
PEN*
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. CRANDAUr.fi A CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
ŧ
/
N,
'
<***£
fr***n
.... :
u
OIL
gSftS
coj
c*i
t :,
WMmA
1
'V
I
'iidiiL
N XSI
■
■
>///
mm
1 vacuum mm
QUALITY PRODUCr^giSffi
P 463
Your war-time driving troubles are
over! Plume-the better petrol-is here
again. Plume will now enable you to
obtain from your engine ALL the per-
formance and power it was built to give.
Buy Plume— the better petrol.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy, Far Cast, South Bend or similar fish-
ing reel.—3999.
Civil engineer, Vic., retiring, wishes position
trust and responsibility, town or seaside; no
pension, unencumbered, salary not chief obiect;
references.—4ooo.
Information Sought.
Where and when was Joe Louis born ? Is
Louis his right name? From whom, and when,
did Louis win world’s heavyweight champion-
ship, and how many times has he successfully
defended it?
Louis was born at Lexington, Alabama, on
May 13, 1914. Full name is Joseph Louis
Barrow. Won world heavyweight title when he
knocked out Jim Braddock (Bth round) at
Chicago on June 22, 1937, and has won 24
contests in defence of it.
* * * *
(1) What are the differences between jazz and
swing? (2) How would you define “boogie-
woogie” ? (3) Could you recommend any book
or magazine dealing with the subject of modern
music ?
(1) Jazs has been defined as an American
musical dialect strongly influenced by the Negro.
It is a natural development from ragtime, which
was essentially a pianistic “art.” “Swing” is
simply jazz embellished with improvised
rhythmic and melodic variations. It is “hot,”
as distinct from “straight” (or literally-played)
jazz. (2) “Boogie-woogie” can best be defined
as a system of cacophonic noises devised by
neurotics for the delectation of quarter-wits.
(3) Jazz, by Paul Whiteman; Jazz, Hot and
Hybrid, by Winthrop Sargeant; So This Is Jazz,
by Henry Osgood.
(1) How was Australian wool disposed
of during the 1914-18 war 2 (2) When did
B.A.W.R.A. start operations, and how long did
it lake to dispose of the wool ?
(1) In November, 1916, the Imperial Govern-
ment bought the Australian wool clip for the
duration of the war and one year after, at a
fiat-rate price of 15+d. per lb., with the
provision that the whole of the profits from any
of this wool sold for civilian purposes should
be divided equally between the British Govern-
ment and the Australian woolgrowers. Ap-
praisement of the wool was conducted by the
Central Wool Committee. The last appraise-
ment was made on June 30, 1920, and the
total value f.o.b. of wool and sheepskins
handled was £171,518,§91. All wool having been
paid for, there was a credit in cash of about
£13,000,000 and an accumulated surplus of
I, bales of wool. (2) B.A.W.R.A. (the
British Australian Wool Realisation Association)
was formed in January, 1921, for the purpose
of selling this wool. The interests taken over
by B.A.W.R.A. were assessed and capitalised
at £22,000,000. Marketing of this wool was
successfully carried out in England and on the
Continent, the concluding sales taking place at
Liverpool on May 2, 1924. Passing into con-
sumption with about 6,000,000 bales of current
clips sold by the wool brokers, all the wool
controlled by B.A.W.R.A. was sold in 3$ years.
* * * *
How to make a dampcourse to prevent any
moisture coming through a concrete floor in
a shed built on clay soil ?
The clay should be excavated to a depth of
6in. and agricultural drain pipes of 4in. diameter
should be laid in the excavation and covered
with clinker, which should be well rammed.
The drain pipes should be slanted so that any
water entering the clinker bed will be drained
away. Make the concrete floor 6in. thick, one
part of cement, 2i parts of sand and four parts
of broken stone.
« * * •'
How to grow frangipani shrubs in areas
affected by frosts?
Set shrubs in northerly aspect against a brick
wall or fence, and during winter months throw
a thick hessian covering over them at night
(the leaves will have fallen). Where frosts are
heavy, water the shrubs in early morning to
make sure that the limb-tips (from which
flowers and foliage will break) are not affected.
Should the shrubs show softness near the base
all watering should be stopped, and sand or
sandy loam added to the soil to dry out excess
moisture.
* * * *
Who are present world boxing champions in
flyweight, lightweight, middleweight, light-
heavyweight, and heavyweight divisions?
Jackie Paterson (Scotland), Ike Williams
(U.S.A.), Tony Zale (U.S.A.), Gus Lesnevich
(U.S.A.) and Joe Louis (U.S.A.).
* * * •
What are the aggregate stampings and catches
taken by wicketkeepers Baker (Vic.), Tallon
(Q.), Saggers (N.S.W.), Englefield (5.A.) and
Vaughton ( S.A .) in Sheffield Shield and v.
M.C.C. during the season?
Baker, stumped 10, caught 5; Tallon, stumped
11, caught 24; Saggers, stumped 7, caught 16;
Engleneid, stumped 4, caught 8; Vaughton,
stumped 2. caught 6,.
. Brief Answers.
G.P.8.H.: Winston Churchill was born on
November 30, 187,4. He is the eldest son of
Lord Randolph Churchill, who was the third
son of the 7th Duke of Marlborough
V.M.: See Wordsworth’s “The Excursion” and
Byron’s “Childe Harold” A.H.D.: Write
Robertson and Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-sired,
Melbourne E.N.: The composers’ and song-
writers’ competition sponsored by the Mel-
bourne Bread and Cheese Club provides for
prizes for ballads and popular songs. Prizes
for both ballad and popular-song sections are
Ist £l5, 2nd £7 10s., 3rd £2 10s. Full particu-
lars and entry forms from Hon. Secretary,
Composers’ and Songwriters’ Group, Melbourne
Biead and Cheese Club, 23 Williams-road,
Windsor (Vic.)... J.W.: Write Common-
wealth Statistician, Canberra, A.C.T S.J.:
(1) Prune the shrubs after the flowering flush
is over—whatever the time of the year. It is
on the new wood that blooms are carried. (2)
To prevent mildew spray with lime-sulphur
solution, making certain not to exceed the
manufacturer’s formula on bottle or tin. Best
results are obtained from early-morning appli-
cation when the mixture sticks better and the
warmth of the sun assists greatly in the clean-
ing up...,.M.A.: The botanical name of
Sturt’s Desert Pea is Clianthus dampierii. Ger-
mination from seed is often poor. Make a
mound of two parts wood ash and one part
soil without manure. Soak seeds for an hour
in warm water, then sow 4in. apart in Septem-
ber. Being bush subjects they revel in hard
conditions, and cultivation should not be
attempted near seedlings after they are up.
However, it’s a gamble that often brings sur-
prising results J.G.: Lavender water is dis-
jtilled and can only be made with a still. Home-
made lavender water is made by tilling wide-
inouthed jars with lavender leaves, adding suf-
ficient pure spirits of wine to almost fill bottle
and corking tightly. Left in warm place for
two months and then strained into a clean
bottle, it produces a refreshing perfume. One
tablespoon of this liquid, added to 4 table-
spoons water, is a refreshing wash R.M.D.L.:
'At Colon, the second city of the Republic of
Panama and the northern gateway to the
Panama Canal. The American town of Cristobal,
which is within the Canal Zone, adjoins Colon
and is virtually part of it H.P.: Unable to
trace the cartoon required... .J.C.W.: See
The Statesman’s Year Book and Whitaker’s
Almanack E.V.K, and E.S.: Write Marine
Biological Laboratory, Division of Fisheries,
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,
Cronuila (N.5.W.)... .E.S.: See Handy Hints
for the Farm, published by The Bulletin (Is.).
N.T.: The line “Music has charms to
soothe the savage breast” is from William Con-
greve’s “The Mourning Bride” W.W.:
Tampico is a port oa the Gulf of Mexico, the
town being situated some seven miles from
the bar of the River Panuco. It is almost
surrounded by swamps and lakes. Population
is about 30,000R.L.: N. V. Wade, Hon.
Treasurer, Shiplovers’ Society, 16 Bridge-street,'
Sydney H.M.C.: There are a number of
blocks available for selection under perpetual-
lease tenure situated on the Cooktown-Laura
railway, between the Deighton and Laura
rivers, and about 67 miles west of Cooktown.
Maps showing the land and information regard-
ing terms and conditions are obtainable from
the Department of Agriculture, Brisbane.


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel —And You’ll Jump oil
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon«
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up." Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
rr —
& i lendy isiei
■ttJLL df eliy
mmmm
Fort Denison (Pinchgut) in Sydney Harbour con-
tributes to the safety of shipping as a lighthouse
'and meteorological station. Its light and power
are supplied by Clyde Batteries
CLYDEbatteries
SAFETY FIRST'
The BEST car
WetVc'evice 'S
aCAR C F U L
nRIV F « 1
Wherever the need for stored electrical energy. Clyde
Batteries for cars, trucks, buses, radio and home lighting
have proved their efficiency and long life.
An advt. of The Clyde Engineering Co. Lid.. Granville, N.S.W
Merchandise Sales Division:
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
ť
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ot
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupll*
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
21- per copy. 22/6 a year post free.
BRISBANE
am
SYDNEY
PERTH
obaj
r
tto s*- 5 * -
m
W-.
'
m
'
P
I
lIP
f£.
DODGE
tes..
&
u
fit Your Service
wherever you are
Wherever the owners of Dodge, De Soto, Chrysler and Plymouth cars
or Dodge and Fargo trucks and Utilities travel, they find friends in
every capital city—-the Member Companies of C.D.D.
These Member Companies provide smooth working service facilities
which are maintained for the convenience of owners everywhere and
anywhere in Australia.
The C.D.D. After-Sales Service is built on standards of quality and
workmanship in keeping with all products of the Chrysler, Dodge,
De Soto line.
«0M139Co ff
V
OIOS 3<J
3000(7
MOoPy
VZj
Chrysler 'toodge
(AUSTRALIA) PTT.LTD.
\ - ' •V■' V * - ■ -X . : I.c ~.;' ■ '■■ ■ :■ . • . -. .. ' ■ ~.
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY; Harden and Johnston Limited: York Motors Pty. Ltd.; Buckle Motors (Trading Company) Pty. Limited.
• MELBOURNE: Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.; Lane's Motors Pty, Ltd.: Automobiles Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited; Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
• ADELAIDE: Waymouth Motor Company Ltd.; Flinders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: Winterbottom Motor Company Limited: Wentworth Motors Limited.
• HOBART: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.: Co-Operative Motors Limited; H. C. Heathom & Co. Ltd.
CD 107
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
„ A/f c \r n Uabilitv is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
~ ■— * —-
to the Editor.
W.0.T.: “Bill the Bagman” has been seen
around these parts before... .H.G.: And so
has “Joe the Spieler”... .E.L.: Flowery....
R.McA.: It is remarkable what you - haven t
observed around King’s Cross... .T.M..
j.W.: Good in fits and starts F.U^.-
Stilted... .C.Q.: Come again.... .J.M.Y.: 1 epid
' K.O’N.: Belongs to the great class ot
‘‘border-liners”: nothing really wrong with it,
but lacks that special something to hit it our
of the ruck; try elsewhere....G.G.: Humor
good: try to apply it to the comedy of charac-
ter rather than farce and fantasy v ‘ B V
Visualise your characters; report drama first-
hand; and, in important incidents, such as tne
kitchen scene, add a touch of description, here
and there, to help it along; the color of Sues
eyes, change ot expression, the clutching ot
Clem’s hand, etc K.J.T.: Humor labored.
S.A.: The story starts to move nicely when
you take time off to pontificate... .H.McG.•
Low life in Chicago remote from our needs;
why not write about Australian politics. ... •
A.L.L.: Sugary D.C.: A gleam T. 0..
An ounce of vice would make Herbert more
interesting... .1.J.: Characters wooden... • ;
There is a iatal Hollywood slickness about the
romance of Joan, the typiste, and Brian, the
boss K.F.: You “put something of your-
self into that poem.” If it was a vital organ,
try the P.M.G.—it must have fallen out dur-
ing transit.... M.D.: Excruciation. ...K.McD:
Even if you have a “Write-any where ball-
point pen, it is not “a good idea” to send
pars on lunch-wrappers. And from adhenng
traces on the MS., we deplore your taste in
sandwiches... .L.S.D.: Not negotiable....
L.K.: Your story of maniacs, and
circus freaks missed as “human interest ; a
better adjective would be “inhuman” D. 8..
Short story would make a first-class par...
T. 1.: Our editor does not “collect poets’
but, assailed by epics like your “Black Wind, ’
he may branch into the hobby at any time.
C.M.: Limerick wound up here:
“Daddy died when he fell off a scaffold,” _
Said the bright little school-girl of Maflold.
The teacher oozed sorrow,
But was bowled on the morrow . ,
When she learned he’d been hanged. She was baffled.
G.R.: “Song of the Diggings” doesn’t show
enough pay dirt... .S.Q.: Why make London
the scene of the story? An Australian city
has first right... .Vic.: “Cedar Valley’ started
well, then you got lost in a jungle of:
words F.T.P.: Verses about your life mayl
be of interest to your family EL.: Five-.
thousand-word article on Australian culture[
does nothing to help it....T.T.: “Shearing at
Dandaloo” cut out at the third page F.Q.T.:
Verses too bumpy... .Oss: And yours are no-
hopers G.P.: Not descriptive enough
J.G.T.: Adds little to well-worn theme
N.Y.: Chiefly of interest to the author
Mooroondah Meg: It lacks the sonorousness
of your pen-name... .E.M.L.: Nearly....
Ormond: “John” croaked A.N.: It would be
better to describe the tree well than to strain
after trite reflections on it P.C.: When you
rhyme “song” with “gone” you sound like a
gong gone wrong... .G.C. : Pleasant thought
about the flowers. Nothing original in the
rest of it L.D. (London): Parrot amusing
but verse rocky..’. .R.8.U.: The “Bushy’s
fate is sad indeed:
t
Has its humorous spots, but doesn’t pass as
a complete j0b..., W.Y.: Overwritten -and
there’s very little in the idea.... C. 0.. inc
trouble is that it is just an incident....
Straight narrative —it needs a little more to
make a story.... J.C.T.: . Much the same as
when submitted before; it s well written, but
the ending reads as if it had been pitchforked
in anyhow....J.H.: We showed it to an old
shellback; his comment was unprintable....
L.K.: 'No thanks... .S.O’G.; A long, long
way off... .F.M.K.: No ginger in it, precious
little point either.... D.R.: Surely you don t
claim that plot as being original... .S.J.M.:
You’ll have to express yourself less awkwardly,
also more grammatically, before you see print.
S.V.W.; For all your hard work it amounts
to practically nothing... .N.L.A.; We wouldn t
say- there’s no hope for you, but we can t hold
out much.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Col M.: Next time you draw a cow don’t put
the milk-bar amidship... .P.0.G.; Weak draw-
ings, anaemic jokes... .Pom ; Fair effort for a
beginner, but you need schooling... .R.Q.: A
hopeless mess of scratches.. . .S.A.S.: Why
not draw your surf-sirens before they have
been battered by dumpers? ... .X.X.: Bushmen
pictured like movie cowboys not wanted here.
Bill G.; The footballers have legs like
dresS-salon models Tar: No boat like yours
will ever sail into these pages S.P.: Gags
about country bookmakers were over the odds.
M.N.: A hopeless bunch left by return
post.
ţ


HUMUS
BY E. A. GOLLSCHEWSKY
THE school, cleared of desks, forms,
presses and cupboards, could
scarcely hold the crowd, and most
of the men were disgorged on to
the verandah and steps.
The Schillers were popular in the dis-
trict, no doubt about that. And, of
course, with eleven children married into
other families most of the people were
more or less related to the guests-of-
honor,
Emma Schiller had given her husband
nine sons and two daughters ; then she
regretfully stopped producing.
But, as Emil pointed out, there were
enough boys now to help on the farm, so
it didn’t really matter.
Much later, Emma was heard to say
that boys were overrated on a farm.
They spent too much time on other
people’s property, milking other people’s
cows.
Girls were what you wanted, to attract
young bloods to the place. Young ‘men
in the throes of passion were notoriously
good milkers.
'“TONIGHT, she sat between her two
I daughters, her square, suntanned face
non-committal as ever, her greyish, coarse
hair dragged back from her face in a
most unprepossessing fashion. The bun
at the back of her head was very firm,
very heavy, very neat.
Underneath, the brown, moist-looking
skin of her neck filled the space between
the bun and the lace collar of her bright
pink dress.
This function was in the nature of an
official send-off. It had taken a lot of
deciding, one way and another. Some
had been all for a picnic down at Sandy
Stretch to mark the going away of the
Schillers,
But others had been against that. One
of the Schiller boys had been drowned
there, and even though it was fifteen
years ago now Mrs. Schiller still had to
be considered.
Mr. Heriot, the schoolteacher, strolled
into the centre of the schoolroom. The
locals regarded him with a mixture of
distrust and contempt. Well aware of
this, it made him slightly more conde-
scending than was actually his custom.
“Gents, select your partners for a Jolly
Miller Waltz,” he announced in the drawl
of one accustomed to night-clubs and
crowded Trocaderos.
Joe Pencil i put his pipe in his mouth
as was his habit, nodded his small head
with its crop of tight, grey curls once
or twice, rolled his twinkling shoe-hutton
eyes heavenward, and stretched his con-
certina to its full width.
Then it was wailing, with a lyrical,
magical rhythm that set every foot on
the floor tapping impatiently.
Mr. Heriot strolled towards Mrs.
Schiller. Everybody watched with in-
tense interest to see if she’d accept
Teacher.
He leaned over her, smiling encourag-
ingly, and said something. Mrs. Schiller
shook with hearty laughter. Her two
daughters, one on each side, began to
push and tug at her.
She got to her feet at last, with a little,
defiant toss of her head, and straightened
her belt; then pulled the seat of her dress
to one side just to make sure; then,
smiling at the fresh-faced youthful Mr.
Heriot, she made with him the little run-
ning trot which punctuates the dance.
She was a big woman, heavily-built,
and her laced black shoes were large ones.
But now they hit the floor resoundingly,
gaily, and the dance was on.
Joe bowed over his concertina, his
bushy grey moustache curled over his
pipe in a gesture of smiling approval, and
other couplfcs took to the floor.
How they whirled and trotted, swung
and pirouetted, and the girls’ skirts flew
wide, and the boys’ shirts grew damp
between the shoulder blades.
QUEEN VICTORIA stared grimly
down from above the bookcase, and
shook violently from the vibration of
many feet on the old schoolroom floor.
Henry Lawson, too, looked sadly, but
more benignly, on the noisy throng, from
the opposite wall.
Maps of Europe, Asia and the other
continents danced in an ecstasy of their
own conceiving, and the benzine lights
in the vantage points flickered and flared
a dazzling protest.
Mr. Heriot, at first “spell,” went into
a huddle with young Emil Schiller. After
a lot of nodding, and signs to Joe to
“hold on a bit,” a paper-bag was pro-
duced and slivers of snowflakes were
flung around with an eye to the corners.
“That should make her a bit faster”
jyas the general opinion, and the flutter-
ing flakes were tramplfed into the already
shining boards. “Nothing like a bit of
candle ...”
Joe’s foot, with one boot neatly slashed
to let his bunion escape into the comfort
of unrestrained black cashmere sock, be-
gan to tap wamingly again, his head
bent in fleeting approbation, and the
dance was on again.
Round they went, with the magic of
Joe’s music ever urging them to faster
tempo, and lifting even the clumsiest feet
into a semblance of timeless rhythm.
Completely breathless, red as a ripe
apple, with perspiration spreading like a
shadow from her armpits across the bright
pink of her dress, Mrs. Schiller was re-
turned to her place. ,
“Oh, my ...” She fanned herself
vigorously with a handkerchief, smiling
now with the wrinkles making a' fine
mesh round her eyfcs.
“Mow’d you get on?” They all pressed
round her, admiring and indulgent.
“Real good. It’s not that long since
I danced. There was Amy’s kitchen tea
only a few weeks ago, and Dad picked
mb up that night.”
She was proud of herself, and refused
to regard it as anything out of the box.
Her youngest daughter-in-law put a fret-
ful baby on her capacious lap.
“There you are. Gran. You hold him
now while I have a dance with Ted.
This is a two-step.”
For the next three dances she held the
baby, who was infuriated by the noise
and lights. When at last she had him
put to sleep, Ted took him away and put
him in the back seat of the car.
The women were starting to gather
round the long tables on the back
verandah. They were talking more than
they were working, hands dived into
baskets and brought forth sponges and
dark-spotted fruit cakes, rainbow and
rock cakes; heads leaned close to other
heads and presumably delved deep into
the intricacies of gallstones or morals —
their own gallstones, other people’s
morals.
It looked friendly and human out there.
Bht Mrs. Schiller, wise in the ways of
her own district, knew that she would
not be allowed to “help with supper” to-
night.
She danced with her son-in-law,
Terence O’Reilly, whose red hair had
been faithfully reproduced, over the flat,
square Schiller faces of his children. And
then she got up, undaunted, to do the
Squares with her husband.
Emil was a smallish man, whose stocky
frame gave no indication of the heavy
labor and prolonged endurance of which
it was capable. He had long arms, dark
thick hair only threaded with silver, a
smooth, oily complexion and full-pouting
red lips. There were no lines on his face.
The flesh was full and firm under the
dark skin.
He held his wife with old-fashioned
stiffness, well away from him, with his
hand holding hers well up and away.
He flung his feet with an air, kicking
them well out behind, and when he
laughed he showed big, square, yellow
teeth, undoubtedly his own, owing to the
gaps between each one.
Joe tired and made signs that his throat
was dry. The school piano was unveiled
and Joe made his exit.
Maggie McDerwent (Margaret Schiller
that was) now had to be coaxed to play.
After a few of the stock protests —she
had none of her “pieces”—she was out
of practice—the piano needed tuning—
she finally succumbed and was led to the
piano seat, on which she revolved daintily
for a few minutes discussing the problem
of music.
A few dog-eared sheets were produced
and Maggie’s back straightened. Her
hands, like the claws of a bird of prey,
rose in the air, ready to pounce.
“S’lect your partnersh for a Barn-
dance,” called Mr. Heriot, who had lost
a lot of his dignity, but acquired quite
a brilliant flush. Maggie’s claws pounced
and another dance was on.
There were a few sly grimaces between
the dancers, Maggie’s music, technically
foolproof, was much less popular than
Joe’s. She played primly, mechanically
and fooled nobody into believing that
her spirit was with the moving feet that
stamped, slid and turned round the school
floor.
Everybody was glad when her numbers
were over. Joe came back, wiping his
mouth and laughing a lot.
HANS RICHTER turned up then,
with his fiddle under his arm. He
was wearing an old flannel shirt and
faded dungarees, but nobody really
minded. He got a cheer when he came
in the doorway, because nobody had
really expected him. Not after what Emil
did to his Aberdeen bull.
But apparently ‘he was willing to let
bygones be bygones—to a certain extent.
Not, obviously, to the point of putting on
a man’s best clothes. But he’d come to
add his contribution to the success of
the evfening, and, unsmilingly, made his
way to Joe’s side. Thereafter the wild,
impromptu wailing of his fiddle lent
power to Joe’s wizardry.
After supper, everybody seemed to be
attracted into groups, as if a number of
magnets had been distributed round- the
room.
Then Councillor Jennings, chairman of
the Narrow Bend Shire Council, took the
floor. He spoke at some length, all about
the early settlement days and what Emil
—and his wife and family—had done
to improve matters.
It seemed odd to the onlookers. Only
last year Jennings and Emil had been at
it hammer and tongs over the cattle-grid
leading on to the main road, Emil had
come to the Council meeting, and hot
words had been thrown from Emil to
Jennings and back again, ending with
Jennings shaking his fist and calling Emil
“a German spy.”
Emil had stopped shouting abruptly.
He’d looked down at his hands, and back
at the long, short, fat, thin, interested
faces of the members of the Council.
Then he’d spread them out, backs
uppermost, on the green serge tablecloth.
The nails were broken, and half an inch
of black dirt lined the tips,
“Australian dirt,” he said slowly.
“Soil from my farm. It’s not very good
soil, but it has given me a living for forty
years. No other place on the river grows
potatoes like mine.
“My youngest son is buried in it al-
ready. My older ones are married to it.
My Rudy lost his health fighting for.it.”
He raised his head, and stared round
him again. Then, violently, he burst out
“You bloody mongrel, Jennings!”
He reached the door in the first im-
petus of his rush. But there he was.
stopped, and with threshing arms and
wildly rolling eyes he was brought back.
They talked him round, calmed him
down, found a compromise on which they
could erect a cattle-grid, and ended by
sharing a bottle of. Bundaberg rum Jen-
nings had under the back seat of his car.
Now he praised Emil in colorful terms.
And when he was done it was time for
the Progress Association to pay its hom-
age. And the school committee and
Christian Young Men’s Society.
Pastor Klein remarked, regretfully,
that Emil would be missed at church.
It occurred to many for the first time
that somebody else would have to take
up the collection now. Jennings, prob-
ably. And the chairman’s face bright-
ened. He’d coveted that small service
for a long time.
Emil and his wife listened to all this
praise. Their sons and daughters locked
proudly self-conscious, but the old couple
didn’t display any emotion. They’d been
to a lot of send-offs in their time and
had heard a lot of the proceedings many
times before.
Then the Pastor handed over the dis-
trict’s token of affection and respect. An
ornate soup tureen filled with pieces of
silver.
EMIL was quite touched. His perfect
command of English broke a trifle,
and he fell into the guttural phrases so
freely used amongst his neighbors. In
returning thanks every second word be-
came a . “yet,” a “but” or an “already.”
Everybody knew that Emma would
never use anything to hold her fine soups
and stews but the blue-enamel piedish,
which she always set in the middle of the
table and from which each diner ladled
his own portion. But it would look
lovely oh the sideboard, beside Reg’s
running cups, and Margaret’s gold mug
with Champion Baby of the Show in-
scribed on its side.
The Schillers’ farewell was turning into
a memorable occasion, no doubt about
that. Little Lorna Hogan presented
Emma with a bunch of red roses, which
Emma handled clumsily in her work-
roughened hands hardly knowing where
to put them.
The O’Reilly twins sang “I’ll Walk
Beside You,” and a lot of women wept
a little, because it was so appropriate, and
now Emma was walking away beside her
spousfe to live in a well-serviced, every
mod. con. house in the suburbs of town.
Johnson gave Emil the ten pounds he
owed for work done years ago. Emil
announced that there was one piece of
linoleum left for sale, at five-fourteen, but
that prospective buyers should come
after dinner as they’d be busy packing in
the morning. All the farm implements
had been sold. And the animals had been
disposed of. Lesters could keep the roan
cow. They’d been milking her now for
over a year, so perhaps they’d forgotten
she was not their own.
There were a few more dances, a game
or two, mostly kissing ones, because that
gave the old buffers a bit of fun in spite
of their spouses’ watchful eyes. Then,
towards morning, it broke up. In ones
and twos, family groups, and romantic
couples began leaving the school. Sleep-
ing children were carried out.
Everybody agreed it had been a
wonderful turnout, and most were of the
opinion that the Schillers would find
things a lot different when they went to
live in town. Mrs. Jennings remarked
that she could do with the linoleum, and
chairman Jennings, changing gears and
backing out the big utility, smiled to him-
self, thinking about taking round the plate
next Sunday. Old Schiller had had the
job long enough, anyway. He thought
he owned the flaming church . ..
“It will be awkward without Mum to
mind the baby,” the youngest Mrs.
Schiller said regretfully to her husband
as they drove homeward. “But it’ll
be a bit of a change going into town to
spend a few days every now and then,”
he pointed out.
Margaret, who’d been slightly better
educated than the others because of her
talent, had no children. But she con-
fided to her husband that she had hopes
of getting “the piano out of Mum and
Dad. What use would it be to them in
town?”
And Terence O’Reilly, slightly drunk,
told his wife that it was the best send-off
Narrow Bend had evfcr given. In one way
it was a good thing they were going—he
could get those big pines from the hills
back of the old homestead before the
new owners took over. They’d never
know the pines had been there. It would
be easy as pie.
And O’Hennessy hoped the new people
would “not bfe so bloody stubborn as
old Schiller, and allow a road to be
cut through the top paddock.”
Young men hoped the new family
would be made up of girls, and young
women hoped there’d be a few boys.
A few of the older people remembered
childbirths when Emma Schiller had
stood by, alone and capable; remem-
bered droughts when Emil’s well had
watered stock for miles around; remem-
bered deaths when the Schillers had
shown sympathy that was real and
active; remembered weddings when the
Schillers’ gift had always been worth
having, and when they’d danced and
laughed and feasted all day and all night.
Then, they sighed, and reflected that
things change, even the Schillers.
EMIL and Emma drove home behind
the sulky horse they had had for
years. They were silent, together in the
world that needs no spoken word for
explanation. Emil smoked placidly,
'“lt will be'furmy at first,” Mrs. Schiller
said, grumpily, but Emil knew what she
said. He was used to that deep-throated
growl of hers. It was a symbol of their
perfect understanding.
“You’ll get used to it, Mumma,” he
said. “No more picking corn, and dig-
ging spuds. You’ve earned a spell.”
“And we can always come and help
the girls out when they’re making sausage.
That’s a job that takes experience.”
She nodded to herself as if satisfied.
The pony’s slow, heavy feet beat out a
jerky rhythm on the soft dirt road. In
the east the sky was faintly pink.
It was funny, thought Emma, holding
the roses tightly, and feeling the tureen
bulky between her body and Emil’s, to
be on the other end of a farewell party.
Shb had helped to organise so many send-
offs for other people. And she had never
thought it. would be quite like this.
She felt a little sad, yet glad to be
done with a lot of things. Looking for-
ward hopefully to the future, but with
regrfet for the past.
Her youngest son, the one who had
been kicked to death by a savage brumby,
was, oddly, very close.
“It’s funny, all right,” she said again,
and Emil grunted, to show his complete
agreement.


A NICE LITTLE NEST OF EGGS
By RODERICK FINCAYSON
MRS. Rooker had a few hundred
left her by her Uncle Bob, who
died wealthy and childless in
Brisbane, where, in the old days,
he had struck a good few lucky “specs.”
Uncle Bob left the rest of his thousands
to a home for cats and dogs. That should
make a name for him.
“Fancy! A home for those brutes!”
said Mrs. Rooker, bulging out of her
plain grey morning dress the day she
fluttered open the lawyer’s letter before
Mr. Rooker.
“But how like him, how good of Uncle
Bob. I must do something with this
money that'he would approve of.”
“Why not take a trip over to Aussie
to see your sister?” said Mr. Rooker.
“Have a good time for once in your life.”
“Oh! That would squander the
money,” said Mrs. Rooker, who, all her
married life, had scraped and saved so
that she and Mr. Rooker had been able
to retire early from their dairyfarm at
Rukuwai and take thinjgs easy r at the
seaside —in civilised surroundings, too.
* ‘VES, Pim,” Mr. Rooker said to his
I wife, “you go over to Sydney. I’ll
look after the place. At my age a man
don’t want globe-trotting. I’ll batch and
be as right as rain.”
“Oh! But what would the Robbing-
hams think of me leaving you alone?
And the trip would be so expensive, even
staying at Mem’s place.”
“Well, what’ll you do with the money?
Let the bloody Gov’ment grab it?”
“I think it would be nicer to refurnish
the front room,” said Mrs. Rooker, “I
never really had anything of my own.
What I’d like for that room will take all
of two hundred or so.”
“Go ahead if that’s what you want,”
said Mr. Rooker. “But when do we ever
have visitors that get beyond the kitchen
door?”
Mrs. Rooker refurnished the front
room and bought a vacuum-cleaner to
do it out with. Then she put up heavy
hangings to keep the sun out.
SHORTLY after this the Rookers had
a visit from the vicar. He usually
called three times a year to assure the
Rookers how he appreciated their splen-
did support. Mrs. Rooker played the
organ when no other player could be
found, and she sat in the choir. Mr.
Rooker sat on the board of vestrymen.
This visit was a little
earlier in .the year than
usual because the vicar
had just heard about
Mrs. Rooker com-
ing into some
money. News like
that gets round
and about. The
women of the
sewing-circle help
that way—and the
vestrymen.
You c a n’t
blame the vicar for hoping for the best
out of this visit. Country churches aren’t
goldmines, and country parsons don’t
have a bean to spare. And there’s always
lots to do.
The Wilkies, for instance, down the old
orchard road. Eleven children so far and
their old man chronically ill. Yes, but
not too crook to crawl round all the
saleyard pubs, said the neighbors. Any-
way, everyone agreed that Mrs. Wilkie
had her hands full.
Mr. and Mrs. Rooker said that it was
a disgrace to the district. The Rookers
jawed over that Wilkie waster for days
on end —until it'made them sick.
Like a Christian the vicar tried to do
something and say nothing—or not too
much. Of course he threw in a little
spiritual advice,
Mr. Wilkie took all the practical help,
and anyway the gentle Jesus stuff never
done a man no harm he reckoned —if
you didn’t argue with them parson blokes.
The vicar had interested the Wilkies’
eldest girl, Rosie, in the Bible-class. If
only he could keep Rosie from going
wrong it would be something. It would
indeed.
AS soon as he saw the new chester-
fields and carpets and tea-tables and
nick-nacks that crowded the stuffy room
the vicar’s heart fell. He surely must be
too late. If only he had got the hint
in time. “No, don’t sit in that hard
chair, take this easy one,” said Mrs.
Rooker, As he felt the cushioned springs
sink under him the vicar wondered could
there be anything left for the Church.
All the same it made a pretty little
party. There was the vicar. He floated
stiffly in the biggest, hottest, bright-green
chesterfield where a little ray of after-
noon sun peeped cheekily through the
dull-green velvet hangings and the dark-
brown lowered blinds.
And there was Mrs. Rooker, well back
out of the light, in her best shiny black
dress with the yellowy crochet collar
above her bulging corsage. She rose
from her sateen seat; her feet, cramped
in tiny shoes, tippered to the tea-wagon.
“Won’t you have another cup? Won’t
you try my sponge?”
And there Mr. Rooker, called in from
pottering about the yard, perched on a
straight chair nearest the door with Mrs.
Rooker giving a glare at his garden boots
when she caught the old boy’s eye.
He was dying for a smoke. He wiped
the sweat from his hard wrinkled brow
beneath the thick strangely neat and
dark hair.
“Ah,” said the vicar, hoping to soften
things, “they can’t keep an old farmer
from honest toil.”
“Oh, I’m still a busy man, you know,”
said Mr, Rooker with a faintly bitter
smile.
“Yes, yes, there’s so much to be seen
to,” said Mrs, Rooker. “And it isn’t as
though we could afford to be lazy, what
with the cost of things and the taxes and
everything. It all comes on me.”
No hope, no hope, thought the vicar.
Then an idea came. “Oh,” he said, “you
need some help in the house now, Mrs.
Rooker.” He looked about the room.
“Don’t you agree, Mrs. Rooker?”
“Just what I always said to Pim,”
Mr. Rooker chipped in.
“Oh! but how would we ever get
help here?” gasped Mrs. Rooker. “And
oh! think of the expense.”
“Well, now,” said the vicar, “I think
I can solve those difficulties. There’s
the young Wilkie girl, Rosie. She’s in
my confirmation class, you know.”
Mrs. Rooker’s eyes went hard. The
vicar became pinker.
“She’s really a good girl. I would
like to find her a nice job in decent sur-
roundings. She would come for quite a
reasonable wage—and live at home. I’m
sure it would suit all concerned.”
The vicar’s crossed foot nearly wagged
itself off during the struggle to land
Rosie safe and happy in these improving
surroundings,
“Well, I don’t know about that,”
said Mrs. Rooker, looking at Mr. Rooker.
“Those Wilkies!”
“Well, Pim, you can only try the
girl,” said Mr. Rooker unexpectedly. “I
must do a spot of work,” he said, going
out feeling for his tobacco tin.
“I’m sure you will both earn a Chris-
tian reward,” said the vicar, beaming. He
felt a great weight lifted from him.
SO Rosie began to work for Mrs.
Rooker. Rosie thought it great.
“Now I’ll have some money to spend
on pretty things,” she said.
It wasn’t easy working for Mrs. Rooker
though. Mrs. Rooker fussed about a
great deal.
“Oh! Don’t do that, Rose.” Or, “Do
it my way, you silly girl.” Or, “Oh!
that’ll never do, Rose^’
In the end Rosie gave up trying to
be helpful. She did only what she was
set to do—uninteresting jobs like wash-
ing the dishes and scrubbing the kitchen
floor. She wasn’t even allowed to do
what she longed to do —run the “vac.”
over the front room.
Mrs. Rooker hobbled here and there
in her broken-down house shoes. She
would come out and catch Rosie in front
of the bit of mirror in the bathroom
dabbing powder on her face. It smelt
like some of Mrs. Rooker’s special even-
ing powder.
One day Rosie had a stub of lipstick.
“Where did you get that, Rose?” Mrs.
Rooker wanted to know. “When I was
a young girl things were very different.”
With her first
few shillings
Wages Rosie be-
gan to buy her-
self lipstick,
make-up, cheap
gaudy frocks and
“jewellery.”
“Oh! That
girl,” Mrs. Rooker
whispered
hoarsely to Mr.
Rooker as she
watched Rosie out
in the yard hanging clothes on the line.
“Do you see her limbs? She’s only
fifteen. And look how she shows her
breasts !”
“Well, it’s nature, ain’t it?” said Mr.
Rooker. “Girls grow that way, don’t
they?”
“Oh!” said Mrs. Rooker.
DOSIE certainly was lively about the
* place. She sang all the latest hits,
and every morning coming into the yard
she said, “Oh, hullo, Mr. Rooker.”
Mr. Rooker began to like this air of
cheeriness. He found it nice to have
little chats with Rosie, too —to tell her
yarns about what a bit of a lad he was
in the old days— not so long ago either,
he said.
Mr. Rooker began to wait for Rosie
on the back steps, rolling cigarettes, when
Mrs. R. was in the front room with
the “vac.”
“You’re a big help, Rosie,” he said.
“Doesn’t Mrs. Rooker dote over all her
lovely new ornaments?” said Rosie.
“Just like they was newborn babies the
way she handles them. Gosh, she’s
lucky!”
, “She always did want to have nice
things,” said Mr, Rooker, eyeing his
cigarette. “But look here, Rosie,” he
spoke up, “this hot weather, take half-
an-hour off and have a swim.”
“Oh, I love swimming,” said Rosie.
“Don’t you? Oh, that is kind of you,
Mr. Rooker.”
One day Mr. Rooker, poking about
the back of the section, came upon a
nest of eggs in the scrub. The old black
Orpington that they called Granny had
just left the nest, cackling softly.
“So this is where you’ve been laying,
you old fraud,” said Mr. Rooker. “Four-
teen eggs!”
He was about to take them home in
his hat when he thought no, Rosie would
like to see them just as they were in the
nest. He went to find her.
She was scrubbing the back verandah
and he was just starting to tell her
about the nest when Mrs. Rooker popped
out, which made him swallow his words,
“Eh? What did you say?” Rosie
shouted above the swish of her scrubbing-
brush.
“What was that?” Mrs. Rooker asked.
“Oh, nothing. Just a bit of dust in
my throat,” said Mr. Rooker.
“Queer noises you make lately,” Mrs.
Rooker sniffed.
Mr. Rooker didn’t get another chance
for days. Whenever he opened his mouth
to tell Rosie about the nest, out of the
house popped Mrs. R.
“I wonder where Old Granny’s laying
these days?” Mrs. Rooker said more than
once.
“Darned if you can tell with them sly
old hens,” said Mr. R.
Mrs. 'Rooker spent her days fussing
over the nick-nacks that no visitor ex-
cept the parson had set eyes on yet. She
shifted them here and there and droned
over them with the “vac.”
Rosie was left to steal more time at
the mirror trying on her make-up.
“Gosh! if a girl grew up to be as
plain as some sheilas. There’s Lizzie
Stevens, Gosh! boys never even look
at her...”
AT last one morning when Mrs. Rooker
was folding linen in her bedroom
Mr. Rooker saw Rosie in her old moth-
eaten swimsuit ready to run down to
the beach for a dip before setting the
table for lunch.
Mr. Rooker shouted softly, “Hi! Come
on down the bush, Rosie. Got some-
thing to show you.”
“What?” said Rosie.
“A nice little nest of eggs,” said Mr,
Rooker.
“Oh, go on!”
“You never saw such a nest of eggs
in your life. They’re worth looking at,”
said Mr. Rooker. “Come and see.”
“Right-oh,” Rosie said. “If it don’t
take too long.”
Mr. Rooker began to lead the way
through the scrub at the back. He pulled
branches carefully aside for the girl, look-
ing back as he did so and telling her to
watch out for the blackberries.
He didn’t realise it but he commenced
to go on tiptoe as though in secret. He
caught himself talking to Rosie in hoarse
whispers. The girl hushed her voice,
too.
“Where?” she whispered. “Do you see
the nest yet?”
They tiptoed through the manuka
scrub, they crept past the arum - lily
clumps by the drain, and they came to
the foot of a cabbage-tree. There Mr.
Rooker cautiously pulled aside a tangle
of morning-glory vines. With a screech
and a flapping of angry black wings out
half-rushed, half-flew the old Orpington
hen. -
“Oh my!” said Rosie.
The hen scurried away through leafy
tunnels in the undergrowth. She cackled
loud and shrill.
“Blast the hen,” Mr. Rooker muttered.
“She never did that on me before.”
But there was the nest, neatly and cosily
made of straws, filled with fourteen lovely
brown eggs. Rosie sat down to pat
them. They were so nice and warm and
round and eggshell-smooth with some
little fluffy black feathers sticking to
them.
What a pretty picture, thought Mr.
Rooker, bending forward happily holding
aside the curtain of creepers: the nestful
of plump brown eggs and leaning over
them the plumply round girl.
Her swimsuit was
a light faded blue
and Her pink skin
showed here and
there through the
moth - holes. Her
corn - colored hair
blew from under her
big yellow sunhat,
and everything was
mottled by the little bright spots of sun-
light flickering through the tree-tops.
Mr. Rooker was pleased with himself
for bringing Rosie to see the nest. She
was so eager and interested in every-
thing. It made a man feel appreciated.
Indeed, it made Mr. Rooker feel quite
young and gay.
Suddenly he dropped to his knees be-
side the girl.
“Come on, Rosie, give us a big kiss,”
he said, and he tried to give her a hug.
“Oh, go on!” said Rosie, who’d had
eyes only for the eggs, and she gave Mr.
Rooker a good shove and jumped to
her feet, so that Mr. Rooker toppled for-
ward pn to the nest of eggs with his
hands flat on the eggs instead of around
Rosie.
What a sticky mess! The eggs weren’t
fresh either. Rosie began to giggle. But
what made her stop and stare was what
had happened to Mr. Rooker’s head.
At first it gave her a shock, for his hat
had fallen off and his whole head of hair
had slipped over one eye. The other side
of Mr. Rooker’s skull was raw-pink and
bald. Then she gave a gasp and giggled
again.
She left him there wiping his hands
on the dry grass before he could attempt
(Continued on page 32.)
Pitt-street Statue.
ŧ
N.s.w,
NANCY KEESING.


tIRED FEET?
Hot. tired feet need
this treatment
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
it and enjoy real foot.
comfort. Cuticura
Ointment. €oap and
Talcum Powder—
the famous
trio.
532
The ’’MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
r P ret ?ision workshop, the
MARS Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. All essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - - all gear teeth are generated.
t
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.-Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd ;
Victoria— Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne ;
Q’IiAND-Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W.A.-The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth; TASMANIA-Charles Davies,
Ltd., Hobart; N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd., Auckland;
Calcutta— Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.; Bombay
Province— R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay; Hongkong
and Shanghai— The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
ţ
I
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Qld. op
‘Meehanite"
TALS
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO..
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CARDBOARD COLOSSUS.
Whoops may be recalled resounding
round the world when Uncle Sam, in the
full flush of his lend-leasing exuberance,
uprooted an entire huge tyre-factory
plant and shipped the whole caboodle to
Russia. Enthusiasts hailed it as a war-
winning stroke, coupled with the V for
Victory sign and the magic name of
dandelions.
The dandelions were to produce the
juice to make the rubber to make the
tyres—if any.
There was no reported failure of the
dandelion crop. But there were no tyres.
There are still no tyres.
The whole fantastic story, straight out
of the old farcical Keystone-comedy
tradition, has now been told in America
in what has been welcomed as “one of
the first genuine ‘inside the war’ books
to appear” —The Strange Alliance, by
Major-General John R. Deane, who com-
manded the U.S. Military Mission in
Moscow from 1943 to 1945. The book
is hardly likely to allay Uncle Sam’s
already rueful enough thoughts about
many aspects —especially the Soviet aspect
—of lend-leasing, but it should help to
correct the somewhat overpainted picture
of the Soviet Colossus.
Plucking the Eagle
General Deane suggests that Soviet
Foreign Trade Commissar A. I. Mikoyan
couldn’t really be blamed for modestly
requesting such a lend-lease item as an
entire huge factory-plant. It was open
season for plucking the American Eagle ;
the Commissar knew “the U.S. attitude
was to approve such requests if at all
possible under the lend-lease law”; and
everything, from bootlaces to bulldozers,
ran to astronomical figures in that one-
way you-give-and-we-take alliance.
As an example of the scale of it the
“Saturday Evening Post” has told how
once “the Russians tried to requisition
70,000 pairs of working gloves for a single
fishing boat carrying a crew of 30 or
40 men.” By all accounts, the only
wonder about this would be if they didn’t
get them.
General Deane mentions, among many
other examples, a Russian list requesting
delivery of 25,000 tons of canned meat:
“We told them that canned meat was not
available but offered to substitute meat
and vegetable hash or stew. This offer
was flatly rejected. Three months later,
however, the Soviet Government decided
to accept the substitution. By that time
it was impossible to assemble 25,000 tons
of canned hash or stew.”
Anyone who can imagine 25,000 tons
of stew will easily accept General Deane’s
comment that the huge tyre concern was
merely “one item typical of many others.”
He gives this account of the tyre affair:
The machinery and equipment were taken
from the Ford Company’s River Rouge plant
near Detroit. The project was to cost $6,000,000,-
and it was expected to produce 1,000,000 tyres
per year from Russian natural and synthetic
rubber, thus relieving us of the need to deplete
our own critically short supply.
Initial procurement of the plant began in
November, 1942, and a year later’ all the
machinery at the Ford Company had been dis-
mantled and shipped. Of the equipment needed
to suppjement the Ford plant, 90 per cent, had
been shipped to Russia by November, 194'3,
and the remainder, including a power plant,
was shipped to Russia by November, 1944.
The project was abortive from its conception.
Twice during the preliminary negotiations the
Soviet representatives changed their plans for
the budding which was to house the plant, each
change” necessitating a change in plant design.
Requests for additional plant equipment con-
tinued to flow to the U.S. until the original
cost was raised from $6,000,000 to a new total
of $10,000,000.
In February, 1944, General Sidney Spalding,
who headed our supply division, arranged to
have some American engineers come to Moscow
in order to give advice concerning the plant’s
installation. The American engineers waited
lor lu days after arriving before they were
given authority to visit the plant. When they
did report,-they found they were faced with
great difficulty because of the changes in build-
ing design, lack of blueprints and other technical
data. Much of the equipment required in the
first stages of construction was not present.
Hundreds of boxes were piled in a storage yard
with no attention paid to markings. Such
warnings as “This Side Up” or “For Inside
Storage Only” were completely ignored. Boxes
were broken, equipment damaged and every-
thing covered wtih rust and corrosion.
Although the American engineers were there
to help get the plant into operation, the Rus-
sians would not tell them their plans, refused
to consult them or to accept their advice. The
Russians told them that the work was progres-
sing according to plan and that the Americans
need not concern themselves. Finally, all the
Americans save one became disgusted with the
lack of progress, their own inactivity and frus-
tration, and returned to the U.S.
In June, 1945, nearly three years after the
project was started and after innumerable post-
ponements of the date for completion, the
buildings were finished and most of the equip-
— N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
"NOW JUST WATCH THE LITTLE BIRDIE!”
ment installed, but none of the utilities, such
as water, steam, compressed air or electricity,
was provided for. When my Military Mission
was closed in October, 1945, the plant had still
not gone into production nor was there any
prospect of its doing so. Because of changes
made by the Russians, the plant will never
operate at more than 70 per cent, of designed
capacity, as opposed to River Rouge operation
of 115 per cent.
General Deane concludes his tyre-
factory story with this observation:
“Whenever I am asked how long it will
take the Russians to produce an atomic
bomb, I think first of the vast American
plants at Oak Ridge and elsewhere and
then of the way the Russians set up a
tyre plant which was already designed,
built and ready for installation. When
I hear how long it is before the first
tyre rolls out of the Moscow plant, I
shall have some basis for guessing at an
answer.”
The Bluff Called
On that and other similar exposures
there would seem to be considerable flaws
in the Colossus, an increasingly wide-
spread view put in more racy Americanese
by a columnist, Billy Rose, of the dis-
tinctly Left publication “PM”:
I keep reading about the great things they’re
accomplishing behind the Urals. Why do they
always do their best work where nobody can
see it? Why are they so afraid to let the
critics take a peek at it? Could it be that it
isn’t such a good show?
During the war America came up with a
dozen things like radar, the Norden Bomb
Sight, and D.D.T. The British chipped in with
oil pipelines under the Channel, artificial har-
bors, and anti-submarine echo-ranging gear.
The Germans nearly stole the war with buzz
bombs, V2’s and jet planes.
What single important hew weapon did the
Russians think up in five years of warfare?
And why didn’t they?
I’ll tell you why. To make machines work
it takes a race of people who are weaned on
gasoline and teethed on piston rings. It takes
a bunch of kids who worship the pliers and
the screwdriver rather than the hammer and
sickle. And that’s us—not them.
Compared with our mechanical savvy, Rus-
sian industry is still the green kid around the
shop who spends his first day looking for a
left-handed monkey wrench.
Rose —he would be overclaiming on
radar—concluded: “Don’t go telling me
they’re going to drop an atom bomb on
my home. They’ll first have to learn the
difference between bortsch and lubricat-
ing oil.”
Straws in the wind influencing the view
that the Soviet Colossus is far from per-
fect include such happenings as the re-
claiming by Persia (Iran) of its northern
province of Azerbaijan from the Soviet
puppet regime, which has been given the
very high assessment by “Christian
Science Monitor” Washington correspon-
dent Joseph C. Harsch of being likely to
“go down in history as the great turning
point of events in the post-war world.”
Giving details' of how the Persian
action was taken despite practical cold-
shouldering by both U.S. and Britain
—both U.S. and British Ambassadors in
Tehran would seem to have been scared
stiff of saying a word that might offend
Russia—and in the face of vociferous
Soviet warning conveyed directly by the
Soviet Ambassador at Tehran, Harsch
describes what happened as “the story
of a small country taking its own affairs
into its own hands, by itself, without en-
couragement and in spite of strong dis-
couragement.”
That is, for the first time since the
appeasing of Russia started the Soviet
bluff was called. In view of the result,
Harsch concludes that “Russia puts a
higher value on keeping the peace, at
this time, than it did on its power-posi-
tion in Iran. ’ The power-position without
any question suffered a setback.” The
Soviet left its puppet representatives to
their fate, and the small Power calling
the bluff had a practical walkover.
Famine and Purge
Other signs of Soviet weakness that
have been noted have included the strong
evidence breaking through despite the
curtain” that what Washington
' P° s t” called “a purge of some propor-
tions” happened earlier this year. The
“Post” reported:
The Soviet press has been making new attacks
against the “Kulaks,” accusing them of with-
holding deliveries of grain due to the State, and
asserting that they have been abetted in these
frauds by corrupt officials of the agricultural
bureaucracy, who falsely certified the grain as
delivered. Similar charges of bureaucratic fraud
have been made in connection with other
industries.
The purge of peasants was linked by
the Washington “Post” to “a famine in
southern Russia surpassing even the
dreadful famine of 1921.” Referring to
Britain’s current troubles, the civil war
in China and France’s weakness, the
paper commented;
It is our firm belief that there is little to
distinguish between the weakness of Russia
and the weakness of our other allies. In other
words we [United States] are the only Titan
in the modern world.
A London “Times” special correspon-
dent, writing recently on the Soviet re-
construction troubles, referred to a reso-
lution of the central committee on agri-
culture; —
The resolution refers again to the need for
eliminating “violations of the statute on agri-
cultural cartels” and “shortcomings in the
organisation of collective farms.” What lies
behind these carefully studied phrases is the
thoroughgoing destruction by the German in-
vader wherever he penetrated, not merely of
the material equipment of the farmer, but of
the whole collective farm system. All over the
Ukraine, still the main granary of the Soviet
Union, and in the most fertile regions of the
Yolga, the land has had to be reclaimed, fer-
tilisers supplied, houses rebuilt, population re-
settled and the collective system re-established
—not without opposition, active and passive,
from stubborn peasant individualism.
As well, the “Times” special corres-
pondent declared that “the bulk of Soviet
agriculture still works at so primitive a
level that a far larger output could easily
be obtained, given skilled men and effi-
cient machines, from a far smaller labor
force.”
Also on the finding of flaws in the
Colossus, Paul Mallon, Washington cor-
respondent of N.Y. “Journal-American”
—a paper which always keeps a very
close watch on Russian doings—recently
strongly discounted the notion of “the
trend of Washington affairs, particularly
the increasing prominence given military
leadership, as meaning there will be war
with Russia.” Mallon argued that there
could be no early war: “Russia has no-
thing much. Her home situation, which
she keeps from our people by the most
rigid isolationist military censorship,
shows she cannot efficiently operate a
peace economy to meet the needs of her
own people.” Also;
Best available military information suggests
Russia has no bombing plane fleet (she never
had one during the war). She has no navy*. As
a matter of fact, she had only one plane in
quantity which was effective, the “Stormovik,”
and one gun of importance, and, of course, an
unlimited man supply which she used to absorb
the opposition fire-power.
In Mallori’s view, Russia, “in all re-
spects except one an inferior nation” (his
exception being world politics), has been
able to achieve even that exception only
because of “our initial conception, of
winning the peace by appeasements,”
which “has led us into a somewhat exag-
gerated notion of Russia’s importance to
the world.”
Bizarre Lend-leasing
Mallon adds an interesting interpreta-
tion of the Roosevelt attitude towards
Russia, which, if accurate, provides some
explanation of all the fantastic lend-
leasing :
The theory of the Roosevelt Administration
was that Russia would fall under her own
weight in the pea'ce no matter how much was
given her or how much we tried to make her
a world peace participant. That was the secret
Roosevelt theory, but it was poorly administered
to accomplish the desired result.
Certainly some such “theory” seems


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
The Largest '
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owner*' and Householders',
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf
ua
<
ui
i
3
*
- *>
*N IVNOSBBd BOd A3NOW SUN3I MNVB 1* *
RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS*
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL RANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
For 58 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forma a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
called for to offset the very rueful lend-
lease accounting that continues to figure
largely in the American press. One such
accounting in the “Saturday Evening
Post” begins: “The story of lend-lease.
aid to the Russians is replete with bizarre
and cockeyed episodes which are lacking
from our dealings with countries more
sophisticated in international manners, as
well as in arithnietic.” Some figures from
the account:—r
In spite of the U.S.S.R. policy of making
it as difficult as possible to aid her, we (U.b.J
did manage to hand over ships, tanks, planes,
guns food and other items, the accumulated
value of which, as of November 18, 1946, was
$ll 266 642,270.26. Translated into materials,
this’ enormous sum breaks down to 450,uun
motor vehicles, more than 12,000 airplanes,
11.000. pairs of army boots, 29,000 motor-
cycles. 135,000 machine-guns, 6000 tanks,
2.120.000 tons of steel, 1,300,000 .tons of
petroleum products, 638,000 tons ot industrial
chemicals, 97,000,000 yards of cotton cloth,
50.000. yards of woollen cloth, and 733,0UU
tons of non-ferrous metals.
Steel, locomotives, industrial equipment ot all
sorts flowed to Russia in a continuous stream
long after military reasons for such largess had
expired. This American material is presumably
still there, helping along with the achievement
of the Five Year Plan and the subjugation ot
Russia’s neighbors. The value of the material
capable of non-military use has been broken
down to $1,152,214,000 in vehicles and parts;
$2,504,276,000 in machinery and parts; $688,-
502.000 in ships and parts; and $1,339,270,000
miscellaneous.
Even Uncle Sam, undoubted Colossus
though he is, has to scratch his head and
think about all that vast outpouring. But
one question surely crops out from it
touching on the authenticity of the Soviet
Colossus: Without that vast aid —to say
nothing of the enormous aid provided
similarly by Britain —how would the
Colossus of the Steppes have fared?
It seems a reasonable question. And
a comment by one of the writers here
quoted, Paul Mallon, reads like an appro-
priate summing-up of the present posi-
tion; “Russia’s real power is political
braggadocio in a timid world.”
CROWDED GERMANY.
in a rather remarkable paper sub-
mitted at the Moscow palaver, French
delegate M. Bidault, pointing out that
“A Germany with an unbalanced popu-
lation would always provide a latent
danger of war if the population found
difficulties of living on the available
territory,” backed the point up with some
figures;
The census of October, 1946, showed a
German population of 66,000,000 with a
density of 185 persons to the square kilo-
metre or 40 persons more to the square
kilometre than on the eve of the war.
Of the 66,000,000 a total of 4,500,000 had
been transferred from Czechoslovakia,
Hungary and Poland on the basis of the
Potsdam decisions. In addition 2,000,000
prisoners-of-war and an unknown number
of German refugees, for example, from
Denmark, were still to come. The total
population would be about 70,000,000, or
196 persons to the square kilometre. To
this must be compared the French density
of 75 persons to the square kilometre and
the Polish 62. Except for Holland and
Belgium, Germany had a much greater
density of population than the countries
surrounding her.
One solution M. Bidault tendered was
that “emigration of Germans should be
encouraged” and he intimated willingness
to take Germans for settlement and work
in France.
Apropos, by agreement signed in Rome
in March, 200,000 Italian workers are to
go to France this year at the rate of
some 17,000 a month, about 30,000 for
the mines, 70,000 for the farms and
the rest for building and other trades.
COMRADES NORTH.
Australians are well enough aware of
their Commonwealth “Government’s”
abdication of responsibility for foreign
policy in regard to the looming ends of
Asia to the north. As all know, the
“Government,” to the present shame and
certain future danger of the country, has
allowed its “policy” up there to be dic-
tated by “comrades” of the wharves dic-
tated to by Communist The
money cost alone was stated by Indo-
nesian trade expert John de la Valette
on April 15 to amount already
£30,000,000 of trade Australia has lost
in one year.
Incredible as this would be of any
other country on earth, it might not last
even under Canberra incompetence and
cowardice if more of the reports of the
northern comrades’ doings which are
published overseas were given due space
in cable columns,
London “Times” could have provided
a c b o i ce paragraph or two contained in
a special-correspondent report on an out-
break of rioting up there. Commenting
on-a batch "of 60 of the rioters having
been given six-months jail, the corres-
S pendent pointed out that this did not get
to the root of the trouble, since the rioters
“ were but the tools, and the unwilling
too j s t tbat Q f Chinese agitators of the
Malayan Communist party.”
It can’t be said that the Australian
tools—Government and other—show any
• fb j unwilling : nor should they
be subject £ what lie’ “Times" cones-
pondent blamed as the real driving force.
ybe correspondent was not dealing with
, «T nd „ rnp ,„;„ n ” but the root
the indernesian comrades, but me root
cause he mentions operates all round the
Asiatic fringe and beyond;
The root of the trouble can be summed up
in one word, intimidation, and it dominates
the economid life of Malaya just now. Workers
-Chicago "Daily News.”
GUIDING LIGHT.
are intimidated into striking. Asiatic property
owners are intimidated into paying sums which
go to the pockets of individuals or the coffers
of parties. Witnesses, if the police try to nail
down cases of intimidation, are intimidated
into silence. Asiatics, especially Chinese, are
easily intimidated. It is only necessary for
a scoundrel to say, “If you do not do this
something will happen to you or your family,”
and he will be obeyed. Nor have all the threats
been empty, as the number of murders and
more kidnappings and assaults testify.
The correspondent went on to say that
“many Asiatics are contrasting the fear-
laden atmosphere of today with the com-
parative security of life and property
which prevailed during the Japanese
regime.” He added that, though it was
not possible for the present Administra-
tion to employ “the summary, although
effective, methods of the Japanese,” the
bulk of the people are looking to the
Government to take the initiative in
restoring order:
While some of the intimidation can be laid
at the door of gangsters operating on their own,
and secret societies which specialise in ex-
tortion and “protection,” there is no shadow
of doubt that the greater nart of it can be
traced to the Malayan Communist party and
the numerous organisations through which it is
working. The idea which certain liberal-
minded British had in the early days of the
re-occupation, that the British would be able
to continue co-operating wiui those Left-wing
groups which had given them useful help
during the war, has long since been shattered.
Shifting the scene a little, further choice
information on Asiatic “comrades” could
have been provided by a N.Y. “Times”
special correspondent’s report from
French Indo-China, Noting other restra-
blances between the Japs and the Viet
Namesfc (the local variety of “our Inder-
nesian comrades”), the correspondent re-
ported :
We know that the fate of a Frenchman who
falls into their (Viet Namese] hands alive is
not happy. Authenticated atrocities in Tongking
reveal an unbridled barbarity and a frequently
astounding virtuosity in the art of torture.
The Viet Namese visit equally terrible punish-
ment on their own people who are suspected
of treason. In the gutted village of Bachmai,
near Hanoi, two Viet Namese youths hardly
more than boys were discovered nearly be-
headed in a ruined house. A young girl of
part French blood was found in another village
with her wrists tied above her head and the
upper part of her face a delicate cross-hatch
of skilful cuts that finally killed her. In her
agony she had driven one foot from the ankle
deep into the hard earth floor.
The Viet Namese imagination goes beyond
mere crude mutilation, which is commonly
visited upon captured French soldiers and
civilians alike. One French soldier was found
dead showing no marks of a lethal weapon
but with his face contorted as if in the ex-
tremities of pain. The only sign of mistreat-
ment was a small incision on one wrist. Sur-
geons concluded that his torturers through this
cut had played upon a sensitive nerve until
death came.
No doubt the Viet Namese, like the
Malayan. Communists and “our Inder-
nesian comrades,” needed no instruction
from thb Japs in the sort of warfare at
which everyone is duly horrified when it's
reported of the Japs in the war-crimes
trials ; but it becomes more and more
evident all round the Asiatic fringe above
Australia that the Communist drive up
there, which the “Government” at Can-
berra supports by default, could one
day change its direction, ItYvill not lack
numbers.
Meanwhile, Australia could do with
more such factual reports as those here
quoted. Even the abject in Canberra, if
they read enough of them, might dredge
up from somewhere the courage to take
over policy from “our Indernesian com-
rades’ ” Australian apes.
BRITAIN YET.
A London correspondent of N.Y.
“Sun” has commented that while “lots of
Americans are playing the slow funeral
march for Britain, oddly enough you
can’t get the patient to anticipate any
funeral.”
The currently fashionable American
pronouncement “Britain is a goner” is
“challenged by British public opinion of
all classes.”
“Perhaps the only Britons who believe
this kingdom is on the way out,” the
correspondent reports, “are the Com-
munists. They are in their element right
now, saying whatever happens Britain
will have to join up with Soviet Russia.
They have glorious pipe dreams of
Britain as an outpost of Moscow, with
themselves as commissars for various dis-
tricts.”
A letter-writer in a recent London
“Times” quoted the following from a
“Saturday Evening Post” article entitled
“How Britain Muddles Through”;
Britain bends, but never breaks. Weather-
ing storms is one of the best things she
. does. Eight or nine centuries of catch-as-
catch-can have made her an adept in faffing
on her feet. Today she is not only re-
covering from the greatest war in history
but is at the same time paying the penalty,
for having been too slow to discaid her
outworn social and economic systems....
Even had there been no World War, England
would still have been subjected to the rend-
ing strains of major social readjustments.
Many thoughtful Englishmen regard the
future of their country with gloomy fore-
bodings. Even though the coal strike has
petered out and the outlook for trade and
industry is distinctly brighter, their horizon
is peopled with hostile shapes. The best
they can hope is that their country will
somehow muddle through. We cannot
share this common pessimism; nor yet do
we believe that she will muddle through in
the sense that she will blindly stagger to
safety through a Slough of Despond. AH
history teacnes us that when Englishmen are
said to have muddled through the crises of
the past they have actually hacked their
way through by grit and.courage, superior
headwork, and sturdiness of character.
Much as Britain has suffered materially,
she has not been bereft of these priceless
advantages. They will serve her in the
future no less effectually than they have
served her in the past.
The quotation is made all the more
telling by the fact that the article it is
from was not published in the “Saturday
Evening Post” yesterday but twenty years
ago!
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Graceful War Act. —There were so few of
them, and so ffiuch of the very opposite, that
any civilised act in the war does something
to uphold faith in humanity. One such act
concerns the British military cemetery at
Messina, founded during the Napoleonic wars,
since then the burial place of “members of
most families of foreign origin who played an
important part in the life of the city for more
than a century.” In the late war the site was
needed for defence purposes by the Italians,
who, selecting q beautiful site up on the hills
and appointing a custodian specially to super-
vise the transfer, moved the whole cemetery
with its 280-odd monuments to the new
situation. Before the war the cemetery was
controlled by a British board; its present
chairman, A. H. Bennett, after a recent Visit,
said he felt that “this work, involving con-
siderable labor and expense, done in time of
war and without the presence or knowledge of
those most deeply interested, is a graceful
action by the Italian authorities and deserves
recognition and gratitude.”
<F * * *
Anti-Semitism. —A report given here a few
weeks back, based on statements by an Ameri-
can rabbi and another American Jewish leader
on the very widespread anti-Semitism they had
noted as surviving Hitler in Europe, has since
been supplemented by a N.Y. “Times” staff
correspondent’s report from Czechoslovakia:
“The Czechoslovak Government, embarked on
a programme of expelling all Germans and
Hungarians from the country, is likewise press-
ing down on the Jews who survived the Hitler
massacres, in an obvious effort to induce them
to leave by making it impossible for them to
make a living.” The Czecho Government is
confiscating tire Jews’ property, either by re-
fusing to restore it to them or, in the case of
industrial establishments, handing the property
over to Corn.-cohtrolled groups. “The Czecho-
slovak system,” comments N.Y. “Times,” “is
repeated in one form or another thrdughout
Eastern Europe.” Like the others .making
similar reports, the paper does not attempt to
explain why this should be outlasting Hitler.
* * * *
Atom Secrets. —An important point on the
sharing of atomic secrets made by “United States
News” is that even if the Russian U.N.O.
delegation were now to somersault on the block-
ing tactics hitherto employed, it would still
remain for Congress to pass any sharing there
would be and on what terms. The terms would
certainly be on the very strictest lines that
could be contrived, though, in view of all aspects
of the Soviet problem, it is very doubtful if
Congress would now say yes in any circum-
stances. “United States News” has reported
Maj.-Gen. Groves, head of U.S. Army officers
dealing with atomic energy, as having “told
Senators in confidence that no real secrets have
been given to the members of the Atomic
Energy Commission... .The atomic secrets he
in the industrial know-how of manufacture and
not in the methods or theory of atom splitting.”
* * * *
U.S. Business With Germany.-— Shops and
stores in the U.S. are expected by “World Re-
port” to be soon carrying goods labelled
“Made in Germany.” The U.S. Army authori-
ties in their occupation zone have out the
“welcome mat” to American businessmen, who,
with trade representatives of other countries, are
being given “every possible aid under the U.S.
Army’s export policy.” Objective for this year
is an export of $100,000,000-worth of German
goods.


0$
VO-
-
h*j 0 to*
o «** K
FOR THE VICTORS
but nothing
FOR THE VOTERS
i/m l/M \rzr 1/ u ijM (/ m
<o *q ■a
In the entire history of Australia, there
have been no more flagrant examples of
spoils for the victor than those practised
by the Labor Party during the last twelve
months. Appointment after appointment
has been handed out with complete dis-
regard for ability, and with callous indiffer-
ence to the principle of preference to
returned soldiers. The only qualification
required has been membership of the Labor
Party, with preference to ex-members of
Parliament.
A golden age for defeated politicians . . .
but for the people there has been nothing
except an endless succession of controls,
shortages and strikes.
.
The Hon. VERNON TREAT!
M.M., K.C., M.L.A.
The Man you Can Trust
Liberal Party Policy
is to appoint the
best man for the job
WITH PREFEREN TO
EX-SERVICEMEN
The Liberal Party will choose men
for their capabilities alone, and
will at all times carry out its
obligations under the preference
to ex-servicemen's act.
The Liberal Party , under the able
leadership of the HON. VERNON
TREATT, M.M., K.C., M.L.A.,
is the only choice for electors who
have had enough of Labor ineffici-
ency and muddling and policy of
“Spoils for the Victor. ”
CHANGE THE GOVERNMENT
Authorised by
R. Burton, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
LP.7.FP


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3507
Wednesday, April 30, 1947
“THEY’LL ALL HAVE A RIDE ON JUMBO”—AS FAR AS THE POLLING BOOTH.


The Bulltin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide ‘Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
TURN THE RABBLES OUT!
The beginning of an article here pub-
lished nine weeks ago:
With the Commonwealth Parliament open
for Business again, as business is conducted
there, and with four States, possibly five,
soon to have Assembly elections, it is
necessary for Australians to consider deeply
how they have fared and are faring under
the parties they have placed in office, and
where the nation is going.
During the nine weeks a great many
things have happened, all bringing un-
mistakable signs that public opinion, so
indulgent to “Labor” during the Japanese
war years and the first post-war twelve-
month (though not then in Queensland,
judging by the Commonwealth election
results there), has swung hard against the
whole “Labor”-Communist outfit.
It would almost seem that a great many
people, among tfcem trade-unionists and
their womenfolk, decided to give “Labor”
eighteen months after the Jap surrender
to fulfil its promises and make its claims
good. Eighteen months to set the wheels
of civil industry and transport moving
again, to attend energetically to the re-
employment, housing and land-settlement
of servicemen, to get rid of the terrific
war taxes and place taxation on a fair
basis, to free the housewife from the
burdens which have converted her into
a white gin, to care for the sick in hos-
pitals properly staffed and equipped, and,
above all, to govern; to govern as a
spirited and generous people expect and
want to be governed. The probationary
period over and nothing constructive to
show for it, only inertia, extortion,
Tammanyism, continued “controls” (with-
out any relief from blackmarkets) and
spreading chaos in the industrial and trans-
port fields—consequence of a cowardly
surrender to the Communist conspiracy
and of the permitted excesses of
“moderates” in the union hierarchy who
are under “Labor” patronage and protec-
tion —the period of indulgence closed.
Straightway indulgence was succeeded
by a grim determination to get even with
“Labor” wherever and whenever the
opportunity occurred.
All unconscious of this feeling the
Prime Minister blithely anticipated a
State-election'victory in South Australia.
Remembering' that his party’s Senate
ticket had prevailed there in 1943 (when
only Mr. Archie Cameron, M.H.R., sur-
vived the rout) and also in- 1946,
and remembering that “Labor”-leader
Richards needed only a gain of three
seats to dish the Playford Ministry, Mr.
Chiflev counselled Mr. Richards to
“complete the chain” of “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernments” hung round Australia’s neck.
South Australia stubbornly refused him
the missing link. When all the votes were
in “Labor” had been reduced to 13 mem-
bers, a mere third of the House, and all
the 13 had suffered reduced majorities,
one just scraping in. It was 1917 and
1932 over again.
Worse was to come a week later in
Westralia, where the 1943 and 1946
Federal elections went “Labor’s” way so
decisively that no opponent was elected
in 1943 and only one last year, and where
State “Labor” had been in office for 20
years since 1924.
Indeed “Labor” entered upon the elec-
tion campaign with all the advan-
tages. Leaving Independents out of
account, it could retain office with the loss
of three seats —there are 50 —and 15 of its
29 members were returned unopposed.
The electoral boundaries, unaltered since
“Labor’s” return to the Treasury benches
in 1933, favored it so greatly that it could
have hung on with small voting majorities
in 26 constituencies, five of them pocket-
boroughs, with a total adult population of
60,000 or so, whereas the Opposition,
divided into two groups, had to win four
electorates with a total adult population
of 60,000 or so to have a chance. But
the Opposition won the four electorates,
Nedlands, Canning, Mt. Hawthorn (held
for many years by a “Labor” Minister,
in 1944 by a 2-to-l majority) and Middle
Swan, and with them the ports of Bun-
bury and Geraldton, and only the re-
turning officer’s casting vote in Pilbara
saved “Labor” from losing seven seats as
well as office.
For quarter of a century it was incon-
ceivable that “Labor” could be unseated
in Bunbury and Geraldton, which was
ex-Premier Willcock’s stamping ground
for 30 years, during ten of which he was
Premier. The defeat in each constituency
must have been brought about by a con-
siderable transfer of the votes of wage-
earners and their womenfolk, and this
must have been the case also in other
city and country electorates, not only in
Westralia (where the metropolitan coun-
cil of the A.L.P. is “disciplining” a Shop
Assistants’ union delegate for supporting
a Liberal) but in South Australia. Em-
phatically a bitter pill for “Labor” to
chew.
It is now the turn of the “ ‘Labor’
Governments” and parties in N. S. Wales
and Queensland ; and the doom of their
companions in Victoria, which has been
reduced to the condition of a State under
siege by internal enemies unresisted by
either “ ‘Labor’ Government,” cannot be
long delayed. Sentence on this Melbourne
crowd has been deferred by the vote of
an Independent, but it is now in its second
year of office with ignominy, and when
forced to go to the country it will get no
mercy from an outraged and humiliated
people.
Its congeners in the other two main-
land States should be in a favorable posi-
tion. Both sets of “Labor” politicians
have large majorities, and during the
war years they had little to do and lots
of money to sock away, the money being
provided by the Commonwealth “Gov-
ernment.” That “Government” took
upon itself the burden of child-
endowment and widows’-pensions legis-
lation and payments, gave the N.S.W.
and Queensland “Governments” in-
ordinate shares of the uniform-
income-tax revenue this on the irra-
tional ground that they had imposed
higher taxes than the taxes imposed in
other States —and let them profiteer on
the transport and feeding of servicemen,
Australians and Americans, profiteering
evidenced in bloated railway receipts, to
which there was no counterpart in any
other State, three of which had the cus 1
tomary annual railway lossfcs. As well as
income tax, coal, sugar, potatoes, intra-
state sea transport and a lot of other
things with which State Parliaments nor-
mally have to deal became “Federal
matters.”
From the beginning of 1944 these
State “Labor” politicians wfere in a posi-
tion to concentrate on preparations for
the post-war period: on housing and
schools; on hospitals, their staffing and
equipment; on wheeled transport and de-
centralisation of, industry ; on the aboli-
tion of “zoning” and the restoration of
home-dejiveries, and on the eradication
of the local varieties of black-
marketeers. How they fell down on these
jobs is known to all the servicemen from
their States, who returned full of hope
and were reduced to cynicism and
despair, and to every civilian not doped
by party propaganda or blinded by party
bias.
“Because of strikes,” Mr. Fadden said
last week, speaking at Goulburn for the
Lib.-C.P. candidate, people in N. S.
Wales “have at one time or another been
denied meat, bread, car tyres, newspapers,
hospital attention, theatrical entertain-
ment, cigarettes, potatoes, beer, buses,
trams and trains, coke for stoves, hot
baths, gas and electricity.” The one
thing wrong with this appalling catalogue
is its incompleteness: soap, salt, sugar,
bacon, stock medicines, tools, coal, spare
parts, galvanised-iron, fencing materials,
fodder (a wheat ship from Victoria was
held up in Sydney for a month) and many
other things could be added. Queensland
has a long list of its own, in part the
result of a Communist-inspired Waterside
Workers’ Federation war on shipping,
particularly in northern ports. And unless
these “Governments” are sent about their
business so that there may be a return to
the reign of industrial law, further de-
privations are in store for both peoples,
for only the writs' of larrikins and
wreckers run but the larrikins and
wreckers are lost to all sense of decency,
citizenship and even mateship.
And to strikes and go-slow there' has
been added theft on an immense scale.
Queensland has been a special prey to
it, and the position in N. S. Wales has
moved even the good-as-“ Labor” “Truth”
to protest that a loss of £300,000 on the
Government railways in a single twelve-
month is really too bad. “Terewth” re-
gretfully records that “649 claims were
lodged in the one day, 2000 in one week
and 27,000 in three months,” and that this
can scarcely be dissociated from the fact
that “the Department of Railways often
employs convicted thieves, men who
have been caught stealing and have in
some cases been gaoled.” Re-employment
of convicted thieves is general practice
on the waterfront; and in respect of the
railways and the wharves it is permitted
by all “ ‘Labor’ Governments,” nor has
any of these “Governments” been moved
to increase the farcical penalties, in nearly
every case a fine, recoverable by the thief
in a day. Yet the “Labor” Minister of
Supply and Shipping, that mumbling
apologist for the lords of the waterfront,
has had to admit that in the time of his
“Government” upwards of a million has
had to be paid in satisfaction of claims
for “pillaged, short-landed and damaged
cargoes,” £503,400 concerning ships re-
quisitioned by his “Government.”
Bitter must be the serviceman’s feel-
ings, especially the serviceman' with
tropical fever in his blood or the one who
spent three years or more in horror-
camps, when he compares the hopes and
expectations with which he returned to
his country with the deadly realities he
has had to face. Going about when he
had a bit of deferred pay left, he saw
hordes of hardfaced men and women —
publicans, night-club proprietors, book-
makers, profiteers, blackmarketeers —who
did very well out of the war flaunt-
ing their affluence on racecourses,
especially those controlled by N.S.W.
“Labor’s” Japanese-war creation the
Sydney Turf Club. For him no house,
no farm, nor any comfort or security for
the wife if he is married ; and nearly
everything scarce and dear. A job, per-
haps, but often at unskilled-laborer’s pay,
and nearly always dependent on the
caprices of unwhipped larrikins disguised
as union bosses or some unchecked go-
slow mob.
And that is not half the story. Appear-
ance money, 12s. a day, granted to
wharfies —and now tally-clerks are de-
manding it—though the equivalent of
appearance money has for many years
been specially provided for in their arbi-
tration award. Subsistence allowance,
3s. a day, refused to the wrecked men
from the horror-camps. No pension for a
soldier with malaria if it prostrates him
for days. Life pensions for retired and
defeated N.S.W. Assemblymen, extended
to their widows ; pe’nsions far in excess of
those doled out to ruined servicemen and
servicemen’s widows. And other plums
for “Labor” politicians, lavishly distri-
buted, regardless of soldier-preference and
with the insulting implication that not the
fighting man but the wordspinner won
the war. High rewards for Wilson, Mar-
tens, Forde, Frost, Makin, Mountjoy,
Bryson and Breen, together with overseas
trips for a multitude of others still in
receipt of Parliamentary pay and per-
quisites. The highest reward of all,
the Governor-Generalship, for one of the
two-a-penny Premiers, who had his nearest
approach to war when he was dis-
missed all a Minister, for having been a
party to “breaking the law of the land,”
by a wounded English Governor—for
that homekeeping hero to the Booze and
Betting interests McKell. .
To secure a fair deal for the service-
man and to restore ipdustrial health, con-
fidence and responsible Parliamentary
government, with no dictation of foreign
policy by Moscow-minded ruffians, great
changes are necessary. For N. S. Wales
and Queensland they should begin with
the expulsion of the “Labor” Ministries,
which—like the unspeakable combination
in Victoria which, through sheer weak-
ness, has let its State drift into a form of.
civil war —do not and cannot govern. No
change of that nature could possibly be
for the worse.
Dedman's "Best Man."
Though Old Digger Abbott, moving the
adjournment of the House for discussion
of “the danger of Communist influence
on the Government and the Civil Ser-
vice,” fell into the tactical error of trying
to cover too much ground, his speech
drew “Labor” into unintended admissions
that on the Communist issue it takes no
stand —only kneels and crawls with its
eyes shut.
Before the member for New England
could deal fully with the affair of Arthur
William Rudkin, Which in a really
deliberative and responsible assembly
would have been enough to bring about
a change of government, the Ministerial
benches refused him an extension of time.
And before any other member with
knowledge of the facts could rise the de-
bate was gagged. This is “Labor” prac-
tice ; every debate of which “Labor”, is
afraid is gagged, Parliament now being
run on the lines of the Supreme Soviet.
Mr. Abbott had got it in that Arthur
William Rudkin, erstwhile editor of the
official organ of the Communist party in
Westralia, had been appointed to a re-
search position in the C.5.1.R., in which
he would have access to secrets calculated
to endanger the safety of the country, and
that Rudkin had been jailed under
Security Regulations for sending a letter
calculated to endanger that safety, his
conviction being founded upon evidence
discovered in the office of a man who was
in communication with the Comintern —
then with headquarters at Vienna, in an
enemy country.
To this grave charge Mr. Dedman, as
Minister of, Defence and Minister in
Charge of the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, replied ir> character-
istic strain, drawing on the resources of
a mean and tricky mind. It had been
“alleged,” he said, “that Mr. Rudkin was
convicted about 1940 for an offence
against a National Security Regulation,
afterwards repealed. In that year,” the
Minister proceeded, “there was almost
hysteria about inadequate A.R.P., and
many persons were convicted who should
not have been convicted. In the circum-
stances the ‘Government’ was entitled to
take no notice of the fact that Mr. Rud-
kin had been convicted.” The “Govern-
ment” believed that “the interests of the
country” were “best served by appoint-
ing to the C.S.I.R, individuals best quali-
fied.”
Before he sat down Rudkin’s protector
disingenuously admitted that the fellow
had been appointed “with the approval of
the Minister”—himself—and that in
January, 1945. Prosecuting counsel had
said that “the authorities” would recom-
mend the internment of Rudkin for the
duration of the war.
The facts have already been recorded
in this paper. They stamp the Defence
and C.S.I.R. Minister (he is Minister of
Post-war Reconstruction also) as a worthy
colleague of Mr. Ward.
Security Police raided Communist
headquarters in Perth in May, 1940.
They found in the office of William
Dean, the secretary, a letter of
instruction from the Comintern, lodged
in Vienna, referring to “Britain’s
bloody rulers” and ordering the Com-
munist party of Australia, then by its
rules completely subservient to Comintern
orders, to demand the withdrawal of Aus-
tralian troops from the Middle East;
their presence in that region was seriously
incommoding the Comintern’s German
hosts.
In most countries at war communicat-
ing with enemy territory is a shooting
matter, especially when the communica-
tion includes instructions from the enemy
end about troop movements for the
enemy’s benefit. In this case there was
more than that. Dean was in posses-
sion of important secrets: a complete
appreciation of the nature and composi-
tion of a certain defence unit and
vital military information about fortifi-
cations, boom harbor defences and arma-
ment, apart from coded details about
members of Military Intelligence, And in
his office was a letter from Rudkin, his
chief publicity officer as well as the
Communist party’s official newspaper
editor, containing information from
secret official sources, information about
gases, together with a circular advising
Communists to red-ant the A.R.P. de-
fences in order to send him further secret
military information. The Court was
satisfied that this red-anting was a pre-
liminary to something tantamount to in-
surrection if the day of attack from the
air by an enemy should come, and if
panic should give Hitler’s 1939-41
partners their chance of civil war.
Dean and Rudkin were not convicted
of these things by a hysterical jury. They
were caught with the goods. There was
complete documentary proof of the
charges, and they made no attempt to
deny the facts. And the conviction and
sentence were pronounced by a magistrate
highly respected in the West who after-
wards received repeated proofs of the
Willcock-Wise “Government’s” confi-
dence. As Rudkin was being taken away
four leading Communist officials rose in
court and reverently gave him the
clenched-fist salute, at that time a symbol
of adherence not only to Russia but to
the Russo-German programme and asso-
ciation in partitioned Poland and other
countries.
Brushing aside the example and warn-
ings of Britain and the United States, Mr.
‘Chifley has made it plain that he will have
nothing to- do with universal military
training because he believes the next war
will be a war of scientists. The primary
Australian instrument of war in that case
must be the C.S.I.R.
If war comes there is only one con-
ceivable direction from which it could
come —from Rudkin’s beloved U.S.S.R.,
in pursuance of its programme of world
Communism and imperialism.
Mr. Dedman, in the pursuit of the “best
men,” was content to appoint to a depart-
ment which will be one of the main
instruments of Australian defence a con-
victed Communist spy who gloried in the
fact of his espionage, and who, since ap-
proved to the C.5.1.R., has written articles
for a Melbourne publication whose edi-
torial list is a wilderness of foreign
names. In these articles Rudkin has
bitterly opposed the development of
rocket defence —the only defence which
Mr. Chifley says Will be effective from
now onward —specifically for the reason
that it may be used to thwart Soviet
Union plans.
This “best man” of Mr. Dedman’s De-
fence Department, presumably sworn to
fealty to the British Commonwealth as an
Australian public servant, and a link in
the preparations for the defence of the
British Commonwealth, referred last
month to the British lion as “a sneaking
jackal.”
Yet Mr. Dedman and Mr. Chifley are
quite content to employ this convicted


ruffian. It seems nothing to them that he
has come out as a champion of Dr.
Nunn May, who sold atomic metals and
sworn defence secrets to the Soviets for
money, concealed in a bottle of whisky.
Nor do the man’s record, associations
and preferences seem to mean anything
to the Council of the C.5.1.R., of which
“Russia-is-always-Right” Mountjoy a
friend of Rudkin’s judging by some of
the latter’s recently printed remarks —is
a member. If Mr. Dedman can be
relied upon, this council, like the “Govern-
ment,” thinks he is one of the “best men”
for its purposes, whatever its purposes or
Mountjoy’s may be.
Soldier-preference is supposed to be
required by legislation passed in the
“Labor” time, and Mr. Dedman is charged
with the duty of administering it. To
give Mountjoy a rich consolation prize
on the C.S.I.R. soldier-preference was
tossed into the ash-barrel. In the Rudkin
case Communism, ridden by an ex-
convict, was first and military service no-
where.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Odorous Comparisons.
So many N.S.W. farmers and graziers
went off to the wars, and politics came
to mean so little to their families and
districts, that their Country party was
hard put to it to find candidates, and
had to let old C.P. electorates go uncon-
tested. With most of the wanderers
home again, though without heroic souls
like Middleton, V.C., and with the Eng-
lish-born Colonel Anderson, V.C., head-
ing the older warriors, a vastly different
spirit now prevails.
Returned sheepmen have a crow to
pluck with “Labor” over the confiscation
of £7,000,000 to £10,000,000 of profits on
dealings in commandeered wool, and re-
turned wheatmen are evincing a mordant
interest in Mr. Scully’s sale of 16s. wheat
to Mr, Sullivan now no more —at
ss. 9d. And one and all of their elders
are showing a lively interest in gifts of
food, particularly meat, to the British
people—they are sending a great deal
themselves —and are wondering what
froze the Chifley heart and what is de-
taining the McGirr.
Their leader. Colonel Bruxner, realising
the need for a united N.S.W. effort, in-
vited Mr. McGirr to head it. To
get an urgency motion debated and car-
ried on a non-party basis —as it was —
the old Lighthorseman agreed to have the
text altered so as to make it read “That
this House hereby pledges to the Com-
monwealth Government that it will con-
tinue to give the fullest co-operation in
any measures designed to help the people
of Britain in their desperate hour of
need by the most effective means and
to the greatest extent possible.” And
he has placed Aid for Britain in the
forefront of the policy he submitted to
the electors. Has the Premier? No ; the
Premier didn’t mention it.
True, Mr. McGirr spared a thought
for the British people when the candi-
dates were gathering. On Nomination
Day, in words which rather suggested that
he was astonished at his own magna-
nimity, he announced that his “Govern-
ment” had decided to split £30,000 be-
tween the Lord Mayor’s Food for Britain
Fund and the Red Cross Flood Relief
Appeal.
Thirty thousand from a “Government”
which boasts annually of its immense
easy-money war-time surpluses! The
N.Z. Government, which had no im-
mense war-time surpluses and which
looks like having no need of votes for
a few years, is giving quarter of a mil-
lion for flood-relief alone.
Said Peter Fraser —a Scot of very
different composition from that miser-
able politician Dedman, who tried to
prevent the Food .for Britain people
getting the benefit of surrendered
coupons —18 days after the McGirr made
his flourish:
My Government has decided to make a
gift of £250,000N.Z. to the Lord Mayor
of London’s fund for the alleviation of the
distress caused by the floods in Britain.
I feel sure that this gesture reflects the
general feeling of sympathy of our people
for their British kinsfolk. I hope the
Government’s lead and that of certain
national organisations and local bodies
will be widely followed.
One of these national groups is the
N.Z. Meat Producers’ Board, which had
earlier announced its intention of
donating £lOO,OOO sterling for British
[food-damage relief. Other substantial
funds have been raised by local bodies,
particularly in Auckland and Wellington.
The population of New Zealand is not
much more than half that of N. S. Wales,
and the wealth of„ the grand little
Dominion is not to be compared with
that of the State which has Mr. McGirr.
for Premier —how much longer it will put
up with him is another matter.
From Jews to Pensions.
f
Their patience exhausted, the British in
Palestine, who in eight months have
buried 120 victims of Jewish murder-
gangs, have tardily resorted to hanging
There followed the usual ferocious re-
prisals and threats —these echoed by
American Jews, who are financing the
costly war on the British Empire —and
explosions of fury in other quarters. A
brief account of one appeared in the
Sydney “Morning Herald”:
A mass meeting of 8000 Jews in Shanghai
protested at what they called the “murder”
by the British in Palestine of Dov Gruner
and the three other terrorists who were
hanged on April 16.
Shanghai ? Why, that’s the place
from which Mr. Calvell is getting heaps
of his “reffos.” A party of 300 arrived
from Shanghai in February, and Mr.
Maxie Falstein, M.H.R., has been up there
lately on unrevealed bithness ; also a Mr.
Masel, who is in Mr. Calvell’s con-
fidence. And “Palestinians,” the second
lot, came in the good, if insanitary, ship
Misery,
Mr. Calvell was in Sydney last week
speaking for Abie Landa in Bondi, and
for “Labor” candidates in other places
(in Hornsby, to an audience of 17), but
he didn’t choose to refer to the venom
spat at Britain by the Shanghai Jews.
Neither did Abie.
Abie is fond of accusing Australians
of anti-Semitism. During most of the
years he has spent in this country, very
profitably for himself, anti-Semitism did
not exist, and when he made the charge
by way of securing an unnecessary Sydney
Law School appointment for another
Left-Wing Jew, Julius Stone—under
cover of privilege he said, “Certain Uni-
versity Senators have adopted the Nazi
ANOTHER IMPENDING DUEL.
“A French actress, described by a critic as ‘a skeleton,’ has challenged him to a duel.”
“I’m worn to a shadow, McGirr; but choose your weapons!”
and Fascist tactics of trying to get rid of
a man because he happens to be a Jew”
—it was as false as hell.
Among these Senators were men of
the stamp of Justice Halse Rogers and
Professor Peden, president of the Leg.
Council, both now dead. These eminent
citizens. Supreme Court Justice Davidson
and others took the stand that the Law
School, soon to be drained of students
by military service, could be carried
on by voluntary aid till two candi-
dates for law professorships, both on
overseas service, could have their claims
decided v after personal examination.
At Abie’s instance, “Labor,” while always
giving lip-service to soldier preference,
intervened to prevent the overseas service-
men being heard.
Abie was not wholly occupied in log-
rolling for Stone and throwing mud at
the champions of the two servicemen.
With the warm approval of the Com-
munists he came out for a Second Front
—without, of course, proposing to attend
it. And when the fighting men were com-
ing back, many thousands in bad shape,
he, a solicitor, younger than most and
with a Parliamentary salary of £875 a
year, plus free transport and use of a
comfortable club, voted for the Assembly
Pensions Bill, underlying which is the
“principle” that hanging round Parlia-
ment House for a few hundred hours a
year while the wars were in progress
gives the unwounded Assemblyman a
greater claim on the taxpayer’s bounty
than almost any wounded or desperately
ill serviceman except the sightless or
crippled man requiring an attendant.
So if Abie gets in again he can qualify
for a pension of £5 a wefek by resigning
during the period of the Parliament about
to be elected. So can all other re-elected
“Labor” members of the 1941 vintage,
who numbered 28. Among them were
the publicans Geraghty (North Sydney)
and McGrath (Rockdale), the rich
retired master-butcher and racing man
Gollan (Randwick) and “Lou” Cunning-
ham (Coogee), who, as a director of Vic-
toria Park racecourse, saw Lord Nuffield
abandon it as a factory site, “Lou” hav-
ing first voted to set up the Turf Club
and give it its resumption powers and
privileges, one of the latter, though not
specified, being first priority for bricks
at State brickyards, and no permit re-
quired. Among them also were the
“Labor”-supported Independents, Mac-
donald (Mosman), young Bealfe (South
Coast) and Fitzgerald (Gloucester). As a
member of three Parliaments, though he
did not arrive till 1939, Mr. C. Evatt will
be able to claim the £5 a week if his con-
stituents reject him on Saturday; and so
will all other rejected members in the
same position.
Having been an Assemblyman for
more than 15 years Mr. Horsington, who
by force of circumstances is not standing
again for Sturt, can put in for £6 a week.
So,- if defeat comes to them or if they
choose to resign, can Premier McGirr,
Ministers Baddeley, Heffron, Hamilton
Knight, O’Sullivan and a host of others,
together with McKell and Father Tully—
who bolted to England leaving the service-
men 70 or 80 farms instead of the thou-
sands he had promised them during his
previous five years as Minister of Lands.
These two worthies did not forget to take
ca jb of their own interests under the Act,
wnich was partly of thfeir concoction.
And for the widows of such of the ex-
pectant beneficiaries in both groups, few
of whom are returned soldiers, who go
to glory first there is to be £3 a week.
The catch is that the Liberals and the
Country party are pledged to repeal the
Act which legalises this robbery of the
taxpayers, this raid on the public purse,
no hint of which was given during either
of the preceding election campaigns. The
Opposition - leaders are both returned
soldiers and determined characters. And
behind them on this issue should -stand
all ex-servicemen who cannot stomach
the proposition that a person whose town
address during the years of* desperate
struggle was Parliament House, Sydney,
and who drew £875 a year for hanging
round, deserves more of his country than
a man who left his limbs at Alamein or
on the Sanananda trail; and his .widow
more than is doled out to any service-
man’s widow. For example, the widow
of Sergeant Brown, V.C., D.C.M., who
was last seen going into the dreadful
night of the Singapore disaster to fight it
out with the Japanese, and whose last
words to his mates were “No surrender
for me!”
Double-job Loborites.
Seeing that constitutional practice and
the public interest can be and have been
invoked against a company director’s
holding office as a Minister of the
Crown, how can it be proper for officials
in the “ ‘Labor’ movement” simul-
taneously to hold Cabinet posts? There
was quite a little heat generated—unsuc-
cessfully—in the debate at the Victorian
A L.P. conference on a motion that Mr.
P. J. Kennedy, who was appointed general
secretary of the branch, should either
forgo that job or resign his post as
Minister of Works.
Three members of the Cain Ministry
occupy what are normally highly-paid
posts in the “Labor” machine. The
others are Mr. P. J. Clarey, Minister of
Labdr, and Mr. A. M. Fraser, Assistant
Minister. All three are Ms.L.C., and
Mr. Clarey is president of the A.C.T.U.;
Mr. Fraser is president of the Victorian
A.L.P. Mr. Johnson, Minister of the
Interior, is general president of the
A.W.U., but is resigning.
Among those who leapt to defend the
new Kennedy appointment was Mr. Cal-
vell. First of all he said that “Mr.
Kennedy” had “a very tenuous hold on
his Ministerial job, as the State Govern-
ment could easily be defeated”;
therefore, by implication, Mr. Ken-
nedy must be provided for against
that event. Juicier than this was
Mr. Calved’s declaration that, while
acting hitherto as general secretary,
Mr. Kennedy had “never drawn a penny
salary from the party; he has drawn his
Ministerial salary only: he has done a
splendid job for the party.” Certainly
he has saved it the cost of his salary and
transport—the Victorian people pay the
salary and find the gold pass.
Mr. Calved, proceeding;
I think it would be a retrograde step
to place any limitations on the work an
officer of the party might do while he is a
Minister of the Crown. The position could
only arise in State matters.
The point of objection taken is not
against the fair representation of
trade-union opinion in Parliament or
in Ministries, but against the de-
liberate policy of placing as Minis-
ters of the Crown officials high in
the directorate of extra-Parliamentary or-
ganisations. This is in no way less ab-
horrent to constitutional practice than
the holding by a company director of a
seat in Cabinet whence he may influence
policy to his company’s benefit.
Mr. Clarey’s dual position has been
far worse than useless to the people of
Victoria in the tribulations through which
they are passing. It has, in fact,
smothered his Ministry in ignominy and
gravely weakened the cause of respon-
sible government.
Sugar and Geneva.
It was noted in B. 26/3/’47 that the
secretaries of the Queensland Cane-
growers’ Council and the Australian
Sugar Producers’ Association were scared
stiff by the threat to the sugar industry
implied in the Geneva world trade
“charter.” Presently Mr. Chifley was
heard suavely assuring everybody that
everything was all right, and that in any
case the delegation to Geneva, led by his
wonder-man Dr. Coombs, could not bind
the Commonwealth to anything.
The sugar industry remained scared
and is still scared. So is the dried-fruits
industry. Growers can’t understand how
the Commonwealth could send such a
delegation to such a gathering and remain
uncommitted. They do not share Mr.
Chifley’s admiration for Dr. Coombs and
his horde of planners, whose “planning”
for the building industry has become the
worst of bad jokes. They can’t forget
what Dr. Coombs was reported to have
said a couple of months ago, with-
out any known denial on his part, that
Empire preferences were doomed, nor
were they cheered by the shilly-shallying
statements of Messrs. Chifley and Ded-
man during and subsequent to an attempt
by Dr. Page to get a clear statement of
just how the Coombs delegation to
Geneva was instructed.
Every schoolboy knows the economic
importance of sugar to Australia, as well
as its importance from a defence and
population viewpoint, to say nothing of
the White Australia doctrine; and every
schoolboy should know that without
Empire preference the industry would
collapse. Adult Queenslanders are well
aware of these truths, and northerners
don’t seem to be taking kindly to Premier
Hanlon’s assurances that they have no
need for concern as to the manoeuvres of
Dr, Coombs, and his circus since “Labor”
Can’t Do Wrong.
Propaganda on the Cheap.
“Labor” makes no bones about spend-
ing public money on party propaganda,
so it is not surprising to find that when
Mr. McGirr writes a foreword to an
elaborate booklet put out to publicise
the work of the N.S.W. Housing Com-
mission he should devote a large part of
his space to a eulogy of his party’s
“achievements.” What is surprising is to
see the same sort of stuff embodied in
the report, headed by a photograph of
the five Commissioners.
Reference to “the abject failure of a
succession of anti-Labor Governments”
and to the position “when Labor swept
the polls in 1941” may be quite all
right in an electioneering pamphlet; it
is a disgraceful misuse of public money
in a Government publication paid for
by money collected from taxpayers of
all political parties.
A perusal of “Homes for the
People” suggests that it was either
compiled by a Housing Commission with
a great liking for the “Labor” Govern-
ment or imposed on a Housing Com-
mission by a “Labor” Government with
a great liking for itself. There is no way
of telling which is the correct answer,
since the booklet bears no imprint.


1
CRAVENA
You’ll appreciate their
Obtainable iiliPliiiliiH!
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
■
«
POLITICLTS POINTS
Victoria still has a titular Government,
the Cains having survived McDonald’s
ao-conljdence motion —the “Independent”
Gardner voted for them and the Speaker
remained in the Chair. But Melbourne
woke up on Monday morning, after a
fortnight without Government trains
or buses, to find itself still without
these forms of transport and its
food supply so threatened by a
failing country-train service that private
motorists will have to go short of petrol
so that “emergency road transport” ser-
vices may bring food into the city. And
all because of a strike, pronounced “a
rebellion against the arbitration system,”
and as such supported by Communists
and acquiesced in by “moderates.” It
wouldn’t have lasted 24 hours in the old
Australia. And the Melbourne “Labor”
Government, like the Sydney and Can-
berra “Labor” Governments, can think
of nothing else but imposing restrictions
on the public it has a duty to protect.
Melbourne saw rioting and looting in
1923 when a weak Government failed to
deal promptly with an illegal strike—of
police. That emergency produced the
man —Monash. What worlds away from
Monash are Cain and Clarey!
Of what has come about in Victoria
Chifley is not guiltless. He on March 6, ’46,
announced a rise of “£1 2s. 6d. a sitting
day for members and Senators travelling
to Canberra from N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria, with a maximum of £lOO in any
financial year, and of £1 2s. 6d. a day for
members and Senators from the other
four States and the Northern Territory
and for days at week-ends, with a maxi-
mum of £125.” He was then set on wage-
pegging and price-control. The grant
of £1 2s. 6d. a day to the privileged caste
had a demoralising effect on “moderates,”
and it gave Communists the opportunity
they were waiting for.
Severely masculine for quarter of a
century, the N.S.W. Country party has
nominated its first woman candidate, Mrs.
Thelma Harvey, in Dubbo. Widow of
a Western-district man, Mrs. Harvey is
a very good candidate; a ready speaker
with understanding and first-hand experi-
ence of what her sex has gone through
these latter years, and a sense of humor.
She has an excellent chance of regaining
for the Agrarians a seat held for them
for 10 years by Old Digger Wilson, a
grand fellow, till he died of war wounds
in 1942, when a great many Dubbo young
men had gone to another war.
Last week, while McGirr was blither-
ing about “full employment,” Philips’
new factory was opened in South Aus-
tralia, having migrated there from N. S.
Wales to escape the McGirrs and their
friends. And it was announced that
Firestone Rubber—also sidetracking the
State in which “Labor” prefers a glorified
gambling hell to a Nuffield factory
—would follow the Philips concern.
' To men versed in trade-union history
the most astonishing feature of the tur-
moil in Victoria is that the Amalgamated
Engineering Union should be the head and
front of it. The A.E.U. is nearly a century
old, and in Britain it has never been revo-
lutionary. Of course British G.H.Q. never
had leaders like Cranwell or Rowe, nor
has it ever sought the fatal aid of feather-
brained Communists like Brown, boss of
the Government Railwaymen’s Union.
Pollard, saddled with Scully’s N.Z.
wheat, has done a lot of thinking and a
lot of talking without thinking in his
efforts to justify a very bad bargain made
at the expense of Australian wheat-
farmers, but his latest attempt caps the
lot. He told a poultryfarmers’ organisa-
tion that the “Government” sold Maori-
land the wheat dirt cheap “to encourage
her as a consumer country.” That sort
of thing used to be called “dumping” and
has always been opposed by “Labor,”
but anyway the yarn wouldn’t convince
a broody hen.
Queensland electorates have been
flooded with Hanlon-signed appeals for
votes bearing the letterhead of the
Premier’s Department. Opposition objec-
tions brought the reply from Hanlon that
he was paying for the stationery, but
Nicklin protested that neither the Premier
nor anyone else was entitled to buy or
use Government material for party or
private ends. “Labor,” arrogant and
power-drunk, has long ceased to worry
about the propriety of election stunts. Its
only standard is “how much can we get
away with?”
Titbits from Fadden’s picture of the
peace of Chifley’s Golden Age:
There were 635 industrial disputes re-
sulting in a loss of 1,166,756 working days
in three quarters of 1946. Of these quarrels,
535 were in the State of G.A.Q. (“Going-
along-quietly”) McKell. In the June quar-
ter the Commonwealth lost 318,000 more
working days through strikes than in the
whole of 1939.
From July, 1945, to Dec., 1946, an aver-
age of £27,000 a month was paid out in un-
employment benefits as the result of indus-
trial disputes. Wharfies in January and
February this year received £28,145 for
appearance money, while in various centres
citizens and housewives starved for potatoes,
meat, bread, car tyres, newspapers, theatres,
v hospital attention, cigarettes, beer, buses,
trams, trains, taxis and cooking and fight-
ing materials.
It seems that the only thing that shines
in the Golden Age is the brass of those
that proclaim it.
Joe Abbott got his debate on Com-
munists in Government employment, and
said effective things ; but Joe would have
done better had he confined himself to a
single unanswerable case. Instead of
doing this he descanted on the composi-
tion of a Blue Mountains AJLP, group
now uncongenial to Chifley, though
he tolerated it when it hurled foul Second-
Front abuse at Britain in 1943 ; and on
the presence of Communists in the Taxa-
tion Department—in which, incidentally,
the first Communist body in Australia
was formed in 1920. He thus served up,
ready cooked, the red herrings for which
the Chifley-Evatts were waiting—these
apostles of the Four Freedoms were also,
of course, waiting with the gag.
Thornton’s Red Racket, having been
balked in its effort to hold a one-day
strike on May 1 to demand the 40-
minute week, or something, isn’t going to
be put off, perhaps because Facing-both-
ways Clarey weakened. It is calling on
Clarey’s A.C.T.U. to order a national
one-day stoppage “on the day on which
the 40-hour week is proclaimed in N. S.
Wales.” After the N.S.W. polling next
Saturday the boys may have a long, long
wait for their day off.
Sydney’s citizens have become more or
less resigned to the ways of their Milk
Board, which rations milk every time
there are seven or eight fine days in suc-
cession. They’ll have to get used to
another custom now, for it seems cer-
tain that their electric light and power
will be rationed every time it isn’t a fine
day. What a thing it is to live in a “union
town”! *
Pie, leader of the Q.P.P., got a nasty
one home when he told a Townsville
crowd that if a Q.P.P.-C.P. Government
is elected there will be Ministries for
Central and North Queensland. All that
Hanlon could muster in reply was some-
thing about Queensland having already
been decentralised under “Labor.” There
was more decentralisation in ten years of
pre-“Labor” Governments than in 30
years of “Labor” Governments.
U.S. Secretary-of-War Patterson, say-
ing (what Attlee has already said in
Britain) that his country “must have uni-
versal military training if it is to sur-
vive,” referred to “the concept of a push-
button war” as “the vision of cocktail-
party scientists.” And, in these parts,
cocktail politicians.
An omen of disaster to the McGirrs
and the Hanlons is the fact that many
S.A. and Westralian unionists and adult
members of their families —wives, sisters,
daughters, fathers and brothers —aban-
doned the ticket at the Assembly elec-
tions. The S.A. “Labor”-union bosses
are still too dazed for consideration of
reprisals, but the metropolitan council of
the Westralian A.L.P., to which Burke
and Beazley owe allegiance, as did Curtin
in his lifetime, has called upon a dele-
gate from the Shop Assistants’ Union to
show cause why he shouldn’t be ex-
pelled for having supported the Liberal
candidate for Perth against the septua-
genarian Needham. He has said he will
be there, with bells on.
Sydney “Sun” has an ardent admirer
of McGirr on its staff, but he couldn’t
have been on hand when the paper had
a reference to “the McKirr Government.”
Bitter-minded housewives, waiting for
potatoes during the waterside strike
ordered by the “moderates” Coughlin
and Ferry, made it “McCur.” »
The C.S.LR. announces vacancies for
research officers and research engineers
on atomic energy for industry. It will
not be known until after next Saturday
how many defeated “Labor” politicians
will be available in N. S. Wales and
Queensland.
Not enough attention has been paid
to the method by which the Chifley crowd
proposes to force shire and municipal
councils and their counterparts through-
out Australia to bank with the Common-
wealth Bank. There will be no compul-
sion—oh no ; local-government bodies
will still be able to bank where they
please. But ft will be an offence under
the act for a private bank to accept their
business.
South Australia, which has “had”
Canberra and all its ways under “Labor”
rule, is muttering rank rebellion against
the proposal to force local-government
authorities to deal with the Common-
wealth Bank. There is a wide and grow-
ing decision to protest forcibly to Chifley
against it, and roars of support for the
protesters are being heard beyond the
borders. A “Labor” move to scrap most
of the metropolitan municipalities
aroused corresponding opposition in N.
S. Wales, though scrapping will be re-
vived if “Labor” is returned. “Labor”
hates focal government, except of a kind
which will give “Labor” the ascendancy.
Bunnerong was one of municipal
“Labor’s” achievements in Sydney after
disinfection of the “Labor” smells.
These young. “Labor” men are a dutiful
lot. Fremantle’s young Mr. Burke set
out to interpret his party’s “policy”, on
Food for Britain to wondering West-
ralians. He served them up a bran mash
of Chifley and Pollard that went some-
thing like this:
The £25,000,000 is not Just a gift of
money, but means that food to the value
of £25,000,000 will be available free of cost
to the British people. The only ways in
which' more food can be sent are by more
severe rationing of the Australian people
and by increased production in Australia.
He then went on to give the thousandth
example of passing the buck—“the ques-
tion of more stringent rationing is in the
hands of the Australian people them-
selves.” In other words the £25,000,000 is
just a book entry after all.
An admiring reporter, touring the
N.S.W. Central West with McGirr, was
overcome with emotion at Parkes when a
crowd was on hand to welcome “the first
Parkes boy to become Premier” —crowds
are so rare in this “Labor” world of ours.
There followed, in hushed accents, the
story of the McGirr rise, how he worked
as a baker boy, became a chemist and
so on. Not a word about the family
pubs—but then pubs aren’t good pub-
licity just now.
Evatt, brother to Our Foreign Policy
or what used to be Our Foreign Policy till
Communists stole it, is to take “im-
mediate action” to rehouse some Red-
fern people who were discovered by
“S. M. Herald,” Very wet and very will-
ing to talk, after Sydney’s rain deluge last
week. Evatt is Housing Minister to Mc-
Girr, who was Housing Minister before
he became Premier. If all the house-
less persons whom McGirr didn’t house
could be lined up they would stretch
from Circular Quay to Parramatta.
Just when Princess Elizabeth was about
to turn 21 a British Labor Minister
brayed that his party was “anti-imperial” ;
and certainly it is giving huge chunks of
the Empire away. But he must have felt
silly when he heard the Heir Presump-
tive, broadcasting from Capetown,
“make” her simple and “solemn dedica-
tion,” with the whole Empire listening—
“devote” herself to the “service of our
great imperial family.”
N.Z. dairyfarmers are to get more for
their butter and cheese. Yielding to their
claims for “an adjustment for the present
season on the basis of the 40-hour week
policy” (the words of W. E. Hale, chair-
man of the Dairy Board), the Govern-
ment is setting up “a commission with
power to determine prices,” and these it
has undertaken to guarantee. McGirr’s
idea is to force the 40-hour week on all
farmers, bump up the wages they have
to pay and the charges they have to
meet, and expect them to be content
with the prices they are getting now. For
16s. wheat sold to N.Z. by “Labor” the
price is ss. 9d.
There’s something wrong in the liaison
work between Queensland and N.S.W.
“Labor,” Last week Hanlon's advertise-
ments were saying in bold type: “Mr. Pie
can promise anything and everything with
impunity: he can even promise a deep-
water port on the Toowoomba Range,
because he knows that there is no possible
chance of his party forming a Govern-
ment.” On the same day on the other
side of the border McGirr “Labor” men,
taking their cue from their leader, were
offering the world on a plate in an
attempt to hang on to office. Works
Minister Cahill was offering deep-water
ports, though not on the top of
the New England Range. A port for the
Clarence was the chief bait, but he also
“had plans for all the harbors from
Eden to the Tweed.”
Sydney yoomanitarians worked them-
selves into a dreadful state of mind when
the eldest of a party of obscene and
cowardly louts was sentenced to death,
and his six companions to life imprison-
ment, though the yoomanitarians knew
perfectly well that the sentences would
not be carried out. The crime was mass
rape, and the defence was as villainous
in its way—the poor terrified creature
was alleged to have been a consenting
party, and a constable to have extorted
confessions by “brandishing a revolver
and saying to the sergeant, ‘Which
shall I shoot first?’ ” Mass rape has
been charged in three metropolitan cases
of recent years, and after one, in which
the evidence was irrefutable, a girl victim
committed suicide. But yoomanitarians,
political and otherwise, were stirred to
no demonstration of pity for the poor
thing, nor to any demand for the better
protection of unescorted women in
general. They reserve their champion-
ship for ruffians who pollute the earth.
“S. Gumm”: While not disputing “T,
McN.’s” quotation from Guy Mannering
(B. 23/4/’47) as to the Scottish Hanlons —
if they were Scotch —I can adduce much
more modern book evidence concerning
the Irish branch or root of the family.
One Pat Hanlon figured in an 1882 case
in which the young Carson was defend-
ing counsel; but Pat was not produced as
a witness. “Where is Hanlon?” Carson
thundered. “Why is he not here?” It
will be strange if this cry or the equiva-
lent goes up from a distracted Caucus
after next Saturday’s election —our Han-
lon is anything but a certainty in Ithaca.


ENTER THE COMMISSAR.
“During its second week without Government trains and buses, Melbourne was staggered to learn that Brown, the Communist secretary of the Government Railwaymen’s
Union, was issuing permits to bus proprietors to pass the picket lines at a time when Government permits would have been ignored."
“In the name and words of the Reverlushun, you shall not pass without my written authority.”


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Pitt St.”: Dropped into a picture
theatre the other night and saw a thing
called “Canyon Passage.” It has to do
with settlement in Oregon (U.S.A.) and
one episode shows a working bee putting
up a cabin for a newly-married couple.
They did it in a day and, as the some-
what fascinated audience watched the
cutting and squaring of logs, the splitting
and placing of roof shingles, the rapid
erection of the dwelling, a pained voice
rose from the stalls, “Aw, if only the
Minister for Housing could see this! ”
* • He He ¥
“Spokeshave”; The critic was being
shown round the Melbourne art show by
the manageress, who was young and
pretty. “Look at that table with all those
objects on it shining in the dim light,” he
said, pausing ecstatically in* front of a
still-life. “What a subject! What a com-
position ! Only a genius could have
placed that bottle just where it balances
the white bowl on the opposite side of
the table contrasted with the bronze vase
with the blue flowers in the middle.”
“The genius who created that arrange-
ment was Jones,” remarked the painter,
who happened to be listening. “Who is
Jones?” asked the critic. “He is a friend
of mine,” remarked the artist. “He was
at one of my studio parties and was
slightly oiled. He had served everybody
with wine and then dumped the empty
bottle on the table.,”
* * * »
“Hep-2-3-4”: From my possie near
the fence of Randwick’s saddling paddock,
my gaze strayed up the Members’ Stand
and spotted there, with his field-glasses
trained on me, the old C.O. He waved, I
replied. He made a horizontal circular
movement with his hands and then
pointed to the back of the stand to
signify that he would meet me there after
the next race, I pointed to the various
nags to see which one he had backed,
and having found this out I showed him
mine. All this semaphoring was ac-
companied by much head-shaking, nod-
ding and arm-waving. The pair of us
were accompanied for the rest of the
day by two large gentlemen in blue suits
who could not have been jockeys under
suspension. As they probably had us
marked as “big-time” tick-tackers, the one
shadowing me, who followed me to
the paying window when I made the only
collect on the day, must have been sadly
disillusioned to find the extent of my
winnings—3d. on a ss. place ticket.
» * * Jf
“Jasby”: ft may seem a far cry from
Edison (B. 23/4/’47) to Bernard Shaw,
but G.B.S. once worked for the inventor
—he relates the story in one of his pre-
faces. Among his early patents Edison
produced a type of telephone and he
opened a London office in an attempt to
get it on the market. It provided a crisp
job for a red-haired young Irishman who
was also in London in search of a
market. Shaw speaks affectionately of
the American mechanics in charge of the
invention, but admits that the whole
thing was a mystery to him. Apparently
Edison’s phone was too good ; not only
could the person at the receiving end
hear what came over the wire, but
everyone within a quarter-mile radius
could hear it, too. London businessmen
weren’t broadcast-minded in those days.
and after a short campaign Edison with-
drew from the field.
“Niloc”: The Edison centenary is to be
followed by one in memory of Alexander
Graham Bell. Among his wrong numbers
while perfecting the telephone, Bell in-
vented a means of transmitting one’s
voice by infra-red light. For his “beam,”
the inventor used sunlight reflected by a
mirror ; for a detector, he stuffed a lighted
cigar into a test-tube, and had a doctor’s
stethoscope plugged into the tube to
complete the receiver. The cigar, by
alternately heating and cooling in the
“voice-modulated beam,” produced sound
vibrations. Bell achieved all this in
1880, To-day, having use of powerful
amplifiers, neon lights, and the latest in
highly-complex detectors, modern scien-
tists are patting each other on the back
after “speaking over a beam of Ted rays’
in one of the most marvellous scientific
achievements in recent times.”
* * ❖ ♦
“Clooter”: The Sydney public trans-
port system is a baffling one. My ordi-
nary route from suburb to city covers a
distance of five miles by tram. In what
are called “peak hours” I have never
yet succeeded in doing it in less than 40
minutes. Last week, a deluge of rain
having arrived, I took a more sheltered
walk to a ’bus stop, caught the ’bus to
its terminus, transferred to a tram
“Would you mind stopping while We listen to the third race ?”
and thence walked about twice the
normal walking distance to the office. I
was in the office exactly 31 minutes after
leaving home, though the roundabout
journey covered nearly seven miles. The
reason why I don’t travel that way ordi-
narily is that it would cost me 6d. a
day more in fares.
* * * *
“S. Post”: I read that pickpockets had
a field day at the Sydney Show, so my
par. will be too late for many unwary and
wiser unfortunates.. I once watched a
trio of the gents in action at Brisbane
Show. They stood at the entrance to a
side-show, their eyes darting constantly
over the slowly-moving throng. One by
one they would slip off, having chosen a
victim guided by the actions of
people as they passed the sign overhead
which screamed in huge scarlet letters:
“Beware of Pickpockets.” I must have
seen dozens of men, as they read it,
quickly and reassuringly slap hip pocket
or wherever they carried the wallet.
* * * *
“Yair”: The girls who trot around in
these quaint wooden shoes which have
no sides, backs or toes are giving me
some entertainment. The soles of their
feet flop up out of the shoe at every
step. Usually the girl isn’t wearing stock-
ings and, five times out of ten, her bare
sole is black. Why? Does she walk
about the street in bare feet before she
puts her shoes on? It’s great fun to see
these' glamor-girls walking on dirt and
fondly imagining nobody can see.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The formerly
shabby grass plots let into the pavements
of our street have bloomed into real
embellishments and the street itself looks
as smart as a man who has just had a
haircut and brush up. No ; it isn’t the
result of a burst of energy on the part of
the council. An enterprising young man
who likes to be the director of his own
time and energy canvassed this street and
others with an offer to keep the frontages
of their homes trimmed and neat for a
toll of a bob a week, and most of the
residents jumped at the offer; it opens
the way to the young man for other
gardening jobs, getting him so many that
he can pick and choose —and refrain
from choosing. The contributors regard
their bargain as a good one, but that
merely shows the inconsistency of human
nature. If the council had suggested an
extra rate of £2 12s. per annum to keep
the streets smart they would have howled
to heaven about it.
» * ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: A chap who’d like
to enter for the Hard Luck Stakes
had an appeal knocked back in the
Perth Court of Criminal Appeal. Arrested
last March, he was released on a bond,
the Judge acceding to his wife's request
that his marriage—recent —be given a
chance to woo him from his life of crime.
Three weeks later another Judge gave him
three years and an indeterminate sentence
for a crime committed before the previ-
ous charge had been heard. He appealed
against this sentence “in order to allow
the experiment to proceed.” The Court
reviewed his past —37 convictions in 22
years—and let the sentence stand.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: Ordinary Australian artists
without the advantage of having the same
origins as Albert Namatjira have hitherto
envied that painter of the Centre, as it
was assumed that, being a ward of the
Commonwealth, he was not subject to
taxation. Rex Battarbee, his teacher,
thought so, too, and in the past five years
has helped him to bank and invest up-
wards of £4OOO. Albert is a naturally
generous person, and has paid out a con-
siderable sum on food for relatives who
have no income. He has a wife and ten
children and a house at Hermannsburg
Mission, and is probably the richest abo.
in Australia. It now appears that
aborigines are subject to taxation, and the
dragnet has reached out and caught
Namatjira with retrospective intent. Still,
if he sticks to his habit of selling out at
his metropolitan exhibitions he’ll prob-
ably stand it.
* * * •
“Benbow”: Perhaps the barber’s eye-
sight was bad or do I really look like a
thug? I was having my hair cut in Suez
one night in 1940 when the job was in-
terrupted by an air-raid siren. The
barber blew out the single candle and I
reclined in the chair for three hours, but
surely he could have found something
more comfortable to sit on than the cash-
register.
* * * *
Country editors (B. 9/4/’47)?
Ours had a difference of opinion with a
trader; there was a violent scene in the
office, and the fierce cry of “Take out
me ad.!” was heard once more. Came
the weekly edition. In the space usually
occupied by the ad. was depicted a huge
tombstone, and on it the legend;
“Sacred to the Memory of Blank’s Ad-
vertisement. Departed this Office 3 p.m„
Thursday. Gone But Not Forgotten.”
* * * *
“J.G.M.”: “Melbn” (B. 16/4/’47) is a
little premature in complaining about the
lack of interest in the centenary of Von
Mueller ; the anniversary of his arrival
is not until December 15. Anyway the
old boy has not been entirely ignored, as
the Australian Council of Scientific
Societies has suggested to the P.M.G.
that a stamp be issued commemorating
the botanist. Whether the issue will be
approved is another matter as, with the
Princess Elizabeth stamp, a Newcastle
Sesquicentenary and a possible Cobb and
Co. in the offing, the post office looks
like breaking all records in its sudden
zeal to atone for the war-time dearth of
commemoratives.
* * » »
4 “M.H.”; Parsons and profanity (B.
9/4/’47)? On Gallipoli, when a couple
of Aussies stumbled on the dug-out
labelled “The Deanery,” they yelled “Ah,
here’s the bloody deanery.” From inside
came the reply “And here’s the bloody
Dean.” The “title” followed Dean Tal-
bot back to St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
Sydney.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Filthy lucre is a term which
might well be applied to our note issue
nowadays. Despite the efforts of the
banks in sorting out soiled and mutilated
notes and sending them back for can-
cellation, the note issue seems to be
getting dirtier and dirtier. Perhaps the
operations of the blackmarketeers have
transferred some of their color to the
notes. It used to be the practice of the
Bank of England never to re-issue a
note once it had come back to the bank
in the ordinary course of business. No
matter how clean or undamaged the note,
it was immediately cancelled and never
re-issued. Some old “family” banks in
England used to wash all coin before
handing it to their customers. Such
niceties have long since gone by the board.
Another feature of the Australian note
issue is the increasing tendency of the
public to write idiotic messages on the
notes.
* * * *
“Ad Rem”: So postal authorities don’t
consider philatelists when cancelling
stamps (B. 16 / 4/’47)? Well, things must
have changed since the day I wore the
red armband and pushed the P.M.G.’s
bike around with telegrams. One of our
odd jobs was the cancelling of postage
and preparing letters for the sorters, dur-
ing which we would hold speed contests.
The letters would be whisked from a
pile across a rubber pad to a pile held
against the tummy, being smacked fair
and square with the cancelling stamp
en route. The day the Is. Lyrebird
stamps were first issued I was pounding
away with great gusto when all of a
sudden I was confronted with a letter
bearing five green lyrebirds. My hand
faltered and the cancelling stamp mis-
cued and skidded from one end
of the letter to the other, leaving
a sloppy trail of black ink. This
wouldn’t have worried me in the least
had not the postmaster happened to pass.
“Look what you’ve done! ” he bellowed ;
“some stamp collector has just wasted
five shillings! Get outside and sweep
the yard!” And sweeping the yard re-
mained my regular odd job during all
my too brief postal career.
“Fitzpay”: The complaint of phila-
telists (“Bethune,” B. 16/4/’47) that
many valued stamps are spoiled by the
postmarking does not apply to the
Sydney G.P.0., where a special box is
provided for philatelic pollings. The
stamps are lightly marked by hand. Even
the stamps on other letters are seldom
heavily obliterated, as they pass through
the machines too quickly—average rate
is about 500 a minute. Damage is done
when rollers are used. Some people put
stamps on any odd place on the envelope
where the machine die cannot strike.
These have to be sorted-’out for rolling,
and when they have been through that
process often look as if a tar barrel had
run over them.
* * * 9
“C. 8.”: My bomb-disposals brother
recalls how one Jap bomb which he de-
loused was made in three sections, each
wrapped in newspaper to prevent pre-
mature contact. Nothing unusual in that
except that the paper was an Australian
one and only eight weeks old —a Sunday
supplement featuring Ginger Meggs.
* * * *
“Exdig”: A book which has collected
a mighty lot of the references to the
Digger as a soldier quotes W. M-
Hughes: “The Germans have come to
dread the sight of a wide hat.” Hughes
said it all right, but it merely shows how
loosely a politician may speak; if any
Germans in the line had caught sight of
wide hats during World War I they
would have judged that the Diggers had
gone mad. Within two kilos of the line
the wearing of “tin” hats was compulsory,
and much further back that lid had to
be carried in readiness in case there was
any aerial strife. Any soldier wounded
in the head while wearing any other sort
of millinery was liable to a charge of
“self-inflicted wounds.” There were other
means of identification to make the Huns
tremble, however. A German officer
caught snooping near our wire said that
since the previous day, when we had
taken over, the Huns had known that
Australians were in the line. “A scout
got near enough to hear your fellows
calling one another ‘blanky blankards
without anybody being annoyed,” he
told us.
THE PROPHECY OF McGIRR.
“Speaking in Sydney, Premier McGirr predicted
that his Government would nold all of its 57 seats,
with excellent prospects of winning two or three
more.”
Brave words, McGirr, in days with dangers
bristling!
They call to mind a rhyme that Dryden made
Concerning the advantages of whistling
To keep from being afraid.
Bold forecasts —and how fitting to convey them
When haunting doubts intrude and spirits
sink!
But, while expediency bids you say them,
One wonders what you think.
No Premier but scouts the bare suggestion
That voters his opponents may prefer,
But for expressed cocksureness there’s no
question
You take the bun, McGirr.
To hold your own would indicate success to
Few that arrives, with years of office o’er;
But you feel certain—or at least profess to
Feel —of all that and more.
Yet, underneath the buoyant pose you strike, it
May be that there’s concealed a wholesome
fear
Lest what’s occurred elsewhere, or something
like it,
May b'e impending here.
Your crowd is certain to be re-elected
Strong as before, you confidently say,
The sort of tip that’s come to be expected...
I wonder how ’twill sound if resurrected
After the third of May,
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mr. Dribble”: Football is back in
Melbourne again, and thousands of bar-
rackers are thinking up suitable epithets
to describe the complete lack of mentality
of umpires. Some of the expressions are
too lurid for print, but one that echoed
across the ground a few weeks back has
the essence of poetry. “ ’Struth,” shouted
an irate supporter, “get on to his head —
it’s a cross between the Rock of Gibraltar
and a cream puff.”
* * * *
“Niloc”: “Excuse me —have you any-
thing to let permanent?” .That was my
formula when I begag. haunting Sydney
estate agents. Now, after tramping
in and out of most house-dispensaries
from Cronulla to Broken Bay, I can
manage nothing more than “Got’nything.”
Having carried this house-hunting farce
until my second pair of shoes became
dangerously thin I decided to write to
some of the other agents I had not
visited. The first reply came back this
morning—not exactly encouraging; ; —
From Estate Agency: Sir, —I refer
to your letter of the 21st instant, and note
what you say. I am the manager of this
establishment, and promise you, if it can be
arranged, when I move out of my Housing
Commission flat at Herne Bay, I will do my
utmost to let you have same.
For the benefit of those who know not
N.S.W., Herne Bay “flats” are converted
Army huts.
* * ♦ ♦
“Bagot”; Suicide is a word our news-
papers are forbidden to use until the
coroner has thus returned his finding,
but this restriction apparently applies
only to violent deaths occurring outside
prison walls. When a prisoner hangs or
stabs himself the press makes no bones
about headlining the cause of death as
self-destruction. There have been two
cases lately, one in Brisbane, one in Perth,
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: I can never under-
stand how people, like the Sydney man
who left a battered case containing
£355 7s. 9d. under a ’bus seat, can be so
forgetful. Nor, for that matter, can I
understand why they carry so much
“There ain't no coffee —the beans wont melt!"
boodle about with them. I consulted
“S. M. Herald’s” “Lost and Found”
columns, but could find no real clue,
Among the usual list of parcels, purses,
handbags, cases, kitbags, ear-rings,
watches and the like, there were a few
oddities—a red poddy calf, 16 dogs, a
pony 11| hands high and an ophthalmo-
scope—but nothing to suggest a reason
for persons leaving a couple of hundred
smackers under a bus seat. “Found,
several dogs,” and “Found at Potato
Board’s Stand, one coat,” seemed to have
little bearing on the subject. Still, I sup-
pose it’s possible to lose anything. I
knew one Sydney family who well before
the housing shortage left their house
vacant for 12 months while they went
overseas. When they returned it was
just a shell, having apparently been
used piecemeal for odd jobs in rpost
of the homes in the neighborhood. And
then, of course, there was the funeral
where the mourners lost the coffin and
its contents. But that was in western
Queensland, where thirsts rise with the
temperature.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Zake”: Can it be that the traditional
French flair for wit and fun has been
flattened between the hammer and the
sickle? When a dramatic critic likened
a French actress to “a skeleton whose
skimpy gesticulations are those of a
gibbering jumping jack,” the enraged lady
challenged the critic to a duel. The critic
woodenly declined, thereby leaving him-
self open to the charge of having a
yellow streak, the lady being a crack
pistol shot. His chivalry, always a prime
factor with the French, also looked badly
dented. What a glorious opportunity he
missed to set Paris laughing! As the
challenged he had the choice of weapons.
He could have nominated spiked clubs,
for instance. But perhaps he thought
that a royal rage might have lent even a
lolly-legged “skeleton” strength.
* * * «
“Wildo”; Traffic-cops may be a
menace (B. 19/2/’47), but the most offi-
cious ones can “thaw” at times. In the
early days of traffic lights my wife and
I in our T-raodel went to Melbourne on
our honeymoon, and as the Big Smoke
loomed in view I was all for scouting the
busy traffic, but my wife showed her
first sign of authority saying that all one
had to do was to stick close to the car
in front. All went well until the last
crossing at Flinders-street, where the law
ordered me to the kerb, with “Why
the blazes don’t you take notice of the
lights?” When I asked, “What lights?”
he wanted my address. I said “Natimuk,”
and his face appeared as if to smile.
Then, his thought racing back to duty,
he roared. “Get to blazes out of this.”
I needed no second telling. Natimuk
sounded a good name to us at home, but
it didn’t sound the same in Flinders-
street.
* • • *r
“Uco”: Many of the old nursery
rhymes, some of them the most popular
with kiddies of the present day, had their
origin as political lampoons. “Little
Jack Horner” was a bloke who, en-
trusted with the task of delivering the
title deeds of a batch of monasteries to
Henry VIII, picked out a “plum” for
himself. “Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary”
was Mary Queen of Scots, who is also
remembered in “Little 80-Peep.” I don’t
know who the Old Woman Who Lived
in a Shoe was, but the campaign directors
for the Liberal party put her to good use
in the W.A. elections. Their parody
jffhere was an old woman
Who lived in a shoe,
But with Labor in power
What else COULD she do?
was probably more effective than a
column of straight-out argument.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”; Although a blatantly
obvious move towards obtaining British
sympathy and thereby some extra rations.
the recent German outcry in Hanover for
reviving the Hanoverian monarchy with
the Duke of Windsor as king has an
interesting historical background. From
the accession of George of Hanover to
the English throne in 1714, the two
countries had the same kings. When
William IV died in 1837 the heir to the
English throne was his 18-year-old niece,
Victoria. The Salic Law, forbidding
occupation of the throne by a woman,
luckily did not operate in England, or
that appalling scoundrel, Victoria’s one-
eyed uncle Ernest Augustus, would have
got the job at a very dangerous period in
national history. He was already Heir
Presumptive and no time was lost in
rushing the young Queen into marriage
for the earliest possible production of
direct heirs. The Salic Law operated in
Hanover, and Ernest Augustus reigned
there till 1851, leaving, as his successor,
a blind son doomed to lose his kingdom
when he sided with Austria against
Prussia in 1866.
“I've been at you for months to fix this umbrella !”
“Septimus Warwick”: It has been said
that it took six years for the people to
get back to the ways of peace after the
Napoleonic wars. It seems believable
when one considers that for seven months
Mt. Cootha has been advertised by
Queensland Tourist Bureau as open to
the public, yet only recently have the
people of Brisbane woke up to the fact.
For five years Mt. Cootha was closed for
military purposes. It is one of the prin-
cipal scenic reserves in the city’s bound-
aries, and although only half an hour’s
drive from the heart of the city it com-
mands magnificent views of Brisbane and
the surrounding countryside. Prior to
the war hiking parties picnicked there,
so it appears strange that a place within
sight and walking distance as well should
be overlooked so long. A letter to the
press asking when Mt. Cootha would be
opened brought forth a reply that the
buses were thinking of discontinuing the
run through lack of patronage.
* * * *
“T.D.”; A quiz contestant was asked
“What is Jesuit’s Bark?” He didn’t get
any marks for his answer, but I think
he deserved a pass. He replied: “A
species of sore throat which affects
preachers.”
* * ♦ «
“Craiser”: A posse of mothers was
discussing suitable books for children in
a bus crammed to suffocation by the Mel-
bourne train strike. All the approved
writers were canvassed, from Lewis Car-
roll to Rudyard Kipling and A. A. Milne.
“I have tried them all,” piped an incon-
spicuous little woman* “and the only
way I can keep mine quiet is with Anatole
France or the Bible.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Who said there was no Road
Back? When some years ago the Princess
Theatre in Melbourne was swallowed up
in the maw of the all-devouring movie
old theatregoers kissed good-bye to one
of the last remaining bastions of the legit.
stage. Now in the healthy resurgence of
flesh-and-blood shows the old theatre has
gone back to footlights and flies for the
“Life with Father” season. After that
I’m prepared for anything. Who knows
but that shortly we may hear of a block
of fiats being re-converted into a private
residence?
* * * *
“Ceg”; Sawbones had a very fair
sense of humor and had been in practice
in a Victorian seaside town for many
years. One regular summer visitor was
a pompous woman with a most recog-
nisable voice. Phoning to the butcher
early one morning she was connected by
mistake with the doctor’s house. The old
boy had 4he phone alongside his bed,
where he was asleep after a busy night.
Recognising the voice of her ladyship
he let her go ahead with her order. After
she had emphasised that the steak must
be just as she liked it, he cut in, “Well,
I’ve often been accused of being a butcher
but I don’t sell the meat.”
» » * *
“Bullengro”: If the P.M.G. carries out
his threat to instal on public ’phones a de-
vice to cut off the caller when the
prescribed three minutes are up it will
mean the end of my favorite summer
sport. Have you ever watched these old
girls who, apparently lacking a back-
fence listener, do their earbashing by
’phone? They converge on the ’phone
booth as eagerly as an egg-laden fowl
heads for the nest. Once inside they
shuffle and twist until comfortably
arranged, dial their number and then
stare vacantly, into space awaiting the
answer. For the next ten minutes
they nearly chew the mouthpiece off
the doover in their anxiety to un-
burden themselves. The twin soul at
the other end then gets in with a ten-
minute speech about her corns, the milk-
man or what she said to her sister-in-
law, what time the occupier of the booth
preens her hair, changes her position
half a dozen times, studies passers-by
and glares indignantly at anyone wait-
ing to use the ’phone. After half an hour
or more the earbasher emerges beaming
with satisfaction, says “Oh dear, it’s hot
in there,” and waddles olf.
* * * «
“Flathead”: Although their chosen
professions must be frowned upon, bur-
glars and confidence men often show
ingenuity worthy of a better cause. In
robbing a Moscow bank, a Russian ban-
dit—yes, they still have ’em apparently
—entered the building, hunted around
until he found a “bank-closed” sign, and
hung it up outside. He then settled down
to work at his leisure. In Philadelphia
some burglars, perfectionists at heart,
blew the lock off the door of a factory,
and, before entering, replaced it by one
they had brought along for the purpose.
Nearer home is • the case of a Sydney
man charged with forging tote tickets.
His method, of delicately splitting num-
bers off tickets and gumming others in
their place, showed a touch of genius—
warped though it may be.
* * * *
“D.S.M.”: Reading a 1912 issue of a
popular magazine the other day I was
mildly amused by an item which recorded
that some ingenious person had suc-
ceeded in mounting a gun on a flying-
machine. The writer of the paragraph
then drew attention to the troubled state
of Europe and went on to some dire
forebodings about the fresh fields of
slaughter opened up by the new weapon.
If he is still alive the prophet probably
feels that his worst fears were realised,
but I wonder what he would say could
he see the V 2 now on display at Sydney’s
Circular Quay. Over 46ft. long and sft
in diameter, it’s an awesome, ugly con-
traption without even the beauty of an
aircraft. Nine tons of its 14-tons weight
are taken up by fuel, which, burning in
60 seconds, hurls the rocket over 200
miles. At least one spectator, however,
was not awed by the potentialities of the
thing—he eagerly asked an attendant,
“When are they going to fire it?”
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: My memory of a
stage mishap (B. 16/4/’47) concerns the
old Melbourne Royal, a leading man and
a once-fashionable melodrama. It was a
hot Saturday and on his way to the
theatre the leading man had many pubs
to pass. Arriving in no fit state to take an
active part in the proceedings, he was
accommodated on the sofa in his
dressing-room and his understudy requisi-
tioned. Came a moment in the opus
when the to the foot-
lights pursued by the villain, exclaimed
in a piercing voice: “Will he never come
to save me?” The sozzled mind of the
leading man was just shaking itself free
of the fogs of alcohol and the cry for
succor penetrated. Automatically re-
sponding to the cue like a seasoned actor,
he leapt up and, to the astonishment of
the house, the heroine and the ’villain,
rushed upon the stage just two steps in
front of his understudy.
MONEY TALKS.
‘‘The Council of the N.S.W. Miners’ Federation
decided to vote £l5O to the election fund of tne
Official Labor party and £lOO to the Communist
party.”
You’ve often heard the pithy saw conveying
How money talks in countless modes ana
scenes.
And one might add it has a way of saying
Concisely and precisely what it means,
Though there may be, its auditors among,
Many who wish it could have held its tongue.
You’ve heard the Corns sprayed with denun-
ciations
From hustings, branded Labor s deadliest
foes,
Miscreants with whom it wouldn’t have re-
lations
For anything on earth, you would suppose.
Yet here’s a union that, you’ll note, extends
Its bounty to them, as deserving friends.
How hard it is, the task of harmonising,
When radios with election slogans buzz,
What comrades out for votes are emphasising
With what another bunch of comrades does.
To some the Corns are poison, one infers,
To others tried and trusted pensioners.
Some plaster them with curses hot and glowing
Terms of opprobrium (vide Cain and C 9.);
Others, to help them on the way they’re going.
Hand them a doubtless welcome wad of
dough.
Strange, is it not, such rank divergence stalks
Abroad, but don’t forget that money talks.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


(I ( l Q
-jgjSSStH THE 33S
ll 1 I
v
SE
555
Commonwealth
of Australia
Legal Service Bureaux
For the purpose of giving legal advice and
service to present and formed members of
the Forces and their dependants, the Legal
Service Bureau was established in 1942, as
part of the Commonwealth Attorney-General’s
Department. This Bureau is available to
assist both men and women. Addresses
throughout the Commonwealth are:-
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852
Saxon House
450 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES, ,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and G. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST., TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
DARWIN
Under Part II of the Re-establishment and Employment Act
1945, members and ex-members of the Forces are entitled to
preference in certain circumstances in engagement for
employment. They also have other special rights—for
example, in relation to housing and tenancy, and moratorium
and re-establishment benefits.
The Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Legal Service Bureau
advises, without charge, on all legal matters affecting service-
men or their dependants. Any member or ex-member of the
Forces who believes he has not been given the treatment to
which he is entitled, under the Re-establishment and Employ-
ment Act or otherwise, is invited to place the facts of his
case before the Legal Service Bureau, either by letter or
by personal call.
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General of the
C ommonwealth.
THE SERVICE MAN
Adachi and His Army.
“Ek Dum”: Twenty-one months after
the war ended, trials of Japanese officers
continue at Rabaul, and at the- present
rate of progress—as is the case with the
Tokyo trials—they seem likely to be
going on at the turn of the next century:
an unfortunate fact, seeing that half the
effectiveness of justice lies in the prompti-
tude with which it is executed.
The trial of Lieut-General Hatazo
Adachi, G.O.C, of the 18th Japanese
Army in New Guinea, and of Major-
General Hirotai, occupied five weeks, of
which nearly nine days were given over
to a review of evidence by the Judge-
Advocate during adjournments.
The moral effect, to a certain extent, is
lost by the length of the hearings, especi-
ally as they have been reported in the
most casual manner. The public in
general is scarcely conscious that the
trials are taking place and, if they are
taking place, what they are all about.
It may be necessary in some instances
“Two ounces of me flamin' ierbaccer gone an' no s.o.s. yet."
to make a constructive case in detail, but
there are other cases in which one or
two specific instances would be enough to
convict the prisoner.
Except at its beginnings the Adachi
trial created little public interest, yet it
was full of historical interest.
The General was on trial for having
failed to control the conduct of his
troops, who committed atrocities on Aus-
tralians and Americans.
On the list of crimes were mass mur-
der and torture. They included the
murder of Flight-Lieutenant Newton,
V.C., at Salamaua in March, 1943 ; the
tying up and murder of an Australian
soldier near Wau; and of another at
Buna, with five Americans. Then 58
Indians were alleged to have been mur-
dered without trial, and there were eight
instances of murder of civilians in New
Guinea, among them a child and a native,
whose only crime was that he had refused
to give a Japanese soldier a pawpaw. To
these were added 13 cases of cannibalism
and mutilation of Australian and Ameri-
can dead.
It was a horrible story. A com-
missioned officer of the 2/12 Indian
Frontier Force (Punjab) Regiment, cap-
tured at Singapore, Subadar Chint Singh,
gave evidence that he had seen officers
and men of the Indian Army tortured to
force them to join Chandra Bhose’s
traitor force. Moreover, for 15 months
the Indians in the Wewak district were
given no food, and not even salt, by the
Japanese, who left them to fend for
themselves. Of five Indian working par-
ties, totalling 2500, only 12 survived at
the end of the war. In one case four
Indians were tortured and killed for steal-
ing four lemons.
There were other tales as horrible,
many of them revealed by the inquiries
of the Webb Commission.
Adachi’s defence lay in the state of his
army. He said that if the war had lasted
another month his army would have been
wiped out. Adachi’s allegations were a
confirmation of the impolicy of wasting
Australian lives on certain phases of the
New Guinea campaign after the Japanese
had been cut off.
The General declared that when the
Allies landed at Hollandia and Aitape
the Japanese lines of communication were
severed. To assist the main Japanese
operation it was decided to attack the
Allies at Aitape, with the result that
10,000 Japanese soldiers were lost.
After this it was necessary to dispose
the army, robbed of its sealines, over a
wide area, in groups which could main-
tain themselves on local products. Even
in the process of this move 15,000
officers and men were lost. What fol-
lowed constituted an even greater dis-
aster :
The movement of Japanese troops from
August, 1944, to January, 1945, can be
truly called death marches. At the end of
the war, of 120,000 men, only 12,000 sur-
vived. However, even in the most difficult
circumstances I believed in an ultimate
Japanese victory, and I enforced the most
active and self-sacrificing operations to
facilitate that victory, making demands on
the men which surpassed human endurance.
Because of the mental state of the men
from lack of food, physical exhaustion and
the disadvantageous war situation, some of
the feeble-minded gave full vent to their
animal impulses.
Adachi’s explanation of the order,
issued by him in October, 1944, for
execution without trial, was that by that
time all his Judge-Advocates and legal
officers were dead, and that his instruc-
tions were mitigated by a firm rule, which
he formulated, that no prisoner must be
killed unless caught in the act or unless
he confessed:
If I had failed to take measures at that
time discipline would have slackened, and
even more and felonous crimes would have
increased, making the conduct of operations
difficult. My intentions were not the
violation of the laws of humanity. I limited
the offences punishable by death to those
so punishable under the Imperial Criminal
Code, and to cannibalism, which is the great
problem of humanity.
He had ordered that the Indians should
be treated as members of the Japanese
Army. The first time he heard they were
prisoners-of-war was at the headquarters
of our Sixth Division at Wewak after
he had surrendered. The emergency-
punishment order had been issued mainly
against Japanese troops, and was pot


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO PATRICK CONNOR HACKEE WRIGHT, late
of Queens Road. Asquith.—TAKE NOTICE that
MAVIS ENA WRIGHT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 886 of 19-17 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three (3) years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 19th of May 1947
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. MANN, Solicitor, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
TO LESLIE ERNEST ROYSTON (also known as
L. P. O’Brien) whose regimental number in A.M.F.
was NX2622.—TAKE NOTICE that NELLIE ROY-
STON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4868 of
1946 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 30th day of May 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition .without charge from R. W. FRASER &
PARKINSON, Solicitors, 51 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
5
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joscpu Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Fee.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE; BU 5901.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydn«y.
BF ?-«.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
PRICE; ONE SHILLING.
zz.
.
,
m
►*>»
' ; ■
4m
WHAI DOIS JHIS
JfGN MEAN!
IT MEANS 8.0.A.C.
IT MEANS 8.0.A.C. AIR ROUTES-over 72,000
miles of routes, linking 5 continents across the world.
IT MEANS 8.0.A.C. PLANES over two
hundred aircraft operated by 8.0.A.C.
Above all, it means an ideal the determination
to place 8.0.A.C. ahead o£ the world’s air lines
and to keep it there by unceasing improvement.
Australasian Representative:
Shell House, Carrington Street, Sydney.
General Agents: QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin,
Pt. Moresby. Lae, Rabaul. Booking agents in all cities.
Speedbird Routes across the World
Unking AUSTRALIA with:
BRITAIN • NEW ZEALAND
FAR EAST . INDIA . MIDDLE
EAST . SOUTH, EAST & WEST
AFRICA . CANADA • U.S.A.
Q.E.A. operate the Flying-boat service between Australia and
Singapore and the Lancastrian Service between Australia and
Karachi. T.E.A. operate the service from Australia to New
Zealand.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTA3
EMPIRE AIRWAYS, SOOTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS
specifically directed against the Indians,
save as part of the Japanese Army.
After the long trial the General was
found guilty and was sentenced to life
imprisonment in the Rabaul Wai
Criminals’ compound.
It would have been much better if he
and others had been tried expeditiously
on the Australian mainland, where their
cases would have received proper public
attention and have had a proper outlook
on the Australian viewpoint of defence.
Anzac Day.
“Ek Dum”: Anzac Day was observed
in varying weather round the Australian
capitals, in every country town in the
continent, as well as abroad on battle-
fields and in centres where there were
enough Australians to form a group.
Though in Sydney the march was pro-
claimed a record as usual by the press,
it was somewhat smaller than last year,
and there did not seem to be the same
verve and swing about it. Many old
familiar faces were absent, and some of
the young battalions of the Second A.1.F.,
hailing from N. S. Wales, were very
thinly represented.
But the Dawn Service was a tremen-
dous and emotionally overpowering cere-
mony, which grows in size and solemnity
every year. And the service in Sydney
Domain, along with other church ser-
vices, was the largest for many a year.
Ifl the Domain there were 70,000 to
80,000 people.
There seemed to be a different air
about the day, which was quieter and
less boisterous than in some previous
years and more of a universal national
event.
Anzac Day is still growing up, but it
is more than ever Anzac Day with- all
the old landmarks, including W. M.
Hughes, the “Little Digger,” at his post
in Martin-place after his long illfiess.
Moscow's Lone Apostle.
“Ek Dum”: The repeated evidence that
a Communist or fellow-traveiller with
“influence” can find his way into the
C.S.I.R. and other departments which
affect defence, and the appalling public
apathy about these matters, constitute a
disquieting feature of the Australian
scene. The Leftist teacher and writing
boy and the racing-mad editor have done
their work only too well.
It is disturbing also that so many
powerful figures in the trade-union world,
heads of munitions and transport unions,
are loyal to Moscow rather than to their
own country; that they are opposed to
the White Australia policy; that, if
this country, as part of the British Com-
monwealth, became involved in war with
Russia, when our defences have been
weakened to the point of futility, they
would be on the enemy’s side.
“Peace” in 1940
If it became necessary to take a stand
which might lead to war with “our In-
dernesian comrades” these fellows would
be all for peace with them at any price,
even if it meant surrender, as they were
for peace and surrender to Hitler in
1940, and until * Germany attacked
Russia.
None of them or their followers
apparently ever reflects what would have
happened had their advice been taken in
1940, when Moscow was yelling, and
the Thorntons and Healys and a section
of the “Labor” party, were echoing, that
there was nothing left to fight for;
that the British Commonwealth as an
“imperialistic aggressor nation” should
approach Hitler with a peace offer. No-
body ever suggested that Hitler should
make the overtures..
If Hitler had accepted that “offer” it
would have involved the complete, relaxa-
tion of British war effort; the slowing
down immediately of Britain’s war
momentum to zero. And Germany, hav-
ing in view what it later was proved to
have in view, would have gone on quietly
increasing its preparations until ready in
1941 to throw the whole—and not merely
a poor half—of the Wehrmacht’s efforts
against Russia.
The Suez Canal routes would have
been open to Germany. Turkey’s hand
would have been forced. Even if
Britain had decided to re-enter the war, a
point to which it would have been diffi-
cult to lead its people after the let-down
involved in making peace, it would have
been too late.
Without the British Navy and Air
Force and British shipping Russia would
have been beaten to its knees in six
weeks, as it very nearly was in any case ;
and Thornton, Healy and the rest would
be men without a country.
Compulsory Training *
The position regarding compulsory
training shows that foreign agents, who
have been ready to sell their country
—to Hitler, the Indonesians, Mos-
cow, anybody the Comintern ordered
them to sell out to —now control Aus-
tralian policy to a point at which they
are able to determine military policy and,
in the process, to red-ant the scientific
defences. They applaud the P.M.
when he blithely mouths the falsehood —
it first emanated direct from Moscow
and not, as most: people believe,
from the United States —that the next war
\yill be a scientific war and that man-
power will not be needed.
An Old Lie
This was the Communists’ main argu-
ment all through the years from 1935-36
onward, when in every country in which
there was a Communist party they were
fighting against the creation of universal
defence. Then, in their view, the “big
bomber” was the weapon which would
put the footslogger out of business in
the next war. Moscow “News” fre-
quently published anticipatory stories of
how single bomber squadrons destroyed
Berlin in a single raid in the hours of
darkness, the pilots returning home
laughing at the bloody mess of goose-
stepping infantry which they had left be-
hind, powerless before the might of the
irresistible Red Air Force —which proved
a laughable myth when it came to the
test.
Communist tactics are exactly the
same now, and, with a “ ‘Labor’ Govern-
ment” in office, equally successful in
Australia. Britain, France, the United
States, Russia, Spain, China, Turkey,
even the Indonesians have compul-
sory training for military purposes.
All the great countries of the world have
recognised that the new methods of war
will call for absolute universal military
service, so great will be the call of vast
masses of men and women when the next
war breaks out.
Australia is Moscow’s single apostle.
Premier Nadjamoedin, of East Indo-
nesia, which is to federate with the Indo-
nesian Republic and Dutch Borneo in
1949, to form the United States of Indo-
nesia in union with the Netherlands
Realm, says that he regrets that the Aus-
tralian watersiders boycott Dutch ships
and thus hold up goods which East Indo-
nesia badly requires. Mr. Nadjamoedin
had better have a care. He appears to
be unaware that Australia is a land of
free speech (for Communists) and that
if he thwarts the wharfies Mr. Healy
will exclude him from the Commonwealth
when he comes to visit it shortly.
* * * *
The rotten policy which directed
the withdrawal of Major Cousens’s com-
mission by order of the Army Minister
(Chambers), after a secret inquiry by the
Army Board, at which the accused was
not represented, was 1 well illustrated in
the Anzac Day march in Sydney. The
Major, minus the campaign ribbons
which he may not wear, led his battalion,
“the fighting Nineteenth,” the unit which
saw some of the toqghest actions in
Malaya, and part of which, under
Cousens’s leadership, comprised about
the last section of the A.LF. to stay
fighting before the surrender. The Army
Board may have facts which justify its
action, but they should be submitted to
public scrutiny. If they are valid they
will strengthen the Army’s position and
most certainly strengthen that of the
Minister, whose personal responsibility'
.it is.


:' : '
'
s;ii:5 ;i i: '
m
mm
m
r :m
*miP
iliißMy.v arMefettla
mf *l^2^
■ ■ w,.-^
' **&%s*' i h ss*4 *S\¥j-
ŧ
PERSONAL ITEMS
Along with its flying doctors and its
flying sister —Myra Branch, of the
Broken Hill base —the Flying Doctor
Service of Australia now has a flying
dentist. He is G. P. Castles, who has
taken up a possie at the Charleville (Q.)
base for an experimental period of 12
months. If the test is successful —and the
folk scattered about the sector are already
delighted with it —the service will be ex-
tended. Another innovation is the
temporary appointment of an ophthalmic
surgeon and a bacteriologist to Broken
Hill, and Maria Island,' off Tasmania’s
east coast, has been presented with a
Traeger transceiver.
Flynn of the Inland, whose life work
has been the Flying Doctor Service, will
shortly be able to see a memorial erected
to him, for the commemorative struc-
ture designed by architects Meldrum and
Noad, of Melbourne, is going up at the
intersection of the North-South and
Mt. Isa Road in the N.T. Flynn is 67
and, as hon. vice-president of Australian
Aerial Medical Services, still as inter-
ested as ever.
“Philp”: I see that A 1 McDonald,
who, with R, S. Mann, bought a Jap
tomb at Lae for £1 and intends opening
it, has been asked by English and
American newspapers for the story. It
should be a good one for two reasons:
(1) the tomb is believed to be
a tunnel in which the Japs sealed
themselves, their hospital and a good
deal of equipment rather than sur-
render to Australians; (2) anything
McDonald does contains an element
of the unexpected. A New Zea-
lander, he has wandered over most
of Australia, trying boxing and fish-
ing and other jobs before he took to
goldmining at Tennant Creek. I hadn’t
seen him since I visited the Tennant years
ago, until I ran. into him about 7 a.m.
in Sydney’s George-street. He had
booked in at a pub but, accustomed to
early rising, was up and searching the
city for breakfast. His pockets were
stuffed with tenners, and over a breakfast
of coffee and sandwiches he told me he
was a little worried about carrying so
much money because the crowd at his
pub seemed a pretty tough mob. I
grinned, because A 1 is handy with his
fists and tough enough to take on two or
three Sydney larrikins and kill ’em or tear
’em apart slowly according to his feelings
at the moment. After a lunch of prawns,
oysters, fish soup and grilled fish —he was
making up for the lack of fish at the
Tennant —he departed for New Guinea
intent on buying some mining machinery.
His acquisition of the “tomb” was one
of his minor transactions.
About the only time Len Sanderson is
more genial than any other time is when
he is surrounded by Aberdeen-Angus
cattle, which could be due to the fact
that the cattle are hornless, but is more
likely due to Sanderson’s belief that a
CATTLEMAN.
bite off an Aberdeen-Angus’s rump is a
beef-epicure’s idea of the ultimate in
gastronomic delight. He runs a few of
them himself up at Wallah, near Narrabri
(N.S.W.), and was captured by Heth while
still president of the A.-A. Society and
beaming on all and sundry at the society’s
annual dinner. He has since joined the
ranks of past-presidents, but anyone who
supposes that this means a loss of interest
in the breed doesn’t know his black polls.
Ninety this month and still full of
vigor and enthusiasm, John Howlett-Ross,
Melbourne elocutionist, was given a cele-
bration party by the Melbourne Bread
and Cheese Club. Well known in Aus-
tralian literary circles, his Laureate of the
Centaurs is regarded as the best work on
the life of Adam Lindsay Gordon. He is
an ex-chief president of the A.N.A.
W.O. Jack Forbes, now returned to
Bondi after eight years’ war absence, has
been hailed as the last of Australia’s
warriors to return from the war in
Europe. He can safely be recorded as the
first of the last; after the 1914-18 scrap
the last man to return was hailed in 1921 ;
and strays kept straggling back until one
returned only a year ago who had stayed
on for the recent affray before his home-
land called him. Forbes, who was a jvell-
known identity in beach affairs, went
away with the first squadron of flying
men who were hurried to England almost
as soon as the war started.
First Victorian to win academic re-
cognition for nuclear research work is R.
D. Hill, senior lecturer in physics at the
University of Melbourne. He receives the
degree of D.Sc. for his work on slow and
fast neutrons quoted widely abroad by
atomic physicists. During the .war he
worked in the nursery of atom-splitting,
Cavendish Laboratories at Cambridge and
under Professor Goldhaber at Illinois
University.
“Ek Dum’s” tribute:
In Roland Green passed one of the most
gallant spirits the House of Representatives
has known. Born at Emmaville (N.S.W.), he
was a medical student before World War I,
did some exploring in South America and else-
where, but was on the spot to join the 6th
A.L.H. and leave for Egypt on Dec. 21, 1914.
He was wounded on Gallipoli after transferring
to the 6th Infantry Battalion in November,
1915. He was invalided home but succeeded
in getting back to France, where he was re-
taken on the strength of the 6th in May, 1917.
This particular fact certain members of the
Ist Battalion, in the covering post at Cryer’s
Farm in the battle of the Menin Road the
following September, had good cause to re-
member when Roland’s promptness and devo-
tion in grenading an enemy m.-g. post to bits
saved their lives. Later he lost his left leg at Ypres,
was sent home and for a time was a stock in-
spector on the New England. In 1922 he,
stood for Richmond seat in the Reps, against
Walter Massy Greene, his identification slogan
being: “Vote for the One-legged Green with-
out an ‘e’.” When he got in by 11,49 J
to 10,056 he remarked cheerfully; “Won by
minus 1435 feet.”-He remained in the House
till 1937, and when well over 50 set out, ill but
undaunted, to qualify for the Bar with the help
of a devoted wife. He succeeded, but a long
illness, largely the result of his war service—
he was almost always in pain—robbed him of
the fruits of his effort. Some papers gave his
age as 58, but it was actually 62.
With rifle clubs getting on the move
again one can expect to see the name of
Philip Sidney Bapty among the big
money. This versatile marksman, who
enlisted in 1899 at the ripe age of 12,
has a shooting record that takes some
beating. He represented India from
1923 to 1930 and Britain from 1931 to
1938, was in the final at Bisley half a
dozen times and tied for first place once.
Whilst a special constable in London he
was runner-up three times and champion
of the police club, champion of the
South London Club four years out of
five, winner of the Scottish Grand aggre-
gate and also the Wimbledon Cup. On
a visit to Canada he collected the Gold
Cup given by the Corporation of the City
of Toronto. Bapty owned an armory in
London with 25,000 pieces ranging from
bows and arrows to field-guns arid re-
volvers- to machine-guns. From this
storehouse he provided period armor for
the movies and stage in addition to the
Aldershot Tattoo, Royal Tournament at
Olympia, London Pageant and Navy
Week at Portsmouth. At odd times he
has played parts in Bulldog Drummond
and other films iri incidents requiring
crack shooting. Bapty holds the Military
Cross, the Royal Humane Society’s medal
and bar for life saving, and three rows
of service ribbons. Just back from two
years with the U.S. Army Transport
service, at 60 a he’s still a shot to be
reckoned with.
“Mid-Channel"’ on an old-time favor-
ite:—
Death in London of Dorothy Vane brings
back old memories of theatrical enjoyment. A
contralto, she opened as far back as August,
1898, as Phoebe Meryll in “The Yeomen of the
Guard,” following that up a few weeks later
as Pitti Sing in the “Mikado.” Of her per-
formance The Bulletin Showman wrote “She
poses, trots, giggles and sings with the gleeful
naivete of a genuine cherry-blossom.” In Sep-
tember of the same year'she figured in the part
she was always remembered by, that of Alesia
in Edmond Andran’s opera “La Poupee.” In
this opera also figured the late George Lauri
as Hilarius, the dollmaker. The cast was a very
strong one; it included Chas Kenningham (the
Novice), Pat Bathurst, Howard Vernon, Mrs.
Bracy, Carrie Moore and Frances Adler. ItJ
1899 we saw her in “The Geisha,” again
with Lauri, Florence Perry (leading part).
Rose Musgrove, Lily Titheradge and Mrs.
Bracy. Later the same year she figured as
lolanthe in the G. and S. opera of that
name, and in June of 1900 as Ruth in “The
Pirates of Penzance,” a part afterwards taken
by Celia Ghiloni with great merit. In July
of 1900 she was Dancing Sunbeam in Basil
Hood’s opera “The Rose of Persia,” the music
being by Arthur Sullivan. This cast contained
some outstanding artists: Geo. Lauri, Chas.
Kenningham, Wallace Brownlow, Pat Bathurst,
Hugh J. Ward, Albert Whelan (the Whistling
Waiter in “The Trip to Chinatown”) and Ada
Winston-Weir. In August, 1898, she was Tessa
in “The Gondoliers,” a part played later bn in
1905 by Aggie Thorne. However, in October of
1914 we saw Dorothy back in the same part
and in November, 1914, once again as Phoebe
Meryll singing the “Spinning Wheel” song that
opens the play—the only G. and S. opera that
doesn’t open with a chorus. She again appeared
in November of 1914 as lolanthe with Chas.
R. Walenn, G. Villiers Arnold and Ruth Lin-
coln in leading parts.
Art circles in Sydney having become
something of a battleground, Erik
Langker joins the trustees of the N. S.
ARTIST.
Wales National Gallery under a handi-
cap—on crutches, with a broken ankle.
Still, that’s better than an addled head.
Known for his clear and pleasant land-
scapes, Langker—still in his forties —was
born at Balmain, Sydney, and began his
studies finder Julian Ashton; later he
attended the Royal Art Society’s classes
under Dattilo Rubbo and James R. Jack-
son, studied landscape under Will Ashton.
He is president of .the Royal Art Society
and is represented in the Sydney Gallery
and in Howard Hinton’s collection at
Armidale.’ Those who look for artists
bearded in a wine-cellar will seek for
him in vain ; but tall, fair, blue-eyed and
impeccably suited in silver-grey, he is
frequently to be found in Mockbell’s,
next The Bulletin office, sedately drink-
ing coffee.
“Atrax”: Attendance of the bride’s
mother at a golden-wedding celebration
is an unusual happening, but Mrs. M. J.
Powell, of Roma (Q.), recently achieved
the feat in Brisbane at the age of 91. Her
Queensland-born daughter, Mrs. M.
Sorenson, and her son-in-law, aged 72
and 80 respectively, have eight children,
31 grandchildren and three great-grand-
children. Mrs. Powell’s living descendants
include six children, 68 grandchildren, 100
great-grandchildren and five great-great-
grandchildren.
James Douglas Chapman laughed a
few weeks ago when he saw Coventry’s
caricature of his brother Bob on this
page; he wasn’t so amused when the
artist pinned him down for his turn. The
two followed in the footsteps of their
father, who was Professor of Engineering
ENGINEER.
at Adelaide ’Varsity. Both hold engineer-
ing degrees ; R.H. was recently appointed
S.A. Railways Commissioner and J.D. is
Adelaide’s new City Engineer. The Chap-
mans are a tall lot—of five brothers the
railways one is the only one who doesn’t
top six feet. J.D. is 6ft. 3-i-in., but already
has to look up to see his 17-year-old son,
Stirling, State junior high jtimp champion.
Appointed Director of Tuberculosis in
the Commonwealth Health Department,
Dr. Harry Wyatt Wunderly was one of
the instigators of the X-ray campaign
against t.b., and has studied this disease
extensively in Australia and overseas.
Victoria-born, he graduated in medicine
at Melbourne Uni., did post-grad, work
in London, Edinburgh and Switzerland,
and ip 1924-25 studied the diagnosis and
treatment of t.b. in Vienna. Returning
to Australia, he became senior assistant
physician to the t.b. service and consult-
ing physician to the Government, sana-
toria in S.A., and was an original mem-
ber of the Health Srirvey Committee in
that State. Under a grant from the
National Health and Research Council he
conducted a survey of pulmonary t.b.
among 3500 men in the age group of 15
to 30 years, when the 35mm. photo-
fluorography of the lungs was first used
in Australia. During the war he served
in military hospitals, and has since been
O.C. of the Tuberculosis Division at
Heidelberg.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 81, Leonard Francis, for 40
years conductor of the Blackstone-Ipswich Cam-
brian choir, which under his leadership won the
championship of Australia at Ballarat (Vic.)
in 1908 and again in Sydney in 1910.
In Brisbane, at 79, Frederic James Watson,
a leading authority on the traditions and
languages 6f the south-eastern aboriginal tribes
of Queensland. He compiled a vocabulary of
the Kabi, Wakka, Yugarabul and Yugumbir
dialects.
At Mentone, Vic., William Robert Rowson,
chemist, who was associated with the Nicholas
brothers in the early stages of their Aspro
enterprise and for many years before and
after. An authority on tablet-making, he rep-
represented the company abroad for some years.
At 47, Andy Moodie, chief of the plant
industry section of N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture
and an agrostologist of, world-wide fame. His
work on grasses in N.S.W. increased the State’s
yield in dairy products, meat and wool. Most
Sydney golf clubs depended upon him for advice
on , their greens.
At Bowral (N.S.W.), at 82, Hector Lamond,
M.H.R. for Illawarra, 1917-1922, and Minister
.for Repatriation for two years. Manager of
The “Australian Worker” for over 20 years,
he broke with the Labor party over conscrip-
tion. Since 1924 he had been associated with
country newspapers.
In Perth, at 76, C. W. Arnott, building con-
. tractor and company director. Born at Wagga
(N.S.W.), he went to the West in 1896 and
was responsible for the erection of many notable
buildings in Perth, among them the G.P.O.
In Brisbane, at 89, Joseph Edward Cross,
for 43 years a printer with the Brisbane “Tele-
graph,” the Brisbane “Courier” and the Queens-
land Government Printing Office. Sydney-born,
he learned his trade in Brisbane.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
With all its poignant memories, Anzac
Day was observed in this city with the
usual march of gallant men and women,
and although the day was wet and dreary
it could not dampen the spirits of either
those who marched or of those who
proudly watched as warriors bore on the
rendezvous at the Shrine. Earlier in
the morning a short, but impressive, cere-
mony took place at the Edith Cavell
Memorial on St. Kilda-road, where more
than 150 women stood in the heavy rain
and paid silent tribute to a gallant English
nurse and also to 86 Australian nurses
who paid the supreme sacrifice in two
wars. Just as Lady Dugan, wife of
Victoria’s Governor, arrived to pay her
tribute and to place her wreath on the
memorial, rain temporarily ceased. Lady
Herring followed with her wreath. Cr.
Williams, representing the Lord Mayor,
placed his, and then followed Miss, K. M.
Laurence, representing the R.A.N. Nurs-
ing Service, Col. A. M. Sage, Matron-
in-Chief of the A.A.N.S., and Miss A. J.
Wheatley, Matron-in-Chief of the
RA.A.F. Nursing Service. One of the
loveliest wreaths was fashioned of pastel-
tinted roses which had been picked from
the Memorial Garden at the Heidelberg
Military Hospital.
Sole survivor of the Banka Island
massacre, Sister Vivien Bulwinkel was
present at the ceremony, and on behalf
of the prisoners-of-war she placed a
wreath on the steps of the Memorial.
Centaur nurses were also remembered by
a lovely cross of red carnations sur-
rounded by a circle of white chrysan-
themums. Present also were nurses of
two generations, many of them wearing
medals. The service was conducted by
the chairman of the Edith Cavell Trust
Fund (Mr. Edgar, M.L.C.). In a short
address Mr. Mcßrien, M.L.C., said “Let
us never forget the wonderful and loyal
service of our own Australian nurses,
some of whom are now suffering in health
and in position. Not one deserving sister
has been refused assistance from the
Fund, and to assist sisters of this war
the Fund would be stretched to its limit.”
In her Pasadena Mansions flat Miss
Jean Wheatley, Matron-in-Chief of the
R.A.A.F. Nursing Service, entertained
many of the R.A.A.F. sisters who later
took part in the Anzac Day march.
Among her guests was Miss N. G. Rees,
Principal Matron of the Princess Mary
RA.F. Nursing Service. Miss Rees re-
cently arrived in Melbourne and will later
go to Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan,
and expects to reach England at the end
of December. She was mentioned in dis-
patches for her work in the Irak rebel-
lion of 1941 and was also awarded the
Royal Red Cross. Other guests included
Principal Matron K. M. Laurence, of
the R.A.N. Nursing Service, and Super-
intendent Sister E. R. Cobcroft, who is
second-in-charge at the Flinders Naval
Depot. Another interesting guest was
Sister Adre Jones, who is in charge of
the R.A.A.F. hospital at Laverton. She
was a civil nurse in Singapore and left
just before it fell. One of the delicacies
served to guests was pate de foie gras,
which had been brought back from Eng-
land by the hostess when she went to
London for the Victory march.
Grey uniforms gave place to feminine
fripperies when Army sisters met at their
club on Anzac Eve for their annual re-
union. Laughter was gay as stories were
exchanged during the evening. Many
nurses of the 1914-18 war were present,
among them Miss Grace Douglas, who
is president of the Army Nurses Club.
Happy to be once more among her girls
was Col. A. M. Sage, looking attractive
in a navy-blue-and-white printed crepe
frock over which she wore a three-
quarter length white wool coat. Lt.-Col.
J. Bowes, who is matron of the Heidel-
berg Military Hospital, was once again
with her friends; they are now out of
the Army and scattered abroad but man-
age to get together on this occasion.
With Helen Ellison was Helen Todd. The
latter went away as a physiotherapist.
Receiving congratulations on her appoint-
ment as matron of the Epworth Hospital
was Marjorie Holding ; with her was Jean
Crameri, who was mentioned in dis-
patches for her work in New Guinea.
Former principal matron of Victoria,
Lydia Shaw, who is now matron of the
Alfred Hospital, was the centre of an
animated group. Party broke up soon
after supper, for transport was a grave
problem for many of the sisters.
Ninon Vallin, the French soprano, will
carry back to her native land memories
of Melbourne, pleasant and not quite so
pleasant. The transport hold-up hit at-
tendances at her recitals badly. But if
audiences were small, there was no doubt
of the sincerity of their enjoyment, and
the singer was given a real Australian
welcome. This singer with a voice of
such rare loveliness chose a gown of black
velvet with the skirt sweeping the floor,
the fitting bodice being made with a
shoulder cape and long sleeves. Among
the admirers of Ninon’s art were Mrs.
Guy Hutchinson (Grace Angelau), who
has returned from a trip to her folks in
the U.S.A.; Viva Holgate Clarke, well-
known Melbourne pianist; and Vi Dunn,
Keith Parker, with his wife, and the Earl
Greys. Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, who was
smartly-garbed in a leaf-green coat with
a yoke of leopard skin, came with her
sister, Thelma Halbert." Margaret
Cochrane tucked herself into a tight-
fitting jacket of lime-green wool crepe
and a trim-tailored black skirt. Shirley
Martin, of Sydney, came with Ken
Brodziak.
Helen Estelle, younger daughter of
Mrs. Stella Lane, Toorak, and the late
Mr. R. T. Lane, chose all-white for her
wedding at St. John’s, Toorak. Bride-
groom was Wyndham Hill Smith,
youngest son of Mrs. Smith, Angaston,
S.A., and the late Mr. Walter Smith.
Helen’s gown was of white moire taffeta,
the skirt bouffant with the hem heavily
padded; the tight-fitting bodice had a
deep square yoke. Instead of the usual
flowers she chose three tiny white ostrich-
feather tips to hold in place her veil,
which was lent by Mrs. Charles Lane,
who wore it on her wedding day. Adding
contrast to the wedding gown was the
bouquet of gardenias and pale mauve
orchids carried by the bride. As matron-
of-honor, Mrs. Charles Lane carried- out
the all-white scheme by wearing a gown
of white crepe with the bodice featuring
short puff-sleeves and a deep square neck
while the skirt had a stiffened lace pep-
lum. Her Dutch cap was also of stiffened
lace, and she carried a bouquet of gar-
denias. Brother Robert gave the bride
away.
After the ceremony, guests foregathered
at the Lane homestead in Toorak-road,
where bowls of white and pink gladioli
were set in every available corner of the
reception-rooms. Mrs. Lane received her
guests wearing a lovely frock of black
tulle with a large bow of mist-blue cire
ribbon lined with white, set at the hip-
line. She was assisted by the bride-
groom’s mother, Mrs. Walter Smith,
whose formal black gown was worn with
a small flower hat. From Adelaide came
Mrs. Colin Matheson (sister of the bride-
groom). Her gown of white crepe was
embroidered with crystal beads ; Mrs. S.
Hill Smith was attractive in a lime-green
crepe dinner-gown, the three-tiered skirt
of which had a pleated panel set at the
back ; the bodice also had a deep fold
to match the skirt. A halo of black
velvet provided a nice effect. Dr. Peter
Jay, with his wife, who wore a black
gown, were also over from Adelaide.
Dr. Alick Chapman was with his wife,
whose dinner gown of grey moire taffeta
was worn with a matching jacket. Also
in grey—her gown was of georgette —
was Mrs. Gordon Coulter. Mrs. Lionel
Newton chose a hyacinth-blue gown and
wore a short jacket of dyed ermine with
cocoa-brown fox sleeves and a halo hat
of pale pink and mauve silk net. Rona
Benton, who also chose a blue gown,
was with Bob Robertson, whom she will
marry at St. John’s, Toorak, on May 22.
Enjoying the wedding festivities was
Helen’s grandmother, Mrs. M. J. Lane,
who wore a short ermine jacket over
her black gown. Very lovely was the
gown worn by Irene Aitken, who was
with her husband, Dr. Arch Aitken. It
was of black net with a tiny pattern of
white silk worked into the material of
her frock.
From Sydney
Anzacs who died for us, Anzacs who
have been blinded and maimed for us
who walk free and unharmed, we owe
you so much that we can never repay
you! But Australia does try to say
“Thank you” on Anzac Day. Then there
are wreaths for the immortal heroes,
cheers and applause for the living soldiers,
tears, too, for the memories of the past.
In Sydney last Friday the streets
through which the great yearly com-
memorative march passed were thronged
with the parents, the wives, the brothers
and sisters, even the babies, of the Anzacs.
There are two generations now who bear
this proud name, and many fathers and
sons were among those who marched —
16 abreast, 55,000 all told —along the
openness of Macquarie-street, down
Martin-place, between its great stone
cliffs of buildings, the lines breaking as
they passed on each side of the Cenotaph.
The eyes of each man saluted the sym-
bolic statues of soldier and sailor, and
in so doing saluted some dead but
never-forgotten comrade. Along George
and Park and College streets, along Prince
Alfred-road near Hyde Park and into the
cool greenness of the Domain the Anzacs
stepped. Here were service and hymn
of gratitude, and in each heart a prayer
for Peace.
A quarter of a million people watched
the march. They were no mere specta-
tors of a passing show. They were one
with the men whose standards brought
back unforgettable tales of Bullecourt,
the Somme, Hill 60, the Dardanelles,
Tobruk, El Alamein, Mespot, Egypt,
Greece. The sky was blue, the sun shone
warm and high, the bands played, the
bells of St. Mary’s rang out, summoning
many to solemn Requiem Mass. The
Governor, Lieut.-General Northcott, led
the march. Lt.-General Gordon Bennett
was in command. Policemen walked,
and firemen, laborers and .businessmen,
musicians and writers, servicewomen and
nurses, too. For they were all in this.
And didn’t Maorilanders in Sydney and
Sydneyites, too, cheer and applaud the
splendid Enzed contingent! It was a day
colored with decorations, with kilted
Highlanders, with snowy snooded Junior
Red Crossers, with the massed and glow-
ing flowers on the Cenotaph. And over
all was the scent of rosemary.
Bright “do” of the week was that given
by the Ballet Club to welcome famed
American dancer Ted Shawn. It was in
History House, and mixed a sparkling
programme and speeches. Theatre in all
its moods and tenses was represented.
Barbara Brunton Gibb is one of the
younger group which is working hard to
make the Actor's’ and Announcers’ Equity
Ball what the publicity man claims for
it: “The Top Line Ball of the Season.”
There’s to be a floor show of great
variety and talent which Wee Georgie
Wood, the world-famed comedian, will
compere. There’s to be a square dance
whose dancers will be stage and radio
personalities, and what about the pro-
gressive barn dance, which gives you a
chance to dance with your favorite stars?
And don’t forget the surprise that Jack
Davey and A 1 Thomas are promising.
The ball is to raise funds for a holiday
and rest home for sick and aged actors.
Help them by going in fancy or just
ordinary evening dress to the Trocadero
on May 13.
Frank Medworth, of Technical College
renown, opened the show of drawings
and small sculpted pieces at David Jones’s
last Wednesday. The work is by members
of the Society of Artists, and if you like
the sensitive and delicate expression ot
art then some of the drawings will give
delight. You will pause before Sydney
Ure Smith’s “Sydney Harbor from
Elizabeth Bay” and Frank Medworth’s
elephants —African and Indian species
will hold you, too, though Frank owned
up to hearing the most shattering criti-
cism of his work by a woman visitor
just before his opening speech. Joshua
Smith’s “The Palm Tree” was among
things admired. Pixie O’Harris was there,
very pretty in black. Prize for the after-
noon’s triggest tailorings goes to Mrs.
Roy McCaughey.
Anzac Day eve was an appropriate
time for the women members of the Aus-
tralian American Co-operation to honor
Mrs. Robert Butler, wife of U.S.A.’s
Ambassador to Australia. For America’s
sons and the sons of Australia have stood
together against a common enemy on
other and more bitter Anzac Days. The
Savarin in George-street was chosen for
the lunch. There was a reception timed
for half-past twelve, and by that time the
long narrow rooms were thronged.
The guest-of-honor, who has a very
fair complexion, had sequin-embroidered
blue motifs on her black frock, and
her wisp of a hat wore a pink rose in
the front. President of the women’s
section. Mrs. Florence Taylor, was hand-
some in soft black crepes. Secretary Mrs.
Ted Scorfield also wore black, her little
hat blooming with flowers. Alice Prowse
and Reg Willoughby were the day’s
singers. Young violinist Karoly Szenassy
played with true musicianship. Mrs.
Robert Butler, who is a singer and a
musician, listened with appreciation to
the programme. Daughter Catherine, in-
cidentally, is studying singing with Roland
Foster.
Even Boyd Neel himself thinks the
words of “Les Illuminations” should be
on the programme. The poem is by
Rimbaud set to music by the amazing
and always original Benjamin Britten.
“The words tumble out in a torrent,
sometimes meaningless as words, but
beautiful as sounds.” That’s a quote from
the programme. The Girl in the Flat
Opposite says could “Les Illuminations”
just mean that the poet was a bit lit up.
But she’s a Philistine. The work has
beauty and excitement, and Melbourne’s
Peggy Knibb was so good as the keeper
of the keys that she could, in radio or
film jargon, make it her “signature song.”
Boyd Neel and his minstrel boys made
Bach and Mozart and Holst and Purcell
sound the happy and glorious beings they
were, and a jammed crammed Conserva-
torium rocked and rolled in the thunders
of applause.
The news must have leaked through
the Pacific cables, for Mel Lawton got
an applicant for his “Mermaid Wanted”
advertisement. So all is well with the
Coral Sea Ball. The live mermaid jvill
be there looking as pretty as a fairy tale
beside the silvery pool in the foyer of
the Trocadero on May 6. Other local
color will be great nets loaded with shells
and trails of seaweed. There will also
be coral and palms, and a native hut
underneath whose thatch good old jungle
juice will be served. Funds will be shared
by Food for Britain and the Australian-
American Co-operation.
,|E&students of Loreto Convent will
hafotneir yearly dance in the Wentworth
on May 13. Mrs. Tom Bateman, who is
president of the Old Girls’ Union, re-
ports that already ■ there is brisk demand
for tickets, and many large parties are
planned. The school bursary fund bene-
fits.
Lorna Sydney, serene and gracious,
lifted in Sydney Town Hall last Thursday
night the voice which has rocked Vienna.
The mezzo-soprano proved worthy of
the renown already gilding it. There is
warmth in Lorna’s concert manner, and
her taste in frocks is at least three-star.
Her black velvets circled out from the
knees, something in an Empress Eugenie
fashion. The entire skirt was wreathed
with embossed white velvet gardenias,
which same flower she wore just above
each ear. The sleeves were long and
fitting, the neckline was high, the singer’s
throat alone being bare.
Chips Rafferty, who arrived at the
Ballet Club’s party to Ted Shawn com-
plete with beard, hadn’t it all his own
way. There was another tall man with
a beard on the horizon. He is Alexander
Bruce, who is growing the beard to take
part in “Intimate Stranger,” a William
Lynch Endeavour Films production.
Bruce will take the part of a blinded
street-singer. He is a dramatic baritone
and had years of tuition in England from
Thornton and later Mario, who had been
leading tenor with the Scala opera. Part
of the time he was in England, too ; he
was in the Horse Guards. Mr. Bruce is
giving a recital in the Town Hall on
May 12.
Canoeing along the Murrumbidgee
seemed quite a dream holiday, so beautiful
were the scenes shown by J. Mcßorie,
publicity officer of the Education Depart-
ment, to the Royal Empire Society last
week. The Murrumbidgee and the
Clarence were shown, too, with groups of
girls and youths canoeing in carnival
spirit. Another glimpse of Australia un-
known to most was the Jacaranda Festival
at Grafton. Here with folk song and
music the people make merry, and there
is, of course, a queen of the revels. Not
only the young, but the middle-aged take
part in these dances —quite in the Floral
Dance tradition which Peter Dawson
sings about so gaily.


The
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
invites your discussion
of any matters affecting Wills. Executor-
ship, Trusteeship and Estate Manage-
ment. With over sixty years of
experience. The Union Trustee offers
specialised knowledge in all such
matters. Its comprehensive organisation
ensures permanent, competent and sym-
pathetic administration, in complete
confidence. Charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance, ,
"ctn
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g. ; Robert Q. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., b.c.e. ; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager),
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street—A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
ABBOT
THE
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
CfIfIPEROOWN,
SYDNEY,
fIANWfACrURERS
•• >
■' : ‘
m
F I
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
ATOMIC SANDS
RUTILE
ZIRCONIUM
. MONAZITE
Persons interested in the de-
velopment of this Industry may
obtain particulars on applica-
tion to
Gilbert M. Johnstone & Co.
Solicitors,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE WILDAL COUMN
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 21.127 7f p.c. 73 p.c. 22,822 72,768
1937.. 31.827 H „ 7J „ 24,412 7,415 80,183
1938.. 29.437 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 4,637 84,820
1939.. 32.338 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 7,538 92,358
1940. .32,730 9 ~ 9 „ 27,900 4,830 97,188
Depreciation written back, £15,000. .112,188
1941.. 27.909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 9 112,197
Written off intangibles, £442 .. 112,639
Directors’ fees adjusted, £l6OO .. 111,039
1942.. 29.964 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 2,064 113,103
1943.. 33.489 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 1 coquqrqo
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..( 589 113,692
1944 '.' stiff ftmd. P £2,0 9 10 P ‘ C ;. 27,900 } h 647 115 ’ 339
1945.. 28,370 f 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 470 115,809
1946.. 29.360 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 1,460 117,269
* Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction
Act from 1/10/’3l.
t After contributions to Staff fund.
The co. turns out high-grade hosiery,
underwear and other silk and knitted
goods from an efficient plant at Sydney,
and from a factory at Newcastle, set up
in 1941 to help overcome labor diffi-
culties. There is also a healthy subsidiary.
Lustre (N.Z.)., Ltd., in Maoriland, whose
capacity is to be expanded when plant
and materials become available.
A feature of the table is the evenness
of earnings—service requirements filled
the vacuum created by evaporation of
civilian trade during the war period.
Profits averaged £30,108 for the half-
dozen years to the close of last accounts,
compared with an average of £29,547 for
the six years before that. The switch
from standardised defence products to
the miscellaneous demands of the civilian
market for style and quality has been
hampered by shortage of yarns and silk,
by delays in obtaining new plant, and
by the cramping influence of price
control. At the same time contraction of
the female labor force, especially in the
.younger age groups, and the dislocations
caused by the fractious behavior of
organised labor generally have contrived
to keep output below plant capacity.
Last term demand ran well ahead of
output, variety and quality of which
were restricted for reasons already men-
tioned. Stocks of rayon were eaten into,
owing to reduced deliveries of the stuff
from overseas, and the price of yarn,
wages and costs generally advanced.
Selling prices, are clamped down at an
unprofitable level by official edict, the
gap being bridged by Government sub-
sidy.
The improvement in the year’s gross
earnings (£127,716) was £5754. Includ-
ing £19,647 (down £1937) for deprecia-
tion and something for the taxgatherer,
exes. (£98,356) gobbled all but £990 of
the gain. The £29,360 of profit was
£1460 more than the all-sound 9 p.c. div.
called for —it was the seventh payment in
succession at that rate. Under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act the 10 p.c.
cum. prefs, are subject to a 22\ p.c. cut,
but advance with the bids, beyond a
minimum 1\ p.c. to their full contract
rate.
What the next few years hold for the
co., and for other hosiery manufacturers,
depends largely upon how the Govern-
ment handles the proposed tapering of
price, rationing and other controls. At
the moment, all that can be said definitely
is that the co. has an able management,
alive to its problems. One thing inevitable
is. a lift in selling prices. A month or so
ago the co. began to turn out pure silk
hosiery again, but it will be some time
before demand in the full-fashioned
market can be satisfied. Only small
quantities of nylon yarn are expected
during 1947. The new plant, which has
been on order for some time, isn’t ex-
pected to arrive before 1948.
Herb is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1938. 1940. 1945. 1946.
Ord. capital.. £226,667 £226,667 £226,667 £226,667
Pref. capital. . 83,383 83,333 83,333 88,333
Mortgages . . 31,928 31,928 26,500 26,500
Overdraft ~ 72,740 163,243 17,509 57,406
Creditors . . 37,016 68,855 24,534 11,233
Tax provision 16,597 87,731 28,404 27,760
Freeholds .. 122,381 122,847 114,000 122,000
Plant.. .. 164,725 183,485 60,509 52,148
Stocks . . 159,158 332,250 250,653 255,692
Debtors .. 108,275 115,820 68,768 98,557
Cash, etc. . . 509 3,287 16,470 10,511
Shares subsid. 10,452 15,206 25,210 25,210
Last year’s addition of £29,789 to
debtors’ balances was due partly to the
including of a claim against the Govern-
ment for recovery, of increased costs on
account of a lift in female wages. The
more or less liquid surplus was £lB2l
stronger at £267,071.
The pound ords. advanced from the
official ceiling of 28s. 6d. at end 1946 to
38s. in the market. At the higher figure
the return is 4.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
Buyers offer 355. 3d. for the prefs., at
which figure the yield would be 5.1 p.c.
Net tangible cover is 30s. 4d. ords. and
£5 2s. 6d. prefs.
Westrallan Farmers Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re- De-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. licit.
££■ £ £
1936.. 1,164 Nil 1,164 49,033
1937.. 3,969 Nil 3,969 45,064
1938.. 36,536 Nil 36,536 8,528
1939.. 6,522 Nil 6,522 2,006
Reserves.
1940.. 34,652 5 p.c. = 10,739 23,913 21,907
1941.. 60,853 5 „ „ 10,774 40,079 61,986
Milk rounds written off, £10,025 .. 51,961
1942.. 41,130 6p.c.= 10,803 30,327 82,288
1943.. 18,212 4„ „ 8,654 9,558 91,846
Rebate bonus reserve, £6OOO .. .. 85,846
1944 w+ ? 6 ’1 92 4 2foifs 8,669 £ 11,738 97,584
Rebate bonus, £5985 .. 1
fM66 4 P+.= 8,707 7 13 249 110,833
Rebate bonus, £7200 .. )
Goodwill appears, £7145 .. .. 103,688
1946.. 28,414 4J p.c. = 10,409 7 i q 7 o 10 <; 667
Rebate bonus, £16,026 ..+ 105,867
Profit figures* of this large co-operative
do not by themselves represent its value
to shareholder-clients. The aim is to
pare down margins earned from sales
and marketing-services for members; then
to pay as dividends what is regarded as
a fair return on capital, whilst bonuses are
distributed on the basis of business done.
Although the minimum shareholding
necessary for membership is only £lO
(some holdings are as high as £1000), it
is estimated that the full business of an
average producer employs about £250 of
the co.’s funds. To the directors is left
the task of balancing divs. against bonuses
so that overall benefits from the co-
operative are commensurate with mem-
bers’ contributions. In recent years
appeals have been made to smaller holders
to increase their support, and a new
amendment to the Articles of Association
will provide for a continuance of reason-
able dividends during periods of agri-
cultural depression.
No divs. were paid for 11 years com-
mencing in 1929. When agricultural
prices slumped there was nearly £250,000
owing to the co. from wheatgrowers for
excessive advances on their grain; and
the co. had to go to its bankers for the
money. By 1937 advances totalling
£356,000 had been written off, and the
overdrafts fully repaid—a real contribu-
tion to the economic recovery of the
State.
War-time restrictions are still hamper-
ing the co. War puffed up costs and
reduced turnover in the merchandise,
agricultural-machinery, motor-agency and
liquid-fuel sections, owing to .shortage of
supplies. The Government took over the
successful chartering business, then en-
croached upon the co.’s basic marketing
activities. The co. now acts for the
Wheat Board as paying and shipping
agent and as sole licensed receiver of
bagged wheat in W-A. A very small
revenue is earned from these transactions.
In addition, it acts as agent for the
authorities controlling barley, potatoes,
dried fruits, jute and honey; and con-
ducts insurance and land-agency busi-
nesses.
In practically all sections there was
greater activity last year. The advance in
wool turnover was achieved in the face
of a reduced total State production.
The co. has borrowed to lend:
v 1939. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £213,978 £216,357 £217,659 £219,072
Debentures .. 124,371 66,051 64,936 64,411
Sundry creditors 672,991 244,873 380,830 414,711
Tax provision.. 12,000 17,000 7,650
Freeholds, etc. 118,188 134,628 170,226 184,992
Plant, etc. .. 43,512 55,861 52,460 67,115
Shares in other
cos. .. 87,037 32,54£ 33,805 33,770
Stocks .. 122,432 112,876 175,534 175,978
Debtors .. 630,564 212,398 291,195 336,936
Cash, etc. .. 13,807 91,651 76,745 62,938
Cash holdings were reduced by £13,807
and creditors’ balances increased by
£33,881 to meet a rise of £45,741 in
debtors’ accounts. The excess of liquid
assets over liabilities (£122,850) fell off
by £8663.
Directors are alive to the agricultural
potentialities in the south-west of W.A.,
and are considering a system of decen-
tralisation into local co-operative units to
maintain closer contact with producers.
Additional capital will be needed to put
the scheme into effect.
The outlook for wheat has not been
clarified by the present international con-
ference in London—the third attempt to
rationalise the industry since 1933. Efforts
to establish definite price-ranges for the
next three years broke down when
Britain held that some prices were too
high. Others were considered unsatis-
factory to Australian and Canadian pro-
ducers. Continuance of much official
control over the industry seems probable.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane!)
r“ Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 9,465 720 4 p.c. = 7,442* 1,303 3,916
1937.. 11,814 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 1,793 5,709
1938.. 14,463 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 4,442 10,151
1939.. 17,039 720 5£ „ ~10,231* 6,088 16,239
1940.. 13,492 720 55,, ~10,232* 2,540 18,779
1941.. 15,836 720 54 „ ~10,232* 4,884 23,663
1942.. 11,275 720 5J „ ~10,232* 323 23,986
1943.. 17,056 720 5| „ ~10,231* 6,105 30,091
1944.. 25,914 720 6 „ ~11,161* 14,033 44,124
1945.. 26,748 720 6 „ ~11,161* 14,867 58,991
1946.. 31,332 720 7 „ ~13,021* 17,591 76,582
1947.. 3J,043 720 7 „ ~13,022* 23,301 99,883
* Includes special payment to directors, £B4O last
term.
Easily the best showing since the co.
took over the then 19-year-old business
of McDonnell and East in 1920. At no
time since then has the business been in
better trim, and the board is following a
prudent financial policy, keeping the div.
down and strengthening the still none-
too-stout prop for capital—for each of
the last four years more has been put
by than has been distributed.
Early there was trouble with stocks,
then reconstruction of premises, largely
on borrowed funds, and drought inter-
fered with turnover, and thp ords. aver-
aged only 4.5 p.c. for the 10 generally
flush years to 1930. The next three years
were dry ones, owing to slump, and for
the half-dozen years to the outbreak of
war divs. averaged 4.3 p.c. with widening
margins. For the seven years to the close
of last accounts the average was a shade
over 6 p.c., with still wider margins.
Despite rationing and price-fixing, re-
tailers picked up more on the war-time
swing than they lost on the roundabouts.
The difficulty was to get goods rather
than sell goods. Consider the following
table, which shows percentage changes
in aggregate turnover of a dozen leading
department stores in Brisbane, compared
with the corresponding period of the
previous year:
Average Three Months Ended
. A
t ■
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1938-39 .. + 3.7 + 1.1 + 9.7 + 3.5 + 2.6
1989-40 .. + 6.1 + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- . . + 5.3 + 3.0 + 5.9 + 8.8 + 5-8
1941- .. +12.3 4-10.6 4-22.2 1.0 —ll.O
1942- .. 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 + 4.1
1943- .. 2.1 -f 3.5 ■+ 3.0 -j- 4.6 + 2.4
1944- .. + 7.6 +lO.O + 1.0 0.3 + 4.5
1945- .. +16.5 +27.7 +22.4 +24.8 +23.3
1946- . . +14.6 + 9.3
There are thus indications that the present
abnormal spate of buying has passed its
peak. It represents the immediate post-
war rush of a market that has been partly
starved of goods for the last half-dozen
years.
The spring in the co.’s gross earnings
last term (£170,609) was £31,523. Trad-
ing exes. (£82,466) took £15,836 of the
gain. After allowing for taxation
(£50,000, up £8000) and doubtful debts
(£1000), the net result was £5711 stronger
at £37,043. That covered the small pref.
div. and 21.1 p.c. on the £172,027 of ord.
capital as against 17.8, 15.1, 14.6, 9.4 and
6.1 p.c. back to 1942. The div. was
kept at 7 p.c., and the £23,301 that re-
mained lifted the lay-by to £99,883.
The immediate outlook favors a satis-
factory though lower level of turnover.
Much will depend upon how the Govern-
ment handles the tapering of price, ration-
ing and other controls. Costs are on the
up-grade, and do not yet appear to have
passed their zenith. The real test will come
when the present sellers’ market, with its


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys,
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.
Collins
Austra-
—Advt,
PATENTS, TRADE MARKS.
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH, HASStL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS—EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St., Telephone
SYDNEY, N.S.W. * BX 2649
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON <v ,
cxsiinrvAN
e mim
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
AUSTRALIAN POCKET LIBRARY
GOOD READING
In Cheap Editions
THE PASSAGE, by Vance Palmer.
A strongly written and enthralling novel of the
Queensland coast. In a small fishing settlement
we meet Lew, the sea in his blood, his heart
is influenced by two women, both bring him
tragedy as the outcome of their love. Lew
remains true to the sea and to the settlement
now revealed as Caloundra in Queensland.
Price 1/11 (postage 23d.).
PORTS OF SUNSET, by Ernestine
Hill.
“The Great Australian Loneliness,” of which
this book is the first part (the whole will be
ultimately issued in three parts), is one of the
best books about Australia ever written. Ernes-
tine Hill, who is the author of “My Love Must
Wait,” has a wonderful knowledge of the
Outback and the power to put her knowledge
into vivid word pictures. This is a book every-
one will read with enjoyment.
Price 1/6 (postage 33d.).
BUFFALOES, by Carl Warburton.
This splendidly exciting story of a buffalo
hunter’s life in the Northern Territory is based
upon first-hand knowledge. The author has
lived the life he describes in these pages and
his characters and their background are vividly
portrayed.
Price 1/8 (postage 23d.).
G. A.
THE VOYAGE OF THE
ENDEAVOUR, by Prof.
Wood.
Here is the full story of the most famous ship
in Australian history. We clamber over her
from rudder to bowsprit, meet the men who
sailed her, and share with them their adven-
tures •on their great journey to the unknown
south seas. With six illustrations and two maps.
Price 1/3 (Postage 13d.).
DIG, by Frank Clune.
Moved by the tragic story of the explorers
Burke and Wills, Mr. Clune set out to “dig
rp” everything he could read about them, with
the result their complete story is for the first
time mow told as a continuous narrative within
the covers of one book. A drama from life.
Price 1/9 (postage 23d.).
WINNOWED VERSES, by Henry
Lawson.
Here is the best of Henry Lawson’s poetry.
“The Sliprails and the Spur,” “The Star of
Australasia,” “Past Carin’,” “The Shearing
Shed,” “Faces in the Street,” “My Army, 0
My Army,” all these and many more. Won-
derful value. ,
Price 1/3 (postage 23d.).
'HE GLASSHOUSE, by M. Barnard
Eldershaw.
he reactions of people thrown into tha forced
itimacy of shipboard life has been a favourite
leme for novelists. But the subject has seldom
een more successfully handled with such vivid
naracterisation and detail as it has in this
escription of the lives of the passengers and
lip’s officers on a Norwegian cargo vessel bound
ir Australia.
Price 1/11 (postage 33d.).
dAXBY’S CIRCUS, by Katherine
Prichard.
Una Haxby, the central figure in this novel,
s one of the outstanding characters in our
iterature. A circus is a world in itself, exist-
ng apart from the complex life of cities. And
he people who inhabit this world are a race
part.
I Price 1/11 (postage 23d.).
►ELECTIONS FROM WALTER
MURDOCH.
In making this selection,” writes the author,
I have chosen the essays which I, personally,
ke best. If you ask why I like these particular
ssays best, I can only reply that they are the
ssays I most enjoyed writing.”
Price 1/9 (postage 23d.).
FLESH IN ARMOUR, by L. Mann.
This novel was awarded the Gold Medal of
The Australian Literature Society, also that
critical publication “The London Observer”
describes it as “The most important novel
published in Australia in many years. It
assesses the peculiar nonchalance, dourness,
resolution, outward casualness, quiet courage,
unexpressed racial pride of the emerging Aus-
tralian temperament with an uncanny rightness
denied to others of the books mentioned.”
Price 1/8 (postage 23d.).
CONFESSIONS OF A BEACH-
COMBER, by E. J. Banfield.
“A book of perennial charm, a distinctive
contribution to the romance, literature, and
natural history of Australia and the world,”
writes Alex Chisholm in his introduction. It
wals on Dunk Island, off the Queensland coast,
that Banfield solved the problem of happiness
by becoming an unprofessional beachcomber.
Price 2/- (postage 23d.).
INSECT WONDERS OF AUS-
TRALIA, by K. C. McKeown.
This fascinating and very readable book deals
with the lives of some of the more curious
of our insects, together with certain more
general aspects of insect life which have evoked
popular curiosity. A book for every nature
lover.
Price 1/6 (postage 23d.).
IT'S HARDER FOR GIRLS, by Gavin
Casey,
Gavin Casey is one of the most successful of
the modern Australian novelists. Keen obser-
vation and a somewhat bitter sense of humour
give this work its real value.
Price 1/6 (postage 23d.).
CALL TO THE WINDS, by Capt.
P, G. Taylor.
This is a splendid story of air adventure in
Australia by one of our best-known airmen.
Beginning with the last air-mail flight of the
famous Southern Cross to New Zealand, Capt.
Taylor tells of his varied experiences in flying
with Smithy and without him. A really
exciting book.
Price 1/6 (postage 23d.).
AUSTRALIA, by Prof. W. K.
Hancock.
Prof. Hancock is one of that select band of
writers who illuminates everything he touches
upon. His “Australia” is a book that lifts
history out of the rut of the commonplace and
makes it vivid and alive. It offers a pene-
trating analysis of the Australian character and
the development of our institutions, both social
and political.
Price 1/11 (postage 33d.).
ON THE TRACK, and OVER THE
SLIPRAILS, by Henry Lawson. ,
Acknowledged throughout the world as one of
the masters of the short story, ranking With
Maupassant and 0. Henry, this collection of
Lawson’s stories contains his best work.
Price 1/6 (postage 23d.).
ON THE WOOL TRACK, by C. E. W.
Bean.
In this delightfully interesting book Capt. Bean
describes a phase of Australian life that passed
with the last century. The “wool track” is
that vast area of N.S.W. around the Darling,
where the stations were hundreds of miles in
extent and a man could die of thirst in the
home paddock.
Price 1/9 (postage 23d.).
OLD BLASTUS OF BANDICOOT,
by Miles Franklin, author of “My
Brilliant Career.’
A long novel of Australian country life by one
of our greatest writers.
Price 1/11 (postage 33d.).
Postage is shown thus {3d.). When more than one title is ordered halve the
amount of postage.
Obtainable from
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.
Booksellers - Stationers - Librarians
107-109-111-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
det/w
H Si
ECC BRANDY
(P/uae ffioy<z£
FESQ CASSON &.CO. PTY. LTD. ESTABLISHED SINCE 1848
Fsa
controls, disappears, and competition, and
all that it means, again makes itself felt.
Finances are healthy:
1938. 1941. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
. . 47.25 P 32,187 14,986 3,903
Overdraft . . 47,901 50,512 60,000 60,000
Sundry creditors 17,903 21,398 50,505 19,742
Land, buildings, , ofi
plant, etc... 127,539 126.283 101,032 102,396
Stocks.. -. . 107,682 130,662 163,383 211,091
Book debts .. 60,680 59,304 25,479 3?,660
Cash, etc. . . 20,923 14,945 149,600 113,873
Last term £30,763 was lopped off the
amount coming to trade creditors, £11,083
off mortgages, and £53,708 was added to
stocks and £12,181 to debtors’ balances.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£284,830) was £71,860.
The, f.-p. pound ords., covered by
295. 3d. in net tangibles, have advanced
from the old ceiling price of 245. 6d. to
275. 6d. in the market. At the higher
figure the return is an attractive 5.1 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The well-protected
prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
The Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral
Resources, directed by Dr. H. G. Rag-
gatt, is doing a lot of good work. A
gravity meter survey of the Collie coal-
field was recently completed on behalf
of the Westralian Government. A geo-
physical party, led by J. C. Dooley, is
assisting the Zinc Corp. in the hunt for
natural gas in the Broken Hill-Lake
Frome area. Two of the Bureau’s
geologists are making a survey of baux-
ite deposits in Victoria and N. S. Wales
for the torpid Australian Aluminium
Commission. Two more of its geolo-
gists are working in co-operation with
the N.S.W. Geological Survey in an ex-
amination of the Cobar field (N.S.W.).
And presently a geological overhaul of
the Blair Athol coalfield (Q.) and seis-
mic examination of foundations for the
bridge over the Burdekin River (Q.) are
to be undertaken.
* * * *
Finality has not yet been reached in
negotiations between the Commonwealth
and Siamese Governments concerning
the rights of Australian tin cos. whose
properties are in Siam. So. Peninsula
Tin (paid capital £199,387 in 15s. shares),
a Victorian-controlled co. whose 'pro-
perty is at Langsuan, hasn’t yet been
able to start up its 160,000 c.y.-a-month
Werf Conrad dredge. The machine was
operated by the Thai Mineral and Rubber
Co. on enemy account from Feb., 1942,
to July, 1944, during which time it treated
1,311,755 c.y. for 413 tons t.o. Pre-
liminary inspection has revealed that
operating parts are in a bad way, and
that the dredge will require complete
overhaul. In November, 1941, there were
26.350.000 c.y. of 0.751 b. ground still to
be treated. Re-boring of the co.’s original
leases in 1937 indicated further reserves
of 2\ c.y. of 0.41 b. ground. At end
April last the co.’s holding of cash and
Government securities in Australia
totalled £22,838, against which were out-
standing accounts of £907. The co. s
interest in the Buffer Stock Pool (89.2
tons), in the books at £606, is claimed
to be worth approx. £10,500, which is
still held by the Custodian of Enemy
Property, London. For the five years
to the close of accounts in 1941 the co.
paid divs. averaging 3s. per share. The
scrip recently sold at 9s. 3d.
* * * *
Berjuntai Tin Dredging, one of the
Anglo-Oriental group, which is a sub-
sidiary of London Tin Corp., was ready
to start up again at the end of 1946, but
shortage of coal, owing to labor troubles,
stood in the way, and has done so ever
since. The property is at Batang Ber-
juntai, in the Kuala Selangor district
(F.M.S.). Prior to the Jap occupation _
it contained about 105,800,000 c.y. of pay
dirt, of which approximately one hair,
averaging 0.61 b., was in the eastern
section, and the other half, averaging
0.471 b., was in the western section. There
is thus nearly 30 years’ work ahead of the
300.000 c.y.-a-month electric dredge.
Sunk in shallow water early in 1942, the
dredge was refloated by the Japs, but was
never put into operation, and has suf-
fered comparatively little damage. The
cost of rehabilitation, subject to war-
damage claims, is being met out of Gov-
ernment loans. To end of February last
expenditure on this account amounted to
about £22,000. In 1940 the co. paid
Is. 3d. (stg.) per ss. sharfe. On Sydney
’Change the scrip, which sold as low as
12s. 6d. in 1946, recently fetched
18s. 6d.
* n> * *
“Norther”: A tin sample from Frank
Lowe’s show at the Fifteen Mile, about
50 miles from Ingham (Q.), yielded just
under 75 p.c. of tin. At time of assay
the stuff was worth about £2BO a ton,
cheerful news for the score or so of men
in the area, which seems to comprise
deep lead as well as lode tin. The coun-
try is rough and hard to get at, and
what the gougers need above everything
is a compressor. They’ve a pack-horse
mail once a week. Lowe has been out
there about four years, reckons he is
“making wages,” and believes the pros-
pecting time has been passed and pro
duction awaits only suitable implements
and transport.
* * * *
Tin-go ugers up north are grumbling
about the big difference between Aus-
tralian and overseas tin prices. March
average for the metal in London was
£385 17s. 7d. stg. a ton, equal to £A4B2
75., as against £A433 fixed by the Prices
Commissioner for local production.
Gougers put it down to excessive Govern-
ment control, and reckon that if they could
get closer to overseas parity there’d be
more developmental work on N.Q. shows.
* * *
Labor shortage and scarcity of
materials don’t prevent a good under-
ground job being done at Lake View and
Star, on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
(W.A.). For 12 weeks to Dec. 10 last
809 ft. of driving in the eastern blocks
(Lake View and Associated) exposed
410 ft. of ore averaging s.9dwt. gold
a ton. In the western blocks (Chaffers,
Hannans Star and Horseshoe) de-
velopment was confined mainly to No.
2 and No. 4 lodes and minor ore deposits.
Driving in this section totalled 2623 ft.,
of which 1784 ft. was in ore averaging
6dwt. over 57 inches. Additions to ore
reserves are now more than keeping pace
with extractions.
» * * *
Two Kalgoorlie Golden Milers have
declared unchanged dividends; an
interim of 6d. stg. by Lake View and
Star and an annual of 2d. a share by
Golden Horseshoe. The Horseshoe 1947
meeting will be held in London on May
12. Directors report completion of re-
treatment of the Gt. Boulder calcine
tailings dump. Retreatment of a Boulder
Perseverance dump has just commenced.
* * * *
Canadian gold production decreased
from 5,345,0000 z. in 1945 to 2,808,0000 z.
in 1946. Urging establishment of a free
bullion market in Canada to help over-
come that country’s international ex-
change problem, Rodney Adamson,
Conservative member for Toronto,
said controlled exchange rates through-
out the world were entirely fictitous.
There was little probability that the In-
ternational Monetary Fund would prove
a currency stabiliser under present rates.
The best way to bring about free ex-
change was to allow a free market for
gold. No one could say what was the
true value of gold today. It was selling
at as much as 80 dollars an ounce at
some places and 60 dollars at others.
It was certain that its true value was a
great deal higher than the 35 dollars
Canadians were receiving.


SUNDRY SHOWS
MELBOURNE CONCERTS.
Melbourne music has been character-
ised by extremes in the exotic. A French
soprano was singing at the Town Hall
and a Chinese baritone at the adjacent
Assembly Hall. Ninon Vallin sang beau-
tifully to a half-empty house at the Town
Hall, the smallness of her audience,
mainly composed of exuberant French
people, possibly being due to the train
strike. Mme. Vallin sang fifteenth- and
sixteenth-century French songs, Mozart,
Bizet, Faure, Debussy and Puccini, and
she has been singing them for a long
time. Her singing was as near perfection
as it is possible to hope for in this world.
She found it just as easy to be a cheeky
Carmen as a fifteenth-century trouba-
dourist and to give the delicate nuances
of Bizet’s “Chanson d’Avril” as the giddy
rhythms of the “Mandoline” of Debussy.
It was an effortless performance. That
excellent accompanist Henri Penn was
at the piano.
Roy Till, the Chinese singer, displayed
a robust voice that had been well trained
in the conventional tradition in songs
from Schubert, from Massenet, Gounod
and “Carmen.” He could easily have been
mistaken for a European singer, though
he had no trace of the Italian intonation.
He was more interesting in three Chinese
songs. One was “Song of the Great
Wall,” by Liu Hsueh-an, which had a
depth of feeling which one doesn’t gener-
ally associate with Chinese music. An-
other was “Chi Li,” a Chinese guerrilla
song, presumably a product of Chinese
resistance to the Japanese war. It was
curiously like similar products of belli-
gerence in Europe. The last was “Love’s
Lament,” an old folk song. It had the
simple medodiousness common to all
folk song. The “Toreador” song and
other items could have been spared for
more of these musical primitives—such
as the choking chants with which the
barrowmen solace themselves as they
push enormous mounds of merchandise
between the walls of European factories
in Shanghai.
Accompanist was Vera Buck, the Mel-
bourne composer. Two of her own
works, “Flood Waters” and “At a Dance
in Vienna,” were worth a. place on any
programme.
Boyd Neel.
The Boyd Neel String Orchestra’s
Sydney season is a crowded one, and that
is something for which concertgoers may
be grateful—no better balance could be
imagined than that which is held with
such seeming ease by the conductor, nor
more musicianly interpretations. In the
works of Bach, Handel, Dvorak and
Mozart in particular their playing has
been a revelation, and always has
Frederick Grinke proved an excellent
leader. In the Bach E Minor Concerto
Mr. Grinke conjured a broad rich tone
which showed up splendidly in the stately
middle section with its Italianate singing
character, the solo instrument sharply
outlined against the ground bass.
One of the highlights of the season has
been the rendition, in successive concerts,
of the exquisite Eine Kleine Nachtmusik
of Mozart —the orchestra completely cap-
tured the spirit of graceful light-hearted-
ness which is the very essence of this
serenade, with its decoration of trills and
its suggestion of marching strings.
In striking contrast were two Diverti-
menti—one by Mozart and the other by
Bela Bartok. Mozart’s work, composed
at 16, is a perfectly-faceted gem which
coruscates with melodic ingenuities. The
Bela Bartok work falls into a very differ-
ent category. The Hungarian composer
is a disciple of the “new” music, and the
abstruseness of his work is generally ac-
cepted as profound by those who haven’t
the faintest idea what all the noise is
about.
A divertimento is generally supposed
to be a light dance work to entertain
promenading crowds. Nothing seems less
suited to that purpose than Bartok’s in-
trospective atonality—gaunt figures in the
lower strings leap and caterwaul to the
dissonances of the upper section, while
over all is a spirit of rough barbarity.
Perhaps Mr. Neel feels that the inclu-
sion of Britten, Bartok and Shostakovich
evokes a more fervent appreciation of
Bach, Handel, Dvorak, Mozart and their
kind.
Lorna Sydney.
In her first Sydney recital the Wes-
tralian mezzo-soprano quickly showed in
the opening group of seventeeth- and
eighteenth-century Italian songs that
opera is by no means her only forte. The
“Lasciaterni Morire” of Monteverdi was
given with fine restraint and a beautifully
controlled half voice, though her enunci-
ation fell away in the lower register.
Marcello’s “II Mio Bel Foco” brought
out a purity of tone and captured the
essential spirit of yearning of the song.
It was, however, in Schubert’s lieder
that Miss Sydney demonstrated the depth
of her vocal technique and her interpre-
tative powers. “The Erl King” is as exact-
ing a song as a woman could attempt.
The light and shade in it were admirably
patterned, the pleadings had the requisite
poignancy, and the swelling passages
were of heroic proportions. “The Trout”
was a delight, and “Margaret at the
Spinning Wheel” was full of color ; “The
Guide Post” was not quite so successful.
The best of Miss Sydney’s final group
were three songs by Armstrong Gibb,
Rachmaninoff’s “Death of the Linnet”
and Gretchaninov’s splendid song “My
Motherland,” sung with full-throated
voice and superb declamation.
Marshall Sumner accompanied effec-
tively and unobtrusively. In Bach’s
Toccata in D Major he made a good
showing of the lively final movement.
A COMEDY OF BEDSIDE MANNERS.
Desmond Rolfe ( Corvino ), John Clarke ( Corbaccio). Pamela Bromley-Smith
( Columba ), John Cameron ( Volpone ). David Ratner ( Voltore), Haydee Seldon
(Canina) and John Faassen ( Mosca ) in the Independent Theatre’s excellent pre-
sentation of Jonson’s “Volpone,” at North Sydney.
Rachmaninoff’s Elegie Op. 3 No. 1 was
nicely played, but a toccata by one Aram
Ilich Khatchurian seemed to be the com-
poser’s name set to “music.”
"Forever Glamor."
This Tiv. show presents Candy Stevens,
of America, and Wee Georgie Wood, of
England, to Sydney audiences against a
background which amply fulfils all the
promise of the title. Costumes, girls and
general stage presentation are excellent,
and Georgie Wood and Candy Stevens
have an irresistible quality of humor
and personality which enables them to
hold an audience for the fraction of a
second longer that makes the final differ-
ence. And they are excellent foils for
each other.
Vitality is the secret of Candy Stevens’s
success. Georgie Wood’s is more simple.
Apart from humor thcsre is a frank human
appeal in his more successful scenes, a
naive statement of the obvious. Julie
Ballew is a gay and polished compere ;
t the Kwam brothers, statuesque and ani-
mated in bewildering sequences, do terri-
fying things with hoops and knives; and
the Appletons are a dancing team well
above average.
"California."
Hollywood has never left the slightest
room for doubt as to the identity of
Gahd’s Own Country, but it has been
left to this current stretch of technicolor
at Sydney Prince Edward to Establish
which particular corner of the U.S.A. the
Almighty prefers. And, according to the
film, there is no doubt about the prefer-
ence. None whatever.
It is not made quite clear how Mr.
Ray Milland enters into the events which
shape the future of California, but he
first appears as an army deserter heading
a wagon-train of intending settlers across
the American continent to the Bear State.
The only disruptive element in the con-
voy seems to be Miss Barbara Stanwyck,
who, as a wayward wench run out of
town by the elders, is granted travelling
room by Mr. Milland after an eloquent
plea on her behalf by a silver-tongued
Irishman (Barry Fitzgerald). Miss Stan-
wyck’s influence on the settlers, how-
ever, is negligible compared with the ex-
plosion caused by the news of gold strikes
in California —the settlers take off in a
riot, leaving their goods and the wreck-
age of the wagon-train behind them and
a wounded Mr. Milland gasping for
breath or something in the arms of Mr.
Fitzgerald.
Mr. Milland and Mr. Fitzgerald
eventually wend their way to California,
where the latter immediately sets about
his intended purpose of establishing a
vineyard, while Mr. Milland heads for
town and finds Miss Stanwyck the pro-
prietor of a gambling joint which he
promptly takes from her in a little high-
pressure gambling. Unfortunately, Miss
Stanwyck is under the protection of a
bearded despot (George Coulouris) who
is well on the way to bringing most of
California into his clutches, and who
promptly does Mr. Milland over in fine
style, lashes his remains to a spirited steed
and sends it bolting out of town.
The indomitable Mr. Milland, however,
regains his senses, health and strength
under the care of Mr. Fitzgerald and re-
turns to town intending to play hell with
a big stick. Under calmer counsel he
elects to use strategy instead of force
and persuades Mr. Fitzgerald, to run for
politics or something against Mr. Cou-
louris, a plan which is highly successful
until the unfortunate Mr. Fitzgerald is
treated like the rest of Mr. Coulouris’s
opponents and sent to join his fathers,
carrying with him a heavy cargo of .45
ammunition.
Since, at this stage, the running time
of the film is nearly up without the
;uture of California being settled, some
violent action becomes'necessary, so Mr.
Milland, with a small army of faithfhl
settlers, gallops in approved style to Mr,
Coulouris’s palatial fort and takes the
place with a most spectacular show of
bombing, shooting and brawling. In the
course of the fracas Mr. Milland disposes
of Albert Dekker in an interesting
duel with knives, and is then about to be
disposed of himself by Mr. Coulouris
when Miss Stanwyck conveniently ap-
pears on the scene and Mr. C.
with her personal armory.
All loose ends then being neatly tied,
Mr. Milland gallops off to the army to
expiate his original desertion, leaving the
State of California firmly established and
Miss Stanwyck waiting in it for him.
Who Is It?
She sings, she’s honest, she’s a good
little country girl blinded by the bright
lights. She has left her home-town for
the big city to find a big producer and
make a big hit. Despite her name, which
is inevitably a handle like “Gingle-
busher,” the young lady does make good,
and, as well as meeting the big producer,
she finds a small lawyer-clerk-piano-
player and sings to him. He is suitably
impressed and falls for her.
At this stage the big producer usually
begins showing his teeth and more than
a fatherly interest in the lassie. Disillu-
sioned, she packs up, finds the return half
of her ticket and sings “Going Home.”
Unfortunately she never goes, but always
comes to an undeserved happy ending
after acting like a schoolgirl with a
tummy ache for the length of the film.
Well? Yes, you’re right. It’s Deanna
Durbin now on tap in “I’ll Be Yours” at
Sydney State.
"Carmen"
“Carmen,” put on by the National
Theatre in its grand-opera series in Mel-
bourne, was largely a population prob-
lem. The National’s stage is small,
though apparently elastic, and at some
stages in the sanguinary proceedings in
front of the cigarette-factory in Seville
aqd elsewhere, there were at least 50
smugglers, soldiers, bullfighters, gipsies and
Spanish suburbanites assembled in vary-
ing states of suspended animation and
not more than three steps were available
in which a distracted prima donna could
tear a passion to tatters.
Producer Lennox Brewer’s skill in
marshalling his forces qualifies him for
the position of chief immigration officer to
Mr. Calwell. It says much for Miss Ella
Gage, as the temperamental gipsy, that
she painted a picture of a Carmen that
was subdued but feeling, personable and
pleasing, sweet-voiced and expressive.
The Escamillo of Keith Davis had all the
urbanity of a bullfighter who knows his
importance and he sang the “Toreador”
song very nicely. Halinka de Tarczyn-
ska brought a beautiful voice to the ser-
vices of Frasquita, while John Tilbrook
supplied Don Jose with a self-conscious
actor.
The quality of the singing, both of
principals and chorus, gave point to Pro-
fessor Heinze’s recent plea for Australian
grand opera.
Danila Vassilieff.
Danila Vassilieff, previously known as
a depicter of Melbourne slums and mean
streets, is showing an exhibition of oils
and watercolors at the Myer Gallery in
Melbourne. In this collection he elects
to paint nudes and portraits—one of
which is described in the catalogue as
“Sir Keith Murdoch”—and pictures with
such titles as “Straight Eyebrows,” “Blue
Eyes,” “Blue Hair,” “Red Fingernails,”
“Red Dog and Man,” “Study in Red,”
etc.
The paintings are of the kind which
some critics describe as “instinctive
gestures” which offer, “in addition
to the ferocity of their psychological
force, the extraordinary quality of their
color orchestration.” But is there any-
thing instinctive about the picture of a
girl with blue hair or with a head two
sizes too big for her body? It would
also be interesting to know how color
orchestration and psychological under-
standing, which are conscious things, can
be instinctive.
The excellent effect of the A.B.C.’s en-
couragement of young musicians and
singers was amply demonstrated by the
uniformly high standard reached by the
finalists in the 1947 Concerto and Vocal
Competitions. Five of them appeared
with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Joseph Post, and the works chosen
constituted a severe test: Beethoven’s
Fifth (“Emperor”) Concerto (Leonie
Stredwick), Beethoven’s First Concerto in
C Major (Marion Graham-Smith),
Chopin’s Concerto No. 2 in F Minor
(Laurence Davis), Concerto No. 2 in B
Flat Major (Brahms). Although power
and maturity were scarcely to be looked
for, the performances on the whole were
highly creditable. Noel Melvin sang a
Handel air with authority and good
resonance, and Leporello’s Catalogue
sung from “Don Giovanni” with com-
mendable spirit.
» * * *
“The Dover Road”; A. A. Milne’s
sentimental nonsense about a rich old
gentleman with an eccentric interest in
eloping couples was given what justice
it deserves by the Theatre Guild at
Killara. O. D. Bissett extracted rather
more from the role of the old gentleman
than Milne really put into it, and the
rest of the cast, particularly the minor
characters, were more than adequate.
* * * *
Ella Shields: A remarkable woman f§
Ella Shields. She has presented “Burling-
ton Bertie” thousands of times, yet when
she brought him out for inspection before
an applauding audience at Melbourne
Tiv. it was just as smooth and finished
a portrait as when this commentator first
saw it. Another remarkable figure on the
programme is Chaz Chase. In the pro-
cess of being bathed in public, he states
millions of propositions, and not a per-
son in the audience fails to understand.
* * * *
“The Mighty McGurk” (Sydney Capi-
tol) : As McGurk, an ex-heavyweight
champion of the beginning of this cen-
tury, Wallace Beery finds suitable re-
habilitation in the job of hurling unde-
sirables halfway across the street from a
pub in the New York Bowery. Wallace
is like an old boot which gets tougher
as it ages. He screws up his flinty dial in
his usual bellowing agony as his toes are
trodden on by slicker, lesser mortals, but
gets revenge in saloon fights by lifting his
tormentors with uppercuts which should
have left them hanging from the chan-
deliers,


wB.
mm
y.l-.yX-:
vniii
? I
ff
TRANS-AUSTRALIA AIRLINES
Trans-australia airlines is the sixth major airline
to ordeV a fleet of America’s newest and most mod-
ern postwar airliner—the Convair-240. t
This airline will use the new twin-engine Convair-
-240 to speed up its service between such interstate
points as Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Canberra, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, and Hobart, offering a new standard
of speed and comfort to the air-traveling public.
It was only natural that in its search for such an
airliner Trans-Australia Airlines should turn to Con-
solidated company which designed and
built the famed long-range Liberator bomber, the
Catalina, the Coronado, and other well-known war
planes—the company which operated a vast trans-
pacific airline service for the Air Transport Command
during the war.
The wonderful new Convair-240 will carry 40 pas-
sengers at 300 miles per hour at low-level comfort re-
gardless of altitude. But that’s only part of the story...
Below, you’ll find eight of the many reasons why
the Convair-240, with its many innovations, estab-
lishes a new concept of “Air Travel for Everybody”!
Aircraft Corporation
San Diego, California • Downey, California • Wayne, Michigan (Stinson Division) • Fort Worth, Texas • Nashville, Tennessee
yj . / ■’V' i
Why you’ll enjoy flying In the Convair-240
1. Air-conditioned comfort!
2. 40 Passengers—in the 300 m.p.h. range!
3. Auxiliary jet-exhaust thrust—for added speed!
4. Reversible-pitch propellers for smoother landings!
5. “Low level” flight comfort at high altitudes!
6. Heated wings prevent icing!
7. Lands level!
8. You relax in easy-chair comfort!
SPORTING
NOTIONS
YOUR HAIR!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
One or two particularly attractive winning
Jx“ were seen on Saturday at Rosehill,
wherlf despite pelting rain, a holding track
and generally open fields, punters fared not
at all badly. ....
The Golden Sovereign three-year-old Prince
Consort (F. Williams), hitherto mentioned here
as a magnificent-looking individual, had ja
run-away win in the six-fUrlongs Flying for
which his time on the softish track was 1 • 13).
Sn sufferance Twice Royal set the pace but
Prince Consort had him covered all the way
began to move up at the ton, took charge
at the leeer and won, officially, by three
lengths. They must have been giraffe lengths.
The places were filled by Brazier and Imme-
diate,which pair had vied for favoritism with
Cold Shower. Prince Consort is worth ticket-
ing, particularly - as a real Rosehill specialist.
In his only two previous runs the outstandingly
well-bred Karachi (Neptune-Sudan) displayed
powerful finishing ability after getting badly
out of his ground early. In Saturday s Two-
year-old Maiden Stakes N. Sellwood had him
first out from the barrier stalls, and thereafter
he was lying second to Chronicle until he chose
to take charge at the furlong mark and go
on to a fite-lengths win. Kardella was second,
while the camera showed Chronicle and Royal
Lad deadheating in the minor possie.
It’s only a few weeks since owner B. Crowley
retired his champion mare Flight to the stud,
but already he has another very likely-looking
filly in action. Having her first run in the
fillies’ division of the Maiden, Foundation, a
good style of brown by St. Magnus from
Rouge, started favorite and made short work
of the opposition. Eroica was an improving
second and Carisbrook third.
None present begrudged jockey A. Mulley
his success in the Rosehill Handicap on the
J. R. Smith gelding Debenture. It was Mulley s
first winning mount since he resumed riding
recently after his indefinite suspension, and
may help him to obtain more decent mounts
than he’s had of late. Debenture, who was
a warm favorite, led all the way to down Air
Flare and Rimfire. Debenture’s owner was
among those who expressed considerable sur-
prise at the heavy support accorded the gelding.
In other Rosehill events Survivor (N. Sell-
wood) won the Encourage from Monsoon and
Coalition, and in the Welter Fast Flash (G.
Weate) defeated Glencrag and Eastralia.
* * * *
At Flemington the track was heavy, but the
wet weather, had just about run its course, so
punters at (east did not have the discomfort
of rain added to their general woe.
The running of the Brookside Handicap was
followed at first by dead silence, and then came
the gentle rustle of myriads of torn-up betting
tickets. Winner of the two-miler was the
diminutive Solar Bear mare Bannerette —a rank
rough ’un. Left in front six furlongs from
home, Valcurl was given too great a task.
Drama challenged, and then Bannerette (E.
Preston) came on the scene, finishing too well
for either of them. The winner ploughed round
in 3.38 i, against the course record of 3.21-}.
Out of the saddle for several weeks through
a bad spill, W. Aldridge struck immediate
success on his return to the jumping game.
In the Hurdle his mount. Prince Danilo, could
manage only second behind Kenloof, with the
favorite, John Masefield, third, but the Steeple
he won well on Talent, accounting for Triplicate
and Autocles. Triplicate gave a fine exhibition
of clean, safe jumping, leading all the way
until he ran off at the final jump, which cost
him the race.
Once again the two-year-old event gave books
their worst result of the day. A good third at
his only previous run, the Dhoti colt Lungi
(J. Purtell) did all that was expected of him
in downing Birmingham, Braesomar and 20-odd
others over the six furlongs of the Starihope
Handicap.
On Birmingham A. Breasley was well beaten,
but he had better luck in the Fen tana Handi-
cap, also run up the straight six; he landed
the aged Brazen gelding Audacity a very narrow
winner from Sea Monarch and Thor. Winding
up the day the 10-furlongs Aberfeldie Handicap,
for apprentice riders claiming an allowance,
produced the clpsest of photo .-finishes, with
New Warrior (D. Cameron) just shading
Dureisani and Classic.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Two-year-old: Karachi, 1; Kardella, 2;
Million, 3. Novice: Even Time, 1; Dryad, 2;
Lacomar, 3. Trial; Tithonus, 1; Coalition, 2;
Monsoon, 3. Flying: Brazier, 1; Prince Con-
sort, 2; Cold Shower, 3. Canterbury Park
Handicap: Fbrt Denison, 1; Two Grand, 2;
Air Flare, 3. Welter: Blanmar, 1; Glencrag,
2; Beau Pebble, 3. ;
* * * *
About 40 horses from N.S.W. and Vic. are
in Brisbane for the Q.T.C. Autumn meetings,
and by their class they should test Queens-
land form, which lately seems to have a bit
in common with the old grey mare. Run next
Saturday the Stradbroke Handicap is of six
furlongs, but it takes more in the nature of
a good miler than a mere flying machine to
win this sprint. Having this qualification and
being leniently handicapped with 8.2, Young
Veilmond has been the early favorite and may
run up to expectations. However, the Strad-
broke candidate tlfat appeals most to this page
is Maurice McCarten’s charge Wellington, who
is fighting fit and not harshly treated with 8.10.
A reproduction of his Doncaster run would
certainly land him the Stradbroke. Next-best
of the Sydney brigade may be the lightly-
weighted El Grandee (7.9). Those prepared to
back the local horses against the visitors might
choose worse than Dowborough. However, for
the Stradbroke: Wellington, 1; Young Veil-
mond, 2; El Grandee, 3. Cup: Concerto, 1;
Russia, 2; Golden Souvenir, 3.
•** * *
These N.S.W. Rugby Union lads —like
the South African Soccer players, mostly
ex-servicemen;
City duly stoushed Country in the Anzac Day
Rugby Union at Sydney Showground: a ragged
game. Bright patches were good Country
defence and individual City players: par-
ticularly A. Buchan, whose defence is so con-
sistently good that it escapes comment; D.
Keller, who plays the type of unspectacular,
solid forward game that wins matches, especi-
ally international matches, and A. Walker, best
attacking back of the day, who was yet a shade
too attached to the ball. As pointers to in-
ternational form the game was disappointing,
with poor handling. t
All three named were picked for the N.S.W.
team, as was Tonkin, who on Saturday’s club
game proved himself superior to Australian
“Pity We haven't got a licence to shoot the blighter."
winger C. Hastes. R. Cornforth, a 16-stone
active and versatile forward, is a newcomer to
inter-State football. A p.-0.-w. in Malaya,
Roger was not at his best last year.
Surprise selections were Emery, as five-eighth,
and Edgar, centre. Edgar played in City Ill’s
on Friday, and was not outstanding. Emery,
who was not chosen for the trials, is a sound
orthodox player without any special brilliance.
On Saturday the new team, Eastwood, sur-
prisingly held Randwick to an 11-all draw,
Northern Suburbs downed Combined Country
25-11, Wests beat Drummoyne 12-8, Manly beat
Gordon 17-3, Parramatta downed Easts 6 : 3, and
St. George cut through feeble University de-
fences 24-13, piling up their points in the first
half.
* * * *
Melbournites, who had to face a second
football Saturday without trains or buses,
though Hector Hercules Bell’s trams continued
on the job, still managed to get there in
their thousands, most ,of them picking the
Footscray-Essendon game. They got their
money’s worth, Footscray breaking away to an
early lead, narrowed later by the Dons, and
then going on to win by combination ana
grand forward play, 15.13-13.11. North Mel-
b'ourne got a shock and a beating from the
despised St. Kilda, after a ding-dong go, by
8.13 to 8.11, and Fitzroy downed Richmond,
13.22-11.10. The others went as expected:
Melbourne beat Geelong, 14.25-11.7; Colling-
wood beat Hawthorn, 19.20-13.9; Sth. Melb.
beat Carlton, 12.12-9.16. After which, the
devotees went home, past silent railway stations
and frozen semaphores, to enjoy the freedom
that is the inalienable right of every Victorian,
Communists permitting.
The S’African Soccer lads didn’t have
to call on their best team, nor the chosen
one on its best effort, to down an assem-
bled Australian XI in Adelaide, 3-2. The
winners were too nippy for the locals all
the way. The first real testing of the
visitors should be against N.S.W., the
State side being about the toughest com-
bination op tap. Spying out the form of
Australians a few years ago, an Afrikaner
reported that “They couldn’t beat the
Durban Post Office,” but they may have
improved since J
* * * *
Queensland and Australian champion
Norman von Nida collected a useful prize
in England by winning the Grand Loch-
ryn golf tourney, worth £5OO. A 12ft.
putt for a four on-the 450 yd. 15th pulled
him up to the leader and he played the
last round with but one fault, finishing
with 75, 73, 72, 70—290. That form, if
it can be held, will give him a great show
in the Britislf Open.
« * * *
Adelaide Head-of-the-River boatrace
went to St. Peters from Prince Alfred ;
the winners had beaten Adelaide High in
a heat. The Torrens, scene of the race,
allows only a 2min. 56sec. course; but
it was a local record.
* * * *
Richmond won its first V.C.A. premier-
ship for 70 years by a hard-earned 24-
runs success over South Melbourne.
* * * *
Roy Treasure (9.7), of the southpaw
fraternity, beat Jackie Wilson (9.6 i) in
11 of the 12 rounds at Leichhardt, where-
upon referee Art Mawson declared the
bout a draw and the customers said all
that was to be expected of them and other
words as w r ell. One old hand reckoned
he’d once seen a worse decision, but they
said he was skiting.
* * * *
Both challenger Sel Hamilton (lO.li)
and defender Jackie Daniels (10.4) gave
the customers their money’s worth and
a bit over in the Victorian welter title
scrap at Melbourne Stadium. It was a
hard 15 rounds of solid stoush, but always
with enough his way to make Hamilton
a clear winner.


mm
pi
SUNDAY, MAY 11th.
■a*^
v <
A gift for the one most
precious to you.
NN
g 5
r'r--
■jrSS
C**
300^
JET
;:f </***<*<■?*> jp*
; ••• -c
►.C-C-OC^
I^s
i u
-J
■- *
'IUv« 8 Pi 36«
y
c*sa
English hall - marked
Sterling Silver Compact.
Engine turned. £6/57-
Sewing Case of Pteccary-
grain Pin Morocco. Fitted
with sewing accessories.
Colors: Red, Brown, Beige.
With 1 lift-out tray. 52/6
With 2 Trays. 57/6
9 ct. silver-lined Pendant.
Price 40/-
9 ct. silver-lined Brooch.
Price 7/6
Crystal Water Set. Intaglio-
cut. 7 nieces. Price £3/14/6
nißouds
SEVEN FLOOR GIFT STORE
Cnr. Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. ’Phone 8W2721
P. 144 a.
rwMS MNJL
SPO&
THt
/
#5
§
How Important Is
.
S33CS
W
V
• Pig-iron used' by Ronaldson-Tippett is supplied
to strict specifications and the special alloy Irons con-
taining nickel and chrome poured from the cupola
and used in castings for Ronaldson-Tippett Engines
are subject to constant metallurgical control. All
castings prior to machining are cleaned, fettled and
heat-treated to eliminate Internal stresses and sub-
sequent warping. Special steels are laboratory-tested
and then heat-treated in furnaces under strict pyro-
metric control to give them hardness and an ability
to perform the work expected of them.
Yes, material IS important and the Ronaldson-
Tippett policy and practice Is to use the best material
and employ the best methods thereby laying the
foundation for the superlative service which you may
expect from all Ronaldson-Tippett productions.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
RONRLDSON-TIPPETT
Business. Rolleuy,Etc.
Prices and Costs
From a Bulletin man in New York:
Dr. Marcus Nadler, professor of
finance at New York University and con-
sulting economist to the Central Hanover
Bank, agrees with The Bulletin that
prices of agricultural products will fall
before manufacturing costs will decline.
One season of full agricultural pro-
duction in Europe, he says, and prices
of land products will receive a check
throughout the world. Questioned on
the matter, he agreed that it is easier
to regain production momentum with
crops than it is with manufactures, whilst
it is harder to stop that momentum
when overproduction occurs than it is
in the case of factory output.
Nadler is of the belief that peak prices
for farm products (and most raw
ihaterials) have almost been reached, and
that a recession is not far away. He
maintains also that the U.S. Govern-
ment’s attitude towards farm-product
prices is of vast importance to the whole
U.S. economy, and therefore to the world.
Food prices represent 40 p.c. of the cost
of living in the U.S.A., and if an arti-
ficial price-level is maintained for home-
consumed American wheat, meat, butter,
etc., it will represent a chronic source of
aggravation to U.S. economic difficulties
now that there is a tendency for other
prices to fall, and certain incomes with
them. Influential sections of the New
York retail trade have been campaigning
for price-reductions, partly with the idea
that a halt should be called in the wages-
costs spiral. But the farm-products price
policy will have to be in line if success
is to come out of this stabilising move.
Though much depends on the Govern-
ment policy with regard to farm products
and labor’s attitude towards production
generally, Dr. Nadler is inclined to take
the view that the danger of inflation in
the United States is steadily abating.
Production of clothing and the like has
recovered rapidly, and the spending
potential, on which fears of inflation are
largely based, is being held in check by
a public desire to buy on a cheaper
market. This situation is visible almost
throughout the United States: folk with
old automobiles are holding back waiting
for new cars to become better and cheaper,
and the same thing applies in the case of
refrigerators, furnishings and the like.
But, though public feeling demands
lower prices (a feeling that is already
being recognised by sellers), and this is a
very good anti-inflationary factor, the
costs situation remains the governing one.
Thus the attitude of labor is of the highest
importance, and farm-products price
“Fourteen and eleven —one pound. And the lady's in a hurry!"
policy is of almost equal consequence.
But a move has to be made somewhere,
and there appears to be little doubt that
it is coming from the manufacturing and
retailing section of the U.S.A. as effi-
ciency returns to industry.
From this beginning there may come a
general lowering of living and housing
costs and at least a stabilising of wage-
costs. Strikes now occurring in many
parts of the country are nqt a favorable
omen as regards this stability, but a labor
law is now before Congress that may go
so far as to outlaw the closed shop, for
instance. Communists are visible in
U.S. trade-union anarchy the same as in
Australia.
What is going to happen to U.S. costs,
wages, prices and credit is of great direct
and indirect interest to Australia. Dr.
Nadler’s own forecasts about the future
of land-product prices are of double in-
terest to Australia, firstly because of the
effect on Australian rural industries, and
secondly because of the effect lower ex-
port prices and static import costs are
likely to have on our London funds. It
was in this connection that The Bulletin,
many months ago, made its forecasts
about the eventual relationship between
our export income and the cost of im-
ports.
“W’sider”: All along the Australian
coasts merchants and residents sigh for
the good old days when coasters ran to
a fixed timetable and, short of storm and
breakdown, kept to it. Much as the
shipping cos. would like to restore time-
tables it simply can’t be done; Under
current industrial chaos on the wharves,
and other things, a ship sails as and
when it can. Pre-war, boats like the
Corinda, Cycle, Mildura and Macedon
maintained a schedule Rockhampton,
Newcastle, Sydney, Melbourne and re-
turn in four weeks. They’re lucky to do
it under six these days. Duntroon used
to go from Sydney to Fremantle and back
in three weeks in summer and four in
winter. Now it takes up to seven weeks.
What all this costs the community and the
nation seems to be nobody’s business ;
certainly Canberra is unmoved.
* * * ♦
Goldsbrough Mort, the big pastoral,
pastoral-finance and wool- and stock-
broking organisation, proposes to repay
its £828,030 of A 4 p.c. and £579,519
of B 5 p.c w interminable deben-
tures —a reminder of the economic
blizzard of the 1890’s —at a pre-
mium of 5 p.c. on Jan. 1 next.
The money (£1,477,926) will come partly
from an issue of 800,000 new £1 shares,
one for three, at par, for which Treasury
sanction has been obtained, and which
shareholders will be asked to authorise
at the annual meeting in June next. The
balance will be found from liquids, which
totalled £2,056,000 at end March, 1946.
Paid capital is £2,400,000, which is visibly
supported and assisted by £1,728,185 of
reserves. Including debenture interest,
the co. netted £199,214 last term, equal
to 3.5 p.c. on the share and debenture
capital and reserves combined. So the
debenture money, which is costing on the
average 4!4 p.c. ( = £62,097), isn’t earning
its keep these days. And on a p.c.
div. basis, the rate paid by the co. for
the two years end March, 1946, the capi-
tal readjustment will mean a saving of
£lB,OOO p.a. The rise in the price of
wool and good clearings should help
earnings for the year to end March last,
but increased costs can be expected to
gobble much of the gain. The scrip re-
cently sold at 38s. 2d. in the market. On
this basis, and after allowing for broker-
age, the value of the shares ex rights
is 335. IGd., and the value of the rights
13s. 6d. The return on a p.c. div.
basis would be 3.2 p.c.


The unforgettable Nile
v
111
s.
i
i -
M
S/
THE steamers that traverse the age-old course of the Nile are
* lavishly provided with modern comfort. Restfully at ease on
shaded decks one glides back into the romantic past on a voyage
of fascinating discovery. Frequent landings disclose scenes that
have altered little with the passage of years, and imagination
re-peoples majestic temples as they must have been in the proud
days of their building. Travellers to Europe are afforded a rare
opportunity of seeing for themselves the treasured records of
Egypt’s ancient civilization. Special Tourist Visas, obtainable in
the British Commonwealth, enable them to break their journey
and enjoy a visit of unusual interest.
Always for the tourist, everywhere, is the cordial Egyptian
welcome. Hotel accommodation is luxurious. Golf, tennis,
swimming, dancing indeed, all the social events that
make life worth living provide a fascinating contrast to
the glories of an earlier era.
Special Tourist Visas obtainable in the British Common-
wealth and Empire. Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
mWP
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
GIVE FOOD AND CLOTHING
.He RED + CROSS
BRITISH RELIEF FUND NOW
jn-n.
O
o
o
"No Travelling Expenses Thanks—l'll use
my TAA Air Travel/Freight Credit Card'
Busy busin’ess men who go places often will welcome TAA's
new Air Travel/Freight Credit Card. It is the very essence
of simplicity and convenience, and provides IMMEDIATE
CREDIT for air travel or the despatch of air freight
WITHOUT DEPOSIT. FLY TAA AND CHARGE IT!
A' No limit 1 to the amount of travel or quantity of freight
... 'A As many cards as you require
any TAA Booking or Freight
Office ... A Ring the TAA Booking
Office for a representative to call.
&vt£mms
AValid at
' : . : v
SYDNEY, 119 Phillip Street, near Martin Place, Tel. B 0526 . . .
MELBOURNE, 339 Swanston Street, Opposite Public Library, Tel.
. BRISBANE, Cr. Adelaide and Creek Streets, Tel.
ADELAIDE, Anchor House, 142 North Terrace, Tel.
. . PERTH, St. George's House, St. George's Terrate,
. . CANBERRA, Civic Centre, Tel. F 615 . . . HOBART,
Cr. Collins and Argyle Streets, Tel. 7411 ... LAUNCESTON, Cr.
Brisbane and Gecrga Streets, Tel. 2061
MU 6751
81341 . .
Cent. 7545
Tel. B 2453
The Monetary Fund and World Bank
Australia has accepted the Bretton
Woods plan, and thereby become a mem-
ber of the International Monetary Bund
and the World Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, with a direct stake in
international finance. The subscription
to the fund, which is a pool of gold and
currency for the purpose of regulating
the thorny problems of the exchanges, is
£A62.5 million, of which £A2.3 million
will be paid in gold, and the balance in
Australian currency, or special not-
negotiable non-interest-bearing Govern-
ment securities, payable on demand.
Money for redemption of these securities,
when and if needed, could be found by
issue of Treasury bills, from the pro-
ceeds of Commonwealth loans, or from
consolidated revenue. The normal
methods of buying and selling foreign ex-
change will continue, but when the im-
ports of a member continue to run ahead
of its exports, it can buy foreign cur-
rencies from the Fund to settle the differ-
ence. It will, of course, buy these
foreign currencies with its own currency,
and the Fund’s holding of its currency
would increase and the holding of the
foreign currency purchased would fall.
When the exports of a member continue
to run ahead of its imports, the purchase
of its currency from the Fund by other
members will cause the Fund’s holding
of its currency to fall. Any member
may buy foreign currencies from the
Fund until the Fund’s holding of its cur-
rency equals twice its quota, subject to
the limitation that not more than 25 p.c.
of its quota may be used in any one year.
Australia’s drawing rights on the Fund
amoimt to about £64 million. In ex-
ceptional circumstances this amount can
be exceeded at the discretion of the ex-
ecutive of the Fund.
Australia’s subscription to the Bank is
also £62.5 million, of which £1.25 mil-
lion (-2 p.c.) is payable in gold, £11.25
million (18 p.c.) is subject to call and
payable in notes, deposit with the central
bank, or in not-negotiable Government
securities. The other £5O million (80
p.c.) is callable only to meet interest,
other charges or amortisation in default.
The idea is that the bank will raise funds
for countries wishing to borrow for re-
construction or development purposes,
not by making direct loans from its own
capital resources, though it has power to
do this, but from amounts that it will
borrow, or by guaranteeing loans raised
by members. Owing to the initial demand
for dollars, early borrowings and guaran-
tees are likely to be confined to the
United States. Australia is not likely to
be a large borrower or lender. From the
point of view of our economic interests,
successful reconstruction of devastated
countries should mean revival of our old
export markets. Development loans will
assist to create new markets, and, it is
hoped, facilitate export of capital equip-
ment to Malaya and other countries of
s.-e. Asia,
Lamson Paragon has received consent
of the Treasurer for another new share
issue, this time 93,750 pound ords., one
for two, at a premium of ss. each. In
January last year a one-for-six new issue
at a ss. premium was accompanied by
a bonus-sharfe issue of one for twelve.
More money is now wanted to finance
continued expansion in four
new plant is beginning to arrive at each
of the co.’s factories in Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide. At
Edwardstown, near Adelaide, the new
building is nearing completion, and plans
for a large modern factory at Kmgsgrove,
Sydney, are practically ready.
* * * ♦
Shrinking supplies of glass bottles, pre-
serving jars and tin containers are worry-
ing manufacturers and traders in Maori-
land. It’s an aftermath of the war, which
reduced stocks to a low ebb, and the situ-
ation hasn’t been helped by the boom in
sales of canned goods caused by ration-
ing of electricity and the general fuel
shortage. As soon as housewives were
up against the problem of preparing
meals under difficulties a rush for canned
goods started, wholesale and retail firms
began to eat into their limited stocks, and
packers were called on to step up outputs.
This is where the pinch is. Most packers
are handicapped by a lack of tinplate and
are wrestling with a tricky problem of
containers. If increased supplies of tin-
plate don’t come to light soon—and no
one seems to know where to find them —■
the canned-goods trade will be in trouble.
Bottles and jars can’t be drawn on as a
substitute for tins, and that seems likely
to be the position right through 19,47. The
position is very similar in Australia.
* * * H=
Cakes, confectionery, ice cream and
cordials will be dearer in Maoriiand when
the factories make their first deliveries
after the Government wipes out its sub-
sidy of £22 a ton this month on sugar
used for manufacturing. In a total cost
of about £54 a ton the subsidy has meant
a lot to manufacturers, and the change
has come as a shock after nearly seven
years of State aid. The subsidy began
back in July, 1940, and as sugar prices
have soared, the subsidy has taken care
of the rise—until now. Some leading
cake-manufacturers declare the loss to
them will be several thousands a year,
and they’ll have to pass it on to the pub-
lic. Confectionery firms are estimating
for a rise in costs of 25 p.c., or
around 2|d. a pound, and the public
might find this swelled to 6d. a pound in
over-the-coUnter prices, after taking in
the sales tax at the maximum rate of
20 p.c. Ice cream concerns have been
loudest in their protests, but, as their busy
season has ended, they’ll have several
months to size up the position before the
next rush begins. One thing they make
clear is that they can’t carry the extra
cost. Domestic consumers, hotels and
restaurants and jam manufacturers will
still be sheltered by the subsidy, and as
sugar prices on the world market are still
moving upwards, larger payments per ton
will be needed from stabilisation funds.
On a rough estimate, the net saving to the
Government may be about half a million.
* # * *
Grocers in Maoriland, who are hear-
ing moans from all over both islands
about lack of eggs, say supplies will fall
below priority demands—that is, for
children under school age, expectant
mothers and holders of medical certifi-
cates —unless purchases are made from
Australia before the worst of the winter
shortage. Wholesale distributors dis-
agree, and join with producers in de-
nouncing control as the root of the
trouble ; they ask for cheaper feed and
a free market to put things right. Con-
sumers, who suffer from scarcity, think
the grocers more realistic than those
further away from the demand end, and
want to know what is going to be done
and when. Anything that aims to get
production up won’t act quickly enough
to help now, and it’s now they’re con-
cerned about. They like Australian egg-
powder—up to a point—but it’s dear at
Bs. 3d. for 12oz. tins. Blackmarketing is rife,
and it seems worst in Wellington, under
the noses of officialdom.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Esk D.”: Walter, scion of the dis-
trict’s most fashionable family of rabbit-
trappers, is bashfully in love with
beauteous, 18-year-old Peggy Barkley, but
there is little hope of the match being
successful. The Barkleys, Peggy the only
child, are well down the social scale,
having only a 500-acre dairy farm, a
milking herd of 120 Jerseys and a small
flock of stud merino wethers. Even the
large sedan Barkley drives has the tread
worn on one of the front tyres. The
lovers meet clandestinely and discuss the
prospects bitterly. Then one day Walter’s
mother comes hurriedly to Peggy. “It’s
Walter,” she says without preamble. “Fell
down an’ broke ’is leg.” “Gosh,” sighs
the girl. “Is he hurt? Was he askin’ f’r
me? Whatever will we do?” “Not ’im,”
says his mother spitefully, throwing in an
answer at random. “But we know you
was out walkin’ round ’is traps with ’im
the other night. We thought, seein’ as
you know where ’e’s got ’em set, you
might work ’em till ’e’s on ’is feet agen.
Then if you shape all right we’ll recon-
sider takin’ you into the fambly.” The
final chapter draws the curtain on a
utility being driven toward the horizon,
the bridal pair off on a camping honey-
moon. As they pass over a corrugated
patch of road there is heard the jangle
of many rabbit traps.
* * * *
“Hanko”; I accept, with a grain of salt,
“Chuck’s” big speckled chicken-hawk as
the guardian of an orchard (B. 9/4/’47),
for that somewhat vague description
might fit a .harrier-hawk, a fowl that will
harry nothing among timber. However,
if -“Chuck” wants a harrier they’re the
easiest of birds to acquire, for they nest
on the ground in long grass and standing
crops. You become the possessor of a
harrier nestling by giving it your hand,
and then, if you can bear the agony of
the vyce-like grip of its talons, you may
walk away accoutred like a falconer of old.
“Betcha”: “Gryllus” (B. 2/4/’47)
wouldn’t find it such a pleasure to in-
troduce unsuspecting naturalists to the
sting of jumper-ants if he could witness
the effect the poison has on some persons.
A mate of mine avoids the ants more
assiduously than he does snakes. I once
saw him half an hour after he had been
stung. Eyes fixed and glassy, lips and
tongue swelled to an acute danger of
choking, his entire body a burning flame
of dark crimson peppered with large
white spots, he was rolling about in
agony.* Then came unconsciousness. The
juice from the bruised roots of bracken
fern rubbed on the bite often helps in
minor cases, but if there is a really re-
liable antidote for jumper-ant poison I’d
like to hear it.
* * * ♦
“D.R.H.”My friend Joseph is an ex-
tremely ornate fellow. He dresses in
purple-brown bespangled with sulphur-
yellow rosettes; he wears pearl-grey
gloves and his eyelids are painted black
and yellow. Right aft his body narrows
to a stalk encircled by a black stripe and
a ring of yellow beads. On the rear of
the stalk, broad end forward, is set a
large, dark-purple heart with some orange
splotches on it. Being a gecko, and a
member of the Gymnodactylus tribe,
Joseph regards this as quite a normal
tail, if not as something in the nature of
an old school tie. For in all things
Joseph is conservative, staid and deliber-
ate. When strange persons attempt to
catch you, in Joseph’s code you merely
walk away in a dignified manner. When
captured you accept the fact without any
vulgar display of emotion. If you are
confronted by suspicious and possibly
dangerous objects like watchglasses full of
milk you merely draw back and observe
them steadily. When live moths are in-
troduced into your bedroom you do not
pursue them; you simply wait for the
silly insects to alight, gauge your distance
and then snap them up. The fact that
while snapping you are able to lean for-
ward and downwards from your bed-
room roof a third of your length without
“you naughty boy!”
falling on your aristocratic nose may
be explained perhaps by the fact that your
ponderous tail acts as a counterweight.
Having swallowed the moth whole you
—er —lick your chops with a broad pink
tongue that removes all moth feathers
from muzzle to ear. In the process you
even polish your protuberant eyes and
give your upper eyelid a poke. And if
that’s not a sign of saurian aristocracy
—well, what is?
* * * *
“C.E.”: Dave came from the back
door, gazed round the'yard, then called to
the old bloke, who had just settled him-
self for a smoke. There was no reply,
and he strolled across. “Want the wheel-
barrer t’ get a load o’ wood, Dad,” he
repeated. “Eh?” “Want the barrer,” per-
sisted Dave. “Barrer? Whaffor?” “Get
some wood.” Dad smoked on placidly.
“Well, what’s stoppin’ y’?” he drawled
presently. “Yre sittin’ in it,” Dave
pointed out. “Huh.” Followed another
isilence. “FT Mum’s cookin’,” Dave
continued. “She’s in a hurry.” “Aw-
right, awright, don’t be so flamin’ im-
patient, Dave,” growled Dad. “Y’re
gettin’ just like ol’ Sam used to be.
Gripes, I remember when Sam.... ” Dad
launched into a slow recital of Sam’s
doings over quarter of a century. “Yair ;
well, I better get that wood, I s’pose,”
remembered Dave some time later. Dad
thought it over. “Awright, yair; well, I
s’pose y’ll be needin’ this barrer.” He
made elaborate and noisy preparations
to rise. “Aw, it don’t matter,” Dave
broke in, as Mum waddled past with a
large armful of split fuel. “Y’ mean y’
don’t want it? Gripes,” Dad flopped back
with a grunt, “if y’d only think things
over first an’ make up y’r mind, Dave,”
he grumbled. “I’m always sayin’ these
rip-tearin’ ways o’ yours don’t git a man
nowhere.”
“Esk D.”: The trout-fishermen who
spend their holidays camping at Jamtin
Crick are a race apart from the indigenous
hard-working and their
ridiculous efforts to separate the speckled
tiddlers from the stream are tolerated
with condescending amusement. But old
Ted cultivates the visitors to advantage,
if the empty whisky bottles behind his
shack can be counted as evidence. Ted
can talk trout lore by the hour, and has
the knack of catching ’em down to a fine
art. It’s to be noticed that Ted takes the
visiting enthusiasts out singly, and on
these trips even the raw newchum comes
back with a bulging bag, while Ted in-
variably admits to having been a bit un-
lucky on the day. Upstream or down,
the way back always includes a visit to
that dilapidated example of weatherboard
architecture the village pub, and Ted’s
name is rarely on the slate during
summer.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”; A queer phenomenon
of northern waters is the occasional
appearance of vast sheets of oil on the
sea, forming a layer sometimes a quarter
of an inch thick. Small craft, thrusting
noisily through the water, suddenly glide
into an eerie silence. A fishy odor is
noticeable, and through the microscope
myriads of tiny shell-forms, similar to
those of foraminifera, are visible. It is
the shells of these animalcules which
form the deep globerina ooze of the sea-
bed. When these deposits are turned to
dry land by subterranean upheaval they
become “Tripoli earth,” the base used to
hold liquid high-explosives: dynamite,
gelignite and T.N.T.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I’ll accept “Nota-
den’s” statement that his lightning-struck
trees did not have their roots in an under-
ground stream (B. 26/3/’47), but not if
his sole proof lies in the fact that a 10ft.
cutting failed to reveal signs of wetness.
A stream 50ft. underground may not, in
some country, be detected at 49ft. Many
cases have occurred where a hole
punched through rock has flooded a shaft
and nearly drowned the sinker. Even
hard clay, through which roots may
penetrate, will imprison a stream. Or
does “Notaden” imagine that trees root
shallowly?. It’s worth remembering that
there’s as much of a trefe underground as
there is above surface. Some trees with a
taproot system go straight to water, and
that taproot will follow the water-table
down to great depths. I’ve seen trees
growing on rock outcrops hundreds of
feet above the water-table and in ground
that became bone-dry in summer. Yet
on the hottest day those trees continued
to evaporate a hundred or so gallons
each without wilting. That water didn’t
come from anywhere within a hundred
feet of the surface. I recall a tree grow-
ing in the centre of a big gravel pit in
which I once sweated. We took the gravel
and left the tree standing—and still grow-
ing—in an island.
* « « *
“Prof.”: I’ve found that the most effec-
tive way to move a stubborn calf or cow
is to toss your head at it as though you
werfe going to run it through with your
imaginary horns. Also a horse usually
responds to an exaggerated kick in re-
verse gear in its direction. Any animal
associated its own species learns
to keep away from horns or lashing feet,
as thfe case may be.
* * * ♦
“Jabiru”: Dogs here at Bowen (Q.)
are fed on wallaby meat, some of which
may hang in the open for a couple of
days. Blowflies in hundreds, and at one
time maggots, would be in it in quick
time. Lately the little yellow wasps have
been busy round the meat, leaving it quite
sound. Have never seen this happen be-
fore, Can any member of the Council
offer information?
* * * •
“Bozo”: Joined a party of tourists on
a “gape-wagon” trip through the Cum-
berland Valley, the home of Victoria’s
tall timbers. The guide led us up to some
towering specimens of mountain ash
and proudly pointed out the monarch.
“There you are, ladies and gfents, the
tallest hardwood in the world, 301 ft. 6in.
high.” When the “oohs” and “ahs” had
died down a sceptical gaper piped up.
“Garn, how do you know?” he queried.
“Who’s gonna climb one of them things
with a tape measure?”
» * * »
“Bray Rock”: “Bohemian” (B.
9/ 4 / ’47) needn’t go all the way to the
“Manakau ‘bite’ (M.L.)” for a real ex-
ample of fish-hooking-man, and not by a
self-tied waistband, either. Paddy the
Nark, assistant tucker-spoiler in a U.S.
supply-landing craft in Great Barrier
Reef waters, liked a bit of overside fish-
ing when at anchor. His favorite place
was at the starboard supply port, which
afforded the triple advantages of a nice
cool breeze in the shade, proximity to the
galley and the absence of any rail to
make extra work when lifting in the catch.
A spare sliding hook on the meat-room
rail provided a handy place for hitching
the line while he peeled potatoes. One
afternoon, as he drowsily barked the
murphies, a lot of things happened sud-
denly. The heavy line tightened with a
twang, and the meathook whizzed to the
end of its slide rail. As Paddy jumped to
grab the line beyond the hook the rail
end parted from the bulkhead, the freed
hook caught his shorts in its swift down-
ward swerve, and with a yell that brought
even the anchor watch out of its siesta
he somersaulted overside. Luckily the
hook was blunt, and after a couple of
revolving dives the shorts tore loose just
as a life-belt dropped beside him.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Jim Sparks is back from
the Sydney Show. To all inquiries as to
the shortness of his visit, he has one
answer. “Got down there on the Wens-
dee mornin’ after she opened. Orfen
heard o’ the way them city people cram
on to trams an’ things, but, Gorbloomey,
never thought it was like it is. I dump
me bags in the railway cloakroom an’
reckon I’ll make for the Show an’ hunt
up a bunk that night. Gripes, I got stuck
in a tram with about 500 on board an’
gets shoved out inter millions o’ people
pushin’ an’ shovin’ in all directions, an’
when I get clear I see the station clock
an’ make me way back an’ catch the first
train home. Y’ can have the city for
mine.” Yes, he is convinced that Sydney
is always like that.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Conversation between
Mat and our prospective employer.
“Hear y’ got some shoot cuttin’?” “That’s
right.” “How much y’ payin’?” “Four
an’ six.” “Sounds all right. Can we see
the paddock?” “That’s it on that hill.”
Mat and I survey the paddock with rising
elation, because the price is obviously a
good one. “Looks all right. Can we
camp here?” “There’s a hut behind the
house. You can get your meat, eggs,
butter an’ milk from us.” “That’ll do us.
Got any slashers?” “A couple. You’ll
find ’em in the tool-shed.” “Right. Well,
we’ll have t’ go back t’ town t’ get our
gear. Be here in the mornin’.” “All right.
Could you do a drink?” Mat and I be-
come elated some more. “Too blanky
right!” “What will you have, beer or
spirits, or tea?” “What d’y’ take us for?
Beer, o’ course,” “Well, that’s no good
to me. I only employ teetotallers. We’re
Rechabites here. Sorry we’ve wasted each
other’s time.” Halfway back to town
Mat came out of his gloom long enough
to mutter “Man ought t’ woke up as
soon as that cow mentioned tea on a day
like this!”
* * * *
“Blime”: Mick went over to help
Sanders for a few weeks, and during the
first half-dozen meals with the couple
listened to Sanders’s persistent wail about
the tea. “A man needs a decent drink
o’ tea when he’s workin’, ” his boss
would grumble. “An’ look at the stuff!
So flamin’ weak a man c’n see the bottom
o’ the cup plain as day.” Mrs. Sanders
would point out that if she made it
stronger the ration wouldn’t last out, and
that the tea they were getting was poor
quality; she was doing the best she
could. Followed another few days of
complaints, then one dinner-time Sanders,
after looking hard at a half-filled cup,
gulped heartily and set it down. “That’s
what y’ call a drink,” he remarked ap-
provingly. Thereafter came peace. As
tea was still on the menu at the end of
the month, Mick put a meaning question
to Mum: “Get a couple of extra pounds
somewhere?” Mum shook her head
warningly. “Couldn’t,” she confided, so
I touched up the inside o’ Dad’s cup with
some o’ that black stain we had left
over.”
VICTOR DALEYS GEESE.
When Daley came to Grafton, that merry
troubadour . , .
—Enticed around the district its features to
explore—
Declared, though short of ruins and lacking
shamrocks green, , . . , .
It was, since leaving Ireland, the fairest land
he’d seen. .
For which .inspiring statement, Maguire, wno
kept an inn— . ' ...
’Twas called “The Harp of Erin. adored him
as his kin.
When Christmastime was nearing Maguire con-
trived a plan , , . .
To send “a bit of poulthry to that foine poet
man.
I think,” he puffed, “y’r paper has gone from
bad to worse;
You ought to charter Daley to do a page
of verse.” , ,
A fatted goose he’d purchased; I made a
bet with Pat
I’d get from round Ulmarra another just as
fat.
The singer wrote to thank us. The ink he used
was green. . . , . ,
He said, outside of Armagh, no finer birds had
been; . . ,
’Twould need the harp of Tara his feelings
to express
For such a noble present, its timely kindliness—
He had the gift of blarney, that Brother of the
Pen,
Who wore a cloak of humor to hide his wounds
from men. '
I went to town with autumn and sought* the
suburb where
Abided in a cottage the rhymer debonair.
1 found his given number and hit the knocker
hard
And, even as it sounded, m answer from the
yard
Uprose a hissing challenge. That gabble did
not cease
Until the door was opened—it issued from
the geese!
“A hundred thousand welcomes! Come in,”
he said, “come in!”
He watched me and I waited. Then, with a
freckled grin—
“We had no heart to kill them; though cabined
and constrained
As living bonds of friendship the creatures have
remained.
The goose is Angelina, the gander Edwin, and
They warn us when a bailiff is spying out the
land.
“You know the classic story how geese from
sword and fire
Once saved the Roman city relate it to
Maguire”...
Bohemia, brave country! How distant, yet
how near,
In tender recollection its denizens appear;
Who sailed on joyous Argos to seek the Golden
Fleece —
As garrulous and guileless as Victor Daley’s
geese. »
VICTORIA.
E. J. Brady.


“Wippegong”: Wool for Japan again,
is it? Four us were in one of those
flimsy weatherboard shops which have
appeared beside what might have been
a main street in the shambles of Hiro-
shima. The walls were being hung with
cheap handkerchiefs, prints, scarves and a
kimono or two ; the lass in charge spoke
the fluent Californian common in Nippon,
and at the back of the shop two
sphinxes, in black kimonos, warmed their
hands over a pot of dull charcoal. I
had no interest in the goods for sale,
but was intrigued by a subtle aroma
which filled the place—then I noticed the
counter. About 2£in. thick, it was cut
from a trunk so that the curve of a great
root at one end, and of the first big
branch at the other, made a natural semi-
circle toward the front. This edge was
still in the rough, and the back edge
sawn straight; but the surface was
smoothed to a glass finish from which
a finger could still draw a smear of
fragrant oil —one superb slab of camphor
wood. I called the cobbers to come qnd
see it, and the elderly Japanese at the
rear stirred to life. What manner of in-
vaders were these who could see beauty
in wood! A question to the girl, and
she interpreted our shoulder patches.
Australians! When wefe they going to
get Australian wool again? We couldn’t
tell them that, but they spoke at length
on the need for it. Then the girl dis-
appeared and returned with a chunk of
the camphor-tree. “My father asks if you
would care to take this small piece with
you,” and I did. But on leaving I took
out an Australian shilling, with the
merino’s head. Did they know what that
animal was? They didn’t even know
which way to look at it. So I left it with
them, as a talisman for the restoration
of trade and, maybe, as a symbol of
sanity.
* * * *
“F.L.”: One of the most difficult tar-
gets for a rifle is a bird on the water.
This is easily accounted for when it is
considered that the vulnerable portion of
a duck above the waterline is very small,
and it takes a good shot to drill the
floater’s head. There’s an illusionary
quality in aiming over water that rattles
many good shooters over land, giving rise
to the fallacy that water attracts the shot
and causes it to fall short. Still, it’s sur-
prising to watch bullets clip the water
within an inch or so of the duck and
ricochet harmlessly away.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Sam, a pretty good bush-
man, was always scornful of coves who
got slewed and had to be pulled out of
the scrub by rescue parties. “Any man,”
he’d snort, “ought t’ know where he is by
instinct an’ then strike a line t’ take him
out.” Well, the boss being shorthanded,
Sam was taken over the river to the 100-
acre block where they kept the rams and
grew a bit of lucerne. When the water
arrived Sam went on the night shift.
About 3 a.m., with the weather muggy
and a wisp of cloud drifting over the
stars, Sam lit the hurricane lamp and be-
gan his patrol of the bays. He didn’t
notice the thickening cloud, the disap-
pearing stars or the sudden end of the
breeze. But he jumped when a vivid
streak of lightning ran across the sky;
tripping over the shovel, he fell into a
swamped bay, squashing the hurricane
lamp in the mud beneath him. Sam got
up, dripping, and the rain came down,
there was no more lightning, and the
mm kept on. Sam couldn’t see a foot in
f li I*. 1 *. ?*■ but his bushman’s instinct
told mm where the house lay, about 300
mrds to his right, and he set a direct
course for it. He knew he was right when
he got through the third fence, but some-
how he just missed the house and turned
pack. He yelled, but that house had an
iron roof, and nothing penetrated the
roar of the rain on it, so the sleepers
slept on. When dawn came Sam was
wandering round in a stubble paddock
three miles down the Shepparton-road.
He doesn’t snort about lost persons any
more.
* * * *
“E. 2”: Queensland dingoes must have
something their Victorian counterparts
lack if they won’t be poisoned (B.
"It’s ’ ard tryin' to git spare parts these days, Missus!”
2/4/’47). Our large, mountainous Gipps-
land district is presided over by a skilled
dog-stiffener and his mate on permanent
wages, plus a £2 10s. bonus for every
skin. Their efforts with rifle, traps and
poison account for an annual collection of
dogs sufficient to do damage running into
thousands of pounds. That the arrange-
ment is very satisfactory is evidenced
by the fact that nobody in these parts has
been thus far stupid enough to suggest
bombing the warrigals from the air with
strychnine. Any intelligent outbacker
knows that one bait cunningly planted by
a track where the dingo is active is better
than a barrage of them in no-man’s land.
“Sou’-west”: To the professional dingo-
stiffener the idea of sowing poison baits
indiscriminately by ’plane is ridiculous.
Neither dogs nor foxes run haphazardly
over the landscape seeking food: as a
general rule they have their marks where
a meal may be found and proceed there
by often well-worn tracks. Thus the
first move of the stiffener when opening
fresh country is to seek out such tracks.
He knows that both foxes and dogs dis-
like rough travel yet will seek every ad-
vantage of cover. So he looks along
creeks, gullies, along old roads, tracks,
pads, around old camping places, lone
waterholes. One particularly favored
spot is the corner-post of a long fence.
Along such tracks and around such posts
baits may be laid with advantage; first
dragging a trail. This may be a sheep’s
paunch, the carcass of a kangaroo or an
emu, the fatter the better. Some believe
in singeing or charring the flesh, thus
bringing out an odor more attrac-
tive, also rendering out some of the
fat, which not only pleases the
canine nose but also gives more per-
manence to the scent along the drag.
Along the route of a drag baits are
dropped at frequent intervals. Young
dogs fall easily to such baits but an old
dog will pass a thousand by.
* * * *
“Alpine Willie”: Most of the scrubby,
thickly-forested slopes and gullies I’m
acquainted with have more birds to the
acre than you could poke a stick at, in the
light of which “Mohu’s” dissertation (B.
2/4/’47) on their solemnity in such
“gloomy surroundings” is fantastic. The
lively songs of lyrebirds, butcherbirds,
thrushes and many others may be heard
regularly in competition with the coach-
whip’s call and small scrub-birds’ chatter
in the densest forest of the gorges. As
for the wet-blanket effect on the echidna,
I have yet to find this creature execut-
ing a fandango or emulating Caruso on
the most open plains. Porkie’s most
active habit is sinking into the soil when
molested, and the largest noise I ever en-
countered from one was ten degrees
lower than the mating-call of a tin-hare.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: “Bo’s” yarn about.
Bill Drayton and his steam boiler
(B. 2/4/’47) reminds me. We were
standing in front of a nest of 12 Cornish-
flues on the old Ivanhoe (W.A.)
when suddenly the doors of the
boiler fourth from one end burst open
and out came a roaring geyser of steam,
burning stumps of logs, charcoal, ashes,
clinker and scalding water, followed by a
roar that sounded like a little Vesuvius
erupting. From the midst of the dis-
turbance gyrated the singed form of the
young Italian fireman who was in charge
of that end of the stokehole. With the
12 boilers all linked to the main steam
pipe steam continued to roar out of the
disrupted firebox, filling the whole build-
ing to invisibility. However, the British
fireman at the other end kept calm.
Slipping up the short ladder, he gained
the plank walk along the top of the
boilers, plunged into the cloud above the
offending boiler, found the check valve
and so cut off the steam that by now
was pouring back from the other boilers.
Then with a billet of wood he tapped the
weight on the safety valve back so that
the cut-off boiler eased itself of the pres-
sure still within it. “Aw, it didn’t amount
to nothin’,” he defended later, when they
had taken the scalded one off for first aid.
“But that poor Dago! When the boss
asked him if he knew about boilers, he
says Yes. And when I asked him if
he knew about havin’ to keep the water
up in a boiler or else the fusible plug’d
blow out he says Yes. I’ve just found
out it’s the only word of English he
knows! ”
* * * *
“Gryllus”; A brief visit to a N.Q. scrub
would convince “Samuel Sawbones” (B.
2/4/’47) of his error in saying that no
ant “has been known to devise or use
a tool.” In building the nests from
which they would drop on his neck to
use their highly effective stings, the green
tree-ants (Oecophylla v ire ace ns) use
a home-made combined spool and
shuttle of a most ingenious kind for
fastening the living leaves firmly to-
gether and waterproofing any gaps. The
tool actually is a well-grown larva from
the communal nest, gripped round the
middle with head pointing forward to
attach the cocoon silk and thereafter
carried back and forth by the worker-
operator until the supply is exhausted.
Each is then taken back to the nursery
and replaced by another until the job is
finished. Such child-robbery may seem
deplorable morally, but it certainly is
evidence of reasoned ingenuity, and,
judging from numbers and activity of the
creatures, does the youngsters no harm.
Incidentally, “S.S.” makes another
bloomer in referring to “ ‘his’ complex
way of life” with reference to ants. Com-
munal ant-life is dominated entirely by
the females.
* * * 9
“Black Rock”: Pure sentimentality
ascribes Binghi’s all-too-sure and swift
exit to the agency of civilisation alone.
The fact is that he was a Stone-Age man,
already half-way down the sunset trail,
before the first white man’s ship dropped
anchor off his shores. Though we have
culpably failed to slow up his exit
it was never in our power generally to
arrest it. One attempt seems to be suc-
ceeding on a limited scale. Fourteen
years ago a patrol party from Thurs-
day Island made first contact with
the Kenwyn River natives on Cape
York Peninsula (N.Q.). The active males
of the tribe went bush with Slacrity.
Olds'ters, females and children remained
only through sheer physical inability to
decamp. Though they had never seen a
white man, malnutrition had reduced the
old people to an all-fours means of
locomotion, whilst in girls of a dental
age of 18 all signs of puberty were
absent. Through a scarcity of game and
an ignorance of the rudiments of agri-
culture they were literally starving to
death. With contact with civilisation
came supplies and, later, Torres Straits
Island boys as agricultural instructors.
Today there is a yearly population in-
crease, and the stock is comparatively
vigorous.
*** y * *
“B. A. Ker”; Bill’s pony, Nigger, was
very old and very placid. At least, that’s
what Bill thought until recently, when
he dropped in for a yarn, stopped for
lunch and looked over the livestock from
Mum’s Orpingtons to the kid’s ferrets
before making a talking retreat back to
the paddock where Nigger, with slowly
switching tail, stood drowsing. But at his
master’s approach Nigger came to life
and went flying across the paddock
in very obvious terror. Nor would he
allow his boss to come within 30 yards.
He stood quiet when I walked up and
caught him and did the harnessing, but
even when his owner climbed into the
sulky and was handed the reins the ob-
sessed creature showed signs of acute
uneasiness. At that moment the boy,
sensing a lift to his favorite rabbiting
place, came up carrying ferret boxes and
nets. Scarcely had the gear been deposited
on the floor of the sulky before the old
prad was giving a very creditable impres-
sion of the Outlaw of Glenidol, while
his heels drummed on the bottom of the
vehicle. Realising that Bill had handled
the ferrets (I had not), we came to
the conclusion that way back in his youth
the old nag must have had an unpleasant
experience with a ferret.
* * * *
“Zake”; The 12th Duke of Bed-
ford eats tawny owl and other
strange fowl in pursuance of a theory
that brightly-colored plumage is a hint
to predatory animals that that particular
bird’s flesh is unpalatable. His Grace,
who has been doing this for five
years, should be chatted to come out to
Australia and confirm his theory quickly
and simply. All he’s got to do is to go
to any little Australian bush pub and
bend, if not break, the ducal ivories on
the galah that will be served up to him
—that’s if it doesn’t happen to be “goat
day.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: I’m astonished by “Ed-
judina’s” statement (B. 9/4/’47) anent
bushed bushmep that “if one doesn’t take
notice of the lay of the sun on the prev-
ious day’s travel it is easy to start off in
a wrong direction in the morning.” Any
bushman who is a bushman knows the
four main compass points night or day,
he knows the sun is always in the north
in this country, he knows where he is
going. These three things are automatic,
as much a part of him as breathing. I’ve
been in as featureless country as anyone
else, but I was never in doubt as to my
location or where my directions lay, and
I reckon any ot/ier dinkum bushman is
the same.
“Another order for a hundred patchwork quilts , Ma!”
AWAKE.
Scuffing down the vine-rows, my careless foot
retrieves ~
A piece of yellowed pamphlet, less than the
withered leaves. , , ,
No veins in vagrant tracery, hut types black
emphasis , _ „ ,
On “Give your Vote to So-and-So and
“Work for That and This”
And “Women of the World, Awake!” f am
awake, and see
Green grass and amber vine and glittering shrub
and tree;
The sharp sun burns my shoulder, the warm
grass pricks my feet —
And they can keep the dusty rooms where
politicians meet!
Here boxthorn berries glisten red, cool shadows
cross the road
And April distance paints the hills with indigo
and woad.
Our age may rush to ruin, or shudder on the
brink
Of uttermost destruction; today I will not
think!
Man’s “peace on earth” evades him, all’s
wrong with all his world,
But golden leaves are burning, and plumes of
smoke are curled
About the soft horizon; the sun burns hot
and true
And valleys in the far hills are shadowed deeply
blue.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


for
FRUIT-TREES
PLANTS AND
VEGETABLES.
DAIRIES.
STABLES.
POULTRY RUNS
DESTRUCTION
OF HOUSEHOLD
PESTS, etc.
■
811 Cl 0
SOJJPP.-ISO
OCT B
l£?***eai Pte<t&
m*s& \
,se£
MAXIMUM COVERAGE ... DOES NOT
WASH OFF OR BLOW AWAY
Rucide releases the full pest-killing power of D.D.T. in its most economical and
effective form . . . wherever needed. Free from solvents used in emulsion bases, it
is harmless to foliage. Rucide ensures ultra-fine dispersion and unsurpassed wetting
quality and coverage. It gives a highly-active, pest-destroying film that s proof against
wind and rain • . . guaranteeing longer protection. And it overcomes the disadvantages
common to dusts and wettable powders.
Enjoy freedom from pests .. • use Rucide!
50% P P-ISOMER DDT
OBTAINABLE FROM STOREKEEPERS AND PASTORAL SUPPLIERS
TAUBMANS LIMITED, Chemical Products , St. Peters, N.S.W.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Worms and Grass.
“Jock”: Phenothiazine is an expensive
drench at nearly 3d. a sheep, but it is
most effective. To obtain the best results
the low rate of infestation following dos-
ing should be maintained by rotational
grazing. Sheep coming into a new pad-
dock will immediately dirty the paddock
with worm eggs, but these eggs cannot
reach the infective stage before the
seventh day. If the sheep are moved on
the sixth day no re-infestation will occur.
Thirty-one days after the sheep have left
the paddock all the eggs deposited during
the six days’ grazing have hatched and
their worms died, leaving the paddock
clean again. Therefore, use a paddock
six days, rest it 31 days and there is no
re-infestation. If this rotation is main-
tained re-drenching is unnecessary and the
cost of the original phenothiazine drench-
ing is comparatively reduced.
The scheme has difficulties. In the
most effective country for phenothiazine
(wet parts of Vic. and S.A.) many farms
have insufficient paddocks to maintain
clean rotation. Seven paddocks are
needed, plus a ram paddock and a couple
of extras for cows and hay. If a small
stud is run it may mean boxing the studs
with the flock to give the paddocks the
necessary rest period. If the stud ewes
have already been mated this may mean
entries in the stud book of doubtful value.
Clean mustering when emptying paddocks
is essential to the success of the scheme,
and dividing fences must be lamb-proof,
Phenothiazine is harmful, and if
allowed constant contact with the skin
of the operator a tingling will be felt in
the hands—a peripheral neuritic effect.
Make the mixture thin enough to run
easily when drenching with bottles—it
goes down more easily and quickly and
less runs on the wool to cause staining.
Hints for Horsemen.
“E.H.S,”: One of the first things a colt
should be taught is to face his trainer. If
he shows his heels a light flick of the
whip on the rump will bring him around
to a proper position. A youngster soon
learns to face the trainer and is easily
approached and caught. Give the colt as
much, or rather more, handling on the
off than on the near side, otherwise he
will be difficult to approach from that
side. Bush-breakers, as a rule, devote
little attention to offside handling, and
not one in a hundred attempts to
familiarise the colt with being mounted
from the offside.
Always keep a firm hand on the reins.
Riding with a slack rein encourages a
slovenly gait and frequently results in
accident. Keep him to his regular paces
and never allow him to develop a jog. If
he shows an inclination to amble encour-
age him. A good ambler will cover a
greater distance in a day with less fatigue
to himself and his rider than at any other
gait. Until the colt has learned to stand
attempting to pull back he should
always be tied up short with a stout
halter, the halter rope fastened high up
on the post. If he should happen to pull
back and struggle to break away he would
be liable to get his front legs over a long
halter or one that is made fast too low
dn the post. The halter should be worn
under, the head-stall, with the running
end looped and knotted around the ani-
mal’s neck when not in use.
To avoid galling don’t buckle the girth
or crupper more tightly than may be
necessary for safety, and always use a
rolled-leather girth well greased within
and without. This method of greasing
prevents sweat-hardening, which is the
chief cause of galling. If the colt is run-
ning bare-footed keep his hooves well
trimmed until he is fitted with his first
set of shoes. Ragged hooves are apt to
develop sand cracks.
Manuring Citrus.
“Bogan Joe”: It is essential to vary
the amounts of manure used to suit the
particular soil and district in which the
trees grow. Generally speaking inland
areas require less than coastal areas be-
cause the basip materials from which in-
land soils have been derived are richer
than those of the coastal areas. Nitrogen
appears to be essential in all districts, and
large trees require from 1501 b. to 2001 b.
per acre. To obtain this content 7501 b.
to 10001 b. of sulphate of ammonia,
12501 b. of nitrate of soda or 40001 b. of
blood and bone per acre are necessary for
the inland. In coastal areas 2cwt. of
potash is an advisable addition, and the
“Tinkit he must have got split pers'nality or sumpin '.”
best time for use is late winter or early
spring,
* ‘Quick-freeze. ’ ’
“Outback”: As it is estimated that a
temperature of 240 deg. C. would be
required to quick-freeze whole quarters
of beef in 30 minutes, F, Gerrard, of
the Smithfield (London) College of Food
Technology, doesn’t think, it likely that
quick-freezing of whole quarters of beef
will ever become a commercial proposi-
tion. Anything beyond a thickness of
about 3in. would be most difficult to
freeze in the time sense of the term. As
the average British housewife is con-
cerned primarily with price of a better
product it would appear that quick-frozen
beef will have only a limited appeal.
There is no evidence that the treatment
improves the product, and the large-scale
importation of meat so treated would
involve considerable expenditure in modi-
fying marine transport, storage and dis-
tribution facilities.
Meat starts to freeze at a little below
the freezing point of water, and if a long
time is spent in reducing it to a tempera-
ture from 30 deg. F. to 25 deg. (generally
accepted as the zone of maximum ice
formation), the ice crystals are large,
causing damage to the fibre. Quarters
of beef could not be frozen very quickly,
which is why lamb is more suitable ; on
defrosting it gives a more satisfactory
product. Sharp freezing has been defined
as the rate at which meat passes through
the zone of maximum ice formation ; the
freezing rate or measurement of time of
penetration; or the size of ice crystals
in the finished product as indicating the
time taken to quick-freeze.
Roadside Erosion.
“Run-off”: Shire councils and main
roads departments, upon whom falls the
task of highway and country road con-
struction and maintenance, are faced
with the task of constructing roads,
bridges, culverts, causeways and drop
structures to cope, not only with increas-
ing traffic, but with an increasing volume
of water and soil deposits from adjoin-
ing farm lands.
Factors influencing increasing roadside
gullying and silt deposition are many
and varied ; broadly speaking they are
the effect of land exploitation and road-
side diversion channels of inadequate
capacity. Many farming areas have been
cropped incessantly for upwards of 50
years. Soil fertility decreases with every
crop. Very little thought is given to re-
storing humus to the soil; a sane crop
rotation is either beyond the vision of
the average farmer or just does not fit
into his economic policy.
In north-west N.S.W. bare summer fal-
lows are subjected to storms where an
inch of rain may fall in 15 minutes. A
large percentage of this runs off as sur-
face water and carries with it hundreds
of tons of top soil. Often the roads have
to carry this extra burden of soil and
t
assistance being given gratis to the land-
holder, and, if necessary, suitable earth-
moving machinery loaned or hired at a
reasonable cost. Diversified rotational
farming and grazing methods, rodent
eradication and re-afforestation will be
the basis of the scheme. Coupled with
contour farming and a reversion to pasture
of all unstable cultivation lands, these
remedial measures should add years of
service to the roadways.
Dog v. Snake.
“Bill C.”: No dog should be en-
couraged to tackle snakes, because there
is always a snake that will prove too
smart for the dog. Snakes are particularly
aggressive during the mating season, just
before they go into hibernation. If a
dog that has been hunting through long
grass becomes suddenly dopey, lolling
around and refusing to recognise its
owners, suspect snake-bite. Search for
the punctures —dogs are usually bitten
around the neck, hips or on the tongue,
and make two incisions through them in
the form of an X. Get as much blood
out as possible, taking care that it does
not get into any cuts you may have on
your own body. Rub strong potassium
permanganate water into the incisions to
neutralise the poison, then keep the
animal warm and quiet. If it is in a
critical condition teaspoons of brandy
or whisky make a good stimulant.
Proteins.
“Myrrhee”: A common error
when feeding grain-meal in poultry
rations as a substitute for brand
and pollard is to increase the meat-
meal percentage by 1 p.c. or 2 p.c.
only, whereas 5 p.c, would be nearer
the mark. In the N.S.W. “Agri-
cultural Gazette” animal husbandry
officers point out that bran and
pollard contain about 15 p.c. crude
protein compared with about 10
p.c. in grains. Consequently if
1001 b. of bran and pollard are re-
placed by a similar quantity of
crushed grain the actual amount of
protein is reduced by 51b. or 33 p.c.
For fowls 8 Bib. of wheat-meal
and 121 b. of 50 p.c. crude protein
meat-meal, or 701 b. of wheat-meal
and 301 b. of linseed-meal, are
needed to supply the same amount
of protein as 1001 b. of bran and
pollard. Chicks,' however, can’t manage
more than 5 p.c. linseed-meal; for them
the balance of protein could be made up
with meat-meal.
Show Saddlery.
“Haute Ecole”; First thing is to tone
down the hideous new look of a saddle,
which, if a judge knows his job, should
never win in an equipment class. Look
carefully at most winners and note that
the saddlery is well worn and toned down
to a rich mahogany color. Most import-
ant are cleanliness and softness; which
can only be obtained by elbow grease
and the application of the right dressing,
To start, work in a coating of castor
oil, lightly swiped on with a small soft
cloth, taking care to spread evenly. Allow
to dry and apply dark-tan shoe cream.
Boot polish should never be used. Some
never use anything but saddle soap, and
those who do not care for a highly-
polished surface would do well to stick
to it.
Others don’t believe in putting much
water on bridle or saddle, but a good
lathering with saddle soap applied with
a soft nail brush removes dirt and grease,
and when well washed off gives a satis-
factory base upon which to apply the
cream. The underflaps must receive par-
ticular attention, as any equipment judge
looks closely at all parts he can get to.
Don’t have a mended strap ; have it taken
out and replaced with anew one, giving


Wanted.
Canadian mother and daughter, two children,
emigrating to Australia in July, require accom-
modation with farm people. Daughter experi-
enced in poultry and dairy-farming. Children
well behaved. Good home more important than
high wages. Please write air mail. (Mrs.)
KATE BAKER, Great Longstone, Derbyshire,
Nr. Bakewell, England.
0*
nr
£
ad
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONUY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
r Warning !
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation,
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7678.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
mm
■gas«
3»S5i:
Safe in his hands...
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique of thj A.M.L. & F. auctioneers Is un-
challenged, that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently ai A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
Australian, Mercantile, Land & F:
mance
Coy. Ltd,
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga, Moree, Henly and Hay.
‘yT
OnogaS
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyattogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere ,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.„ LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
If II l-
j
11l
fill!
ill
H «! |
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first'
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from’l3/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLESydney.
Telenhones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
ţ
Taming the turbulent Colorado River, the Boulder Dam has
formed a reservoir known as Lake Mead, which is the largest
artificial lake in the world. The Boulder Dam vtlas built at a
cost of 165,000,000 dollars, and supplies electric power through
high tension lines to cities as far distant as Los Angeles, 266
miles away.
■ &&
7*g<.
mi
mm
•m#
■■<&?
ii WwWMM
mi-.
Tl ! T r ‘l
fT'i
m
F E LTEX
PATENT NO. JOZ3OI/37
Science, research and industry have contributed much to the
convenience and comfort of every-day life. ■Feltex is a product
of all-Australian manufacture which brings the luxury and
beauty of modern wall-to-wall floor covering within the reach
of every home planner.
As the demand for Feltex is so great, it is regretted that
intending purchasers may have to wait for delivery of orders
placed with their furnishing store.
felt & textiles of Australia ltd., Manufacturers of Marbled, Plain and Patterned Feltex
F.44.Z4
it extra attention to tone it down to the
rest of the color.
The underside of the reins tends to be-
come rough after use, and if it does not
smooth down with repeated treatments of
cream rub it briskly with a smooth piece
of bone. This is a miracle worker with
roughened leather and can be applied
to top-boots; one application brings
almost anew surface. Stirrup leathers
can be rejuvenated by this method,
especially if they are inclined to scratch
the saddle-flaps. _
The extreme inside of the underflap
should" be cleaned regularly with saddle
soap and a light coating of Coachaline
applied with the hand, worked well in.
Wipe off the excess. It is mot necessarily
the most expensive saddle that gains most
points in a test of this kind, but the
quality of the leather, neat workmanship
and the way it fits upon the horse. No
matter how old most saddlery can be
turned out to conform with all require-
ments of an equipment, judge.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mr.”: Asa precaution against bloat
keep a check on what the animals eat. If
cattle haven’t been on clover, lucerne or
succulent wet pasture for a time they’ll
need to be gradually accustomed to them.
Lucerne, if fed wet or in a soft juicy
condition, may cause bloat, while leaves
of trees such as kurrajong and willow are
a danger, particularly if stock have access
to water soon after eating them. Raw
mangolds and potatoes fed raw and im-
properly crushed can also cause bloat by
sticking in the gullet and imprisoning
gases which otherwise would have
escaped through the mouth. Best pre-
caution is to give cattle a good feed of
dry roughage before turning them on to
a succulent pasturage.
“Curlew”: Some time ago a cow of
mine showed a lump under the throat;
presumably actinomycosis or lumpy jaw.
I dosed her twice a day with barely a
level teaspoon of iodide of potash for
about 10 days—until there was noticeable
scurfiness of the skin then dis-
continued the dose for over a week.
I dosed again for another week. This
stopped development of the lump, which
was opened and washed with strong per-
manganate of potash. In a short time
everything was right and one could not
detect the position the lump occupied.
There was no trouble with further cases.
“Courtcreek”: I don’t object to trees
growing by my fences and hanging over
them, but those who do reckon every
wind drops branches on the fences and
allows stock to stray. It’s a fact that .
brambles, fallen branches and bark from
the trees causes a fierce fire around the
fences during burning-off operations, or
when a grass fire comes along, whereupon
posts are burned and wires damaged by
the heat. Still, I believe in keeping fires
away from fences,
“Jimmy Long”: Keep the fowl runs
free from broken glass, which causes
serious injuries to the feet and, if picked
up in the food, cuts the internal organs
and brings on death,
“Jacob”: Use old typewriter ribbons
de U p plants in the garden. The spool
can be p Ut j n y our pocket, and it is a
s i m pi e matter to pull out and tear off the
required length. They are particularly
good for tomatoes where something is re-
quired that win not bruis6 soft st£ms .
[iT , r „ . , .
, W. Court : Maize does all right in
dle same paddocks with pumpkins and
stated vine crops. The vines benefit
from the shade cast b Y the maize should
the weather be hot. We never sow water-
melon seed without broadcasting some
seed-corn in the inter-hill spaces. In the
S.Q. d airymg districts there is a growing
tendency to sow some seed-corn with
cowpea seed when they want an ensilage
crop. The resulting silage (cowpea vines
™ st be sprinkled with molasses before
being pitted) contains nearly all the
nu t ntive elements dairy-cattle need to
keep them in good health,
“West”: A bucket handle that will not
cut the hands may be made of a Tin.
length of broom-stick and a 20in. length
of soft lOg. wire. Bore two holes through
the broom-stick, each an inch from the
end - Bend the wire into the ordinary
handle shape and thread on the bored
piece of wood. Fasten to the bucket in
the usual manner.
“Sundowner”: Winter sprays of tar
distillate (1 in 50) are effective against
the black cherry aphis, but not against
the black peach aphis, which damages
peach-, nectarine- aqd plum-trees. This
pest lives on the roots of fruit-trees, and
during the late winter ascends the trunks
and quickly multiplies when new growth
begins in spring. For control, a barrier
in the form of one of the tanglefoot sub-
stances smeared on a piece of brown
paper and attached to the trunk will
prove effective. A mixture may be made
from four parts of castor oil with nine
parts of resin, heating without boiling.
Otherwise a careful watch should be kept
for the ascent -of the insects, and sprays
of nicotine sulphate, one pint in 80 gal-
lons water, plus either 21b. of soft soap
or a gallon of white oil emulsion, should
be applied as soon as the aphis appear
on the upper parts of the tree.


to adjust things, and she ran breathless
down to the beach for her swim. There’d
just be time before Mrs. Rooker began
to look for her to get lunch.
“A nice thing! I saw it all, Henry,”
said Mrs. Rooker, pushing stockily
through the bushes. “I just thought I’d
come and see where that hen was
screeching. You ought to be ashamed.
And don’t you know the girl’s only fif-
teen? Fine doings. Look at your old
wig!”
“Ho! ” said Mr. Rooker, “do you think
I never kissed a girl before? I cuddled
a few before your time, old girl.”
Mrs. Rooker took another disgusted
glance at the smashed rotten eggs and
marched back to the house, Mr. Rooker
followed a little later.
LUNCH was a rather quiet, even grim
meal. But afterwards Rosie sang
like a lark over the dish washing, and in
the bathroom where she was supposed to
be cleaning the bath she screwed up her
face at herself in the uneven mirror with
lots of satisfaction.
But whenever Mrs. Rooker caught
sight of Rosie her sour looks spoilt some
of. the girl’s confidence.
Later Mrs. R. gave her notice. There
really wasn’t anything for her to do.
She’d better go where she could be some
use to someone.
Rosie went home. Mrs. Rooker killed
the old black hen. But it was tough and
what they ate of it only gave them in-
digestion.
Soon the gossips of Polbay had some
good ones. “Well, didn’t you always
know it was a wig?” they said to one
another. Other .stories went the rounds
about some of old Rookie’s doings, too.
Mr, Rooker caught the gist of these
yarns that echoed about always just be-
hind his back.
After Sunday morning service he took
the chance to say to the vicar, “That’s
what’s wrong with the world —young folk
nowadays don’t respect their elders. Not
a whit of respect. Cheek you to your
face. And do you think they’ll do what
you tell them any' more?”
“Yes, ah, yes,” said the vicar. “Yes,
yes.”
But the vicar wondered if you could
believe what you heard. Those sewing-
circle ladies. Of course, he reflected,
sadly pleased with his worldliness, you
can’t believe anything you hear these
days.
Anyway he was too busy getting Rosie
another job to worry. He had to see
the. girl provided with decent work. In
the end Mrs.. Hutten promised to get
Rosie over to help when her new baby
came. Shouldn’t be more than a week
or two.
Meanwhile Rosie, at home, made use
of her spare time to get ready for con-
firmation, She wanted to have some-
thing really nice in the way of dresses.
Her mother tried to be sympathetic and
helped awkwardly with the sewing, which
Rosie couldn’t keep the kids from maul-
ing ; but her old man lay on the sofa
and guffawed at the whole business.
“Better cover y’rself in a veil and be
a nun right out,” he said. “And anyway
you need godparents. You ain’t got any
godparents,” he chaffed her.
“WhatTe they?” asked Mrs. Wilkie.
“Oh, they sort of say how they brought
you up Christian like,” Rosie told her.
“You better get old Rookie for your
godparent,” said her old man with a leer.
“Oh, I will, too,” said Rosie, suddenly
pleased with the idea. “Poor old boy.
It’ll please him. He doesn’t get much
of a life.”
You could have knocked Mr. Rooker
flat with a feather when the vicar asked
him if he would take the part of Rosie’s
godfather. Mrs. R. turned grim and
silent. The vicar worked hard to smooth
things over.
“You know there’s no one in the
parish who can carry off a situation like
Mr. Rooker. I rely a great deal on him.”
“All right, I’ll see the girl through
with it,” Mr. Rooker told the vicar at
last.
It seemed no time to Rosie before the
day of the confirmation service. At the
church Rosie looked almost the most
charming of the girl candidates, although
it was hard to pick, the girls were all
in such stately white dresses. Behind
them the boys looked severe and un-
comfortable in sober dark suits.
EVERYONE agreed it was a lovely
day. But there was a bit of a
hitch at the last moment since Miss Migg
couldn’t turn up because of the summer-
sickness, and Mrs. Rooker was asked
to take the organ. That caused a nasty
delay. The Bishop kept peering over his
glasses trying to discover what it was all
about, and looking annoyed because he
couldn’t.
The vicar and Mrs. R. whispered to-
gether in a corner. Mr. R. hovered
around straining his ears and
his hat. At last Mrs. Rooker took the
organ—only for the good name of the
church, mind, you.
It was too much to expect Mrs. Rooker
to cast even one sour look in Rosie’s
direction, though you could see her
squizzing in the organ mirror. Not that
Rosie noticed or cared, Rosie stood tall
and shy and reverent and blooming be-
fore the Bishop.
She was inwardly bubbling with a
new kind of excitement. Before the
•altar in your lovely white sateen gown
with the Bishop in his vestments putting
his hands on your head, with the sad
organ music and the solemn prayers, it
was almost like a wedding. Anyway it
reminded a girl of all sorts of new im-
portant events her first communion,
growing up, getting married.
When they sang the hymn Rosie lifted
up her voice like a bird.
As the Bishop’s deep voice intoned,
“Our help is in the Name of the Lord,”
how pleasant the voices of the boys and
girls sounded: “Who made both heaven
and earth.”
“Blessed be the Name of the Lord.”
“Henceforth, world without end,”
chanted the young voices.
Rosie knelt before the Bishop. “De-
fend, O Lord, this thy Child...”
Mr. Rooker found that being a god-
father wasn’t so bad after all. He had
to admit that Rosie looked pretty good.
He felt proud of her. In his Sunday
suit he looked quite a, handsome old dog
himself. Mrs, Robbingham whispered to
old Mr. Jobe, “Perhaps it is his own.
Perhaps he don’t wear false at all.”
But Mr. Rooker couldn’t help noticing
Charlie Bent’s young boy, Alf, how he
had his eye on Rosie all right. And
when he caught Mr. Rooker’s gaze there
was a look on his face that Mr. R.
couldn’t mistake. He wasn’t as dumb
as that. Well, it made everything more
or less settled.
THAT night Mr. Rooker insisted on
having Rosie in. Young Alf, who
lived out that way, dropped in too, quite
by chance. Mr. Rooker brought out a
bottle of wine.
“Where did you get that?” snapped
Mrs. Rooker. “It isn’t Christmas, is it?”
“It’s for occasions like this, isn’t it?”
said Mr. Rooker. “This is an occasion
—look at Rosie here”
They sat in the kitchen, not in the
stiff, stuffy front room. In the homely
kitchen with the old black kettle singing
on the hob, the wine and the glasses and
a plate of fruit-cake on the plain solid
kitchen table the kitchen with the
smoke-blackened ceiling and the scrubbed
floor, the brass lamp, and the dog-eared
calendar’s gaudy picture of the English
hunting scene.
Alf sat stiff and tongue-tied, but now
and then broke out into a huge grin.
Old Rooker pushed back his chair
comfortably. He nodded knowingly and
smiled and winked at Rosie over his wine.
Now he could be free and easy.
“Got a kiss for an old man, Rosie?”
he said. And Rosie let him kiss her
cheek.
“Come on, drink up, Alf,” Mr. Rooker
said. The two men soon finished the
bottle.
Only Mrs. Rooker didn’t sit with them.
She rustled about restless and haughty.
“You old fool,” she said, “that wine
will bring on your rheumatism. No, I
won’t have any. I’ll get my own cup of
tea, thank you.”
After a while she went into the front
room, where her movements sounded
hushed and lonely.
At ten o’clock Mr. Rooker said, “See
Rosie home safe, Alf.”
He walked with them to the front
gate. “Good-night, Alf, good-night,
Rosie.”
“Good-night, Mr. Rooker.”
He turned back to the house. There
was still a light in the front room. He
looked up at the stars and saw that there
was a bit of cloud drift. He noted the
way the breeze blew from the nor’-east.
He wouldn’t be surprised if there was
some rain with the new paoon.
A MIXED GRILL.
Two champions of John Knox In
Maoriland have received Scottish recog-
nition. Professor S. F. Hunter, retired
Principal of Knox College, has had con-
ferred on him by Glasca’ University an
honorary Doctorate of Divinity. His suc-
cessor at Knox, Prof. J. A. Allan, will
receive the degree of honorary Doctor of
Divinity on July 4 from Edinburgh Uni.
Otago’s centenary, which also connotes
the centenary of Presbyterianism in MX.,
accounts for the honors conferred.
JP * * v
“St. Clair”: A radio announcement
urged me to “Call at the Polka-Dot Coffee
Lounge. Enjoy the Continental atmos-
phere ! Male waiters in Continental dress
to wait upon you! ” Later in the week a
friend and I obeyed the call. Sure
enough, the waiters were attired in Con-
tinental fashion, and we were ushered to
our seats by one such obsequious person.
While waiting for our orders he whistled
some tune through his teeth, jigging in
time to the tune. Presently, one of his
fellow-waiters poked his head through
the servery window and yelled—yes, I
mean yelled! —“Hey, Smuggy! Kim
’ere!” Our waiter stopped his whistling
only to shout back “Okay, mate, hang
on a jiff—l’m waitin’.” Exit, for us, the
Continental atmosphere.
“Dutigalla”: Melbourne Registrar-
General’s office still subscribes to the
idea that a public-servant is a servant
of the public; letters issuing from that
office conclude with the words “I have
the honor to be, Sir, Your obedient ser-
vant” or “Yours obediently.” Nothing so
respectful comes from Commonwealth
offices. Indeed, the time is fast approach-
ing when the citizen will hive to sign his
letters to the Federal bureaucrat “Your
obedient servant” or “Yours in suppli-
cation.”
* * * *
New Deputy-director of Post-War Re-
construction in Perth is Kalgoorlie-born
Keith William Growcott, who served in
the Government Stores and the Chief
Secretary’s office before going to the
Middle East with 2/7 Field Artillery.
After his discharge from the A.1.F.,
Growcott spent some time in the Com-
monwealth Statistician’s office at Can-
berra and about two years ago was trans-
ferred to Perth as chief assistant to R,
A. Wood, whom he now succeeds. Wood,
who has been on loan from the State
Arbitration Court, returns as Industrial
Registrar.
* * * *
“Stone”: Anyone know why Henry
Kendall, generally considered a gentle,
mild lyrist, wrote and almost suc-
ceeded in publishing “The Song of Ninian
Melville”? It would be interesting to
know whether this vitriolic set of
verses was prompted by some personal
disagreement between Kendall and Mel-
ville, who had just been returned as
M.L.A. for Northumberland. Copies of
Kendall’s Songs of the Mountains { 1880)
containing the poem were hastily re-
called by the publisher, W. Maddock,
and “Christmas Creek” was substituted.
The Bulletin (5/1/1881) noted that
“the objectionable poem has been elimi-
nated for one of even greater merit.”
Maddock’s qualms about Melville’s atti-
tude were apparently groundless, as the
poem was published in pamphlet form in
1885 by Whitely and there appears to be
no record of any action taken by the
victim. Certain it is, however, that “The
Song of Ninian Melville” would occupy
first place in any Australian anthology of
satire.
* Jfc * *
Thirteen can’t be suich an unlucky
number. It is the phone number of the
Melbourne Morgue and has been the
official phone address for the past 50
years of Dr. Crawford Henry Mollison,
just retired from the job of Government
Pathologist and, at 84, still interested in
living. He became assistant pathologist in
1892 and has since given scientific evi-
dence at hundreds of inquests and in
many famous cases. Half a century of
the grisly business hasn’t soured an ami-
able nature. A leading authority on
pathology he is the author of a standard
textbook on the subject.
* * * *
“Re”: Rationing and commodity
shortages upset the junior social scale in
our suburb. "The butcher was a man
to be pandered to, so his son became the
leader of the “push.” The milkman’s,
tobacconist’s and • grocer’s heirs • rose
rapidly to the limelight. Their word be-
came law in all games. They led the
gang on orchard raids and other forag-
ing expeditions. Their edicts and author-
ity were supreme, and woe betide the
family larders of those foolish enough to
object. But now things seem to be
getting back to normal. Yesterday
afternoon I saw the butcher’s hopeful
trudging disconsolately homewards, bawl-
ing his eyes out, with blood streaming
from his nose and the beginnings of a
beautiful “shiner,”
“Lackspear”: The recent accidental dis-
covery near Mintignac in France of an-
other cave covered with prehistoric paint-
ings like the famous one at Altamira has
a peculiar interest for Australians. It was
Percy Leason who blew the gaff on the
Altamira drawings. All the savants had
hitherto agreed that the extraordinary
livingness of the animals painted in-
dicated that primitive man had an eye so
much more keen than modern man that
it had been able-to detect movement un-
perceived by any later artist. To Leason
the animals were mostly dead ’uns thrown
down by returning hunters in front of
the cave, which was half-way up a cliff,
and sketched by the primeval artist look-
ing down from the cave mouth. -To
prove this thesis he haunted abattoirs and
on one occasion organised a shooting
party in Gippsland, of which I was a
member, which succeeded in bringing
down a handsome deer. Leason then
climbed a tree and photographed the dead
creature ; the resultant print looked amaz-
ingly like Altamira paintings. Leason
has since published his findings in
America and they are generally accepted.
A report of the new discovery says that
“a peculiar point about the pictures is a
curious rigidity in their attitudes,” which
tends to confirm Leason’s theory.
* * * *
“F.A.S.”: Surely the savant who de-
clared punning to be the lowest form of
wit would change his opinion had he to
listen to the elementary efforts of the
present age. Such phrases as “wouldn’t
it?” “you’re telling me” and “I’ll say,”
now used with such maddening reitera-
tion, may have sounded a trifle intriguing
when first heard. It is the fashion nowa-
days to ridicule Victorian archness, but
could it have been any more irritating
than the air of knowing superiority with
which modern youth brings out “I’ll
say”?
* * * *
“Clooter”: Of an evening hundreds of
home-going workers of all kinds join
me at a tram-stop at the foot Of a
hill. The other evening the crowd was
larger than usual and there wasn’t a
tram in sight. Presently came one who
said, “There’s a breakdown up the line.
Be an hour before any trams come.
Better start walking.” There Was a
stricken silence; some began to drift
away; others hung about uncertainly;
there was some grumbling. Then up
spake an insignificant little bloke hugging
a large parcel: “Well, what’re you going
to do? Take it as you’ve been taking it for
years, I suppose! Look, why don’t we
all sit down here, right across the road,
and have a strike or something. We’re
all getting another push around like
they’re always pushing us around. Gov-
ernment transport for you— that’s what
it is. Strike me, how long do you think
you’d have to wait if it was a private com-
pany running the trams? Not more’n 10
minutes. They’d have buses or lorries
or something here as soon as the break-
down happened. But not these ruddy
Government blokes. What do they care
if you wait all night? Not a ruddy bit.
They just laugh at your growling and
grumbling. You gimme a pain. Three
or four hundred people left stranded and
you don’t do a thing about it —just stand
round blinking lilce a lot o’ sheep. Bah! ”
He pulled his hat over his eyes and leaned
against a wall, isolated, bitter, alone with
his iconoclastic thoughts while the sheep
—sorry, the people—began their silent
trudge up the hill.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melbourne, in emulation
of Sydney and Brisbane, is considering
a proposal for a full-time State orchestra,
to be subsidised by the Government,
A.B.C. and the City Council. What Mel-
bourne stands in most need of is not more
concerts —there are oodles of them, al-
most every night and a couple a day at
every lunchtime —but a decent hall for
orchestras to play in. The Town Hall is
unsuitable for acoustic reasons, and be-
cause it has to have bunches of noisy
chairs that can be shifted every time
the Lud Mayor gives a ball or the chry-
santhemum growers want to show their
floral carriage-mops. The right atmos-
phere for music is a hall designed to
serve it which ought to be at least as
gracious in appearance as a cathedral.
Any attempt to build such a building at
present would be greeted with a howl
from the homeless thousands living in
stables, cowsheds and discarded tram-
cars, but why can’t the music-lovers build
their own accommodation? There are
tens of thousands of them, and if they
sacrificed a few Saturday afternoons and
Sundays they could put up a majestic hall
in a few months of week-ends under the
supervision of a competent architect and
men skilled in construction. But I sup-
pose the idea would sound fantastic to
trade-union officials, who see in a State
orchestra an opportunity for higher
wages and shorter hours for violinists and
oboe-players.


Renowned
as a
healthful
stimulant
DHKS lift SECRET!
OF
ALL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
//vymm
insulation with
ŧ
1
S 5
8
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Most women use up one hour a day doing
their hair and applying cosmetics.”
— “Telegraph.
Making up for lost time.
•P *P *i* •J*.
“Appropriate photos of Jane in her almost
frontless gowns made her a star.” — “Woman.”
And attracted many stargazers.
4* 4* -P .
“The human body contains quite a collection
of minerals.” — “World’s News.”
Yet most of us never seem to have
much tin.
•P *p *P *P
“There would be fewer divorces if people
married their opposites.” —“New Idea.”
They would be more likely to agree
to disagree.
•F 4* 4*, 4*
“Imagine winning 60,000 quid! Why, you
could even buy asparagus with that!”
—Sydney “Sun.”
And give tips galore.
•P *P *P 4*
“Oliver Twist, our black and tan kelpie, was
walking along the fence, pressed tight against
it and blissfully rubbing his itchy hide against
the corrugated iron.” —“New Idea.”
Upon reaching the end he’d come
back for more.
These days children are given too much
money.” —"New Idea.”
And you can notice the change in
them.
4* 4*
“Women believe they should be offered a seat
as soon as they board a crowded tram or bus.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Nevertheless, they have to stand for a
lot of discourtesy.
“The Human Skeleton, the Fattest Lady on
Earth, the Pinheaded Chinaman and others
seen at the Royal Show had for six years been
enjoying holidays on the North _
The Two-Faced Canberra Wonders
have preferred a 14-room “cottage” at
Jervis Bay.
•P »P 4* 4*
“Typewriter wanted by ex-service writer ip
working order.” —Suburban paper.
Settled down to civvie life again, eh?
Porpriety.
“A diinment of French swimsuits has been
dispttch h ed P Tom Australia, for distribution in
the N.E.1., including Bali.
—‘‘Sunday Telegraph, Sydney.
Ours is the task, with kindly hand,
To civilise the savage, and
His primal nakedness to hide;
Well, here at least we can provide
A Style that in its simple crudity
Is near enough to heathen nudity.
But if the comely Balinese
Adopted garments such as these,
The chaps who struggle to beguile
The tourist traffic to their isle
Would ask inspectors to arrest
The girls for being overdressed.
P. M. LUSK.
Having His Say.
“Has a man no say in his own home?”
—‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
Yes —though he cannot hope to break
The habit of his slavery
Or tower in his wrath to make
A verbal show of bravery,
i He still may say for all to hear
Each time he’s henpecked — “ Yes,
m’dear!”
D. H. E.
Bad Medicine.
“Whisky is no longer to be listed m the
United States Pharmacopoeia.”
—Christian Science Monitor,”
If once again there’s prohibition
A man can’t plead his sick condition
Or tell the missus, as of old,
That only whisky cures a cold.
In fact our brief declining years
Will be bereft of joy, one fears,
Unless our interests are watched
And sinful heresy is scotched.
BERT.
Into Battle.
The McGirr, back from his Great
Triumphal Election Tour, cast himself de-
jectedly in his chair. When the first of
the l;our Cahills asked him what the
party’s chances of holding country seats
were a sickly grin flashed across Jimmy’s
face and vanished.
“Never brighter!” he said in a lugu-
brious voice as he stared into space.
“Did you tell them what a magnificent
job I’m making of the Housing Depart-
ment?” asked Clive modestly. “You
know, next year we expect to put up 120
houses, including converted garages, barns
and Army huts, one-room shacks and
lean-tos—that’s if Thornton, Williams
and Bulmer don’t order us to stop. But
perhaps you’d better not mention that in
your final appeal to the electors in view
of your promise to build ninety thousand
houses in three years.”
“We oughtn’t to have let Treatt beat us
to the attack on the liquor interest,” put
in the One-man Brains Trust from the
coalfields brightly. “It’s always a winner,
especially as they tell me you still can’t
get bottled beer except out the back door
at night for four bob a bottle.”
“Hasn’t anyone told you the Facts of
Life yet, Jack?” growled the Paddington
Paragon. “Whadda y’ think Billy put
that bill through for before Ben made
him the vice-king?”
“The publicans,” said Jimmy hotly,
springing naturally to the defence of the
Trade, “are doing a great job for the
party. Why, in Queensland they’re pull-
ing down the Opposition posters from
their verandahs. We can point with
pride,” he went on in ringing topes, “to
the fact that under Labor the pint beer
handle, which was a symbol of the capi-
talistic exploiter, has disappeared. I’m
sure no worker would want to go back
to the bad old days when he had a pint
thrust on him for sixpence in a bar in
which he couldn’t enjoy a scrum.
“Quite right, Jimmy,” , said Joe en-
thusiastically, “but p’raps it’d be as well
to wait till next Saturday night at five-
past eight before you voice them senti-
ments publicly.”
The One-man Brains Trust had another
bright thought. “Did you think, Jim, to
tell the wheat cockies what a wonderful
job the party’s done to get them such a
good price for their produce? Five and
nine a bushel for the eighteen millions
to go to New Zealand when the export
price is sixteen bob?”
The McGirr made a strangling sort of
noise in his throat. After they’d loosened
his collar and he’d partly recovered,
Clive asked mildly “Are you kidding,
Jack?” “I never kid,” retorted the One-
man Brains Trust. “I leave kidding to
you.”
“Break it down, break it down!” said
the Paddington Paragon in despair. “But
if you’d only blow your whistle every
“ Incorrect; nuzzer quid for the
jackpot."
now and then, Jack, to let us know you
are in a heavy fog” r
“If anyone wins the election for the
party it’ll be me for bringing cheap fish
to the people. Why, you can buy snapper
fillets anywhere for four bob a pound
since I reorganised the industry.
If you don’t believe me, ask Tom Murray
and young Beale.”
“It’s my policy of less work and less
production for more pay and more time
for the races and pubs,” interrupted the
McGirr, “that’ll fetch the votes rolling
in. At one very successful meeting up in
the north-west when I propounded this
there was not one dissentient voice raised,
and it wasn’t an industrial town, either.”
“Didn’t your audience question how
you can have Prosperity for All when
there wouldn’t be enough goods produced
to go round?” wondered Clive,
“No,” said Jimmy firmly. “Perhaps,
though,” he added as an afterthought,
“it was because he’d brought his portable
wireless to the hall and was listening to
the wrestling.”
“Clive,” said the Paddington Paragon
earnestly, “ you’d know. Hasn’t Bert
got an important conference about
whether the wharfies propose to recog-
nise the United States Government if they
censure Henry Wallace? I’m sure he’ll
want Arthur and Eddie back in Canberra
urgently, or, better still, Darwin, if he
holds the conference there. Arthur’s been
yapping in Abie’s electorate, and you
know that’s the New Jerusalem. After
all, Bondi’s not so far from Paddington,
and the reffos are bad enough out our
way as it is. From the backwash of dirty
water I’m getting you’d think they’d
given all the arrivals on the Misr a com-
pulsory bath”
“It’s too late now, Maurie —you’ll have
to take a chance,” said Jimmy. “But
you’ll be all right. We’ve gagged the
news about the forty per cent, increase
in tram, ’bus and train fares until after
Saturday. Just as a gesture, perhaps,
Maurie,” he went on thoughtfully, “you
might augment the service on Friday
afternoon by putting those old jumping-
jack trams on through your electorate,
and if too many conductors fall off the
footboard it’ll be just too bad.”
“Perhaps they’d be better on the Bel-
levue Hill-Bondi run,” replied the
Minister for Transports of Mirth hastily.
“I hope, Jimmy,” put in the One-man
Brains Trust helpfully, “that you didn’t
let the country electors forget that it was
‘Labor’ who appointed the most popular
Governor-General this country ever”
“Will someone shut him up?” shrieked
Joe despairingly.
When the recriminations among the
Happy Family had died down the Mc-
Girr, wearing that same look of uncon-
cern that a neurotic might wear while
whistling his way through a lonely
cemetery on a pitch-black night, summed
up.
“Well, boys,” he said. “There’s going
to be a tremendous swing against the
Ops. here and in Queensland. The S.A.
and W.A. elections don’t meap a thing.
When we get back with a bigger majority
than ever,” he went on, warming to his
subject, “we’ll restore home deliveries for
the housewife, build thousands of schools,
colleges and hospitals, modernise Sydney’s
transport system, cut down Government
expenditure, see that everyone who needs
a home gets one, put the Commos in their
place and”
Clive looked at his leader anxiously.
“The tour’s been too much for you,
Jimmy, you want a long rest,” he §aid.
“You don’t need to say all that bunk
here.”
The Premier looked around dazedly as
one who has just come out of a trance.
Then he shook his head.
“It’s all right, boys, forget it,” he said.
“But I’ve been saying these things so
often lately that I was almost getting to
the stage when I was believing ’em my-
self!”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; ail others 2|d. per line.
Three in a Room
When I became a fully-fledged and
enthusiastic member of the Army Edu-
cation Service in 1943 I commenced lec-
turing to the men on all kinds of topical
subjects, but particularly on housing and
the post-war world. Fortified with litera-
ture from Government, semi-Govern-
ment and private sources, 1 described
an Australia wherein every man who
desired the responsibility could have not
only his own home, but also the kind of
home he wanted. At the end of every
one of the hundreds of lectures I gave on
the subject I could see that my audience
had caught more than a little of my faith
and enthusiasm. Men planned and
dreamed, as I did myself, right up to the
time when' they stood outside the Show-
ground with a discharge certificate in
their hands.
Some of my audiences must wish they
could catch up with me now, but they
may not feel so vindictive if 1 recount
my own experiences.
I came back from Borneo to take up
life where I had left it in 1940
and my wife and I decided to
build the home we had been dream-
ing about for so many years. The
details of our struggles from then on
are painful—suffice it that we refused to
pay up to £2OOO for a fibro house with
green timber framework, or the even
more fabulous sums asked for brick
houses in the metropolitan area. We
decided that a country town would be
more suitable for us, and off to the
■country we wfent.
We have bpen here three months now,
living, witn the baby, in a hotel bed-
room. We cannot rent a flat or a cottage
unless we are prepared to pay exactly
half my weekly wage for a “furnished”
flat.
Seven weeks ago we decided to buy a
home. We announced far and wide that
we were in the market for a house cost-
ing up to £l4OO. We found one, in ex-
cellent condition, and a bargain at the
“legal” price (though double its pre-war
price), and with which we could get
vacant possession. There was a mere
£l5O or so “extra” to pay, but, faced
with the alternative of living in a
hotel bedroom with a baby (whose diges-
tion is being ruined by inferior food, and
whose character is being spoiled by over-
indulgence on the parents’ part to stop it
from crying and annoying the other
“guests”), there was nothing to do but
pay. Everybody does —that’s the trouble.
We are still in the hotel bedroom.
Somebody reverently referred to in this
town as “the Treasurer” has not yet seen
fit to approve of the sale. When I sug-
gested to the agent that a letter should
be sent to this august personage, explain-
ing that because of the delay three people
were enduring real hardship, he was
horrified and begged me not to do such
a thing.
The present owners of the house are
still in possession, nor will they get out
until the sale is passed. They have heard
too many stories of people taking posses-
sion of a house on the pretext of buying
it, and then staying in and paying rent
only. Our furniture, for which we were
slugged £35 for cartage from Sydney, is
in store here, and we must somehow find
the weekly storage charge.
Is it any wonder that my wife and I
sit in the dark (we can’t have the light on
for fear of waking the baby) talking in
faint whispers about our chances of find-
ing a remote island free from the bless-
ings of price controllers, commissions, de-
partments of this and that, and all the
ther things which go to make this Aus-
tralia the Utopia Mr. Chifley proclaimed
it last year?— Nexa (N.S.W.).
Not a “Labor” Electorate
How does the N.S.W. Housing Com-
mission decide on the number of homes
it will build in country towns? Werris
Creek, Aberdeen, Canowindra, Gunnedah
and other places in N. S. Wales have had
up to 20 homes built by the Commission
since the war ended. They are small
towns with small populations. Yet Tam-
worth, with its population between 13,000
and 15,000, has not yet received a single
house, and there is no sign of the Com-
mission building on laqd which it bought
in East Tamworth,
The Housing Commission may have
done a good job of work in the city, but
don’t tell that to hundreds of house-
hungry Tamworth people who are living
in flats and boarding houses or the con-
verted Army huts at Manilla-road Camp.
—M. N. (N.S.W.).
Housing in M.L.
“E.M.D.” (B. 9/4/’47) “presumes” that
house-building by the State is profitable.
He is wrong, of course —the loss is made
up by the taxpayer. But, if we assume
that the State can build houses more
cheaply than private builders, we are
faced with the fact that State competi-
tion is driving private home builders and
contractors from the field, thus accentu-
ating the housing shortage.
If any Government offers John Doe a
very desirable residence at a cut price
he will buy it rather than build one for
himself at a higher price. If the cut
price leaves no margin of proifit for
private contractors they will cease to com-
pete and invest their money elsewhere
and otherwise. For every State-
subsidised bargain house built a dozen
commercially practical houses will remain
unbuilt.
“E.M.D.” says that “no Government
is a benevolent society.” Does he think
that private builders are any more chari-
tably inclined?
Apples and pears, cabbages and
potatoes, ships and houses are all under
the same economic law. Under certain
circumstances they disappear from the
market, and there is no more certain way
of making them vanish than putting them
under the “control” of inexperienced
idealists whose pockets are not held re-
sponsible for the losses incurred or the
shortages suffered. — Archie (S.A.).
A Chance to Advertise
If a “National Quiz” is to become a
permanent feature in the advertising of
Commonwealth Loans it would be a
good idea if it were used to • advertise
Australia. For, although in the latest
contest just about every overseas encyclo-
paedia and dictionary was explored for
questions to confound contestants, only a
few of over 200' questions referred to
Australia.
Australia does need advertising, parti-
cularly to its own inhabitants —it is
doubtful if there is any national more
alien to his own land than the average
Australian. Can anyone imagine the
U.S.A. running a national quiz without
at least 85 per cent, of the questions being
concerned with America?
Since Australia is almost equal in area
to continental U.S.A., since it possesses
a unique flora and fauna, has been
settled nearly 160 years and was known
geographically several centuries earlier,
surely a few worth-while questions
could be found. —W. C. (W.A.).
Taxation
“C.B.M.’s” observations on tax evasion
(B. 2/4/’47) are keenly analytical and
true enough, but he has overlooked the
inherent weakness of any taxation system
—the trust which must be placed in the
bulk of taxpayers.
The defect is centuries old. During the
years 1377 and 1379 poll taxes were
imposed in England, which, in the major-
ity of cases, did not exceed one groat
(ab,out 4d.) per head. In 1381 the tax
was increased to three groats (about the
equivalent of a week’s wages) for every
person over 15 years of age. The effect
was so drastic that many families took
refuge in fraud and gave false returns.
Unfortunately for them a comparison be-
tween those who contributed poll tax in
1377 and 1381 was possible and, on the
discovery that more than one-third of
those who paid tax in 1377 evaded it in
1381, commissioners were appointed to
find and punish defaulters.
The lesson is that most people are law-
fearing and therefore law-abiding when
times are normal, and seriously falsified
returns are the exception rather than the
rule. But under economic pressure of
high taxation refuge will be sought in
fraud. As a counter, the authorities
have Section 167 of the Income Tax
Assessment Act, which provides that, if:
(a) any person makes default in furnish-
ing a return; or
(b) the Commissioner is not satisfied >vith
the return furnished by any person; or
(c) the Commissioner has reason to be-
lieve that any person who has not furnished
a return has derived taxable income,
the Commissioner may make an assessment of
the amount upon which in his judgment income
tax ought to be levied, and that amount shall
be the taxable income of' that person.
For this purpose use is generally made
of an accretion-of-assets basis plus esti-
mated cost of living, since any unrevealed
income must ultimately be reflected in
either or both of these two forms. The
weakness is that it would be practically
impossible to investigate all of those in-
dividuals who are in a position to prac-
tise fraud. And, among the smaller tax-
payers, additions to assets such as house-
hold furniture, and an increased standard
of living, would be impossible to detect
without voluntary disclosure.
High taxation has wrought a welhnigh
irreparable change for the worse in the
honesty of Australian taxpayers. Even
so tfye remedy does not seem to lie in
concessions to the employee or in the
encouragement of anonymous letters.
The solution is in vigorous and ryinbus
prosecution of taxpayers found guilty of
“ It's very fast off the mark —your wife will appreciate that in traffic."
fraud so that fear of the law will again
come to outweigh desire for economic
gain.— Taxaoent (Q.).
A Letter From Scotland
May I offer my thanks to the wonder-
ful response the people of Australia have
shown in the appeal for food parcels for
this country. The warmth of this response
should be an example to those with
heavily-laden tables in other countries in
parts of the world still untouched by the
horrors of modern war. The senders of
these parcels would be repaid if they
could witness the excitement the arrival
of a parcel causes. A tin of fat means
fried fish! The raisins! Honey! Jam!
And for the kiddies a jelly!
As a nation we may appear to have
many shortcomings which possibly puzzle
you people. Our strikes when we should
be pulling together are perhaps under-
standable when taken in their correct
perspective. The coalminer has a hard
life under normal conditions, but for
seven long weary years he has hewn coal
on little better than bread and cheese. The
factory-worker has worked long hours
under the strain of raids, rockets and
“doodlebugs.” Transport-workers, ship-
builders and steel-workers are all feeling
the strain of those years of blackouts and
the like. Consequently, relations between
owner and worker are not always happy.
But we are still going on and are not,
as some American newspapers think, on
the decline. We still have the technicians,
engineers and scientists who, given raw
materials and food, can carry us through.
But we will never forget how you rallied
round the" Old Country during and after
the war. — William McCail (Dundee,
Scotland).
4 ‘Where to Next?”
Long-range naval and air reconnais-
sance units must be an integral part of
any Australian defence scheme worthy
of the name. With a 12,000-mile coast-
line and a screen of mandated islands, an
effective allocation of land forces would
never be anything but a hazard without
up-to-date and reliable information. An
organisation along lines similar to the
U.S. Coastguard is sadly lacking in Aus-
tralia, whose very existence may once
more be decided in or over those island-
studded seas.
The long-accepted principles of war
will apply in the future as they did in
the past, and mobility may well be useless
without fast and accurate reconnaissance.
Co-operation between the services
must go beyond aerial target-towing over
Jervis Bay, and concentration of force
has a hollow sound to it when the vital
concentration points are diverse and
obscure. Too often during our “backs-
to-the-wall” days it was not so much of
“Too little too late” as “Too much at
the wrong time and
The need for coastal reconnaissance
was demonstrated only too recently when
two small craft no larger than ship’s
lifeboats arrived at Darvyin carrying
natives of the same ilk as our “Inder-
nesian comrades.” Unheralded and un-
noticed these small craft safely negotiated
the Arafura Sea, the moat girding our
White Australia. On both occasions
necessity took them to the arms of the
Customs authorities at Darwin. Had they
desired, what was there to prevent a
landing at some more remote section of
our vast and uninhabited north-west
coast? And for how many months, or
years, would, their presence have re-
mained unnoticed?
The “Leader” of the so-called United
States of Indonesia openly proclaims the
necessity for a mass movement of some
20,000,000 people from the main island,
Java, this time in the direction of Borneo
and the Celebes. A study of the phe-
nomenal increase in Java’s population
over the last 20 years urges the disquiet-
ing query “Where to Next?”
The R.S.L. could do worse than send
emblazoned copies of its motto to such
persons ineligible for membership as
Federal Ministers: “The price of Liberty
Is Eternal Vigilance.” — Van (N.S.W.).
High Cost of Justice
I have experienced some of the annoy-
ing and unprofitable delays mentioned by
“Le Clerc” (B. 9/4/’47), and I know that
legal men are not to blame for all of
them. Their elimination would help to
cheapen litigation, but that would not be
enough.
We boast that in our democratic
country justice is free for all. It certainly
is not free in the financial sense. Con-
sider the plight of the client with a good
case which can only be dealt with in the
Supreme Court. His solicitor estimates
that it will require, say, £3OO to “fight”
it. The client cannot raise that sum.
The solicitor refuses the case, and you
can’t blame him.
The client goes without redress, and in
many instances becomes embittered
against all concerned and our legal system
in particular. It doesn’t help him one
jot to know that the costs would be
“taxed,” that the scale of solicitors’ fees
has been increased but once in a long
time, that the trial would be expedited
and conducted on the highest ethical
plane. If he hasn’t got the cash he just
can’t play ; that is a very serious defect
in our social economy.
Solicitors whose clientele consists of
banks, big public companies and the like
don’t have to worry about financing liti-
gation, but they are few. The majority,
left with the Toms, Dicks and Harrys of
the community, are indeed lucky if they
happen upon an occasional client who
can afford costs on the basis of the old
1867 schedule without reaching out for
the extra percentage subsequently im-
posed. Solicitors practising in the cities
where there are Supreme Court Regis-
tries can do most of the work themselves,
but the country practitioner has to pro-
vide for his town agents’ charges as well
as counsel’s fees and other incidental
outlay. Financing an action is very often
a nightmare for him.
No, it all boils.down to this: Only the
man who has, or can raise, £2OO or more
can fembark upon litigation in our
Supreme Court, and whatever the cause
that should not be. —X. Leckes (Q.).
Paling Prices
I am building a paling fence. Al-
though the fixed price for palings is
£2 10s. a hundred, there is no stipula-
tion in the order as to the size of the
palings. Apparently the width can be
anything from two to eight inches, and
in the batch of 800 I bought there was
more two- and three-inch stuff than
anything else. Although that number of
palings should have been more than
enough, I am 100 or more short.
In pre-price-fixing days the standard
width for palings was four inches, and
you thus knew exactly what you needed.
Now it is guesswork. The Prices Com-
missioner should fix a price and a
standard paling or else leave the business
alone. — Simple Simon (N.S.W.).


Strikes
Every Russomaniac who has ever tried
to convert me has used the words “In
Russia, those who don’t work don’t eat.”
I wish they’d apply that rule here. In
view of the “no work, no tucker” dictum
of the beloved Soviets, even the most
rabid Red could riot logically oppose
the total stoppage of pay as soon as a
man went on strike?
If we could recapture those wonderful
days when the men we elected did the
actual governing of the country, the
valued “right to strike” might be with-
drawn. A strike is an act of aggression
against the community, and those who
suffer from it most are the people on
wages, and their families. Strikes should
be made illegal. They are unnecessary
and can gain nothing that arbitration
could not give, nor can they ?peed up the
Courts. That can be done by offering the
Government sufficient evidence to sup-
port a request for an increase in the
number of Courts and Judges.
A strike could be ended quickly by
making it impossible for those on strike
to get money—apart from their savings,
of course. Freezing the funds of the
striking union, and of any other union
found giving monetary support, would
mean that most of the men concerned
would be “broke” within a week. With
the bill at the grocer’s getting steadily
bigger, the family on short ratiens, and
no cash for fares, races or a pot, a
striker would be anxious to get back to
work on almost any conditions.
But, of course, if we had a Govern-
ment with the guts to go that far there
wouldn’t be strikes, because the
democratic secret ballot system would be
imposed upon unions, and their foreign
“leaders” would find their powers of
dictatorship vanished like last year’s Five
Year Plan. — Sarge (Vic.).
Industrial Stagnation
Of course there are experts in the civil
service who work for less than they could
get outside (B. 9/4/’47). That is only
another way of saying that private enter-
prise recognises ability more readily than
does the Government. Imagine Henry
Ford working for a bureau. Or try to
imagine a department developing the
motor trade as Henry Ford did.
Individual servants are not so much to
blame as the system. Neither red tape
qor the Government stroke was invented
in Australia, They hastened the down-
fall of the Roman Empire when it be-
came top-heavy and legislated for bread
and circuses instead of production.
Michelangelo was once a public
servant. He was ordered to produce a huge
statuary group, not in marble, but in iqe.
Many of our Government projects are
equally unprofitable. We don’t blame the
men who carry out the plans. Put them
on a commercial basis and they might
produce something of public use and
profit. '
Every citizen knows that Government
“works” are seldom successful and often
ruinously expensive. It will always be
that way while seniority counts before
efficiency, security before initiative, and
while losses can be passed on to the ac-
count of private enterprise.— Board
(S.A-).
Population
Get” (B. 5/2/’47) fails to realise one
essential fact—we have not the man-
power to build the new industries as fast
as wish. It isn’t a matter of “wider
vision”—our industrialists have the vision
and the practical plans, but everywhere
they are held up by labor shortages.
Get” says “To entice immigrants to
come to Australia is only tinkering with
the job of populating the continent.”
Every decent sort of immigrant will help
m some way. 'Hie decline in population
in country districts is not serious because,
with modern machinery, one man can
cultivate two or three times the land he
could have done in the old days with
horses. Consider the wheat one man
can take off with a harvester-header.
There is just as much wheat being grown
m most districts with fewer farmers, and
the others have been absorbed in the
equally-necessary secondary industries.
The complaint that “most new arrivals
simply settle in congested areas adding to
the existing confusion” is a weak one.
I remember the 1920’5, when we had a
fair stream of immigrants coming to Aus-
traha. The only thought in the mind of
our politicians was to settle them on the
land. It was a tragic mistake. The new
people were mostly fram the cities in
England. They were accustomed to
crowds, bright lights and large shopping
Psychologically they were un-
htted for the lonely life on the land, quite
apart from their lack of experience,
beventy-five per cent, would have been
happier and more valuable to Australia
it they had been absorbed into city in-
dustnes. They are turning grey now, and
have had a tough life because they were
good people who were unwisely guided.
If we must have more people on the
land Jet the Government encourage Aus-
tralians. We have some background of
the land and its problems, and know
something of the pitfalls to avoid. Gener-
ally, too, we have relatives or friends on
the land to whom we can turn for advice.
R. M. D. (8.C.0.F., Japan).
Rabbits
Whether rabbits are a boon or curse
has been threshed out too often to begin
again, but a farmer who keeps his country
free of the pests knows the answer when
his neighbor’s paddocks are rabbit-in-
fested. At much trouble and expense
I dug out a belt of rough hilly country,
cut and burned many acres of fern, and
spent weeks collecting the last bunny.
Now, rewarded with a good carpet of
grass, it takes me several hours a day
riding the boundary to fill in holes the
swarming hordes from without have dug
overnight, and to catch the strays as they
make back. If I miss out on doing this
it will mean cleaning up the whole rough
area again.
Rabbit inspectors? Sure. In the
course of their duty they duly notify the
offenders that on a specified date they
must poison certain paddocks the
official date usually falling after the first
autumn rains when a fresh shoot of feed
makes poisoning useless. However, to
satisfy some inspectors it is occasionally
nepessary,to run a furrow round a hillside
in semblance of a poison trail, and back
it with many assurances that the bunnies
will be trapped or dug out as soon as the
owner can get round to it. So, through
the year, the rabbits increase and grow
and the owner “gets round to it” by late
winter when skin prices are at their top.
Unfortunately, there is never time to
trap the lot, but authority is appeased,
and while the remaining bunnies ac-
cumulate again for the next season, I ride
miles of fence and curse the shortage of
labor, the shortage of material and the
high price of rabbitskins.—C. E. (Vic.).,
R.A.A.F. Reserve
I read that Cabinet cannot at. the
moment decide on the strength or con-
stitution of the R.A.A.F. because of the
development of “push-button warfare,”
but there is no reason why a reserve can-
not be formed. There is, of course, a
reserve in name in which a certain num-
ber of officers have been given commis-
sions after being demobbed, but the per-
centage of those who served is roughly
two per cent. To my knowledge no order
was issued asking either officers or men
to volunteer to join a reserve, and conse-
quently many thousands took their dis-
charge and drifted into civvy life.
It would not have involved much
work to have enrolled all ranks on a re-
serve list, and it would have given Air
•Board the private address of every per-
son who served and was discharged
reasonably medically fit. The technical
ground staff cost many millions to train,
but they have been lost to any reserve.
The same applies to all the non-com-
missioned air crew who were young and
with all their potential war service ahead
of them.
There will be a reserve some time, and
to rope in the numbers decided on will
cost thousands of pounds. It could have
been done before discharge at practically
no cost. — Recco (N.S.W.).
Queensland’s Unemployed
Unemployment in Queensland has now
reached its highest level since the war
ended—except for one week last June,
when power and lighting restrictions put
thousands out of work. On March 1
10,472 men and women were re-
ceiving Commonwealth sustenance bene-
fits or had applied for them. Another
1000 people, including a large percentage
of “drunkards” and “unemployables,”
were receiving the State Government’s
ration scale of 12s. a week.
Excuses from “Labor” politicians that
this disturbing state of affairs is caused
by slack seasons in certain industries,
“supply shortages” and “little demand
for unskilled labor,” are, as usual, unsup-
ported by facts. Before the recent rains
graziers in many districts suffered stock
losses which could have been prevented
had scrub-cutters been available. Wide-
spread flooding has since swept away
hundreds of miles of fencing, causing
weeks of unnecessary mustering and
drafting of stock. Many of these fences
■could be repaired, despite shortages of
wire and marsupial-netting, if labor were
available.
Blowflies are already active, and wet-
weather delays to shearing schedules have
greatly accentuated the problem. Shearers,
crutchers and shed-hands are unobtain-
able.
N. S. Wales canegrowers also are
appealing for men. Experience is not
essential, wages are good, and six weeks’
practice should turn out an efficient
cutter.
These are the industries where,
political parlance, “there is little demanc
for unskilled labor.” Yet perhaps th
problem is scarcely one for “Labor
Ministers and the State Labor Bureau
stock losses are not theirs, nor must the
provide sustenance for 10,000 unem
ployed.— Atlanta (Q.).
Taxi!
Late last year I was among those 5
ex-servicemen in N. S. Wales who won
taxi-plate. As over 2000 application
were received by the Transport Depart
ment for that ballot I should have con
sidered myself lucky, but I’m beginnin
to wonder^ —having a taxi-plate withoui
a car is like having a torch without
battery.
Recently I read in the daily press tha
the Minister for Transport would prob
ably be granting priorities to taxi-plat
winners to enable them to buy cars,
inquired at the Transport Departmen
immediately, but was told that no such
proposal had “even been contemplated.’
It is now almost six months since the
taxi-plates were balloted, and as far a
I know most of them have not been
claimed because the owners can’t buy
a car. Last week I spent two days tramp-
ing from one second-hand car dealer to
another in search of a car suitable for
taxi. I didn’t get one, but I did acquire
some first-hand information.
One person advertised a bus for £324
in the morning papers. I went out to see
it and found that it would be suit-
able. I didn’t buy it, however, because
I didn’t have £BOO ready cash on me at
the time.
If the Government issued priorities
with the taxi-plates there wouldn’t be
quite so much blackmarketing in the car
business.— Taxiless (N.S.W.).
An Insult
In Parliament the other day, a Cabinet
Minister spoke an insult which every
decent-minded Australian should remem-
ber. The insult was that a soldier taken
prisoner by the enemy was liable for
courtmartial.
After the hopes of us Eighth Divvy
men had been dashed by the Army
Minister’s decision on p.-0.-w. sub-
sistence, one of our mates, now a
politician fighting for the rights of the
men with whom he suffered, made an
eloquent plea for a revision of the de-
cision. As expected, he received scant
consideration. Later Mr. Pollard made
his disgraceful remark.
Those of us ordered by our comman-
ders to lay down our arms and become
prisoners bitterly resent the implication
of Mr. Pollard’s remark. As it came
from a man of Cabinet rank, we feel
that it should be corrected immediately.
According to Army Law a man commits
an offence if he is taken prisoner by
want of due precaution, or through dis-
obedience of orders, or wilful neglect of
duty, or, having been taken prisoner,
failed to rejoin His Majesty’s forces when
able to do so.
So many men lost their lives because
they adhered to these regulations that if
"When the managing director Wants to see you he gives two rings on the
buzzer."
"Same if I want him to see me?”
Mr. Pollard still wishes to insinuate that
we survivors are liable for courtmartial
he’s in for a bad time. —Sgt. Damocles
(Vic.).
Overcrowding at Sydney University
The University up till now has pro-
vided a standard of education in medicine
and engineering equal to any in the
world. If the present difficulties continue
it is certain that that standard will fall.
Those who seek culture for its sake alone
will probably be not a great deal affecte
by abnormal conditions.
•When a teaching institution is floode
with students, particularly at a time whe
it is almost impossible to obtain equi
ment such as microscopes and o(th
necessary items, a certain amount of th
course cannot be fully covered, and th
rest is only covered sufficiently for ex
amination requirements.
No doubt the examination standar
will remain at its high level, but wher
the student will lose will be in experienc
and extras. Extra-curricular studies, add
tional practical work, library-browsin
and museum visits are things which hav
been, and will still more severely b
curtailed by the huge numbers seekin
university training.
The obvious remedy is to restrict th
number of students. This has bee
opposed on the ground that it is “un
democratic” —an argument which i
quite untenable. Democracy does no
imply that everyone should be able to do
exactly as he likes, irrespective of th
effects on the community. The institu
tion cannot satisfactorily handle mor
than a certain number of students —and i
it continues as it is now, instead of pro
viding a sufficient number of reliabl
graduates .it will pour forth an army o
sub-standard dentists, lawyers, etc. —
Idnom (N.S.W.).
Woollen Goods
Why is there a dearth of high-quality
woollen clothing in Australia when we
produce the best-quality wool in the
world? Admittedly, the war took the
materials from the civilian market, but
today, two years since Germany turned it
in, woollen goods of even reasonable
quality are well-nigh unobtainable. On
the other hand, low-class stuff is in good
supply. Apparently the good-quality
fabric is going overseas.
The only way manufacturers can be
compelled to make high-quality woollen
goods is by competition from other firms
who are prepared to put them on the
market. — Peter (N.S.W.),
Timber
In 1939 there were about 600 licensed
sawmills in N. S. Wales producing about
165 million feet. These mills, with very
few additions in size and number, ex-
panded production to 225 millions by
1944, notwithstanding all the difficulties
of war-time.
Since the end of the war almost every
politician in turn has sponsored consti-
tuents for the issue of a new sawmill
license until today there art 1100 licensed
mills producing only about 230 millions
a year because each new mill robs an
established mill of labor and logs. Of
that 230 millions the Government-owned
railways are unable to transport more
than 40 per cent, to timber-hungry
markets, so the mills must resort to other
uneconomical means of transport or cul-
tivate local markets already well supplied.
To complicate matters further, the
Prices Commission, while rigidly fixing
prices for sawn timber, leaves it to the
sky to limit the price of logs. The
Forestry Commission cannot resist the
opportunity presented by this wide-open
market —it is not “black,” but perfectly
legal by Prices Branch standards —to sell
logs to builders and others at any price.
plus a cutting charge. The finished cost
of the sawn product can thus be anything
up to 50 per cent, above the pegged price
f or timber sawn at country mills.
It should also be remembered that a
truckload of logs measures 4000 feet
which, after elimination of waste in saw?
ing, produces 2500 feet. Against this a
truckload of sawn timber measures 5000
feet, so every truck used for the carriage
of logs effectively prevents double the
quantity of, sawn timber reaching the
home-builder. — Eucalypt (N.S.W.)


Have YOU
• ! * J **jyp qfcM WJ* w '
**** IICISIARf I .
j#* it§ Q v | ifiM;;, ■> s • **
sufficient ——- —
LIFE ASSURANCE?
No man should so overload himself with
assurance that the payment of premiums
may become an embarrassment during his
lifetime.
On the other hand, no man —at least no
man with a dependent family—can afford
to sit back complacently with too little life
assurance. Indeed, the amount of life
assurance that you should have is of
utmost importance. It is YOUR responsi-
bility to see that the total of your policies
will be sufficient to afford your family the
protection that they will need, should the
emergency arise.
Now is the time to make provision for the
future. Not necessarily protection against
the possibility of death only, but provision
for all manner of purposes; the home you
intend to build; education for your family;
financial independence in your old age.
You can provide for these things with Life
Assurance. . .Whole of Life Assurance
payable at death, and Endowment Assur-
ance payable at a determined date or at
previous death.
Examine your situation now, and decide
how much assurance of both forms you
should have!
A City Mutual Service
City Mutual will welcome the opportunity
of assisting you in your assurance prob-
lems. Our officers will explain the advan-
tages of both types ; will tell you what
premiums are payable, and show you
what you gain with City Mutual Policies.
Remember, when you assure with City
Mutual you assure with an old-established,
wholly mutual Society.
City Mutual Facts
• A purely Mutual, entirely Australian
Society.
• Incorporated in New South Wales in
1878.
• Liberal Policy conditions.
THE
1
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
LTD.
Head Office: Cr. Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney,
Telephone: BW 2021.
IB H
in
II HEED CEBU II
limrouDilD II
i nmm nn nn n
in
ii
ii
u i
!sU*n
BRANCH OFFICES:
VICTORIA:
City Mutual Building,
459 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
TASMANIA:
City Mutual Building,
*26 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart.
QUEENSLAND:
City Mutual Building,
307 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building,
l 1 1 3 King William St.,
Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building,
62 St. George’s Ter’ce,
C. A. RALPH, General Manager .
