

GREAT WESTERN Sparkling Wines
ARE PRODUCTS OP THE
h
HOU S E. O F. SEPP E L T
The Bulletin
icjljg Bulletin,Vol. S3— No. 3538
Wednesday, December 3, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
AN IRISH NATIONAL MONUMENT IS SLIGO’S ANCIENT ABBEY
MAURICE FITZ GERALD built both the abbey and. the castle
at Sligo, in County Sligo. The abbey was originally a Dominican
friary, founded in 1252. In 1416 Pope John XXIII granted
indulgences to all who should visit this place and contribute
towards) its repair, for it had been damaged by fire. Restored in
the same year by Bryan MacDonogh, the abbey preserves tombs
of seventeenth-century notables, the most interesting memorial
being that of O’Conor Sligo. The town) of Sligo is within the see
of Elphin, one of the most ancient in Ireland having been fo^
by St. Patrick about the year 450. The first f hop ™ s ' th ’™°” d
Assicus. After the dissolution Sligo ey 8 .
to Sir William Taaffe, from whom it has passed t 0 the ®
of Works, to be kept as one of re an
monuments.


ĥ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, withovt obligation , your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name “
My Address
8.8. 247 AGE
The Red Page
MORGAN AND THE DEVIL.
After giving every indication that he
will vanish at the end of the book with
a maniacal cackle in a cloud of sulphur
the wicked businessman of Charles
Morgan’s The Judge’s Story (Macmillan ;
Angus and Robertson) .fizzles out very
disappointingly; “In the street, she raised
her face to the wind, and Severidge saw
her face, fell back and let her go.”
Severidge, nevertheless, is indubitably
the devil. A millionaire, he is portrayed
as a man without a soul:
Severidge knew he was separated from
her, as the deaf are from sound, and as
he had always been separated from any
man who had within him a truth to which
to be true —a core, a stem, a root, an
earth, and who was not an effect only.
Severidge, rich in intellect, vigorous and
skilful in action, not without benevolence,
was spiritually without core. To the
question: “What do 1 do? What do I
produce?” there was an honorable, well-
wishing, effective answer, at any rate an
answer in conscience—for this was • the
scope of his conscience; but to the ques-
tion: “Who am I?” there was none.
And, being soulless, Severidge is fas-
cinated by anybody who has a soul. He
is like, says Morgan, a gramophone; he
can play records but has no music of hi
own. So when he meets people who do
metajphorically speaking, make music, he
“could not endure, in others, this inward
dedication. He did not hate those who
were conscious of it, but hated that in
them which excluded him. He did no
wish to harm or destroy, but to pene
trate.”
Having no truth of his own, Severidge
corrupts other men’s truths. He sets him
self out, in particular, to corrupt an old
Judge and his ward, a girl named Vivien
The symbol of the Judge’s integrity is two
volumes of Marius the Epicurean, which
were given him by Vivien’s mother, with
whom, in a long-distance way, he hac
been in love since his twenties. Severidge
buys the books for the fantastic price o:
£25,000. Vivien’s integrity lies in her
marriage, which remains harmonious even
when her husband turns out to be an em-
bezzler. Severidge, again in a very re
spectable manner, sets himself out to se-
duce her —by the dastardly device of
moving his chair six inches closer to
Vivien’s.
To make it quite clear that Severidge
does literally represent the devil, Morgan,
on an occasion when Vivien is seeking the
Judge’s advice and maintaining that the
rich man has some good in him, quotes
Mjlton:
That space the Evil One abstracted stood
From his own evil, and for the time re-
mained
Stupidly good, of enmity disarmed,
Of guile, of hate, of envy, of revenge.
But the hot hell that always in him burns,
Though in mid-Heaven, soon ended his
delight,
And tortures him now more, the more he
sees
Of pleasure not for him ordained. Then
soon
Fierce hate he recollects
In justice to the devil, then, it is only
fair to examine exactly what Severidge
does. Besides clinging all his life to a
pale and hopeless love, the Judge has
always been intending to write a great
book about Periclean Athens. When
Severidge tempts him to sell the Marius
the Judge suddenly realises that, far from
destroying his integrity, the rich man has
released him from an obsession: “His
clinging to the dead book was wrong, not
only in relation to the demand of Vivien’s
life, but wrong absolutefy, a false pride
of the spirit, a lust for delusion in the
same category with Severidge’s own.”
Here, then, is one admirable deed done
by the devil.
Next, by a dirty trick which Morgan
fails adequately to explain or to exploit in
drama, Severidge forces the Judge to re-
turn to him the £25,000 paid for the book.
The Judge has spent the money to save
Vivien’s husband from prison and so, to
repay Severidge, he is obliged to sell all
his own possessions and to retire to live
with an old servant on £2OO in cash and
an income of £3 a week. Freed from the
distractions of money and of London life,
and freed from his obsession over Vivien’s
dead mother, the Judge is at long last
able to write his great book about Athens.
A second noble deed of the devil’s.
Then Vivien, having withdrawn a little
from her husband since the embezzle-
ment, and having been tempted, rejects
the Evil One and returns to her domestic
felicity with renewed faith. Though he
did indeed plan to move his chair closer,
Severidge has enabled her to test out the
real quality of her affection for her hus-
band, in which again he performs an in-
valuable service. He might really have
been portrayed as a sort of Scarlet Pim-
pernel.
The Judge’s Story is not, of course, in-
tended as a complimentary address to the
devil or as a plea for his necessity. It is
meant to be a parable on integrity—“to
thine own self be true.” As such, it is
well enough on the surface, but close ex-
amination makes it appear paradoxical in
that most of Severidge’s actions have
beneficent results, pointless in that the
Judge is not really tempted into evildoing,
and, in Vivien’s case —there is far too
brief a scrutiny of the flaw in her hus-
band’s character commonplace and
conventional.
If the book as a moral homily is held
to succeed, it remains—for Charles
Morgan—a poor novel.
In plot, from a realistic point of view,
it is unconvincing. One doubts whether
Severidge would, in the first place, seek
to destroy the Judge at all, there being
nothing but casual acquaintanceship to
bring them into contact. The Judge’s 12
years of irreproachable friendship for a
married woman, his refraining from pro-
posing marriage after her husband died,
his stoical devotion to her after she re-
marries and his lifelong dedication to her
memory are hardly credible outside the
pages of the post-Dickensian English
novel. Severidge’s offer of £25,000 for a
book worth Bs. 6d. is> not to be believed
—it is too much for even the devil to pay
for one soul. And the series of monetary
coincidences on which the mechanics of
the plot are based —Vivien’s husband
needing £25,000 to save him from prison ;
Severidge buying the Marius for £25,000 ;
the Judge’s assets, when he has to sell up
to pay Severidge, amounting to £25,000
with a little more for him to live on —are
altogether too convenient for plausibility.
Morgan himself, as well as the Judge,
seems to have been surprised by the be-
lated recognition that, since the Judge’s
own assets could have saved the em-
bezzler, there was never any need for
dickering with Severidge.
The characterisation is likewise unsatis,-
factory. Vivien is amiable, but lives on
so exalted a plane that when she has a
bath she is invisible and when her hus-
band steals trust money she is unable to
say one plain word as to what she thinks
about it. Her husband is a facile sketch:
one has the impression, both from the em-
bezzlement and from his subsequent sur-
render to Severidge’s domination, that he
is really a waster but that Morgan doesn’t
want to say so for fear of spoiling the
plot. The Judge himself is pleasant, but
Morgan has avoided, for the sake of dig-
nity, any displaying of the gauche and
timorous youth he must have been if the
story of his life is to be given any cre-
dence. Severidge, the most important of
all, is an abstraction ; not a person but an
idea. He has no background, and it is
doubtful if he has a face.
Minor characters there are none, or
none worth mentioning. Indeed, the
absence of the taste and touch of life —
richness and diversity and humor to sur-
round the central characters —is the
book’s great lack. Apart from a few
scenes in a club, a glimpse of a garden
and a cottage, the action takes place in a
void. The talk —“The more I believe you,
the more I hate and despise you. You
are an accepter of life and I am a rebel
against it” —is the talk of abstractions.
There is indeed a devil abroad in con-
temporary English literature, and he is
not one to defend. His name is Meta-
physics. Far too many writers, in a
desperate search for faith, something to
believe in, some ultimate evil to con-
demn, are turning from the portrayal of
character to mere sermonising, from the
novel to what is, at best, a kind of thinly-
dramatised essay. The Judge's Story is,
in fact, much closer to Charles Morgan’s
essays than to his previous novels: read-
able, as are the essays, for Morgan is an
artist, thoughtful, but dulled into didacti-
cism by the prevailing fashion, and stiff
with dignity.
A Bale of Cotton.
Although Thomas Armstrong’s King
Cotton (Collins) may not be the longest
book of the century—as it has somewhere
been proudly advertised —it is quite long
enough; having, in all, 460,000 words
which discuss the cotton industry, slavery,
Kit Ormerod, his friends, family and
acquaintances.
An initial .handicap, from which the
novel never recovers, is that Kit Ormerod,
the hero of the story, is a very dull young
man. A junior clerk in a Liverpool
cotton-broker’s office he is discovered, on
page 1, in South Carolina, discussing the
institution of slavery with a plantation
overseer. The overseer expresses himself
heatedly:
“You can git out of here, an’ mighty
sharp,” he was bawling. “If we ain’t already
had enough rattlesnakes an’ bellowin’ bull
alligators coming down from north’ard of
Mason an’ Dixon’s Line”
The overseer (bellowing and bawling)
continues the conversation for several
pages, during which quite a deal of in-
formation comes out concerning the slave
trade, plantation affairs and, incidentally,
Kit himself. This method, useful though
it is as a method of introduction, lacks
something in drama. For while the over-
seer is still bawling and bellowing, Kit,
although simmering with honest rage,
must be content to simmer because he has
to collect information for himself and
convey information to the reader. If he
hit the overseer with an axe, and stopped
his bawling and bellowing, we would
never learn all about the slave trade.
Again, though there is some attempt to
paint the setting here—slaves among the
cotton —the author, by some negative
magic of writing, has failed to give the
scene true life and color.
When Kit (simmering) departs from
this scene there is another promise of
action in a scene between Kit and a
junior overseer. But this, too, is a false
alarm; an excuse, really, for the two
young men to get together and have a
really heart-to-heart academic discussion
on cotton and slavery.
Something else comes out of this scene,
however, an important characteristic of
the book as a whole: humor ; but humor,
alas, as heavy as a ton of cotton. Mr.
Cobb (the junior overseer) has suggested
that Kit might be an inventor. Kit
gives him to understand that he has lean-
ings that way. Mr. Cobb presses for
details. Kit is shy, but, finally, is per-
suaded :
Then, his face serious, he started to talk
of his home in Throstleton and of the
kitchen slops which hitherto his mother
had had to throw out of the back door.
Getting into full swing, he dwelt at in-
terminable length upon several week-ends
he had returned to his family from Liver-
pool; upon his idea, and precisely how it
was carried out; upon the. negotiations
whereby he had acquired a piece of lead
piping, and how, down to the most minute
detail, he had built a satisfactory drain
with a few cracked but still-serviceable
earthenware pipes he had come across.
This, really, is quite a sparkling speci-
men of the book’s lighter moments.
Elsewhere throughout the book Kit
shows a distressing tendency to be
amused by people drinking too much, by
his friends falling over when drunk and
being sick, and even by such simple ex-
clamations as “By!” and “Champion!”
—phrases for which both Kit and Mr.
Armstrong have an inordinate fondness.
Actually there is a great deal of simi-
larity between Kit’s method of narration
and the author’s. Unconsciously he falls
into a series of drawn-out, unconsum-
mated incidents—a kind of prolonged
shaggy-dog story —as, for instance, when
Kit’s sister Belle goes to meet him on his
return to Throstleton, and the whole
family is terribly anxious because, they
fear, harm may have befallen the lass.
The mother is particularly fearful; the
father, a more stolid character, thinks
she will be all right. But another sister
begins to be frightened, too. So, finally,
Kit —who has arrived home, anyway—
goes to look for her, examines one street
after another, decides to go home —and
meets Belle. Nothing has happened,
after all.
Kit’s life, while adhering in the main
to the pattern of the usual success story,
develops certain unusual twists. He
does prosper, but —in common with all
Lancashire —he suffers from the American
Civil War. Still, since he is a staunch
opponent of slavery, his success —in a
spiritual sense—is not diminished but en-
larged. Also, materially, all comes right
in the end on page 928 when:
The Cotton Famine had ended. Soon the
spindles and looms of proud and steadfast
Lancashire would be whirring and clattering
again.
There are many characters in the book
—hosts of them —and the mere fact of
remembering their names must have been
a considerable feat of memory by their
creator. But few, if any, have sufficient
life to justify their inclusion in any other
capacity than their obvious one —lay
figures on which technical discussions
and theories may be hung. Kit’s cousin,
the preacher Binks, in many ways the
best of the “characters,” is also a striking
example of this general tendency. Binks
is chosen to represent the bad side of
religious enthusiasm —as other characters
are taken to illustrate the good—and,
from his introduction to his subsequent
sticky end, his fate and purpose are clear
to the point of obviousness.
Dullness—a literal, humorless and per-
vading dullness —is the keynote and total
effect of the book. The causes are
various; the author’s obvious —though
perhaps unrecognised—intention to write
a book on an industry rather than a book
about people ; his apparent anxiety to pile
up words for the sake of bulk —an ex-
tension of the fashion of record-making
from the legitimate fields of pole-sitting
and sausage-eating; and, finally, a
pedestrian style.
Danger on the Map, by Allan Aldous
(F. W. Cheshire, Ltd.). A rugged and red-
blooded tale of treasure-hunting and ad-
venture in Northern Australia, Cast in-
cludes Bluey Dowd, Dr. Taggart, Johnny
Jingo, “The Dook,” and mysterious gun-
men.
* * # *
Exploring the Vatican, by James A.
van der Veldt (Hollis and Carter). A com-
bined guide-book and specialised travel
book, explaining the geography and
history of the Vatican, personalities
encountered, etc., in a clear narrative
style. Good photographs.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Flame-tree in a Quarry.
From the broken bone of the hill
stripped and left for dead,
like a wrecked skull,
leaps out this bush of blood.
Out of the torn earth’s mouth
comes the old cry of praise.
Still is the song made flesh
though the singer dies—
flesh of the world’s delight,
voice of the world’s desire,
I drink you with my sight
and I am filled with fire.
Out of the very wound
springs up this scarlet breath—
this fountain of hot joy,
this living ghost of death.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Bondi Tram.
Here is another tram with its surfers —
a wave
With its Harbor flotsam—the crowds
that brave
Currents and sharks, but do not really
care
If seats are sometimes vacant from a
death here and there. ,
Death is no new experience: is news
For a day till burial; till out of sight
It plunges, its stain • diluted, and the
view’s
As before to the public, to most a
delight.
Only a seat left vacant shall compel us,
More than the noisy passengers to listen.
If death has a victory to tell us.
It is good to sit opposite, to fasten
Eyes where the dead man sat —brave
company:
Apart from such rare experience to
travel
Facing an empty seat, a vacancy
With which the eyes can’t tangle, quick
to unravel
The trivial knots lined on a living face;
And, waving a hand to the dead, to bid
him speak ...
‘‘Except for the pain of dying, how was
the chase ;
Surely the chapter par excellence of the
week ?”
Yes, for the shark. Poor fellow! the
crowd escaped —
Yet, if on such homeward journeys
somebody hoped
To interview death, to talk with the dead
man aloud.
Be sure he’d find death’s vacant seat
usurped by the crowd.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JONE BLIGHT
Sentimental Song.
Oh heart, oh heart, heat in the night ;
Outside the surf breaks, black and
white.
I have lost my lover, and must find
another —
Beat out, my heart, your sorrow and
fright.
Come day , come day, with cold and rain,
I’ll bargain you my hurt for pain.
Through my soul’s danger I seek a
, stranger
To turn this loss into that gain.
Wild surf, wild wind gone wandering
Mimic you then my blundering ?
Life was my throw, so now I go
Where gamblers pay for squandering.
High walls, wet walls now prison me,
Wide plains without, could I but see;
Yet am not spent, but find content
For prison days pass peacefully.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


earni,
(me
Attractive Gaze Manicure Set containing
Polish, Polish Remover, Cuticle Remover.
Price . 13/9
The ideal gift — French Perfume from
Worths. “Je Riviers” and “Sans Adieu,”
prices .* 48/4 and 91/3
Lingering loveliness, Exotiq Perfume on
beautiful plastic stand. In Carnation, Rose,
and Violet. Price 12/6
If it’s Fauldings, it’s pure! Fauldings ever
popular Boronia Perfume 4/6 bottle
Princess Talc. Powder in aromas of Crepe
Myrtle, Mystia, and Tapestry, 2/6 bottle
R, P. Prince, “Crepe Myrtle” Perfumed Eau
de Cologne, prices 5/—. 9/6 and 17/6
Goya of England Perfume. In Studio, No.
5, Gardenia, Heather, 3/7 (handbag size),
22/6 51/6 and 101/3
Christys Gift Set comprising Soap, Talcum
Powder, and refreshing Lavender Water.
Price ' 10/9
Roger and Cailet, Jean Marie Farina Eau de
Cologne with its old-world fragrance. 8/1
Perfumery Section-
Ground Floor , Pitt Street
Box 2 7 1 2C, C. P. 0., Sydney
’Phone: M 2401, Day ancl Night


'THAT'
As
The
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject
to accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and
uninterrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of
paramount importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing
this Company your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present
appointee. An interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on
request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric I*riestley Eee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR « TRUSTEE o AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901 Box 543 G.P.0., Sydnev.
rm
IM/Mm
■i
o
h
ĥ
Airway Cases, Hi
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvs*
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
Made
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
Q
A
i
m.
*m s mmm
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
#&BREKS TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
Rupture
Worries/
RlflHT- -
Mark ® LocaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance Free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defi-
nitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed
no matter where you
live. Call or send stamp for details. Self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dept. 21) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy books on identification of Queens-
land or Australian natural grasses; also A
School Geometry by A. Durvell. —4157.
To buy Cooee Stories by “Bringa.”—4156.
Information Sought.
(1) How to use Pavol for wooden and
concrete floors? (2) How to apply stain to a
floor around borders of lino. ?
v (l) Pavol is made by Lewis Berger, and in-
structions are supplied with the paint. How-
ever, method of use is as follows: For use on
concrete, a priming coat of Dusseal must be
applied, working it well into the pores of the
concrete. When this is dry, apply one coat
of Pavol. For use on wood or linoleum, it
is only necessary to scrub the surface thoroughly
first to remove all dirt and grease, then allow
to dry thoroughly, and afterwards apply two
coats of Pavol, allowing the first coat to be-
come quite dry before applying the second.
(2) There is nothing unusual to be watched
here, except to see, of course, that the wood
is clean and free from grease.
* * * *
How to prevent mildew growth on books?
Make up a solution of lib. of boric acid
in Igal, of methylated spirits. The boric acid
does not dissolve quickly in cold spirits, so the
process can be accelerated by placing the vessel
containing the mixture in a large vessel. of
nearly boiling water. Solution should then be
applied to the covers and binding of the books,
preferably by means of a household fly-spray.
When the solution dries, it leaves a light white
coating of boric acid which can be dusted off
easily.
* * * *
Amount of tax payable on interest on £2600
invested in Commonwealth War Loans by a
single person without dependants earning
approx. £400 p.a. ?
Not possible to advise the amount of tax
payable on any particular portion of an in-
come which consists partly of personal exertion
and partly of property income. However, the
total net amount payable for the year of in-
come ended June 30, 1947, on a total income
of £485 (£400 salary, plus £85 War Loan in-
terest at p.c. on £2600) is £B9 25., consisting
of £52 15s. income tax and £36 7s. social-ser-
vices contribution. If the only income received
were £4OO salary, the total amount payable
would be £6B 7s. (£3B 7s. income tax and £3O
social-services contribution). The total increase
due to the addition of £BS War Loan interest
would, therefore, be £2O 15s.
* * * *
(1) Correct procedure in a game of poker
when there are not sufficient cards on the stack
to complete a draw ? (2) Can a player who has
been given more or fewer cards than he asked
for call upon the dealer to rectify the error?
(1) The number there is, less the bottom card,
Is taken, the balance being given from the other
players’ discards, which must be shuffled. (2)
Yes, provided he has not picked up any of
the cards given to him. If he has been given
too few cards the error can be rectified any
time before betting begins.
* * * *
Particulars of the life of Alfred Dampier, the
actor?
Born in London, February 28, 1847, he was
educated at Charterhouse, and made his first
appearance as an actor at Stratford-on-Avon.
In 1872 he came to Melbourne and appeared
as Mephistopheles in his own version of
“Faust.” He remained in Melbourne for several
years, playing leading Shakspearian roles, then
after a tour of Australia, N.Z. and the United
States returned to England. Later he went
back to Melbourne, where he leased a theatre
and produced a series of Australian plays, of
which the most noteworthy was a dramatisation
of Robbery Under Arms, in addition to regular
Shakspearian performances. He made many
Australian tours, and for many years was
the only manager presenting Shgkspeare to the
Australian public. He died in Sydney, May
23, 1908.
* * * *
Where and when was Dave Smith born, what
boxing championships did he win, and when
did he die?
Dave Smith was bom in Dunedin, N.Z., on
May 10, 1886. Won—amateur middleweight
championships of Otago and Dunedin provinces
in 1906, amateur heavyweight championships
of N.S.W. and Australasia in 1908. Turning
professional, Smith twice won the heavyweight
championship of Australia, and retired unbeaten
for that title on two occasions. Smith was
conducting a private guest-house at Katoomba
(N.S.W.) when he died in a Mosman (Sydney)
private hospital on May 29, 1945.
Information Sought.
EJ.R.: Inquiries amongst leading soap manu-
facturers indicate that they are not now making
salt-water soap and are not likely to until
the present soap shortage ceases. A quantity
of salt-water soap was released recently from
the Disposals Commission, and you might
obtain small quantities from pharmacists or
other shops in Brisbane, but no wholesalers
have any stocks 1eft....W.T.: Not possible
to advise without knowing architectural details
of the building you propose to erect. Placing
sound-absorbent material between the walls
would have only a minor effect in cutting down
sound transfer. It is more important to see
that all room surfaces are free of cracks through
which sound might escape, and that the doors
fit well. Substantially built walls, etc., are an
advantage. These directions, however, may
conflict with the requirements of ventilation.
Suggest you contact Mr. Murray, Acoustic
Research Laboratory, Erskine House, York- and
Erskine-streets, Sydney, giving details of the
building.... J.8.L.: Forward a sample of the
crocodile oil (so that it can be tested and a
report made to you on its commercial possibi-
lities) suitably labelled to the Officer-in-Charge,
Information Service, C.5.1.R., 425 St. Kilda-
road, Melbourne T.G.M.: Suggest that you
contact the Sydney and Suburban Timber
Merchants’ Association, 19 Bligh-street, Syd-
ney, the Retail Timber Merchants’ Organisation,
Room 1, 4th Floor, 283 Elizabeth-street, Syd-
ney, or the-Newcastle Timber Merchants’ Asso-
ciation, 17 Bolton-street, Newcastle. In all
probability one of these organisations will have
members interested in your tipiber... .J.M.W.:
E. A. Marr and Sons Pty., Ltd., 48 Botany-
road, Alexandria (N.S.W.), will probably be
able to supply the required plant J.N.: No
Australian book covers the subject. Best thing
to do is to study the financial columns of this
and other newspapers. Investment is con-
siderably restricted at the present time by
shortages of capital goods and Government
regulations, but a modest holding in B.H.P.
should represent a good start-off W.O’F.:
(1) Inquiries in the trade reveal that instruction
books for that type of car are not obtainable.
(2) The pre-war Queensland agent is now out
of business. (3) It is not belieyed that there is
any Australian agent at present... .B.B.: Write
Officer-in-Charge, Munitions Supply Laboratory,
Villawood (N.5.W.)... .0.D.Z.: Final figures
for Reid in the 1943 Federal election were
Morgan 34,157, Lang 30,007; in the 1946
election final figures for the same division
were Lang 39,316, Morgan 33,229... .J. 8.: A
claimant for an old-age pension shall be
deemed to have been resident in Australia dur-
ing occasional absences from Australia not
exceeding in the aggregate one-tenth of the
total period of residence and of those occasional
absences L.W.J.: Write Agricultural Dept.,
Melbourne, for Advisory Pamphlet No. 1,
“Plant Diseases and Insect Pests” D.V.:
Write to the Division of Plant Industry, Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research, Canberra.
P.W.: All fig varieties may be dried. White
Adriatic makes a reasonably good dried article.
The best fig for drying is the Smyrna, but the
variety must have Capri figs in close proximity
for pollination.


Missing Friend.
WOULD any person knowing the whereabouts of
KENNETH HAROLD DALLMAN, aged 29 years,
formerly of Peak Hill, in the State of New South
Wales, ex-Serviceman, please communicate with
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors, Brisbane.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN LLEWELLYN DAVID, formerly of No. 62
Wilson Street Newtown near Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that CLARICE MARY DAVID has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2881 of 1947 on the ground
of your desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse You may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney on or before the 30th day of January 1948
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS, ALLAN UTHER & MANSFIELD,
Solicitors, 350 George Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel —And You’D Jump oat 0|
Bed in the Morning FaU of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds of liquid
bile daily or your food doesn’t digest. You
suffer from wind. You get constipated. Your
whole system is poisoned and you feelirri table,
tired and weary and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You must get
at the cause. _ It takes those good old Carter’s
Little Liver Pills to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel “up and up.” Harm*
less, gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills byname.
Stubbornly refuse anything else, a/* & 1/3.
h
C7~.
zz- ccz?*&>
t a cz zy
TZCZZ/Z&J* 4p- df/^ez e £'if
ZZO-
Prices : 30/-, 37/6, and 44/9
Obtainable from Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
255 A George Street, Sydney
2/127
There are many
but only ONE
(j[ILBEYB
A brief brisk aperitif to ‘lift’ a lagging
appetite-or a tall, cold refresher-both
become brighter if you build them
round Gilbey’s Gin. Why? Because
Gilbey’s is a better Gin and that’s
the long and short of it.
W 3.
/to
fmtm
OF
r\£.
GiV*
L, sroV.ftcJ
Cr J
•
.
-sr=
«5
LBEY
«F->
nji
LJw
O
&
• <
- C
AN IDEAL Vi,::--.
‘SHORT 9 DRINK
| Gilbey's Gin,
i Dry Vermouth.
Don’t say Gin—say GILBEY’S
THE WOULD STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED
aijnjt! 1
A Delicious
“ Long *’ Drink
Quarter glass
Gilbey’s Gin,
ice and any
mineral water
or with squash
w and water.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS No liability is undertaken
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be aaares ea
to the Editor.
C.P.N.: Impossible to deduce from the poem
whether or not you have any aptitude for
journalism R.W.8.; “I enclose some good,
silly, cranky, ziswis tommyrot.” Dropt the first
adjective and that’s a pretty fair description
of it M.Y.: Nearly.... Hop in,
then:
A file of ’roos came into sight,
Their hopping gait easy and spright.
The bush and flowers in color ablaze
Left me spellbound in sheer amaze.
C.M.R.: There seems to be no good reason
for preserving “Modern Grandmas”... .J.L.0.:
“Benighted” is excessively dark R.D.M.: It
shows some ability but it is overloaded with
“gloom-spawn obscene and ghast,” not to
mention the “jellying sludge of evil, gibbous,
glib” Pippa: Got as far as “with a splen-
did woosh he went out. of sight” and that pipped
it H.J.M. and W.J.W.; Might make pars.
E.I.C.: A very rocky mountain... .F.P.8.;
Seldom has so painful a thought been expressed
in so agonising a style:
When even half administered
I knew that life
Was half unsinistered.
I should have learnt from old Omar’s example—
A pint of port, two meat pies and an apple.
J.K.: “Dash of verse” no good. Try a
dot... .I.McL.: Write English... .8.G.; They’d
be close if you didn’t drop deliberately into
bathos DJ.: It’s a bit late to pick a quarrel
with Henry Lawson... .P.J.8.: A pleasant
warbling, but thin.... Riverbender: Come again
—more compactly... .R.G.P.: Tell father his
umbrella yarn is one of the oldest chestnuts
on the tree K.R.: Sorry, but no sympathy
for “The Sucker”.,. .T.L.: You should be
able to boil it down to a couple of Abo. pars.
E.W.: Both missed the target, but not by
a great distance L.M.C.: The Editor regrets
—particularly the accident to your typewriter.
....K.C.: You’ve the zeal of a street-corner
evangelist A.T.: Slammed “The Door”
M.L.8.: “Going Home” is going home
C.McE.: A woman’s paper might be in-
terested in it.,. .E.L.H.S.: You could do with
a dictionary J.G.R.; The grim story of
the yacht Mignonette bound for Sydney with
a crew of four never reached port D.K.:
More suited for an overseas periodical than for
us F.W.8.: Good luck to the two swaggies
even though we couldn’t use them T.G.:
No tears for Sue V.T.; A familiar ending.
R.A.: “Cornered! Trapped in the coffee
room by the club bore.” We sympathise with
you R.A.F.: That pair strike us as being
too simple for hard-boiled punters DJ.F.:
Not badly done; the trouble is that the theme
has been tackled so often M. 8.; “Quiz
Programme” didn’t crack the jackpot....
W.M.C.: Both are only middling yarns
M.S.: Your Charlie is not a very bright charac-
ter... .W.M.H. (not Canberra): Didn’t raise
a laugh.... R.L.; The man who loved hot
dogs won’t be eating them in our pages....
F. : The last time we ran across that
villain it wasn’t snakebite but the Demon
Rum that finished him off C.C.: “I
could not help smiling cynically.” Neither
could we... .C.P.D.: The basket claimed it.
R.C.: Among the also-rans G.S.:
You’re still well below publication standard.
....E.M.W.: Neat little yarn; keep on trying.
L.C.: “The Greeks Had a Name for It.”
We could also think up a few choice adjectives.
—W.A.D.: More interested in modern Aus-
tralia that ancient Rome E.A.M.: Stanley
slipped... .W.L.: Still yawning K.M.: Not
for U5....L.J.C.: Couldn’t take kindly to
your mate Macßeady E.K.: Not a bad
sketch, but needs strengthening.... R.Y.: No
cheers for “Cheers for the Cup” K.W.P.:
The plot has had its day R.H.8.: “Don’t
judge the bally thing by the typing.” We
didn’t N.A.N.: Too slight H.W.: It’s on
its way home... .R.S.R.: Finished on the
outer J.N.S.: A pathetic little trifle
R.A.: “Young Johnny” shows promise
G. Only a f.-a.-q. story... .H.H.: We
heaved a sigh of relief when the little chap
took his last long swig R.L.D.: Give us
something with a local interest M.D.G.:
No sting in it L.G.8.: Off our beat....
R.O’C.: Not keen to know who’s who at
the zoo G. 8.8.: Ail at sea D.M.: No
handout for the good shepherd L. 8.: Fair
effort; don’t give up hope W.E.F.: There’s
a yarn buried there somewhere; the trouble
is that you didn’t bring it to light G.M.G.:
A poor samplfe J.L.H.S.: The forest-fire
yarn is the better of the two P.J.R.: The
Editor’s mail-bag is generally half full of that
premonition type of yarn H.A.: The drunk
is waiting for you to bail him out A.R.D.H.:
The average run of travel article is not for us.
J.E.C.: We’re still yawning A.McD.:
Send it to a woman’s paper G.M.G.: A
little different from the ordinary missing-child
yarn, but not much F.A.K.: Off our beat
—in any case, the incident has been covered
in other papers during recent years.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.8.P.: Careful studies, but without vigor;
and the gags are stale S.K.J.: Strange,
ectoplasmic emanations without explanation... -
J.D.A.: Your wash drawing is a wash-out and
your baldhead joke first occurred to Eve when
Adam’s thatch began to fa 11... .H.V.: Can t
judge from a copy of a photograph....
R.N.McL.: Point of your topical Test-match
cartoon was- blunted before the ink had dried.
C.B.H.: Your friends are easily amused.
. ...L.S.: What mausoleum did you rifle
for that man-in-the-moon jest? C.P.: Idea
doesn’t quite tempt us 8.5. A.: Can’t com-,
mission you to do one a week. One a century
would be too many....M.S. (Auckland): Your
first effort hasn’t set the Tasman on fire....
W.M.H. ( not Canberra): This time _ the
drawing is better but the humor isn t.
8.8'.W.: You’re one of the multi-
. tudinous band who think there is some-
thing funny in hairy legs D.L.: Your
patriotism is sound, but your art has caidiac
murmurs R. 8.; Only kindergarten stuff....
E.M.J.: You’re a squanderer of good ink
and paper... .G.C.: The demon bowler was
no-balled P.W.: Previous submissions we
remember as the feeble efforts of immaturity;
the latest is quite a finished work. Your rapid
development is highly commended —also darkly
suspected H.H.: You haven’t arrived yet.
It is doubtful whether you have started
D.N.: Scratchy, but vaguely promising
L. 5.8.: They look like the artistic compositions
of a capsized inkpot.. . .R.8.W.: Wait until
you’re older and try again E.A.: Not a
winner in the batch... .S.S.; It started an
epidemic of yawning in the office... .R.C.S.:
Gag is so old that it deserves a long-service
medal.. . .F.H.: Spend your spare time col-
lecting stamps, doing crossword puzzles, feed-
ing goldfish—anything but trying to “break into
The Bulletin” T.R.: All it did was to
make us thirsty.


WHO SMELLS A RAT?
By E. A. GOLLSCHEWSKY
CRAWFORD DU M LEY would
never have hired the ratcatcher it
it hadn’t been for Mrs. Fowler. He
would have been content to let the
rats scurry merrily across his ceilings,
gnaw into his bags of grain and preen
their whiskers behind the jars of lollies
that lined the shelves of his shop.
But Mrs. Fowler was an outspoken
woman. She didn’t care that the shop
was full of Saturday afternoon customers.
She opened the paper-bag into which
Crawford had just weighed two pounds
of arrowroot, and disturbed the smooth
contents with a suspicious forefinger.
“M’m. Just as I thought.” Several
little black blobs stood starkly guilty
against the white powder. “Rats’ dung! ”
Crawford, weaving his web of dry
goods behind the counter, his long, thin,
hairy antlers reaching for an extra potato,
another cake of soap, a week-end paper,
gave her an offended look, and went on
with his work.
“It was in the sugar last week, too,
Mr. Dumley.” Her accusing gimlet eyes
forced his attention towards her, “I
can’t say about the tea —leastways it
doesn’t-show up in that”
“Dust, perhaps ...”
Crawford Dumley glanced deprecat-
ingly at the old, cobwebbed ceiling.
Mrs. Fowler laughed shortly, grimly.
“Dust, me eye. It’s rats’ dung, that’s
what it is. And if you don’t "get your
shop cleaned up of rats I’ll report you,
so there.”
pRAWFORD DUMLEY, a deliberate
man who never made a move with-
out due consideration, thought the matter
over. He had a habit of sucking his thin,
blue bottom lip under the top one whilst
indulging in profound thought, and this,
together with a certain hooded effect
about his blank, shiny blue eyes, made
him look more like a spider than ever.
His beard grew in tufts about his chin
and lantern cheeks, and the same tufted,
bristling growth, pale ginger in color,
sprouted from his high, thin nostrils.
Most of the powders he weighed out
settled on the hairs in his nose. The
effect was fascinating—here was the
greenish yellow of curry, the snow of
good Australian flour, the soft, insidious
grey of potent insecticide—all adhering
closely to the thick brush that filled his
nostrils. He invariably wore a grey
flannel shirt with loose open sleeves just
covering his elbows, and dungarees
washed from the color of a castor-oil
bottle to the indefinite blue-grey of a
clouded sky. 1 -
His house of trade —hardly a shop,
being a corner of the verandah fibro-
cemented off, and reached by a long,
narrow, rickety flight of steps devoid of
handrails —was rich with the accumulated
smells of widely-varied goods.
It was rich, too, with the customs and
habits of many years. Fly-spotted Christ-
mas cards still shared the one small
glass-case with fashion books carrying
free patterns of a type of dress forgotten
by those who had worn them in a
long-lost youth.
AFTER some mental weighing of the
small matter of expense versus profit,
Crawford arrived at his decision.
“I’m getting the ratcatcher out,” he
told his sister. He had finished his even-
ing meal and, sitting back comfortably,
was preparing to light his pipe.
Isla, cleaning the table, nodded agree-
ably. She had never in her life disagreed
with Crawford.
“The rats are something awful. All
night you can hear them stampeding, and
no matter what I put in the traps they
never get caught. I’ve tried toasted cheese
and pumpkin seed.”
Isla, younger than Crawford, short and
plump, with her hair drawn back from
her shining, fleshy face, sighed heavily.
The tragedy of scorned rat-traps en-
grossed her.
Local gossip had it that Isla had been
pretty as a girl, and that Crawford had
been kept busy discouraging suitors. But
he had not been troubled in that way for
many years. Looking after Crawford
Isla’s fresh young charm had vanished.
Now she was fat, lonely, sentimental,
worried about her health and a good
cook.
Crawford drew on his pipe, delibera-
tion heavy on his countenance, his thick,
gingery eyebrows drawn together over
his high-bridged nose.
“He can sleep in the barn. It doesn’t
do to have strangers getting the run of the
house, especially with the shop to think
of.”
“All right, Crawford. I’ll clean it up
tomorrow.”
Beads of moisture gathered on her
faintly-moustached top lip as she poured
boiling water on yellow soap, sending up
a little white cloud of steam which en-
veloped her warmly and dampened her
skin, giving it the clean, wet look of
freshly-washed butter. Her heavy,
tightly-laced breasts trembled uneasily
with the vigor of her movements as she
swished a grey dish-mop amongst the
suds.
D EN TIPPIN arrived a few days later,
*■—' bouncing about in the back of Hag-
gerty’s utility, his five little dogs yapping
excitedly and jumping from side to side
of the swaying tray.
The Haggertys had called in for
supplies, so it was Isla who showed Ben
Tippin to his freshly-scrubbed quarters.
She watched him, covertly and shyly,
self-consciously keeping a step or two
behind him.
He was not a very clean man. Under
the freshly-clipped hair at the back of
his neck a shadow of grime showed. His
shirt was crumpled and soiled, his suit
shabby, and about him clung the unmis-
takable, musty odor of rarely-washed
human flesh. His narrow, dark face
came to a peak at the end of his long
sharp nose, and his chin and forehead
receded from it abruptly. His eyes were
narrow, inpenetrable, and very dark, and
his large ears protruded at right angles
from his sloping head.
The black-and-white terriers wor-
shipped him. They fawned on him,
jumped to lick his hands, and dashed
frantically about his legs.
He kicked them affectionately.
“Down, Soda. Behave yourself.
Brandy.”
His hand lay for a moment on Brandy s
eager head. The fingers were pointed at
the ends, and curved, and the nails were
long. It was more like a claw than a
hand.
He turned confidingly to Isla.
“The bitch is on heat. Makes it
awkward for working. But you know
how these things are ...”
Isla’s gaze fell to the ground. But she
nodded, trying to appear unconcerned by
his startling frankness.
“That one’s her.”
He pointed with pride to a restless little
animal.
“But real sharp she is. Knows a thing
or two, that one. Just . like all the
girls . . ”
He laughed, and his teeth were milk-
white, long and pointed.
A NUMBER of rats were hunted out
by the five vigorous, keen little
terriers. The cowyard and dairy, the out-
houses and stables, the barn and the store
were all cleaned out. Little rats, big rats,
old rats and young rats were dislodged,
killed and triumphantly exhibited. Their
soft grey bodies formed a mound in the
backyard—a mound which steadily grew
each day and was demolished in the cool
of the evening when Ben Tippin lit a
fire around it, and the sickly smell of
burning bones .and fur invaded every
corner of the Dumley house.
In between hunts Ben would wander
into Isla’s kitchen for a cup of tea, or to
sit and talk about other, greater, crusades
against rats.
He talked about many things, about his
room in town, and the girls who had
“chased the socks off him” ; about “places
he had done for rats,” and what went on
behind the scenes. And his manner, al-
ways familiar and intimately confiding,
grew a little bolder each day.
His jet-black eyes were always on her
face, watching the confusion, the tell-tale
color, the coy playfulness. She had an
occasional frightened feeling that she
was being adeptly cornered, and that
there was no way of escape.
At the end of the week it seemed
certain that no more rats were left. Ben
Tippin was satisfied that none had evaded
the relentless noses of his dogs, and
made his tally at a hundred rats; a
“round” hundred, all told.
D EN waited in the shadows at one end
*of the kitchen while Crawford,
flooded in the warm yellow light of the
Aladdin on the table, made up his pay.
The light was a great c!rcle in which
Crawford was the centre of interest.
Beyond it, in the dim half-hearted glow
of the outer reflection, Isla moved about
restlessly, shifting things and tidying up.
Her pink, soft mouth was drooping, her
flat eyes mourned resentfully. Her blue
silk dress shimmered in the light, fitting
smoothly over ample curves pulled in by
the bones of her corset.
“There’s your cheque,” Crawford said
ungraciously, at last.
Ben took the pink slip in his pointed
curving fingers, and studied it thought-
fully.
Eighteen pence off a round fiver. The
rotten old skinflint.
Isla’s wet, sad eyes were on his face,
watching his every move. He dropped a
lid over one eye, and chuckled inwardly
at the color which flew into her full
brown cheeks. Soft as dough, she was.
He rose to his feet.
“Well, I’ll be getting along. Must get
some shut-eye if I’m to catch the cream
coach in the morning.”
Isla wrung her hands in an excess of
dumb misery. Her imploring gaze fol-
lowed him when he went to the door and
stood there waiting.
‘lt goes at five.” Crawford had turned
towards a stack of accounts, dismissing
Ben Tippin.
“You’d better wake up early for once.”
Ben grinned, showing his long, sharp
teeth. His wicked little eyes flashed a
message to Isla. He opened the door.
Isla moved forward, and Crawford
glanced up, surprised.
“I forgot to shut the turkeys in,” Isla
said, suddenly breathless.
“I’ll go ... ” But Crawford was too
late in getting to his feet. She was al-
ready at the open doorway, her short,
fat body attaining an illusion of grace
as it poised there ready for flight. The
silk of her dress rustled like a sighing
breeze, and for a second her face was
turned back towards the light, the solidity,
and the watchful vigilance of her brother.
Ben Tippin pulled the door shut, lock-
ing the security of the warmly-lit kitchen
away from her reach, shuttingjthem both
out into a world of velvet night, dark
with impenetrable shadow.
His fingers bit into her wrist, the curved
nails cutting into her soft flesh. Down
the stairs he skipped, and she clambered
clumsily behind. He pulled her up level
with him, and she could smell the
peculiar musty odor that always clung
to his person and clothes, as though his
long association with rats had contami-
nated him.
(Continued on page 32.)
Leichhardt Pantomime.
Introduction in a Wax-works.
“Press that red button to the left: they can
talk, you know,”
The caretaker says, rubbing his nose; and so
We block his garrulous gullet with a shilling
As a white fish tossed to a seal averts grunts
and squealing,
And, moving a little more quickly, leave him
there,
Bunch of eyes and whiskers hung on the stair,
Well-fed, but watching us
With the seal’s dyspeptic, wall-eyed wariness.
But this proves profitless eavesdropping, the
broadcast secret.
Pressing the button brings hope for a moment
As worn gears settle into place with a guttural
cough:
We look for some shuffle in the rigid ranks of
the figures,
A jerk or flexion of stiff, padded limbs
Working back towards life from his death-rattle
of gears;
But no: wax gleams on discreetly under diffused
lighting.
Holds its changeless impression of a cavern
of glass,
Quite empty, not even a pebble reflected on
its walls.
Napoleon under the vast lee of Victoria,
The bushranger, the genius who murdered ten
wives,
All inscrutable — worse, uninteresting.
Our button sets off a record concealed some-
where,
One voice speaks for all, dampened, intangible,
Sexless —the hiss of the needle functioning as
breath.
Words fall glibly enough from motionless lips,
No errors, as a slick robot compositor
Pushes ancient headlines into accepted grooves;
Napoleon under the vast lee of Victoria,
The bushranger, the fellow who murdered ten
wives.
Stand still, immaculate, curiously close together,
While history gossips with stray tongue-clicks
of dust .
And here we find him. The magnificent Doctor!
Come splendidly home to the dark places of
his dreams,
Petrified with greatness, so formidable, while Time,
Books, death and children, in little fumbling
waves,
Flicker up vaguely, bubble, and slither away
From his granite, sharp black-and-white. He
yearned for this
Disdainful habit of anonymity
And wears it well, and —we should say, wears
it well,
Perhaps—though perhaps a little insecurely?
Come before Royalty, clothes and air resplendent,
With something at fault: latchet trailed from a
shoe ?
Cravat off-centre, proof of haste, of doubt?
Surely a tiny something —
Observe Victoria:
CANADA.
Her nose not Helen’s, well-devised withal:
A ship’s tough prow, say, or a valiant rostrum
Jarred by the storm, but never overwhelmed,
Cartilaged for collision with hostile fleets of
State,
And politicians murmuring at the oar-benches.
Ned Kelly, visored in an old tin can,
Laughs down the armored darlings of Maxi-
milian,
Dainty with greave and breastplate and painted
lilies,
Finical, polished—even the misogynist
Gloats self-assurance: lofty as the signet of a
king
That red stain on his tallow fingertip.
Now, back to the Doctor. And stare keenly
at him:
Notice his shoulders flinching, drawing away
As if they shrank from a freezing douche of
light.
Is it eyes he fears? —with all this shadow-craze.
This shadow-play, ache of the devious for the
linear:
Whiplash eyes of the bushman, amused eyes
of the scholar
That rend the old delusion, fall of night,
When tireless prying, the malicious rasp of
foolscap,
Pace out the wheeze of the swineherd in his
sleep,
Drawing out the thin white blood of flimsy
stars, f
And troubling the dim sky-roost of the burly
gods ?
A shrewd fear that only the great will know:
One night may see (such is the venom of eyes )
A god turned meteorite, dead stone falling
through space,
Dismembered galaxies—
or a man classified.
However, we press the red button. Miraculous !
A coat of shadows discarded. Everything neat.
Impersonal, columnar. Waxen lips are imagined
Mouthing approval, the weakening warlock
charm
Of the phonograph dilating waxen veins;
This is the Doctor speaking. Let him speak: —
“Ludwig Leichhardt, Australian explorer, born
in Prussia. Distinguished career as a science
student at Gottingen and Berlin. Felt that the
compulsory term of military training was un-
necessary to his education, and embarked on
a tour of Europe, accompanied by a friend
who financed the visit. Drawn to Australia by
the lure of science and a romantic temperament,
he gained reputation as a botanist, adding to
this knowledge a store of geological and bush
lore by wide travelling. In 1845, with a small
party, he succeeded in crossing the continent
from south-east to north, a distance of 3000
miles. A second expedition in 1846, attempting
a similar feat from east to west, was unsuccess-
ful. In 1848, while again endeavoring to make
(To be continued.)
the crossing, Leichhardt and a large body of
men and equipment disappeared completely,
and no authenticated trace of the expedition
has since been discovered.”
Remember that palace in a fading State,
Hedged by gaunt panelling, rotted tapestries,
(Old lances shaken with the crannying wind),
Footsteps, before the manacle-echo of cock-
crow;
Footsteps, and luminous visions flowering
From the dank, seedless ground. The insane
fury of moonlight.
And here the Prince, with vision and echo in
his eyes.
Paces beside the headless bowmen, hearing
A billhook swish the length of the pulsing arras.
Near a casement’s swirl of glimmer, he pauses,
cries
His agony to a stunned and witless firmament,
For a sign, for a share. Heaven will not be
blind:
Clouds must swarm up —there must be lightning,
lightning,
Drums in the bypath...
Now, the more sinister element,
Canker in the heart of drama. Crouched in
the stairway,
A servant-girl hides in darkness, watching the
Prince,
(His face drawn into the lines of a wrathful
ape
In unflattering moonshine). The gesticulations
And heavy motions of inept comedy.
He pauses, speaks, with a fine roll of eyes:
To whom ? Perhaps a conscience-stricken
mouse
Scurries away from the carpet, or outside the
window •
Some Gothic sparrow chirps its quiet remon-
strance —
A madman, babbling of time and death and
fortune
In twisted, foreign, abnormal syllables.
Here is dilemma. We shall certainly hear
Giggling, tall tales, tonight in the servants'
quarters.
This unimaginative, wayward property
Was strictly intended to swoon or shriek the
epilogue
Where Murder and Nemesis die, clawed fast
together —
Here, when fingers lock and unlock on the
poniard,
Much as they might lock and unlock on a
toothbrush,
She makes our problem. Which is pertinent:
Our Prince towering through anguish to pur-
pose, or our Prince
Bombarding blockhead stars with curious
words ?
A singular problem. This, then, is the mis-
fortune
Of the Prince and the Doctor. This is
pantomime.
FRANCIS WEB.


Make 1947 a real
ROLLS RAZOR
Long after the festive day has passed Dad will still
remember your thoughtful gift-if it’s from the House of
ROLLS RAZORS.
Three Rolls exclusive toiletries in tasteful gift box—
Hair Dressing, Shaving Cream, After-shave Lotion. All
chemists in New South Wales can supply. Price 10/6.
Readers Beyond N.S.W. Please Note : If you find difficulty
obtaining the Rolls Christmas Gift Pack send yout
remittance to us and we will see you are supplied through normal
channels. Add lj~ postage.
X:
m
SHI
*
30>
x
B 7
X
S
«
m
mm
>• «fe
V'V
p
ĥ
ħ
h
h
hh
h
h
a
/
/
c
P 7
Rolls "Viceroy 11 Non-electric Dry Shaver
Here for the first time since its popular pre-war days.
This splendid example of British ingenuity and
craftsmanship is hand operated. No soap ... water
... brush ... blades... electricity! In handsome
leatherette travelling case.
m
m
The World's Best Safety
ROLLS RAZOR
One blade with a perfect edge, plus a built-in auto-
matic strop and hone to keep it perfect. Solve his
shaving problem for life with a ROLLS RAZOR.
Price
These two razors from all good stores.
ROLLS RAZOR
Executive Office, Sales and Service Department, 8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: BW 2038.


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
M-31 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford , Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 fop particulars
ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS
THE PRACTICAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA FOR CHILDREN. Essential information for
Boys and Girls aged 7 to 14. Nearly 250 photographs, 320 pages. 12/- (post Bd.).
CHRISTMAS STORIES, by Charles Dickens. Three great books in one volume:
“A Christmas Carol”—“The Chimes”—“The Cricket on the Hearth.” Illustrated
with full-page colour plates and black-and-white drawings. 7/- (post Bd.).
THE BOYS’ BOOK OF HOW THINGS ARE MADE, by G. S. Ranshaw. The stories
are intriguing as well as informative. Numerous illustrations. Ages 10 to 14.
15/3 (post 4d.).
LITTLE WOMEN, by Louisa M. Alcott. One of the most popular books for girls
ever written. Delightful full-page colour plates. 7/- (post Bd.).
THE COMPLETE ADVENTURES OF BLINKY BILL, by Dorothy Wall. THE
COMPLETE ADVENTURES OF SNUGGLEPOT AND CUDDLEPIE, by May
Gibbs. Two delightful and ever-popular books. Full-page colour plates and
drawings. Each 12/6 (post Bd.).
FIRST ALPHABET AND JINGLE BOOK, by H. S. Bennett. Delightful colour
drawings throughout. 7/3 (post 4d.).
TINKER, THE LITTLE FOX TERRIER. NIPPER, THE LITTLE BULL PUP.
By Dorothy L’Hommedleu. Two charming Dog stories simply told and
beautifully illustrated. Each 4/9 (post 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.
Booksellerv and Publishers
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. MA 65 11.
Hot.' tired feet need
this treatment:—
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
it.and enjoy real loot,
comfort. * \ Cuticura
Ointment, €oap and
Talcum Powder—
the famous
fliticura
Ix-jOINTMENT
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE FOREIGN MINISTERS MEET.
A stone tomahawk couldn’t be blunter
than the advance notice given to Soviet
Russia by U.S. Secretary of State Mar-
shall, speaking at Chicago before leaving
for the Foreign Ministers Conference on
the Austrian and German peace
treaties, which got going in London last
week. Openly naming the Soviet Gov-
ernment in charging it with “deliberately
provoking animosities,” Mr. Marshall
further charged it with “trying apparently
to prolong the present unsatisfactory
state of affairs in Europe indefinitely.”
Mr. Marshall said he would “approach
the London conference with an open
mind” and would “seek only for a sound
basis for agreement” ; the emphasis was
on the word “sound.” There would not
be —as there was for Italy and the rest —
agreement merely for agreement’s sake;
meaning for Russia’s sake. On the
Soviet provocative propaganda, and on
the stand he would take on his own
country’s behalf, the Secretary stated:
We are not blind to any of the forms that
this attack assumes, and we do not propose
to stand by and watch the disintegration of the
international community to which we belong.
At the same time we are aware of our strength,
and of the fact that many countries greatly
need our helpv and friendship. We can afford
to discount the alarms and excursions that are
intended to distract us and to proceed with
calm determination along the path that our
traditions have defined.
Another Secretary of State —Mr.
Byrnes, who had much to do with the
shaping of U.S. post-war policy, taken
over from him by Mr. Marshall —de-
livered a striking speech a fortnight
earlier, which could be as strikingly re-
flected at the London conference table.
Differing from the lead-up to the last
meeting of the Ministers —held in Mos-
cow, and, as practically every forecaster
rightly tipped, utterly abortive—there
were this time advance reports: of a
possible Soviet change in London. On
this, Mr. Byrnes commented: “It is en-
tirely possible that the Soviets may con-
clude that world opinion is such that they
cannot justify a repetition of what
occurred at Moscow last April. If they
reach this conclusion they will make the
best possible settlement with Austria, and
they may even make a gesture toward
the German treaty”:
But it will be only a gesture. It will pro-
bably take the form of a directive to the
deputies to report back to the Ministers a draft
of a treaty containing such agreements as can
be reached and a list of the questions in dis-
agreement, which list will include all the im-
portant questions.
An Austrian settlement —if Mr. Molo-
tov should agree to one, as Mr. Byrnes
thinks possible—would mean the with-
drawal within a specified time of the
Soviet armies of occupation, not only
from Austria, but from some satellite
States, where they are kept on the theory
that they are necessary for protecting the
Soviet lines of communication to Austria
—of course, a palpable fiction. In Mr.
Byrnes’s view, even with the compara-
tively very minor achievement of an Aus-
trian treaty “people will be so happy that
they may be misled into thinking that a
German treaty is in sight,” For this,
Mr. Byrnes very flatly expressed his lack
of faith in the London conference. A
German treaty, he said,
will not be in sight unless we are prepared to
grant the Soviet demand to permit them to
participate with the other three members of
the council in the management of all industries
in the Ruhr, including particularly coal and
steel, and unless we are willing to grant their
demand for $10,000,000,000 in reparations.
Explaining why there can be no joint
participation with Russia in the manage-
ment of the Ruhr industries, Mr. Byrnes
said:
There are many reasons, but it is enough to
say we have been unable to administer jointly
with them any project in Germany, Austria,
the Balkans or Korea. Certainly we could not
successfully administer German industries when
such administration would demand daily de-
cisions as to the allocation of products of such
industries and relations with employees. There
would be constant disagreement and constant
irritation that would endanger the peace.
On the reparations issue, Mr. Byrnes
made a point not generally appreciated:
At Potsdam the Soviets abandoned their
demand for $10,000,000,000 in reparations and
made a settlement. They cannot now violate
their agreement and return to their former de-
mand.
One of those who formerly believed
in Soviet post-war co-operation for the
peace and welfare of the world —it was
on that basis he helped put through the
five “peace” treaties made largely in
appeasement of Russia —Mr. Byrnes ex-
cuses that attitude with: “In June, 1945,
no one could anticipate that the Soviets
would favor a continuance of chaotic
Chicago "Tribune.”
THE FAMILY TAKES HIM SERIOUSLY.
conditions in Europe in order to ac-
complish political objectives” ; about as
clear a picture as could be given of how
naive U.S. foreign-policy thinking must
have been. That, however, has ended:
“In the light of our experience with the
five treaties during the last two and a
half years there is no excuse for our fol-
lowing the same course with the Ger-
man treaty”;—
The disagreements between us in connection
with Germany are much greater than those
involved in the five treaties ratified. Under the
procedure of the Council of Foreign Ministers,
the Soviets will insist that there shall be no
peace conference until unanimous agreement is
reached on all those questions regarded by them
as basic questions. The United States, favor-
ing a peace conference in order that the smaller
nations may participate, will be under constant
pressure to make concessions in order to hold
a peace conference. The Soviets being really
opposed to a peace conference and being in
favor of delay will simply veto the calling of
a conference.
Even should France, Britain and the United
States, in the interest of peace, make conces-
sions that finally meet the demands of the
Soviets, we must remember that the Soviets
take the position that they are not bound by
recommendations of a peace conference. That
means that any modification or addition recom-
mended by the peace conference would have
to secure the unanimous agreement of the four
members of the Council of Foreign Ministers.
It requires but a statement of the facts to
show that our disagreements in the Council
may be for years and may be for ever. But
conditions in Europe do not permit the con-
tinuance of the chaotic situation in Germany
for years or for ever.
Therefore, Mr, Byrnes repeated the
proposal he had put forward in his book
Speaking Frankly —that “we should now
insist that a peace conference be called
for early in 1948”;
We would urge all Allied Governments to
attend the conference. We would ask that
each of the four members of the Council of
Foreign Ministers prepare tentative drafts of
a treaty and submit them to the peace con-
ference.
The peace conference then would proceed
through committees created by it to draft a
treaty. Decisions should be by a two-thirds
vote, including two-thirds of the nations that
made substantial contributions to the prosecu-
tion of the war. We [U.S.A.] must be willing
to be bound by any recommendation adopted
by a two-thirds vote of the members of the
conference.
If it is impossible to reach unanimity, we
should do everything in our power to induce
the Soviet Government to go along with the
rest of their Allies. If they refuse to do so,
then the other Allied nations should go ahead
without them. This would not be making a
separate peace. It would simply be saying
that no one nation can veto peace on earth.
If we follow this procedure now we will be
hastening the peace and certainly will be giving
to the smaller nations that fought in the war
the opportunity they have demanded to par-
ticipate in the peace.
If we do not follow this procedure now, the
probabilities are that at the end of a year
or so we will be forced to resort to it, or
we will permit the Soviets to veto in the
Council recommendations adopted by two-thirds
or more of the Allied nations.
Mr. Byrnes believes that “when the
Soviets see that the rest of the Allied
nations: intend to proceed with a settle-
ment with Germany, after making! many
protests they will attend the peace con-
ference and make the best settlement
possible from their viewpoint.”
In the optimism expecting some Rus-
sian change at the London meeting, a
N.Y. “Times” special correspondent in
Berlin has seen a measure of hope in the
Russian failure in its German zone. The
correspondent reported the Soviet-held
zone as “worse fed, clothed and heated
than the United States zone.” The Rus-
sians “are practical people, and while
they know that cold and hunger are
powerful allies of revolution, they surely
do not want a revolution against them-
selves.” Politically, the correspondent
reported, the Russians are “intensely un-
popular in their own zone”:
The stream of political refugees across the
“Green Border” into the United States zone
is so great that it almost requires a traffic-
control system. This stream is composed not
only of the rank and file of citizens, but it
also includes many officials of State Govern-
ments and large cities, some of whom the
Russians themselves put in power. Secret
arrests and disappearances are chronicled daily
in the German press.
The fact remains that the Germans don’t like
the Russians —Czarist or Bolshevik —and never
have. If the Russian occupation had proved
to be an economic • success it is unlikely that
there would have been much trouble, for the
Germans can stand a lot if they are warm and
well fed. But it has not proved successful.
The Western zones are able to import large
amounts of food and clothing and medicines
to make up the deficit —the Russians can do
little of this because they do not have the
commodities and their own situation is so bad
that they cannot afford them anyhow.
In the correspondent’s report those
facts have led to the belief in Germany
“that the Russians are about ready to
cry quits and co-operate in putting an
end to the German problem” ; they are
“getting tired of the game of tag in Ger-
many and are looking for a graceful way
to end it.”
However that turns out, the great differ-
ence between the present meeting of the
Foreign Ministers and the ones before it
is that this time there is a plan of action
as an openly-declared alternative to
further Soviet blocking. As a N, Y.
“Times” writer has put it: “The Western
Allies have moved inexorably toward
separation of the Western two-thirds of
Germany from that area controlled by
Russia and Poland. Even France has
finally given notice of her intention to
join the Americans and the British if
nothing constructive happens at London.”
DARK-AGE SLAVERY.
“This,” William Henry Chamberlin
has commented in reviewing Forced
Labor in Soviet Russia, by David J.
Dallin and Boris I. Nicolaevsky, “is
without any question one of the most im-
portant books of the year.”
Himself an authority on the Soviet
Union, which he has been studying since
its beginning, Chamberlin names the
joint authors as “two Russian emigrant
scholars.” Saying further that their book
is “one of the most revealing ever com-
piled about one of the most significant
aspects of the Soviet system.., .the book
contains almost everything that is known
or can be known about forced labor in
Russia,” Chamberlin gives the following
information based on it:
There are more slaves in the Soviet
Union today than there were in the
United States when Abraham Lincoln
issued the Emancipation Proclamation.
This term slaves is not a question-
begging epithet, based on the fact that
most Russians work for the State, not
for a private employer. It is an accurate
and literal description of the status of
millions of human beings who are con-
fined behind barbed-wire in concentra-
tion camps, escorted to work by armed
guards, tracked by bloodhounds if they
try to escape, overworked, underfed, kept
in fetid barracks, without protection
against the cold of the Arctic regions,
where many of the concentration camps
are located.
They are completely without human
rights and may be and often are killed
or tortured with impunity. They are
slaves not of individual owners, but of
the Soviet political police, now the great-
est exploiter of slave labor in the world.
One group of these forced-labor camps,
the so-called Dalstroy, covers an area of
bleak and inhospitable eastern Siberia
that is six times the size of France.
The whole Soviet economy rests on a
gigantic substratum of slave labor, of
cruelty and exploitation not only unparal-
leled but almost unimaginable in any
free and civilised country. What began
as a self-styled dictatorship of the pro-
letariat has ended by creating a slave


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £51,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Safeguard the future
, , , of your family
.. by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drSwn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he has these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs m
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Paviell
Manager;
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.:
C. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY »■*•»*•«
HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, Ajrican and Australian .ricked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured,
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
proletariat infinitely more miserable and
hopeless than any laboring class that ever
existed under a wage system.
For a long time the outside world
obtained only sketchy and fragmentary
accounts of the reversion to slavery in
the Soviet Union. This began, on a large
scale, Chamberlin records, in 1929, very
significantly just when the “Soviet Gov*
ernment was blotting out the last re-
mains of private trade and of individual
ownership of the land by the peasants.
In no field of Soviet life did the iron
curtain function more rigorously. There
is no authenticated case of a visit to a
Soviet concentration camp by a free and
independent observer. Most of the slave
labor is utilised in remote, inaccessible
regions of northern Russia and northern
Siberia, Escape from the camps to
foreign countries has been rare and diffi-
cult. Soviet citizens who got out of these
grim institutions alive for obvious rea-
sons did not publish their experiences.
And until the outbreak of the Second
World War the vast majority of inmates
of the camps were Soviet citizens.
What helped very much to break down
the wall of secrecy about the introduction
of slavery in Russia was the mass deporta-
tion of inhabitants of eastern Poland
after the Soviet occupation of that terri-
tory in 1939. Over a million men, women
and children, members of groups and
classes which were suspect in the eyes of
the Soviet authorities, were packed into
freight cars and shipped to Russia. Many
found themselves in the forced-labor
camps. Then, after Hitler’s attack on
Russia, there was an amnesty for Poles
imprisoned in Russia. a hundred
thousand of the deportees succeeded in
getting out of Russia and making their
way to England, France, Italy and other
Western countries. Among them were
many educated men and women, who set
down detailed records of what they had
seen and suffered.
From such now abundant first-hand
sources the authors of Forced Labor in
Soviet Russia compile their indictment
of the Soviet reversion to the Dark Age
of slavery. “The mountain of evidence
piled up in this work,” comments Cham-
berlin, “is overwhelming,” fully justifying
the accusing final statement:' —
The terrible truth is that out of Russia’s rich
historical past the Soviet leadership, after pro-
longed vacillations and against opposition from
within, has chosen to revive the harshest, most
cruel and barbaric features.
The authors estimate the number of
actual Soviet slaves as 10,000,000.
GREEKS-TURKS MATEY.
Back to earliest times there was seldom
any love lost between Greeks and Turks,
but apparently common peril, with the
pressure from the north on both of them,
is working wonders.
Reporting in N. Y. “World-Telegram,”
after a long visit among both people,
Dr. Edward Byng has stated: “For one
like myself, who witnessed the destruction
of the last Greco-Turkish war in 1922, it
is not easy to realise that sincere friend-
ship exists between the two countries to-
day.” Dr. Byng declares that “Greece
and Turkey have not only liquidated their
centuries-old enmity, but by the manner
in which it was done have given the big
Powers and the rest of the world an im-
pressive example of higher statesman-
ship,”
The main element of that statesmanship
was “the agreement [1923] to eliminate
the chronic cause of their many wars once
and for all by repatriating their
minorities the first instance of the
exchange of populations by voluntary
record, and 100 per cent, successful.”
The exchange magically wiped out the
old enmity, and has been followed by a
friendship that has “withstood the test of
the last two turbulent decades.”
In Dr. Byng’s opinion, any Balkan
conflict would see Greeks and Turks
“lined up side by side defending Thrace,
the Bosporus and the Dardanelles.”
HASTY FREEDOMS.
With India —that subject of countless
wiseacre attacks in the U.S. on British
imperial policy—as a violently disillusion-
ing example, various American quarters
are having second-thoughts. Thus N. Y.
“Daily News:
We’ve had our share of sour things to say
about the British Empire from time to time.
The spectacle presented b'y India, however,
gives us to wonder whether British imperialism
could have been 100 per cent. bad. At least
the British kept reasonable order in India for
generations; and up to now the native politicians
who have taken over are unable to do even
that.
An American woman correspondent —
Margaret Parton, of N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” —reporting on “the fanatical
communal outbreaks engendered by the
division of India,” finds “the dream of
Indian independence” turned into “a
nightmare that hias left the Hindu and
Moslem peasants crying out for a return
of ‘the British Raj’.”
In fact, regarding India, the time is at
hand for blaming Britain for handing
over independence too soon ; and, though
the Palestine terrorist inciters are still
Richmond ( U.S. ) "Times-Dispatch."
DEADLOCK .
blatantly asserting—in large advts. in
U.S. newspapers—that Britain has no in-
tention of getting out of the once Holy
Land, there will no doubt be even louder
blaming of Britain when it does get out
from there. [London “Times” Jerusalem
correspondent reported on November 16 ;
“The withdrawal of the British Army,
which is to end in complete evacuation,
has begun. It is being made by sea from
Haifa and by land across the Egyptian
border to Port Said.”]
N. Y. “Post” writer E. A. Mowrer com-
ments that the danger in movements to-
wards political freedom is not that they
will be suppressed or thwarted, but that
they will “succeed too much.” Designat-
ing the fighting in Indonesia and the
assassinations in Burma as “symptoms of
over - rapid emancipation,” Mowrer
added: —
The danger is that in enfranchising itself
too quickly from one sort of “foreign im-
perialism,” a backward people will both worsen
its living standard and fall under a new tyranny
of a worse sort.
Under the Dutch they [Javanese] were ad-
mirably though despotically administered. By
no stretch of the imagination can we expect
the new “Native” rulers to do so good a job.
When the new set of rulers turn out to be
more incompetent and oppressive than the de-
parted foreigners, the headaches will begin.
Then for the first time the benefits of former
Western imperialism will be appreciated. The
British gave India a far more humane and
prosperous regime than it could have achieved
under any of the Indian tyrants the British
overthrew or under the Indian Governments
set up now.
“It is not,” Mowrer commented, “to
prevent Javanese liberty, but to prevent
the unjust confiscation of Dutch
property” that Netherlands troops have
been used. “Some, if not most, of the
colonial peoples now so vehemently de-
manding independence are incapable of
self-government”: —■
What will be the reaction of disillusioned
nationalists when, five or ten years from now,
they discover that in freeing themselves from
foreign “imperialism,” they have become poorer,
not richer? That they have replaced foreign
tyranny by a domestic tyrant of a more odious
and incompetent sort?
Are they not likely either to turn to anarchy
or to Soviet totalitarianism?
It seems to me that they are. It seems to
me that this is the chief reason why Soviet
agents trained in conspiracy are active in all
emancipation movements and why they are
urging the native nationalists to accept nothing
less than full independence here and now.
Once such premature independence fails, the
Soviet Union will be the obvious beneficiary.
For the same reason, it is in the interest of
the United States that emancipation movements
proceed slowly enough to be successful. From
our point of view it is desirable that Pakistan
and Hindustan should remain self-governing
parts of the British Commonwealth, that Indo-
China and North Africa should stay within the
French Union, that independent Indonesia stick
with the Netherlands.
Those Americans who urge the contrary are
serving a foreign interest.
Mowrer’s comments could have been
inspired by Canberra adoption of the
Communist line towards the Dutch.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Coincidence. —Australia is to have one .thing
in common with the U.S.A. next year: a great
national event on the first Tuesday in November.
In America it’s the Presidential election.
* * * *
U.S. Strike Controls. —Taking a poll among
U.S. workers on the labor law,
Opinion Research Corporation brought to light
some significant results. The 60-day “cooling-
off” period before a strike was approved by
78 per cent, of all workers questioned and by
70 per cent, of union members. There were
like majorities supporting the right of employers
to sue unions for breach of contract. No less
than 85 per cent, of union members favored
the requirement of financial statements from
unions.
* * * *
Joe Does a Twist— Former U.S. Secretary
of State James F. Byrnes recalled in a recent
speech the suggestion he made two years ago
for a 40-year treaty by which U.S., Britain,
Russia and France would stand jointly against
any German re-arming. “When I made the
proposal to Generalissimo Stalin on December
24, 1945,” said Byrnes, “he told me if ‘you
make that fight you can rely on my support.
1 am confident that at the moment he was
sincere Later he changed his mind. Why,
I do not know.”
* * * *
Stimson Looks at Russia. —“It has been our
[U.S.] hope,” says former U.S. Secretary of
War Stimson in “Foreign Affairs,” “that the
Russians would choose to be our friends; it
was and is our conviction that such a choice
would be to their advantage. But, for the
time being, at least, those who determine
Russian policy have chosen otherwise, and their
choice has been slavishly followed by Com-
munists everywhere. Before we can make friends
with the Russians, their leaders will have to
be convinced that they have nothing to gain,
and everything to lose, by acting on the assump-
tion that our society is dying and that our
principles are outworn. Americans who think
thAy can make common cause with present-
day Communism are living in a world that does
not exist.”
* * * *
Jolly Good Club. —Canada’s first High Com-
missioner to India, John D. Kearny, landing
at Delhi, recommended the British Common-
wealth as “a good club to belong to,” as his
own country, he said, had found it. He added:
“It has stood more than one global emergency,
it has been of benefit to those who are mem-
bers of it, and I think it will again contribute
in no small measure to world stabilisation.”
* * * *
"Displaced Persons.” —Figures for the
current alphabetical fashion dubs “D.Ps.,” as
given in N. Y. “Journal-American” from U.S.
Congressional records: “There are perhaps
1,000,000 Europeans who do not wish to re-
turn to their homes for political or social
reasons (they fear to go under the wing ot
Communism). About 21 per cent, are children;
13 per cent, are over 44 years old; 20 per
cent, are Jews; 65 per cent, are Catholic; 15
per cent. Protestant; a majority was in agri-
culture before the war, but the group also
includes variously skilled workers; 60 per cent,
are in the United States Zone and will cost
$130,000,000 to support this year.” Despite
that cost, Congress declined to do anything
about the Stratton Bill proposal ,tQ admit
400,000 of them to the U.S.
* * * *
Russia Halted. —In editorial comment “Chris-
tian Science Monitor” reports “growing con-
fidence in Washington that Russian expansionism
has at least been temporarily checked,” to the
great surprise, it says, of the U.S. State De-
partment, which “can hardly believe its eyes.”
The evidence that Russia is now on the defen-
sive, the “Monitor” adds, is growing daily:
“The very violence of all her vociferous Vyshin-
skys only deepens the impression among those
who know Russia best.”
* * * *
Against Bureaucracy. —In a “Foreign Affairs”
article, largely given to indicating what his own
Conservative party has in mind for the general
direction of Britain, Anthony Eden insists that
“a function of government is to promote con-
fidence” because: “Industry must take risks in
order to prosper, and there must therefore be a
clear definition of the respective fields of action
of government and of itself. Commercial
hazards are increased beyond reasonable bounds
if progress is liable to be impeded by a mul-
titude of minor controls and the necessity for
licences, permits and the like. Events move
too fast for wholly centralised direction to be
practical, and the specialised technical know-
ledge which the modern world demands is not
synonymous, with even the most well-meaning
or well-staffed of bureaucracies.”
* * * *
Debate by Insult.— With mighty little achieved
otherwise, the latest U-N.O. General Assembly
meeting can go on to the record for new
depths in insult and abuse. “The insults,
N. Y. “Times” has editorially commented, “are
all from one side. Opponents of the Com-
munist delegates confine themselves generally
to Parliamentary Janguage and the persuasion
of reason and logic. The Communists accept
no such restraints. All who oppose them are
freely described as liars, slanderers, traitors,
quislingsj Fascists and warmongers. We were
shocked when Mr. Molotov first began to dis-
close these tactics in the early session of the
Foreign Mirfisters’ conferences. We were
amazed when Mr. Vyshinsky on the floor of the
Assembly burst into an explosion of insults.
The apparently hysterical Dr. Ales Bebler of
Yugoslavia carried the debate to a pitch of
insulting invective never before recorded in the
troubled history of the United Nations. As
Mr. Spaak of Belgium ironically put it, ‘lf
the force of an orator can be judged by the
insults he makes, then he [Dr. Bebler] has
reached the summit of eloquence.’ ” Adding
that some propose “a change of rules to limit
such displays and protect the presiding officer
from open flouting by loud-mouthed delegates,
the “Times” insisted that “some effort to relieve
the tension must be made if the Assembly is
to function.”


h
h
BATTERY is like
* WATCH
*
The secret of the power-full Vesta Battery is the active
material—the power-producing HYDROX particles
heat-sealed into the plate framework by patented
processes licensed exclusively to Vesta in Australia
and New Zealand.
An additional exclusive feature GLASSKLAD
provides flexible and porous spun glass retainer mats
which surround and bind the surfaces of the positive
plates and prevent the loss of those vital particles of
power-producing material which, through vibration
and gassing, drop rapidly and uselessly away from
plates in ordinary batteries.
retainer mats
HELP TO
PREVENT
THIS. . .
B Y
HOLDING THE
ACTIVE MATERIAL
ON THE
POSITIVE
. PLATES
I
GAIO.J
M
YOUR
SERVICE-STATION
For
VESTA DE-LUXE GRADE
BATTERIES
WITH PATENT
HYDROX PLATES
CLASSKLAD
y Bsfa Batteries have proved
superior fo ordinary batteries in
• CAPACITY
• SUSTAINED VOLTAGE
• LONGER LIFE
■■v.r.
Mil
§>
m
mm*
m
US
n
H
—w
1
m
m
m
■ •
■
■■•■.'■
m
i
m
mi
*<
m
m
S:
9nAdde
VESTA BATTERIES
PATENT
VVi
PLATES
FOR GREATER CAPACITY
RETAINER MATS
FOR LO NG E R -LI F E
COMPLETE RANGE OF BATTERIES FOR
CARS - TRUCKS - MOTOR-CYCLES
RADIO - HOME LIGHTING AND MARINE
VESTA
THERE
BATTERY COMPANY PTY. LTD., ELIZABETH & McEVOY STS., WATERLOO. NS W
IS A VESTA BATTERY DEALER IN EVERY TOWN IN AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3538
Wednesday, December 3, 1947
THE COMINFORM CARMAGNOLE.
“Don’t be in such a hurry, little fellow. You’ll get your chain and orders in good time."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
COURT BATTLE OPENS.
After a month’s debate, restricted in the
House, the Chifley Government’s bill to
enact the first step in socialisation of
Australian industry—called the Banking
Bill, 1947 —was received back into its
authors’ hands from the farther end of
the Parliamentary machine. With the
expected signature attached, it was
promptly summoned into the High Court
to meet that constitutional challenge
which has excited from “Labor” alter-
nately derision and vituperation.
This legislation , is detested by a
majority of the Australian people, shaken
at last from a habit of taking their poli-
tics too easily. In its passage it evoked
a formidable mass of protest by way of
petitions from electorates all over Aus-
tralia requesting a referendum before en-
actment. It aroused, particularly through-
out country districts, an opposition so
vehement and spontaneous as to have
given pause to a Ministry with any sense
of responsibility either to Parliament as
an institution or to the people as' a de-
mocracy. It brought about the shatter-
ing defeat of the Victorian “Labor” Gov-
ernment and party at an Assembly elec-
tion. It produced a special convention
of the Federal executive of the A.L.P. at
which the public reaction to the bill was
recognised as so alarming that the Prime
Minister was permitted to drop without
more? ado proposals for the much-adver-
tised early second step in the socialisa-
tion programme —the nationalisation of
all insurance business.
In the ranks of the Government also
there have developed distinct tremors of
uncertainty. Mr. Chifley and his col-
leagues are not actually retreating; they
cannot retreat, for they have crossed the
Rubicon and burned their boats. They
have damned themselves as leaders of a
party which henceforth need not expect
to be treated as an honest seeker for a
popular mandate from any election plat-
form. Caucus members became so dis-
turbed at the reactions in inland Aus-
tralia that Mr. Chifley had to tell them
to get up and “fight” for their political
lives; yet it appeared, by the Prime
Minister’s own confession, that his plea
about averting the effects of a depres-
sion was mostly poppycock. His confi-
dence that the legislation would pass
scrutiny for constitutional validity may
also be waning. Defeated in a scheme to
rush the banks and eject bank directors
before they could take legal action in self-
defence, Mr. Chifley, who had refused to
give assurances in Parliament of a decent
interval before the issue of notices under
the Act, was obliged to give them,
through counsel for the Crown, in
Court.
This was done in the absence of, and
presumably without reference to, his
Attorney-General. That functionary,
whose presence at U.N.O. can scarcely
have been more urgent than his duty to
meet in Parliament the charges against
this legislation of his drafting—or, at
any rate, his originating— had cabled
through his press hounds overseas every
imaginable alibi for remaining abroad
till the bill should become law without
his aid. The acting Attorney-General,
for his part, described as “foul insults,”
not the disgraceful personal attacks on
High Court Judges by one of his own
colleagues and by the Speaker of the
House from the floor of the Chamber, but
the observations of Opposition speakers
on the atmosphere in which the banking
issue would reach the Court.
In the Senate, where Government sup-
porters had the debate practically to
themselves, the level and the character of
the “Labor” speeches would have been
despised asi cheap and flashy at even the
least erudite “School of Arts” in the< old
days. The stereotyped address was to
allege that all who did not agree with
“Labor” were in the pay of the bankers,
though a notable variation was provided
by a septuagenarian Senator from the
Adelaide Trades Hall, who suggested that
every opponent of the bill ought to be
charged with un-Australian activities and
that Mr. Menzies should be deported.
These imbecilities were matched by those
of Mr. Haylen (Parkes), who at a meet-
ing (rather rudely hostile) in his elector-
ate described Mr. Chifley as “another
Abraham Lincoln, who will be read and
loved by Australians when all the blather
has died down.” Another Abraham
Lincoln dedicating himself to the
proposition that “government of the
people by the people for the people shall
not perish from the earth!” As Samuel
Butler would have said “O God, O
Gettysburg! ”
Everybody—even the “Labor” crowd
at Canberra —knew that, because the
Government had a sure majority in both
Houses, the decisive challenge to this
legislation could be delivered only in the
Courts ; and to the Courts the issues' have
now been transferred. But the essential
matter for decision is one which properly
can be resolved only by the people them-
selves through the ballot-box. The
Chifley Ministry and the whole “Labor”
party with it have avoided any such solu-
tion, taking the hypocritical stand that
by the time they must next go to the
people the question will be dead, or at
any rate the trading banks will be. Be-
cause of the Government’s utter con-
tempt of what the people’s view may be
after “the eggs have been scrambled and
cannot be unscrambled,” the efforts of
all those striving to maintain freedom in
this democracy are centred in the com-
bined appeal to be made to the High
Court, and, if necessary, to the Privy
Council.
Besides the case initiated by the trading
banks, the Premiers of Victoria, South
Australia and Westralia had given notice
of proceedings of their own, based on the
argument that the Bank Grab Act is
“subversive of the Federal principle of .the
Australian Cbnstitution and would
destroy important legal rights of the
Australian States.” The essence of the
case for the States is that the Bank Grab
Act “would be inconsistent with obliga-
tions imposed on the Commonwealth by
the Financial Agreement” (authorised by
the Constitution as amended by Section
105 a in 1928) “and would be a breach
of contract on the part of the Common-
wealth.”
For the States mentioned it is pleaded
—and with some force since the High
Court has decided that the Chifley Gov-
ernment’s 1945 Act was invalid where it
sought to deny to the States, and to semi-
governmental bodies in the States, the
unfettered right to do their banking busi-
ness) where they like—that the Financial
Agreement of 1928 conferred on the
States a constitutional right to arrange
(by implication, with similar freedom)
their own temporary accommodation by
way of bank overdrafts, and that as a
matter of contract the Commonwealth
was barred from impairing this right. The
Agreement provides, under Section 5
(“Borrowing by States”), that:
A State may.... subject to limits imposed
by the Loan Council for interest, broker-
age, and other charges, borrow moneys
within the State from authorities, bodies,
funds, or institutions (including Savings
Banks) constituted or established under
Commonwealth or State law
Obviously embracing institutions such as
the trading banks. Again:
Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Agreement, any State may (subject
to maximum limits for interest, etc.)
borrow money for temporary purposes by
way of overdraft, or fixed or special or
other deposit
The Commonwealth Government, under
this agreement with the States, reserved
to itself similar rights, outside the Loan
Council. Clearly the two parties to the
Agreement—Commonwealth and States
—acknowledged in each other, despite the
provision for Loan Council regulation, a
reserve of independent sovereign right
to make thdir own temporary financial
arrangements with banks or any other
local source of funds, as they always
had done. The freedom to do this was
a distinct feature of the Agreement, and
the S.A. Premier maintains that this right
of a State to choose its own bank was
approved by the High Court in 1932
(N.S.W. v. the Commonwealth), when the
Court upheld against the Lang Govern-
ment the Financial Agreement Enforce-
ments Acts.
Since, apparently, a denial of the same
right attempted in Mr. Chifley’s Bank
Act of 1945 was declared unconstitutional
last August by the High Court, can the
States’ rights in this matter, affirmed
twice by the Court, be extinguished by
action on the part of the Federal Govern-
ment to destroy the trading banks, and
thus the 1928 contract with the three
States?
On this ground the States protest that
the Bank Grab Act seeks to undermine
the original Federal compact, just as the
banks protest that it seeks to assert poli-
tical direction, through banking, over all
industrial enterprise in the community.
These purposes are part of “Labor’s”
objective, which is to socialise industry
and production as well as exchange, to
annul the Federation, and abolish the
States. The one defect in the present
effort to begin the business is that
“Labor” has not got, the electors’
consent to it —a defect which the
“Abraham Lincoln of Australia” rates as
insignificant. Well, he and his fellow-
travellers have quite a bit to learn yet.
France and Australia.
Anyone with knowledge of Communist
organisation in Australia must view
events in France with a sinking in the
stomach.
The pattern of what is taking place in
France is all too familiar. The Govern-
ment is disorganised and divided. The
population is still more or less docile,
having been inured to pressure by forces
overriding its own will. Its unionism has
for years been organised on “industrial”
lines with malice aforethought. Key
unions .in coal, in transport, land and
sea, in the metal trades and in education
have been regimented under Communist
command, which is now using strike-
armies to paralyse the nation in the
interests of Russian imperialism, as it
paralysed the nation in 1940 in the in-
terests of German imperialism.
In France in April, 1940, M. Leon
Blum, one all-too-intimately acquainted
at first-hand with the aims of Com-
munism, could say that “in France we
do not distinguish between the propa-
ganda of the Nazis and the Communists ;
the Communists pass on Hitler’s orders.”
The Communist party was then sup-
pressed, but not early enough, after it
had sought to wreck the French war
effort by organising strikes and dis-
turbances ; also, by creating dissension
among conscripted soldiers, through
the circulation of thousands of foul per-
sonal letters alleging the misbehavior of
wives with British officers and the serious
illness of parents and loved ones.
Later the Communists appeared in the
guise of patriots, haters of Hitler and his
invasion. They publicly shaved the heads
of girls who had consorted with their own
former allies the Germans, and howled
for the blood of Retain, whom they
themselves had helped to sell out to the
Germans in 1940. By a people hypno-
tised by Moscow propaganda they were
accepted at their own face value. They
pretended to embrace constitutional
methods in order to worm themselves
into a position to usurp government
by force. But, as always happens with
people who are hypnotised, their victims
began to wake up too early, precipitating
a contest in which the agents of Moscow
have bared their fangs, have cast aside all
pretence of “democracy” and are attempt-
ing to create a civil war in which, with
Soviet help, they propose to capture
France for the “Eastern Bloc,” before the
Marshall plan operates to ti® France into
the comity of civilised Western nations.
Better, in the eyes of the Communists,
that France should be torn to' pieces in
a welter of bloodshed and anarchy than
that American aid should be accepted.
The Australian Communist party, like
the French Communist party, was all for
Hitler in 1940. It was suppressed as a
subversive organisation, as it was in
France. It revived as it did in France on
a wave of fervor for “our gallant Soviet
ally.” It secured control of the identical
types of union which are now on strike
in France —coal, land transport, builders’
laborers, wharflaborers, seamen, metal
workers and teachers. And as in France,
Communists have insinuated them-
selves into key positions in the civil
service, carrying on their party activities
sometimes —as was alleged recently in
the case of a fellow who is now abroad
as an official Commonwealth delegate to
an educational conference —under false
names.
Here, however. Communist agitators
do not suffer from the disabilities which
afflict them in France, where the perils
engendered by their operations are better
understood. In the Commonwealth there
is no Garde Republicaine. The interlock-
ing of trade-unionism with political
“Labor” has resulted in a system under
which Communist-ruled unions can
dominate the Canberra Administration
and have their orders to it carried out
whenever they wish. If the Communists
decree that Australia shall be on the side
of Japanese collaborators in Indonesia,
because those same collaborators have be-
come Russian collaborators, the thing is
done in contempt of public opinion. And
as with “Commonwealth matters” so with
State matters. For two days last week
a handful of Bunnerong “workers” shut
off almost the whole industrial power of
Sydney on the basis of “claims” for which
there was not the slightest urgency, and
the chief of which concerned the privilege
of a few (in effect granted by the president
of the Industrial Commission) to eat
meals away from machinery.
On such pretexts the greater part of
the industry of Australia’s largest city
was suddenly stopped. Housewives were
deprived of domestic heating. Surgical
operations were cancelled in hospitals.
X-rays, no matter how urgent, could not
be made. In a western suburbs hospital
“two lives were placed in jeopardy when
the operating theatre was suddenly
plunged in darkness.”
All this can happen without even a
protest or a show of indignation from
the Commonwealth and N. S. Wales
State Governments, both “Labor.”
And it can be taken for granted that
if Communist unions carry out a plan
to prevent by strikes the Liberal-C.P.
State Governments of South Australia,
Victoria and W.A. exercising their consti-
tutional rights on the banking issue, there
will be no interference from Canberra.
All the satisfaction anybody gets who
is foolish enough to raise the question
of Communist activity is Mr. Chifley’s
assurance that “Communism in Australia
is a philosophy which it is legal to pro-
fess.” Of course it is, since his crowd
removed the ban on Communist organi-
sation and propaganda and has made a
practice of surrendering to Communist
illegality.
Such a condition of affairs cannot
continue indefinitely. So far, though the
Communists and their supporters have
openly declared themselves to be involved
in a “class war,” there has been only
one side in the war. But a situation is
bound to arise in which the side which
has hitherto always been on the receiv-
ing end, will be goaded into defending it-
self. If violence results the blame for it
will be on the heads of Mr. Chifley and
his followers and associates.
Are You There. Mulcahy?
An old “Labor”-Communist furphy was
revived during the debate on the Bank
Grab Bill.
The old “Labor”-Communist furphy
is that there was a harrowing mor-
tality during the depression which hit
Australia when “Labor” was in office in
the Commonwealth, N. S. Wales, Victoria
and South Australia, and which saw
“Labor” Administrations arrive in
Queensland and Westralia before it was
over.
First in point of infamy was the
effort of the Blain-slahderer Mulcahy,
who has become such a target
for returned-serviceman hostility that it
is feared in “Labor” circles that he may
resign and return to his beer-pump. After
wickedly attacking the honorable and
gallant member who was a prisoner of
the Japanese, and after repeating
another cruel lie that has been
bowled out scores of times (“a great many
members of the first battalions who
achieved fame in North Africa” had been
“living below the breadline; they
donned uniforms to ensure that their
families should receive sustenance”), Mul-
cahy said for record in “Hansard.”
“The private banking system could have
saved thousands of lives during the de-
pression had it wanted to do so.”
If this was Mulcahy’s conviction, Mul-
cahy should have dissociated himself from
private banking for all time. Did he?
No.
An extract from “Hansard,” November
6, page 1783 ;
Mr. Mulcahy: I am one of those who
traded with a private bank long before
the Commonwealth Bank was established.
Mr. Harrison: The honorable member
still banks with a private bank.
Mr. Mulcahy: Yes, and I believe that
the bank is pleased to have my business
I am also pleased to have accommodation
from the private banks occasionally.
So although the iniquitous trading
banks abandoned to a ghastly death
“thousands of lives” which they “could
have saved” Mulcahy wasn’t even moved
by the alleged atrocity to transfer his
account to the Commonwealth Bank
to keep the blood taint out of his beer.
The truth is that the infantile-mor-
tality and crude deathrates were lower
during the four depression years than dur-
ing the years immediately preceding and
succeeding.
Infantile-mortality rates {i.e., number
of deaths under one year per 1000 live
births) were 54.47 in 1927, 52.96 in 1928,
51.1 in 1929, 47.24 in 1930. 42.14 in 1931,
41.3 in 1932, 39.52 in 1933, 43.59 in 1934
and 39.78 in 1935. Crude deathrates {i.e.,
number of deaths per 1000 of annual
mean population) were 9.42 in 1927 and
1928, 9.52 in 1929, 8.56 in 1930, 8.67 in
1931, 8.63 in 1932, 8.92 in 1933, 9.32 in
1934, 9.46 in 1935 and—extending the
analysis beyond the depression years—
-9.43 in 1936, 9.44 in 1937, 9.64 in 1938
and 9.93 in 1939.
All this information' is preserved in
Commonwealth Year - Books. These
volumes, when consulted, are very apt
to put liars and slanderers down.


PLAIN ENGLISH
You Save; We Squander.
Our 1946 architect of the Golden Age is
now subject to fits of the dismals con-
cerning the dollar position. In another
of these paroxysms he foreshadowed
“further severe cuts in all major imports
from dollar countries” —motor vehicles
and parts, petrol, tobacco, newsprint,
machinery, agricultural equipment; al-
most everything except 1 films, though the
politically powerful film interest
(“Labor’s” great ally at the 1929 elec-
tion) may have to resign itself to another
pruning of “dollar remittances.
All-too-probable effects of the other
measures are higher prices and loss of
jobs by men in the affected industries,
which in any case don’t know where
they stand. _ .
At least one financial writer m Lon-
don (Reuter’s) found the Chifley an-
nouncement “mystifying,” his i n [° r "
mation being that “sterling had
“strengthened, rather than weakened,
against the dollar. ” Another ( Daily
Mail”) wrote that Sir Stafford Cripps, at
a party meeting, had “revealed fresh facts
about the dollar position ’ in the pro-
cess of “outlining it in all its stark-
ness.” The truth is that the “Follow
Britain” policy, of which “Labor used
to be so scornful, has been altered with
complete “Labor” acceptance. It is now
“Follow the British Tabor’ party in its
economics of scarcity,” the idea ap-
parently being that if these ■ Labor
Governments” don’t hang together they
will hang separately.
Meantime striking at American and
Canadian export trade —Canada’s ac-
counts for a third of the national income
—can scarcely be regarded as a panacea
and may be poison. Nor do frank and
friendly consultations with the Govern-
ments at Ottawa and Washington seem
to be in the picture. And while forcing
industry to save dollars, the “Govern-
ment” has done no saving on its own
account.
Ministers, minor politicians and trade-
union bosses, some of them Communists,
have had dollar-squandering trips galore.
The expensive outfits Dr. Evatt has set
up in the Americas involve a con-
tinual drain on dollars—“dollar diplo-
macy” it might be called. While the dis-
mals were .descending on Mr. Chifley
once more, Dr. Evatt gave an expensive
U.N.O. party at a fashionable New York
joint, and at the same time Australia
had a damn-the-expense U.N.E.S.C.O.
delegation, complete with Communist, at
Mexico City. Moreover, there have been
lavish and totally unnecessary purchases
of Constellations for the Government air-
line, whose financial operations are
shrouded in mystery, and of latest-model
Buicks —presumably replacing the fluid-
drive Chryslers—for Ministers and other
privileged persons along with a reckless
consumption of petrol. In these matters,
as in other matters, “Labor” never prac-
tises what it preaches.
Anarchy or Law?
» X
Justice Taylor, president of the N.S.W.
Industrial Commission, chose an unfor-
tunate time for the delivery of an address
to “union leaders” on industrial arbitra-
tion, which, to Justice Taylor, “needs
simplifying and streamlining,” the
“streamlining” to be accomplished, in
part, by additions to the horde of Con-
ciliation Commissioners. On that day
France had been brought to the verge of
civil war by nation-wide Communist
strikes, ordered in the main by the
General Confederation of Labor and the
Central Trade-Union Organisation, both
controlled by Communists ; and Italy was
in little better case.
Was his Honor moved by these con-
siderations to stress the necessity for
checks on the power of trade-unions, in
particular the secret ballot, at which Com-
munists in all countries laugh? He was
not. On the contrary, he maintained the
proposition that while industrial-law en-
forcement should be placed at the service
of unions it should, in effect, be denied to
wage-payers, and so to local communities
and the nation. What other interpreta-
tion can be placed on the subjoined
words, which were spoken at the Henry
Lawson Labor College, Sydney?:
There are some people who want to know
why industrial law cannot be enforced as
the criminal and civil law is enforced. For
one thing, we do not possess a police force
to enforce industrial agreements. For
another thing, crimes such as theft are com-
mitted by individuals or small groups, but
offences against industrial law are usually
committed by large bodies of workers. They
are not crimes in the ordinary sense, but
acts performed by powerful groups en-
deavoring to enforce their rights against
other groups. It would be quite wrong to
enforce the law in industrial offences in
the same manner as we enforce the law
against the individual.
With due respect to the lecturer, this is
nonsense and dangerous nonsense.
No law, criminal or industrial, is worth
a rush unless enforcable and enforced
against all citizens. To concede immunity
and grant the right of anarchy to power-
ful bodies of unionists, so apt in all
countries to assert powers greater than
those of the State, is to give away the
case against civil war.
Mr. Taylor’s views are not accepted in
Queensland, where proceedings for con-
tempt of the State Industrial Court-
counterpart of his Commission—have
been begun against ringleaders of the late
Government railwaymen’s strike, which
failed because among other things eight
unions refused to join in. His views have
been flatly repudiated by the United States
Congress. , .
Under an Act of Congress immense
fines were imposed on and collected from
Lewis, the coalminers’ boss, and his
organisation on account of an unlawful
strike.
Congress proceeded to pass the
Labor-Management Relations Act, which
outlaws strikes of Federal Government
employees, admits of heavy damages
being recovered from unions held guilty
of illegal strikes and refuses arbitration
privileges to all unions with Communist
officials. Incidentally it contains a whole
sheaf of clauses protecting individual
unionists at the point of their relations
with union bosses, guaranteeing them the
right of free speech at union meetings,
shielding them against extortion of ex-
cessive dues and levies, requiring the pub-
lication of annual balance-sheets, and in
all things guarding them against tyranny,
“EXCELLENT, YOUR EXCELLENCY!”
whether exercised by employers or union
executives. Above all, against the savage
penalties imposed by ruffians on alleged
t)S 95
Dark threats of active opposition
to the Labor-Management Relations Act
by the union hierarchy have been
abandoned, it having been found that the
general body of unionists approves of it.
And, very significantly, two great
union organisations, the A.F.L. and the
C. 1.0., each of which contains far more
members than there are unionists in
Australia—the A.F.L. membership is
almost equal to the population of the
Commonwealth—are standing solidly be-
hind the Marshall Plan, that abomination
to Communists everywhere.
In fact, with the rule of law and popu-
lar sovereignty established, and accepted
even by those who challenged them —
Communists excepted, and American
Communists are on the run—there have
been no more revolutionary strikes, and
the Great Republic, offering as it does, in-
stead of Communist misery and misrule,
mercy, pity and peace to distracted
Europe, goes from strength to strength.
Murder at Kaevieng.
The Australian War Crimes Court
which has opened its sittings at Kowloon
(Hong Kong) is trying Rear-Admiral
Tamura Ryukichi, Commander Yoshino
Shozo, Lieut.-Commander Mori Kyoji,
Lieutenants Mochizuki Higitaro and
Suzuki Shozo and Chief Petty Officer
Horiguchi Yoshio.
These Japs Have pleaded not guilty to
charges covering one of the most brutal
atrocities committed on Australian
civilians at Kaevieng, New Ireland, m
March, 1942.
The story is that when the Japanese
occupied Kaevieng, they interned the
civilian inhabitants, including some of the
residue of old-time German inhabitants.
Most of these internees were elderly men,
but they included one 14-year-old boy.
In March there was heavy Allied bomb-
ing of Kaevieng, and Rear-Admiral
Ryukichi, believing it to be softening-up
preparatory to an Allied landing, ordered
Yoshino Shozo to execute the prisoners
if a landing should take place. The order
was passed on to Kyoji, who took the
prisoners to the edge of Kaevieng South
wharf and there murdered them by ju-
jitsu methods of strangulation and dis-
location, which were adopted because they
were “noiseless and would not attract
attention.”
The bodies were thrown into barges,
weighted with cement and dropped into
deep water.
The trials will not finish for a few days ;
but whatever the outcome Federal
“Labor” will have a case to answer.
With nearly two months’ grace between
the Pearl Harbor attack and the actual
invasion of New Guinea Labor left
many of the unfortunate civilians of
Rabaul and the New Guinea islands to
fall into the hands of a barbarous Asiatic
enemy, no attempt being made to remove
them.
Electors Can Vote on This,
Hotfoot upon the passage of the Bank
Grab Bill, knowing the people are against
it and refusing to put it to a referendum,
the Chifley crowd are attempting a further
approach to socialisation through per-
manent control from Canberra of prices,
charges and rents throughout Australia.
The obvious merits possessed by price-
corttrol during war-time and transition-
from-war are fast disappearing, and the
system has become just another vehicle
of socialisation in the eyes of “Labon
The centralised regimentation of people’s
daily life and business, now proposed to
be made everlasting, is outmoded with
the end of the world-war ; and, even if it
were not, no sane Australian would
voluntarily sign for one shred of such
powers to be entrusted to the Chifley-
Evatt set-up. The “Labor” crowd at
Canberra do not know how to keep an
election pledge, their failure to subdue
or control the wide-ranging blackmarket
has become a public scandal, and every
bid of theirs to secure new bureaucratic
powers is suspect.
They won’t keep faith with the people.
If they had any conscience in that matter
they would have put the bill for their
First Step in socialisation of industry to
the public verdict, either at a referendum
or at- a general election. They had no
mandate for it, they did not want to seek
a mandate, for they knew they would not
get it. They will not get a mandate for
permanent “controls.” But this time they
will not be able to put the thing over
without a mandate, and the electors will
have an opportunity to tackle them on
the general socialisation issue.
The powers sought are not necessary,
except for the further limited transition
period already agreed upon. They are
a clog on production, enterprise, and
every variety of trading business', delays
are doing more to encourage scarcity and
inflation than would beforehand have
seemed possible. Rents can be controlled,
as they were before the war ever brought
this scourge, by States’ Rent Courts.
Control of prices and charges (and what
may “charges” not include?) is designed
by the Canberra socialists first, foremost
and all the time to eliminate profits,
which is to say, all private enterprise
whatever.
In Australia, as in Britain, these crack-
brained planners of a world dead to any
economic activity except that run by
bureaucracies are fast reducing normally
healthy mercantile peoples, as consumers,
to a state of poverty and commercial
stagnation which eclipses even the hard
times caused by war shortages. Their
public economies are not recovering from
the war, but deteriorating. The whole
ridiculous facade they are trying to erect
would collapse on their heads tomorrow
but for the temporary props for it fur-
nished by the United States. It is time
the thing was allowed to flop and high
time the blackmarket was stamped out.
Every blackmarketeer will vote (and as
often as he can) for price-controls by
Canberra.
Finally, if this nation is prepared to
give the Chifleys further powers even to
run a hot-dog stall, it will deserve its
fate.
We Can Do More.
The British, whose humor always comes
to their aid in adversity, coined a comic
song during the 1914-18 war with the re-
frain “We ’aven’t seen a pertater f’r
munce an’ munce an’ munce.” During
the 1939-45 wars and the dreadful
period since, the potato has stuck to
them like —well, like a Briton. But a bad
season and characteristically bad
“Labor” arrangements have cost the
British this staple item of their diet —
potatoes are now rationed to 31b. a week
for adults, for small children and
for expectant mothers; and the
ration may be reduced.
Australians are far from insensible to
the plight of their British kinsfolk. From
end to end of the Commonwealth they
are sending food to Britain, and under
the new Express Parcels scheme —
whereby payment of 10s. and an address
given ensure that within three weeks the
addressee gets four tins of varied meats,
11b. of dripping and a packet of pastry
mixture —the stream has increased, the
daily average being 7000 parcels.
If the flow is to be regular and
speedy the parcels must necessarily be
of one pattern —they are, in a sense,
mass-produced —and it is certain that the
recipients don’t look upon them as
monotonous. A housewife can do many
things with four kinds of canned meat,
dripping and pastry mixture. If anyone
feels like sending other kinds of food —
such as jellies and sweets —he is at
liberty to do so, though such parcels
must travel outside the Express scheme.
Can we do more? We can. The
Commonwealth is enjoying a bountiful
season, and all Australia would like
Britain to benefit from it. But, great as
is the work of the Food for Britain
funds, it is all purely voluntary. There is
no great national drivethe Govern-
ment prefers to divide and alarm the
nation with a Bank Grab Bill.
Meantime, because one State (N.S.W.)
is to hold municipal elections on
a certain date, new ration books
throughout the land were issued a
week earlier, giving what the Rationing
people are pleased to call “a Christmas
bonus” of extra butter, meat and tea to
every Australian. The extra butter alone
runs into 1250 tons, or nearly loz. extra
for everybody in Britain, It might have
been thought that among the herds of
Commonwealth officials one would have
been found to work out a means of
saving that butter for the British.
Prospects for 1970.
“Malthus IPs” reminder of another
sort of “recession”:
There are no gloomier statistics than those
which deal with the growth in world popula-
tions, and if anyone wants to sound the full
depression of a wet city week-end he need
only shut himself up with the compendium of
addresses given at the 12th Summer School
of the Australian Institute of Political Science
at Goulburn in January, 1946—republished now
by the Australasian Publishing Co., Sydney,
under the heading of A White Australia.
The matter is now nearly two years old, but
the grievous crisis depicted is, by the same
token, two years nearer, and evidently it is
considered, quite justifiably, that very few heard
the warnings which these students of demo-
graphy sought to convey to their fellow-
countrymen, and that they should be more
widely apprehended. .
It is shown that the population m Western
Europe is, relatively with Eastern Europe and
Russia, declining to the extent that by 1970
the east will “dominate” the Continent. While
n.-w. and central Europe will drop from 234
millions (1940) to 225 millions (1970), s.-e.
and eastern Europe will .expand from 165 to
192 millions, and Russia from 174 to 251
millions. Russia includes, of course, all northern
Asia The rest of Asia (mam part) will grow
from 862 millions to 1250 millions—giving, m
1970, 88 millions in Japan, 636 millions in India,
and 526 millions in China. S.-E. Asia will
double its numbers—from Mi to miUions,
including then 131 millions in N.E.I. Ihe
two Americas will show an advance of from
276 to 363 millions (U.S.A. 133 to 151), Aus-
tralasia from 9 to 11 millions (Australia 8).
They go on to say, these demographers, that
our own empty cradles are becoming emptier
because there are not enough females in pmsen
cots and too few of them bear enough chil-
dren The reasons why are given great space,
hnt as to the correction possible there is no
guidance—except that "we’.’ (the Westerners)
should encourage industrialisation of Asia i
order to urbanise greater numbers and so re-
duce fecundity. One authority (Prof. Elkin)
suggests° we must “re-think White Australia”
and admit small quotas from Asia. .
There can be little doubt that famine and
disease will impose some checks on Asiatic
overcrowding (with results dangerous to the
whole world), and that these agencies, together
with war, will be more likely to assert thera-
selves than the influences of Western sophis-
tication in restriction of birthrates. .
Perhaps, too, the calcidaTors may be proved
wrong- wildly wrong about the U.S.A. ana
Russia.' Australians, however ought not to
relax and rely upon the possibility.


N
8574
CRAVENA
are so different*
ilii
smooth.
CARRERAS LTD. • OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
1
M
POLITICAL POINTS
Doggerel in circulation at Canberra on
Thursday:
Will the pen tremble in his hand
Who signs the Royal Assent this day?
Or will the business go as planned,
Without misgiving or delay?
Perhaps a moment’s pause may give
A sobering thought to Turf Club Will:
He grants himself two years to live
As G.-G. if he signs the Bill.
He signed it.
Sydney Zionists are giving Dr. Evatt
credit for bringing about the “settlement”
in Palestine, though congratulations seem
premature; and the familiar American
panegyrist has discovered that his hero
“blew the dust off the formerly insigni-
ficant Australian portfolio of External
Affairs.” An atrocious injustice to W. M.
Hughes, who, when the population was
only five million, got for Australia the
island territories in which the Japs were
held. Comparing the results of that
achievement with the “plumage-changing”
doctor’s beating of the wind, Billy’s
little finger may be fairly judged thicker
than Bert’s loin.
The Communist bosses of the Miners’
Federation, annoyed because there was
300,000 tons of coal at grass in Queens-
land-Communist policy on coal is to
keep industry on a hand-to-mouth basis-
have been at Chifley to “control” it or
something; anything to get it out of
Queensland. Chifley passed on the “in-
formation” that it was “Navy coal, accu-
mulated during the war.” Hanlon
corrected him —“it belongs to the coal
users of Queensland and is in reserve to
tide them over the Christmas-New Year
period.” The period, in other words, dur-
ing which the miners take a three-weeks
holiday.
Even the friendly Melbourne “Age”
roundly tells the Chifley crowd that it is
inviting defeat on the referendum seeking
permanent control of prices:
Events of recent months have so adversely
influenced national opinion that the referen-
dum is foredoomed Nothing is more
certain than an adverse vote.
That seems sound enough. If “Labor”
could not carry the 1944 refer-
endum —before it had shown its hand
on socialisation with permanent control
of everything—what chance would it
have today? Probably what the Chifleys
really want is a test of how public feeling
stands on as favorable a topic as possible.
It might also provide some guidance for
redistribution of the electorates.
Wool exports, on which Australia de-
pends so much, have been halted again
by a strike of tally clerks, ordered by the
Reds of the Clerks’ Union, among them
that rotten Communist dog Hughes.
The like would be impossible in the
U.S.A. since the Taft-Hartley Act came
into operation; but in Australia union
attacks on the nation encounter no resist-
ance from the Chifleys, though law is at
their service. Chifley “won’t crucify the
workers” ; in other words, he is afraid
to say or do anything to Communists,
who can always put the wind up him and
his crowd.
Back from an eight months’ trip to
Britain and America, the primary purpose
of which was to arrange the conversion
of Brisbane Council’s American loans,
Lord Mayor Chandler had some caustic
things to say about the Prime Minister’s
action in virtually ordering him off the
American market. He said his negotia-
tions were going along swimmingly when
he got a cable from Chifley warning him
off. The flop of a Commonwealth loan
in New York forced him to return empty-
handed, the Bank Expropriation Bill com-
pleting his failure.
Attlee recently mentioned steel pro-
duction as a bright feature of an in-
dustrial landscape with many black spots.
So, naturally, his crowd is going to
cripple it by “nationalising” it. Sentence
on the iron and steel industries was
passed by the Leftist blatherskite Aneurin
Bevan, who has made as poor a fist of
Housing as the other Leftist blatherskite
Shinwell made of Fuel.
Father Tucker, of the Brotherhood of
St. Laurence, who gave a shock to Mel-
bourne’s complacency with his slum film,
has followed it with an even more appal-
ling example, “These Are Ouf Children.”
The story is built round a brother and
sister who appear in a Children’s Court
on a theft charge, and it reveals their
background—insanitary homes with post-
age-stamp backyards; front doors open-
ing on footpaths where the street is the
only playground. It shows how some of
the children —and these are probably the
most adventurous in spirit—escape from
this environment into delinquency. The
environment selected by Father Tucker
was Fitzroy. Fitzroy’s Federal “Labor”
member is Calwell, whose battlecry is
“Populate or perish.”
Previously held in May, the N.Z. muni-
cipal elections were transferred to
November so that “thousands more
people might exercise the right to vote”
—tp vote the ticket of course. It didn’t
work out that way. In Dunedin “Labor”
lost all its six seats on the Council, three
Ms.P. and a former Minister of Health
being on the rejected list. And two
former “Labor” Ms.P. were defeated for
mayor, one in Auckland and the other
in Invercargill. In Wellington the anti-
Labor Citizens group elected the mayor
and 15 members of the council,Ts Labor-
ites and two Communists being defeated.
The approach of the bushfire season
in Victoria has produced the usual crop
of warnings, one Forests Commission
officer on survey pointing out that grass
is growing right up to the doors of houses
and homesteads, whose owners haven’t
bothered to plough-in or burn-off. The
State has a grim history of a year when
70 people perished and thousands of
homes were destroyed, and of other years
almost as tragic. But men have short
memories, and the fact that the new
equipment of the fire-fighting organisa-
tions has not been tested by a major out-
break seems to have lulled the com-
munity to sleep. The official attitude is
that the departments concerned have
made unprecedented preparations and
that the matter now rests with the people
concerned.
There was a wonderful Victorian-
election prophecy in a Sydney Sunday
paper (Oct. 19):
It will not be surprising if Cain is re-
turned, the Victorian Legislative Council is
abolished and Labor—after winning on its
own battleground then invades the
Liberals’ pitch, and proclaims a verdict
by the people of a major State for the
Chifley banking bill.
It would have been intensely surprising
to Cain,
What Canberra is pleased to call “a
drastic campaign” to wipe out illicit use
of petrol began with a silly order that
consumers must get their coupons from
the one issuing office, and a sillier in-
struction that if a man used all his De-
cember coupons to take the family away
for a holiday he’d have to wait until
somebody sent January coupons to get
them back. Lack of petrol is no worry
to the “Labor” crowd that bought a fleet
of fluid-drive Chryslers during the war,
and another of latest-model Buicks be-
fore the dollar cuts came in.
More petrol is being used in this
country than need be for two reasons:
(1) Federal “Labor” policy on imports of
cars and lorries forces thousands to use
old cars and lorries which chew up the
juice, and (2) Government railways are
going from bad to worse —partly because
of coal shortages and partly because in
the two biggest rail States they’re under
Communist control. So more and more
people and goods are being carried by
road and air. It simply wouldn’t occur
to the Canberra crowd that the ration-
ing system in itself is conducive to higher
consumption and blackmarkets. Haven’t
they got Liquid Fuel Control Boards to
harry private owners- of cars and utilities,
though not politicians?
From the Rev. G. Anderson, Foreign
Mission secretary, Presbyterian Church
(Victoria):
In B. 23/7/’47 it was stated that Seoul,
the capital of Korea since 1392, is in the
Russian zone. Possibly the writer of the article
had in mind the seat of the Administration
of the North. Seoul is about 50 miles south
of the 38th parallel and is in fact the head-
quarters of” the U.S.A. forces of occupation.
I was in Seoul a few months ago. I could
not have gone there had it been under Russian
control.
Full of threats that they would call all
Queensland coalies out on strike unless
Premier Hanlon accepted the Chifley-
Communist Joint Coal Board, the Com-
munist bosses of the Miners’ Federation
backed down when they discovered that
Premier Hanlon wouldn’t budge because
all Queensland was behind him and that
Queensland had 300,000 tons of reserve
coal, enough to see it through a Christ-
mas strike. Hanlon and Chifley are now
to “confer” in January. The strike set
to begin last Saturday was called off.
When a resolute man with something to
argue with stands up to Communist
strikemongers or Federal “Labor” Minis-
ters, they “squib” it. <s,
Archdeacon Robertson, rector of St.
John’s, Canberra (“Here is a continuing
city”), to the Church of England Men’s
Society at Armadale (Vic.);
I have been closely in touch with Com-
munists. They are at Canberra —some in
high places and in the scientific world. I
have listened at their public meetings to
their challenge that there is nothing in
Communism that a Christian cannot hold.
I have known Russian Ministers and the
staffs of the legation. But we differ —they
have no room for God in their religion.
Their freedom is a slavery.
The archdeacon did not name the Com-
munists who are in high places at Can-
berra and in the scientific, world.
Charged in Los Angeles with violation
of U.S. lottery laws Arthur H. McKell
said he “smelled some politics” in his
arrest because of his relationship to the
Gee-Gee. The Americans will be flattered
at the suggestion that their Federal De-
partment of Justice is open to influence
from Australian politicians. One, Amour,
was recently in San Francisco, where
his “influence” in humiliating circum-
stances didn’t amount to a row of pins.
Colonel “Blue” Allan, delegate to the
R.S.L. Congress at Canberra, on the
state of New Guinea: —
No tobacco, clothing, rice or meat is
available to natives; to whites or natives,
no benzine, lubricating oils, bread, flour,
milk, cigarettes, beer or fresh food
Lack of copra sacks and benzine has
stopped production of copra and cocoa.
....Unless supplies are sent immediately
... .many people resident since before the
war will be forced to abandon New
Guinea....
Ward, the Minister responsible:
Another alarmist story.... sheer misrepre-
sentation there have been no complaints
from the Administration.
And as Beatrice Grimshaw once re-
marked, “New Guinea, queen with blood
on her lips, smiled.”
A British concern sold pears and
onions on the blackmarket. It was fined
£31,250 by the Court, one of its directors
being fined £3125. A few penalties like
that in Australia and blackmarketing
would lose its savor. But so long as
magistrates continue to impose laughable
penalties of a tenner or so the thing will
flourish. The average blackmarketer
considers even a £5O fine a cheap licence
to carry on.
If Cain were not as loyal and forgiving
a “Labor” politician as there is in the
business he would take a fall out of
Bright Boy McKenna, who has been
groomed by Chifley for a job he’ll never
have. To McKenna it is wishful think-
ing to say that “Labor” was beaten in
Victoria on the banking issue. He doesn’t
give what he considers the real reason
for the biggest defeat Victorian “Labor”
has ever suffered, but if he claims that
the election was fought on purely State
issues that is as good as saying that the
Cain Administration was so bad that the
electors threw out 14 of its 31 members,
with three Ministers among the 14. None
of Cain’s Lib.-C.P. opponents believes
that, but McKenna believes what he
chooses to believe rather than admit that
the Sank Grab is against the wishes of
the people. .
Ottawa has announced the sale of the
fleet of 170 vessels, mostly 10,000-tonners,
owned by the Canadian Government and
operated for it during the war by a ship-
ping co. Canadian shipping cos. bought
most of the ships, and the remainder
were sold abroad. The prices received
totalled 77 million dollars.
From “T.J.H.” (Perth, W.A.):
So Mr. Calwell did not blame Mr. Lang for
the collapse of the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank; he blames the trading banks (B.
22/10/’47). The writer was on the staff of
a trading bank in Sydney when the calamity
occurred. That bank held huge sums on fixed
deposit on account of the Savings Bank. To
try to assist the Savings Bank in its difficulties
it released the interest-bearing deposits before
maturity. Let Mr. Calwell add this information
to his fund of knowledge, but one would be
quite safe laying long odds that he will never
use it.
Promising a surplus in his last Budget,
McKell, now “the Prisoner of Zenda,”
left McGirr with a massive deficit, and
McGirr has foreshadowed another for
the year to June 30, 1948. The recent
rises in all transport fares will enable the
railways, it is estimated, to provide
£60,000 towards a loss of £547,000
expected on the trams and buses. And
the full effects of a universal 40-hour
week, which McGirr called down on
N.S.W. in a hurry some months ago, will
not make themselves felt until January.
McGirr in his belated Budget, presented
with nearly five months of the financial
year gone, did not mention that.
Cabled that “some of Britain’s biggest
bankers and insurance houses” are back-
ing a scheme for a gigantic international
lottery with a first prize of £100,000,000.
“Financial experts” are quoted as saying
that it would get Britain out of her
economic tangle in “one bold move.”
Most of the tickets, say the sponsors, will
be sold in America. Those “financial ex-
perts” had better have a few words with
A. H. McKell before launching their
American sales campaign.
British Labor hasn’t very strong
grounds for self-congratulation on the
retention of Gravesend. Its candidate,
baronet Richard Acland, whether as a
Liberal or as founder and leader of the
Common Wealth party, always rolled up
a good personal vote. With 6512 more
people at the polls than two years ago
he beat the figures of the previous Labor
man —Garry Allighan, expelled from the
House for dishonorable, conduct—by
3083, the Conservative candidate being
up 8464. At the general elections it was
a three-cornered fight. “Labor” professes
to assume that all the Liberal votes —
5035 in 1945 —went to the Conservative
this time; but Acland, a wealthy man
who gave most of his possessions to the
nation, would appeal to many who would
not have voted for a trade-union secretary
or a careerist. The real test will come
when a candidate of either type faces
the electors.
Gravesend note, by airmail:
Sir Richard Acland was brought from Devon
to contest the by-election. He knows all the
tricks of electioneering and is a compelling
orator. The Conservative, Taylor, is a local
man, blunt, self-made and middle-class. The
Socialists made it a last-ditch fight and brought
an innovation to electioneering. A coach from
Westminster reached the constituency daily and
dislodged a load of Ms.P.; purpose, not to
address meetings but to canvass front doors.
Gravesend is rather more town than country
and has an electoral roll that is made up of
river-side and industrial workers, agricultural
employees and middle-class.


COUNTERFEIT PRESENTMENT.
“Mr. Chifley has been hailed by the obsequious Haylen, M.H.R., as ‘another Abraham Lincoln.'"
“There must he something wrong with the mirror."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jasby”: As a general rule I am
against strikes, but an item I read in the
paper today met with my approval. The
heading read “Strikes Hit Die Casters.”
I didn’t read what it was all about, but
I feel sure I am not alone in rejoicing
that at last someone has plucked up
sufficient courage to call the die-casters’
bluff. For generations they have gone
around casting dies indiscriminately, and
it has come to be accepted that once the
die is cast there is nothing that can be
done about it. Not that 1 am without
admiration for the man who, keeping a
stiff upper lip and screwing up his
courage to the sticking-place, nails his
colors to the mast and takes the bull by
the horns, but when he passes the Rubi-
con, burns his boats (or bridges) behind
him and announces that the die is cast I
think it’s time someone showed him he
is not the only one who can be as ob-
stinate as a mule. I don’t know who
those strikers are, but I hope they’ll stick
together through thick and thin and stand
to their guns as firm as a rock, steeled
to their purpose, true to themselves and
steady as time itself and go through fire
and water until they hurl those dies back
in the casters’ teeth.
* * * «
“Bumpk”: Williamstown (Vic.) is a
quiet, pleasant little port mainly fre-
quented by yachtsmen and longshoremen,
but it was roused from its slumber re-
cently when a report spread dfound the
waterfront that a sailor had been flogged
by a boatswain with a rope’s end and a
marlinspike while the chief officer stood
by and laughed. Port authorities were
as perturbed as union officials. The
rumor spread to Melbourne, and a re-
porter boarded the reputed hell-ship. The
surprised skipper had heard nothing
about the affair, and sent for the c. 0.,
who was' as astonished as the skipper.
Then he remembered that a seaman had
used “insolent and contemptuous words”
and been fined 10s. in accordance with
the regulations, which also provide that
such incidents should be logged in the
ship’s records.
« * * *
“Sixenate”; When a witness in a Syd-
ney court said that he had told the plain-
tiff that he would “See fly do it,” the
meaning had to be explained. In “fly,”
a leapfrog game once popular, the lad
who was “fly” had the right to set a
mark which other .players had to reach
in a leap. Any player who felt that the
task set was unreasonable could chal-
lenge with “I’ll see fly do it.” If “fly”
failed he went down as the under-frog.
The phrase was a useful one as a chal-
lenge to unreasonable requests, and be-
came well grafted into the idiom of a
former day. But because of injured
backs, broken arms and other draw-
backs, “fly” and the even tougher game
“saddle -me - nag” became prohibited
sports.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Experts are constantly being
sent abroad to study developments in
town-planning, but I’ll bet the experts
don’t find abroad anything so charming
as the Old Colonists’ Home which George
Coppin founded at Preston in 1869.
Coppin was proud of his profession, and
his cottage bears the inscription “G. S.
Coppin, Esq., Comedian, 1870.” The
settlement was designed as a refuge for
old theatrical folk, but there are few of
them there now. The pretty little houses
with their individual gardens are occupied
by old people on the old-age pension.
The winding roads are narrow, and the
residents can talk to one another across
them, and they can stand and converse in
the middle without running the risk
of being knocked down by a road-
hog. Modern plumbing and labor-saving
devices have been installed in the kitchens,
but the cottages still look like homes and
not surgical operating theatres. They are
the direct antithesis of everything a
town-planning expert would regard as
“model,” but I would sooner live in one
of them than in the best of the Housing
Commission’s modern horrors.
* * * *
“Silk”: Most bush towns have their
quota of yarns about unorthodox Jay
Pees (B. 6/8/ ’47). Two from the
Mallee: The Justice was a farmer and
short of harvest help. Very sensibly, but
against all legal precedent, he sentenced a
prisoner to three days’ hard on the wheel
of the winnower. Another ornament to
the Bench, delivering sentence in a minor
case, said “Fined five bob. This' ’ere
game’s got to be stopped.” Strange to
“ This'll remind you to bring home some steel Wool!"
say, none of the yarns records any serious
miscarriage of justice. The punishment
usually fits the crime in spite of the
ignorance of office, or perhaps because
of the absence of red-tape in the bush-
lawyer’s dispensations.
* * * *
“Sandgate”: I sank into the chair at
one of Brisbane’s hairdressing-cwm-'
Casket ticket saloons. “It’s better to buy
quarter-share tickets than full tickets,”
the barber informed me. I grunted.
“Except when you win a prize,” he added.
“Then full tickets are better.”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Freud would have classified
as a copybook example of connubial bliss
the school “old girl” (B. 5/11/ ’47) who
expected to find her married name carved
on the classroom desk she had occupied
12 years previously. Such a slip of
memory denoted perfect subconscious
satisfaction with her married state. In
contrast Freud tells how he was convers-
ing with a newlywed lady, when she re-
marked of a passer-by “There’s Mr.
Schmidt.” Freud, recognising the man
as the lady’s husband of three weeks’
vintage, saw in the trick of memory an
escapist mechanism, and predicted that
the itiarriage would not last a year. He
was wrong; the divorce came within six
months. Bill Jones, of our subbub, em-
ployed a less erudite brand of escapism
when a whiskered one, claiming a school-
boy friendship, breasted him in the bar
at Hogan’s. “Gam! There was nobody
in bur class with whiskers,” said Bill,
turning his back on the beer-sparrer.
* * * *
“Stunley”: I met the she-wolf (B.
12/11/’47) in England. My mate and I,
on our first Blighty leave in 1917, went
up to Lancashire and, taking a stroll
around the town in the dusk of a bitter
winter evening, we passed the gates of a
big mill just as a crowd of lasses with
clattering clogs on, their feet and shawls
over their heads came out. For a prank
my mate scraped some clean snow off a
windowsill —the stuff on the pavement
was filthy slush—squeezed it into a snow-
ball and let fly. For a second the clatter-
ing, chattering girls halted to stare;
then with one accord rushed at
us. Ten minutes later, our breeches
filled with the icy slush off the cobble-
stones and the same chilly, filthy stuff
smeared into our hair and down our
necks, we struggled to our feet and looked
after the retreating forces with a new
respect for the female of the species.
* * * *
“Macnell”: The Arabs say that hell
lies under the Persian Gulf, keeping it
hot. I’ve been in many hot spots along
the line of tropics, “hot enough to make
your blinkin’ eyebrows crawl,” but for
sheer, sizzling heat the Persian Gulf in
summer has them all scorched to a
frazzle. Once through the Ormuz Straits
you felt the humid heat press upon you
like a tangible weight. Men’s hands
went to their throats and the sweat
started to pour. The sun’s rays fell
steeply out of a cobalt sky, and bridge
officers wore a topee, spine-pad and
glasses with side-blinkers for protection
from the coppery glare -from the sea.
Ahead and on each side it lay mute,
smooth and sluggish as oil. Gazing down
from the bridge you sometimes’ saw a
shark slither alongside, or a black-and-
yellow sea snake, as fenomous as any
land variety, squirming slowly near the
surface. Double awnings were rigged
and kept soaked in sea-water. The decks
were running, and over the engine-room
hung a mist of steam. I swear you could
fry an egg on the steel deck. Seaboafs
had to be kept half-full for fear of planks
splitting wide open. Where we Aus-
tralians wore only the lightest clothes,
the Arabs muffled themselves 1 . The thick
clothes give protection from sunstroke,
though not from heatstroke, which is a
different thing; but presumably the
natives are immune from heat ill-
effects. We did our job and scuttled back
to Bombay; it was like an ice-box after
the Gulf of Hades.
* * * *
“B.B.”; A lass I know rents a room
in Sydney’s Elizabeth Bay—no cooking
facilities of any sort, and indifferently
furnished —paying £3 per week. Recently
the landlady, by effective snooping near
the bathroom, established the fact that
the lass inserted two pennies in the slot
meter for her morning bath. This was
not to be endured. The landlady-worm
turned. She herself, she stated, managed
to keep hygienic on one-penn’orth of gas
—why not her tenant? My friend felt
that as it was her small change that was
paying for the gas, no legitimate com-
plaint could lie against her. But no!
the landlady was on safe ground. She
had had a bill for excess-water rates!
* * * *
“Hep-2-3-4”: Shortly before V.P. Day
the C.O. of a battalion in a New Britain
base camp entered his office one morning,
noticed two-toed shoe-marks on his floor
and almost collapsed. He howled for
the Intelligence Officer, and the pair of
them followed the tracks like blood-
hounds —in the door, over to the area-
map on the wall, across to the document-
strewn table, and finally to the iron trunk,
kennel of matters “Top Secret.” They
then sped to the “I” Office and the story
was the same ; the footmarks led every-
where they shouldn’t have. There fol-
lowed an Army panic which by any
standards was magnificent. Security
heads at Brigade were called up and
soon had it taped as “a daring one-pian
raid for information—he couldn’t have
got far by now,” and were preparing to
send out a general alarm when the bat-
talion’s 2/i.c. awoke from the coma he’d
been in since the previous evening’s
formal mess and arrived still wearing
cloven slippers he’d souvenired a few
days before.
* * * *
“Millswyn”: As a move towards civi-
lised drinking let me commend the action
of a Brisbane pub. A line of railings
runs parallel to the bar, customers form
an orderly queue, pass along with their
drinks when served, and join their friends
in the bar-room. At no time is the space
between the rail and counter occupied
except when a purchase is being made.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: If there is any gratitude
in the sinful souls* of Tin Pan Alley
lyric-writers they must include in their
prayers a word of thanksgiving for the
word “blue.” Unlike any other word, it
will work on both sides of the fence.
Fully a thousand “I’s” must have plain-
tively informed their beloveds that “I
am blue when I ain’t with you,” or
words to that effect. On the other hand,
just as many must have, with noticeable
cowardice, vowed to “Return to you
when skies are blue.” The writer of the
epic “Nellie Kelly” was probably ex-
pelled from the lyric-writers’ union for
breaking new ground with a fresh rhyme
for “you.” But I often wondered how
the said swains contrived “all day long”
to bring “flowers all dripping with dew.”
Outside a Sydney florist’s shop I found
the answer. The “fresh-cut” blooms were
dripping with dew all right—the florist
was putting it on with a scent-spray.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: This city has unveiled a
church memorial that is probably unique.
It is a bronze tablet in the middle of
Simpson’s hardware factory in the middle
of Adelaide. The pillar on which it
stands is part of the first Congregational
church in S.A., built in 1837, only a few
months after the State began. A fine
Gothic building in memory of Quinton
Stow, opened in 1840, the old place
ultimately became part of the Simpson
factory, which keeps the ancient memory
alive,
W V * *
“Waddlin’ Wiiiie”: When Antarctic
exploration ship L.S.T. 3501 was prepar-
ing to leave Melbourne the crew were
daily receiving large of self-
addressed letters with the request they be
posted at Heard Island. It was estimated
the crew took 1000 letters from philate-
lists to the Antarctic post office, which
will operate all next year. It will be the
remotest postal establishment in the
world.
* * * *
“Mullum”: Touching “Disgusted Spin-
ner’s” par. on Australia’s national
pastime (B. 5/11/ ’47), in my five years
in the R.A.A.F. I never saw the game
played. Wherever I was camped poker
seemed the most popular, closely
followed by pontoon, I’ve often tried to
beat the bank at “ins and outs,” and
have had an occasional flutter at crown
and anchor. In one camp we played crib
for a zac a hole, and once I was trapped
into a game of twist, I’ve bet on beetle-
races, and the Yanks taught me to “roll
the bones.” Strange, then, that I never
heard the cry “Come in, spinner.”
* * * *
“Few Men Chew”: On the 18th day
of the eighth month of the Chinese
calendar —for resident Europeans Octo-
ber 2—special trains take sightseers down
to Hangchow, where they may witness an
event comparable in local importance to
the Melbourne Cup. The great occasion
is the meeting of an annual tidal-wave
and 40 miles of stone wall along the
north shore of Hangchow harbor. Occur-
ring when an especially high incoming
tide clashes with the outlet of the Chien
Tang River, the big wave rolls in and
smashes itself against the wall. Happily
drenched, the populace board their
specials again and head home, hoping
that the next 12 months will pass quickly.
* * * *
“Plop”: Australia has no monopoly of
bureaucrats —in England they’re thicker
than locusts, with keenness their ap-
parent watchword. Recently a member
of the clan employed by the Ministry of
Food spotted something suspiciously
labelled “Ginger Wine Essence” in a list
of unrationed commodities, and sensed
that he was on the trail of something big.
His tireless efforts ultimately established
that the words “wine” and “essence”
were considerably misleading and con-
travened Regulation 1 of the Defence
(Sale of Food) Act, 1943. Nor did he
rest until he had evolved a revised name
with which the manufacturers could
legally advertise their products. With his
masterpiece “Unsweetened Gingerade
Concentrate” —they should have a sell-
out.
A MODERN BEN ADHEM.
“Senator O’Byrne' (Lab., Tas.) complained that a
grave injustice was done to the Labor party when
Mr. Chifley’s claim that its distinguishing charac-
teristic was love of humanity' was received by the
Opposition with laughter and by almost the entire
press with derision.”
A trifle unctuous to arrogate
To any faction in our halls of State
That which amounts to a monopoly,
A sort of corner, in philanthropy.
A claim best met, perhaps, howe’er it riles,
With lifted eyebrows and with sceptic smiles;
Still, even politicians are excused
For laughter when they’re thoroughly amused
And editors, it’s sure, can never be
Restrained from mocking what’s derisory,
Including the apostrophe of Ben,
“Write me as one that loves his fellow-men.”
A wholesome thesis, it must be allowed,
But one that’s queerly practised by the crowd,
The motley mob that trails behind himself
In quest of fame and fortune, place and pelf.
Think, for example, how you would assess
The love that Calwell harbors for the press,
Or Falstein’s for the chaps who turned our eyes
Upon his watch-importing enterprise,
Or Eddie Ward’s for all who may refuse
Their acquiescence in his one-eyed views.
Still in their way they’re all of them, you ken,
Whales for the welfare of their fellow-men.
’Spite Arbitration laws, they wouldn’t like
To punish anybody for a strike
Or conscript Tom or Harry, Jack or Bill
For service that may be against his will.
There is but one compulsion they insist
Upon—he’s got to be a unionist.
And, while they rule, it’s sure as anything
Can be, no murderer will have to swing
However black the crime he may commit,
Proof final, when you come to think of it,
Of deep concern, beyond the reach of pen,
For one and all they view as fellow-men.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Zake”: The beautiful shanty some-
one hung on Harry’s eye is just turning
the same shade as the jacarandas now in
bloom. Harry is our suburban garage-
man, a soft-spoken, inoffensive chap who
agrees with everything everybody says,
including his wife. So we ruled out
marital discord. “A tyre-lever flying off
the rim of a wheel?” I suggested. “No,”
replied Harry firmly, “it was a dame.
The other day a big heavy car gets stuck-
up down the road and a duchess, built
to match her bus, comes along and gets
me to see what’s wrong with it. I goes
down, tests the ignition, petrol-line and
the rest, then gets underneath near the
sump. ‘Missus,’ I says, ‘your big-end is
probably half your trouble’ —and, ’struth,
that’s as far as I got!”
* H* *
“Oxmead”: The few authorities I’ve
ever read on the subject have always left
me with the impression that George ll’s
son, the Prince of fvales, was killed by
a blow from a cricket ball, not a tennis
ball (B. 26/11/’47), though I never ascer-
tained whether he was batting or fielding.
Certainly the missile couldn’t have been
what we know as a tennis ball nowadays,
for lawn tennis didn’t come into existence
till over a century later. However, if
“Becks” is right, it may have been royal
tennis, a game of considerable antiquity,
much more like racquets.
* * * *
“Bo”: The woman had been yapping in
the phone-box for 20 minutes. Outside
in the cold southerly a man had been
standing patiently for five minutes, his
brolly held at an angle to keep the driving
rain off him. He glanced at his watch,
then moved a couple of paces towards
the box. A few seconds later the phone-
user, noticing a difference in temperature,
looked around, and her lips took on a
thin, straight line as she saw the door
wide open. She tried to slam it, but it
wouldn’t budge. After a further half-
minute of tugging while trying to main-
tain a necessarily-distant conversation,
and vainly endeavoring to keep the rain
Off her legs, she said a hurried good-bye
and grabbed up handbag, parcels and
umbrella. As she moved out with fury
in her look the patient one stooped, re-
covered the hardwood wedge he had in-
serted near the hinges and discreetly
pocketed it, as he dived for his two
pennies.
♦ * * *
“Flip”: A friend of mine at the Water
Board tells me that there are some sad
types at large. “The most hopeless- case
I’ve struck yet,” he said, “was a chap
who rang the other day to say that his
bath was getting stained with the rust in
the water. ‘How long has it been like
that?’ my friend inquired. ‘Six months,’
came the reply. ‘Well, why didn’t you
contact us before?’ A little sob from
the other end and then: ‘But what’s the
use?’ ”
« * * *
“Oliver Filter”: Perhaps the laugh is
on me, but I derived considerable amuse-
ment from the excitement shown by some
Sydney newspapers over a Chicago Uni-
versity student who had a modest run
of luck in gambling—he converted his
bank of £4O to £2lBO at a Reno roulette
table. The papers reported with the. usual
respectful awe they accord gamblers that
the young man had a system whereby
he cashed in on lucky streaks “by
doubling and trebling his stakes, and by
suspending operations when an unlucky
streak appeared.” System my eye! All
the young fellow did was strike a winning
break until original outlay reached
£4000; then he started to lose and had
enough sense to pull when he had £2lBO
left. Actually, he only multiplied his
original capital by 50, which is nothing
phenomenal and no more than hundreds
and hundreds of Australians have done
and are doing at two-up and heads-and-
tails by “backing their luck.” They
generally lose it again, of course. The
“Are you the appendicitis case ?”
“theory of averages” is the only system in
gambling, and I’ve never yet heard of
anyone able to manipulate it regularly to
his profit. I’m tipping we’ll hear no more
of the young American and his system —
if he goes on with it I’ll bet a penny to a
pinch of fertiliser that the \Vheel will soon
reclaim its losses.
* * * *
“Point Lowly”: We Whyallans had our
chance to inspect the Gee-Gee, McKell,
the other day, when he blew in to inspect
our town. We gave him a dinner, where-
upon he announced his conviction that
Whyalla shipyards would soon be build-
ing bigger ships. We took him round the
town; he was “amazed” at its growth.
We showed him our schools and
churches; he commended us on our cul-
tural and spiritual activities. But there
was a noticeable haste about the way the
visitor was rushed round, as though
those in charge feared he might become
curious as to the absence of a turf club
or racecourse.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”; The citizen of Sydney drove
his car into the city and pulled into the
kerb at a spot indicated by a uniformed
officer.. He thereupon produced his driv-
ing licence, permit to hold same, registra-
tion certificate, fuel-consumer’s licence,
age, place of residence and evidence as
“I hope you're keeping count of all these.”
to where he had spent the previous night.
The car was then taken over by another
officer and driven away. The citizen en-
tered a bus and was there ordered to fill
in a form giving particulars as to his
marital state, family, address, union-
membership and food ration. The btis
took him to his office, and there, at the
door, he produced his work-card, taxation
clearance;' bank-book, clothing-ration
card and defined shop authority. He
then worked for six hours. After that a
bus took him to a parking station, where
he was called upon to prove his identity,
supply the number, make, year and color
of his car, produce all papers appertain-
ing thereunto and await a fingerprint
check. He was thereupon given his route
and time and allowed to drive his car
home. And if you don’t believe this 1 will
be the way of it by 1957 you don’t (a) live
in Sydney, ( b) own your own car or (c)
possess any imagination.
* * * *
Those people who have been
variously annoyed, amused, bored and ex-
asperated, not only by the peculiar criti-
cal faculty of the “Sydney Morning
Herald” art critic but also by the peculi-
arity of his language, must have been
rather pleased last week. Examining
a show of pictures by the aboriginal
artist Edwin Pareroultja the critic re-
marked that “it was to be deplored that
aborigines should be taught in the Euro-
pean manner” —the critic has long
attacked Australian artists who don’t
follow such Europeans as Picasso,
Cezanne, Van Gogh and so forth —and
suggested that abo. artists should be kept
to their own primitive forms. This
brought from the anthropologist Profes-
sor Elkin the reply that the man “was
using meaningless words.” This also was
published in “5.M.H.,” and what ap-
pealed to the initiated was the obvious
joy with which it was reported,
* * * *
“Clooter”: Since the Chifley bank-grab
bill brought thousands of Australian ears
to the broadcasting of Parliamentary de-
bates, a new standard of comparisons is
spreading through the land. One of
my golfing friends criticised another as
“having more to say than Eddie Ward
and with just as much sense in it.” Fel-
lows prone to abuse are frequently ad-
monished with “Now, now, Mulcahy.”
Cheerful chaps grin at each other, sub-
stituting the affectionate Australianism of
“you old blankard” with “the honorable
member is a mongrel,” we hear the
“aitches falling like when Ashley speaks,”
and only a sub-editor prevented a book-
reviewer from remarking that a new
novel contained as many cliches as a
Canberra speech. It remained for the
Bishop of Adelaide to put the cap on it.
Lecturing on art at the Melbourne Chap-
ter House, he observed that congrega-
tions sang many hymns which for inanity,
false sentiment and poor taste were only
surpassed by Canberra Parliamentary de-
bates. It should cause choirmasters some
heart-searching.
» * * *
“Flathead”: In busier parts of Sydney
you’ll strike furtive blokes who mumble
“Nylons,” close their eyes and look
ecstatically towards the heavens. The
most amazing thing about these hawkers
is the involved patter they go through in
explaining that they’ve pinched the stock-
ings. “Excuse me,” they go on, “but
yesterday me and my mate were unload-
ing a cargo down on number fifteen
jetty. Machinery parts. Then we came
to a box a lot lighter than the rest. When
we dumped it down it broke open. Do
you know what was in it? Stockings—
nylons! So before we nailed it up again
we took a few pairs each for our wives.
But when I got home I found that mine
were the wrong size. You can have ’em
for a quid—they’re twice that in the
shops.” If the sucker buys a pair and
takes' them home, smiling in anticipation
of the welcome he will get, he’s in for a
disappointment. “Where on earth did
you get these?” the little woman will
snort. “I hope you didn’t pay much for
them. They’re rejects from the factories
—not worth two shillings.”
* * » ♦
“Ceg”: There was a car for sale and
the seller felt it was worth much more
than the pegged price. As there were
dozens of would-be buyers at fancy
figures he decided to salve his conscience
by selling at P.P. provided the buyer
could be interested in a work of art. He
had a small bronze figurine, legacy from
a relative who had bought it at an
auction during the crash in the ’nineties.
As the value of such things is purely
arbitrary, he thought that the difference
between P.P. and what the buyer was
prepared to pay for the car might well
be made up by sale of the bronze. A
buyer who knew nothing of art values
was quite agreeable and the bronze
figure changed hands at 100 guineas. His
wife, however, did know something of
such matters and took it to a trustworthy
dealer. Result: Buyer got his 100
guineas back and a nice little profit into
the bargain. Price Control has been
satisfied, but I feel there is a moral some-
where.
* * * *
“McGlum”; All the Jap ceremonies
I saw as an unwilling guest had a
religious fervor that would turn Billy
Sunday green with envy. Men-
tioning the Emperor to a Jap soldier
was as good as signing your own
death-warrant; but, on the other hand, we
had our amusement at the expense of
Charlie Tenno and our coolie work-mates.
1 recall The Gorilla, a foreman, who could
be led into a discreet discussion of Hiro-
hito. Each time he mentioned or thought
about his sovereign he would reverently
bow his head and mutter a prayer. This
was a signal to down shovels until The
Gorilla realised that work had ceased,
when with a terrible roar he’d wake from
his meditations and drive us on until
someone else attempted the stunt.
* * * ♦
“Yair”: I often groan at the lack of
variety in films, but there must be some
sense in the unchanging qualities of
youth, because each generation seems
positive the picture is so “clever” that
you, an adult, couldn’t possibly see
through it. I asked a kid if he’d been
to the matinee and he was off into a
recital of joyous discovery which con-
tained this: “....a beaut pitcher and
in one part it was real good where the
bloke knows his mate went into the cage,
see, but his mate went out on the quiet
and his mate was disguised as a gorilla,
see, but when he went out of the cage
a real gorilla went in and the bloke
doesn’t know, see” He broke off,
looked at me in a pitying manner and
finished, “Aw, well, maybe you’d have
to see it for yourself to really understand.
It’s clever, see?”
* * * *
“J.W.P.”: Tradition ascribes the
custom of firing an odd number of guns
in salutes (B. 5/11/ ’47) to a bewildered
officer of artillery of the 15th century.
On the triumphant return of the Emperor
Maximilian to Germany after his second
campaign, the town of Augsberg ordered
100 rounds of cannon to be discharged in
his honor. In the smoke and din the
officer on duty had, by the time the quota
was fired, lost count, and, to be on
the safe side, ordered an extra round.
The burgesses 'of Nuremberg, im-
pressed by the effort and refusing to
be outshone, ordered the same ritual to
be observed in their own welcome to the
hero. And it was—even to the odd round.
PAREROULTJA!
“An exhibition of pictures in Sydney by an abo-
riginal artist, Pareroultja, was described by Professor
Kiirin as a valuable addition to Australian culture,
stamping the exhibitor as among the best of our
water-color painters.”
Well, and why not? No matter what the race
is
Or where the island or the continent,
Talent may flower in unexpected places
And uncongenial environment.
So here’s to the achievement —and the future—
Of the Arunta tribesman Pareroultja!
Who knows but what he yet mayset the welkin
Ringing with tributes to his artistry.
Corroborating thus Professor Elkin,
A better judge of that than you or me,
And never have his claim to fame imperilled
By acid comments in the “S. M. Herald.”
A real discovery, this. Note how it evens
The-score against our aborigines
Chalked up by Queensland’s poet, Brunton
Stephens,
In “Ode to a Black Gin” and rhymes like
Wherein the waifs who pay no rates or taxes
Are sketched like Calibans and Sycoraxes;
Within those urchins, each complete with
“sooner,”
He knew as butts for poking borak at
There may have lurked the makings of aGruner,
Aye, or a Heysen, if it comes to that;
Hands that, once trained, might prove as deft
and wily
With brush and paint and palette as a kyhe.
There may be, still unknown, among Aruntas
Artists, and poets too, for all one knows
To rival those in Latin Quarter juntas
Or intellectual Chelsea studios.
As sign of which there enters Pareroultja
To lend fresh color to Australian culture.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


mi
oe’w
t*e
Hoc
\jcaw
• sa-
te aS
Vda*
10
b.et
B*t
p a ttt<* a
Bt°
,tbets
,1 \v,as
***” " - - ca* t 131 c^°^ XeS aß° eS
?
,eas'
,atd
dtess-
vdi* e
VfOt»
I*
tOV?* ’
G^d* e^
Bo*
C\atV9-
vft
a 61
k _a^ V^
I
k
\o^e^
B° c
•to**'
d,^ 8
vet®*
B\e^ at
S \lOVfS
it < ot
St’S
de.
t\te
n acV
od c 0
do* 1
a*‘
d
stoat
test
Ip ol> 1 -' '
* ctA .f s
J-IOIISS’
Lond° n j
Lon 1
,do«’
land
Eng
They took the risk
SSSS
S3S
sk
Ses£
r -
On the 21st November,
1783, in a field near Paris,
occurred an event that
was destined to have far-
reaching effects on
modern aviation.
Jean de Rozier made the
first ascent in a free
balloon and, by staying
aloft for 25 minutes and
steering a course for 5
miles, actually paved- the
way for aeriak navigation
as we know it to-day
—a hundred years before this historic event —
was already established as the world’s leading
Insurance Organisation, a position that has
remained unchallenged until the present day.
In Australia thousands of policies covering all
types of insurance are underwritten each year
by the oldest and largest Lloyd’s Brokers in
Aiiat r a Incin
EDWARD LIMLEYiSONS PTYLTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, and 9-11 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
and 33 WATT STREET, NEWCASTLE.
Melbourne: 287 Collins Street. Adelaide: T. & G. Building. Brisbane;
A.M.P. Building, berth: 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart: 82 Collins
Street; and Canberra, A.C.T. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch,
Dunedin, new Zealand, and London, new York, Montreal, paris, Colombo
and Singapore.
TH E SERVICE MAN
Communist Challenge in
France.
“Ek Dum”: The more events march,
the more it seems that the germs of war
are fermenting in Western Europe.
The plight of France puts her in the
position which Communist organisers
consider ideal for action. Winter is com-
ing on. Inflation is having its effects.
Production has gone up to nearly the
1938 figure. Prices have burst through
controls. The French, with their happy-
go-lucky characteristics, never pay the
slightest regard to any law, not enforced
by armed men, which is not popular ; and
French Governments rarely force their
hands. Wages have increased a full 50
per cent, in the last six months without
catching up to the aspirations of Com-
munist-goaded workers. Prices of agri-
cultural produce in the last 18 months
have increased nearly 200 per cent.
As with price-control, so with taxation.
“Taxpayers” blithely refuse to pay when
they don’t feel like it. The void in the
Budget has become such that industrial
“ Why , Captain Prendergast , you're moulting!”
subsidies have been cancelled. The only
measures available were retrenchments
at a time when every union was clamor-
ing for higher wages.
And to cap all the price of coal has
risen from £2-odd (Australian) per ton
to more than £3 in a matter of months,
just when low-priced coal is most needed
as the cold season sets in.
Organising for Insurrection
The Communists are well ready to
make capital out of the terrible situation.
They have been organising for revolution
in France for years. The plan was laid
down by Dmitrov, Secretary-General of
the Comintern, at the seventh congress of
that curious body.
It is detailed in a pamphlet issued by
the Australian Communist party:
(1) To achieve a united front within the
French unions and smash the reformist
Confederation of Labor, reorganising the
unions on the basis of the class struggle.
(2) To purge the State apparatus, the
army and the police of “conspirators pre-
paring a Fascist coup” (this, translated,
meant anybody in the forces or in the
civil service likely to resist Communism).
(3) To develop the struggle against the
“reactionary cliques of the Catholic
Church.”
(4) To link the army with the anti-
Fascist [i.e., Communist] movement by
“forming in its ranks committees for the
defence of the Republic and the constitu-
tion .... against those who wish to use the
army to break the Franco-Soviet agree-
ment, which defends the cause of peace
against the aggression of German Fascism.”
Dmitrov added, amid applause, that if
an anti-Fascist Government were formed,
prepared to carry on a struggle against
“Fascism” — i.e., against the French
Catholics and other enemies of Com-
munism—“the Communists, while remain-
ing irreconcilable foes of every bourgeois
Government and supporters of a soviet
Government, will nevertheless, in the face
of the growing Fascist danger, be pre-
pared to support such a Government.”
The last seven words were printed in the
report in italic type.
Traitors and Patriots
This programme was made before the
war. It seems almost unbelievable that
those who fathered it were found, when
war did break out, Red-anting the army
and the Parliament to destroy their effi-
ciency, and yelling for peace with Hitler,
Stalin’s new-found ally. It seems even
more unbelievable that when the war was
over and Hitler and his followers
destroyed they were able quite calmly
to resume the plotting to implement the
Dmitrov programme, just as if they had
never been traitors, and just as if their
alliance with Germany, which did as
much as anything to bring about the
conquest of France in 1940, had never
existed.
Yet that is what they have been doing
and are doing. The chief traitor of 1940,
Thorez, returned from Moscow rather
in the guise of a Russian ambassador
than of a French refugee, and rode into
authority again forthwith in the guise of
a “patriot.” The Communists, while
remaining the “foes of every bourgeois
Government and supporters of a soviet
Government,” gave a share of support to
conglomerates which called
themselves “Governments” in Paris, so
that they could infiltrate the core of
government and re-establish their control
over vital unions.
Directed from Moscow
Moscow was treated by them almost
as the real capital of France. It was
allowed to establish deportation camps on
French soil, and its army of Embassy
employees was a constant source of
wonder to onlookers.
The present trouble began when the
French municipal elections showed the
net result of the clumsy Communist con-
spiracy—a swing of the electors towards
the Right, in recoil from the venomous
propaganda and the growth of Moscow
influence. The transit camps of the
Russians were found to be nothing more
than kidnapping centres. And the Com-
munists were found to be led, not so
much by the supposed French leaders of
the Communist party, but by a general
staff of Russians, who came out
into the open when the Red-ants
had drawn the telephone and telegraph
services, the railway staffs, teachers and
other unions, numbering 2,000,000
workers, out on strike for condi-
tions which it was obvious that France
could not give without ruin.
The succession of M. Schuman to the
Premiership showed which way the wind
was blowing, for M. Schuman has a
known leaning towards General de
Gaulle and the Catholic Rightists, what-
ever his political affiliations.
His measures smack, also, of De Gaul-
list methods. He has shown himself
apparently ready to treat what has hap-
pened on a civil-war basis.
The Verge of Civil War
On Thursday last troops took over the
railways, telephoned and other public
facilities. The coalfields were placed fully
under military surveillance, and so were
the vital sections of port cities. This
stern move had an effect immediately in
making some strikers hesitate and in pre-
venting others from striking.
Nineteen Russian visitors, including
General Vladimir Potovsky, who was


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARY TERESA DOYLE—TAKE NOTICE* that
RAYMOND RALPH REGAN DOYLE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4141 of 1947 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for 3
years and upwards and in such petition is asking for
the exercise of the discretion of the Court under
the powers conferred upon it under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an Appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 23rd day of February 1948 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MESSIEURS
H. R. BUSHBY STEED & CO., Solicitors, 10
Martin Place, Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
TO YERDON HAROLD GRAHAM formerly of 5
Wandoo Street Leeton in the State of New South
Wales and formerly of 15 Empire Street Haberfleld
in the said State but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife FLORENCE LILIAN
GRAHAM has instituted divorce proceedings against
you on the ground of desertion and that unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court at Melbourne in the State of
Victoria on or before the 31st day of December
1947 the case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay the costs. —E. EDGAR
DAVIES & CO., Solicitors, Bank House, Bank Place,
Melbourne.
REGINALD GRAY PHARO SOUGHT.
WOULD any person having any knowledge of the
present or past whereabouts of REGINALD GRAY
PHARO, who was bom at Maryborough, Victoria, on-
the 28th March, 1902, and who is a beneficiary in
the estat# of his mother, Catherine Pharo, deceased,
please communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE
for Victoria, of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
who is the administrator of the estate of the said
Catherine Pharo, deceased.
WAKE
krn^lt
ON THE
r.-1
f? Oi
i-
-3°
(i|a9
08 x v /*o//i
XVi
L'mi*
if
-Se/>
#|
S/Tr;
"DEP" Imported Alarm Clocks.
See them at PROUDS clock
shop — 2nd Floor.
At left: Miniature chrome fin-
ish alarm of novel streamlined
design. Hinged base allows
adjustment to various angles.
Plain dial 67/6. Luminous dial
70/-. Below: Reliable alarm
with luminous hands and dial.
Blue, red, or cream, with
chrome mountings 35/-.
P 249
h
Rxmds
MASTERS OF TIME
CNR. PITT AND KING STREETS. SYDNEY. 'PHONE BW 2721
PROGRESS OF / LIGHTING
V. w
sgg
mmSm
. A _?al
Gas, as a lighting medium, was first
employed by William Murdock, in
England, in 1792. Some twenty years
later the first public coal-gas lamps
were installed on Westminster Bridge,
London. In 1886 the incandescent
mantle, introduced by Dr. Welsbach,
replaced the “fishtail” type of burners
and completely revolutionised the
application of coal gas for lighting
purposes.
Gas was a vast improvement on pre-
ceding methods of indoor and outdoor
lighting, but, in turn, gave way to
the more convenient and otherwise
superior electric light, as exemplified
to-day by Osram Electric Lamps.
o
THE WONDERFUL LAMP,
Made in Australia for The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The General Electric Co. Ltd. of London)
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • LAUNCESTON
8.G.Q5
supposed to be directing ‘ the repatria-
tion of Russian war prisoners ’ rescued
from the Germans, but who actually was
doing something else, were politely
arrested and escorted to the border, this
move was made at the very moment
when the Communists were issuing a
“general-mobilisation” order as a pre-
liminary to a wave of sabotage, which in-
cluded the blowing up of most of a great
steel plant at Valenciennes, the silencing
of all strategic telephone systems and an
attempt to wreck trains on Parisian
suburban and main lines.
With a National Central Strike Com-
mittee formed from 21 Communist-
controlled unions and the French Com-
munist “politbureau” issuing orders as it
it were the de facto Government of
France, and evidently bent upon paralys-
ing the country and starving the popula-
tion and the Government into submission,
it is no wonder that M. Schuman declared
on November 28 that the extremists were
seeking revolution.
That Russia is in the business up to its
neck can be taken for granted. Its re-
action to the deportation of its plotting
citizens was to demand that they be in-
stantly handed over to the Soviet Em-
bassy “without delay.”
The struggle between anarchy and
commonsense was coming towards its
climax at the week-end. It looked on
December 1 as if the decision lay not in
the hands of the Government at Paris,
but in those of the Kremlin.
Meanness and War Service.
“Ek Dum”: Some of the almost unbe-
lievable meannesses of the Government in
the treatment of returned soldiers are
now very live politics.
One issue concerns work on the
wharves and elsewhere during the war.
This work arose through sheer urgent
necessity, much of it in the period of
1942, when the Government believed in-
vasion to be imminent.
Then any civilian worker who had the
luck to be employed by a union with a
secretary who was also a member of the
Central Executive of the Communist
party had only to ask for something to
know that it would be conceded “in the
interests of industrial peace.”
If the worker were a seaman em-
ployed on a vessel being hurriedly loaded
with material for the defence of, say, the
vital port of Fremantle, he had merely to
claim that the voyage from Sydney to
Fremantle was highly dangerous and that
there was a rumor that a Jap submarine
or aircraft had been seen in the region of
Kamchatka or Monte Video and he
could ask his own price—some mariners
were paid up to £lBO a month at that time
for sailing in waters which the sore-tried
Navy reckoned the safest in the world.
If wharfies wished to go to “the dogs”
instead of working, to “the dogs” they
went, secure in the knowledge that Mr.
Healy would protect them and that there
would be no reprisals.
All that would happen would be that
a company or battalion of “seven-bob-a-
day” soldier volunteers would be marched
to the wharves and told to get on with
the job and do the work of the absentees.
This condition of affairs led to the foun-
dation of permanent military dock-
operating companies in all the main ports
of Australia in which military cargoes
needed to be loaded urgently and without
fail.
These weak-minded persons who had
volunteered to fight and die for their
country (and for home-keeping wharfies)
would not, of course, be subject to union
awards. They were not bound to any
hours of work save those decided upon
by their officers. They had no “stink
pay” and they were not even given
“danger pay” (heavy in the case of
wharfies) when ordered to lump boxes of
cartridges —which, as every union official
knows, are liable to blow up at any
moment. Moreover, they had no claim
for award wages.
However, the unions, while refusing to
allow the augmentation of their own mem-
bership, dictated to the docile Govern-
ment that, even though soldiers did not
benefit, award rates and conditions should
be observed. The “Government” being
the sort of “Government” it is, was not
reluctant to take advantage of conditions
which allowed it to collect more cash
from the “capitalist.”
The point of the story is that the Gov-
ernment assumed the position of a con-
tractor, and it has claimed and got from
the shipping companies a staggering
amount for soldier-labor. This, as the
story goes, it does not propose to hand
over to the sweated, awardless toilers in
uniform, some of whom were conscripted
militia. It is commandeering the lot, as it
commandeered profits on trading in other
people’s wool.
The Opposition at Canberra should in-
sist on having the facts. If the Govern-
ment has collared, or proposes to collar,
that money for consolidated revenue i
is an immoral transaction which shout
be fought against to thb last gasp by re-
turned-soldier organisations. The amount
must run into millions.
Acting Air Officers’ Pay
In the same category is the treatment
accorded certain classes of officers who
served abroad with air forces in the
United Kingdom.
Officers of the Air Force who served
overseas were nearly all on promotion in
acting ranks much higher than their nor-
mal commissions.
On returning, most of them were
allowed leave and rehabilitation pay on
the basis of their acting ranks, so long
as they did not serve with the United
Kingdom forces.
If they served in the U.K., even at the
period when that little group of islands
was the keystone of the safety of civili-
sation, and when every airman wore a
halo as by right, they were, if demobilised
in Britain, treated on the basis of their
acting ranks. If, however, they were de-
mobilised in their own country, Aus-
tralia, they were paid on the basis of
their lower actual ranks, the idea ap-
parently being that the provision of pas-
sage money home to the Commonwealth
balanced the reduction.
Even considered on the best basis this
would be a despicable attitude towards
men who had given from three to six
years of their young lives to the most
arduous type of battle service.
But no words can describe the mean-
ness of the policy when it is realised that
passages to Australia were paid by the
British Government, so that the Com-
monwealth thus saves both ways.
The Air Department’s further defence
in the matter is that personnel serving in
England were attached to the R.A.F., a
much larger service than the R.A.A.F.,
and therefore had better opportunities of
promotion to the higher acting ranks)
than if they had remained at home in the
Pacific! And for these advantages in
opportunity the Air Department thinks,
apparently, that the United Kingdom
officers should pay in deductions of cash.
British service was undoubtedly the
most arduous and dangerous in any sec-
tion of the battle fronts—with the pos-
sible exception of Burma for a period—
and the chances of promotion lay only in
the additional wear and tear incident to
British conditions.
In any case, many of the officers
affected were continuously R.A.A.F., and
not R.A.F., officers and the argument does
not hold water.
However, nothing seems too mean for
the present crowd.
Hopes that the Moslem tribesmen who
invaded Kashmir had tired of their
effort proved fruitless. The tribesmen,
in greater force than before, have turned
up in Jammu, where they seized Mirpur,
a sizable city, and reopened operations on
a 90-mile front. The attempt seems
better organised and strategically better
placed than the last. The psychological
effect on the Moslems of the partition of
Palestine, which the United Nations Com-
mittee has carved up into something
more like a patchwork quilt than a couple
of States, Jewish and Arab, with one
U.N.O. city (Jerusalem), will be felt in
India, as elsewhere in the Mohammedan
world. The situation has all the makings
of a vast jehad whose complications
might reach from Malaya and the East
Indies to the Atlantic coast of Africa.
This is no doubt the reason why Moscow
has been so eager to “settle” the Palestine
question by subdivision.


ĥ
t rU/
\\\ x
THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
WHEN IT’S AN EXIDE YOU START!
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Oxford and Cambridge share the
honors in this year’s Nobel-prize awards ;
Professor Robert Robinson, who has
held the Waynflete Chair of Chemistry at
Oxford since 1930, gets the award for
chemistry and Edward Appleton, who
was a St. John’s College Scholar and
Exhibitioner and has been secretary of
the department of Scientific and Indus-
trial Research since 1939, collects for
physics, Appleton is one of the big
names in electrical science, has been
honored by six British Universities and
by American scientific bodies and is
credited with the discovery of the ionos-
phere. Professor Robinson was professor
of Organic Chemistry at Sydney Uni.
from 1912-15. He has had appoint-
ments at the universities of London, St.
Andrews and Manchester and holds
honorary degrees from those three seats
of learning as well as Liverpool, Wales,
Dunelm, Sheffield, Belfast, Birmingham
and Edinburgh.
Minister of Agriculture in the new
Victorian Cabinet, Alexander Hugh
Dennett, was the only metropolitan mem-
ber returned unopposed. Two years ago
he won Caulfield from an Independent.
Dennett is a newspaperman, a one-time
Parliamentary roundsman and a soldier
of two wars ; in the second one he joined
the A.I.F. as a private and served in the
Middle East and the Pacific, finishing up
in Borneo with the rank of Lieut .-Colonel.
He should bring considerable knowledge
of rural problems to the administration
of his department; he studied at Dookie
Agricultural College and was for some
time agricultural editor of the “Argus.”
Melbourne “Argus” gave a “Farewell
and Thank You” to Sir Winston Dugan
in a full-page colored reproduction of the
distinguished soldier. But the political
upheaval has made it necessary for him
to postpone his return to England, and
the period of extension of his office re-
mains undecided. One of the most popu-
lar Governors Victoria has ever had, Sir
Winston holds the Australian record for
length of service, having started in S.A.
in 1934. Besides postponing the Gov-
ernor’s departure, the political swing also
means a reversal of policy in regard to
his successor. Premier Hollway has an-
nounced that the next Governor will, like
Dugan, be a distinguished British soldier.
Cain has not revealed whom he had in
mind for the job, but colleagues in
“Labor”-controlled States have shown no
particular liking for distinguished British
soldiers.
Richard Acland, who retained Graves-
end for “Labor,” is the man who a
few years ago gave most of his consider-
able ancestral estates to the National
Trust, and founded the Common Wealth
group, which advocated nationalisation of
land, transport, coalmines and public
utilities. He is a baronet, 15th of a
line dating back to the Civil War. Since
1812 there has nearly always been an
Acland in the Commons, usually as a
Liberal, for one of the West Country
seats, and it was under that banner that
Gravesend’s new representative . first
entered the House in 1935 after a couple
of unsuccessful attempts. His Common
Wealth party, formed in 1943, didn’t
survive long. At by-elections he gained
a couple .of recruits—John Loverseed, a
Battle for Britain pilot, and Hugh Law-
son—but all three were among the miss-
ing when the 1945 Parliament re-
assembled. With the tide in Britain turn-
ing against Labor, Acland’s victory is a
personal triumph. It came to him on,his
41st birthday.
In John Bishop Adelaide gets one of
its own sons back as Elder Professor of
Music and Director of the Elder Conser-
vatorium. Born in S.A. he was Elder
scholar in 1923 at the Royal College of
Music, London. From there he went to
the job of musical director of the Welling-
ton Royal Choral Union, and coupled
with it the directorship of music at Scots
College and conductor of the Wellington
Philharmonics. In 1934 he joined the
staff of the Conservatorium at the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, and since 1937 he
has been director at Scotch College. A
versatile musician, he helped to found the
Victorian School of Music Association.
Robert W. Foot, who has arranged
with Queensland’s Premier Hanlon to
carry out a State coal survey, is a 58-
year-old Englishman brimful of energy
and ideas. Trained as a lawyer, he won
his M.C. and 0.8. E. as captain in the
Field Artillery in World War I; in the
COAL SURVEY.
second war with Germany he helped
organise the London Gas Centre, and was
in charge of arrangements for dealing
with blitz damage to gas services. His
business life has been mostly concerned
with coal and coal fuels in a big way;
but he has a flair for organising any-
thing. In 1941 he assisted in reorganising
the became its director-general,
resigned in 1944 to become chairman
(now president) of the Mining Associa-
tion, and then drew up the “Foot report,”
or “A Plan for Coal,” adopted as a basis
for reorganising the British industry but
frustrated by “nationalisation.” Dr.
Thomas David Jones, the coal expert,
who was killed in a car accident at
Stonehenge after returning from Aus-
tralia, was his friend. ' As chair-
man of Powell Duffryn Technical Ser-
vices, Foot has gathered round him
mining, mechanical and civil engineers,
scientists and technicians, “the whole
making a complete team capable of
handling any mining problems in any part
of the world,” and already at work in
several Biritish colonies. And so a new
venture in the export of British brains,
blueprints and experience begins.
Some December literary anniversaries:
Fifty years ago on the Ist, novelist and
dramatist Helen de Guerry Simpson was born.
On the 4th in 1811 Robert Lowe (later first
and only Viscount Sherbrooke) was ushered
into the world. Tas. author G. W. C. Dixon
was bom on the 10th in 1895. In 1831 on the
12th Henry Gyles Turner (author with Alex-
ander Sutherland of The Development of Aus-
tralian Literature ) took his first breath. On
the 13th poet Edward Booth Loughran (1850),
W. Farmer Whyte (1879), author of With
Stevenson in Samoa, and novelist, poet, play-
wright and Queen of Bohemia Dulcie Deamer
were born. N.Z. poetess Jessie Mackay was
born in 1864, and poet Frank Morton died in
1923 on the 15th. Poet, brewer and Henry
George disciple John Farrell (1851) and poet
R. J. Cassidy (1880), “Gilrooney” of many
a Bulletin verse, both made their debut on
this earth on the 18th. Melbourne-born ad-
venture-writer H. B. Marriott Watson first saw
the day on the 20th in 1863. In 1843 Thomas
Bracken (author of “Not Understood”) and
90 years ago sporting novelist Nat Gould were
born on the 21st. Convict Michael Massey
Robinson (Governor Macquarie’s “poet-
laureate”) died in 1826, on the 22nd.
Edward Sylvester Sorenson, one of the
best of the bush yarn-spinners, passed into the
silence on the 23rd in 1939. On Christmas Day,
1843, Edward E. Morris, who compiled Austral
English (1898), an excellent dictionary of Aus-
tralian words, phrases and usage's, was born.
On Boxing Day, 1874, historical novelist
J. H. M. Abbott first opened his peepers, and
on the same day four years earlier poet S.
Elliott Napier was born. On the 30th in 1936
“Smiler” Hales (he wrote the McGlusky yams)
died; 60 years earlier, also on the 30th, Archi-
bald Strong came into the world.
“Becks”: Long-lived astronomers (B.
26/11/47)? Oldest of the lot was a
woman, Caroline Herschel, sister of the
elder Herschel and his assistant after he
became astronomer to George 111. She
carried out much research on her own
account, survived her brother 26 years
and was 98 at the finish. Although the
ages of Halley, the Herschels, father and
son, and William Cooke ranged from 79
to 86 not one of them witnessed two
appearances of Halley’s Comet, which
takes 75 years to complete one round
trip through space. Halley saw it in
1682 and predicted the 1759 appearance,
which the elder Herschel lived to observe.
Herschel II was exploring the southern
heavens at Capetown when the comet
came back in 1835 and Cooke watched
the 1910 performance from Perth, W.A.
Charles Todd probably saw two appear-
ances ; he was a boy of nine in 1835 and
he died in January, 1910. The comet was
not visible to the naked eye until Febru-
ary of that year, but it was first observed
through Australian telescopes in No-
vember, 1909, and it is a safe bet that if
the old boy was well enough to drag him-
self or to be carried along to the Adelaide
Observatory he would take the oppor-
tunity of having another squint at the
wanderer. Of Caroline Herschel there
should be no doubt. Like Todd she was
nine when she first saw the comet, and
when it came again in 1835 she was living
in Hanover, a sturdy old lady of 85, still
actively engaged in star-gazing.
Queensland Rhodes Scholar for 1947
is Charles Elliott, a New Guinea Digger,
who set out to do the Commerce course
at Brisbane University and decided that
his destiny lay in anatomy and pills rather
than in ledgers and balance-sheets. He
is now a second year Med. man and a
Rugby Blue. Son of C. J. Elliott, a
former president of Brisbane Stock Ex-
change, he was educated at Brisbane C.
of E. Grammar, and won a Government
Bursary entitling him to three years’
study at the Uni.
In Melbourne at present is Professor
Nikola Michailow, a Bulgarian portrait-
painter with an international reputation
—friend of Orpen and Laszlo, court-
painter to King Ferdinand and one who
seems to have painted more crowned
heads, aristocrats, eminent politicians.
South American Presidents and industrial
magnates, from Sweden to New York,
than any other artist. When the Red
Army started sweeping over Europe, Pro-
fessor Michailow and his daughter found
themselves between the opposing armies.
So did some of his pictures. The Ger-
mans had allowed him to stay in Berlin,
or rather, underneath it, as the blitz was
in progress, but hadn’t allowed him to
exhibit, since he was not a Nazi. The
Russians, encountering his pictures, saw
them as hated bourgeois symbols and en-
joyed themselves by riddling them with
bullets, though some of the less unintelli-
gent ones, being acquainted with his repu-
PORTRAITS
tation, rescued a few and sent them to
Moscow. The professor arrived at a
Baltic seaport minus everything but the
clothes he stood in As he was as well
ciomes ne stood in. AS ne was as well-
known in U.S. as in Europe, however,
the American occupation authorities re-
covered some of his pictures and, despite
their invasion problems, found time to
have them reproduced in a handsome
volume by a Hamburg firm of printers.
After a few months’ stay in Australia he
goes to Mexico to paint the President of
that republic.
Brisbane Grammar gets a new Head in
H. R. Pigott, at present head of the
chemistry department at St. Peter’s
College, Adelaide. Grammar’s foot-
ballers should be pleased with the ap-
pointment ; Pigott won his Rugby blue
at Sydney Uni. and in 1922 played for
N. against the touring Maori team.
He went from All Saints’, Bathurst, to
Duntroon, and after graduation held a
commission on the Australian Staff Corps
for a while, but resigned it to take on
the job of “stinks” master at The King’s
School, Parramatta. In Adelaide he took
an interest in municipal affairs and was
at one time chairman of works on the
St. Peter’s Municipal Council.
Coihmander F. N. Cook, D.S.C., re-
cently-appointed commander of H.M.A.S.
Arunta, was one of the first R.A.N.
officers to experience enemy action dur-
ing the recent war. On exchange duty
with the Royal Navy when the war broke
out, he was immediately posted to Royal
Oak, and was with her when she was
torpedoed by a German submarine in
Scapa Flow on October 14, 1939. His
work in combined operations earned him
the D.S.C. “for daring skill and seaman-
ship in successful combined operations at
Bruneval.” After his return to Aus-
tralia, he was captain of H.M.A.S.
Assault, and, until recently, commander
Flinders Naval Depot.
Retired after 20 years as Com-
monwealth Parliamentary Librarian,
Kenneth Binns has been looking
after books for 47 years, 36 of
’em with the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, and can name every member
since Federation. Back in 1900 he
attended evening classes at the Sydney
University in Arts and took second-class
honors in history and philosophy. Since
1937 he has been a member of the Com-
monwealth Book Censorship committee.
His spare-time hobby is cabinet-making
—not in the political sense.
Recently relinquished command of
Eastern Area, Group-Capt. J. Alexander,
O. joined the R.A.A.F. in 1929 and
was Seagull pilot on the Albatross and
cruisers in 1930-34, after which he was on
loan to the R.A.F. A term on the Aus-
tralia in the Mediterranean followed, and
in 1937 he was engaged on survey work
in the Northern Territory. When war
broke out he was adjutant at Richmond,
but was soon sent to form the flying-
boat base at Moresby. Commands at
Rathmines and Richmond saw him pro-
moted to wing-commander, and, posted
to 10 Squadron in England in May, 1942,
ha was the first member of the R.A.A.F.
to command an R.A.F. station —at
Mount Batten in Devon. He collected a
m.i.d. in 1944 and the Royal Humane
Society’s Medal for saving life ; the Stan-
hope Gold Medal came his way in 1945.
Back home with an 0.8. E., he filled
many administrative jobs before assum-
ing the command of Eastern Area.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 68, Harry A. Abbot, three
times Mayor of Brighton, president of Brighton
Technical School and prominent in all public
activities of his district. In his younger days
a first-class runner, walker, boxer and swimmer.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 71, Everett Olive
Hales, former Public Trustee. Educated at
Wellington College, he entered the Public Ser-
vice in 1894, was appointed superintendent of
the State Advances office in 1931, and became
Public Trustee in 1934.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 90, ex-Police Super-
intendent John Dwyer. He put in 43 years
in the Force and collected a medal for saving
lives from a burning building in Dunedin in
1882, and the Royal Humane Society Medal
for rescue of a drowning man at Oamaru in
1891.
At Newcastle, at 56, Rev. A. R. McVittie,
for 27 years minister at St. Phillip’s Presby-
terian Church. A former vice-chairman of
Newcastle Hospital, he worked as a miner be-
fore studying for the ministry. During the
war he was a chaplain in the R.A.A.F.
In Sydney, at 52, Roy William Perkins,
veteran of the First A.I.F. and the R.F.C.
and one of the founders of the Royal Aero
Club of N.S.W. Engineering concerns which
he established were associated with aircraft
production during the war.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The charming girls in Sydney for the
final of the Miss Australia competition
were rather astonished to find mention
of it restricted to the “Sun,” but that is
the way of journalism in these fiercely
competitive times. First prize went to
Judy Gainford, a 19-year-old Cremornc
(Sydney) lass; second to Elaine Herrick,
from Queensland, and third to Erica
Drake-Brockman, from Westralia. Actu-
ally, three of the six were born in the
Western State. One, Ronnie. Goodlet
(Miss Victoria), is the daughter of an
Old Digger who served throughout the
First World War in the West’s famous
28th Battalion, and her only brother, as
a Young Digger, served throughout the
Second.
Whether you pronounce her Christian
name with the “i” sounding like the y in
psychology or with it short and matey as
in Sis, Cicely Courtneidge turns the same
laughing regard on the passing show. She
was a merry and bright guest of honor
at the J. C. Williamson reception in the
Australia last Thursday evening. Her
trigness was sheathed in black, and her
upswept hat had the same air of bright
alertness as its wearer. The invitation
list had started out at 100, but in the
end, as always, the party, though just as
de luxe, was a bit more cosmopolitan.
Newspapermen, A.B.C. wallahs and first-
nighters bobbed about happily, and the
whole scene was dusted over with radio
and theatre stars. The Firm’s Claude
Kingston, over from Melbourne, on the
sideline, held almost as great levee as
Cicely. Those friends to everyman the
Ernest Lashmars, just back from Eng-
land, were among the much-greeted.
Among things admired was Mrs. Harald
Bowden’s late-afternoon party hat —a tiny
flowerful curvette. Gladys Moncrieff was
there, and Pat Keating of “No, No
Nanette.”
At noon on Friday morning Lord
Mayor Bartley and his wife welcomed
the English comedienne to the Town
Hall. The guest list was much the same
as the evening before, though this time,
it had a more pronounced municipal and
big-business flavor. A tan suit and an
upswept hat of the same tone over the
brim of which a blue plume curled coyly
were worn by Miss Courtneidge, to whom
during the party Wee Georgie Wood fed
a banana. The Charles Lloyd Jones
couple were among those who paid their
respects. Strella Wilson and Charles
Norman had a great get-together over
the fun they had in old “White Horse
Inn” days. The Stanley Cricks came ; so
did the David Martins, bringing daughter
Shirley.
Big night at thei Embassy on the fifth,
when Australasian premiere of “Captain
Boycott” will be presented in the cause
of Food for Britain. Mrs. Ellis Fielding
Jones, Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere and Mrs.
Ernest Watt are on the committee arrang-
ing the gala night. Among the guests will
be “Captain Boycott’s” director, Frank
Launder, here to direct “Blue Lagoon,”
and Jean Simmons, star of that film.
Next Sunday afternoon the 321 bus
from Martin-place will take loads of
music-makers to the Vaucluse home of
the Harry Evans couple. Mrs. Harry
is musically known as pianist Beatrice
Tange. She and husband are entertaining
the whole of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, conductor Eugene Goossens
and his wife and all. The party starts
with cocktails and goes on to a buffet
supper and goes on and goes on. Any-
body mentioning music will be regarded
as a flat.
There are photographs of many of the
artists of the Merioola group set about
David Jones’s Gallery, where the group’s
exhibition of pictures is being held. Only
one, Donald Friend, has a smile to show,
and that’s just a beginning one. Perhaps
artists should look intense. The flower
decorations looked kind of noble and
impressive, too. The show opened on
the day of the Bunnerong power-strike,
and while there was enough natural light
in the long gallery to view the paintings,
at the top end of the gallery where the
sherry was poured hurricane-lamps sent
out flickering rays. The Merioola Group
has a very smart following (though, in-
deed, its work is good enough to interest
just ordinary pay-envelope men and
women) and the opening drew many of
Sydney’s best-dressed women, none more
notable than painter Jocelyn Rickards in
her full-skirted black chiffon frock and
flower-bestrewn hat.
Australian poet Roderic Quinn had a
birthday party last Saturday night. It
was his 78th birthday, and cousin by
marriage Mrs. M. T. Quinn gave the
party in her home at Summer Hill. There
was a cake surrounded by candles and
60 friends, most of them writers, to
wish Rod many happy returns. There
was a copy of Ada Holman’s book pre-
sented on behalf of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers by Miles Franklin.
There were poems by Hugh McCrae and
Will Lawson, specially written for the
occasion, and a letter from Nora Mc-
Auliffe recalling the grandeur of Rod’s
poem “Drover of Stars.” Before the end
of the party old friend Dan Clyne
dropped in.
Cicely Courtneidge spent the first
few rain and cloud days after her
arrival in Sydney at “52 Macleay-
street,” which as everybody knows
is around the corner in Green-
knowe-avenue. Cicely’s third-floor flat
has a glorious view of the Harbor. Cre-
mprne and Kirribilli points and Pinch-
gut were stretched on the leaden waters
at her feet (so to speak). Having an
interview with the famous English actress
was just a long argument with the tele-
phone. Safe to say the darned thing rang
at seconds’ intervals throughout a 20
minules’ talk. The Bunnerong power
strike came into it. Recordings that were
due that day were being postponed be-
cause of lack of power. Then the lift to
Cicely’s flat was powerless, too —three
flights to walk up and down. *
Figure trig, ankles trim and neat,
hair golden palely so expres-
sion not as vivacious as expected,
speaking voice resonant rather than
flexible, Cicely is the perfect ex-
pression of a woman successful in her
job. Australia knows her inimitable
work from such pictures as “Things Are
Looking Up.” Many Australians who
saw her and husband Jack Hulbert in the
film version of “The Ghost Train” still
chuckle over Cicely’s work. Her opening
play in Sydney will be “Under the
Counter,” and Miss Courtneidge’s eyes
glittered at the thought of it. She says
it has everything—fun, pathos, romance,
good lines and songs. Arthur McCrae is
the author. Typical of the English stage
is that another of its present-day star
writers is Terence Rattigan—another
Celt. Well, why not? The English stage
owes a good bit to the Celt.
Wars come and go, Governments rise
and fall, but the Bush Book Club stays
not its work in national triumph or defeat.
Its joyous task is to bring romance to the
outback. Novels and plays and poems
are packed into the parcels which are
sent to the farthest boundaries of the
State, and to meet the demand the supply
must be continuously refreshed. Last
week the club was at home to all who
came bearing books or magazines. Presi-
dent Barbara Knox and secretary Beulah
Bolton smiled greeting to nearly 1600
books and more than 3000 magazines.
The Governor’s daughter, Elizabeth
Northcott, brought a parcel of books
from her parents and in return received
a copy of that unique children’s book,
The Happiness Box, written and illus-
trated by David Griffin and Leslie
Greener for the poor little children in
Changi camp, where the two men were
p.-0.-w. There should be a special edition
of this book printed and placed in the
Australian War Museum. There is no-
thing more” typical of the Australian
soldier —his courage and his kindness.
Up at the Y.W.C.A. they are getting
busy about their Christmas Market. This
will commence at two o’clock next Friday
afternoon, and will be in the main hall in
Liverpool-street headquarters. In addi-
tion to the home-made cakes and sweets
and the usual fete delicacies, garden pro-
duce will be on sale. Then in the evening
the fun will get fast and furious with
hoopla and darts. Impressive moment
will be the presentation of club contribu-
tions towards Y.W.’s annual appeal. At
approximately nine o’clock representa-
tives of each club will step up to the
dais and make their presentation to Mrs.
C. P. Johnson, the association’s popular
president.
From Melbourne
Great bowls of stock, antirrhinum and
red and pink carnations brightened the
Town Hall for the reception given to
meet the High Commissioner for Canada,
K. A. Greene, Mrs. Greene and their
daughter Patsy. In the absence of the
Lord Mayor, knight Thomas Nettlefold
acted as host. Mrs. Greene covered her
brown Angora frock with a dyed-ermine
coat; her hat was of mushroom-toned
felt with brown ribbon trimming. Patsy
was in a grey suit with a small off-the-
facei hat, trimmed with matching veil.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, chose a bottle-green silk maro-
cain frock with white lace trimming the
edges of the neckline and sleeves ; her
small hat was of brown felt. Wife of
the Canadian Trade Commissioner, Mrs.
F. W. Fraser, wore a navy linen suit
finished with a white jabot and a navy
felt hat. With the Consul-General for
the U.S., Richard Boyce, was his wife,
whose black suit was worn with a silver-
fox cape and small upturned hat.
Later in the day Mr. and Mrs. F. W.
Fraser entertained the new High Com-
missioner, his wife and daughter at a
party held at Cliveden Mansions. Mem-
bers of the Diplomatic Corps, their wives
and other well-knowns were among the
guests. The Greenes are making their first
official visit to Melbourne, although they
have been in Canberra since last July.
Mrs. Greene wore a gracefully-draped
frock and large off-the-face hat. Her
black nylons brought many envious sighs.
Patsy Greene’s frock, simple in design,
was of cinnamon-brown crepe. Mrs.
Fraser was in black, her small black hat
trimmed with dusty-pink flowers. Mrs.
Ralph Michaelis, wife of the U.S. Mili-
tary Attache, set off with a japonica-red
straw hat her black corduroy velvet suit.
This portrait is of Wanda, only
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J. E. Shilliday,
of Box Hill. Wanda, who has just passed
her final exams for physiotherapy, is an
accomplished horsewoman, having ap-
peared at various gymkhanas and shows.
She is a great-great-granddaughter of the
late Dr. Wootton, one of the first medi-
cos to arrive by sailing ship in Victoria,
whose stone house in Market-street, the
first to be built in Melbourne, was de-
molished just a few years ago. Wanda,
who is not yet 21, will take a hospital
appointment until she comes of age and
then will work with her father. The
camera work is Broothorn’s.
Although Miss Victoria (Ronnie
Goodlet) was not chosen as Miss Aus-
tralia, visitors from Melbourne were very
proud of the bearing of this attractive
girl of their choice when, with candidates
from the other States, she was presented
to the public at the ball held at Sydney’s
Trocadero. Ronnie wore a stunning
white-and-silver-lame gown and pinned
two large purple orchids at the waistline.
Visitors from Melbourne at the ball in-
cluded her chaperone, Mrs. Margaret
Saker, whose gown of pink-and-gold lame
was worn with a short matching jacket.
Mrs. Constance Day’s floral taffeta gown
was worn under an overdress of black
net and hip-length white Arctic-fox cape.
Dorothy Clarke was in cyclamen satin ;
Val Levett’s ballerina frock was of floral
taffeta. Phyllis Irvine also wore a bal-
lerina frock, hers being of white organza
patterned with small bunches of cherries.
Barbara Boag’s floral frock had the
bodice edged with burgundy satin.
Rhondda Kelly, last year’s Miss Australia,
chose an aqua-blue crepe frock with
trails of coral-beaded flowers and leaves
down the front of the bodice and skirt.
At her Town Hall reception to that
vital personality World Chief Guide
Lady Baden-Powell, who was in uniform,
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinze,
wore a black crepe suit and matching
off-the-face hat trimmed with veiling and
pink ribbon toning with her lace blouse.
Guests at the reception included leaders
of the Girl Guide Movement in Vic-
toria, wives of city councillors and repre-
sentative women citizens. Mrs. C. O.
Fairbairn, Lady Chauvel, Lady Angliss
and Miss S. M. Cameron were among
the women who wore Guide uniform.
Other guests included Mrs. Walter Car-
negie, wearing a rose-trimmed hat with
her navy suit; her daughter, Mrs. E.
Grimwade ; Mrs. Guy Bakewell, whose
scarlet straw hat was a striking contrast
to her tailored black coat; Mrs. Guy
Baker, in navy coat, floral frock and
cherry straw sailor hat; Mrs. W. J. Knox,
whose navy-and-white ensemble was
worn with a white upswept hat; Myra
Roper, president of the University
Women’s College, trim in a striped grey
suit and small green hat; Mesdames Julia
Rapke, Karl Kumm, Arthur Joyce and
Tristan Buesst.
Many Melbourne ,guests were at the
Sydney wedding of Judy Dixon, formerly
of Toorak, when she was married at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, to Douglas
Macleod. Judy is the elder daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Dixon ; the bride-
groom is the only son of Mrs. Doris
Macleod, of Bellevue Hill. The bride’s
beautiful gown of white tulle over satin
was embroidered at the neckline with
pearls ; the bodice featured long tight-
fitting sleeves, the skirt was bouffant.
Her finger-tip tulle veil fell from a
coronet of lily-of-the-valley. Mrs. Walter
Cogswell, who was matron-of-honor,
brought from America the bouffant frock
of pink-beige lace and net she wore. Ann
Dixon, sister of the bride, and Pat Gale
were bridesmaids ; their frocks were of
orchid-mauve net, with beaded bodices
and very full skirts. The three attendants
wore matching wide-briihmed straw hats
and carried early-Victorian posies. Rolfe
Smith was bestman, the groomsmen Dick
Scott and Bill Douglas.
At the reception, held at the Australia,
Mrs. Dixon received her guests wearing
a pink lace and chiffon frock with a wide-
brimmed crinoline straw hat trimmed
with pink roses. Mrs. Macleod’s draped
gown was of pale beige crepe, its con-
trasting belt embroidered in green and
amber jewels; her small curvette was
trimmed with a sweeping ostrich feather.
Mrs. Griffiths, aunt of the bride, chose a
bouffant frock of black-silk net em-
broidered in silver ; another aunt, Mrs.
Whitehead, wore an oyster-pink organza
frock embroidered down the front of the
bodice and skirt with a trail of pink
flowers. Also from Melbourne were Mr.
and Mrs. J. Yule, the latter in black net
with a large cluster of pink roses at the
waist, and Norma Yule, in aqua-blue
taffeta with a large spray of pink roses
for contrast.
Plans are well advanced for the gala
matinee at His Majesty’s on December 10
in aid of the War Nurses’ Memorial
Centre. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell is the
organiser. Mrs. Frank Watts will be in
charge of the cake stall, and Mesdames
Norman Spry and Ned Holland will
raffle an outsize in Christmas stockings.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell will also have the
assistance of her Younger Set, and they
are noted for the enthusiasm they have
for good causes.
“Sit Back and Laugh” is the new show
at the Tivoli, and you can. One of the
many attractive scenes, “Ending in
Smoke,” revolves around the various
types of cigarettes, Russian, Egyptian,
Turkish and Virginian, and in repre-
senting the last-named the ballet wore
snappy costumes of brown-and-white-
striped satin. In the audience were the
Eric Cottrells, she in a japonica-red crepe
frock worn under a cocoa fox-fur. Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell wore a black-tailored
suit with a white-lace blouse. Lelie Potter
wore black lame with a red-fox cape.
Grey skies and a chilly windfrobbed
Henley of its glamor ; the sombre winter
ensemble held the day, and this within a
few weeks of Christmas! But the
decorated houseboats moored at the
river’s bank lent gaiety to the scene. The
Lord Mayor, Cr. R. Connelly, and the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinze,
entertained about 200 guests on their
houseboat, which was massed with flowers
and young saplings. Flowers were banked
down to the water’s edge, while at one
end of the houseboat a roof was massed
with varicolored blooms. Mrs. Heinze’s
tailored coat was teal-blue, her small
navy hat had a cluster of pastel-blue
flowers at one side. Mrs. S. Connelly,
mother of the Lord Mayor, had fur revers
on her black coat, which was worn with
a small black hat. Mrs. J. W. Ferguson’s
crownless hat of pink-and-white-striped
fabric with its long ends falling at the
back highlighted her black-tailored coat.
Mrs. Arthur Joyce’s midnight-blue jacket
suit with its rows of silver buttons giving
a double-breasted effect was worn with a
halo hat of burnt straw banded in navy.
Mrs. Harold Rabling wore a pencil-
striped navy suit and hat fashioned of
loops of white straw. Lady Gengoult
Smith chose a royal-blue-pleated frock
and cherry straw hat banded with white
grosgrain ribbon. Mrs. John Cain’s black
suit was worn with a silver-fox collar
and an off-the-face white straw hat
trimmed with black satin ribbon.


SECURITY
For the Performance
of Trusts
• The Trustees, Executors 8C Agency
Co. Ltd. is specially constituted under
Act of Parliament.
• It is the oldest Trustee Company in
Australia.
• Has unrivalled experience in estate
administration.
• Is constantly available.
• Provides prompt and efficient service.
• Is impartial and sympathetic.
1 BUGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLONS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,359.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.;
CL S. Colman, C. 8.8.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb*
F.R.C.S., Eng., G. D. Young.
General Manager: W, Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R ; T. Hildcr (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Harold J.
Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie Morshead.
K.CB., K. 8.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J, W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TRAVEL IN GREAT BRITAIN
d-u OUcP*
Recovery from w;ar-lime conditions is still proceeding
although handicapped by fuel shortages. We are
anxious to welcome visitors from Australia and if
they find train services not quite so frequent or speedy
as before the war, we are sure they will understand.
The world-famous FLYING SCOTSMAN, which never
failed to run during the war, continues its daily journey
over the historic route between LONDON and
EDINBURGH.
LONDON & NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
of England and Scotland.
Representatives in Australia:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, and branches.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1937. .774,695 10* p.c. = 649,179 125,516 1,130,359
1938. .841,839 11* „ ~ 711,005 130,834 1,261,193
1939.. 855.709 12 „ ~ 741,919 7 lns 7qn - qfiQ QR ,
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO. . ) 108 ’ ,9 ° 1,369,985
1940. .870,299 12 p.c. = 741,919 128,380 1,498,363
1941. .809,036 12 „ ~'741,919 67,117 1,565,480
1942. .763,438 12 „ ~ 741,919 7 . r ,„ , , R , „„ q
Employees’ Fund, £5000..) 18,519 1,581,999
1943. .789,041 12 p.c. = 741,919 47,122 1,629,121
1944. .839,623 13 „ ~ 803,745 35,878 1,664,999
1945. .858,022 13 „ ~ 803,745 54,277 1,719,276
1946.. 862.956 13 „ ~803,745 1 io 9U i 457
Employees’ Fund, £10,000..) 49,211 1,768,487
1947. .884,516 13* p.c. = 834,659 7 w R , 7 , ROR
Employees’ Fund, £10,000..) 39,857 1,808,344
The two outstanding events last term
were defeat of the brewers’ appeal for
10 p.m. closing at the liquor-trading-hours
referendum in February last, when the
public plumped for maintenance of the
status quo, and marked expansion of
brewery turnover. The brisker trading
more than offset the heavy increase in
outgoings that followed in the wake of
wage lifts and the rise in cost of materials,
distribution and other items of overhead.
With the economic barometer high and
rising fast, owing to pressure of a buoyant
national income inflated by fat prices and
ready markets for exports—especially
wool, wheat and metals —and “full” em-
ployment at high and rising wage rates,
consumption, of beer went up, too. Some
idea of what happened, and also of what
a generous and untroublesome contributor
beer is to the public Treasury, can be
gathered from the following comparison
of excise collections on the stuff:
Year to Year to
June 30. June 30.
1939.. £7,342,257 1944.. £21,588,113*
1941., 11,836,870 1945''.. 21,511,748*
1942.. 14,199,411 1946,. 22,519,610*
1943.. 19,632,695 1947.. 27,246,527*
* Federal Budget Figures.
Growth last year was £4,726,917, approxi-
mately 21 p.c. Since 1939 excise has
stepped up from Is. 9d. to 4s. 7d. per
gallon. That is to say, the Government
now makes off with 14s. 7d. of every £1
the brewer receives for his bulk beer.
The other ss. sd. has to cover increased
production, distribution and other costs,
including co. tax, as well as profit, which
is again taxed as dividends in the hands
of shareholders.
Tooths enjoys a lion’s share of the
trade in its home State, where it added
£1,954,040 net to the book value of hotel
properties and other fixed assets during
the decade to end Sept., 1939, thus
anchoring and widening turnover. After
allowing £127,602 (up £893) for deprecia-
tion and something for other contin-
gencies, gross earnings shot up £181,090
last term:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept. Earnings. etc. Gross. , Profit.
1940.. £2,251,584 £1,381,285 61.3 £870,299
1942.. 2,799,208 2,035,770 72.7 768,438
1944.. 2,601,172 1,761,549 67.7 839,623
1945.. 2,697,639 1,839,617 68.2 858,022
1946.. 2,746,212 1,883,256 '68.6 862,956
1947.. 2,927,302 2,042,786 69.7 884,516
Exes, made off with £159,530 of the gain,
leaving the net result £21,560 stronger at
£884,516, or 14.5 p.c. on capital as against
13.9, 13.8, 13.5, 12.7 and 12.3 p.c. back
to 1942. The div. was lifted from 13 p.c.
to 13| p.c., the final being at the rate of
14 p.c. p.a., and £lO,OOO was sent to the
employees’ benefit account. Net earnings
averaged £727,348 for the half-dozen
years to close of accounts in 1939, and
for the six war years to 1945 the average
was £821,576.
In the years ahead it will be the relative
levels of turnover and costs that determine
the measure of brewery profits, and costs
promise to be the more rigid of the two.
Apart from the effect of the time factor
on output, the 40-hour week is equivalent
to a 10 p.c. lift in hourly wage rates, and
there is no sign of any recession in the
price of barley, hops, sugar and other
brewing ingredients. And the present
threat of a maltsters’ strike might affect
the heavy Christmas trade. However,
owing to continued pressure of infla-
tionary factors, the general outlook
favors still further expansion of turnover
—the Treasury expects receipts from ex-
cise on beer to reach £27,500,000 for the
current financial year—and net earnings
will benefit from abolition of War-time
(Co.) Tax, all of which augurs well for
maintenance of the div. at the final rate
of 14 p.c. p.a.
When materials and labor become
available the rebuilding, remodelling and
extension of brewery and hotel premises
will call for substantial outlay. But it is
unlikely that shareholders will be asked
to assist: —-
1941. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital .. £6,182,657 £6,182,657 £6,182,657
Creditors .. 1,874,133 2,582,116 2,565,853
Employees’ Fund 55,119 48,691 56,289
Freeholds & plant 6,880,511 6,156,991 6,057,945
Stocks . . .. 540,282 505,384 464,885
Debtors . . . . 1,298,996 825,221 902,533
Consols, cash, etc. 1,328,559 3,506,228 3,630,566
Last term £124,338 was added to the
big heap of Consols, cash, etc. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£2,375,842) was £169,816.
At 81s. (68s. 3d. at end 1946) the pound
shares return 3.4 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div.
basis. Visibly net tangible cover is
255. lid.—assets are known to be worth
a lot more than their book value.
United Provisions, Ltd.
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
, Dividends To Re- Ee-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1939.. 57,490 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 164,875
54,529 8 „ 1} „ 47,875 6,654 171,529
1941.. 75,373 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 1,373 172,902
1942.. 95,776 8 „ 3 „ 64,500 31,476 204,378
1943.. 97,796 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 23,796 228,174
1944. .127,471 8 „ 5 „ 83,500 43,971 272,145
1945. .147,617 8 „ 8 „ 112,000 35,617 307,762
1946. 124,723 8 „ 8 ~112,000 1 Rn9 oo lfi7SF ;
To staff funds, £4700 .. ..( 8,0-3 315,i85
1947.. 78,560 f 8 p.c. 7 p.c.102,500 ( oao oln
To staff funds, £2426 .. ~ J 289,219
* Subject to intangibles, £641,632.
t Subject to revision.
This big ham- and bacon-curing and
canned foods and smallgoods manufac-
turing organisation is the largest thing of
its kind in Australasia. It has a dozen
factories scattered throughout the Com-
monwealth and three in Maoriland, as
well as a string of warehouses in both
countries. But shareholders have never
scraped much lard from the business, and
the scrip has followed an erratic course in
the market. Price of the f.-p. pound
ords. fluctuated between 6s. lOd. and 10s.
for the three years to end 1941; and the
figure continued to strengthen, reaching
par in 1944 and 225. 3d. (ceiling) at end
1946. It had dropped to 17s. 3d. in
April, rose to 21s. in Sept., and stood at
19s. 9d. last week-end. The return at
19s. 9d. is 7.1 p.c. so long as the 7 p.c.
div. continues. The 8 p.c. £1 prefs.
(450,000 in a paid capital of £1,400,000)
yield 5.1 p.c. at 31s. Net tangible cover
(book value) is 465. 7d. prefs. and 12s. 7d.
ords. A recent revaluation of assets for
insurance purposes more than wiped out
the share premium account (£641,622),
the chairman says ; but that doesn’t affect
earning capacity one way or the other.
At the start (the holding co. amal-
gamated the interests of J. C. Hutton and
Poggitt Jones in 1927) it looked like an
8 p.c. proposition. But five out of the
11 years to 1938 were dry ones, average
distribution for the period being 2.7 p.c.
This despite the fact that a growing ex-
port market for the co.’s products had
been built up with Britain, Southern and
Eastern Asia and near-by islands. The
trouble lay mainly in destructive com-
petition. This not only cut selling prices
to the bone, but bumped up bids for
pigs, etc., which were affected, also, by
seasonal conditions. Then war and con-
trols steadied the position, and the div.
climbed from 3 p.c. in ’39 to 8 p.c. in
’45, average for the seven years being
4 p.c.
There has been no lack of demand
since. In 1946 profits turned in the wrong
direction, but they were more than enough
to cover an all-round 8 p.c. div. Drought
and the Queensland meat strike were
the trouble. Together they reduced sup-
plies of live stock, intensified competition
and closed down two of the main fac-
tories and a can-making establishment for
four months.
Last term pigs were still in short sup-
ply, the co.’s killings dropped by 16 p.c.,
and the outturn of canned meats was
restricted on account of the demand for
beef for Britain. Blackmarket operators
aggravated the position, turnover dropped
by 4.3 p.c., and costs advanced all along
the line. Minor adjustments in selling
prices helped, but the time lag gave costs
too big a start. After deducting esti-
mated co. tax (£62,000, down £17,290),
provision for depreciation (£26,214,
down £2730) and making minor adjust-
ments, the contraction in net earnings of
the group was £46,363. The £78,360 of
profit shown—it is subject to the differ-
ence between estimated and actual taxa-
tion —covered the pref. div. and 4.5 p.c,
on ord. capital as against 9.3, 11.7, 9.6,
6.5, 6.3, 4.1 and 1.9 p.c. back to 1940.
The board paid an interim 3 p.c. and
final 4 p.c., making 7 p.c. for the year;
a suggestion that a better net result can
be expected for the current term, despite
the effect of the 40-hour week on costs.
Increased supplies should reduce the
number of blackmarket operators, and
benefit both turnover and earnings. Only
small benefit from elimination of War-
time (Co.) Tax is anticipated.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Overdraft, etc. . . 60,034 874 174,279
Other creditors .. 144,413 187,57a* 158,909
Tax reserve . . 29,358 —•—
Suspense account • 1,475 •
Freeholds . . 395,909 349,000 842,226
Plant, etc. . . 158,204 162,606 167,943
Stock , . . . 371,801 548,386 638,869
Debtors . . . . 236,021 224,930 278,121
Cash, etc. . . 37,344 119,142 31,141
Intangibles* .. 641,807 641,632 641,632
Suspense account. . 4,094 47,601
* Mainly difference between book value and par value
of inter co. shareholdings.
To dip £28,663 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, carry an extra £90,483
of stocks and add £53,191 to debtors’
balances, the co. drew upon cash, etc.,
for £BB,OOl and went to its bankers for
a further £173,405. Shrinkage in the
more or less liquid surplus (£655,418)
was £42,419.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Ee-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
& & & &
1938.. 12,180 10 p.c. = 11,000 1180 71,128
1939.. 12,232 10 „ „ 11,000 1232 72,360
1940;. 11,812 10 „ „ 11,000 812 73,172
1941. .■ 11,669 10 „ „ 11,000 669 73,841
1942.. 11,177 10 „ „ 11,000 177 74,018
1943.. 10,900 10 „ ~ 11,000 73,918
1944.. 12,170 10 „ „ 11,000 1170 75,088
1945.. 18,332 10 „ „ 11,000 1
To staff fund, £1650 .. t 682 75 ’ 77 ®
1946.. 10,541 8 p.c. = 8,800 7
To staff fund, £lOOO .. J
1947.. 10,715 8 p.c. = 8,800 1915 78,426
Today the trustee cos. are rendering an
essential, extensive and efficient service
at low cost. Their moderate corpus and
commission charges, anchored by legisla-
tion, have remained unchanged since the
closing decades of last century. On the
other hand, costs have continued to drift
on the rising tide of inflationary Govern-
ment spending, accelerated by two world
wars and by a maze of socialistic and
other legislation, especially in connection
with taxation and the administration of
estates. Also, earnings have been re-
tarded by the official blanket thrown over
capital values and rents, and by the Gov-
ernment’s frequent turns of the cheap-
money screw.
All these things, and many others re-
lating to wills, testators and beneficiaries,
have served to make obvious the advan-
tages of the corporate over the private
trustee. There has been, in consequence,
a steady increase in the volume of busi-
ness entrusted to the expert care of the
.cos. Over the decade to the close of
accounts in 1945 the net addition to the
volume of trusts on the Permanent’s
books amounted to £6,014,592. But the
growth in costs outstripped the growth in
gross earnings, and profits for the five
years to’ end September, 1945, averaged
£11,849 compared with an average of
£12,123 for the preceding quinquennium,
and the shrinkage has become more
marked since.
Last term new estates entrusted to the
co.’s care exceeded the value of those
wound up by £1,122,259:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1920.. £6,349,568 £24,948 £15.689 62.9 p.c.
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1940.. 22,534,608 76,014 62,602 83.4 ~
1943.. 24,352,657 82,035 70,535 86.0 „
1944.. 24,768,652 82,686 69,916 84.6 „
1945.. 25,627,619 83,915 70,583 84.1 „
1946.. 26,010,826 87,050 76,509 87.9 „
1947.. 27,132,985 92,209 81,494 88.3 „
The improvement in gross earnings was
£5159. Exes, took all but £174 of the
gain. The net result, second poorest for
over a decade, was 9.7 p.c. on the
£llO,OOO of paid capital as against 9.5,
12.1, 11, 9.9, 10.1, 10.6, 10.7 and 11.1
p.c. back to 1939. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined),
the year’s net result was 5.6 p.c., which
suggests that the trustee section of the
business now turns in very little profit.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c. —it had been
sweetened with a 2\ p.c. bonus for the
nine years to 1945. Continued growth
of the business and abolition of War-time


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advtv
» * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
PLAN FOR HIS,
fin
ixm
a/
v: ::»
Wise is the father who
plans ahead and makes
provision for his family’s
future welfare by arrang-
ing for a life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice available 1
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6 GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
//«aJoff/ce-37/-37S(?uee/ifr, Brisbane
WIHGELLO HOUSA, ANSEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General. Manager
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
JVRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Tru»tee,
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
Only the finest of pure
Australian fur is used in the
manufacture of AKUBRA hats —
best Australian made.
Famous for long service , com-
fort and smart appearance .
HATS OF
aUAUTY
c 5
<ississS
S:' ■IS
■
! « $/ A S® BB ®
.:• J M
& ' ySjg
zT" —
° 0
IP
Every year the name of Vickers-Armstrongs comes to be
more closely linked with outstanding achievement in aircraft
design and manufacture. The SPITFIRE Trainer of today is
training fighter pilots of tomorrow. Britain has the fastest
piston-engined single-seater fighter in the world in die
SPITEFUL.The Vickers Supermarine SEAGULL amphibian
flying boat with variable incidence wing carries on the
tradition of this .type. The ATTACKER Jet Single-seater
Fighter represents pioneer achievement in this new and
rapidly developing field of design. In the sphere of passenger
transport, four of the Vickers VIKING civil type aircraft
were selected from all other British types for the Royal Tour
of South Africa. The new series will include the twin
jet-engined NENE VIKING and the VISCOUNT V.C.2
fitted with four airscrew turbine units. The department of the
Aircraft section responsible for die well-known Vickers
AIRCRAFT ACCESSORIES has resumed production and
will include newly designed components for aircraft of all types.
V
mstrongs
ited
aircraft
SECTION
VICKERS HOUSE. BROADWAY, LONDON, S.W.i
O.A.T.2I
h
Represented by Sir KEITH SMITH, K.B.E. (P.O. Box 627), Sydney, N.S.W.
(Co.) Tax favor a bit better showing at
next balance.
When the books closed the co. s own
funds, together with £18,718 coming to
sundry creditors, were represented by
freeholds, etc., £52,621, mortgages, etc.,
£93 910, Government securities £40,992,
cash, etc., £19,012, and Ihares in the
Canberra subsidiary £5009.
The £5 shares paid to 11s. each—7ss.
of the remaining 89s. is callable only in
the event of liquidation —are priced at
235. (265. 3d. a year ago) in the market.
The return at 235. is 3.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 18s. lOd.
per share.
The grade of copper treated during the
past year at Mt. Morgan has never been
lower in the long history of the mine.
Despite this there has been an unusually
prolonged rally in the market. This is
due to the belief that shareholders are
on the edge of better things, that a re-
orientation of policy whereby profits will
go to dividends and not to mine-develop-
ment account, will shortly be imple-
mented by some dividends, meagre
though they may be for the time being.
Actually, reserve ore treated has gone up
9s. per ton on gold values alone with
copper grade stationary. Practically al
reserve ore (treated at No. 1 mill) now
lies below No. 5 bench (old 574 ft. level),
and this means they are starting to get
into the reserves in the “copper ore-
body lying to the west of the andesite
dyke. They are likely to run 4dwt. to
sdwt. gold and 2 p.c. copper, so that
gold and copper returns should rise con-
sistently during the next year unless
swamped by No. 2 mill feed; in other
words treatable material from the over-
burden. .
■4 * * *
After a year’s drilling on the Miclere,
near Clermont (C.Q.), Goldmines of
Australia is preparing to sink a central
shaft and then commence driving on the
bottom gravel. It was announced last
week by Mines Minister Foley that gold
had been located in a number of the 15
drills put down, and that the field had
beep described by a State geologist as
the bed of an underground lake. G.M. of
A. actually set out to prove depth to
bedrock wash,, nature of the ground and
whether the drill would support J. H.
Reid’s contention that the auriferous
gravel was not a deep lead but the shingle
of an inland expanding lake that took in
Blair Athol coal in its upper members.
It appears that the drill has not
upset that theory, since the company is
going ahead with the second stage of its
programme, namely, sinking and driving.
Drilling has proved bedrock up to 300 ft.
in the deepest areas, and both “white” and
“blue” ground have been struck. Values
are reputedly light ip the former, while
the blue ground at Black Ridge and
Miclere has provided most of the high
values. Actually, at present Miclere has
only one show (the Neptune) that is doing
any good. The State will advantage if
G.M. of A. can average 3dwt. to 4dwt.
gold, whereas prospectors who can’t
locate lOdwt. values must look for a
“handout” from the Mines Department.
*
Uncertainty about the future of costs
and taxation has caused Boulder Perse-
verance to defer consideration of a div.
for 1947 until the co.’s year ends on De-
cember 31. Interim and final dividends
for 1946 were each 1\ p.c. stg. What is
worrying the board, as well as the boards
of other London-controlled Westralian
goldmining cos., are soaring expenditure
on production and the possibility of an
early Arbitration Court award sending it
higher still.
* * * *
Evanston goldmine (W.A.) has closed
down, and the directors hope “a rise in
the price of gold, or some alleviation of
present terrific costs, will permit opera-
tions to be resumed some day.” They
add that to carry on under present con-
ditions would only dissipate assets con-
tained in the residue dumps and remain-
ing ore reserves. At the time of flotation
last year the venture was represented as
a good thing, the “Wild Cat” dissenting.
Meanwhile, more capital was called up,
partly to pay the vendors. Some mining
men who have seen Evanston do not
think it will ever be a prizewinner.
* * * *
First Hit, N.L. (W.A.), is disposing of
assets valued at £16,770. Operations
showed a loss of £3054 for year ended
June 30 last. A small producer, the co.
operated on portion of the old Queens-
land Menzies block at Menzies, and paid
several dividends. Like those on the
Lady Shenton and other near-by pro-
perties, its gold-carriers became impover-
ished at a shallow depth. A lot of gold
was won from the Menzies short-lived
reefs in the early days, and for a time
the field ranked next to Kalgoorlie,
Coolgardie and Cue as a producer.
* * * *
Possibility of discovering deep-seated
enrichments in the old Gt. Fingall mine
(W.A.) has lately been discussed by
Sydney geologist H. J. C. Connolly, a
Mines Department official, and the man-
agement of Big Bell, Ltd. Importation of
a team of expert diamond-drillers to
search for such enrichments is mentioned.
To Connolly is due much of the credit
for successful diamond-drilling and de-
velopment at Central Norseman’s Phoenix
mine.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) ad-
mits a loss of £28,941 for year ended
June 30 last, but says that, when earned,
profit from the treatment of ore de-
veloped during that period will more
than wipe out the deficit. Revenue, in-
cluding proceeds from gold won and the
Commonwealth’s rehabilitation grant,
totalled £25,701, and expenditure, mostly
outlay on development, £54,642.
New Milano (W.A.) belatedly an-
nounces that it incurred a loss of £lll9
for the year ended February 28 last. Co.
ceased mining towards the end of last
year. The gold deposits on the field (Mt.
Monger) where New Milano operated are
shallow-seated and soon peter out. Gen-
erally they are not considered good
enough for co. operations.


£6.13.0 worth
of Air Power
• cairns
• TOWNSVILLE
• MACKAY
r
• ROCKHAMPTON
DARWIN
• KATHERINE
• DALY WATERS
• TENNANT CREEK
• ALICE SPRINGS
• BRISBANE
7
• SYD
SYDNEY
\£SL
LAUNCESTON
/
O'
HOBART
PERTH
6URNIE
0
mm
■
This TAA flight ticket represents far more than just speedy, luxurious travel between
Sydney and Melbourne. It is a contribution to Australia’s ever-growing fleet of
modern transport aircraft .... a tremendous factor in our peacetime development
and prosperity, an essential arm of our defence should the need ever again arise.
The purchase of this ticket is also your guarantee of friendly, efficient and courteous
service ... of all that is finest in air travel. You, and the thousands of other
passengers who fly and fly again with your nationally-owned airline, choose the
ideal way of travel and are truly Australian when you . . .
TAA -*fLe -jvlenclL^
SUNDRY SHOWS
BRAHMS AT ST. PAUL'S.
For a few weeks music in Melbourne
has its centre shifted from the Town
Hall to St. Paul’s Cathedral and Brahms,
in every facet of his colossal genius, is
available free, thanks to the Sidney
Myer Bequest and the energy of Bernard
Heinze. It is possible to speak of music
in terms of architecture and it was the
natural thing to do when sitting listening
to the Symphony No. 2 in D Major, one
of the gayest, brightest and most flowing
of Brahms’s compositions.
There is something gay and flow-
ing about St. Paul’s Cathedral. The
color —and St. Paul’s has plenty of it —
is part and parcel of the architecture just
as Raymond Lambert’s playing in the
Pianoforte Concerto No. 1 in D Minor
was part and parcel of the orchestra and
often subordinate to it, which was the
reason .why the critics of Brahms’s time
objected to it. These two noble works
were well selected as the programme for
the first occasion. It was followed by a
Sunday-afternoon performance by the
Prockter String Quartet and the singing
of half a dozen of Brahms’s loveliest
lieder by Kathleen Goodall. With admir-
able discipline not a single listener in the
audience applauded.
Last Wednesday evening thousands” of
people battled to get into St. Paul’s,
hundreds poured in when the portals
were opened and at least a thousand were
swept back baffled. Hephzibah Menu-
hin was the cause of the upheaval. Her
faultless execution, the sensitiveness of
her phrasing and the singing quality of
her playing in the Brahms B Flat Piano
Concerto were the highest light to date
of the Brahms Festival. Her playing was
perfectly matched with its surroundings,
and the acoustics of the cathedral seemed
to be doing their best for the occasion.
* * * *
The Chapter House at St. Paul’s, in
Melbourne, is rich with chasubles, stoles,
maniples, jewelled chalices and other
items of ecclesiastical vestment. Private
houses and churches have sent in beauti-
fully-carved chairs, fonts and prie-dieu
for the church art show in connection
with the cathedral’s centenary celebra-
tiqns. The bulk of the exhibits dates
from the 17th or 16th centuries, or even
earlier, when the churches played a
bigger part in art than the academies do
now. Except for a few angels, an unin-
spired “Adam and Eve” by Ola Cohn
and a painting of the well-known church
of St. Helena at Greensborough by Alan
Sumner, Australian ecclesiastical art is
conspicuous by its absence. The most
artistic contemporary works are the vest-
ments woven and worked by the holy
sisters.
Willem Noske.
The rather florid orchestral transcrip-
tion of Bach’s organ piece, the Fantasia
and Fugue in G Minor, was strong meat
into which the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under Eugene Goossens on
Saturday nigjit sank its teeth with obvious
relish. While there were moments of
bluster, the general grandeur of the work
was unimpaired. Schumann’s “Carna-
val” was given a reading which moved
with facility from dreamy sentimentality
to fiery energy, from the delicacies of the
“Papillons” to the martial note on which
the work ends. It was orchestral playing
of high standard. The ballet, “The
Good-humored Ladies,” which Touma-
sini arranged from the sonata work of
Scarlatti, was notable for the subtlety of
nuances, the incisiveness of its rhythmic
passages and the emphasis on the pun-
gent wit inherent in this fascinating piece.
Willem Noske was the soloist in the
Tschaikowsky Violin Concerto. Cer-
tainly the Dutch violinist made it diffi-
cult to understand why such an accomp-
lished fiddler as Leopold Auer, to whom
the concerto was first dedicated, pro-
tested that the technical difficulties were
insurmountable and refused to play it.
The easy, flowing style of the second
theme of the first movement; the long,
unaccompanied cadenza which follows
the brilliant passages of staccato double-
stopping ; the singing of the solo instru-
ment in melancholy meditation to the
subdued orchestra in the “little song”
comprising the middle movement; and
the wild gaiety of the peasant dance,
with the scintillating scale passages for
the fiddle—these were the highlights of
an interpretation which kept the middle
road between overemotionalism and the
coldly academic.
* * * *
Brisbane Amateur Theatre’s last pro-
duction for the year was Lesley Storm’s
“Great Day,” a typical comedy complete
with various dialects and stock comedy
characters. It concerns the impending
visit of a v.i.p. to a small English village
and the preparations for the visit, all of
it decorated with cameos of the villagers.
The production was rough and unfinished
with insufficient attention paid to group-
ing and movements on stage. Rose
Bonser took main acting honors with
Nonie Stewart and John Caswell running
a close second.
Artbursts.
The Merioola Group, which consists
of Arthur Fleischmann, Peter Kaiser,
Justin O’Brien, Edgar Ritchard, Jocelyn
Rickards, Loudon Sainthill, Roland Stras-
ser, Alec Murray and Mary Edwards,
claims to differ from most groups of
painters inasmuch as the artists them-
selves are bound by no common artistic
philosophy, creed or evqp tendency. In
their current Sydney exhibition at David
Jones’s Gallery, however, there does
seem to be a kind of grouping—a sharp
division between the work of Mary
Edwards and Roland Strasser, on the one
hand, and Justin O’Brien and the rest, on
the other. Mary Edwards is represented
by a fine portrait, “Lady, San Francisco,”
and two paintings of native heads—both
typical of the artist’s special handling of
this type of painting, but neither on the
select level of her best work. StrSsser
has several pictures of racial types as
widely separated as Polynesian and Mon-
golian. “Legong Dancer,” a Balinese
study, has grace and animation, a
startling backdrop of purple, and no
depth. It illustrates the artist’s tendency
to concentrate on color and type instead
of the art of which he is capable. The
few pieces of sculpture belong to another
category. Those by Arthur Fleischmann
are competent, and solid.
* * * *
Paintings by Lionel Lindsay, at the
Macquarie Galleries, deal with pic-
turesque parts of the Continent (Naples,
Marseilles, Granada, etc.) in a technically
flawless, but somewhat flat, manner.
“Shadow of the Camponile, St,
Mark’s,” is masterly in its accomplished
concentration of detail in mass, “Gate
of the Virgin, Naples,” with a familiar
crowd and architecture, is given neces-
sary, but almost accidental, strength by a
swelling tower of masonry pushing
weight into the picture, and “The Little
Market, San Gaetano,” excellent in a
limited way, has, in the market crowd,
color and an entire absence of character.
* * * *
Two small paintings — “Wilson’s
Promontory” and “Williamstown Beach”
—were bought by the N.S.W. Gallery
from an exhibition of Charles Bush pic-
tures at the Grosvenor Galleries, Syd-
ney. Both are undistinguished paintings,
but, assuming that specimens of Bush’s
work are needed by the Sydney Gallery,
no better choice could have been pos-
sible. They are samples of the artist’s
admirable mastery of technique and of
his apparent inability, once he is
thoroughly committed to it, to shake him-
self free. The Gallery buyers, as an alter-
native, might have taken one of his war
paintings, which, with documentary
value, illustrate an entirely different
phase of Bush’s work—a quick and
lively perception—although they have
also a slick and unnatural quality—like
that of a startling photograph,
* * * *
Painter Robert Hofmann and sculptor
Andon Meszaros share the walls and
floor of the Velasquez Galleries, Mel-
bourne, in a joint exhibition. Hofmann’s
portraits of Raymond Lambert, Rev. F.
W. Coaldrake, novelist Leonard Mann
and Tom White, M.H.R., have the same
quality as some of Meszaros’s sculpture.
They are academic and verge on the
photographic. There is the same factual
quality about the medallions of distin-
guished citizens carved in silver by
Meszaros. He has allowed his fancy to
make free with the forms in his bronze
cast of the upper half of the model of
the “Maternity” statue in Sydney.
At the Films.
Some pother with golf and more with
photography in “London Town” (Sydney
Esquire) mark Sid Field as a tiptop
comedian, and helped by Claude Hulbert
he makes the show well worth a visit.
The show is Rank’s first crack at a techni-
color musical and is notable for the
absent a of that despairing souped-up
bedlam which permeates the Hollywood
musical and escaped justice only under
the name of jazz.
* * * *
“Desert Fury” (Sydney State): Liza-
beth Scott, whose mother runs a
remunerative gambling joint, runs out
of finishing school and returns home
with ambitions of following . in her
parent’s footsteps. Despite the warn-
ings of her mother and a homely
honest cop, she falls for a gangster-
gambler and is bound for perdition with
him before the filmic laws of right and
wrong assert themselves and she returns
to her parental roof and the arms of the
cop. Most of the edgy, brittle characters
in the film are well drawn and the sus-
tained savagery of some of them main-
tains a ragged tension to the finish.
* * * *
“That Way with Women” (Sydney
Plaza): Sydney Greenstreet as a million-
aire car' manufacturer who sneaks off
from the boredom of enforced convales-
cence to partner a young ex-serviceman
in running a “gas station.” Of course
the young fellow falls for the old chap’s
daughter and, of course, nobody knows
who’s who until the fadeout.


No. 22 of Series
Lighter Flint ...
mm
Vs.
* g. t. mprrjs
WHEN we use a petrol lighter, we start a chemical
reaction in the “flint” fighter flints are
artificial products. They are made from a mixture
called mischmetall, the main ingredient of which is
cerium, a rare metal. Cerium combines easily with
oxygen in the air, producing great heat. Normally,
the surface of the flint exposes so little cerium that
no reaction can be seen. But the revolving friction
wheel tears off many small particles which together
expose a much greater area of cerium. These
particles combine with the oxygen in the air so
fast that they become white hot, igniting the petrol-
soaked wick as they burn. The flint in
our lighters and possibly the petrol fuel
are products of the British chemical
industry.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
IL-36-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Originally set down for Canterbury, the
S.T.C.’s Food for Britain meeting was held
at Randwick, with donations from various
groups and individuals totalling £12,000, of
which £6OOO went in prize-money for the eight
events. Some owners of placed horses donated
their cut of the purse; the AJ.C. met ex-
penses of running the meeting; both S.T.C.
and State Government tossed in their cut from
the tote, and the Canberra stable produced a
pleasing reversal of form by remitting enter-
tainment tax. Altogether Food for Britain
should benefit by about £25,000.
A tidy slice of that sum was contributed
before the meeting by Randwick bookies. Re-
sults included wins by five little-fancied runners,
among them two 33-to-l chances, and in
another event one got up to deadheat with
the favorite. Which goes to show that virtue
hath its rewards.
The deadheat occurred in the 10-furlongs
Handicap; a stirring finish fought out by
Cordale (G. Moore) and the favorite, Nepean
River (J. Thompson). Both came from well
back in the field with strong finishing runs,
but possibly greater credit should be given to
Nepean River, who was overtaken but came
again. There was some abuse of the camera
by backers of Nepean River. It’s not so very
long since those demanding the introduction
of the photo.-finish gear were arguing in its
favor that it would put an end to deadbeats.
Winner of the Villiers last year with Bst.,
the Veilmond gelding Native Son (E. Fordyce)
showed something like his best form by carry-
ing 9.2 and comfortably defeating Gay King
and Young Veilmond in the Flying. After
a week of consistently wet weather it says
something for the drying qualities of the
Randwick track that Native Son ran the six
furlongs and 15yds. in 1.1 If. He has 8.11
in the coming Villiers.
The two-year-old grey Nizami filly Grey
Nurse gives every indication that F. W. Hughes
has landed another Nizam’s Ring. Grey Nurse
has had half a dozen runs for a fifth (in the
Gimcrack), two thirds and three wins, the
latest when she won Saturday’s Thames Nursery
from Bonnie Prince and Flume, with the promis-
ing colt Cadet fourth. Grey Nurse certainly
has the breeding. Humorously named, she’s
by Nizami from Card Player. Card Player is
by Paper Money and Paper Money was the
sire of the dams of Beaulivre (N.Z. Derby),
Defaulter (N.Z. Derby), Gold Salute, Enrich
(N.Z. Derby), Expanse (Great Northern Derby),
Pandect (A.J.C. Derby), Bruce and other good
stayers.
One hot favorite to land the money was
Monsoon (W. Briscoe), at 5 to 4 on in the
12-furlongs Mixed Stakes; Monsoon, with stay-
ing blood from his sire The Buzzard, had an
easy win from Binnia Gift and Golden Glove.
The first Mixed, over a mile, was won by
Buclar (J. Eaves), an aged Buonarroti mare and
unusual in that she is the dam of a now-
yearling foal. In the second division Impu-
dent —at 33 to 1, as was Buclar —gave appren-
tice J. Lordan his first winning ride. Divisions
of the Parcels Fund Handicap, a six-furlongs
Welter, went to Souvenir (H. Russell) and
Opening (A. Podmore).
* * * *
At Flemington the V.R.C. held a Benevolent
Fund meeting, proceeds going to the relief of
destitute jockeys and their dependants. Favored
with a perfect day, attendance looked well above
average.
Regarded as an odds-on Hurdle proposition,
the John James gelding Latani did collect the
money, though it was a very near thing. Not
the race itself; Latani made an exhibition of
them, winning by seven lengths from El Regis,
with Cable News nearly a similar distance
further back; but there was consternation in
the camp, which punters were spared, when
R. Hall weighed in half-a-pound light. The
bridle was called for and just did the trick.
Lumping 11.8 and travelling something more
than two miles with a false rail in use, Latani
clocked 3.35 i; the course record for the exact
distance is 3.34|.
Also a warm favorite at 6 to 4, Latani’s
stablemate Gayness (C. Waymouth), trained by
Duncan Mcßae, had a narrow win from
Manakau and Bruin in the 10-furlongs Buxton
Handicap. Mcßae scored a double with the
same pair at the Williamstown Cup meeting.
A surprising number of followers of racing
won’t have a grey horse at any price. They
must surely have had their beliefs shaken by
the recent efforts of Hiraji, Nizam’s Ring and
others, and another of the mottled hue, Davalo-
marne (H. Badger), did a nice job, downing
Sun Bear and River Hero in the Kingsville
Handicap. Emulating Lord Campbell’s effort
of a couple of weeks back, Davalomarne also
provided a further setback for those who hold
that the horse drawn wide isn’t in the hunt
up the “straight six”; he started from 21
alley in a field of 21.
The Enfield-Little Sister filly Chosen regis-
tered another good win in the two-year-olds’
Maroondah Handicap. She carried 8.5, was
given the run of the race by J. Purtell, and,
though hard pressed at the finish, managed
to hold off the Law Maker colt Bartolus, 'with
Garugal third.
For the interest of students of numerology,
Windbag’s Last and Heroic Lad were equal
favorites at threes for the Catani Three-year-old
Handicap and finished third and third-last re-
spectively. Clever riding by apprentice B.
Fames, who slipped smartly through an opening
on the rails entering the straight, won the 10-
furlongs event for the previously-disappointing
Brueghel colt Monte Cassino; Dhutia was
second.
In the Benevolent Fund Handicap the camera
showed that Orthodox (J. Purtell) had just
outstayed Promise You with Stenelaus third;
Saturn (T- Unkovich), favorite at 5 to 2, won
the Benefit Handicap from English Maid and
Kindling. . .
# # * *
It is not known if “Pravda” and “Izvestia”
informed the Moscow multitude that Hiraji
won the Melbourne Cup, but they should surely
record last week’s Ballarat Cup result. Winner,
Uncle Joe; rider, T. Unkovich.
*,* * *
Australian Edgar Britt, with 112 winners from
411 mounts, finished fifth on the leading-riders’
list for the flat-racing season just concluded
in England. Gordon Richards, as usual, headed
the list: 269 winners from 835 rides. It can
be seen that though well and truly outnumbered,
Britt was very close to Richards from the point
of view of percentage of winning mounts.
The Aga Khan was both most successful
owner and leading breeder for the English
season, with another Indian Prince, the Gaekwar
of Baroda, for whom Britt rides, next on the
list. Fred Darling did best of the trainers,
and Nearco was the leading sire; next to
Nearco was the French sire Bois Roussel,
a son of Vatout, grandsire of the current
Australian champion, Columnist.
“ Wouldn't that slay you! It's an albino and they're protected."
There s\vas one for future record-books, or
some future Nat Gould, at Shepparton (Vic.)
recently when, in a restricted handicap, the
whole field of four runners came a elective
cropper at the home turn. Prattle’s Pride was
leading by three lengths when he went down,
the rest falling over him. The rider of
Prattle’s Pride was incapacitated, but the other
three caught their nags, re-mounted and re-
sumed battle, Mackson going on to win by
three lengths from Gazing Man, with another
25 lengths to Lady Swan. The rider of Gazing
Man collapsed as the horse passed the post.
* * * *
Introduced at Randwick rec'ently, the betting
boards on which one can see at a glance the
odds offered about every runner have been
voted a great improvement by all concerned,
except possibly the type of bookmakers —and
they do exist —who will quote short odds to
women and likely-looking suckers. With the
boards one can glance along a row of half
a dozen bookies and at once see where the
best odds are on offer. Also one quickly
becomes aware that such and such a book
evidently never quotes anything at more than
33 to 1, while another book habitually offers
decent odds against a rough ’un. As an
instance, prior to the running of one juvenile
event at Randwick a survey of half a dozen
betting boards showed one outsider variously
quoted at from 33 to 1 up to 250 to 1.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):—
Greystanes Juvenile: Grey Nurse, 1; Hua-
rette, 2; Revenir, 3. Three-year-old: Lord
Desmond, 1; Coronation Lad, 2; Jack Craw,
3. Strathfield Nursery: Phalanx, 1; Benvolo,
2; High Planet 3. Novice: Lacomar, 1; Gold
Symbol, 2; Silver Buzz, 3. Homebush Handi-
cap : New Cashmere, 1; Cordale, 2; Buzz Off,
3. Macquarie Grove Handicap: Hava Chat,
1; Tynedale, 2; Cevantes, 3. Varroville Handi-
cap : Tactician, 1; Dowborough, 2; Tamaroa,
3.
* * * *
First Test:
Batting at his best, Bradman did it again
in the first Test at Brisbane. Brown went for
11, caught by wicketkeeper Irani, with only
38 up; then Bradman and Morris raised it
to 89, Morris departing for 4.7. Hassett was
next to go, caught by Mahomad at 48, and
the total 198 for three. From then on Brad-
man, who had batted on model lines, turned
brilliant, forcefully adding 69, while Miller,
scarcely a stone waller, made six! The first
day’s play ended at 273 for three wickets, with
an appeal against the gloom. _ _
Bradman never gave a chance. The innings,
his 101st century in first-class cricket, added
to his chain of hundreds in Tests—l 7 v.
England, 4 v. S’Africa, 2 v.„ West Indies, and,
so far, 1 v. India.
Six Indian bowlers had a try, with luck a
bit against them in a couple of dropped catches.
Mankad could have brought off another bowling
run-out, but sportingly preferred to warn
Morris.
On Saturday, owing to overnight rain, play
was held up till 5 p.ip., then 36 runs were
added without loss, Bradman lifting his tally
to 179.
On Monday Bradman declared with 8 gone
for 382, and, on a bad wicket, India began
about as badly as possible—2 for none! The
rout continued; all out before the tea break for
58; Toshack 5 for 2.
The India v. Queensland match earlier in
the week was a close go, Queensland just
making it when Kishenchand, of India’s last
pair of batters, was bowled with the fourth
ball of the last over of the day. Queensland
by 24 runs, after a fine knock of 172 by
captain Amarnath had given India (369) a
first-innings lead of 28.
Victoria walloped N.S.W. by nine wickets
at S.C.G., the Victorians’ second win in Sheffield
Shield for the season; N.S.W. hasn’t yet had
a win. Victoria scored 331 and 51 for one
wicket; N.S.W., 134 and 246. W. Johnston
(8 for 77), Freer (5 for 85) and Loxton (4 for
56) found the rain-affected wickets to their
liking.
* * * *
The Wallabies took their second defeat
of the tour when Lancashire-Cheshire
, t q o K, lf u„ot iTic+or
downed them 9-8, but they beat Ulster
14-10 at Belfast in a close, tough game.
North Irish forwards were fiery, but
lacked the weight in scrums and lineouts,
and Australian puteide backs Tonkin,
Macßride and Walker had the pace to
make the margin. Ulster inside backs
Strathdee (half), Kyle (five-eighth) and
McKee (centre) who penetrated well will
represent Ireland in the lest at Dublin,
* * * *
A tennis comeback:
The N.S.W. Lawn Tennis people again had
stiff luck with the weather for their State
championships, but when rain permitted there
was plenty of exciting, if not always first-class,
tennis. The upsetting of seeded players always
adds interest to a tournament; as well, there
was new blood in the form of the two visiting
Americans, Moylan and Brink.
Moylan is rated several places above Brink
in America, so presumably was off his game.
He played thoroughly poor tennis, not helped
in any way by displays of what is politely
termed “temperament”; Gilchrist beat him in
the second round. At that stage Colin Long
and Geoff Brown were also eliminated, by
J. Dart and R. McCarthy respectively.
Meanwhile a very different Quist from the
one seen last year was confidently working
through his half of the draw, to reach the final
after downing Sidwell. In the other half
Brink and Bromwich came together in the
semi-final, promising the best match of the
tournament but it was a disappointment.
Bromwich won the first set comfortably; after
that, baffling Bromwich with his twisting service
and storming the net, Brink was always on top.
The final —Brink v. Quist —was a match to
remember: Brink, with youth on his side (he’s
22), able to cover the court almost at a stride
with his 6ft. 3in. length, and playing a deter-
mined, fighting, rugged game against the foot-
or-so shorter, 34-year-old Quist, with his calm,
smooth, polished brand of tennis. It was soon
noticeable that Brink was not rushing the net
as he had done against Bromwich —when he
did, it was to see a beautiful passing shot
breeze by him; his service, too, seemed not
half so effective against Quist. Quist took the
first two sets —Brink the third and fourth. Quist
served first in the decider and the games went
with the service until Quist broke Brink’s to
lead 5-3, and the match was won.
Quist last won the N.S.W. title 12 years ago
and those who saw him playing 12 months back
thought he was through. • As far as Davis Cup
prospects are concerned, with Quist back to
his best as he seems to be, then Pails “never
will be missed.”
* * * ♦
An odd sort of shortage—poles for
pole-vaulters! Westralian practitioners
have been helped out of it by K. H. Allen,
Field Events Club president, who wrote
to Lieut.-General Robertson, C.-in-C.
8.C.0.F. in Japan, asking if it was pos-
sible to nab a few of the Jap poles that
had a high repute before the war.
Amenities officers duly bagged 16 of the
poles for the West.
* * * *
Crack shot of the 8.C.0.F. in Japan,
Warrant-officer Rex Robertson, of Oak-
leigh (Vic.), is flying down to represent
the force in the King’s Medal champion-
ships at Puckapunyal, on December 19.
Robertson served with the Seventh Divvy
in New Guinea and Borneo.
* * * *
In their Leichhardt encounter Ken
Wenman (9.0) proved too classy for Ray
Coleman (8.12 H, who seemed a bit shy
of confidence from the start and couldn’t
keep out Ken’s solid lefts. Even so, a
good scrap; Wenman’s by t.k.o, in
the 11th.
* * * *
With good matching there’s no reason
why home-bred scrappers shouldn’t keep
the game going despite the dollar-short-
age block of imported pugs; and they
make some good matches at Melbourne
Stadium, In one of a double bill, Al
Moran (10.6£) put up a very solid show
in beating Sel Hamilton (10. lj), and in
the other Jack Bridges had too
much ringcraft for the haymaker style of
Alfie Sands (10.5,i).


A dependent may no
longer be cut off with
“the proverbial shilling'’
COMETIMES a Will disposes of pro-
. Perty in such a way as to deprive a
wife, children, or even a husband, of
adequate provision.
Such persons have the right to apply
to the Court, which may alter some of
the terms of the Will to grant benefits
to them.
Many people imagine that the mere
setting aside of a certain fraction of the
assets may obviate this, but that is not
so. The Court can and does alter Wills
m cases which warrant it.
This represents one illustration of the
many pitfalls for the inexperienced who
make their own Wills. A man’s wisest
course is to consult his Solicitor and be
w‘n ed rl’ y „ him . in * he frami ng of his
Will. Endless trouble and expense can
thus be avoided later on.
The making of a Will involves the
choice of an Executor upon whose trust-
worthiness, experience and ability the
,beneficiaries will be entirely dependent.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
has more than 60 years’ experience in the
management of Estates of many different
kinds. By appointing Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as his Executor and
Trustee, a man will ensure that the terms
of his Will shall be faithfully carried out
and he will also ensure to his dependents
a courteous, helpful service.
Call or write for a copy of the Com-
pany’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.” It de-
scribes the Company’s service and
charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
v " DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SVUIVFV
Sonthern & Biverina Reiiresentative- r> \ n , *
Northern District Representative •‘p' T C S?Th 9 Gurw « od St., Wagga Wagga.
S BnilHinl w-* * r - ® owen -Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Tlr . uuiidmg, litzroy Street, Xamworth. y
tVestern District Representative; J. L,. McElroy, 140 Eords Place, Orange. Z'
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
osumvAff
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating’
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Sharemarket Background
Record Stock Exchange prices con-
tinue to be paid for the majority of
ordinary shares available to the general
public, and activity in investment stocks
has never been more sustained. Brokers
are exceptionally busy. Yet profit-earn-
ing by the companies listed on ’Change,
on the average, is little, if any, greater
than before the war, even when recent
improvements are taken into account.
High prices for industrial and retailer
equities at the present time is partly a
reflection of the inflation in all property
and commodity values, partly the result
of huge spending and investment funds
possessed by the people, of the high value
of external trade, of the Government’s
arbitrary cheap-money policy, of the eli-
mination, of war-time (company) tax, of
the recent sporadic increase in dividends,
and of hopes that one day this country
will throw off the shackles of regimenta-
tion and return to an economy based on
free enterprise, even though compara-
tively heavy taxes may still be levied to
pay for “social security.”
With a full return to productivity there
is no doubt that this country should pre-
sent wide opportunities for industrial ex-
pansion. Our population has grown by
over half a million since 1938. It would
expand more rapidly, by immigration and
natural increase, if the economy were
allowed to function more freely. This
freedom calls for a change in trade-union
policy as well as in Commonwealth Gov-
ernment “controls.” The coercive and
restrictive influence of militant unionism
would be largely broken once production
regained a high level. But, in the mean-
time, union influence works against the
restoration of ample production.
At June 30 last it was estimated that
the accumulated spending-power (and/or
investing-power) of the community had
grown to £1541 million, compared with
£613 million in June, 1939. Both totals
were based on notes held by the public,
deposits of the public in the trading banks
and Commonwealth Bank, and all sav-
ings-bank deposits. This great growth
in monetary holdings put alongside as yet
inadequate production has set up a pro-
nounced inflationary influence in both
costs and capital values. While the
“Labor” economic programme goes oq
this redundancy of money is likely to
increase.
The basic wage, 795. before the war,
now averages 110 s. or more. Average
wages as a whole are relatively higher.
Homebuilding costs have just about
doubled since war began, and the cost
of factory-establishment and -equipment
has been no less affected. Our economy,
and that of all the world, has dragged its
1939 anchor, and never again shall we
see prices generally on the level of pre-
war standards, any more than we went
back to 1914 levels in the 1920’5. Even
the depression of the 1930’s failed to
bring us back to 1914 price-levels. And
since those days our link with a gold
standard based on fine gold at 85s. an
ounce has become remote indeed. The
present price of gold in Australia is £lO
15s. an ounce, while outside, on the free
market, it is much higher, expressed in
our currency.
The world-wide trend is for high costs,
high prices, expressed in terms of paper
money, “Paper-money prosperity” is al-
most universal. But accompanying this
trend is a tendency, especially pronounced
in Australia, to restrict the profit-earning
capacity of industry and to keep interest
rates low. It is coupled, in Australia,
New Zealand and Britain particularly,
with a socialistic plan of “full employ-
ment” and “social security.” Thrift is
"You ARE a mug. Why don'tcha bite y’r boss fer
danger money ?”
conceded little respect and less
and Budget-deficit spending and “con-
trols” are relied upon to maintain employ-
ment more than is the expansion of
private enterprise.
So far trade-unionists have maintained
their place best against the rising tide
of monetary and costs inflation. In-
vestors have lost heavily in buying-power,
whether they own mortgages. Consols,
preference shares or ordinaries. The fact
that ord, shareholders have barely re-
gained their pre-war dividend income ex-
pressed in terms of money can be seen
from Commonwealth Bank statistics. On
top of that they have lost to the extent
that living costs have risen. Investors
in mortgages and Consols get a lower
money income regardless of the deprecia-
tion in that money.
High Stock Exchange prices, therefore,
are no reflection of a commensurate in-
crease in the earnings and dividends of
industry, even though some rise is now
evident. The Commonwealth Statistician
estimates that, including all the new
ventures that have sprung up since the
war, net company earnings during 1946-
47 were no more than £B7 million in
Australia, compared with £73 million in
1938-39. This increase of 19 p.c. com-
pares with a growth of 69 p.c. in wage
and salary payments over the same
period.
So long as price-control and profits-
control operate it is certain that official-
dom as it is at present constituted will
load the dice against a recovery in in-
dustry’s share of earnings to its pre-war
proportion. The Keynes theory of “full
employment” has added strength to the
arm of the socialists up till now. But as
results of their administration stand re-
vealed more and more the star of the
socialists seems to be progressively wan-
ing ; in Australia the bank-nationalisation
proposals have shaken public confidence,
and the danger of the controlled State,
of which even some of the theorists were
apprehensive, has startled a large section
of the community.
The abuses practised
by trade - unionism
under “full employ-
ment” have also dis-
ill usio n e d many
people.
It is thus with keen
interest that .the
results of the Prices
Referendum early
next year are
awaited. If rejected,
the end of Federal
price-control cannot
be long delayed.
Results are not
likely to be entirely
satisfactory imme-
diately, and the
effects of war-time
inflation will be-
come more rapidly
evident within the
economy. But “con-
trols” exercised by
the Federal authority
have been abused
right and left—by the executive, by trade-
union bodies and by blackmarketeers—
and the need for price-control in any form
now merely amounts to a confession that
the Government’s economic and indus-
trial policy has been a failure. Inade-
quate production supplies substantiating
evidence.
Without price-control company profits
should move into a position more in keep-
ing with post-war asset values and wage
rates. Production of many lines might
soon become adequate under free prices,
and some companies might be found to
be lacking in efficiency when exposed to
ordinary competitive conditions; but
concerns with good management and
sound finances should be able to move
with freedom and advantage were price-
restrictions removed. Undoubtedly there
would be confusion and considerable re-
adjustment for a lengthy period after-
wards, with some prices eventually com-
ing down after going up.
Under a Liberal Administration it is
likely that the excess issue of Budget
credit would be discontinued, but that
real earnings and values would become
better established.
It is an old—and wise—saying that an
investment is worth what it will earn.
The present high level of ordinary-share
prices is not justified by present earn-
ings, and, therefore, not by apparent ap-
preciation in asset values, strictly speak-
ing. But the market obviously antici-
pates that earnings are going to rise in
keeping with new price and costs levels,
and there is a good deal of justification
for this whatever happens to price-con-
trol. New ventures setting up factories
will find that the capital cost of so doing
is far higher than the outlay for a simi-
lar venture before the war. The pre-war
concern, therefore, should be able to
sell a similar product now at a price well
below that of the new company—pro-
vided the new co.’s more modern plant
isn’t revolutionary so far as increased
output is concerned. It would be difficult
for the Prices Branch to set different
prices for similar products, and unless
some special levy were made upon the
older co.’s profits it would seem bound to
do well with prices based on the new
concern’s increased costs.
After 1918 the capitalisation of re-
serves, often following writing-up of
assets, was a widespread practice among
Australian and New Zealand public com-
panies. Reconstructed private com-
panies were also the.order of the day, the
old proprietors selling part of their
watered holdings to the investing public.
Brand-new ventures, some extremely
rickety, covering everything from life as-
surance to forestry bonds, also helped to
mop-up the surplus spending- and invest-
ing-power of the people.
Part of this revaluation was ill-advised,
and some of the new ventures were al-
most criminally extravagant and badly
judged. But portion of the recapitalisa-
tion was based on the change in values
that followed war-time depreciation of
the currency, and to that extent was jus-
tified, even though the slump of the early
1920’s was inclined to disturb the confi-
dence of the revaluers for the time being.
Among the proportionately large bonus
issues were those made by Adelaide
Steamship, Meggitt, Cumberland Paper,
Kauri Timber, New Zealand Refrigerat-
ing, Port Jackson Steamship, Beard Wat-
son, Australian Knitting Mills and
Broken Hill South. Steamship companies
at least are not likely to figure now to
the same extent in any possible similar re-
vision of capital values and earning
capacity.
R. M. Ansett, a “hustler” in the airlines
and travel-coach business, has given
Drakeford and Civil Aviation dizzy
spells. His company, Ansett Airways,
refused to raise its fares by 20 p.c. on
the Sydney-Melbourne and Melbourne-
Adelaide air-routes, and the other two
operators (including Government-owned
T.-A.A.) have been forced to carry on
at the old rates, cost-increases notwith-
standing. Ansett fares to Tasmania are
lower than its competitors’. Last week
Labor’ issued a regulation empowering
Air Minister Drakeford to deny the use
of Government aerodromes to airlines not
agreeing to fare-schedules laid down by
the department. Ansett intends asking
the High Court to declare the new—and
outrageous—regulation invalid on the
ground that it interferes with the freedom
of inter-State trade. Drakeford’s almost
passionate interest in civil aviation at the
moment arises, of course, from the fact
that his Government is trying to establish
a monopoly of the business, and in doing
so is losing colossal sums which air-
travellers are being asked to make up in
increased fares.
* * * *
Mentioning that Federal civil-adminis-
tration costs for 1946-47 were £26.7
million, compared 'with £8.9 million in
1938-39, Commander L. Robinson, presi-
dent of the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures, said last week:
Apart from the enormous cost to the
nation, a large proportion of these civil
servants, paid by the taxpayer to do work
which is either unnecessary or could be
better performed by the taxpayer himself,
could be more profitably employed in
avenues which would be productive of good
to the nation as a whole, and contributory
to the rehabilitation of a world sick unto
death for need of production and economic
security.
He added: “Labor shortages and the
lack of basic materials are as serious to-
day as they were a year ago, and, indeed,
in regard to the former, the outlook is
even more black because we are now
entering the period when the direct results
of the last depression will be felt and,
owing to the decline in the birthrate dur-
ing those years, for the next few years
there will be a correspondingly reduced
number of young Australians ready to
take up industrial careers.”


HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY
113 Years of Service
to the Nation
Which this Bank hopes
to continue
If the standard of living of the
Australian people is to be maintained,
more wealth must be produced: more
wealth in the form of houses and cloth-
ing and food more of everything
that the people want to own, use or
consume.
The work of producing this wealth
is the task of ail those engaged in
private enterprize on the land and
in manufacture and business. Only
through the close and efficient co-
operation of all so employed, can this
new wealth be created at reasonable
cost.
For over 113 years this Bank has
helped private enterprize to develop
this nation. If it be permitted, it will
go on doing so.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
HE BANK OF VICTORIA LID.
-Q
&
D
O
Vs?
PACIFIC
'Jpj .
BRITISH
B.C.RA
Take your flying the easy way! If it s business
you’re after when you fly to America, you 11
arrive as fresh as a daisy . . . after a wonder-
ful 27-hour stay in Honolulu. Whether
your destination is San Francisco or Van-
couver, depend on B.C.P.A. for comfort,
cheery hospitality, and safe flying all the way!
SYDNEY - FIJI - CANTON ISLAND
HONOLULU - SAN FRANCISCO - VANCOUVER
Thrice Fortnightly from Sydney • Fortnightly from Auckland
Services operated temporarily by A.N.A. tinder contract,
Sea your local travel agent or write to
BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC
AIRLINES
44 Martin Place, Sydney
Bt/M^
The Price of Sugar
Sugar is going up a ha’penny a pound,
and will cost 4jd. retail, compared with
the present 4d., but will be the same price
as that prevailing from October, 1923, to
January, 1933. For a period after World
War I sugar went to 6d. a pound. The
refiners (usually the C.S.R.) will get none
of the present increase, which will go
mostly to the Queensland growers and
millers, though the distributors will get a
little of it.
By the ton, the retail price goes up
£4 13s. 4d. (to £42 for the refined aricle).
Grocers will get 10s. Bd. of that, and
wholesalers Is. Bd. The rest belongs to
growers and millers, but a subsidy of
10s. per ton paid by the Government on
coastal freights will be withdrawn, so
that, per ton of refined sugar, growers
and millers will get an extra £3 11s. net.
That is the equivalent of £3 7s, per ton
of raw sugar.
Most of this has already been offset
by increased expenses. Because of higher
costs of transport, jute sacks, refining
and selling, the Queensland Sugar Board’s
distribution to growers and millers has
declined from £24 a ton of sugar con-
sumed in Australia in 1939 to £2l 18s. in
1946. The grower has inflation in his
own farming costs to meet as well. Be-
tween 1932 and 1947 caneworkers’ wages
rose 43 p.c., and millhands’ by 48 p.c.
Coal and firewood costs are up by over
30 p.c. The industry’s overall costs have
risen by 40 p.c. to 50 p.c.
Ordinarily the present higher export
prices would have helped to offset this.
But production has slumped—from
800.000 tons of raw sugar before the war
to 523,000 tons in 1943, while the 1946
output was only 548,000 tons, and the
forecast for 1947 is 585,000 tons. Aus-
tralian consumption requirements taken
out of this leave very little for export.
At the beginning of November about
200.000 tons of raw sugar was stored in
Queensland awaiting shipment to re-
fineries, but “owing to the shipping and
waterfront position” there has been a
shortage of refined sugar for the public.
Coal and refinery labor have also been
problems.
Senator Courtice, in sponsoring legisla-
tion to make the ha’penny rise possible,
pointed out that sugar costs the equi-
valent of 6|d. (Australian) a pound in
New Zealand, 7d. in Canada, 7£d. in the
U.S.A. and Eire, 4£d. in South Africa,
and 6|d. in the United Kingdom.
Queensland Coal
The statement by Queensland’s Premier
Hanlon that agreement had been reached
with the Electric Supply Corporation
(Overseas), Ltd., on practically every-
thing outstanding in the negotiations re-
garding the Blair Athol coalfield was
expected by those with inside knowledge.
It should be of immense value to the
state.
Hanlon’s officers know, if the average
taxpayer doesn’t, that the State is subsi-
dising Blair Athol coal at present to the
extent of roughly 10s. a ton in the way
of railway-freight rebates. Instead of
paying subsidies the State expects to reap
royalties from the corporation and to
see the hinterland developed with a
heavy-gauge railway and a new deep-sea
port established.
The present companies lack the capital
to work to the major opencutting plan
°f the corporation, with its aimed-at
output of 3f million tons a year. Under
the former underground methods 60 per
cent, of the seam was left in the work-
ings. For such a unique deposit open-
cutting is the only method that promises
anything like 100 p.c. extraction.
It was union tactics that forced the Blair
Athol Coal and Timber Co. to abandon
lts No. 2 colliery IS months ago and
resort to an opencut, a change from im-
pending failure to present prosperity. The
local coalminers, who had proceeded to
Collinsville in 1942 as a war measure,
came back to Blair Athol with the know-
ledge that they had a lower rate of pay
for hewing at home. They immediately
applied the screws for a higher rate than
the award for the field allowed. It was
a case of “give us the increased rate—or
else.” And “else” it was, because the co.
refused to break the law. It said, in
effect, “Go to the Court and get the in-
crease and we’ll pay it.”
Production dwindled by bord-and-pil-
lar methods. While the Coalminers’
Federation professes to dislike the pros-
pect of opencut coal from the Blair
Athol and Callide coalfields, it is not
generally known that in the long-run
there will be much more coal mined
underground at the Callide in the future
than by opencutting. It is only the strip
along the outcrop of the one big seam
there that is suitable for opencutting.
On second thoughts. New Zealand’s
Labor Government decided in an end-of-
ses'sion amendment to its bill that its
planned monopoly of workers’ compen-
sation insurance should be delayed for
10 months. April 1, 1949, is now fixed
as the date for starting. As if to offset
this change, increased “benefits” will be-
gin three months earlier than first
planned ; that is, they will operate from
April 1, 1948. Labor’s enthusiasm for
a State monopoly cooled off a good deal
in the committee stages, and the really
valuable aspect, to give workers the best
possible cover in the shortest time, was
thrown up into bolder relief. Labor’s
only complaint against the cos. —that they
ran their businesses at a profit—sounded
hollow. Any concern working at a loss
was quite welcome to carry on, but there
wasn’t one.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: In such exalted company
I shrank from mentioning my greatest
catch —a flathead that stretched to a full
1H inches. But nobody noticed me, any-
way, as whoppers were rehooked, re-
landed and reweighed. Then the subject
became more technical. “You’ve got to
know their habits,” declared the fellow
who had caused such mortality among the
bream. “For instance, anyone who ever
fished for bream at night must’ve heard
’em splashing about in water only a few
inches deep, but not one bloke in a
hundred knows what they’re doing.
Matter of fact, they’re feeding on oysters.
At night the oysters open their shells and
wait for titbits to float in; the bream
swims up and—you know that spikey
fin he has? —well, he rakes the oyster out
with it as easy as winking.” The snapper-
slaughterer nodded gravely. “Quite
feasible,” he concurred. “Every fish is
equipped according to his method of
feeding. Take a snapper—that bump on
his head is there for a reason; I’m con-
vinced he uses it as a ram to break up
cungee.” The third fellow came in:
“Don’t know much about the reddies, but
you know that frail-looking fin a whiting
has? I’ve proved that it works on the
same principle as radar. When a school
of prawns is about vibrations are started
in the water; the whitings’ fins pick up
these impulses....” I stole silently away
—fishing is no sport for such unimagina-
tive clods as I.
* * * •
“Old-timer”: It had been obvious to
the rest of us for some time that Bill
was dangerously shortsighted, but to all
gentle hints! that he should get glasses
he responded with indignant assertions
that he could see as well as anybody. He
became sensitive about it in the end:
if he dropped his matches in the
dusk he’d pretend not to notice and
wait for someone to pick them up. We
suspected that he’d walked into the fence
a couple of times' in broad daylight, and
on the day he set out with two horses
to disc the orchard and couldn’t find the
implement until he fell over it the boss
threatened to sack him if he didn’t see
the travelling oculist next time he came
to town. To town Bill went, announcing
‘Me eyes is jake” on his return.
Made a good examination, he did, and
said there was nothin’ wrong.” Plainly
he hadn’t seen the eyeman, and he went
on fumbling about the place as before.
Then came the day when the boss, about
to cycle out to the main road for the
mai ”r»-n a f ron t tyre blown out and
sent Bill to the shed to get another. Then
he remembered Bill’s failing and fol-
ari;iyin § i u st in time to grab
~s hand, which was reaching out to
pick; up a brown snake coiled in the old
piano-case among the odds and ends
BilUn hk de h ? f hour the boss had
tJili m his car heading for Mildura and
proper eye treatment d
“Wippegong”; In the Australian land-
scape now brightening under
sunlight so essential to it, there is no
color more brilliant than the burnished
f e ra [ nb °w-bird. Perched high
J J d , ead bra, ] ch where the view is clear,
probably head-to-tail with his mate Hp
looks from side to side on the watch’ for
passing beetle butterfly or moth; it’s in
this position the shot-green of his back
changes to blue and, among the less
observant, gets him confused with the
kingfishers. Then he swoops. There’s a
flurry of wings, a click of the long beak,
then a glorious burst of color as he
turns and, with wings widespread, glides
back to his perch, there to batter his
catch to pulp. His crown has the same
rich hue, but it’s on the wing primaries,
semi-transparent against the sun, that you
see the sunlit brilliance approached only
by the fieriest of redheads. His nest is
at the end of a tunnel about a yard into
a creek- or road-bank, and, if you care
to break open old ones, you will obtain
the material for a seedbed such as
gardeners dream of. The birds prefer
sandy loam for their burrowing, and this,
worn to dust and mixed with countless
crumbled remains of insects’ legs and
wings and the chicks’ own droppings,
dries out to a black powder that slips
through the fingers like silk. You’ll get
about a cupful from an old nest, and
even if only sufficient to fill the drills in
a well-prepared seedbox, it will ensure
maximum germination of the tiniest seeds.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: What must
surely be Victoria’s loneliest horse has
been pensioned off. He is Tommy, a
brown gelding who has spent the last 27
years on lonely Gabo Island hauling
stores from the jetty at Santa Barbara
cove across the hill-like island to the
lighthouse. In recent months Tommy
has been replaced by a jeep, but he is
kept standing by in case the new transport
breaks down. Retirement doesn’t suit
the old-stager, who, for the last 21 years,
has not known the caressing syvisb of an-
"You don't need a tonic—you Want a brush and comb."
other equine tail. To keep his condition
a lightkeeper now feeds him a loaf of
bread and two gallons of fresh milk a
day. An extraordinary thing was that
although, between shafts, the gelding used
to shy at pieces of paper and even his
shadow, when he first saw the jeep he
never cocked an ear!
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were holding up
the wall of a building in Mudgee
(N.S.W.), idly debating our next
move, when Mat pulled a handful
of silver from his pocket. A deener
fell, rolled across the footpath and
dropped through an iron grating. We
could see the coin a couple of
feet below and apparently beyond
reach. Then Mat bent down, had a close
look and quickly dropped the rest of the
silver down, following it with a quid note
and a couple of half-notes. “Now,” he
said, “you stop there an’ watch it while
I get a copper.” By the time he reap-
peared with a constable I was supported
by several onlookers. Mat told the Law
a tale about dropping the money
while counting it; the Law thereupon
entered the shop and ordered the pro-
prietor to raise the grating and let my
mate recover his cash. As Mat said
later, “They mightn’t ha’ done it for a
lousy deener, but three or four quid was
a different matter.” It’s just as well no-
body wanted to know how three notes
could drop through a grating.
* * * *
“Laetitia”; Bands of Hope up here in
Queensland must be of sterner stuff than
that to which “Wongajong” (B. 8/10/’47)
belonged. One group returned from an
evangelical visit to an outlying hamlet
just in time to observe a pillar of fire
shooting from the centre of the town’s
one and only source of the Demon Rum.
Wavering but for a split second between
lifelong conviction and instinct of bush
mateship, the band sprang into action
with a bucket brigade before even the
pub’s own sinful inhabitants were awake.
Thanks to their timely arrival fhe fount
of evil was preserved for posterity. Next
mght the zealots were again on the job
preaching fire and brimstone outside
Moloney’s. Nor did they scorn the hand-
some tarpaulin-muster organised by the
sinful patrons of the pub,
* * * *
“Plop”; During a recent thunder-
storm my pup, quaking and with its tail
at carpet-level, came indoors to adopt
a whimpering attitude beneath the radio
set. Admittedly most dogs are scared
of thunder, but for one to take up a
possie under an instrument whose loud-
speaker was at the time collapsing screw
by screw with sounds more frightening
than Thor’s at his very worst is some-
thing that amazed me. Influenced by
these “hit-numbers of the week,” each
of which was fervently put forward as a
work of art by the announcer, and
accepted as such by my nephew, the
pup went to sleep. Absolutely staggered,
I returned to my reading and discovered
that this fondness of souped-up Bedlam
is not only common to the young of
human and canine animals. An Ameri-
can farmer who had observed this fact
was recently fined for broadcasting swing
music through amplifiers and keeping his
neighbors awake all night. Stung, he
questioned the Judge;
“Well, how will I keep my hogs from
fighting now?”
* * * #
“Zake”: It was suspected that a dead
rat was under the floor of the hut. There
wasn’t enough space to crawl under,
so a couple of floorboards were prised
off and the Blackened Stump, the little
swarthy rouseabout, was squeezed through
the aperture. Having discovered and
removed the defunct rodent the Black-
ened Stump essayed to ascend, but all his
efforts refuted the theory that where one
can get in one also can get out. After
desisting only when the victim’s arm had
almost been pulled from its socket various
suggestions for his recovery were bandied
about, and they had just settled for send-
ing into the township garage for a big
jack when the jackeroo happened to
come along and expressed the thought
that the pulling up of a third floorboard
might do the trick. Whereupon Long Joe
turned to Whelan, a look of genuine ad-
miration in his eye. “You heard that,
Ted?” he asked triumphantly. “Now will
y’ believe there’s advantages in a man
havin’ a collidge eddication?”
* * * >h
“Kendon”; Most nor’-Westralians will
agree with me that Condon is the ter-
minus of the No. 1 rabbitproof fence
(B. 5/11/ ’47). True, the fence does
meander a further 40 or so miles down
to the end *of Ninety Mile Beach, but
its example is rarely followed. Few
travellers ever pass Condon, the ultimate
in Westralian hospitality. Struck the
place once with a mate who was also new T
to the locality. We whistled, shouted
and thumped the bar for 10 minutes
before sitting down and waiting for a
mud-covered publican to return from a
crabbing expedition up the creek. We
decided on a whisky, and, on learning
that that was off, asked for beer. There
was no beer, either. But he had plenty
of port wine. We said yes, so he pro-
duced a barrel, shook it and expressed
surprise that it was empty. But he
wouldn’t see us disappointed. Some water
poured into the barrel, which was shaken
vigorously, produced what the publican
assured us was some of the finest brew
on the market. Perhaps that’s why we
didn’t get as far as “F.L.H.’s” anglers’
paradise at the end of the fence.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A long whiskery in-
dividual who got into shallow water at a
Westralian holiday resort was arrested at
gidgee-point and provided the local dailies
with a photo, of a 9ft, oar-fish. It’s a
curiosity around these parts, but I’ll
swear I’ve seen the type before. Some-
where in the late ’nineties what our
parents decided was an electrical distur-
bance came down the coast, north of
Fremantle, and practically depopulated
the ocean around some of the beaches,
which became littered with a collection of
marine curiosities among which we
revelled for a day or so. I’ve never heard
an acceptable explanation of the occur-
rence. As far as I can remember there
was no actual storm, or any earth-tremor
to suggest a submarine upheaval, but the
results, after a few days, were un-
pleasantly obvious. Before we were
driven off by the stench of rotting fish
one of our fathers salvaged a 12ft. mon-
strosity, loaded it into the big buggy and
conveyed it to the Perth museum. As
I recall, the curator called it a band-fish.
Would it be the same?
**- * *
“Nudibranch”; No wonder those
oysters failed to establish themselves in
the Swan River at Perth (B. 12/11/’47).
The oyster won’t live if conditions aren’t
just right for it, and each species has its
own likes and dislikes. W.A. already
has a fine edible oyster, somewhat simi-
lar to the Sydney rock, but you don’t
find it much farther south than Exmouth
Gulf. Like the Sydney rock, it must
have water which does not go below a
certain temperature, a certain depth of
water over it at high tide and exposure
at low tide. The same holds good with
the Port Lincoln oyster in S.A. This
species will live only in a sheltered bay
where the seafloor is a silty sand. Ex-
posure at low tide would kill it. But all
attempts to introduce it to other bays fail
if its home conditions aren’t duplicated.
Still other species of oyster will live only
where fresh water mixes with the salt, as
at river deltas. The Japanese made a
success of transplanting oysters because
they found spots where its particular
natural environment was reproduced ; we
have usually failed because we tried
to force the most finicky of all edible
molluscs to fit itself to the locality.
Maoriland’s Stewart Island oyster might
be worth trying on Rottnest and Garden
islands, where it would enjoy approxi-
mately similar conditions of temperature
and tidal rise and fall,
* * * *
“Tripos”: The explanation of the un-
seen migration of earthworms, even that
Rumanian species mentioned by “Bo-
hemian” (B. 8/10/’47), is simple. One
time in Kalgoorlie the long-haired mate
set about the cultivation of a garden in
soil sunbaked for so many aeons that
there was no chance of worms having
survived from any distant time when the
land may have been fertile. Yet in the
second season earthworms appeared ; and,
curiously, members of a species habitants
of Bungaree, Vic. The explanation was
potatoes; the water in which the spuds,
from Bungaree, had been washed was
carefully poured on the garden. In the
earth adhering to the spuds were, of
course, plenty of worm eggs.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Unfortunately, rabbits
don’t always die out on small islands (B.
12/11/ ’47). Many years ago somebody
put a few pairs ,of black bunnies on
Grantham Island, near Pt. Lincoln (S.A.),
and in no time the place was swarming
with them. Finally they died out, and
suddenly, too. But on near-by North
Brother somebody else liberated - white
Angora rabbits —and they’re still there,
easily visible to people on passing
steamers by the contrast which their white
fur makes with the dark herbage. Farther
up the gulf, on Spilsby Island, a man took
a few pairs of chinchillas ashore when
the crazy fur-farming stunt was on.
They escaped, found sanctuary among
the rocks, and soon overran the place.
The present owner has waged an unrelent-
ing battle against them and has thinned
their numbers to the point where it pays
to run the island as a farm again, but the
brutes have sho.wn no signs of dying out
of their own accord. “Criminal lunacy”
is the best description to apply to the
introduction of_ rabbits to a formerly
pest-free island; the S.A. Government
has only kept Kangaroo Island rid of
them by unrelenting vigilance. Once the
vermin got into the tangle of prickly
acacia which grows on parts of the island
it would be hopeless to try to eradicate
then),
“Kelms” 'A Those Bass Strait rabbits
that boggled at a three-mile ocean swim
(B. 12/11/’47) are the descendants of a
decadent race in whom the spirit of ad-
venture was stifled. Westralian rabbits
still show traces of the initiative which
drove their forefathers to the hazardous
Nullarbor crossing. A few of the breed
were established on Michaelmas Island, off
Albany, They have since appeared on
Breaksea Island, some four miles distant.
Seems a long swim for a land animal of
such fixed habits, but the locals reckon
their rabbits can do it and carry a brick.
CAMP-FIRE CONCERT.
The drovers’ mob securely fenced
By the side of a big lagoon,
A “musical evening” they commenced
’Neath the light of the rising moon.
Old Dan Maguire was the vocal star,
And a rollicking song he sang
To the whine of Casey’s steel guitar
Till the gullies and hillsides rang.
Theh Terry McGinty glanced around
And witnessed a curious sight—
Round the water’s edge the reedy ground
Was spangled with points of light
That swayed in time to the music there —
Or appeared to, at any rate.
And Terry thought to himself, “That’s quare!”
As he went to investigate.
Then Terry jumped, for those lights that glowed
Were the eyes of numberless snakes _
That the music had lured from their damp
abode
To give poor drovers the shakes.
He trembled as gripped by the fell “d.ts.,”
He could neither blaspheme nor pray—
Then from the camp-fire, upon the breeze.
Came the strains of “St. Patrick’s Day.”
’Twas then (if Terry can be believed)
That a singular thing took place,
For, bowing their heads as if stricken or grieved,
Those snakes, in a headlong race,
Went wriggling back to the green lagoon—
“Shure, their ‘banishment’ was complate,
For Oireland’s saint, an’ his magic tune,
Would make Satan himself rethrate.”
VICTORIA.
T. V. TIERNEY.


“Solitude”: Seventyfiver looked up
from his contemplation of a couple of
bread-crusts. “What day is it, Sol?” he
asked, “Dunno —about Friday or Satur-
day.” “About!” he snorted. “Well, it
ain’t any use me goin’ down for the bread
if it’s only Fridee.” He was quiet for
several minutes. “Must ’a’ bin the day
after Doughy come last that we went out
to the tops,” he murmured thoughtfully,
“’cause we had a fresh loaf; ’member?
We spent a day on Silvertop an’ a day
combin’ the gullies, so it’d be Wednes-
dee we come back. How long we bin
back, do y’ reckon—three days?” “Two,
more likely,” I replied. “But, cripes, we
went out t’ Back Creek one day, an’
don’t forget we cut them thistles —no,
that wus the week afore. Tell y’ what,”
he suggested; “you look out for old
Sandy an’ ask him,” “You,” I countered.
“I was the mug that asked him last time.”
Seventyfiver shook his head, dug up more
detail and became so involved he had to
squint outside to make sure of the season.
Then, catching a nag, he disappeared
townward. Returning that night I was
greeted with hammering from the shack.
“There,” chuckled the old bloke, proudly
displaying a large calendar on the wall.
“A lot of ’era’s used up already, but
there’s every day for a bloomin’ year.
Take a screw, Sol, an’ see if you can get
the hang o’ the thing. I’m sick o’ this
never knowin’ what flamin’ day it is.”
“Bo”: The first thing Hallett noticed
about his new hand" was his boots. They
went along the ground so far as to make
their owner appear, from side on, like a
human letter L. Hallett estimated that
the pair of trilbies would hold a couple
of bushels of corn. The soles were of such
a thickness that, when the hand stood in
his socks, he seemed to have shrunk from
middle height to dwarfdom. As he came
on to the verandah at dinnertime Mrs.
Hallett rushed out of the kitchen, think-
ing there had been another of the earth-
tremors the district infrequently enjoyed.
At teatime the hand stumped up from
the cowyard, dropped rather wearily into
the ancient rocking-chair on the verandah
and started unlacing his ukulele-cases.
“Cripes,” said Hallett comrniseratingly ;
“I don’t know how y’ could get about in
those things. If I was to wear boots like
that I’d knock up in an hour.” “Oh, it’s
me own fault, 1 s’pose,” replied the hand.
“I’ll wear me heavy boots tomorrer —1
should ha’ known they’d be more com-
fortable on this hard ground!”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: From his contention
that the Australian mainland Binghi
scorned all non-utilitarian articles of
adornment I deduce that in his travels
“Colonial, Cove” (B. 12/11/’47) must
have bypassed Cape York, N.Q. Bucks
in those parts circle their ankles with
bands of sharkskin or wallaby-hide,
which not only -serve no other than an
ornamental purpose but, because of their
tightness, produce actual discomfort. Con-
stricting bands are also worn round the
forehead through sheer flashness. The
gins spend hours threading necklaces of
beads fashioned from the scarlet berries
known as gidd-giddis. And has “C.C.”
never seen the “monas” or breastplates
affected by the tawny flappers? These are
elaborately-ornamented replicas in cup-
shaped pieces of bark of the bronze de-
vices sported by Mae West’s forerunners
in the chorus of Nile Nifties, who per-
formed on Cleopatra’s showboat.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Anyone else would
have abandoned the runabout or sent for
a mechanic, but when the big ends went
Bill the Goose and Rabbit Jenkins
borrowed a steady old shafter and
started to tow the scrap-iron into the
garage at Windup. It wasn’t far, and left
to himself the old horse could have made
the trip before dark; but every mile or
so one of the partners, piqued at the un-
accustomed slowness, would call a halt
while he tested another theory that should
have restored the engine to mobility.
Nightfall found them still miles from
town and alorf|side Stingey Taylor’s main
gates. They weren’t worried about them-
selves—years of rabbit-trapping had
"I missed it, Harry — you'll have to do that dive again."
inured them to enforced fasting—but they
were concerned about old Nugget. Over-
coming a fixed repugnance to ask a favor
of the old miser, they marched up to
Stingey’s house and offered to buy some
chaff. He agreed, grudgingly, provided
they had their own kerosene-tin. He’d
lost tins like that before. The Goose
walked back toward the car, and, after
some muffled hammering, returned with
an ancient tin which he handed to
Taylor. The old bloke was about to fill
it when some lettering on the side caught
his eye. He hurled the tin at the partners,
flung curses indiscriminately, and
lumbered off towards the house, while
the others streaked for the car and in-
duced Nugget to step it out until they
were beyond shotgun range. “S’pose it
was that tin,” the Goose remarked. “But
I’m damned if I know why. It was just
an old tin with a slit in the end that he
had nailed on the top of his gate-post.”
* * * *
“Narrin”: When Binghi owned this
country the main roads he used on walk-
abouts, hunting expeditions and as festive
routes to communal corroborees followed
the clay-flats and the watercourses that
wind in and out through the gibbers and
between the ranges. He made his camps
on the nearest bit 6f bare, level ground to
the springs and soaks in the hills. Then
the drovers and bullockies came, using
the same natural highways as the native,
and making their camps at the springs on
the same bits of clean, flat ground. Shep-
herds’ huts and night-yards, cut from
the surrounding pines, were built at the
waters on those same flats above flood-
level. And white and black left traces of
their passing. Binghi left circular stone
“Cut out the tremolo , Bill—you 're givin' me the hiccups!"
fire . hearths and a great accumulation of
stone chippings and stone tools to mark
his camps. Mingled with these are the
cultural evidences of the white campers
—the green glass relics of a bout of snake-
charming in the wilderness a rusted bolt
or two, bullock cues and, most übi-
quitous of all, pieces of the stems of the
old clay pipes. To a nipper of today one
relic seems as ancient as the other. He
looks at a chert adze and at the white
clay stem and wonders at days and
manners long passed.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Confined to the far south-
western corner of Queensland round
Eulo are odd phenomena locally known
as mud springs. These are volcano-shaped
excrescences rising generally to a height
of about 15ft. on a circular base of about
10 yards in diameter. They occur in a
sub-artesian water belt, and from each
summit a thin trickle of water exudes.
Generally the mounds are in clusters, and
some subterranean connection is argued
by the fact that the flow from one de-
creases as that from an adjoining one
waxes in volume. A thin crust of dry
mud lends a deceptive appearance of
solidity to the mounds. Beneath this
wafer-thin surface the interior is a liquid
morass. As the flow is in no way affected
by the severest drought the small amount
of water discharged by them is a stock
lifesaver in such periods.
* * * *
“G’roper”: What’s all this uproar
about arum-lilies in W.A.? Knew one
bloke on the outskirts of Perth who saved
the family estate by that now-despised
symbol of purity. When late frosts got
the spuds, red mite the peas, blind grubs
the carrots, mole-crickets the other root
veges. and finally web-worm the
silver beet, all he had left was a half-
acre of swamp covered with arums.
Perth florists snapped them up. Nowa-
days, although the old homestead is again
financially safe, he hardly bothers to
grow veges. —reckons there’s more money
in flowers. And that swampy patch still
contributes its quota of arums, though
supplemented now by the iris-lily.
* * * *
“Betcha”: I’ve known Jim a long
time. Met him just after the 1914-18
war when he was grubbing space on his
rough bush block to put up a shack* A
year later I ran into him navvying on the
roads for money to pay his instalments,
while every other daylight hour was spent
working on his block Followed many
years of hardship, when e o
lived on bread and rab i g
drought, pests, floods ionelmess
and starvation prices. Then he began to
makegood. A few, years ago I met him
hand-picking jumbucks m a duststorm.
Going to poddy up a few of the
he told me. Cripes, its a fai
cow. Can t get feed, can t get help and
Chifley takes half everything I make. In
future I’m going to stock light and sit
back with no worries.” The other day
I found him still working overtime on
his stock. He looked old, wan and tired
and was limping from an old bullet-
wound in the knee. “Thought you were
going to take it easy,” I reminded him.
The sun-dried old bachelor grinned sheep-
ishly. “Trouble is I can’t do* it,” he ex-
plained quietly. “If the place’ll carry
another hoof I’ve just got to shove it on,
even if it does mean working half the
night. It isn’t the money,” he went on.
“The Government still gets most of that,
anyway. It’s just that —well, you sort of
get used to it, and a man’s got to do it
somehow, I suppose.” Proving to “Pan-
darra” (B. 5/11/ ’47) that not all the
“pioneers and goats” have yet “disap-
peared into the sunset.”
* * * ♦
“Plip”: With his back fence bordering
on Bombina-avenue, Harry Jubb each
morning cursed the inhabitants of that
thoroughfare as he tallied up his
palings that had vanished overnight.
When news of this chip-heater fodder
was broadcast midnight timber-rustlers
began calling from more remote parts of
town, and his fence looked sicker every
day. Harry therefore declared officially
that he’d “had it” and retired to his work-
shop with his new batch of palings, a
bag of black powder and a brace and bit.
Then he nailed up the new fence and left
town for a week’s fishing. On return-
ing he was told that he’d “missed all
the excitement” and was handed a copy
of the “Star,” which announced:
Monday morning last was the setting for
some phenomenal occurrences in Bombina.
Mr. Alf Barnett, shortly after lighting his
chip-heater, was struck in the eye with the
draft-funnel and showered with sparks,
following an explosion within the con-
trivance. Mrs. Mackintosh, of Elm-street,
while preparing breakfast, narrowly escaped
injury from a saucepan of baked beans
which was blown off her stove. There have
been eight similar occurrences. These un-
fortunate events are blamed by the victims
to unusual sap formation in wood being
burned.
Expressing great concern, Harry went
home and was actually observed to be
singing as he nailed up 10 new palings.
* * * *
“Mug”: Dad Hunter’s dip-yards were
awkwardly designed, and each year the
old bloke had a whale of a job trying to
get his sheep through. He’d tried
everything from a heeler to a decoy tied
in the inner pen, but the build of the
yard, together with the smell of the
hated dip, sat the obstinate jumbucks
back on their haunches till Dad either
chucked or shoved them into the yard by
force. Then he had a brainwave and in-
stalled a row of large mirrors along the
far side of the inner pen facing the
entrance gate. I left about that time, but,
running into him a few weeks later, I in-
quired if the mirrors brought the woollies
into the yard any better. “Yes, it brings;
them in right enough,” Dad answered.
“It was no time before I had those ewes
through. Then I followed them with the
lambs and wethers and kept the rams till
last.” Dad paused to shake his head
solemnly. “Yes, it works good-oh,” he
concluded, “but it’s going to cost a good
bit replacing the mirrors each time those
fighting-mad rams go through!”'
* * * ♦
“D.R.H.”: The missus and a Jady visi-
tor were out for an evening stroll, watch-
ing the colors die across the uninter-
rupted miles of range and plain about
our place. Suddenly the visitor propped
and shied from a clump of bindi-eye,
giving a strangled squeak that the missus
somehow interpreted as “Snake!” Sure
enough, there was a foot or so of choco-
late-colored snakeling stretched motion-
less on the hard clay. The missus bent
quickly and scooped the little reptile into
her hand, while her companion showed
signs of imminent collapse. Held between
the fingers the snake writhed excitedly,
with the upward-reaching movement
characteristic of most colubriqes. At
the same time a scent as of distant soap-
works perfumed the violet dusk. Then
the sharp little head descended and ap-
plied itself firmly to the missus’s palm.
The visitor screamed, bringing me on to
the scene. I was given the snake, and
the visitor received apologies and conso-«
lation while I went inside to admire the
super-polished body of the malodorous
little wriggler, who, by this time, was try-
ing to force his head into my palm in an
endeavor to burrow. The lamplight
showed the tiny head with its two lateral
flanges and with rudimentary eyes show-
ing as black dots through the superim-
posed scales. The very short tail, was
thicker than the head and ended abruptly
in a tiny thornlike point which was
pressed firmly into the skin of my hand
as the wriggler sought for a purchase.
Placed in a tin of sand the little chap slid
his sharp-edged head forward and side-
ways into the sand and, with such superb
smoothness that he seemed motionless,
drew the rest of his body out of sight.
I let him go —there are so many termites
here that every white-ant-eating blind
snake counts. •
OLD CHINATOWN.
Grim George-street North was Chinatown
When Sydney was a hoyden;
When Chinese fossickers were found
From Ballarat to Croydon;
When steamers of the A.S.N.
Had Chinese crews to man them
And they, in turn, had houns dark
In Chinatown to fan them.
The ghosts of that old Chinatown
Still haunt its vanished alleys
And vendors hawk hot soya beans
To Lindy Loos and Sallys.
Beneath the stars weird jugglers play
Strange tricks, and in abandon
Wild women dance in places which
By rights the bridge-piers stand on.
New warehouses in George-street North
Will rub a friendly shoulder
With veterans of solid stone
Whose hearts grow ever colder.
Old pubs, wherein no woman now
Seeks saki’s aid to nerve her,
Are standing yet—the Orient
And near it the Observer...
Fortune of War and A.S.N. —
When Chinatown was booming
Ah, there were more than tomcats then
In long-lost laneways glooming.
When midnight comes in George-street North
The shades of sailormen
Come roaring down to Chinatown
And Sydney’s Sydney then!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


SMALL CLIP OR LARGE CLIP...YOU’LL GET THE TOP PRICE!
A.M.L.&F. extends the same service to the "small" man as the "big" man, and no
matter whether your clip is big or small, A.M.L.&F. will dispose of it for you AT
THE TOP PRICE. A.M.L.&F. high standards of valuing, displaying, lotting and
auctioneering are well known by the buyers, and their confident response to the
A.M.L.&F. man's skilled auctioneering technique means YOU get that extra fraction of
a penny per lb. that ensures better averages and returns.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1865.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 11.22.107
v jSf- ft >
mMirn
FREQUENTLY CAUSES IRREGULARITY
It is important to remember that changes of
food and living conditions invariably disar-
range the system, and when that occurs nature
needs assistance, at least temporarily. Dr,
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are especially suited
for this purpose. When going away for a
change, always make a practice of having a
bottle with you and taking a dose occasionally
to stir the liver and keep the bowels acting
regularly.
m
met
fjt
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Babbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Wrrx'i I
4 v Jt-
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock . . .
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders . . .
fa
■..Cd-O*
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne 75 SK Brisbane —712 P 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Ram Fertility.
“Outback”: Queensland Department
of Agriculture has begun experiments in
north-west Queensland to seek the rea-
son for the low percentage of lambs
marked. Special feeding of rams is to be
done, and some will be subjected to drug
treatment with extracts from the ductless
glands. While the low percentage of
marked lambs may be due partly to the
nature and distribution of the vegetation
and water, G. R. Moule, in charge of the
sheep and wool branch, states there is
reasonable evidence that the physiology
of the sheep has an important influence.
It is usually agreed that Merino ewes
exhibit a breeding season, and mating in
these months meets with reasonable suc-
cess, given a good season and provided
the rams are highly fertile at mating
time. Moule says that several factors may
bring about a temporary lowering of ram
fertility, including (a) high atmospheric
temperatures, ( b ) insufficient vitamin A
and (c) insufficient protein. High
temperatures—repeated daily maximums
of over 90deg. to lOOdeg.F.—may produce
temporary infertility, and, in addition,
high temperatures may depress appetites,
particularly if the plants for grazing are
inclined to be fibrous.
Correct feeding of rams before mating
is important, as there is reasonable evi-
dence to suggest that it materially influ-
ences such factors as the mobility,
longevity and form of the male cells.
Recent trials have indicated that extracts
from certain ductless glands will be of
assistance in mitigating the effects of
high temperatures. Mating during the
hot months in Queensland, after sum-
mer rains, may mean joining when the
rams are comparatively infertile. Putting
rams to work at this time aggravates
their condition, and their fertility will
decrease even further. The present trials
are aimed at determining just how lamb-
ing percentages in north-west Queensland
can be increased by the application of
the principles outlined.
Victorian Pastures.
“Mr.”: Subdivision, grazing manage-
ment, fodder conservation, correct ferti-
lising and rabbit control are all essential
for good pasture. W. D. Andrew, in
“Victorian Journal of Agriculture,” says
that newly-sown pastures need to be
lightly stocked; close-grazing animals
like sheep should be kept off for the time
being. Stock should come off in time to
permit seeding and to let the pasture
make growth to protect perennials in
summer and seedlings of annuals in
autumn. If leniently grazed by cattle
pastures will become grassy, but- heavy
grazing by sheep makes for clover domin-
ance. Sheep are usually run in light to
unreliable rainfall areas, where pastures
dry off early and don’t recommence
growing until well into the following
year. So reserves of fodder will be
n “ ded i£ is to be controlled
f lcw b ? ds , tbat , sbeep and c . alt f
W h «. »<> s^h . ee P t 0 »“ , head
° £catde , ls the i deal ) help to maintain an
'.T ° £ f ass£s a alovers - The
ba,a “ ae - » here f dover J have become pre-
aan ba restored by sowmg m
iS*f aut “ n ™ a mlxture of 201 - oats and
21b A?l,2‘T^ PS?” acre '
p ? s ° d fertility is a com-
“on.caus,e of pas !“ r . e deterioration, and
a 0 "?
F y. W en a decline is mdi-
-5e ”2™® P a sture untU it
f t , rp I!!FF; n F 1 .! 1 ? 13 i cl l ,ser
to th ■. . ... ” , - lrn al manures
°‘ ha “ d 1 * % a ,™ b 'L IOS r 15
,? " ,f -f?;
' 1 lan P erslst WJ ih
“She's off , mate —had a helluva time squeezing one out for meself .”
the mower. It looks costly, but isn’t.
There’s no labor cost of harvesting, and
price of fodder and concentrates can be
discounted to some extent because of
their manorial value. A short ton of
bran, for example, has a residual value
equivalent to 1921 b. of 22 p.c. superphos-
phate, 451 b. of muriate of potash and
941 b. of sulphate of ammonia, worth in
all about 30s, To obtain the full value
the manure must be collected from
around sheds and yards and spread on the
pastures.
Finally, there is the rabbit. If it can’t
be exterminated completely make allow-
ance for the amount of feed it eats when
calculating the stock-carrying capacity of
a pasture. Otherwise there will be a
danger of overstocking.
Dairy Sterilising.
Prof.”: The various chlorinated
powders available for the job are excel-
lent if used correctly, but if not so used
may result in faulty sterilisation and even
rusting of metals. Don’t try to sterilise
dirty surfaces, the active principal is
absorbed by organic matter, rendering
the job ineffective ; sterilise immediately
before milking, not after ; the steriliser is
only effective while the surfaces are still
moist —dry surfaces are liable to fresh
contamination.
When a hypochlorite is mixed with
water, free chlorine is set loose and
absorbed by the solution. This gas reacts
slowly with water forming. free oxygen,
which is the active sterilising agent, and
hydrochloric acid. If the steriliser solu-
tion is allowed in contact with metal parts
for any length of time, this acid will
corrode the “tinning,” permitting exposed
metal to rust. Thus all buckets must be
inverted and allowed to drain quickly
after sterilising and every opportunity
must be given utensils to dry as quickly
as possible. Insoluble portion of these
powders, if permitted to settle and re-
main on buckets, as it often does, will
remain moist for a considerable period
and may cause rust. Avoid this by mix-
ing the steriliser substance with water
and allowing it to settle in a vessel
separate from the dairy buckets, using
the clear liquid that is poured off. Don’t
keep this ready-mixed solution for more
than the one milking.
A common mistake when using hypo-
chlorite is to mix it with boiling or hot
water. The solution so obtained is no
better than water alone for sterilisation
as the all important chlorine is driven off
by the heat. Use cold or lukewarm
water.
Cucumbers.
“Plane Creek”: Summer gardens aren’t
properly stocked without them. Like
pumpkins, cucumbers won’t fail to bear
something even under trying conditions,
and, if well looked after, are prolific
croppers. Our way is to work up good,
light loam to a fine tilth and, opening up
shallow furrows sft. to 6ft. apart, half-
fill them with stable manure. Soil is
raked in to cover the manure, and the
seeds planted 12in. to 18in. apart.
We’ve grown most varieties, but under
warm, humid coast conditions. Early
Fortune, Improved White Spine and
Crystal Apple have grown best.
To give the vines a resting-place off
the hot ground, chop saplings, the twig-
gier the better, and arrange them end to
end in the inter-row spaces before the
cucumbers get the upright stage.
The saplings dry up while the crop is
growing, and can easily be burned in due
course. Plenty of water is needed during
hot, dry weather, especially if a sprinkle
of nitrate of soda or other fertiliser is
hoed in occasionally during the growing
period. The vines will rapidly die off if
watering is neglected.
Show Jumpers.
“Ngaduri”: Having recently been
round the S.A. country shows with
hunters I can’t help reflecting that agri-
cultural societies should take some action
against riders who force unwilling horses
to jump. Almost any horse will jump
when ridden with whip, spurs and a pair
of blacksmith hands. Some horses are
obviously in terror of the fence, and
when they do leap make exactly the sort
of effort which takes some judge’s
fancy. '
Most show horses) are registered with
local or R.A. societies, and I suggest
that before these registrations are
granted the horses be required to go
through a jumping test (with an
R.S.P.C.A. official in attendance) to ascer-
tain whether or not they like jumping.
And isn’t it time Departments of Agri-
culture investigated the incidence of
“ringboned” horses, seen every day in
wagons and drays? Surely a vet. could
devise some sort of rubber or shock-
absorbent pad between the hoof and shoe
to stop making painful cripples out of
otherwise fine animals.
Wanted—A Water-finder.
“J.R.L.”: We hear a lot about sonic
depth-finders and all sorts of mineral-
locating devices, but the device that will
be of as great a value as any is one for
locating underground water. The country
is covered with dud wells and bores that
have gone to extraordinary depths for
water when perhaps half a mile away was
abundant water at a shallow depth. There
was a device invented years ago by a
Liverpool (Eng.) firm for locating water,
but just how effective it was I don’t
know. Our C.S.I.R. might devote a
little time to the task ; it would be worth
more to this country than silly stunts like
trying to make rain.
Bull Service.
“Rooster”: There’s a heated argument
down our way as to whether it’s healthier
for the bull to run with the herd or be
separated. Many practise the former,
giving as a reason that bulls are easier
to “handle” and healthier. Well, a Short-
horn bull attacked and gored to death
its owner. It was “running with the
herd”; so was a polled bull which


Two Young Danish Men,
one of them with wife and a one-year-old
boy, want to emigrate to Australia, and seek
occupation and dwelling. Both are plumbers,
pipe-fitters, oxy-acetylene and electric-arc
welders, and acquainted with agricultural
machines and motors. Apply direct to—
VEBNEK F. liUD VIG,
Hojbjerg v/Aarhus, Danmark.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is listleps,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
ĥ
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
‘Cyauine' goes to
THE ANTARCTIC !
Expert dieticians who drew
np the specially balanced diet for the
Australian Antarctic Expedition nat-
urally included ‘Ovaltine’ • « •
1,000 one-pound tins of it.
They well know by scientific
test, that ‘Ovaltine’ contains all the
food elements necessary to build and
sustain perfect physical fitness and
to provide the nourishment and
energy needed by men exposed to
the rigours of the South Pole.
‘Ovaltine’ is the world’s supreme
tonic food beverage.
‘OVALTINE’
Builds, Protects, Nourishes, Sustains
AN IDEAL HOME
i
rnmm
An ideal home but, in an un-
sewered area. Now the Hygeia
Dissolvenator will give you all
the advantages of modern sani-
tation.
The Hygeia Dissolvenator is a
completely self-contained sani-
tary system abolishing unwhole-
some odours, destroying germs
and banishing flies. No water
supply required no embarrass-
ing emptying. Sewage material is
chemically transformed into a
sterile solution that runs away
into the soil. Easy to instal.
Write for free illustrated pamph-
let.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. Pty. Etd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 20 years.
distributors :
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
Woolworth’s Buildings, Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co.
Ltd., 678 Little Flinders St., Melb.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.
(S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney &
Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
m
S>s*
mmmm
g/J I
m
mmmm
THE BEST WAY TO SAY
Mextt j
TO A CHILD YOU LOVE
Extend your gift into the future by means of
an A.M.P. policy so that he can get the most out
of life.
"Hero, my boy", you can say to your son, "here is your
first policy in the A.M.P., the greatest mutual life office in the
Empire. I hope it will be one of many you will build up for.
yourself."
Encourage wisdom in youth. Any A.M.P. Office or Repre-
sentative will be glad to show you how small an annual investment
is needed to make provision for your children's future.
-A.M.P. SOCIETY-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Principal Board:
CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman.
SIR FREDERICK H. TOUT, Deputy Chairman.
J. HUBERT FAIRFAX. W. A. MACKAY, DR. S. A. SMITH,
SEPTIMUS G. ROWE, HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.LJC.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Price
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
1/- from Newsagents, or 1/21 posted from Bulletin Office, 252
George Street, Sydney.
■
i
m
&
m ; >■
m
• -
v - -■ -
WHO LIVED IN AN
UNINSULATED HOUSE
v.mlikh
INSULATION WITH 8.1. SLAGWOOL is the
one safe and sure method of keeping your home
a haven of cool comfort and restful nights in
Summer. For your comfort's sake have your home
insulated with 8.1. Slagwool.
ħh
UNINSULATED: In this home the
heat penetrates through the uninsulated
roof and walls, resulting in oven-like
conditions throughout day and night.
8.1. INSULATED: 8.1. Slagwool
applied to the ceilings and walls of this
home keeps the heat out. resulting in a
drop of up to 15° inside the home.
wm
solution
•on
•Aid
HEAD OFFICE: 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins St., Melbourne; Shell House. Nth. Terrace. Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street. Christchurch,
New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House, North Terrace. Adelaide,
T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray Street, Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street. Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent:^ WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin. 81.82.2
crashed its owner to death against a
fence. So much for their “easy handling.
It certainly isn’t healthy for the herd,
as I found out to my cost the first (ana
last) time I tried it. Not only did he
become dangerous but his vitality was
impaired. Smashing through fences be-
came a favorite pastime. Irate neighbors
declared they would sue me for damages.
The service table became as involved as
a calculus. Most of the herd were serviced
only after months of negative results.
Some missed altogether. Worse still,
there was an outbreak of abortion.
There was only one remedy. I got rid of
the bull for what I could get for him—
which wasn’t the price of his tucker for
a month.
Since then I’ve provided a good-sized
paddock, strongly fenced, with a weather-
proof shelter-shed where the animal can
be locked in when necessary. Before
reaching the “tender” age of 12 months
the ring goes through his nose, and it’s
renewed every time there’s a sign of
wear. His lordship and I are apparently
on good terms, but I never trust him on
a loose halter, always leading him with a
good stout staff. He gets good, nourish-
ing feed, but is not encouraged to be
“fat and lazy ” Best Leu is prime oaten
chaff or clover hay supplemented with
oats or lucerne, and a succulent pastur-
age. He rarely sees the herd at close
range.
Topping-off Poultry.
“Myrr”: Confine them to fattening
coops for a couple of weeks' before
marketing and trough-feed wet mash
only. Make the coop long by 20in.
broad and 20in. high; divide it into
three compartments, each to accommo-
date five birds. Use the following ration
mixed with water to the consistency of
thick porridge: 51b. of dried milk, 51b.
of meatmeal, 301 b. of ground wheat or
barley, 301 b. of ground maize, 301 b. of
ground oats. If ground maize and dried
milk are unobtainable use 51b. of meat-
meal, 201 b. of ground oats and 751 b. of
ground wheat or barley. Separated milk
can take the place of dried milk —a gal-
lon equals 11b. of the dried.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Grubs of the tomato-
moth sometimes attack at flowering time,
destroying buds and flowers, but more
frequently they attack maturing fruit and
eat through foliage and stems, causing
damage similar to that done by the
common cutworm. Dust with arsenate of
lead, 50 p.c., or spray 2oz. of arsenate
of lead powder in four gallons of water,
with or without spreader. Apply spray
or dust every seven, to ten days, the first
time as soon as the first blossoms begin
to set, continuing for six to eight weeks.
See that no arsenical residue is left on
fruit for sale.
“P.F.W.”: The jacaranda can be
easily grown from seeds. Use light soil,
covering the seed with about jin. of fine
sand. Stand the pot in water fully ex-
posed to the sun with a sheet of glass
on top. Seed will sprout in about two
weeks and can be transplanted next
spring. The main thing is to keep the
pot thoroughly moist.
“Gip”; Use a D.D.T. solution of about
5 p.c. to keep dogs and cats free from
fleas and ticks. Greater strength will
cause irritation of the skin, making the
animals scratch as though they still had
fleas. The solution left over should not
be thrown away ; dilute it to half-strength
with water and spray on the vegetable
garden,
“Sundowner”: To counteract reduction
in vitamins (chiefly riboflavin) caused by
feeding ground wheat mash to poultry,
add a percentage of dried whey, dried
buttermilk or liver-meal and feed with
ample supplies of greenstuff. Vitamin D
—the antr-rachitic vitamin —is contained
in cod-liver oil, but frequent exposure to
sunlight will supply birds with normal
requirements' provided they are fed on a
balanced ration.
“Billjim”: There is a deficiency of lime
in most concentrates and grain which can
be made good by feeding 31b. of four
parts of lime to one part of salt to each
1001 b. of grain for horses, cattle, sheep
and pigs. For poultry the lime may be
supplied in shell grit. In addition ilb. to
lib. salt can be added to each 1001 b. of
mash. Calcium phosphate is a valuable
bonebuilder and is all important to stock.
“Hortus”: Pigfarmers would do well
to go in for sweet potatoes, especially if
they have some poor sandy soil;
bushels of sweet potatoes equal-a bushel
of maize in feedipg value. Sandy soil
that could not produce a, ton of maize
could grow five to six tons of sweet
potatoes.
“Homo”: Sugar-gums are among the
heaviest honey-producing trees. Practi-
cally drought-resistant, they make good
windbreaks and shade for stock. Salt
should never be put on the ground be-
neath them, but in troughs. The timber
makes good posts and rafters and is ex-
cellent for firewood. Plant a grove here
and there for shelter for sheep and cattle
and for the beautification of the farm.
“Sarina”: Frequent static interference
in country radio reception may be caused
by a faulty transformer. Disconnect the
aerial and earth wires from the set while
it is working. All reception and static
will cease if the set is in good order and
only affected by thundery weather. If
the set works wthout aerial and earth
connected, and the static continues full-
blast, there is some fault in the set.
“Gip”: If you have punctured the
radiator core and it can’t be mended
with solder, place the radiator flat on a
piece of paper. Melt sulphur in a tin
until it is a brown liquid, then pour it
into the puncture and for about half an
inch all around it. The paper will pre-
vent the sulphur running right through.
The sulphur sets quickly and acts as a
seal which will last a long time.
“Mr-”: To preserve an iron roof spot
the rust patches with a prime coat of
metallic zinc-dust paint. Then go over
the whole roof with the same paint, thus
giving two coats to rust-affected areas.
If a metallic zinc paint isn’t procurable
use one of the iron-oxide roofing paints.
Don’t use lead base paints on roofs which
act as water catchments.


CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO C/^
Some want them Sweet, and some want
them Dry, but everyone wants Cinzano as
the basis of good cocktails. Cinzano sweet
or dry, the world's best Yermouthsl
9/«f/
SHinOWHM
h
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
The Lessons of which are specially compiled
for HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BKYEN HOARE,
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
* SPECIAL GUN *
“AND RIFLE 011“
GUARANTEED TO REMOVE FOUL-
ING AND BUST, PREVENTS PITTING
This oil was used exclusively by the
American armed forces in the S.W.P.A.
ALL HARDWARE AND SPORTS STORES.
Australian Agents :
Gold Star Products, Chullora, Sydney.
T
• ••
s
s
-ES"
3S
is
ik
iT
#
$2
mtiu
DROP a pebble in a quiet pool . . . the ripples spread in circles . . •
soon the whole surface is disturbed.
The same thing happens with each separate act of careless spending. They
have a definite and far-reaching effect on other people, and our chances of
future security.
Every time you spend unnecessarily, every
time you buy blackmarket goods, every time
you succumb to "no-coupon” offers, you
encourage inflation, put pressure on prices
and help disturb the whole Australian
economy—which by world standards is
recovering very smoothly from wartime
dislocation.
Help keep Australia tranquil . . . avoid
the blackmarket, co-operate with rationing
and price control . . . Save money at
every opportunity and invest your savings
at better than bank interest in Bonds and
Savings Certificates.
In this way you secure your future—and
Australia’s.
Save for Security
5 Ways to Secure Your
Future—and Australia's
1. Buy only what you really
need. Spend wisely—get full
value. Save all you can.
2. Pay no more than the fixed
or regular prices. Always sur-
render coupons.
3. Don’t waste money on
blackmarket goods.
4. Pay your way. Settle your
debts. Buy for cash.
5. Invest your savings, at bet-
ter than bank interest, in
Commonwealth Bonds, Savings
Certificates and Stamps. Later
on you’ll have the money, plus
the interest, to spend on better
goods in plentiful supply at
better values. Hold all the
Bonds and Certificates you
own.
BONDS AND
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
NS3o.lt3.liZ
ĥ
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
(heir cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Bull mrir.l. i, A al „„Ha bj SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
mil ... ■ - SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ■ ■
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
LOOK!
The "WOODMACHINCO
WONDER BENCH
Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
V
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
immediate , eluding saw and planer
Delivery. blades, £l7/10/-. Also
- woodturning lathe outfit,
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
l£in. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States,
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
He laughed softly when she floundered
and stumbled, struggling desperately to
keep up with his scampering feet.
BEN, in the brilliance of morning,
actually shone with cleanliness.
Gone was the soiled shabbiness of the
past week. He wore a shirt, beautifully
laundered by Isla’s faithful hands, a close-
fitting, pin-striped suit that squared his
narrow shoulders and flared at his ankles,
His brown hat was smartly tilted, his
shoes sparkled.
He walked to the road where the cream
coach would pick him up. In one hand
he held the leashes of his five dogs, in the
other a battered suitcase through the
cracks of which peeped promising por-
tions of clothing—the toe of a black sock
darned with violet wool; a piece of pink
silk which could have been a pyjama
leg ; a greyish lump of towel still wet
from his morning ablutions ; a corner of
yellow sweater, striped in black like the
body of a hornet.
The cream coach rumbled along the
dirt road, throwing the rancid smell of
oil and engines, tyres and benzine, into
the freshness of the morning.
It stopped grumbling and hiccoughing
and Ben climbed aboard. His case went
first, thrown into the van with a rattle
of protest from the cream-cans. Then
Ben himself, with the little dogs scamper-
ing at his heels.
“Well, that’s over,” Ben said with satis-
faction. He caught a glimpse of himself
reflected in the bright lacquer of the
dashboard.
Jauntily, he straightened his tie, and
adjusted the angle of his hat.
It should be good hunting down on the
Mirragee flats where he was going. The
rats were eating out the crops down there.
A powder ball of dust rolled along
behind the coach, following it with des-
perate urgency for a short distance, then
dropped as the coach gathered speed and
lumbered away into the bright, dew-wet
morning.
Isla let the snowy veil of lace drop back
across the kitchen window. Tears
swamped her eyes, and ran down her
heavy nose. She brushed them away
miserably.
RAWFORD DUMLEY came in, ex-
pecting his breakfast to be on the
table.
He saw Isla standing by the window,
dying in a terrible, devastated silence;
and from the direction of the road below
came the rumble of the departing cream
coach.
He weighed the and
then reached for his pipe.
“What the Hell’s wrong with you? I
hope you haven’t been making a fool of
yourself again.”
There had been other occasions in
Isla’s youth when Crawford considered
she’d made a fool of herself. If it hadn’t
been for him she’d have probably been
married, with hindering children and a
selfish husband. It was Crawford’s
private opinion that Isla was the
kind of weak fool who would make even
a paragon self-centred.
She put her apron up to her face and
sobbed, her sagging shoulders shuddering
uncontrollably.
Crawford puffed at his pipe.
“He said he’d marry me,” she said at
last, wiping her eyes and nose and staring
dismally at nothing.
“He promised ...” she said, and hic-
coughed, politely, behind her hand.
“But he went away, just the same, I
saw him.”
“He went all right.” Crawford reached
for the cold meat, and a loaf of bread.
No man was any good on an empty
stomach.
He allowed himself a short mirthless
chuckle.
“So you tried the toasted cheese, did
you? I told you that was no good. A
rat worth its salt doesn’t walk into that
sort of trap.”
Isla stared at him dumbly, hating him
with impotence and futility.
It seemed to her fancy that the ghost
of a lean grey rat scampered across the
ceiling, stopped to wash its whiskers, to
laugh at herewith wicked mischief in its
black-currant eyes.
“Traps are no good for rats,” Craw-
ford repeated, slicing the meat off in
thick, juicy slabs. “They’re too cunning
to be caught like that.”


LTV'.
#
m
y/6
m
1
m
\K£rusnaev
I
m
i r»
s a
■s
MW
■
an
«SL
.guaranteed never to fade or shrink
LEA 6
PERRINS
SAUCE
THE SAUCE
WITH A
SECRET
r^T\
\
,
mm
SAUCE
A i pJS
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
Melbourne ‘Sun-Pictonar reported that the
Wallabies beat Hampshire-Sussex by 14 goals
to five.”
So even the Union code is in danger of
being nationalised.
4*
“Mr. Gilbey says Tasmanians are the biggest
gin-drinkers in the world.” —Sydney “D.T.”
They simply sling it down.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“My home was on fire, and when the fire
was at its height the cat rushed into the
inferno, to return badly scorched, with some-
thing in his mouth. Yes, it was my fire-
insurance policy.” —“New Idea:”
Such an animal would be at a pre-
mium.
•h
Single also share room available woman
also share gent., quiet place.”
—Townsville (Q.) ‘‘Bulletin.”
But would it be for long?
4* 4* 4* 4 1
Badly Let Down.
“If some fellow got up and decreed that
men’s trousers should fall only three inches
below the knee, few men would take the
slightest notice of him.” —Sydney "Sun.”
If trousers hang below the knee
Our lower limbs will look like stilts.
But if they fall, it seems to me
A man had better take to kilts!
Bert.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
In Passing.
“It is often startling to find a note* pushed
under the door.”— Women’s paper.
For instance, the last one Mrs. Wogga-
blimp picked up read like this: “Dear
Dora, —I was passing but wouldn’t dream
of coming in ; I can see from outside you
haven’t washed your curtains for months
and I know you’d be furious if I caught
you like that. And I could hear you and
your hubby quarrelling ; well, such things
are private and, after I heard what you
were arguing about, I felt 1 just had to
tell you I couldn’t think of coming in at
such a moment and embarrassing you.
Then there was the note on your door
telling the baker not to call for his money
until Friday. That means you did all
your money in at s.-p. Saturday, so I
thought I’d just slip this note, dear, under
the door because, after all, I am a woman
of tact.”
Eve.
«b *b *b *b
“Sunburn is nothing to laugh off.”
— Women’s paper.
You must just grin and bare it,
•b *b *b *b
“A hair perm which was donated has not
yet been drawn.” — “Great Northern” {Sydney.)
Evidently the winner hasn’t been per-
suaded to sit for it.
•b ’ *b *b *b
“Technicolored legs are in the news.”
— Women’s paper.
And generally with only very brief
supporting shorts.
“ Am I right for 'Frisco?"
“Truly stunning styles for the women around
40 are not easy to design.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Seeing that it’s those around 50 that
want them.
4- *b *b *b
“Not many women realise the difference that
the right shoes make to the way they walk.”
— Women’s paper.
On the other hand, tight shoes will
make them groan like a rusty gait.
❖ 4* *b *b
“Eric Mcl?ougall, with two wines and a
second, was leading in the 1947 ‘Herald’ Shield
sculling competition.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
And weren’t they two sparkling wines?
•b 4* 4* *b
“What tricks the clock can play on us when
we are sleepy!”— “New Idea."
Alarming ones indeed!
•b *b ' *b *b
“Looking to Australia for dope.”
—Sydney “Sun” heading.
They’ve only to go to Canberra and
take their pick.
•b *b *b *b
“Sell beautiful child’s pony.” ,
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
His mother’s afraid, he’ll fall off and
spoil his good looks.
“It takes your doctor to diagnose a com-
plaint.”—Woman's paper^
And a specialist to upset his diagnosis.
Sabotage.
“A woman complained to police that some-
body had glued down all her piano keys.”
When, spurred on by parental pride.
The budding Mozart hits his stride.
How often do you find there lingers
After the melody has died
The touch of little jammy fingers?
Though insufficient to prevent
An encore, such an incident
No doubt inspired someone to meddle
With the offending instrument.
And introduce a softer pedal.
And yet instead you might accuse
The mush that Tin-Pan-Alley brews
Which, music-lovers are persuaded.
Exudes sufficient treacly ooze
To do the gumming-up unaided.
P. M. LUSK.
Pure Disappointment.
“Reporting that a defeated player competing
in the N.S.W. State singles tennis championship
had ‘hurled his racquet across the court at
the end of the third set, and into the net when
the last point was played,’ after which he
‘took a kick at it’ and later ‘smashed it beyond
repair against a post,’ ‘S. M. Herald’ described
the actions as ‘reflecting bitter disappointment
rather than bad sportsmanship.’ ”
The Famous Temperamental Player
was in splendid form.
Subdued in the opening game, which
he won, he had his temper working well
by the third game. As the umpire called
a “let” for a serve which the player con-
sidered was an ace, he kicked six strings
out of his racquet and stood in a shud-
dering rage while he chewed all his
fingernails to the quick. It was 10 minutes
before he could be induced to resume
with another of the 14 racquets he had
brought.
In the next game when his sharply-
angled volley missed the sideline by inches
he hurled himself to the sward and
kicked and screamed until an official
soothingly persuaded him to go and take
his opponent’s serve.
A few games later, on being foot-
faulted, he rushed to the side and hurled
a wooden mallet at the head of one of
the line umpires.. Once more an official,
fearful of offending the Famous Tempera-
mental One by objecting to the expres-
sion of his disappointment, calmed him
down and eventually cajoled him into
continuing the game.
Following a long backhand duel from
the baseline, one of his opponent’s drives
smacked the net cord and trickled over
for a winner. This exasperating bit of
“tin” was too much! Letting out a
bellow like a wounded animal, he rushed
off the court and burst into tears. Sym-
pathetic officials crowded round. After
knocking a handkerchief from an out-
stretched hand, he threatened to forfeit.
Only the reiterated assurances that if he
did this all further public interest in the
tournament would vanish, and that he
really was a wonderful player, mollified
him, and he again took up his racquet.
Trailing 4-5 and love-40 he double-
faulted, and as realisation came that in
cold blood he had poured the first set
down the drain, he tore across, wrenched
a box of matches from his blazer-pocket
and began setting fire to the offending
net that had gathered in his second
“fault.” This time it took the combined
efforts of the entire tournament committee
to get him to overlook the malevolence
of the object hanging between the posts.
No Famous Player with a Tempera-
ment could have been expected to react
otherwise than he did when a ballboy
tossed him a ball to gather in which he
was actually forced to move two paces.
Slamming the two balls he already held
straight at the offender’s head, he rushed
over and kicked him soundly. Later, so
unnerved was he by being passed by a
sideline drive as he rushed the net that
three games later he poked up a short
lob. As he watched his opponent duly
“bury” it he cast around desperately for
something to take his disappointment out
on. At first he appeared frustrated ; then
he remembered: tearing his top set out
he leaped on it and hurled the pieces over
the pavilion.
With set point against him in the
second there occurred one of those inci-
dents which no Famous Temperamental
Player could possibly take. His oppo-
ment’s first bullet serve was a “fault.”
Naturally expecting the usual high-kicking
second service, he moved slightly to the
right in anticipation of its screwing wide
out on to his forehand Instead, faster
than the first it clipped the centre line
for a clean ace.
For a moment the F.T.P. stood petrified
as his racquet hung out to dry in the
wrong direction. Then, after beating his
breast he leaped the net, tore off his shoe
and, wielding it, chased his opponent
savagely around the court.
There followed more soothing to his
mortification. Then in the tenth and vital
game of the third set, with his opponent
holding match point, he rushed into the
net to kill an easy lob. He got it in,
but the umpire gave the point against
him because in making the stroke his
racquet had touched the net.
As the umpire began to chant “Game,
set and match,” the F.T.P. went berserk.
Tearing his shirt off he ripped it in pieces,
heaved the umpire’s stand over while the
umpire was still in it, seized the de-
canter of water and smashed it against
the net-post, and, grabbing the heavy
stand supporting the microphone, pro-
ceeded to batter all his racquets to de-
struction. As his conqueror came to the
net and held out his hand he leaped up
and spat in his eye.
His opponent moved off towards the
dressing-sheds without a word. It was
then that the Famous Temperamental
Player registered complete disgust.
“Well, of all the tin-horn sports!” he
shouted after the retreating figure.
“Hasn’t even got the decency to con-
gratulate a man on the fight he put up! ”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|dL per lice; all others 2£d. per line.
Profit-sharing
It has a nice round sound. When I
started a little business my new employees
broached the subject and were surprised
to find me agreeable until I added the
condition that they should share the loss,
if any, on the first year’s transactions.
Nothing doing.
I helped one employer with his stock-
taking and income-tax returns. When
the final profit-and-loss balance was
struck we discovered that taxation left a
net profit of half-a-crown to be shared
amongst ten workers.
Today’s press has a report from a firm
showing that for every pound distributed
to shareholders the tax man grabbed four
pounds and wages accounted for six
pounds. From that it will be seen that
profit-sharing is already in operation.
The taxes squeezed from the boss are
shared by his men in the form of pen-
sions, unemployment grants and other
social services.
There can be no direct profit-sharing
in Government works because there is
no profit, and it is certain that no civil
servant would agree to share the losses
of his special department. Union secre-
taries are at least consistent when they
ban the hand-out. Nothing could be
more absurd than demanding a share of
the loot “filched” from the toiling masses
by the soulless profit motive.— Fagin
(S.A.).
Holloway’s *'‘Employment Service”
An advertisement in my Saturday
morning paper by the Commonwealth
Employment Service described a job
which appealed to me. The ad. advised
people interested to see the District Em-
ployment Office in our industrial suburb.
I dropped in on the same morning and
found one individual holding the fort.
There were about five or six tables
equipped with telephones spread over the
liberal floor space. (That I have had an
application in for a phone for 18 months
and that for some of that time had a
medical certificate for a priority while
the heir, now a year old, was on his way
is beside the point.)
The sole budding bureaucrat came
over and I asked which firm was offer-
ing the position. He asked me if I was
registered. Surprised, I said I wasn’t. He
then told me I must register and that they
would keep a record of details of my
experience, etc. He again refused to
divulge the name of the firm, so I told
him there was too much red tape for my
liking and walked out. I had no wish to
give details to be kept by them if I did
not want to work for that particular
firm.
A thought struck me and I went back
in and asked if firms who obtained em-
ployees through the Service paid any
fee. They don’t, and all the cost of
careful recording in triplicate and so on
is charged to the taxpayers, while the
Service robs industry of workers by
heavily overstaffing itself. Tidak
Makan (N.S.W.).
Papua-New Guinea
The “Papua-New Guinea Government
Gazette” (1 /10/’47) contains a statement
of receipts and expenditure for the Terri-
tory of Papua-New Guinea for the 12
months ended June 30, 1947. It is an
interesting document.
After a few simple calculations with
pencil and paper I find that it has cost
£2,018,673 to run this country for the
12 months under review; comparative
cost for 1946 was £252,640. At first
glance those figures might indicate that
the country is being run eight times
better than it was in 1946, but that does
not follow.
There have been big increases in
almost all departments, both revenue and
expenditure. Postal receipts are up from
£6617 to £27,969, but ‘expenditure has
risen from £10,985 to £46,686. Lands,
Survey and Mines receipts are up from
£936 to £16,484, expenditure from £7654
to £15,579.
Crime is increasing, too. In 1946 Fees
and Fines amounted to £1958, but in
1947 receipts have risen to £10,860. A
larger and keener police force was needed
to conduct this war on evildoers —ex-
penditure of £21,157 in 1946 has risen
to £93',964 in 1947. And that does not
include £BlO6 shown curtly as “Prisons.”
The senior New Guinea Administra-
tion Department—“ District Services and
Native Affairs” —has also increased its
overall coverage, or whatever the current
phrase may be. The 1946 cost of
£59,592 has risen to £368,569 for 1947.
And how are we to greet one little ex-
penditure item shyly peeping from the
foot of the page—“ Unforeseen, £1124”?
Then we have Customs. With the re-
turn of the dauntless civilian Customs
revenue has increased from £50,532 in
1946 to £315,768 in 1947. A notable
effort, but of little comfort to the Terri-
torian, who must pay 10 per cent, import
duty on almost everything that comes
into the country, including groceries and
household commodities which have, for
the most part, been bought on the retail
market in Australia. Sea-freight charges,
insurance, handling charges, etc., have
already pushed the prices of such items
to a point where it seems unprofitable to
live. Apparently our soldiers, sailors and
airmen who held off the Japanese in this
wild country fought on foreign soil.
But all the foregoing items are as noth-
ing when compared with the most strik-
ing account on the statement headed
“Miscellaneous.” This lusty young ac-
count got away to a flying start in 1946
with £19,103, which was less than one-
third of the total amount spent in the
same period on the largest and most ex-
pensive department in the N.G. Adminis-
tration. In the year ended June 30,
1947, however, “Miscellaneous Expendi-
ture” has c1aimed.£1,107,456, more than
three times the 1947 cost of the now
greatly expanded “District Services and
Native Affairs” (£368,569). The increase
alone in “Miscellaneous” (£1,088,353) is
more than half the total grant of
£2,018,673 made by the Commonwealth
in 1947 for the purpose of running the
Territory.
The lumping of this huge amount of
money into a nondescript account such as
“Miscellaneous” calls for some explana-
tion —although there is little that residents
of the Territory can do but shrug their
shoulders. A detailed statement of such
“Miscellaneous” expenditure of public
money does not seem too much to ex-
pect.—Lim-Limbu (N.G.).
Old Age
One of the changes in community
life brought about by economic and other
factors is the steadily-increasing number
of elderly men and women who find it
difficult to obtain shelter. In other days,
the old folk lived with the family ; now
statisticians declare that, while there are
more old people than ever there were,
there never have been so few of them
living with their sons and daughters or
other relatives. In the U.S.A. three per
cent, of the population in 1850 consisted
of those over 65; today the figure is
seven per cent., and in another 30 years
it is expected to rise to 12 per cent.
Here in Australia we have old-age
pensions, etc., which provide for main-
tenance on a means-test basis ; but where
the old folk haven’t a home of their own
the allowance only goes part of the way.
In some States, private and other bene-
factions have provided blocks of “Even-
tide Homes.” where old people may keep
“ Fancy , they're flying backwards! I wonder where they're going from?"
their self-respect and enjoy a degree of
independence, living in their own quarters
surrounded by the little articles of per-
sonal furniture, pictures and other things
which possess sentimental interest and
thus make the break with the past less
trying.
It is the home life which the old folk
miss. Possibly more families should be
ready to have the elderly parents share
their home ; but housing shortages, small
children who don’t always; appreciate
grandparents’ funny ways, differences in
temperament and outlook —all these,
along with other things, lead to the gen-
eral decision to have the old folk “put
into some sort of an institution.”
In America, attention is being given
to what is termed “Gerontology,” or “the
study of old age” in its various ramifi-
cations. On the score that “over sixty”
doesn’t necessarily mean that the human
machine is worn out, one particular pro-
posal advances a definite educational
programme for oldsters, with special uni-
versities teaching the aged (over 60) new
social and technical development.
It has been pointed out that some of
the world’s best thinkers, scientists, in-
ventors, writers and others have managed
to reach the eighth or ninth decade.
Henry Ford made special provision for a
division of workers which included men
of fourscore years. Churchill, Mac-
Arthur, Bernard Shaw, Smuts and others
aren’t exactly chickens, and the world
enjoys the fruit of their intellectual and
physical “after-60” activity. Whether
there’d have been a difference if, in their
increasing age, they’d had to worry about
a roof would possibly have to be taken
into consideration. But, at any rate, the
relationship of old age in its various
aspects to the community generally is
something that calls for further study,
whether it be called “Gerontology” or
something else. — Senex (Tas.).
The Harvest
In the Forbes (N.S.W.) district 140,000
acres are under wheat and are expected
to average 27 bushels. Of the total an-
ticipated crop of 3,780,000 bushels local
silos will hold 800,000, bulkheads now
being erected 210,000, bags promised
480.000 and bag bulkheads to be erected
60,000 —a total accommodation for
1.550.000 bushels. That leaves 2,230,000
bushels still uncovered.
Simultaneously with harvest operations
trains will truck some grain to terminal
silos for shipping, and many bags will
be used more than once; also, further
storage will be found in sheds and barns.
It would be optimistic to expect another
1,000,000 bushels to be accommodated by
these means. Indications are that unless
a miracle happens to provide more bags
and bulkheads one to one and a quarter
million bushels of precious grain will
have to be dumped in the open fields or
left unstripped to rot in the paddocks.
And Forbes is but one of the many great
wheat centres in a similar plight.
Both Canberra and Sydney Govern-
ments were warned about probable har-
vesting difficulties as far back as last
March, when cockies attending the
Country-party conference in Sydney
drew attention to the shortage of
machinery parts and bags. Several warn-
ings have since gone out from farmers’
organisations, to be met with the reply
tht t the Government was “watching the
position carefully” and that “ample provi-
sion would be made to handle the har-
vest.”—F. D. (N.S.W.).
Law and? Order?
My daily paper reports' a police action
against a cripple charged with taking
s.-p. bets. He had four slips of paper in
his possession upon which were bets
ranging from 2s, to £2 10s. He had not
previously been before the Court. He
pleaded guilty and was fined £l5 with
6s. costs, in default, one month’s im-
prisonment.
In his case he was tried by the Court,
found guilty of breaking the law of the
land and dealt with accordingly.
On another page I read “What be-
came known as the Corio dispute, in
which the Institute of Marine Engineers
threatened to hold up the shipping of
Australia early in October, has been de-
cided in the engineers’ favor by Judge
Kelly, of the Federal Arbitration Court.
The finding may cause the seamen to
strike,”
It seems from the last sentence that
the law of the land does not apply to
unions. A case has been heard in the
Court, both sides have been represented
and a verdict has been given. The re-
sult? The seamen may strike! In other
words, the decision of the Court is treated
with contempt.
The time has come to insist upon the
law of the land being observed by all
sections of the community. If a cripple
can be fined £l5 for a few bets which
have not disrupted the country, on a
proportionate basis a union which
breaks the law and cripples an industry
should be fined £lO,OOO. —Repatriate
(Q-).
Queensland Railways
I agree with those Queensland graziers
that there never will be an efficient beef
industry in the far west of that State uhtil
there are better rail facilities (B.
15/10/ ’47), but before there’s any ex-
tension of the existing lines there’ll have
to be a big change in the Queensland
railways and a bigger one still in the
public attitude towards them.
The mail train from Quilpie to Brisbane
takes 30 hours for the 621 miles, the
“fast” stock trains about 10 hours longer.
Extend that line 150 miles and your
stock will be two full days in the trucks,
at least a day too long. The infuriating
thing about it is that there is not one
technical reason why these stock trains
should not run through at a 30 m.p.h.
average or better, the only obstacle being
the absurd importance attached to rail-
way “losses.” Tell your average Aus-
tralian that 10,000,000-head of stock have
died in a drought and he’ll accept the in-
formation with complete equanimity.
Tell him that one per cent, of the potential
value of these beasts has been “lost” by
his railway and he’s up in the air at once.
The only thing that matters a hoot
west of the coast range is stock. Remove
them or let them die out or let their pro-
duction become unprofitable, and there’s
no scope for a single bagman from Mt.
Isa to the border. Therefore everything
in that area should be subordinated to the
needs of the stock. Transport in parti-
cular should be so organised that cattle
can be delivered on the coast in the best
possible condition or shifted, at a fair
speed, from one part of the country to
the other in times of drought. I don’t say
this should be done without regard to
cost, but certainly with no more regard
for it than we find in road or airport
construction.
Take a look at the facilities offered
there by the existing railways. Light,
flimsy, out-of-date rails on flimsier
sleepers, weak bridges which will only
carry the lightest tea-kettles of loco-
motives at the slowest possible speed.
That applies to all those lines running
west including the relatively heavy-
trafficked Mt. Isa system. Blame the
Commissioner? It’s not his fault. His
main job these days is to try to make ends
meet where obviously they never can;
the actual running of transport is a
secondary duty.
Those western lines don’t pay, can’t pay
and never have paid. There’s insufficient
traffic and what there is can’t carry a
high enough rate. They are, in fact, de-
velopmental lines in every sense of the
word. Instead of accepting that fact and
arranging things accordingly, we’ve
carried on the farce for years with obvious
results. There’s no profit to plough back
into the business, so things have decayed
steadily. Loan? for improvements are
out of the question., There’s no potential
extra traffic to carry the interest charges
which are such an important part of rail-
way finance. The whole incredibly stupid
situation suggests that out there the stock
industry is not nearly as important as the
railway.
The solution is simple enough, but it
requires an entirely new approach. All
those lines out from Warwick, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Townsville
should be rebuilt with heavier under-
bridges and at least 601 b 801 b
rails on stronger sleepers with a new
alignment where it is called for, the basic
idea being a mean speed of 30 rn.ph. and
no loss over the whole haul. That would
call for new locomotive power, but that’s
well overdue in Queensland. A standard-
gauge construction would be invaluable,
but is not essential, all that is required
being possible on the 3ft. 6in. gauge track.
Financial arrangements should be taken
out of the hands of the Commissioner and
passed to the Ministry most closely con-
cerned with stock.
The cost? Nothing in relation to the
value of the industry and, in any case,
the money would be spent only on Aus-
tralian goods, the whole thing being done
without the expenditure of a penny of
foreign exchange. It would certainly cost
no more than what is to be spent on
“modernising” one Big-City airport.—?
Transporters (Singapore).


Planes and Trains
For progressive private enterprise to
finance Government department ineffi-
ciency is sound economics to Mr. O Sul-
livan, the N. S. Wales Transport Minister,
who proposes taxing airlines to make up
for the deficit of his antiquated railway.
Air travel, he avers, is a luxury!
Raising the railways’ standards would
make them financially sound. Australian
trains in general are, with the exception
of those of Asia, about the worst on
earth. Were they in Europe or North
America few would use them; road
traffic and airways would capture most of
the business —indeed, they have done so
to a fair extent, even in competition with
vastly superior railway systems.
Our trains are slow, filthy, uncomfort-
able and inefficient. Railway officials are
little self-appointed despots, and meals
and service at stations are below pie-cart
standards. Air-travellers enjoy speed,
cleanliness and a maximum of comfort;
private-airline officials are courteous and
attentive. Meals are free, excellent and
cleanly served. Railway carriages are as
archaic as gipsy caravans, and it’s
doubtful if the Minister knew of trains
watering at high speed before his Federal
opposite number made the startling dis-
covery in the U.S.A., although both there
and in the U.K. the method is older than
the Minister himself.
Comparison of fares does not support
his theory. Flying from Sydney to Bris-
bane costs £7 6s. with no extras. By rail
(first class) it costs £5 14s. 6d., plus meals,
tips and the value of a day’s lost time.
On some routes there is no difference in
fares —Sydney to Townsville, for instance.
Air travel, far from being a luxury, could
almost be called the poor man’s method,
and unionists use it.
Australia, with its vast distances,
needs ultra-modern transport. It has a
proud place in the world’s airways. To
retard progress by taxing air travel into
the luxury class will shove us among the
most backward countries in the English-
speaking world. That, of course, seems
to be the ambition of most “Labor”
Parliamentarians.— Tackline S. (N.S.W.).
Noise to Silence
I wonder what has happened to the
group that made such a noise about the
Defence Projects Bill several months ago
in Melbourne. There were, I remember,
a leading clergyman of advanced views, a
fiery columnist who is regularly furious
about a variety of things, and a number
of other leading intellectuals. Describing
the bill as a dangerous attack on liberty,
and asserting that no Government should
have such powers without a referendum,
they preached sermons, wrote articles and
letters and called meetings; but Mel-
bourne remained uninterested. At last,
in despair at the public’s apathy to its
dearly-won freedom, the Crusaders gave
up.
A little later Mr. Chifley announced his
banking plans. Immediately from the apa-
thetic public, at whom the vociferous de-
fenders of democratic rights had shouted
till hoarse, came a mighty roar of protest,
a roar that was transformed into action
at the Victorian elections. The people,
in fact, have not only shown their con-
cern over real threats to freedom, but
their determination to beat flat those who
threaten it. The only ones who don’t
seem concerned over the matter are those
liberty-loving champions of a few months
back. As far as I know there has not
been a sermon, a letter to the press or an
article from any of them. — Yarrasider
(Vic.).
In England Now
Here is an extract from a letter from
England;
Life is grim these days. I don’t think
the people are feeling happy at the
way things are going. The Government is
full of good intentions but lacks big leader-
ship, and even those of us who support the
nationalisation of essential products and
services have an uneasy feeling that the
Government is trying to do too much in
a hurry. The housing problem has not
been dealt with. People have been given
higher wages and shorter hours, but whole
families are still herded together in one
or two.rooms in requisitioned houses. This
lowering of the standard of living is bad.
There is a deep love of home life in the
ordinary English people and great house
pride. With little to buy in the shops, and
no coupons to spare for household equip- •
ment if the goods were there, and in any
case no homes to make pretty and com-
fortable, much of the joy of life and in-
centive to work harder soon goes.
It’s a sad picture indeed, but how
familiar! Lack of leadership, uneasiness
even among the supporters of nationalisa-
tion, bad housing and lack of incentive
to work! We still have a supply of
goods, but for how long?—B. J. L. (Q.).
Young Farmers
In The Fanning Ladder, by George
Henderson, an English farmer, a scheme
of mutual help is described that is well
worth the attention of Australians. Hen-
derson and his brother have made Oathill
Farm, a Cotswold holding of only 85
acres, one of the model farms of Eng-
land. In 1942 it yielded a profit of £4484.
All employees are young men, pupils,
who live as members of the family ; they
are paid a basic wage and a bonus based
“All you have to say is ‘Will you marry me, dear?' And I say 'Too
right I will’!"
on the output of the farm. At the end of
his time a thrifty young fellow can save
quite a decent sum —one boy put by £l5O
in 20 months.
The Hendersons assist worthy pupils
who take up farms, financially if neces-
sary, and with advice.
The profit-sharing system was intro-
duced with great success into a factory
for the making of patent corn-bins, a
subsidiary enterprise. Workmen in this
factory haven’t favored “go-slow” tactics
—the harder the individual works the
more everyone gets. There has been also
a minimum of waste and inefficiency, for
these detract from earnings.
Australia wants as many as possible of
intelligent, up-to-date yeomen farmers,
the best antidote to Communism and
other subversive creeds a country can
have. Many young men who would like
to go on the land lack the money to
buy a farm and choose an urban career.
If leading Australian landmen followed
the example of the Hendersons young
men taking up farming would, in a few
years, be in a position to start on their
own with every reasonable prospect of
success.— Den (N.S.W.),
Propaganda
How does it work? From my own ex-
perience I’d say that the endless repetition
of a simple, blatant, alliterative slogan
has an almost hypnotic effect on those
who hear it.
During the munitions boom I worked
alongside a dear old lady who could
neither read nor write and whose conver-
sational powers were very limited. Every
few minutes she would heave a sigh and
say “There’s no doubt about it, John Cur-
tin won the war.” After a few days I
found myself repeating the words oyer
and over, with the same tone of convic-
tion. Later, I was teamed up with a
fellow who kept repeating to himself and
to all within hearing “Stalin is essenti-
ally a man of peace.” After a bit I un-
consciously set the words to music and
crooned them to the clank of machinery.
The phrase haunts me even today.
Someone has said: “Beware the man
of one book.” I would say “Beware the
man of one slogan.” If he believes it
himself and grinds it out often enough
he will make more converts than the
most gifted orator whose rounded periods
slide in one ear and out the other. A
catchphrase hangs on like a Bathurst
burr, while a subtle argument is hard to
understand, difficult to remember and im-
possible to repeat. — Earbasher (S.A.).
Cables and Wireless
“Hut 60” (B. 19/11/ ’47) speaks the
grim truth in his tale of cables. I work
in the cable department of the biggest
import business in Australia, and my
life has become pretty busy since the
Government took over the cable-wireless
business. We used to get inward cables
typed and distributed to the departments
concerned by 9.30 a.m.; now, as the cables
come anyhow, we get them out at about
11.30 a.m. They drift in with the mail
or come over the phone, and taking a
cable in code from the G.P.O. is a night-
mare. You have to extract with tweezers
such information as where the cable came
from, when, at what rate and to whom
addressed. They can say querulously
“It’s yours, isn’t it?” but often in the code
address lies the name of the sender.
My main grievance concerns the
accounts. When “Beam” and “Eastern”
managed their own affairs, for every
cable sent one received a corresponding
debit note. At the end of each month
an intensely itemised account arrived.
Corrections were often made on these
and accepted. If one rang the cable-
accounts branch to complain there was
always a lapse of several days before
they could ring back and attend to it —
naturally enough where the difference of
a few words might mean 10s. From now
on there are no debits, no itemising and
no queries. You get the bill and you
pay the cash. There is no redress.
My legs are worn down to the knees
coursing back and forth to York-street,
Sydney, with urgent cables. And with
the financial world in the tangle it’s in
surely this was no time to bottleneck com
munications. — Cherub 103 (N.S.W.).
Water Shortage
Once more we have the hardy annual
notice advising the people of Sydney that
water restrictions could be expected again.
This not only happens in the city, but in
many other parts of the land. Yet, al-
though our legislators introduce schemes
for control of banking, price-fixing,
amalgamation of councils and increased
salarie% they rarely save a word to say
about water supplies.
Perhaps people have become so im-
mune to the inconvenience that they
take it as a matter of course, and the
politician, realising that fact, carries on
with his pet schemes confident he won’t
lose a vote. Planning for water conserva-
tion in the past has been bad, little vision
of future requirements has been shown,
and no really long-range policy for the
future appears to be in evidence. —
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Building “Control”
When Hitler marched into Austria ,in
1938, he issued a decree which provided
that “for the protection of important
public interests, the Reichstatthalter is
empowered to appoint official Adminis-
trators for undertakings having their
head office in the Province of Austria.
The official Administrator shall have full
legal powers to act an behalf of the under-
taking. During the period of adminis-
tration the authority of the proprietor
of the undertaking shall be in abey-
ance.” In pursuance of this decree, Nazi
officials who became known as “com-
missars” were installed in control of the
businesses of Jews and others whose
political views.were not in accordance
with Hitler’s.
When the “Labor” Commissar for
Building Materials introduced into the
N. S. Wales Parliament a Bill empower-
ing him to instal “controllers” in any
factory or plant, “to direct their opera-
tions and fix their selling prices, to re-
quisition materials, factories or equip-
ment, or to take over concerns and
operate them as State enterprises,” in
which event “the owner and manage-
ment of the enterprise concerned must
comply with the controller’s directions,”
he expressed the fear that the Opposition
“would see a Socialist tiger skulking be-
hind every line of the Bill.”
It is interesting to note that this
Minister of the Crowq recognises the
similarity between Nazism and Australian
“Labor,” which he euphemistically calls
“Socialist.” The Opposition should have
a better word for it than that. — Jake B.
(N.S.W.).
Toll of the Road
Lord Justice Goddard, Chief Justice of
England, takes a poor view of the magis-
trate who leans indulgently towards
drunken motorists. In England, the law
on this subject is much the same as it
is in Australia —conviction for drunken
or dangerous driving involves automatic
suspension of the driver’s licence unless
the Court, for “special reasons,” sees fit
to order otherwise.
Some Beaks had been finding “special
reasons” in the fact that persons guilty of
driving offences depended for their liveli-
hood on a licence. The effect of this
was that people such as doctors and pro-
fessional truck-drivers could go on the
scoot with greater impunity than a per-
son whose motoring was only casual.
In a case which recently came before
him for review, the Lord Chief Justice
delivered a homily to the lower Courts.
He said:
The fact that drivers are professional
drivers would of itself indicate that they
are more likely to be habitually on the
roads than other people, so there is all the
more reason for protecting the public
against them A driver who has put the
lives and limbs of others of His Majesty’s
subjects in peril deserves severe punish-
ment, and it is difficult to understand how
any Court can consider this other than
as a serious crime Character, ante-
cedents, age, health or mental condition
really have nothing to do with such an
offence as driving to the danger of the
public; and it must be seldom that extenua-
ting circumstances can be found for it.
Our local road-safety wallahs would
do well to play up that theme. —J. B.
(N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
“Mac’s” experience with C.R.T.S. part-
time courses (B. 5/11/ ’47) is by no
means unique. In June, 1947, I com-
menced training in commercial art and
advertising. Advertising was a corre-
spondence course, and I attended evening
classes for art instruction. Everything
ran smoothly until I finished the first
part of the advertising course. Then I
had a letter from the advertising school
telling me that I would not receive any
more instruction unless my account of
£1 10s. for art tuition was paid to the
technical school. Perplexed, I called on
C.R.T.S., where I was told that this was
all in order, as £lO only was allowed on
part-time courses. All I had to do was
withdraw from training as a C.R.T.S. art
trainee and re-enrol as a private pupil.
I did so, but up to date I have not re-
ceived any more papers from the adver-
tising school. The amusing part of it
all is that technical education is free in
Tasmania. — Swaddy (Tas.),
It beats me why “parents” have so
much faith in belting kids (B. 12/11/’47).
Admittedly it may take a lot of brains to
talk sense into youngsters, but every
child has a sense of logic worth appealing
to. Heaven help the world while children
grow up thinking “force is the way you
get obedience from people.” There’s
enough violence in the outside world
without it starting in the home. — Eve
Merritt (N.S.W.).
Possibly a skilled tradesman is better
off than a clerk (B. 5/11/ ’47) except per-
haps during a depression. But the clerk
has better chances for advancement, while
the tradesman, unless he founds his own
business, cannot go very far. Every
clerk is a potential g.m. or managing
director. That is why many ambitious
young fellows, who would really prefer
a craftsman’s job to an office stool, take
clerical jobs.— Dentonio (N.S.W.).
Surely “Mac” has been seeing too
many Dr. Kildare films when he says that
ambulance officers should be allowed to
administer morphia to their patients (B.
12/11 /’47). The safeguards the com-
munity possesses in the Dangerous Drug
Act are designed to protect it and have
been framed by men who knew what they
were doing. If ambulance men were
given permission, then there would be
applications from nurses, herbalists, phy-
siotherapists and many ethers for similar
privileges. Ambulance men have been
doing a splendid job for many years
without the privilege of administering
morphia, so they can carry on the good
work without it. —R. W. (N.S.W.).
Humbled at the polls, Victorian
“Labor” has struck back at its exultant
opponents with paralysing power. Its
weekly, the “Labor Call,” has christened
Thomas Tuke Hollway “Tuke-box.” I
suppose the childish tag will be used
whenever the “Labor” organ has occa-
sion to refer to the Victorian Premier,
and that every union secretary will foster
it until the next State elections —Mr. Holl-
way will then find it thrown at him every
time he opens his mouth. The feeble
witticism is evidently expected to make
Mr. Hollway unpopular, as “Pig-iron
Bob” is supposed to have done in the
case of Mr. Menzies. — Pasquin (Vic,).
Theorists (B. 19/11/’47) are governing
both Britain and Australia by remote
control. In Britain they have produced
less coal and less food and a bigger
crop of strikes, plus higher and
higher inflated prices. In Australia the
theorists, twice refused greater Consti-
tutional powers by the people, are now,
out “of love for humanity,” nationalising
the banks to obtain the wanted powers by
back-door methods. Latest statistics
from Britain show 60,000 fewer food-pro-
ducing farm workers employed than in
1946. Australian rural employment is
also less than pre-war. But in both
countries the theorists have produced a
magnificent crop of bureaucrats to feed
the world’s starving people, and an
equally prolific crop of taxpayers to feed
the bureaucrats. —K. Me. (N.S.W.).


TO AID AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
m
s
a m
m
***•*.
■
The “MARS”
No. 4 Universal Miller
Totally enclosed, built-in motor,
quick action traversing, modern
design.
m
PBS
s*®
A
■
■
- ■
The “MARS”
14-inch LATHE
1 Sit. overall length for Surfacing,
Sliding and Screw-cutting.
V
mmc
■ \
...»
m
*
3
■ ■ .■
mm*
The “MARS”
11-Inch LATHE
Precision built with rem&vable
"Mars" twin speed overhead unit
drive.
I
Licensed Manufacturers in
Queensland of "Meehanite" Metals
The “MARS”
14-ineh LATHE
27ft. Gap Bed overall length, to
suit heavy engineering industries
and ship-building yards.
Get' ffull details of machine tools shown
here as well as Lathes (5 Jin* to lOin.)
Shaper, Radial Drill, Boring Mill and Planer
from agents listed here or from the menu*
lecturers.'
All details and illustrated literature from
VICTORIA^ 0 R O3 ■""‘’L" t C °' I*' Ud " 139 Cl " ence St " e '-
VICTORIA. Servian Machine Took (Ansi) 3«a Sydney Bead, Brunswick,
W.A.; The Western Machinery Co; ltd..' 1 Perth.
TASMANIA : Charles Davis ltd.; Elizabeth SlreetT Hobart.
N.Z.: Motor Specialities Ltd.. Anzac Avenue." Auckland/
CALCUTTA: Ross Neil & Sons. Chowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta & Co. Ltd.. Alii Chambers. Medows Street,
Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG and SHANGHAI: The East Asiatic Co. Ltd.
Distinctive features
of all “MARS”
MACHINE TOOLS
ACCURACY Built to recognized
and certified standards of accuracy
—BALANCE—All necessary revolv-
ing parts are Dynamically Balanced
—FINISH —-All surfaces are Machine
Ground MATERIALS Finest
Matured High Test Alloy Castings
throughout SMOOTH RUNNING—
All Gear Teeth are generated
VERSATILITY All lathes have
generous Detachable Gap Bridge.
' MARS” Lathe Lead Screws are
cut from a certified and tested
Master Lead Screw
m
V
C
*
MA^
s
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTO.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advt
