

ROYAL PURPL
PA
A PRODUCT OF THE
fd
HOUSE OF^SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68- No. 3533
Wednesday, October 29, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Anstralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LLANSTEPHAN SLEEPS WHERE ONCE POWERFUL BARONS RODE
\\7ALES hast few centres of greater historic interest than
Llanstephan of Carmarthen, not to be confused with
Radnor’s town of the same name. Carmarthen’s Llanstephan
overlooks Bristol Channel and commands the triple estuaries of
the rivers Taff, Gwendraeth and Towy, on‘each °f which there
are the remains of famous Welsh castles; Laugharne, Kidwelly and
Llanstephan respectively. The castle at Llanstephan was built
in 1112 by Gilbert de Clare on the headlands of the river Towy
above Llanstephan village on Carmarthen Bay. Llanstephan has
become a favoured resort from which visitors may conveniently
reach the ancient castle, now an empty shell but within whose
spacious halls there formerly dwelt one of the most powerful
families of the kingdom. Now rums only, the centuries-old pile
recalls the lines of William Collins:
How sleep the brave, who sink to rest
By all their country’s wishes blest I
When Spring, with dewy fingers cold,
Returns to deck their hallowed mould,
She there shall dress a sweeter sod
Than Fancy’s feet have ever trod.


Learn
freeloflce
Journalise
at HOMF
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write )or Profit, a*
advertised «« the Sydney “Bulletin.”
Uy Same
My Address
8-B. U 7
. AOB
JUVENILE AND ADVENTURE
TREACHERY AT 40 KNOTS
By P. G. Griggs. A sea story for boys
that will capture everyone’s imagination, 7/o
FOUR WINDS AND A FAMILY
By D. Cusack and F. James. Little girls
will love this book about themselves . • •
charmingly illustrated by Nan Knowles, 1/b
PERILOUS JOURNEY
By Marea Wolkowsky. Set in the days
of Good Queen Bess, every page is brimful
of swashbuckling adventure */ 6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty.ud.
Centrai House, Little Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
THE PINK GRIDIRON .
In 1929 Dr. C. T. Madigan, then of
Adelaide University, flew over the south-
eastern corner of the Northern Territory,
north of Lake Eyre —a piece of country
no white man had trodden —and found
that it looked like “a pink gridiron.” He
named it the Simpson Desert in honor
of A. A. Simpson, who was then presi-
dent of the South-Australian branch of
the Royal Geographical Society.
Flying over the gridiron was not
enough. As Dr. Madigan wrote in Cross-
ing the Dead. Heart (Georgian House),
it is ndt enough to fly over Mount
Everest; men, for the gratification of the
obscure impulse that drives the explorers
into unknown places, must walk the
wilderness ; stand on it, touch it, know
it. So in 1939 Dr. Madigan set out with
a party from Adelaide to learn what the
Simpson Desert had to say for itself. Dr.
Madigan died in Adelaide in January,
1947, but Crossing the Dead Heart is
his own story of the expedition —a minor
feat of exploration, but interesting
enough, and undertaken in the traditional
spirit.
Even if it carried radio equipment
(with which it made broadcasts from the
desert for the A.8.C.), the expedition
went into country from which Sturt had
turned back: —
The desert was first seen and entered by
Sturt in 1845 in his attempt to reach the
centre of the continent from a point on
the Darling River where Menindie now
stands....He was finally defeated when
within 200 miles of his goal by the waterless
sea of sandridges and spinifex in which he
found himself, the Simpson Desert... .“We
had penetrated to a point,” he wrote, “at
which water and feed had both failed.
Spinifex and a new species of Mesembryan-
themum were the only plants growing in
that wilderness, if I except a few withered
acacia trees about four feet high. The
spinifex was close and matted, and the
horses were obliged to lift their feet straight
up to avoid its sharp points. From the
summit of a sandy undulation close upon
our right we saw that the ridges extended
northwards in parallel lines beyond the
range of vision, and appeared as if in-
terminable. To the eastward and westward
they succeeded each other like the waves of
the sea. The sand was of a deep red
color, and a bright narrow line of it
marked the top of each ridge, amidst the
• sickly pink and glaucous-colored vegetation
around.
In the opening chapters Dr, Madigan’s
writing lacks, on the whole, the pictorial
vividness of his quotation from Sturt’s
narrative. Even for a description of a
desert the prose is somewhat dry. Desert
mice and scorpions are taken and ex-
amined ; but these, which, described with
the loving care of a naturalist, might have
animated the wilderness, are present in
name only.
The book steadily improves in this
respect, and rises at the end—after the
party has crossed the Simpson Desert to
Birdsville and is on the way back to the
railway at Marree —to a memorable
description of Lake Eyre:-
Notwithstanding the flowers and the
grasses and occasional small birds, the Lake
Eyre region had cast its queer spell over
us. All who have travelled there have felt
this haunting sense of desolation and death.
The song dies on the drover’s lips; silence
falls on the exploring party. It is like
entering a vast tomb; one hesitates to break
the silence. The rivers are dead, the trees
are dead, but overshadowing all in the
qualities of death is the very heart of the
region, the great lake itself, a horrible
travesty, a vast white prostrate ghost of a
lake. Here time seems to have stood still
for ages, and all is dead. We had seen
one sluggish vein quickened in the north,
the Warburton. Sea and river birds had
gathered there, bringing a show of life that
threw into greater relief the deadness of
of the rest, but the Dead Heart, the focus
of a drainage basin of 450,000 square miles
of country, will never throb again.
On schemes for reviving this Dead
Heart, Dr. M adigan pours, so to speak,
cold water —the only sort of water, in
his opinion, it is likely to get. Examin-
ing the century-old project for letting
sea-water into Lake Eyre by a channel
cut from Spencer’s Gulf, he estimates
with impressive mathematics that, to beat
evaporation, a canal a thousand feet wide
at the bottom flowing ten feet deep would
be required; to deal with rising country,
the canal would have to be 100 to 200
feet deep “and the cost of its excavation
would run -into several hundred million
pounds.” In any case, he says, salt would
be pouring in all the time, and in 120
years the lake would be entirely filled
with salt. So that seems to settle that.
The ideas propounded by Dr. Brad-
field and afterwards supported by lon
Idriess in The Great Boomerang come
in for some equally drastic criticism:
One part of these schemes was the con-
struction of four reservoirs at the head-
waters of the Finke, Georgina, Diamantina
and Cooper Creek.. Each dam was to be
140 miles long, and to impound 5000 square
miles of water 20 feet deep. That is, water
which at present can scarcely reach Lake
Eyre was fo fill four dams each many times
the holding capacity of Lake Eyre. Another
scheme was to bring the waters of the
Burdekin River across the Dividing Range
by tunnel from the Queensland coast
Dr. Bradfield had never visited the places
he so liberally irrigates Dr. Bradfield
wrote as though there were no question but
that the presence of surface waters increased
rainfall, and even went so far as asserting
that the whole of the evaporated water
would be dropped in the, immediate vicinity,
so that the same water could be used over
and over again! It is impossible to take
Dr. Bradfield’s schemes seriously or to re-
gard them as anything but visions having
little connection with reality.
For anyone with no practical know-
ledge of the subject but with pleasant
dreams of water flooding into the desert,
millions of immigrants growing vegetables
and new Canberras springing up over-
night, this is—again to use an inapt
metaphor—damping. But Dr. Madigan,
in spite of his description of Lake Eyre,
doesn’t believe the Centre is quite as
black —or as red —as it is painted. Stories
of sand-drift, he says, “are exaggerated”:
After coming through the Simpson Desert,
where there has been no interference by
either rabbits or man, we felt the Diaman-
tina country was very stable, with quite a
remarkable absence of live and moving
sand. One hears stories of homesteads
being drifted over with sand. There may
be such, but all I can say is that at all
the deserted stations I have seen, namely
Kaliduwarry and Annandale on the Mulli-
gan and Goyder’s Lagoon, Mt. Gason,
Cowarie, and Kalmurina along the Dia-
mantina, and Muloorina near the Lake,
there are no signs whatever of any drift
sand piling up round the homesteads.
Dr. Madigan was, in short, opposed to
panic of any sort, either optimistic or
pessimistic. He quotes rainfall statistics
to demonstrate that “the seasons are no
better and no worse than they had been
for a very long time before the white
man came,” and says the evidence showed
that “a good season brings up as much
feed as ever it did”:
The region has never been destroyed by
overstocking or reduced to a state of drift-
ing sand. The stations closed simply be-
cause the droughts were too long to be
tided over This means that the country
must be exploited in good seasons, aban-
doned in droughts, which was the Kidman
way.
Coming in a long appendix, these ob-
servations, based on scientific knowledge,
sound commonsense and first-hand ex-
perience, form really the most interesting
and valuable part of Crossing the Dead
Heart. But the journey—once the style
has warmed up—is very readable for its
own sake: a strenuous adventure among
sand and spinifex, with camels, a black-
fellow, spiders, rats, scorpions and
dingoes for company and with useful in-
formation (for anyone thinking of cross-
ing the Simpson Desert) on how to cook
yams and widgetty grubs.
In a characteristically iconoclastic
aside Dr. Madigan declares that the
boomerang of the primitive aboriginals
didn’t return to the thrower—“the re-
turning boomerang is a thin little thing,
actually a toy, known only to a few
tribes in the south. The hunting or fight-
ing boomerang is quite a different thing,
much heavier and stronger, with no re-
turning properties.” And that should
settle that.
Fifth Day.
In William Rufus’ hall the galleries reached
half to the rafters like a roost for lords,
perching the fashion of England; < back seats
fetched
more than a nabob’s bribe. The season affords
nothing so sought as these hard boards:
so rustling ladies, crush your muslin frocks...
There’s Mrs. FitzJherbert in the royal box.
Scarlet and ermine judges, wigs, gold laces,
canopies, woolsacks, drapings in red and green
for Peers’ benches and Commons’ —the culprit
faces
a canvas not a court, a painted scene;
and from the obsolete frame there lean
figures trapped for tomorrow: history hooks
the observer into its foreground while he looks.
The proclamation for silence ! Silence lies deep
under two hundred years. Almost you would say
the heralds are varnished over, standing asleep,
and the voice demanding silence has echoed
away
far into silence. As if that day
were fiat, still surface at last. But there survives
a hand in the midst, turning old thoughts, old
lives.
Quill-marks migrate across a writing-block—
it is Joseph Gurney’s hand. He heads his page:
“Fifth day: it wants a quarter of twelve o’clock:
the Chancellor presides"; so sets a stage
where words must jostle and engage
and die on utterance. But as they pass
paper shall catch their breaths like fog on glass.
"Warren Hastings Esquire, come forth in court
to save thee and thy bail".. .Seven years shall
run;
but a verdict will not end it—would a report
settle affairs in India, cool that sun
that policies well and ill begun
curve about since da Gama? Britain was built
round India and on Hastings—prove his guilt 1
"Charges of misdemeanours and high crimes" —
prove —if proved, share them I Long ago, far
hence,
they are drowned under the influx of new times.
What’s done goes on for ever as consequence;
but there’s some blurring of evidence
by happenings more at elbow. Why try this
man ?
Hastings is no concern of Pakistan.
But it concerns all men that what they do
remains significant unbroken thread
of the fabric of our living. A man spoke so,
and acted so; and everything done or said
is superseded and overlaid
by change of time and pattern. Be that as it may,
there was need he lift his finger, say his say.
Attitude matters: bearing. Action in the end
goes down the stream as motion, merges as such
with the whole of life and time; but islands
stand:
dignity and distinctness that attach
to the inmost being of us each.
It matters for man’s private respect that still
face differs from face and will from will.
It is important how men looked and were.
Infirm, staggering a little, as Hastings was,
his voice was steady as his eyes. Kneeling at the
bar
{ruler but late of millions) had steeled his poise;
he fronted inescapable loss
and thrown, stinking malice and disrepute,
calmly, a plain man in a plain suit.
Undersized, spare, licked dry by tropic heat;
one, with severe forehead and hard lips,
who had taken age’s shilling and complete
grey uniform though not its grey eclipse—
with movements like commands, like whips:
here is the centre, whether for applause or
loathing,
when evidence and acquittal alike mean nothing.
B&t the eye strays from centre. The axle’s part
is just to endure the play and spin of the spokes.
It is another figure rouses the heart,
a scholar loving his nation above his books,
who, pushed by a conscience that provokes
N.S.W.
past reason or discretion, steps, half blind,
to darkness of anger from great light of his
mind.
A compact, muscular man -warms to the work
which will embitter him in another's feud,
his own mission and error. Edmund Burke
for right’s clear sake is hounding his pursued,
inveterate, through this seven years’ cloud
where subtle poison — Francis—-steeps him whole;
he stands at the middle of the floor and twists
his scroll.
"My lords, the gentlemen whom the Commons
appoint
to manage this prosecution direct me thus
to inform your lordships’’... The cool phrases
joint
one into another, and clause links on clause
wrought arguments whereby the cause
of justice and upright dealing may extend
from Westminster to India, and beyond.
Pitt sits near Fox and the managers, listens and
learns.
Burke’s heavy features liven with that magic
under them and their spectacles, which turns
knowledge to vision, and vision to strategic
marshalling of words and march of logic
through illustrations like landscapes and up steep
Quebec heights of statistics. Fox, is asleep,
Francis is awake —behind the mask of his face,
inscrutable.. .as Junius. "I have found,’’
Hastings had said, "in private as in his place,
he is void of truth and honour." But cards go
round;
brilliant, elegant as unsound,
he is one to hold them craftily, lead them well;
Hastings is now his victim, Burke his tool.
Something is eternal in the tugging of minds
which is not in mountains or monuments matur-
ing
through day and darkness of centuries; some-
thing that binds
life into tensions and balances enduring
amid flowers withering and years flowering;
whereby in the instant of contest men outfit e
upshots that melt in hot hands that achieve.
The fifth day wore to its close. On his feet still.
Burke was become tired body, who was cold
brain
of impersonal Accusation. Suddenly ill,
he suddenly was himself, forcing through pain
words that seemed far off and in vain—
empty things scattered about by someone else,
a child dressed up in a bob-wig, playing with
shells.
That moment swallows everything, like the gulf
two hundred years are hushed in: the fatigues
that buzzed like sickness in his brain; the trial
itself
which was a swarming of motives and intrigues.
All the antagonisms, leagues,
plots and pamphlets are folded up, collapse;
but still the persons move, the drama shapes.
Here is displayed failure. Though there ensues
a recovery, a tomorrow that shall atone —
another hour, when Burke’s voice shall cry:
"ChooseT ’
and he shall stand in England almost alone,
weighing a guillotine and a throne—
results mean little; they cancel and coalesce.
A gesture will outweigh them, a trick of dress.
Even more the common work —the anonymous
gif*
to the future —lives and widens. What indeed
of that old struggle matters or would be left
but for an ordinary fellow’s simple need,
who had a family to feed
and liked going to church looked up to, known
as a man with a tidy business of his own?
Fox hurried to Burke’s aid. The court adjourned.
Gurney stoppered his inkhorn, wiped his pen.
Poor Mr., Burke! But ( good as money earned)
adjournments eased the labor; so lesser men
could go home early now and then.
Here was today for the readers to receive.
Packed in meticulous shorthand. He bowed,
took leave.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
Designs on Textiles.
A New Approach to Textile Designing
CUre Smith Pty., Ltd.) is a slim and gay
booklet put out under the auspices of
Silk and Textile Printers, Ltd. D esie n
by William Dobell and Hal Missingham
m particular, are interesting and striking •
though, of course, the final test would be
their appearance on the fabrics.
Some of the other designs are, to put
it mildly, peculiar. Mr. Russell Drys-
- s rotten tree-stumps, with James
Gleeson’s “Stone Fronds,” introduce grim
surrealist themes; while a rudimentary
design consisting of a sheet of paper with
other crumpled sheets of paper for a
background, entitled “Love Letter,” runs
m wording if not in art to the opposite
extreme of romanticism. The text of
Love Letter, intended to be printed on
scarves or handbags, runs:
My darling...
I love you—you are my very life—l love
your lithe beauty, your shining eyes, your
fragrant mouth —so red, and moist, and
gentle. I love your kisses secret and seduc-
tive—yielding—lingering still upon my lips.
I love your hair—unruly like the ocean
waves, your cheeks—pale like a morning
sky above the lovely meadows. 1 love your
hushed voice whispering words, intoxicating
words, of endearment and surrender— sweet
reluctant amorous delay...
And who am 1 that I desire such tender-
ness as we embrace in the shadows of an
enchanted night? 1 know but one thing,
my darling—l love you...
In the left-hand corner is inscribed the
artist’s name, “Paul Haefliger.”
The object of the movement, that of
improving the general standard of com-
mercial products by more consciously
artistic designs, is, of course, praise-
worthy, But in conception it is by no
means new, being as old as Ruskin, and
a good deal older. And for all the beauti-
ful work done by Burne-Jones and Morris,
Ricketts and Shannon, for all that the
revival of printing owes to the Kelmscott
Press and the pre-Raphaelites, and for all
the beautiful furniture produced in that
period in reaction from the ugliness of
the industrial revolution the movement
made no very deep impression on the
people as a whole. Such things must, it
seems, be indigenous and spontaneous,
like the civilisation of Greece, or they
become artificial.
The Market for Animals.
Thanks to the Red Page for its re-
view of my book Brindle Royalist (B.
8/10/’47). I note the faults your re-
viewer has to find. I agree with him.
My wife agreed with his praise of the
rest of it. Everyone, it seems, was satisfied.
The reviewer mentioned some of the dif-
ficulties in connection with animal stories.
Australia gives a very restricted market.
Admitted I landed £25 for one from The
Bulletin. That was second-prize in a
competition.. I had one serialised in the
“Australasian” and The Bulletin ran
Amathea as a serial. Apart from that I
might have sold two or three in this
country at an average price of about £4
(pre-war).
I sold a few in England. Prices ranged
from £3 to £8 and there was a very limited
market.
In the U.S.A. I did a couple at s2s—
of about 1500 words, which were
openers, as it were. Of longer stories
running to 5000 wbrds my agent sold one
at $4O, a couple at $BO, several at $lOO,
one at $125, one at $l5O. Lately I sold
one at $225, and recently the “Saturday
Evening Post” gave my agent $750 for a
kangaroo story.
Americans are hungry for natural-
history stuff and animal stories; but they
must touch the spot. For instance: I
got $4O for a crocodile story which was
an infinitely better yarn than the goanna
story for which I got $lO0 —both the same
length. The goanna was something novel.
Against that, the best animal story I
ever wrote is yet unsold, unprinted. It
deals with the life of a crow, and the
Yanks don’t know the difference between
a crow and a raven, and they don’t care.
I sold a story, years ago, about a kan-
garoo, but when I followed with one
about a wallaroo —a distinct and separate
animal to me —the Yanks wouldn’t take
it; they reckoned I was trying to swing in
the same animal under another name.
That is given as free advice to any who
care to try themselves on that market.
HENRY G. LAMOND.


Anthony Horderns’
124 Years of Service
Hand Woven
INDIAN
EEADiry
Hand-woven into these richly piled
carpets comes all the mystery,
charm and glorv o£ the unfathom-
O y
able Orient. Your home will be
tastefully decorated with the en-
hancing beauty of an Indian
Carpet I
m*
c U'
: ' ■ > • >.
V (
V?
/ »■
-7.
c/V
/ X
\ w -
m
w
rV
m
m
- *
as
il
m
K
im
4
m
m
r
W>r s
m
■
%
i
m
■ ■ >,,
• i s'• f **. >■ Jp* -'k
; '•/* ✓'..;
In extra super quality, choose your hand-made Indian Carpet from
these sizes:—
9 feet x 6 feet £3O 5 0
9 feet x 7 feet 6 inches £39 17 6
9 feet x 9 feet ‘ £45 8 0
9 feet x io feet 6 inches £57 19 0
9 feet x 12 feet £64 19 6
Reversible Wool Indian Druggets for sunroom, hall, verandahs.
8 feet x 5 feet £9 10 6
9 feet x 6 feet £l2 15 0
10 feet x 8 feet £l9 2 6
12 feet x 9 feet £25 15 0
These exotic Mirzapore Carpets are available at these very special prices.
9 feet x 6 feet . £lB 7 0
9 feet x 7 feet 6 inches £22 9 6
io feet 6 inches x 9 feet .... £3O 3 3
12 feet x 9 feet £33 16 6
These rugs are available to tone with the above.
5 feet x 2 feet 6 inches £3 19 3
6 feet x 3 feet £5 13 3
7 feet x 4 feet £8 14 9
Carpet Department—Fourth Floor .
Anthony
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
Horderns’
BOX 2712 Q G.P.0., SYDNEY


MORE IN ONE
* SPECIAL GUN *
-AND RIFLE OIL-
fiUABANTEED TO REMOVE IOtJU-
AND RUST, PREVENTS PITTING
This oil was used exclusively by the
American armed forces in the S.W.P.A.
ALL HARDWARE AND SPORTS STORES.
Wholesale, S. Hoffnung, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: W. S. FRIEND, Sydney.
JACKSON & O’SCLLIVAN
{J Circular Charts lor oil typer ol
Recording Instruments tor any class
HARTS
Accuracy guaranteed. Gel our quotation.
ot Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
QUEEN STREET
PTV. HD.
BRISBANE. O LD.
LOOK!
I Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
cluding saw and planer
'blades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning lathe outfit,
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
l£ln. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States.
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
Immediate
Delivery.
kl
00 0
aa
WE/GHT
YOU
§
USE
Finished li\ woven-striped, wafer*
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
In limited supply, but production
It Increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
LEARN TO MAKE A
cm !Scom
Entertaining is twice as easy twice as
happily informal if a cocktail which
“hits the spot” is served.
Here is one which tastes delicious, is
quite simple to prepare, and has that
“difference” which makes people look
hopefully for a second one.
1
...
< ?
"S'
c «* .dl
■» J|
W&&M. m
wmm
<mm.
8M
•a* , s V
i
(»!*£ i • r-Vif *■ ra«SG
M/»
iMi
*N|r
mmtp-yz*
Mix Vickers Gin £nd Italian
Vermouth in the proportion of
2 Vickers to I Vermouth,
according to number of cocktails
required. Add white of one egg
and juice of half an orange. Add
crushed ice, whip, strain, and
serve with a cherry.
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
From the worlds most famous and popular recipes
50 reliable, appetising and easy-to-make cocktails
and long drinks have been collected in an attractive
FREE book. You may have a copy with pleasure
by writing to The United Distillers Pty, Ltd.,
P.O. 'Box 759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ICKERS cm
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VGIS/33
f
d
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
barrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 24F) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy A Golden Shanty, by Edward Dyson.
—4135.
Whereabouts of James Flood, one-time car-
penter and builder of Narrandera and Junee
(N.S.W.).—4133.
To buy copy of book describing a journey
over the Trans-Siberian railway.—4134.
Copy of instruction book for 10-h.p. Fiat,
1928 Sports model.—4137.
To buy copies of books, particularly “Selec-
tion” series, by Arthur Hoey Davis (“Steele
Rudd”).—4138.
Photograph or portrait of James Collier, who
died in N.S.W. in 1925, was Parliamentary
Librarian in N.Z. and author of a book on
Sir George Grey and on the pastoral age in
Australia.—4136.
To get in touch with makers of or agents
for Hammond Electric organ.—4140.
Lessee of 280-acre island off North Queens-
land coast, 100 acres good soil, possibilities as
tourist resort, 15 years to run, would like to
get in touch with young man to help develop
place.—4139.
Information Sought.
(1) Is it possible to get a licence to import
“coin in the slot”* washing machines from
U.S.A.? (2) Is preference extended to ex-
servicemen in granting import licences ? (3)
Would the fact that the ex-serviceman is at
present employed by another firm prevent his
being granted such a licence?
(.1) and (2) Whenever practicable preference
is given to ex-servicemen in the issue of import
licences for certain classes of goods which lend
themselves to effecting practical rehabilitation
of such persons. However, owing to the press-
ing necessity for conservation of non-sterling
currency this policy does not extend to any
goods, e.g., washing machines, which are avail-
able from local production or from sterling
sources of supply. (3) The fact that an ex-
serviceman is in employment and is not con-
ducting his own business would in the ordinary
course have a bearing on any applications made
by him.
* * * *
Method of cleaning smoked wood walls be-
fore painting?
Scrub the walls with a warm dilute solution
of alkali, caustic soda or soda ash of approxi-
mately 5 p.c. strength. Remove this by
thoroughly washing with clean water and allow
to dry before applying paint.
* * ♦ *
(1) What Federal Government passed the
Act to introduce the preferential-voting system,
and when? (2) When was the preferential
system first used in a Federal election?
(1) The Hughes Government in 1918. (2) At
the general elections held on December 13,
1919.
» * * •
I have a \2-year-old Pom troubled with skin
irritation and itchy ears. Can you suggest some
remedy for the complaints ?
At that age most long-haired dogs are
troubled with skin irritations and eczema. It
is commonly mistaken for mange, though
having quite a different origin, and the remedies
have little in common. Most house dogs are
overfed and rich, heating foods must be cur-
tailed. Bath with warm water and sulphur
soap; make a full lather with the latter and
dust freely with starch powder after drying.
Wipe out the ear flap with equal parts methy-
lated spirits and water. Liquid paraffin oil
(with food) and an occasional dose of Epsom
salts are usual aperients. Insecticides con-
taining D.D.T. should be avoided.
Brief Answers.
J.A.S.; There is no difference between the
jaw movement of the crocodile and the alligator.
The muscle that operates the jaw is the Occipito
maxillaris. If the head is raised this muscle
drops the lower jaw, but if the jaw be fixed
or held on the ground, it raises the skull
M.C.: Constitutional acidity with dandruff
accumulation tends to cause eyelid crusts in
certain cases. If untreated, eye inflammation
develops and the lashes fall. Local measures
for relief involve daily bathing with tepid
boracic solution —smear the lid margins with
golden eye ointment at night. Include vitamins
A and D in a full mixed diet.., .8.L.: All
the 2d. stamps of Queensland bore a portrait
of Queen Victoria. The id. stamp of Victoria
js not of any value. Only the first type of
the Queensland 2d. stamp is of any special
interest D.H.D.: Without full particulars it
is impossible to give the present market value
of the commemorative stamps. Mint stamps
are always available for postage and, if it
were necessary to realise on them urgently,
the P.M.G. Department would cash at a small
discount. Some of the commemorative stamps
have appreciated in value, but of all com-
memoratives the number of the low values'runs
into millions D.A.: The Shorter Oxford
English Dictionary describes an Anglo-Catholic
as (1) Historical —“An Englishman who, with-
out wishing to sever the English from the
Catholic church, was in favor of its national
independence” and (2) Modern —“A member of
the Church of England who maintains its
Catholic character”... .M.U.: (1) Generally a
royalty of 10 p.c. on the retail published price.
(2) Right to reprint on royalty basis if desired.
(3) Yes. (4) Yes, but generally only of local
origin. (5) Leave it to your publisher to
negotiate on your behalf. (6) Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (7)
Directly or by correspondence. (8) N 0....
F.H.G.: (1) No. (2) Preference dividends repre-
sent a distribution of profits, not an expense,
and are not a tax allowance whether paid or
unpaid. (3) Yes, but for taxation purposes only
at specified rates. (4) Not a reserve of profits,
but a depreciation reserve, and, provided
writings-off are not in excess of rates permitted,
allowed as a tax deduction A.J.: The gener-
ally accepted Australian and probably the
world’s record for blade shearing stands to
the credit of Jack Howe, who on Monday,
October 10, 1892, at “Alice Downs,” near
Blackall (Q.), shore 321 sheep in 7hr. 40min.
M.R.: Stylo seed may be obtained from
F. J. Miles, Plant Introduction Officer, Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research, 113 Eagle-
street, Brisbane. Urachloa grass seed may be
bought from Walsh and Cos., Toowoomba (Q.),
at 2s. 3d. per lb T.F.C.: Federal estate
duty 6 p.c.; N.S.W. death duty: From 8i p.c.
to 13| p.c., depending on how estate has been
left. Impossible to estimate legal costs without
knowing work involved... .W.F.M.: One-third
to widow, two-thirds to children in equal shares.
F.H.G.: A 12-volt generator would not
be sufficiently efficient, and a 32-volt generator
is recommended instead. This would cost
approximately the same, about £3O. Suggest
that you contact one of the firms in Sydney
who handle this equipment, such as Amplion
(Australasia) Pty., Ltd., 36 Parramatta-road,
Camperdown; Dangar Gedye and Malloch, Ltd.,
10 Young-street, Sydney, and Moffat-Virtue,
Ltd., Epsom-road, Rosebery J.E.R.: Wash
with a 2 p.c. solution by volume of carbolic
acid in water and follow up with the applica-
tion of plain water .with a stiff brush. The
growth is said to come off easily with this treat-
ment... .G.L.R.; Bradley Bros. Pty., Ltd.,
Wentworth-avenue, Sydney, and Invincible
Motors Pty., Ltd., 53 George-street, Sydney,
are prepared to supply type of governor on
request. Bradley Bros, would require to know
distance between bolt-hole centres of the in-
take before they could be certain they had the
correct size for your truck engine. Invincible
Motors appear to have a range of these gover-
nors and are sending you a catalogue.


fd
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN POTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
f
df
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS”
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Ply. Ltd.
d
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—■
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN q'land OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
RUM
OVERPROOF
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848 [fri]
Gillette
sets the pace tor quicker
smoother 9 closer
shares!
mm
Men who discover Gillette never bother
experimenting with cheaper blades for
they know it’s false economy. For here’s
a blade that’s better ... by design!
Hardest electrically-tempered steel of the
most exacting specification. Long-lasting,
3-facet edges, sharper than a surgeon’s
scalpel, strengthened by supporting
shoulders. Uniformity checked at every
stage by micro-sensitive machines. No
wonder there’s extra strength and longer
life in a Gillette! No wonder it gives
the quickest, smoothest (and, in the long
run) most economical shaving it is pos-
sible to enjoy. By sheer engineering,
Gillette is the world’s finest shave.
Gillette
anchors each blade
in its wrapper
to ensure that the
keen 9 cutting
edges reach gou
/
untouched and
undamaged
*G ood 3Mornings 9
begin with Gillette
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. ETC., SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
gvo:
<5
<s>
o
-9
m
o
|Jo
G2/337
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
G.S.: A poor and timid effort E.G.H.:
It would take a more clever hand than yours
to do justice to that barney between the
hypnotist, magician and ventriloquist... .J. 8.:
Up and at ’em, then;
Cromwell started to defend
The people’s rights from being stemmed,
Till he became a tyrant too
And told them all what they should do.
For he was such a sombre sort
He put a stop to every sport,
Till getting tired of his inspectors
Folk cried, “Protect us from Protectors.”
Let’s demonstrate the people’s will
Upon the National Banking Bill.
R.B.H.; “I’ll use my lungs for all they’re
darned well worth.” At our rates for verse
they are worth surprisingly little... .I.McL.:
Cool arbors of delightful press,
The wild wistaria grew,
And every blue, exotic tress
Reminding me of you.
If your lady really has blue hair it’s no wonder
that in the last stanza you “burst” F. 8.:
Try a daily G.G.: There’s feeling in it, but
the whole is too long and too flat A. 0.:
If only you could, say what you mean without
tying yourself up'in knots... .D.G.E.: So you
“haven’t studied”; it’s “in the rough, un-
polished, just as it came from the brain.”
Study, then; polish; and cultivate that brain.
... .H.F.8.: If you call a face a “visage” what
do you call a spade? SJ.; “I enclose two
remarkable inspirations.” And, truly, there
have been less inspiring verses written:
He bent his back all day he did
(Strange though it seems to me),
But the thought of a pot when the sun was hot
Kept him working incessantly.
G.C.G.: Name your birds and your plants
and you’ll begin to make your verses con-
vincing L.P.W.: Jilliwinks skipped off with the
other fairies E. 1.: Might suit a woman’s paper.
H.B.: Read as far as “Nature’s sentinel.”
L.L.W.: Come again... .G.1.1^.: Rhymed,
it might have been close T.E.C. ; Too much
like “Time, you old gypsy man” G.S.H.:
We had to ask the office-boy to post it back
quickly before it broke our hearts... .A.F.:
We’re not interested in syndicated stories.....
R.8.D.: What made you think we should like
to hear about the missing will and the family
ghost in Sir Jasper’s castle? ... .A.M.: Why go
to ancient Rome for a yarn? Isn’t Australia
inhabited? V.S.A.: Rather labored flippancy.
S.B.: Too much of your ancient mariner—
most of it casual W.W.: First page con-
tained a sentence 195 words long. That breath-
less writing only leads to confusion 0.P.:
The fact that Ralph nearly kissed Myrtle stirs
no great excitement H.T.T.: A story there,
but it’s not told as a story should be....
V. : Deeply impressed by the statement
that in your part of the world you can get
all the bottled beer you want at the right
price A.C.: Too long; and don’t overwrite
your subject E.H.: We tried our best to
laugh R.K.G.: Reached a second reading
and slipped there A. 8.8.; Imagination in
it, but too crudely done W.S.A.: Father’s
red nose has been a conspicuous feature too
long R.8.L.: If you want to do anything
with that idea, get it the old-age pension
L.M.: Not taking “copy” faintly pencilled on
blotting paper F.C.8.: As you say, an
amateur effort R.A.J.: The crux of the
Story is not developed in a convincing manner.
R.P.: Bring along a perambulator when
you call to collect that infant effort... .D.D.:
Whereabouts in the Australian outback do you
place that feud? A.McK.: A chain of im-
probabilities R.C.C.: That’s the seventh
drought story you’ve given us all merely
bones S.E.: “The old swagman knocked the
ashes from his pipe, took a long swig of rum,
and settled down to tell the tale.” We get
that in about a dozen stories every week; and
generally it’s the start of a dreary story....
W. : The tale of the summer-holiday big
businessman who was only a clerk in ordinary
life has grown monotonous T.S.; The Irish-
man in your yarn lives in Australia and talks
sometimes like a gangster from Brooklyn
(U.S.A.). At other times like someone from
Glasgow. It’s very confusing A.L.McL.:
If we wanted stories like that we could take
a “S.'M. Herald” leader, giving it a romantic
introduction and a happy ending.. . .E.J.F.:
You keep them down to the level of dingy
depression P.P.R.: Aviation story crashed.
A.F.B.: The dirge for the dead dog stays
out on the mat H.R.S.: Succeeds only in
saying that Sylvia got married. Thousands of
Sylvias get married L.W.R.; Your “story”
is nothing but tame political dialogue C.W.:
Drowned in an ocean of words P.M.: We
did our best to laugh at them, but it was no
good L.L.: Main error? Prosily enlarging
on matter that needs no explanation
T.M.M.; Poorly told; and double-space your
copy. In case of acceptance the sub-editor’s
pen heeds some place to crawl between the
lines J.C.C.: Chaotic yarn J.A.: Good
for a first attempt; keep on trying... .F.J.B.
Think hard for five years; then write again.
F.R.S.: There’s not sufficient life in the
characters M.S.G.: What about trying a
simpler subject? T.D.M.: Parson goes astray
too crudely L.G.; The telling is rather
heavy R.F.F.: Why not simplify your style?
A.S.N.; Thanks, but quite impossible
E. 8.: Needs more polish S.C.T.: Worth a
par A.W.W.: Good idea there, but, as
worked out, too much like a conundrum....
W.H.P.: You have evidently been reading
“True Confessions” R.D.; The doctor does
too much talking to himself.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.C.: One thing about your drawings—
they’re always sure of a mention in this column.
. ...R.G.: You’re knocking at the door, if
faintly N.S.: No use experimenting in that
direction... .J.8.W.; Would look better with
half the lines A.T.M.: Didn’t score a second
glance V.M.H.: A frowsy pair and rusty
repartee... .R.J.: Did you use a crumpled
bolster as a model for that lass? W.A.S.:
So that abo. is still wondering how the tele-
graph wires will keep out the ’roos L.S.F.:
No need to mark them “fragile”; they’re too
wooden to break... .C.D.: Joke a frequerit
visitor... .M.A.: There’s a wide gulf between
intention and performance... .S.J. : Afraid the
basket would get it, even if you inlaid it with
g01d... .8.J.5.: Sounds like an old vaudeville
acquaintance F.M.: Still missing, but not
by so much as some... .T.S.: Nothing in that
batch C.K.: Your friends are gross flat-
terers W.8.P.; Damsel in nightie has been
cloaked in a stout envelope for the return
journey A.E.: Can’t tell from copies; we
must have something original..G.S.: Scrap
the joke and strengthen the art....P.W.: Hard
to distinguish the sprouter from the figtree....
W.M.A.: That must be the oldest buckjumper
joke in captivity... .F.D.D.: What are you
drawing, cricketers or railway lines?
S.M.M.; You’re no political cartoonist... .8.J.:
Left the blonde and brunette to fight it out
in the w.p.b G.S.H.: Author of that
mother-in-law joke was thrown to the lions
C.K.: That sozzled railway traveller ought to
take out a life pass. He visits us so often
S.C.E.: Your method of placing shadows where
there is room is certainly novel.


STYLE • COMFORT • DURABILITY
m
£
“I LIKE YOUR HAT!”
fd
Yes! he likes it, too —he
knows this fresh, new style
maintains the well-known
AKUBRA qualities of long
service and sound good taste.
Improve YOUR appearance
—choose AKUBRA and be
assured of added smartness
plus comfort and long, all-
weather service.
AKUBRA
HATS OF
aUALIir
They took the risk
fA
in
m
now
«BT
One of the most magnificent examples of
man’s courage and endurance was Scott’s
epic sledge journey over the Antarctic
wastes in search of the South Pole.
Leaving England in 1910, it was not until
two years later, on January 18, 1912,
that Scott’s party finally reached the
Pole, only to learn that Amundsen had
forestalled them by a matter of weeks.
—for the past 250 years have underwritten risks of
every description in all parts of the world.
In Australasia we are proud of the fact that we were
the first Brokers making Lloyd’s Insurance directly
available to the Australian public. The unquestionable
security that only a Lloyd’s policy can offer is available
to you in any State in the Commonwealth through —
EDWARD LIIMLEV ASONS PTY LTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, and 9-11 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY,
and 33 WATT STREET, NEWCASTLE.
MELBOURNE: 287 Collins Street. Adelaide: T. & G. Building. Brisbane:
AMP Building, berth: 156 St. Georges Terrace, hobart: 82 Collins
Street-' and Canberra, A.C.T. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch,
Dunedin, new Zealand, and London, new vork, Montreal, paris, Colombo
and SINGAPORE. EL.14.19
by GFOFF BINGHAM
by GFOFF BINGHAM
NOT very big, Mr. Gossip, not very
big at all. Quite an ordinary
man, Gus Gossip, but pleasant
enough, advancing-from his car,
crossing the delightful sunlight.
“Hullo, Gus!” says one, and “G’day,
Gus.” says another, and so it may be
seen that the whole assembly of men,
women, sulkies, utility trucks, large trucks,
cars and cattle-floats are all for Gus, or
wish to appear so. It seems they have
all more than a moment to nod towards
Gus and his gold-topped, gold-tipped
cane, his small red face, his prosperous
little figure, his quick confident walk.
“A great day for the rogues!” shouts
old Charley Skeers, and the crowd roar
at Charley’s sally, and Gus grins, grins
as though he knows Charley does not
mean that, really, and so everybody is
put in good humor despite the tremendous
hotness of the day* and despite the dry-
ness of it, too.
Miss Muriel Deakin, it seems, has a
pleasant enough smile for Gus, also,
although she does not bring the whole
battery of it to bear upon Gus, but
camouflages it somewhat, turning her head
on the side like an impertinent canary,
curious to know what that man thinks
about this woman. Big Jim Deakin,
whose cows are to be sold by Gus, extends
a hand, smiles warmly, nods, clenches
Gus’s fat fist, and then releases it.
“Hot day, Gus,” he says, slowly moving
'’his great head.
, “Hot day, all right, Jim,” says Gus,
and to prove it he whips out a large white
handkerchief, shakes it until it has
fluttered loose, screws it into half a ball
and, clenching it in his chubby fist, wipes
his now beaded face. Miss Deakin
observes all these actions with that half-
curious half-knowing look that is peculiar
to women who have nearly reached their
forties without being married.
“Maybe it’s too hot, eh, Gus?” says
Jim. “Maybe they won’t sell too well,
eh?”
“They’ll sell,” says Gus. “Look at them
all, the great crowd of them there. There
must be some buyers amongst them.”
Of course there are. Bill Bye, Denny
James, Arnold McGrath, Tim Hootie,
Tom Baldwin. His eyes continue to
search amongst the collection of men and
women, young men and girls, children,
dogs and horses. He allows his lips to
move as he recognises this one and that.
He half smiles at times, and finally looks
at Jim, gives a wink which is both devilish
and joyous, and says that “they’ll sell,
all right.”
TIM mutters relievedly. and proceeds
to use his handkerchief. It seems
Jim is more than a trifle nervous about
the whole business. Gus knows that it
comes hard to a man to have to sell his
stock. He has a moment’s feeling for
Jim, and in that moment forgets he is
an auctioneer.
“Wouldn’t be selling, you know, Gus,”
says Jim, "if it wasn’t for this damned side
of mine.”
Gus nods sympathetic agreement.
“Muriel here is a great help,” says Jim,
glancing at Muriel, “but you can’t leave
all the work to the young woman.”
“No,” says Gus meditatively, “you
can’t, Jim.” He glances towards Muriel
and gives her an intimate nod of recog-
nition and appreciation.
“You won’t be sorry, eh, Miss Muriel?
he says.
She shakes her head, but does not trust
herself to speak. She hides that hungry
look in her eyes.
Gus then becomes business-like. He
picks up the cane, which he has let dangle
by his side. He grasps it firmly in the
right hand, thrusts it determinedly for-
wards, so that it is a rigid rod. He pokes
it upwards, half turns upon his heels, and
says to Jim, “We’ll have a look over the
stock before the sale starts, Boss,” and
Jim says it is a good idea because Gus
caii then know what he is selling.
Miss Muriel watches them go, and her
eyes are now very admiring in expression
as she watches the small, dapper auc-
tioneer walk away with her father. She
also seems a trifle wistful. Jim and Gus
makes towards the kikuyu paddock, the
only green patch in this other dry brown-
ness of pasture,
uk yfIND you,” Gus is saying, “the
IVI prices mightn’t be tops, Jim.
Most of the men on the River are over-
stocked. Some of them were nearly
cleaned out with the flood last autumn.
You didn’t get it real bad here, you
know. They had the winter to go through
on top of everything. If we don’t get
rain soon it’ll be another bad winter.”
“I know. I know that, Gus,” says Jim.
“Still, if you can get some sort of a
price ...”
“Keep ’em coming,” says Gus, half
shouting. “Keep ’em coming all the
time, Jim. Run ’em in, one after the
other. Keep ’em coming.. Don’t let
the sale lag. They’ll sell, don’t you
worry.
“Last week,” says Gus, “had a sale
at Broughton’s down on the Flats. What
does he do, Broughton, but haggle and
moan over every cow. T want an extra
quid of that one, Gus,’ he says or, T
couldn’t let it go for that, Gus.’ He’s
holding the line of them up all the time,
and everyone’s getting tired, especially of
his whinging face. No, Jim, keep ’em
coming and don’t quibble.”
He draws the gold-tipped, gold-topped
cane through his hands, passes it back-
wards and forwards, held high, across his
chest. “Tell you what, Jim,” he says. “I
got a letter from the brother this week.
Know what they are fetching down the
South Coast, in the Valley? Good stock,
mind you, like yours. Fifty-two pounds
ten! Hard to believe, I know. Could
hardly believe it myself, but there it is,
the brother got that for one cow..”
“Good cows, eh?” says Jim, only half
believing what he hears.
ney are now looking, at Jim’s stock,
and Gus raises a protest. “No better’n
yours, Jim, I’ll bet,” he cries. “Your
stuff is the best up this way. No better
on the River.”
“Not enough water here, Gus,” says
Jim sadly. “Now, if it hadn’t been for
this side of mine. ...”
Gus nods sympathetically. “It’s a bad
thing, that side of yours,” he says. He
points to a well-conditioned mature Jersey
dam. “Fine beast that, Jim,” he says.
“Best in the herd,” says Jim, his eyes
glowing. He is beginning to be stud-
master. “Reared her myself,” he says.
“At least, Muriel did. She had it for a
pet. Calf out of a good pedigreed cow
I bought. Good bull, the father. Calf
better than the mother. No calf now, of
course.”
Gus nods. He runs a practised eye
over the whole herd, lets his gaze slip up
and down, cross and sideways about the
full-bellied cows, the dainty slim-legged
heifers, the nuggety calves, the stolid
bulls. He sighs for the stock, which must
go cheaply, too cheaply because of the
weather.
“I’ll do my best, Jim,” he says
solemnly, and he means it.
He is sure he means it when next he
sees Miss Muriel. He has a keen look


REMEMBER -
ROAD COURTESY
MEANS
ROAD SAFETY!
a#**
five
A
\
=<ss
✓
/
V \
ttA® ER
REW
CROSS
LlHt s
O
sr
fiQS
C26C/2753
Published in the interests of
Safer Motoring by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
this time, and is glad she is just that
trifle distant, that traction cool towards
him, and all the time, over and over in
his mind, he turns a picture of last night
when he visited old Sam Foster his
bachelor neighbor. Dirty old man, Sam,
with dirty stub bled face, and dirty fingers,
cutting bread on a table covered with
years of crumbs and succeeding layers of
newspapers. One end of it a few dirty
tins, some partly filled with jam, some
empty, and the jam gone hard about the
edges. Flies on the table, and flies on
the ceiling, and flies where Sam had
swept, year after year, his rubbish into
one corner.
Gus was sure he would never come
to that, but seeing Miss Muriel made him
think how much easier she might make
it for him, keeping neat and dapper, with
an occasional rub of the chamois for his
gold tipped-topped cane. It is as though
Gus sees the writing on the wall, and
then, at the sight of Miss Muriel, there
is a blast of trumpets about his head, a
silver clashing of cymbals, a belting upon
the timbrels. All this at the sight of
her standing amidst the piles of sand-
wiches and the large white teapots.
But there is the sale, and Gus must
not hesitate, so that he swings his stick
as he walks, all the time keeping one eye
open for Jerry and the boys. Jerry is his
aged clerk, his grizzled offsider, so alert
that he never misses a bid, and is always
ready with his “yes,” shouted so that no
one is in doubt that he has a bid. Jack
is a sort of offsider, and is responsible for
bringing in each beast, and hunting out
the animal sold, that Gus may keep
attention fixed upon the animal being
auctioned.
There are others, too, all indispensable
to Gus, for they keep up a running
of noise, a nodding and a shouting so
that there is never doubt about the sale
being a lively one, and there is always a
helpful bid or two, cunningly interposed
when the selling might otherwise slacken.
”P ODAY, however, Gus feels the sale is
* somehow different. He remembers the
letter from brother George, and the price
George managed to get for a cow. Then
there is Miss Muriel, old Sam, and the
best cow in the herd. He opens the gate,
walks in, closely followed by grizzled
Jerry, Jack and the boys.
The cows are driven from the kikuyu
paddock to the stockyard. The stock-
yard is divided, and Gus uses one portion
for selling. He says a word to Jerry, who
then walks across to Jack. Jack speaks
to the boys, and a cow is run into the
selling yard. It is any sort of a cow, to
be truthful, but it has the effect of stop-
ping some of the talking that goes on
about the rails.
Gus then puts up his arms. He spreads
wide the fat fingers of his hands. He
commands silence. He is about to say
something. Old-timers look away as
though they, of all people, are not inter-
ested in this sale, two buyers
try to catch Gus’s eye, but fail. The
little auctioneer stands, arms upwards,
cane leaning against his right thigh.
“I am about to declare this sale on,”
he says. “I am about to declare the sale
on. I am selling today on behalf of Mr.
Jim Deakin. You all know Jim. Jim’s
putting up all his stock, without reserve.
You know the rule—everything to the
highest bidder. Knocked down to the
highest bidder. Terms strictly cash unless
otherwise arranged. Good, well she’s on.”
And she is on. Gus makes a grab at his
cane, swishes it at the cow which is
before him, looks at it in a surprised
manner, and says to Jerry. “A milking
cow, Jerry, that’s what we want.”
Well then, the dry cow is run out, and
a milker run in, one calved the day be-
fore, its calf bawling at its side, its udder
swaying bulbously. The cow is an ex-
ceptionally good one, and so Gus appeals,
“Now what am I offered for this fine
beast. Good as you’ll see anywhere on
the River. Now come on, who’ll start
her off at a tenner?”
No one will start her off at a tenner.
Gus is disgusted. “Tell you what,” he
says, magnanimously, “I’ll start her at
eight quid. A gift. Who’ll give me eight
quid for this cow.”
Eight quid it is. Eight pound ten. Nine
pounds. No more bids.
“Come on. Come on,” says Gus with
surprise. “No advance on nine pun?
Any advance on nine pounds. Yes, nine
pounds ten to you. Ten pounds. Any
advance on ten pounds.”
“Yes!” shouts Jerry. “Yes!” shouts
Jack. “Yes! ” all the boys shout, and the
sale moves on merrily, but stops at twelve
pounds,
Gus shakes his head sadly. “What?”
he says. “Only twelve pounds for this
beautiful beast. Come on, she’ll pay for
herself in a month. Pound of butter a
day, easily,”
Twelve pounds ten. Then 14 pounds
and Gus has set the sale. No more
milking cows at this juncture. Gus
looks disappointed, as though the cow is
being given away. He looks at big Jim.
“What about it, Jim?” he asks ; “will you
let it go?”
“Let her go,” says Jim heartily. Mag-
nanimous Jim. Jim can’t believe he got
that price at all. He tries not to appear
pleased.
“Keep ’em coming,” says Gus, “keep
’em coming.”
Well, they keep them coming, heifers
this time, the first one a slim-legged
beauty, just springing. Gus runs up the
price. Heifers will fetch more than
milkers.
“All their life ahead of them,” Gus
tells the farmers, who know that, anyway.
So the sale is on. Gus and the boys
catch the bids, shoot up the prices, and
Jim, watching, continues to be magnani-
mous. There is no let-up, the stock being
pushed from one yard to another. Every-
one fancies there must be wads of money
about, and that it is the right thing to
buy stock now, even if the weather is dry,
even if the grass is eaten out, even though
there may be another poor winter ahead.
Good stock always sell well, and Jim has
only good stock.
Miss Muriel watches, peering between
the split rails, and Gus catches sight of
her, so that there is quite an amount of
cane work, a twisting of it in his fingers,
a glistening and glittering of top and
ferrule in the sun. Gus will not let the
stock go cheaply, although he avows it is
what he is doing.
There is a sudden lag in the bidding.
Gus can almost hear the sigh from the
crowd. “You cockies always like an
early lunch,” he says. “All right then, you
know where the pear-tree is,”
Of course they know where the pear-
tree is. They also know the large white
teapots, and the huge piles of sandwiches.
Some, who do not wish to appear greedy,
work towards the china pear from the
barn way, others go straight to the food,
but all seem to converge at the point,
about the same time.
There is an exchange of greetings, and
a grabbing of cups, taking of sandwiches,
and endeavors to be served with tea,
sugar and, should you like it, milk. There
is a gabbling and a talking, a swelling
of sound as the whole district of Cool-
bucca gets down to some steady gossip-
ing.
MURIEL it is who gets Gus his cup,
and that is right and proper, and
Gus is grateful. He watches Muriel
pouring tea, daintily, and he thinks of
old Sam, and the jam-tins on the table.
Nothing of this shows in his eyes, and
Miss Muriel, of course, is a trifle distant,
as usual.
However, she does say, with some
enthusiasm. “I think you did mar-
vellously, Mr. Gossip. You seemed to be
quite disappointed. 1 m sure father was
really pleased with the prices.”
“You do?” says Gus. He seemed
pleased also. He smiles. “To tell the
truth, Miss Muriel,” he says, “I’m pleased
too. It is a good sale.”
He looks at big Jim’s daughter.
“Wait!” he says in a fairly impressive
voice. “Wait until this afternoon.”
“Oh?” says Miss Muriel, delicate query
in her voice.
“Wait,” says Gus, “till we sell that good
cow. You know, the one you reared.”
“Beauty,” says Miss Muriel, quick as a
flash. “Well, I do hope you get a good
price for her, Mr. Gossip.”
“M’m,” says Gus. He wishes, some-
how, she would not call him “Mister.”
When the crops are discussed, the con-
dition of the cows upon the River, the
murder up at Two Stones Creek, the Show
coming off, and the new people who have'
moved into Reg Brown’s old place
(“funny ideas you know”), then there is
time left for the remainder of the sale,
and Gus leads the way, his cane swinging
at his side, and as Gus goes he looks
at the sky, which is faintly smudged with
cloud, and when he has the yard as his
stage again, and the crowded fence as
his audience, he raises his cane, pointing
it towards the smudge, and says, “Rain,
boys. You’ll have to bid quick if you
don’t want to be drenched.”
The boys laugh at this, for they have
almost forgotten what rain is, and some-
one says, “What’s rain, Gus?” and there
is a general laugh at that, and Gus
laughs too, and when someone says,
“Might be another flood, Gus,” the whole
crowd is in good humor, and because its
communal stomach is fed there is general
goodwill and a fine opportunity for high
bids.
The buyers, however, are still cautious,
and Gus has to encourage them. Jim lets
the cows go at whatever
the buyers want to pay
for them, and Gus tells
Jerry and the boys to
keep them coming, and
when there are only a
few left, then Gus walks
across to Jerry, whisper-
ing something to him,
and Jerry whispers to
Jack, and Jack goes
away, and finally, after
selling a cow or two.
Gus nods to Jack, and says, “Bring
her in, Jack,” This in the tone
of a proud ringmaster about to display
his best lion.
To tell the truth there has been a
maggot in Gus’s mind, a small persistent
maggot, one that has wriggled and
wriggled, finally lying dormant chrysalis-
ing, de - chrysalising, and becoming a
beautiful butterfly. Gus knows it has
everything to do with Muriel, and she,
infatuated girl, is still peering through the
fence at Gus.
< ‘ D RING her in,” says Gus, and they
D bring her in, not pushing her for-
wards, not shouting at her, or twisting her
tail, thumping her upon the rump, but
actually leading her, a halter on her head,
her horns gleaming because they are
polished, her hocks and hooves shining
{Continued on page 32.)


The British Labour Minister, in introducing the
“1946 Assurance Companies Act,” stated that “Ihe
1946 Act”;—
“Acknowledges the inherently international
and comprehensive character of insurance.”
The Labour President of the Board of Trade in
the House of Commons also stated that it would
be proper to inform the House of the attitude of the
Labour Government toward the future of British
Insurance business. The Government, he stated, had
no intention of interfering with the transaction of
Insurance business by private enterprise. It is, he
stated, the desire of the Government that Insurance
should be, in the future, as in the past, dealt with
on an international basis and as business of an inter-
national character.
FOR 69 Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FI RE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Angus & Robertson’s Book Selection
THE FORTUNES OF RICHARD MAHONY, by Henry Handel Richardson.
One of the greatest novels of the English language. 11/6 (post »d.j.
EMPIRE YOUTH ANNUAL. 1947. , .. , . , ...
A fascinating book profusely illustrated in colour and black
TRY ANYTHING ONCE, by Frank Clune.
New edition.
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN TRIALS, by P. A. Jacobs.
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC, by Hawthorne Daniel.
7/6 (post 4d.).
7/6 (post 4d.).
27/- (post 4d.).
SOME PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE OF SIR JOHN AND LADY JANE
FRANKLIN (Tasmania 1837-1845). ' _ ~ ,
With introduction, notes and commentary by George Mackaness. lUost i .
in two parts. Historical Monograph No. 15. 43/- (post ba.>.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householder s’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CAN U.S. SAVE EUROPE?
Already whittled down to some extent
on American representations that the
original draft would have given U.S.
Congress the fright of its life, and prob-
ably doomed to be reduced still further
by the time Congress votes on it, the
report of the 16 European countries re-
sponding to the Marshall Plan must
stand, whatever its fate, as one of the
most arresting and ambitious documents
in international dealings.
The general report runs to some 25,000
words, buttressed by several large
volumes holding the facts of the 16
countries’ economies on which the ex-
perts worked. Described by N.Y. “Times”
as recognising that Europe “has arrived
at a new and unexplored stage in its
economic development; a stage in which
it must plan as a unit,” the report boils
down to these main undertakings and
requirements:
(1) A productive effort unparalleled in
Europe’s history. .. .
(2) Drastic programmes to curtail inflation
and put Europe’s monetary system on a firm
(3) A co-operative effort to reduce trade
harriers and to form, eventually, a European
customs union.
(4) Large but diminishing American aid for
four years, to tide Europe over until it can
pay its own way.
The programme, says the report, is an
“unprecedented step” ; it “marks the ad-
vent of a new stage in European economic
co-operation.”
The period covered in the recovery
programme is through 1948-51. Provided
that each nation carries out its under-
takings, that they all combine together
as promised, and that the necessary
supplies can be obtained from overseas,
“European recovery,” the planners be-
lieve, “can be achieved.” Re-
port” stated on October 14 that “U.S.
officials are finding so many flaws in the
recovery plan that the whole programme
will be overhauled.” Also, “A growing
feeling in Washington is that the countries
of Western Europe are planning to do
too much in too short a time,” and “their
programme is based on assumptions that
will not come true.” One of the assump-
tions doubted is that the Governments
will have the courage or ability to keep
their countries free of the strikes that
have been crippling French, and even
British, recovery.
Large-sized Doubts
Doubt No. 1: Can it be done? In the
most optimistic appraisal the aims seem
very high: to lift industry and agricul-
ture to “levels never before contemplated
in Europe.” Boiled down to bare bones
the plan includes expanding steel output
20 per cent, above the pre-war level, coal
at least 5 per cent., capacity to generate
electricity' by more than 60 per cent.
Increase in oil refining would put it two
and one-half times pre-war. Inland
transport is to be in a position to carry
25 per cent, more than before the war.
Production of cereals is to exceed 1938
levels, as is output of sugar and potatoes.
And this is all to be done in four years ;
from behind scratch at that, since pre-
sent production levels are mostly below
pre-war, in coal and food far below.
“World Report” comments on this
doubt;
Key question, as the Paris product goes under
the U.S. microscope, is whether the Govern-
ments of Western Europe have the political
strength to make good their pledges of more
production, internal stability and increased co-
operation with each other.
Towards achieving their high aims and
to check monetary inflation, the various
Governments pledge themselves to “a
Spartan programme”: “They agree to
begin immediately to balance their bud-
gets ; to institute and maintain controls to
halt the wage-price spiral.”
Doubt No. 2 concerns the amount
in dollars the U.S. will be called on to
supply towards meeiting the estimated
deficit on the four-years reconstruction
programme: a little over $22 billion.
With part of this coming from the Inter-
national Bank, the bedrock figure is given
at $19.3 billion: “Although the
does not say so in so many words,” com-
ments N.Y. “Times,” “the report indi-
cates clearly that that is the amount of
United States credit Western Europe
needs.”
It is asking a lot —in fact far more
than Congress is expected to endorse -
but as stated emphatically in the 16-
nations report: “If nothing is done a
catastrophe will develop as stocks become
exhausted. Life in
Europe will become
increasingly uncer-
tain ; industries will
grind to a gradual
halt for lack of
materials, and fuel
and the food supply
of Europe will
diminish and begin to
disappear. If too little
is done and it is done
too late it will be im-
possible to provide
the momentum
needed to get the pro-
gramme under way.”
One statement in
the report indicates
both the urgency of
the need and the
dreadful havoc and
upset the war
wrought—that if all
asked for is granted
and if all undertaken
is done, even then
per capita food con-
sumption in Western
Europe in the final
year of the plan will
still be below pre-
war levels: “The
hard fact,” the report
states, “is that there
is not enough food in
the world to give
Europe as much as it
had pre-war.”
(^ ming Desperate Winter
£
P> r7 fa- up to yet
another winter
which, driving men to despair, cou d
produce c t alcu^ ble e Xiate
Report states that the best e^l^ iat
now is that Western Europeans will have
about 10 to 15 per cent, less to eat tha
they had last wmto, and back m
from Europe, Scnpps-Howanl for g
editor William Philip Simms has r
ported:
Destructive forces m Europe are so rapidly
assuming avalanche proportions that unless tne
Ea | ted states and the United Nations act
qLlickly and effectively both may be caught by
the landslide.
This writer has iust returned from four
; n n uroDe . I talked with leaders in
eight countries along the non curtain All
rts^cirfinr£a“n.'
Said one : “Politically and economically, the
situation risks becoming catastrophic.
Hunger and cold will be at their worst. Last
winter > s record f ros t followed by this summer’s
record drought and heat have played havoc
with crops. Politically, Europe has seldom if
ever been so chaotic. Food distribution is
badly organised even when there is food. In-
tercourse between Western' Europe and the
Soviet’s sphere in Eastern Europe is practically
In spots the country is on strike against the
towns, farmers refusing to part with their pro-
ducts, which the city dwellers must have or
starve.
Making a special plea for temporary
relief. Secretary Marshall on October 15
warned of a possible early economic col-
lapse in Europe this winter, with a
danger of the actual disappearance of
those characteristics of Western civilisa-
tion on which the American Government
and manner of life are based.”
“Aid Prospects Dimming”
Despite all that, considerable doubt is
expressed in America as to whether the
U.S. can or will save the situation at
any rate, on the lines proposed. “As
matters stand,” says “World Report,” the
U.S. Congress is neither willing nor able
to commit itself to such an outlay for
four years.” The “United States News
says the “prospect that U.S. will save
Europe from trouble is dimming.” It is
not temporary relief but the bigger plan
that is in doubt:
Europe asks $8,040,000,000 for 1948, almost
all from U.S. Europe will be lucky to get half
Akron ( U.S.A .) “Beacon Journal."
MOSCOW’S CUBS.
of what’s asked. That’s just for 16 nations
of Western Europe. It is on top of relief
for other parts of the world, on* top of relief
in occupied countries. U.S., in other words,
is being asked to put up about $9,000,000,000,
in total, for world recovery next year. That
is a lot of money. It is as much as the U.S.
Government spent for all activities in a New
Deal year.
The same authoritative publication
holds that “fulfilment of the hopes prob-
ably is impossible,” adding:
U.S. doesn’t have food enough to assure
Europe’s diets, it can’t move coal enough to
keep Europe warm even if it does all it can.
Politically, it cannot put up billions in a hurry.
It can’t, at least with an election coming up.
Reaction in Europe when hopes aren’t ful-
filled can be severe. Ifaly, even now, is just
a jump ahead of an overturn of the Govern-
ment. France is under growing internal strain.
If U.S. doesn’t come through with all of the
help expected, at the time when needed, political
shifts are likely. In the shifts, U.S. influence
will go down, Russian influence up.
In the view of N.Y. “Times” Washing-
ton correspondent Arthur Krock (very
sound in his judgments), if the plan is
gone on with, its failure “in terms of
mutually prosperous world trade by
• 1951” may “restore isolationism in more
intense form as the foreign policy of the
United States.”
With the Europeans’ proposals sub-
mitted for American consideration,
“Across the nation,” says N.Y. “Times,”
“there began a great debate”:
The debate touches many domestic issues.
There is the issue of America’s willingness and
ability to pay. There is the issue of the effect
of large foreign shipments on the nation’s
economy—particularly on already high prices.
There is the issue of tax reduction, to which
the Republican party already is pledged. All
these issues are important in the 1948 Presi-
dential elections.
The problem now exercising Mr. Tru-
man and his aides, the same paper points
out, is “to find a formula for getting aid
to Europe without adverse political
effects” for themselves:
The answer rests in the final analysis with
the American voter. A gigantic export pro-
gramme is bound to make a dent in his pur-
chases and his pocketbook—on the eve of the
1948 elections. During the debate over the
Marshall Plan, there is a danger that foreign
spending will become a political scapegoat for
high prices and domestic shortages.
This important aspect is touched on,
without optimism, by a N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” Washington correspondent:
More than a billion dollars will have to be
asked, and as a mere first instalment, from an
economy-minded Congress, its resistance already
stiffened by ominous reports from home thai
more and more people are blaming high grocery
bills on “all this foreign spending.” Finally,
by the time Congress is called, the Presidential
election will be less than a year away. As
one of the Congressional leaders remarked after
the meeting, “It will take a miracle.”
While the whole scheme will be thus
in the balance for some time to come—
with Soviet propaganda insistent all along
that in the end it must fail —the Truman
Administration has one or two effective
shots in its locker. One is that “Congress
must vote for the plan to prop up the
weakened democracies of Europe against
Communism”; another, that “the plan
is essential to ensure American markets
in Europe and thus protect [U.S.] future
economy.”
Vast U.S. Generosity
Against those contentions, opponents to
the Marshall Plan argue that the U.S.
has already invested an enormous sum in
European recovery without tangible
gains; that “another $4 or $5 billion a
year cannot keep Europe from going
Communist, and will instead bring on an
American crash.” In this regard the
amount of U.S. aid over the world since
the war ended deserves to be stated,
against any cries of niggardliness likely
enough to arise from some of the state-
ments certain to be aired in Congress
discussion. The figures were lately given
in an “Atlantic Monthly” article by N.
R. Danielian:
Since VE-Day the United States Government
has contributed or earmarked over 23 billion
dollars for economic aid in international relief,
rehabilitation, and reconstruction. This is an
amount surpassing the cost of all United States
war plants built by the Government through
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation during
the four years of war. Our generous contri-
bution has been made through a welter of
institutions which the Congress has created and
approved without partisanship. Let us call the
roster of United States allotments since 1944,
up to June, 1947; —
U.N.R.R.A $2,700,000,000
Military Relief, Occupied Areas 3,000,000.000
Post V-J Day Lend-Lease .. 2,500,000,000
Export-Import Bank .. . • 2,800,000,000
International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development .. 3,175,000,000
gS t S. Mo “ tary . F “ nd ::
Surplus Property Credits .. ..
International Relief 350,000,000
Greek-Turkish Aid • • • • •• 400,000,000
Philippine Credit and Grants .. 700,000,000
Merchant Ship Credits . . .. U 0,000,000
International Refugee Organisation 75,uuu,uw
Total $23,350,000,000
“No one,” the writer commented, “can
say that the American people have been
either niggardly or laggard in their
humane responsibilities. At no other
time in world history has a victor assumed
the responsibility for reconstruction of
war’s ravages in such generous portion.’
Senator, Taft—one of the three or four
probables for Republican Presidential
nomination —declined an invitation by


HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
*At BANS LENDS MONEV FOB PERSONAL Nf
'
RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL BANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
SANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf,
4 c O
*
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic . Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum i’owder.
534
futicura
•IS* OINTMENT*
President Truman to talk the submitted
16-nations report over; in the same week
Senator Taft stated what could well be
the Republican attitude in a Congress the
Republicans dominate: “We cannot
afford to go on lending money on a
global scale. I believe our loans should
be made to specific countries for specific
purposes and only to pay for goods
slipped from the United States.”
In view of the present dominant
national mood in America greatly
hardened recently by Soviet tactics and
speeches in U.N.0., and especially by
Soviet attacks on Truman policies and
Soviet personal abuse of leading Ameri-
cans from the President down —the most
telling factor of all in the plan’s favor
might well be the very fact that Moscow
is so opposed to it. Success, in that case,
could be chalked up as yet another
example of Soviet clumsiness defeating
Soviet ambitions. As “Christian Science
Monitqr” has commented in support, “If
successful* the Marshall Plan will re-
build a new and changed Europe. Its
success could be the cornerstone of a
brighter, freer, prosperous world.”
Hence, of course, the Soviet opposition,
that being the very last thing Moscow
desires.
DE GAULLE POLICY.
France’s highly significant municipal
elections have been decided on clear-cut
issues enforced by General de Gaulle,
who, in an outspoken speech at Rennes
in August, made it quite positive that
there could be no question in electors’
minds regarding the policy on which they
would be supporting his Rally party.
Previously standing somewhat aloof,
speaking in rather vague terms and
evidently waiting on the exactly right
opportunity, De Gaulle in that speech
openly entered the political arena again
with what amounted to a declaration of
war against Communism, against Soviet
Russian ambitions to dominate all
Europe, and hence for French associa-
tion in the Western European group of
nations combining in the European Re-
covery Programme (as General Marshall
now prefers it to be called).
At Rennes, De Gaulle accused the
French Communist leaders and their fol-
lowers of having “vowed obedience to a
foreign scheme of domination directed by
the masters of a great Slav Power.”
“Their aim,” he said, “is to set up a
dictatorship in France and to force our
beautiful country into totalitarian servi-
tude under which France would become
an enslaved auxiliary of a colossal hege-
mony.”
Referring to the French Communist
leaders as the Russian advance forces,
De Gaulle turned to Russia itself:
“Apprehension about Soviet intentions
lies heavily on France... .two thirds of
the Continent is now dominated by
Moscow... .this state of affairs sooner or
later threatens to imperil our ow'n
freedom and independence.”
The questions thus put to the electors
—the internal policy of the Communists
in France and the' external policy of
Soviet Russia —were designated by N.Y.
“Herald Tribune’s” Paris correspondent
as “the two major issues which dominate
the mind of the nation”:
For the first time General de Gaulle has
publicly admitted two errors made by him as
President of the Provisional Government. The
first was to admit the Communists into his
Cabinet and to attempt to govern with them.
The second was to attempt to steer a middle
course for France between the Eastern and
the Western blocs of Powers. But his failure
in both efforts, so far from prejudicing him
in the eyes of the anti-Communists, gives him
all the greater authority in preaching what is
practically a crusade aganist Communism inside
France and against Soviet hegemony outside
France.
“General de Gaulle,” the correspondent
added, “chose his moment well. The fear
of Communism is a real force in France.”
It represents a complete change in
General de Gaulle’s outlook, he having
begun his foreign policy after the libera-
tion of France by making an alliance
with Russia. Many others have had to
take second thought on that subject; for
his part, the General explained at Rennes
that when he signed the pact with the
Soviet “Russia had not yet begun to fol-
low a path different from that of free
people.”
The De Gaulle party —the Rally of the
French People, or R.F.P. —is a peculiar
movement; the most notable thing
about it and its leader being the politiaal
courage to go all out against Communism,
from which the more timid nou-Com-
munist' French political leaders have
shrunk. N.Y. “Times” has editorially
commented on the movement:
General de Gaulle is careful to explain that
it is not a party but cuts across all parties.
This makes De Gaulle unique among all other
French politicians. A candidate of the R.F.P.
may be a Socialist, a Popular Repqblican, a
Radical Republican or a member of any of
the Rightist splinter parties. He may keep his
previous affiliations provided only that he sub-
scribes to the principle of national union which
De Gaulle urges. The De Gaullists would
accept Premier Ramadier himself or M. Bidault,
leader of the Popular Republicans, as suitable
candidates if they were pledged to stand
squarely and without concession against Com-
munism and the Moscow influence.
The Rally has had a-rapid growth. It claims
more than a million members, more even than
the total Communist registration. It insists
that it has members in every French party, a
Chicago “Tribune.”
BACK AGAIN!
great number of those who have not before
been active in politics and some, indeed, in
the ranks of those who have supported the
Communists. Many people in France feel as
De Gaulle does that there is no longer any
middle ground on which the Communists can
be accepted and that the salvation of France
lies definitely with the Western democracies.
The growth of the De Gaulle move-
ment has been shown in another fashion
by London “Times.” Early in July the
old Thunderer ran a two-column Leftist-
flavored article by a special correspondent
whose best thought on De Gaulle was
that “his present function is to serve as a
bugbear” for both Right and Left sides
in French politics. In contrast, the same
paper’s Paris correspondent on October
5 reported the meeting at the Vincennes
racecourse, where De Gaulle spoke to a
crowd of some 500,000:
When General de Gaulle arrived, nearly an
hour late, his reception was tumultuous. For
some minutes he stood on the rostrum acknow-
ledging the cheers of the crowd, which, so
far as could be judged, seemed to be of one
mind. It was with some difficulty that he
quieted these waves of enthusiasm, but once
he began to speak there was complete silence
over the whole huge concourse, broken only
when some point in the speech was applauded
with hands and voices. When he had finished
speaking General de Gaulle asked the crowd to
sing with him the Marseillaise and, giving them
the lead himself, stood to attention (he was in
uniform) while the national anthem was taken
up by hundreds of thousands of voices.
The portion of the speech which received
perhaps the greatest ovation was that dealing
with the Communists and Soviet Russia. The
Communists were working all the time to serve
“the quarrels of the dictators of the East.
The United States was setting its power against
Russia, “and there is not a free man in the
world who does not think that American policy
healthy.”
These elections have been the first full-
dress testing of the strength of the move-
ment, and of anti-Communist, anti-Soviet-
expansion feeling in France. They bear
on the Marshall programme, A pro-
Communist vote ih France would have
probably had fatal effects against that
programme in the U.S., and conversely.
In N.Y. “Times” Arthur Krock lately
quoted William R. Mathews, editor-
publisher of the Arizona “Daily Star,”
just back from a long visit to Europe,
Krock commenting that “his vigorous
comments will surely find their way to
Washington, where he is well-known and
respected”:
We cannot, with any propriety, tell the
countries of Europe what kind of Governments
they must have, but we can demand that those
Governments be competent and responsible. If
we are going to pay the piper we can with
propriety insist that we call the tune.
Under that thesis the Marshall pro-
gramme is as fully opposed to Com-
munist rule in France as De Gaulle him-
self. On another important issue De
Qaulle does not fit so well into the U.S.
scheme of things. Though declaring for
the programme which depends vitally on
U.S. aid, the General, in a speech at
Bayonne in September, very strongly
criticised U.S. proposals for Germany.
The new German-industry plan, he said,
“seems to oppose the vital interest of
France.” The U.S. plan, he added, would
prove a vain hope “if the means of
domination ar£ given to a new German
Reich and if France fails to get the real
guarantees to which she is entitled re-
garding her security and economy.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Shinwett’s Trilogy. —Before the British Cabinet
shake-up, in which he did in his post as Fuel
Minister, Mr. Shinwell alluded with pride to
the nationalising of coal, electricity and gas
as a “trilogy.” Whereupon a writer in London
“Times” dragged up the Oxford Dictionary
definition of a trilogy: “a set of three tragedies
to be performed in immediate succession.”
* * * *
Open Season for Abuse. —When Vishinsky let
loose on American “warmongers,” naming a
string of them, including one sitting as a
U.S. delegate a couple of yards away from
him in U.N.0., the Russian’s language was
thought a little short of diplomatic, and Soviet
writer Gorbatov’s vicious article on President
Truman was considered in rather bad taste,
traducing, as it did, the “head of a friendly
State.” In their turn, the Soviet heads can
make what they may of this Chicago “Tribune”
comment on the leader of their State: “This
nation [U.S.A.] was angered last year when Tito
of Yugoslavia, by shooting down two American
planes, murdered five American soldiers. Tito,
as usual, was a minor offender when compared
with his master, the archmurderer Stalin.” , v
* * # *
111-will Towards U.S. —An example has been
given here of a comparison Americans are
finding increasingly annoying: between their
generous gifts and advances to Europe and
reported unpopularity of Americans there. Wil-
liam Griffen, editor and publisher of, N.Y.
“Enquirer,” in a letter to Hearst’s newspapers,
brings Britain into it: “During the past couple
of years we have gifted Britain to the tune
of $35,000,000,000 in the lend-lease settlement
and the post-war loan that never will be repaid.
Yet ill-will toward our country is at a high
point in Britain today, from the Government
down to the ordinary British subject.”
* * * «
Aid to Business. —U.S. aid to Greece as aid
also to U.S. business: $82,400,000 in contracts
to American firms for doing the reconstructing.
“The contracts,” “Christian Science Monitor”
has reported, “call for the rebuilding of Greece’s
9000 miles of highways, its 1600 miles of rail-
roads and railroad bridges, its three major
'ports—Piraeus, Salonika, Volos —and opening of
the Corinth Canal that bisects the country.”
* * * #
Ford Compares U.S.-Soviet. —Comparing U.S.
free enterprise against the Russian Communist
system “in terms of how they get the production
out,” Henry Ford II (as Americans style him)
stated: “There are more automobiles in St.
Louis than in all of Russia. There are more
hard-surfaced roads in the State of Michigan
than in the whole Soviet Union. While the
average Russian earns enough in a week to
buy 81b. of beef, the American earns enough
to buy 801 b. The Russian’s weekly wage in
terms of milk could buy 15.2 quarts, the
American’s 276 quarts. That’s a pretty dismal
record,” Ford said, after citing numerous other
figures showing great disparity in favor of the
United States. “Something must be wrong
with the system. What is. it that’s wrong? It
is because men must have opportunity. Hope
without opportunity is a bag of nothing. It is
in our own land of opportunity that man has
been given the chance to do something about
his dreams.”
♦ * » *
U.S. Invented the Veto. Commenting on
U.S. moves to circumvent Soviet abuse of the
veto power in the Security Council, the editor
of “United States News” makes these points:
“Russia’s conception of the veto is the Ameri-
can conception—namely, that we join no in-
ternational organisation in which we can be
coerced by a group of foreign Powers who out-
vote us. This was the American position in
1919 when entry into the League of Nations
was rejected by the Senate. This was the
American position in 1944 at the Dumbarton
Oaks conference, where the veto was born.
This was the position which Roosevelt took
when in 1945 he proposed the present wording
of the veto provision to the Soviet Government
as a means of securing adherence by that
country to the United Nations Charter and
as a means of assuring ratification by the U.S.
Senate. We are the authors, the sponsors, the
inventors of the veto.”
* * # ♦
Hoover on Japan. —Allowing a rather long
time to pass between publication and correction,
former U.S. President Hoover has stated he
was misquoted in the interview for the “Ameri-
can” in which he was said to have stated that
the U.S. would never have been attacked by
the Japs if it hadn’t given them provocation.
Mr. Hoover insisted he would not have made
“such an indictment of a whole nation, includ-
ing myself.” In the interview Mr. Hoover was
quoted as making the statement in contending
that the U.S. should never have got into the
war. There was no refutation of this in the
published correction.
* * * ♦
Truman Confident.— Differing very much from
the Soviet writer’s picture of President Truman
(B. 22/10/’47), a N.Y. “Times” Washington
correspondent reports: “Close associates of
President Truman, as well as others who see
him frequently, insist that not only is he in
top shape physically but that he faces the
domestic and world problems immediately ahead
with a confident optimism strikingly at variance
with what seems to be the prevailing popular
mood of doubt.” The correspondent added:
“I would sum it up,” one White House con-
fidante remarked, “by saying the President is
sure of the ground he’s standing on and con-
vinced he’s headed in the right direction. He
knows better than most of us what really is
going on in the world. He is in a better
position to spot the bluffs and false alarms
and to concentrate intelligently on the dangers
that do exist. He has seen events justify his
judgments on enough difficult issues to give
him a self-confident faith in his decisions. It
is ignorance and uncertainty that cause fear, and
I think it’s pretty well known by now that
Harry Truman just doesn’t scare.” And, com-
mented the correspondent, “this admiring esti-
mate of the Presidential outlook is voiced by
many in the Executive establishment.”


r v-
"'iiiiimi/iiu
m
///As
//
&
y/t
tt
&
[WSg
mmML
/
you build
or buy a borne
consult The
MIX.
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or
Representative.
MLC
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE;
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE;
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH;
1 79a St. George’s
Terrace.
HOBART:
Bank of Australasia
Chambers, Elizabeth and
Collins Streets.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.):
M.L.C. Building, Lambton
Quay.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3533
Wednesday, October 29, 1947
CUTTING IN.
“At the municipal elections, with women and men voting, De Gaulle has beaten the Communists out of sight.”
“My turn, I think, Monsieur Joe.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria:* Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR" FLOUNDERING.
Among straws in the wind of the Vic-
torian elections is the defeat of the
“Labor” candidate at a by-election for
a Northcote City Council ward. North-
cote is one of the strongest “Labor”
constituencies in the State, and Mr. Cain
has been its Assembly member for many
years ; for ten years of the period he was
also a member of the Northcote City
Council. In the contest for the south
ward a “Labor” majority of 251 was
turned into a minority of 32, and “Labor ’
control of the council has ceased. Vot-
ing took place on the after Mr. Cain
opened his campaign in the Northcote
Town Hall. The result is, therefore, the
more significant.
Not that Mr. Cain’s policy-speech was
much of a rouser. He is not behaving
like a leader who expects to win. He
made no reference to the Chifley bank-
ing socialisation bill beyond one curt re-
mark about “the smoke-screen” set up
“because financial institutions desire a
trial of strength on an issue outside the
jurisdiction of the State Parliament” ;
nor any comment on the Australia-wide
deipand for a referendum on that matter,
a refusal of which in Victoria led to the
Legislative Council's forcing Mr- Cain to
the country. Mr. Cain had three points
for the people whom “Labor” is striving
to ignore, and on each of those points he
is vulnerable in respect to the topic he
tries to avoid.
“Labor,” he said, was not only not
allied with Communism, but its “only
contact with Commufiism” was “one of
relentless and effective opposition.” The
Victorian people, particularly those of
Melbourne, who have waited for the
A.C.T.U., under one of Mr. Cain’s chief
Ministers, to exhibit any trace of
“relentless and effective opposition” to
the strikes that have incessantly held
local industry and householders at the
mercy of Communist-controlled unions,
will be the best judges of what that state-
ment of Mr. Cain’s is worth.
Next he attacked Mr. Dunstan —Mr.
Dunstan, whom he kept in office for
eight years —as the “master-mind” in
bringing about the discomfiture of the
“ ‘Labor’ Government.” The Country
party, whose leader, Mr. McDonald,
headed the Opposition in the late
Assembly, certainly does not disown its
part in that manoeuvre. For it was in the
country districts and the smaller States
that the insurgence against socialist
tyranny gathered its initial force, as was
shown in the State elections in South
Australia and Westralia; and it is the
country people now who are heading the
most forceful mass resentment against
“Labor’s” attempt to introduce socialisa-
tion of industry behind the backs of the
people.
This detestable invasion of and con-
tempt for the electors’ rights has finally
broken the country people’s patience.
They have borne, too patiently, a long in-
fliction of misrule which has bred endless
strikes in key industries and services, laid
a burden of excessive costs on everything
the farmer needs, crippled production
through go-slow and shorter hours and
encouraged paying to pampered militant
unions not only higher wages at every
strike or threat of a strike, but even re-
tainers when they do no work at all.
They have seen Government control
snarling or blighting every enterprise into
which it intrudes. Their very produce
has been seized and sold for less than the
cost of production, all things taken into
account; in the case of the wheat sold
to New Zealand “Labor,” for less than
a third of the current export price. They
have long been restless under these in-
juries, and this latest threat to interfer-
ence with their most intimate personal
affairs, their relations with the trading
banks, has burst all restraints. Why, in-
deed, should not a member of the
Country party be the “master-mind” be-
hind a move which has forced one of
these enemies of free enterprise into the
open?
Mr. Cain may not like his priority in
the matter, but he is placed by circum-
stance in “Labor’s” van against a
new storm that is moving to sweep this
socialist crowd out of office everywhere.
He will find but a poor defence in his
third election point, which is that “there
is only one simple issue: whether the
Legislative Council shall be allowed to
hold at its mercy the life of a ‘Govern-
ment’ which has the confidence and sup-
port of a Chamber representative of all
the people of Victoria?”
There are two answers here. One is
that the Cain Ministry held office with-
out a majority from the electors and by
grace of refraining from proceeding
openly with “Labor’s” socialisation pro-
gramme. The other is that when a
“Labor” leader goes to a general election
with an empty “policy speech” invok-
ing some selected issue of the moment,'
he can no longer be believed. Mr.
Chifley has killed that possibility stone
dead. Mr. Chifley went to the country
in September, 1946, with a programme
no less innocuous than Mr. Cain’s ; and
as soon as he had won he turned antf be-
gan to translate into action the extreme
“Labor” objective on the ground that
socialisation of everything was always on
the party’s programme, and that, in effect,
if the electors objected that they had no
warning of it the more fools they.
Victorians are the first electors to face
up to that revelation of “Labor” hypoc-
risy. “I have read that I am a gay de-
ceiver,” said Mr. Chifley in his second-
reading speech on the bill to socialise
the trading banks. The charge of gaiety
is one of his own addition ; but that he
grossly deceived the electorate is true to
the hilt, so true that he dare not go to
the country for approval of his legisla-
tion, and is straining every effort now to
get the irrevocable change carried through
before the electors can have a chance of
pronouncing upon it.
Mr. Cain and every other State
“Labor” Premier stand in that category
of political charlatans. Not only did
Mr. Cain, so far as he was able, support
the Federal Government in the recent
High Court action but his implication in
the Federal socialisation plot has been
proclaimed by his most trusted Cabinet
colleague. Mr. Kennedy, an election-
campaign manager so indispensable that
he had to be recalled in haste from one
of those vital 1.L.0. or other “Labor”-
tourist missions, to Europe, in a Toronto
statement hailed the Chifley legislation as
harbinger of general socialisation.
“Iron and steel will quickly follow,” he
said ; and he added “What the unions
want we, as a political party, as far as
is practical, do.” How much, in face of
that admission, is any pledge of non-
discrimination worth, from Mr. Chifley
or any lesser “Labor” leader?
“Labor’s” intentions are quite clear,
and every other part of Australia is en-
vying Victoria’s chance to pounce upon
them. “Labor” is destroying industry
and’ production, it is destroying fmblic*
morale and it is full bent on destroying 1 *
the Federation, to* whose Constitution
Mr. Chifley pays lip-service. That also,
of course, is on the “Labor” platform.
The revolt in the more-distant States
against centralisation at Canberra is in
full swing. It is being expressed most
strikingly in the formation of Citizens’
Rights leagues or associations in regions
spread widely through the Common-
wealth. One thing foreshadowed by the
Liberals in Victoria is that a Liberal-
Country Government will propose, in co-
operation with S.A. and Westralia, State
referenda to give at least 40 per cent, of
Australian voters a voice on the expropri-
ation of the trading banks.
But even more than the banking bill
itself, the faithless spirit that prompted
it has raised public wrath. Thpt, what-
ever Mr. Cain may say, is inescapably an
election issue in Victoria or any other
-State where “Labor” holds office. That
is the feature of the dispute execrated in
the press throughout Australia, and even
the sympathetic Melbourne “Age,” which
had, nothing but brickbats for the Legis-
lative Council’s proceeding (while admit-
ting that it was warranted by the terms
of the Victorian Constitution), records
with indignation “the shock at the way
this revolutionary scheme [the banking
expropriation] is being thrust upon the
country with a bland contempt for all
the democratic processes with which the
people are accustomed.”- After all, the
people are sovereign. Their verdict on
such a political innovation, with all that
it connotes, is essentially necessary. To
defy it in the face of current popular
protests is an outrage.
It is rank humbug for “Labor” to talk
about the Legislative Council as a house
where the “privileged class” asserts it-
self. There is only one privileged class in
Australia today, and that is found within
the ranks of union executives. It is de-
manding privileges which none but dic-
tators have ever dared to put forward.
So audacious have its claims become that
when recently Brigadier Blackburn, V.C.,
was appointed among the 16 all-powerful
“conciliation commissioners” under the
Chifley Government’s revolutionary
amendment of the Industrial Arbitration
Act the A.L.P. in South Australia strongly
objected, as its representatives at Can-
berra stijl do, because there was “no
evidence that he ever had Labor
sympathies!”
Mr. Chifley asserts that under a politi-
cal banking monopoly there will be “no
discrimination!” In almost the same
breath he explains that, ip the very act or
acquisition of the banks by force, he shall
be empowered to discriminate (in the
matter of taxation) between the compliant
banks and the non-compliant. A fig for
“Labor’s” non-discrimination! Dis-
crimination is the very foundation of all
“Labor” policy and practice. There is
no public utility reserved for Govern-
ment control in Australia which does
not, under “Labor,” daily and convinc-
ingly deny in performance the spurious
pretence at Canberra that a Government
monopoly in banking would be auto-
matically conducted in the interest of the
public as a whole —conducted without
“discrimination.”
Permanently in Power?
Mr. Chifley’s announcement that there
“will have to be a redistribution of Federal
seats, as some of them are badly swollen,
was no news to the denizens of Parlia-
ment House, Canberra. All were pre-
pared for it, and a score of Ministerial
members, scared by the nation-wide op-
position to One Big Bank, would have been
—and would still be —unhappy without it.
It is just on two years since the Federal
A.L.P. conference issued instructions for
redistribution. And Federal A.L.P.
conference instructions are commands to
the crowd that calls itself a Government,
taking the name in vain. All its banking
measures, whether in force or threatened,
were ordained for it by the 1943 and 1945
Federal A.L.P. conferences. At the first
Mr. Curtin was a voting delegate ; at both
Mr. W. C. Taylor—then a member of the
Commonwealth Bank Board, now helping
to direct the destinies of and hide the
losses on the “Government” airline
and Mr. P. J. Clarey—Mr. Cain’s Minister
of Labor and the “Labor”-Commumst
A.C.T.U.’s president—wire the financial
mouthpieces.
Even “ ‘Labor’s’ defence policy,” such
as it is, was prescribed by the conference
of November, 1945, which prescribed also
the “reform” of Parliamentary representa-
tion. To this conference went the Prime
Minister in a role which made a sham of
his public pose of strength and independ-
ence, with the bleat that “it is desirable
that some discussion take place here so
that the ‘Government’ may have an ex-
pression of the views of the movement
as regards defence problems.”
The Prime Minister’s statement that the
party favors an increase in the number of
seats in both Houses is, of course, un-
qualified truth. It derives not from
a sense of electoral equity or any such
“Tory” nonsense, but from a very real
instinct of self-preservation. The impulse
was given at the Federal A.L.P. confer-
ence, from which it was remitted to the
“Government” at the end of a long series
of resolutions. One, moved by Mr.
Hanlon, Treasurer and Premier-elect of
Queensland, was to the effect that “the
Federal Government give consideration,
in co-operation with State Governments,
to the nationalisation of industry.” An-
other, moved by Mr. Richards, Opposi-
tion-Leader in South Australia, urged the
Federal Parliamentary party to give effect
to “the party’s policy of socialisation.”
Still another, Mr. Clarey’s baby this
time, was a direction for altering the
platform to include provision for “the
planning and regulation of economic life
in order to achieve full employment at
award rates.” The same Mr. Clarey
moved —successfully, of course —that con-
ference “request the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to implement Section 10 (W) of
the Constitution of the A.L.P. and intro-
duce compulsory unionism.”
Of these determinations of their masters
the “leaders” of Parliamentary “Labor”
said not a word during the 1946 election
campaign. That campaign closed with
their being given majorities in both
Houses for the first time since 1916, when
the majorities were shattered by unfore-
seen events. What happened then has
never been forgotten. Hence, in part, the
complacency with which Caucus members
look forward to redistribution. Even those
who scrambled back from marginal elec-
torates now make light of the fears which
smote them when they became conscious
of the public resentment engendered by
bank expropriation.
Nor is their confidence in the future,
and in the theory propagated by Mr.
Ward that “ ‘Labor’ will never again be
beaten at the polls,” altogether without
foundation. A comparison of early census
figures with the 1946 Federal rolls makes
it clear that the drift of population con-
tinues to favor “Labor” as a predomin-
antly city party.
On all sides there has been a disgrace-
ful neglect of the need to adjust electoral
boundaries. Though the Representation
Act of 1905 provides for an Enumeration
Day every five years it has been ignored.
There was no census for 14 years and,
except in Victoria (Echuca was abolished
and Deakin created), there has been no
change in boundaries since 1934. From
1933 to 1947 population increased from
6,629,839 to roughly 7,581,000, and, as in
previous intercensal periods, the increase
was greatest in metropolitan electorates.
In country districts it was negligible.
Thorough as in everything, Mr. A. G.
Cameron, M.H.R. for Barker (S.A.), has
made an exhaustive analysis of the possi-
bilities. He points out that the changes
since the last effective redistribution have
operated in such a way that in every
mainland State there is a divergence of
30,000 to 40,000 in the number of electors
in the most and the least populous divi-
sions. The most populous constituencies
are, without exception, metropolitan ; the
least populous are in the country.
With 4,739,843 Federal electors en-
rolled last year, the average per electorate
was 65,831. Outside Tasmania, where
five seats are a constitutional require-
ment and there is never much difference
in point of electoral population, West
Sydney (59,645) was the only metropoli-
tan or industrial seat which fell substan-
tially below the average. East Sydney
(64,469) and Hunter (62,698) were within
reach of it.
The average in the Westralian metro-
politan electorates (Fremantle and Perth)
was 74,500; in the South Australian—
Adelaide, Boothby and Hindmarsh—over
80,000; in the ten Victorian, 77,580; in
the 18 Svdney, Newcastle and Illawarra
divisions' 72,600. The two purely country
seats in Westralia averaged only 44,000.
Grey, the one purely country seat in
S.A., held 53,177 ; Wilmot, Darwin and
Franklin (Tasmania) together contained
only 7000 more than Kooyong (Vic.).
As for other country seats, seven in Vic-
toria averaged 51,000; ten in N. S. Wales
55,200. There is only a single country
seat in the Commonwealth with more than
the quota, 65,000—Herbert (Q.), 71,000.
Most mainland country constituencies are
from 10,000 to 18,000 below the quota.
If there is to be a two-thirds increase
in the number of seats the possibilities
are obvious. So also if there is a one-
third increase, or if the number of seats
is doubled.
On a two-thirds increase, with a per-
missible quota of 32,000 to 46,000, it
would be possible to cut every metropoli-
tan electorate in the mainland States into
two. As for the inland, in the process of
grouping there would be many elector-
ates which could be turned from doubtful
to “Labor” strongholds by cutting off
hostile areas. Shorn of the country vote,
Corio (Geelong), Ballarat, Hume (Al-
bury-Wagga), Macquarie (Bathurst-Lith-
gow) and others might become “Labor”
pocket boroughs. And the smaller the
quota the easier the gerrymander.
One apparent safeguard is that all elec-
torates in a State must be altered to main-
tain the average set up in the course of
adjustment. But the safeguard is merely
nominal.
An impression exists that the Electoral
Act provides for a fool- or knave-proof
impartiality in redistribution. But this is
far from the fact.
Under the existing law the commission
which maps a redistribution is to consist
of the Chief Electoral Officer and the Sur-
veyor-General or their deputies and
another official appointed by the Gover-
nor-General ; but this part of the law can
be altered. In any case, whatever impar-
tial officers do is strictly subject to the will
of the Parliamentary majority, which may
continue to send back their solutions until
they provide one which meets its wishes.
This has been done more than once.
Beyond doubt Caucus could find a
way of expediting and effecting the crea-
tion of a greatly enlarged and redistri-
buted Parliament to suit its own plans
and necessities. A crowd capable of
springing the bank grab on the electors
without notice, in the process consigning
to the dustbin the referendum instrument
to which it has been pledged from
birth, is not likely to stick at gerry-
mandering. Nor is the Senate, as now
constituted, any obstacle. It is merely a
servile instrument of Caucus policy. The
Senate has no mind of its own. It is
only a driven rabble.
There are, however, two things which
even a power-drunk Parliamentary
majority should not forget. One is that
in times of public excitement not even the
most flagrant gerrymandering can com-
mand success. , Another is that Aus-
tralians, are not* habituated to serfdom,
as were the Russians when they changed
masters
If “Labor” and its Communist sup-
porters intend to turn this country into
another Russia, with an imitation central
“politbureau” registering, through an
automatic “Parliament,” the decisions of
a union junta, largely Communist-
controlled, the dissatisfied part of
the nation will find means of resistance.
And that without violating the Consti-
tution, which was, in the first place, an
Act of the British Parliament, or resort-
ing to methods other than those which
the “Labor”-Communist alliance itself
employs.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Startling Census Figures.
From April, 1921, to June 30, 1933, the
population of Australia, exclusive of
full-blood aboriginals, increased from
5,435,734 to 6,629,839; 21.97 per cent.
That percentage increase, small as it was,
was not maintained in the 14 years to
June 30 last; indeed, it fell to 14.34 per
cent., the total —expected to be higher —
being 7,580,820. Even the 1911-21 period,
during four years of which, when the
population was round 5,000,000, there
were military losses much greater than
those of 1939-45, showed an increase of
22.01 per cent.
And the maldistribution of population
is worse than ever. Of the 7,580,820
people enumerated, 1,484,434 were found
in Sydney, 1,226,923 in Melbourne,
402,172 in Brisbane, 382,604 in Adelaide,
272,586 in Perth and 75,567 in Hobart.
In all these excessive cities females are
in the majority. Throughout the Com-
monwealth there are not quite as many
females (3,781,667) as males (3,799,153),
but the sex is catching up fast.
State populations are: N. S. Wales,
2,935,464; Victoria, 2,055,252; Queens-
land, 1,106,269; South Australia,
646,216 ; Westralia, 502,731 ; Tasmania,
257,117. Territorial populations: A.C.T.,
16,905 (with 15,156 in Canberra); N.T.,
10,866.
It is all wrong that there should be
nearly a fifth of the population in one
city and nearly three-sevenths in one
State. On political as well as population
grounds that State should be divided into
three; and if a corresponding position
had arisen in the U.S.A. it would have
been so rectified long ago. Justly dissatis-
fied country people, and not in N. S.
Wales alone, should strive for this method
of liberating themselves and their parts of
Australia from city rule, which is taking
such sinister forms and has already had
such serious consequences. Creation of
new States would at least secure a better
distribution of population. It might also
bring about an improved natural increase,
since there would necessarily be inland
movements of married men and marriage-
able women, many of them now in danger
of being left on the shelf, from city de-
partments and offices.
Menzies and Ward.
Mr. Menzies made the speech of his
life on the Bank Grab Bill. No finer
effort has been heard in the debates at
Canberra since Parliament removed itself
to that place, body and —er —soul.
The Opposition-leader was not called
upon to prove the case for the continued
existence of the trading banks or for the
preservation of the rights of the 1,400,000
people who. have accounts in those in-
stitutions or of those others who in
process of time may choose to have
accounts in them. It was for the Prime
Minister to prove that private banking
should be outlawed and that its customers
should be deprived of rights which have
existed, and have hitherto been accepted,
since almost the beginnings of white
settlement in Australia. This, as Mr.
Menzies showed in a series of shattering
sentences, the Prime Minister utterly
failed to do.
Mr. Menzies took the feeble Chifley
arguments and evasions one by one and
shot them to pieces. The origins of “this
most far-reaching and revolutionary
measure” he traced to Karl Marx. “Since
private banks are conducted primarily for
profit their business should be transferred
to public ownership,” Mr. Chifley had
said. A revolutionary doctrine, capable
of extension to “complete socialism,”
Mr. Menzies pointed out; and if it had
been adopted at the beginning of the
nineteenth century “the whole industrial
expansion of the English-speaking world,
the amazing increase in' population and
living standards, Australian land-settle-
ment or manufacturing, the trade-union
movement itself, would not have
occurred.”
Irony, ridicule, effective illustration,
quotation of Mr. Chifley against himself,
riddling of falsehoods presented as facts
(one, “detestably inaccurate and grossly
misleading,” was that the Commonwealth
Bank had more than three times as many
deposit accounts as the trading banks)
and a revealing outline of the constitu-
tional position, on which the Prime Minis-
ter has only vague, self-deceiving ideas,
were features of a remarkable speech.
Mr. Ward was put up to answer it. A
tactical blunder, for it recalled memories
of Mr. Ward’s record as a 1931-32 in-
terest-dealer,” his predilections (“Soviet
Russia,” which, of course, expropriated
the banks, “has made more progress in
25 years than any capitalist country has
made in ten times that period”), asso-
ciations and background. Mr. Ward, who
expects to succeed Mr. Chifley, relied on
stale invective, exploded “scandals,”
hollow excuses for the refusal of a
referendum —which instrument of popu-
lar sovereignty was part of the “Labor”
platform before Mr. Ward was thought
of —and the familiar catalogue of the
names and alleged sins of some of Mr.
Ward’s aversions—not all, of course, for
the list stretches to the crack of Doom.
But in his fury of hate Mr. Ward
blundered into damaging admissions and
into boasts equally damaging. He boasted
that the Commonwealth Bank began with-
out borrowed capital which is true,
though the bank began with profitable
Government business and with assur-
ances of Government backing—and ad-
mitted that other Government enterprises
had shown losses, attributing them to the
exactions of borrowed capital. He did
not suggest repudiation, but that has
been done by his Communist and fellow-
traveller friends. He said again that
“Labor” was “not against private owner-
ship of personal property” (how gener-
ous of “Labor”!) but was “against pri-
vate ownership of public property”:
“Labor” believes that banking policy is
so vital that it is essential that ownership
and control should not be in private hands.
“Ownership and control.” Ownership
of the banks and control of bank funds.
Control of the deposits of 1,400,000 Aus-
tralians. Political control. This recalls
Mr. Ward’s close friendship with Mr.
Garden, who moved easily from the
secretaryship of the Communist party to
a Federal seat as Mr. Ward’s colleague,
though he did not hold it long. Mr.
“LABOR’S” ENTRY IN THE VICTORIAN THREE-LEGGED RACE.
Ward, as Minister, found a Government
job for Mr. Garden, and Mr, Garden
is still hanging round.
Mr. Garden’s prescription for financial
happiness was dispensation with borrow-
ing (and payment of interest) in favor of
“credits, secured on the entire public and
private wealth of the country,” to be
shovelled out, presumably, by the Com-
monwealth Bank. And if in the related
process of monkeying with the currency
a bank balance of, say, £5O0 —or the
equivalent in a life policy or a Govern-
ment security, held by one of those
nefarious bondholders —were reduced in
purchasing-power to five pounds or five-
pence, that would be just too bad fdr
“the exploiters.”
In the Air Age.
“Ben Cubbin” on his first flight:
Sitting in a comfortable carpeted lounge,
with a polite staff waiting to serve a meal or
refreshments, and travelling at 250 m.p.h. to
300 m.p.h. 2f miles above the earth, a party
aboard Ross Smith, the new Qantas Constel-
lation plane, saw a small black grub with a
faint white feather at its head, crawling towards
the silver streak of the Hawkesbury far below.
In a few minutes the grub was out of sight
and the people above were watching the bays
and creeks of Brisbane Water. Presently the
Constellation had turned for the return; and
there, below, still crawling and only slightly
nearer the river, was thcTgrub—a N.S.W. pas-
senger train.
He must have entirely lacked imagination
who could look down at that train and not
realise that its day was done. A few more
years, perhaps, people will still allow them-
selves to be jolted over steel rails at speeds
of from 15 to 50 miles an hour, but as surely
as the train ousted the stage-coach and the
steamships ousted the sailer, the aeroplane
will oust the train—and perhaps the steamship.
Nothing came out of the 1939-45 wars with
a”more enhanced reputation as a transport
medium. It provisioned and reinforced armies,
carried and delivered incredible tonnages of
bombs against incredible opposition, became a
vital factor in the war at sea and, at the end,
had earned for itself an impressive record ot
dependability and endurance.
Now, with the wars behind it, and'beginning
to show what it can do in peace, its engines
purr their scorn of Railway Ministers, unions
and Commissioners, its great wings throw the
shadow of. oblivion over the railway, its
very .presence in the skies indicates that a big
country like this must soon set about, not
“improving” its railways, but reducing them
to their rapidly diminishing functions the car-
riage of freight that the airways cannot handle.
Since our railways are nearly all “Govern-
ment”-owned and since railwaymen represent
a powerful mass vote, it would be hard to
find a party Government with the courage to
set about reducing them. This though they con-
tinue to cost the nation enormous sums—
directly, as a result of their inability to compete
with road and air transport; indirectly, in the
damage and loss they inflict by their slowness,
irresponsibility and rigid routes. But within the
next of couple of decades, except for the long
hauls of heavy freight, they will be as archaic
as is the bullock-wagon today.
The Constellation is only one of the giants
of the air. Big and fast as it is, it is to the
air-liner of the imminent future what the 1914-18
bomber was to the Super Fortresses, Lancasters
and Lincolns of the 1939-45 wars. The railway
train, except to a very limited extent, cannot
survive against the passenger and freight-carrying
aeroplane. And politicians who try, by heavy
taxes and restrictive legislation, to halt the aero-
plane in favor of the train —at the expense of
country people, as is the way of city politicians
—are like a man who flogs a dying horse.
"Control."
Is there anything which Government
control touches that doesn’t shrivel up?
There has been less coal from N.S.W.
mines since one board took over
production and another distribution.
Government management ran Aus-
tralian shipping into a state of chaos
and exorbitant running costs from
which this generation is likely to
see no recovery. There has been end-
less argument over fish —and little fish —
in N.S.W. since that commodity came
into the Government’s dead hand. Gov-
ernment railways, trams and buses have
long been losing propositions even when
there was little of the contemporary
“scaling” ; now fare-increases which were
to bring in another £1,200,000 of N.S.W.
tram and bus revenue in 1947-48 are ex-
pected to leave a loss of £500,000. Boards
controlling apples and pears, eggs, peas,
barley and wheat are a perpetual source
of producers’ complaints because of ex-
pense and restrictions.
This Government-run country can’t
even get in a bumper wheat crop without
miscalculation and panic.
De Gaulle's France.
General de Gaulle’s return to the
political arena, with the victory at the
municipal polls of his new party, the
Rally of the French People, is a portent,
Something has gripped the French
imagination when this strangely cold
figure can head a movement which has
routed the strongly-entrenched Com-
munist party in Paris and Marseilles —
Marseilles especially is an eye-opener—•
and taken an auspicious lead over them
in the chief principal provincial towns.
In the eyes of people inside as well as
outside France De Gaulle has many de-
fects ; but he has certain undoubted
merits. He is clear-sighted and honest,
and he insists upon order as the hall-
mark of efficient government. The
Constitution drafted as the result
of inter-party compromises in the Con-
stituent Assemblies, reflecting inconclu-
sive results from elections, was, in De
Gaulle’s view, defective. Defective not-
ably in its failure to bestow upon the
office of President any real power in
the government of the country. De
Gaulle’s ideal is a President like that of
the United States.
The French people were not ready for
such an innovation last year, and may
not be ready now. What they have
learnt in the interim is disillusion in the
faith that an all-party Government
would assure government in the interests
of the nation. There was so much to be
restored in devastated industry and ser-
vices, public morale, prestige and the old
traditional place of France as a leader
in Western Europe that a Ministry of
All the Talents, based upon all parties
and reflecting their relative strengths, was
surely the recipe for tackling a job as
urgent as any in war-time. But in the
event no such spirit in the politicians
revealed itself.
In the early post-war days, too, France
was preoccupied with the passions re-
maining over from the resistance move-
ment and with the purging of collabor-
ators. Even among non-collaborators
the same sort of strife spread, and the
Communists behaved as though the elite
of the resistance movement did not in
their regard number many non-Comi-
munists. The De Gaullists were, it is
true, “Free French,” but any Frenchman
outside France could be “free,”
De Gaulle’s first and natural aim w.as
to rally the Catholic element. But the
conservatives of the Right probably spoilt
his chances by hailing him as The Man,
and in any case De Gaulle appears not
to be constituted by Nature to share
authority with others. In justice it should
be added that experiments in such sharing
of authority among party leaders has
done little to remedy France’s distress.
De Gaulle has come back to the fray
on assurances of support for his fore-
most political principle that France
must have order restored. It is reason-
able to assume that he will go to the
Parliamentary elections demanding that
the Constitution shall be reformed to
give the President definite powers of his
own in restoring and maintaining orderly
government. That is the condition of his
offering himself in this emergency to the
French people.
Undoubtedly some of the Catholic
M.R.P. have gone over to De Gaulle.
Whether or not the peasants are with him
today, their adherence is not doubted if he
shows that, given support, he can restore
order. Some Communists have joined
him, too. Certainly the influential Com-
munist journalist Malraux supports him.
There is a definite and strong section of
Communists who are Frenchmen first.
De Gaulle’s resurgence has drawn the
line between French patriots and those
who follow Moscow. The decimated
middle parties must now consider
their position. No doubt Russia’s
aggressive diplomacy against the West
has assisted to produce this sharper
alignment in France and the eclipse
of the broad - centre - party idea, as
it is doing also in Italy. Lastly, the
French cannot refuse American economic
help. Their position is too desperate.
But they want a leader who will stand up
to the Americans bringing gifts. De
Gaulle can be relied upon to do that.
From Tern to 'Form.
The, “Cominform,” as the Comintern
now calls itself, is no doubt seeking many
things, but mostly it is looking at present
for advertisement. If only it could
foment an Anti-Cominform Pact it would
be happy; then it could accuse a collec-
tion of nations of preparing for war.
So eager is Moscow for such a develop-
ment that “Depravda” asks, with a sem-
blance of righteous indignation, why it
should be counted a sin in Communist
countries to be allowed to organise a
bureau for “exchange of experience.”
The Cominform, it says, is organis-
ing also “to prevent warmongers
from provoking a new war”—that
is, by building up treason-cells in demo-
cratic countries and exploiting any local
counter-action against them as provoking
war.
The test “whether you are supporters
of peace” is quite simple: “if you are,
you will support Communist aims.” Ex-
hortations are then addressed to European
Socialist parties, especially the French
and Italian, requiring them bluntly to
declare which camp they are in—that of
the Western democracies or of the
Soviet—and to forsake their present
leaders as traitors. This choice bit of
spite makes quite clear that the Soviet has
abandoned any idea it ever had of work-
ing with Britain and America for general
post-war reconstruction.
The Foreign Ministers’ Council, due to
meet in London on November 1, should
quickly dispose of any doubts there.


, i |ip
■ •
m
6SS9
AS LIMITED - OVER 1:50f VEfttiSl REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
For greater smoking
enjoyment give me
CRAVENA
f
POLITICAL POINTS
To thoughtful country people—and,
they were never thinking harder —the
astonishing census figures should ram
home the moral pointed by the bank
expropriation. To secure local self-
government, a greater country population
and checks on the excesses of city
Caucuses and Communist - controlled
unions, there must be new States.
According to a Melbourne “Herald”
man in London the English can’t under-
stand why Chifley isn’t going to Princess
Elizabeth’s wedding when the much older
Smuts and Mackenzie King are making
a point of being present. Chifley’s re-
fusal of the invitation, the “Herald” man
says, has been “noticed by foreign coun-
tries,” and “mdny ordinary people regard
it as not particularly complimentary to
the King.” Still, Dr. Evatt will be there,
with a~ newly-acquired reputation for
being a pertinacious dritic of Moscow
policy, which he warmly defended in his
own country the last time he had occasion
to mention it. The accommodating doctor
has also recently come but a's a champion
of Smuts’s country —he left it flat when
the Russians and the Indians were devot-
ing it to world execration.
“No further meetings in support of
bank nationalisation are to be held by the
A.L.P. in N. S. Wales”—so it was an-
nounced last week. “ ‘There is no need
to flog it,’ said organising-secretary
Wright.” No ; the need is to dish it.
Meanwhile it is significant—and charac-
teristic—that the “Labor” organisation in
the Chifley - Ward - Evatt - Ashley State
should squib public discussion of the
issue by cancelling a score of meetings.
There is growing evidence that Com-
monwealth Bank men are not too happy
about the Bank Grab, either. After the
1945 Act they were encouraged to visu-
alise new C.B. branches opening up
everywhere like daisies on a spring morn,
with promotion for all hands. Now, with
the threat of an invasion of highly-skilled
trading-bank staff, prospects for the
Commonwealth blokes don’t look nearly
so rosy. In one big N.S.W. branch an
anti-nationalisation petition was signed
by a Commonwealth Bank staff to a man.
Reckless assertion, made regardless of
facts, has become part of the stock-in-
trade of Ministers at Canberra. Ward,
following Menzies in the debate on the
Bank Grab Bill, repeated a tissue of un-
truths about a trading bank s dealings
with poor Gordon Williams; and
Chambers, who claims that it is “normal
practice” (he means “subnormal prac-
tice”) to garnishee bank accounts to re-
cover overpayments to suffering p.-0.-w.,
worked himself into a passion on the
theme that another bank had been in-
different to a soldier-customer’s interests.
Both “scandals” were incontinently ex-
ploded. Chifley himself suffered the
same experience. , He alleged that his
Government’s right, taken under the J 945
Act, to require surplus trading banks de-
posits to be lodged in the Common-
wealth Bank was being challenged as in-
valid. Menzies showed that not only had
this action not been challenged but no
lawyer had ever suggested invalidity. The
recent proceedings before the High Court
and the Chief Justice’s comments should
have made that perfectly clear to the
head of the “Government.”
As the Prime Minister put it:
Mr. Falstein [Lab., Watson] is a director
of Far Eastern Exchange Pty., Ltd. Last
May Mr. S. Sammy, of York-street, Syd-
ney, obtained an import licence to cover
textiles worth £45,260 from America. Mr.
Sammy went to Malaya, appointing Far
Eastern Exchange his agents, with authority
to attend to the textile imports. In his
absence he could not sign a letter of credit
for the goods, so the Commonwealth Bank
suggested that his licence should be cancelled
and a new one issued [to the Falstein con-
. cern], This was done, and exchange was
thereupon made available for the goods m
transit.
Thus, according to the Prime Minister, an
import licence was not transferred and
no preferential treatment was given. A
very fine distinction.
There is no questioning Rosevear’s
native ability, but he shouldn’t be in the
Chair. When he steps down from that
above-the-battle position to make a
partisan speech—which, of course, is all
wrong —he does it more effectively than
any avowed Ministerialist could do the
job, though he always leaves the impres-
sion that he should move to and stay on
the front bench. And as Speaker he has
certainly been well primed as to the
powers resident in the office.
Beyond doubt Rosevear handled
the Abbott-Amour business very well,
which is more than Chifley did. And
the Speaker got heavily home on
the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” when
that paper blundered into a hasty declara-
tion that “the A.B.C. news-service was
censored ; the Joint Committee on the
Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceed-
ings forbade the A.B.C. to rebroadcast” of
what Abbott had said. A threat from the
Chair, of “very strong measures” took all
the fight out of the “D.T.,” and its
response, greatly abbreviated, was “We
regret that we fell into error; we hasten
to set this matter right.” Holt, bracketed
in the “D.T.” as guilty of a breach of
privilege,' stoutly denied it and held his
own argument.
Since the French killed their king they
have periodically looked 'for a man
{LHomme), and De Gaulle is palpably
the latest. At the municipal elections,
with women and men voting, he has
beaten the Communists out of sight,
and that with a new party which is not
strorigly represented in the Chamber. He
scored even in Paris, with its Red Belt,
and in Marseilles, which has spawned
revolutionaries for 160 years. No one with
any knowledge of the French nation ever
believed that it would long tolerate Com-
munist strikes and servility to Moscow.
On the other,side of the Atlantic the
old film actor Adolphe Menjou is active
in the cause of decency and freedom.
Pittsburg-born of French descent, Menjou
has been the most active opponent of
the Communists who herd in Hollywood
and work Leftist stuff into films when
they can get away with it. Appearing as
a witness before Washingtons Un-
American Activities Committee Menjou
acknowledged being a “Red-baiter” and
proud of it, and his revelation of the
tricky devices of Communist script-
writers, actors and actorines (“crackpots,
political idiots and morons”) brought the
house down.
Victorian “Labor” is running a man
against Mutton, M.L.A. for Coburg.
Since he broke with the party Mutton
has never refused it its vote, and his
opposition at this election has made him
bitter. He points out that the A.L.P.
is supporting the Independents in Ivan-
hoe and Glen Iris, “though they have
voted against the Government scores of
times.”
Cain, attacking Dunstan, quoted the
late Argyle:
You can search the political records of
this State, and any other British Parliament,
and you will find nothing to equal such a
career of political treachery, chicanery and
opportunism.
This, according to Cam, fittingly described
Dunstan. What, then, describes Cain, who
as leader of the “Labor” party, after help-
ing Dunstan to oust Argyle, kept Dunstan
in office for eight years?
McDonald, the Victorian C.P. leader,
worked it out that in his State a whole
3 p.c. of ex-servicemen applicants for
farms have been accommodated —that is
on forms; not farms: “very few are
actually in occupation of their proper-
ties.” Three per- cent, is 255 ; there
have been 8500 applicants in Victoria.
The total for Australia .is 35,448, and of
this number' 198 have been settled in
N. S. Wales and two in South Australia.
These are Dedman (Post-War Recon-
struction) admissions.
Blair Athol (Q.) is in the boom. Over
£25,000 was offered for an old two-
storey wooden pub, and there’s big money
for shops, building sites, picture-theatres
and so forth. But the locals are hanging
on, seeing fortunes within the next four
or five years. Meantime Premier Hanlon,
who is expected to take the public into
his confidence, especially as in this matter
he is abandoning Government ownership,
elects to remain silent. Perhaps he’s sav-
ing Blair Athol up for the next election.
As “N. Q. Register” sees it:
If but 20 per cent, of Queensland’s known
resources were at the moment in process of
exploitation, no State in Australia could
equal it in power and affluence. Even the
industrial might of Sydney and Melbourne
could not measure up to the raw-material
might of Queensland. It is here, waiting
for development, and the signs are not
wanting that the much-awaited golden era
of exploitation is at hand.
“Exploitation,” eh! Isn’t that the very
thing the Canberra crowd aims at stop-
ping with its banking bill?
A Gladstone (Q.) meatworker arrived
in Brisbane with a goat-pulled cart con-
taining his belongings. He said he was
on his way round Australia, perhaps be-
cause he is sick of being pushed around
by union bosses. What with job-control,
road-transport-strangulation laws. Gov-
ernment trains that don’t run because
they can’t get coal and the air-carriage
monopoly for which Canberra is reaching
out, it won’t be long before others have to
rely on goats.
Harrison’s protest in the House against
“partisan appointments” of conciliation
commissioners would have been more
forceful had he quoted “Labor” kself on
the point. True, the spectacle of Ham.
Knight resigning his N.S.W. Labor and
Industry portfolio to take up one of these
jobs, and simultaneously announcing that
he was off to Victoria to take part in
.Cain’s “Labor” campaign, is enough to
kill any pretence of impartiality as to
Trades Hall and Caucus qualification.
Pollard, Scully’s successor in Commerce
and Agriculture, has been giving out the
figures of Government subsidies on farm
produce for home consumption as show-
ing how the farmer has shared in “the
general prosperity.” The truth is, of
course, that the subsidies paid were for
the benefit of consumers, in order to
maintain the Government’s “controlled
price ceiling.” If Pollard thinks his issue
of figures will help Cain in Victoria to
get the cocky’s vote in favor of bank
expropriation, he’d better guess again.
Two years ago A.N.A. applied to the
Civil Aviation Department for a permit
to run a Townsville-Cloncurry air service,
and Aircrafts Proprietary applied for a
Rockhampton-Longreach permit. Neither
company could get (a) a permit or (b) a
reason for the delay. Both now know the
reason. The Government-run T.A.A.
(“Tax All Australia” in Tommy White’s
apt version) is to lose public money on
both routes.
There is great concern about the stor-
age of the enormous wheat crop which
has begun to pour from the headers —
latest estimate is about 250,000,000
bushels; the biggest harvest Australia
has grown. When it became evident that
the Government chaps responsible for
the provision' of silos, bags, railway trucks
and so forth had left their run too late
suggestions for storing the stuff came
from everywhere. They ranged all the
way from using aerodrome hangars to
paper bags. Nobody mentioned Scully’s
disused wool-appraisement floors at
Dubbo and Moree, or his idle wheat dis-
tilleries at Warracknabeal and Cowra.
The Australian Wheat Board “expects
to have enough bags and bulkheads
available in N. S. Wales early next year
to cope with the record wheat harvest.
And the chairman, a Mr. Perrett, added;
There is absolutely no cause for alarm.
... .There will be ample supplies of new
sacks between December and February....
Probably by the end of the year between
55,000 and 60,000 bales will be available....
“December and February”? “End of
the year”? Doesn’t the man know that,
except in odd spots in the south, all the
wheat will be stripped weeks before then?
Have the growers to store the substance
in the kitchen, under the bed, in empty
tins or .in the fireplace until then? It looks
like it: “Growers will have to impro-
vise arrangements on their farms until
the board obtains sacks, but this should
not be difficult.” No trouble at all, pro-
vided the missus can rake up a few spare
pillow-cases and a string-bag or two.
A nonagenarian comes out fighting:
That determined old grazier William George
Magrath has lost the third round of the light
he is carrying on with a former Federal Taxation
Commissioner for the vindication of his good
name. The Commissioner had been compelled
to refund to Magrath £59,791 in taxation
wrongly assessed over 10 years, together with
a fine for non-return of tax-free income,
although “evasion of tax could not be proved
for lack of evidence” (“evasion,” as the High
Court has said, there was none). The Com-
missioner, in his annual report (1943), included
Magrath’s name in a list of “questionable
returns,” and in his subsequent report (1944),
although recording the refund he was com-
pelled to make on an unjust assessment, had
no reference to the fine imposed nor to the
published slur on the taxpayer’s name in
branding him as an evader of taxation.
Magrath sued for damages on account of
defamation. In the first round of his case
N.S.W. Supreme Court Justice Owen upheld a
claim of “privilege.” In the second round the
Full Bench of the Supreme Court reversed the
verdict; “no privilege.” Now the High Court
by five to one has reversed that again. Judging
from his attitude in the past, the sturdy old
pastoralist is unlikely to take it as final that
a Government department may defame a man
under plea of “privilege,” and, when proved
wrong, withhold even a withdrawal.
As if Fabian socialism hadn’t brought
trouble enough to Britain, the Attlees met
Parliament with notice of their intention
to complete the “public ownership” of
the fuel and power industries, gasworks
first, and to “nationalise the relevant
portions of the iron and steel industries”
{what an encouragement to all “portions”
to go their hardest on the production
front!), meanwhile taking a fall out of
the Lords. The individual Briton is to pay
for these and other blessings by having
to get along with a shillingsworth of
meat, an ounce of bacon and eight ounces
of sugar a week, and 66 fresh eggs a
year.
It hds been remarked that Rosevear
took care to attack the High Court l
Bench on the score of its age before the
Senate resumed business. Had he seen
that gathering first he might have
weakened. Ceilings is 82 ; Cameron is
nearly 70 (and he looks more); Ashley,
Ccmrtice and O’Flaherty are in the
sixties, Sheehan and Grant in the late
fifties. Of the “new” men Fred Ward,
from Adelaide, owns to rising 75 (and he
was elected for six years from the end of
June!); and Fred Katz, from Melbourne,
is understood to have started losing elec-
tions before the Boer War. Anyway, it
is just on 32 years since he fell foul of
the Government (“Labor” then) by
recommending unionists to “ignore” re-
cruiting cards. The recommendation,
embodied in a Trades Hall Council reso-
lution, had to be expunged from the
books when the discovery was made that
it counselled an illegal proceeding.
“Prisoner at the Bar,” the Judge said,
“you have been found guilty. I should
like to release you on a bond, but your
offence is too serious, and I must ad-
minister punishment as a warning to
others. The sentence of the Court is that
you shall be taken from this place and
held in custody until you have listened
to two complete A.B.C. recordings of the
New Senate. And may the Lord
have mercy on your soul—if you have a
soul!”


THE WINGEN ROCK.
{With acknowledgments to Southey.)
“Repeating his allegation that Senator Stan Amour was put off a plane bound for Australia for being fighting drunk,
Abbott, alleged that the Senator was ‘drinking double whiskies—ordering them two at a time; drinking one ana
pouring the other into a Coca-Cola bottle.
The sun in heaven was shining gay,
All things were joyful on the day
When Stan the Rover boarded a clipper
To see the world as a buckshee tripper.
He felt the cheering power of spring,
It made him whistle, it made him sing:
Wherever his itchy feet should turn,
He’d pounds galore and dollars to burn.
No fears of evil his heart assail,
No thought of Abbott of Armidale —
Joe Abbott, grim as his Wingen Rock,
Another Abbott of Aberbrothok.
Sir Stan the Rover sailed away;
He toured the world for many a day;
He lit a fag on a crowded plane:
“Skidoo!” —but at length he’s home again.
s,
He hears a sound; he hears a bell;
There’s some rude person giving him hell;
He feels he’s going to take the knock:
“Oh, cripes! It is the Wingen Rock. 1 ”
Sir Stan the Rover tore his hair:
He curst the Abbott in his despdir;
The listeners sit by every set —
He’ll need that Coca-Cola yet.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”; Middle-aged, he could have
been a prosperous businessman —his very
well-nourished frame was enclosed in an
expensive suit as he came into the big
store and browsed among the beachwear.
There were vivid shirts; there were
shorts piped in maroon and duck-
egg blue and with embroidery worked
on them garments which had any
fellow worn them around a beach a few
years ago would have earned him
the undying shame of having some
of the “boys” raise their hats to him —•
but apparently the effeminate is the
fashion. After unloading on him a poly-
chromatic horror of a wrap the salesman
started impressing his customer with the
new features of the latest beach shorts.
“Now these,” he went on, holding up a
pair with a yellow dragon on one leg and
a pocket and piping of bottle green, “are
the very latest' in intimate beachwear —•
they’re the new built-in shorts,” The
customer eyed them critically. “Son,” he
said, gazing down at his swelling embon-
point and then at the tenuous-looking
garment, “I don’t think they’d be suit-
able. Now have you got a built -out
pair?”
* * * *
“Hep-2-3-4”: Australia should collect
a Nobel Prize out of this —one of her
sons, a Rugby League player who took
part in the recent Brisbane fiasco, has
brought to light a cure for malaria. While
explaining his part in the farce he de-
clared: — •
I did not feel well after the trip... .Dur-
ing my 3i years’ R.A.A.F. service in the
islands we used whisky as a malaria pre-
ventative when atebrin and quinine were not
available... .In Brisbane I had three
whiskies, which did not have the desired
effect. During the afternoon I attended an
R.A.A.F. reunion and had four beers and
at 7 p.m. I told Mr. Russell that I was fit
to play. (The player also said that he had
a few drinks about 12.30 p.m. and another
at 5.30).
What sadistic liars those Army doctors
must have been as they welcomed Island
troops entering the L.T.D.:
If you want to enjoy your leave, take
your atebrin and keep off the grog. Exces-
sive alcohol will bring out malaria
quickly.
* * * #
“Scuppers”: To a club composed of
men who cherish the sea came two land-
lubbers as guests-of-honor. The evening
was a scorcher, and the pair listened with
increasing thirst as one by one the mem-
bers rose to speak of experiences on the
mighty salt. Then, at 11 p.m., an old sea-
dog leaped to his feet and roared:
“Gentlemen. As is our custom at this
time, we will now have a shandy.” Cheers
from the lubbers, but they’d heard it
wrong. The nearest to liquid they came
was mention of the water crossed by
“Rolling down to Rio.”
* * * *
“Pookie”: As “Becks” suspects (B.
15/10/’47), the average German was
casual about his “Heil Hitlers” - in
average circumstances. When confronting
a superior—an official, a party official or
the like —the greeting would come out
clear and loud, the arm would come up
in an academic Nazi salute. At other
times the phrase would contract to
“Litler,” said very hurriedly, with a faint
“d” sound to the t, and the salute would
be no more than the tentative gesture of
a militaristic fish. This applied, generally,
to civilians among their peers. The S.S.
and Waffen S.S. were always punctilious,
but, in the early part of the war particu-
larly, I noticed that the Wehrmacht
hardly ever used the greeting. This, I
believe, was because the Army stocks
were high at that time ; the Army had had
an unbroken run of victories and, prob-
ably, was inclined to think that Hitler and
the Nazis were useful but not indispens-
able. In support of this theory, at Bel-
grade, I witnessed an incident which could
hardly have occurred Jater in the war.
Two Wehrmacht officers were sitting at a
table in a boulevard cafe, when two S.S.
officers came up, clanked to attention,
“Heiled,” and prepared to sit down. The
Wehrmacht officers responded with the
merest nod, looked at each other, and left
the table, leaving the black-uniformed
figures very erect, and looking .very
foolish.
* * * *
“8.D.”: The headmaster of a Queens-
land boarding-school received a complaint
from the elderly matron. She had gone
over to the dormitories before breakfast,
and four boys had come tumbling down
the stairs without a stitch of clothes on,
heading for the showers. “I’ll see to that
“I’ve listened to you long enough. Now you listen to me!"
at once,” said the head. “Now, tell pie
who they were.” “I didn’t notice that,”
was the reply, “All I can tell you is that
they were senior boys.”
* * * #
“W.£.T.”: I have seen many cheques,
but never one that creates such interest
as The Bulletin’s “Thank Heaven
That’s Paid! ” No matter how often you
pay one of these into a bank or cash it at
a store, it is always examined minutely
and brings forth smiles. On one occasion
a teller examined mine for so long that
I asked “What’s wrong with it?” to which
he replied “Oh, nothing at all, but isn’t it
a beauty?” Now I am wondering, with
possible nationalisation of the banks,
w'ill The Bulletin cheque form disap-
pear?
# ♦ * *
“Hindmarsh”: The quick wit of an
elderly Adelaide lady caused the down-
fall of a practical joker of a peculiarly
silly kind the other week. City and sub-
urban fire brigades had several times been
called to non-existent fires by a young
female voice on the telephone, and police
and firemen were on watch for a flapper.
Then the same voice called the brigade
to a timberyard one night, claiming to
be the caretaker’s wife. Next day the
caretaker’s wife, a woman of more than
60 years, was in a cafe when a 17-year-old
youth with a soprano voice asked her
how she had slept the night before. She
passed it off lightly, but called the police
as soon as she could and the soprano
joker was arrested.
* * * *
“Bo”: Up for an hour’s flip over
Sydney in Qantas Empire Airways’ Con-
stellation airliner Ross Smith, we noticed
a fellow-scribe sitting uneasily on the
extreme edge of his sponge-rubber seat
with his hat in between his knees, up-
turned, in an expectant attitude. On
entering the plane he had obviously been
puzzled by the absence of something for
which his eyes had been searching. After
an understanding official, suppressing a
grin, had put him at his ease with the
assurance that the pressurised, air-con-
ditioned cabin of the Constellation almost
eliminated the possibility of air-sickness
the scribe furtively consigned his cady
to a less conspicuous place. But one
could scarcely imagine anyone being air-
sick in this aerial Rolls-Royce, in which,
doing 300 m.p.h. at 11,000 ft., you can
pace the carpeted corridor with no more
feeling of height than in your lounge-
room. There is only the faintest sugges-
tion of movement, a complete absence of
vibration and the noise of the four giant
motors is reduced to a sleep-inducing
hum of little more volume than that of
an electric jug. Perhaps one of the
strangest features of travel aboard a
big airliner as distinct from a big ocean
liner is that, whereas on shipboard one is
instantly aware of a change of direction,
the airliner can within half a minute be
flying in exactly the opposite direction
and the passenger, unless he is looking at
the ground, is unaware of it. t
* * * ' *
“Youanmi”: Anyone who has ever
tried to submit a MS. to an American
film company knows how canny those
concerns are about such matters —they
deal exclusively through agents and will
rarely even accept delivery of MS. from
little-known writers. They are always
afraid of plagiarism, deliberate or acci-
dental, and, like newspapers, wealthy pro-
ducers and impersonal film companies are
generally fair game for any individual
with even the slightest shadow of a case.
Successful writers are often in the news
for similar reasons, and I see now that
Daphne du Maurier is defending herself
in America against a charge of plagiarism.
The original plaintiff died last April, but
her son is pressing her claim —that Miss
du Maurier’s Rebecca was “pirated”
from a short-story and a novel by his
mother. The defendant denied having
read either before she wrote her novel,
but she must be a little tired of this sort
of thing. Some time ago, after her
Frenchman’s Creek was published, atten-
tion was drawn to an alleged similarity
between that story and another yarn in
another language by a South American
.writer. Whether the matter went any
further than that I do not know.
* * * *
“Miss X.”: I’m no authority, but I’ve
always thought that “Limited” and
“Ltd.” were interchangeable. The other
day I typed out a document to a Sydney
firm and used the abbreviation ; it was
posted, and two days later a very
self-assured office-boy came around to
demand that the contraction be erased
and “Limited” typed in. I obliged, but
not without wondering why. The firm?
No, not a bank or a Government depart-
ment, but a Sydney newspaper which is
noted more for the Bohemian dress and
habits of its dashing fellows than for
attention to such details.
» * * *
“F.S.” on art and its teachings ;
Bernard Hall, who held the fort for the
London Slade School traditions of art for 30
years at the National Gallery in Melbourne,
would rotate in his grave if he saw what was
going on today at that institution. Hall once
remarked that a modernist painting would enter
the Gallery only over his dead body, and he
expelled a student who didn’t conform to his
standards —the student rented a Collins-street
window and exhibited his offending canvas.
Since Hall died dozens of modernist pictures
have been bought and dozens have been painted
by students. When Army rehabilitation sent
numbers of incipient artists to the Gallery
school for training the new director, Dargie, was
faced with an insoluble problem. A pupil of
a pupil of Meldrum, he had his own standards.
One of the ex-service students was setting up
his easel when the director came up. “I don’t
suppose you want to learn to paint in our way,
Mr. Dauber?” said Dargie. “No, I don’t,”
said the student. The Archibald Prize winner
then went to the trustees and told them he
couldn’t teach students who wanted to teach
the teacher, and insisted that they should have
a teacher of their own choosing who must
be a real extremist, not one of the half-and-
half variety. Alan Sumner was then appointed
to deal with anybody who didn’t want to paint
like Dargie, though whom they wanted to
paint like is difficult to say, since the modernist
believes that art is a matter of, individual ex-
pression. To complicate the situation further,
Murray Griffin, the assistant instructor, an ex-
pupil of Hail and an ex-p.o.w. who painted
the horrors of Changi and the Burma Railway,
is more modernist than Dargie but less modern-
ist than Sumner, while some of the students
regard even Sumner as a bit old-fashioned.
The travelling scholarship is now worth £9OO
and is the biggest art prize in Australia. Faced
with this anarchy in Victoria’s chief temple
of art the trustees have decided to appoint a
committee of six judges, mostly artists from
outside the institution, who will vote.for their
fancy by secret ballot. Thus has democracy
replaced totalitarianism at the National Gallery.
* * * *
“P.M.”: In my day I have relentlessly
pursued the Tamworth Tiger and the
dreaded Were-Rabbit which menaced the
northern tablelands. Lonely vigils I
have maintained near the haunts of the
Bathurst Owl. Once with another
R.A.A.F. type I went within an ace (and
two bottles) of waylaying the Loch Ness
Monster. I speak, therefore, as an ardent
and, I venture to say, experienced hunter
of the world’s lesser-known fauna when
I protest a'gainst the totally inadequate
equipment with which three crass
amateurs are seeking to capture the Gun-
dagai Bunyip. These gentlemen an
editor and two publicans, all of whom
should know better —are taking a rifle
(quite hopeless), 800yds. of mesh netting
(little better), three motor boats and two
bottles of Scotch whisky. Surely the most
inexperienced bungler must realise that
the prime requisite in capturing a bunyip
is the ability to sight your quarry and,
as testified by my Loch Ne’ss experience,
two bottles are hopelessly inadequate,
*** * \ .
“L.V.M.”: During the Abyssinian
campaign it was no secret that many
South African troops took a very dim
view of fighting another white nation to
restore a black king to his throne. So
much so that on a South African squad-
ron’s D.R.Os. appeared the following
order: “Forthwith His Royal Highness,
the Lion of Judah, King of Kings and
Emperor of Abyssinia shall be referred
to as ‘The Emperor’ and not as ‘That
Black B.’ ”
* * * *
“Q Clerk”; My job in the Q store was
to sort blankets, hand out buckets and
brooms to fatigue parties and count
bootlaces. The orderly-room for some
unaccountable reason selected me to
attend a quartermasters’ school. Upon
arriving at the school I found myself the
only private in a crowd of C.Q.M.Ss.
and R.Q.M.Ss. Some were World War I
veterans and had served on the “Q” side
during that stoush ; others had had long
experience in the same class of work in
the militia; all had been “Q” non-coms
for over 18 months since the outbreak of
World War 11. They were a tough mob
of old soldiers, and what they didn’t know
about the “Q” game was hardly worth
knowing. Yet, when the result of the
written exam, held at the end of the
school was posted, I, a soldier of three
months’ standing and a mere babe in “Q”
work, topped the list half a lap ahead of
the others. The reason? Well, a week
or so after my enhstment. I had been
detached from my umt to act as a clerk to
a major in the “Q” branch of one of the
mainland commands. He was preparing
a set of lectures, and learning that I was
a newspaperman he tossed over his rough
notes and ordered me to lick them into
shape. With his notes, a stack of manuals,
a file of routine orders and much ear-
bashing from the major I wrote him about
20 lectures and at the finish knew every
one by heart. What were the lectures
about? They were for the quarter-
masters’ school about to be established.
No, exams are not always a true test of
a man’s capabilities.
* * *
“T.McN.”: For years I have sneered
at the booze-hound —frequently to his
face in those repentant moments when he
has sought a confidant. “Look,” I have
said, “where’s your self-esteem? What
sort of a man are you that you allow a
liquid to be your master? What sends
you, after hours, sneaking down back
lanes, prostrating yourself before gruff
individuals and paying them three times
the price of the stuff? Where’s your
backbone? Can’t you say to yourself:
‘Be a man’ and show that you have a
mind and a soul that refuse to let you
be bullied by a liquid?” But I am no
longer qualified to speak like that. Before
me is a paper tube, 3in. long, about fin.
in diameter, filled with the chopped-up
leaf of a dessicated weed which has been
chemically treated and for which not only
do I pay from l.ld. to 3d. each, but for
which I tramp the city-streets by the hour,
coaxing disdainful females in kiosks and
going in trepidation into barber shops.
1 watch my friends, my friends watch
me, hopefully, whenever I reach into a
pocket and —but why go on? The booze-
hound in search of a beer is the brother
of him who seeks a smoke; one is the
slave of alcohol, the other the serf of
nicotine.
MORE LEGISLATORS NEEDED.
“The Federal Labor party is considering a 66
per cent, increase in membership of the House of
Representatives, which would also involve the in-
crease of Senators from 36 to 60.”
Goods could be doubtless mentioned, quite a
Tot,
Of which we need far more than what we’ve got
And in these times, to general regretting,
More than we have the faintest hope of getting;
But whether they include an extra whack
Of those who tread the Parliamentary track
And boss the show and make the laws as well
I think is definitely arguable.
More chaps to strut the legislative stage!
Is that the start of Chifley’s “Golden Age”?
More individuals to run the works
For fifteen hundred quid a year—and perks;
More cushy jobs and jaunts to be designed
For sturdy patriots of the “L’Amour” kind
To advertise our land, or do their share,
In California or in County Clare.
What do we need to speed our lagging steps
Upward? The cry’s “More Senators and Reps,”
A call that doesn’t, as you’re well aware,
Go up to Canberra, but comes down from there.
They clamor for additions to their ranks,
Our hard-worked spokesmen on Molonglo’s
banks,
They counsel reinforcements for their show
At the same figure as their own in dough.
They scorn temptation to monopolise
The verdant pastures where their living lies.
The more the merrier would seem the phrase
They use —and anyhow the country pays.
Say, what a rush there’ll be of strenuous souls
Rehearsing their acquirements for the polls
When some accommodating statute steps
The tally up of Senators and Reps!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Findy”; Ever since I came to Sydney
from a more civilised city a dozen years
ago I have protested against the idiotic
and dangerous practice of the N.S.W.
transport authorities in allowing pas-
sengers to alight from both sides of
trams. Today the perils were brought
home to me more forcibly than ever. As
my tram clattered to a stop in a busy
part of George-street a bulky man pushed
past my knees, trod on the toe of another
passenger, mumbled what was either an
apology or a curse, stepped off on the
wrong side, clambered back on to the
foot-board for a moment to allow another
tram to pass, jumped down again, dodged
a car, leaped out of the way of a truck,
took two paces, arched his back into a
question-mark to let a motor-bike whizz
by and sprang on to the footpath.
“Idiot! ” I mused. “Fancy risking his life
just for the sake of a few seconds. Any
one of those hazards could have settled
him. And I don’t suppose he’s really in
a hurry at all. Just habit, the darn fool.”
Just then we reached ,my own stop. I
jumped up, trod on someone’s toe,
mumbled something which he could take
as he pleased, stepped off on the wrong
side, clambered back on to the running-
board again to allow another tram to
pass, jumped down again, dodged a car,
leaped out of the way of a truck, took
two paces, arched my back into a ques-
tion-mark to let a motor-bike whizz by
and sprang on to the footpath.
♦ * * iff
“Port Augusta”: Announcement of the
S.A. Government’s decision to build a
new reservoir at Eurelia to supply water
to trains working the Leigh Creek coal-
field is bound to bring out of cold storage
the old gags regarding the pronunciation
of the name of the little town in S.A.’s
Upper North, so let me in first. As 1
recall it, the little comedy which lightens
for a few moments the dull journey up
the narrow-gauge line from Terowie goes
something like this. The train pulls into
the station. The guard announces in
challenging tones “Yureelya.” A dozen
heads poke out of carriage windows and
a dozen voices correct him with “You’re-
a-liar.” The guard responds “You-really-
are,” and the train puffs on.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: As an inhabitant of Aus-
tralia’s largest city, wherein one is more
restricted by legislation, more bam-
boozled and bullied by bureaucrats, more
abused by civil servants, striking union-
ists and his own fellows than any other
village, town or city outside Russia, I had
long supposed that Freedom, if not dead
here, was in desperate straits. It is not
so —by gum it is not. A man is still free
to burn down his own home if he wishes,
a privilege asserted by our worthy Judge
Lamaro when ordering the acquittal of
a cove charged with that alleged offence.
For the man had harmed nobody but
himself and had not sought to defraud
anyone. He did it while drunk and an-
noyed, and is probably rueing it now,
since houses are not easy to come by in
N. S. Wales. But he has made a point,
and a grateful citizenry might at least
consider awarding him one free ticket in
the “super-lott’ry.”
* * * *
“Ess”: He was sitting on the river-
bank, fully dressed, but wet. He was
nursing a three-quarter-full bottle of rum.
It was a desolate spot. The man passing
on the horse nodded to him. The man
on the river-bank returned the greeting.
“Waiting for me —hie —car, he said.
Several hours later the man on the horse
passed by again. The stranger was still
there. There was no rum left. “What
timesh the tide run out?” he asked. Rs
out now,” said the other. Sfact. he
asked. “Blime, I’m waiting for me car.
It’s down there.” A closer inspection of
the river revealed the hood of the car
just barely visible.
* * * *
“S.S.”: The young mother left baby
in her brand-new stroller outside the shop
“Flatter him a bit—I Want to send his picture to mother!"
while she went in to make a quick pur-
chase. was delayed a little longer
than she anticipated. When she came out
baby was seated on the footpath. There
was no sign of the stroller.
•-K * * *
“Col M.”: My wife was listening to the
radio, I was washing up—and, before you
draw conclusions, I state that I like to
wield the dish-mop. On the sink-side was
a large bowl of brown fluid, thick, and
with a two-inch collar. I prepared to
dump it, but the idea struck me that it
might be some culinary masterpiece in
the making, so I tried to have myself
heard over the wireless music: “What’s
this thing?” “Hungarian Rhapsody No.
13,” she yelled back. It looked like it,
too, but later proved to be a soup base.
* * * *
“Eve”; Saddest voice I ever heard:
One man talking to another last Saturday
morning in town; “I’ve been an awful
fool, Bill. Oh yes, I have. I’ve hardly
anything to go out to Randwick with.
Y’see, I brought the wife and kids to
town first.”
$ * * *
“Eureka”: Rain-making experiments
always recall to my mind an incident at
Bombala (N.S.W.). Some crank in
America had predicted the end of the
world on Christmas Day, fire to be the
agent of destruction. In my boarding-
house lived a rather religious old man
who firmly believed the story, and went
to bed on Christmas Eve, a long
session of prayers, fully expecting it to
“Now dont be unfair, Gerald—you Were here first LAST night!"
be his last night on Earth. Early on
Christmas morning some lad in the house
sprayed the front lawn x and rose-bushes
with kerosene. When the old chap
arose he went out in his pyjamas to look
at the sky. There was a light drizzle of
rain, and one of the boys remarked, “Not
much of a day for the world to be des-
troyed by fire.” The old chap sniffed
the air, got down on his hands and knees
and smelt the lawn, and then gasped: “It’s
the end of the world all right. It’s rain-
ing kerosene, and now it only needs some-
one to strike a match and everything’ll go
up.”
* * * *
“Passun”: “C.A.L.’s” unemployed mate
who knew how to have a day out on
two bob (B, 1/10/’47) was more worldly-
wise than I. In camp at Albury during
’4O I scrounged some week-end leave and,
without attempting to collect pay, hopped
the Spirit to Melbourne with only four-
pence in my pocket. Before going on to
Ballarat there was time for a stroll
around the city. I looked hungrily
at restaurant doorways where lunch-time
crowds were bustling in and out without
appreciation of their good - fortune.
Noticing a sign outside a pub, “Counter-
Lunch Threepence,” I went in to breast
a bar for the first time in my innocent
life. There was a menu stuck on the
mirror. I ordered “steak and kidney
pudding with gravy, fourpence,” and got
it, but was all at sea when the barman
said, “What’s to drink, mate?” When I
fearfully whispered “Water,” he roared
with laughter apd proceeded to inform
a large audience. Result; A huge feed,
and a skinful. I didn’t get home to
Ballarat.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Cast in a Thebarton (S.A.)
foundry, and claimed to be the largest
of its type made in Australia, is a gun-
metal propeller-shaft for a Whyalla-built
12,000-ton Yampi iron-ore ship. The
prop, is one of two, each 16yft. long
and weighing 2\ tons.
sfc jjc * *
“Barkly”: As one least likely to swig
the whole issue I was elected to the high
office of grog-keeper at our cosy C.D.S.
on Ambon. The ration was one bottle
per man per week with an occasional over.
These were not distributed. I planted
them against the rainy day certain to
come with the Japs. We had no illusions
of permanent tenancy. The day they did
come I had a dozen or more hidden under
my sleeping-platform. A few hours later,
with a Jap bayonet jabbing at the rear,
I watched miserably while the loot-happy
conquerors smashed and despoiled. They
tore down the bamboo shelters; they
found the grog: But did they drink it?
No. They smashed the bottles with their
rifle-butts. That satisfied me that the
Japs were barbarians.
Sixenate”: Quite a number of people,
having changed their names, forget the
abandoned one quite quickly (B.
15/10/’47). I know of one case where
a young man with a long crime-sheet
was put on a bond for future good be-
havior, given a job and found a liking
for “going steady.” When the reforma-
tion had gone some distance he developed
a wish to find his mother, but he was un-
able to say definitely what name she bore,
though he remembered vaguely the
locality of the h6me from which he had
bolted as a kid. The police helped him in
his search; when found the old lady
was discovered to possess a name
which the ex-convict had always regarded
as one of his aliases,
“B. A. Ker”; I’m not surprised that an
Australian could forget his former sur-
name. Surnames don’t mean much to an
Aussie, anyhow. I’ve worked for months
with, and for, men without learning their
names other than Bill or Ted. A young
airman friend married a W.A.A.A.F.
Months after the wedding his bride
brought out an old photo, album ; in it
was a snap of the airman’s best mate —a
lad who had been killed over Germany
three years before. The R.A.A.F. man
had married his dead mate’s sister, but
had never connected the surnames.
• * * *
“Morehead”; You can’t always believe
“Believe It or Not!” Ripley. In a recent
strip by that collector of unusual and
fantastic items it was stated that “auto-
licence BCOOO was held by Canon Barder,
Sydney, Ausf., and that the man next-door
had auto-licence AD000.” Canon Barder,
who is rector of St. Mark’s, Darling
Point, does hold the number-plate
BCOOO: the other number-plate is held
by a. George-street musical warehouse,
whose general-manager lives in the same
road as the Canon, but not next-door.
“Jeff”: Descendants of Captain Light
(B. 15/10/’47)? I remember reading in
a Singapore paper in 1938 that two of
Light’s great-granddaughters “darker
shades of Light” as the reporter put it—
were working as salesgirls behind the
counters of John Little’s store, and that
in view of their straitened circum-
stances a small pension, was to be asked
for as a tribute to their ancestor’s great
service in the early days of Malaya. The
Legislative Council turned down the sug-
gestion.
♦ * * *
“Exdig”; With two other members of
my R.S.L. sub-branch I went along to see
what w'as the exact position in a big house
into which a horde of “squatters” had
avalanched. The crowd gathered round
us, and one after another gave us details
of the adversities that had befallen them.
The gas had been cut off, one announced ;
so had the electric light, said another.
Another told us that the water supply
had been interfered with ; a fourth added
the news that during the night somebody
had left the taps of the tanks running to
deplete that supply; the zone milkman
had evidently been prevailed upon to
drive past ignoring their hails. “It almost
seems that they don’t want us here,” put
in another bloke in hurt tones.
DC * * ‘ *
“Oliver Filter”: Some time ago, after
hearing an old girl assert with some
vigor that she would never vote for Billy
Hughes again because she was “com-
pletely fed up with Mr. McKell and his
Liberals,” I lost all respect for the alleged
power of the ballot-box. The tre-
mendous outcry against bank nationalisa-
tion gave me a timid revival of faith
until I heard two apparently intelligent
women discussing the business in a tram.
“Personally I can’t understand what all
the fuss is about,” said one of them. “I
really think the banks should have been
properly naturalised Australian affairs
long ago. They’ve been here long enough r
and why should all our money go over'
seas? Australians are just as good as
American and Englishmen, anyway.”
“Anketell”: Sometimes I have an al-
most irresistible urge to nationalise Mr.
Chifley for his banking bill and the com-
plications it is bringing down on our
heads. My wife, who doesn’t know the
difference between the E.,S. and A. and the
banks of Loch Lomond, has taken a sur-
prisingly sudden and determined interest
in nationalisation after reading that 500
women waited on Mr. Chifley at Can-
berra to protest against his One Big Bank.
“I’ve never been to Canberra,” she told
me with disarming frankness. “And this
bank business really is awful. We simply
must send a deputation of women from
this suburb. The fare isn’t much, al-
though I’ll need a new dress in case Mr.
Chifley gives us afternoon-tea. Not that
I won’t give him a piece of mind, just
the same.” That was three days ago.
Last night a predominantly feminine anti-
nationalisation movement was established
in our suburb ; there was much talk
about the “absolute necessity” of going to
Canberra; and on this morning’s ferry I
noticed several husbands who looked as
though they had been blitzed.
A WORD IN SEASON.
“The Australian tennis-players lacked calm and
poise at Wimbledon, in marked contrast to the
Americans.” —“Lawn Tennis Journal” {England).
You Billies and Bennie^
And Jackies and Dinnies,
Exponents of tennis,
You ace-serving boys,
You tournament gallants,
Whatever your talents,
Who’re lacking in balance
And wanting in poise,
Your fault is in letting
The ball you’ve been netting
Succeed in upsetting
Your equable mood.
Such outward relations
To inner vexations
Invite condemnations
As boorish and rude.
Alas and alack! It’s
Too often you’re found
Slam-banging your racquets
In wrath to the ground
And muttering tritely
And far from politely
Expressions with slightly
A sinister sound.'
Such petulant feeling
You’d best be concealing.
A gesture revealing
111 temper annoys.
Fight cleanly and keenly;
Take setbacks serenely,
Not glumly or meanly,
And cultivate poise.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


’s own
blend of fine
Virginia Tobacco is
flavoured Nature
and mellowed
by Time ..
6*o 2
'That’s why it’s always
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies; —
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE SERVICE MAN
The Navy and Changes.
“Ek Bum”: There is room for concern
about the alterations in the operating
establishment of the Royal Navy, but
not necessarily cause for the alarm felt
among unthinking people.
The one reason for real concern is that
the Dominions —or some of them —are
not pulling their full weight. For that
matter, except for Canada, in late years,
and Australia and New Zealand in World
War I, they’ never have pulled their
weight.
The silly boast by Mr. Riordan that his
“Navy” was being built up to the greatest
strength it has ever known is without
foundation. The strength of his two
aircraft-carriers will depend entirely upon
their supporting strength, without which
they are not worth much more than
brown-paper bags.
In any case with any supporting
strength which Australia* could produce
they would be worth even less within
reach of land-based aircraft and modern
guided-missile fire,, which already has
made the V-type of rocket obsolete.
In the prime of its defence strength the
Commonwealth had a battle-cruiser, four
“She put up a bit of a fight before I gaffed her!"
cruisers and appropriate destroyer
flotillas Today, we have three cruisers,
one of which is a gift from the British
Government. All three are battle-worn ;
two of them are patched and painted;
one of the capital ones is reduced 25 p.c.
in gunpower from its original status at
birth about 20 years ago. We have the
expectation of the paper-bag carriers.
When the battle-cruiser- New Zealand
and the battleship Malaya were added to
the Austplian craft, the Pacific sections
of the British Empire in the World War
I period provided a very respectable
squadron.
In the current period the Pacific effort
amounts to about one-sixth of what was
done in 1913-24 in terms of effectiveness.
India, Malaya and N.Z. provide nothing
in destroyers, cruisers or larger ships.
Mr. Alexander’s Plan
The plans of the First Lord of the
Admiralty at present are to keep in active
commission two modem battleships and
two large aircraft-carriers, with ancillary
craft and of course, numerous cruisers,
destroyers and small craft. .
Mr - .S n Home Fleet wdl have been
cruiser of the Horn . , r
reduced to reserve when P
t 6^ P 7A r Ln n thV p N nefee-time
with 147,000 men the RJN. Peace time
strength wifi not be far off that oi pre
\v-ar days, when there were nine u. -
ships in regular commission.
Some of the older battleships e.g.,
Nelson, about the same age as Australia s
capital cruisers, which the Riordans seem
to consider fit to last for ever—are going
out altogether. Some (Warspite and
others) have gone.
The Mediterranean Fleet will be mam-
tamed intact. Immobilised ships will
remain in commission, though not
actively, and the Government Will re-
strict the period of immobility to an
absolute minimum.”
An Unworthy Sneer
Mr Bevin said that “he would not
aeree not to maintain an efficient Navy,
Araiy and Air Force,” and that “he would
not agree either to take the chances like
th ° se u Neville Chamberlain took and
which landed us in a mess.
An unworthy sneer, seeing that it was
the MacDonald Government which did
mQst tQ debilitat£ British defence and the
Labof party which? through a long period
of did eve rything in its power to
keep the forces at a minimum level.
f rnMsnrps
K. had ' rovernment in
Government both the and. the
R.A.F. would have been in poor snape
should not have
had many of the modern ty ships.
We should have had no ng
machinery, no rada , be f ore they
(they were m use in‘
weie in ei V Vr • 0
mans), no
to the proto-
type stage by the Government which Mr.
Bevm condemns.
However, there is some ground lor be-
lieving that, however mean his outlook
on the past, Mr. Bevins intentions lor
the present are worthy. The lact that Mr.
Alexander refused, on the ground ot
security,” to issue a White Paper showing
ships to be retained and complements
maintained during the next few months
suggests that there may be more behind
the business than meets the eye.
While the role of the Navy is being
accentuated by changing conditions, the
conceptions of ship armament, of tactics
and of general method are being altered
considerably by post-war invention and
adaptation on an almost incredible scale.
New Power Units
The advent of the gas turbine, already
in experimental use in a ship, opens up
new realms in propulsion, fuel usage and
speeds. This and some other newly-
developed methods of driving ships or
aircraft are only in their infancy, but it
will be surprising if some of them do
not result in the production of high-
speed submarines, the existence of which
will wreck all conceptions of convoy work
and of fleet operation in wide waters.^
The increasing speed of aircraft and of
guided missiles, which are the same thing,
have resulted in the emergence of dizzy-
ing problems which seem to spell the
doom of the aircraft-carrier as it is now
known.
Even the end of World War II saw the
development of the U.S. Navy’s ram-jet
Bumblebee supersonic weapon to deal
with kamikazes —a weapon travelling at
1400 miles an hour, which develops, in
its more modern form, 1 h.p. for every
half-ounce of weight, compared with
11b. per h.p. in ordinary modern engines.
A ram-jet engine developing 2000 h.p.
can be lifted by one man!
Rocket-powered aircraft are in the
offing—the United States Bell XS-2 is
well on its way if not complete and will
be a stainless-steel job—with speeds on
the supersonic verges. Six-jet bombers
as large as the Lancaster are flying on
the American continent. Navy jet air-
craft with speeds up to 500 m.p.h. have
come into existence.
The Gun Outdated ?
And with every new development there
is a new. impact on navies and new
problems affecting bigger ships. Rocket
aircraft and new types of gun make it
now impossible to arm a light-cruiser
with more powerful, farther-hitting


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM CARYEN late of 1 McPherson
Avenue Punchbowl.—TAKE NOTICE that SYLYIA
DORA INEZ SCOTT CARYEN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1561 of 1947 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 24th November 1947
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
ALLAN E. CUPITT, Solicitor, 129 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO RONALD JONES formerly of Braidwood in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
IVY PEARL JONES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3841 of 1947 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by Ist December 1947 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from JAMES BIRNIE
JACKSON, Solicitor, of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP TASMANIA—
(Divorce.)
Launceston District Registry.
TO WILLIAM JOHN CLARIDGE formerly of Hobart
in Tasmania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has
been filed in this ‘Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer charges in the Petition
of MAY' LILA CLARIDGE of Launceston in the State
of Tasmania praying for a dissolution of marriage
IN DEFAULT of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE for the purpose aforesaid within
thirty days of the last publication of the advertise-
ment an Appearance must be entered at. the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Mac-
quarie Street Hobart or at the Launceston District
Registry Cameron Street Launceston. — (1.5.) W. H.
VERRALL, District Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ANDREW GALLAWAY late of Bal-
gownie.—TAKE NOTICE that MELBA EUNICE"
GALLAWAY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1922 of 1947 on the ground of your habitual drunken-
ness during three years and upwards and leaving
without means of support If you wish to defend
the suit you should enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 7/l/’4B and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from OSBORNE MITCHELL ALLEN,
Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. k!
BODY, Registrar in Divorce,
'fix* n Solid 9-ct. gold watches of
elegant design for men with
'pride in their personal appearance.
These are high-grade 15-jewelled
Swiss watches,
' carefully examined and approved by
Prouds’ expert watchmakers.
Satin-finish dials.
Fully luminous hands and figures.
j
Prices (complete with famous American
"Sturdy” rolled gold bangle).
L. £ll/10/-. Centre £l2/5/-. R. £ll/7/6.
Department-.
Ground Floor.
Rxmds
MASTERS OF TIME
CNR. PITT & KING STS, SYDNEY. ’PHONE 8W2721.
UNDER MEDICAL BENEFITS FUND
'dicat
ben e i
tect H
mWiSJm
Z
YOU CHOOSE YOUR OWN DOCTOR
As a contributor you may go for treat-
ment to your own or any doctor you
may choose. Under the Medical Bene-
fits Fund your doctor is not selected
for you.
YOUR SAVINGS ARE PROTECTED
Regular small contributions to the
Medical Benefits Fund enable you to
budget for your own and your family's
medical care all out of your regular
income by ensuring substantial help
in meeting the costs of medical and
surgical treatment.
ALL DEPENDANTS ARE COVERED
Each member of the contributor's family,
himself, wife, and children under the
age of 17 years, registered with the
fund as dependants, would be entitled
to benefits in a membership year.
NO INCOME LIMIT FOR MEMBERSHIP
Membership is available to persons
under the age of 65 years regardless
of income. Whether you are single
or married the Medical Benefits Fund
assures you of financial protection
against unexpected medical expenses.
MEDICAL
BENEFITS
FUND
banishes the
fear of
emergency
Medical Expenses
, FILL IN AND POST TO-DAY -
I Medical Benefits Fund of N.S.W. Ltd., v |
; 7 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation
full details of
THE MEDICAL BENEFITS FUND
I Name |
I Address |
I li. 29/10/’47 1
MEDICAL BENEFITS FUND
OF N.S.W. LTD. 7 HAMILTON ST.. SYDNEY. Telephone: BU 5951
. SPONSORED BY THE
MEDICAL PROFESSION
mm
MANAGED BY THE
HOSPITALS CONTRIBUTION
FUND OF N.S.W,
batteries than could be packed into any
battleship in existence at the beginning
of World War 11.
A fighter aircraft can carry a rocket
battery with the hitting power—for one
blast only—of a cruiser. The aiming of
guns has been an exact science, but it is
becoming a moot point whether the big
gun, as it is known at the moment, is not
near its deathbed.
All these revolutions seem to point to
a complete change in the nature of navies.
The small, very fast ship—capable of
speeds unheard of today, and with arma-
ment that would have seemed fantastic
10 years ago—seems to own the future.
Combined in operation with these there
may be enormously-protected battleships
or battleship-aircraft-carriers, designed as
launching platforms for supersonic
weapons, and each capable of destroying
a city and immobilising any but the most
concentrated and powerfully-protected
coast defence.
With these would go heavy air-battle-
ship squadrons, carrying tremendous
supersonic hitting power, and with fire-
range as great as the normal cruising
ranges of battle-fleets at the beginning of
World War II —say, 2500 miles.
The lull in British naval activity may
not be as alarming as it sounds. It may
be the outcome of the era of change and
reconstruction.
Shylock and the P.-o.-w.
“Ek Dum”: Another facet of the
methods of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in dealing with prisoners-of-war in
Jap hell-camps!
These men, or at least those who
served outside Changi, suffered probably
more than any British Commonwealth or
Empire soldiers have put up with since
the days of Tippoo Sahib. Their claim
for a subsistence allowance of 3s. a day,
vigorously supported in Parliament by
Mr. Turnbull and others, was well justi-
fied and should not be allowed to drop.
Jvlr. Chambers is now advertising—at
an immense cost to the country —that
sergeants of four years’ standing can
earn over £l2 a week in his new “Regular
Army,” in which wound stripes and
service chevrons are forbidden. But it
appears from recent statements that he
not only refuses to consider special allow-
ances to servicemen who for years suf-
fered the tortures of the damned, but
takes a sort of pride in the fact that he has
sneaked back into a bloated Common-
wealth Treasury amounts which he con-
siders were overpaid.
Under the Army’s system, as defended
by Mr. Chambers as “ordinary, normal
departmental procedure,” the Govern-
ment’s agent merely applies for refund to
the bank in which it knows that the
soldier or his relative has the amount
which it desires to repossess, and the
bank is indemnified against legal action.
What happens to the unfortunate
soldier was shown by a letter released by
Mr. Hamilton, M.H.R., during a debate
in ihe House. It came out that the
Army had tried to extract £9O 6s.
allegedly overpaid into the account of a
father of an A.I.F. man.
Mr. P. Lanigan, formerly a p.-0.-w. in
Japah, wrote that he had received a letter
from the Commonwealth Savings Bank
asking for his bank passbook. “They
had deducted £8 15s. from his account
for totals paid to him in Siam, but they
had entered it in his book as a payment
for deferred pay.’L^
Said Mr. Hamilton:
On contacting the Commonwealth Bank
in Perth I was told that such procedure
as had been outlined in Private Lanigan’s
case did happen, but as there appeared to
be some hostility toward such a practice,
the matter was dropped.
Mr. Chambers’s defence is that the pro-
cedure “is not new” and that it had been
operated in the last war. Operated it was,
but only in extreme cases where there
were special circumstances which could
be fully defended, or where contact could
not be made with the soldier concerned.
The Minister was very eager to show
that not only the Commonwealth Bank
but trading banks were in the habit of
acting on these miserable orders. He
quoted a number of amounts which had
been collected in this way, ranging from
£3 to £407, and declared that in Mr.
Lanigan’s case the amount was “obvi-
ously one which had been advanced to
him” —in Siam after his release from the
hell of the debited in
his paybook.” As Lanigan had not pre-
sented his paybook on his return the
amount had been collected in the depart-
ment’s usual democratic way.
It is scarcely an issue whether trading
banks do or do not obey the Ned Kelly
orders of the Government in such
matters. (In one specific instance there
was a definite refusal.) It is clearly a case
of a bureaucratic use of a regulation by
a crowd whose attitude suggests that it
has no love for men who have served their
country.
The procedure is much on the lines
adopted by the cover orders of cash-
order concerns in repossessing motor-
cars or other articles, frequently con-
demned by the Courts.
To Remember Sandakan's
Dead.
From Mr. R. Kirkwood, M.8.E., vice-
president of the Australian Association
of North Borneo:
At a meeting of Australian citizens resident
in Sandakan, it has been decided to form an
Australian Association with the following four
broad aims: (1) To perpetuate the observance
of Anzac Day in North Borneo in memory of
our glorious dead. (2) To aid and assist our
fellow-countrymen by every means possible dur-
ing their visits to North Borneo. (3) To act
as a liaison body between local associations and
committees and Australian Governments or
organisations, should such services be accep-
table to and requested by such bodies. (4) To
endeavor to foster harmony between the Aus-
tralian people at home and all people of this
colony to their mutual benefit.
The main reason for the founding of this
association is that large numbers of Australian
soldiers are buried in this territory, and no doubt
relatives and friends of these men will, from
time to time, visit the war cemeteries.
We fully understand that certain regulations
governing the War Graves Commission’s policy
cannot be contravened, and it is not the asso-
ciation’s aim to attempt to supplant official
information but merely to assist with local
knowledge regarding accommodation, transport,
etc.
The president, Mr. H. R. C. Parnell, M.8.E.,
will visit Sydney in the near future.
The anniversary of El Alamein was
celebrated quietly in Australia with no
gesture from the Government, though
there were some reunions of veterans.
It will take history to put the event in its
proper perspective, and the Ninth Divi-
sion into its proper role. Had there been
no victory at Alamein there would have
been no Stalingrad, and the glorious
Ninth was the key of Alamein.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: War has gone to Kashmir
in the form'of a large-scale Moslem raid,
and, when this was written, had driven to
within 70 miles of Srinagar, the capital,
the loveliest spot in the world. Ihe
position has developed out of one of the
tragic paradoxes which make it impos-
sible for anybody but the British to rule
the Indian sub-continent. The great!
majority of the Kashmiris are Moslems,
but the ruling classes are Hindus. It
seemed likely that Kashmir would join the
Indian half of the “new” India, which is
really the very old India. This has pro-
duced rebellion among the Moslems and
an influx of Afridis and Pakistan troops
on leave, who are proceeding in the tradi-
tional manner of the old-type Indian
raiders’ war, crossing the border at
Domeli, wiping out the Customs officers
and guards and going through the towns
with sword and firestick. It is a difficult
approach-point because of the big river
systems —Domeli is on the Jhelurh —but
once the invaders hold the main crossing
point and bridgehead it will be very
hard to keep them out, especially since the
Moslem troops of Kashmir seem to be
deserting to the forces from Pakistan.
The explosive qualities of the situation, as
affecting the whole of India, are increased
by the fact that both Gandhi and Nehru
are involved. The latter is himself a
Kashmiri, of high Brahmin caste, and a
partisan of partisans judging by his re-
mark on the situation: “This is war and
we will fight to the end.”


1847
lir
1947
ASK FOR
MAKERS OF GOOD
WINE FOR 100 YEARS
PERSONAL ITEMS
Adelaide ’Varsity’s newly - appointed
Chancellor, knight John Mellis Napier,
who takes over from knight William
Mitchell in the new year, is S.A.’s
Chief Justice and Lieut.-Governor,
as were former Chancellors Hanson, Way
and Murray. Son of a Scottish doctor,
Napier was born at Dunbar in the Land
o’ Cakes, graduated in Law at Adelaide
Uni. in 1902, took silk 20 years later,
mounted the Bench in 1924, and became
C.J. in ’42. He was chairman of the
Federal Royal Commission on Banking
in 1936-37.
Succeeding Prof. McKellar Stewart,
Vice-Chancellor —now a full-time job—
A. P. Rowe is a British scientist who
came to Australia on loan from the
Aamiralty as scientific adviser on
defence During the war he was head
of the Telecommunications Research
Laboratory of the Ministry of Aircraft
Production, and was awarded the Medal
of Merit by the U.S. Government —its
highest award for a civilian —“for ex-
ceptionally meritorious conduct in the
performance of outstanding service to the
United Nations.” He’s 49.
A.N.A.’s new manager in the United
States, Harry Baker, has been his com-
pany’s senior pilot on the east-west route
for 11 years; he has crossed the continent
1500 times and logged 3,000,000 miles
and 16,000 flying hours. In between times
he has made several Pacific crossings,
including six trips in Skymasters during
the past 12 months. Baker learnt to
fly at the Perth Flying School 20 years
ago and was the first airman to land on
Rottnest Island —he dropped down there
in 1930 to pick up and take to hospital
in Perth a lad who had been injured. In
1933 a twin-engined plane he was flying
broke a propeller and had half the con-
trols wrenched away. With 13 passengers
aboard he made a successful landing in
a cabbage patch.
Who's Who in Australia 1947, edited
by A. H. Chisholm, F.R.Z.S., etc., re-
cords that the recreation of A. H. Chis-
holm, F.R.Z.S., etc., is “idling in green
places,” so it is not surprising that A. H.
Chisholm as acting-president of the Royal
Australasian Ornithologists’ Union was
recently detected in an idle moment amid
the green surroundings of Brisbane
botanic gardens. The occasion was a
civic reception to 60 habitual bird-
watchers from all the States. After the
powwow they headed for the Macpher-
son Ranges for a week’s study of native
birds. Chisholm is a journalist as well as
a naturalist —he is a former editor of
Melbourne “Argus” and the “Austra-
lasian” —but Nature is his real love.
As a result of idling in green places he
has published close on a dozen books on
bird life and the Australian bush scene.
Dubois caught John Demetrius Morris,
Tasmania’s Chief Justice; University
JUDGE.
Chancellor and Library Board chairman,
while he was in Sydney for the Institute
of Librarians’ conference. Not yet 45,
he is Australia’s youngest C.X. Son of a
public servant and grandson of a Grseco-
Australian, he passed from St. Patrick’s
College, Melbourne, to the University, and
was admitted to the Victorian Bar in
He crossed to the Speck three years
later, and became a legal partner of Nick
McKenna (now Commonwealth Health
Minister) c\nd Albert Ogilvie (Tas.
Premier for five years, and dead before
his time). In 1939 Morris was appointed
Acting-C.J., becoming the eighth Tas-
manian C.J. when Crisp retired in 1940.
He was knighted in 1943.
Dead at 91, in the island of Jersey,
Alexander MacCormick, for more than
half his lifetime the outstanding figure
in Australian surgery. Born in Scotland,
he studied medicine at Edinburgh Uni-
versity and held the post of demonstrator
in physiology there when he decided to
come out to Australia. From 1890 until
1914 he was lecturer in surgery at Sydney
Uni. —there was at that time no chair
in surgery and his reputation as a
surgeon grew with the years. He served
in the Boer War and the First World
War and continued in practice in Sydney
until 1931. He was a keen yachtsman,
a member of half a dozen yacht clubs
in Britain and Australia, and when over
70 sailed his schooner Ada from England
to Australia by way of Panama. Created
K.B. in 1913 and K.C.M.G. 1926, he
settled in the Channel Islands after his
retirement.
Some November literary anniversaries:
Seventy-seven years ago on the Ist, poet
Chris Brennan was born; on the 2nd, N.Z.
poet and Premier, Alfred Domett died in 1887.
Tom White ( Guests of the Unspeakable ) arrived
on the 4th in 1886, and on that day (1939)
children’s writer Amy Mack went into the
Silence. Dowell O’Reilly (1923) passed out
and poet and “S.M.H.” editor T. W. Heney
(1862) was born on the sth. On the 6th William
Moore (1937) went tcf his rest and naturalist
Keith McKeown (1892) made his debut in this
world; two years later on the Bth novelist
J. J. Hardie made his entry. Poet George
Essex Evans (1909) and Richard Rowe (1879)
went west on the 9th. Arthur Hoey Davis
(“Steele Rudd”) was born in 1868 on the 14th,
Leonard Mann in 1895 on the 15th, William
Gosse Hay (The Escape of Sir William Hearts)
on the 17th, in 1875, and war historian C. E. W.
Bean in 1879 on the 18th. Medico H. M.
Moran (Viewless Winds and Beyond the Hill
Lies China) laid down his pen in 1945 on the
20th. On the 23rd in 1911 poet William Hart-
Smith was born and in 1932 naturalist Donald
Macdonald died. Poetess Dora Wilcox was
bom and essayist Hector Dinning (1941) died
on the 24th. In 1881 Ernest O’Ferrall
(“Kodak”) made his appearance on the 25th,
and in 1869 on the 26th poet Roderic Quinn
first opened his eyes. “Try Anything Once”
Frank Clune was born in 1894, and poet, critic
and dramatist Louis Esson died in 1943 on the
27th. Nine years ago John Sandes died on
the 29th; on the 30th poet Sydney Jephcott
was born in 1864, and in 1920 Henry Gyles
Turner (author with Alexander Sutherland of
The Development of Australian Literature) died.
Albert Ernest Carlyle, Melbourne’s
new councillor for Bourke ward, has
taken from Lud Mayor Connelly the title
of the heaviest man in the council. For
14 years Connelly has boasted that his
17 stone was the best. “Tiny” Carlyle
tips the beam at 21| stone. Carlyle is
another self-made man who has proved
that hard work does bring results. Years
ago he served his apprenticeship as a
sheet-metal worker in the ward he now
represents. Today he owns a big metal-
manufacturing establishment. One of
Melbourne’s old oarsmen, he lent his
weight—not so much of it in those days—
to Richmond Rowing Club’s eights.
Nowadays he is content with bowls.
Art and architecture have been the life-
long interest of Henry Ernest Fuller,
who retires after 26 years as secretary of
the Royal S.A. Society of Arts and be-
comes a member of the council of the
society. A past-president of the S.A.
Institute of Architects, his flair for ec-
clesiastical architecture is reflected in at
least five Anglican churches in that State.
He was the last president of the S.A.
Public Library, Museum and Art Gallery
Board when that trio was divided in 1940.
He’s also president of the Institutes’ As-
sociation of S.A. and local secretary of
Trinity College of Music, London.
Westralia seems to be in for a spate
of Royal Commissions. During the past
couple of months the railways have been
under the microscope; now the milk
industry and the State Housing Commis-
sion are to be examined. W. E. Stan-
nard, chairman of the Milk Board since
1937, has been commissioned to “ascer-
tain a fair price to the producer of whole
milk, a fair margin for the retailer and
the costs of distribution.” The other
inquiry concerns building permits and
allocation of houses. It will be in
the hands of Henry D. Moseley, P.M. In
1934 he was called upon to investigate
the treatment and condition of abori-
gines ; two years later W.A. money-
lenders and their methods came under his
scrutiny, and in 1937 he reported on the
custody of the criminally insane. This
led to a wider inquiry which he con-
ducted into the affairs of the Heathcote
Reception Home and the general ad-
ministration of State mental hospitals.
Moseley was a 51st Battalion Digger in
World War I, has been Usher of the
Black Rod, magistrate at Northam and
Carnarvon, Chairman of the Railways
Appeal Board and all the time a worker
for Y.M.C.A. and Toe H. He was born
in Nassau, Bahamas, 63 years ago.
Depicted by Prior, Harry C. Davies
has been writing Westralian mining notes
for The Bulletin’s “Wild Cat” pages for
over 40 years. Davies,.who was born in
Melbourne in the ’seventies, has ink in
his blood ; his grandfather edited a South
Wales paper over 80 years ago, his father
was a pressman and prospector in Cali-
fornia and Utah, and an uncle founded the
“Pastoral Times” at Deniliquin (N.S.W.)
in 1859. As a young man he was an
opal gouger in N.S.W., and then moved
on to the Westralian goldfields, where he
represented the “West Australian” for 12
years at Kalgoorlie. Those were hectic
days. Once an excited person affixed a
rope to Harry’s office and made a melo-
dramatic attempt to drag it from its
MINING JOURNALIST.
moorings. Davies was with the “West” for
48 years, working up as trade, finance
and mining editor. He has travelled
extensively abroad and has looked at
mines in all sorts of out-of-the-way
places. Now living quietly in Sydney,
Harry is talking about taking a trip to
South Africa and South America before
returning to W.A., where he is one of
the last links between the roaring Vosper-
“Smiler” Hales days and the sober pre-
sent.
Last year Robert Henderson Croll,
dead in Melbourne at 78, wrote his
Autobituary —he claimed to be“theonlie
begetter” of that self-explanatory word
—which was published by the Melbourne
Bread and Cheese Club. It recorded the
workaday side of his life —43 years with
the Victorian Education Department,
during which time his unusual assign-
ments included the writing of a
Budget speech, the ghosting of articles
for a Victorian Premier, writing
“command” verses for Cabinet, acting as
secretary to Royal Commissions —and
listed his published works, mainly of
biography and bushlore, and the numer-
ous literary societies and naturalists’
clubs with which he was connected, but
was silent on his most important contri-
bution to Australian letters. This was in
the encouragement which he at all times
gave freely and gladly to Australian
writers. There is probably no writer in
Victoria who has not at some time had
cause to be grateful to R. H. Croll for
help and advice, and he will always be
kept in kindly memory by literary people
in that State.
Melbourne art-dealer William Sedon
was born in Adelaide but has spent all
ART-DEALER .
but 11 months of his 71 years in Vic-
toria. His people were early settlers
at Creswick (Vic.), where young Sedon
met Norman Lindsay and his brothers
and established friendships that have
lasted to this day. After three years as a
tailor’s cutter Sedon became an indent
agent; when he received a consignment
of 500 European etchings, including
prints by Anders Zorn, Halm, Georges
and Paschke, he disposed of part of the
collection to the Melbourne National
Gallery, and soon after opened the Sedon
Galleries. His private collection, in which
is represented practically every Austra-
lian artist of note, includes much of the
best work of Frederick McCubbin,
Walter Withers, J. Llewellyn Jones and
Charles Conder. A McCubbin landscape,
“The Broken Fence,” he has sold ta
Canberra for 500 guineas. Sedon takes
an interest in the sister art of the theatre,
and has been a regular first-nighter at
His Majesty’s for over 50 years.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 75, Frederick Keith Gell,
formerly Chief Clerk of the Commonwealth
Crown Solicitor’s Office. Born in Melbourne,
he put in 28 years with Blake and Riggall be-
fore joining the Commonwealth service in 1915.
He retired in 1938, but rejoined during the war
and was legal officer handling munition con-
tracts. Gell was the first elected member of the
Federal Capital Advisory Council.
In Sydney, at 74, Richard Morgan Evans,
master-builder and a past-president of the
Cymmrodorion Society. Born at Talybont, in
Cardiganshire, he worked at his trade in
Birmingham before coming to Australia 36 years
ago. A prince of good fellows, he set himself
very high standards and always claimed that he
built not houses, but homes.
In England, H. H. Henson, Bishop of Durham
from 1920-39. The “Times” described him as
“a vivid and remarkable figure.” He was a
voluminous author, a trenchant conversationalist
and a man of great eloquence, sense of duty
and generosity to those in sorrow or trouble.
He was Bishop of Hereford before being trans-
lated to Durham.
In* Sydney, at 66, Clarence Ryle Moss, for
38 years one of the ruling spirits of the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children, secretary from
1909 to 1922, and from that year till his death
organising secretary, which involved direction
and oversight of all its financial appeals,
functions and competitions. He was one of
the most widely-known hospital organisers of
his time, and the growth of the Children’s
Hospital was his pride as it is, to a great
extent, his memorial.
In Sydney, at 76, John Bailey, boss of the
A.W.U. for many years as president of the
N.S.W. section and later general president, and
remembered chiefly for his efforts, finally de-
feated by the Trades Hall in the early twenties,
to assert A.W.U. supremacy in the formation
of One Big Union.
In Sydney, at 53, Dr. J. B. McElhone, well-
known on the N.S.W. North Coast as medico
and sportsman. Veteran of two World Wars,
he had been Mayor of Kempsey and twice
attempted the impossible by opposing Earle
Page for Cowper.
In Adelaide, at 64, Harold Richard Pinkerton,
managing-director of Savery’s Pianos and a
director of SDN Radio. A Sydneysider, he
moved to Adelaide 17 years back. During the
1914-18 war he served as Y.M.C.A. overseas
representative with the A.1.F., and was deputy
chairman of the Y.M. war service committee
in S.A. during World War 11.


Missing Friend.
CREAL, Elizabeth Frances, late of Croydon, Sydney,
daughter of John Creal and Ann Creal nee Brady,
died sth November, 1942, intestate, aged 74 years.
The next-of-km or any person knowing of their
whereabouts or deaths please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The late-afternoon party given at
Government House by Sir Winston
Dugan and Lady Dugan was the last
function at which they will be host and
hostess before leaving for England. The
drawing-room, with its lovely grouping
of flowers and with glimpses of green
lawns and flower-beds seen through the
long windows, was the setting for the
party, and on the long buffet table were
set tall silver candelabra and bowls of
glowing schizanthus and cinerarias.
Lady Dugan received her guests ,in a
black tailored wool crepe frock over
which she wore a silver-fox fur stole.
Mr. Fullagar was with his wife,
who wore deep-red roses in her black
hat, which was worn with a black frock.
Chief Justice of the High Court, Sir
John Latham, was accompanied by Lady
Latham and Sir Frederick Mann by Lady
Mann, whose black hat was trimmed with
a blue feather mount; this shade was
repeated in the collar of her black
tailored frock. Mrs., R. G. Casey’s small
flower-trimmed crownless black hat was
worn with a plain black frock. Mrs.
Clowes, who was with Major-General
C. A. Clowes, chose an all-white ensemble
and small white hat. A three-quarter-
length silver fox coat was worn by Mrs.
L. Coleman over her black frock ; her
tiny hat was massed with pink roses. The
Robinson lady’s ensemble was of beige
wool sheer, the skirt of which was finely
pleated. Lady Gullett’s hat of coarse
white straw was banded in garnet-red vel-
vet and finished with a tall feather in the
same shade which matched the red-and-
white-patterned frock worn with a gar-
net-red wool coat. Also among the
guests were Lady Fraser, in a black Per-
sian-lamb coat and small osprey-trimmed
black hat, Judge and Mrs. Clyne, Com-
mander and Mrs. Ben Barwood, Sir Isaac
and Lady Isaacs and Sir Robert and
Lady Knox.
The Ballet Rambert, now settled in at
the Princess, is enjoying splendid houses.
The change of programme, which includes
the second act of “Swan Lake,” filled the
theatre with many elegant women.
Among them, Mrs. Oscar Owen, whose
flame-red crepe frock embellished with
glittering sequins was worn under a flow-
ing royal-blue military cape. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll, soignee in old-gold crepe high-
lighted with gold-bead trimming, fastened
her Edwardian hairdo with three gold
Chinese stickpins. Mrs. Dan Reddan’s
hyacinth-blue wool crepe frock was worn
with matching gloves. Erl Grey,
who was with her husband and mother,
Mrs. George Dickinson, chose a soft
floral chiffon frock and white ermine
jacket. Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Freedman
were in the audience, she in mist-blue
taffetas and short blue fox bolero.
Looking down from the grandstand at
Moonee Valley racecourse blue was pre-
dominant among the moving mass of
color. In all its tones, from midnight to
the palest of pastel, it had its devotees.
Among the throng in the members’ en-
closure only one woman had followed
the trend towards a longer hem-line.
Black wool sheer was chosen to make the
short packet with its “nipped-in waist,”
and the long skirt was fully pleated. The
flowers edging the lawns were rivalled by
the lily-of-the-valley, roses, tulip-tree buds
and orchids worn by many women in
their lapels or frocks. There were no set
fashions ; the large cartwheel hat and the
beanie vied with the small hat composed
entirely of flowers and the large natural
straw trimmed with fielfl flowers.
Mrs. W. S. Cox, wife of the Moonee
Valley secretary, chose a black wool
crepe jacket suit and highlighted it with
a small black straw hat brightened by red
velvet roses. With her henna wool suit
Mrs. J. Kauffmin wore a small black
straw hat and grey fox furs. Mrs. lan
Jacoby’s deep purple frock was trimmed
with deeper-toned sequins; her wool
coat was powder-blue. Mrs. A. L. Wal-
ters set off her grey wool tailored suit
with an outsize in black straw hats which
was simply trimmed with black satin rib-
bon. A flared peplum finished the tunic
of Mrs. Best Overend’s beech-brown
wool ensemble. A black suit worn with
sables and an American Beauty felt hat
were chosen by Mrs. Boris Koski. Mrs.
A. Aitken was also in black, her large
natural-straw hat upturned with a bow
of brown velvet ribbon. Mrs. L. Cole-
man’s blue crepe frock was worn under
a matching wool coat with a collar of
beige fox. Mrs. J. Whitehead’s outfit was
of aqua-blue whipcord. Mrs. J. Robin-
son Wood’s blue straw hat took the eye ;
crownless, it was trimmed with white
feather wings. Mrs. George Ridgway’s
ensemble was of navy sheer wool; her
white felt hat flew a banner of navy
ribbon, Joan Kinnear chose a navy
tailored coat, brass buttons lending it a
nautical air. Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade’s
navy suit featured the new “i!ipped-in”
waistline, the jacket showing a slight
peplum effect at the back ; her hat of
blue-and-white-striped wool had a blue
quill across the front of the narrow brim
and the navy-blue veil was tied under
the chin.
A jacket suit of grey panne velvet was
chosen by Barbara Elizabeth Newman,
only daughter of Mrs. Betty Paterson
Newman, Middle Park, when she was
married at St. Leonard’s, Brighton, to
James Penberthy, elder son of Brigadier
and Mrs. A. D. Penberthy, of Camber-
well. The jacket featured the new longer
line and full sleeves ; her small grey straw
curvette had real gardenias at the side
and was finished with veiling,- and she
carried a small posy of gardenias and
stephanotis tied with pale-blue ribbon.
The bridegroom’s sister, Mrs. Edward
Hunter-Clarke, attended the bride; her
frock of pale-pink crepe had the neckline
and hem worked with silver beads. Pale-
pink and cyclamen flowers trimmed her
crownless straw hat, and flowers in a
similar were carried. Rev. Ernest
Petherick, cousin of the bride, officiated ;
Barbara was given away by her father.
Reception was held at the Lyceum
Club. Mrs. Betty Paterson Newman,
well-known artist, received the guests,
and her smart blue-and-white floral frock
was worn with a slim lime-green coat;
matching flowers trimmed her small
straw hat. She was assisted in receiving
the guests by her sister, Mrs. George
Gill, who is also an artist of repute. Mrs.
Gill chose a pastel-pink frock patterned
in white, which was worn under a hya-
cinth blue coat; her large blue hat was
trimmed with flowers. Commander
George Gill, uncle of the bride, proposed
the toast of the bridal pair. Speech was
made by Pat Hanna, an old friend of
the Paterson family. Among the guests
were Mr. and Mrs. Ford Paterson and
Lee Betheras, whose red-and-white-pat-
terned frock was worn under a beige
coat; her small natural-straw sailor hat
was banded in red ribbon. With Mrs.
Roger Fairbairn, whose Hudson Bay
seal coat was worn over a navy beaded
frock, was her niece, Beverley Hamp-
ton. Barbara, who is a former student
of the National Gallery, invited many
of her student-days friends. The bride-
groom, a former serviceman, is now at
the Uni. working for his Mus.Bac. de-
gree. Mr. and Mrs. Penberthy will
make their home at Ferntree Gully.
This Athol Shmith portrait is of
April, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. H.
Barraclough, of Toorak. A member of
the “Lady Killer” cast, a mystery play
which will be presented by the St.
Catherine’s Old Girls’ Association Dra-
matic Society on November 4 and 5 at
the Union Theatre, April is engaged to
Denis Walpole and plans to marry in
February. To prepare for her wedding
she has given up her career at the Uni-
versity, where she was doing a course in
architecture. She has always been in-
terested in dramatic and repertory work,
and studied under Maie Hoban. April
is also a keen horsewoman and has won
many trophies.
Judith, daughter of Colonel and Mrs.
A. J. Staughton, of Terang, has an-
nounced her engagement to Tom, son of
Mr. and Mrs. L. A. Austin, of Meredith.
Tom, who is only 24, is Liberal candidate
in the State elections for Grant, an elec-
torate which includes his own home dis-
trict. During the war he served as a
R.A.N.R. sub-lieut. Judith also chose
the Navy for her war-time job ; she was
a W.R.A.N. for some time, but left the
Service to help her father run his
property. She is wearing an unusual ring
—a large and lovely zircon.
From Sydney
The Girl in the Flat Opposite is quite
excited about November 20. She’s to be
a guest—a radio guest —at Princess
Elizabeth’s wedding. She says “Think
of the vast company I will be in—millions
and millions of us, all over the Empire,
nodding and smiling and listening to the
ring being clicked into place. Even
though the Court Chamberlain does over-
look you when he’s sending out the cards,
he can’t keep you out of the fun and the
excitement, from the joyous clash and
clang of the bells of London town, from
the glad shouts of the crowds, from
shimmer of satin and lustre of pearl, as
the Princess and Lieutenant Philip Mount-
batten are being wed.”
Dramatic soprano Sylvia Fisher, of
Melbourne, sang her farewells to Sydney
in the Con. last Saturday night. Complete
with piano Sylvia goes off to London
next month. Here’s wishing her success.
Those Formbys turned up again at the
Town Hall party for “Food for Britain.”
This had been arranged by the Lady
Mayoress’s Relief Fund, of which Mrs.
R. J. Bartley is president. The pro-
gramme mixed fashions and music—
Raymond Beatty and Heather Kinnaird
slipping in songs between the beach-
wear and the swimsuits, afternoon frocks
and the bride’s outfit. The organ pealed
sonorously under expert guidance from
Ernest Trufhan. All the clothes had been
supplied by Grace Bros., and among the
beholders there was no one more perfectly
turned-out than Mrs. A. E. Grace her-
self. Mrs. Formby, too, was very trig.
Her tunic frock was beige, and her hat
was a tiny anchorage for a sweep of
Paradise plumes.
At the end of the parade George
Formby auctioned lengths of dress
material and a cushion. He flung the
material gracefully about his form,
but failed to look like Cassius or Brutus.
On the stage with him were the Lady
Mayoress and Mrs. Formby, the latter
starting ojf everything at £3. The Town
Hall’s popular Frank Crane kept tally on
a blackboard. There were flowers and
sweets for sale, there were lucky numbers
and there was tea in the basement —
pardon, the Lower Town Hall.
Yards and yards of mist-blue tulle
was just the right foil for Roslyn
Dangar’s pretty gold-brown hair, and the
swirl of pale-blue chiffons in her full-
skirted frock made the ideal wedding
garment for her slim figure, when she
became the bride of David Ritchie, a
former R.A.A.F. squadron-leader in the
Middle East. Roslyn chose the church
which her family has always attended—
All Saints’, Woollahra —for the wedding,
and her cousin, Bishop de Witt Battye,
came down from Newcastle to give
churchly blessing. Rodney Dangar, who
is one of the best-known of that widely-
spread pastoralist clan, squired his only
daughter to the altar, and uncles and
aunts and cousins were there in numbers,
some of them, like the R. N. Bells (Mrs.
Bell is a sister of the bride’s father), com-
ing from as far off as Queensland.
Garth Clabburn had flown from Mel-
bourne to be best man, and ’groom’s
brother Allan Ritchie was groomsman.
Rosemary Parker and Diana Walker were
the bridesmaids, repeating the bridal
color note in their crepe frocks. They
carried sprays of pale lilac, and wore
pale-blue feather head-dresses. The after-
noon sky was blue, too, as were the
frock and hat of the bride’s aunt, slim
Beatrice McDonald. The shade of both
was soft hydrangea, and her hat was a
small off-the-face number with a French
air. Noreen Dangar was there, v and
mother Mrs. Hugh Gordon and Miss
Maud Dangar. Reception was at Ran-
cliff, and family friend Dr. Scott-Skirving
gave the toast of the bride and made the
speech of the day, bright with wit and
warm with friendship. ’Groom is the sort
of the R. C. Ritchies, of Warranary,
Booligal.
Most of us have a picture of Cardiff
as a grim place with factory chimneys
pouring out black smoke, and the noisy
clang of the steel industry over all. How
pleasing it was to hear a description of
the Cardiff Art Gallery and its gracious
parkland surroundings as given by the
Cymmrodorion Society’s Elystan-Price at
the Ballet and Theatre Club, one after-
noon last week. The gallery has for near-
neighbor Cardiff Castle, and its acres of
lawns and gardens are the favorite strol-
hng-place of Cardiff citizens.
Ex-M.P. Woodward, there with his
wife and pretty daughter, who has pre-
sented the portrait of William Morris
Hughes to Cardiff, told the guests the
other afternoon that he had done all his
courting there. The portrait is a very
good o£e, and the artist, Miriam Macrae,
received many congratulations on the
work which was unveiled to the gaze of
over 100 members, with suitable speech
by Aubrey Halloran.
All last week in Sydney, quietly and un-
ostentatiously, a group of men and
women from the cities and the country
districts and from the other States went
about the job of making the world a
brighter place for the crippled or
physically-handicapped child. The annual
conference of the Australian Advisory
Council for the Physically Handicapped
went into all the difficulties to be over-
come by and for these young people.
The N.S.W. Society for Crippled Chil-
dren cannot be praised enough. Splendid
work is being done at' the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children, at the
Campsie Spastic School, the Margaret
Reid Orthopaedic Hospital at St. Ives, the
Far West Children’s Health Scheme at
Manly. But there is an ever-present need
for more centres to care for beginning
citizens lacking their full quota of health.
The Y.W.C.A. will have to add a sub-
title, “the school for charm,” if it con-
tinues to put on shows such as last Thurs-
day night's. It was a mannequin parade
with a difference —for the girls modelling
the dresses, hats and handbags had been
their own dressmakers, milliners and so
on. The youngest in the dress parade was
a style-conscious three-year-old ; but she
didn’t claim to have, made the bright
check cottons she wore. The flower muffs
carried by a group of debs, were the
pleasing work of the floral art students.
Wedding frocks, afternoon frocks and
wedding veils appeared in the display.
The exhibition of handcrafts was opened
by the wife of State Premier McGirr. The
parade was organised by lona Ruddock.
The president of Quota International,
Mrs. Marie Higgins, arrived in Australia
last week. Principal reason for her com-
ing was to present charters to six new
Quota Clubs —Lismore, Grafton, Kyogle,
Murwillumbah, Kempsey and Taree. The
clubs in Sydney, Orange and Katoomba
are already going strong. Professional
women, and women in executive business
positions, form the membership of Quota,
which in February next year will attain
its 29th birthday. Mrs. Higgins, who was
elected at the Quota International con-
ference at Victoria, British Columbia,
comes from Youngstown, Ohio.
If you belong to an association or
society which feels the urge to confer but
does not know where to find a room large
enough for the conference, Florida House
will solve the problem. Not only are
there rooms for the conference, but meals
for the conferrers will be provided. The
lovely old house built in Spanish style
(once the home of the Coffills) is in
Tivoli Avenue, lt has Harbor
views and a terraced garden, and will be
an ideal setting for wedding receptions
and afternoon or evening parties. And
all can be yours for the hiring./ Florida
House is one of many old Sydney homes
beiflg run on business lines as back-
grounds for hospitality. On the hottest
evening of last week 420 guests were
arriving from five-thirty onwards to
celebrate the opening. Nor was England
forgotten—an appeal for the Food for
Britain Fund was made, and reaped a
little harvest.
Mrs. M. E. Holgate, secretary of the
Women’s Pioneer Society, tells that her
parents celebrated the diamond jubilee of
their wedding recently. They are
the Rev. W. L. and Mrs. Paterson, of
Springdale-road, Killara. Their three
children are Mrs. Holgate, Mrs. Irene M.
Allen, M.A., and Owen Fraser Paterson.
The Theatre Royal will one day wel-
come Annie —“Annie Get Your Gun.'’
This is the famed Richard Rodgers and
Oscar Hammerstein musical for the screen
rights of which, rumor says, £217,000
passed hands. The Annie of this show is
derived from the Annie Oakley, whose
marksmanship was world-famed in the
’eighties, and who was the star of Buffalo
Bill’s Wild West Show. Some day poor old
Sydney, the last on the track, is to see the
glitter, the rainbow colors, the magni-
ficence Hammerstein has woven into the
story of the girl from Ohio. Sydneyites
who have met Annie in Melbourne come
back with quite a crush on her.


The
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
offers a comprehensive service
covering every phase of Estate Manage-
ment, Executorship and Trusteeship,
and providing for the efficient control
and administration of all related matters,
or your personal affairs.
The expert knowledge gained through
sixty years of Union Trustee experience
in these matters simplifies the handling
of all details.
This efficient service is available at
moderate cost.
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States—Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman) ; E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTk WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A. E. Heath,
C.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager; L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street —A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 181
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Established 1885
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
3SSS
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
S?if wawr g - othef explosWe? and ac'cessones!
vuiveb, vvaict Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
r Dividends N To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.serves.f
£ £ £
1937.. 26,966 6 p.C. 15 p.c. 18,525 8,441 26,892
1938 . 24,871 6 ~ „ 19,384 5,487 32,379
3.939’.. 29,001 6 „ 12J „ 22,976 6,025 38,404
Capital assets reserve, £105,379 .. 143,783
1940.. 48,499 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 33,310 15,189 158,972
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
Added capital assets reserve, £47,190.. 203,304
1941.. 59,097 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 55,381 3,716 207,020
Forfeited shares reserve, £8 .. • ■ 207,028
1942.. 85,133 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 70,948 14,185 221,213
1943.. 103,820 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 20,448 241,661
1944.. 107,334 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 23,962 265,623
1945.. 106,483 6 „ 10 „ 83,374 23,109 288,732
1946" 100,659 6 „ 10 ” 83,374 17,285 306,017
1947.. 114,492 6 „ 10 „ 8Q,079 25,413 331,430
* Including outside interests. t Reduced here by
value of intangibles (£2803), and excluding de-
preciation reserve (now £593,075).
Able and enterprising management,
technical efficiency and the shelter and
stimulus that war and its aftermath pro-
vided have combined to put this co. and its
half-dozen subsidiaries in the forefront
of Australia’s infant cotton-textile in-
dustry. Operations of the group range
from the spinning of cotton yarns to
the manufacture of all kinds of cotton
drills, tweeds, denims, ducks, motor-tyre
fabrics and web equipment, as well as
dyeing, waterproofing, rotproofing, finish-
ing and sanforizing the products.
Last term the range of activities was
further widened by acquisition of the
Australian rights to manufacture plexon,
a plastic-covered fibre which has an ex-
tensive market in the U.S. and Britain. A
new subsidiary, Australian Plexon Pty.,
has been formed to operate the process,
and production is expected to begin early
in 1948. The Australian rights to the Ban-
flame process for flameproof treatment of
textiles has also been acquired.
As the eye sweeps down the profit
column of the table it should be remem-
bered that paid capital shot up from
£ll5 906 in 1935, when the public became
interested, to £894,000-odd in 1942. The
figure remained steady until shortly be-
fore the close of accounts in 1946, when
370 945 new £1 ords. were issued, one for
four at par; this to help buy new plant
to expand and widen the range of pro-
duction. Owing to delays in delivery,
only 2s. 6d, has been called on each or
the new shares, and the board is not yet
able to say exactly on what dates the
balance will be required. Last term 13,150
new £1 shares were issued to employees.
When all the money is in, paid capital will
be £1,274,908 in 60,000 first and 93,104
second prefs., both 6 p.c. cumulative, and
1,121,804 ords. On that lot pref. require-
ments, plus 10 p.c. to the ords., will call
for £121,366, or only £7874 more than
was netted last term, and there will be an
extra £319,858 of capital at work.
Turnover of the group showed marked
improvement last term. Still, output was
below capacity in all sections, owing to
continued shortages of skilled operatives
and chemicals, and to industrial disturb-
ances in Vic., where plant has been con-
verted to the use of brown coal and oil
because adequate supplies of black coal
from N. S. Wales are unobtainable. This
and substitution of male for female labor
in some sections, together with wage lilts
and higher prices for materials, bumped
up operating costs. The effects, however,
were more than offset by the bigger turn-
over, official adjustment of selling prices
and payment of Government subsidy
buying and selling prices are controlled
all along the line.
After setting aside an extra £10,207 for
the taxgatherer (£63,008), allowing an
additional £8077 for depreciation
(£76,723) and sending £5OOO (nil m the
previous term) to the staff fund, net earn-
ings were £13,833 stronger at £114,492.
That covered the pref. requirements and
13.2 p.c. on ord. capital as against 12.3,
13.1, 13.2, 12.7, 12.9, 10.8 and 16.1 p.c.
back to 1940. The 10 p.c. div. was re-
peated for the eighth year in succession,
making the average over the last 13 years
10.9 p.c. In addition to the lay-by shown
in the table, there is a depreciation re-
serve of £593,075, now disclosed for the
first time.
The disclosure is mainly responsible for
the year’s growth in the book value of
freehold and plant:
Consolidated Figures.
1941. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital £674,482 £894,993 £935,851 £955,050
Outside inter-
ests . . 153 158 156 162
Sun. creditors 356,133 365,315 462,264 540,33/
Tftx reserve,
etc. . . 45,940 113,668 90,585 93,251
Freehold .. 348,928 405,543 401,296 437,944
Plant etc... 558,565 696,827 687,228 1,264,085*
Stock’ etc... 310,029 451,740 521,946 504,924
Sundry debtors 102,242 129,057 204,209 193,/58
Cash etc 11908 2i;882 21,382 102,178
*’ Subject to depreciation reserve ( £593,075).
Capital expenditure amounted to
£179,945. To meet it and carry an extra
£42,978 of stocks the co. went out-
side for a further £78,073. The more or
less liquid surplus (£227,271) was £32,583
stronger than at the previous balance.
The outlook for the group is one of
sustained demand, which the dollar short-
age will do nothing to relieve. The spectre
at the feast is rising costs, which will be
further inflated by the 40-hour week and
inevitable cost-of-living wage lifts. To
raise wages and shorten hours under exist-
ing conditions of “full” employment is
wholly inflationary. It simply adds to
prices without increasing output in an
economy in which goods are still in short
supply.
On a 10 p.c. div. basis the f.-p. ords.
at 545. return 3.7 p.c. The contribs. at
31s. 9d. will return 4 p.c. when fully paid.
The prefs. at 30s. 9d. yield 3.9 p.c. Ex-
cluding, the depreciation reserve, but in-
cluding uncalled capital, net tangible
cover is £26 15s. 4d. first prefs.,
£l6 12s. Id, seconds and 255. lid. ords.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd. (Sydney)
To lie- Be-
June, Loss. r —Dividend —serves, licit.*
£ £ £ £
1938 . . 2,807 Nil ' 14,058
Added intangibles, £540 .. .. 14,598
Profit.
1939 . . 1,862 Nil 1,862 12,736
Added intangibles, £lO6l . . . . 13,797
1940 .. 7,154 5 p.c. = 3,773 3,381 10,416
Added intangibles, £92 . . . . 10,508
1941 . . 6,670 5 p.c. = 5,371 1,299 9,209
1942 . . 8,144 V „ „ 8,195 9,260
1943 .. 7,646 6 ~ ~ 6,556 1,090 8,170
1944 . . 8,565 6 ~ „ 6,556 2,009 6,161
1945 . . 9,628 6 „ „ 7,272 2,356 3,805
1946 .. 13,331 7J „ „ 9,983 3,348 457
Reserves.*
1947 . . 19,206 10 „ „ 13,311 5,895 5,438
* After deducting intangibles (now £7517) and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £36,094).
This youngster has put up an en-
couraging performance. It stepped into
the carpet-manufacturing business, where
there was a jgood opening, shortly before
the war, arid reached the dividend list
with a 5 p.c. distribution in its third year
of operation (1940). For tne eight years
to the end of June last shareholders re-
ceived annual divs. averaging 6.6 p.c.,
with satisfactory margins, and those on
the register could see the whole of their
capital intact and £5438 besides at end
June last. That was after deducting good-
will (£7517) and leaving out of the
reckoning a liberal £36,094 set aside for
depreciation—fixed assets appear at cost.
Weaving of defence fabrics kept the
pot boiling during the war. When this
work ceased a couple of years back a
hungry civilian market, largely shut off
from imported supplies, gobbled all the
carpets and rugs the co. could turn out
—and they compare favorably with best
imported lines of similar classification.
Output has been restricted by scarcity of
certain raw materials and labor and by
delay in delivery of new plant from
Britain.
However, production improved last
term, and net earnings stepped up
£5875, reaching £19,206, or 14.4 p.c. on
paid capital as against 10 p.c. and 7.9 p.c.
for the two preceding years. That was
after earmarking £21,052 (up £13,574)
for taxation and £6392 (up £2556) for de-
preciation. The div., lifted from 6 p.c.
in 1945 to 1\ p.c. in the following term,
was raised to a liberal 10 p.c. No harm
would be done if the div. had been kept
down until more fat was accumulated.
Balance-sheet figures reflect prepara-
tions for further expansion:
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
paid capital* £72,847*£13b,211 £135,169 £135,071
S’nd’v creditors 10,117 9,331 13,252 19,748
Tax reserve . . 5,600 7,900 21,600
Premises . . 27,600 30,882 36,700 68,558
Plant . . 24,690 41,452 41,568 46,618
Stock . . 25,526 15,333 25,369 47,696
Debtors -- 6,358 15,210 18>205
Cash, etc. . . 60 77,266 74,259 45,247
* Includes calls paid in advance.
Last terrri a new workshop was put up,
and good progress is beirig made with
erection of a dye-house, boiler-house,
chimney-stack and extension of the pre-
sent mill building. All this called for
£31,858, and £5050 was added to plant,
£22,327 to stocks and £3629 to debtors’
balances. The board drew upon cash
for £29,012 and went outside for an extra
£6496. There was a shrinkage of £17,262
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£69,800).
Since the close of accounts the first of
the new looms has arrived from Britain,
and others are expected to follow at more
or less regular intervals. The co. has
sold its holding of £45,000 in Common-
wealth loans, and the remaining 17s. 6d.
on 190,729 contribs. is likely to be asked
for in the not too distant future. When
all the money comes in paid capital will
be £300,000. A ready market awaits the
extra, production, thanks to accumulated
demand, backed by a buoyant national
income. But rising costs and the possi-
bility of growing competition from im-
ports make the long-term outlook ot
the 10 p.c. div. uncertain.
The market sums up prospects by pric-
ing the f.-p. pound shares at 455. At this
figure the return is 4.4 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis, or 3.5 p.c. should the dis-
tribution drop to 8 p.c. The contribs.
at 235. 6d. appear to be worth considera-
tion. Including uncalled capital but ex-
cluding the depreciation reserve, net
tangible cover is 20s. 6d. per share.
Greater J. D. Williams’ Amusement Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 1,207 f Up.c. = 4,961
1941.. 2,929 1 „ „ 3,970 72,119
1942.. 4,290' 1 „ „ 3,970 320 72,439
From bad-debts provision, £163 .. 72,60-
1943.. 4,323 4 p.c. = 15,881 61,044
From bad-debts provision, £204 ..
1944 32,139* 5 p.c. = 19,852 12,287 73,030
1945. . 21 240 5 ~ 19.851 1.389 74,924
1946.. 15,950 4 „ „ 15,881 69 74,993
1947.. 17,969 4i „ „ 17,806 103 / 5,096
f Six months only. * Includes two years divs.
from subsidiary.
This is one of the four Australian cos.
with holdings in the Greater Union
Theatre group in which the J. A.
Rank organisation acquired a 50 p.c.
interest two years ago. Last term
Greater Union added 31 cinemas
to its chain, raising the total to 115, either
owned or leased. Biggest deal was the
purchase of the Clifford circuit of 22
South Australian theatres for £300,000 ;
the total in that State is now 37, including
Adelaide’s Civic, which will be bought on
expiration of the present lease.
In Sydney, Greater Union controls five
city theatres directly (State, Lyceum,
Victory, Capitol, Lyric), and three more
in association with Hoyts Theatres, Ltd.
(Embassy, Empire, King’s Cross). Of
Sydney’s 160 or so suburban houses it
controls 29 directly and seven in associa-
tion ; whilst elsewhere in N.S.W. it is
interested in a further 16.
Victorian interests are practically con-
fined to three metropolitan theatres
(Liberty, State, Majestic). In Queensland
it controls the Tivoli (Brisbane) and has
ties with 10 others, including the Birch-
Carroll country Circuit. Three houses in
Tasmania and two in Westralia complete
the tally.
The main operating co.. Greater Union
Theatres Pty., has a paid capital of
£900,000—200,000 £1 ords. and 500,000
£1 5 p.c. prefs. are held by the Australian
cos., whilst the Rank group has 200,000
ords. and the option on a further issue of
500,000 prefs. There are four other
operating cos.: British Empire Films
Pty. rents films; Cinesound turns out
newsreels and features ; National Theatre
Supply Co. deals in various accessories
and Sixteen Millimetre (Aust.) Pty. has
just been formed to produce educational
and other films. Balance-sheets of the
operating cos. aren’t published, but their
profits during the past three years were
as follows:
Year Ended Dee. 31.
1944. 1945. 1946.
£ £ £
Greater Union . . . . 82,550 89,847 98,490
British Empire Films 16,015 14,171 10,735
Cinesound .. •• 7,223 1,392 4,433
National Theatre Supply 2,562 2,174 1,938
Total .. . . £108,350 £107,584 £112,596
Total ord. divs. paid to the holding cos.
were £55,000, £75,000 and £75,000 respec-
tively —of which £37,500 went to the
Rank organisation in each of the last
two terms. Pref. divs. -totalling £3767


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUIUAVV, >
WIUB .
CDs
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” WINDOW FACE
ENVELOPES
-“national” BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
, ROLL FEED STATIONERY
“NATIONAL” FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
Gutter wraps
“national” waxed milk
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump oil
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "’up and up.”
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/- & 1/3.
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER & CO. LTD- BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
BRISBANE OFFICE
THIS BANK LIVES
ONLY BY GIVING
SATISFACTION
Under freedom, any enter-
prise be it bank or corner grocery
can live only if it give satisfaction
to its customers.
An end soon comes to all those
who fail to give that satisfaction to
others that alone qualifies them to
remain in business: their trade soon
passes to others.
This Bank has stood this test of
service to the Community for 113
years.
Now comes the proposal to do
away with all such banks and to
force the people to trade with one
bank that will not have to face this
test of service. The Community
would do well to consider the effect
of such a proposal.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 18 3 4
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LID.
FOR SALE BY TENDER
“PEAK DOWNS” STATION
CAPELLA, CENTRAL QUEENSLAND
A well-known sheep property, situated 8 miles East of Capella, adjoining Retro.
Open, downs, carrying Mitchell, Star, Blue and other soft, fattening grasses. The
country carries Coolibah and Bloodwood lightly scattered over the whole area, with
patches of edible trees —Kurrajong, Bottletree, Myall, Black Wattle, Emu, Apple,
Prickly Pear, etc.—all useful in dry seasons. The property is securely fenced,
sufficiently watered, and subdivided into 48 paddocks. Average rainfall for the
Clermont District over the last hi years—26.6s inches. „
Tenders are, hereby invited for the purchase of the undermentioned lands with all
improvements thereon : _
TOTAL AREA: 92.395 ACRES 3 ROODS 15 PERCHES FREEHOLD
in Parishes of Retro, Lowestoft and Khosh Bulduk, Counties of Clermont and Talbot.
v IMPROVEMENTS:
FENCING: Netting Fehces 82 miles 6 chains
63 miles 4 chains (Half-share)
Weldmesh Fences 10 miles 1 chain
2 miles 20 chains (Half-share)
5 and 6 Wire Fences 46 miles 43 chains
Total
203 miles 74 chains
WATER: There are fourteen (14) Bores and twenty-one (21) Wells, all equipped.
In addition there are four (4) natural watercourses through the property from
North to South—Abor, Capella, Eastern and Western Creeks.
BUILDINGS: Two large and well-maintained homesteads, fully equipped, -7-stand
Shearing Shed, all necessary workers’ accommodation and other structures
essential for the efficient conduct of the property.
TELEPHONE: Connected with the Capella Exchange.
YARDS: Six sets of Sheep Yards and Cattle Yards.
PLANT: All plant necessary for the working of the property.
For further particulars apply to:—
The Manager,
“PEAK DOWNS” STATION, CAPELLA, Q’LD.
Telephone; CAPELLA 1-8.
Tenders to be addressed to The Secretary, Peak Downs Pastoral Company Pty. Limited, Sixth
Floor, A.M.P. Building, Edward Street, Brisbane, and must reach that address not later than
31sl/ Dpppynhpr X 947«
Highest or any tender not necessarily accepted. Sale to be subject to National Security Regulations.
Early possession available on a date to be mutually arranged between Vendoi and 1 urchaser.
The successful tenderer may acquire the livestock at a valuation by a mutually approved valuer,
or may purchase the property unstocked. (Present stock numbers: 30,458 Sheep, 1089 Cattle,
257 Horses.)
were also paid in 1947 in respect of two
months only.
The Australian holding cos. own three
of the 115 cinemas and the rest belong to
Greater Union Theatres Pty. Greater J. D.
Williams had a 32| p.c. holding in the
subsidiaries until December, 1945, when
Mr. Rank paid £750,000 cash for his half-
interest. Of this sum Greater J. D.
Williams received £243,755, being left
with only a 16i p.c. holding—namely
65,000 ords. in G. U. Theatres and 4063
ords. in other operating cos. In addition,
162,500 prefs. in G. U. Theatres were
taken up at par last April.
Greater J.D.W. discharged the mort-
gage on its theatre last term and cash
balances were reduced in all by £210,912:
1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital .. . . £397,029 £397,029 £397,029
Mortgage . . . . 50,000 50,000
Creditors and tax . . 3,377 2,339 3,048
Liberty Theatre (Melb.) 48,362 48,362 48,362
Shares in G. Union Group 470,440 226,718 390,437
Cash, etc. . . . . 20,379 265,162 54,240
The Liberty is leased to G. U. Theatres
Pty. at £l5O a week. In 1938, when this
property was valued at £33,638 in the
books, directors were offered £135,000
for it, but declined to sell below £150,000.
Now, under terms of the Rank deal, the
theatre must be sold to G. U. Theatres
Pty. in exchange for debentures bearing
not more than 5 p.c. interest; price hasn’t
been specified, but £300,000 is the most
that will be paid for this theatre plus those
held by the other holding cos., whose
book-values amount to £142,465 (West’s
£76,845 and Amalgamated Pictures
£65,620). Assuming that the other cos.
receive book-values, Greater J. D.
Williams can receive no more than
£157,535 for the Liberty.
A further consequence of the 1945 deal
is that the co. cannot dispose of its sub-
sidiary shares without approval of the
Rank group. Book-value of Greater
J.D.W.’s 69,063 ords. is £226,718, or
655. 7d, each. Price paid by Rank in
1945 for similar shares represented a little
more than 70s. each.
Not much scope for initiative remains
to this co., but it will participate
in any benefits from what Mr. Rank
calls his policy of “consolidation.”
Box-office takings are generally show-
ing a recession from war-time boom
figures, and the dollar shortage may
eventually affect Hollywood supplies—
although drastic import cuts in this
country have been averted so far by film
distributors agreeing to reduce their
remittances to U.S.A. by 30 p.c. With its
virtual monopoly of British releases
G.U.T. is in a relatively good position.
This co.’s earnings next term will be en-
hanced by a full year’s pref. dividend,
which will raise net profit by about £6900,
assuming an unchanged ord. div.
(£12,187). In that case profit will repre-
sent over 6 p.c. on capital compared with
4| p.c. last term. Current market price of
225. for the £1 shares offers a yield of
4.1 p.c. on basis of last div., or 5.4 p.c.
from a 6 p.c. div. Net asset backing
(book-values) is 235, 9d. a share.
Doleful predictions of what would
happen to goldmining in Westralia if all
union claims for variation of awards, etc.,
are granted were made by Chamber of
Mines advocate F. E. Walsh in the State
Arbitration Court last week. He said that
two-thirds of the mines would close down,
the remainder would be forced to adopt
selective mining, thus shortening their life,
and some large low-grade ore-bodies now
being investigated would have to be
abandoned with the inevitable reaction
upon employment. The A.W.U. is seek-
ing a 40-hour week for surface workers
and a 35-hour week for. underground
men ; an increase from 12s. to 245. in the
industry allowance, and a 90 p.c. increase
in margins. Five craft unions are also
seeking all-round increases.
*** v *
Hansel Mundy is, sniffing at another
option, this time on the Chatanooka
mine on Hampton Plains, near Cool-
gardie. Co. has 12 months to decide
whether it will buy or not, purchase con-
sideration being £1250 plus 10,000 fully-
paid (10s.) shares. Production to date is
a few hundred ounces from ore of 13dwt.
average. Hansel Mundy asked those on
the register for 3d. a share to cover work-
ing expenses, making the 113,475 issued
10s. shares paid fo Is. 6d.
* * * *
From London: Latest accounts of
Wiluna Gold Corp., holder of all the
shares of Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., and
about a tenth of those of Gold Fields
Aust. Development Co., Ltd., show share-
holders’ funds at £1,770,138 —about
£177,000 in excess of issued capital.
Owing to exhaustion of the Wiluna mine,
co.’s future now depends mainly upon
how its Mt. Charlotte (W.A.) option
opens up, and to a lesser degree on the
.Porphyry property, in which a substantial
interest is held. Chairman Binns says
although there is every reason to believe
that both ventures will turn out well, ore
so far exposed averages only about 4dwt.
However, given enough manpower, and
on the basis of prices and costs ruling
over the last 12 months, satisfactory
earnings are anticipated.
* * * *
Mt. Charlotte (Kalgoorlie), Ltd., is put-
ting down a series of bores on the old
Queen Margaret mine at Bulong (W.A.).
Years ago an Adelaide co. extracted
wealth from auriferous dabs and patches
on this property, but gave up when it
struck impoverished ground. Near by
rich alluvial finds were made by diggers
in the early days.
* # ♦ *
A Sydney syndicate talks of installing
a £lO,OOO tailings-treatment plant on the
long-ago-worked-out Cosmopolitan group
at Kookynie (W.A.). There is a large
heap of residues which it is believed can
be profitably leached piled on the sur-
face.
* * * *
Geoffrey James Gellie has become a
partner in the firm of Bewick Moreing
and Co. He saw submarine service with
the British Navy in the Pacific during the
war, and recently left Australia for
London. The other B.M. and Co. part-
ners are Captain A. H. Moreing and E.
A. Coring, sons of previous partners.
* * * *
Westralian mining items:
Helped by Perth brokers, Freney Oil Co.
is appealing to the public to subscribe for
52,000 new shares at Is. 6d. apiece. Nominal
value of the scrip is 6s.....First Hit Gold, a
small co. with several dividends to its credit,
announces that it has ceased operations and
intends to call shareholders together at an
early date; want of ore and little prospect
of finding new makes are the reasons.


NO-O-24
WHEN FASTER STARTS
MEAN LONGER LIFE
V 3
\
n
3
<^P
<PqP
<?
NEPTUNE
HIGH VISCOSITY INDEX
caWn
MOTOR OIL*
MOTOR on
STARTS INSTANTLY! AND
SPREADS A PROTECTIVE FILM
OF OIL OVER EVERY
MOVING SURFACE —
\\o
ov<o*0 v-
<0*
\>°
0 s
6t®
NEPTUNE OIL CO. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
MARKETERS OF QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA SINGE 1909
FOR SALE, TIGER MOTH
with C. of A. just completed. British manu-
facture. In excellent condition. Inspection
Brisbane. Delivery can be made an
Eastern States. Also spare motor (BntisW
available. Price £550 complete with spare
mo Apply SOUTH-WESTERN AIRWAYS,
Union Bank Chambers, Brisbane, Queensland,
SUNDRY SHOWS
GOOSSENS AND LILI KRAUS.
There is probably nothing in the whole
range of music more beautifully sane, nor
anything that crystallises more the genius
of Mozart, than his piano concerti; and
of these none is more beautiful and
powerful and peculiarly Mozartian in its
combination of strength and elegance than
the D Minor, K 466. These were fitting
elements for Lili Kraus to work on when
she appeared as soloist with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra under Eugene
Goossens. The pianiste struck her hap-
piest vein in the Romanze, where the
dialogue between left- and right-hand was
clean-cut, the transition from the declama-
tory to the lyrical smooth as silk, and
the echoes by the solo instrument of the
orchestral phrases (beautifully controlled
throughout) tender yet always crisp. The
Rondo tripped along to its final perora-
tion with sustained brilliance, with soloist
and orchestra sharing equal honors. The
orchestral arrangement by Rimsky-
Korsakov and his three pupils of the set
of 21 pianoforte pieces he called “Car-
naval” was given a sparkling rendition.
Eugene Goossens’s First Symphony
'gives rise to the impression that the com-
poser has set far greater store on music’s
fourth ingredient, tone-color, than on
its first ingredient, melody. The sym-
phony contains practically no melody, as
such. That is, of course, the essence of the
modern symphony —melody seems to be
regarded as a musical crime. The
chromatic idiom has its place, but it can
be overemphasised, as it certainly is here.
Rhythm there is, though too often, as in
the first movement, it is of a saltant
quality. In the Divertimento its rollick-
ing episode could with profit have been
extended. The work has been somewhere
described as “vivid.” So is some of the
very latest American neckwear. And in
its polychromatic riotousness this sym-
phony, despite very skilful orchestration,
parallels some of those strange creations.
* * * *
Sylvia Fisher, who gave her farewell
Sydney recital at the Conservatorium on
Saturday night, has all the laryngeal
attributes necessary to put her on an
equal footing with the world’s best dra-
matic sopranos. Her voice is the best
heard here since Marjorie Lawrence, and
it needs only the extra polish of phrase
and the foreign tongue to put her into
top-flight operatic class. Even the one
glimpse of grand opera she gave through-
out her recital, the Vissi d’Arte from
“Tosca,” was sufficient to demonstrate
the dramatic content inherent in her voice,
the sense of tonal values and finely-con-
trolled power that might well make the
operatic stage her final destination.
But the soprano was almost equally
at home in Brahms, Wolf and Richard
Strauss lieder. Here there were serenity
and lovely phrasing. Some songs by
Granville Bantock, Molloy, Linda Phillips
and Hageman were notable for the per-
fect diction and the adaptation of her
mood to the demands of each song.
* * * *
The eighth “celebrity” concert of the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra under
the Heinze baton was full of interest.
Hindemith’s symphonic piece, “Mathis
de Maler,” a first performance, was an
attempt to discuss in musical terms the
composer’s reactions to a painting. Some
of the themes seemed to be religious,
and some were so strange that they might
have been inspired by a modernist exhi-
bition, but a march, a waltz, a polka and
a galop provided an exhilarating finish.
The pure and simple line of Mozart s
Symphony in C was given a sensitive
rendering, and Eunice Gardiner, the Syd-
ney pianist, gave a confident interpreta-
tion of Rachmaninoff’s “Rhapsodie on a
Theme by Paganini.”
* * * •
Robert Quentin, here produced by
Heth, was credited last week with pro-
ducing “Antigone” for Doris Fitton s
Independents; actually Bill Rees, now
playing at Sydney Minerva in “No Room
at the Inn,” was responsible for that ad-
mirable production. Quentin, who was a
R.N.V.R. lieutenant during the war,
arrived in Sydney in May, 1945, on the
cruiser H.M.S. Newfoundland ana
formed the R.N. Dramatic Society, whici
was originally run in conjunction wit
Bryant’s Playhouse. There he produced
an excellent version of Wilde s The
Importance of Being Earnest, and to -
lowed that with an outstanding produc-
tion of O’Neill’s ambitious trilogy,
“Mourning Becomes Electra.” After that
JCW, offered him a contract and he
produced “Smilin’ Through” and “The
Dancing Years” for the Firm, was stage-
director during the Elliott-Ritchard
season and took over “Follow the Girls
when Freddie Carpenter returned to
England. Quentin is happier with drama
than musicals and musicomedy, a fact that
is obvious from his current and remark-
ably competent production of Lillian
Heilman’s “The Little Foxes at the In-
ROBERT QUENTIN.
dependent Theatre, North Sydney. Quen-
tin’s interest in the stage began with the
Oxford University Dramatic Society and
the Experimental Theatre Club at the
same address ; he was later producer and
stage-manager for a small touring com-
pany and produced a medieval play at
Windsor Castle. He was a naval intelli-
gence officer during the war, and found
time to produce “Gaslight,” “Heartbreak
House” and “King of Nowhere” in Cape-
town, and “Hasty Heart” and “While the
Sun Shines” in New Zealand. Next month
he is returning to England, where, in con-
trast to the sad state of affairs in Aus-
tralia, the stage is a flourishing part of
cultural life.
Artbursts.
Slums and flower pieces are popular in
the Contemporary Group’s 22nd annual
exhibition at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney. Sali Herman has a “Back Lane”
and a large “Woolloomooloo,” and,
despite the usual Herman deficiencies of
light, the ’Loo picture is an impressive
piece of realistic architectural painting in
which, relating the paint in the sky to
the smooth or peeling realistic paint on
the buildings, it is possible to accept the
light as a subordinate mood of the paint-
ing as a whole—like the rather elf-like
human figures. In “Ringbarked Country,”
however, the same effect is tried with un-
fortunate results —it may be possible to
excuse the sun from peering top closely
at tenements in the ’Loo, but in a bush
picture there is no alibi and the sky has
only the unity of rather fuddled paint.
D. Orban shows two pastels with a
sombre and considered depth in them ;
Ruth Pasco, George Bell, David
Strachan, Thea Proctor and others
have a variety of flower-pieces; and Jack
Carrington Smith has a rather smudgy but
neat “Arrangement in Grey.” Arnold
Shore has better pictures, including “The
Old Stable,” which is, however, far be-
low his best work. It is a country subject
with trees and grass, but, in some obscure
way, the chilling influence of slum-paint-
ing seemed to have fallen over it. Jean
Bellette’s “The Rectory” and George F.
Lawrence’s “A Surry, Hills’ Street” were
both bought by the Victorian National
Gallery. Lawrence’s painting, although
indubitably of the Hills district, is excelled
by what Herman can do in that line.
* * * *
At David Jones’ Art Gallery, Sydney,
Justin O'Brien has an exhibition of paint-
ings, most of them very red and glittery
and Byzantine. One was bought by the
Victorian National Gallery.
At the Films.
There is one practically insurmountable
difficulty in filming Dickens, and that is
the impossibility of encompassing within
the running time of a film all his minor
characters—and the minor characters to-
gether with the stream of human tragedy
and comedy with which he embroidered
his novels are, after all, the beginning and
end of Dickens. Ealing’s “Nicholas
Nickleby” (Sydney Lyceum) makes the
same approach to the problem as did
“Great Expectations”—it preserves as far
as possible the main narrative, which is a
preposterous one, and either omits or
slashes unmercifully all the Dickensian
decorations which make the book what
it is. Cedric Hardwicke, as Ralph
Nickleby, Bernard Miles, as Noggs,
Stanley' Holloway, as Crummies, and
Alfred Drayton, as Squeers, give rich and
faithful portraits, but Derek Bond as
Nicholas and Sally Ann Howes, as Kate,
are simply two romantic leads which can
be seen in any film any day of the week.
Looking as though they are carved from
red marble, a ginger cat and two kittens
repose in the centre of Sydney Victory’s
lounge, and it is obvious from their lazy
feline immobility that they are blissfully
unaware of the shootings and bashings
taking place on the screen in Columbia’s
brisk melodrama “Johnny O’Clock.
Dick Powell, as the character with the
horological monicker who manages a
gambling saloon, makes a much better
job of these tough roles than he did of
his musical films; Lee Cobb is an even
better and more entertaining policeman
than he was in “Boomerang,” and Evelyn
Keyes is almost as feline as the cats in
the lounge outside.
Police inspectors, killers and even
corpses become almost credible when the
mystery film covers dirty work of 50
years ago—period clobber and settings
have a lot to do with the feasibility, be-
cause they give the filmgoer some relief
from the red-hot, up-to-the-minute,
second-rate pseudo-mysteries featuring
cigar-chewing detectives and mango-
headed assistants, which are heaped on
him in horrible profusion. Of hansom-
cab and fish-tailed burner vintage, “Moss
Rose,” at Sydney Plaza, imparts an old-
fashioned freeze almost as powerful as
that of its contemporary, “The Lodger.
Victor Mature again shows something
like acting ability, but honors go to
Ethel Barrymore.


KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
'PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIAL OFFER
STOCKS LIMITED
UY YOURS TODAY !
/Ki&
G EM
CBM
WM>
GEM
SET
• GEM RAZOR*2 GEM BLADES
• SERVICEABLE BAKELITE CASE
fd
“KEENE R THAN EVER”
NOW 5 FOR 1/9
From most Stores, Chemists and Tobacconists.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
A record crowd of 47,000 saw a grand
afternoon’s racing in Saturday’s sunshine at
Moonee Valley, the pick of it the performance
of one that was beaten—Valcurl, making a
game bid under top weight to win his third
Moonee Valley Cup, and being downed only
a head by a good horse, Don Pedro.
As a fairly habitual gatherer of Cups, with
a special liking for the Moonee Valley circle,
Valcurl no doubt merited all his 9.4, but still
it was asking a lot of him to have to give
Don Pedro 61,b. in present form, and the same
to the somewhat boomed Good Idea. The
three of them had the close finish to them-
selves, with the bolter, Red Fury, handy, and
then Open Air, who should do better on another
course.
Apart from the place-fillers, and perhaps
Amelia, who has lost all form, it was a very
modest Cup field, indicated by the fact that
Invictus, with 8.2, headed the rest of them.
Valcurl’s attempt, however, gave the race the
sort of special interest that’s more important
than classy fields and rich prizes. Perhaps the
poundage beat him; he certainly gave W. Cook
a comfortable ride, up in about second place
all the way, getting his neck in front with a
win almost clinched. R. Heather had a "very
different ride on Don Pedro, who was in some
early trouble and had to be fairly forced
through between horses to just get there.
Don Pedro must have some awkwardness in
him; he struck considerable trouble in the
Caulfield Cup also. But that apart, he has
been lately consistent, so is probably now the
best he has been. He has been heavily re-
handicapped for the Melbourne Cup—up 71b.,
to 9st. but (speaking befo(re acceptances)
could take the Hotham. He’s a five-year-old
bay by Lothario-Miss Devlin; and a half-
brother of his (by Dhoti), the bay colt Alabama
King, looked a fair sort of prospect in run-
ning third to So Sweet and Chosen in a
division of the St. Albans Stakes (five furlongs;
two-year-olds). So Sweet (Le Grand Duc-
Vocal) shaped like one of those extremely
smart fillies that crop up regularly every year
and look like champions for the usually brief
time their early speed lasts. She made a pro-
cession of it, and finished on the bit.
In So Sweet’s race a huge plunge missed out
on the Porter-owned St. Magnus colt Scotwyn;
starting a hot favorite, badly left, and finish-
ing about fifth.' So Sweet is in the McCarten
stable, an element of whose luck in Melbourne
may be the judgment of changing to local
riders who know the courses —Badger, to win
the Caulfield cup on ColiSnnist, and veteran
A- Cooper to replace such a good rider as
Sellwood on So Sweet; this latter change per-
haps because the filly is a bit fractious and
Cooper an extra-good handler of unruly ones.
While the big plunge went west in the second
St. Albans, in the first a fair pile was landed
at juicy odds with the South Australian-owned,
N.Z.-bred Balloch-Chorine colt Quiloch. Rid-
den by the S.A. jockey D. Smith, Quiloch left
the smart Dhoti colt New India looking like a
hobbled elephant. Last-start winner Derrymore
(third) found his penalty poundage too much.
A probably even better South Australian win
was Money Moon’s success in the mile Phoenix
Handicap, defeating Cargeonel, Morbell and a
big field of others. A 2-to-l favorite, Money
Moon, ridden by W. Briscoe, led most of the
way, , shaping like a really good horse; a
free and strong galloper quite likely to worry
next Saturday’s Cantala Stakes field, despite his
51b. penalty. His toughest Cantala opponent
may be the also-penalised New Zealander Da
Vinci; topweight with 9.8, but at last in form
and a very good weight-carrier.
For the Cantala: Money Moon, 1; Da Vinci,
2; Thor, 3.
Another capital Valley run, with Flemington
in mind, was the Hellespont colt Chanak’s
defeat of Attley, Sweet Chime and the rest of
the w.f.a. aspirants in the 10-furlongs W. S.
Cox Plate. How coldly those who backed the
colt did in their coin when Breasley let him
stop at his previous run! Chanak had only
half-a-head the better of Attley, but it was a
Derby-winning performance. The colt certainly
looks easily the best Melbourne contender for
the ribbon. It’s hard to say just how good
South Australia’s Beau Gem might be; his
recent Melbourne win was against nothing of
much account, but he did the job well and
has excellent S.A. form, which, judging by
Quiloch and Money Moon, isn’t to be despised.
Sydney’s best Derby prospect should be Valiant
Crown, if the kick he stopped in the Caulfield
Cup has done him no harm. He won the
A.J.C. Derby like a true stayer; dismissing
him on the ground that McGrowdie was allowed
to steal that race might be a bad error. The
right money was on him both in the Derby
and in the Caulfield Cup, and, if he’s fit, it
will be on him again. Fresh Boy, at time
of writing, is a probable Derby starter. He’s
small, but some of these little fellows can
carry weight. Conductor is another possibility.
For the Derby: Chanak, 1; Valiant Crown,
2; Fresh Boy, 3.
Hotham Handicap: Don Pedro, 1; Two
Grand, 2; Clatterbag, 3.
The run of Sweet Chime in the Cox Plate
looked good for the Melbourne Cup. She
is a very sound staying mare, and could com-
plete the big double for the McCarten stable
while its luck’s in. Proctor, for all his 9st.,
looks sure to be tough; though if Prince
Standard hadn’t gone wrong he’d probably have
been the Lewis stable elect. If Fresh Boy can
carry the Derby weight, the penalty won t
stop him in the Cup ; and no more honest
galloper will face the barrier next Tuesday
than the grey Hiraji, who, with 7.11, has a very
nice pull in the weights.
For the Melbourne Cup; Sweet Chime, 1;
Hiraji, 2; Fresh Boy, 3; best outsider, Clatter-
bag.
The best other performance at the Valley
was by another of the defeated —Assam, lump-
ing the huge weight of 10.2 in the six-furlongs
Dundonald Welter, and galloping as if he had
nothing on his back, till caught in the last
bit by the lightly-weighted Sir Charles, unwind-
ing an extraordinary finish. The mile Greenvale
Handicap for three-year-olds was nicely won
by the Helios colt Cronides.
# * * •
What’s happened to the Sydney betting ring?
It’s rarely had a longer run of most palpable
winning days, yet at the S.T.C. meeting at
Canterbury on Saturday, with big fields of
“Y’ put up a bonzer show, kid—you re booked for a return bout!”
Mixed Stakers, 6-to-4 favorites were common,
and betting altogether, compared with Mel-
bourne odds, the sort of thing you’d expect
in three-horse races at Woop Woop.
There were four Mixed Stakes, in which one
favorite caught its teeth in the barrier, two
equal-favorite others also ran unplaced, another
was stitched by three lengths, and one actually
landed the money. This last curiosity was
So Sweet’s older brother Caruso (J. Thompson).
The other Mixed Stakes winners: Diction
(E. Doon), Sir Alex (J. Thompson), and
Torment (A. Ward). A five-furlongs Juvenile
Stakes saw another win chalked up to F. W.
Hughes’s grey Nizami breed, Grey Nurse (T.
Mullane) —a beautiful bit of naming; her
dam’s Card Player! A Welter nine-furlongs
went to the Newcastle mare Cabinet (N. Mc-
Growdie), with hot favorite Smooth Action
running a surprisingly bad race.
The punting fraternity took their worst bat-
tering in the Flying, won by the outsider
Young Veilmond (R. Kerrigan), with Tactician
next, Tahmoor and Tamaroa deadheating for
third about a whisker away, and Pearler and
Royal Court also in the photo. Kerrigan rode
a nice race; a promising lad. One more
favorite bit the dust in the day’s other event,
Courier being downed by Air Flare (V. Fag-
gotter), with Melgoda next in the distance race.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Juvenile (colts and geldings): Barringun, 1;
Manipulator, 2; Oceanus, 3. Juvenile (fillies):
Court Glamour or Grey Nurse, 1; Gold Glow,
2; Incessant, 3. Mixed Stakes (9f.): Young
Andrew, 1; Leetona, 2; Gold Valley, 3.
Mixed Stakes (Ilf.): Fluent, 1; Sir Alex, 2;
Vaucluse, 3. Flying: Homeleigh Dick, 1;
Tamaroa, 2; Young Veilmond, 3.' Canterbury
Park Handicap: Courier, 1; Melgoda, 2;
Smooth Action, 3. Welter: Royal Court, 1;
Pearler, 2; Pennicuik, 3.
* * * *
Whether so intended or not, the decision of
the A.J.C. to make both prizemoney and weight
conditions for the autumn double more attrac-
tive to connections of good horses looks like
a counter to the spectacular Doomben (Q.)
prizes about that time of the year, which were
stealing the southern thunder. The Doncaster
increases £l5OO to now total £5000; the Sydney
Cup goes up from £6OOO to £BOOO. Topweight
limit for the Doncaster is to.be 9.10; Sydney
Cup, 9.7. One thing the Queensland people
might well do is alter penalty conditions, so
that horses would have to win reasonably
substantial prizes before running into the sort
of added extra burden that was heaped on
Attley last year.
* * * *
Next to good horse there’s nothing more
important in racing than good trainer, and at
long last there’s to be some official recognition
of it. With January 1 as starting date, S.T.C.
is to run a trainers’ premiership, with prizes
of £l5O, £6O and £4O to be handed out at
the end of the year.
« * * *
Joe E. Palmer, turf writer for the New York
“Herald Tribune,” with a few remarks ot
local application: “It is gratifying to note that
there has been no talk of how Assault (one
of the best three gallopers in the U.S.J is a
little horse, frail and delicate, and that any-
thing over 1301 b. [9.4] will break his back.
There are several owners and trainers who will
accept high weights without bellowing like a
wounded buffalo publicly, but the things they
say off the record would blister paint. Several
years ago an owner was rampaging because nis
horse, having won several hundred thousand
dollars, was beginning to pick up weight.
Since he had previously seemed a reasonably
sporting sort, I expressed some surprise at the
performance. * Thereupon Francis Patrick
Dunne, then a racing secretary, dropped one
of his frequent pearls of wisdom. There is
nothing like his first good horse,’ quoth Mr.
Dunne, ‘to bring out the heel in a man.
* * * *
Arbar’s success in the King George VI 'Stakes
at Ascot (Eng.) on October 11 was yet another
triumph for either French breeding or French
war-time fodder. The race has been only run
twice; both French wins. Also French horses
have won England’s last two Gold Cups. From
here it looks as if war-time short rations over
a number of years must have had an effect on
mares and foals in England, but London
“Times” racing correspondent lays the blame
on breeding. He says the majority .of good
English three-year-olds no longer stay the mile
and a half of the Epsom course, adding: “In
the last two years two colts who were not of
the top class won the Derby because they lasted
the course properly. Those who have bought
or bred with this in mind may, well have a
substantial reward for their foresight in the
next few years.”
« * » *
The loss of winger Charlie Eastes not-
withstanding, the Wallabies showed they
still have plenty of speed in the backs,
scoring three good tries and beating com-
bined Neath and Aberavon 19-9 at Neath
(Wales). A feature of the match was fine
kicking and handling by fullback Piper,
whose play in the more rugged depart-
ments of the game has never been in
doubt. But the Wallabies had the first
try in seven matches scored against them
—by a front-row forward. Windon was
outstanding in the Australian pack.
Indians v. W.A. and S.A.:
Between showers at Perth the India v.
Westralia match paddled to a draw: W.A.
171 and 4 for 70; India 127. Bright spots
were D. Phadkar’s 3 for 16 and 1 for 11, and
Mankad’s 57 and 4 for 68. In England last
year Mankad got the “double” of 1000 runs
and 100 wickets; with Hazare he put on 322
for the fourth wicket v. Yorkshire, and with
Merchant 314 for the first wicket v. Sussex.
A. Edwards topped for W.A. with 49, and
slow bowler M. Herbert took 7 for 45.
Shifting to Adelaide, the Indian bowlers ran
into a torrid welcome. Going in first, S.A.
rattled up 518 for eight wickets (closed). Left-
hander Niehuus (137) and Craig (100) gave the
home side a start of 226 for the first wicket;
after that Bradman (156) made his 98th century
in first-class cricket, and completed the chain
against every cricketing country. The wickets
were shared by Mankad (4 for 127), Sarwate
(3 for 83) and Amarnath (1 for 48). India
began badly with two wickets for two runs
(both 1.b.w.), then Mankad (57) and Hazare
(95) in a grand display added 152 for the third
wicket, and Amarnath (38 not out) was holding
the fort at the close of play on Saturday. Fine
■ fielding (despite missed catches of Bradman and
Niehuus) was a feature of the Indians’ display.
At Brisbane, N.S.W. v. Q. started the Sheffield
Shield round. The visitors went for 281, and
Q. had 259 for 6 wickets when bad light stopped
play on Saturday. Q. left-hander Rex Rogers
scored a solid 124 before being run out.
NiS.W.’s prospective Test bowlers got a thrash-
ing—Lindwall 0 for 64, Toshack 1 for 46,
Miller 0 for 38 and Pettiford 0 for 37. F.
Johnston, of Canberra, helped the side out with
3 for 65. Don Tallon, alert as ever, did a fine
job ’keeping for Q., catching four.
* * * *
Up at Warwick (Q.) they’ve finally
managed to reconcile Billy Hughes and
the infamous egg. South Queensland ex-
servicemen golfers having their annual
outing compete this year not for the
traditional Diggers’ Cup but for, as in-
scribed, the “Warwick Diggers’ Trophy,
presented by the Rt. Hon. W. M.
Hughes,” the silver trophy being in the
shape of an egg and actually engraved
“Warwick Egg.”
•** * *
If the Davis family wants the world
snooker championship back, it seems that
Joe, who held the title for about a
quarter of a century, will have to take
down his cue again. Brother Fred held it
for only about as many months as Joe’s
years, b?ing well trounced by Walter
Donaldson, a Scot, 73 frames to 49. The
Leicester Square*Hall, mentioned in cables
as their playing address, is the famous
old Thurston’s, reconstructed, modernised
and renamed after bad damage by a
bomb in 1940.
* * * *
West Indies lightweight Frank “Ma-
homet” Donnelly (9-9) made a fine fight
of it against Jackie Wilson (9.4 T) at
Leichhardt, but experience and cleaner
punching won for the local lad. Which,
surprisingly, didn’t suit the locals. The
points decision for. Wilson brought forth
the customary outburst of lusty Leich-
hardtian hoots, supplemented by a bottle
which, but for a brilliant bit of ducking,
would have floored the police inspector.
* * * *
Davey Robinson (8.8 i) was nowhere
in it against the neat hooking of Filipino
Little Paras (8.5) at Melbourne Stadium.
Stopping a clinker in the fourth round,
Robinson staggered to his feet, ran into
another, and, rising gamely at the count of
nine, stopped another which cooked him.


COMMON MISTAKES IN
HOME MADE WILLS
Failure to have a Will drawn by a Solicitor, and kept up-to-date, can
defeat the wishes of the Testator and cause endless trouble and expense.
FOR EXAMPLE :
• Unless your Will makes it clear,
should you desire your Business or
Station Property carried on after
your death —your Trustee may have
to apply to the Court for permission
to carry on.
O Even if a Testator direct that a
beneficiary shall ‘hot receive a legacy
until later in life the beneficiary can,
in certain circumstances, demand
payment when he, or she, attains the
age of 21.
• If, in your Will, you leave a share
of your Estate to someone who
predeceases you, the law may provide
that such share be dealt with as
though you had died without making
a Will.
These are only some of the many
reasons for having your Will drawn by
a Solicitor and keeping it up-to-date.
Of no less importance is the wise
choice of an Executor. Upon his trust-
worthiness and ability your benefi-
ciaries will be entirely dependent. Con-
sider the advantages of appointing
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited.
The Company has over 60‘ years
experience in the management of
Estates of many different kinds.
Write for a copy of the interesting and
helpful booklet “Your Executor and Trustee”
which explains the Company’s service and
its charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. ,T. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R. ; D. R. LYSAGHT ;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY'
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: V, T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative: J. D, McElroy, 140 Fords Place, Orange.
xzr.
Z 5
-on a
nczm-&4- &o-
eofifo
ihecz/od/
-nO-10-Wy
•?*o4
no- noo<-
'o I'o/j ecz-
Prices : 30/-, 37/6, and 44/9
Obtainable from Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
255 A George Street. Sydney
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Totally Bad Bank Plan
The more the matter is debated —and
R. G. Menzies did a fine piece of analysis
in the Representatives last week—the
more obvious does it become that nation-
alised monopolistic banking cannot fit in
in a democratic society that aims to im-
prove its living standards. Life in this
Commonwealth with political control of
the'hankihg services would have no future
to it. The, efficiency and speed of bank-
ing facilities would be reduced: good
though the service rendered by the Com-
monwealth Bank may be, it does not at
present attract the support of a large pro-
portion of banking customers, and it
would not be likely to improve as full
political control developed without com-
mercial-bank competition.
Wherever industry relies on official-
dom today it is delayed and impeded.
Further, a banking monopoly would un-
doubtedly give the Government of the
hour powers of intimidation over the
people, over private enterprise and over
all private finance that would be out of
keeping with democratic living.
What happens to a private person’s
business, however small, when it gets out
of line with “Labor” was shown in the
case of Peter Dargin, the Portland
(N.S.W.) butcher. Every available
“squeeze” and threat was used to ex-
tinguish him.
Give the Government a banking
monopoly, and the socialistic State is
more than half achieved. In the socialistic
State, even if it be disguised as a semi-
democracy, rights, ownership and
privileges can be assailed by the bureau-
cracy and the central Government with a
heavy hand. Under a “Labor” Govern-
ment the trade-union-boss element behind
Caucus would become ever, more domin-
ant, and their vested interests would ex-
pand and flourish at the expense of all
the people. The value and stability of
the people’s currency would be en-
dangered, especially once conditions
which make easy a payroll form of “full
employment” disappear.
Apart from the powers it hopes to
achieve, the Canberra “Labor” Govern-
ment believes it can rely on financial
manipulation, through its banking mon-
opoly, to overcome the country’s indus-
trial deficiencies and relieve itself of the
responsibility to enforce industrial dis-
cipline and to assist in the co-ordination
of the efforts of public and private enter-
prise. Ifi it does not believe that, then its
criticism of the banking system amounts
to a pack of lies, since, it charges the
trading banks with having hindered re-
covery from the depression, “Labor” it-
self putting a curse on the Premiers’ Plan
and other efforts that really did a great
deal, in a practical way, to bring recovery
to this country. Recovery could not
have been achieved merely by expanding
bank advances.
To be controlled by a money monopoly
as visualised by the Chifley Government
would be to be subject to a tyranny of
weakness. Frustration of the producer
would be aggravated, private enterprise
and thrift treated with greater contempt
than they are at present, while the real
economic and industrial problems of the
country would be avoided in the vain
hope that monetary manipulation would
solve all ills. For years it has been
obvious that “Labor” “governs” only
those who uphold democracy; the
trouble-makers run wild. Under a
“Labor” banking monopoly this rotten
condition would be greatly accentuated,
with producers confronted by heavier
burdens and greater restrictions of initia-
tive, while industrial and political parasites
would enjoy wider “concessions” until
total calamity descended upon us by the
collapse of production and the debase-
ment of our money.
Payment for the Banks
The Commonwealth Bank had capital
and reserves of £lB million at last balance
day (June 30). Including a £4.7 million
reserve established from the sale of gold
stocks the total was still under £23
million. Yet the central bank proposes
to pay for the business of the trading
banks out of its funds ; Mr. Chifley says
“it will be well within the capacity of
the Commonwealth Bank to meet the pay-
ment from its own resources.” The
amount of compensation is likely to be
in the vicinity of £BO to £lOO million,
depending upon the amount of “justice”
that is meted out to the banks —if it ever
comes to that—by the special Court of
Claims set up for the job.
No public loans are to be raised to
finance acquisition. Those bank share-
holders who want cash will be paid
by cheque, and the cheque will be re-
deposited with the One Big Bank, thus
further increasing deposits while adding
to the‘Commonwealth Bank’s holding of
bank shares and/or bank premises, etc.
Those who want payment in Consolidated
Loans will be handed a parcel out of the
central bank’s huge £470 million holding
of Government stock, and this asset will
be reduced to the extent that acquired
trading-bank assets rise.
The holding in Government loans is
already financed mostly by depositors’
money and the note issue, and so it will
be that present deposits will pay for
portion of the trading-bank assets. The
assets acquired by cash or cheque will be
ultimately covered by a rise in deposits,
too, though this will represent credit
expansion, and will to that extent differ
from the acquisition-by-Consols part of
the deal.
Whichever way you look at it, the
taking-over of the banks will represent
purchase on credit, the Commonwealth
Bank using deposits or new notes to
cover the transaction. And unless
the vast majority of shareholders
accept Government stock in pay-
ment, the general effect on the
economy will be an inflationary one. A
large sum of additional spending-power
will be injected into the financial system,
which already (at June 30 last) had to
cope with £1541 million of spending-
power, compared with £613 million before
the war.
As a method of doing business the
payment plan has several unsatisfactory
economic features, quite apart from the
blow that nationalisation itself is likely
to deliver against confidence and produc-
tivity. And the whole operation is likely
to increase the disparity between spend-
ing-power and available goods.
Australian Textiles
The textile industry in Australia has
made notable progress during the war and
post-war years in spite of price-control
and lack of adequate female labor. Many
of our woollen mills have an almost
ancient history, a good deal of it sad, and
the first big cotton concern —Bond’s —
crashed just before the depression. But
nearly all engaged in textile-making at
present are doing well, and the cotton
section has experienced great expansion.
The business of Bond’s has been rehabi-
litated, and another comparatively early
venture, Bradford Cotton, runs Yarra
Falls (worsted) close for the title of the
country’s biggest textile concern. Both
are leaders in their class, and have done
a first-class job of industrial development.
Though a small tapestry business was
taken over to start with, Burlington Mills,
weaving rayons at Rutherford (N.S.W.),
is virtually a war-time venture, partly
U.S.-owned, and Bruck Mills, with
Canadian sponsorship, started after the
war in an abandoned munitions factory
at Wangaratta. Courtaulds, of Britain,
are also contemplating the establishment
of a rayon-producing factory in the
Hunter River (N.S.W.) district. One
reason for textile concerns going to
country areas has been that it is easier to
get labor there.
The following list embraces prominent
textile concerns producing woollen and
cotton yarns, woollens, worsteds, cotton
dungarees and denims, canvas, carpets,
felting, towels, rayon cloths, corsets,
lingerie, hosiery and knitted wear;
Share Paid Div. Mkt.
Issue. up. p.c. Price.
A.K.M. ... 540,000 ord. 7/6 10 20/-
Amalg Tex. 441,369 ord. 10/10 9.2 20/6
Berlei 213,000 ord. £1 10 57/6
50,000 pref. £1 8 35/-
Bond’s .... 444,749 ord. £1 8 35/3
109,828 ord. 10/- 8
400.000 pref. £1 6 27/-
Bradford .. 740,455 ord. £1 10 54/-
369,487 ord. 2/6 10 32/-
153,104 pref. £1 6 27/-
13,150 emp. £1
Bruck Mills 370,000 ord. £1 39/-
250.000 pref. £1 5
Burlington . 700,000 ord. £1 8 59/6
Share Paid Div. Mkt.
Issue. up. p.c. Price.
Carpet Mfrs. 109,271 ord. £1 10 46/-
190,729 ord. 2/6 ’ 10 24/-
Davies Coop 550,000 ord. £1 8 39/6
200.000 pref. £1 6
Felt & Tex. 1,562,890 ord. £1 12* 60/-
240.000 pref. £l6
H. B. Dickie 150,000 ord. £1 8 .37/6
40.000 pref. £1 6
Lincoln .... 402,635 ord. 4/- 12* 18/-
400.000 pref. £1 9 37/3
Prestige .... 224,417 ord. 10/- 10 26/-
103,050 pref. £1 8 24/-
Stg. Henry . 600,000 ord. 5/- 12* 16/3
25.000 pref. £1 8
Syd. Cotton 81,100 ord. £1 10 43/-
Yarra Falls . 1,000,000 ord. £1 12* 61/6
Demand for products in all cases greatly
exceeds, supply. Yarra Falls in particular
has a big overseas market awaiting its
worsted surplus—if there should be a
surplus. Australian woollen socks have
been seen on sale in such places as New
Zealand and Denmark. But the Austra-
lian market itself is by no means satisfied,
and it may not be until more factory
operatives and coal are available. The
industry in many cases could do with
more plant.
Observing the comparative prosperity
shown by the foregoing list of textile-co.
statistics it is hard to recall the occasions
when Lincoln Mills jettisoned 16s. out of
every £1 of its ordinary capital to wipe
out losses, intangibles, etc., and when
Amalgamated Textiles cut away a total
of 9s. 2d. a share in order to balance its
books. Prestige also struck off 10s. per
ord. share in 1924.
Whilst Bradford Cotton and most other
cotton-textile concerns were operating in
a market undersupplied even before the
war, it remains to be seen how woollen
mills will fare when normal imports are
again available. Yarra Falls has a good
history, and so has Australian Knitting
Mills, but a number of others, especially
those engaged in making blankets, knitted
goods, etc., as distinct from worsteds, had
a thin time, on the whole, in pre-war
years. Hosiery concerns were doing well
after recovering from the depression.
At the moment many Australian indus-
tries have a low level of costs when our
figures are converted into overseas cur-
rency. But in the ultimate costs work
out in the ratio of output per man-hour,
and the trend at present in that regard
isn’t so good. It is something the whole
nation must coftcern itself about. The
future of all Australian industries depends
upon a recovery in production rates.
Dealings in shares in Felt and Textiles
of N.Z., Ltd., were temporarily suspended
on Maorijand ’Changes following sales
of ords. and prefs. privately at a figure
below official quotations. Private sales
were at 495. k . sd. for ords. (61s. on
’Change) and 245. Bd. for the prefs. (28s.
9d.). It was later explained that the
Australian Felt and Textiles co. was
selling shares in the N.Z. offshoot in
order to raise funds for the development
of other ventures in Maoriland, but that
it intended to retain a controlling interest
in the Maoriland subsidiary. There are
rumors that the parent is interested in
buying a block of shares in Korma Tex-
tiles (N.Z.), Ltd.


Battering
steel bars prove
toughness of
GOODYEAR TYRES
i
1
&
7/
u
Determined to test its tyres and others
- under conditions involving terrific, jolting punish*
ment, Goodyear did it with this machine.
The big circular track has steel cleats bolted across
it. On the 12 spokes of the giant wheel which re*
volves inside the track, tyres are mounted. As the
huge wheel turns, the tyres race around the track,
thudding against a steel bar every tenth of a second
600 jolts a minute ! Long after ordinary tyres
have broken down, blown out, Goodyear tyres go
on taking a pounding giving more proof that
Goodyear tyres are the best tyres to buy.
Here is another reason why Goodyear tyres remain
the world’s first choice as they
have been every year since 1915 i
More people, the world
over ride on Goodyear
tyres than on any other
make.
British Commohwcalth
PacifhTAihlihts
r
:
'
. A
¥ M
HE
PACIFIC AIR SERVICE
When you cross the Pacific business-bound, you'll appre-
ciate B.C.P.A.’s pleasure stop at Honolulu . . , with
27 hours to enjoy the glamour and charm of this Pacific
paradise. As for your trip itself . . . the pleasant service
. . . the swift calm luxury induces holiday relaxation.
Experienced flying crew and charming hostesses see
that . . . as the guest of B.C.P.A. . , , you travel with
speed and tranquillity. •
SYDNEY - FIJI . CANTON ISLAND
HONOLULU - SAN FRANCISCO - VANCOUVER
Thrice Fortnightly \rom Sydney • Fortnightly frm Auckland
Sea your local travel agent or write to
44 Martin Place, Sydney
Spending-power
. ... -
Report by H. T. Armitage, governor Or
the Commonwealth Bank: —
The following table brings up-to-date figures
which have been published in previous years,
showing the volume of liquid funds in the hands
of the rmhlir-
r r Time
■E e ’ 10/17’
!939. 1946. 1947.
Notes in hands of public 33* 182 182
Deposits of public with
Commonwealth Bank and
all trading banks* .. 334 671 698
All savings-banks deposits 246 663 661
——
Total 613 1,516 1,541
* Excluding deposits of Governments, other
banks and savings banks.
Eptwppn Tnnp 1 cm nnH Tune 1947 the
volume of money n liauid form in the com-
mnnitv o iv,.,?«n miiUnn in ahnnt
?IS4i y mrn?nJ El ?” in a SJ ri SO ner
Over thn mp n npHnH natinml inmmp rose
as. wm'r'seSTo e m r s
The main factor responsible tor the rise is the
increases in the prices of our staple exports—a
trend which has been particularly noticeable
over the last six months. During the year
£65 million of Treasury bills have been re-
deemed. In the absence of countervailing fac-
tors, this would have lowered the volume of
money; on the other hand, bank advances have
been steadily rising, and now stand at £65
million higher than they did in June, 1946.
In effect, the rise in bank advances has offset
completely the effect of retirement of Treasury
bills.
Total bank advances have now climbed back
to about the level of 1938-39. This upward
movement is a natural result of the renewed
operation of peace-time methods of production
and finance and of itself is desirable and healthy.
Some misgiving may be felt, however, if the
total of spending-power in the community rises
still further. Up to the present, the rise in
the price-level due to the pressure of excess
S d “ g 'P™ er . has been kept within relatively
bounds by war-time and post-war
Contois. It is a responsibility which the m-
dividual and the community share with pubhc
instrumentalities, such as the central bank, to
see that our relative advantages are not reck-
lessly dissipated-
The curtailment of controls which is to some
extent inevitable and, m some respects at least,
desirable has the effect, nevertheless, of spread-
ing over an increasing area of the economy the
pressure of demand backed up by the large
accumulations of money. The effect is seen
not only in rising prices but in the progressive
exhaustion of stocks of many kinds of corn-
modifies, particularly those which are basic to
ca P ital equipment and the manufacture of
durable Products. There is a strong tendency
generally for the current pressure of demand
tb exceed the capacity of productive resources;
this naturally stimulates the scramble for scarce
is
results in unbalanced holdings of stocks and
alt ' rs ' he “ mial channels of distribution,
* n these respects, Australia is not, of course,
unique. All countries are experiencing these
strains and stresses, some in much more danger-
ous degree. Their problems to some extent
aggravate our difficulties. Certain types of
essential imports remain scarce. This holds up
our own rate of reconstruction and encourages
the production of local substitutes. Production
of some of these may be soundly based, but
others cannot, on a long-term view, be re-
garded as economic. The plethora of money
makes mushroom growths relatively easy, and
they live on resources which in the national
interest should not be drawn away from more
soundly based enterprise which will be able
to hold its own in a more competitive world,
Tendencies of this kind must be regarded with
concern, for experience shows that it is not
easy to reverse them.
Mr. Armitage stresses—as it has been
emphasised here—the need for greater
production from each man in each work-
ing hour:
Our own problems are very similar to those
which confront other countries, where spending-
power has also been created in excess of the
supply of goods. It is sometimes said that the
only solution to excess spending-power is greater
production. But we need to consider exactly
what we mean by “greater production.” It is
quantity of available goods, but* if it also in-
creases the income of producers it will add
to available spending-power. The important
thing is clearly to increase production, in terms
of quantities of goods, more than incomes are
increased. This means, broadly, that the problem
is not only, or perhaps even mainly, one of
greater aggregate production, but also of greater
communities, in-
eluding our own, court certain dangers through
the pursuit of inconsistent objectives during the
post-war period. There are the demands, for
example, for reduced taxation, higher wages
and shorter working hours as a means of
improving industrial incentives. There is much
that is reasonable in such claims, but we should
be clear about their possible consequences,
They inevitably leave people with more money
in their pockets or bank accounts, but they
do not obviously lead to greater production,
This may and, it is to be hoped, will follow,
If it does not, the price level must rise, save
to the probably limited extent to which exist-
”! n P ;h?pre“n t a S production
at stable prices cannot be achieved without
careful co-ordination between the investment
plans of private enterprise and public authorities
which between them could easily make impos-
sibly large demands on available resources. Such
co-ordination is primarily the responsibility of
government, but to be successful it demands
the informed co-operation of private enterprise.
A great deal more co-operation between
Government, Federal and State, and
private enterprise is needed. We are
sadly short of real planning of a national
character. And elimination of private
enterprise by “nationalisation” is not go-
j n „ to belp j n jbe ]| eas t
Nearly a million and threequarters will
be cut off New Zealand’s annual bill for
4 L .° ndon , deb ‘ Wh^
£NZJB,UUU,tKX) in 4\ p.c. loans is wiped
out by repayment over the next few
months. M.L.’s outstanding debt to
g r i ta j n w ;n be knocked down to
Q .uT* a a
£NZ03,000,000 (excluding the funded
1914-18 war debt of £30,000,000, on
which payments have been suspended
will be less than half
tne total when the war ended. Away
back in depression days half M.L.’s debt
was held overseas. Next year that share
w -n u j_ w t • f '
Will be down to just over one-eighth—
though, of course, the total debt has
grown meanwhile. The hard core of debt
nearly crippled M.L. when the bottom
f_ii n t f ij _
, ou * j ~,W Old(7 markets m depression
days, and its not risking that happening
again. Repayments are made easy now
by bulging sterling funds
* * *' *
edition of Income Tax
yuide, by John M. White and W. Ben-
jamin, is out. It is an invaluable refer-
ence for taxpayers. Published at 3s. 6d.
, . ... . '
Taxpayers Association of N, S.
Wales, He Castlereagh-street, Sydney.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Emeller”: Old Joe on the next-door
farm kept the barest minimum of dogs to
do his little bit of sheep work. A few
days before mustering one of his scanty
pack died, and his wife was called upon
to double for the deceased mong. “Why
don’t you keep an extra dog for emergen-
cies like this?” Bill asked him. “Well,
replied Joe, nodding towards his wife,
“it’s cheaper this way. You see, I dont
have to get her registered.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ve seen it in the
Pilbarra district, W.A., and it may occur
elsewhere. We called it Binghi cabbage.
It’s rather like a tobacco plant, comes up
with the first rains, and is the only cure
I’ve struck for Barcoo rot. A few weeks
after the rains you’ll see the old-timers
out with their billycans gathering the
leaves. It doesn’t last long, but for those
few weeks the old hands are free from
the sores that make their lives miserable
for the rest of the year.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Scientists believe that al
one time a huge land mass spread across
most of the Southern Ocean, linking
South America with south-western Aus-
tralia. One support of this is that the
small freshwater crayfish of W.A., while
different from those of eastern Australia,
are closely related to those of Patagonia.
A study of the geology of North Kim-
berley (W.A.) further strengthens the
theory. This 19,000,000-acre area is
topped by 2800 ft. Mt. Hahn, a wide
sandstone tableland. This sandstone,
judging from its condition of consolida-
tion, was deposited under water, prob-
ably by a huge river that flowed north
from the supposed continent. Beneath
this hundreds of feet of sandstone lies a
vast bed of igneous rock, basalt, the
mother rock of the Australian continent.
Water erosion has decomposed much of
the basalt into rich dark soil. The great
area of Kimberley sandstone readily ab-
sorbs much of the 40 to 60in. annual
rainfall, conserving it in the form of sub-
soil reservoirs and springs.
* * * *
“O’Yen”: Bats use a system of radar-
location (B. 17/9/’47). In English ex-
periments bats have had their eyes
covered and been released in a room
from which numerous wires hung like a
forest of miniature barrage balloons. The
bats, while they sometimes collided with
the wires, evaded them so frequently as
to make it obvious that they were not
dependent on their eyes at all. Scientists
believe that the large ears on many species
of bats act as receivers for air vibra-
tions set up by passing insects.
« * * •
“Esk D.”: The Rawson brothers, Tom
and Joe, were mountain farmers and their
trips to the township few. Generally
they made the most of these visits. One
Saturday, each having had half a skinful
at the pub, they set out for home in the
old truck. Joe drove without mishap till
about a mile from their place, when the
road steered itself from under the wheels
and they found themselves over the cut-
ting. Luckily they were able to climb
out with no more than a severe shaking
and a few scratches. Tom gloomily sur-
veyed the truck, which was upside-down
over a deep gutter. Then he saw that Joe
was heading towards home on foot. “Hey,
where y’ goin’?” he asked. “T git the
grease-gun,” Joe said, cheerfully. “Gripes,
we might as well grease ’er while she’s
in such a handy position!”
* * * *
“Kelms”: You can talk of.gin and
beer, but when a sufferer from miners’
phthisis seeks relief it’s the lemonade
bottle for which he reaches. There’s
something in the despised symbol of
teetotalism that soothes the raw mem-
branes, and many an old-timer who has
pickled his hide in whisky for half a
century unashamedly sleeps with a bottle
of “soft stuff” beside his bed. Knowing
this, a few of us took a couple of bottles
with us, as well as the whisky, when we
went to visit old Harry in his one-room
humpy. He was recovering from a cough-
ing bout, and couldn’t talk, but his eyes
shone with gratitude as Ned poured out
a glassful and passed it across. He
fumbled a bit as he took it, but he got
it to his lips and drank greedily. Ten
seconds later he was dead, and we were
left to speculate on how long he’d carried
around that piece of cyanide with which
he finally found permanent relief.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: Dunno much about gang-
gangs (B. 8/10/’47), but the mere fact
of their being cockatoos or parrots is
sufficient to account for their untidiness
and destructiveness. Their habit of nip-
ping off gumnuts is also a favorite pas-
time of Westralia’s black cockatoos—l’ve
seen from 50 to 100 of them land in a
gum-tree and completely divest it of nuts
within a few minutes. It’s not for food
either; it’s just plain, wanton hooligan-
ism, a vice common to cockies. Give
even a domesticated white cockatoo or
galah the run of the yard for a while and
watch him. After he’s nipped the tops
from all available clothes-pegs, torn to
tatters any rags, clothing or paper he can
find, uprooted the best plants in the
garden and disembowelled any chickens
unfortunate enough to come within his
range, he’ll, then turn to ringbarking the
The Elephant that Forgot.
fruit-trees, upsetting the dog’s drinking-
water and tearing holes in the laundry
soap. And heaven help the household if
he gets inside among shoes, upholstered
furniture and carpets.
* * * *
“Rip Snorter”: We were travelling in
dry country, but didn’t realise just how
dry it was until we approached a home-
stead in search of water. “Can’t give y
much,” the owner informed us. “Half a
gallon ought to see y’ through. Weve
had a helluva drought out here this year,
y’ know ; we have t’ carry our water from
Dry Gin Creek.” “How far’s that?
queried my mate. The other scratched
his head. “Reckon it’s about nine miles,
he replied. “Nine miles! Wouldn’t it
pay y’ better t’ sink a well?” asked my
mate. The cocky shook his head. “No,’
he said. “This is deep country here.
We’d rather carry the water nine miles
than haul it up the same distance!”
Hi * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: The hardest bird-call
to imitate in the Commonwealth is that
of the English pheasants, which for
decades past have thrived on 40-mile-long
King Island, in Bass Strait. At .Surprise
Bay I listened to their mating calls, and
the nearest I can get to it is a cross be-
tween a gobble played on the flute and
the maggies’ carol in a different pitch.
And what glorious birds they are, especi-
ally the cock with his red-ringed neck
and flowing tail! Powerful fliers, too.
Traversing the whole of the grassy, wind-
swept island, they rear broods of up to
17, and their only enemies are the
domestic cat gone wild and the annual
shoot which takes place in June. The
month’s bag this year was estimated at
1410 birds.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: The arum lily is a native
of Africa, not of Australia (B. 8/10/’47).
One reason it spreads is that as a
flower it is not popular. Years ago it
was associated with funeral wreaths, and
the prejudice against it for any other
floral decoration still holds. Further-
more, most floral fashions are dictated
by women, and at the moment white
flowers have no hope against the modern
craze for “color.” If arum lilies were
any other color they would be exten-
sively used in gardens, and never given
the chance to run wild in our Australian
creeks.
* * * *
“K. C. Invert”: Harry had asked
me to sell a bag of rabbitskins for him
when I went to town. He was highly
indignant about the swindling skin-buyer
and his lying spring-balance when I told
him they only weighed 141 b. “They went
sixteen pound, without the bag,” he in-
sisted. “How did you weigh them?” I
asked. “On a stick,” said Harry. “Half
of a twenty-five pound bag o’ flour, four
pounds of salt-beef and a tin of jam on
one side, and the bag of skins, a twelve-
ounce tin of baking-powder, three spuds
and a tin of powdered milk on the other.
That makes sixteen pounds without the
bag, don’t it?”
* * ♦ *
“Bo”: When old Harry put up his
slab and bark humpy he got as far as
four feet up with his stone chimney when
he decided that it was easier to complete
it with slabs than to drag up the rest of
the required stones from the creek. To
warnings that he stood a good chance of
frying in it if his humpy went up in
smoke Harry would reply that he was too
fly to let such a silly thing happen to him
One cold night a few weeks after he had
completed it Nick Stanwell, coming back
from the township to his charcoal pits,
saw that Harry’s chimney was well alight.
Dashing over to the hut, he brushed aside
the hessian door. He yelled, but in the
smoke-filled room there was not a sign
of Harry. Cursing the old hatter for
going out and leaving a big fire burning
up a slab chimney, Nick got to work
with a battered old bucket, and by the
time he had saved the humpy and had
thoroughly doused the chimney most of
the water in the 400-gallon tank had
gone. As he came in to the now smoke-
cleared hut to give it a last look over a
bearded face appeared above the
blankets. “I ’ope y’ didn’t run the tank
clean dry, Nick,” came Harry’s tired
voice. “It’s me washin’ day t’morrer! ”
* * * *
“Flip”: When you see Bombina’s re-
tired citizens leave their sunny possie
along the wail of the post office and head
for vantage points near the bridge, you
know it is Thursday. If the calendars
read differently they’re wrong, for only
Thursday, when the cattlemen bring m
their mobs from “South,” could cause
that row of octogenarian sunflowers to
budge an inch. There’s education in
watching those cattle come in a mad-eyed
stream. When a white-faced steer broke
from the mob and headed like a bullet
into Stacey’s crockery shop he provided
the greatest anticlimax of the age. The
pupils from the bridge ran after him,
calling ecstatically for people hard at
work to come and see. Their arrival
found the elder Miss Stacey perched on
top of a cabinet savagely brandishing a
feather-duster. The steer was gazing
quietly in a mirror, contemplating the
effect it achieved with a willow-pattern
teapot hooked by the handle on its left
horn. The only breakage occurred when
the lady aloft attempted to get down after
the animal had prodded away. The
glorious crash from the upset cabinet,
and the howls of female rage as the lady
hurled some cups on the floor to make
a good job of it, is the reason for the
strange saying native only to this town.
It follows the accidental breaking of a
plate in Bombina’s nightly washing-up
ceremonies: “Gladys, you’re as bad as
that heifer in Stacey’s.”
» * * *
“Ex-Poisoner”; Well, if that bloke from
the Marthaguy (B. 1/10/’47) only boiled
that lump of corned-beef for an hour no
wonder even the dogs icouldn’t make
much impression on it. Half-cooked
corned-beef is tougher than the raw stuff.
* * * •
“Jemalong Jim”: Sydney “Sun,” hav-
ing apparently discovered that some of
these bush blokes have sung a song or
two, became a little confused the other
week. Announcing that old Jim Gordon
(Jim Grahame) was to Jbe the guest of
his fellow Leeton (N.S.W.) citizens at a
function to recognise his poetic achieve-
ments, it described him as “the last of
Australia’s well-known balladists.” A
couple of days later the “Sun’s” colum-
nist” sought help to put an inscription on
Jack Moses’s gravestone in South Head
Cemetery, describing him as “the last of
the famed bush minstrels,” I don’t know
whether Edward Harrington, Lex Mc-
Lennan, Will Lawson, Ned Tierney, “Old-
timer,” E. J. Brady, “5.W.K.,” WiU
Ogilvie (still writing in Scotland),
“Gerardy,” “Gilrooney” and a few
others, all “well-known balladists” and
all still at it, also qualify as “the last of
the famed bush minstrels,” but I doubt
if anybody can be “the last” of them so
long as the bush is still there.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Paddy used each scrap of
available material, but there was not
enough to finish his' garden fence, and for
12 months the gap remained an open
invitation to every conceivable pest. Then
Barney called in and discovered him
setting a row of rabbit traps across the
unfinished span. Presently there was a
yelp as one of the sheepdogs got himself
mixed up in the row. Stolidly Paddy
let him out and reset the trap. Five
minutes later a loud racket announced
that one of the greyhounds was anchored.
Again his boss reset the disturbed trap.
It was a week later that Barney ran into
Paddy in town and remembered the for-
midable row. “How’d they go?” he in-
quired. “Get many rabbits?” “Aw, y’
mean them traps?” came Paddy’s reply,
after a puzzled moment. “Cripes, no, it
weren’t rabbits I was after. But, I bet
I cured them damn’ mongs o’ cornin’ in t
sleep on me garden.”
* * * *
“Moyhu”: That Diamond Creek friend
of “Horseless Horseman” (B. 17 /9 / ’47)
missed a good meal when he strung up
those dead wattle birds in his orchard as
a warning to other feathered fruit-eaters.
The big honey-eater is as large as a
king quail, though longer in the body and
with slightly less breast-meal on that
account. The flesh is a gourmet’s delight.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Have just enjoyed the
company of two small but interesting
families. Out on the plains the salt-
bush canary”—the orange chat—and his
brilliant crimson cousin are making the
most of the wonderful season and nest-
ing all over the place, and with them
is their more modest relative, the white-
fronted, common “tang” or “tintac,
which extends right to the coast. The
little beauties build inches from the
ground, in saltbush or such herbage, and
like to pick a patch well tangled with old
roly-poly. All nests, are easy to find, for
there is no camouflage and little subtlety
about them. You pass and off flutters
the bird, trailing a wing, and if you don t
spot the nest at once you’ve only to move
round the suspected spot slowly and the
degree of the birds’ agitation can be
taken as a guide as to whether you’re
“hot” or “cold.” Entirely insectivorous,
chats are amongst the most useful small
birds, and destroy many times their own
weight of potential pests. Back in the
mountains I was just in time to welcome
an exquisite citizen who winters farther
north —the rufous fantail. No other
member of the family is so elfin, and
his soft rusty red is a twinkling jewel
down where the treeferns line the creeks.
The grey fantail is less particular regard-
ing habitat; he flourishes from gully to
mountain peak, from rain forest to open
timber on the plains, though he, too, will
wander as the seasons change. The third
member of the clan, Willie Wagtail,
needs no build-up here ; he is his own
press-agent wherever he camps. Inci-
dentally, each family has a fourth member
riot so well known as the others. There
is a yellow chat, inland, up north; while
the northern fantail is very much like
our grey “Cranky Fan,” whose dainty
wineglass nest is so well-known beside
southern streams. This bird was with us
right through the islands to Labuan,
though there it was as shy as the rufous
fantail is down here.
PANNING OFF.
Homy the hands are that hold it,
Furrowed and calloused and tanned.
Washing the stones and the gravel
Out from the stuff that is panned.
Down on the haunches reclining.
Holding the dream and , the wish
That lie in the loam they are panning,
There in the heart of the dish.
Tossing aside all the pebbles.
There in the sun-stricken land,
Eyes with the light of their dreaming
Lit with the luck they have planned.
Yellow the sand like a ribbon,
Black at the end of the band;
Is there a sign of a color,
Is the whole world at command/
Panning their dreams and their wishes,
Holding their faith in the hand,
Watching their dreams in the ribbon,
Little gold specks in the sand.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Propalong”: The one road that passes
this place is that most exclusive highway
that goes by way of the Alice to Darwin.
It is travelled by station trucks and buck-
boards, by shearers, rabbiters, politicians,
by Commos trying to get in at Leigh
Creek coalfield, and by assorted
tourists. A few weeks ago a little
man from a down-country bank called on
us to borrow enough petrol to continue his
tour to the nearest township. This morn-
ing a small, sun-dried woman in a felt
hat and slacks invited herself to breakfast.
According to her own account she too
was a tourist—per boot. She had plodded
down the 700 miles or so of desert track
from the Alice, and was on her way to
Port Augusta and thence across the
Nullabor to Kalgoorlie. To think that
she has crossed the ultimate desolation
that lies between Oodnadatta and
Marree, and is proposing to wade through
the hundreds of miles of treeless bluebush
north of the Bight is enough to make a
man take Henry Lawson’s yarns out of
the bookshelf and stow ’em away with
the kids’ books.
* * • ♦
“Camsa”: Combined weight of fleeces
from two wethers and a ewe on A. F,
Franklin’s Scrubby Peak station (S.A.)
was 1701 b. These sheep were missed in
the 1943 muster in a 16-square-mile
paddock. The following year was a
drought, and no sheep were put back
there. Feed was ample over the next
two years owing to smaller flocks. Off
one of the wethers, a Merino on which
wool was 14in. long, the fleece went 601 b.,
and there was hardly a break in it. Their
condition was good and they probably
never had a drink from the time they were
shorn lambs until found three years later,
* * * a
“D.R.H.”: To the newchum there is
little more desolate than tableland country
with its gibbers, its parched and crum-
bling red clay, its bindi-eye and crab-
holes. The latter are fascinating things.
Find a watercourse that has cut deeply
into the clay. The perpendicular banks
are faced with slabs of clay separated by
cracks from the main mass. Behind those
caving slabs live the animals of the sub-
gibber land. Pushing down the clay you
find moths, beetles and blowflies shelter-
ing from sun and enemies. There are
those archaic crustaceans the slaters, and
“Cant you tell steam from smoke ?”
a handsome list of centipedes. Spiders
are well represented and well fed. Of the
larger animals you find lizards, two or
three species of geckoes and the little red
earless dragon. A small snake, Denisonia
suta, hides his shining brown body and
near-black head in the cracks, and you
may find brown snake himself hunt-
ing for the mice that carry seeds down
into the clay. Besides these mice you may
see that good Australian the fat-tailed
pouched mouse, Sminthopsis, among the
grasshopper wings that are the crumbs
from his last meal, while even bats hang
themselves up from the miniature crags.
As a naturalist’s hunting ground in an
“empty land” the clay watercourses of
the tablelands are hard to beat.
* * * <•>
“Meekatharra”; What is the difference
between “Pacific oysters” (B. 8/10/’47)
and the variety found on the Westralian
coast? The shellfish we had at Truscott,
near Drysdale Mission, would shame any
I’ve seen on the eastern coast in size,
flavor and profusion. And £ll never
forget a pleasant afternoon spent on
Direction Island. Swimming ashore from
a lugger, we sat in warm pools sur-
rounded by oyster-encrusted rocks and,
with the aid of a few rusty iron bolts,
gorged ourselves for about four hours.
* * * *
“Coongan”: Marble Bar (B. 8/10/’47)
has other claims to distinction besides
its soaring temperatures—anyway, Yan-
narie, further west, is a hotter, dustier
place. Is there any more snake-infested
country in Australia than that around the
Bar and Corunna Downs, a few miles to
the south? I can’t remember how many
death adders we killed in a few months
on Corunna, plus odd copperheads, brown
snakes, bandy - bandies and “spinifex
snakes” —as the non - poisonous lance-
head lizard is called in those parts. Twice
I found an adder under my bed; once
one of the ugly little brutes slid from
some spinifex and between the bipod
of a Bren while I was firing the thing.
If you really wanted to catch one, it was
simply a matter of burning a few clumps
of spinifex. Incidentally, whoever debited
the death adder with sluggish tendencies
must himself have been half-asleep. Was
burning-off some rubbish one day and,
as the flames mounted, a brown streak
left the burning pile for parts unknown
and at a speed that would have lost a
cheetah —or whatever is the fastest animal
in the world.
♦ * * *
“Youanmi”: Those who wear the same
old-school-tie as myself have always con-
sidered burley (B. 8/10/’47) abase resort
of even baser fishermen. Having long dis-
graced the old neckwear, however, I’ve
no qualms about admitting that I’ve prac-
tically burleyed my way right around the
Australian coast with everything from
bread, pollard and bran and chopped
egg to ox-blood, minced fish-innards and
remains of last night’s prawn supper.
With some authority, therefore, I recom-
mend a mixture of ordinary rolled oats
and bully-beef—the fat in the bully
spreads a film across the water and the
fine oatmeal dust floats on it while the
heavier flakes sink slowly to the bottom.
I’ve estimated that the fish will swim
20 miles for a feed of the stuff when they
hear it’s on ; then, having eaten, they
seem to impale themselves on your hook
in reckless gratitude for the repast.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: We were going by car
from Tallangatta down to Bairnsdale via
Omeo, and somewhere in the gorges an
exhaust valve stuck up. A garageman
towed Us in and suggested
we book in at the pub
while he got on with the
job. An hour or so later
he found us in the bar
and, after the usual rite,
wondered apologetically if
we’d mind his attending
to “old McSnitcher’s
milking plant” first. We
didn’t, but next morning,
observing the closed
garage, we learned that
McSnitcher was 32 miles
out in the hills. About
noon our man returned,
but only to get a part, and,
with another apology,
headed back for Mc-
Snitcher’s. Late that night
he informed us that he’d
be on our job in the morn-
ing, and he was—until an
individual with wool in his
whiskers came in from the
bush with two jammed
jetting-guns. There were
more apologies and re-
quests for postponement
while the guns were re-
paired. We spent the in-
tervening five hours swap-
ping drinks and yarns with
the woolly one. The
garageman disappeared,
this time without apology,
as a Bruthen doctor’s
car had broken down on a rush
into the hills where a new Gipps-
lander awaited delivery. He reappeared
next morning ; there appeared also a cove
with a broken sawmill and another with
a fractured chaff-cutter. On our fifth
day everything was clear: our job
was going forward and we expected
to leave Swift’s Creek at noon; then a
travelling picture-show, due to perform
that night, arrived with a punctured
generator. It was thus, having resisted
temptation so long and with more
apologies in our ears, that we (a) got
drunk, (b) swore at the policeman, (c)
fought him, (d) were run in and (e) fined
£1 each and ordered to leave the village
“ Well—the earth turns on it, doesn't it ?”
within 24 hours. The gar'ageman was so
upset that he waived all payment for the
job.
♦ * * *
“Anthropo”: That flat sandstone rock
that “Zake” dropped across on the
Hawkesbury (B. 17/9/ ’47) was a token of
just how far Black Brother had pro-
gressed in civilisation when the First
Fleet arrived. Stone Age progress in
tool-making the world over is measured,
first by the use of the rough stone-flake
broken crudely from a larger stone. Then
comes the era of more and more careful
chipping ; followed again by flaking by
pressure, such as using a wedge of extra-
hard stone as a chisel, with a hand-held
lump for a hammer, excelled in many
cases by edge-finishing by pressure alone.
Lastly comes the stage, just prior to
reaching over to metal, where the axe-
edge and the spear-point are ground to
sharpness. This was done by rubbing or
whetting. The Hunter River valley was
specially noted for the excellence of its
sandstone. During periods of truce muni-
tion-makers from tribes well to the north
and south visited the Hunter on tool- and
weapon-grinding expeditions, paying for
the privilege often with lumps of the
harder stones of their own districts. Thus
“Z.’s” stone was at one time a tribal
whetstone : its apparent pattern possibly
being a whim of its one-time owner, who
sought to combine art with utility at no
extra cost.
♦ * * *
“Zake”: In the matter of the deadly
bush tick Nature seems to "have gone out
of her way to have handed the tyke a
raw deal as compared with the cat. I
have never seen a dog ever attempt to
use teeth to pull one of the parasite
killers out —its claws, anyway, are too
blunt to be effective. But puss has no
trouble at all. More sinuous than a dog,
it can get its mouth into practically any
position around its body, even in the
middle of its back, to fasten on its
bulbous tormentor. In such few places
as it can’t get its teeth —the back of its
head, for instance —the razor-sharp claws
do the trick. My cat has never let a
tick reach the poison-injection stage,
and it has pulled out hundreds. My dog
depends utterly on my vigilance. Inci-
dentally, in the absence of anti-tick
serum the liquor from boiled bracken
fern, administered twice a day, has saved
many a barker from the effects of tick
poison, even when the back-leg paralytic
stage has been reached.
♦ * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Perhaps quicklime does
have a preserving effect on dead flesh
(B. 3/9/’47), but it will rapidly burn
black-edged sore spots in the hands of
the person foolish enough to handle
quantities of it without gloves or similar
protection. Still, it would not eat away
a body in the convenient manner that
writers of murder fiction seem to believe.
Or do they? I could never make out the
reasoning of the king of whodunit
writers; Edgar Wallace. In one book he
earns the reader’s respect by describing
exactly how a man could have been
murdered, the door locked on the out-
side, and the key returned to the table
inside the locked room. A few chapters
later he disposes of a corpse by placing
it inside the forming erected on a building
as a mould for a concrete column and
pouring the concrete on top. Surely no
writer could really believe that his readers
would accept the statement that the
builders had left the chute full of wet
concrete ready for use in the morning?
Not even the Housing Commission would
be guilty of that.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Dad Collins had his spud
crop dug and bagged when an unlucky
accident broke his leg. After that, the
bags stood out in the weather while Dad
cursed his luck, and Mum tried vainly
to hire a man. Then Big Harry, accom-
panied by two other neighbors, arrived.
“Thought I’d get Bob ’n’ Charlie here to
help me bring in yT spuds fT y’. Dad,”
Harry declared generously. “We’ll take
yT truck, eh? Bring the missus a coupler
loads o’ wood, too, if we got time.”
Electing himself driver, Harry steered
the truck to the potato paddock, and
while Bob and Charlie loaded in the
heavy bags he admired the scenery or
busied himself with the makings. Bob’s
hints grew more pointed, and Charlie’s
jaw more set, as the morning passed with
the big bloke still evading all but the
driving. Midday brought signs of a
lavish feed that a grateful Mum had
spread out in the dining-room. Harry
accepted a chair with an appreciative
grunt, but the others hung back. Charlie
fidgeted ; then, a nod to Bob, he
turned to meet Mum coming in with
laden hands. “Where’ll me ’n’ Bob go,
missus?” he inquired loudly. “C’n we
get a bite in the kitchen somewhere? Y’
see, it ain’t hardly proper f’r us blokes
t’ sit down with him. We’re only the
workers”
* * * *
“Kendon”; Ships built for the north-
Westralian run are specially constructed
to “sit” on the beach when the tide goes
out, and occasions have been known
when ships have been loaded direct from
wagons drawn alongside. Once, when
the Merlin, an 80-ton schooner which
was later run down and sunk by the
Minderoo, took a mixed load from
Broome to Anna Plains, the station people
came out with a donkey team and started
loading cement. The team was left stand-
ing, and.as the barrels were being loaded
a hundred little hooves stamped the sand
in front of the wheels into a puddle.
The tide was coming in when, with 10
tons of cement, the wagon moved off. It
was coming in rapidly when a wildly
cursing teamster unhitched his team and
made for the shore. As the Merlin stood
out to sea a group of station-hands stood
on the beach gazing at the tops of those
cement barrels just showing above the
rising sea.
* * * *
“C.E.”; I’d heard of Brownie through
the eagerness of district owners to get
hold of him on those rare occasions when
he took a job. “Good as two men,” was
everyone’s verdict, “whether it’s at a bush-
fire, a straight-out job, or knowing how
to fix things round the place.” When I
ran into the expert at the district working
bee, sweat trickled down his torso as he
handled bar and strainers in the erection
of a new gateway. Nor was there any-
thing makeshift about Brownie’s job.
With the gate up to the satisfaction of
everyone else, his critical bye objected to
the swing, and he stayed behind for an
hour to alter the hinges. I walked
home with him. “Another gate for you
to fix,” I murmured, endeavoring to lift
several broken bits of his front gate
aside. “Aw, blow that," he scoffed. “Y’
c’n git through the fence easier.” “But,
wouldn’t it keep your fowls out?” I
suggested, taking in the wild, overgrown
garden. “Gripes, no; they’d just hop
through the holes in the fence,” explained
Brownie. “They’re always gettin’ in that
broken kitchen winder an’ pinchin’
things. I’ll give ’em f Sam Brodie when
I git his fowl pens mended. Damn
shame the way Sam’s let them pens go t’
bits.”
CITY SONGSTER.
M.L.
His place is where
Streams meet
In a still valley
Where all is fair
And straying feet
Pause and dally;
Yet he pipes clear
Loud, sweet
And musically
In Pound Square,
Shilling Street,
And Penny Alley.
His heart is laid bare
To his listening mate
And to Sam and Sally,
In Pound Square,
Shilling Street,
And Penny Alley,
But not to the Mayor
Or the cop on his beat
In Pound Square,
Shilling Street,
Or Penny Alley.
ARNOLD WALL.


vs
like he&t
dorit
e
do I
ou
m
more
but
'*<>••• the alloy cast irons and special steels we use
have no choice...they are heat-treated in special furnaces
under strict pyrometric control. Heat treatment of metals
is necessary to make them hard and tough. Scienti c
measurement in our works ensures that our metals are hard
and tough to the right degree.
This carefully controlled operation is but the first of
many exacting tests during manufacture. As instance; limit
gauges, accurate to one-tenth of one-thousandth of an inch,
are used on certain vital parts.
We never deviate from the best engineering practice,
and for this reason, Ronaldson-Tippett engines are the best
that money can buy.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT. Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W, Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street. BRISBANE.
RDNHLDSDN-TIPPETT
SMALL CLIP OH LARGE CLIP...YOU’LL GET THE TOP PRICE!
A.M.L.&F. extends the same service to the "small" man as the big man. and no
matter whether your clip is big or small A.M.L.&F. will dispose of it for you AT
THE TOP PRICE. A.M.L.&F. high standards of valuing, displaying, lotting and
auctioneering are well known by the buyers, and their confident response to the
A.M.L.&F. man's skilled auctioneering technique means YOU get that extra fraction of
a penny per lb. that ensures better averages and returns.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England , 1863.)
4 Bligh Street. Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree. Henty
IW—AI 1.22.107
THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
THE
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
l|in. Ring Surcingle, Uin, best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney,
Telephone: FA 5013.
%
Fat-Lamb Raising.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“B. Cubbin”: When it comes to the
selection of a cross it is wholly a matter
of district, climate, available natural and
improved pastures and the man who is
working the lambs. Pearse, in Sheep,
Farm and Station Management, offers
the advice to “refine the coarser breeds
already on the spot by the Southdown
strain or something similar,” and where
that can’t be done, “select carefully
from other breeds in accordance with the
requirements of soil, situation and
climate.”
It is hard to say which comes first,
breeding or feeding,, but it is certain that
you can’t have one without the other.
No lamb, however well-bred or however
careful the cross and the selection of the
mother, can grow to proper market size
unless the mother has been well-fed from
service to nursing period and the lamb
supplied not only with correct body-
building feed, but supplied without check.
The lamb has but a few months to live;
it cannot suffer a temporary shortage of
feed and recover in the short time it has.
It doesn’t stop there, of course. The
most particular care in breeding and feed-
ing can be brought to nothing by careless
handling when the lambs are being sent
to market. Obviously lambs that have
to be handled a lot suffer more in loss
of weight through excitement, exhaustion
and bruising. A test made in N.S.W.
showed that lambs on a 200-mile raff
journey, having been driven from
paddock to trucks, lost as much as 31b.
liveweight on the trip, which would mean
about lib. off the carcass weight.
Dogs, whips, sticks and men who
can’t restrain their tempers should be
barred from the presence of lambs.
Wherever possible a few steady old ewes
should travel with the flock to hold them
together, otherwise there’ll come the in-
evitable moment when one or two lambs
panic and the rest rush madly after them.
When that happens the drover should, if
they are not likely to become boxed or
get into trouble, draw off and circle
widely round to push them back on to
their route.
At best one can only generalise in this
sort of thing, but given a man who
studies his own district, watches the
market, and as far as possible plans every
week ahead of his lambs and uses patience
and foresight, there is no reason why
lambs capable of topping the market
shouldn’t go into the trucks. The last few
words are deliberate —nobody can avoid
the loss suffered on the average rail
journey.
Desert Wool.
“Itjinpiri”; When classing the wool
from a flock of shepherded sheep in a
light-rainfall area it will nearly always
be found necessary to remove the back-
wool. This is done on the rolling-table.
Keep the backs in a separate bin, and
no distinctions need be made for
quality, although in the specification list
the numbers of the bales from ewes,
wethers or hoggets should be noted.
If abo. labor is available it can be em-
ployed in shaking out sand ; this will be
a saving in freight when the wool is not
scoured on the station. The table locks
will be unavoidably sandy, but a distinc-
tion between them and the board locks
is usually unwarranted. It is not a good
“O.K.-I'll buy him!”
proposition to send sandy wool to be
reclassed ; while in the bale the sand goes
right through the fleeces, giving them an
unattractive appearance and making the
reclassers’ job extremely difficult.
Beating Locusts.
“C.S.”: Argentina is using helicopters,
built by the Bell Aircraft Corporation,
against locust hordes in the Parana
region above Buenos Ayres. At one stage
operations were temporarily halted be-
cause the ground for four square miles
was so littered with dead locusts that it
would have been uneconomical to con-
tinue.
Locusts are a menace to more than
50 p.c. of Argentina for at least seven
months of each year. Last year the in-
sects did about £10,000,000 damage to
com alone. Anything edible is attacked,
and in addition to actually destroying
crops, they also damage grazing grounds
for cattle.
The helicopters are employed to dust
locusts with a commercial version of di-
nitro-ortho-crisol. They fly over or
through the locusts when the insects are
swarming during the heat of the day.
This spreads the poisonous dust on the
insects, arid it also remains suspended in
the air’so that ensuing hordes fly through
it. Two helicopters dropped 44,0001 b, of
the dust in four days in Parana. Argen-
tina locusts are about Sin. long, and in
migration sound like a squadron of
bombers as they fly in swarms 20ft. to
800 ft. deep, several miles long and
several miles wide.
Helicopters can operate in locust
swarms without damage to the aircraft,
whereas vital parts of conventional
planes are frequently gummed and
clogged and made inoperative by the
dead insects. Fixed-wing aircraft gener-
ally dust only when locusts are on the
ground so as to avoid clogging of car-
burettor and cylinder fins.
Cereal Hay.
“Myrrhee”: Defer cutting a short, thin
crop until it is a little on the dry side.
Place the beaters well down. If still not
low enough tack a strip of soft leather
to each beater, leaving a fringe of three
or four inches protruding from the outer
edge. This will strike the ridge at the
back of the knife, sweeping the very
short straws on to the canvas.
When entering a crop cut at least two
rounds of the paddock before cutting the
swath knocked down by the horses. Stock
immediately. In moist districts build a
long, open stock or a small round one
consisting of eight to ten sheaves. In
dry areas the stooks could be larger.
Allow from 10 to 20 days to cure, ac-
cording to weather conditions. If stacked
too early there’s a danger of heat or
mould ; if left too long in the paddock
feed value deteriorates. It’s ready for
stacking when the straws begin to con-
tract in the upper joints.
A Drinking Tank.
“Sundowner”; Permanent tanks can
be easily constructed on the farm with
a minimum of labor and materials. Pack
and level soil on which the tank is to
rest and slope the adjoining ground
away for drainage. Outside forms com-
prise one-inch boards braced by 4 x 2’s.
Inside forms slope out.wards to give a
batter to the wall.
Mix one bag of cement to 2 cu. ft. of
sand and 3 cu. ft. of screenings or gravel.
Both sand and gravel should be clean
and hard, and the larger particles of
gravel should not exceed lin. in size.
Mix thoroughly until the combination is
of a uniform color. Then mix enough
water to secure a workable concrete, but
avoid a sloppy mixture.
Round reinforcing rods should be bent
into a U-shape before being placed in
position. Rods which run lengthwise
may be placed six inches apart, and those
running across the trough a foot apart,
thus forming a lattice-work. Before
putting in the reinforcement lay the floor
to half its intended depth. The walls
can be further reinforced by horizontal
bars six inches apart. All reinforcing is
in the centre of the concrete. Spade the
concrete as it is placed in the forms, thus
forcing the gravel away from the faces
and allowing the finer mixture to go to
the sides, giving the tank a smooth ap-
pearance. After the forms are removed
paint the inside walls with a wash made
of cement and water of a creamlike con-
sistency using a broom or brush. This
will ensure a watertight tank.
Improving Oils.
“Endeeay”: When diesel - engined
lorries and tractors were introduced about
1930 it was found that they frequently
suffered from the piston rings becoming
stuck in the ring grooves. The use of
naphthenic type oils helped to correct
this, and then special materials called
“detergents” were added to keep the rings
free. At first use of detergent oils was
restricted to one or two makes of engines,
as it was found that their indiscriminate
use could cause trouble, particularly
bearing corrosion, if the bearing metal
was unsuitable. Improvements were
made and less corrosive materials used as
the detergent; other materials were added
to protect the bearings, and today deter-
gent oils or “heavy-duty” oils can be used
safely in most diesel engines.
But don’t introduce these oils to engines
which have been on straight mineral oils
for a long time without cleaning the


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b. ; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
fI.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Positions Wanted.
Three Englishmen, all under 30, willing to
take any respectable job. farming preferred.
All have some farm experience. Require their
passages paid (to be refunded from their wages),
also letters of introduction to Australian immi-
gration authorities. Address, Andrew Gibson,
26 Charlton-road, Shepperton, Middlesex, Eng-
land.
THE
AUSTRALIAN CATALOGUE
OF RECORDED MUSIC
*
embraces nearly 600 recordings of Songs and
Musical Works by over 200 Australian
Authors and Composers and some 150
Australian Artists and Musical Combinations.
Ask your dealer for a special list of these
"His Master’s Voice ,” Columbia, Parlo~
phone, Decca and Regal-Zonophone records.
PAI
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. In England) Columbia Qraphophone (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
The Parlophone Co. Ltd. (Inc In England) * HOMEBUSH, N.S.W. Cl7/47
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM,”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2 £ posted from Bulletin Office, 252
George Street, Sydney,
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
SPARE PARTS FOR TILLEY LAMPS AND RADIATORS
WE REALISE FULLY THE IMPORTANCE TO
THE USER OF TILLEY PRODUCTIONS OF
ADEQUATE SUPPLIES OF SPARE PARTS.
EQUALLY. WE ARE AWARE OF THE NECESSITY
FOR MAINTAINING OUR HIGH STANDARD
OF WORKMANSHIP.
GENUINE SPARES FOR TILLEY LAMPS AND
RADIATORS ARE MADE ONLY AT HENDON
AND CRICKLEWOOD, ENGLAND.
DO NOT BE PERSUADED THAT SUBSTITUTES
ARE “JUST AS GOOD.”
BRENT WORKS, NEW BRENT WORKS,
HENDON, N.W.4 CRICKLEWOOD, N.W.2.
THE TILLEY LAMP CO. LTD., of ENGLAND
London Offices and Showroom : 33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. ltd., 123-125. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
engine thoroughly, or, preferably, over-
hauling it. With care the changeover
c an be made safely, but it is necessary
to change the oil very frequently at first.
Heavy-duty oils loosen sludges and gums
left by straight mineral oils and frequent
changes allow them to be eliminated,
whereas if the normal change period is
followed there is danger of the sludge
being removed from where it does no
barm to the oil ways or filters. Two or
three quick oil changes usually prevent
this.
Well-refined straight mineral oils still
do an excellent job for petrol and kerosene
engines. Heavy-duty oils can be used
provided that care is taken in the change-
over. Generally speaking, these engines
do not suffer from ring sticking and deter-
gent oils are not required. There has
been considerable activity recently in the
use of “oxidation inhibitors,” These cut
down the rate of oil deterioration and give
a cleaner engine; they are often included
in heavy-duty oils. The use of materials
to prevent bearing corrosion in motor
oils has also received attention, and the
practice of using a mild detergent is gain-
ing support; this would not be sufficient
to make the oil a heavy-duty type neces-
sary for some diesels, but it is more than
ample for petrol and kerosene engines.
As car engines increased in power the
differential gear assembly was called upon
to transmit this extra power, and crown-
wheel and pinion failures would have be-
come more common if special oils had not
been developed. Called “extreme-pres-
sure” (E.P.) oils, they enabled the gears
to carry the heavier loads. Then the
“hypoid” gear was introduced —in the
normal bevel drive the pinion shaft points
to the centre of the crown-wheel, in the
hypoid it points to a lower position. This
off-centre drive enabled greater loads to
be carried, and also allowed the drive-
shaft to be lowered out of the way of the
car floor. New problems of lubrication
were introduced which could only be
overcome with special “hypoid” oils. A
multiplicity of gear oils was confusing
and research finally gave oils suitable
for most transmission systems, both
gearbox and differential. Described as
“general-purpose” gear oils they are sup-
plied in two viscosities, S.A.E. 90 and
S.A.E. 140. Modern vehicles should
never be run on old-type transmission
oils.
Hints for the Farm.
“W. Court”: A great argument
against using borrowed farm implements
is the weed pests that are transplanted
from farm to farm during the moving
of the implements. Hundreds of farmers
would not have weeds like nut grass or
sedge had their owners not borrowed
implements years ago. If there must
be implement co-operation between
farmers the first thing the borrower should
do when he receives farm tools is to clean
them of all weed stems, soil, etc., and
throw the lot on a handy fire.
“Gip”: If you have trouble starting
the car on a very cold morning put a
corn sack over the radiator to keep out
the cold air. If still hard to start, drain
water out of the radiator and refill with
hot water. This method can be used to
warm up the tractor to facilitate an early
switch-over from petrol to kerosene,
“Metax”: Diagonal struts for wooden
doors and gates should be installed with
the bottom end towards the hinge side.
In other words a wooden strut should
carry a compression and not a tensile
load. This is an ancient precept often
transgressed.
“Myrrhee”; Jerusalem artichokes are
heavy yielders, give little trouble and can
be grown amongst fruit-trees, in odd
garden corners and a wide range of soil
and climatic conditions. Artichokes re-
ward culture in fertile soils worked and
fertilised as for potatoes. They are
drought-resistant, not susceptible to frost
and rarely troubled by diseases or pests.
The tubers don’t store well in bags. Pit
as for potatoes, using only a light covering
of earth, or, better, leave them in the
ground and dig as required. Sowing rate
varies from 6cwt. to lOcwt. per acre.
Plant the tubers whole, 4in. or Sin. deep*
in rows 3 ft. apart, with 2ft. between
plants. Time of planting in Victoria,
August to October.
“E.M.R.”; Fowls require daily about
loz. of water to every 11b. of weight, so
be sure that every 100 birds have at least
three gallons of good clean water avail-
able.
“Will C.”; U.S. growers commonly use
zinc compounds as tonics for grape-vines,
which increases vine growth and disease
resistance as well as yield of grapes. Two
pounds of zinc sulphate is dissolved in
a gallon of water, and the solution
swabbed or brushed on to the cut sur-
faces after the vines have been pruned.
Fifty vines thus treated in an experiment
yielded 14001 b. of grapes, whereas the
yield from 50 untreated vines was 10401 b.
“Sarina”: Before entrusting a setting
of eggs to a broody hen or duck, try her
for a few days with china nest eggs. If
she tosses them around, or appears rest-
less in sitting, don’t give her the real eggs.
During the breeding season native cats,
bush rats and sometimes snakes and
goannas are about, and it pays to fence
and roof the nesting place in with small
mesh wire netting. Keeping plenty of
grain, green feed and a tin of water be-
fore her continuously will prevent the
broody from wandering.
“Pat O’Day”: Many acres of poor
pastures were improved on a Gundagai
(N.S.W.) property this season by the fol-
lowing process; bare patches that had
been caused by overstocking of cattle
were broken up with a heavy tine harrow,
and during rainy weather 201 b. of mixed
grass seed was sown to the acre. The
seed was then trodden in by driving a
mob of sheep closely over it, this taking
the place of harrowing. In dry seasons
a proportion of the seed may be lost
by this shallow sowing, but poor or old
pastures are definitely thickened up ancj
much improved in this way.
“C.A.L.”: Not uncommon to the man
on the land when he uses gelignite for
blasting is a splitting headache resulting
from the handling of the explosive. To
stop it swallow a half-teaspoonful of mw
coffee and chicory essence, sweetened
slightly with sugar in the remaining half
of the spoon.


'Tvu'r
the
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject
to accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and
uninterrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of
paramount importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing
this Company your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present
appointee. An interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on
request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Dee.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST .
C O M P A N Y LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901 Box 543 G P 0 » Sydney.
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities. Price 2/-.
WANTED
rCCniltS FOR THE
Australian
Regular
A rm y
PERIOD OF ENGAGEMENT. Initial period of 6 years with extensions
of 6; 5 arid 5 years, allowing for a total of 22 years continuous service
when the soldier volunteers and is accepted for re-engagement.
You are offered the best pay, medical care, food, quartering in the
history of our Army. % ~ 4 '
Any soldier may elect discharge within three months of enlistment.
AGE GROUPS
The Regular Army needs men,’skilled and unskilled.
Among the skilled types are the following: —
df
Applicants are re-
quired to be British
Subjects of Euro-
pean Origin. . At
least 5 ft. 4 ins. in
height. Medically
fit.
GRATUITIES After '6 years service, /120
is payable. If that amount is not drawn, /360
is payable after 12 years service.
The payment of a gratuity entails an obligation
of 5 years service on the Reserve on complet e 1
of engagement. Service on the Reserve is one
muster parade each year and an obligation to
report home address when required.
FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS
SEE YOUR AREA OFFICER
or The Commonwealth Employment Service
PFV 2-113-97
Missing Friend.
MR. DON WILLIS, husband of the late .Doris Irene
Willis, is requested to communicate with the PLBLIU
TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania.
because they have been scraped, and her
whole coat glistening because she has been
well groomed.,
She takes every eye. Her udder bellies,
her milk veins stand out, her back is
straight as a ruler, her head lield high.
Gus, looking at her, thinks he will surely
write to brother George and tell what he
got for this cow. That is the thought
which once was a maggot, which now is
a butterfly, a confused symbol of high
prices, Miss Muriel and Gus, all crowded
together, all the one thing.
“Now,” says Gus heavily, and breath-
ing hard, because he is a little excited.
“We have here the best cow. on the River,
bar none.” It does not-matter that they
are not quite on the River. Everyone
knows what Gus means, and some nod,
and none dares deny the truth.
“Absolutely the best cow,” says Gus
firmly. He looks about. His cane is
held, shoulder height, at the horizontal.
It points at the crowd.
“I am not going to call for a bid,” says
Gus. “I’m starting the bidding myself,
at thirty pounds.”
Gus Gossip is starting the bidding at
thirty pounds. Gus Gossip might buy
the cow himself. Gus Gossip is offering
the Tiighest price for a cow this season.
“Thirty pounds,” says Gus solemnly.
“Any advance on thirty pounds?”
Miss Muriel is no longer haughty.
Some sort of adoration shines from her
eyes, and Gus sees that, but he keeps his
mind on the matter in hand, and asks
again, of the silent crowd, whether there
is any advance on thirty pounds.
The silence is broken. “Yes!” shouts
Jerry. “Yes!” shouts Jack. “Yes!” say
all the boys. It is “Yes” all the time, a
chorus of yesses as the buyers compete.
Thirty pounds is thirty-five pounds. No
ten-shilling bids here. Thirty-five pounds
is forty pounds. Is forty-two pounds,
forty-three pounds. It is forty-six pounds,
and then no bidding.
“You won’t believe it, Gus,” brother
George had written. “But I got fifty-two
pounds ten for a cow this week.” The
butterfly hovers in Gus’s mind. He will
not look at the fence.
“Any advance on forty-six pounds?” he
asks, There is no response. “TU have
to knock it down to the highest bidder,”
he threatens, and the suspense-sick buyers
break, and away the bidding goes again,
although this time in ten-shillings. Gus
follows it up, helps to push it, holds the
same dread threat over the heads of the
bidders, and the cow is at fifty pounds.
Gus, looking at Miss Muriel, is alarmed
to see her shaking her head in a negative
sort of gesture. It seems almost to roll,
as though she were having a fit.
Gus has a fearful feeling, suddenly,
that she does not wish him to sell the
beast, and with that feeling is alarm at
the terrific price the cow is fetching.
Is there something wrong with it? he
is inclined to ask himself, but the cow
is there, for all to see, and the buyers
all want it. He tears his fascinated
away from the shaking head, forgets his
feelings for Miss Muriel and proceeds to
flog the bidding. He holds the threat over
the heads of the buyers, the threat of
knocking it down, and the bidding has a
last spurt which brings it to fifty-two
pounds ten, and there it stays and will
not budge. Mr. Denis James, from
Belmont on the River, has bid a record
price for a cow.
Gus holds his hands up, his cane
clenched in his right fist. He pivots, look-
ing at the crowd. He would dearly like
to write to George, and tell him about
getting fifty-two pounds ten, or fifty-three
pounds for a cow, but the silent crowd
eye him, and will not bid. “I am going
to knock this fine cow down to the highest
bidder,” says Gus, his cane turning with
his slow pivoting.
Gus knocks it down. His cane falls,
lies limply in his hands. Gus says to
Jerry, “Put that down to Mr. James,
Jerry,” and Jerry puts it down to Mr.
James, and Jack dabs some blue paint
on the glistening rump.
The sale, then, is as good as over. The
last few head of stock are passed through,
fetch ordinary prices, almost amid silence.
When the last cow is daubed blue it is
the signal for an outbreak of chattering,
a rumbling of comments and questions, a
deluge of conversation.
BIG Jim bears down upon Gus and
takes his hand, pumps it hard, slaps
Gus on the back, and declares he just
can’t believe it. Gus says he can t either,
if it comes to that, and as soon as he can
get away from Jim he does. Jim, restless
now, wonders off, and Miss Muriel hurries
up to the little auctioneer. Her eyes are
shining, her aloofness has gone. She has
a light in her eyes.
“You were wonderful, Gus,” she ex-
claims, not noticing she has forgotten his
surname.
“You think so, Miss Muriel?” he says,
surprised. “I thought you didn want
me to sell your cow at that price.
“It’s Dad’s cow,” she says. “And I did
want to sell it at that price. Why, it
was wonderful!”
A little butterfly raises its battered
wings and prepares to fly.
“I wanted to get fifty-two pounds ten,
or fifty-three pounds for that cow, says
ever?” laughs Miss Muriel,
amazed. “That was a wonderful price.
Gus realises, then, that Miss Muriel
would not understand, not knowing about
brother George, down the South Coast.
“It’s like this, Miss Muriel,” he says
earnestly.
“Muriel,” she corrects him, with a
nervous giggle. ,
Gus’s butterfly prepares for flight.
“It’s like this, Muriel,” he says.


•-a
M
w
0
S 5
w
<
w
w
1
»rf
O
w
O
CO
»
LEA
PERRINS
SAUCE
THE SAUCE
WITH A
SECRET
o
SHA h
fM€
IfiUPEB
sauce
PM
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Average life of a £1 note is four months.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
We notice the change in ours long be-
fore that.
•F *F *F *F
“Charlie Chaplin and Elliott Roosevelt are
considering the distribution of Russian films
in the U.S.” — Sydney “Sun.”
Taken with infra-red camera?
•F *F -I- *F
“For sale: Gent’s grey striped suit, fit sft. Sin.
chest, 38in. waist.” — Suburban paper.
But who could stand such expanse?
*F *F *F 'F
Most corset purchases are made on the
casual hit or miss plan.”— Womans paper.
And lead to future undoing.
• *F *F *F 4*
Man for the Job.
“Cross clerk required by small radio engineer-
ing co.” — Suburban-paper advt.
The flashily-dressed youth strode
briskly up to the small inquiry desk and
stood waiting. The junior typiste, busy
at a filing cabinet, did not notice him.
Several seconds passed. Then he
thumped impatiently on the desk and
shouted: “Hey, doesn’t anybody work
around this joint?”
A door opened and a man appeared.
“What’s all this confounded din, Miss
Limpopple? And who’s this lout?”
“Til tell y’ who I am, mate. Pratt’s the
name, and I’ve come about this cross
clerk’s job. Do I get it or not?”
“I’ll have to interview you first.”
“Well, get busy, and don’t drool
around.”
“Wait a minute, blast you! What
experience have you had?”
“What the blazes has that to do with
you?”
“Ail right, all right! Now about
being cross”
“Well, I was in a Gov’ment depart-
ment, and”
“Why the devil couldn’t you say so at
first?”
“Listen, skull, who’s going for this job,
you or me? I was gointa say I got fired
outer the Public Service because I forgot
one day and answered some joker
politely.”
“Stupid thing to do! And stop blow-
ing smoke in my face, you rat! Can
you handle ’phone orders?”*
“Cripes, many more of these stupid
questions and I’ll clock y’! ’Course I
can insult ’em on the ’phone.”
“Shut up! When can you start?”
“How’ll Mundy do?”
“Ar! Monday! All right. Now get
to hell out of here before I run you
out!”
Cal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The present tendency of women, especially
young women, to go hatless or with a scarf
tied over the head is likely to w;eck the
millinery trade.” — “S. M. Herald.”
It will put the lid on it completely.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Why are women not allowed to ride race-
horses?” — Inquirer in daily paper.
Because so few of them have any horse
sense?
■4* 4*
Sound Reasoning.
“Our cats never fail to meet our car at the
gate.”— “New Idea.”
Why boast of it if this is so,
For it should readily occur
To anyone that cats would know
A car by its distinctive purr ?
Bert.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Telephone population continues to grow.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
Automatically.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Where does all the asparagus go?”
•—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Some of it goes to tips.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Why should young girls have to pay the
price of a man’s folly?”— Sydney “D.T.”
Because the responsibility is more
than any man can bear.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Almost anyone can write two lines of
poetry. But it’s the next two which proves
whether or not true poetic ability is present.”
— How-to-write Book.
As moonlight threads its ribbons through
The soft black hair of night ...
Er,
I know that I must curl my hair
Or I will look a fright.
Eve.
Blackmail.
“A woman obtained a divorce from her hus-
band, who, she complained, made her nervous
by getting up at 5 a.m. to scrub floors and
do the ironing.”
Well, any wife who bids her spouse
Bestir himself around the house
And wins.at last a grudging
Attempt to work might be unnerved
If she by any chance observed
The blighter meekly drudging.
Yet here’s another reason why
She might object when wakened by
A less unwilling worker —
Incredible as this may seem,
Perhaps, as well, some fitful gleam
Of conscience woke to irk her.
P. M. LUSK.
A Noble Sacrifice.
“ ‘There is more in life than money,’ said
N-S.W. ‘Labor’ Minister Hamilton Knight on
being appointed by Chifley a Federal Concilia-
tion Commissioner. Knight’s present salary,
according to “S. M. Herald,’ is ‘about £l4OO
p.a.’ As Conciliation Commissioner (for seven
years) his salary will be £l5OO p.a. On top of
this he is entitled, under the Parliamentary
pensions grab, to draw £6 a week for life.”
“There has in the past,” went on our
Knight who would qualify as a shining
Knight if he weren’t so dull, “been far
too much money-grubbing in politics—
that is Tory politics. It takes a Labor
statesman like myself to point the way
to that selfless service, that true spirit
of sacrifice for one’s ideals, which have
been so striking a feature of the present
Labor Administrations, in both this State
and the Federal sphere.
“The splendid sacrifice made by Ben
and his colleagues in handing themselves
another ten quid a week and up is, I am
sure, fully appreciated by the electorate.
Only men of sterling worth, thinking
only of their country’s welfare, would be
prepared thus to burden themselves with
the extra income tax such an increase
inevitably entails.”
“I suppose, Mr. Knight, your new billet
v/ill carry the usual handsome travelling
expenses, other ‘special’ allowances, un-
limited free petrol and, of course, a super-
luxury limousine which will be available
to you also at week-ends—with chauffeur,
of course?”
“Yes, that is a further sacrifice I am
prepared to make purely in the interests
of industrial peace. What Labor man —
and especially one who has carved a
name for himself on the tablets of im-
mortality by being associated with our
present Vice-King when he put through
that masterstroke of high statesmanship
the creation of the Sydney Turf Club
“Got a billy o’ fat juicy witchety
grubs, too, boss!”
—could do less? The bitter disappoint-
ment that is naturally mine at being de-
prived of the opportunity to wear out my
own limousine J shall not attempt to
hide. If as well I am given a luxury plane
to fly around in—and I confidently look
forward to it, for what did our Federal
cobbers create T.-A.A. for? —I shall
accept this new sacrifice in true humble-
ness of spirit.
“In the course of my duties I will be
expected, I suppose, to spend up to £5
a day on personal out-of-pocket exes. It
behoves any Labor man—though, of
course, you understand that immediately
I start on my new job I will utterly forget
that I’ve had one-eyed Labor views for
just on forty years, and will assume a
mantle of complete impartiality—to
make this additional sacrifice with a good
grace. After all, the Lord loveth a cheer-
ful taker. I would be guilty of heresy
to the party—that is, my late party —
were I to accept this in any other spirit”
“Do you realise, Mr. Knight, that your
appointment was made by the man in
whose Federal electorate your own State
electorate is included?”
“You don’t mean to tell me —well,
well! What a remarkable coincidence!
To think that there are eighty-nine other
holders of seats in our State Parliament,
and the very man whom Ben selects for
this cushy job is the one who depends for
a lot of his election support on the same
crowd of Commos! When this is pointed
out to Ben he’ll get the same surprise as
I’ve had.”
“Er —exactly. Now it has been pointed
out, Mr. Knight, that with only fifteen
other Conciliation Commissioners avail-
able, pressure of work will be so great
that you may have to put in as much as
ten hours’ work, or what you can make to
look like work, in a week.”
“That is another sacrifice I am pre-
pared to make as willingly as the
monetary kind. Mind, in
my work as Minister for
Labor and Industry I
schooled myself for this
arduousness. Sometimes,
when there has been a strike
among our Government
workers and strong action
was called for, I have
thought deeply for as long
as five minutes before firmly
deciding to give the strikers
everything they demanded,
if not more. Multiply this
by the number of strikes a
week we’ve had since Billy
and Jimmy have been in,
and you’ll see it has been
nothing for me to slave
away up to eleven hours a
week.”
“Someone has remarked,
Mr. Knight, that had you
stopped in the McGirr Gov-
ernment you would in about
two and a half years, if it
lasts that long, have had
to face an election, with the
strong probability of ‘Labor’
getting emptied out. On
top of that, there would be no certainty
that you’d gain pre-selection for your
seat. So that you might finish up again
as a common or garden Assemblyman
on eight-seventy-five a year or, possibly,
with no job at all.”
“Well, well! Isn’t that remarkable, but
do you know, that contingency had never
crossed my mind. My Cabinet colleagues,
I hear, are all going crook because I
didn’t let them know I was in for the
job. That reticence —that resisting the
temptation to take them into my con-
fidence—is perhaps the biggest sacrifice
I have been called on to make. Yet it
was a sacrifice I was positively delighted
to make. . If I hadn’t made it, one of the
cows might have tugged some wires and
beaten me to it!”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|tL per line; all others 2jd. per line.
In Defence of Pubs
I spent some time in a suburban hotel
and was favorably impressed by the types
who gathered there. There was a hubbub
of voices, augmented by the “announcer”
describing, the hurdles ; a pall of smoke
hung in the air, and over and above all
was an atmosphere of good-fellowship
permeating the bar. If anyone lacked the
price of a drink, somebody near by came
to the rescue. The bar was full, not of
drunken sots, but good Australians.
It was Saturday afternoon, when John
Smith and Bill Jones were at a loose end.
They had met, not for a “soaking” but
for diversion, and Boniface supplied
it in cards, quoits, a flutter on the hurdles,
plus an occasional “pot.” For the most
part they were hard-working chaps who,
during the war, worked the clock around
to defeat the Jap. They pay taxes and
they go to make up the sum total of
Australia.
The sooner it is realised that the public
house is a working-man’s club the better.
Until social leaders attack the problem
from that angle, excesses are bound to
continue. Clubs for boys and youth are
legion, but imagine the reception a
middle-aged toiler would get in such a
place.
We have had more than enough of this
hotel-baiting. Were it not for pubs, our
literature would be the poorer. Shak-
speare found Falstaff in an inn. Dickens
found Sam Weller. Our own Henry
Lawson found characters in the pubs
and shanties outback. —A. D. (S.A.).
Working for Chifley
“Shafter” (B. 20/8/’47) says “If land
and industry both jib, Chifley will need a
long whip for the hard pull on the other
side of the depression.” I’ll leave that for
the moment, with the reminder that in
any long, hard pull, it’s the shatters and
their mates who do the bullocking and
feel the strain.
“Working for Chifley” is a catchy
phrase that means exactly nothing. It
could just as well be “working for
Menzies,” and it was very nearly “working
for the Japs.” Chifley doesn’t benefit
from the extra industrial or agricultural
output. He doesn’t lose from reduced
acreage or strikes. But somewhere a
starving child whimpers in vain for an
extra bit "of food, and somewhere a
patient colored man waits and watches
while a restricted industry reduces our
defence potential.
Have two wars so decimated our man-
hood that we cannot accept the oppor-
tunity to aid humanity? Is the sole fruit
of our education and high living standard
a selfish disregard for the future genera-
tions to whom we are bequeathing the
task of protecting this country with in-
adequate resources? Have the world-
respected exploits of our warring legions
inspired us with no greater patriotism
than can be expressed in terms of per-
sonal gain?
Chifley and his regime will pass. So
will the present world travail. It rests
with us whether we shall look back to
these days as a challenge to which we
proved equal. A starving world cries out
for our foodstuffs; our hammer-blows
can mould our defence. Yet we won’t pro-
duce those extra grains or strike an extra
blow because we are not receiving the
full monetary reward for our labor. —
Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
Nurses
Hospitals are still understaffed, and
such nurses as they have are complaining
of overwork, but how many of them re-
member the fuss made by nursing organ-
isations when it was suggested that those
girls in the A.A.M.W.S. who had served
their turn at ward work should be
allowed to count that as part of the
nursing course? Many of those girls
would have been prepared to continue,
but the authorities dropped the scheme.
After some years of service the potential
nurses were expected to start from the
beginning and go through the routine of
scrubbing floors; etc. —work they had
been doing for many months.
After the good pay and conditions in
the services, many nurses were reluctant
to return to civilian hospital work. So
you find them working in doctors’
surgeries, where they do dressings, give
injections and perform many routine jobs
normally done by the medico. Because
of the shortage of hospital beds and the
staff to maintain them more and more
work is done at the surgery. There is
little night work and week-ends are free.
It is time the Government looked into
the methods of training nurses. Condi-
tions have not changed much since the
turn of the century. The idea of a nurses’
home was all right when girls came from
some distance to the hospital for train-
ing and quarters had to be provided.
But why a matron should be given such
wide powers over the private lives of the
trainees is beyond me. They have little
freedom, the excuse being that if they do
not get enough rest their work will suffer.
In industry girls who are inefficient or
who are too tired to do their work are
sacked, so why can’t that principle be
applied to the trainees? Leave their pri-
vate lives alone, and if they are unable
to carry on their duties sack ’em.
If nurses were treated as human beings
there would be many more recruits offer-
ing. Too often trainees are compelled to
do menial or “slushy” jobs when they
could be learning their real task of nurs-
ing the sick. The old idea that wjjat was
good enough in matron’s time is good
enough for the present is no good. The
nursing profession must forget Florence
Nightingale and her methods. Make the
job attractive . and there will be any
number of the right type of girl offering
for training.—R. W. (N.S.W.).
Licences
As a simple poultry-farmer I sat dowp.
the other night to check through some
personal papers. At the end of half an
hour I had sorted the following: A dog
“Did y ’ notice what sort of car it Was ?”
licence, a driver’s licence, a carrier’s
licence (I carry my own eggs), two radio
licences (the wife keeps a little set in the
kitchen), a licence to sell eggs privately,
a licence to keep a gun handy, a petrol
licence, a permit to buy timber for new
sheds, a book of clothing coupons, a
book of food coupons and a trout-fishing
licence.
By this time I’d only barely touched
the top layers ; and then it came to me
that I’d forgotten to register the few
miserable fruit-trees that the wife insists
on having round the house, — Democrat
(N.S.W.),
Disposals Sales
I agree with “C.R.0.” (B. 8/10/’47)
as to an investigation. Although it would
be too late to save thousands of pounds
of taxpayers’ money it would at least
throw some light on the handling of
public property.
Auction sales should never have been
the medium for disposal of surplus Army
goods. Depots should have been opened
in each State capital at least and placed
under proper management and super-
vision—there were plenty of ex-service-
men who could have handled the job.
Individual buyers could then have bought
goods at a fair price, and consolidated
revenue and the taxpayer would have
benefited.
Many disposals sales were held in re-
mote places and only a few privileged
buyers were able fo attend. When a
small buyer risked time and expense to
reach the sale he generally found the
“lotting” so astronomical that he was out
of the race. I attended one such sale,
looping to buy a filing cabinet. Four
three-drawer cabinets were on offer —as
one lot! When they had reached some
absurdly high figure a valuation had to
be decided and lots drawn for possession.
But instead of four buyers each obtain-
ing one cabinet, one man collected the
lot. The same method applied to dis-
posal of cutlery, crockery, blankets and
innumerable household utensils.
Systematic retailing of these lines would
have satisfied hundreds of buyers and
saved the Commonwealth a substantial
sum. —I. B. (Tas.).
“Some Village Hampden . . •”
Wheat Industry Stabilisation Commit-
tee, Sydney, to D. G. Robertson, “Wyn-
yeh,” Tumblong (N.S.W.), 20/8/’47:
Temporary Wheat Farm No. 22354 —
Gundagai Shire.
I refer to my letter of August 7, 1947, also
to a letter dated August 15, received from your
father, Dr. G. O. Robertson, and have to
advise that in the absence of the lodgnient of
an application for a wheat licence within 14
days it will be presumed that wheat has not
been sown on “Wynyeh” this year for the pur-
pose of harvesting for grain; Steps will then
be taken to cancel the registration of the
property as a “temporary wheat farm.”
Cancellation of the registration will debar
the issue of a wheat licence in respect of the
property, and the non-issue of a licence will
prejudice any claim you may make at a later
date for payment of compensation for wheat
delivered to the Australian Wheat Board.
You are reminded that under the Wheat
Acquisition Regulations all wheat not required
for use on the farm on which it is produced
is acquired by the Commonwealth Government
and is required to be delivered to the Australian
Wheat Board.
The harvesting for grain of any wheat crop
in respect of which a licence has not been issued
is a breach of the National Security (Wheat
Industry Stabilisation) Regulations and an
offence under the National Security Act, as is
also the disposal of wheat otherwise than in
accordance with the National Security (Wheat
Acquisition) Regulations.
G. O. Robertson to W.1.5.C.,. 29/8/’47:
I have advised my son to make application
for a licence. After consultation with my
family I have decided that I have neither the
wealth nor health to light a lone battle against
the Commonwealth over the wheat.
I have received many letters from in-
dividuals supporting my stand against the pre-
sent dubious controls, but no offer of assistance
from any organisation should I be involved in
expensive legal proceedings. I have been able
to demonstrate the lengths to which controlling
bodies are prepared to go in order to retain
their power. I feel it is now a matter for free-
dom-loving organisations to carry on and defeat
the present inequitable control and distribution
of the wealth which is theirs, not the Wheat
Board’s or the Government’s. I am not going
to grow any wheat except for my own use; but
my sons will have the use of my land to grow
what crop they want as principals—not share-
farmers.
As a matter of interest, I would like to know
under what legislative' authority you make the
threat in paragraph 2 of your letter to my son.
You indicate that the Wheat Board might not
pay full compensation if our wheat were
acquired. I think that many of the public are
ignorant of any law which will allow of com-
pulsory acquisition of any person’s property
without the payment of fair and adequate com-
pensation, even if that person is a rebel.
Wheat licence issued to E). G. Robert-
son on 17/9/’47.
Wheat Industry S.C. to G. O. Robert-
son, 24/9/’47:
Temporary Wheat Farm No. 22354 —
Gundagai Shire.
I have to acknowledge receipt of your letter
of August 29, 1947, the contents of which have
been noted, and in reply to inform you that my
letter of August 20, 1947, addressed to Mr.
D. G. Robertson, was not intended to convey
the impression that payment would not be made
by the Australian Wheat Board in respect of
wheat not sown under licence.
Where wheat is grown under licence it is the
practice for the first advance payment to be
made as soon as possible after lodgment of
the claim for payment for wheat delivered, but
if in any case a licence had not been issued,
payment would be held in abeyance pending
full investigation of all the circumstances under
which the wheat crop was grown.
Australian Wheat Board, Sydney, to
D. G. Robertson, 8/10/’47:
Further to your inquiry regarding cornsacks,
we have to advise that an application may be
made to the cornsack agent at Gundagai,
Messrs. Tout and Co. It will be necessary for
you at time of such application to show the
agent your wheat licence.
In view of the statements made by your
father, Dr. G. O. Robertson, as to his and his
sons’ intention to sell on the open market the
wheat grown on your property, the Board will
not accept your cornsack requisition unless it
is accompanied with a statutory declaration
that you will deliver to the Board all the wheat
grown except that which is exempt from acqui-
sition by the Commonwealth.
It will be open to you to pay cash for any
sacks supplied if you so desire, or alternatively
to have the cost of same deducted from the
compensation which may become due to you
in respect of the wheat acquired and delivered
to the Board.
G. O. Robertson to Australian Wheat
Board, 9/10/’47:
My son showed me your letter of October 8
and I have advised him to consult his solicitor
regarding your threat to differentiate between
him and other licensed wheatgrowers through-
out Australia regarding the supply of cornsacks.
From the tone of your letter it would appear
that you are doubtful of your power to lawfully
acquire my son’s wheat, and would sooner see
it wasted than handled by other more com-
petent agents. You would use the power given
by Government interference conferring a
monopoly of cornsack handling on you to in-
timidate growers who reluctantly take out
licences while wholly disapproving of the in-
competent handling of their produce.
I am publishing your letter in the hope that
it will enlighten other farmers by showing them
the intimidatory methods used by both your
Board and the Wheat Industry Stabilisation
Committee.
A careful inspection of the premises
occupied by the A.W.B. and W.I.S.C.
revealed no outward evidence of disturb-
ance within —but, then, why should there
be? Anybody would think these farmer
fellows owned their wheat! —O. T.
(N.S.W.).
Blair Athol Coal
I’ve followed the story of the wonderful
Blair Athol coal seam in Queensland
with a certain amount of derision. The
belief that our miners, united in a deter-
mination not to dig coal if it can possibly
be avoided, are going to rush into the
wilds of Central Queensland and tear it
out by the million tons is almost pathetic
in its fatuity. Still, the latest rumor is
to the effect that something really is to
be done —that a railway is actually to be
built and that diesel locomotives are to
be used!
Are we so shiftless that we’ve got to
go to the other side of the world with a
bag of precious dollars and buy oil with
which to haul coal, the cheapest and most
satisfactory haulage fuel yet discovered?
By comparison, the inability to decide on
a destination for the proposed railway
is a mild anticlimax. It’s to take coal
to Bowen —to Mackay—now to Rock-
hampton. Why? There’s been a railway
from Blair Athol to Rockhampton and
Port Alma for donkey’s years. Why not
use it?
The proposed 3,500,000 tons a year
means a matter of 10,000 tons a day, which
is far beyond present capacity of any
Queensland railway. With new rails and
sleepers and the necessary heavy rolling
stock, there’s no reason why the existing
line should not handle that and more
—’Transporticus (Singapore).
Child Delinquency
J. Edgar Hoover, director of the U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation, has had
something to say on juvenile delinquency
and post-war crime. He declares that
crime trends in the U.S.A. are on the
upgrade, especially juvenile crime
arrests of females aged 17 or under dur-
ing 19(15 were 115 per cent, above the
average for the years 1939 to 1941. A
tragic aspect of these figures is that, from
past experience, more than 50 per cent,
of these juvenile offenders will be arrested
for further'‘and probably more serious
offences in later years. An increase in
juvenile crime is invariably followed by
a rise in the crime rates for young men
and women.
Contrary to popular supposition, it is
not the returning serviceman or -woman
that is responsible for the post-war crime-
wave. In fact, Hoover asserts, the vast
majority of men and women returning
from the war will be far better citizens.
Records for the 1914-18 war show that
thousands of youngsters just under mili-
tary age got their start in juvenile delin-
quency at that time. A large number
developed into the hardened criminals
of the early ’thirties. Meanwhile U.S.
statistics for the 1939-45 war indicate
a similar wave of lawlessness when the
delinquent juveniles of the early ’forties
graduate into adult crime.
The remedy? Hoover advocates a
highly-trained, well-paid police force
which will command the real respect and
assistance of the community. But law
enforcement by police is only a sedative.
The cure for juvenile crime, and ulti-
mately for adult crime, lies in
training and character-building. “Most
juvenile crime can be attributed to the
home,” Hoover affirms, adding the advice
—which could well be heeded by Aus-
tralians—that “we must strengthen the
home, increase the effectiveness of all of
our schools, extend the sphere of influence
of the church and create character-build-
ing programmes for our young men and
women through youth-serving organisa-
tions.”
But who in authority over Australians
cares about home-life, character-building
or church influence? Higher wages,
shorter hours, easier jobs, more facilities
for drinking and gambling—that’s our
programme.— Wusslean (Vic.).


The Banks
Well, they’ve taken over the old banks
and there’s only the “Commonwealth” ir
town now. They’ve got a new chap her
as manager, although old Joe reckon
he’s more of a forwarding agent fo
Chifley than a manager as we used t
know them. He was a clerk in th
Forestry Department when he marriec
the Minister for Nationalisation’
daughter.
Anyway, he’s got his eye on his jol
all right. He tells us that we ought to
keep our pass-books up to date, because
if there aren’t enough funds there he’J
have to scrub the cheque, even for only
two bob. He says it’d be more than hi
job’s worth to let you go into the rec
without security. I said to him he couk
keep my life policy against any
such oversights—you know how a chaf
used to get one over the eight anc
scribble a few cheques down* at Hogan’s
and they didn’t knock them back at the
old E. & O.E.—but he says that if ]
assign the policy to the bank and have
the matter submitted to Head Office in
Canberra it’d probably be all right in a
few weeks, he hopes.
The new bloke says it’s no good ring-
ing him up after, hours telling him your
mill’s broken down and asking him ii
he’d get Mick Gaffney to come out and
fix it, as we used to do to Jerry O’Kane
or J. C. Nelson. He says you can’t
be a scab and work after hours nowa-
days. Anyway, it wouldn’t do his bank
any good—there’s no opposition to com-
pete against, and they wouldn’t send him
to a better branch for doing such things
for you, because there’d be appeals
galore against the appointment. You
know, other managers would say they’d
had longer service in the Treasury or the
Trades Hall or something. Just in case,
he always leaves his receiver off the hook
after hours and you can forward your
application in triplicate on Form EX 84.
Now you’ve got a definite limit to
borrow on. The Land Ranger worked
it out when he went round the district
last week. If your‘sheep are perishing
they’ll just have to perish if you’re
up to your limit —no further ad-
vances for droving or agistment. Of
course, they can be sold if there’s some
mug game enough to take ’em on, but if
he won’t pay the price the bank wants
for them what’s going to happen? The
matter would have to be submitted to
Canberra.
There’s one blessing, however —the
manager is always .an officer of the Tax-
ation Department, so you won’t have to
worry about wrong returns any more. —
A. Wether (Q.).
I went to the Commonwealth Bank
for a loan. For seven years my
account had been in the “blue,” varying
with my fortunes from a few pounds to
a few hundreds. A business opportunity
offered and I found myself £l5O short.
Repat. split hairs about whether a mer-
chant mariner was legally a returned
man. An R.S.L. badge set them back a
bit, but they quibbled again when it was
found that 1 wanted to conduct the busi-
ness in a house I wished to buy—Repat.
doesn’t assist in the buying of houses.
I asked for an interview with the
Commonwealth Bank. The manager was
“too busy,” and after a half-hour inter-
view with an office-boy as an intermediary
between the public counter and the sanc-
tum sanctorum, during which at least 20
waiting customers learned my business,
the office-boy said to me “You find sixty
per cent, and we’ll find the rest.”
A friend introduced me to the manager
of a trading bank. In half an hour I
convinced him of the soundness of my
proposition and left with a loan of £2OO
arranged. The extra £5O was taken on
the manager’s advice that it was just as
well to have a few pounds to spare when
one .was entering a new business. No
red tape, no waiting, no embarrassment
of having the world and its office-boy
know the nature of one’s business.
How do I stand if the banks are
nationalised? Will the Commonwealth
Bank repudiate my agreement with the
trading; bank on the ground that my
proposition had been turned down? —
Video (Q.).
Communists
It is idle to expect anything original
in thought or argument from a Com-
munist (B. 17/9/’47). During the war
I served with the Army Education
Service, which was much exposed to
Communists. No matter what came up
for discussion, there was a similarity
about their views which, to the uniniti-
ated, might seem to verge upon the
miraculous. If the Second Front were
under discussion, every Communist would
suggest that, as the British Army was
evacuated from Dunkirk in small boats,
it could use a similar method of trans-
port to return. If we seemed unable to
drive back Rommel, they would be
unanimous in declaring that we should
get a Russian general—Timoshenko—to
show us how to beat the Fascists.
But it was no mystery to me. I had
a friend who was an ardent Communist
and who, in the hope of converting me,
used to send me all his propaganda sheets.
Every Communist used to parrot exactly
what was said in them, word for word,
without adding one single original
thought to the text. I never gave the
show away, but had many an inward
laugh.
Upon one thing only were the Corns
silent. In every Russian newspaper
printed in English the writers lavished
praise upon the Stakhanovist workers. In
one would be the photo, of a woman
who “habitually exceeded her norms” by
turning out more work than anyone else ;
in another would be a photo, of a couple
of fitters who had become “Heroes of
Soviet Labor” by working harder than
anyone else in the plant. Russians still
regard the man who works hard and
does a good job as a model for others
to copy, but Australian Corns are still
silent on that point.—H. A. L. (S.A.).
“Homer” (B. 17/9/’47) should know
that the monologue of his Com-
munist acquaintance was more in
the nature of a recitation, as both tactics
and the actual phraseology on any ques-
tion are pre-determined by the central
committee of the party and transmitted
to propagandist members wherever they
may be. Actually, the committee says,
“The party line on this question will be
“I think it's just that he lacks self-confidence."
so and so. You will use the following
material in the development of your
thesis. Most likely your arguments will
be countered thus and thus. You will
use these arguments to controvert those
counters.”
Thus uniformity of attack is achiever
and even the dullard may put forward
the line provided he does not deviate
from the party point of view. If he does
so he gets himself into deep water with
his opposition and hot water with the
party. For local groups, classes in tactics
and propagandist methods are held to
ensure uniformity, but in all cases it is
inevitable that originality is lost —all to
the good perhaps in a party where rigid
adherence to what the leaders say is im-
perative.
Once heard, the jargon is never for-
gotten and I’ve found it diverting to make
mental predictions, not only of what the
speaker will say next, but exactly how
he will say it. But I differ from “H.” in
that I’d find the comrades’ fulminations
amusing if they did not make everyone
else’s motives so completely sordid and
those of their members so self-effacing
and noble. It would also help if they
could find it possible to allow that a
feasible point of view other than their
own might somehow exist. It is rather
irritating for the seeker-after-truth to see
that air of smug omniscience with which
Comrades deliver their dicta.
And it is also extremely aggravating to
hear honest public figures who are not
convinced of the ultimate infallibility of
Communist doctrines dubbed as “Fascist
tools,” when actually their distaste for
Communism is only surpassed by their
abhorrence for Fascism in all its forms.
—B.Ec. (N.S.W.).
Concluding a Political Point on Aus-
tralian contributions of gifts and funds
to pre- and post-U.N.R.R.A. relief. The
Bulletin said that all the countries men-
tioned were Communist countries and
that none of their Governments had
shown a bit of gratitude. If anything, an
understatement.
My personal experience is with Slo
vakia. My properties there have been
confiscated by decision and order of the
Slovak National Council; and that at
time when 1 was already a naturalisec
British subject. No notice was taken of
the representations of the British Con-
sular Authority.
Mine is not an isolated case. There
are others in Australia who have been
dealt with in quite a similar fashion. In
the light of these facts it seems to me
that these are distinctly most unfriendly
acts committed against taxpayers of
country which contributed such huge
amounts for relief of distress in that same
place out of consolidated revenue.
There are many other worthy causes
and better places to spend money on
here in Australia than to scatter it in-
discriminately without making sure that
it is being used for the intended right
purpose and in the right places only.—
M.T. (Vic.).
\
Prophecy
It does not always require a spiritual
gift to tell what shall come to pass. The
signs of the times point clearly to future
events. Thus: Building materials are in
short supply; builders are working
shorter hours at a slower pace ; popula-
tion is being boosted by natural increase
and immigration ; there is already a great
and growing scarcity of houses; house-
holders are subletting and sharing with
friends and relations; spare rooms and
enclosed verandahs are being occupied to
the limit of discomfort.
Saturation point will soon be reached
with the number of displaced and un-
placed persons still multiplying. In thai
day voluntary huddling must be replacec
by compulsory cramming. Instead ol
two families to each cottage there will
eventually be one family to each room.
Private property rights and individual
convenience will be ignored. Bathropms
and kitchens will be shared with polyglot
strangers who have not been invited and
and cannot be evicted. Privacy will be
a thing of the past.
That “solution” of the housing problem
is not only possible or probable—it is
inevitable. It has happened elsewhere
and must be implemented here more or
less rapidly according to the number of
bricks laid, the number of hours worked
and the number of* human beings im-
ported. We are on our way, not to the
Golden Age, but to slumdom and
domestic misery.— Jeremiah (S.A.).
“Men at Work”
“Noonamah” (B. 27/ 8 /’47) makes an
excellent point. Thousands of men all
over Australia are doing work of little
constructive value which could just as
efficiently be done by women.
Before 1914 you never saw women in
the banking business, except for an oc-
casional typist. They came and stayed,
and after 1939 battalions of their
younger sisters moved in. They quickly
proved that, they could capably,
methodically and, in many’ instances,
more accurately carry on the work of the
various sections of the business than men.
In short time they became ledger-keepers,
exchange clerks, general clerks, tellers and
even held minor executive posts. With
the return of the male staffs the women
are gradually disappearing.
The foregoing applies to many under-
takings throughout Australia, and it is a
pity, as never before in our history has
there been such an opportunity for a
vigorous programme of development
where man’s physical strength is required.
From observations during 30 years in
a bank I venture the opinion that, except
during the depression, a competent trades-
man is better off than the average white-
collar worker.
There is so much to be done in this
land which requires male application—
housing, water-conservation, agriculture,
road-making and a thousand other things.
By sound and judicious education the
young man’s thoughts and ambitions must
be moulded along these lines.
The man who undertakes manual work
has many opportunities such as acquir-
ing his own home, launching out in busi-
ness for himself, or moving from place
to place when jobs are offering. Scarcely
any of these advantages is within the
reach of the white-collar man. And
finally, the tradesman is, not called upon
to maintain a silly social position which
is the downfall of many of the white-
collar brigade.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
“Ward’s Ward
The remarks of “R.W.” (B. 17/9/’47)
are typical of the outlook of a new
arrival in any country who thinks that
his theories are of more value than the
hard experience of an old hand. Time
and time again in New Guinea I saw in-
experienced Australians try to handle
working parties of natives. Within a
month they would have a mob of cheeky,
sulky loafers.
On one occasion I saw a jeep drive up
and a grey-haired A.N.G.A.U. officer
spring out. He took one look at the
gang of loafing boys, then snapped the
command “Allaboy boong along harpir!”
They gathered on the road as ordered
and for five minutes he gave them a
tongue-lashing in pidgin. He then left
an equally experienced A.N.G.A.U, ser-
geant in charge, and from then on the
jungle was cleared, the huts erected and
the rest of their work carried out
smartly and efficiently. And the natives
themselves were far happier and more
lively under that sort of supervision.
I often visited places where the
natives were untouched by white con-
trol. It was a striking example of what
these “poor people” were like before the
white man had done something for
them. Living in stockaded villages to
protect themselves from head-hunting
neighbors, all infested with hookworm,
children a mass of ringworm and with
the enlarged spleens of the sufferer from
chronic malaria distending their abdo-
mens, they were a sorry sight. Contrast
them with the plump, sleek-skinned,
healthy and happy natives on plantations
or in villages where sanitation and health
are properly attended to and you will
see that the white man gives the native
something better than wages.
Much is said about the part the
played in defeating the Japs, and
it should never be forgotten. But set
against that'the fact that the campaigns
at Wewak, on Bougainville and the pen-
ning of the Japs at one end of New
Britain were quite senseless except for
one thing—they saved thousands of
natives’ from the Japs’,
The tragedy of India is an object les-
son. Visitors used to go there and after
a few weeks tell the old residents what
they should do. The old hands would
retort that if they ever left the country
riot, bloodshed and ruin would follow.
The British Raj used to be accused of
exploiting the Indian, but millions' of the
poor devils must wish that he were “ex-
ploiting” them now! —Binnatang (S.A.),
Root of the Matter
I wonder if the R.A.A.F., the civil air
services and the Government realise the
full value of the Australian Air League
—a purely voluntary organisation cater-
ing for boys. They are trained to be air-
minded, to learn the theory of flight and
other groundwork for a career in the
R.A.A.F. and their physical culture is
attended to. They are taught to make
and fly scale-model aeroplanes, they learn
the full meaning of discipline and are
generally trained to become worthy citi-
zens of the future.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Films and trashy newspaper strips are
having a disastrous effect on young Aus-
tralia’s speech. If we’re not careful
future generations will be unable to
sound their vowels properly. “Me” and
“I” have become “M’ah” and “A’h,” the
final “ing” will be a lost accomplishment,
and “gonna” and “gotta” and “wanna”
will have to be approved by our lexico-
graphers.—A. B. L. (Q.).
I don’t like “Mark Time’s” argument
(B. 8/10/’47) that we should cut out our
smokes and beer and pictures so that we
can pay the increased price of fruit. It’s
a very negative solution to the increasing
cost of living to say that we should meet
it by doing without the simplest of our
pleasures —carried to its logical con-
clusion that means we should do without
all the little things that make living worth
while in order to buy bread to live on.
And after that we’d probably buy
potatoes instead of bread.—P. D. (Vic.).


SECURE your FUTURE
BY TRAINING IN 1
DIESEL
O)”*'
%
TRACTORS
#
E?
!*V
<?\
■%
&
Diesel —the power of today—is here to stay. Every
day more and more industries are planning to change
over to Diesel. Every day more and more large private
organisations are planning to instal their own Diesel-
operated power plants, opening up more and more
positions for trained Diesel men. The work is always
interesting, and the pay good, so start training now to
equip yourself to enter this expanding field, and let
your new profession grow around you. It is those who enter Diesel now who will have the necessary
experience for the key jobs later on. The Diesel Engineering College has published a booklet telling
you all about the opportunities in Diesel, which will be sent you FREE.
NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE NECESSARY
The Diesel Engineering College is the largest Diesel College in the Southern Hemisphere. The Course
is prepared by leading Diesel authorities, and your studies are supervised by Diesel experts. You can
pay for your training as you learn, should you prefer not to pay cash. The one fee covers everything
you need to qualify as a Diesel operator. See the Diesel Engineering College about your course NOW.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN PLACED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
The Diesel Engineering College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineering easy, no matter
how far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
it fill up your head with a dot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything you need to know to operate and service Diesel engines
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE—NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED.
NO TEXT BOOKS REQUIRED.
Many students of the Diesel Engineering College have obtained
positions as Diesel operators immediately after completing the
Course. Others have the satisfaction of knowing that their
qualification as Diesel operators will stand them in good stead
when the time comes to transfer to other work. Non-residents
of Sydney can obtain practical experience on a working
Diesel engine when they visit this city, NOW is the time for YOU
to start. Call at the Diesel Engineering College office any day,
Friday nights or Saturday mornings for full particulars.
To
FOR FREE BOOKLET.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
m
m
% V; |
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free,
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don’t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don tAC T ! If
you don’t want to
just drop us a note!
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
specializes in correspondence courses for Country, Interstate and
Overseas students.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
(Est. 11 years.) t
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME AGE • • -
ADDRESS
29/10/'47.
DIESEL EN G I NEERING COLLEGE
255 a GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
516 FLINDERS STREET. MELBOURNE. 'Phone M 81302
•Phone 82902
ALBERT HOUSE, ALBERT STREET. BRISBANE
