

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
he Bulletin,” VoL 68—No, 3491
Wednesday, January 8, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
“OPERATION SOLERO”—URGENT!
OIX casks each of sixty gallons—two tons of wine—became
airborne late last December when the House of Seppelt wrote
new Australian transportation history by using the A.N.A. freighter
service to convey urgently-required supplies to interstate branches.
Special equipment aboard the skyliner ensured a safe journey...
enabled the maintenance of delivery schedules to* keep faith. This
movement by air of commercial quantities of wine in casks, in-
cluding both Extra Dry “Solero” and “Royal Purple Para,” was
the first ever made and demonstrates the firm’s determination to
keep abreast of every modern development, including safe and
rapid transportation.


feteccjo’gsi.g
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
gut here and mail
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
8.8. 147
AGE..
The Red Page
NEW ZEALAND'S BOOKS.
Most people know that Samuel Butler’s
Erewhon was “set” in the country beyond
the Southern Alps in New Zealand ; but
it’s probably not so well known that the
book originated in an article Butler con-
tributed to a New Zealand newspaper;
The core of Erewhon was produced in
New Zealand when Butler’s article “Darwin .
Among the Machines” appeared in “The
Press” (Christchurch) in 1863. In London
Butler developed this article into The Book
of the Machines, which became the basis
of Erewhon.
The paragraph is quoted from J. C.
Reid’s Creative Writing in N?w Zealand,
printed for the author by Whitcombe and
Tombs, Ltd. Mr. Reid’s survey is not
only the best the present commentator
has seen —there have been several of its
kind in recent years—but, allowing for a
few minor complaints, as good as could
be asked for.
Mr. Reid finds, as he must, that New
Zealand has been better served by its
historians and autobiographers than by its
poets and novelists. There has been
little in fiction or poetry to match F. W.
Maning’s Old Ne\v Zealand, those joyous
reminiscences of the “pakeha - Maori.”
Among ’similar works, Mr. Reid does
rather cold justice to Sir John Gorst’s
The Maori King an invaluable history
and a fascinating piece of reading—but
Guthrie-Smith’s Tutira (“the story of a
New Zealand sheep station”) gets its full
measure of appreciation:
The author of Tutira was a humanist
in a sense in which no other New Zealand
writer has been. He was a scholar with
an insatiable curiosity about men, animals,
birds and things, he had in him some-
thing of the poet, the explorer, the novelist,
the philosopher, the artist and the investi-
gator. Comparison of Tutira with Rev.
Gilbert White’s Natural History and An-
tiquities of Selborne is inevitable. But
there are many differences.
White’s book is in a very low key and
has no great distinction of style. It lives
chiefly by virtue of the tribute it pays
to country lore, as well as by the sweet
and kindly spirit of its gentle, humane
author. Guthrie-Smith is more various.
He is more of a philosopher than White,
more scientific, no less in love with nature,
no less quizzical. But Tutira goes far
deeper than Selborne, largely because
Guthrie-Smith is always conscious of the
larger world beyond his station, of Homo
sapiens as a member of the human com-
munity, and of the great potentialities of
his beloved adopted country. A dry humor,
often kindly, sometimes biting, seasons the
whole of this unusual work. Like Sterne’s
Tristram Shandy, Tutira cannot be ade-
quately described, it must be enjoyed.
Mr. Reid’s qualifications as a critic be-
gin to become apparent in this quotation.
One might, perhaps, attempt a defence
of Gilbert White’s style, for it has a
delicate flavor and cadence, a good ex-
ample, in its quiet way, of what Hazlitt
approved as “the plain English style.”
But Mr. Reid obviously knows what he
is talking about. He is a well-read man
—the first requirement for a critic—and
his judgments of New Zealand literature
are based on a knowledge of the world’s.
Moreover, though he attempts no fire-
works, his writing, is surely persuasive
enough to make anyone want to read
not only Tutira but his own account of
it.
Other New Zealand histories or re-
miniscences discussed in the same inter-
esting way include Marsden’s Letters and
Journals, J. S. Polack’s New Zealand and
Edward Jerningham Wakefield’s Adven-
ture in New Zealand. Mr. Reid
observes;
If there is one quality which may be
said to be characteristic of the best early
prose, it is gusto. Polack’s book has this
quality in full measure. Indeed, New Zea-
land is surely the most virile, lively, unin-
hibited of all early narratives. It is prob-
ably inaccurate in certain details, it paints
the Maoris with an over-black brush, it is
cocky, cheeky and prejudiced, yet its often
outrageous style carries all the book’s
faults before it.
There is a similarity of tone in Mr.
Reid’s appraisal of the novels of William
Satchell which would suggest that, though
in a modified form, the vigor of the
early adventures reappeared in The
Greenstone Door and The Land of the
Lost :
The Greenstone Door, his best-known
novel, seems today more suitable for chil-
„ -aren than the adult audience to which
it was originally directed, and the conven-
tional plot's, with their creaking coinci-
dences and discoveries, give his books a
decided “period” flavor. His first three
novels, including The Toll of the Bush,
which many consider his best work, were
issued between 1902 and 1907, but The
Greenstone Door was not produced until
1914. Satchell went to tremendous pains
over this book, which is an historical novel
of the Maori Wars, and his reconstruction
of the period, despite a little novelisation,
is careful and accurate. It is recognised by
such authorities as James Cowan as being
the outstanding historical novel produced
in this country. Certainly Satchell’s imagi-
native presentations of such figures as
Wiremu Tamehana and Sir George Grey
are unapproached by any other New Zea-
land novelist.
For all his faults, chief of "which are the
plot-conventions, drab and stilted dialogue,
and many two-dimensional characters
drawn from stock types, Satchell has a
great deal of power. His books do con-
trive to excite the reader, and to convey
an impression of vitality and authenticity.
Not least important, they are New Zealand
novels.
An examination of some recent poetry
might suggest at first glance that the gusto
has gone out of New Zealand writing,
for Mr. Reid notes: “A spirit of disillu-
sion, of frustration, of a sense of griev-
ance, of emptiness, and the search for a
stable basis of value is the dominant spirit
of the New Zealand secular intellectual.”
However, that could be said of “intel-
lectual” poetry anywhere in the world at
the moment. Though he notes elsewhere
the dismal effects of imported Leftism,
Mr. Reid appears to err here in attri-
buting “a sense of grievance” exclusively
to New Zealand writers. It is world-
wide ; possibly a symptom of the troubles
of our civilisation but, surely, at base,
merely a characteristic of a type of minor
writing. A man finds his art unsatis-
factory so he blames the universe.
There is, in the present commentator’s
opinion, another error implied in-the use
of the word “secular,” Mr. Reid, who
writes very sincerely from a religious
viewpoint, occasionally clouds hiij criti-
cism by mistaking conventional piety for
spiritual depth: a point of view which,
carried to its logical conclusion, would
necessitate the valuing of Milton above
Shakspeare, even a monumental mason’s
angel above the Vends de Milo. T. S.
Eliot is worth reading on this point.
However, there is no disputing with Mr.
Reid on his search for gusto in prose,
excitement and vision, in poetry.
It is, indeed, the balance of his outlook
that makes his book superior to all other
recent competitors. His appraisal of
.Eileen Duggan, for example, discounting
the exaggerations of some of her admirers
and correcting the exuberant damnations
of the intellectuals, could not be more
ejcact. Likewise his analysis of the merits
and defects of Frank Sargeson’s short
stories.
A few omissions in the chapters on re-
cent writing should be noted. Mr. Reid
was hardly obliged to notice the short
stories of J. H. Melville, for there are
not many and they have not yet been
published in book form. But Melville,
who has a mastery of style and form
not matched by any other tfew Zealand
writer, is worth watching. Then, too,
there are the essays of F. L. Combs;
each slight in itself, but impressive enough
in mass to suggest, being chiefly sketches
of village life, an affinity with' Cranford.
Mr. Reid’s notes on Roderick Fin-
layson, generous and appreciative, will
need some extending when the stories
about “Uncle Ted” which have been
appearing in The Bulletin during recent
months and which were brought to a
conclusion by “Uncle Ted’s Elevation”
are published in book form. Loosely
woven together to make a novel called
Tidal Creek the series has been accepted
for publieation by Angus and Robertson.
Since it may he summed up as a comedy
of the New Zealand earth, the book will
obviously modify the conception of Fin-
layson as a tragic writer, and it may
do much to restore to New Zealand
literature Jhe vitality of its beginnings.
Since, rightly claiming a share in Butler
and Katherine Mansfield, Mr. Reid re-
fuses to yield to a narrow nationalism
in his outlook, it is astonishing to find
that —in common with less generous faew
Zealand critics —he makes no mention of
Eve Langley. Certainly Eve Langley was
born in Australia and The Pea Pickers
deals with this country ; but it was written
at Auckland and, in any case, Eve Lang-
ley’s poetry often on New Zealand
themes —had won recognition in N.Z.
Best Poems long before her great novel
was published. New Zealand, incident-
ally, is entitled to claim a share in another
Australian not noticed by Mr. Reid—
Henry Lawson. Lawson lived for a while
in New Zealand, Wrote a series of
picaresque yarns about the country, and
in “A Daughter of Maoriland” analysed
the Maori character with a profoundly
humorous understanding that has pro-
bably not been rivalled until the recent
stories of Roderick Finlayson and others.
Mr. Reid is hopeful for the future of
New Zealand literature, as he should be.
Of course New Zealand will have a fine
literature some day—when it has had
enough good writers. In the meantime it
has the not inconsiderable list that Mr.
Reid discusses. The theory that a nation
gets good writers only when, by being in
a state of spiritual grace, it deserves them
is a dangerous creed for a writer to hold,
liable to tempt him to discontinue the
literary effort that might be the very
thing to bring the nation to a state of
grace. But it might well be that, ip a
practical way, something could be done
by newspapers, booksellers and publishers
to make known what books there are and
to foster the publication of new ones. It
is really a very disconcerting revelation
of the present state of letters in New
Zealand that Mr. Reid’s fine little survey
was published “for the author”—-mean-
ing, presumably, that Mr. Reid paid for
it.
"In One Town."
Marjorie Robertson’s In One Town
(Australasian Publishing Company) is a
collection of 23 stories in a smallish
volume, some mere fragments.
“Blessed Are the Meek,” the first story,
concerns a mild, wistful insurance sales-
man with “a sweet, pitiful smile,” who
wants to go back to England and
doesn’t —and whose son is killed in the
war.
The second story, “A Fool There Was,”
is likewise brief, an essay on lov£ and
regret, very feminine, delicate, yet slight
and depressing. “Devotions,” also slight,
which Frank Dalby Davison states in his
foreword “is the sort of thing that stirs
my heart with honest envy,” belongs to
the same division of Marjorie Robert-
son’s work. As do several other stories.
They are not, properly speaking, stories
at all but analyses of an emotion, a
mood. f
“Little One,” the tale of a cold, “re-
fined” girl who rejects love and marries
a dry stick of a solicitor, is a story with
a beginning, a middle and a end. It
contains splendid pictures of the central
figures, the girl’s mother and her sister,
Elsa ; yet this story, too, as a whole is
depressing, and, when the fruitfulness
and vitality of the mother and Elsa are
put aside, not really worth telling.
The book shows fine qualities of style
and observation; but it does not make
the decisive escape of art from a depres-
sion whiffh (possibly assumed as a literary
device) seems personal to the author, so
that the characters —with exceptions—
are embodiments of a mood: abstrac-
tions.
Tigers .
Anyone troubled now and Jhen by the
company of a man-eating tiger will per-
haps be even more troubled to learn from
Man-eaters of Kumaon (Qxford Univer-
sity Press; Dymocks) that Jim Corbett
has reluctantly given up tiger-hunting. He
has had a lifetime of it, and has called
it a day.
Major Corbett’s name, says former
Viceroy of India Lord Linlithgow in a
foreword, “is familiar to the village folk
as that of the man who has brought them
relief from the great fear inspired by a
cruel and malignant presence in their
midst. Many a district officer, faced with
the utter disorganisation of rural life
that attends the presence of a man-eating
tiger or panther, has turned to Jim Cor-
bett for help.”
Major Corbett is that sort of hunter
—not the kind whose books read like
superfluous bragging about unnecessary
killing. Actually, he likes tigers. Even
for the man-eaters he is an apologist
and a champion. He has seen sights,
he says, which “would have caused a
stone to weep’—there are sights in his
book of the killings of native girls and
women by tigers that all the stones must
have wept at, and all been moved too, by
the heroism in them —but Major Corbett
advances for the defence that tigers only
become man-eaters when old age or a
bullet or (oddly) porcupine wounds have
incapacitated them from going after their
natural, more active and wily prey. “I
have not,” protests Major Corbett, “seen
a case where a tiger has been deliberately
cruel or where it has been bloodthirsty
to the extent that it has killed, without
provocation, more than it has needed to
satisfy its hunger or the hunger of its
cubs.”
A tiger’s function in the scheme of things
is to help maintain the balance of nature
and if, on rare occasions, when driven
by dire necessity, he kills a human being
or when his natural food has been ruth-
lessly exterminated by man he kills two
per cent, of the cattle he is alleged to
have killed, it is not fair that for these acts
a whole species should be branded as being
cruel and bloodthirsty.
A tiger, in Major Corbett’s friendly—
not to say fraternal —view, is, in fact, “a
large-hearted gentleman with boundless
courage.” The next tiger to write a book
will have no hesitation about returning
that compliment. Major Corbett makes
nothing of it—indeed puts the emphasis
on his fears —but the rows of ribbons on
his chest in the frontispiece photograph
could have well been won for gallantry
in the face of the four-footed enemy.
Simply written, without pretensions to
literary style, his book is a lesson to all
those writers, broadcasters and the like
who force their dramatic effects. He
calmly relates moments of the highest
possible excitement —balanced on the
knife-edge between life and death ; facing
alone on foot from a few feet distance
a tiger tensed to hurtle and kill him, as
it has already killed not one dr two, but
one or two hundred native men and
women, with a special regard for the
women —and the drama is there all right.
Here he is within 20yds. or so of a
tigress that has killed hundreds; he
knows she is watching him warily, having
been disturbed while drinking at a pool
near a jungle rock;
Having seen me, she had also seen that
I was alone, and, watching me from cover,
as she undoubtedly was, she would assume
I was going to the pool to drink as she
had done. My movements up to this had
been quite natural, and if I could continue
to make her think I was unaware of her
presence, she would possibly give me a
second chance. Stooping down and keep-
ing a very sharp lookout from under my
hat, I coughed several times, splashed the
water about, and then, moving very slowly
and gathering dry sticks on the way, I went
to the foot of the steep rock. Here I lit
a small fire, and putting my back to the
rock lit a cigarette. By the time the
cigarette had been smoked the fire had burnt
out. I then lay down, and, pillowing my
head op my left arm, placed the rifle on
the ground with my finger on the trigger.
On the same hunt:
For a month I had lived in an open
tent, a hundred yards from the nearest
human being, and from dawn to dusk had
wandered through the jungles, and on
several occasions had disguised myself as
a woman and cut grass in places where no
local inhabitant dared to go. During this
period the man-eater had, quite possibly,
missed many opportunities of adding me
to her bag....
Or the drama of courage in the natives;
women very often the victims because
they have to do the grass-cutting, water-
dr ay/ing and such jobs which make them
easy prey:
These two sisters were out cutting grass
one* day on the hill above the hut when
the tigress suddenly appeared and carried
off the elder sister. For a hundred yards
the younger woman ran after the tigress
brandishing her sickle and screaming at
the tigress to let her sister go, and take
her instead.
Before Major Corbett added that tigress
to his bag the animal had killed 200
human beings in Nepal, and, shifting to
Kumaon, had added, 234 more to the
number! Nature note, characteristic
enough of the hunter:
I can, and do, assert that a diet of
human flesh, so far from having an injuri-
ous effect on the coat of man-eaters, has
quite the opposite effect, for all the man-
eaters I have seen have had remarkably
fine coats.
There is another side to Major Corbett
that must be mentioned —the Sherlockian.
Typical of it, his questioning of the
villagers before getting down to the
serious business of one of his many suc-
cessful hunts. They happen to mention
that when going through the village the
tiger makes a low moaning sound;
On questioning them closely I learnt
that at times the sound was continuous as
the tiger passed between the houses, while
at other times the sound stopped for some-
times short, and Other times long, periods.
From this information I concluded (a) that
the tiger was suffering from a wound, (b)
that the wound was of such a nature that
the tiger only felt it while in motion, and
that therefore (c) the wound was in one
of its legs.
The villagers listened to these deduc-
tions with complete scepticism ; when the
tiger was eventually bagged and found
to have a front leg stuck through with
porcupine quills, they put it down to
second-sight. As he goes along, alone,
Major Corbett listens to all the jungle
sounds: “a sambhar a mile away down
the hillside in the direction of Mohan
was warning the jungle folk of pre-
sence of a tiger, and a karker and a
langur (Entellus monkey) on the road to
Chaknakl were warning other jungle folk
of the presence of a leopard.... ” The
hunter notices scratch marks beside the
track, and they give him this sort of
“very useful information”:
(1) whether the animal that has made
the mark is a male or a female, (2) the
direction in which it was travelling, (3) the
length of time that has elapsed since it
passed, (4) the direction and approximate
distance of its headquarters, (5) the nature
of its kills, and finally (6) whether the
animal has recently' had a feed of human
flesh.
Anyone thinking of taking over from
Major Corbett will also find it useful to
be able to make a tiger call good enough
to deceive a tiger, and be able to stay
on the branch of a tree for 11 or more
hours —a leopard, of course, might climb
up in the night—and “enjoy a good night’s
sleep” on that perch.
It adds up to an exceptionally good
book of its kind ; unintentional —which
is often the best —autobiography, carried
along on the suspense of danger in a
setting wildly dramatic.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
e
i
Anthony Horderns’ have an unsur-
passed selection of all kinds of Millinery
Trimmings. All you need for that new
Season’s creation you have in mind, or
retrimming that, old
V"
a
w
i
&. A
-fig'll : : i I
J | ,A <
• JS-A :
A'- O Ij' .
,f - 4; I'
4 s I
I > - 5?
§• f
m
Wm&
11
■I
iMilP
-A"
T 4l
ss • I
model, is obtainable in
our special Millinery Section
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
FLOWERS
Best selection of Millinery Flowers you
have ever seen, including exquisite
imported Flowers, made in England
and as good in quality as ever came
from Paris before the War.
VEILINGS
See the huge variety of fancy meshes
in almost every wanted colour. Price,
yard, 3/11. Also in Black, Navy and
White at 2/11 yd. Embroidered Border
Veiling, 3/11 yd. Chenille Spot Veil-
ing, 6/11 yd. Circular Veils, em-
broidered border, 6/11, 7/11 each
SWISS BRAIDS
Fresh, crisp Straw Braid is priced at
3/11 and 4/11 yd. Crinolines are
priced at 4/6 and 6/6 yd.
n the £
m
k:
is
V
o f i
r*.
i
mi.
'M's
9
RIBBONS GALORE!
Millinery Petersham Ribbons. Prices,
iin., 9,|d.; lin., 1/1*, 1/3; l-jins.,
1/9; 2ins. ; 2/6 yard.
Pur© Silk Taffeta, Ifins., 4/1 yard.
2iins., 4/11 yard.
FEATHERS
All kinds of feather mounts, wings,
quills, etc., from 1/11 upwards.
Fluffy Marabout Mounts, from 1/11
Hackle Pads, from 2/11
PLASTIC TRIMMINGS
The latest from London! Brightly
coloured plastic tubing and banding
. . . there are endless possibilities in
what you can do with this. It is
available in all popular shades and
provides just that added touch so neces-
sary to your latest creation. Prices, per
yard 7£d. and lOJd.
MILLINERY FELTS
We have a very wide variety of
assorted felts in many popular colours,
60 inches wide. Priced at 12/6 yard
COUMTHY MIIXUVERS are especially invited to see the
stock of flowers when in Sydney. If unable to call, we suggest
that you write and state your exact requirements. All
Milliners Accessories to materials supplied.
★ MILLINERY ACCESSORIES AND MATERIALS—
GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. 'PHONE: M 2401, EXT. 152 ,
72
4'6.
A
I
%
\i
Um
m
0
X
n
%
Postal Address: Box 2712C, G.P.O., Sydney


& r| Icndy
SdMmmM
*
mm
Fort Denison (Pinchgut) in Sydney Harbour con-
tributes to the safety of shipping as a lighthouse
station. Its light and power
are supplied by Clyde Batteries
GLYDEbatteries
SAFETY FIRST!
The BEST car
safety-device is
CAREFUL
DRIVER'
Wherever the need for stored electrical energy, Clyde
Batteries for cars, trucks, buses, radio and home lighting
have proved their efficiency and long life.
An advt. of The Clyde Engineering Co. Ltd..- Granville. N.S.W
Merchandise Sales Division:
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE,
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23L) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel—-And You’ll Jump out
, of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ‘‘up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
i? D
Q
V.
A
m
the
g h
Still
Same
Qualify
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS’WEAR
#&BREKS TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Uncle Tom’s Cabin, by Harriet
Beecher Stowe, and French Revolution, by
Thomas Carlyle.—3923.
Words of following verses by E. J. Brady;
“A Grave in France,” “Songs My Mother
Sang,” “Tommy Townshend,” “Sea Echoes,”
“Sea Story” and “Nimmitybelle.” —3921.
Copy of Gavin Casey’s It’s Harder for Girls.
—3922.
How to make mats from rope?—392o.
Information Sought.
Is there any difference between “one square
mile” and “one mile square"?
Both have the same area, the equivalent of a
square with sides one mile in length, but “one
mil 6 square” indicates that the shape of the
area is square, while a “square mile” may refer
to a similar area of any shape.
* * * *
Methods Of growing daphne from slips in
flower? Should I wait until the flowers drop?
After the daphne flowers have fallen set the
slips in boxes containing light soil of which at
least 25 p.c. is coarse sand. A layer of char-
coal in the bottom of the boxes will assist
drainage and keep the soil sweet, thus reducing
the risk of collar rot. Firm the soil about the
cuttings, and finally cover the boxes with glass
and place them in a warm situation. The cut-
tings will become thoroughly rooted in about
three months, but the plants should not be
shifted to the open garden for at least a year.
* # * *
What act of bravery was performed by a
■man named Curnow in connection with the
Kelly gang of bushmngers?
The Kellys, after forcing some line-repairers
to pull up the rails at a dangerous curve on
the line near Glenrowan, with the intention of
wrecking the special train carrying a number
of police from Melbourne, made prisoners of
the local inhabitants in the Glenrowan Hotel.
Thomas Curnow, a schoolmaster, managed to
make his escape and, running along the line in
the darkness before the dawn, contrived by
means of a danger signal improvised from
matches and a red pocket-handkerchief to warn
the train crew. The incident took place on the
morning of June 29, 1880.
Particulars regarding the loss of the Quetta,
including the number of lives lost and saved.
The ship left Brisbane, February 18, 1890,
under the care of Captain A. Sanders and a
pilot, and on the night of Friday, February 26,
entered Torres Strait, where she struck an un-
charted rock near Mount Adolphus Island.
There was barely time to launch the boats,
not more than three minutes elapsing between
the time the vessel struck until she foundered,
and of the total of 282 persons, 123 were
drowned. Among the passengers lost were
members of a number of well-known Queens-
land families.
# * * *
Brief particulars regarding Judge Jeffreys?
Of what illness did he die?
' George Jeffreys was born at Acton in Den-
bighshire, 1648. He became a favorite of
James 11, who raised him to the peerage soon
after his accession. Shortly after that Jeffreys
behavior at the “Bloody Assize of 1685, fol-
lowing the Monmouth rising, made his name a
byword. On James’s downfall he attempted to
escape overseas, but was intercepted at wap-
ping, disguised as a sailor, and sent to tne
Tower in order to prevent his being torn to
pieces by the crowd. There he died four
months later, April 18, 1689, of gallstones,
complicated by alcoholism.
How to eradicate dog ticks from the ground
around kennels?
Clean up all litter and surface dust, and burn.
Burn or thoroughly boil all bedding. Scrub
the kennels thoroughly from top to bottom and
apply a boiling 5 per cent, disinfectant solution
liberally to all parts, thoroughly soaking the
kennels and adjacent ground. Soak 2oz. ot
derris powder in one gallon water overnight,
and next morning add sufficient soap to pro-
duce a good lather. Wash the dogs in this.
Brief Answers.
A.W.0.: Write Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney....J.S.; Australian
casualties during the 1939-45 war were : Army,
78,239; Air Force, 14,658; Navy, 2849 ; Mer-
chant Navy, 593....H.X.H.: (1) It is inadvis-
able for a novice to attempt polishing, as
much experience is necessary before the job
can be done without spoiling the wood. (2)
It is an illegal act to produce alcphohc bever-
ages in the home... .T.R.S.: During the 1934
Australian tour Don Bradman was operated on
for appendicitis... .D.G.C.: An ordinary red
roof paint of a reliable manufacture would do
the job, while the cheapest way to finish the
outside walls is to use a water-paint sealer and
a water-paint with an addition of raw linseed
oil to render it weatherproof... .E.M.: By
virtue of the Nat. Sec. (Landlord and Tenant)
Regulations, it would appear that you have
no redress....K.S.H.L.: (1) The National Gal-
lery does pot know of his work. (?) the
painting may be sent to Mr. S. Holden, 107
Bayswater-road, Darlinghurst, Sydney, tor
valuation.. ;.M.5.,: It is a copper com ot
King George lof Greece. The value, 10 lepta,
is equal to about a halfpenny... Charles
Kingsford Smith’s estate was sworn for pro-
bate at £12,875. His widow was sole bene-
ficiary. ...A.H.: Galvin Coolidge died sud-
denly of coronary thrombosis on January 5,
1933, at his home, Northampton, Mass.....
H.R.H.: Drawings With Pen and Ink, by
Arthur L. Guptill, from Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney J. 5.8.:
S. W. Keough has written two books, Around
the Army (3s. 6d.) and Hints for Husbands
(2s. 6d.), both published by Dymock’s Book
Arcade, Sydney G.W.X.: In order that con-
sideration may be given to the acceptance of
your lung condition as due to war service.
Form Z. p. 15 and questionnaire posted should
be completed by you and returned to the Re-
patriation Commission, 77 York-street, Sydney,
as soon as possible J.M.: Henry Braddon
played fullback for Maoriland in three Rugby
Union matches v. N.S.W. at Sydney in 1884;
later he played for N.S.W. v. Great Britain
L (1888), v. Queensland (1890 and 1892), and v.
Victoria (1889) S.D.; The 1928-29 English
team under A. P. F. Chapman, which played 24
matches, won 10, lost 1 and drew 13 H.V.N-:
If not already claimed you may, on discovery,
register*a claim to the find. Apply to the
nearest Department of Mines warden to ascer-
tain .if already subject of claim S.R.M.:
Worth trying. Apply District Accounts Office,
Victoria Barracks, Paddington, Sydney....
D.G.C.: (1) Substitution of a Hin. pipe for a
Hin. on the delivery side will certainly not
overload the pump. (2) There are a number
of unknown factors which make it impossible
to give a definite statement regarding the pump
rods. (3) Installation of an air vessel should
reduce shock, and if this is insufficient the
change to Hin. piping should result in a further
improvement. (4) If a small air vessel is already
installed and the pump has been in operation
for a lengthy period it is possible that the air
vessel has lost its efficiency due to dissolving of
the air in the water. In these circumstances it
would probably be desirable to fit a larger air
vessel L.M.S.: (1) , Burgundy pitch can be
obtained from Elliotts and Australian Drug
Pty., Ltd., Sydney. (2) Burgundy pitch is pre-
pared from the spruce fir-tree of the Scandi-
navian countries, but the term Venetian tar is
not known, nor can any reference to it be found
in literature D.P., D.S. and L.D.W.: Write
Patents Dept., Sydney J.P.M.; See Inside
Parliament, by Warren Denning, and the Com-
. monwealth Year Book W.M.: Write
Mitchell Library, Sydney... .M.A.K.; The
American Pioneer Line, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney,
will supply information about passages....
H.J.; See Official History of Australia in the
War of 1914-18 at the Brisbane Public Library.
G.H.O’D.; Any of the American periodi-
cals would be useful Stafi; The quotation is
from Rob Roy’s Gra\>e, by William Words-
worth G.E.8.: (1) Canoona Goldfield was
discovered in July, 1857, and was the first pay-
able gold discovered in Queensland. (2) The
Crocodile Diggings near Rockhampton were
discovered in 1866. (3) The first bank estab-
lished was the Joint Stock Bank, which was
opened in 1858... .A.A.; Frederick R. Fitz-
gerald’s name appears in the Year’s Art for
1940 as an exhibitor of various important
societies in the U.K H.P.McI.; (f) Ron
Richards never fought Tiger Payne. (2) The
Johnson-Burns heavyweight title fight took place
at the Sydney Stadium. (3) H. B. S. Gullett
won the Henty (Vic.) seat in the by-election
made necessary when A. W. Coles resigned from
the House of Reps. He retained the seat in
the last Federal elections T.D.S.: The
National Safety Council of Australia has issued
a brochure called “Safe Handling of Row-
boats” ; this would clear.up the matter for you.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to Thb
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are;
12 months £l4 0
6 12 a
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:—
12 months .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
„«» 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces ip the
Islands—3 months .. ..£1 0 0
• Missing Friend.
HANCOCK, Frederick.—Mr. Frederick Hancock,
husband of Margaret Ethel Hancock, who died in
Perth in 1905, or any person having knowledge of
Frederick Hancock’s present address, is requested to
communicate without delay with THE TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
401 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
HUES IHE SECHTJ
ALL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
rnymmc
insulation with
siAcmu
Write tor full facts and
particulars to-day. They
will be freely given.
EG® #
Insuuuwft
HEAD OFFICE; 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES; 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; Shell House,
Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives; P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM; y Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St., Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
1
I
m
PtY.
LTD.
f /
A
for drinks in
G Serve <■ 2i
ILBEYS
W
€d
'S.
and
WATER
SQUASH
GINGER BEER
PEPPERMINT
LEMONADE
BITTERS
LIME
ORANGE
GINGER ALE
FRUIT JUICES
VERMOUTH
TONIC
as-
SODA
START your parties off in the right spirit with
U +V. n n „c£.cf nf oil ifi'nc Spruprl with
Gilbey’s the purest of all gins. Served with
water or your favourite cordials or fruit juices
Gilbey’s provides a drink to delight every palate.
sdrc//r
GL.J3O
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
to the Editor.
T.K.L.: Made to a familiar pattern
H.H.: Humor would help it S.F.: Come
again... .J.G.T.-: That type of cynical, sophisti-
cated story is symptomatic of restricted reading
and adolescence.... C.C.: Concern yourself less
with the hero’s soul and more with his actions,
and the shape of his nose P.A.: Covering
letter showed clear aptitude for salesmanship.
V.A.B.; Genuine humor, but too many
clichds P.McK.: Cliches again: Pam, on
page 1, unburdens the latest idiocy, ‘ laughing
madly,” “talking madly” and “madly peeling
the potatoes”... .G.F.Q.; May Tom the
Swaggie ever live in Hay, “where the sun it
shines all day” E.R.: There is a severe glut
of Mad Professors D.A.J.: Dull.—U.T.:
Slight 0.F.: Write about things you know.
.. ..J.StJ.S.: Formless P.G.O’C.: No ne-
cessity to deal with Cromwell’s invasion,
absentee landlords, the Corn Laws, and other
Wrongs of Ireland in a love story of an Irish
servant-girl and a Queensland butcher....
M.H.: “Little White Frock” is thin, sentimental
stuff E.A.N.: Sugary L.S.: Catch!....
Yass Junction: The rhyme doesn’t function.
E.I.: Cut, and try a woman’s paper
P.R.T.: Too many characters 1.K.K.: There
is space here for “Night-Thoughts”:
The sharp, healing intake, the succoring breath
Of cool nicotine —but, ah, bitter as death.
My fags have been stolen, so I lie and stare
At my dark mirror, and pleasantly there
Are visions of famine, of plague and of war.
... ,D.H.F.: “Wanderlust” is an elderly theme,
but if you’d worked in more direct reminiscences
of distant scenes you’d have come close
W.R.L.: “Drought” more heartrending than
usual; “Fragment” lightly attractive
L.M.M.: Not a yarn but a yawn... .A. 8.:
Hard work rhyming “while” and “immobile”;
the whole thing wants tightening and trimming.
D.S.R.: “Nature’s Wonders” is one of
them Firefly: Extinguish yourself.... K.L.:
If all the parodies of Kipling’s “If” were piled
one on top of the other we would invite you to
sit on them D.K.R.: “Bombers” flat, “Beer”
frothy K.J.: “The Raven” won’t croak here.
H.J.F.: “.Far be it from me to praise my
own work.” And far be it from us T.G.:
Sneezing with horrible sibilants U.M.N.:
“I got up. I went over. I bashed his mug.”
Well, you’re not going to bash our ears....
B. : Ever read Walter de la Mare? P.F.:
Promising Wanterbadgery: Why do you
want to badger us? G.A.S.: “Impeccable”
impossible V.E.: Language .archaic. Tell
him to read some recent Australian poetry....
A.Z.: “What is it that howls so lugubriously
round my shack in the dead of night?” ( a )
Dingoes. ( b ) The ghosts of people who have
read that short story Uncle Flal: Oh, hell,
Hal, this isn’t the Tiny Tots’ Budget
C. “Tell me the worst.” You’d better
send a medical certificate before we risk it
H.Q.: Wordy F.V.D.; “A Babe in the
Woods” is now in the wastepaper basket
J.O.McG.: Turgid P.L.: The friend who
advised you to take up writing seriously should
be forced to read “Peg’s Progress” seriously.
. ...T.W.W.: Ladies who heave sighs twice in
one page are heaved into the w.p.b
R.D.McC.: “Some funny things happen in the
bush.” They certainly do G.A.: “What
will we do with Dora?” Bum her... .L.J.D.:
On a story average, 12 prospectors a week
murder their mates Tooma: The best method
of seeing the “bright city lights” would be to
give up short-story writing Leo M.: Double
negatives tend to clog the free flow of narra-
tive... .H. 0.: Solid, but du11.!.. D.V.C.:
Borrow a typewriter Z. 8.: Moral indigna-
tion clouds the story.,. .J.K.: Too many inci-
dental characters S.C.M.: Visualise
G.G.C.: Might make an interesting article, suit-
ably pruned and polished... .8.K.: There is a
point somewhere between experimental writing
and verbal trickery which should be recognised.
Wilga: Good patches, but aimless
J.M.C.: We could almost hear the villain hiss.
.... A.V.W.: Stick to it if you must, but there’s
a long, long road ahead of y0u.,..P.J.: Don’t
want any more perfect murders like that one.
:• • .A.R.D.: Our interest in American gangsters
is practically non-existent P.H.S.: Dying
swagmen are ten a penny on the short-story
market E. 5.8.: Orthodox magazine yarn—
murder threat, intended victim committing sui-
cide out of sheer' fright F.L.: It’s not too
obvious, merely too unimpressive N.O’C.:
A slab of textbook philosophy doesn’t'make
a short story.... R.W.: We found your
smugglers an unconvincing crowd.... K.L.:
Given time you will learn not to let the cat out
of the bag on the first page... .W.H.McD.:
Same old card-sharpers, same old simple bush-
w*° k^ a ts them at their own game....
R.F.: A.W.A.S. who got to the frontline dis-
guised as a Digger and captured a Japanese
strongpost alone is this week’s most incredible
heroine. ...K.A.: A feeble attempt to put a
slice of Dennis’s The Sentimental Bloke into
story form... .H.D.: Nudist-colony yarn is not
funny... .W.R.8.: Chinatown story follows the
pattern of the general run of Chinatown stories.
.. ..L.R.S.: The New Year always brings us a
crop of tales about reformed drunkards.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B B : From what children’s comic did that
gag stray 7....T.F.F.; Even the abo. rock-
carvers could show you points... : it
it was meant as a Christmas card, thank you.
If" it was meant as a humorous drawing, no
thanks....L.M.: The lad needs lessons....
F G • You draw as if you were encased in a
straitjacket... .N.R.: Watch your shadows;
yours fall in the wrong places E.D. : Same
old clergyman’s parrot; same old now ot
swear words... .S.F.T.: The intention was
fine, but the execution was dreadful J.L.K.:
You might have told us why a skeleton wearing
a tophat is riding a zebra with six legs... .P.T.:
The basket claimed all seven.. .-.M.S.W.:
You’re not the first bright spark to send in a
blank sheet of paper labelled “Portrait of an
Invisible Man”... .C.R.: If that was drawn
on New Year’s Eve it must have been a heavy
night out your way H.R.P.: Sorry, but it
had a 900-mile trip for nothing G.Y.: Lass
with legs like No. 11 on a jail door was hur-
ried out of the office H.L.: Thanks, but
we’ve seen all the pink rats and purple snakes
we want to for a while.... M.B.: Don’t pinch
another artist’s stock characters H.W.G.:
You wield a pen as if it were a crowbar
S.P.: “If I miss this time, I will give the game
away.” You missed F.M.: You managed
the chessboard, hut made a hash of the players.
E.J.W.: Artistically, you started the New
Year on the wrong foot A.B.: “The Ship
of State” foundered with all hands
W.B.H.: Father Time sketch turned up days
too late for use L.S.E.: Among the also-
rans... .R.R.: All three are homeward bound.
Oft in the stilly night
Weary I grow.
Pondering the parlous plight
Of all here below.
Men fragile - 'as bubbles.
Besotted and blind,
Beset by all troubles
Of divers sad kind.
The shadows rise starkly
Of famine and war.
As in a glass darkly
These darkly I saw.
Like a drowning man grasping
At a solitary straw
I reach, spent and gasping,
For one final draw.


Dance with a Dolly
By Gloria Rawlinson
LUTI opened his wardrobe door and
counted his two good suits, his
leather jacket, his blue raincoat,
his sixteen shirts and eight pairs
of shoes.
He decided to get ready for the dance
—far too early, he knew —but he felt
he must try to rid his mind of the
“blues.” He gazed at his reflection,
rubbed a little more oil into his hair,
turned his head this way and that, and
thought: “Why, I really am a very fine
chap indeed.” And he buttoned up his
bright blue wind-breaker, lifted his
leather motoring-gloves and flicked his
trousers and thought: “Not many men
have as many things belonging to them
as I certainly have.”
And then even these pleasant thoughts
went sour. He looked under the bed
and saw that his guitar and two ukuleles
(one a genuine Johnny Pineapple) were
quite safe. He opened a drawer and
looked down at his two leather pocket-
books. He stared at his radio and
fingered his gold ring and wristlet watch.
He thought of his motorbike and tried
to reckon up sundries (too numerous
to mention) that were his property.
Yet of all the girls he knew only Flora
Baker would go to the dance with him.
And he was foreman of Bidders Con-
crete Blocks, Ltd., with a better job
than any of the other Maori boys!
It was late afternoon and the sun,
seen through his window, bathed the
trees and hills in a rich marigold light.
Luti could see, away in the distance,
what looked like an undersized kitten
playing outside a dog kennel. But he
knew that the black Thing was really
Flora Baker gathering puha outside the
Bakers’ pig-sty, in which (he sniffed
when he thought of it) lay two pigs
blinking in the yellow light—horrible
creatures —like two old discarded brown
portmanteaux.
Luti ground his teeth. Taking Flora
Baker to the dance!
A double ticket that simply could not
be wasted nestled in his pocket-book.
She called him Ruti, and that annoyed
him. Worse, she was such a fright!
A little narrow-chested, giggling thing,
with straight hair, so home-made-looking
in her ill-cut faded blue dress and sand-
shoes.
“I just can’t stand her,” he thought,
and gulped painfully. “I should never
have asked her. I don’t know what
made me. She was so pleased when I
did. Her eyes, they are too big. She
clasped her hands and said ‘Oh, Ruti!
Oh, Ruti! y I was just wonderful! Her
aunt is sick. Poor kid, poor kid! Her
father and mother are dead. Poor little
kid!”
He turned to the mirror and snarled
“I am now getting myself into a mess
by Feelings! ”
Here was cause for panic. Feelings
might cost money! For Luti worked
hard and long and never spent a penny
unless he had the satisfaction of know-
ing that he had bought something worthy
of himself. He had hated parting with
a roll of notes for his motorcycle. Be-
fore he had owned it he had given it
an annoyed kick or two. But when it
became his he cherished it and grudged
neither time nor money to make it
worthy of him.
His trouble now seemed to be that
he could not manage his feelings. His
heart. “That girl,” he thought, “that
Thing, she’ll ruin me! I’ll show her,
but! I’ll teach her, but! She can’t
just think Fm any chap just happening
along. Oh, no!”
WHEN Luti arrived at the Bakers’
he had his feelings well corked-up,
his-heart well under control. Flora ran
giggling down the steps to meet him.
She wore the faded blue cotton frock
and sandshoes,
“Oh, Ruti! You are late but lam
early, although you are early and I am
late, I am ready.”
“Ready!” he shouted angrily. “Ready!
You can’t come with me to a dance in
sandshoes! Not with me you can’t!”
“No, of course not,” she giggled. “See,
I have my shoes here. My uncle’s
nephew brought them from Egypt.”
She unwrapped a little parcel and dis-
played a pair of spiall flat embroidered
slippers. He was slightly mollified but
looked her over haughtily,
“Haven’t you a dancing frock?”
“Me? A dancing frock! You are
silly; no, of course not. But I have a
pink rag rose to put in my hair. See!
Aunt Baker gave it to me. It will make
me look bright, eh, Ruti?”
“Aw, come on! We’ve got an hour’s
ride. I suppose you can ride behind me?
You won’t go falling off, will you?”
She giggled helplessly, “No, ’of course
not. But, Ruti, Aunt Baker wants to
see you. Please, won’t you come.in?”
He groaned and scowled but followed
her into the house.
Placid Aunt Baker sat in an old easy-
chair. “You will take care of the child,
won’t you, Luti? Flora is so small, but
so good, so really good. But there, a
nice hard-working boy like you I know
I can trust. Bring her home early, Luti,
dear boy, won’t you?”
“Yes,” he mumbled, “I’ll look after
her.”
He took Flora’s thin arm and de-
liberately pinched it as he half-guided,
half-pushed her down the steps. She
giggled and looked at him with such
happy eyes that he impulsively begged
her pardon for his roughness. She
dropped her shoes, they bent together
to pick them up and painfully bumped
their foreheads.
“You little flatfish!” he snapped. “You
silly little turnip!”
Flora shook with mirth.
He trod on her toes. “There, now
I’ve hurt you!”
“No, really, no, Ruti.”
“I say I have. I ought to know. There,
I’ve done it again. Now cry, go on!”
But Flora, still laughing, got on the
motorbike and put her arms about his
waist. Her brown elf-like face, shaped
like a wishbone, was puckered up with
mirth. “If I could only get rid of her
somehow,” thought Luti, hating himself
and hating the skinny little hands that
clung to him. Once he thought the hands
were trembling and slowed down. “Are
you frightened?” But no, she was
giggling away to herself.
“What’s funny?” he screamed.
“It’s like riding a racehorse that has
no legs,” she spluttered.
As they neared the dance-hall he
stopped, “I’m going to get a bottle of
wine.” i
Flora gave him a big smile. “For
Aunt Baker? She’ll like that.”
“No!” he shouted. “For us. I sup-
pose you do drink wine, or don’t you?”
“Never,” laughed Flora, “It makes
me silly.”
“You couldn’t be sillier than you are.
I suppose you drink beer.”
“No.” <She cupped her mouth in her
hands. “I hate beer. It gives you a bad
complexion and a red nose and makes
you fat,”
“You are too skinny. I don’t like
skinny girls.”
When he came back she was still titter-
ing helplessly.
“What’s funny now?”
“I don’t know. I can’t help it. Every-
thing is funny.”
“I suppose I am, too.”
“Oh, please, yes, Ruti. So funny!”
“Don’t call me Ruti!” he screamed at
her. “My name is Luti. You can say it
if you try.”
“ ‘Ruti,’ of course I can. Oh, Ruti! ”
Her shoulders were shaking.
“You poor little kid,” he found him-
self saying, his heart playing traitor.
“You poor little kid! You don’t get
many good times, do you? You know
what I’m going to do? Fm going to
buy you a dancing dress and proper shoes
and then we can go to lots of dances,
eh?”
This was too much for Flora. Peal
after peal of laughter broke from her
lips. She bent her little body double and
held her sides. Tears streamed from her
eyes as she boiled and snorted with mirth.
It seemed to be the funniest thing she
had ever- heard,
Luti, nonplussed, wheeled his machine
into a shed.
Other couples were arriving and greet-
ing each other. He heard them saying,
“Ah! Oh! Ah! Hey, look! So Luti
did have a girl! And look! Ah, you,
Flora! You are a deep little one, eh?”
Panic seized him. They all thought that
this Thing was his girl! He screwed
angrily at her arm but still Flora laughed.
I NSIDE the hall he deserted her. “Fm
1 walking among eggs,” he groaned in-
wardly.
He tried to get a group about him but
not one person seemed at all interested
in him. He mingled with the orchestra
but they were busy. He managed to get
in the way of many people. But go
back to that giggling girl in the corner
he would not. When the dancing started
he hid behind a palm.
He had relapsed into sullenness, but
after a while his curiosity got the better
of him and he peeped out. And then
his heart gave a lurch. There she was!
The centre of a Palais Glide, laughing
and singing and whistling, boys on each
side of her! Laughing, singing and
whistling. “Busy as a bee, tra! la! la!”
“Hey, break it up!” he said angrily,
reaching out for her, but another dancer
whisked her away from him.
“Oh, you, Luti! ” said a girl. “Look at
your Flora! My, can’t she dance! ”
At last he got her. She chortled at
him, “Oh, Ruti, I am having a good
time! This is a lovely dance!”
He kicked her ankle. “Now, I’ve hurt
you! ”
“Oh, no, Ruti, not a bit.”
She whistled as she danced; a thin,
lively little whistle,
“I suppose,” he began ominously, “I
suppose you know they all think you are
my girl?”
“Yes, Ruti, please.”
“Well, I meant it about the dancing-
dress.”
“Of course you did.”
“I suppose you think we could get
married.” Oh, what was he saying! He
had no control of his voice.
“Yes, Ruti, of course. And have a
little house, couldn’t we?”
He gave an impatient snort. “And
what else, Fd like to know?”
“Well,” she giggled, “lots of nice
things. A little electric stove,”
“Anything else? Such as a nice little
frigidaire?”
“And a little garden,. Ruti, with little
flowers in it.”
“And a little bath, eh? And little
carpets and little cups and saucers.
You’re a laugh, you are! Well, I never
asked you to marry me, did I?”
“No, of course not, Ruti.”
“But-you think I will?”
“Yes, please, but of course, Ruti.”
“Well,” he looked her over, “do you
know you are silly and ugly?”
“Yes, of course, Ruti. Aunt Baker
says I am silly sometimes but not really
ugly.”
“And you think I am big and hand-
some, eh? And got a lot of money and
a good job, and you can make a fool of
me, eh? And you think I will take care
of Aunt Baker and buy her wine, eh?”
“Yes, of course. Of course, yes,
Ruti!”
“Well,” he dug his fingers into her lean
little ribs, “well, you got another think
coming, that’s what! Now, I hurt you,
didn’t I?”
“But, no, of course not, Ruti.”
He guided her to a seat. “You sit
here, see? And don’t you move, see?
Don’t you dare get up and dance if other
fellows ask you! You just tell them
‘Luti won’t let me,’ see? I won’t have
anyone mauling and pinching and hurting
you. I am going to get us some ice-
cream.”
“Money,” he thought, and winced.
“She’ll be such an expense. She could do
nothing for her own living. She would
have to be clothed and fed.” He didn’t
want to marry her. He didn’t want to
marry -anyone. “Oh, what a mess I’m in!
What it amounts to is this, I’ll have to
give her half my kai to get the other half
cooked, that’s all, and no sense in it! ”
“They are big ones,” he said, handing
her a mammoth cone. “Ninepence each.
Fm not going to buy you an engagement-
riftg, you know.”
With mirth in her eyes Flora looked
at him over the cone she was licking with
gusto. “Of course not, Ruti!” v
“But then again, I might as well. • A
cheap little one. You’d like a ring, I
suppose?”
“Fd love a ring, Ruti!”
“Any chaps been annoying you?” He
thought suddenly that she seemed almost
(Continued at foot of next page.)
VARIOUS VERSE.
Week-end Miracle.
There was nothing of this on Friday:
here and there
a blossom perhaps; but air was only air,
not such immoderate honey as might
bring
disrepute even upon Spring
if there should stagger with arm linked
in his
a world which is not sick but fears it is.
Health is not healing, scars grown over,
crust
upon the festered surface; it is out-thrust
of renewal from within —process of
growth—
which aching and recovery both
are signs of, working through, like this
white patch
of week-end miracle on tea-tree thatch.
And scarcity’s not sickness: all between
the road and the ridge coarse country and
starved green
will not meet tax or interest, but defy
Monday’s intolerable sky,
that the old urge towards living may
prevail
as feathery globes that bleach the spurs
like hail.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
Camphor Laurel.
Here in the slack of night
the tree breathes honey and moonlight.
Here in the blackened yard
smoke and time and use have marred,
leaning from that fantan gloom
the bent tree is heavy in bloom.
The dark house creaks and sways;
“Not like the old days.”
Tim and Sam andVragbag Nell,
Wong who keeps his Chinese hell,
the half-caste lovers, the hump-backed
boy,
sleep for sorrow, or wake for joy.
Under the house the roots go deep;
down, down, while the sleepers sleep,
splitting the rock where the house is set,
cracking the paved and broken street.
Old Tim turns and old Sam groans,
“God be good to my breaking bones /”
and in the slack of tideless night
the tree breathes honey and moonlight.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
“Race Book, Race. Book, Race
Book for Ran'wick!”
Place your bet in the paddock with the
flushed bookmaker.
That marsupial man who cups fat fists to
call
The odds and lays the field for any taker;
Come, down your beer; come to the
favorite’s stall.
The chestnut stallion stands there like a
king.
Pride in his carriage, eagles in his eye,
His mane the wind. Sun smoothes his
coloring
With gentle hand, falls flat on passers-by.
The groom stands in the shade. Twin
horses ride
The pupils of his eyes. This stable boy
Scorns the lean tipster with a borrowed
pride
Who whispers “Is the red the real
McCoy ?”
He is holding his joy in hand with a tight
rein
Until the field turns into the straight for
home
And the crowd stands up. He fondles his
horse in pain
As once he fondled him in ancient Rome.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


pretty. He was tempted to-tell her this
but he thought she might get vain and
that would be intolerable.
“They all want me to dance with them.
It’s because I am light and whistle the
time.”
“Well, it’s late. We’d better go, I
promised your Aunt Baker.”
“Of course, Ruti. But just one more
dance, please! ” For a second she looked
at him with mock solemnity before her
laughter broke. He became more con-
descending. Such an affectionate yield-
ing little creature. She would never
assert herself even if he got bored with
having his own way and wanted some-
one to quarrel with.
OUTSIDE he said to her, “You see
this bike!”
“The racehorse with no legs,” she
chortled.
“There is no monkey on it.”'
Flora howled with laughter.
“And what’s more,” he said sternly,
“I have a guitar, two ukes, and one is a
genuine Johnny Pineapple, a radio and
many other things—and not a monkey
on the lot!”
“Oh, Ruti, oh, Ruti!”
“And listen, if I ever buy a house —I
won’t, but I might—it will have to be all
clean. I won’t have a monkey.”
“Oh, ah! Oh, ah! Ruti, of course not!
No, what would we do with it, you and
I, with a monkey? We would be a zoo.”
“You good little thing,” he said. “And
now what are you laughing at?”
“The moon. Ruti, look, the moon!
It’s a Bill Massey moon, look! ” A great
white genial face beamed down at them.
The full moon turned the trees to silver.
“Oh, you big Bill Massey moon!”
laughed Flora.
Humor, like a small scared rabbit,
peaked out of Luti. He even condescerided
to smile. He kissed her.
He drove so madly home that he nearly
jerked her off at least twenty times ;
thinking, “Now what the dickens can I
do? I’ll have to get out of it, somehow.
Just a bit of a lark, that’s all. Everyone
has a bit of fun sometimes. Oh, Lord,
what a mess!”
“Here,” he said, “you just cut in to
Aunt Baker. I have to tinker with the
bike. I’ll be in in a minute. v
“Of course, Ruti!” and Flora ran,
laughing and whistling up the steps.
Lutifs brain had deserted him. He
lit a cigarette, but no rational thoughts
came. He took the bottle of wine out of
his pocket—and then he saw Light,
“I’ll give it to the aunt. Just a little
present, hoping she’ll be better soon, and
sometime, some evening when I get some
spare time, I’m a busy man, see. I’ll just
pop in to see how she is and maybe take
Flora to the pictures. That’s it! All in-
definite like. Then I’ll just turkey off and
they’ll see no more of me. That’s how to
do it, ha! You’re not caught yet, Luti,
my boy, not by a long chalk!”
But as he stood outside the door and
heard Flora’s laughing voice his chin
sagged, and the fight went out of him.
“And just think. Aunt Baker! When
we are married Ruti says he will buy an
f
electric stove and a frigidaire. And oh,
Aunt Baker! There was a lovely Bill
Massey moon, the biggest ever! And
oh, Aunt Baker, I forgot! Never, never,
says Ruti, never ever will we keep a
monkey! ”
“I should think not, indeed!” said
Aunt Baker. “I never did fancy monkeys
as pets. Ah, there you are, Luti, dear
boy. Flora has told me all the great news.
I am glad, very glad, dear boy!”
“Well,” groaned Luti, inwardly, “I’ve
got mine, this is it. I’ve had it coming
to me. I’m fairly caught.” He managed
a sickly smile for Aunt Baker, although
her complacence was maddening.
“When I say ‘monkey,’ I mean I pay
cash. I’ll look after Flora —and you, too.”
But here his generosity nearly choked
him.
“And so there was a Bill Massey
moon?” said Aunt Baker. “That is a
good omen. I always said he was a fine
man, a fine Prime Minister.”
“I don’t know much about politics,”
said Luti hastily.
Flora came and laid her cheek against
his. “Of course not, Ruti,” she giggled.
As he drove home he thought' furi-
ously! “My clothes are still mine, but
my radio, my bike, my guitar, my
genuine Johnny Pineapple, all these will
be half hers.” And suddenly he laughed
aloud, because he didn’t mind sharing
them with her. Her laugh was in his
ears. He would never get away from that
laughter. He knew that for the rest of
his life he wanted to dance with that
lanky, laughing little dolly.
THE Music LOVERS
By E.O.SCHLUNKE
ALEX DENHOLM was a pleasant
enough man and could have been
popular with his neighbors if it
had not been for his queer streak.
Alex had no sense. Until the neighbors
got to know him, they would hurry across
to his farm eager to help him fix his
tractor or combine, only to find that
there was nothing wrong with them.
Alex had stopped work in the middle
of the sowing season to go inside to listen
to the Music Lovers’ Hour on the radio.
He would co&e out with his red hair
standing up, from the way he rumpled
it in his excitement; his reddish-brown
eyes glowing like fire, and his face (which
was rugged and ruddy) shining in an
absurdly delighted and boyish manner,
to tell them he had just heard the Vienna
Philharmonic Orchestra playing Mozart’s
E Flat Symphony.
The neighbors were much amused when
they heard that Alex was getting an
Italian prisoner-of-war to work for him.
“That’ll be two of a kind,” was the
general comment.
"THE Control Centre men were a bit
I apologetic about the Italian they
brought to Denholm’s place. He was a
small, obsequious fellow, who looked ex-
actly like a waiter in a second-rate Italian
restaurant.
“I don’t think he knows anything
about farm work,” said the sergeant-
major, “but you’ll have no trouble keep-
ing him in order.”
All the C.C. staff chuckled at this and
Mario looked at them nervously, with
his big, soft, brown eyes sliding from
one to the other. Alex gave his prisoner
a cheerful smile, as if he was sure he
would discover some good in him.
It did not take him very long. The
very first night, when he took him in to
tea, and they were both feeling awkward
because they only had a few words in
common Alex switched on his fadio to
his usual programme of classical music.
An orchestra was playing selections from
Italian operas. Mario looked and listened
with intense interest.
“Rossini,” he said.
“Rossini good,” said Alex.
“Good! Good!” said Mario enthusi-
astically, and they smiled delightedly at
each other. The orchestra played the first
three notes of the next air and Alex
shouted, “Mascagni.”
Mario looked at him admiringly;
“Mascagni good!” he said.
They went on “Verdi good,” “Leon-
cavallo good,” “Bellini good.”
After that Mario could do no wrong.
Alex taught him to milk the cows and do
the odd jobs about the place. For a
prisoner-of-war Mario led a very happy
existence. He liked milking the cows, and
gave them new Italian names—the names
of girls he had loved in Bari. The beauti-
ful, friendly red one with fat round hips
he called after Domenica, his latest and
best love, even though she had not written
to him for three years. He always sang
while he milked, and while he milked
Domenica it was always “Che Gelida
Manina” from “Boheme.” He sang it
very feelingly and very sadly, just Like the
ill-fated lover in the opera.
Alex wasted a great deal of time listen-
ing outside the cowshed. Mario was
really good. Alex boasted about it to
everybody he met. He had a sister who
was a music-teacher in the near-by pro-
vincial city of Waghurst, He lost no
time in telling her about his sensational
discovery, and bringing her out to hear
him.
Theresa Denholm was a Dip. Mus.,
S.T.S. and A.T,M. She was also a Master
of the Art of/'attracting large numbers of
pupils and keeping them paying tuition
fees long after they should have realised
that they and music were inevitable
strangers,
A bright, attractive, lively young
woman, though not so young that she
wasn’t troubled by the problem of keep-
ing her hips and bust Within the limits
of elegance, she was impressed by Mario.
She thought him exotic, and rather
sensitive-looking, with his big eloquent
eyes and his thin face.
MARIO had been a
prisoner and had
lived a harshly mascu-
line life for .four years,
and here was a “bella
donna” with curves like
the most alluring Italian
girl; arid blonde hair.
Mario could not take his eyes
off her, and Theresa blossomed
under his admiration. She was gay and
bubbled with laughter; she joked with
Alex; she teased his wife; she caressed
and played with the children. Mario
couldn’t swallow a single mouthful.
Ina, the maid, was full of resentful
bewilderment because Mrs. Denholm had
impressed on her most emphatically not
to play up to the Italian: she pointed
meaningly at his plate each time she
passed, but Mario heeded her not at all,
although usually his glances followed her
hungrily enough.
When Mrs. Denholm rose from the
table it was the signal (among other
things) for the Italian to retire to his
hut.
But tonight Theresa stopped him with
an entreating cry. She wanted to have
Mario in the lounge-room so that she
could hear him sing at the piano. Mrs.
Denholm objected. The prisoners should
be kept in their places, she said, and she
told them the nasty things the neighbors
were saying about Alex for being too
friendly with an Italian. There were
some brisk exchanges between Mrs. Den-
holm and Theresa, Mario not under-
standing a word, but looking on with an
expression of acute self-pity. Theresa
finally won through sheer weight of ego.
But Mario was reluctant to go into the
lounge. He eyed the carpet as if he dared
not step on it; he would not take a chair
but remained standing, tense and nervous,
“No poseebile me siddown,” he said.
“Me prigionaire.”
Theresa gave him
a melting smile and
a roll of her pro-
minent, baby-blue
eyes which made him
sag at the knees.
She went to the
piano and played
“Boheme,” softly and
sentimentally.
She began to sing,
flashing glances at
Mario until she saw
that he was so full of
music that his throat muscles had re-
laxed. She invited him to sing, tactfully
helping him along when he had difficulty
in keeping in with the rather elaborate
accompaniment. She soon had him going
with great enthusiasm, leading him into
vocal expressions of passion and sorrow
until the tear? ran down his cheeks. She
stopped abruptly.
“Very good,” she said, giving him a
searching up-and-down look.
Mario shook his head with a sort pf
pessimistic modesty. “Me no gobd.
Plenti prigionaire sing similar me.” Then
he caught the look in Mrs, Denholm’s
eye, and hastily departed with many
“Scusami’s,” taking long steps to avoid
treading too much on the carpet. Alex
turned triumphantly to his sister.
“Isn’t he as good as I said? Did you
notice his marvellous forte?”
“It’s the best natural singing voice I’ve
ever heard,” said Theresa enthusiastically,
“do you know what I’ve been thinking?
I’ll have to have him in my pupils’ con-
cert.”
. Mrs. Denholm said with deceitful
sympathy: “It’s a pity you can’t, but he’s
under strict military discipline. Other-
wise it wouldn’t really matter that he isn’t
a pupil of yours, would it?”
Theresa gave her sister-in-law a blank
stare.
“I must have him. That man Foil has
a fine young tenor. His voice is so good
that even Foil’s ridiculous old machesi
methods can’t ruin it. His opera singing
is supposed to be particularly good, but
Mario would make him look silly:”
Alex’s eyes began to shine.
Mrs. Denholm turned on him. “For
goodness sake, Alex, don’t let Theresa
make a fool of you.”
Theresa turned her eyes up in her
thoughtful pose.
“Isn’t that Captain Adkins in charge
of the prisoners?”
She broke into a contented smile. “I
know him. He’s an awfully nice man.”
pAPTAIN . ADKINS, an amiable
V-* gentleman, ran the Waghurst P.W.
Control Centre as if it were a welfare
centre for Italian immigrants.
The large room where the staff worked
was always cluttered with prisoners
whose employers had brought them into
town for a haircut, to see the doctor or
just for an afternoon off. They always
made a great deal of noise, seizing each
other by the hands, exclaiming like long-
lost brothers and even embracing and
kissing each other.
Theresa soon became quite well known
at the centre. She cultivated Captain
Adkins, learned the names of all the ser-
geants, corporals and other ranks and
dropped buon giorno’s to the prisoners,
who came to believe she was the prima
donna at the local opera house. When
she felt that she had established so much
goodwill in Captain Adkins’s heart that
he could deny her nothing, she asked him
if Mario could sing at her pupils’ con-
cert. The captain looked somewhat taken
aback.
“Now,'” he said, looking at the ceiling,
“if it was just a private entertainment of
invited guests, held at your brother’s
place, at which the prisoner would make
a brief appearance dressed in his maroon
uniform and all the guests were informed
of his position and had no objection—
well, then it would be all right.”
Theresa was disappointed. Her pupils’
concerts were always held in one of the
biggest halls in the city, the public was
bidden to attend by cunningly and rather
deceitfully worded advertisements, and a
charge was made for admission. She
smiled very warmly on Captain Adkins
and put a hand on his sleeve in an inno-
cently beseeching manner.
“So many people want to come to my
concerts”
But thfe captain held up a firm hand.
“Those are the regulations,” he said ;
then he smiled. “But, then, I don’t know
any more about your concert than you
choose to tell me.”
Theresa nearly blushed as she realised
how near she had gone to being guile-
lessly confidential. She rose, a woman-
of-the-world again. “I’m having a little
cocktail party at my studio tomorrow
afternoon, I do hope you can come.”
On her way out she didn’t remember as
many of the sergeants’ names as usual.
THE story went the rounds of the
musical circles in Waghurst that a
mysterious Greek tenor was going to sing
at Theresa Denholm’s concert. It trans-
pired that he was a famous partisan
patriot deep in the confidence of the
Allied War Council.
On the night of the concert Alex
smuggled Mario into the hall dressed in
a suit of his own clothes with a very
bright-blue shirt and crimson tie to give
him a bit of dash and to make him look
less like an Italian waiter. He faced the
audience rather nervously, but he sang
very well, with Theresa at the piano giv-
ing him great moral support. The audi-
ence loved him, and thought his modesty
very becoming.
Captain Adkins was there, and seemed
to enjoy his singing as much as anyone.
The crowd clapped for an encore, but
Theresa was pushing him out of the back
door, Where Alex seized him and rushed
him away. The well-disciplined prisoner
carried out the orders of his padrone
without question. Only when they were
safely home did a glimmer of pride light
Mario’s eyes.
“Me sing good?” he asked.
{Continued on page 32.)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DISARMAMENT—WITH A VETO!
Molotov chose America’s “Thanksgiving
Day” to propagandise Russia’s “will to
collaboration” by proposing a disarma-
ment agreement for the U.N.O. It
seemed very good on the face of things,
and quite surprising, but it carried a
hidden sting in its tail, and the other
nations and most non-Russian, or non-
fellow-travelling, commentators were in-
clined to view the beast with suspicion.
Hanson W. Baldwin, writing in the
N.Y. “Times,” reported that “the initial
Soviet statement led to a short-lived and
not very optimistic hope that the Russians
had reversed their opposition to inter-
national inspection and control. But the
language of the proposal was ambiguous
and subject to varied interpretation, and
the importance of what seemed a slight
concession was watered down immedi-
ately by strong Soviet reiteration of its
insistence upon the veto.”
He found “the subject—inevitably
linked to the proposal for a troop census
and the problem of atomic energy—one
of the biggest with which the U.N. has
yet wrestled, for disarmament, or limita-
tion of armaments, goes to the very heart
of world stabilisation and world security,”
Elsewhere the “Times” commented
that “the high hopes aroused by Russia’s
agreement to international control of
armaments have been somewhat dimmed
by the conditions attached to it. The first
is posed by Russia’s continued insistence
on the veto, not only in the Security
Council but in the control machinery it-
self, which would enable Russia to veto
investigation or control of her own arma-
ments. The second condition is the abo-
lition of the Atomic Energy Commission
and the substitution of a new commission
which, like the commission on general
armament reduction, would operate ‘with-
in the framework of the Security Council,’
and would thus be subject to Russian
veto.
“This might make it appear,” thought
the “Times,” “as if the proposals were
only propaganda manoeuvres designed to
gain the Soviet credit for leadership in
disarmament, without making any real
concessions to make disarmament pos-
sible, They do, indeed, appear to present
what Sir Hartley Shawcross, head of the
British delegation, called a system fraught
with such hazards as to constitute ‘a
fraud, a delusion and a snare.’
“In conformity with their historic
character as Russians and as Commu-
nists, who have always derived their
impetus not from the will of the Russian
people, but from the ambitions of a
tightly-knit bureaucracy, the Soviet dele-
gates must be expected to fight and
manoeuvre for every vantage they can get.
For only thus can they assure and pro-
mote their standing in the bureaucratic
hierarchy. But in the long run, even
Soviet policy must take into account, not
only its ambitions, but also the realities
of both international power and the
necessities of domestic economy, which
tend to produce differences within the
bureaucracy itself.”
The “Times” thinks then that “there is
no doubt that as a result of international
opposition to continued Russian expansion
and the aggravation of the domestic situa-
tion Russia really desires international dis-
armament and is sincere in proposing it.
And her continued efforts to secure
special advantages for herself do not
obviate the fact that she is making pro-
gress* in her proposals. Molotov has now
abandoned purely national control in
favor of international control. But in-
stead of ‘strong’ control he is still pressing
for weak control, which Russia could
nullify at any moment. That is not good
enough for Britain, nor for anybody else
outside the Russian orbit.”
Baldwin decided that “the proposals
seem to have been reduced to: (1) an
ttempt by the Russian delegation to ex-
iloit fully the political and propaganda
'alue of the disarmament discussions;
2) a series of manoeuvres to canalise the
liscussions into U.N. channels of their
>wn liking.'”
He thinks “one phase of the problem,
•he question of troop strengths, may find
some partial solution quickly, though any
‘census’ undertaken will be by means
of national reports, and it is certain that
no inspection system will be created to
verify those reports.” But he believes that
“reports on troop dispositions, especially
when the reports are unchecked by im-
partial observers, can have little meaning
for the total picture of armaments limi-
tation or reduction. It is difficult to
escape the conclusion that the Russians
are attempting to bargain their troop
strengths and the shadow of an agree-
ment to limit arms for the substance of
specific knowledge about the manufac-
ture of atomic bombs and other new
weapons. Unquestionably the Russians
would be glad to reduce the strength of
their men in uniform in return for the
destruction by the U.S. of existing atomic
bombs or the dismantling of factories or
both. But this would be unilateral dis-
armament in fact if not in theory, for
the Russians could remobilise far more
quickly than the U.S. could rebuild its
factories or replace the destroyed bombs.
From the Russian point of view such a
proposal may seem equitable, for it
would eliminate the atomic bomb as a
factor and would, therefore, partially re-
dress the balance of potential military
power.”
Another of the “Times” commentators,
Edwin L. James, looked at the im-
plications of the Russian proposals.
“Vishinsky,” he said, “made it very
plain that the ‘principle of unanimity’
must obtain in consideration of
disarmament. What this meant was
that Russia retained the veto right.
Vishinsky said further that the first step
to be taken was the ending of the use
of the atom bomb in warfare Russia has
not got the atom bomb, according to
Marshal Stalin.
“It is fair enough to ask what this all
adds up to, Russia, with the greatest
—The U.S. “Army Times.?
“THAT’S NOT A 1921 ISSUE—IS IT?”
army in the world, proposed world dis-
armament and accepts the principle of
inspection. But Russia says she retains
the right of veto. Everyone knows that
Moscow needs a big army and she has
a big army. She could disband half of
it and still have the biggest army. It
would be only natural that there should
arise some time the issue of how big
an army she had to have. U.N. or no
U.N., the Russians have never been very
fond of outside inspection.
“If Russia should use her position on
the Security Council to veto inspection
of her armament, the situation would be
one which other countries would like to
avoid. The Russians could retort that
the U.S., Britain, France and China have
also-the veto power. But if everyone
could veto arms inspection there would
not be any.
“The Russians are working toward an
atom bomb. Mr. Molotov has said so.
The U.S. has the atom bomb. No one
would accuse the Russians now of plan-
ning to get the U.S. to give up the secret
of the atom bomb and then going ahead
to make atom bombs behind the veto
curtain. That would be too harsh an
accusation. -Nor would one accuse the
Russians openly of trying to run a pro-
paganda campaign for world effect which
would put the Russians in the position of
favoring disarmament, only to have their
good intentions blocked by ‘capitalistic’
Powers. Yet the sincerity of the Rus-
sians would be much more credited if
they dropped any such proposal as that
calling for reduction of forces by all the
countries, under a system of U.N, in-
spection, while retaining the right to veto
any inspection of their own country.
They cannot sell that proposition, as any
intelligent man would know. And Molo-
tov and Vishinsky are very intelligent
men,
“That brings us back to a consideration
of what the Russian move is all about.
If it is a good move everyone will wel-
come it. But it does look as if it would
have to be rewrapped in different colored
paper before it will be generally accepted
as a New Year present. And it shouldn’t
be tied up with that veto string.”
William Henry Chamberlin, writing
in the “Wall-street Journal,” inclined to
the belief that Russia might seriously in-
tend a “nearly-workable” system of inter-
national inspection.
Chamberlin agreed that “on the face
of it Molotov’s proposal marked an im-
portant departure from previous Soviet
policy. Until his statement the official
Soviet attitude had been definitely against
the principle of international inspection
and control. Since almost everyone in
the U.S. and Britain, with the exception
of extrefne pacifists and Soviet fellow-
travellers, regarded inspection and control
as the very heart of any effective arms-
limitation agreement, the Soviet position
had produced a stalemate. America had
become resigned to much larger arma-
ment expenditures than it had ever known.
The British Labor Government, over-
coming a strong pacifist tradition in the
history of the Labor party, had com-
mitted itself to peace-time conscription
for the first time in British history.
“Molotov’s acceptance of the principle
of international inspection offered a
prospect of breaking the deadlock. How-
ever, Vishinsky made it clear that the
Soviet proposes to maintain a veto
power. So there is as yet no actual break
in the deadlock. If the proposal turns out
to be a mere propaganda gesture it should
be placed under a searchlight of reveal-
ing publicity. It would be decidedly
premature to assume that there has been
a permanent shift away from the
ambitious, aggressive, expansionist design
of Soviet foreign policy which has been
at the root of most serious international
crises since the end of the war.”
But, thinks Chamberlin, “there are
several considerations which might
prompt the masters of the Kremlin to
make a tactical shift from unabated
truculence to more conciliatory give-and-
take methods. First is the note of con-
sistent firmness in American and British
policy toward Russia. The poor showing
of Left-wing candidates in the U.S. elec-
tion and the fizzling out of the ‘revolt’ ih
the House of Commons against Bevin’s
foreign policy are indications that therg
is little reason to count on any modifi-
cation of this policy. Dictatorships
respect strength and despise weakness.
So long as the Soviet could get anything
it wanted merely by asking for it there
was a very natural tendency to ask for
more and more. The firm policy, unjustly
misrepresented by amateur and profes-
sional friends of the Soviet as a road to
war, has actually been the best if not
the only means of preserving peace, by
placing firm limits on Soviet expansion
and thereby strengthening the moderates
against the extremists in the inner councils
of the Kremlin.
“It may also have occurred to the
Soviet rulers that mutual lifting of cur-
tains and laying of armament cards on
the table might work to Soviet military
advantage, even though it was contrary
to all the instincts and traditions of the
Soviet police State, There can be little
doubt that, in scientific research and, still
more, in practical knowhow, America is
today substantially ahead of the Soviet.
“Another influence making for restraint
in Moscow is the unsatisfactory progress
of Soviet post-war reconstruction. The
few foreign observers who have travelled
with some freedom in the more devas-
tated areas of the Soviet, in the Ukraine
and White Russia, report hardships in
daily living that must be something of a
damper on the morale even of the stoical
and docile Soviet population. Prices of
rationed goods have sharply increased,
and there has been a good deal of de-
nunciation of mismanagement in industry
and agriculture in the controlled Soviet
press. All this points to a state of
physical and psychological exhaustion of
the people which may have convinced the
Soviet leaders that a breathing space
from the exertions of an all-out arma-
ment race is necessary. Finally, there
have been reports, difficult to verify or
disprove, that Stalin’s health is poor. An
American President, even in time of war,
lives in a goldfish bowl if one takes as a
measure of comparison the secrecy that
surrounds a high Soviet official, even in
time of peace. But if a struggle for the
Stahnite succession is imminent there
might well be a desire on the part of his
lieutenants to ease off foreign friction, at
least until the succession is settled.”
Chamberlin concludes that “whatever
the guiding motives of the tactical change
which may be in the making in Moscow,
the guiding lines of American action
should be clear. The firm policy toward
Moscow was never an end in itself. It
was a means to promote several ends:
To check unilateral Soviet aggression, to
obtain Soviet compliance with treaty and
diplomatic obligations, to obtain Soviet
acquiescence in those measures which
are necessary to liquidate the con-
sequences of the war and to build up a
free and prosperous Europe. Regardless
of the hidden mainsprings of Soviet
policy, the U.S., now as always, would
be willing to meet the Soviet half-way on
any proposition which- would advance
world peace and security—provided that
it is not asked to surrender substance for
shadow, or to make concessions out of
proportion to those which it receives. It
would be sheer folly to surrender its
strongest political weapon, the atomic
bomb, without some corresponding im-
portant Soviet concession to the cause of
arms limitation.”
A Year of Peace.
Many soldiers and civilians died in
battles in Europe and Asia during 1946.
Thousands of lives were lost in con-
flicts on two continents without more
than passing mention in the U.N. and
the Council of Foreign Ministers . Some
of as in China, was full
civil war between organised armies. In
other places, such as India, civilians were
the chief participants. At other points,
like Palestine, the deaths came in revolts
against established authority. Violence
has splotched the post-war world with
blood in at least a dozen places without
getting on the U.N. agenda.
China is where the casualties were
heaviest because the forces involved on
both sides ran into millions of men.
The Dutch East Indies was the scene
of intermittent fighting.
In tfie first few months after Japan’s
surrender French Indo-China was torn
by battles between the French and a
native nationalist movement, the Viet-
Nam. French soldiers and civilians and
many natives died in pitched battles be-
fore a truce was arranged.
On the Indo-Chinese frontier, there
was fighting between the French and the
Siamese over a strip of Indo-Chinese
territory that had been given to Siam by
Japan.
India saw communal war between
Hindus and Moslems, struggling for
power in the future Government. Deaths
in a few days of rioting in Calcutta in
August exceeded 5000.
Iran’s Government fought tribesmen in
the South and North. In the South there
were charges of British interference, in
the North charges that the Russians
backed the Kurds.
Palestine was torn by Zionist violence
against British troops, and the Arabs in-
troduced a new complication — Futuwah,
a Palestine Arab army. The most lethal
outbreak of Jewish violence was the
bombing of the King David Hotel in
Jerusalem, killing or wounding 150 per-
sons. The fighting and casualties were
on commando scale. Almost every day
a few Jews or British soldiers lost their
lives. t
Greece was the scene of Europe’s big-
gest battles. A Royalist Government has
been battling Communist-led guerrillas
since 1944 in a struggle marked by execu-
tions, arrests, mass killings and pitched
battles between police, troops and Left-
wing irregulars. Slavic neighbors to the
north of Greece took a hand in the fight-
ing.
Riots between Slavs and Italians in
Trieste were a police problem for British
5 and American troops.
There were casualties in the brief “air-
plane incident” between Yugoslavia and
the U.S.
Italy and Poland were the scenes of
battles between insurgent bands and the
constituted Governments. It is estimated
that in the Emilia region of Italy alone
some 30,000 political murders were com-
mitted.
The Philippines, experiencing a new in-
dependence, was a civil battlefield. An
anti-Government group, called the Huk-
balahaps, declared a small-scale civil war
against the Philippine Army in Central
Luzon. Casualties were estimated to
number nearly 1000.
The U.N. Charter insures that the
U.N. shall have no right to interfere
in domestic troubles of its members.
That is why many of these outbreaks do
not get a hearing, and why some get a
hearing but no action. The prospect is
that soldiers and civilians in Europe and
Asia will continue to die in disputes,
some of them on the scale of full civil
wars, while the U.N. continues its efforts
to build a peace of permanence.—“ World
Report.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The largest
Australia/ Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners' and Householders',
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
PERMANENCE
1
In the
CARE OF
ESTATES
—it is impossible for any one individual to be versed
in all the complexities of estate administration.
However, the Permanent Trustee Co. has, for over
fifty years, been successfully managing country
estates with pastoral, grazing and mixed farming
interests. The Company receives, from its Pastoral,
Inspector, regular and unbiassed reports on all pro-
perties under its control, based on many years of
practical experience.
In the management of your estate, why not appoint
a co-trustee with the Company arid combine the first-
hand personal knowledge of your son or a friend with
the security and guaranteed permanence of the
Company?
Write for Booklet
BOARP OP
DIRECTORS:
A. E. BOND, CHAIRMAN
SIR THOMAS BUCKXAND
CECIL H. DOYLE
F. W. HIXSON
F. H. WAY
E. V. T. WHITTLE
(MGR.)
N. L. SHAW
(ASST. MGR.)
COUNTRY REP.t
BRUCE MACDONALD
ADDRESS: 2325 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct. •
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb, parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
- Brisbane, Queensland.
Franco and Spain.
The many wordy denunciations of the
Franco Government in the U.N.O. —their
latest result has been a Security Council
decision that member States are to
withdraw their Ambassadors from
Spain, though maintaining representation
through charges d’affaires —have all
evaded any answer to the question as to
what form of government might follow
the overthrow of the Franco regime. It
is an important question, and its neglect
makes the prolonged discussion par-
ticularly pointless.
“World Report” asks “After Franco —
what?” That, it says, “is the real Spanish
problem before the U.N.O. On the sur-
face, the issue is merely what to do about
El Caudillo. A combination of economic
and political pressures could bring about
his downfall, but such pressures would
leave Spain’s economy even more un-
balanced than it is today. The result
might be chaos and disunion so great that
no Government could win popular sup-
port. A new regime based bn the old
repressions would be no gain for Spain
or for the world. Spaniards today agree
on only one thing: They do not want
another bloodbath. Yet they know that
no totalitarian system has been broken
except by war. This war-weariness is
Franco’s trump card.”
The veteran American foreign corres-
pondent Karl H. von writing in
the N.Y. “Journal-American,” is in
agreement that the Spanish people want
no more of civil war. He found Spain
today “a land of utmqgt tranquillity—
peace, law and order prevail through-
out the country.” And he believes that
“the Franco regime can wait and face
the new Communist-inspired campaign in
the U.N. Security Council with com-
placency unless there is a sudden and un-
foreseeable change of sentiment among
the Spanish people.
“Franco’s major strength lies in the
almost universal, horror of and intense
aversion to -being plunged into another
civil war. Popular: opinion is that Franco
cannot be overthrown without precipi-
tation of the most violent and bloody
civil strife imaginable. Tell the out-
side world that, in trying to give us
Western democracy, for heaven’s sake do
not risk bringing upon Spaim the horror
and bloodshed of another civil war. That
was the universal consensus of expres-
sion I heard in Spain—from Seville,
Algeciras to Barcelona and the Pyrenees.”
Von Wiegand quotes a Spanish Re-
publican leader as having said to him:
“Much nonsense and ntisinformation
about conditions in Spain is printed in
American and British newspapers. After
all, let us be objective and truthful.
Compare the peace, tranquillity and order
in Spain today with the confusion,' un-
certainty and uneasiness that prevails in
France, Italy and some other countries.
We are not downtrodden, nor so re-
strained, as is imagined abroad because
of false reports spread by exiled Spanish
radicals —one-time leaders —who want to
get their jobs back. We have everything
in Spain except one—-political freedom.
And that, too, we will get.”
Spain, says Von Wiegand, “is the land
of manana. As little as possible is done
today that can be put off until tomorrow.
To the average Spaniard time is the great
solver of problems. The great spiritual
and moral bulwark in Spain against Com-
munism is the Catholic Church. The
power—The barrier against Franco’s over-
throw by force—is the army, the 65,000-
strong guardia civil, the small, but trusted,
militia and the police. As long as those
armed forces remain loyal to Franco, he
can remain in power. The Spanish an-
archists, numbering around 1,000,000, are
anti-Franco, but even more anti-Com-
munist. The Monarchists prefer a liberal
constitutional monarch. Strong Monar-
chist sentiment is found in the army. Re-
publicans in Spain are numerous, but
silent. Every time Franco is attacked in
U.N.O. it gives him the opportunity to
declare that Spain is being attacked, and
that he is defending the sovereignty and
independence of Spain and the Spanish
people and preventing Communism from
coming to power.
“Interference of the U.N.O. in the in-
ternal affairs of Spain has made Franco
almost popular. There are observers who
say that if America, Britain and the
Security Council want the Spanish people
to elect Franco president of Spain, as the
Argentina people did Colonel Juan Perdn
when Washington wanted to oust him
from power, their present campaign if
kept up long enough might achieve it.
“Not even a suggestion has come from
the Security Council or elsewhere of what
means can be used to overthrow Franco
which will'not engulf the nation in civil
war, A civil war would split Spain along
several lines, and it is the general fear
that a Communist-dominated country will
be the ultimate result of pressure from
the outside. The army, the church, the
landowners and most businessmen, big
and little, will fight against such a de-
velopment.”
N.Y. “Times” cor-
respondent Paul B.
Kennedy views the
Spanish internal sit-
uation differently.
“Franco,” he says,
“has lost, if only
temporarily, his iron
grip on the Spanish
State. Many causes
have contributed to
this deterioration in
control, but basi-
cally i t i s due
to an economic
situation which
seems approaching
the chaotic. For this
situation there is
also a multitude of
contributory politi-
cal causes, such as
snarled and rapa-
cious bureaucracy
and a political
position which is
gaining - strength
rapidly from high,
low, right and
centre. Repeated
attempts by Franco
to stem the black-
market tide, which,
according to his
own admission, has
touched eight of
every ten Spaniards,
have apparently
failed. Primarily,
then, a faltering
econbmy, whether
of his own making or through his own
fault, is Franco’s bite noire, and on its
solution or lack of solution his regime is
likely to stand or fall if left to its own
devices.”
Senator Tom Connally had already re-
iterated in U.N.O. committee that the
U.S. attitude was to leave the Spanish
people to their own devices. “The gov-
ernment of Spain belongs to the Spanish
people,” he said, “and it is for them to
determine the form of government they
shall have and the people who shall ad-
minister it.
“The U.S. is unalterably opposed to the
Franco regime, its totalitarian character
and its suppression of human rights and
freedoms. We would like to see it re-
placed by a democratic Government
chosen by the freely-expressed will of
the Spanish people. We are convinced,
however, that the restoration of the gov-
ernment of Spain to the Spanish people
cannot be achieved through action by the
General Assembly involving pressure.
“The proponents of a break of rela-
tions have not explained the sequence of
events which they hope would follow
and how these events would contribute
to the desired end. The U.S. believes that
such a measure would produce no result
beyond cutting off the Spanish people
from communication with the rest of the
world and thus making worse their pre-
sent condition. More extreme coercive
measures, such as the application of eco-
nomic sanctions, would, in the long run,
almost certainly produce economic and
political chaos, which would undoubtedly
lead to widespread civil strife with serious
international complications and would
array different Spanish factions against
each other and enlist in varying degrees
the support of different members of the
U.N. The U.S, does not believe such
conditions would contribute either to the
development of a democratic regime in
Spain or to the cause of international
peace. We do not believe Spain is a
present threat to peace.”
The U.S., Connally said, would “take
part in any necessary action against the
Franco regime, under the U.N, Charter,
if and when this regime becomes a threat
to international peace and security. Pend-
ing such an eventuality, we are opposed
to coercive measures because they would
either aid Franco by uniting the Spanish
people against outside interference or
would precipitate the Spanish people into
the disaster of civil war.”
—Chicago “Daily News.”
HE SURE GETS AROUND.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Twenty months after the war in Europe the
Allies have not yet concluded peace, in fact,
have not done much of anything decisive. Prob-
ably the best yardstick is what was done by
nearly the same group of Allies after World
War I. The Armistice was signed Nov. 11,
1918. Two months later, on Jan. 18, 1919, 32
nations met in Paris to draft the treaties. Less
than four months later (May 7) the 32 signed
the completed draft, and on June 28 Germany
.signed. The principal task was done. Time:
five months and 10 days. That was not all
they accomplished. They set up the League,
after which the U.N. was modelled. They also
set up a Ws:ld Court which served as a model
for the present International Court. The prin-
ciple of disarmament was unanimously agreed
to. Mandatories for non-self-governing areas
were named. There were created commissions
to do something about the narcotic and white-
slave traffic, humane labor practices, interna-
tional health controls, disease preventions and
so on, and freedom of communications and
transit. The list is only partial. Only in Febru-
ary Will peace treaties with Hitler’s satellites
be signed, and not until the following March,
in Moscow, will the Big Four tackle the Ger-
man treaty. When it will be finished is any-
body’s guess, and apparently only after that will
the Big Five start on the treaty with Japan.
Patently someone is holding back. That some-
one, clearly, is the Soviet. Delay in making
peace is creating chaos all over the world, and
only Moscow stands to gain by the confusion.
Once frontiers are finally drawn, armaments
strictly limited and the U.N. definitely prepared
to police the peace, it will be less easy for the
strong to impose their will on the weak. — Wil-
liam Philip Simms in N.Y. “World Telegram.”
* * * *
To the beginning of December, 1946, 24,365
persons had been tried in Europe for war
crimes in British, U.S., French, Greek, Nor-
wegian, Czechoslovak and Polish courts. Out
of this total 1432 received the death penalty,
16,413 received varying terms of Imprisonment
and 6520 were acquitted. In the Far East
1468 persons had .been tried before U.S.,
British and Australian courts, with 457 death
sentences, 735 sentences of imprisonment and
276 acquittals. The above figures are con-
stantly increasing now that the machinery is in
full working order in all the countries con-
cerned. No figures are available from the
Soviet or the Soviet zone of occupation in
Germany.— London “Times.”
« * * *
“The Russian Communist experiment is the
opposite of the American individualist demo-
cratic experiment and started at the opposite
end. The wars, revolutions, convulsions and
dangers through which Russia has passed dur-
ing this century have not changed its character
but only increased and strengthened its inner
driving force. What is new and perhaps even
more significant is its conscious, aggressive
character. Stalin’s statement in the stress of
war that Russian Communism is not an article
of export does not correspond with the facts.
It is a new faith, a new gospel of man to be
spread far and wide through highly active and
efficient propaganda. It is a new religion in
sharp contrast with the democratic humanism
of the West. If it calls itself democratic, that is
only a compliment to its Western rival. Between
the Communist East and the American indi-
vidualist West lies a bridge—another great group
which forms a real link between them. Wedded
like you to the principle of freedom and per-
sonal initiative, but sharing more than you do
in the immemorial community life which is the
European and Eastern tradition, the British
Commonwealth is very close to you, while not
far away from the East.” — General Smuts in a
speech to the Congress of American Industry.
* * * *
Ernest Bevin. interrupted a tedious argu-
ment in the Council of Foreign Ministers to
tell Molotov a story. Two Irishmen had been
on strike for six months. One afternoon, Pat
observed Mike reading a newspaper and asked
him for the news. “What were you interested
in particularly?” Mike said. “Well, frankly, 1
was mainly interested in knowing whether there
was any danger of a settlement!” Having duly
related this old-timer to the Soviet interpreter,
Bevin popped his question: What did Mr.
Molotov think about the situation between the
big Powers? Was there any danger of a settle-
ment here? Molotov, not overly impressed with
Bevin’s humor, did not think there was much
danger.— James Rest on in N.Y. “Times.”
* • * * *
- U.N.R.R.A. has submitted a general report
on its activities. This is less important as ac-
counting for what has been done than as defin-
ing the task which remains if the assignment is
to be completed. At a cost of $3,500,000,000
—three times the sum devoted to relief after
World War I—U.N.R.R.A. says that it has pre-
vented large-scale starvation, averted epidemics,
effected the “substantial” recovery Of agricul-
ture and started the wheels of industrial re-
covery in motion. Yet these, it says, are “only
the very first steps,” leaving much to be done
if the ground already gained is not to be lost.
It is elementary that a nation in order to buy
what it cannot itself produce must dispose of
its own goods abroad, thus acquiring exchange
with which to purchase commodities vital to its
existence. U.N.R.R.A. reports a great disparity
between what the nations it has been aiding
probably will be able to export in 1947 and
what they must import. China, Poland, Yugo-
slavia, Italy, Greece, Czechoslovakia and
Austria together will need to import
$2,613,000,000 worth of goods more than they
reasonably can be expected to export. Under
the best of conditions a large deficit will some-
how have to be met. There may have been, as
some suspect, a certain amount of boon-
doggling with relief already extended. This does
not remove the responsibility which rests with
the General Assembly for arranging to complete
U.N.R.R.A.’s unfinished business. — N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
The horrible picture which Communists and
pinkos have built up of Chiang Kai-shek’s
“Fascist dictatorship” looks rather absurd in
light of the Generalissimo announcing his in-
tention to surrender his powers. Presenting
the Chinese National Assembly the draft of
a proposed new constitution for representative
government, the Generalissimo reminded his
hearers that he was 60. That is an age which
anyone who thought of himself as indis-
pensable would surely regard as the prime of
life. Yet Generalissimo Chiang said he was
too old to carry longer the burden th||, has
been his through the 20 years since the death
of Sun Yat-sen. Significantly, though time
and again they had been invited to partici-
pate in the unification and democratisation of
China, the Chinese Communists were not among
those present when the National Assembly met.
Instead, their forces were waging civil war.
So it was through the long years that General-
issimo Chiang’s Government fought the Japa-
nese, yet had to keep an army stretched across
North China to stop the Communist fifth
column from marching on Chungking. The
Chinese Communists, as with the Communists
elsewhere, give their loyalty to Moscow and
accept no participation in Government of the
homeland short, of absolute rule by purge.—
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”


'tW
i\\w
4ft
0
&
*0.
ft
S
00
0
V
0
0
fa
0
0
f.
/
t
0
0
/
0
0
0
ft
f
0
0
0.
4.
0>
t
M Com P an y °f kind ' n Australia
w 'th offices and factories in every state of
the (Commonwealth, Claude Neon occupies a
position of unquestionable leadership in the field of lumin6us-tube
.*« y * .
products tor out-door advertising displays and interior Fluorescent
Lighting. The magnitude of Claude enterprises warrants a sub-
? , \ ff- mu' - #
stantial year-after-year investment in research and planning . . .
your guarantee of the best modern science and engineer-
ing can produce, when you buy Claude products. In addition,
v*< 1 f t
Claude Neon is in continuous direct touch with overseas laboratory
,\rs. ‘ 1 m '
research so as to ensure that every technological advance is made
speedily available to Australian users of - luminous-tube products.
Claude Mean Limited
f I R s T IN FLUORESCENT


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3491
Wednesday, January 8, 1947
CRYSTAL-BALL APPARITION.
“When new. of Ihe Bruce viscountcy broke, a Sydney newspaper to which Mr. McKell is a contributor announced that bookmaker, had lengthened the odda again[?]t
Mr. McKell succeeding the Duke of Gloucester at Canberra.”
“Sorry, Bill, but you know how things are; and you’ve got to beware of a tall aloof man in a top hat.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
• HEAD OFFICE: 252 Georgs Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
Wellington.
CALLING MR. CALVELL!
A list of the outrages committed in
Palestine by Jewish murder gangs was
published as the old year closed. In that
fatal twelvemonth the murder gangs
killed 35 policemen and wounded 28,
killed 45 servicemen and wounded 93,
and added the names of 300 civilians,
killed and wounded (Jews among them),
to the ghastly record, besides destroying
a vast amount of property. The
terrorists rounded off the year by seizing
and flogging an officer and three non-
coms of the heroic Sixth Airborne Divi-
sion—the officer a major with the D.S.O.
and M-C. —in “retaliation” for the whip-
ping of a terrorist, caught after a bank
robbery at Jaffa, who, if he had com-
mitted his crime in any country under
Communist-Slav control, would have
befen hanged
Irgun Zvai Leumi, “the largest terrorist
organisation,” boastfully proclaimed its
responsibility for the fiendish treatment of
soldiers of the country that for 15 terrible
months stood alone against the Nazis and
their allies, and threatened to proceed
from flagellation of captive soldiers to
the final ferocity, killing in cold blood.
Boast and threat formed part of an
Irgun Zvai Leumi statement in which
“British friendship for the Jews” was dis-
missed as a legend —“a legend which has
been smashed in our generation particu-
larly during the annihilation of 6,000,000
Jews in Europe.” So Britain was guilty
of all the atrocities, of Belsen and the
rest of the horror-camps— Britain, which
fired the first shot against Nazi Germany
and carried on the war against it during
the period—September 3, 1939, to June
21, 1941—when Stalin was Hitler’s
partner in spoliation and mass kidnap-
pings, of Jews as well as other peoples,
and during the 27 months when even the
U.S.A. —with 3,000,000 Jews in New York
State alone —stood on the sidelines.
Wicked ingratitude and fanaticism could
go no farther.
British friendship for the Jews “a
legend”! This of the one European
country which has never had a pogrom,
a concentration camp or a counterpart
of the Dreyfus case; which, with only a
small Jewish population—infinitesimal
compared with that of the U.S.A., where
a Jew has never been nominated for
President or reached the first rank in any
of the services—has had a Jew for
Prime Minister and another for Lord
Chief Justice (Viceroy of India when
he ceased to be Lord Chief Justice),
and has welcomed many others to
high office; in which the Secretary
of State for War at the outbreak of hos-
tilities with Hitler’s Germany—indeed for
three years, 1937-40—was a Jew. This
of the country which —after a war vfery
mostly in blood and treasure, and in the
terms of a mandate which guarantees
continuance of their ancient rights to the
Arabs —has made itself the patron and
protector of Jewish emigration from
Europe on a scale so vast that there are
now nearly twice as many Jews in
Palestine as there were people of all races
in the time of the Turk. And the worst
of it is that the foul lie is repeated in
Zionist propaganda, particularly Ameri-
can Zionist propaganda.
The Irgun Zvai Leumi manifesto closed
with a statement that the terrorist concern
would “accept Russian or any other help”
in its “struggle to liberate our land from
foreign rule.” All the Palestine organisa-
tions, terrorist and terrorised, are receiv-
ing financial support from Jews in
America and other countries and arms
and explosives from Europe, and the cost
of all the operations designed to beat
Britain —one is, of course, the large-scale
movement of “displaced persons” from
countries undfcr Communist control to the
Mediterranean, where some of them
board ships for Australia, though most
embark in ill-found blockade runners for
Palestine —must be enormous. And
Russia, which even the Sydney “Tele-
graph”—so Moscow-mad during the war
that it let one of its geniuses denounce
Federal Opposition members as “Anglo-
philes”—has given up as a bad job
(“Russia hopes that by creating disorder
in Palestine she will force Britain
to quit”)—Russia can be expected
to do anything for anti-British Jews
short of receiving vast masses of
them into “the autonomous Jewish re-
public” in Siberia, or wherever it has got
to now. The one thing certain about
this “autonomous republic” is that Jews
from Eastern and Central Europe won’t
go to it and leave when—-or if —they can.
They prefer to make for Palestine —and
for Australia. *
Thanks to the Minister for No In-
formation on Immigration they are com-
ing to Australia so persistently and in
such numbers that Mr. Calwell himself
has become alarmed at possible conse-
quences, to himself and party, of his own
temerity. After the gruelling he got in
the House from Mr. Lang and Mr.
Gullett, he professed to be annoyed at
the formation of a Melbourne company
to bring out and look after Jewish
refugees. With seeming indignation he
declared that “the existence . of such a
company can serve only as an irritant to
both the Government and the people,”
and “will be viewed with great disfavor
by me and my officers,”
It can serye no useful purpose, since
each application for a landing permit is
dealt with as an individual case on its
individual merits, and the fact that it is
sponsored by a commercial organisation
will render it liable to summary rejection.
In Melbourne this was taken as a warn-
ing in the Talleyrand vein to a certain Mr.
Masel—“not too much zeal, please.’’'’ Mr.
Masel, undisturbed, went on with arrange-
ments for a visit to China to see to ship-
ments of Jewish refugees from Shanghai
and Hongkong. One of his fellow-
passengers is Mr. Falstein, M.H.R., who
denied that he was “going to the Far East
to deal with this immigration problem”
with a commission from Mr. Calwell
(“I hope to arrange an exchange of Aus-
tralian wool”—and perhaps Swiss
watches, the market being now copiously
supplied—‘Tor Chinese timber”), but re-
ferred approvingly to the Masel
“mission.”
It had already come out that the
steamer Hwalien was on her way from
Shanghai to Sydney with 450 passengers,
“including 306 displaced persons from
Europe.” There is natural curiosity as
to when these “displaced persons” and
others on the China coast left Europe;
how many there were, and are, and will
be by, say, the end of the first quarter
of 1947 ; whether they, or some of them,
were in Hongkong and Shanghai during
the period of Japanese supremacy and,
if so, whether they were footloose or
interned. But this curiosity has not been
satisfied by Mr. Calwell. As Mr.
Gullett has said, “it is hard to get a
straight answer from the Minister on
any subject.”
The Minister’s statements on all phases
of the Jewish-immigration racket are
crooked. When forced to admit that
“Palestinians” had been shipped to Aus-
tralia by the Strathmore, which set out
from a British port, he asserted that pas-
sages-had been secured for them and the
other aliens in the party by the British
Ministry of Transport. This having been
denied by a spokesman for the British
Ministry of Transport, who said ex-
plicitly that “the A ustralian Government”
had asked his department “to provide
transport from the Middle East for 200
people awaiting passages to Australia”—
this when, according to the Minister’s,
own admissions, there were 2000 Aus-
tralians stranded in Britain, together with
many Australian servicemen’s womenfolk
and children, and about 150,000 regis-
tered British migrants—he sought refuge
in equivocation and in slanderous attacks,
directed chiefly at Mr. Lang.
Against that old friend, who had
quoted the Minister as having said, “at
the Maccabean Hall, Sydney,” that he
had “just signed 2000 landing permits,”
who had protested against this sort of
thing as monstrously unjust to our ser-
vicemen and British migrants and read
(correctly, as Dr, Evatt acknowledged)
from a Commonwealth Security Police
report on “the refugee racket,” Mr, Cal-
well, in the words of the Opposition
Leader, brought allegations of “bribery,
corruption and blackmail.” Yet, as Mr.
Menzies put it in a New Year message,
“not only did the Government decline
investigation, but it showed its contempt
for the whole matter by gagging the de-
bate.” But the Government won’t be
allowed tp get away with this “contempt,”
nor can the Commonwealth Security
Police report on “the refugee racket” be
relegated to obscurity until the denials
of the two “Labor” politicians involved
are repeated under oath before, and until
the whole affair is sifted by, a proper
tribunal.
Meanwhile, news of the favors ex-
tended to foreign Jews has reached Eng-
land, and Australia House has received
indignant protests, sharpened, no doubt,
by the feeling that tender consideration
for “displaced persons,” at least some of
whom may be sympathisers with
terrorists is, in the circumstances, un-
friendly to the British nation. “Britons,”
a “Sun” report states, “are angry that
Europeans should be allowed facilities to
go to Australia while there is little hope
held out for Britons for some months.”
And “an Australia House official” has
been moved to reply that the objectors
lack understanding of “the circumstances
in which the [Calwell] landing permits
are granted”:
So far 6000 permits have been issued,
representing about 10,000 persons, most of
whom ate still in displaced persons’ camps
in Europe. The permits don’t come under
the official migration scheme, which is for
Britons only. They are granted in Can-
berra, not in London. Grounds for grant-
ing permits are mainly humanitarian, and
applicants must be guaranteed by relatives
resident in Australia.
Obviously there can be few native-born
Jews among these “relatives resident in
Australia,” and it seems equally clear
that whatever these “relatives” say goes.
They fill in “Form 40,” and their foreign
protegds fill in “Form 47”—or, most
probably, get it filled in for them—and
Mr. Calwell, through his instruments, does
the rest. Although, on his own showing,
“the standards which these people accept
in order to obtain transportation are not
so high as those we demand for United
Kingdom or Australian citizens,” which,
translated, means that they may be
carriers of disease —he was referring
to the Strathmore “Palestinians” and
others who embarked at dirty Port
Said—there is no mention of even a
medical examination as a measure of
security against the introduction of foul
epidemics, or of senility or insanity. It is
not on record that any of Mr. CalwelFs
Jews has been rejected on any score; on
the contrary, it has been stated that per-
sons who arrived without landing permits
have been admitted, doubtless with a
warning not to do it again. '
At the 1933 census there were only
23,553 Jews in Australia: 12,183 males
and 11,370 females, of all ages. So many
have come in since, mainly adults from
the Mad Continent, and the sturdy Aus-
tralian patriotism which characterised the
Isaacs-Monash period has become so
minor an influence that the leadership of
Isaac Isaacs has been renounced and the
great old man has been reviled by Jews
in public meeting. And now, if Mr.
Calwell has his way, the native-born
Hebrews who still consider themselves
Australians, and not brooding exiles from
Palestine, are. to be swamped by another
invasion from the Mad Continent;
“6000 permits for 10,000 persons” already
issueci, and a lot more to come. If public
spirit is not dead in Australia the better
part of the nation will revolt against a
business which looks and smells foul.
This Australia.
About the most persistent booster of
Australia that this paper ever ran across
was Jack Moses. Old Jack, who was born
in Sydney’s Haymarket when cows grazed
in Hyde Park and who spent a lot of his
four-score years travelling from one
country show to another with a grin of
sunshine on his face and samples of wine
in his bags, had only one theme of talk—
what a fine country Australia is. His
optimism in that was literally boundless
and unquenchable.
Yet even old Jack Moses had his doubts
at times. He was certain that Australia
was destined to become a great country,
but that would be through its own virtues,
and despite such manifest handicaps as
politicians’ sins of commission and omis-
sion. His general idea might be inter-
preted as a belief that the country was
superior to those running it.
The old man and his oral paeans of
praise are recalled by his mantle having
apparently fallen on a younger and a good
deal sturdier set of shoulders. By Oswald
L. Ziegler it is worn with a difference.
Mr. Ziegler, a South Australian, gives
the same kind of optimism expres-
sion through finely printed, elaborately
pictorial publications. He did one, a
monumental affair, for the Sydney Cen-
tenary ; his latest, entitled This Is Aus-
tralia, is less massive, though still on a
grand enough scale. Produced in col-
laboration with the Department of Infor-
mation and the co-operation of the
Commonwealth and State Governments,
with the further dubious assistance of
fortunately brief contributions by sundry
Ministerial masters of the commonplace
and the cliche, it is designed to spread
the gospel in praise of Australia abroad.
On that count its praises soar high enough
for it to have deserved subsidising.
On quite another count Mr. Ziegler’s
volume of pictorial and other enthusiasms
could equally well serve a home purpose
also —that of spreading the gospel in
praise of the one thing which more than
any other has been the making of Aus-
tralia up to now. “The purpose of this
book,” Mr. Ziegler himself explains, “is to
present a dear of Australia today
how much has been accomplished by
the industry and ingenuity of enterprising
men.” That is the theme of the whole
presentation, insistently emphasised in
regard to practically every single accom-
plishment in the country’s progress that
can be made subject for praise. If any
question of subsidy applies to the pro-
duction Mr. Ziegler would be well advised
to hold out his hand before the enormity
of that theme is properly grasped by the
smug gentlemen who appear to be aiding
and abetting him in thus committing
what, by their words and acts, they must
regard as the whole seven deadly sins
rolled up in one.
For what Mr. Ziegler’s lavishly pictorial
and beautifully arranged and printed
pages actually add up to is probably the
most impressive justification of private
enterprise in Australia so far produced.
All through the very large part of it
that deals with things done, with actpal
achievements, the story is the same ; it
is always achievement by some private
individual or concern. Thus 8.H.P., that
bugbear of Mr. Ziegler’s apparent aiders
and abettors, is given highest praise for
its great performance in the second of the
world wars and in the peace-time between.
The story of irrigation is begun by the
Chaffey brothers at Mildura; so it is
with all of the multitude of worth-while
achievements from the earliest discoverers
to the pioneers of the airways, of wire-
less and the latest things in manufactures.
-Everywhere, right through these 400
large pages, that is the story: the accom-
plishments of individuals and concerns
in free private enterprise. It is the same
on the land, naturally. “Most of the
winemaking establishments are in the
hands of private families, many of which
are now in their third and fourth genera-
tion” ; and the whole story of the great
products of the land, the flocks and the
harvests is everywhere the story of stout
individualism.
On this score—that it is a book wholly
of praise, and that everything found
worthy of praise is the accomplishment
of individualistic private enterprise—Mr.
Ziegler’s volume may be fairly rated
better for home consumption than for
its always implicit purpose of spreading
the praises of Australia abroad. In this
purpose it has faulty practically in-
separable from all such publications;
faults of omission. Claiming Phar Lap as
a great Australian thoroughbred—indeed
the greatest—when he was bred in New
Zealand is of no importance, though some
thought for the Dominion across the
Tasman would have shown generosity;
not, in the food-for-Britain business and
other things, very striking in Australian
official quarters. The boner committed
by one of the “S. M. Herald’s” literary
judges, Mr. T. Inglis Moore, writing in
Mr. Ziegler’s volume on Australian litera-
ture and carefully designating ‘Douglas
Stewart’s “Ned Kelly” a prose play, also
matters little, as does the claim elsewhere
that “Australian cities, in a general sense,
are not marred by obnoxious slums,”
though the “S. M. Herald” has stated of
the winning author in its novel competi-
tion that, setting “her story about the
slums of Surry Hills,” she “has the
peculiar gift of evoking pity and terror
in a landscape filled with horror.”
Actually, Mr. Ziegler’s production has
only a few faults of commission. The
omissions, however, are entirely an-
other pigeon. A definite object of the
publication is to present Australia abroad
in such a light that immigrants will be
attracted to this country. It could well
succeed in that objective, Australians
familiar with the subject can turn the
pages and exclaim, in reverse of Charles
Lamb, “All, all are here, the old familiar
faces” ; everything that is typical of the
country. But Australians are on the
spot, and so they know what reservations
have to be made. The overseas reader is
likely to be overcome with enchantment
—and at that with the enchantment of
an illusion, a mirage.
This Is Australia is substantially true
in what it records. All these many
achievements credited to the private enter-
prise of individuals and concerns are
real enough facts. Could any one of
them have been accomplished against
present-day Governmental interference
and, above all other handicaps, the crush-
ing weight of present-day taxes? The
answer is that not one of them could
have been. Current rates of taxation
would have strangled every one of them
in its infancy, where it did not prevent
their beginniifg at all. That is the great
fault of omission in Mr. Ziegler’s publi-
cation. There is nothing of that side
whatever. There is nothing of the inter-
ference by strikes ; nothing of the chaos
into which Australian industry, and with
it Australian life, has at the moment
fallen. Its picture is bf an Australia that
was, not an Australia that is ; not an
Australia in which the Prime Minister,
coinciding with his professions of faith
in Mr. Ziegler’s book, is reduced to greet-
ing this year of 1947 with a pitiful appeal
for peace in industry I


PLAIN ENGLISH
External Affairs.
Dr, Evatt’s External Affairs Depart-
ment indulged in a spot of self-congratu-
lation last week on the boom in the diplo-
matic business.
It was recalled jubilantly that in
1938-39, a year in which industry
flourished, cigarettes (now 10id.) were 6d.
a packet and beer was Is. 2d. a bottle,
the cost of External Affairs was only
£20,126. Last year it reached £756,000,
exclusive of £400,000 “for representation
at and contributions to international
organisations” like the useless and greedy
1.L.0.
External Affairs “has been elevated to
the status of a Foreign Office.” It is now
represented in 23 countries, with addi-
tions every month or so, and has 215
officials. And it has so far put Australia
on the map that, without any sacrifice
except its common interests with a sister-
Dominion, itself exposed to the rising
tide of color, in domestic and immigra-
tion matters, it is able to dispense with
close diplomatic associations with Britain
and South Africa and align its policy with
great nations like Cuba, Haiti, Guate-
mala and El Salvador.
It is true that its phenomenal growth is
producing some embarrassment, since the
department is now being compelled to
appoint two Ministers to represent it in
one country in order that it will not have
to reject the services of an accomplished
“diplomat” like Mr. Forde, who recently
has been installed at Ottawa.
But there are still a few holes to be
filled such as Ceylon—whither Mr. Frost,
a cast-out politician, is likely to be bound
—Liberia, Albania, San Marino and
Andorra.
However, if young Mr. Blunden, who
reported the recent U.N.O. proceedings
for “S. M. Herald,” is right, the bottom
has fallen out of the championship-of-
small-nations business. Costa Rica,
Cuba, Ethiopia, Liberia and the rest have
formed “a color bloc” with India, able,
with the Slav bloc, to bring “16 or 17
votes against any member they choose to
attack” ; and the “member” may be Aus-
tralia. For “what we have seen in the
case of South Africa and India is only
the beginning.”
What did “we” see in the case of South
Africa and India? “We” saw South
Africa refusfed the annexation of “German
South-West,” attacked on the point of its
treatment of Indians in its provinces,
“requested” to settle the matter with the
Indian Government, which is feeling its
oats, and rebuffed when it offered to let
the case go to the Court of International
Justice. And the Australian delegation,
so directed by Dr. Evatt, yielded to the
Indians, “who had the full support of
Russia and the Slav nations.”
The Australian vote was an important
one. South Africa wanted it. India de-
manded it, and India had more power.
Her delegation threatened to put an end
to Australia’s growing Indian trade and to
turn her attention to the White Australia
policy and make a campaign against Aus-
tralia in the U.N.O. Assembly. Australia
abstained from voting. It was a compro-
mise which greatly disappointed South
Africa and only temporarily appeased
India.
So that is what all the pomp and
posturing and gasconading have come to.
The base betrayal of a sister-nation.
Total and ignominious surrender to India
and Russia in matters as vital to Aus-
tralia as they are to South Africa. In a
dreadful way it is consistent with “Labor”
practice, “Labor” practice being to
“settle” problems by running away from
them. But Australia will be singularly
fortunate if, in the course of events, it
hasn’t cause to curse “Labor” and its
Minister of External Affairs and his
grandiose department.
Test By Storm.
The old year went out with a lot of
things still undecided, among them the
Sydney “Labor” Government’s notion
of wiping out 67 municipal and shire
councils in the County of Cumberland
and setting up in their place eight city
councils—a “Labor” stunt designed to
give “Labor” control over the local affairs
of two million people. “Labor’s” excuse
is that numerous local-governing bodies
make for extravagance, inefficiency and
bungling (“Labor” is, of course, a per-
fect model of efficiency and sound
finance) and that, generally, everybody
would be far happier and development
and improvement would be rapid and
marvellous under centralised control of
large areas. All the same, “Labor” didn’t
propose to give the affected people a
chance to say what they thought of it by
referendum, though it is staging a refer-
endum on the relatively trifling question
of drinking hours, being too scared of
votes to decide the thing itself.
On New Year’s Day a savage hail-
storm swept over eastern and southern
Sydney. Hail as large as tennis balls
stripped trees, smashed windows and roof-
ing tiles, holed awnings and iron roofs,
riddled cars and injured hundreds of
people. In about five minutes it did
damage that, according to the president
of the Real Estate Institute, will take at
least six months to repair.
The Sydney Government, as always
when faced with a crisis, looked for some-
one to whom to pass the buck. It chose
the extravagant, inefficient and bungling
councils which it proposes to abolish. Its
Mr, Cahill, Minister for Local Govern-
ment, made an agonised appeal:
Councils have wide powers to advance
money for reconditioning homes and to do
repairs on behalf of ratepayers. The most
valuable work the councils can perform
is to supervise the provision and distri-
bution of tiles and other materials. Council
action of this kind will be appreciated by
the Government and will have its full
support.
The councils, without waiting for Mr.
Cahill, had already acted with that
celerity which usually distinguishes them
at such times. Their officers knew by the
next day how many tiles, panes of glass
and other material would be needed, and
were issuing priority certificates to those
who needed them.
The hitch, of course, was in the supply
of materials. These are under the control
of the “Labor” Government and its Hous-
ing Minister and Commission and its De-
partment of Labor and Industry, and, of
course, there was a shocking shortage of
everything, which was straightway availed
of by a new lot of blackmarketeers. In
short, the storm found, not the condemned
councils, but their would-be destroyers
wanting.
Soviet and Atom.
Back in his native Adelaide, Professor
Marcus Oliphant, who has done a good
deal of scientific work on atomic energy,
“BEYOND THE HILLS LIES CHINA.”
“Mr. Maxie Falstein, M.H.R., is off to China —not, he declares, to arrange shipping to Aus-
tralia for Jewish refugees in Shanghai and Hong Kong, but to ‘develop trade relationships
between Chinese business houses and my own companies.”
“Whaffor?”
made some striking comments on the
prospects of that power’s use in war and
peace, with guarded references to Russia.
Like some other scientists, Professor
Oliphant “deplores the secrecy which
shrouds the subject of applied atomic
energy”; in his case, on the scientist
ground that “as a general rule science
and secrecy are incompatible.” He would
like to see it being applied for peace-
time purposes in industry: “Consider
that 11b. of uranium is equivalent in pro-
ductive capacity to 1500 tons of coal and
it is easy to understand the significance of
atomic energy’s peace-time potential.”
Professor Oliphant was also downright
regarding the war possibilities: “Inter-
national control of atomic energy is the
world’s only defence against the holo-
caust of the next world war.” The pro-
fessor, however, was not anything so
downright when he stepped outside the
scientific into the political field. In re-
gard to Soviet Russia and the atom he
appeared as a mild apologist:
With Britain and America in possession
of formulae and ingredients, it is only
reasonable and human for Russia to have a
sort of inferiority complex on the matter.
Consequently she is inclined to quibble on
minor issues of the problem.
The trouble with this sort of woolly
statement is that it seems to put the blame
where the blame does not belong.
It conjures up a feeling of sympathy
for poor innocent lily white Russia,
overshadowed by a couple of arch-
villains, Britain and America. An
inference to be drawn is that if only
they’d do the right thing by handing
over their secrets to Russia all would be
well. The scientists could go right ahead
everywhere ; industry would enormously
benefit; and Russia, cured of its in-
feriority complex, wouldn’t quibble any
more.
Very beautiful—for anyone who can
believe it. Those charged with the rather
heavier responsibility of safeguarding the
welfare of their own nations, and the
peace of the world, most definitely do not
believe it. Nor do they believe that
Russia’s inclination to “quibble on minor
issues of the problem” is merely in-
feriority complex. They have been told
by the experts that, in Professor Oli-
phant’s own words, “Russia, even if she
works alone, will have the secret within
five years,” and instead of seeing the
Russians as merely quibbling they see
deliberate delaying tactics.
Meanwhile, they have a good start,
and, pending something from the Krem-
lin less Hitleristic both in word and act
than what has been so far shown, that
lead they mean to keep. But meanwhile,
also—and it is a most misleading thing
to air views on the political aspects of
the atom problem without mentioning
this —they have drawn up and presented
for Russian acceptance most definite and
generous terras of atomic-energy control.
Those terms have been widely pub-
lished, and unless the proposal is that
Russia has some special holy entitlement
to everything it asks for, without safe-
guards or any other considerations —
which Professor Oliphant, being the man
he is, would scarcely support —then any-
one who has troubled to read the terms
must know where the blame for the dead-
lock really lies. The plan, to ensure “a
strong, comprehensive international sys-
tem of control of atomic energy,” in-
cludes destruction of existing stocks of
atom bombs and prohibition of future
manufacture of the things. It insists on
complete powers for the international
authority and “complete freedom of in-
spection.”
What is offered the Russians is safe-
guarded equality in a world of peace. If
such an offer is unacceptable, ensuring a
little inequality on the war-making side
looks like the best peace-keeping equiva-
lent.
S.P. and Government.
Determined efforts to get s.p. betting
legalised are being made in “Labor”
States, though why the people concerned
can’t be satisfied to let it remain the “open
slather” it is is a mystery.
On New Year’s night, perhaps as a
sort of introduction to its idea of a
Goldep Age, A.B.C. came to light with
a Forum-of-the-Air debate on s.p. trans-
mitted from Perth (W.A.); principal con-
tributors, a former “Labor” politician,
afterwards an Independent and now out
of circulation, and a sitting “Labor”
member. When these two gentlemen
weren’t flaying one another a third was
accusing A.B.C. and commercial radio,
along with the newspapers, of having
contributed to a vast expansion of s.p.,
a charge to.which all the parties in the
dock would have to plead guilty.
Westralia narrowly escaped having
licensed betting shops foisted upon it by
its “Labor” Government, two members
of the party —one a veteran of the first,
1901, vintage—helping the Opposition to
defeat the bill, a thing without precedent
since 1941. Victoria, where long memories
of Wren’s toteshop still abide, hasn’t
got round to the issue yet, though its
“Labor” Government has done some-
thing for night trotting and mid-week
racing and is dabbling with the notion
of setting up a fifth State iot’ry. In
Queensland there’s a move to get licensed
betting shops in the north, and again the
impetus comes from a “Labor” crowd,
the Charters Towers T. and L.C. South
Australia has tried betting shops. It
abolished them during the war, and
a commission has since recommended
their revival in one or two country towns
on the somewhat doubtful ground that
illegal s.p. betting is so rife in them as to
justify legalised control.
Supporters of the betting-shop idea ad-
vance peculiar arguments, such as that
without betting shops country people are
denied “rights” enjoyed by their city
brethren ; that an evil ceases to be an evil
when legalised; that people will bet any-
how, and so on. Queensland opponents
in “the movement” say licensing of
betting shops would set up a monopoly.
The Hanlon Government’s main objection
is that legalisation of s.p. would “seri-
ously interfere with attendances at race-
meetings.”
Nothing about the anti-social nature of
the thing ; nothing about the fact that all
bookmakers are economic parasites and
must win, otherwise they couldn’t re-
main in the game. And nothing about
the effect on character, industry, intel-
lect and private budgets. Yet there is
a volume of evidence that betting,
whether on gallopers, trotters and dpgs
or in the lot’ry form, keeps people poor
and ignorant and breeds reckless and
idle habits of mind which have had and
are having evil industrial consequences.
Indonesia.
“Feng-Shui” : Barring obstacles and
accidents, Indonesia is to be a republic,
which means that the world is to have
another nation with a population of
70.000. or 80,000,000, which might be
200.000. in the not-so-distant future.
This is regarded in certain quarters as a
great achievement and an insurance for
world peace.
People knowing the kind of education
Dr. Soekarno has had, the ideas he has
inherited and the class he comes from
have no reason to believe that he won’t
want to go in the same direction as the
Japanese. There is no reason to believe
that the Javanese could not be made as
industrious as the Japanese, and there is
no evidence for believing that, being
Moslems, they wouldn’t be as nationalistic
as the Germans or any other nation. In
the seventh century their Madjopait em-
pire overran the Archipelago, Siam, the
Philippines and Malaya.
The population of Java was then a
tenth of what it is now. During the
industrial renaissance of Japan the popu-
lation was doubled.
Although I have no prejudice against
the Indonesians —in fact, I have
always liked them and have pleasant
memories of their country—l will find it
easy to refrain from joining in the world-
wide chorus of congratulations at the
inauguration of their glorious republic.
The Murray Valley.
Meeting at Shepparton (Vic.), the
Murray Valley Development League de-
cided to look into the chances of perl-
- “large-scale industries” to set
themselves up in the valley, there being
three districts, each with its own attrac-
tions. The first, between Mildura and
Murray Bridge, would offer cheap trans-
port by river barge if a port could be
opened at the Murray mouth; in the
second, there are towns like Echuca,
Shepparton and Wangaratta, all with
short and direct rail connection with Mel-
bourne ; in the third, Albury, Corowa,
Yarrawonga and Tocumwal, which have
rail connections without gauge breaks to
Sydney and Melbourne.
The plan has its points, since there is
plenty of cheap land, good roads and
roads that could be made good, ample
water and potential cheap power through
hydro-electric power, as well as coal at
Oaklands (N.S.W.) and Moorlands (S.A.).
What is more, the industries would be in
the heart of the continent’s best food-
producing area, and the workers would
enjoy an unsurpassed climate.
The maddening obstacle —an obstacle
that hamstrings development anywhere in
Australia —is that Governments must
come into it. Three States control the
Murray, and anything to do with
storage, with hydro-electric develop-
ment and the general use of the waters,
always becomes a sort of three-cornered
contest between Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide. Canberra, too, has its say, and
between the lot the Murray Valley can
get nowhere —a fate it shares with other
rural districts which, if they could rid
themselves of big-city Governments, use a
fair proportion of their own tax-money
in their own areas and assume control
over their own affairs, would quickly
emerge from their present stagnation.
How the M.V.D.L. is to overcome
these problems is a mighty problem in
itself. Overcome they must be, and
about the most promising way would be
the setting up of a new State of Riverina.
The League could do worse than study
sections 123 and 124 of the Common-
wealth Constitution and then ask the
people of Riverina what they thought
about it. The Murray will never be much
more than an outback river with a few
fruit settlements along it while distant
big cities control its revenues, govern-
ment and progress.


i
m
m **
B578B
CRAVENA
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding quality
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
At the beginning of the week the aver-
age Sydney housewife was without sugar,
common soap and butchers’ meat (most
of the retail butchers had closed their
doors) and was threatened with a repe-
tition of the gasworks, transport and
wharf strikes ; and all as a result of the
measures taken and the “influence”
exerted by her marvellous “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernments,” Federal and State, each in
its sixth year of office. And if the poor
thing succeeded in tracking down a packet
of cigarettes, she had to pay another
halfpenny— of which the Federal
Government takes 6jd. This when
Customs and excise revenue for the first
six months of the financial year was up
£13,746,528 on the 1945-46 period, having
gone from £35,727,405 to £49,473,933.
Did any comfort or hope come from those
“Labor” wonder-workers Chifley and
McKell? Not a gleam ; not a word.
Sydney “D.T.’s” front-page “columnist”
is back on the job with the report that
“the Squire has eased in the betting: you
can now get a shade of odds against his
becoming G.-G.” A sorry return for
favors received—McKell helped two
jockeys, a bookmaker, Police Commis-
sioner Mac Kay (once “The Flying Pie-
man” to “Labor”), Menzies and others
to fill the young man’s column while he
was away. And “the Squire” must have
the horrible feeling that there is some-
thing in it. Though Chifley protests that
he had nothing to do with the elevation
of Bruce to the peerage he had a great
deal to do with the renewal of the
Viscount’s appointment as High Com-
missioner, on which occasion the Govern-
ment rained compliments. And he
wouldn’t be a “Labor” leader if he didn’t
—er —bow to a threatened storm.
There is nothing stranger in Britain’s
political history than that its Government
should be striking at the foundations of
the financial and industrial strength it
showed during the wars, and from which
its moral strength, also unsurpassed,
cannot be dissociated. In pursuance of
this policy, for which the Government
has gone to the Mad Continent—the
French variety of socialism is favored —
the coalmines were formally “taken
over” last week. So was a calamitous
coal shortage, “nationalisation” having
existed in spirit since August, 1945. It
was stated on New Year’s Day that
the union bosses and miners had given
solemn anti-strike undertakings. One of
the union bosses forthwith announced
that this was all moonshine. Meanwhile
the nation, still on monotonous food
rations with no sign of improvement, is
experiencing a cold and cheerless winter
Defying the party ban on titles, Tas-
manian Premier Cosgrove got a New
Year knighthood for Shoobridge, presi-
dent of the hated Leg. Council, at the
same time securing the inclusion of Mrs.
Cosgrove in the Most Excellent Order
of the British Empire as Dame Com-
mander. There should be no objection
to that, for the lady has been a devoted
worker in patriotic and charitable causes,
and her only son was lost in the ill-
fated bombing raid on Sylt. But it has
been remarked that Shoobridge’s prede-
cessor, who was in everything in his
native Hobart after his retirement from
international cricket, died plain Charlie
Eady.
Bruce is not the first man to have
graduated from Australian politics to a
viscountcy, as has been 'stated. The
distinction belongs to Robert Lowe, who,
though not Australian by birth or educa-
tion, entered public life in these parts,
first as a nominee M.L.C. (Nov. 7, 1843,
to Sept, 10, 1844); he was then for three
years (1845-48) elected member for the
Counties of St. Vincent and Auckland
and for 16 subsequent months elected
member for the City of Sydney, Return-
ing to England and becoming M,P. for
Kidderminster, he held office under Aber-
deen, Palmerston and Gladstone (as
Chancellor of the Exchequer and Home
Secretary) before his death in 1892, Like
Forrest and Bruce, he was childless: “the
first and only Viscount Sherbrooke.”
These fellows down along the Murray
are getting awfully cheeky. They’ve de-
cided to ask the Governments of S.A.,
Victoria and N.S.W, for a statement
showing the number of houses built in
each of their capitals for the year to
30/6/’46 and the number built in their
country districts in the same period. This
“to supply evidence of the effectiveness
of their decentralisation policies.” It’ll
probably cause Hamilton Knight, the
N.S.W, Minister for the Supply of Tin-
headed Roofing Nails, to write another
agonised article in “S. M. Herald.”
Old-year’s-end A.A.P. item from
Ottawa:
Dumford Smith, a Canadian National
Research Council engineer, has been sen-
tenced to five years’ imprisonment for
having conspired to communicate confiden-
tial information to Russia. The Judge
said he was convinced that Smith had given
a large amount of highly secret informa-
tion. Counsel for the defence pleaded that
Smith had been “cleverly corrupted” and
was a victim of circumstances.
Presumably the R.S.L. executive has
already noted that the National Research
Council is the Canadian counterpart of
the C.S.I.R.
One of the war-time regulations which
died with the old year was that making
notes of higher denominations than £lO
illegal tender. Anybody can now cash
tenners, twenties, fifties, hundreds and so
on. But, by all accounts, it has become
a bit hazardous on racecourses.
“North Queensland Register” has it
from Canberra that the possibility of ex-
ploiting coal deposits in Antarctica will
be investigated by the expedition to go
there from Australia—some day. No-
body believed that the coal position
would become as desperate as that.
These State Governments won’t yield
“controls” if they can help it. The
Queensland one, finding the bread-zoning
regulations outed and the bakers refus-
ing to unzone, as it were, put through a
bill to compel any baker to deliver to
any customer within three miles of the
bakery. Nobody seems to know what
the penalty for refusal is, but the house-
wife is already lined up for punishment;
an increase of Id. a loaf has been ordered
for Townsville and Cairns a&d will come
in other parts. And it is useless for the
housewife to point out that she got no
price-reduction when deliveries were cut
out. One of these days some Australian
Government will leave business to look
after itself and get back to governing,
whereupon the result will open before
the regulation-maddened community like
a pearly sunrise.
According to Pollard (Commerce and
Agriculture), Britain has signed for large
purchases of Australian apples and pears
and is attending to the shipping arrange-
ments. Britain could make the necessary
shipping arrangements for any gift of food
which Pollard’s Government cared to
offer, but Pollard’s Government won’t
offer any, its policy being to supply
Britain at top price for everything.
Place among the early optimists of
1947 the Waverley (Sydney) municipal
council. Its area was right in the path
of the violent hailstorm that visited
Sydney on New Year’s Day and caused
enormous damage to windows and roofs.
The council decided to ask the Federal
Government for a grant of £60,000 from
the War Damage Insurance Fund. Chifley
is expected to reply that hailstorms are
not a Federal matter.
Having travelled 14,000 miles in 16
days and fought a battle against the
Tokyo press correspondents with dis-
astrous results. Chambers, Forde’s suc-
cessor, is back in Australia safe and
sound. He pronounces* the Australians
he met in Japan a “good lot of lads,
quite comparable with any force they
have been in contact with.” Chambers,
unfortunately, does not tell his public
whether he had time to pat the boys on
the head individually as he whizzed by.
But he sounds capable of having done it.
The chairmanship of the U.N.O.
Security Council has fallen to Australia
again, this time for a month ; and, “to
the surprise of other delegations,” which
think no end of Hasluck, Makin has taken
it. Hasluck did the work but Makin had
the pull.
Brave old Smuts, back in South Africa
—where, as he said, there are 2,000,000
whites, surrounded by 150,000,000
colored peoples—pointed out that U.N.O.
itself is two-thirds colored and poignantly
declared that “the whole world was
against us at Lake Success.” Not the
whole world, for the English-speaking
democracies, with one exception, tried to
prevent interference in South African
affairs on the score of South Africa’s
treatment of immigrants from India,
where “the greatest discrimination in the
world” is practised. The exception was
Australia, where there are 7,400,000
whites surrounded by 1,000,000,000
colored peoples. Australia’s vote could
have prevented the sister-Dominion being
censured —in effect ordered to give in to
its Indians—and forbidden its right to take
the case to the International Court of
Justice—though on that Smuts says it
will insist. Australia’s vo;e was “with-
held under orders from Canberra,” still
unexplained. No words can express the
base cowardice of this proceeding or the
mischief it will cause.
In Melbourne last Friday:
The United Women’s Movement called a
meeting of housewives on the steps of Parlia-
ment House to protest against the gas strike —
as in Adelaide, still on. Strikers, Communists
and women alleged to be strikers’ wives went
along in force and tried to howl the U.W.M.
down. “A young man in, a green coat” called
for cheers for the strikers the A.E.U. and the
Ironworkers, and invited everybody to march
to the Yarra Bank. “March by all means,”
a young woman said—“march right into the
Yarra,” Meantime Premier Cain, Crofts,
Federal secretary of the Gasworkers, and the
manager of the Metropolitan Gas Co. were “in
conference.” About 20 indignant women tried
to take part in the proceedings. They failed,
but the manager and Crofts talked to the
ladies, who shouted “We want Cain.” Him
they didn’t get—he had slipped through a side
entrance and escaped tb the Test match. Scorn-
ing thousands of pamphlets putting the strikers’
“case,” the U.W.M; went home to its spirit-
stoves and the Commos retired gloating at their
“victory” over womanhood and free speech.
Cain enjoyed the cricket.
Many shops in America—which is
heavily taxed, but not so heavily as is
Australia —have adopted a shrewd way
of answering complaints about -the high
cost of living. They display on their
goods a card which shows the price
the retailer pays for the goods, the
amount of tax added to that and the
price to the buyer. What’s more, the
salesman tells the customer how much
tax is included in the price of the article
he buys. Such a practice, adopted here,
would startle a lot of people out of their
complacency.
Australian Governments never seem,
to have the vision to see that vast
national undertakings are indissolubly
linked with each other. New railways
and inland development would mean in-
creased population, since there would be
more water, more production, more
everything else. Whence will the immi-
grants come and whence the water?
Unless those two problems are solved,
the new train crews are going to travel
through a mighty empty land.
Militant unionism is rapidly getting
the Australian wage-earner into an almost
hopeless mess. Attempting to usurp the
functions of Government, law and em-
ployer, it has nothing of a constructive
or productive nature to offer in return.
Some “militants” merely have the cock-
sureness and prejudice of ignorance;
others are more calculating and sinister.
Unfortunately there are too many Aus-
tralians who regard our industrial in-
sanity as “inevitable.” It is only inevi-
table if we continue to allow adventurers
and anarchists to sabotage the institu-
tions of democracy.
According to “Australian” Com-
munists, writers and artists have complete
freedom of expression in Russia. Kon-
stantin Simonov, winner of the Stalin
Literary Prize, “proves” it:
The Soviet writei, whether writer or play-
wright, must be absolutely selfless and a
propagandist. Dramatists forget that the
Soviet theatre can fulfil its important role
in the education of the workers only if it
causes an active propaganda for the State.
The dramatist mus., be a politician but the
producer and actor must also be just as
much politicians. No high art can have
only a self-purpose.
This may be called “freedom” in the
Workers’ Paradise, In other countries it
would be called crawling.
In 1893 South Australians had a shot
at collectivism: “the Government,
during a period of financial depression
and unemployment, authorised the for-
mation of eleven village settlements,”
along the Murray, on communistic
principles. “Six years later this form of
control was abolished and the settlers re-
maining were permitted to secure inde-
pendent holdings.” And, of course, where
collectivism, with Government patronage,
failed, stout individualism duly suc-
ceeded. The story is told —and told well
—in O. L. Ziegler’s This Is Australia.
All is not bliss in Tito’s Yugoslavia.
That illustrated-paper hero (with hun-
dreds of portraits) had to broadcast a
New Year message declaring that peasants
hadn’t delivered up their wheat and that
other scoundrelly individuals weren’t
following the Party Line or something.
Obviously bullets will be flying presently
in the direction of “Fascist” necks, every-
one who isn’t a Communist being a
Fascist to the Titos of this world.
In Burwood, Sydney, a tidy place which
has “neither loan liability nor over-
draft,” the municipal council has been
moved by “Labor” threats of abolition
to make a comparison between Burwood
rates and those of Greater Brisbane,
which the “ ‘Labor’ Government” has
taken for model. It has to be remembered
that water and sewerage rates are levied
by the Greater Brisbane council, and not
by the Burwood council; all the same,
the addition of water and sewerage rates
to the Burwood total would still leave
an amazing difference. Comparison
without the addition:
Burwood Brisbane
U.C.V. Rates. Rates.
Business
premises .. £16,062 £217/10/2 £B7O/0/8
Residence
(first-class) .. 700 9/9/7 37/18/4
Residence
(ordinary) .. 220 2/19/7 11/18/4
The Burwood rate is 3id, in the £U.C.V.
Liberal district, of course.
A newspaperman, after touring his
State with the Soil Conservation Board
and attending a couple of conferences,
concluded that “virtually no progress has
been made in Victoria in this vital work.”
That is true of other States, and the
reason is plain enough. Conservation of
soil, water and forests is an indivisible
national job.
When Brooks Atkinson, after 10
months in Moscow for New York
“Times,” got home, he wrote what he
had seen of the Soviet system at work,
untrammelled by the Soviet censors. An
extract; —
As far as a foreigner can tell, the Soviet
leaders are in a strong position The
Communist' party is naturally taking the
full credit for winning the war—in various
degrees ignoring the contributions the other
Allies made to the defeat of Germany, and
taking credit for the knockout blow against
Japan.
It has a very familiar ring about it.


SOUTHWARD HO!
“Half the world, Australia so far excepted, has sent or is sending expeditions to the Antarctic, and it seems certain that the U.S.A. and Argentina will dispute Australia’s
claim to 'the islands and territory' annexed in a Commonwealth Act of 1933.”
‘I'm the Hon. E. J. Ward, your Australian Minister of External Territories, and I’m here with a hatful of benefits. In the first place I declare your
six-month day a five-month day.”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS ”
“Chevroford”: The only bureaucratic
institution in Melbourne which betrays
signs of a soul is the Harbor Trust, It
sends out such affectionate appeals to its
debtors that it seldom has an outstanding
account, and I have almost wept tears
of remorse on receiving one of its
courteous epistles. And there was the
case of a young woman found on Trust
property under “the influence,” an offence
punishable under anti-pillage regulations.
The damsel pleaded she was a first
offender, and the softhearted Commis-
sioners decided not to prosecute, but felt
that some form of admonition was called
for. A motion was put that the girl be
sent a letter of reprimand—in a plain
envelope. The motion was carried with-
out a dissentient vote, and with a sob in
its voice the Trust proceeded to other
business.
* * * »
“Eve”: I was looking in a window at
a frock marked “Twenty guineas.” 1
didn’t seeTiow anybody would pay such
a price for a frock, particularly as it was
of very ordinary style and not even put
together so that the pattern matched on
both sides. Still, I was prepared to grin
and pass on. A calm, gentle-looking
matron, near by, spoke. She said,
“Twenty guineas, eh?” I said, “Yes, a
bit hot, isn’t it?” The gentle lady replied,
“Hot? It makes me Want to whistle the
gang up and stone the window”. . . I left
quickly and didn’t look back.
* * * ; *
“Conda”: Unorthodox naval signals
(B. 1/1 / ’47)? Perhaps the best came
from carrier Indefatigable on exercises
off Japan. Destroyer Grenville circled
her close to take station in the screen,
but misjudged and clipped her nose hard
on the big ship’s stern. Her siren
squealed and a falsetto voice crackled
from the radio-telephone: “If you touch
me there again, I’ll scream.”
* * * *
“Findy”: Good fortune has thus far
kept me out of hospitals, so my observa-
tions on the type of people most likely
to be “hospitalised” are not the result of
actual investigation; they are nonethe-
less based on fairly strong evidence. I
should say that the average hospital-prone
Australian is deeply religious, has a deep
affection for his mother and is part Irish
and part cotton-belt American. If he has
any sense of humor, he leaves it in safe
custody with the gatekeeper as he enters
the institution. These deductions are
based on a careful study of A.B.C.’s
hospital half-hour, which comes over
the air while I am having my morning
shower and shave. The items, I am told,
are chosen by patients and should be an
accurate reflection of their tastes and
character. John Charles Thomas, with
his musical version of The Lord’s Prayer,
must just about keep himself in smokes
on the royalties he gets from providing
spiritual consolation to the sick and con-
valescent and Grade Fields’s recordings
of “Ave Maria” must at least keep her in
throat lozenges. These two items seem to
be first favorites, but they are closely
followed by songs with the mother motif
—dear old, silver-haired, or old-fashioned,
but definitely unselfish and usually Irish —
and the nostalgic “take me back” songs,
which openly or covertly express the wish
of the singer to be transported to some
old-fashioned, out-of-date, tumbledown
and definitely uncomfortable hut, cottage
or farm, preferably in Ireland, Virginia
or Kentucky. Still, I suppose the sick-bed
brings us all to the same level, and pos-
sibly one of these days I’ll be writing to
A.B.C. myself pleading for just one more
dose of “Mother Machree.”
* * * *
“R.C.”: Psychology tests, is it (B.
18/12/’46)? They had me in the
giggle-house early in ’42, and after
marking ,me as suitable for “amenities,”
“publicity”—yes, “publicity”—or straight-
out footslogging, asked me my prefer-
ence, I said “artillery,” and was promptly
sent to an infantry-training battalion on
the Queensland border. Six months
later they dispatched me to the jungle-
training school at Canungra, and after
completing my jungle course I was
drafted to an advanced R.A.P. I cleaned
windows, swept floors and rolled band-
ages for a month, then rebelled and was
paraded before the C. 0., who expressed
amazement that I hadn’t had any “medi-
cal training.” Returned to Redbank
(Q.) as a preliminary to going through
the “medical school” at Warwick, I
finished up as a machine-gun instructor
instead. A few months later, to rub the
salt in, they put me through the giggle-
house again.
“Plop”: I applied for a course in short-
hand under the Post-war Reconstruction
Training Scheme and was subjected to an
aptitude test; time, two and a half hours.
I went straight home to find a letter wait-
“I found poisoned baits more satisfactory .”
ing for me. I read; “Dear Mr. Plop, I am
pleased to inform you that you have been
selected for part-time training in short-
hand under provisions of the Common-
wealth Reconstruction Training Scheme.”
The letter was dated the day before I
sat for the test. And I still have to pre-
sent myself before the selection officer of
the department to find out how I shaped
and whether I am considered suitable to
grapple with the intricacies of Pitman.
t , ,* , .
Frank Maun : The Japs had a dread
of epidemics yet showed a marked ignor-
ance of hygiene. Our Burma camp m.o.
stressed the danger of cholera to them as
well as ourselves when the disease was
ravaging the countryside. “Make war
on flies,” he declared. The Japs took up
the idea with enthusiasm. Orders were
issued that all prisoners and Japs must
carry swats at all times. Imagine the
parades and working-parties with every-
one fly-swatting! Convalescents m camps
were put on a quota of dead flies with a
bonus. Dozens of men sat round baits o
STerncutmhtotSS»andtatS™.
—bv D-O-W were made
When the Nips raised the quota to meet
the inrreawNt navnnt nnp trnmw adv«*r
tised on the camp tree-trunk: irlybusi-
ness for sale, 50 dollars. Ten traps ; five
men emnloved Dwnpr rptiHno ” The*
tins but the racket collansed when the
Japs dilveredmost otthecamhescon
sisted Of burn, grains ot rice. <
“Ex-Mister”: Even a second world
war has failed to quench the humor of
marine mendacity as exercised upon the
simple landlubber. Witness the case of
Mr. John Perkins, official naturalist in
the U.S. Antarctic research ship Mount
Olympus, warned by the skipper that if
he kills an albatross for scientific ex-
amination he will be chucked overboard
by the angry crew if he ventures on deck
after dark. On a previous expedition he
had been warned that the crew would
mutiny were he to commit such a crime.
If the man had ever seen pipe stems made
of albatross wing bones, wings preserved
for wall ornaments, the imitation tiger
claw of the beak tip and the dozen other
knick-knacks which used to bring good
money to shellbacks he wouldn’t be so
easy a mark for the deepwater leg-puller.
Far from having any superstitious regard
for the rapacious giants, any sailorman
knows they will attack a man in the water
without hesitation if other tucker is
scarce,
• * * *
“G.M.”; During the. Hobart trammies’
“regulations” strike one conductor of a
very full early-morning tram was chanting
“Move along the car a bit. Move along
the car a bit.” An apt rejoinder came
from one who had no right to be so
bright at that hour. “What about moving
the car along a bit!”
♦ ♦ * «
“Jasby”: Colonel McCormick’s refer-
ence to Australians as a nation of
criminals’ descendants (B. 25/12/ ’46)
probably convinced Gavin Casey of the
futility of entering into polite debate
with the proprietor of the Chicago
“Tribune,” but I can’t help hoping he
used one more sheet of Department of
Information notepaper to remind the old
muddlehead that Australia was chosen
as a convict settlement only after the
War of Independence closed the Ameri-
can colonies as dumping grounds for
English criminals. Transportation to the
American colonies began under the first
Stuarts and continued under Cromwell,
After the Restoration the sale of criminals
to American planters became the regular
way of getting rid of England’s erring
children, and in 1718 an Act of Parlia-
ment laid down the conditions—shippers
undertook to carry the jailbirds across
the Atlantic, and in return were entitled
to sell them at £2O a head, Maryland
was the chief importer, and planters buy-
j ng a convict were entitled to his services
for from seven to 14 years. The system
flourished right down to the eve of the
Revolution and many convicts, thus trans-
ported, later became landholders and in
turn bought their fellow-men for 20-quid
a knob. As time went on they and their
descendants became quite affluent and
respectable. Some of them may even have
owned newspapers.
* * *
“Ad Rem”: One of my homing manu-
scripts landed in from Sydney Christmas
£ ve As well as the editor’s regrets,
two letters and thra > ,ostcards flut-
tered £rom its folds - AU bore
Vlctoria “ addresses, and postmarks
show f d t . hat »“ had b f n fro ”
our local holiday-resort post office on
Dumber 12. That date had no par-
tlc.ular significance until I examined my
index, which showed I had sent the manu-
script on tour that day. As it was posted
in a lar S e °P en envelope I conclude
‘ ba ‘ »« P°fH ze f alo ‘
J ba S 3 “p. *"1
haven’t drawn any conclusions as to why
my screed was rejected.
•
“Lao-dah’’: I see that a new State of
East Indonesia with a Hindu as governor-
general is to be created as a result of a
conference in Bali, The G.-G. no doubt
will be a Balinese, as that beautiful island
with its crown of volcanoes is the last
stronghold of Hinduism in the East
Indies. The Hindus once ruled the roost
in Java ; their empire extended to Malaya
and the furthest confines of the archi-
pelago and the ruins of their majestic
temples show that they were pretty
powerful people. Only a rage for archi-
tecture, sculpture and carving could have
produced those temples, as the popula-
tion of Java could not then have exceeded
two or three millions. They were wiped
out by the iconoclastic Moslems, who had
a puritanical objection to the making of
graven images. The remnants fled to
Bali, where they maintained their ancient
customs, including the habit of burning
widows long after the practice was put
down by the British in India. The
Balinese maintained their independence
right down to present century. The last
Dutch expedition to suppress suttee
occurred about 1906, and on that occa-
sion mem, women and children charged
on the invaders. Chief exports from
Bali used to be pigs and priestesses of
Aphrodite. The pigs were for Chinese
consumption and the redlight district in
every Javanese kampong used to be com-
posed of Balinese women.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There was an echo of the ex-
Kaiser at the proceedings of the Bread
Inquiry Board in Melbourne. One of
the witnesses was Sol Liston, a German
test baker, who served his apprentice-
ship in Berlin and became baker
and pastrycook to Wilhelm 11. Now he
is test baker in one of Melbourne’s
largest flourmills. He declared Australian
flour to be among the world’s best, but
the bread made from it was, in his
opinion, inferior to that of European
countries because of the habit of robbing
the wheat of its most nutritious com-
ponents.
f * * »
“Riley”: I’m doubtful about the tele-
phone girl who could recognise the rings
of telephone bells on calls dialled for
her. The bell which rings at the called
number cannot be heard at the calling
’phone. Nor can any other noise at the
distant premises be heard by the caller —
thank goodness for this small privacy!
until the called person lifts the receiver
from the switchhook. What that girl
really heard was a ringing tone super-
imposed on the circuit at the automatic-
telephone exchange and this ringing tone
is common to all subscribers’ services
connected to the exchange. Her only
chance would be if the numbers selected
were all on different exchanges. Possibly
her sponsor chose the number most often
dialled by her on each exchange.
* * * *
“Haddon”: Grammatical licence is not
solely the prerogative of sar-majors. For
over 15 years one big business executive
has been bringing discreet smiles from
his staff by his instructions for the “can-
cellisation” of this or the “summarisa-
tion” of something else.
**, * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: This blaming
of the metal industries for the present
ghastly shortage in bottled beer because
they don’t produce enough capsules is
merely an attempt to sidestep the main
issue. Why don’t the Chifs get busy
on it—corks, disappearance of? Cap-
sules are slinky, silent, nail-breaking
monstrosities, and, anyhow, if the beer is
properly up they are liable to waste half
of it. The plop of a jolly old cork pro-
vides an anticipatory flavor of its own,
and its buxom body controls effectually
the uprush of the precious fluid. Pessi-
mists may moan that it takes 20 years to
grow a cork and that the admirable
things then have to be brought all the
way from Spain or Algeria against im-
port restrictions, but all that is beside the
point. They are feather-light in weight
and a few bomber-loads would relieve a
distressing situation. The weight in corks
of even one of Mr. Calwell’s jews’-harp
immigrants would solve the shortage and
replenish the now-depleted strike funds
of the Corkscrew Makers’ Union,
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: There is a disused quarry
not far from the Jephson home, and
though there are warning notices against
it much rubbish is dumped therein in
the dark hours. The young Jephsons and
their compeers play about there at times,
with the result that old motor-tyres, parts
of bedsteads, broken gramophone records
and other things find their way into the
Jephson backyard, and periodically J.
gathers them up and puts them by the
front-gate for the garbage-disposal
people. He had such a clean-up the other
night and piled a heap of stuff by the
gate. At dawn next morning crowds
besieged the Jephson manage an£ he
discovered that, stuck among the rubbish
at the gate, was an old notice being the
legend, “To Let.” You can’t tell Jephson
anything about the bush telegraph now.
IF ANY.
“A gigantic telescope lias been erected in Cali-
fornia, and is almost ready for use, through which
it will be possible to spot inhabitants, if any, on
Mars.”
It ought to solve a hackneyed speculation
Regarding life on that celestial spot
And stifle any further altercation
On human beings existing there or not.
Haven’t you ever thought it curious, what?
None of the blokes and coves who read the stars
(Or kid they do) have ever risked a shot
On whether there are coves and blokes on Mars.
The Martians of H. G. Wells’ creation
Appeared a most objectionable lot,
Bearing a singularly scant relation
To dwellers upon our terrestrial plot,
A race that one might rate as misbegot,
A world outside all human bounds and bars.
And nobody, I think, would care a jot
If there were none resembling these on Mars.
True, Homo sapiens is an appellation
By which we choose ourselves to tatr and tot.
But who shall say, in some far stellar station,
No Homo sapientior sinks his pot.
Or sips in winter-time his whisky hot.
Or fashions vibrant verse and piquant pars?
You cannot reasonably call it rot
To vision Mokes and guys like these on Mars.
And what will be the parsons’ explanation
Since patently all earthly creeds it jars,
I can’t but wonder —if investigation
Discloses there are Jacks and Jills on Mars.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Hoppy”; One of our worn-out
Liberators was being from Morotai
for an overhaul. With a good 100 miles
of sea still to cross, one engine faded
out and the skipper sent the nav. down to
tell the army hitch-hikers to prepare for
the worst. Blue was on his way via
discharge centre to the farm, and he un-
packed his old boots that had been so
long almost part of him. He put them
aside as he unlaced the new going-south
pair. A moment later the nav. was back
with news that No. 2 engine was packing
up and that our only chance was the
tossing overboard of as much gear and
bits of aircraft as possible. On two en-
gines we just scraped into Darwin
and all heaved a sigh except Blue.
With memories of rookie days and
parades, Blue had tossed those stiff yellow
boots into the Arafura and he’d been
just in time to see his beloved size-tens
leave another hatch. The last hour of
the trip was a bit grim, but the boys
had no time to think, as Blue kept up
the greatest of non-stop moan sessions
until we landed.
* * * *
“D. Empson”: Further to my par on
newspaper competitions, with special
reference to these Find-the-Ball flutters
(B. 18/12/’46), I note that the Sydney
“D.T.” opened with a first prize of
£1474 (silver omitted), to which “S. M.
Herald” replied with £1506; and that
the “D.T.” raised the ante to £2743, the
“Herald,” after deep thought, being con-
tent to come in with £1703. That put it
up to the “D.T.” in a most embarrassing
way. Deciding that discretion was the
better part of valor, the “D.T.” fobbed
off its No. 3 winner with £lOBB, leaving it
to be inferred —well, what would you in-
fer? I predict that the competitions will
be abandoned at an early, date by mutual
consent as too costly apd otherwise
vexatious.
* * * *
“Niloc”: My newest resolution went
west on New Year’s Day, and I turned
up at Randwick about a furlong ahead
of the big storm. All round, summer
fashions were being escorted by husbands
trying to win back enough money to pay
for them. Then, bursting like grenades,
came the first of the hailstones. These
were only small—about the size of golf-
balls —but they sent the punters scurrying
for the shelter of the stands. Bookies
were told how “I always place my bets
with you, and could I squeeze in under
your brolly?” Later, when the sun shone
again, the ladies were walking about try-
ing to dry out some of their shrinking
clothing, and looking like so many half-
drowned kittens. To provide entertain-
ment during the delay after the storm.
two goats from the Flat jumped the fence
and staged a Donnybrook on the No. 2
track, hitting each other with fists, boots
and mud. They finally went their ways,
one on a stretcher, and the next race
began.
* * » •
“Bozo”: Our northern gateway still
has its hazards. A Darwin man and his
wife were driving through an area popu-
“ Don't Worry about it, my dear—accidents WILL happen.”
lar for moonlight beer parties, and as they
drove past piles of empties they spotted
a couple of capped and apparently intact
bottles gleaming in the hot sun. Hubby
pulled up to investigate. Yes, two full
bottles, strangely overlooked by the mid-
night revellers, a chance too good to be
missed in droughty Darwin ; so he picked
them up and returned to the car with his
prize. Placing the precious cargo gently
on the car floor he started off, but be-
fore the rattler had gone 100 yards there
was a violent explosion. The combina-
tion of heat and shaking was too much
for the almost boiling brew and glass
flew in all directions. One of the lady’s
legs stopped most of it, but the other
limb escaped—it was already encased in'
plaster from a previous accident!
* * * *
“Deep”: The Beak was tearing through
a heavier-than-usual list of traffic cases
at the rate of about one a minute. As
he mopped up a heap of speeding.
charges, an old cove in the back of the
court muttered to me “He oughter be
charged with speedin’ h'tnself.”
.** * *
“Estrokeo”: The Norwegian tanker
Anna Knudsen has been reported
bound from New York to Antarc-
tica as mother ship to whale factories.
The. crew of the Australian corvette
Burnie remember her as one of half a
dozen empty tankers being escorted from
Aden to the Persian Gulf in 1943. In the
first light of dawn off the Arabian coast,
north of Cape Gardafui, a lurking sub-
marine had a long shot with two tor-
pedoes, one of which ripped a big hole in
“This one is more expensive—it says 'Mater.'”
Anna Knudsen up for’ard. By counter-
flooding other compartments, trim was
soon restored, and by 8 a.m. she was on
her way back to Aden en route for
Alexandria and repairs. In the interval
between dawn and breakfast the sub. had
been disposed of and Anna’s captain, a
genial old English-speaking Norwegian,
had dispensed hospitality to the corvette’s
C.O. Whisky and cigars seemed rather a
test at that hour, but the occasion de-
manded it. An interesting sidelight I re-
call was the thump-thump of a grand-
father shark stropping his itchy tail on a
piece of floating timber, debris from the
explosion.
* * * *
“Big Bang”: A Melbourne radio-
engineer in our Hun p.-0.-w. camp was
responsible for keeping us in touch with
the outside world. He got a pair of ear-
phones and oddments of electrical junk
off a Jerry truck and set out to make a
short-wave crystal set. Wire was sou-
venired from the horn of a German
lorry. The coil was wound on a shaving-
stick container, tappings made every four
or five turns. To get the soldering done
he saved scraps of metal with solder on
and for a flux, he used resin. A crystal
was needed. An airman had one, and
sold it dearly—for a loaf of bread. That
night the inventor tried his set out on the
roof. After half an hour he heard a mur-
mur of drums. It was the signal of the
8.8. C. news to Europe. After that we
got the news every morning. The Hun
searched hard and often, but he never
found the set,
“Flaneur”: Those Italian naval officers
who shared our prison life in Changi
(B. 25/12/’46) represented a fair cross-
section of Italy. All were dark and
swarthy but two ; one, a part-Austrian
from Trieste, the other a Sicilian who
boasted of his descent from the Normans,
and certainly bore their legacy of fair
1 hair and blue eyes. The Eyeties showed a
great passion for knowledge and attended
most of the classes offered by our Changi
university. One trait of theirs we failed
to understand. Possibly as a result of
their submarine service they seemed to
dislike fresh air, and at lights-out insisted
on closing the shutters at their end of the
hut. The fug in the morning was reminis-
cent of a Sydney nightclub.
* 5k * *
“Harrier”: Horses today are quite
blase about motor traffic ; in the days
when motors were only a minor
percentage of the traffic stream, life in
the city was a stirring experience. The
cars of the time were smelly and noisy,
and bolting horses which occasionally
hurled themselves into shop windows or
tried to get into pubs to escape the terror
behind them did their act almost daily.
Such incidents gave a basis for the sug-
gestion, seriously considered, that motors
should be barred within the city limits.
One horse hurled itself down the steps
of a public convenience near the Sydney
Town Hall as the finale to its frenzied
dash through the city, leaving cart and
harness draped round the railings above ;
and another horse actually scrambled on
board a tram, also shedding its vehicular
trappings when it did so. Great days to
live in; a man could make a hero of
himself at almost any time stopping bolt-
ing horses—if he liked stopping bolting
horses.
# * * *
“Craiser”: A Melbourne doctor tells
an amusing Christmas story. His four-
year-old son went to bed excited with
anticipation of the presents he knew he
would get on the following morning.
Half an hour later he called out for his
father. “What do you want, son?” asked
the old man. “Couldn’t you give me
some chloroform so’s I can get to sleep?”
said the youngster.
“G.M.”: Our postman, who had been
humping a heavy bag since 5.30 that
morning, reached our place on his second
round just as we were sitting down to
tea. Noticing he was accompanied by
another postie we asked him if the
Christmas rush was responsible for the
extra man. “Oh, no,” he replied. “Jack
finished his round before me, so he
thought he’d come along with me for the
walk.”
* $ *
“F.S.”: The theft of a Eugene O’Neill
manuscript from a car outside the theatre
in which the playwright’s latest play was
running raised a knotty point in the
Court proceedings. Counsel for the de-
fence argued that the charge should be
reduced from grand to petty larceny as
the value of an unpublished MS. could
not be estimated, and this brought the
worth of the document down to below
100 dollars. The magistrate ruled out
the plea on the assumption that an
O’Neill manuscript is vastly more im-
portant and expensive than 100 dollars
and the accused was held in 5000 dollars
bail for grand juiy action. Still, there
was something in counsel’s argument that
the worth of an MS. can’t be estimated.
Milton received £l5 for the MS. of
“Paradise Lost,” and after his death
his widow sold the rights for £B.
Meredith got 16 guineas for Love in a
Valley, 60 publishers rejected Shaw’s
early novels, and Thomas Hardy had to
pay to get some of his books published.
* * * *
“L.P.”: Although Beasley did not feel
pleased with Brain Trust load in re-
ferring to Australians as bushrangers (B.
25 /12 / ’46) he would, no doubt, be flat-
tered if he heard himself described as
“game as Ned Kelly.” The word “bush-
ranger” has had various meanings since it
first found its place in Australian usage.
Coined about 1806, it was then applied to
convict escapees, but it connoted their
life in the wilds rather than their habit
of robbing. A little later it was used of
free and reputable men who spent most
of their time in the bush. In 1825 the
explorer Hovell was described in a
Sydney rag as lacking “all the qualities
befitting a bushranger.” Bandits were
the next to receive the title, and after they
had had their day it was handed down to
swindlers and toughs. And then in World
War II the word won its place into the
Diggers’ slang—a guerrilla fighter in New
Guinea became known as a “bushranger. ’
So, after all, is Beasley right or wrong?
* * * *
“Justin”: In these days of commodity
shortages one misses the livewire sales-
men of former years. One of the Chosen
with a shop near Sydney’s “Central” was
a noted hustler. In the days when they
could “dress out” on part of the footpath
he saved much space inside and had a
“chucker-in” in attendance at the door.
If you paused dreamily in front you woke
up inside in a new overcoat with a strange
umbrella in your hand before you could
say “Jerusalem.” A bushman friend of
mine was so treated, and had a felt hat
planked on him as well. He paid for the
whole outfit, saying afterwards that he
hadn’t the heart to take ’em off after
their taking the trouble to put ’em on.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; After the Carols by
Candlelight affair in the Alexandra Gar-
dens in Melbourne, a party of young
people started homeward and to enliven
the journey they sang carols under the
windows of the houses along St. Kilda-
road. An upper storey window in one
building flew open and a man’s voice
said; “There’s a woman there can sing.
If she’ll sing Mozart’s ‘Alleluia,’ I’ll pay
her.” His request number was provided
and he threw down a bob. The lady who
could sing was one of Melbourne’s lead-
ing sopranos.
« * * *
“E.H.M.”: The thief who pinched the
jewels while attendants watched two run-
away horses (B. 25/12/’46) takes my
mind back to the day when Ross and
Keith Smith arrived in Australia on their
flight from England in 1919, I was living
in one of a block of flats overlooking
Sydney Harbor. An hour before the
arrival qf the plane every occupant in
the building was on the flat roof to watch
the Vickers Vimy cross the harbor. After
the excitement was over nearly every
flatite discovered that valuables had dis-
appeared from his flat during his absence.
A BURNING QUESTION.
“The referendum to decide at what hours N.S.W.
hotel bars must close will be held on February 15.
Voting is compulsory.”
1 looked ahead and fancied that I saw a service-
man . , T
Just back from Indonesia or possibly Japan,
And as he swept his eyes around, I seemed to
hear him say;
“Here is a devil of a fuss. What can be on
today?
“The crowds around the polling-joints, the
clamor fierce and tense
From various disputants engaged in windy
arguments
Suggest that it’s election-time, but that, ill
swear, it’s not.
A referendum, I suppose, but—spare me days!
—for what?”
It was an old inhabitant who raised his grizzled
head.
“Why, Digger, you must surely be behind the
times,” he said.
“The biggest issue ever known till now, it’s safe
to say,
Hangs on the verdict of the voice of New South
Wales today.
“From Sydney to the furthest west, from, all
across the State,
From Bega to Murwillumbah the verdict they
await.
And, whichsoever way it goes, the propagandists
see
The comfort and the happiness of chaps like
you and me.”
“Something, I guess,” the Digger said, “designed
for all our goods,
To settle knotty questions, like the one re
Bretton Woods,
Or to decide if anyone would fill the bill as well
To figurehead the Commonwealth as blokes like
Bill McKell.
“But surely these are subjects for debate in
Parliament
By those we deputise therein our views to rep-
resent.
What do we reimburse them for, our M.L.As.
and Cs., ■
Except to have the final word in matters such
as these?”
“I’m with you there,” the old ’un said. “In
less important things
We’re bound to take their word for law, as
subjects must from kings.
But now and then a question comes so dispu-
tatious that m
They feel they ought to leave it to the prole-
tariat.
“The point we’re voting on today,” he said,
and mopped his brow,
“Is surely monumentally momentous anyhow,
And one of vital interest to ordinary men,
Concerning whether pubs should shut at 6—or
9—or 10.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


=SI
111
CsH'oiel
FACING A PACK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle, . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
INF WFHIWORTH
in cz^i^clnep
Thone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
THE SERVICE MAN
J. B., Uncle Sam and Australia.
“Ek Dum”: To the great concern of
Communists, Britain, the United States
and Canada are proceeding apace with
post-war defence measures. It has even
been reported by the London “Daily
Worker” that the process of merging the
British and American armies and of uni-
fying their weapon types has been pro-
ceeding for several months on the initi-
ative of Mr. Mackenzie King, of Canada,
Sydney’s Communist “Tribune,” which
came into existence in August, 1939, the
same week as the arrival of several
Comintern agents and the announcement
of the Russo-German pact, which was an
immediate prelude to war, reports these
statements as if it were reporting a crime.
And it adds with horror that Australia
may actually be drawn into the scheme
and asked to apply conscription.
Any such measure would, of course,
be opposed tooth and nail by the Com-
munists. But this will not stop the
British, Americans and Canadians from
going ahead with whatever plans they
have for making their countries safe
from Russian terrorism and Communist
insurrection. It may, however, stop Mr.
Chifley, who is peculiarly susceptible to
Communist opinion when it is applied
to his policies by big unions.
Britain, which demobilised 98,000 men
and women in November and which has
now released a total of 4,900,000, pro-
poses to continue the series of Imperial
Staff exercises which was initiated last
year and to which leading officers of all
Dominion Commands are invited.
There is some truth in Communist
assertions so far as arrangements for
staff consultations, machinery and
weapons are concerned. And it is clear
that the Dominions will never again be
in a position to pull out of their respon-
sibilities and fail to share in British Com-
monwealth defence. No single one of
them Could stand against the carefully-
and long-prepared might which may be
opposed to them.
Britain’s New Plans
Britain’s preparations for defence in-
volve a reorganisation of the Royal Navy
to meet modern conditions; intensive
study of rocket and other long-distance
weapons and their application to the
general principles of war ; the develop-
ment of “flexibility” as regards the in-
ternal operation of the three forces in-
dependently or in unison; the develop-
ment of fast aircraft and heavy air load
carriers and of other formls of transport;
and the technical training of a suitable
nucleus of citizen soldiers, sailors and
airmen who, in the main, will largely be
drawn from citizen compulsory trainees.
Apart from this it will maintain a
larger Regular Army with much better
technical training than before the war.
In 1939, by sending almost every
trained man abroad, it was possible for
the British Government to dispatch about
10 divisions to France —300,000' men
roughly, when ancillaries were taken into
account. They were very good and well-
disciplined divisions—probably the best in
Europe except for armament.
Of the regular divisions in existence
today it may be said that they are without
parallel in British history in both
armament and experience. And most
of them are still obtaining training which
pre-war divisions never saw.
Previous lack of large-scale training
was very largely due to the limits of space
within Britain. A modern division on
manoeuvre in closely-settled England is
enough to paralyse the transport of a
sizable county, apart from leaving a
trail of involuntary destruction behind it.
Now, not only have substantial areas
been set aside in the U.K. where larger-
scale training can take place, but the con-
tinued service abroad of large-scale forces
gives an opportunity for divisional exer-
cises. The Firlt Infantry Division (Guards
Brigade and Second and Third Brigades),
for instance, the week before Christmas,
completed a massive three-stage opera-
tion in Transjordan, each brigade carry-
ing out a task which involved three or
four weeks’ hard training topped off with
a realistic engagement.
The Territorial Forces
Territorial forces have been reorganised
to meet new conditions. Their nature
was announced during December.
They qre to consist of one airborne,
two armored and six infantry divisions —
42nd Lancs., 43rd Wessex, 44th Home
Counties, 50th Northumbrian, slst-52nd
Scottish and 53rd Welsh. The 49th West
Riding and 56th London Divisions will
“ Well, that settles his old excuse that he was too full to ASK his
way home!”
be armored. And the airborne force,
which will be a scattered concern spread
all over the country, will have an old
Regular number-—the 16th. At least a
battalion each of nearly all the old
historic regiments will survive.
Before the war, there were five Terri-
torial anti-aircraft divisions in existence,
but under the new scheme these will cease
to be as such. Anti-aircraft defence
will be undertaken by a joint series of
five Regular and Territorial groups, which
will meet the more highly-technical needs
of today better than could have been
done by the old arrangement.
The Defence Ministry
To co-ordinate British arrangements in
general the new Ministry of Defence,
which existed previously only as a war-
time measure, came formally into per-
manent existence on January 1. The
first Minister will be Mr. A. V. Alexander,
who was Mr. Churchill’s First Lord of the
Admiralty. The versatility of the depart-
ment is illustrated by the appointment as
its military head of Acting Lieutenant-
General Sir Leslie Hollis, R.M., who is
49. He fought at Jutland in H.M.S. Duke
of Edinburgh, and was assistant secretary
to the Committee of Imperial Defence
after 1936, having meanwhile been with
the Plans Division of the Admiralty,
During World War II he became secre-
tary to the Chiefs of Staff Committee.
Fire-Power in the U.S.
Almost contemporaneously with the
British developments, reorganisation of
the U.S. Army’s infantry and armored
divisions to make them more mobile and
increase their fire-power was announced
by General Devers, Commander of the
United States ground forces. He said:
Atomic weapons will not alter the nature
of warfare to such an extent that the need
for versatile, mobile and hard-hitting divi-
sions will be diminished... .The size of
divisions will be increased by 3000 to
18,000 United States army divisions
will henceforth be unparalleled) fighting
machines, for we have tripled the number of
artillery weapons and more than tripled
fire-power. They will be capable of swift
mechanised movement by land, sea and air.
The number of tanks to each division will
be doubled and anti-tank companies com-
pletely eliminated In any future war
attacks on civilian populations in the
United States will not cease until in-
fantry, .armored cavaky and artillery have
descended on the enemy’s airfields, launch-
ing sites, railway stations and factories to
seize or destroy them.
The statement points the weakness of
Australian methods of defence, and the
feebleness of the conceptions of Mr. Cyril
Chambers and his fellow-Ministers.
The American division as it existed
when that country entered World War II
was formidable enough. A 1941 armored
division numbered about 12,700 men, of
whom 3000 were officers, commissioned
and non-commissioned (with 6356
privates), who were specialists to a degree
unknown among non-coms, in any previ-
ous war. The artillery consisted of half
a dozen 155 mm. howitzers, 36 105 mm.
howitzers, 40 mortars, a couple of bat-
teries of 75’s, and five or six batteries of
37mm. trailer cannon. The division was
complete in electric-light and -power, in
mobile kitchens which could cook at 30
to 40 m.p.h., in boats for river operations,
in radio stations of all types.
It carried a portable steel trestle
bridge to cross 350 feet, a heavy pontoon
bridge, 250 feet, and Bailey bridges or
similar types when they came into use.
It had a heavy wrecking unit, a powerful
and very fast recce unit.
Its motor-driven items, from four-
ton trucks downwards and including
mobile electric-light plants, etc., num-
bered more than 2000. Total equipment
would have needed 1300 standard 15-ton
freight cars to move it, and called for
115,000 gallons of petrol to transfer it
150 miles on good roads.
Its travel capacity under favorable con-
ditions was 300 miles per day. It had its
own water system, its own plant for lay-
ing telegraph lines. The inhabitants of
Camooweal gasped when, with earth
augers and cries of “Come ahn. Mister
Dirt! ”, the U.S. negro corps began to lay
a new telegraph line into the Barkly
Tableland at a rate which was about 30
times as fast as Australian standard prac-
tice.
Enormous Hitting Power
The equipment of the tank units of the
divisions was about 240 medium and
light machines, some carrying three light
guns and one heavy gun, and all carrying
ack-ack defence. This was supplemented
by some hundreds of side-armored “half-
tracks.”
Infantry divisions were somewhat
larger—about 600 officers and 14,000 en-
listed men. Their transport also was
larger—about 2600 motor vehicles, and
they had attached tanks and artillery
which grew bigger in calibre and greater
in number of batteries as the war pro-
ceeded.
Yet a third increase is thought neces-
sary.
Taking all arms into account, the fire-
power of a modern division is greater
than that of an army of the last war,
more particularly in view of the increas-
ing rate of fire of new mechanisms and
the improvements in metals and in the
machinery, of missile propulsion, which
bring actual fire-power nearer to theoreti-
cal fire-power.
The time will soon arrive when con-
tinuous fire by weapons over long
periods will be possible if they can be
served with transport and factories.
The Australian Army will have to be
modernised at a very early date, and it
will have to be recognised that the art
of 'war has become so complicated even
for the humblest private that it cannot be
tanaht in a fp W Have nf namninw nnt and
taught in a tew days or camping out ana
forming threes. This country will have
to get into line with other countries and
institute a serious policy of compulsory
. • ■ , T , J L
training under whic|i young men can
make up their minds to a year or so of
technical training, as they readily do in
smirks. ,
ft is all the more reasonable since such
trainin S usually makes a fine mechanic
or artisan of the trainee or otherwise
. ,_ e . , • ■*-.
hel P s t 0 fit him f °r civilian life.
"Reward Fit for Heroes."
“Ek Dum”: “During the Japanese oc-
cupation of Sandakan” —so reads a
leaflet issued by a memorial committee
in British North Borneo—“over 230 citi-
zens lost their lives through their loyalty
to the Allied cause. Their assistance to
prisoners-of-war—Australian and British
—and to civil internees cost the lives of
many; and throughout the occupation
many others were slaughtered for no rea-
son other than their known fidelity to the
British Government, particularly on the
imminence of the Allied landing.”
Ip these pages the story has been told
of some of these men; of their building
of a network of communications which
provided starving Australians with news,
contact with the outside world, food;
money and sometimes the means of
escape.
It was related how many of them were
arrested, tortured and slaughtered without
giving the information which would have
sent dozens of Australians to their deaths.
The ragged, tiny remnant of Aus-
tralians who escaped death at Sandakan
—perhaps 50 altogether out of more than
2500 —are eternally grateful to these
heroes, mostly Chinese and Malayan.
There is no doubt that if the great bulk
of the men of the A.I.F. in the Borneo
camps had come out alive the troops
would have made a generous gesture to
remember what was dona for them and
the lives that were sacrificed on their
behalf.
However, since nearly all the Sandakan
p.-0.-w. perished, the duty surely lies
with the Australian people, and with the
Commonwealth Government in particu-
lar, to look after the dependants of those
who stood by them during their agony.
The Government can usually be
guaranteed not money in reward-
ing members of Our Party and bosses of
Our Unions, Communists as well as
“moderates”—these with trips abroad,
with everything found. For Mr.
Breen, who suffered the arduous duty
of sitting in Parliament for a few
weeks a year throughout the war at an
equivalent of £l5OO a year, it has in-
vented a richly-paid job in the Middle
East. Mr. Mountjoy, a man of military
age, who suffered Parliament for three
years, has been given a position at £5OO
a year for three years, plus 30s. a day
expenses, in which he will be less use
than the office boy. In respect of this
piece of generosity, the Government was
heroically defended by Mr. Daly, who
was 23 when he entered Parliament in
1943, after having been {vide Who's Who)
“employed by a Sydney motor firm as a
messenger and later in an administrative
capacity, afterwards joining the account-
ancy branch, Department of the Navy,
Garden Island.” Mr. Daly, after his
defence of Mr. Mountjoy’s appointment,
at once was elevated to the Rationing
Commission, fees and expenses unstated.
It went without saying that a Govern-
ment with these sovereign examples of
its kindness of heart would not forget
the 230 poor Sandakan Asiatics who gave
their lives for the British Commonwealth
and in particular Australian p.-0.w., more
especially as some of them were Indo-
nesians, a race very dear to the hearts of
Communists, who guide so much of Can-
berra policy.
The Government has, in truth, hastened
to do its duty. It sent a Major Jackson
to Borneo as the Minister of its bounty,
and from the flood of blah, boost and
propaganda which followed him via the
shortwave wireless and through other
media it was quite obvious that Mr,
Chifley and the soft hearts behind him
had no intention of doing good by
stealth. N
The generosity and gratitude of Aus-
tralia were trumpeted so loudly that on-
lookers sometimes felt that Major Jack-
son might be Mr. Frank Forde in dis-
guise.
His mission is to distribute what the
Government’s publicity agents describe
as a “magnificent” financial consideration
to those who died for or helped the 2900
Australians who were in various parts of
Borneo, including presumably the families
of the 230 executed or done to death.
For this purpose the Chifley Govern-
ment allocated the paralysing sum of
£3OO, a fifth of the amount guaranteed
to young Mr. Mountjoy as salary for his
sinecure, leaving the 30s. a day expenses,
which he will presumably draw through-
out the three years, out of account.


V S-
m
m
rs»
I ■}
V-'
m.
■-
m
'
sm
V"
>ri
sr 7
■>X*4? ■,
*Sira«
’s^m
m
j* ,*•. »•
V '•
2 -j
1
&r.~4£
Hi
iSF'TS
T-
m*
* V **«N^ln t »«W»K»^
lift
* X ‘% % , i
.
mm
~s
>. ■>„ *S& ft v ■'
*■ \, v v .
w
mi
.... and the castle of plans and hopes
comes tumbling down. The breadwinner
is injured maybe incapacitated fo r
months—with loss of earnings, mounting
medical and household expenses with the
disappearance of savings.
Accident and illness strike suddenly, but
where is the protection coming from?
The Metropolitan “Perfect Policy” pro-
vides all the benefits of Life Assurance
with the added advantage of generous
compensation against accidents and many
sicknesses. Double the amount of
assurance is paid in the event of accidental
death.
The ideal protection for the family and breadwinner—
The METROPOLITAN “PERFECT POLICY”
Endowment Assurance combined with Accident and Sickness benefits —Annual Bonus additions.
BRANCH OFFICES
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
22 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
A. B. Bolton, Manager.
VICTORIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
R. S. Johnston, Manager.
QUEENSLAND:
The Metropolitan Building,
367-369 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
J. L, Richter, Manager.
A U S TR A L lAN
*
ASSURANCi COMPANY LTD' q m>
HUNTER. AND B LIG-H STREETS.SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
W. A. H, ALLWORTH (Chairman), D. F. STEWART, COL. ALFRED SPAIN. J. A. HENDERSON
General Manager:
E. W. ROBINSON.
/TODAY'S PROTECTION —TOMORROWS SECURITY
' . . ■ v. .. • • •
Asst. General Manager and Actuary:
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
Secretary:
GEORGE LESLIE, F.A.I.S.


t
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Pprt
PERSONAL ITEMS
With “Labor” in power at Canberra
and in five States, New Year Honors in
this part of the world, Maoriland excepted,
were as scarce as kind words in Palestine.
They included a viscountcy for ex-High
Commissioner Bruce —the Prime Minister
was in haste to deny that it was any of
his doing. S.M.B. is the first Australian
to achieve that rank, though Big John
Forrest was granted a barony, and the
same rank has been attained by
Adelaide-born Maurice Hankey ; Queens-
lander Atkin and Uthwatt, of Ballarat,
who became English Judges, are life
peers. There were half a dozen assorted
knighthoods: K.C.V.O. to Rear-Admiral
Bracegirdle, official secretary to Aus-
tralian governors-general since 1931 ;
K.B.E. to Vice-Admiral Grace, of Chat-
ham Dockyards, who commanded the
R.A.N. squadron 1939-42 ; K.C.M.G. to
Maoriland’s Chief Justice O’Leary;
K.B. to Kerr Grant, Adelaide ’Varsity’s
professor of physics since 1911; to
Rupert Shoobridge, president of Tas-
mania’s Legislative Council and to Pro-
fessor Hercus, Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine at Otago University and
K.B.E. to N.Z. Uni.’s Prof, of History
and Political Science, James Hight. Two
women were honored—Mrs. Cosgrove,
wife of the Tasmanian Premier, received
a D.8.E., and Matron Clark, of the
Wellington (N.Z.) public hospital, an
0.8. E.
Dr. C. L. Jackson, of Philadelphia,
who extracted a nail from the lung of
Melbourne girl Shirley" Skinner, who had
been flown to America for the operation,
is the son of Chevalier Jackson, an
American physician born at Pittsburg,
who had a passion for bronchoscopy. In
1916 pa became professor of laryngology
at Jefferson, transferred to the University
of Philadelphia and then to the Temple
University. There he developed the
method of removing foreign bodies from
the lungs by the insertion through the
mouth of hairlike tubes equipped with
forceps and lights, the surgeon’s hands
being guided in their invisible operation
by X-ray. It has made him world-famous.
Discovery by a blacktracker of a
crashed Spitfire near Fog Bay, 45 miles
south-west of Darwin, and the subse-
quent recovery of the remains of the pilot
add one more to the list of airmen whose
deaths in the course of duty are accepted
as part of the toll of war and receive in
daily papers less than one-tenth of
the space accorded to a suspended
jockey. The man dead in his country’s
cause was Colin William Dunning, of
Adelaide, a 20-year-old sergeant-pilot who
was reported missing from a non-opera-
tional flight over two years ago. About the
same time that Dunning lost his life two
Beaufighters returning from operations
over the Arafura Sea came in off course
in thick haze and crashed south of Dar-
win. One came down near Brock’s Creek ;
the navigator, Warrant-Officer G. R.
Warner, baled out and was subsequently
rescued, but Pilot-Officer L. F. Ritchie
was never found. The second plane had
as crew Squadron-Leader Wilbur L.
Wackett and Flying-Officer Keith Noble.
The wreck of their machine whs found
14 months later 70 miles east of Pine
Creek; indications were that they had
baled out, but the harsh country around
Goodparla River still hides the secret of
their fate. Wackett was a son of aircraft-
designer L. J. Wackett. Towards the end
of 1945 Wing-Commander Ryan, C.O. of
R.A.A.F., Darwin, flying a Vultee,
crashed to his death in the same vicinity
as young Dunning.
Maoriland has selected its two Rhodes
Scholars —G. S. Bogle, B.Sc., Victoria
College (Wellington) and R. O. Davies,
Otago. Bogle, 22, brother of the Rhoaes
Scholar of 1937, hails from Wanganui.
He graduated in 1944 from Victoria
College, where he is engaged in physics
research ; and is a college blue in
athletics and a keen swimmer. Davies, a
native of Oamaru, is 23, a product of
Waitaki High and Otago Uni. He joined
the R.N.Z.A.F. in 1942 and was engaged
in meteorological work. He is a B.Sc.,
and at Oxford will study physics and
mathematics as a prelude to a doctorate
of philosophy. He has represented Otago
province as a swimmer.
When Scorfield made the accompany-
ing sketch Stanley Melbourne Bruce was
still an Australian politician, although as
Prime Minister he was already well-
known in the wider field of Empire and
world affairs through Imperial confer-
ences and as delegate to Geneva. Even
before that he had made plenty of over-
VISCOUNT.
seas contacts —first at. Cambridge, where
he gained an Arts degree and a rowing
blue; next, at the London Bar, where he
practised for several years before 1914,
and then on Gallipoli with the Worcesters
and in France with the Royal Fusiliers.
Wounded and decorated in both cam-
paigns he returned to Australia in 1917
with a M.C. and a French Croix de
Guerre and became M.H.R. for Flinders.
By 1921 he was Treasurer and two years
later he succeeded Billy Hughes as P.M.
The Bruce-Page Coalition Government
lasted till 1929, when the wave that swept
it from office also took away Bruce’s
majority in his own electorate, though the
reverse was only temporary ; at the 1931
poll he was returned for Flinders. Sent to
London shortly afterwards, first as Resi-
dent Minister and later as High Commis-
sioner, he developed into a figure of world
stature.
Bruce represented Australia on the
League of Nations Council, at the Im-
perial conference, 1937, at the Ottawa
conference, 1932, and the 1933 World con-
ference in London. In 1936 he was Presi-
dent of the League of Nations Council
and presided at the Montreux convention
on the Dardanelles question. When war
broke out he was given a seat on the
British War Cabinet and later on the
Pacific War Council, and although when
peace came “Labor” decided that Aus-
tralia could best be represented in Britain
by a good party man it is doubtful
whether anyone could have done a better
job for Australia over the past few years
than the man the King has now raised
to the rank of Viscount.
Farewelled on retiring as Director of
Chemistry in S.A., Charles Eustace Chap-
man —an old Whinham College boy—
began his career as a junior clerk in the
S.A. Customs Department in 1899. He
became assistant examiner of patents
(chemistry) at the Commonwealth
Patents Office, Melbourne, in 1905, but
returned to the S.A. Analyst’s Depart-
ment in 1907, and became Director of
Chemistry in 1936. He was also Chief
Inspector of Explosives, Administrator of
the Gas Act, and a member of the advi-
sory committee of the Food and Drugs
Act.
Australia’s first award of a D.Sc. for
meteorological research goes to H. M.
Treloar of Melbourne Uni. for scientific
war-time investigations regarding inter-
ference to radar and defence signals,
while serving as assistant director (tech-
nical) of the R.A.A.F. Directorate of
Meteorological Services. A South Aus-
tralian and a product of Adelaide Uni.,
Treloar was formerly on the staff of the
Adelaide Weather Bureau. A pioneer of
aviation forecasting, he had the job of
predicting the weather, the potential be-
havior of the ocean and the winds during
landings and invasions in the South-west
Pacific. He’s a Fellow of the Institute
of Physics, a member of the Australian
National Research Council and has pub-
lished a number of books on meteoro-
logical matters;
“C.Q.” looks back:
Mention of the retirement of “Skipper” Giles,
of Melbourne Grammar (B. 18/12/’46), to a
mooring place near Hobart where he will use
his yacht, Utiekah 111, as a houseboat reminds
me of an exciting experience I had with that
fine old yachtsman when I was “bov” aboard
Utiekah I in the Port Adelaide River. The
yacht was at her moorings in front of the yacht
club at Port Adelaide and I was at my weekly
job of polishing the brass and preparing the
boat for the usual week-end cruise. A sten-
torian roar which could have only come from
a seaman brought me up from the cabin. A
four-masted barque had come off the slips and
got away from its tug, and, its stern caught by
the current, the bowsprit was slowly swinging
round in a wide arc which threatened the masts
on half the yacnts in the club squadron. Hav-
ing had sufficient of Giles’s tuition to think
fairly quickly, I hopped into the dinghy .and
started slipping the threatened craft from their
moorings. In a few minutes they were all out
of danger. At that moment another stentorian
roar resounded from the foreshore. The. club
caretaker had returned from having a snifter
and, as the barque was now under control,
there was nothing to account for the strange
spectacle of half a dozen of the most expen-
sive yachts in S.A.' floating downstream, with
the commodore’s yawl heading the procession,
except an agitated boy in a dinghy; so the care-
taker was dancing with indignation. After a few
words of explanation he grasped the situation
and we restored the boats to their moorings.
There was always plenty of adventure when
one shipped with “Skipper” Giles, who was
no fairweather sailor, but this W. W. Jacobs
interlude is one I have long remembered.
L. A. Meston, retired from the job of
Queensland Government Analyst after 40
years with the department, was, with his
predecessor, J. B. Henderson, co-dis-
coverer of the freezing-point process for
detecting adulteration of milk. Now used
by food-analysts all over the world, the
simplicity and accuracy of the method
have done more than any other measure
to secure conviction of would-be vendors
of possibly-dirty water at the price of
milk. Son of the departed Archie Mes-
ton, a great authority on abo. customs
and dialects, L.A. is a graduate in science
and mining engineering of the,University
of Sydney.
Brisbane University gains a brilliant
student and teacher with the appointment
to the Chair of Pathology of Alan
Joseph Canny, depicted here by Prior. At
Sydney Grammar he collected all the
prizes about the place, and when he went
on to Sydney Uni. he kept up the habit
in the faculties of science and medicine.
He graduated B.Sc. with Honors in
Physiology in 1925 and M. 8.8.5. in 1927,
topping the list and winning the Uni-
versity Medal, His path to these degrees
NEW PROFESSOR.
‘ •
was strewn with prizes and scholarships,
and with them behind him he went off
to London for two years on a Rockefeller
Travelling Fellowship and worked under
Sir Charles Martin at the Lister Insti-
tute. Returning to Sydney Uni. he lec-
tured in turn in physiology, medicine and
pathology and became associate to The
professor of medicine at Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital. He has a reputation
of being a lecturer who can make his sub-
ject live. Until his resignation a few
months ago, Professor Canny was in
charge of the Kanematsu Institute of
Pathology.
F. W. H. Wheadon, retired from the
position of chief engineer and manager
of S.A. Electricity Trust (formerly Adel-
aide Electric Supply Company until its
resumption by the State last year), had
been in charge of the undertaking since
1899. His successor, R. H. Lea, is a Scot
who joined A.E.S. as a laborer after
fighting in World War I, gained his B.E.
degree at Adelaide ’Varsity in 1925 and
by 1936 was assistant-manager. In the
second war he joined the A.1.F., went to
the Middle East and became C.O. of 2/4
Army Field Workshops. He’s 48.
Planning and development manager for
A.N.A., lan Grabowski has been places
and seen things since he was born at
Terioki, Finland. Educated in Britain
he served an apprenticeship with Weirs
of Glasgow as an engineer. In the
Kaiser’s War he was a pilot with the
R.N.A.S. and, R.F.C. and in 1928 came
to Australia as sales manager for De
Havillands, but later joined Guinea Air-
ways and for years was their man-
ager in New Guinea. He joined A.N.A.
in 1938 and when the war broke out he
was given extended leave from his job of
Brisbane manager to join the Department
of Aircraft Production in the aircraft-
servicing department. He resumed duties
with A.N.A. two years ago. In New
Guinea in the hectic freight days Grabow-
ski created a record by delivering 16}
tons of freight between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m.
involving six round trips. He is’ a keen
advocate of special freight ’planes and
has been closely associated with the flying
of Tasmanian strawberries to the main-
land and the transport of rams from S.A.
to other States by air.
“Cauboy”: There is a refreshing note
in the news that Carrie Moore, who
starred for J.C.W. at 15 and created the
part of Sonia in “The Merry Widow,”
may stage a comeback. At 62 she has
received an invitation from a N.Y. pro-
ducer to play a dowager part in a Broad-
way musical. Carrie, Williamson-
trained —and J.C.W. was an Old Master
—could give most of the radio girls
lessons in enunciation. She still has a
beautiful speaking voice and gives the
right stress to, every syllable.
Into the silence:
At Caloundra (Q.), at 79, James Orrell, one
of the few survivors of the North Coast pioneers
of the early 1870’s. His knowledge of local
aboriginal dialects afforded valuable assistance
to philologists.
In Melbourne, W. Winter-Irving, pastoralist.
He had extensive holdings in t the Western Dis-
trict and Queensland. He was a member of a
famous polo team of four Winter-Irving
brothers. He married a daughter of Samuel
Hordern.
At Mornington, Vic., Rev. George Cox, one
of Melbourne’s leading field naturalists. He
got his botanical knowledge while serving in the
ministry in country districts. He was an A.I.F.
padre in the First World War.
In Adelaide, C. V. Wickens, local manager
of the A.M.P. He had been in its service since
leaving school, and in S.A. all his time except
for a few years in Perth. He was a noted
footballer 30-odd years ago and a Digger of
World War I.
In Adelaide, at 101, Mrs. Liston, reputedly
the oldest woman S.A.-born, and daughter of
one-time Town Clerk Hughes. Her husband
was a National Bank manager long ago, and
one of the founders of Liston and Shakes,
which became Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, now
merged with Goldsbrough Mort.
In Brisbane, suddenly, at 42, John Theodore
Bale, graduate-in-law of the Queensland Uni-
versity, president of the Bush Children’s health
movement, and former president of the Queens-
land Law Society and of the Johnsonian Club.
A keen cricketer, he played for Queensland Uni-
versity and the Wanderers.
At 63, in Melbourne, Donald Macdonald, a
pioneer of naval wireless. During the First
World War he built wireless stations at Wood-
lark Island and New Britain and other island
outposts, and in the last one he was construc-
tional engineer and officer-in-charge of radio
communication in the South-West Pacific. In
peace-time he was radio engineer for 3AR.
He built the original wireless station in Domain-
road. A son was lost in air operations over
Cologne.
In Perth, at 57, Aubrey Toller Sadleir, local
manager of Elder Smith. A South Australian,
he had been with the firm for over 40 years and
in the West since 1913.


Missing Friend.
HAMILTON. —Will Francis and Reginald Hamilton,
sons of Nathaniel A. W. Hamilton, of India, who
were at Bedford School 1898-1900 and believed to
have served with H.M. Forces (possibly Machine
Gun Corps) during the European War 1914-1918, or
their descendants or anyone knowing anything of
their whereabouts, please communicate with J. C.
Erskine and Son, Solicitors, 37 Molesworth Street,
Dublin, Ireland, or their Sydney Agents, Messrs.
MINTER SIMPSON AND COMPANY, Solicitors, 31
Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales?
Women’s letters
From Sydney
Sydney sped the old year good-
naturedly enough to his niche in the
halls of Time, and welcomed little 1947
with blithe cries, cheering it on to, we
hope, brighter and better days than its
predecessor had experienced. Up at the
Cross thousands of revellers took pos-
session, and after 10 o’clock traffic was
diverted so that the crowds, between
40,000 and 60,000, could be joyous at
will. But if you think that joy was un-
refined, you are mistaken. There were
200 or more police to play chaperone.
Girls and boys danced in the streets,
sang, formed crocodiles, blew whistles,
occasionally turned somersaults —for it
was carnival at the Cross—and anything
“went.” Young and old awaited the
New Year, their hearts high with great
expectations. Watchers at Kirribilli saw
two great balloons rise into the night and
float on their illumined way, their destina-
tion, even as the end of the New Year,
unknown. Both Maroubra and Manly
had their own celebrations. Palm
Beach, of course, flew a special banneret
of gaiety. Prince’s and Romano’s and,
in fact, every dancing place were packed
out. Artist Jimmy Bancks and his wife
gave a “do” at the Savarin.
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Tovey
and his wife have made a dent on Sydney
with their pleasant friendliness. The
two visitors are off to Maoriland in the
middle of the month to do a little fish-
ing. Last week they were guests of the
Governor and Mrs. Northcott at Sutton
Forest. There were also several parties,
mostly with a Navy tang, given in their
honor. Admiral Moore and Mrs. Moore
poured cocktails for them at Tresco,
Elizabeth Bay. Mrs. Harold Farncomb,
wife of the Commodore of the R.A.N.,
gave a small lunch party at Prince’s for
Lady Tovey, and on the same day
Admiral Moore was lunching Lord Tovey
at the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron,
Kirribilli.
Matilda Etches, the clever English de-
signer who was in Australia last year with
a display of brilliant and beautiful Eng-
lish *fabrics printed and designed by
artists, sent a Christmas card to Sydney
friends. It is imbued with the true
Christmas feeling. It shows an angel fly-
ing through the azure and starry spheres,
above his outstretched pinions a floating
streamer blazoned “Gloria in Excelsis.”
It is a reproduction of “Flying Gloria,”
by Edward Scott-Snell. Saide Parker, of
Legacy, sent out a large-size greeting, and
it arrived without even a crack across its
fafade. It is an Australian scene, gum-
tree and homestead, swagman and dog
and graceful flora and fauna. It is a re-
production of a tapestry designed by
Eirene Mort- and worked by Mrs. Ninian
Thompson, who started her tapestry work
in 1928, and in 1945, her 87th year, put
in the finishing stitch. The tapestry, a
wall decoration, is Bft. by 4ft.
One New Year Honor at least seems to
have pleased everybody. It is the turning
of Australia’s S. M. Bruce into a
Viscount. And among his congratulators
there is no one more warm-hearted than
Miss Nellie Veitch, now living in Sydney,
who in the years ago, in Melbourne, gave
Stanley M. his first lessons in public
speaking when he was a schoolboy. Later
when he was P.M. he went back to his
old teacher for more coaching.
This Letter set out on the second day
of the New Year to buy a cheque book,
with the intention of paying her debts
and giving everyone his own. But there
were no ordinary-size cheque books at
her bank —the shortage being one of the
aftermaths of the printers’ strike over a
year ago. It would seem that two or three
generations from now citizens may still
be struggling to make up the leeway
caused by the thousand and one strikes
so fashionable in our own times. The
best the bank could do was a cheque
book in a big line of business or a fistful
of counte’r cheques until hoped-for stocks
came in.
The Australian Boys’ Choir, already
noted for its fine ensemble and solo work,
will give a concert (the choir’s only pub-
lic appearance) to help Legacy funds
on January 13 in the Town Hall, This
will allow the boys a chance to get
in some sightseeing as well as rehearsals,
as they artive from Victoria on the
seventh. Leonie Stredwick will be the
pianist and Roma Sumner the violinist
on the programme.
Madame Judith Espinosa, daughter of
Leon Espinosa, famed for his productions
of ballet in the days when the Crystal
Palace staged some of the finest shows
in London, spent her Christmas in
Sydney. She is in Australia as examiner
for the Royal Academy of Dancing,
London. She is slim, dark-haired, dark-
eyed, and lithe as a rapier, and to hear
her talk of the days when she was star-
ring as a ballerina at the Alhambra and
Genee was at the Empire, is like looking
on at a pageant of English ballet and
dance. In these days Genee is president
of the Royal Academy of Dancing, and
Judith Espinosa is on its council. Dur-
ing the recent war the building where she
had had her school of dancing for 30
years was taken over by Authority. This
resulted in a very pretty compliment be-
ing paid to her, for the Orchestra Associa-
tion of Great Britain immediately offered
her a large studio in its building in
Archer-street, so that her work might not
be interrupted,
Madame is an expert in period. From
her infancy shi imbibed knowledge of
costume, the depth of ruffles and how
to wear them, the lifting of the hat, the
carrying of a gauntlet. It all made
fascinating hearing to her listeners at a
New Year’s Eve lunch at Petty’s, given
by Frances Scully, as did her resume,
illustrated with little hand and wrist
gestures, of the subtle changes in the
court curtsy from early-Victorian days
to that swept by today’s debutante.
Mrs. J. Van Dyk, the Dutch authoress,
had made a circle of friends in Sydney
before the war when she came from Java
on a visit to this city. The authoress,
whose pen-name is Jo Manders, has been
living in our midst for some time and
while here she has published a new book.
Paradise on Earth, a story of the war.
Mrs. Van Dyk plans to return to Java
a little later on. Norton Trevaire
photograph.
On New Year’s Day Sydney was flailed
by the worst hailstorm in its history. A
friend with vivid descriptive powers tells
of driving in the tram to Central just
after the storm ceased and the sun was
again out blinking an astonished bright
eye at the damage as who might say
“You caught me napping that time.”
Along the roadway the hail still lay thick
—not the polished opaque hailstones we
are used to, but more like chunky squares
of clear ice. They flung back the sun-
light, and formed a glittering white way
to the railway station. The usual neat
and unspectacular Belmore Park (the
little one as you go up the ramp to
Central) was an almost unbelievable
sight. It was carpeted with white blossom
from its flowering shrubs, and the green
leaves from tree and shrub lay among
the melting icicles as though still won-
dering at the savage enemy that had
slashed them from their branches. At
Central itself the great glass roof had
been battered, and splintered glass and
pools of water were everywhere on the
platform. Through gaping holes the clock
in the tower above the station could be
plainly seen —tower and clock seeming to
lean down to view the damage.
Hopewood House’s former principal,
Miss Nancy Jobson, spent Christmas in
hospital as the result of an accident.
Some weeks before Christmas she was on
her way to the final meeting of the year
of the Sydney Symphony Orchestral
committee when the accident, which left
her with a broken hip, occurred. From
Sydney hospital, where she was first
taken, she has been moved to the War
Memorial hospital, and her pleasant little
room there was radiant with flowers sent
by former pupils and many friends as
Christmas greetings.
Women setting out for the Tattersall’s
meeting at Randwick on New Year's
day naturally chose summer outfits. But
the storm smacked handfuls of hail on
wide and floppy hats, on silk and cotton
frock alike, and even between the ring
and the stands feminine glamor was con-
siderably dampened if not a complete
wash-out. The storm, so sudden and
fierce, was a mean New Year’s gift to the
city, which had welcomed 1947 so warmly
and so gaily.
From Melbourne
Fashions for the New Year’s Day
meeting at Flemington were varied.
Simple gingham and seersucker washing
frocks were popular mostly by young
racegoers, many of whom dispensed with
hats. Those not so young favored draped
dresses of printed silk and intricately-
pleated and -tucked frocks in pastel-
toned crepes, but the all-white ensembles
were the most outstanding of the day.
Hats were an interesting feature, many
of them being the new flattering, wide-
brimmed models, made mostly in fine
straw or of black stiffened crinoline. A
notable model, worn with a black frock,
was a black straw trimmed with three
large pale-pink roses in front. Mrs. John
McGrath, of Albury, hit the front with a
striking one of fine pale-beige straw, with
tulips in varying colors set about the
large, floppy brim. It was worn with a
beige ensemble of frock and full-length
coat. Small pill-box hats were seen, also
berets in straw or ribbon and half-hats
composed of straw or flowers. Contrast-
ing the elaborate hats were some of very
simple, yet charming, style, these favored
mostly by the younger set. With a
checked seersucker dress one young race-
goer chose a hand-crocheted “sou’-wester”
of white cotton. Another, in a pale-
grey tailored suit and white blouse, wore
a “bobby” hat of linen with the white
brim buttoned on to the scarlet crown.
Mrs. Massey Burnside was. pleasing in
a finely-pleated skirt allied to a tailored
jacket, a small beret topping off her all-
white ensemble. Mrs. E. E. Sebree, wife
of General Sebree, U.S. Military Attache,
wore a deep-violet-toned jacket with her
white jacket and accessories. Janet
Bowen Pain covered her pale-beige frock
with a cinnamon-toned short-sleeved coat
of crepe, while her small half-hat was
fashioned of beige crinoline straw and
veiling. The State Governor, Sir Winston
Dugan," came attended by Major G. C.
Maxwell and Captain John Blood. Mrs.
Maxwell, who has not long arrived from
England, came to her first Australian
race meeting ; her cream-and-yellow frock
was worn with a matching Leghorn hat.
With her in the vice-regal box was Pene-
lope Nettlefold, who wore with her blue
linen frock a half-halo hat of white
flowers and white accessories, Mrs.
Luther Miller, who recently flew from
America to visit her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. H. A. Norris; was hatless, the gold
clips worn in her hair toning in with
her tobacco-brown suit,
Antoine-Kershaw’s portrait is of Roma,
daughter of W. R. Johnston, of Windsor.
Roma, who is one of this city’s most
talented amateur actresses, is cast as
Freda Chase in Sydney playwright
Sumner Locke Elliott’s burlesque on
radio, “Invisible Circus,” which Irene
Mitchell is now producing at the Little
■Theatre, Roma’s chief successes have
been as Mrs. Cliveden-Banks in “Outward
Bound” and as the nagging, avaricious
wife in “The Late Christopher Bean.”
Roma has an excellent dress sense,- and
her taste is ably displayed in her stage
dressing. Her chief relaxation away
from the footlights is swimming. During
the war Roma was in the Department of
Munitions in a clerical capacity, and her
off-the-record anecdotes of some of her
experiences there would, she says, make
enough plays to keep the Little Theatre
going for years.
On the second day of the Test
match, ’teen-agers went along in groups ;
some of them coming from holiday
resorts for the occasion. White hats and
accessories were favorites with light
summery frocks, and many of the youth-
ful onlookers chose gay-colored sports
jackets worn over seersucker, dimity or
cotton frocks. Tweed and grey flannel
sujts were also popular, some worn with
two-toned shoes and bobby socks or
bright sandals.
Lady Dugan was present at the Test.
Her warm tweed ensemble of deep-rust
patterned in black was worn with a rust-
w «
toned felt hat. With Lady Dugan was
Mrs. G. C. Maxwell, who wore a navy
ensemble with a navy-and-white hat
swathed in veiling. Other members of
the party included Mrs. J. A. Haselden,
whose white felt hat was banded in grey
to match her tailored coat, Miss Penelope
Nettlefold, who chose a grey-tailored
suit and white blouse and a most attrac-
tive peaked cap in grey, and Mrs. Rupert
Downes, whose navy ensemble was worn
with a navy hat banded in red to match
her red handbag. Verity Allen high-
lighted her navy linen suit with a pink-
and-white-striped blouse, and Elizabeth
McMeekin, who was with her, chose a
lemon-toned linen frock and a white
shoulder bag. Helen Wessells threw a
light-beige coat over her pale-green linen
suit.
Australian and American flags were
the sole and very appropriate decorations
at St. Kilda Town Hall for the Davis Cup
Ball, at which members of both teams
were the guests-of-honor. President of
the L.T.A.V., H. A. Pitt, accompanied by
his daughter, Mrs. Kathleen Fitzpatrick,
received the guests, Kathleen wearing a
black chiffon and velvet gown highlighted
with gardenias. Mrs. Harry Hopman,
who wore an attractive frock of del-
phinium-blue chiffon, shared the duties
of ticket-secretary with Margaret Cowl-
ing, who. chose a floral gown. With
George Holland was his wife, her white-
brocaded satin gown featuring the long
bodice allied to a bouffant skirt. Mas.
Adrian Quist had striking gold em-
broideries at the waistline of her white
gown. In the same party were the Dinny
Pailses, she in a gown of azure-blue
crepe. Mrs, Gerald Patterson chose
cherry-red moire with silver and blue
shoulders, while Mrs. J. R. Robertson,
wife of the manager of the L.T.A.V.,
favored a gown of wine : toned crepe,
St. Mary’s, Church of England, Wood-
end, was the scene of the wedding of
Irma, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
R. K. Thomson, of Caldermeade, Gipps-
land, to Bill Falkiner, second son of Mrs.
Falkiner, of Craigielie, Woodend, and
the late R. S. Falkiner. The Rev. Sexton
Morphett, an old friend of the groom’s,
officiated. Given away by her father,
Irma wore a frock of lime-toned crepe de
Chine with a square neck and cape
sleeves, and with the skirt featuring a
side drape which ended in a bow on
the hip. Her matching green veil was
short and was held by gardenias, which
also formed her small posy. Deidre
Dalton, of Sydney, in moss-green crepes,
was bridesmaid, Trav., brother of the
bridegroom, being best man. Deidre
and Trav. recently announced their own
engagement. After the ceremony the
family and close friends gathered at
Craigielea. Bill and Irma will leave soon
for Brisbane, where they will make their
home.
Mangoola, the delightful home of
Charles Rowe at Upwey, was the mecca
of over 100 guests, who drove up from
the city to spend the last hours of the
old year. Mr. and Mrs. Henry Rowe
assisted Charles in hosting the party.
Gertrude Johnston, who presides over the
affairs of the National Theatre, was a
guest. The C. A. Daleys (she is Charles’s
sister) brought a party of young folk.
From Brisbane came Mrs. O. B. Whicup,
and Roy Shepherd brought his house
guests Bill and Klytie Pate. Roy, who
won the Clarke scholarship some years
ago and studied music at the Royal
College of Music, delighted the assembled
guests with some short Chopin works.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Waddell came with
their daughter Peggy. Recently-arrived
home from America was Fred Asmussen,
who had many tales to tell of film stars
he met. Other guests who enjoyed the
party were Patricia Pappadakas, Ruby
Stevenson (who did a grand honorary job
at Air Force House during the war), Ann
Haig and Eric Robinson.
One of Melbourne’s most popular girls,
Mary Louise Fowler, who is the second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. G. L.
Fowler, of Sunshine, has announced her
engagement to Dr. Desmond Hollywood,
only son of Dr. and Mrs. J. J. Holly-
wood, of West Maitland, N.S.W. Mary
Louise, who did a war job with Naval
Intelligence, was educated at Mandeville
Hall. She has just returned from a visit
to West Maitland and in three weeks’
time will fly to Sydney to celebrate
Desmond’s birthday and to receive her
engagement ring, a solitaire diamond.
Recently demobilised from the A.1.F.,
Desmond is now in practice with his
father at West Maitland.


PUT YOUR SAVINGS
TO WORK...TODAY!
* ? Now is the opportune time to invest in the expansion
of Australia’s leading companies. £ven as little as
£2O can be safely invested in. . .
SELECTED SECURITIES
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which—in one simple transaction—provide a sound
investment in 20 of Australia’s leading companies.
THE INCOME FROM THE INVESTMENT IS
PAID TWICE YEARLY.
Even as little as £2O invested in SELECTED
SECURITIES UNIT TRUST provides security of
capital in the hands of the Custodian Trustees:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd. (an old
established British Company).
ALL THE INFORMATION you desire will be
found in the explanatory Booklet No. 2BL. Write
for your copy now to
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
(Established over 10 years)
Managers for
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
AND SELECTED SECURITIES UNIT TRUST,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel.: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028, Sydney.
—Protect your insure with ——
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
•Phone: BW 8I 3 1 (3 Lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
The
WILD CAV
COUMN
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 100,585 9 p.c. = 60,616 39,969 255,175
Superannuation fund, £3OOO .. .. 252,175
To inner reserves, £30,535 ~ •• 221,640
Share premiums, £61,250 •• 282,890
Written off investments, £61,250 . . 221,640
1938.. 111,373 10 p.c. = 74,000 37,373 259,013
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 257,013
To inner reserves, £lO.OOO .. .. 247,013
Share premiums, £12,250 . . • • 259,263
Written off investments, £12,250 . . 247,013
1939.. 115,281 10 p.c. = 76,250 39,031 286,044
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. •• 284,044
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. . . 274,044
1940.. 115,904 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,404 312,448
To inner reserves, £25,000 . . . . 287,448
1941.. 115,989 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,489 325,937
War losses written off, £26,706 . . 299,231
1942.. 92,986 5 p.c. = 38,750 54,236 353,467
1943.. 65,076 5 „ „ 38.750 26,326 379,793
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 854,793
1944.. 65,873 5 p.c. = 38,750 27,123 381,916
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 356,916
1945.. 66,035 5 p.c. = 38,750 27,285 384,201
To inner reserves, £25,000 . . . . 359,201
1946.. 67,726 5 p.c. = 38,750 28,976 388,177
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 363,177
Main sphere of activity of this big
island-trading, shipping, airways, insur-
ance, etc., organisation is the New
Guinea, Gilbert and Solomon Island
groups. The business began to pul on
weight after World War I, and developed
rapidly following the slump of . the early
1930’5. Of the £775,000 of paid capital,
£473,333, which brought with it £83,875
of share premiums, was added to the
register during the half-dozen years to
close of accounts in 1939.
But before the last quarter-million of
the new money got a chance to show
what it could do, war in Europe began,
and for a while copra looked like be-
coming a drug on the market. However,
the co. had ceased to trade in the stuff
on its own account, and earnings con-
tinued to strengthen until 1941. Since
then profit figures reflect loss of trade
and other revenue, following the Jap
invasion. Earnings have come mainly
from the co.’s Fiji, insurance and ship-
ping subsidiaries, and from interest on
a growing wad of Government securities
(now £250,000).
Trading activities in New Guinea were
resumed on a limited scale last term, and
a new subsidiary, W. R. Carpenter (New
Guinea), Ltd., has been formed to take
over the parent’s interests there. But
recovery has lacked momentum, being
xetarded firstly by reluctance of the Army
to get out of the way, secondly by Mr.
Ward’s socialistic proposals concerning
native labor, etc., and thirdly by a
crippling lack of shipping and essential
supplies, which is also holding up re-
sumption of trade in the Gilbert and
Solomon groups. From V.P.-day to end
June last 1653 persons had returned
from Australia to New Guinea to take
up permanent residence there. Mean-
while, the co.’s assets in former war
combat and military zones are the sub-
ject of war-damage claims (amount not
stated), and all trade accounts in N.G.
considered irrecoverable have been writ-
ten off.
Last term the insurance offshoot lifted
its div. from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c., and the
parent’s net earnings wqre £1691 stronger
at £67,726, equal to 8.7 p.c. on capital
as against 8.5, 8.5, 8.4, 11.3, 14.9, 15.1
and 15 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was
reduced from 10 p.c. to 5 p.c. in 1942,
and has remained at the lower figure
since. Another £25,000 was whisked
away to inner reserves, making a total
of £llO,OOO openly shoved under cover
during the last seven years.
The co. is well-equipped .for the work
of rehabilitation, as its fine wad of cash
and readily-realisable securities shows:
1939. 1942. 1946.
Paid capital ..£775,000 £775,000 £775,000
Liabilities . . . . 152,278 331,396 404,400
Shipping, freeholds,
plant, etc 387,850 321,176 183,955
Investments, etc. . . 527,686 531,231 571,601
Stocks 104,434 67,248 122,340
Debtors, etc. . . 208,926 352,099 249,939
Cash, etc 23,666 226,859 478,492
Last term’s reduction of £42,680 in free-
hold, shipping, etc., and addition of
£10,065 to investments reflect formation
of the new subsidiary already referred
to. Including investments, the more or
less liquid surplus (£1,008,972) was
£37,656 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The market notes the co.’s history, the
fact that the lift in the Australian basic
wage will greatly affect the co.’s position,
and expects a better showing when island
trade gets into its stride again. Buyers
offer 435. and sellers ask 455. for the
pound ords. At the middle price the
return is 2.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div, basis.
The investor at 445, who looks for 4.6
p.c. on his money counts on 10 p.c.
distribution. Visibly the cover is 30s. Id.
in net tangibles.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.)
£ £ £ £
1936.. 26,586 10 p.e. = 22,188 4,398 110,747
1937.. 26,340 10 „ „ 22,188 4,152 114.899
Insurance reserve taken in, £12,120 .. 127,019
1938.. 27,910 10 p.c. = 22,188 5,722 132,741
Div. equalisation reserve, £27,500 .. 160,241
1939.. 29,732 10 p.c. = 22,188 7,544 167,785
1940.. 32,461 10 „ „ 22,188 10,273 178,058
1941.. 23,303 10 „ „ 22,188 1,115 179,173
1942.. 26,975 10 „ ~ 22,188 4,787 183,960
1943.. 28,046 10 „ „ 22,188 5,858 189,818
1944.. 81,480 12* „ „ 27,735 3,745 193.563
1945.. 11,488 10 „ „ 22,188 182,818
1946.. 35,694 10 „ „ 22,188 13,506 196,319
f Subject to trade-marks, etc., £72,500, and ex-
cluding contingencies, depreciation, etc., now
£213,002.
It has been a steady 10 p.c. proposition
ever since the public became interested,
and Brown and Poison’s was absorbed,
about quarter of a century ago. And the
10 p.c. was sweetened with a 2\ p.c.
bonus for the half-dozen fat years to the
close of accounts in 1930, and again in
1944, as well as with new share issues at
par. The co.’s success in the difficult dry-
goods field, where it turns out some well-
established proprietary lines, including
oatmeal, cornflour, starch and rice, etc.,
has been due largely to experienced and
cautious control, comfortable finances,
efficient plant and an extensive goodwill,
valued at £72,500 in the books and worth
more.
War cut off supplies of some Asiatic
lines that used to be handled, but in-
creased turnover, thanks to service de-
mands, more than offset the effects of
rationing, price-control, rising costs and
the raids of the taxgatherer. Net earn-
ings averaged £28,452 for the five years
to end Sept., 1944, compared with an aver-
age of £27,451 for the preceding quin-
quennium. The collapse of profits in
1945 was due to failure of the oats and
maize crops in N. S. Wales, following
drought, which resulted in the co.’s oat-
meal and cornflour mills closing down for
most of the term. It was the only time
in the last 25 years that insufficient was
earned to cover the 10 p.c. div., payment
of which caused no inconvenience, be-
cause of the strong liquid position.
Last term grain and cereals came for
ward in better volume, and the co.’s mill
worked without serious interruption.
After allowing for taxation, depreciation
and other contingencies, the spring in net
earnings was £24,256. The £35,694 of
profit, best yet, was 16.8 p.c. on capital
as against 5.4, 14.1, 12.6, 12,1, 10,5,
14.6 and 13.4 p.c. back to 1939. It leaves
out of the reckoning a net addition of
£8538 to the reserve for contingencies and
depreciation, now £213,002, equal to
104 p.c. of the book value of plant, or
40.7 p.c. book value premises and plant
combined. Another comforting feature is
that, including the reserve for deprecia-
tion, etc., capital and reserves combined
need turn in only 3.5 p.c. to show 10 p.c.
on capital alone.
Here is the financial set-up:
1940. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £221,884 £221,884 £221,884 £221,884
Trade debts . . 30,090 44,140 52,252 37,825
Tax reserve . . 16,500 38,500 5,500 19,500
Properties . . 197,973 210,829 211,674 212,492
Plant, etc.* . . 158,922 176,650 187,603 194,455
Stocks 93,660 118,740 98,932 136,538
Debtors . . 45,030 53,369 46,739 50,095
Cash, etc. , . 21,909 93,467 67,815 29,052
* At cost.
To snip £14,427 off the trade debt, carry
an extra £37,606 of stocks, and add £3356
to debtors’ balances and £6852 to plant
the co. drew upon cash, etc., for £28,763
last term. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£158,360)
was £12,626.
The market expresses its confidence in
the management by pricing the pound
shares at 635. 6d., at which figure the
return is 3.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 375. Bd,, excluding
depreciation revenue.
Hampton Court, Ltd.
, —Dividends N To Re- De-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, licit.
£> £ £ £
1937.. 7,049 6.9 p.c. 5 p.c. 7,093 853
Reserves.*
Intangibles disappear, £3OOB .. 2,155
1938.. 8,533 6.9 1 p.c. 5.5 p.c. 7,593 940 3,095
1939.. 9,334 7 „ 7 „ ' 9,100 234 3,329
1940.. 9,827 7 „ 7 „ 9,100 727 4,056
1941.. 9,696 8 „ 8 „ 10,400 3,352
Trans, depreciation reserve, £2849.. 1
.Tax underprovided, £2734 .. .. i 156
1942.. 7,479 6.9 p.c. 3 p.c. 5,092 J
1943.. 8,866 6.9 „ 6.5 „ 8,592 274 430
1944.. 13,460 8 „ 8 „ 10,400 3,050 3,480
1945*. . 14,108 8 „ 8 „ 10,400 3,708 7,188
Assets revaluation reserve, £43,301.. 50,489
1946.. 12,137 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 10,400 1,737 52,226
* Excluding depreciation reserve, now £46,500.
This co., which owns the Hampton
Court hotel and flats at King’s Cross,
Sydney, sold the King’s Cross - road
section of the property, which was un-
licensed, for £44,000 last term. The
money was used to wipe out the mort-
gage (£20,275) on the premises sold, to
reduce the mortgage on the Bayswater-
road premises, which are licensed, from
£60,000 to £40,000, and the balance was
put into Government securities, etc.
Then the Bayswater - road premises,
equipment, etc., were revalued by Raine
and Horne, estate agents, and Scott,
Green and Green, architects, and W. H.
Hamilton, valuer, at £215,956. This was
£43,301 more than their old book value.
Previously the two properties, equip-
ment, etc., had stood in the books at
£214,948. So there appears to have been
a capital profit of £1707 on sale of the
King’s Cross-road premises, which was
absorbed in internal adjustments. The
£43,301 now appears as a revaluation
reserve, leaving the freehold and licence
and the equipment, etc., at their valuation
figures of £184,500 and £31,456 respec-
tively :
1938. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Liabilities . . 89,492 86,691 83,741 45,523
Freehold, etc. 178,766 182,381 182,381 184,500
Furnishings and
plant .. 41,973 39.800 32,566 31,456
Liquids . . 3,941 6,011 24,181 30,994
When the books closed, liabilities (down
£38,218) exceeded liquids (up £6813) by
£14,529, an improvement of £45,031
over the twelvemonth. When materials
become available it is proposed to recon-
dition the premises.
The sale had little effect upon earning
power. After allowing £12,008 (down
£338) for taxation and £2500 (up £500)
for repairs, etc., the net result was £1971
lighter at’ £12,137. And the full benefit
of the reduction in the interest-bearing
debt has not yet been felt. The £12,137
was enough to give the prefs. their full
contract rate (£2700) and then show 9.4
p.c. on the £lOO,OOO of ord. capital. But
the div. was kept at an all-round 8 p.c.,
the prefs. being subject to the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act.
As for the outlook, the shortage of
housing accommodation and the dom-
estic-labor problem continue to foster
hotel patronage. Still, competition pro-
mises to gradually get more of an edge
on it, and the recent lift in the basic
wage means an all-round rise in cqsts.
Appearances are that the co. will do well
if it can manage to keep the div. at an
all-round 8 p.c.
On the market buyers at 245. 6d.
have failed to attract sellers out
of their shell.. At 245. 6d. the return
would be 6.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution. The
prefs. at 30s. yield 5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, of 4 p.c. if the rate dropped
to 6 p.c. Net tangible cover (book value)
is £6 Is. 6d. prefs. and 30s. sd. ords.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
W r l f ter
Sept., Profit. Dividends.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ c »-
1937.. 420,404 15 p.e. = 282,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224.149 12i ~ „ 193,750 73,556 1,621,405
1939.. 252.393 7 i„ ~ 116,250 91,186 1.666,362
1940.. 275,860 8J „ ~ 135,625 92,935 1,713,682
1941.. 265,316 Sif „ „ 135,625 95.975 1,747,378
1942.. 226.811 B'i „ ~ 135,625 71,132 1,767.432
1013.. 234,183 8i„ ~ 135,625 64,750 1,801,240
1944.. 161,927 8i „ ~ 135,625 52,672 1,774,870
1945.. 39,095 5 „ „ 77,500 34,902 1,701,563
1946.. 87,222 Nil 32,987 1,755,798
* Amounts actually paid between balancing dates.
After half a century of profitable exist-
ence the co. is faced with a large tonnage
of low-grade ore, which, for the last
two years, it has been unable to treat
at a profit. The problem is to get costs
back sufficiently. The board is confident
that this can be done by quickening
throughput and slightly improving the
grade of ore to be treated. Mining
accounts for about three-fifths of the co.’s
total cost of producing copper ; hence the
importance of stepping up production.
It means further mechanisation of open-
cut operations, and additions to the
coarse crushing and fine grinding sections
of the mill to enable it to handle the
larger feed. Until the whole scheme gets
into full swing the cost of producing
copper will remain high and unprofitable.
The mechanisation programme has
been held up, owing to delays in delivery
of new plant and equipment. Last term
two heavy bulldozers and an extra
electric shovel were put at work on the
ore benches in the opencut. But only
during the last few weeks were four of
the 10 new 20-ton trucks on order got
into operation. Delivery of the remain-
ing vehicles, and of the 84in. x 64in.
primary jaw crusher and 21ft. bowl classi-
fier, is still awaited. Other factors affect-
ing throughput and costs were continued
shortage of labor and heavy rains during
the last quarter of the term.
Here are treatment.and assay figures:
1939. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Ore treated
(tons) . . 1,085,983 1,490,654 1,480,554 1,472,290
Assay, copper,
p.c. .. 1.34 0.816 0.666 0.67
Blister pro-
duced (tons) 13,392 10,097 7,750 8,203
Contents —
Copper
(tons) .. *18,298 10,033 7,697 8,143
Silver (oz.) 67,886 41,635 26,092 29,630
Gold (oz.) 7,689 6,597 5,091 5,486
Over 94 p.c. of last term’s ore came from
West Lyell opencut and mpre overburden
was removed. Mill tailings yielded
54,627 tons (up 1302 tons) of pyritic con-
centrates, assaying over 50 p.c. sulphur.
Revenue and exes, compare as follows:
1944. 1945. 1946.
Income—
Copper, etc. ~£1,100,075 £886,877 £879,664
Dividends .. 62,250 44,321 77,824
Total ..£1,162,325 £931,198 £957,488
Exes. —‘
Mining .. .. 502,971 460,918 474,207
Refining, smelting 426,036 376,428 878,771
Development, de-
preciation .. 52,672 34,902 32,988
Admin., etc. .. 71,437 54,778 58,369
Total .. ..£1,053,116 £927,026 £944,335
Net profit .. 109,209 4,172 ■ 13,153
Disregarding the small cost of handling
divs. from other cos., the apparent loss


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
PA.TENTS, TRADE MARKS,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH, KASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS —EST. 1595
Asbestos House, 67 York St.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone
BW 4931
WANTED!
SALES REPRESENTATIVE
with Good Contacts
TO SELL BUILDERS’ HARDWARE
TO LARGE-VOLUME BUYERS
Represent a well-established United States dis-
tributor of exclusive leading lines of door locks
builders’ hardware and allied products. Excep-
tionally generous commissions. We make imme-
diate deliveries to give you quick returns.
(Direct inquiries from large-volume buyers
invited.)
Write: ROUSE
621 North La Cienega Blvd,
Los Angeles 36, California, U.S.A.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
Hmnn
_ niter
Cylinder
eUTHRIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
CJMIPEROOHN,
„ srDNEr.
iIANVMCtURERS
SHU
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in '
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1944.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees, or agents tor any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District,
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1944, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State; are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1946.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or beiore the 31st January, 1947,
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
A. L- STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1944.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales returns show-
ing the total amount of the premiums received
by or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1946, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1944, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1947,
subject to a penalty not exceeding £5 for every
day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
"good taste” to serve
FESQ LIQUEURS
Your discrimination in serving fine Fesq liqueurs
will be appreciated by your guests.
Ask for FESQ . . . Advocaat, Cherry Brandy,
Creme de Menthe, Orange Curacao, Curacao
Blanc, Apricot Brandy, Creme de Cacao,
Maraschino, Kummel, Dominic . . , at all hotels v
FESQ, C4SSON & Co. Pty.LtJ.
dsf
'Distributors of fine •wines
and spirits since 1848.)
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND IJUNTEB SXREE TS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Can their future
be guaranteed ?
HTHE comfort and security of wife and children
"*■ are a trust that every husband seeks to fulfil.
No man knows how long his life will run. A wise
husband will arrange with the A.M.P. Society to
carry the responsibility of providing for his loved
ones when he is no longer there to protect them.
The cost is much less than most men think.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office or representative
to work out a plan to suit your particular needs.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation
Sydney Osmond, General Manager.
M. C. Buttfield, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
H. B. G. Walker, Manager, New South Wales Branch.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
it ca
on mining last term was £64,671, com-
pared with a loss of £40,149 for the
previous year. The extra £33,503 re-
ceived in divs. was due to payment of
7 p.c. by Metal Manufacturers, Ltd.,
which had shown ord. holders an empty
basket in the previous term. No allow-
ance was made for taxation. The growth
in total exes, was £17,309, leaving the
declared net result ffom all sources
£B9Bl better at £13,153, a mere 0.8 p.c.
on the £1,550,000 of share capital. That
leaves out of the reckoning £7113 spent
on removal of overburden and charged
to capital.
The difference between the £13,153 and
the £87,222 of profit shown in the intro-
ductory table represents the allowance
for depreciation, etc. (£32,987), shown
as written off, and £41,082 dropped from
somewhere into reserves. No div. was
paid, and it is difficult to say exactly
when shareholders will get into the pic-
ture again, and to what extent. Every-
thing depends upon how soon the loss
on mining can be arrested.
Ore reserves are put at 35,092,000
tons, averaging 0.77 p.c. copper, 0.050 z.
silver and 0.00840 z. gold. This gives the
co. a mining life of over 15 years, the
chairman says. Apparently the intention
is to step up ore production and treatment
by 59 p.c. on last year’s figure. The
probable benefit to costs has already
been partly offset by an interim lift in
the basic wage. The question of a 40-
hour week awaits the decision of the
Arbitration Court. The Government has
assured the co. of £lOO per ton for its
copper until end June next. What will
happen after that remains to be seen.
The prices commissioner reduced the
selling price from £lOO to £95 a ton from
the beginning of 1946. Recent London
and New York quotes for electrolytic
copper were equal to £AI46 and £AI2S
per ton respectively.
Here is a summary of the financial
position:
1939. 1945. 1946.
Metals .. .. £274,0?6 £404,714 £362,015
Book debts . . 108,126 100,022 149,308
Stocks, etc. . . 284,724 387,182 359,894
Shares other cos. 1,527,727 1,822,997 1,822,997
Total .. .. £2,194,603 £2,714,865 £2,694,214
Liabilities .. 231,239 679,369' 667,202
Liquid surplus .. £1,963,364 £2,035,496 £2,027,012
Capital outlay on the new development
programme is being financed by bank
overdraft (£608,811), up £20,984 last term.
Shareholdings consist mainly of scrip in
four fertiliser cos. and in Metal Manu-
facturers. In addition the mine figures
at £520,551, plant £347,348, hydro-electric
equipment £181,638, railway £212,726,
freehold, etc., £9410.
The market sums up the risks by pricing
the pound shares at 21s. 3d., thus valuing
the undertaking as a going concern at
£1,646,875, or £176,122 less than the book
value of shareholdings alone —book
value is £208,937 below face value. At
21s. 3d. the return would be 4.2 p.c. on
a 4} p.c. div. basis. Last term’s return
from shareholdings was 5 p.c. on Lyell’s
capital.
Robert Annan, chairman of Consoli-
dated Gold Fields, Ltd., a co. with big
Rand and some Australian mining in-
terests, recently made some interesting
remarks on the price-cost structure in the
goldmining industry. He pointed out that
the significant figure was the cost per
ounce of gold produced rather than the
cost per ton of ore treated. In the period
just before 1932, while gold remained at
the old price of 855., costs of production
on the Rand absorbed on an average
about 14dwt. of each ounce of gold won.
The proportion fell to lldwt. on the in-
crease in price which then took place.
But costs immediately began to rise, and,
in spite of a reversal in 1y39 and in 1940,
when further increases in the price of
gold occurred, they have continued to do
so since. Now they absorb over 14dwt.
of each ounce produced. Thus the mar-
gin of working profit in terms of gold’
is no greater now than it was in 1932,
although the sterling price of gold has
doubled during this period. Capital ex-
penditure and taxation have to come out
of this margin, and the dividends paid
to Rand shareholders now represent little
more than 2jdwt. out of each ounce of
gold produced. A change in price of
the yellow metal is outside the control
of the industry itself, and it would be
unwise to count upon an increase at the
present time.
• * * *
Summing up activity in his own State,
Westralian Minister for Mines Bill Mar-
shall says the manpower position is im-
proving and so is gold output. The iron-
ore project at Cockatoo Island, Yampi
Sound, and pyrite production at Norse-
man are going ahead. Action has been
taken to ensure continued production of
blue asbestos on a large scale. Aerial,
geophysical and geological surveys of oil
areas in the north and north-west of the
State are about to be made. Large
quantities of alunite are being obtained
at Lake Chandler. There is a good
demand for the antimony produced at
Blue Spec, Nullagine, and geological sur-
vey parties are at work on the Coolgardie
and Yalgoo gold- and Collie coal-fields,
* * .t *
Yankee-controlled Big Bell (W.A.) has
taken a working option on several blocks,
including the Marmont, qn the Paddy’s
Fiat line of reef at Meekatharra. The
Fenian and Ingliston Consols, both one-
time big producers, are on this flat, whose
gold carriers have been worked to a
vertical depth of nearly 1500 ft. Gold was
first found there in 1899. Big Bell pro-
poses to make a geological survey and
then diamond drill.
* * * *
Chairman Ellerton Binns told share-
holders at the London annual meeting
that the future of Wiluna Gold Corp.,
Ltd.—it holds the entire share capital
of Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.—was
obscured by unpredictable factors, such
as rising wage and other costs, including
the cost of supplies. Binns, who is one of
the younger generation of London-
controlled Westralian mining co. direc-
tors, is a member of the firm of Me-
Carthy and Binns, consulting engineers
to Wiluna Gold Corp. He is also chair-
man of Great Boulder.
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward is another Westralian
no-liability goldmining co. to apply for
a Commonwealth mines rehabilitation
loan to carry out “comprehensive”
development and provide plant. The
sum asked for is £20,000. Spargo’s is
one of a number of small gold-searching
ventures in the West which have not ful-
filled prospectus expectations. Its mine
on the Coolgardie field is in country not
regarded as the best from an auriferous
point of view,
* * * *
Transvaal mine, near Southern Cross
(W.A.), is mentioned as a potential source
of arsenic to replace the closed-down
Wiluna. Transvaal was on the arsenic
output list from 1916 to 1919. It also
yielded about 12,0000 z. gold and a little
silver during the first quarter of this
century.
* * * *
Two more Adelaide-controlled no-
liability goldmining cos. operating in Wes-
tralia report losses for the past year,
They are Good Hope and Radio South,
Good Hope has little in the way of assets,
Radio South has a few hundred pounds,
mostly in Government bonds. Both have
substantial calling power.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
mr
m, i
ii in*!
111
Hi]
II i
m
Mill
ill
m
m.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telenhones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
rjjjpj Do you need a
personal f-.--.o
If you're troubled with money J If J Hi Y
worries or need funds for some •
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance, THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN;
• LOAN • Weekly • Fortnightly • Four-weekly
inch disc. instalment instalment instalment
£lO
£5O
£lOO
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
Sural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Contractors to Government Municipal t
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson£
osuluvajv
trade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SUNDRY SHOINS
FILMS OF '46.
Exhuming more than half a dozen
talkies worth remembering from 1946 is
difficult —the general standard was only
fair to middling and, in fact, two-, three-
and four-year-old films come more
readily to mind than last year’s produc-
tions. Laurence Olivier’s “Henry V” was
probably the most outstanding film of the
year, despite its faults. Its spectacle and
acting were miles above the general
standard of film stuff; its first fault was
that it censored and distorted Shakspeare
inexcusably, and its second was that it
dealt unnecessarily with the transient and
relatively unimportant stagecraft and pro-
duction of the sixteenth century at ex-
pense of the play itself. It was, it seemed,
an attempt to depict both the play and
the Elizabethan stage and the combina-
tion was not altogether successful.
Three films only stand out as being
practically flawless both in detail and in
their entirety, and all of them merit
bottling for permanent reference. One
was an English comedy—a technicolor
version of Coward’s “Blithe Spirit,” pre-
sented and acted as blithely as Mr.
Coward could wish and almost ignited by
the extraordinarily good comedy per-
formance of Margaret Rutherford as the
spiritualist. Hers was one of the best
stretches of acting of the year, comparing,
for vigor and color, with Wilfred Law-
son’s Doolittle. Even better than “Blithe
Spirit” was “Portrait of Maria,” a com-
plete Mexican production except for an
English translation dubbed in over the
original sound track. It was a simple but
arresting story mounting slowly from
the quiet lyrical beauty of its early scenes
to the tremendous drama of its con-
clusion. Its appeal was apparently limited
—not uncommon with good films, un-
fortunately—but it had that rare quality
of standing up to second and third inspec-
tions which confirmed and added to the
initial impression of its excellence.
The third film meriting recollection was
the English documentary of London’s
Victory March. Rich in color and in its
story, it presented not only a photo-
graphic record of events, but also caught
something of the spirit and quality of a
people and a nation ; there was history in
it, and strength and power and gratitude,
yet never a suggestion of vainglory or
the boast of power.
M.-G.-M., who released “Portrait of
Maria” —and who, incidentally, promise
more “foreign” films —also released a
continental film, “The Last Chance,” made
mainly in Switzerland and using for some
of its cast people who actually figured in
events similar to those depicted in the
film. The show was a good one, very
good, particularly in early scenes ; to-
wards the finish it degenerated towards
melodrama. One interesting feature of it
was that, although more than half the
characters spoke their native tongues, the
dialogue was readily understandable from
the general interplay of conversation with
a couple of English-speaking players—if
anything, the arrangement tended to in-
crease the realism of the piece.
Those films aside, the general line-up
was pretty even with Coward’s “This
Happy Breed” a bit out in front. Other
English films showed a common tendency
—a degeneration to magazine fiction —
which probably resulted from the con-
certed drive to turn out popular stuff in
an attempt to wrench some of the film
market from Hollywood. Generally, the
English efforts —such as “Seventh Veil,”
“The Way to the Stars,” “The Captive
Heart,” “Loye Story,” “The Wicked
Lady” and “Caravan”—were better acted
and directed than the American, but their
contents were much the same. Both
English and Hollywood filmsmiths
dabbled in pseudo-psychological fare with
the “Seventh Veil” and “Spellbound” —
the former was sustained by some sensi-
tive acting from Ann Todd and James
Mason; the latter was more of a burden
than an opportunity for Ingrid Bergman.
She was similarly afflicted in “The Bells
of St. Mary’s,” but made the most of her
part with Gary Cooper in the melodrama
“Saratoga Trunk.”
Most Hollywood productions seemed
like samples put out to test “popular
taste.” Clowns, it is said, always want
to play Hamlet and Ray Milland, though
not a clown, forsook his usual light vein
to play the dipsomaniac in “The Lost
Week-End.” It was an obvious and in-
different stretch of acting and Barrymore
would have wept had he seen it. Only
one film came from Hollywood’s best
director, John Ford. It was “They Were
Expendable,” the story of a squadron of
American P.T. craft which fought right
down to the last boat against the Japanese
onslaught on the Philippines. Probably
because the director was sticking fairly
close to fact—he and several members
of the cast served with the U.S. Navy—
the film, good though it was, lacked
Ford’s characteristic handling of the con-
trast between brooding suspense and
violent action, a method he used with
fine effect in such films as “The In-
former,” “The Long Voyage Home” and
“Stagecoach.” The only other war film
of any weight from Hollywood was “A
Walk in the Sun,” a quiet and effective
story of a moment in the Italian cam-
paign.
A small crop of routine westerns were
unleashed, and two of them —“The
Southerner” and “Canyon Pasage”—
were good enough in color and action to
rate a bit over average. There was a
steady output of “thrillers” and, appar-
ently in an attempt to crack through the
susceptibilities of audiences hardened by
the records of war, each one seemed to
outdo the other in cold ferocity—films
such as “The Spiral Staircase,” “Dark
Corner,” “The Black Angel” and “Scarlet
Street” were topped off towards the end
of the year with Orson Welles’s “The
Stranger” and a taut version of Heming-
way’s “The Killers.” Comedies and musi-
cals were scarce—M.-G.-M. turned on a
few extravagant technicolor confections,
and Lauritz Melchior and Kathryn
Grayson provided a tuneful 10 minutes
in “Two Sisters from Boston” —and ex-
cept for Columbia’s “The Jolson Story,”
a topnotch musical biography, few of
them were worth two toots on a tin
trumpet.
Short animated cartoons seemed to
hold their own during the year, but
Disney’s one full-length appearance with
“Make Mine Music” was not impressive.
English actors had the edge on the
Americans. The almost infallible Robert
Newton turned in rattling good perform-
ances in “This Happy Breed” and in the
melodrama “Night Boat to Dublin”;
Rex Harrison was consistently good in
such as “Blithe Spirit,” “Anna and the
King of Siam” and “The Rake’s Pro-
gress” ; Michael Redgrave likewise in
“The Way to the Stars,” “The Captive
Heart” and particularly in “The Dead
of Night,” in which he figured in the
macabre but adroit story of a ventrilo-
quist who transplanted his personality
as well as his voice to his dummy. In
the lighter English fare James Mason
and Stewart Granger were the main
players and competent enough—at least
they can act —with actresses Margaret
Lockwood and Patricia Roc doing al-
most as much work. The best American
actors —such as Claude Rains, Raymond
Massey, Walter Huston, Basil Rathbone
and others—were not seen to advan-
tage, although Rains had a chance to
show his paces with Bette Davis in “Mr.
Skeffington.” His Caesar in the film of
Shaw’s play should be worth watching.
One Hollywood player, Hume Cronyn,
emerged as a sound character actor in
“The Green Years,” “The Postman
Always Rings Twice” and others.
Australian films included a number of
excellent documentaries and other shorts
and three full - length productions.
“Smithy,” by world standards, was an
average film deriving much from the
natural interest in its subject. Its main
trouble was that Smith’s character —an
obvious necessity in a biography—never
emerged from the film, a fault partly due
to the authors and partly to the actor,
Ron Randell. Randell, a pleasant young
actor, made a passable job of Smith as a
young man, but seemed unable to grasp
the fully-developed character of the
older man. His work in the film,
however, earned him the dubious
distinction of being pursued by hysterical
mobs of apparently unbalanced teen-
agers, and the more concrete benefit of
an overseas contract.
Randell also played the main role in
the melodrama “A Son Is Born,” pro-
duced and directed by Eric Porter.
Porter’s direction and handling of his
material was excellent, but his original
selection of a subject was disastrous.
Given a good Australian story—and they
are there—he should do very well.
The most successful Australian produc-
tion of the year—and of any year—was
“The Overlanders,” which has been run-
ning for months at Sydney Lyceum. A
vigorous, outdoor piece depicting the
shifting of 1000-head of cattle from
Wyndham (W.A.f to the Queepsland
coast, it derives its main interest from its
action sequences and the broad sweep
of Central Australian scenery, and, with
acting requirements reduced almost to a
minimum, its players handle their roles
effectively enough. The main criticism
made on this page when the film was re-
leased was that, while fiction fairly allows
some latitude with historical fact, the
film purports to be a documentary of
“national” importance. It has several
minor inaccuracies, none of which matters
a scrap, but it does insinuate that Aus-
tralian cattlemen in the north adopted
a “scorched-earth” policy early in the
Pacific war, and lit out for the south as
fast as boat, buggy or anything else would
carry them.
That, of course, is false, and the main
reason that the cattle were shifted across
the continent —as had been done before
along a well-established stock route —
was simply the delivery of meat to where
it was needed. Just how effectively the
film has broadcast the wrong impression,
however, can be gauged from some New
York reviews. The N.Y. “Times,” for
instance, while recording that the film
“was vividly reminiscent of ‘Grass,’ which
recorded with documentary brilliance the
migration of a Persian nomad tribe in
search of pasture land for their cattle,”
also added that:
Based on the actual experience of
northern Australian cattlemen who drove
their herds across that continent in 1942
to keep them from the Japanese invaders.
The N.Y. “Herald Tribune” said much
the same thing, and the N.Y. “World
Telegram” was even more definite —and
inaccurate. It perceived “the convincing
tone of a factual film,” but went on to say:
Part of the preparation [for the Jap
landing] was reluctant destruction of the
huge cattle herds that grazed along the
coastal plains. A few hardy souls decided
that, rather than slaughter their steers and
leave them to rot, at' least an attempt could
be made to drive them across 1500 formid-
able miles of mountain and desert to a
point where the urgently-needed meat could
be salvaged.
The N.Y. “Sun” weighed in with much
the same line. “The story is stolidly told,”
it said, “with clumsy direction and
amateurish acting. There is a ring of
authenticity to the whole thing which
makes up for awkwardness.” It also
found that:
“The Overlanders” describes the attempts
of a few men to save a thousand head of
cattle. The Japanese were expected to land
in the north-west. The Australians were
fleeing, most of them by boat. Dan Mc-
Alpine, a cattle drover, had heard that in
this war bullocks were more important than
bullets A dogged fellow, he insisted upon
trying to get his “mob” of cattle 2000 miles
acjoss the continent, as far as from Lon-
don to Moscow.
All of which, when added to Mr.
Makin’s statement on the opening night
of the film in New York that the drove
across Australia had “saved” the cattle,
goes a long way to perpetuating an
historical inaccuracy that is a pretty
tough reflection on the cattlemen of the
north, who, in the main, reacted to the
threat of invasion by sitting tight on their
stations and going on with the business
of raising cattle.
The Australian part of the Australia-
India concert at Melbourne Town Hal]
was provided by Amelia Scafce, Mary
Miller and other leading Melbourne
virtuosi and included a panel of her own
compositions played by that versatile
musician Edith Harrhy. The Indian sec-
tion was provided by Sai, Miss Shakuntila
Paranjpye’s daughter, a plump, smiling
little girl who looked as if she had profited
by her sojourn in a country that has never
known starvation. She danced two tradi-
tional Indian dances and it was obvious
from the way every part of her body re-
sponded to the pleasant strains of the
native music that it was as much a
language to her as Hindustani.
Miss Louise Lightfoot, an Australian,
presented dances by members of her
Hindu Natya Group, with a commentary
on their meaning. The appropriately-
named lady is training a group of Mel-
bourne girls to support in his perfor-
mances the young Hindu (Kathakali)
dancer Mr. Ananda Shivaram, whom she
expects to arrive here from India next
April. Their quality was entirely dif-
ferent. It was as much like Miss Sai’s
performance as an Arts and Crafts
Society’s attempt at a Persian carpet is
like a Persian carpet.


M/IE
U CAPITAL to CAPITAL
::
run
ONE FARE FOR ALL .. .
Flying with Trans-Australia Airlines opens a new
era for the Australian travelling public. TAA’s
“one fare for all” brings speedy, luxurious air
travel at a cost of approximately 3d. a mile.
For further particulars
see daily classified columns
J
't/ZoHA-'Qu»Vta£Ca>
Sydney Melbourne M M „ 6 Flights Daily .. „ M £5 10 6
Sydney Canberra .. „ M „ 2 Flights Daily .. .. .. £1 18 3
Sydney—Brisbane „ M „ 3 Flights Daily £6 1 6
Sydney Adelaide M mm*. 2 Flights Daily ...... £lO 8 3
Sydney Perth 1 Flight Daily £25 1 6
Sydney Hobart .. - „ „ „ £lO 16 9
Sydney Launceston ...... £9 7 0
Children under 4 years free (1 per adult passenger), under 15 years, half fare.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRLINES COMMISSION
02-16-46
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED NILL RUM.
One of the best performances seen at Flem-
ington on New Year’s Day was that of the
Law Maker colt Bray Law, one of the most
promising of the present three-year-old crop,
though punters don’t appear to have realised
the fact. Though very consistent in com-
pany of his own age, he was allowed to run
at 7 to 1 in a moderate field of them in the
Maidstone Handicap of 10 furlongs, sharing
third favoritism with three others. Wandilow
was the popular choice, with Amelia also fan-
cied. Lumping 9.5 and conceding the others
121 b. and more, Bray Law led all the way to
beat Cider Glow by a couple of lengths, with
Wandilow third. An 800-guinea yearling, Bray
Law has won £l6OO in stakes, and probably a
good deal more in bets.
Altogether Flemington punters got away to
a good start for the New Year, favorites Cole-
brook and Chanak winning the Hurdle and
Two-year-old events respectively; Orthodox was
a well-supported winner in the Bagot Handicap,
and Lord Beaufort, winner of the Welter, was
also fairly well backed. The Standish Handi-
cap, however, was a skinner for the books,
with a camera finish in which Grand Gift and
Reoerio were pipped by the aptly-named Ait-
Marshal (Valiant Chief-Hot Air), a 100-to-l
chance.
Air Marshal paid £25-odd on the ss. win tote,
but the home of big tote dividends appears to
be Adelaide. At Morphettville on January 1,
Rahmon, winner of the Graymore Handicap,
was quoted by the books at 50 to 1, but paid
over £472 on the £1 win tote and £9O 14s. for
a place. In the same race Catha, who finished
third, paid £26 17s. The Mew Year’s Gift at
Morphettville was won by Stenelaus, compen-
sating O. R. Porte’- slightly for his horse’s
narrow defeat in the Port Adelaide Cup.
* * * *
Randwick was fair in'the path of the freakish
hailstorm which mowed a path of wreckage
through Sydney on New Year’s Day. Had the
hail struck during the running of a race the
result might have been tragic. Fortunately it-
came shortly after they’d run the second race.
Lasting only 20 minutes or so, it left the track
a quagmire—white with egg-sized chunks of ice
and great pools of water lying on the surface.
Damage was extensive but casualties few,
though one bookie stopped one fair in the ear,
which didn’t noticeably deter him from going
on with his own sort of earbashing.
Remembering his pacemaking effort in Rain-
bird’s Melbourne Cup this page mentioned
Immediate as a prospect for Tattersall’s Cup,
but it was not expected here that he would
start favorite. After all, he has not won be-
yond a mile in Australia, though he had seen
out 11 furlongs in New Zealand. Quickly
taking the running, he had an apparently un-
beatable lead at the half-mile, but he stopped
disappointingly, being overtaken at the top of
the straight by Kiaree and the stablemates Open
Air and Codicil. Codicil floundered in a big
pool, leaving Kiaree and Open Air to splash
their way neck and neck to the post, where
Kiaree just prevailed. Codicil was third, and
Immediate next. The Summer Cup winner
Haxton found the going completely beyond
her. Owned by S.T.C. vice-chairman H. E.
Tancred, the Epsom winner Kiaree has been a
•great provider for the McCarten stable.
* * * *
The A.J.C. stewards are showing commend-
able ruthlessness in their campaign against jlan-
gcious riding. In Sydney and other centres
there were far too many serious spills in the
past year. D. Munro, out for two months at
Randwick, joined Cook, Mulley, Fordyce and
Pnscoe, and oh Saturday at Moorefield J.
Thompson was also suspended for a couple of
months, and apprentice J. Eaves for a month.
Not having been used for several months,
the track at Moorefield was heavily and richly
grassed, which, together with some rain during
the morning, suggested softish going, but times
were surprisingly good. The S.T.C. turned on
the best programme it’s had for some time:
three good handicaps over six, eight and ten
furlongs plus a juvenile, and a cohple each of
Novice and Welter events.
’ A Moorefield specialist if ever there was
one. Brazier proved too good for them in the
Flying. With nothing on his back Western
1 Monarch scooted to the front after they had
| travelled a furlong, setting up a big lead and
holdmg it into the straight. Second at the
turn, Brazier (G. Moore) fairly flew down the
hill to overtake the bolter at the distance ana
outlast the favorite Oriental, finishing on well
but too late. Western Monarch saw it out
for third money.
At the for him unaccustomed" distance of
10 furlongs Wellington won the Moorefiela
Handicap stylishly despite top weight of 8.13.
Running past Sonning, leading at the turn,
Wellington was joined at the leger by Silent,
full of fight. It looked like Silent winning,
with his 61b. weight advantage, but the Le
Grand Due gelding came again right on me
pos’ to win bj a neck. The early leader, Deep
Sky, finished moderately into third place tour
lengths behind the other pair.
The handicapper obviously has Immediate s
measure. Counting both the running and thp
re-running of the lalse-start Camellia Stakes at
Rosehill, Immediate has won only three races
in Australia, and carried, when he won, 8.10
and 8.12. With 71b. allowed for J. Eaves in the
Peter Moore Handicap, he earned 9.6, and
after leading for a few furlongs finished only
fourth, well beaten by Nepean River, Titanic
and Hiraji.
Finishing strongly down- the outside, the
short-priced favorite Prince Mohican won the
Two-year-old, with Regal Speed and Heroic
Sovereign in the places. Prince Mohican has
shown improvement at each of his four starts,
which have yielded iwc wins and two seconds,
making him a cheap yearling at 325 guineas.
He’s by Mohican, a Cantala Stakes winner and
one-time holder of the Commonwealth record
for seven furlongs in 1.23. The colt’s dam,
Lady Buzz, never raced, but was a full sister
to a grand galloper, Katanga.
In other events at Moorefield, Rose Glory
(J. Eaves) landed a big plunge in winning the
first Novice from Birralee and a coming winner,
Rifle; the second division went to a Beau Vite
gelding, Paktong, an easy winner from Tithonus
and Austral Prince. Also run in two divisions,
the Welter saw Dutchman (N- Sellwood)
.account for Pearler and Count Cosmo in the
first, while Paratroop (J. Thompson) defeated
Ophir and Chantilly in the second.
* * - * •
Considered unlucky to have down in
the Standish Handicap at Flemmgton, won by
Air Marshal, Reperio recompensed with a tip-
top win in the Ascot Thousand at Mentone
on Saturday. Slow to begin, he looked hopeless
with only two behind him as they entered the
straight, but unwound a killing finish to down
Bravesia and the iOO-to-1 chance Miss Magnus.
Strongly-fancied second favorite River Hero
finished well back after having every chance,
but his backers were asking a lot; with 10.2
the Hellespont horse was conceding the second
topweight, Aggressor, 171 b., Reperio 181 b. and
Miss Magnus 441 b.
Apart from River Hero, other progeny of
the imported Hellespont had a fair day. Start-
ing at evens for the Sturt Handicap, in which
he was rated best of the youngsters with 9st.,
Hororata (H. McFarlane) won comfortably
from Fresh Boy and Dhutia. In the Colchester
Handicap of 10£ furlongs four horses went
over the line with practically nothing between
them. Sigeum (G. Bougoure), coming strongly
from behind, was going the better and received
the verdict; a head to Miradale, a half-head to
Finlarig and a half-head to the favorite
Hellenist. Sigeum and Miradale are both by
Hellespont.
Something sooner or later is sure to be called
Atom Bomb, but it should be bagged for
Judith Louise —by Enfield from Fission. Her
brand of energy was highly effective in the
Desborough Handicap, in whicjh, making light
of her topweight,, 9.12, she was in front most
of the way and ■at the post beat Real Guy
by three lengths, with Canny Scot third. Evi-
dently fancied fresh from a spell, Judith Louise
went aut at 5 to 1; earlier she had been sup-
ported at eights and tens, but the withdrawal
on veterinary advice of the favorite, Promise
You, upset the betting.
Eight of the 12 starters completed the course
for the Trial Hurdle, in which the favorite,
Wangaratta (R. Hall), led for the last half-mile
or so and held on for a comfortable win from
Peakins and Lord Hopetoun. Over the testing
13 furlongs of the Iddesleigh Handicap the
Madagascar gelding Oakleigh (D. Snart) had
a narrow win from Solsgrace and Faunus. In
another close finish the Deitical filly Weenoch
(C. Waymouth) accounted for Delecto and
Blank Music over the mile of the Clarendon
Handicap for three-year-olds.
Following an inquiry into the running of
the Talking horse Prating in the Welter at
Flemington on New Year’s Day, the well-
known Melbourne trainer and former jockey
S. Murphy was, together with the stable jockey
S. Henry and the horse, disqualified for 12
months tor “improper practices.”
* * * *
For Rand wick (before acceptances):
Novice: Grovetown, 1; Pitt, 2; Tithonus, 3.
Nursery: Airs and Graces. 1; Profound, 2;
Shading. 3. Juvenile; Prince Mohican, 1; The
Groom, 2; Jocular, 3. Sefton Handicap:
Oriental, 1; Wellington, 2; Lakshmi Vallis, 3.
Warwick January Handicap: Haxton, 1;
Codicil, 2; Skip Bomber, 3. Minto Handicap:
Agile, 1; Souvenir, 2; ( hatlock, 3.
« * * w
Third Test:
Huge crowds turned up daily last week for
the third Test, begun at Melbourne Cricket
Ground on New Year’s Day, and they had a
plentiful return of bright days and bright
cricket.
Bradman did his bit by winning the toss, and
cnce more with the bat. It says enough about
him that his 79 —by far the best score on the
opening day—was reported “Bradman Fails! ”
The other main members of the Australian
batting array did only moderately. Openers
Barnes and Morris both went l.b.w. to Bedser
for 45 and 21 respectively, the first day ending
with 6 for 255. McCool, who had»hit up 28
in that score, carried on next day. lifting his
tally to 104 not out and the Australian total to
365,
xn no time disaster smote the opposition,
Hutton going for 2 (a slips catch by McCool
off Lindwall); 1 down for S. This time, how-
ever, Washbrook came good, and with Edrich
, ited the total to a very promising-looking
1 for 147 by stumps. But next day came the
rot, leaving England (351) with a firSt-mnings
deficit. Barnes and Morris were going along
steadily at stumps with 33 on the board.
Morris got properly going at last in the
Australian second innings: slow but sure, and
still there at -stumps on Saturday, with his score
132 and the total 4 for 293. Three of the best
bats, Barnes, Bradman and Miller, were sent
packing by Yardley. Morris on Monday lifted
his score to 155 before Bedser bagged him.
Johnson, run out, had a double-duck. In there
to have a lash, Tallon (92) and Lindwall (100)
flogged the bowlijig, to put Australia in an
unbeatable position with the second-innings
total 536.
English wicketkeeper Evans in the second
Test innings (659 for eight wickets) and in
the third Test first innings (365) didn’t allow a
bye—lo 24 runs scored in 18 hours 34 mins.
Nothing equalling it in successive innings had
happened in Test cricket. At Brisbane in 1928-
29 Oldfield allowed no byes in 521 and 342 for
8 wickets—-863 runs made in the same match
in 14 hours 4 mins. In the long list of Test
matches only twice have no byes been recorded
—at Lord’s in 1890, when the ’keepers were
M’Gregor (Eng.) and Blackham (Aus.), and at
Birmingham in 1902, the ’keepers Lilley (Eng.)
and Kelly (Aus.).
* * * *•
The defeat of N.S.W. by an innings and
114 runs at Melbourne gave Victoria its third
outright win in Sheffield Shield matches this
season. Morris (110), Pettiford (54) and Cristo-
fani (31) made line efforts in the second innings
to avert the crash, but the others (including
sundries 10) could only amass 46 among them.
Victoria 8 for 560 (declared); N.S.W. 205 and
241.
The N.S.W. v. Queensland match at Sydney
ended in a win for N.S.W. by 197 runs. Fine
bowling by Pettiford (10 for 103 in all) and
fine ’keeping by Saggers, who caught two in
the first innings and caught four and stumped
two in the second, were the best efforts. N.S.W.
379 and 4 for 278 (closed); Queensland 254
and 206.
Sheffield Shield points are now Victoria 15,
N.S.W. 11, S.A. 4, Queensland 3.
♦ * * *
The Indian XI tour of Australia next year
schedules two Test matches for Melbourne
and one each at Brisbane, Sydney and Adelaide, j
Westralia and Tasmania have the choice of ;
including players from other States to buttress >
their sides —not in the best interest of their own
young players.
* * * *
Making a grand sight for even the
veriest landlubber, a field of 19 sea-going
yachts sailed down Sydney Harbor on
December 26 for the race to Hobart. The
65ft Bermuda cutter Morna led them
through the Heads and after striking a
fair variety of foul weather she was
first over the line at Hobart. However,
with handicap times adjusted, the 33ft.
cutter Christina was placed first, followed
at three hours by the sloop Saga and
Morna a close third.
<e * * *
The tennis washout:
The most pessimistic about Australia’s
chances of retaining the Davis Cup hardly
expected a complete washout, but even in the
final singles matches, postponed because of rain
on the Saturday and played on the Monday,
Bromwich and Pails both flopped in straight
sets, to Kramer and Mulloy respectively. The
U.S.A. team won all five matches, four of them
in straight sets; Australia took two sets against
their 15.
No excuses are in order npr any explanation
other than the obvious one that the Americans
were simply far too good. Possibly with less'
dilly-dallying we could have played a better
doubles pair than Bromwich-Quist, which is not
to suggest that any other pair would have
beaten Kramer and Schroeder. If the Americans
did have any slight advantage other than
superior play it lay in the experience of inter-
national match play they acquired in playing
their way through to.the challenge round.
With the talent they now have available the
Americans are likely to hold the Cup for
some years—it usually goes in cycles. To have
a hope of recovering it Australia’s tennis bodies
will need to put more zest into searching out
and training young talent. The major part of
the job of bringing along young players has
been done in the past by the hardcourt associ-
ations and the big sporting-goods firms. There
should be no lack of talent. It would be no
exaggeration to say that tennis is more uni-
versally played in Australia than in any other
country.


An -ion of satisfaction
ip*'
, n .#
i
as lie ligKts Kis |
SWE®PHESs|
535
\ \' V \ I / / //
i
sSf&
//
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
.Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £47,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,000,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
For 68 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from rum
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing. Pluvius. .
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
JJg. 117 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Business. Rollery, Etc.
The Blight of 1947
Australia today is a land of infinite
opportunity if only Australians will rid
themselves of alien doctrines, impracti-
cal economic and political notions and
try to pull together in a really demo-
cratic spirit.
There is a good deal of straight think-
ing to be done by most of us. And we
must again realise that what we desire
we shall have to work for hard.
Those who have read these pages fre-
quently over the past five years will not
find the present state of Australia some-
thing that entirely surprises them. The
economic consequences .of the political
behavior of the party now in power in
Canberra and in most of the States was
forecast here early in the life of the
Curtin Government, and at no time was
it thought necessary to change that
opinion. True, we have, since October,
194.1, passed through a period of under-
taxation of wage-earners and the like to
a state of general overtaxation ; but in
each case the root cause of the error is
the same type of political expediency
that is the weakness of Labor politicians.
There is a time and place for every-
thing—even for heavy taxation. But
“Labor” did not reveal any reasoned,
firm economic purpose in its war-time
programme. It did not logically plan the
time and place for anything. Right
through the war it was out of step with
realities and with democratic principles,
even if it be admitted that the rights of
private enterprise had to be largely de-
ferred to a later day.
“Labor” took over the central govern-
ment of the nation in a spirit* of irrespon-
sibility and parasitism—sometimes cyni-
cism. And today Mr. Chifley, harvester
of the political and economic wild oats
sown during a hectic five years, has at
been driven to appeal for industrial
co-operation in places where it has been
the “Labor” practice to preach class dis-
trust and economic disunity. The fall in
production, the continued industrial
anarchy and the menace of inflation
have apparently appalled even the Parlia-
mentary leader of the “party.”
In November, 1942, it was said here of
the Government and Mr. Chifley (then
Treasurer):
His budgeting has been perilous for Aus-
tralia. All the old easygoing, weak-kneed, put-
the-unionist-on-a-pedestal stuff has been tn e e
and found hopelessly out of touch with realities
and desired results. After a year of inflationary
finance it looks as though the Government will
have to do exactly what experts said it .would
have to do right from the beginning—that is,
regard the burden of war as a real one, a
present one, and one that can be paid for only
by being spread over the entire earning popula-
tion. But the Treasurer and his associates
are finding these things out by trial and error
during a, period in which we cannot risk the
delay and disturbance caused by such methods.
These men are unskilled, unseasoned and dan-
gerously experimental.
It is sincerely to be hoped that we in this
country have finished with the idea that we can
do our best in the war effort by blaming the
other fellow, or exploiting him, We have had
about 12 months of class friction created by the
Government in power, and there has been a
spoils-to-the-vlctor attitude with an accompani-
ment of blackguarding of anything that re-
sembles industry or thrift. Decent and indus-
trious people, with their intelligences awakened
to the threat the Japanese represented, have
suffered persecution largely because they were
big enough in themselves to let it pass in the
seriousness of the real issue. Their tormentors
have had minds undeveloped except in respect
of political cunning, and have been protected by
the institutions of their country for so long
that they did not realise the meaning of re-
sponsibility when political power was placed
irCtheir hands.
It is hard to build up a thing, very easy to
pull it down. Most efficient things in Aus-
tralia are the envy of the disgruntled and un-
balanced. All our industries and institutions are
capable of improvement—we know little of
perfection—but improvement is hardly likely to
come from the jaundiced critic, the spiteful in-
terfere!*, the perpetual dreamer, the political
adventurer or the go-getter. Criticism should
be constructive, impartial, tolerant and based
on knowledge. Men who know their job
should be left to it, checked only in the public
interest. And a long view has to be taken
of the public interest, also a view broad enough
to see what is going on in other parts of the
world, which might have a bearing on any
changes we might feel inclined to make here.
There is no such thing as a self-contained
or self-sufficient country; this war has shown
that we cannot stand aside from the surge of
world events. Australia, to survive even after
this war is over, will have to recognise the in-
dustries and services essential to its existence,
tp respect ability and enterprise in manage-
ment and administration generally, and to
acknowledge that rewards go with merit and
hard work, and are not automatic merely be-
cause the person looking for a reward happens
to have a vote that is sought by a parasitical
politician.
The war-time white-anting of the Aus-
tralian industrial and social structure by
Labor weakness, opportunism and fallacy
is plain enough even to many “Labor”
men now. No Government exercising
such a wide power over the economic life
of this country during a period of almost
total mobilisation could fail to leave the
pattern of its own warped and impractical
policy imprinted upon all our industry
and enterprise.
The white-anting of our. industrial
foundations is most apparent at the
beginning of 1947 by the failure of
an allegedly “fully employed” population
to provide anything like the production
necessary to keep the nation properly
housed, fed and clothed and at the same
time assure the provision of capital goods
adequate to carry out the numerous
undertakings of a national character that
are required for Commonwealth expan-
sion and development.
All people of a productive mind are
satisfied that a great future, including a
high standard of living, lies ahead of
Australia if its people will only act
rationally and harmoniously among them-
selves. But this new year opens with
trade-unionism for the most part regi-
mented against democratic commonsense
and against industrial co-operation. The
devil has got into trade-unionism, mostly
in the shape of Communists ; but it must
be admitted that radical Labor has in
the past almost gaily opened its doors to
these treacherous intruders. “Labor”
miseducation and studied class-creation
have been almost as undemocratic and
destructive as the actual social and in-
dustrial sabotage of Communists.
Australians have been praying for
several years past for a return to con-
ditions where they can apply their earn-
ings and savings towards the purchase
of homes, furniture and other desirable
things and lead what they consider to be
a normal, happy life, free from continued
industrial interruptions that make a
mockery of our real productive capacity
and potential standard of living.
The standard of life which this con-
tinent could support is something far
higher than anything we have yet been
accustomed to. And we would be in an
excellent position to set about achieving
our objectives if the coalminers produced
the coal so badly needed by all industry,
if the steelworkers turned out the steel
and all members of other industries did
a fair thing for fair pay. Almost nothing
else other than industrial diligence and
harmony is needed at the present time to
bring to Australians the greatest em-
ployment and prosperity they have ever
seen.
We have many advantages* at this stage
of the post-war period, over Britain and
similar countries —heavily damaged by
war and dependent on overseas sources
for so many raw materials. We have not
the inhibiting economic! factors affecting
many European nations in our indus-
trial outlook. We have the raw materials
necessary for a greatly expanded all-round
national production, and war-time neces-
sity brought about many improvements
in our, manufacturing technique and
equipment.
1 The post-war hangover of inflated
credit is something .that would be best
offset by a big rise in the output of goods
and services.' Which is another way of
saying that the very factors which would
go towards increasing our standard of
living would also help to remove the in-
flation danger that only artificial and
frustrating “controls” are keeping in
check at the present time.
Australia has been suffering for over
five years from a type of political set-up
that is now beginning to alarm respon-
sible quarters in. Britain. The “Sunday
Times,” London, in a striking leader
recently said “the cause of British union
monopoly is the cause of national dis-
unity,” adding, “the grave problems that
now beset the Attlee Government become
more intractable unless there is in Par-
liament arid among the people a real unity
of purpose so great that they dwarf all
party contentions. Our country has been
weakened by a protracted war. We
cannot afford to weaken it further by
disunion born of our attempts to set
party above the people, and union power
above individual rights.”
Further:
As a political no less than an industrial
mechanism, the T.U.C. ideal of an all-
embracing, union combine is an apparatus
for transmuting individual opinion into
mass dogma. . Minority dissent may be
theoretically permitted, but in practice it is
powerless. If a trade-unionist is a Con-
servative or Liberal, he has no effective
defence against the whole weight of his
' union being cast behind some socialist
policy....At every stage minority opinion
is overborne and buried.
The United States, too, is having its
industrial problems. Production of many
key commodities is far below what is
required for the home market, let alone
the export trade. What real benefit trade-
unionism hopes to gain from its behavior
in democratic countries it is hard to see ;
it seems that in Australia, at any rate,
subversive forces are using the inevitable
hardships and confusion of war’s after-
math as arguments to commit democratic
suicide.
We enter 1947 with a spirit of indus-
trial unreason threatening many other-
wise justified hopes of prosperity and
progress. Only the people as a body, in
their industrial, social and political be-
havior, can disperse this blight. Its dis-
persal should be their Number 1 reso-
lution for the New Year.
In London there have been further
rises in the price of copper (up £l9 stg.),
lead (£l5 stg.) and zinc (£l5 stg.). New
London metal prices compare with Aus-,,
tralian quotes as follows:
London, Sydney.*
Sterling Australian
Currency. Currency.
Copper, electro. .. £ll7 £95
Lead .... .. 70 22
Spelter .. .. 70 22
Tin .. .. 380/10/- 383
* Coppgr price ex works Port Kembla, lead
f.o.b. Port Pirie, spelter f.o.b. Risdon, tin ex
works Sydney. ' -
With the Australian price of each metal
brought to sterling, copper is now £4l
sterling a ton higher in London than in
the Commonwealth, while lead and
spelter are each £52 Bs. sterling higher—
in fact, lead and spelter are being con-
sumed in Australia at approximately a
quarter of the price paid in London. Tin
in Australia is about £73 sterling lower
than in Britain. • The Commonwealth
price of lead and spelter is fantastically
low; but the disparity is probably felt
most by the producers of copper and
tin, who work less profitable ore reserves,
as a rule, and who have little metal for
export. Industries using metals at pre-
sent false prices in Australia may find
themselves in difficulties later on when
price-control expires. ;
* * * *
Britain decided to free the rubber
market from Nov. 18, and from January
1 private traders have been at liberty to
buy abroad as they find fit. Metal pur-
chases are still controlled.
* * Jit
The legislation parsed in S. Australia
last April enabling the Government to
convert the business of Adelaide Electric
Supply Co. to a public trust left. one
question open to differences of legal
opinion: it was doubtful whether the
Government could impress assets of the
company which were outside S. Aus-
tralia—in particular, new machinery on
order from England. The company’s
directors, eager to contest the point, gave
notice to the English contractors that they
“claimed that all ex-South Australian
assets were the property of th.e company,”
and warned them against delivering else-
where. Late in November the Govern-
ment simply cut the Gordian knot by
passing a second Act; but an additional
compensation for £187,500 will go to
.ordinary shareholders for the external
assets. Compensation for each ord. share
is raised from 355. to 365. 6d.; preference
shares are unaffected.


New
Cream Deodorant
Stops Perspiration
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
2 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely,
3 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can be
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Arrid is the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-dayl
ARRID
Also in 9}d. Jars " elling toilet S' oo ' l *
Distributors: Fassatt & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
safely
I Does not irritate skin,
At all chemists & stores
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitationa
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
Table Lamp Model
T.L. 13
This photo shows a 300 c.p. Tilley
Lamp for domestic use but there
are also 5000 c.p. Floodlights, Out-
door Lamps, Radiators, etc. All
burn ordinary kerosene.
Tilley Lamps are made only at
Hendon, England.
BE SURE YOU BUY A TILLEY LAMP
LOOK FOR THE NAME!
A quality product born of long
Manufacturing Experience
THE TILLEY LAMP CO.; HENDON, N.W.4, ENG
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
*
MELBOURNE: T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
When the private shipping cos. have
returned to them their coastal (inter-
state) services they are likely to face
colossal problems, chief of which will be
the unruly state of labor both on the
wharves and at sea. At the present time
the Federal Government has a monopoly
of inter-State shipping, and stevedoring
charges are initially paid by the Govern-
ment. The result appears to have been
a great slowing-down in cargo traffic and
heavy charges to the taxpayer through the
losses incurred in all branches of the
industry. In 1945-46 there was a debit of
£3,739,343 in the Shipping Branch, and
this year the figure is forecast at
£2,542,000. Unless discipline is restored
to the industry and new freight rates in.
keeping with higher costs are allowed to
the shipping companies, it is plain that
they will be unable to carry on operations
when the Government leaves off. New
rules and regulations concerning age,
etc., of ships, plus increased accommoda-
tion for the crew, are other economic
burdens the industry will have to carry.
* * * *
Bums Philp shares have been selling at
725. in New Zealand, after touching 82s.
6d. in 1946. The Australian pegged price,
before the reopening of the freed
’Changes, was 68s. 3d., the return being
3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
backing, on book values, behind each £1
of capital is over 515., so that not a great
deal has been paid for goodwill by recent
Maoriland buyers considering that over
£5,000.000 of visible shareholders’ funds
are at work in the business, and that the
undisclosed capital accretion on invest-
ments alone (including shares in Queens-
land Insurance and 8.-P. South Seas)
would go a long way towards providing
another 20s. a share of net tangible values.
Profits during the later years of the war
shrank owing to interruption of shipping
services, Jap occupation of trading areas
and heavy Australian taxation; but no
difficulty was experienced in maintaining
the 10 p.c. div. The South Sea subsidiary
has done all right in recent years, operat-
ing in a more sheltered area than the
Solomons and New Guinea ; and there is
no lack of demand for Island products
from any source provided areas can be
rehabilitated and transport restored,
whether shipping be under 8.-P. control
or otherwise. The co. at present is de-
voting a considerable proportion of its
resources to Commonwealth merchandis-
ing and trading activity; it controls
Penneys, a chain-store organisation
prominent in Queensland and northern
N. S. Wales, and has been buying into
a variety of other ventures and assets.
It is interested in a projected Sydney
hotel. Book value of investments and the
like now totals about £4,000,000,
while “properties and shipping” account
for £2,223,000. The co. has a very
wide spread of interests indeed, and
one result should be stabilised earning
power. Travel bookings and trustee-
ship arfe among the non-trading services
rendered.
* * * *
During the war the story leaked out,
through America, that oil had been
struck in Britain, and that a major flow
had resulted. Actual data concerning the
oilfields have rather tempered this war-
time impression. Peak production of
325 tons a day, mostly from the Eakring
field, near Newark, in Nottinghamshire,
was reached in* September, 1943 ; current
production is about 150 tons a day, the
decline being due to a falling-off in well
output. There are still about 238 wells
producing out of some 300 flow-wells
drilled. The Nottinghamshire oilfield is
considered to be comparable in size with
the average mid-continent field in the
United States, and commercial results
justify the search for similar fields, A
second discovery at Formby, in Lanca-
shire, was so small in quantity as to be
of little value except, perhaps, so far as
it may provide a leader to deeper oil
accumulations. Geophysical surveys were
largely responsible for the Nottingham-
shire discoveries, the seismic refraction
method proving more satisfactory than
the Inflection method.
* * * w
Burlington Mills weaves and dyes
rayon fabrics at Rutherford (N.S.W.),
where it also spins a special yarn and
weaves it into tapestry. The tapestry
enterprise, formerly housed at Ralph-
street, Alexandria, was shifted north last
term, and operations were- interrupted.
The rayon mill was brought into running
for the first time during the last financial
year, but it is still incomplete, much
weaving plant having yet to arrive. Capa-
city of the dyeing and finishing plant is
still greatly in excess of cloth produc-
tion, and last term “substantial quantities”
of plain cloth were brought front the
associate co. in the U.S.A. and dyed at
Rutherford. Greatest present difficulty
is to get adequate supplies of rayon yarn
from abroad * this position# is likely to
continue for months. Last year’s profit
of £38,688 was contributed to consider-
ably by the handling of American cloth ;
the figure Was arrived at after providing
£12,899 for depreciation, but no allow-
ance was made for taxation. Because
of the special 20 p.c. depreciation allow-
ance granted by the taxation department
on new plant the co.’s profits last term
were non-taxable, even though the special
allowance was not written off in the
books. Before the end of 1947 it is ex-
pected that the rayon plant will have
been more than doubled; and the dyeing
and finishing machinery will be in balance
with the increased productive capacity.
Most of the textile operators have been
recruited from the Rutherford area. The
co.'has the backing and technical assist-
ance of Burlington Mills Corp., Greens-
boro, U.S.A., which helped in the selec-
tion of plant (some of which is second-
hand) and training of executives. The
Greensboro concern owns 233,000 shares
(half contribs.) in the Australian com-
pany, which has an issue of 350,000 fully-
paid £1 shares and a similar number of
2s. 6d.-paids. High profits and dividends
have been recorded by the U.S. Burling-
ton concern, the $1 shares of which have
at times gone to nearly 50 times their
par value. The Australian co.’s £1 shares
have been priced in the vicinity of 48&.
for some time. This is a high figure for
a concern that is not yet in full produc-
tion and which is dependent upon over-
seas sources for its yarn, but experience
in other countries suggest that good
profits are indicated if sufficient raw
material and labor is available, and if the
Prices Branch allows the co. reasonable
latitude. Until price-control and com-
pany taxes are revised in the Common-
wealth it is entirely unlikely that’ Bur-
lington will be in a position to emulate
the profit-earning experience of its U.S.
associate.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Canada, which until recently had negli-
gible developed iron-ore resources of its
own —it used to get most of its supplies
from Newfoundland and Minnesota —has
drained Steep Rock Lake, north-west of
Lake Superior, by diverting the Seine
River, and in 1946 took out about a mil-
lion tons of high-grade iron ore. Over
the next four or five years it is proposed
to treble output; when this ambitious task
is completed the Steep Rock mine will
be the second largest of its kind in North
America. The whole enterprise has been
a remarkable engineering feat. One
factor which helped in geological explor-
ation and which would not obtain in
Australia was the fact that the lake, which
ranged in depth from 40ft. to 265 ft., was
frozen in winter, allowing diamond-
drilling to be carried out for a period
each year. Over 31,000,000 tons of
hematite, proved and probable, has been
revealed. The Canadian, United States
and Ontario Governments, as well as
private investors, participated directly or
indirectly in the financial arrangements.
Not allowing for interest, amortisation
and taxes it is estimated that the ore can
be delivered to lower lake ports at under
$3.50 a ton, compared with more than
$6 for U.S. ore at the same point of
shipment.
V * * ♦
In an action asking that the regulations
governing the sale of land be declared
invalid the High Court was equally
divided, with the Chief Justice on
the side which considered the regu-
lations valid; and his judgment pre-
vailed. Sir John Latham considered that
there was no justification for much of the
information which the parties to the parti-
cular case were required to give, but the
validity of the regulations was not affected
thereby. The plaintiff, B. B. Dawson,
who had had a land transaction held up
by the Treasury delegate, contended that
hostilities ceased on Sept. 2, 1945, and
that the National Security Act expired
on March 2, 1946. The C.J. held that
this contention could not be supported in
its literal sense. Rich, J., maintained that
the regulations were not a valid exercise
of the defence powers,, and Starke, J.,
considered that there was not the least
justification, in present circumstances, for
the Treasurer’s wide powers under the
regulations. Land-sale control is being
continued under the Defence (Transi-
tional Provisions) Act now that the
National Security Act has expired.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: The young fellow, whose corn-
free hands and lilywhite arms proclaimed
his urban origin, had got a job at
Marsden’s. His “quarters” comprised a
borer-riddled 9ft. x Bft. barn that by
some miracle still remained almost ver-
tical. Its low, sloping, galvanised-iron
roof kept the “hut” still simmering at
around 90 degrees even within cooee of
midnight. After the possums finished
gambolling on the roof just after dawn
the shift would be taken over by the
cockatoos, whose screechings as they slid
down the roof were not calculated
to induce restful slumbers. Then the
ewes and lambs kept up a maddening
bleating outside the hessian door and, to
top off the comfort, the plentiful rats,
when they weren’t scampering across the
occupant’s face, were chewing in un-
mannerly loudness at the bags of wheat
and horse-feed which took up most of
the space. Haggard-eyed, the new hand
crawled out the first morning and at
breakfast complained of the accommoda-
tion. Marsden looked sternly at his new
employee. “That’s what y’ git for not
takin’ notice o’ what I said yestiddy,” he
remarked. “I told y’ y’d git a better doss
in that ole stripper in the machinery-shed.
There’s on’y a few mice there, an’ it’s in
a wonderful position, with the open end
facin’ east so that the sun wakes y’
natural in the mornin’s.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Wippegong”: Fox mimicry (B.
18/12/’46)? Saw it put to good use the
night of the Red Cross fete in our gully.
The district had poured out the best of
local produce and turned up in force ; all
except old Flint, from whose fat farm not
even an egg arrived. The shivoo was in
full swing when a fox-bark behind the
shed brought the old boy charging out
into the night, and although the barks
receded across .the flat, inspection showed
he’d been too late —a pair of prime geese
were gone. He never knew that the
raffling of them swelled the funds by a
fiver.
“Betcha”: The overgrown bush track
was seldom used, and, striding along with
no precautions against noise, I was
attracted by rustling and twig-breaking
just ahead, and soon spotted the fox. He
was busy investigating a huge log, and,
surprisingly enough, seemed unaware of
my noisy approach. By stepping care-
fully and stopping each time he looked
up I was presently within three or four
paces. He looked me up and down in a
puzzled way, then, deciding I was part of
the scenery, went on with his scratching
under the log. Undoubtedly he was old.
His head had the appearance of an
ancient tyke; his eyes were dull, brush
thin, though so far as I could see he
showed no sign of mange. Several times
in his clumsy perambulations of the log
he stopped to look me over wonderingly ;
then, coming deliberately towards me, he
was almost within kicking distance before,
his nose at last’ in working range, he
suddenly wheeled and made a dash for
the bush. Apparently, like the domestic
tyke, the faculties of the fox grow dim
with advancing years,
* * * *
“Chuck”: Met old Jim when I was
coming in the other day. He was riding
a restless type of nag and carrying a
wireless battery, a large pie-melon and a
cross-cut saw. “Awkward?” I inquired.
“Sometimes,” he admitted; “Wish I c’d
“Well, it Was one of yer own brilliant ideas, Ber[?].”
sit a nag like them good riders. Took
me all me time jugglin’ these flamin’
things back there when I ’ad t’ cut out a
few cows that’d jumped the fence.” I
glanced back at the bawling mob. “Just
taken the calves off ’em, have you?”
“Yair, an’ they’re damn’ pig-’eaded,” he
growled. “With all those trappings on
y’r nag,” I grinned, taking in the breast
straps and crupper, “it’s a wonder he
can’t cut ’em out on his own.” Old Jim
looked sheepish. “Yair, I know a bloke
looks like a flamin’ tupp’ny cowboy,” he
murmured apologetically, “but it’s the
moke’s fault. Soon’s y’ buckle any sort
o’ strap round the cow ’e girth-galls.
Musterin’ on them steep hills -the saddle’s
a bit of a nuisance, so I ride ’im without
a girth.”
♦ 4c sj: $
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Despite the ob-
stacles interposed by police and other in-
terfering persons, Queensland’s cattle-
duffers have always held a leading place
amongst practitioners of that elusive art.
Latest developments would seem to in-
dicate that they are growing tired of the
great outback with its chronic lack <Jf
handy pubs and blackmarket tobacco.
High prices of meat and shortages of
coupons will have also tended to make
the attractions of urban rustling more
attractive and profitable. Whatever the
real cause, substantial stock losses are
being reported by dairyfarmers and other
owners of stock within 10 miles of the
Brisbane G.P.O. A couple of lads
shooting in the thick bush around'
Bulimba Creek, well within city limits, re-
cently came on six newly-dressed car-
casses hooked up in trees.
♦ * * *
“Blime”; “They reckon a dog’s about
the brainiest animal we got,” drawled
Mike, “but I dunno. Y’ remember that
job I was on last winter —the one I had
t’ walk up the river past Dan’s place?
There weren’t a mornin’ on that job I
didn’t run into that ol’ grey nag o’ his
that he’d turned out t’ save feed. Well,
one day I spots the rails down inter hrs
lucerne an’ the grey hoggin’ in f’r h£r life,
so, thinkin’ she’d broken in, I runs her
out ’n’ sticks the rails up. Next day the
same thing happens again. The third
mornin’ she’s in the lucerne awright, but
seein’, the rails up I jerry that Dan’s
put her in an’ goes on. Cornin’ back at
night I notice she’s bin put out again fr
water. It goes on like that f’r about a
week, then I happens t’ go t’ work an
hour earlier than usual an’ spots the grey
at the lucerne rails. One after the other
she drops ’em, puts herself inside, then,
liftin’ ’em with her teeth, shoves ’em all
back into place. Next she backs orf ’n’
eyes ’em sort o’ worried. Then all at once
she remembers, an’ pickin’ up the pegs
she jams one home in each rail, gives a
sort o’ whinny, then lets fly with her heels
in my d’rection as she streaks up the
paddick.”
♦ * * *
“Solitude”; The trouble started when
Seventyfiver bought a tin of meat at the
store. Hacking it open, we whacked the
contents, “Not much in one o’ them
things,” he remarked hungrily a few
minutes later, as he rubbed out the tin
with a hunk of damper. For the rest
of the meal my stray comments fell on
deaf ears, as the old bloke gazed into
space and pondered. Then, digging up
a stub of pencil, he began woiing
figures down the margins of the ireWs-
paper. Three pages were used by nine
o’clock, and he turned into bunk to toss
and mumble worriedly. Next night the
calculations were resumed till the rest
of the newspaper, the jam label and a
packet of tobacco were decorated be-
yond recognition. “Well, whatin’ell are
you working out?” I demanded as the
figures spread to the table top, the
leaders stringing round the corner in a
broken line. “Wait a minute, Sol,” he
frowned. “It’s that big old bull the boss
gimme an’ I sold t’ Henderson t’ truck
away. Yair, I thought so,” he crowed
presently, underlining the latest figures.
“That cove gimme a lousy ten quid f’r
that beast t’ boil down, an’, there y’are—
the thing must a bin worth ninety-nine
quid eighteen.”
* * * *
“Loc”: The keen fisherman occasion-’
ally strikes periods when the fish are
presumably all at home having dinner.
The waters around him can be white
with burley; his prawn-bait can look so
appetising that he would cheerfully hoe
into it himself, yet they just won’t bite.
He starts experimenting. Some time
ago a desperate angler must have baited
up with cheese and landed a worthy silver
bream, for now, in parts, cheddar is
recognised as the only lure for that par-
ticular fish. Calculated to make flat-
heads jump into the boat is another rare
concoction made from saveloy meat and
breadcrumbs. Best* touch of the lot,
however, was a two-pound whiting caught
with a piece of banana-skin. The posi-
tion of the hook in the fish —through
the back of his ’neck —suggests that he
skidded on the skin and so became
attached.
♦ * * *
“Nigel D.”; Speaking of the gander,
is there any domestic fowl which enjoys
so long a life? Knew an ancient grazier
of the W.A, south-west who kept a pet
gander which he declared was getting on
for 30. And the queer thing was that
this fowl was entirely attached to the
old man, ignoring the flock of other geese
bred on the estate. Everywhere his owner
went outside the house Tom went with
him. At night he camped in a kind of
kennel outside the kitchen door, ready
to greet him at sunrise, which was the
old man’s normal time of rising. When
the owner rode off to do the rounds of
his paddocks the gander waddled along-
side the walking horse as far as the house
paddock gate; there he stopped, know-
ing that from there on the horse’s pace
would be too fast for him. But he didn’t
wait there long; aware that his master
would invariably return by the gate on
the farther side of the paddock, he would
be there waiting for an hour or more
prior to the event. With a nice taste for
the “dew” he never failed to share the
old fellow’s daily noggin of whisky, re-
ceiving his in a heavy delf saucer. On
birthdays and Xmases, when his master
was inclined to see the bottle empty, Tom
would get to a condition, drunk and dis-
orderly, going for anybody or anything
that attempted to approach. Still strong
when last seen.
“Billy See”: The gander may be a
bluffer, as with rare exceptions he is, but
you can’t beat him as a watcher, particu-
larly at night. Geese, although inclined to
wander as they graze on grass, always
come home at dusk, when they gather
for rest in some favored spot of the
homestead. In the stillness of the night
the slightest sound will alarm, a near
approach of any stranger arousing them
to a cackle which soon becomes a
.clamor. Humorous Yankee gangsters,
noting this, long ago dubbed the look-out
for the. gang, generally a woman, “a
gander”; taking a preliminary look
round a situation is “doing a gander.”
Poultry-farmers who fear the night raids
of thieves would sleep more at ease
should they add a few geese to their
flocks.
* * » , *
“Appin”: Perth had its share of lively
bar-episodes in the ’rush days, but the
Perth police generally were on the spot
quickly (B. 18/12/’46). And, long after
the rush days, Perth police knew how
to deal with pugs on the rampage; one
tackled Joe Grim, called the “Iron Man,”
downed him in the street and took him
off to the rat-house. And the cops were
ready for Jack Johnson, fresh from his
defeat of Burns, if he started trouble.
Johnson was appearing at a music-hall.
Peeved at a hostile crowd, the black
wiped off a row of glasses in the Metro-
pole saloon. A big constable called
“Sunflower” raced through a cheering
crowd, but as the White Hope bent double
to enter the main-door the Holder was
coaxed out into the adjoining theatre, and
the. world’s unofficial championship re-
mained unfought.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were working for a
Wimmera cocky with four daughters
when December arrived and Mat stopped
shaving. “You savin’ money or some-
thin’?” I demanded, “Never mind about
you,” he said. As Christmas drew nearer,
Mat’s whiskers grew the stubblier. Came
the expected invitation to join the boss’s
family m the festivities. On Christmas
Eve Mat went up to the house and hung
around for awhile, not saying much.
Early next morning he prospected the
house again, then came to the hut and
removed the face fungus. “I kept it on,”
he told my questioning look, “till I was
dead certain none o’ them wimmen up
there had any ideas o’ hangin’ up mistle-
toe. I bin caught like that before.”
“Frank Mauri”: “Plop” (B. 11/12/’46)
can get the idea out of his head that
Pacific natives develop complete im-
munity to malaria. If the infant survives
malaria infection for about two years it
will slowly acquire a partial resistance,
but the adult’s enlarged spleen is a sure
indication of active malaria. Medical
examiners can tell the incidence of the
disease in an area by the number and
degree of infected spleens. True, child-
ren’s organs give the most accurate index,
but that is because the kids are the only
permanent residents of a village—all their
malaria is acquired on the spot. There
are malaria-free districts: parts of the
Upper Sepik, uplands above 5000 feet,
and an island or two. And there is no
malaria east of the International Date
Line. Why, nobody seems to know.
* * * *
“Chromosome”: “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
18/12/’46) is in good company when he
puzzles over the growth of several dif-
ferent fruits from one root. The answer
to the quiz is in Mendelism. Each
microscopic cell in the graft contains a
complete dossier of its own species right,
back to the first herb-bearing seed, also a
blue-print for the production of the pre-
■sent model with full instructions about
color, etc. Every cell in the graft co-
operates with all the others, but hot one
of them will take orders from the root.
They just grab the materials sent up the
stem in a sort of predigested state and
apply them to the special-purpose job.
Exactly the same thing happens in the
animal world when a piccaninny, a white
child, and a foal ase all fed on the milk
from one cow without showing any trace
of bovine influence. Every cell, vegetable
or. animal, has a mind of its own, but only
the human cell contains a gene for
wonder, which is the origin of all religion
and science. And the more we know, the
more we wonder. *
THE BASKETS OF AH LING.
Down the hill from Oberon Ah Ling would
reappear
Jog-trotting to our sliprails his baskets twice
a year.
My money I have squandered on fancy goods
and plain
—lf I could live it over I’d do the same again—
But those investments never have brought the
thrill of joy
My spending silver purchased from China as
a boy.
Ah Ling was thin and wrinkled; his pants of
faded blue
Around waist-line circled were thin and
wrinkled too.
But in his funny footgear, with long, black
pigtail coiled,
He moved across the landscape as if his joints
were oiled —
The customers were scattered around a district
wide
From sunny plains of Bathurst to cool Jenolan
side.
He carried tea in packets and cards of hooks
and eyes,
Painkiller for sick stomachs and lotion for sore
eyes;
He offered flowered ’kerchiefs that women
fancied then,
. Lace collars for the maidens, suspenders for
the men.
An Oriental magic, I thought, of lamp or ring
Must be applied in packing those baskets of
Ah Ling.
One casket, when unlidded, disclosed a set of
trays—
The feminine department—the other was a
maze
Wherein ’neath sundries buried as such rich
treasures are
I guessed that sweetly rested a painted porcelain
jar;
A jar with slender handles of finely-split
bamboo,
A jar my benefactor would sell for one and
two!
I
Ah Ling would lift it gently, a twinkle in his
eye,
“This allee same my countly, good gingel, welly
' ni.”
Though China has her poets, her fine ceramic
art
Which have since then intrigued me, she won
my youthful heart
With lyrics writ in syrup around a substance
rare,
Ancestral Sons of Heaven contained in
earthenware.
.When emptied of its contents —the ginger arid
the juice—
Such jars could be converted to handy house-
hold use;
As old Ah Ling, wise salesman, assured me
with a grin,
“You findem welly ploper to fixee loses in.”
Which brings to recollection a picture from
afar —•
Sweet briar in a fireplace and roses in a jar.
I know not where that pedlar who balanced on
his pole
A camel’s load is sleeping; I trust his pagan
soul
Has found Celestial quiet: for when some
mental strain
Disturbs my restless spirit I switch my mind
again
To that remembered vista when down the track
would swing
Upon a padded shoulder the baskets of Ah
Ling.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Old-timer”: When Kelly got a load
of the Christmas spirit aboard he was
apt to give forth utterances which sug-
gested a youth and young manhood spent
in pursuits other than jumbuck nursing
and its attendant chores. Consequently,
if you arrived at some Riverina pub about
the end of the year you were likely to be
regarded owlishly by a pair of frank blue
eyes and a voice declaring that “t’was
brillig in the slithy toves” or calling upon
you as a “fellow Athenian to consider the
destiny of man.” Demure bush damsels
were at these times puizled to hear their
gait described as though “the fanning
wings of Mercury played upon their
heels” or a prayer that no “tusked de-
stroyer should wound the shy Adonis”
with whom they had an appointment,
and some battler in from the bends would
hear, himself referred to as this “black-
avised fellow, this skulker of the glens,”
and want to have a piece of Kelly. One
Christmas the parson who came to take
the service at the little church went down
with some ailment and Kelly volunteered
to substitute. Combed, shaved, bathed
and habilitated fittingly, he recited
Anatole France’s “Procurator of Judea”
word for word and, leaving the audiehce
dumbfounded, went and hung himself to
a tree —or at least we thought he had,
until we discovered that the garments of
the corpse contained a sheaf of hay,
whereupon we searched madly for the
jester—in vain. Three days later a telegram
arrived from Berrigan, many miles away,
containing the simple message: “ ‘As
cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good
news from a far country.’ Kelly lives.”
* * * *
“Naturala”: I was interested in the
efforts of a squad of tiny meat-ants en-
gaged in taking home a vast prize—the
entire leg of a deceased grasshopper.
These ants, not more than an eighth of
an inch long, infest the sands around
Perth in vast numbers, the symmetrically-
shaped workers obviously bossed by less-
numerous .sergeants endowed with pon-
derous heads and powerful jaws. Per-
haps 50 workers handled the leg, with
half a dozen sergeants hovering around
and giving a hand when required. The
first nest entrance was obviously con-
“Hey, youse landlubbers—I'll swap yer the wimmen for the grog!”
sidered but passed by as being too
crooked to permit the taking in of the
prize. But the next apparently was just
about right. Upending the leg, which in
proportion to the ants towered aloft like
the mast of a ship, they proceeded to
work it downwards, with all the evidence
of a squad of navvies below straightening
out the kinks of the passage. The thigh
portion passed from sight: then came an
insuperable obstacle, the bend at the
knee. Efforts to straighten this having
failed, one of the sergeants cut it through
with a few nips of his jaws. This shin
part was promptly carted to the first
entrance, down which it was taken with-
out difficulty. No lack of intelligence or
of co-operation in any of the proceed-
ings.
* * * *
“Fancar”: If birds, with the exception
of the bower-birds, fail to see blue, bees
on the contrary have a definite liking for
.that color. Lubbock (Lord Avebury)
proved by placing honey on slips of paper
of different shades that bees preferred
blue, their next choice being white, then
yellow, red, green and lastly orange. A
hundred tests were carried out in Kent
and Middlesex, all with the sam6 result,
and Lord Avebury came to the conclu-
sion that the ancestors of the blue
flowers had probably passed through
steps in which they had been each color
in turn. Still, if bees have developed a
preference for blue one might expect
honey-eaters and other nectar-lovers to
have the same liking. , •
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; Browsing along the
shores of a W.A. estuary I came upon a
wide expanse of marshland that glistened
with a panoply of shimmering silk
mottled with spots of gold. The silk was
acres of spiders’ webs, woven horizontally
across the tops of tall rushes, the golden
spots the small bright bronze-colored
owners. The reason for so prolific a
spread was the constant breeding of a
small fly hatched out in the tidal sludge
which formed the surface of the marsh.
Although there was any amount of scrub
in the near vicinity upon which the
spiders might have spun the orthodox
vertical web, they had learned the trick of
spreading a horizontal web which trapped
the infant fly just as it rose and spread
its ,wings on its first flight—and judging
by the number of spiders the industry
was highly payable. And, since the flies
were of a species particularly insistent and
stinging, how could humans have lived
in the vicinity had not the Arachnida
taken the matter in hand?
* * * *
“Johnny”: “Zake” (B. 11/12/’46) is
certainly an optimist if he expects to mate
a “bull-oak” with a “she-oak” (a pardon-
able mistake, though). The buloke anfld
the sheoke (spelling now adopted by the
Official Committee on Plant Names) and
a good many other “okes,” all members
of the family Casuarina, were named by
the European botanist Rumphpius.
Generally the trees are dioecious (sexes
on separate trees), but one or two of the
genus are monoecious (both sexes on one
tree). The flowers vaguely resemble cat-
kins, and the fruit is a small primitive
kind of cone from which the winged
seeds escape through slits. Often the
apparent “foliage” is mistaken for leaves.
These are but branchlets, and the micro-
scopic leaves are arranged round them at
regular intervals in whorls.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Dusty Gully’s umpire
(B. 18/12/’46) is only one of the types
who brighten, bush cricket; another is he
who reckons a favored bowler can do no
wrong. Old Bill smiled on me for a
season or so and I had wonderful figures,
not so much because of spin and flight
and such minor details, but because I
never allowed any batsman to divert my
rapt attention to the ceaseless flow of
Bill’s hoary stories. He was Dalgety’s
agent in those parts and always capie on
the field armed with one of those great
canes with which the experts raise spurts
of dust from the ribs of stubborn steers
in the saleyards. Often during a game
some chap would jog down from the hills,
toss the reins over a post and wander on
to the ground to talk business. Soon
Bill would have his back to the game
and a bloke would count his own overs—
which had its advantages. During such
times I’d maybe pass the nod to the
’keeper and, bowling a fierce wide, let out
a wild appeal; Old Bill would swing
.round, wave his waddy in the air, drawl
“Out!” and go back to arranging a truck
for Tuesday’s yarding. That item con-
cluded, he’d come back to the game, but
rarely noticed that the “dismissed” bats-
man was still in.
“Standin room only, Joe —better wait fer the next.”
“Zake”; I have seen fellows develop
deeply-furrowed brows and adopt all
sorts of expensive methods in futile en-
deavors to coax meat-ants to abandon
their ancestral halls, and was convinced
that only long, tedious and patient pro-
cedure could secure their removal—until
I happened on a long individual who
spread cornsacks on top of the holes and
weighted the edges with loose earth. The
ants were heard to emit some severe
formic language before deciding to shift
on to more salubrious parts.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: If that Roman
emperor who proved the wild stallion’s
mettle by matching him with a lion, wolf,
bear and jaguar (B. 4/12/ ’46) had intro-
duced into the stoush a. jack donkey, the
nag wouldn’t have had it all his own way.
Once saw one tackle a stallion that had
disposed of all previous comers and re-
garded the donk as a poor joke. Jack
dived as the horse reared and, safe under
his belly, took a savage hold of his fet-
lock with iron jaws. The scream of a
stallion in mortal pain is blood-curdling,
and Jack maintained his grip until driven
off by the stallion’s owner. Saw him
repeat the performance twice before that
job finished, and none of his victims ever
worked—or fought again.
. , * . . * .
.. - Car ™ Wy neighbor is building a
bird-proof box to circumvent crows that
delight m pullmg out his mail. His chief
complaint !S that the sable fowi-whmh
I!dJSi1 !d JSi “T & ma BS l& —rips up
* y e bills.
“Bull-ant Bill”: The missus came back
to the car smiling, after presenting a
baby-cap that she had made for Annie's
sixth full-blood contribution to the abo-
riginal race within seven years. “Annie’s
such an innocent dear,” said she. “It’s
the tiniest of tots, and when I suggested
that it would need good feeding before it
grew as big as the others had been at
two weeks old, what do you think she
said?” I admitted complete inability to
make even a guess at so technical a
matter. “She said, ‘Yes, Missie,’ looked
down at the poor little thing again, and
then, as seriously as possible, ‘but, Missie,
everything’s rationed now’.” From sub-
sequent culinary activities at home I’m
prepared to lay odds that Annie’s “inno-
cence” will yield substantial dividends in
the tucker line during the next few
months.
* * * •
“K.G.C.”: Talking of this barracoota
fishing. Bill and Joe, fishing off Queens-
cliff (Vic,), were doing well with the
customary line and hooks covered with
red rag. The day was warm and Joe, to
cool off, discarded his shirt and exposed
a red singlet. ’Coota immediately began
to jump into the boat in such numbers
that they threatened to swamp it. Joe,
in response to Bill’s urgent orders, peeled
off his singlet and threw it overboard,
The ’coota on board immediately jumped
after it the boat. Thus was
another tragedy averted.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The stranger took a job
with Deafy Abbot, and strove to com-
municate verbally with his employer. His
patience and voice gave out simul-
taneously when he tried framing his
words with deliberate emphasis. Deafy
had never mastered the art of lip-reading,
After that, pantomime and sign language
became the only means of discourse.
When stock-sale day arrived Deafy drove
his employee into town and into the pub.
In between drinks the young cove
got into conversation with the bar-
maid, grew confidential and began
to make loud and pointed remarks
about the “old walrus.” Seeing
the startled expression on his listener’s
face, the garrulous one explained: “ S
all right—he’s as deaf as a beetle, dearest,
Not a bad old coot to work for, but he
wants his pound of flesh.” Suddenly
the “old walrus” swung round. “Yairs,”
he snapped, “but he only gets about
twelve ounces.” Now the hand can carry
on a conversation with his boss—pro-
vided he keeps banging on a kerosene-
tin all the while he’s talking,
* * * *
“Junius”: Tell “Ex-Mister” (B.
4/12/’46) that he had two things right in
his par. about the elephant and the wind-
lass at Flat Top (off Mackay); the port
of discharge and the surname of the
shipmaster. The circus was picked up in
Keppel Bay (not Gladstone) by the Gintra
(not Wodonga), the mate was Sam Gilling
(not Jock Mackay). and the trouble arose
out of not being able to drop the anchor
because (1) the camel was lying on the
long drift of cable between the windlass
whelps ; and (2) the' baby elephant near
by on the forecastle head tossed the
release windlass lever (not key) over
the side. Between the two efforts “W.C.”
—the only nickname I ever heard for
Capt. W. C. Thompson—took the Cintra
to sea while the camel was got off the
cable. “The Circus that Went to Sea,”
written by me, appeared in the now-de-
funct “Capricornian” (Rockhampton);
the .. Blue I ' Peter „ . al £
.. Australian Joumal ,.'. j a sk “Ex-Mister”
how an elephant » stowed oa forward
weU deck .r could monkey about wjth
the gear of the windlass on the raised
forecastle-head ; also how, in the absence
° £ th s “ ke v” to screw up the windlass as
the ? ha , m was nmnmg out—usually done
° n the brake—they managed to heave up
*e anchor they had dropped so that they
S,°!, u to , sea tO , °°k or tbe key?
d kke to know, because, you see, I
* b *y d „ mate and tbe , bridge at
WQ s „ elbow dunn S the whole cir cus
—most of it staged in the middle watch
wben 1 should have been below and
asleep * #
«■ * *l' *». r.- 't. ,' . .
Atlanta J Iye heard numerous testi-
to tbe effectiveness of the home-
*? ade fox-whistle, but none more sincere
,^ , an aC( l uai ntance who corn-
bllfed roo shooting with trapping and
station work, near St. George (s.-w.Q.).
was a dub ’ drizzling day, and the old
coat, and half-sodden trousers he
wore merged with the fire-blackened log
upon which he sat: The sound of his
whistle rose to a shrill, tremulous shriek,
like a rabbit in pain, then died away until
it was lost in the soft, rhythmic patter
of rain. Held lightly across his knee lay
the .32 Winchester, loaded and ready,
All around were the wet shapes of trees,
knee-deep in summer grass, but from
them no fox appeared. Then on the "edge
of the clearing a dozen yards away, the
grass slowly parted, and a pair of yellow
eyes watched him, slanting and expres-
sionless. Again the whistle rose, and
almost imperceptibly a huge bush tom-
cat glided from the grass and advanced
with infinite caution towards the sound.
The shooter lured him on. Then, with-
out warning, the cat sprang, straight at
his face. The Winchester exploded, the
whistle was half-swallowed and the speed
with which that log was vacated was
equalled only by a terror-stricken tom-
cat whose claws scratched dust from be-
neath the mud as he fled into the bush.
NORTH OF HUMPTY DOO.
Under the spread of the northern sky,
South from the Arafura’s waves.
Where the sea-snakes sport and the fishes fly
And the mangroves crowd in their solitude,
There’s a lonely plain where the wild geese
brood:
North of Humpty Doo.
Fed by a weeping billabong,
Sundered from Adelaide River’s stream,
Where cockatoos scream their raucous song
The streams that water the lonely plain
Flood with the monsoon’s driving rain:
North of Humpty Doo.
Down from Port Darwin’s distant shore
Eastward far from the Stewart way
There’s a winding track where you hear the
roar
Of falling timber that groans goodbye
To the wallaby plains and the wild-goose
sky:
North of Humpty Doo.
Wander some day down that winding track,
Stand on the verge of that lonely plain
With the reeds before and the trees at your
back
Watching the white clouds high uphurled,
And know that you stand at the edge of the
world:
North of Humpty Doo.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
O. B. S.


*
*
*
*
*
*
*
Ddt
+
r Aua
***s UMITED
*
“ITS PEST-KILLING POWER LASTS LONGER
A longer period of active protection is one of the outstanding advantages of RUCIDE
. . . the best means yet discovered of applying the amazing benefits of DU 1 •
AS A CATTLE DIP Rucide gives a protective period of
from 9 to 1 8 days. The young ticks are killed before they can
become attached. This is extremely important because the
cattle remain as poison baits, killing the young ticks in the
pastures as fast as they crawl on to the beasts. Subsequent
dippings lengthen this protective period. Rucide does not scald,
and is completely non-irritant.
ON VEGETABLES, FRUIT TREES, PLANTS, Rudd®
applies a rainproof, windproof film that s harmless to o lage,
covers more surface and is unsurpassed for long-lasting, pest-
killing efficiency and economy. Rucide may be combined as
needed with other insecticides and fungicides. It overcomes
the rapid “settling-out” experienced with wettable powders.
IN DAIRIES, STABLES AND IN THE HOME Rucide
kills flies, mosquitoes, etc., and affords same measure of
increased protection that saves spraying and saves expense.
J
Advice and technical
information gladly supplied
on request.
m
50% P. P : ISOMER DDT
Obtainable from storekeepers
and pastoral suppliers
TAUBMAN'S LIMITED, CHEMICAL PRODUCTS, PETERS, N.5.W.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Wool Prices.
“Delaine”: Many growers feel that
prices are bolting and that the outcome
will be another disastrous slump like
that of 1925. J.O. seems to be equally
concerned and is of the opinion that
much of the wool being snapped >up by
the Continent is being bought by specu-
lators as insurance .against currency de-
preciation, particularly in France. That
may also apply to where in-
flation seems to have made considerable
progress; any change in exchange rates
against the dollar would make present
purchases look cheap. The wool bought
during the last year of the appraisement
scheme, resulting in the anticipated carry-
over of 10,000,000 bales being reduced
to 6,000,000, has certainly not been
worked through the machinery bottleneck
into production and much of it must
still be in the form of raw wool.
J.O. has tried to reduce the price level
by flooding the English spot wool market
with greater releases from the stock pile,
but, to date, with little effect, though
English buyers have largely refrained
from operating on the Australian market
because they could buy cheaper at home.
J.O. may depress the price level if it has
sufficient suitable wool on hand in Eng-
land.
The record prices in Australia, how-
ever, only apply to a few odd bales of
specialty wools. Very good merino fleece
can be bought at 30d., wool which would
have cost anything up to 40d. in 1924.
The average price today is well below
what it was in the boom of the early
’twenties and the value of money today is
not what it was then. Before 1914-18
a £1 note was as good as gold and could
be exchanged for it and good merino
fleece could be bought at 12d. per pound.
Now, when a sovereign is worth £2 10s.
in paper, the same wool is worth 30d.
Wages and prices of most commodities
have moved in about the same ratio, so
perhaps wool is not absurdly dear, maybe
it has only been finding its true economic
level. If this be so it would seem wrong
for J.O. to use its reserves to hammer
down the price level on the ground that
it fears a future slump.
Growers would be happy if prices re-
mained somewhere about the level estab-
lished but would look with a very
jaundiced eye on any action which might
result in cracking the present sellers’
market halfway through the season, re-
sulting in those who were unfortunate
enough to be in the later sales suffering
in comparison with early sellers.
Another Horse Disease.
“Marsh”: It’s called Birdsville disease,
nanied from the township near the S.A.
border in Queensland’s far south-west.
Birdsville disease has been known for at
least 80 years, but, like’ Walkabout and
Kimberley diseases (B. 18/12/’46), little is
known of the cause. It strikes in dry
seasons, and although mild cases may
recover there is no known remedy for the
seriously stricken. ,
During one dry season cattle stations
lost most of their working horses, and
the late Sydney Kidman vainly offered a
reward to anyone who could discover
what caused it. It is taken for granted that
some weed that grows in sandy country
during a dry spell is responsible. Whatever
it is it causes semi-paralysis in the hind-
quarters and death comes quickly after
the first sign of the disease.
Years ago a few horses in my droving
plant showed signs of Birdsville and, tak-
ing the advice of an old stockman, I
moved them to the gibber ridges and
tailed them for a couple of weeks to make
sure none wandered back to the sandy
plains. One died and three later showed
signs of being affected in the hind-
quarters, but whereas other drovers and
stations lost numbers of horses all of
mine except four escaped. A remarkable
feature was that brumbies rarely fell
victims to the disease.
Checking Erosion.
E. J. Hogan, chairman of Victorian
Soil Conservation Board: When the
drought broke in 1945 a green carpet
spread over the Mallee and Wimmera,
and soil drift and wind erosion stopped
except on fallowed and sand dunes.
These sand dunes have been formed dur-
ing many centuries by prevailing north-
west and south-west winds.
They run mainly east and
west, usually extend in an
easterly direction. In normal
seasons very little vegetation
grows on them ; in dry seasons
and droughts they are bare of
vegetation, and they drift and
blow, causing great discomfort
to the people and blocking
roads, railways and water
channels.
The devastating effect of
wind on the dunes and their
poor fertility prevent wheat,
oats or barley from being suc-
cessfully grown on them, and
during a drought no vegetative
cover survives. Victorian
Agricultural Department, the
Soil Conservation Board and
some farmers planted differ-
ent cereals and grasses, try-
ing to find a plant that would
grow on sand dunes and
stabilise them even during a
drought. Cereal rye was
planted on a badly-eroded
dune at Paignie, near Wal-
peup, in 1944. The sand was
drifting on to the Ouyen-
Murrayville-road and Ouyen-
Murrayville railway. Al-
though there was a bad
drought that year the rye
grew and prevented the dune
from drifting or blowing.
But the rye did not seed, and
it was necessary to resow the
area in 1945. The rye grew fairly well
that year, the grain was harvested and
some seed fell on the ground. There is a
very good crop of self-sown ryecorn this
year, and the dune has been effectively
stabilised.
Having thus proved its suitability as a
cover on sand dunes the Board supplied
ryecorn and super, to farmers free of
charge for stabilising dunes that were
drifting or blowing on to roads, railways
and water channels. Sixty-eight farmers
were supplied at a cost to the Board of
£636. Stabilising sand dunes will make
them productive, reduce the cost of re-
moving sand from roads, railways and
water channels, and the Board intends to
extend the planting of ryecorn on dunes
and other eroded areas in the Mallee next
season.
Budding Plums and Peaches.
“Myrrhee”: When reworking a tree
at this time of year use the budding
method, inserting the buds in healthy
laterals of this season’s wood 6in. or Sin.
from their base. In Victoria a young
peach-tree budded to varieties such as
Briggs’s Red May, Anzac, Zerbes, Smith’s
and Catherine Anne would provide a suc-
cession of ripe fruit from mid-December
until February.
With plums the budding of at least two
varieties on the one tree will facilitate
cross-pollination. Suitable combinations
include Early Orleans, Angelina and
King Billy or Grand Duke, President and
Jefferson.
Select healthy well-grown budwood and
make sure it contains leaf buds. Single-
blossom buds are useless ; they are plump
and round compared with the flatter,
pointed leaf buds.
Hemp.
“E.H.S.”: There appears to be no
valid reason why we should not grow
sufficient hemp to supply our own needs
in cordage and other hemp products.
Hemp requires a fairly humid climate and
grows best on loamy soils containing a
considerable percentage of humus, with a
retentive subsoil. Much of the N.S.W.
coastal districts is well adapted to the
growth of hemp. The plant grows'to a
height of 10ft. and more, and pollen-
bearing flowers and seed-producing
flowers are borne on separate plants.
When preparing land for hemp the soil
should be ploughed and well pulverised
in autumn; rolled in spring and the seed
sown in drills 18in. apart, as soon as
danger from frost is over, seeding at the
rate of one bushel to the acre. The crop
is harvested and retted in water in the
same way as flax. When the fibre
separates easily from the woody portion
the stems are taken and laid on the grass
to dry, after which they are beaten with
wooden mallets to separate the fibre and
break up the woody portion. A fair yield
is about half a ton of fibre and 25 bushels
of seed to the acre. The seed, which
yields about 30 p.c. oil, is used for fowl
feed and making oil-cake.
Pruning Tomatoes.
“Rooster”: Many crops are ruined by
lack of pruning, or, conversely, by over-
pruning. It’s essential, to have a know-
ledge of the reactions peculiar to differ-
ent varieties. For all practical purposes'
they can be classified into three groups
—crinkled types, smooth globe (canning),
and cluster or dessert types.
The first group includes the well-known
Australian Large Red and Burwood
Wonder varieties. They’re noted for the
marketable size of the fruit without prun-
ing. Although adaptable to most soils
and locations the quality is not so good,
but they serve a useful purpose on the
market. They should be grown in the
bush form, staked carefully up from the
ground, and only pruned when grown
in glasshouses, the home garden, or in
southern districts as a late crop, and even
then only lightly.
Smooth-globe types are generally not
such heavy croppers as the crinkled
kinds. At times they display a prefer-
ence for certain soils and conditions and
some varieties are particularly shy. The
best crops are usually obtained on the
richer soils and late in the season. As a
rule these types respond to light pruning
if properly staked up. Here in Gipps-
land two varieties flourish in bush form
when lightly pruned—Break o’ Day and
Tatura Dwarf Globe.
The cluster types are by far the heaviest
croppers. They’ll grow like berries if
left unpruned. So prolific are they that
the size of the fruit can only be grown
to a suitable grade by unmerciful pruning
—right down to a single leader. In
addition the clusters of fruit must be
thinned as soon as possible after the sets
have formed. Best'way to ensure good-
sized fruit is to discard the terminal fruits,
retaining those nearest the main arm.
These types make good table and sauce
varieties. The San Marzano variety is the
only exception to the heavy pruning
necessary in this group, being a medium
cropper.
Fodder Crops.
“Mac”: There’s a lot of talk about
this or that “miracle” fodder crop. Yet
it has been known for a long time that
the best all-round producer of fodder,
tolerating- ’ a wide range of soil and
climatic conditions, drought resistant and
not easily got down by pests, is lucerne.
All over Australia and New Zealand
lucerne could be sown with advantage.
First essential is a well-rolled seed
bed so that the seed won’t go too deep
for germination; second (in N.Z. at
least), lime, and after that a little more
lime —something under a ton per acre at
first and up to scwt. annually there-
after ; third, top-dress with up to 3cwt.
of super. the time of sowing, mix with
the super, an equal quantity of lime or
you’ll kill off the vital bacteria on the
seed'; fourth, inoculate the seed cor-
rectly ; fifth, don’t cut it too soon. After
about four months should be right, but
the best way to be sure is to take the
cut when new shoots appear at the base
of the plant. Don’t leave the last cut
too late in the year. The foliage is the
plant’s factory for manufacturing food
reserves to see it through the winter. If
you take the last cut too late, lucerne
will not get away to a good start in the
following spring.
Green Manuring.
“Ager”: Vetches or cow-peas are good
crops for the purpose. Say an average
yield per acre of cow-peas is seven and
a half tons. This turned under would add
to the soil per acre —1061 b. nitrogen;
221 b. phosphoric acid; ll\Vo. potash;
the equivalent of about 4cwt. sulphate of
ammonia per acre. This green-manuring
is of special value in orcharding.
Watch your time for doing the job;
there must be warmth and moisture.
Crop ploughed under in late autumn or
winter will nitrify only slightly. The
same applies to ploughing-under in a dry
season.
In sandy soil, green-manure nitrifies
more rapidly than manures like bone-
dust and blood and bone, and only less
slowly than sulphate of ammonia.
In stiff clay soil, the turhed-under crop
nitrifies very much more rapidly than
either sulph, amm. or even animal
manure.
When applying any manure or artificial
fertiliser bear in mind three\ important
points: for root-growth and underground
stem, you need phosphate; for green
stem and green leaves, nitrogen; for the
product of your plants, whether potatoes,
tomatoes, roses or fruit, potash is


ds
or It out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a eonraei
of BARKO Oonditlon Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wadi your dog always with
BAR lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN liOTION 8/B
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
HEW®’:
blotchy'
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. * Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-iJ
meat in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment'. Soap and
Talcum Powder.sas
futtcura
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’*
everyday wear.
All mens-wear shop «
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.B.W.
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
THIS"
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National” Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing,
Plans, Music, etc.
Suilt entirely in AnetralUi by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
A SERVICE THAT IS REALLY COMPLETE!
When you team up with the Australian, Mercantile, Land
& Finance Coy. you don't need to send anywhere else
for anything—and you are sure of the maximum price for
everything sold, as well as the most economical cost for
everything purchased through the extensive A.M.L. & F.
facilities. Get in touch now with
M.
ustralian, Mercantile, Land & finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc, in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay A5.22.7ft
m
D^nogaS
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere ,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEYj Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson,
K. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone <four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
YOUIL TRAVEL
WITH A
LIGHTER
GLOBIT
Just pick up a Globite and you'll see how much weight you can
save. Globite Travel Cases are sturdy, smart-looking, and
weatherproof. They give extra years of service and are being
made available as fast as materials and manpower permit.
Illustrated is a Globite One-Suiter, which makes packing easier,
and prevents creasing and crushing.
Manufacturers: FORD SHERINGTON LTD. (Wholesale only)
W
m
<9>
7
6
» : T
Guarantee^
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMICAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH
HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS,
AND THE ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING.
'WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other chemical closet the public
is invited to investigate the integrity of the Hygeia Sanitary Co.
Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee compared with any other guarantee.
The HYGEIA GUARANTEE includes SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements.
Buy only that which has an unsullied
reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
■
■
mg
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St.. Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolworths Buildings, Adelaide
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd., 678 Little Flinders St., Melb.
S. Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: B. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
essential. So for cabbages green-manuring
would be excellent. It would also prove
very valuable for fruit-trees. On the other
hand, it would be better not to use it for
tomatoes or potatoes.
Black-scour Worms.
“Pookie”: These small intestinal
worms are the most widely distributed
of sheep parasites and occur in practi-
cally every sheep district in Australia, al-
though the degree of infection is seldom
serious in dry regions. In areas such as
the Darling Downs their presence is often
unsuspected owing to the sheep having
concurrent infection of the large stomach
worm.
The Trichostrongylus spp. are only
£in. to |in. in length and are almost
invisible. Many thousands may be pres-
ent but may be overlooked at a post-
mortem, particularly as they cause no
obvious lesion. The four most common
species are T. axei, T. colubriformis,
T. vitrinus and T. rugatus, of which the
first-named has alone been found in the
fourth stomach (abomasum) while the
other three are normally found in the
small intestine.
The worms are essentially parasites of
young sheep and symptoms are rarely
seen in sheep over 18 months old.
The most serious cases occur in lambs
from weaning time to 12 months old.
Infection of the abomasum is of much
less importance than that of the small
intestine.
Although the parasite sucks blood the
severe effect is due to irritation in the
bowel, which causes diarrhoea, which
eventually kills the sheep: this persistent
diarrhoea seldom develops before six or
seven weeks after infection ; in the early
stages the droppings are soft and putty-
like, but they rapidly become very watery,
and in the case of lambs at grass marked
staining of the crutch with blackisb-
green faeces gives rise to the name “black
scours.” These symptoms may develop
before lambs are weaned, particularly
when the grass dries off rapidly after a
wet spring and early summer. As a rule,
however, it is not seen till after weaning,
when it will sweep through a flock in
a few weeks. Spring lambs usually begin
to show symptoms in late summer and
autumn ; autumn lambs may not develop
symptoms until well on in the following
summer when they are nine or ten months
old and feed begins to dry off. Where
doubt exists at post-mortem, scrape lining
of the abomasum, place the scrapings
in a glass dish and hold up to a dark
background.
This drench has been found effective:
dissolve 11b. copper sulphate in sgal. of
water. 8 Mix thoroughly with 16 fl.oz. of
40 p.c. commercial nicotine sulphate.
Dose: adults, 20z.; lambs, 8-12 months,
l£oz.; lambs, under four months, ioz.
Mix in an enamel bucket. For very weak
sheep the dose for the lower age-group
should be given. Treatment should be
repeated twice at a ten-days interval and
then every three weeks. Losses are con-
nected with feed. There may be heavy
mortality during dry summer months
which resist all treatment until rain falls:
then with green grass losses cease.
Hints for the Farm.
“Prof.”: Pigs can be fattened entirely
on skimmed milk, but they take longer
to reach a 1 saleable standard. Hurry
them along with a bag of wheat or barley
per head. Skim milk and grains are defi-
cient in certain vitamins which must be
added to the ration by supplying green-
feed.
“Mac”: In N.Z. we find that borax
alone or in combination with sodium
chlorate will control many perennial
weeds, including Canadian thistle. Borax
is most effective on light, porous soils
where. seasonal rainfall is heavy enough
to leach the borax into the soil to the
depth of the main root system by the
time the roots are active in the spring.
If the weed is burned off before treat-
ment, the chemicals work better.
“Mr.”: The botulism microbe attacks
dead tissue only and, in this relationship,
creates one of the deadliest of poisons.
Bones, decomposing carcasses; butts of
old stacks, mice- or water-damaged
fodder and old tussocky, trampled pas-
tures are all likely sources of trouble and
should be destroyed. If there is evidence
of a perverted appetite, feed a balanced
diet, and provide a lick made up of com-
mon salt 70 p.c. and bonemeal 30 p.c.
More than ordinary vigilance is neces-
sary during mouse plague periods and
in summer and autumn, particularly after
rain.
“Calos”: When feeding grain to stock
1 p.c. of lime should be added. This
will replace the lime which should be
present in pasture. Where land has been
heavily top-dressed with super, the lime
content of the grass is not increased, so
the lime ration is necessary even when
stock are running on artificially-improved
pastures.
“Sundowner”: If broody hens are
allowed to remain in the nests for several
days they are much harder to “break off
the cluck” and quickly lose condition,
which means a longer period out of pro-
duction. They cause overcrowding in the
nests and an increase in the number of
cracked and broken eggs. The hen
should be removed to a spare pen as soon
as she becomes broody. She should be
back in production again in 10 days or
a fortnight. Persistent broodies should be
marked with a colored leg-band so that
they can be culled out early.
“Bennie”: Very often when a hack-
saw is employed to cut thin tubing or
metal, the teeth are broken from the
blade. To prevent this, use two blades
in the saw frame. This strengthens the
cutting blade, staggers the teeth and a
finer cut edge is the result.
“Mr.”: Ruminants and horses accus-
tomed to consuming large masses of
food won’t thrive on concentrates alone.
When concentrates are fed in quantity,
feed bulk as well; it helps to fill out the
stomach and satisfy the appetite. It also
aids digestion by preventing the finer
parts of the concentrates from caking
together and retarding the action of the
digestive juices. But don’t overdo, as
there is a danger of underfeeding, even
though large quantities of bulky foods
are consumed.
“Prof”: For those low-lying spots
near the coast, plant a clump or two of
common reeds. They spread rapidly and
produce an abundance of good fodder.
Dairy cattle pastured on lucerne welcome
a mouthful of reeds as a change now
and again. They must occasionally be
heavily stocked to stop them becoming
stemmy. We keep a couple of horses on
all the year round and they keep the
patch just right.
“Bennie”; For scrub itch in stock,
bring to the hpil lib. sulphur and lib.
lime in three gallons of water and allow
to simmer for about two hours. When
mixture is cool, strain thoroughly and
store in a suitable container, a glass one
preferably.; Give the sufferer a daily
anointing for about nine days, and when
the animal is dry, rub in some unsalted
mutton fat. If itch is well established
it may take several weeks to clear it up.
Keep a bottle of the solution on hand
and as soon as a sign of the mange is
detected treat it.


Mr. Foil, the eminent music-teacher,
went about with one of his handsome
iron-grey eyebrows sardonically elevated
telling people there was something phoney
about the whole business. The story of
the tenor’s romantic origin was, he im-
plied, only a poor publicity stunt—any
Mediterranean would have a more con-
vincing Italian enunciation.
But the local paper was enthusiastic:
Here is the voice which Waghurst can
match with pride against the cream of Syd-
ney and Melbourne at our forthcoming
Eisteddfod
New pupife flocked to Theresa’s studio,
and Theresa received them most
graciously.
But next week-end she was at Alex’s
place, still seething with excited triumph.
“Now, I’ll just have to enter him in the
Eisteddfod. I could win one of the major
sections with him, against all-comers.
Then I’d be able to double my fees.”
Mrs. Denholm said darkly: “That
would be very nice for you, but do you
know what we’ve found out? The
penalty for supplying a prisoner-of-war
with a suit of civilian clothes is five to
ten years’ jail,”
“There isn’t much risk,” Theresa said
brightly.
“What about Mr. Foil and all the other
jealous music-teachers?” Mrs, Denholm
asked.
But Alex sat with a bemused smile on
his face, and Theresa knew the battle was-
won.
She started training Mario immediately.
Mrs. Denholm was critical.
“Is it necessary to hold his hands and
tell him how good he is all the time?”
“That’s building up his confidence,”
Theresa explained.
BACK in Waghurst Theresa took the
first opportunity to call at the
P.W.C.C. As soon as she entered she
was aware of a difference in the
atmosphere. There was no noise except
the sound? of men at work, no surplus
men in either khaki or maroon loitering
about. The few n.c.os. were so busy at
their desks that they barely had time to
glance up at her.
She was quite relieved when a prisoner-
of-war came in, bowing with extravagant
politeness and smiling at her in the
friendliest manner. She was greeting him
warmly when she suddenly saw his face
go blank. She turned round in surprise
to see a huge man towering over her with
the pips of a captain on his massive
shoulders. A pair of cold blue eyes
turned on the prisoner and a well-con-
trolled, hard voice said “Take that fellow
out of here.”
Two sergeants and a, corporal sprang
from their seats and advanced so swiftly
and threateningly on the Italian that he
fled like a rabbit to the cells at the back
of the centre, hitherto used for storing
blankets.
After he had heard the clang of the
door Captain Pillory turned his eyes on
Theresa. She searched his face for a line
of approach. It was the face of a man
in authority.
“Now, madam, just what is your busi-
ness inhere?” •
Theresa looked round at all her friends
at the desks, but they were busy. She
looked back at Captain Pillory and knew
that it was neither the time nor the place
to make an impression on him.
“Oh, I must have made a mistake,” she
said with an airy smile. “I wanted the
place next door.”
THE next Thursday was “Canteena”
day at Denholm’s place. Captain
Adkins had always left the tours of in-
spection and supply to his staff, but Cap-
tain Pillory came personally to see that
his new order was established. Mario’s
smile of welcome dribbled off his face
when he saw the new “offishaal.”
Pilfbry reproved him sharply for the
way he was dressed, for not polishing his
boots, for the way he kept his room. Cap-
tain Pillory scorned to make use of the
interpreter. Experience had taught him
that if he glared
hard enough, shouted
loudly enough and
towered high enough
the b s under-
stood him very well.
Mario certainly
that he
was very unpopular
with Captain Pil-
lory ; he stood at
rather lopsided atten-
tion, frightened and trying hard to be
correct and respectful.
The n.c.os. treated him severely, too.
They handed out only half the usual
tobacco ration without making any ex-
planation. They refused to issue new
clothing, and they didn’t allow Mario
more than five minutes of his favorite
futile sport of trying to get into a pair of
boots two sizes too small for him.
When the issues were finished Pillory
had Mario paraded before him again.
He said to Alex sternly:
“How has he been behaving?”
“Splendidly,” said Alex. Pillory looked
disappointed.
“Isn’t this the fellow who sings?” he
asked with something very like a sneer.
Alex’s face lit up.
“Oh, marvellously,” ha said with his
usual enthusiasm. “A true lyric tenor
with only a little development required in
the upper register to make him one of the
great bel cantos of our day.”
Pillory looked hard at Alex.
“Is that so?” he said, feeling his way,
but letting his face relax a little so that
his staff could think he was pulling Alex’s
leg.
“Yes,” said Alex. “It is. His voice
has something of Gigli’s quality, with
Schipa’s lightness of inflection.”
The captain cleared his throat and set
out to do some intelligence work.
“Tell me, who are these fellows, Gigli
and Schipa? They sound like Dagoes to
me.”
Alex’s ruddy face flamed with indigna-
tion.
“Gigli and Schipa are the greatest
operatic tenors in the world. Thousands
of people flock to hear them whenever
and wherever they sing.” He paused,
struggling for some method of expressing
their importance in the face of the
captain’s invincible obtuseness. “Why,
Gigli would be paid as much for a tour
of a few weeks as ten generals would
get in a year.”
Captain Pillory kept that undaunted
look. But he said “Ten generals” slowly
and thoughtfully;
“But surely this” —he glanced towards
Mario as if he couldn’t think of the word
to describe him —“this Italian isn’t good
enough to get among the money like
that?”
“Would you like to hear him?” Alex
said eagerly.
But Pillory was not going to be led
in beyond his depth. He glanced at his
watch.
“Not today, thanks, we haven’t time.”
One glance round and the n.c.os. sprang
to the truck. They roared away to terrify
some more prisoners,
A WEEK before the Eisteddfod,
Theresa invited Alex and Mrs. Den-
holm to give Mario an “audience test.”
She asked them particularly to notice his
growing confidence. It was apparent as
soon as they entered the lounge. Mario
was relaxing comfortably in an armchair;
but he sprang out of it quickly enough
when Mrs, Denholm gave him one of her
“looks.”
Theresa stood Mario where he could
watch her while he sang. They noticed
his eyes turning to her continually, and
the way he responded to her every look
and gesture. He sang extremely well.
Alex complimented both Theresa and
Mario profusely. But Mrs. Denholm
said:
“He’ll be all right, provided you can
keep him hypnotised until after the
Eisteddfod’s over,”
By now it was quite established that
MArio was to sing at the Eisteddfod.
Theresa had arranged everything.
Mario went about the farm with an
earnest look on his face, practising con-
scientiously at all hours of the day and
night. While he milked the cows, instead
of his old light-hearted singing, he ran
through his scales and arpeggios, or
roared dramatically his “No, Pagliaccio.”
Even the cows seemed to know there
was something portentous about it all,
and gave (on the average) a pint less of
milk per day, per cow.
Alex took elaborate precautions against
Mario getting too hot or too cold, and
running the risk of a chill. His wife
went about wearing an expression of
apprehensive resignation.
There was tremendous public interest
in the Waghurst Eisteddfod that year.
Mario was greatly impressed with the
throngs of people about the Town Hall,
“Me similar Caruso,” he said, thinking
they had all come to hear him.
They kept him discreetly in a closed
car until it was nearly time for him to
sing, then they brought him into the
wings “to get the feel of the theatre.”
At the back of the stage a crowd
gathered, in every stage of excitement.
Young girls nearly palsied with fright,
proudly holding sheets of music in their
hands to show they were competitors, but
getting sudden pitiful expressions on their
faces as if they would have sold their
souls to be at home washing the dishes.
Hovering teachers; women with the
solicitous aggressiveness of mothering
hens; temperamental men teachers, and
young men performers affecting calm self-
possession, but forgetting themsdves to
fall into fits of passionate nail-biting.
Most of them forgot their troubles to
stare at Theresa Denholm’s Greek tenor,
who could easily have been a Dutchman
or a Negro under the heavy clown’s
make-up Theresa had plastered op him
for safety. Mr. Foil
came driftipg to
Theresa’s side despite
her uninviting look.
He glanced at
Mario’s costume and
said, loudly enough
for him to hear:
“Singing ‘Vesti la
giubba’ I see. Un-
fortunate, that. An-
other man sang it a
while ago. A strange
thing happened. The
note the accompanist gave him was half
a tone flat. The poor fellow sang flat
all the way through.”
Theresa thanked Mr. Foil and smiled
more warmly than he expected, because
she was thinking how ineffective his nerve
war was on uncomprehending Mario.
She encouraged him to retire and mind
his own business.
Hr HE mysterious Greek tenor got a
f great reception. It seemed as if most
of the audience really had come to hear
him. And they were not disappointed.
Theresa and Alex hugged each other in
the wings as he went on from one thrill-
ing phrase to the next. Even before the
adjucator announced his decision, every-
body recognised it as a great triumph for
him and for Theresa Denholm.
Captain Pillory was there, to everyone’s
surprise, looking as though he was de-
termined to master the intricacies of
singing, once and for all.
He was still thinking about it when
he next visited Denholm’s place. He
didn’t have much time to spare, but he
insisted on Mario singing for him, while
the n.c.os. were getting the issue forms
ready for him to sign.
He listened with a judicial expression
on his face but soon stopped Mario with
a curt gesture.
“Quite a voice,” he said commend-
ingly. “But nothing like that Greek tenor
at the Eisteddfod. That is the man who
has the chance of getting among the big
money.”
For once Alex, let an obviously wrong
opinion about music go unchallenged.
He did not encourage the captain to speak
any more about the matter, being quite
relieved to see him departing. But the
interpreter, a mild, soft - spoken, dark,
little man, who had been ignored by the
Captain ever since he came, paused by
Alex’s side for a brief moment, and mur-
mured to him.
“You’ve got away with it twice, but for
goodness sake don’t try it again ; because
if you do I’ll have to do my duty and
report you.”
Disaster Bay
Seventy-six lives foundered on this corner of the
coast,
The lucky ones pulped on the rocks, the others
pushing
At the soft clinging evil of water with flapping
hands;
Their screams needled the drumming bass of the
breakers.
Wild counterpoint of distress under a calm sky,
As the Ly-ee-Moon, little forsaken nation
With a fool at the helm, went down. You look
for tempests,
Guns, red abrasions notched on the sky,
Some camouflage drawn tightly as a skin,
The pinchbeck halo of a kind untruth.
When fire rubbles a city or a ship gives in.
Moulded to the trough of a wave, drifts limp
and relaxed
As a fan spread out or a broken basket on the
water.
But this, as our own disasters, comes unnamed.
Ungarnished by thunder, current or chivalry
To lift heroic capitals in a text.
There’s nothing to tower or dwarf the seventy-
six, ,
Life-sized, huddled in their gulf—yet so close
to us,
So slick and fine this molten barrier called life,
That imagination, that memory, like a huge
bubble,
Brings a giant slow rupture and cleavage, and
their gulf
Shakes open. Our eyes, timeless as stars,
Peer down again at their restless agonies.
But we must curtain that fracture in the brain
Gaping resistless enough in its own good time
(Death firing the curtain, guarding exit-doors).
Turn up the lamp, focus a perilous setting
Strictly to our purpose, a gaunt and fatal coast;
Cast flares over a livid stucco sea
And a small freighter down there trapped like
an ant
Laboring to scale those hostile gradients,
Squalls like dust always beating her back.
This is the mourner’s ship. (Already a crop
of gravestones
Runs like low battlements parapeting the cliff
Where the Ly-ee-Moon perished.) She carries
pines from Norfolk,
A tree for each life, young graft on withering
memories:
For marble weathers and darkens, leans slowly
back
To the level, the substance of earth. Master
the cliff,
Plant warnings in order on the shore and there
is defiance,
Growth, a good omen where nothing flourished
before.
But something less a memory than a menace,
A vicious suction trawls about the rocks
That have tasted blood. The day is edged in
black.
The men on the freighter feel it: cunning lever-
age,
Pitted, carious fangs of the shore bared, grin-
ning,
Following fogs like harrying formless Furies,
Glutted, bloated with vengeance, still avid for
a victim.
Watch them dodge nightmare up to Womboyn
River
And there peer out at their goal. Rain-swept
and desolate,
That last thin channel mocks them, crying:
Come,
You with libations, meet the dead you celebrate.
And they lose heart; q nervous tongue to the
* Up,
A final grope for the weather’s pulse. The con-
signment
Takes root back at the river’s edge. Madness
to hazard
That narrow fosse of turmoil girdling the Cape,
A grey branch spurting ghastly flowers of spray.
Green Cape, Flinders called it, fooled by a day
of sunshine
Which thatched the cliffs with the distant
shimmer of grass.
Tacking well offshore he could not sense
Violence coiled in the air, far less imagine
A sea-whelp harbored in the groin of rock and
those long
N.S.W.
Spiked limbs of outcropping reef that stretch
well out,
Spit ships on agony like birds, pluck plumage
from ribs.
Knowing this Southern coast, .you hardly dare
Guess at the curious origins of the dust that
creeps
Away from your feet through tindery tussocks
of grass;
And the old tracks still lead you onward guile-
lessly
To spent hearths, perhaps a mound, or a fis-
sured circle
Of red brick powdering, the crouching bones
of the sheep;
Their whiteness rasps at your mind. Always the
sea
Which has taken over the soul of all these things
Sings restlessly in the limits of dtl your
thoughts:
A dies irce of demons, uncanny softness.
Thousands of voices mumbling, travesties of
faces
Where spindrift on the water is drawn out
And racked to shapelessness over a slow green
wheel;
The voices erupt, suddenly in a wide pounding
chord.
Semblance of music, requiem that bruises your
shoulders
With a sodden leaden cope of the sea’s dead.
Then, the coastline. No gracious harvest for
the eyes,
Irregular truss of splintered promontories.
Split peaks jostling the rounded flanks of bays.
Such dripping, monstrous headlands, you might
think.
Are more than stone. Kelp tufts them like a
mane,
Furrows mine them like deep and breathing
gullets;
Beast rather than stone, erf sea rather than land.
The names of places toll their savage records
Of drama, red lines of loss, and punching bells
Horror breaching the peace of houses, leaving
them awash,
Waterlogged with memories, derelict a year or
two:
Gabo and Green Cape and Disaster Bay —
Disaster Bay, mouthing pariah of a bay,
Lurks close behind the strong trunk of the Cape
For fragments clawed and mangled and cast
away.
These places hate life insanely, under their lash
Wind-bitten trees grow watchful, hunt in packs,
Wiry and sinewy under dark bunched hides.
Perpetual warfare, sea enfilading land,
Volleying thick puffs of sound. There’s treach-
erous truce
When ships approach, sleep-walkers pale and
reckless;
Forces deploy, converge on the living thing.
So they trap ships, chain and blindfold them
with fog,
Pivot them on swirling hubs of squM;
But the Ly-ee-moon? What agency was there,
On a clear night of winter, almost windless,
With every passenger in a shadow of sleep,
Penumbral to the vast shadow of terror ?
If you like, we can pause here for
They’ve got McNally by the throat with their
questions
(He straddled safety on the bucking rope ) —
They hold McNally under glass, the journalists,
A man still uneasy with life like a new trinket,
Sweat gleaming on his temples. What does he
say ?
“I don’t know. I was asleep when it happened.
Someone tried to kill me — no, I didn’t know
him —
Tried to dislodge me from the last scrap of the
taffrail —
Tearing at my face, screaming, like a woman —
a wave caught him—-
I was there half an hour. The bell was loose
amidships:
Every time a wave hit us you could hear it:
That sullen clang ... clang ... I thought it
would drive me crazy.”
(To be continued .)
FRANCIS WEBB.


U/>e “MARS” PLAIN MILLER
;
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
fds
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers.
Licensed Manufacturers in Qld. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VICTORIA—Servian Maehine Tools
(Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne. Q’LAND —Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane. W.A.—The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA—CharIes Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor
Specialities, Ltd., Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road- BOMBAY
PROVINCE —R- S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bdmbay.
3
“ Give me a bowl of wine in
This I bury all unkindness.”
SHAKESPEARE
The scientific fact underlying Shakespeare's
poetic, simile is that good wine soothes
frayed nerves, and restores good humour.
Because they are good wines, there is benefit
to health and happiness in any of the Tintara
Range—Gold Label Port, Gold Label Musca-
tel, Amontillado Sherry, Cabinet Claret, Old
Castle Reisling, the Tintara Sparkling Wines
—Champagne, Hock, Moselle and Burgundy
and Tintara Old Brandy.
R » Me
I often wonder what the vintners buy
One half so precious as the goods they sell.
—Omar Khayyam.
THS6
SMOKE-OH!
To the Bestl
With the Bestl
IT'S R[?]MY MARTIN BRANDY
“Women of Estonia knit more sweaters and
socks per head than any other race in the
world.” — “World’s News.”
Women of other nations are content to
do their knitting per hand.
*i* 4*
“Wanted; Stenographer, young lady (junior)
for our typist’s pool.”— “D.Tl”
But won’t she feel like a fish o'ut of
water? ,
f *
“Dress dramatically for dinner.”
— Woman’s paper.
And act like a clown.
“Wanted, home for good watch.”
—Local paper.
It’s bound to wind up somewhere.
•i* 4* *l*
“The mining venture proved disastrous, and
Bingley, finding that he had been sold a white
elephant, sought solace in liquor, and thereafter
was rarely seen sober.” —Serial story:
The white elephant gave birth to pink
ones.
•I*
“Sixty million meals are being served daily
in cafes, and wish-washers are earning £l2 a
week.” — “Sun.”
Surely too high a wage for wishy-washy
work.
■J*
■“Marlene Dietrich announces that she never
wears slips and goes further, saying that most
women do not know how to wear legs cor-
rectly.”—“Sun.”
Surely it matters little as long as they
are not worn, like Marlene’s, thin.
“It’s not generally known that the National
Coursing Club frowns upon the practice of
some owners of calling their greyhounds after
politicians.” —Coursing note.
Give a dog a bad name, eh?
•J* *f* •b
■ “The husband told the Judge that although
he had bought an expensive wolf necklet of
fur for his wife, she still treated him shame-
fully.”— Evidence , in Divorce Court.
The little vixen!
Cramping His Style.
“I have one wife, without whose advice and
encouragement X would have written more and
better; one daughter, aged six.”
—“Sunday Sun :
Young writers seeking inspiration
In beauteous woman s fickle vows
Might note that, though a loving spouse
Can with a little adulation
Produce a -false exhilaration
And dreams of high success arouse,
Such specious aid too oft allows
An opening for consternation.
And if ONE wife’s encouragement
Can stop a man from writing more
And better stuff, it’s plain that he
Would find NO outlet for his bent
But for the fact that British law
Won’t countenance polygamy.
D. H. E.
Kismet.
“Accused, a Scot, had insisted on getting
mixed up in the general brawl.”
—Police evidence.
The copper raised an eyebrow, but this
cove we must respect, '
Of the combatants he simply had to be
one;
So choice an opportunity no Scotsman
could neglect —
The fight was unmistakably a free
one!
T. P. B.
He-men.
“High heels, two-toned shoes, gingham
blouses, bigger and more gold jewellery, seer-
sucker suits, multicolored sweaters and gaily-
embossed belts are highlights of current
American male wardrobes.”
—Melbourne "Herald.”
Mat Morler gave the final touch to his
cherry-red lacquered nails, primped his
Cornel Wilde hairdo, flung his floral
chiffon gown over his massive shoulders
and made his way through the admiring
crowd to the ring.
Slugs Simian was already in the
opposite corner and Mat ran a jealous eye
over his opponent’s sartorial splendor.
“Huh, just look at copycat!” he
growled into his second’s cauliflower
ear. “Slugs’s got his initials in sequins
“Yeah” soothed his second, gently
pressing in a water-wave, “but the color
don’t match his earrings; you got it
over him there, Mat.”
“That’s right ” grunted the champ,
slightly mollified, “that guy’s sure got
terrible taste —a delphinium-blue and
cyclamen gown with canary-yeller
trunks.”
At the referee’s signal both wrestlers
met in the centre.
“Why, Slugsie,” cooed Mat as they
squeezed fingers, “where did you get that
gorgeous gown?”
“Do you really like it,” simpered Slugs,
playfully tugging a hair from his oppon-
ent’s chest. “By the way, Mat, do you
“And don't forget your scales are a few minutes fast.”
like my stilt heels” —and he pirouetted
gracefully.
“Adorable,” answered Mat, “but is it
correct to wear toe-peepers with trunks?”
bridled. “Of course, if you’re
going to be catty just because I don’t
follow your own frumpish style, I’ll call
the whole thing off, and, what’s more, I
don’t like your hairdo” —and with that
he minced over to his corner and sat
sulking while Mat Morler stamped his
foot in anger.
The ref. threw up his hands. “Well, for
cryin’ out loud,” he wailed, “now they
both got the sulks. Come on, Mat, come
on. Slugs, be good boys or you won’t get
them new French bathers I promised y’.
Now”
But the tough men of the mat didn’t
wait to hear the rest —they were tearing
into each other.
HODDER STREET.
Sacrifices.
“Answering a letter in a Melbourne daily,
signed ‘Railway Men,’ the Communist secre-
tary of the Victorian branch of the A.R.U.,
Mr. J. Brown, admitted his Christmas dinner
was cooked with ‘black’ gas. ‘I used as much
of it as I could and will continue to do so up
to a point,’ the union stalwart declared. ‘The
more I use the sooner it will run out and the
better the position of the strikers.’ ”
“Us union officials,” said the Secretary
of the Toothpick Sharpeners’ Union
lugubriously, as he stacked suitcases and
a beach umbrella in the boot of his new
Cadillac, “ ’ave a cow of a job. Take
meself, f’r instance. ’Ere it is the ’ottest
part o’ the year, an’ instead o’ bein’ able
to enjoy meself workin’'comfortably in
me office clobbered up in a ’eavy suit
an’ a collar an’ tie a man’s gotter put
in the next three munce at ? is Palm Beach
joint wastin’ time in the surf an’ on the
beach. I wouldn’t Ve stood for it on’y
I noo that by doin’ this we’ll be keepin’
the manufacturers guessin’ as to our next
strike move. It’s a bit o’ me own
strategy, an’ I got me comrades,, the presi-
dent and senior vice-president, to work
the oracle.
“Some o’ the rank an’ file are goin’
lousy about me ‘nickin’ orf on what they
reckon is a long loaf on full pay that
they’re coughin’ up for. The cows don’t
think o’ the sacrifice I’m makin’ for them.
I gotta shut up me Bellevue Til ’ome an’
take the risk o’ bein’ et be*a shark. But
we’d never git anywhere in our fight with
them cows o’ bosses if someone didn’t
put'*’imself out. tots o’ people tell me
I’m a mug slavin’ away to a shadder
for blokes who don’t appreciate
it, but when it’s for the good o’ the
Workin’ Class Movement a man don’t
mind puttin’ up with inconveniences like
this.” V
Replying to a complaint by “Staunch
Unionist” that he had, in having his
garage enlarged to take his second car,
employed by contract a “week-end”
brickie who laid 1000 bricks a day instead
of the regulation 300, the organiser
of the Glass Eye Polishers’ Union said
he was proud to have done it. “The
sacrifice I made,” he said, “in saving
thirty quid was more than offset by the
service I rendered the < Trade Union
Movement in helping to wear out a man
who is a menace to the trade. Shortly I
expect to have erected a £5OOO bunga-
low for myself, and if I can get the same
brickie to lay a thousand bricks I will
do so. By the time he’s finished the job
I anticipate he will be a physical wreck
and this will materially assist in making
the movement safe from such ‘scab’
labor.”
In reply to accusations by fellow-
unionists that throughout a long meat
strike which had ended disastrously for
the union, he had obtained gratis for
himself, family and relatives the best cuts
of meat, the president of the Steak
Basters’ Union said “Of course I got
plenty of meat. It was my duty to do
so—if I hadn’t I’d have been false to a
sacred trust. After all., the Cause comes
before a man’s personal desires. For my-
self, I’d much rather eat tinned corned
beef any day than have a fillet or a porter-
house. By getting it on the nod from the
bosses I was weakening their financial
position, and I figured if I could have
kept it up long enough I’d get them so
shaky they’d be glad to yield to union
demands. It’s bad enough having to eat
stuff you don’t like, but when you do it
in the cause of solidarity and your mates
make nasty suggestions it’s over the
odds. I’d sling in the six-hundred-a-year
job as a protest and go back on the
bench only I’ve got too much loyalty to
the Movement.”
Accused of having been seen driving
away in his Lincoln Zephyr with four
cases of bottled beer from a “black”
hotel, the assistant-secretary of the Saus-
age-Roll Fillers’ Union waxed indignant.
“Well, here’s gratitude, if you like!”
he exclaimed. “I don’t like beer that
much, but I thought—well, it’ll want
shrewd tactics to beat this publican.
We’d got him on the run, and it occurred
to me that if I could clean him out of his
stock of bottled stuff he’d get so depressed
at not having any more to blackmarket
he’d listen to our demands. I make a
sacrifice by buying a lot of stuff which
might give me stomach ulcers, all to en-
sure a victory for all the unions, and
all I get is abuse from everyone. It’s
enough to shake a man’s faith in human
nature.”
BO.
Educational Note.
“A Marriage Society has been founded in
London to aid people in choosing their life
partners.” —News Item.
Perhaps when the bloke has learned to
despise
The pitfall that lies in beauty’s guise,
Every one of the earnest learners
Will marry {if possible). I’d surmise,
A platinum blonde with big, blue eyes,
And a figure like Lana Turner’s.
P. M. LUSK.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Information”
I was amazed to learn from the last
issue of the AJ.A. publication that the
Commonwealth Government now em-
ploys 190 journalists, of whom 93 A.J.A.
members are in the Department of In-
formation.
The bulk of the propaganda issued by
“Information” would not enable one to
write a decent factual story on any
particular subject. Most of the stuff
is “puff” for some Minister or de-
partment about to take some momentous
action that will control soil erosion, settle
soldiers on the land, assist primary pro-
ducers, stabilise primary production or
be responsible for increasing exports. It
usually amounts to nothing more than an
announcement that another committee,
department or sub-department with a
grandiose title has beep appointed to “in-
vestigate” the matter. And I am sure
most of the output finds the w.p.b.
immediately.
Journalists I meet want taxation re-
duced, but it never will be while we keep
building up the bureaucracy. Some Gov-
ernment departments could profitably
employ one or two journalists. No
sensible person would agree that Mr.
Calwell’s show needs 93. — Member (Q.).
Capital Punishment
If a vote were taken on capital punish-
ment there’s no ■ doubt it would be
opposed (B. 4/12/’46). Working as I do
among a large body of unionists I know
their feelings on the matter.
Punishment should be reformatory
rather than vindictive, because most mur-
ders are committed under the influence
of drink or of violent emotion. In the
days when men .were hanged for petty
offences crime was more prevalent than
it is now. Further, the number of inno-
cent men who have been hanged is suffi-
cient condemnation for this relic of
barbarism. A man can be adequately
punished for arson without having his
house burned, and all possibility of mak-
ing some atonement for his deed is vio-
lently taken away from him. —A. D.
(S.AO.
“The Sergeant of the Eighth”
I was soul-stirred by “The Sergeant of
the Eighth” (B. 12/6/’46). The Bulletin
comes to me frequently through the
kindness of another former A.I.F. com-
rade, and it keeps alive my memorable
associations of the years I spent in Aus-
tralia with Australians; four of the 20
years were spent in the A.I.F.
The Armistice of 1918 found me an
education officer. I came in contact with
Sgt. W. E. Brown, V.C., D.C.M., a quiet
unassuming man, modest almost to self-
effacement about his achievements. He
was actively interested in some of the
activities Ed. Service had to offer, but
once the battalion was settled in Belgium
he had for him a more important service
to render to the memory of a. comrade-in-
arms. To do this he obtained successions
of leave, which time was spent in erecting
a memorial cross near the spot where
his Digger pal lost his life. This task
necessitated much labor. The whole job
was done by him unaided, except for
occasional help from some French
villagers. The site of the memorial was
some distance from the village.
I met him in London and he was then
interested in a Belgian orphan. Whether
he carried through his sympathetic project
I never heard ; but I have never forgotten
the quiet determination of one of the
most modest heroes of the A.1.F., World
War I. His final passing as related in
your columns was typical of this heroic
soul, whose Valhalla must be with those
whom we call “Gallant Gentlemen.” —
W. S. (Harlow College, Essex, Eng.).
Sandakan
I was very impressed by the two articles
on Sandakan (B. 9/10/’46 and B.
16/10/’46), and hoped to see some action
by the Federal Government as a result.
So far I have seen none. I felt so keenly
about the debt we owed to the brave
Asiatics who helped our men that I wrote
a letter last January from Kuching to
record their sufferings and their loyal
friendship to the Europeans. What I
wrote 12 months ago is still timely;
“In October I arrived in Sandakan
to rope in 3000-odd Nips. This was done
without much incident, and in due course
they were shipped off to detention by
L.S.Ts,
“The once-beautiful town of Sandakan
had been burnt and blasted off the map
by the Nips in the previous May when
they expected the Allied landing and fled
into the interior. For many months their
supplies had been cut off and they robbed
and murdered the population at will.
They also killed some hundreds of
English-speaking Asiatics who might have
assisted our troops on arrival. For the
first six weeks we buried seven natives a
day who were beyond our aid, and
hundreds more never out of the
jungle, where they had been hiding for
years. The scene and the stench of death
are hard to describe.
% “You may have heard of the Ranau
Death March. In 1942 and onwards
2750 Australians, mostly Eighth Division,
were brought to Sandakan to act as
coolies, building huge airstrips in the
jungle under terrible conditions. They
worked and died until last May; the
survivors, some 2000-odd, were set off in
two marches to Ranau, some hundreds of
miles away, in order to get them away
from the Allies. Of the 2000 I understand
six survived the march, two of whom
have since died. Four men are the sole
survivors of the gallant 2750!
There were 200-odd too sick to march.
They were bashed over the head and-
buried in a confmon grave. All that was
left as mute evidence of this tragedy are
the charred remains of the p.-0.-w. camp
“The new skipper MIGHT be all right, hut why does he always call this
the blunt end ?”
buildings, around and in which are
littered bits of Australian badges and
articles of equipment. The story the
natives tell of the bashing, murder and
torture, I will not attempt to repeat.
Sandakan, perhaps even more than the
Road in Thailand, represents the bloodiest
and most awful page in the history of
the war.
“Hundreds of half-civilised natives and
Chinese citizens lost their lives helping
our boys. Many of the survivors are ill-
clad -and undernourished with no
immediate prospect of complete relief.
Many of them carry letters from Aus-
tralian boys long since dead thanking
them for their help, and expressing con-
fidence that Australia will recognise their
valor and self-sacrifice. Just one case. An
Australian lad was hidden in a hole under
a Chinese gardener’s house for four
months and fed by the Chinese, himself
half-starved. The Australian died 10
days before we reached Sandakan. The
Chinese showed us his grave, but could
not tell us his name.
“What is Australia doing for these
people? *How many Australians, apart
from relations of p.-0.-w., have ever given
Sandakan a thought or have the vaguest
idea where it is? What chance have these
poor persons who risked so much, in-
cluding their lives, to assist our boys?
Australia should be told the story of
these heroes, and asked to reciprocate by
seeing that they never know the meaning
of want again. It should be a nation-
wide expression of appreciation and
thanks.” —D. J. N. (Tas.).
M.L. Soldier-settlement
Returned men lucky enough to draw a
farm in ballots in MX. will not have the
hard toil their fathers had on soldier-
settlements after the 1914-18 war.
I recently inspected a block of several
dairyfarms ready for ballot. While the
menfolk looked over paddocks, stock,
sheds, and the like, I strolled over to
examine the trim new house. Everything
was under one roof, and as modern as
any suburban bungalow. The kitchenette
had a breakfast alcove, a large electric
stove and plenty of bins and cupboards,
all painted a pleasing cream and pale
green. There were three bedrooms and a
sitting-room, complete even to parchment
lampshades.
As I stood looking around my thoughts
went back to Dad and myself starting on
our bush farm with barely enough cleared'
land to pitch the tent. We had no income
until the ranger made his periodic visits
to report on work done, for which we
were allowed 75 per cent, of the value in
cash. Our , only other source of income
was ti-tree, which we loaded on to a
borrowed wagon and carted into town
seven miles away, and sold to the baker
for 255. a load.
Well, good luck to the new settlers!
♦Ngaire (M.L.).
Queensland Soldier-settlement
“Junius Jr.” (B. 18 /12/’46) need not be
envious of the opportunities offered
Queensland ex-servicemen who want to
go on the land. I sought the aid of the
£5OOO scheme upon my discharge and
soon discovered the snags. The Govern-
ment does not advance £5OOO, interest-
free or otherwise. The serviceman selects
the property he wants, has it valued by
an Agricultural Bank inspector and is
then eligible to borrow four-fifths of that
valuation, provided he can raise the
balance. It is that four-fifths that must
not exceed £5OOO.
The Agricultural Bank, however, has its
own method of valuing, and, by ignoring
crops, etc., arrives at a peculiar estimate.
The property I wanted had been valued
by a Government valuer at a hundred or
so in excess of the £4OOO (cash) demanded
by the owner. It was duly inspected by the
bank official-and, after several months,-1
was told that I could borrow £2600, pro-
vided I could raise the remaining £l4OO.
Apart from only getting £2600 —not
nearly four-fifths of four thousand —no
farmer with growing crops can afford to
wait so long on the chance of selling.
In the meantime I had applied to a
private bank, and in six days was told that
it would advance £3OOO immediately on
the farm, at 4f per cent. Actually, based
on a current account, that is lighter in-
terest tlfan the Government scheme at
4 per cent, payable on a fixed date, which
begins to operate three *years after the
loan is granted.
Although it has nothing to do with the
£5OOO scheme I must complete the story.
While waiting, the farmer discovered that,
as he had only been on the property six
years, the purchase .price of £4OOO was
liable for “speculators’ tax” to the tune
of £996. There was no sale. —B. J. L. (Q.).
Preference
“8.J.L.” (B. 25/1.2/’46) states one side
of the question. Now take my case. I
tried to join the A.1.F., R.A.A.F. and
R.A.N. and even made personal repre-
sentations to the Ministers of those de-
partments. But I’d had infantile paralysis
in my boyhood and just couldn’t pass
the medicals.
The climax came recently when my
employers found it necessary to cut their
staff. They gave notice to the men who
they considered were not pulling their
weight, including some ex-servicemen.
These immediately complained to their
various leagues, and all notices were
rescinded. Then non-servicemen were
sacked. .
Among the ex-servicemen who were
kept on the job were single men (I am
married with four kids) who openly
skited about how they dodged service
until they were called up. The motto
“work for all and preference for none”
will do me. — Dajarra (N.S.W.).
% '
A Costly Smoke
I arrived in Sydney from Fiji with
100 cigarettes (duty free) and four two-
ounce tins of cigarette tobacco. The
cigarettes were bought on board ship;
the tobacco I bought overseas at 3s. Id.
a tin. I had carried this tobacco into
Maoriland (duty free), where I had no
occasion to broach it, thanks to that Gov-
ernment’s policy of subsidising imports
from Britain.
Sydney Customs charged me 17s. 9d.
for my four tins of tobacco, so it has
now cost me 7s. 6d. a tin. —J. A. (Fiji).
East and West
In what respects is the “ancient and
highly-developed culture” of the Chinese
superior to ours (B. 27/11 / *46)? It is diffi-
cult to see where any of the petrified
Eastern civilisations surpasses or even
approaches the Western variety. The
Chinese were astronomers when the West
' dressed in skins and used stone axes, yet
the first Jesuits—descendants of the
Western savages —to visit China
astounded the locals with their greatly-
superior knowledge of astronomy.
The Chinese claim to have invented
printing. If they did nothing came of it.
No flood of learning followed printing in
China as it "did in Europe, and no great
literature arose. The Chinese have no
music. Their painting, sculpture and
architecture are monotonously and
rigidly formalised. Despite 6000 years’
lead on the West, China produced no
great discoverers or navigators.
We owe nothing to the Chinese, but
they owe much to us. Until the rude and
energetic West kicked them out of their
millennia-long stupor, death by torture
was a legal punishment and women had
their feet and minds bound from birth.
It is an affectation of today’s intel-
lectuals to despise their heritage, but the
plain truth is that almost everything that
makes life enjoyable or gives it nobility
and meaning has come from the West—
Pasquin (Vic.).
Maoriland
C. L. A. Abbott’s article on Maoriland
(B. 20/11 / ’46) had the inevitable glow
of appreciation of one who, after the
unrest in Australia, found conditions in-
finitely more attractive and restful in the
Shivery Isles. He travelled the country
a month or two before the elections when
“there was not a single industrial dis-
pute of any dimension.” He might have
found things different just after the elec-
tions. The result was barely announced
when one of the nastiest industrial threats
of recent years came, from the water-
siders.
There is no iron curtain in MX., but
there is a highly intelligent publicity staff.
It may truthfully survey many creditable
things achieved by Fraser, Nash and com-
pany, but it doesn’t show the other side
of the picture. This aspect was taken up
by C. Hartley Grattan in an article in
the New York “Times.” While writing
favorably of recent books on MX. he
complained that they surveyed but did
not elaborate —there was a crying need
for a critical assessment of MX.’s
socialism.
There was one very true statement in
Mr. Abbott’s article, and it was made
to him by Prime Minister Fraser: “Labor
has given the people everything Seddon
visualised at the end of last century. We
know and have counted the cost and we
know there is only one answer —produc-
tion, increased production.” That leads
us to the great Socialistic conun-
drum: Is it possible to create a workers’
paradise and keep up production?
The MX. worker has been so pampered
with diminished working hours and ex-
panding wages that he just can’t be
bothered working hard. Many of the
young workers are not satisfied with a 40-
hour week. Yet when they return to
work late on Monday or Tuesday, jaded
and happy, the factories welcome them
With open arms, so great is the shortage in
the employment field. MX. will soon be
known as the Land of the Long Week-
end. No wonder there are ever increas-
ing shortages —in everything but money.
Add to this the record of last year
(Official Year-Book figures): a total of
154 industrial disputes involving the loss
of 66,629 working days. We will need
another Walsh report in MX. shortly,
but this time Walsh must throw down
the gauntlet to his workers—“either you
do your job or we go back to a longer
week
Next time Mr. Abbott visits I
suggest he forsakes the hotels whe,e tns
juicy cuts keep you going until break-
fast,” and tries a little rationed hard
Tack in an average M.L. home.—P. L.
(MX.).


New Year Thought
It is a sobering reflection that we are
within three years of being halfway
through the twentieth century, so far the
cruellest, most tragic, most disappointing
and yet the most progressive in the his-
tory of man.
Tragic because of the occurrence of
two great and ruinous wars, the second
of which almost destroyed civilisation.
Cruel because of barbaric and wanton
destruction of life, property and ways
of life and because millions still wander
the globe without homes or hope. Disap-
pointing because for all his vaunted in-
tellectual and mechanical progress, man
has not discovered how to live peacefully
with man or how to conquer selfishness
and to rid himself of false faiths and
false leaders.
Most progressive in every branch of
science, engineering, medicine, research,
sociology, communication, transport and
so forth. What progress this first half of
the twentieth century will have made in
human thought cannot be measured as
yet—not perhaps until the century itself
has ended and the work of contemporary
poets and philosophers is stood against
the background of time.
For Australians there is much to look
for and much to fear, but since they will
have survived the 1900-1950 era almost
in spite of themselves, they should take
courage for 1950 - 2000. —C.H. S.
(N.S.W.).
“Foolish and Dangerous”
These words used (B.* 4/12/’46) to de-
scribe a Queensland United Graziers’
Association decision, by 1445 votes to
1204, to seek legislative power to make
membership of the U.G.A. compulsory,
apply more forcibly to present con-
ditions in the Qld, grazing industry. Of
11,000 undoubted stockowners in |he
State, 4000 belong to the U.G.A. and
70 (estimated) to the Selectors’ Assoc.
The rest are men who (1) would join an
association If everyone else did, (2) are
apathetic and (3) have not yet realised
their world has changed for the worse.
In its 56 years the U.G.A. member-
ship has risen to only 4000. Many have
only recently joined in order to further
compulsory organisation of the industry.
A point worth noting is that Justice
Mathews, in the Arbitration Court, ques-
tioned the U.G.A. advocate’s authority to
speak for the grazing industry,
Before the war graziers played against
nature and fluctuating wool prices, a
game where they had a chance of a
comfortable retirement after a lifetime
battle. Now there are no winners—tax-
ation has seen to that. New dangers
have come in the form of shearing hold-
ups, unreasonable demands of all sorts,
meat strikes, “black” wool —just the be-
ginning of what is in store. During the
shearers’ strike in 1944 overgrown wool-
led sheep were finally too weak to be got
to the shearing shed, and again in 1945
the same thing happened. Cattlemen
looking at walking skeletons remembered
the 1946 meat strike when the same
cattle were ready for the market. Under
complete organisation these blackmailing
hold-ups would have less chance of
success.
Just as you advocate compulsory mili-
tary service for defence, we advocate
compulsory organisation to defend this
country’s main industry from all .attacks,
open and insidious. The canegrowers
have been compulsorily organised for
21 years and have a fine business organi-
sation. It has made sugar-growing a
smooth - working and efficient industry
without any Government interference
whatsoever in its domestic affairs. Like-
wise the Qld. dairymen’s compulsory
organisation has welded the dairymen to-
gether for their betterment. In the ballot
that brought it into being, voting gave
15,000 for complete organisation, 290
against.
Should a Government ever make com-
pulsory organisation of graziers intoler-
able, it is allowed in the draft bill that a
majority of 50 p.c. of its members at a
aoll may vote its abandonment. This
demonstrates the democratic spirit of
hose advocating compulsory organisa-
tion.—Converted (Q.).
Taxation
Taxation itself does not necessarily
decrease production (B. 18/12/’46), but
the anomalies inherent in taxation law
a nd practice Certainly do. Taxation
accountants should get together (they have
an association) and investigate typical
cases where either the harsh taxation or
existing anomalies are reducing produc-
tion. On the result of these investiga-
tions a case sjhould be drawn up, Parlia-
mentary support enlisted and a Bill pro-
jected to appoint a Taxation Revision or
Appeals Court! presided over by Judges
Jho are also f/ully-qualified accountants.
Their main objfect should not be the col-
lection of /tax, and they should
have judicial authority overriding the
authority of the Commissioner of Taxa-
tion.
Although it could be a non-party bill,
there are members of the Government
wise and competent enough to support
and put through such a measure.
At present it is apparent that taxation
authorities hold industry in the hollow
of their hands. But they are interested
in figures only and not in production.
Only an intense drive will end the
thraldom they maintain, and such a drive
will never be effected-whilst the whinge is
directed against the Labor Government.
We whinged just the same when the Op-
position was in power.—T. J. P. (N.S.W.).
Waste
I was surprised recently to see a
messenger at the Sydney Water Board
sticking stamps on hundreds of rate-
notice envelopes. Perhaps the Water
Board has not heard of bulk postage with
its charge account for Government and
semi-Government departments. Under
the old system stamps have to be bought
and issued to the stamp-licker, who must
take his envelopes out of their boxes,
stamp them and return then? to the boxes.
He must also collect the envelopes from
the store and return them to the store
for safe keeping until the rate-notices are
ready for inclusion. Bulk postage re-
quires only two operations—place the
rate-notice in the envelope and deliver it
to the post-office.— Recco (N.S.W.).
Used Cars
When a man has to pay about £7OO
for the lowest-priced American car, he
wants as much as possible for his old
“No, Martha! You mustn't stand up till We get a good go on!"
one, and that usually means more than
the N.S.P. price.
They do things better in England.
In English salerooms you will see 1939-40
models at high prices (£BOO-£1000), but
you’ll also see 1934 light-car models for
£5O.
That is because some people will pay
any price for a recent model in good
condition. The rubbish is still getting
rubbishy prices. It should be the same in
Australia. An ex-serviceman who needs
a car for business, can’t afford a new
one, and hasn’t an old one to trade-in, is
not in the race for a car. I’ve tried it.
—Stuck (S.A.).
Saving Timber
Most houses in Queensland are built
on wooden blocks anything from Ift. to
Bft. or 10ft. off the ground. No doubt
a percentage of blocks cut for this pur-
pose might not ultimately make saw
logs, but if only 50 per cent, of them
developed into millable trees the saving
in timber would be tremendous. The
average number of stumps under a house
is about 35. If these had been allowed
to grow they should have averaged at
least 500 ft. of hardwood within 15 or 20
years. Allowing 50 per cent, for blocks
that would not have developed, a total
of 8i million feet of timber is being
wasted on every 1000 houses.
Why not save all this by using cement?
Again, why do building authorities
insist on 4 x 1 or 6 x 1 t.g. and v. or
t.g. and b. boards for ceilings and linings
when 4 x | or 6 x | would serve just
as well? Apart from the saving of about
a million feet of timber per 1000 houses,
there would also be worth-while saving
of labor and nails and freight charges.
Years ago, when timber was scarce and
freight charges high, fin. and Yin. timber
was always used. —S. H. K. (Q.).
Strikes and the Housewife
We learn belatedly from the
Minister of Labor and National Service
that from July to October, 1946, there
were 392 industrial disputes in Australia,
involving over 220,000 workers and the
loss of 763,791 man days. It does not
need an analytical mind to discover that
this means fewer goods and services for
everybody, whether closely connected
with the disputes or not, and of course
less wages for those directly involved.
If anyone deserves a Golden Age it
is the housewife, but I doubt if she can
see it getting any closer’ as a result of
strikes and Commo activities. It is she
who has to devise makeshift methods for
gasless cooking and fight for her share
of goods in short supply. In strikers’
homes it is she who has to use her hard-
won savings to bridge the gap between
strike pay and living costs. If the union
bosses were themselves forced to accept
the same miserable pittance as their
dupes during strike periods, would they
be so swift and vehement in the call to
action? —Bozo (Vic.).
Local Markets
The latest commodity to whizz off
Melbourne tables is fish. Fishermen, who
get 2id. a pound for ’couta, say the seas
are full of them but their fleets are tied
up at their moorings because agents,
who rigidly control the output, have with-
held their boxes. Agents say that, be-
cause of the gas strike, housewives can't
cook the fish if they have it, and the
freezers are crammed with the stuff.
Dealers are accused of making an uncon-
sciQnable profit, inasmuch as that ’couta
in the shops is priced at Is. 6d. and
over. They retort that if the public likes
to come to the market at four in the
morning it can get plenty of fish for
fivepence.
All this is small comfort for the house-
wife, who spends most of her day stand-
ing in queues for almost everything she
needs. In the meantime, choicer varieties
of seafood are suspected of finding their
way into the blackmarket.
This makes a strong case for co-opera-
fives by fishermen and local and
suburban markets so that producers can
get in direct touch with consumers. An-
other strong case for local markets was
demonstrated during the strike of workers
on trains, trams and buses. In my dis-
trict, 16 miles from Melbourne, the
greengrocer solemnly drives his truck into
town to bnv vptrps nassinn nn bic wav
town to ouy veges, passing on ms way
flourishing market gardens. He comes
back with a load or greenstuff, some of
which was probably grown 100 yards
from his front door and taken into the
Clty - . .
During the transport strike half the
commodities needed were cut off, though
many of them were produced in the
district If there had been a local
market, as there was before bituminised
roads and motors were invented, this
would not have happened, things would
have been far cheaper, and the strikers’
stranglehold on the community wouldn’t
have been half as effective.— Bumpkin
(Vie.).
N p . '
New bumea
I have been swapping experiences with
an old friend who was in New Guinea be-
fore, during and after the war. Some of
his stories are very interesting to anyone
who has ever had dealings with natives in
any part of the world. An old-type dis-
tact officer was in his office talking to a
high Government official when several
chiefs came in for a talk. The D.O. ad-
dressed them as usual while still in his
chair, and was immediately told by the
H.G.O. to stand up when he addressed
the gentlemen!
The Ministerial instruction that all
natives are to be treated as equals is as
stupid as it is funny, and the ukase that
pidgin is not to be spoken is just as
ludicrous.
Servicemen in N.G. who get around
without shirts are not improving
things. The boongs refer to them “all-a-
same white Kanaka come-along-Aus-
tralia.” They expect White Master to
wear a shirt, shorts and stockings in the
day time, and to have his shower at night
and change into whites. That is the true
sign of a top master.
The orders on the employment of labor
are worse than stupid. Recruiting by pro-
fessionals is banned, and any company
wanting native labor must do its own
recruiting. It can sign on a boy only
for 12 months instead of three years. It
takes at least four months to get the boy
from his village to the job and train him,
and a further month to get him back to
his village. Thus his effective work time is
seven months out of the 12. How the
devil does the Government expect the
territory to be developed and plantations
brought back into production under such
labor conditions? — Wilydah (N.S.W.).
Knowledge
“OTook’s” claim (B. 13/11/ ’46) that
the average person of today is better edu-
cated than a man of the highest culture
200 years ago is far from the truth. The
“intelligentsia” of the late-seventeenth
century and the early-eighteenth not only
had mastery of Latin, Greek and French
and were widely read in the literatures of
those languages, but many could write in
them as well as they could in English.
Not a few also numbered Hebrew
amongst their accomplishments. Know-
ledge of architectural design was general
amongst them. So was facility in music.
Those who were interested in science
usually covered a wide field. The ex-
amples of such as Pepys, Boyle, Wren
and Evelyn show how catholic were the
tastes of the virtuosi of the period. Can
it be seriously contended that “the aver-
age man” of today has anything like the
wide interests and varied learning of
these and others like them?
It is doubtful, indeed, if twentieth-
century scientists can compare with their
predecessors. Scientific knowledge has
advanced immeasurably, but the very in-
crease has led to greater and greater
specialisation. Outside the narrow field
in which he is an authority a modern
scientist’s attainments may be very
ordinary.
Incidentally, normal English craftsmen
of two centuries ago could produce better
work in iron and wood and the like than
can most of the highly-educated designers
of today.— Sam (N.S.W.).
Wages and Prices
“Jindivick” (B. 6/11/ ’46) “always
understood that one could reduce costs
(and selling prices) by producing more
in the same or less time.” Theoretically,
that is sound, but I sadly fear that re-
duced costs more often mean greater
profits, which, in turn, are reinvested in
more production. While wages remain
more or less static costs can and do
fluctuate sharply, and the tendency is
always to soar. With soaring prices the
pressure for higher wages becomes
urgent.
“Jindivick” fears that the present trend
is likely to end in chaos, and believes
that “only when men get back to the
idea that if they do not produce they
cannot possess” will conditions change
for the better. Too true, and most Aus-
tralian workers appreciate it, but it was
reported (B. 6/11/’46) that:
Somewhere between 1950 and 1957, they
say, America’s enormous production will
overtake all the demand that can reason-
ably be expected. Then the real depression
will come.
There it is. Overproduction and un-
employment—the great fear that is ever-
present in the minds of most working
men, the fear that is used as a strike
weapon by a few unscrupulous oppor-
tunists in some unions.
The fact that employer and employee
have failed to find a satisfactory basis
for co-operation is an economic evil, and
should be regarded and treated as such.
Both groups are victims of the same
economic organisation ; and they should
come together to thrash it out.
Unfortunately it is almost too late.
Many years ago Governments sought to
remedy the evil and extended their
politico-civic functions to embrace in-
dustry. By a process of robbing Peter
and Paul in order to pacify one or the
other, they succeeded only in irritating
both. Nevertheless,, undaunted, they
widened their fields of intervention,
setting up boards, pools, subsidies, con-
trols and acts until the whole organism
is almost completely strangled,— J. A.
(Fiji).


Yoo dan 9 t have ta fight
far this right ...
_
assajsgSss
iiiil
IP
liSi
M
- # ||M|
MM
......
:'■ ■■•
M -
ill j
S* :
'.O-/4-S H?
m
B M-10l
uqvjoß wtH
pKPB
.„v APT t^ 6
O R
OtR
Rtf
t R t
Of
HCt
closing
IP
iiiiii
iillisi:
HOUR
Six
O'e
lock
pM
mt
MijM
Mil
If, like most Australians, you
believe that a drink is a relaxation
to be enjoyed in comfort and at
leisure, then exercise your democratic right to
alter the present unsatisfactory hour by voting
for 10 O’CLOCK CLOSING
Mark your
ballot paper
3,2,1
FROM THE TOP
Hir»e
O'clock
PM
Ten
./
mm
■
x-v
A
REMEMBER YOU MUST NUMBER EVERY SQUARE
Authorised by the U.L.V.A., 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney
