

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3493
Wednesday, January 22, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
SHANE'S CASTLE, LOUGH NEAGH.
ALTHOUGH now standing in venerable ruins, Shane’s Castle
possesses a stirring history. The ancient seat of the most
powerful of Irish septs, the O’Neills, Shane Castle is surrounded by
beautiful parklands which are watered by the River Main. The
castle derives its name from Shane O’Neill, the redoubtable John
the Proud, son of Con O’Neill, the first Earl of Tyrone. Shane
O’Neill, although recognised by Elizabeth as heir to Tyrone
fiercely resisted the Government of the Earl of Sussex, and after
his victory at Ballycastle in 1555 was put to death by the Mac-
Donnells, Shane Castle was destroyed by fire,in 1816, but for
many generations thereafter a portion of the original stables served
as residence.


Lcar^
freelance
Journalism
at HONF
This Book FREE to^YOUI
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, unthout obligation, ,your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
8.8. U 7
AGE
The Red Page
J. A.R. McKELLAR.
J. A. R. McKellar was an Australian
poet who died in 1932 at the age of 27.
Twenty-six, his first volume of poems, was
published shortly before his death ; and
noW Angus and Robertson have brought
out his Collected Poems, containing 66
pieces.
Presumably it was on the publication of
Twenty-six that Kenneth Slessor said the
verse “ranks with that of the few Aus-
tralian poets whose work can be con-
sidered in a world sense.” At the time the
estimate would have seemed justified, for
the promise of the book was high ; but
in assessing the total achievement one
would have to bear in mind what Keats
had performed at the age of 24, Shelley
at 29.
McKellar’s early, work, as is natural in
a young writer, was heavily derivative.
Housman is the chief influence, manifest
in poem after poem:
Kipling, Flecker and (in such poems as
“On Reading a Catalogue of French
Prints”) the early Slessor were also prob-
ably drawn on, though not so heavily as
to matter. The Housman influence was
seriously damaging, for it affected the
two themes which were most important
in McKellar’s poetry, his two principal
lines of thought: sport and history.
Himself an athlete, McKellar might
have done something quite new by brings
ing cricket and football into poetry. He
did do something fresh and vital —and
very Australian—but he could not help
falling into Housman’s measure and, what
was worse, Housman’s mood:
And in the paddocks, Cricket
Will make of Church the sin
While lads can build a wicket
Of any rusty tin.
As I swing down and under
The crest of Randwick hill,
I’ll stop and watch and wonder
If Time is standing still.
Similarly, McKellar did have a strong
and original response to the drama of
history, the long, troubled pilgrimage of
man on the earth ; and sometipies he did
manage to express his own thought,
purely, in his own style; as .when he
found in Tacitus a reference to brave
men of old—“antiquorum”— and wrote:
Antiquorum—the word is strange
On crumbled lips to hear.
The steadfast thought, defying change,
Has drawn the Roman near,
And shrunk the tides of Seven Seas
To wash the sands of Cyclades.
In slow recession year on year
Unfolds within his word,
And down the cheek of Time a tear
Creeps for the shades it stirred,
And gathers you, with them and me,
To drown in one antiquity.
But, too often, far too often, it was not
history that drew near to him, but Hous-
man. “Marengo Comes to Market in
1825” is Housman’s vision, not Mc-
Kellar’s:—
Mflien you and I are dead, there’s just a chance
The sun will darken and the heavens fall.
But likelier by far’s the circumstance
The oxen will rest quiet in the stall.
Housman is easy to parody, easy to
imitate. But a terrible anguish, a terrible
sense of grief and guilt spoke in his
poetry, countered by an equally majestic
resolution ; and neither the terror nor the
defiance can convincingly be borrowed.
They were personal to Housman: they
are not personal to McKeflar.
Collected Poems gives ‘the impression
of a man “marking time”—writing many
poems, nearly alway capably, but nearly
always the same poem, and so not ad-
vancing; not moving. If you disregard
the Housman influence as inextricably
entangled with the poet’s own approach
to history, then you discover that Mc-
Kellar found out how to write one poem,
and wrote it at least 30 times; a poem
that, usually in the last stanza, brings
the ancient world into the modern;
But what was moon to him, and what was sea
Two thousand years before myself was born,
Are sickle moon and silver yet to me,
Though Scipio should wait upon Cremorne.
It is expressed with a fine precision, but
there is something facile about it. Take
any ppem separately, and it is charming ;
take the lot together and each separate
poem is weakened by the repetition.
Even sdeh delightful and strongly
Australian light poems as “The Lands,”
“Pigeons in the City” and “Counter-
blast to the Press from a Bank
Teller” repeat the same note; to their
advantage in isolation, slightly to their
disadvantage in the collection.
A set of poems all more or less on the
same theme is copimon enough in poetry.
One accepts it, asking only that the next
set shall be on a different theme ; a step
forward. One cannot ask that from a
poet whom Australia had the misfortune
to lose at the age of 27. We can only
assess the poems as they are written ;
and note that in the conclusion of
“Fourth Napoleon,” one of the last poems
McKellar wrote —and one that he did
not complete—there is a striking advance.
As the cricket and football poems
show, and the bank-clerk poem, and the
pictures of Sydney life, McKellar was
always tempted towards a direct poetry
about the ordinary man of the city. He
wrote 36 remarkably powerful and attrac-
tive lines about him—this sort of thing:
Bread to be won, and, being won, be eaten;
Clothes to be bought, and, being purchased,
worn;
Children to get, and, being got, be beaten;
Lips to be kissed, and, being kissed, for-
sworn ....
So will he stand him in a frozen trench,
Knee-deep in water, thimble-deep in rum,
Fighting Italians this year, next year French,
Content provided that his orders come
4nd so the least born citizen of all
Goes onward with the firmness of the great,
Serene that should, by chance, the heavens fall
Someone will tell him how to put it straight
Wrote that — and stopped.
Here, certainly, there was a new direc-
tion ; and so a promise unfulfilled. It is
no use speculating about it. What we have
in Collected Poems, overriding its de-
fects, is a pleasant and capable minor
poetry, humorous, manly, delightfully
clear.
Before the town of Troy was burned,
And Helen was retaken,
Girls to the living lover turned,
And dead men were forsaken.
Luck is a lass. It well may be
Tomorrow you’ll be lying
Out in the cold along with me.
And both of us be dying.
Two Artists.
Fabers’ are publishing (for the Shenval
Press) an “Ariel” series, dealing with the
work of painters, sculptors, designers and
the like. In England the* artists of larger
calibre have already been documented —
overdocumented, perhaps—and now only
comparatively minor figures remain. In
Australia it is otherwise; there is still
room for work on our major artists. And
in England, too, there is scope for critical
work. But the purpose of the “Ariel”
books is to bring the minor artists before
a wider public, a task which they per-
form admirably. Two of them, Constantin
Guys and Leslie Hurry, have a number of
handsome plates, fine paper, and contain
a good deal of interesting information
within a small compass. Thus Clifford
Hall, in his introduction:
> One day, in Paris, in the year 1885, an
old gentleman, with white hair and mous-
taches and an unmistakable military bear-
ing, called at the Mu see Carnavalet with
a portfolio of drawings, and asked the
Curator if he would care to buy them. He
would return in a few days for a decision
and went, leaving his address. When he
came again he was given the small sum,
two to five francs a drawing, he had asked.
These drawings were unsigned: but the
Curator had recognised the touch of the
mysterious M.G. Monsieur Guys —an
artist on whose work Charles Baudelaire
had written a series of enthusiastic articles
in the “Figaro.” When Baudelaire, a
great poet, and certainly the greatest and
most far-seeing critic of his time, had
suggested writing these articles, Guys had
been horrified. He did not wish, he said,
to be thought of as an artist", .but as a
man of the world. The term artist sug-
gested a specialised, accomplished, techni-
cal point of view, liable to be remote from
real life. His interests were wider: alto-
gether different. At last he consented on
condition that Baudelaire promised to sup-
press his name and refer to him simply by
the initials M.G. This desire to avoid
publicity, to remain hidden among the
crowd, was a trait that had already showed
itself in the artist’s character. Some years
before, in London, he had quarrelled with
his friend Thackeray, because Thackeray
published a notice about his work with-
out obtaining permission.
Whatever the artistic merit of the man,
it is always interesting to read about an
intimate of Baudelaire and Thackeray.
And Guys had other acquaintances. He
was with Byron at Missolonghi; not,
perhaps, an intimate, but actuated by the
same spirit—a romantic. He was, in fact,
a personality. Born in 1805, at Flushing,
son of the Chief Commissioner of the
French Navy, he was a volunteer in
Greece at the age of eighteen, a Dragoon
in the glittering cavalry of the Second
Empire, a restless wanderer over Europe,
a visitor to Turkey, a tutor, for a time,
in England, and an artist for the “Illus-
trated London News,” covering the
Crimean War. A cosmopolitan, a lover
of fashion, pleasure—and horses. Hall
writes:
The horse reached its apotheosis during
this period. The /wealthy bought English
thoroughbreds. English jockeys and coach-
men crossed the Channel. They were im-
ported as, in more recent times, American
millionaires imported English butlers....
Guys, the lover of horses, could enjoy
and study their movements whenever he
wished. His knowledge had commenced
when he was a soldier.... He appreciated
the exact relation, in drawing, of the rider
to his horse. Contrast the deportment of
his cavalry with his civilian horsemen. He
seizes the character of the particular horse
he is drawing... .Compare his drilled war
horses and the pampered-looking arabs of
his oriental subjects. Guys conventionalised,
but his convention is acceptable. His horses
are always true to type. They perform all
the movements expected of the animal.
They are not correct in the sense that a
horse drawn by Degas is correct, but how
completely right they are in feeling
Guys influenced Leech in England,
Garvarni in France. And through Leech
the influence of Guys can be seen in
modern usually fashionable English
magazines: the “conventionalising,” and
a kind of graphic elegance, in strength
and weakness quite unlike the work of
the best Australian artists.
The introduction contains a descrip-
tion of Guys’s method of working:
The design, first indicated with faint
pencil lines, was then modelled by thin
washes of tone or color. It was Guys’s
habit to prepare a great number of draw-
ings in this manner. They were put aside
for a while, and from time to time looked
over and reworked. Gradually, by the
repeated application of fresh washes, they
were brought to the strength required.
When the drawing was almost completed,
the outline, in pen, was added.
The other “Ariel” book, Leslie Hurry,
introduced by Cyril W. Beaumont and
dealing with the work of that designer
for the theatre, contains fifty repro-
ductions of his designs for the Sadler’s
Wells ballets of “Hamlet” (1942) and
“Le Lac des Cygnes” (1943) and for the
Old Vic. production of “Hamlet” (1944).
Mr. Beaumont is a critical commentator.
He tells how Hurry started designing
for ballet.
Among the visitors to the exhibition
[Hurry’s] was Robert Helpmann, the
premier danseur of the Sadler’s Wells
Ballet, who, havipg achieved a measure of
success with his first attempt at choreo-
graphy in “Comus,” was planning a second
work based on Shakspeare’s “Hamlet.”
This was not to be a representation in
dance form of Hamlet’s life as recqunted
in the play, but as those incidents might
appear in the brain of Hamlet dying—some
incidents seen clearly, some by fitful flashes,
isolated events combined, and unrelated
occurrences happening at the same time.
Helpmann left the exhibition in a thought-
ful mood, for he felt that Hurry was
endeavoring to express in painting what he
himself hoped to convey in terms of mime
and dance. Perhaps, too, he was impressed
by the fantasy of the architecture and the
invention displayed by Hurry in clothing
the beings bom of his imagination.
To form an opinion of the Hurry de-
signs it is necessary to consider them as
stage property, as part of the illusion of
the theatre; and to consider that the
whole scheme of presentation must be
examined —which is done, from a certain
viewpoint, in the introduction. There
isn’t space to do this adequately here, but
it may be said that a psychological plumb-
ing of a dying man is a singularly
chancy undertaking, whether in paint,
ballet, or prose. And the “flashback”
technique, in any form of art, has always
proved less satisfactory than the straight
version.
Bendrodf's Book.
w
w
w
ŵ
Verses of a P.-0.-W.
In Slaves of the Samurai (Oxford Uni-
versity Press, Melbourne), Colonel W. S.
Kent Hughes, M.V.0., M.C., BA
(Oxon.), tells in verse the story of his
four years’ captivity, which stretched
from Singapore to Formosa and Mukden.
The verses were written under in-
credible conditions—in crowded huts,
while struggling for air in the hold of a
hell-ship, in prison squares and at odd
moments snatched from marches ; on odd
bits of flimsy, 2000 words to the page.
They were concealed in various hiding-
places, mentionable and unmentionable.
Each canto when finished was rolled into
a cylindrical shape and fitted into the
inside of an anti-tinea powder container
provided with a false' bottom. The
powder was emptied out for each burst
of inspiration and then put back and was
sparingly used in order to allay suspicion.
When it ran low Japanese tooth-powder
was substituted. In this way the opus
grew to a 60,000-word odyssey.
Among the suffering and degradation
the author was able to record moments
of humor. He even found it in him,
when
Day after day the sun beat down above;
Day after day the hold became a stove
Where human shapes lay broiling jn the heat,
Basted in their own sweat, like joints of meat,
to develop a philosophy of life and man’s
relation to the infinite in one long series
of stanzas, to discuss the ancient history
of Java, Sumatra and the Manchus and
the political future of his native country.
The p.oem, which is uneven in quality,
is s|t its most vivid in the canto entitled
“Hell,” describing the transportation of
prisoners from Keelung to Nippon.
C.B.
For Playwrights.
The Playwrights’ Advisory Board
offers a prize of £lOO for a full-length
stage play.
Entries close September 30, 1947.
Mulga Publications, Sydney, has offered
to publish the winning play. Details
from the Box 4220, G.P.0..
Sydney—a stamped addressed envelope to
be enclosed.
The Adventures of Catkin and Codlin:
Written and illustrated by D. H. Gilmore
(Angus and Robertson). Adventures of
two silkworms whose friends include
spiders, bumblebees and crickets. Hand-
somely produced, and altogether a pleas-
ant trip down the garden path. Other
children’s books from the same firm are
Christopher Cricket, also written and
illustrated by D. H. Gilmore, and In the
Land of the Talking Trees> written by
Michael Noonan and illustrated by the
indefatigable D. H. Gilmore. Talking
Trees has a New Guinea background.
* >;: * *
Australia Week End Book, No. 5: Ure
Smith Pty. Ltd. Stories, verse, drawings,
jokes, etc., making the usual light and
indigestible holiday fare,


ẁ
Here's your chance to start a new
furniture so bright and friendly you'd
Choose these distinctive pieces in the
complete effect of
scheme or finish an old one, with
think it had lived with you for years,
colour combinations you prefer for a
beauty and ease.
A.—.Sp LOUNGE
Comfortable Sun Lounge with adjustable
hood is available with various coloured
tubular frames. The Lounge features a
multi-coloured striped canvas. £lO/17/6
C.—CHAISE LONGUE
Designed and built for modern comfortable
living is this matching Chaise Longue. It
supplies the comfort and relaxation of a full
length half recline and features two loose
cushions and padded arms <£l9/2/6
E LOUNGE CHAIR
Tubular Lounge Chair with foot ■ rest,
suitable for sun room or porch, in multi-
coloured striped canvas. Price, £B/12/6
BEACH UMBRELLA (not illustrated)
Beach Umbrella with 3ft. Cue Table. This
Umbrella has a 7ft. spread, eightVibs,* and
is multi-coloured. It can be adjusted to any
angle by means of ratchet fitting. Table
3ft. diameter, 5-ply waterproof top, legs of
tubular steel, lacquered Red, Green or
Blue. This Umbrella is ideal for the lawn
or porch. Price, complete £l2/6/-
B„—WROUGHT IRON TABLE
Sturdy wrought iron Dining Table, 42ins.
x 29ins., with £in. plate glass top, in
shades of Ivory or White, £l2/15/6
Chairs of same design, each, £2/14/-
».—SUN ROOM SETTEE
Very attractive Sun Room Settee, upholstered
back and spring seat, suspended on heavy
tension springs with a swinging action.
Adjustable canopy available in plain Green
Canvas with Rbd trimmings, £24/16/-
Or multi-coloured striped canvas £ 27/16/-
F.—“STEELEZE” CHAIR
''Steeleze'' Verandah Chair with patent
three-point suspension, individual tensioning
of seat and back, full form support. Avail-
able in Burgundy, Rust or Green canvas.
Price £3/10/9
VERANDAH CHAIR {not illustrated)
Tubular Verandah Chair, swivel action
back, various colours in.frames, and multi-
coloured striped canvas seat and back.
Price £ 2/7/3
• Furniture Dept.—Third Floor, Pitt Street.
’Phone M 2401, Ext. 184. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


0
you should know about
this WSSDUaIS building
sheet..
i n I
mm
£ Steel-strong,
longer lasting!
# Fire proof, per-
manent!
$ Goes up faster-
cuts costs! v
• Essential for water
Construction costs go down . . .
roofing goes up faster . . . with
Lysaght's 10-Corrugation Red Orb
Galvanized Iron! Quicker, cheaper
and safer, this wider building sheet
combines greater covering capacity
with extreme rigidity; requires fewer
building timbers, and gives years of
serviceable life.
conservation!
10
LYSaCHT’S
0M ;I
GALVANIZED IRON
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd: SrdMV ; d “^° u, ;' p ; rth Bmbon '
Ll44a-5155
International^
SStSSSS^^^
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
M?v. ...
;s
m
mm
00.
m%*tx
m,m
{. m ss&■
' rf / Jml
&£ <J&. &> £588?
THESE great trucks have proved their stamina and solid
worth in low-cost hauling and outstanding performance
in every branch of transportation. Whether in rough virgin
timber 'country where railways never reach, up and down
stiff mountain tracks, or over smooth highways, Internationals
have “what it takes” to link our city manufacturing centres
to the sources of our, primary products the farms, the
forests and the mines.
There’s an International for every hauling purpose—
capacities \ to 10 tons, including utilities, light, medium,
and heavy-duty models.
Ask now for full information about deliveries at
our branch house showrooms or from any of our
metropolitan distributors or country local agents.
Model K-l Utility;
Capacity 15 cwt.
International model K-6;
Capacity 5 tons.
International model KR-11;
Gross vehicle weight 32,000 lb.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Vic.)
, • Branches in all Capital Cities
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Ex-serviceman, wife, child, require accom-
modation Sydney urgently.—393s.
To buy copy of The Children’s Encyclo-
paedia; also volumes of “Sunday,” “Sunday
at Home,” “Chums” and “The Boy’s Own
Annual,” published during the early years of
this century. —3934.
To buy copy of Rollison and I, a school
story that originally appeared in “The Boy’s
Own Annual” about 40 years ago; also tale
based on life of Clive of India, which appeared
in “Chums” about the same time. —3932.
To buy copy of Gaffer Misery (author not
known), a tale of the French Revolution pub-
lished about 40 years ag0. —3933.
English youth (17), resident Southsea, would
like to correspond with young Bulletin readers
interested in stamp-collecting and exchange of
views,—393l.
To buy new or second-hand, copy of Best
One-act Plays of 1935. —3928.
To buy copy of Hits! Skits! and Jingles!
by W. T. G00dge.—3929.
British ex-serviceman (21), wishing to migrate
Australia with Australian wife, seeks position
in advance, knowledge grocery trade and hos-
pital work. —3930.
To buy copies of “The Lone Hand” for
April. 1912, February, 1913, and December,
1913.—3916.
Information Sought.
The number of civilian casualties by bombing
during the recent war in ( a ) England and ( [b )
France?
(1) There were 146,777 civilian casualties in
the United Kingdom due to enemy action.
Of these, 60,595 were killed or missing belieyed
killed, and 86,182 were injured and detained in
hospital. These figures include 6838 casualties
suffered by civil-defence workers while on duty,
of whom 6220 were men and 618 women. (2)
French civilian losses from bombing were
between 53,000 and 54,000, most being suffered
in 1944.
* * * *
What is salsify; how to grow it; is it suitable'
for inland areas?
Salsify is a root vegetable similar to parsnip
in appearance, and will grow in deeply-dug beds
enriched" with old rotted manure. When cooked
it has the flavor of oysters. Sow seed to the
end of October and thin out seedlings to 6in.
apart. Roots ready to dig in March; store
surplus in sand in a cool place. Where water
can be given it should do well inland.
* V * *
(1) How many matches were played by the
last six English cricket teams in Australia, and
the last six Australian teams in England? (2)
Total number of tours by England and Aus-
tralia, and matches played ?
(1) England: 1911-12, 18; 1920-21; 22;
1924-25, 23; 1928-29, 24; 1932-33, 22; 1936-37,
24—total, 133. Australia: 1912, 37; 1921, 38;
1926, 40; 1930, 34; 1934, 34; 1938, 36-
total, 219. (2) In 23 tours England played 505
matches (including 11 in M.L.); in 19 tours
Australia played 705 matches.
* * * *
What is the difference between Virginian stock
and Brampton stock?
Virginian stock is a low-growing annual with
small flower-heads. Used chiefly for mass
effect in beds and borders, it attains about
6in. Brompton stock is a biennial, carries
large, heads of rose-like florets, and grows ts
2ft. They are different species in the horti-
cultural world.
* * * *
(1) How old was Fred Spofforth when he
first went to England in an Australian XI? (2)
What were his bowling figures in all tours?
(1) Spofforth was 24. (2) Here are the
figures (from N.S.W. Cricket Year Book): —
.) Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets.
1878 .. 1705 644 2675 357
1880 .. 1559 669 2018 391
1882 .. 1594 699 2282 188
1884 .. 1586 656 2642 216
1886 .. 929 371 1527 89
» * * *
A polish suitable to treat a copper kettle to
prevent tarnishing ?
There is no suitable polish to prevent tarnish-
ing of a copper kettle in daily use. The only
suggestion we can offer is that it be thoroughly
cleaned and polished weekly and wiped when-
ever wet. However, should it be a kettle which
is kept as an ornament it can be treated in the
following way. Clean and polish well and
coat with ‘a thin coat of shellac, obtainable
from the paint department of any store. This
keeps the moisture and air from the metal and
so it will not tarnish as quickly; but in time
it cracks and peals. When this happens the
surface should be washed with warm, soapy
water, thoroughly dried, repolished and re-
lacquered. Should the lacquered surface become
dull it may be polished with a very little furni-
ture cream. This treatment would be of no
avail if the kettle is in use because the
heat would crack and chip the lacquer the
first time it was used.
* * * • *
Can a 32 or 38 Ruston Hornsby suction-gas
engine be fuelled with distillate or fuel oil by
means of carburettor and exploded with spark
plug ?
The agents for the engine have been unable
to locate any instance where such a modification
has been carried out, and are sure that any
such changeover would be very largely ex-
perimental. it is not favored on such an engine.
An alternative method would be to convert the
engine to a straight-out diesel principle of
compression ignition, but here again it is not
considered that the engine is designed to stand
up to the high operating pressures which would
be involved. If you are prepared to run the
unit on petrol, using the carburettor and spark-
plug ignition, then the unit should perform
quite satisfactorily. You may find it neces-
sary, if such a method is adopted, to reduce
the compression pressure slightly, by machining
the foot of the connecting rod.
Brief Answers.
JJ.: The N.S.W. Marriage Act provides that
every marriage otherwise lawful celebrated in
that State between any person and the sister
of his deceased wife shall be deemed to be
valid and of full force and effect V.M.McG.:
Write Commonwealth Copyright Office, Water
Board Building, 431 Pitt-street, Sydney
8.D.T.; The Observatory clocks are linked up
with machinery which automatically sends the
time-pip signals over landlines to radio stations.
. ...N.H.: Australian Writers and Artists’
Market (155.), obtainable fronr' Australian
School of Journalism and Art Training In-
stitute, 80 Swanston-street, Melbourne
H.W T.; Outback Occupations, by C. Shaw
(35.), obtainable from Dymock’s Book Arcade,
Sydney F. 8.: Handy Hints for the Farm
contains material reprinted from The Bulletin’s
“Man on the Land” pages and is obtainable
from all newsagents at Is. per copy V.T.:
Royal Australian Historical Society, 8 Young-
street, Sydney; annual subscription, £1 Is
N.C.; Write Austral Malay Tin, Ltd., 4 Martin-
place, Sydney; Queensland Meat Export Co.,
Ltd., 113 Eagle-street, Brisbane; and Hume
Steel, Ltd., 114 King-street, Melbourne
T. 8.: Cricket Bat was a chestnut horse by
Winning. Hit-Equipment. He defeated Night-
march in the Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey Club’s
Challenge Stakes over seven furlongs, Night-
march carrying 9.11 and Cricket Bat 6.10
AHA.: Write Director, National Art Gallery
of N.S.W., Sydney....J.S.S.: (1) H.M.S. Hood
was a battle cruiser with a displacement of
46,300 tons full load. (2) Action between the
Hood and the Bismarck was opened at 25,000
yards. (3) British battleships at the outbreak
of World War II were Rodney, Nelson, Queen
Elizabeth, Valiant, Malaya, Barham, Warspite,
Royal Oak, Royal Sovereign, Ramillies, Revenge,
Resolution and Iron Duke. (4) Battle cruisers
were Hood, Renown and Repulse W.J.: See
“Man on the Land” articles “Borers in the
Furniture” (B. 29/5/’46) and “White Ants”
(B. 6/2/’46) M.C.: Approval is not required.
Stamp duty is payable on value of goodwill
and the duty on the contract will need to be
assessed by the Comptroller of Stamp Duties.
. ...C.H.: (1) “Meanjin” is pronounced
Me-an-jin, the accent falling on the second
syllable. The word means “spike,” and was
the name given to the finger of land bounded
by the Brisbane River and extending from the
City proper to the Botanic Gardens, University
and Domain. (2) Tom o’ Bedlam was a
deranged wandering mendicant discharged as
incurable from Bethlehem (Bedlam) Hospital,
England; hence a wandering mendicant, either
mad or feigning to be so; a madman, bed-
lamite... .C.V.: Write Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.. u. 5.8.;
L. O’B. Fleetwood-Smith was born March 30,
1910 B'.BB.: (1) On December 17, 1903,
at Kittyhawk, North Carolina, U.S.A., the
brothers Orville and Wilbur Wright made the
first powered flight in an aeroplane. (2)
Although Lawrence Hargrave made the first
flights possible by bringing aviation past the
purely experimental stage, he never flew a
machine in the air himself W.G.; Will
Boniface in Farqvhar’s comedy “The Beaux
Stratagem” (1707) was an innkeeper. Hebe
in Greek mythology was cupbearer to the
immortals before Ganymede superseded her.


A &
» “«°°
to
se
F7d.
°Cp i a _ .
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD.
Established IS'/S.
MAASIIASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyxnan’t
everyday wear.
All meris-wear shop e
and chemists.
Manufactured by Manseaee 00., Drmnmoyne, K.B.W.
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
omlr entirely in Australia hy
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
FACTS G
FIGURES
THAT
AS A
CONCERN YOU
SHAREHOLDER
Three short months ago, Trans-Australia Airlines commenced opera-
tions with a daily service between Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne.
Gradually, as the airfleet grew, so did the extent of TAA services,
until early in December all Australian capitals were linked.
Public response to this service has been amazing. Passenger figures
for each month of operation have been approximately double those of
each preceding month. Here is a summary—
These figures show that more and more travellers arc flying TAA.
Why? Because TAA is owned and operated by the people of
Australia for the people of Australia, because TAA service is unsur-
passed and because TAA offers one fare for all—the lowest.
(iO iniSttea
Reservations from TAA Booking Officd .
or from Thomas Cook & Son Ltd., Macdonald Hamilton & Co.,
Burns Philp & Co. Ltd., Elder Smith & Co. Ltd., and all
Government Tourist Bureaux.
For further particulars see daily classified columns.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRLINES COMMISSION
C-33-47
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re tr^ ut \°! is ,
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
T.K.L.: You mailed us your income-tax
return. We hope the income-tax people enjoy
your story... .P.Y.: Just missed a place....
A.W.R.: Our compositors rebelled against your
hand-writing... .R.L.: Your “inspiration came
while having a bath.” Wrong brand of soap.
T.U.: Human interest comes from charac-
ters more like human beings... .A.E.: Good
for a maiden effort....R. de Y.: Nauseating.
F.N.: Get a new style, some new ideas,
and, above all, a new ribbon for your type-
writer.., .D.J.; Probably it means something:
V.R.: Mere effervescence W.L.: The
old theory of writing a short-story, then dis-
carding the first paragraph, applies to yours.
O.D.: “Sweet Chariot” swinging home.
R.L.: “Jet-propelled” also making the re-
turn trip.. ~C.McN.: We allow him a brief
canter: —•
But, like Dad, we were bushed by the end of
the third verse T.H.: Writing on the mulga
needs more background than having seen “The
Overlanders'’ . ~R.L.: We like “Blossom,” but
it is not our type Fizzer: Perfect pen-
name K.F.: Our fossil expert labelled it
“antediluvian” L.M.: “Cabbages and
Roses” has a strange affinity to Banjo Pater-
son’s “I s’pose the flats are pretty green up
there in Ironbark?” But bring in the vege-
tables : —4
J.B.: Not keen on that reminiscent mood.
....R.H.8.: It has merit; but too long and
too late to stand much chance of publication
at the moment... .H.L.: “Could you suggest
a title which has not become hackneyed for
this subject?” How about “Rhymes that the
Silverfish Hath Eaten”? XRan: Now, alas,
there’s less in it....G.G.: “Send the cash to
some charitable institution.” No cash; but
you might persuade a very charitable institution
to read that handwriting E.C.; Might suit
a woman’s paperf.. .N.M.: “Let us arise and
fly.” Learn to walk first L.F.: Two lines,
then:
To achieve a winning novel
You select some filthy hovel.
P.R.E.: For its transcendental last line:
1788—1947.
.... A.H.P.: Come in and get it off your chest
before you put your head in a gasless gas-
oven :
... .L.N.McC.: Only the stamped envelope
saved “Overland Romance” from the w.p.b
G.H.: You are lavish with adjectives F.1.Y.:
Try a daily D.S.: Come again T.K.:
Trite P.McG.: These short terse sentences
{He picked her up. He knocked her down.
He kicked her. “Hell,” she said. Etc.) are
doth monotonous and false G.G.F.; “Hurly-
burly,” another “red-blooded-action” story is
also distinctly “phoney” R.M.E.: Sweet old
lady, charming daughter, and delightful kiddies
all excessively sweet V. 8.: Narrative crushed
by sheer weight of erudition A.J.J.: Stilted
conversations, improbable situations, and erratic
typing... .C.K.F.: Characters step straight from
American crime magazine— any American crime
magazine J.U.: Dull W.Q.: Principal
(and considerable) virtue _ of ‘ Windjammer
Days” is high pitch of excitement: but this is
patchy, and neutralised by tedious side-tracking
and insistence on ‘‘all this actually happened.
S.M.: Pleasant but slight H.8.W.: Just
another swaggie... .K.K.: Sentimental.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.L.: Funniest thing about your cartoon
was your 12in. signature... .G.J.: No techni-
color jobs, thank you R. 0.: Seems to have
been performed with a leaky fly-spray Y.P.:
So the Army aptitude test told you that you
might have artistic abilities. They couldn’t have
seen any of your drawings V.G.: Your lop-
sided freaks couldn’t get through our front door.
R.J.P.: Sorry, but we couldn’t squeeze
your giants into our pages C.H.8.: Promis-
ing for a first attempt W.T.: Closed the
door on your ten-o’clock-closing cartpon
J.C.W.: You labored hard, but merely man-
aged to produce a fifth-rate effort M.T.;
Alleged abo. resembles a stray from an African
jungle G.R.: The wheeze is in its dotage
and the drawing is no joy to behold T.L.:
You have plenty more! We await our fate.
E.F.; "Clumsy copies of pattern illustrations
and tame jests A.8.K.; Look us up again
after you have had some lessons R.H.D.:
Can’t judge from copies; send in something
original J.M.8.; Figures are wooden and
out of proportion... .5.0’8.: You can draw
tramlines N.L.: Why give your characters
stovepipes for legs and pumpkins for heads?
A.P.W.; It wouldn’t be summer-time if
that old cricketing * gag didn’t lob in....G.F.:
You're very shaky on anatomical details.
EGG.
0 virtuous egg, wreathed in gold lantana,
With sides entwined .with the twisting coils
Of a pink and green banana.
0 fruit of hen, born of brush and paint
Some artist has seen fit in oils,
To give your beauty, quaint and rare,
Unto posterity.
Here and there are seen reposed on pins
Such things as oysters, clocks, tobacco tins;
The signs of magnanimity.
And lying prone upon the ochre earth,
Convulsive in their joy and hellish mirth,
Are symbols used in chemistry.
And so, 0 egg, with staring eye,
Celestial-like, midst flowing rye.
Until tomorrow.
THE COLT.
Quite recumbent in the nettles,
Dad was heard to utter “ ‘Metals,’
If I ever catch you blighter, you’ll be killed.”
But that horse was not for hearing.
As he sped out through the clearing,
And he dashed across dad’s garden—newly tilled.
Dad went flying for his rifle,
And he muttered “Get an eyeful!”
To his wife, who stood in wonder at the sight.
Then he, too, ploughed through the garden.
And he did not beg their pardon,
As he scattered startled swagmen in his flight.
Soon some shots were heard resounding,
And the brumby came back bounding
From the scrubland, where he’d hidden in the
gorse.
He was followed in an hour.
By a person whom no power
■ Could convince that this one was the Aiunted
horse. ®
From the billabong to the river all the flats were
very gay
Rolling greenly away to the purple hills that most
auspicious day
When we met in the Ironbark garden, in the fresh
September air
And you were picking cabbages and roses, and all
the world was fair.
The sun was fairly sparkling, and your bright, untidy
hair
Was wind-tossed, its fragrance blending
With cabbages and red roses, and I shall not forget
How we stood behind the fowlhouse and smoked a
cigarette
And the day and you were fair.
We stayed till the day was ending, and I felt a keen
regret
When I learned that you were seventeen and I was yet
Sixteen. I thought of love and talked of food on
that September day
When I met you in the cabbage garden down Iron-
bark way.
The emigrants came in the days gone by,
Despairing and weary and willing to die.
The wave "and the hurricane robbed them of sleep.
For the vicious perversion of stealing a sheep
They were kenneled in hordes like wild beasts in
a den.
Forgotten of God and neglected of men.
Their children bellind them, the unknown before,
'They patiently bowed to the might of the Law.
But soon a great wonder was seen in the land
That demanded so much both from head and from
hand.
’For he who made out of the desert a plot
Had found the earth grateful and peace was his lot.
And after the Night came the dawning of Day,
Now Magnolias flower round Botany Bay.
In this world’s crook deals and battle
Do a bivouac through life.
Be not like dumb, driven cattle,
Work your head and dodge the strife.
Faces long, our cash is fleeting.
And our hearts no longer brave,
Huge taxation sure is beating
Honest folk down to the grave.
Let us then be up and doing.
Doing nothing, trust to fate,
Naught achieving, ease pursuing,
Do not labor, only wait.


BEULAH
By CECIL
NANN
BEULAH was born in the Valley,
and she was lovely. At least, she
was thought lovely; and what is
the difference?
She might not have seemed so, perhaps,
to an undiscerning passer-by, seeing her
sitting there with bare feet outside the
hut in the sun reading the paper. Nor
might she have appeared as one resting
on her laurels. In fact, she might have
looked like merely one of the expected
inhabitants of the Blacks’ Camp squatting
on a log.
In that case, it would not havfe been
known to the passer that those who
thought she was lovely—among them all
in the Camp, including herself —had had
the view confirmed already twice over in
print and thrice over in conquest, giving
Beulah fair cause for resting back for
the time being and, with the rest of the
Camp, thinking as highly of herself as if
she had won a Beauty Contest and was
ready to go off to Hollywood as Miss
Australia. Which could have been appro-
priate enough, anyway; on both sides
of the possum-rug.
Though not born white as snow, she
was from the first a shade less chocolate-
hued than her mother, and from the first
her mother, Biana, thought she was
beautiful. That was why Biana—not
Biana anybody, but just Biana—walked
all the way in from the Camp to Town
with her, when Beulah was one year old,
to have her picture taken by Hamish Mc-
Fee, the photographer.
N the way in to the small counter in
the sub-room dividing the picture-
gallery entrance from the photographing
studio Biana looked at all the photos of
babies displayed in the showcases. They
were all white babies, and they all looked
lovely to .Biana; loveliest of them a
chubby little one with nothing on, lying
couched in a large clam-shell: a nice
symbolical representation by Mr. McFee,
her chubby young ladyship being a
daughter of Nat Harris, who caught crabs
and crayfish and had an oyster-lease
down the River.
Inside at the counter, Biana saw the
dwarf handbell there and guessed rightly
that it was for tinkling Mr. McFee in
from the unknown regions at the back.
She had not till then ventured beyond
looking round the showcases, a favored
pastime of passers-by with some minutes
to spare, stepping aside from the pave-
ment to satisfy themselves again how nice
they looked and what a good photo-
grapher Mr. McFea was, and what plain
frumps others looked and how true it was
that the camera doesn’t lie. But, though
she had not been right inside before,
Biana knew Mr. McFee quite well by
sight, just as Mr. McFee knew Biana
both by sight and by repute.
Also, Biana was. well informed on what
went on as a preliminary at the counter
when Mr. McFee, whom she could hear
moving about inside, came out-to inter-
view prospective sitters who had tinkled
the bell. This information she had had
from her Camp neighbor Nellie, who
had once got that far herself but had
been discouraged by Mr. McFee’s de-
mand for a deposit, an aspect of photo-
graphy of which Nellie hadn’t been
aware.
The thought of it had discouraged
Biana, too, at first; but Beulah, with her
big round brown eyes and the kiss-curl
of crinkly black hair on top of her
puckered little forehead and the dimples
in her fat chocolate cheeks and chin, had
looked so pretty in the pink silk frock
which that good lady Mrs. Stacey had
given her on washing-day that Biana
could not resist the pleasure she had
imagined for herself. So, as Mr. McFee
came in from the studio to the other
side of the short counter, though the look
on his face at seeing her hardly suggested
that he was overjoyed, and might even
have been thought sour, she smiled at him
with what passed in her mind as coyness,
and as coyly said:
“ ’Mornin’, Mr. McFee. Hdw is you
this mornin’?”
“You wanna see me ’bout somet’in’?”
Mr. McFee parried, automatically copy-
ing Biana’s form of speech, though on a
different note. The words were the
words of Biana, but the voice was the
voice of Hamish; a highly suspicious
Hamish who had been stung before by
race-relatives of Biana, a sept he had
found prone to excessive forgetfulness in
the matter of paying for photographs, or
even ever returning for them. Unlike the
general run of his customers, it seemed
to satisfy them completely just to know
their pictures had been taken. He greatly
suspected that this was Biana’s lurk, too,
and mentally doubled the size of the
deposit.
“Yes, Mr. McFee, thank you,” Biana
said, most politely. “I like you photo-
graph little girl here, please. I like him
ip you big sea-shell.”
“You know you pay for him in ad-
vance?” Mr. McFee hopefully countered.
Apart from the financial aspect, he shared
the common prejudice of their usurpers
in the Valley against all Biana’s kind.
“You mean deposit?” said Biana afflu-
ently. “That orright, Mr. McFee, quite
orright. I know all ’bout deposit.”
It knocked the wind out of Mr. McFee ;
more so as Biana, tilting up the chubby
bare brown legs and dimpled quarters of
baby Beulah, began tugging at the pocket
in her dress. “You come on inside,” in-
vited the routed Hamish. “Dressing-room
over there.”
The trough-like clam-shell set up on a
table against the backcloth, and a plate
in the studio camera, Hamish became at
once photographer McFee. His whole
mind was fixed now on getting a good
picture of all-brown Beulah. He had for-
gotten the deposit. He came out from
under the focussing-cloth and, holding
the rubber bulb in his left hand, snapped
his right fingers to attract her attention,
and even did a little dance for her.
IT wasn’t, however, to be such a clam-
* shell plagiarism of Mr. McFee’s art
that was to represent the first notable
conquest to Beulah’s credit. Looking at
her thus posed, the artist in Mr. McFee
felt that the clam-shell, though well
enough, was not quite exactly right. It
had the mermaid touch perfectly appro-
priate for fisherman Harris’s little white
girl, but, never having seen one in print
or anywhere else, Mr. McFee doubted if
there were such things as brown mer-
maids.
In the picture which subsequently set
the unheard-of, and by Mr. McFee
hitherto undreamt-of, precedent of en-
throning a dusky representative of the
Blacks’ *Camp among the Town’s elite
in the showcase Beulah was to be seen
as he next arranged her, with her pink
frock (hand colored in the picture) on
again, sitting up in a cretonne-covered
armchair, with Mr. McFee’s live baby
koala in her lap and his two pet kooka-
burras perched one on each side of her.
So affected were both Mr. McFee and
Biana by that artistic achievement in
symbolism that they came close to part-
ing at the counter without further mention
of the deposit. Mr. McFee thought of
it as Biana was profusely thanking her
way out.
“ ’Bout that deposit,” he suggested,
keeping to Biana’s speech. “That five
shillin’. Dozen postcard.”
“Ohr, yes, now, Mr. McFee, thank
you,” Biana said, tilting up Beulah and
groping afresh for her dress pocket.
Fumbling about for what Mr. McFee now
sharply suspected wasn’t there, Biana at
last looked up to him; on her face an
expression of wide amazement. “Well,
now, Mr. McFee, what you think ’bout
that!” she exclaimed. “There I gone
agen an’ left my purse home on .the
planner! ”
Biana’s expression of bland innocence
alone hit Mr. McFee hard enough and
in a vulnerable quarter, but the refer-
ence to the piano floored him completely.
Knowing Biana, and where and how
Biana lived, it left him speechless. Shak-
ing her head and clucking self-admonish-
ment, Biana got out through the door
before the storm burst.
It was a storm heavy with the bluest
language in Mr. McFee’s reasonably well-
stocked vocabulary, but when it had sub-
sided a little the artist in him took charge
again, wanting to see the result of his
high creative impulse. And that, when
the plate was developed and the photo,
printed, was so much more than satisfying
that Mr. McFee went on at once to make
an enlargement and then color it.
Even that might be thought to have
represented a fair measure of conquest
to Beulah’s credit, and the setting up of
it in the showcase where no one, young
or old, of Beulah’s clan had ever figured
before could be taken as still greater
measure, even though another element of
some importance did enter into this.
Mr. McFee liked plenty of babies in
his entrance picture-gallery, for the suffi-
cient reason that, next to brides and
wedding groups, the natural issue of these
made up the most regular source of his
income. He had even come to be as
competent as any woman in recognising
differences between them, so that if he
said this one was like its mother and that
one like its father it wasn’t mere idle
flattery but the judgment of an expert.
Moreover, as honest as his liame, if he
considered that it was like neither he kept
the judgment to himself, adding it to the
store of his private knowledge of what
went on in the steady flow of life in the
Valley.
He was not, as it happened, exactly
sure who the latest addition to that living
storehouse resembled. With the photo,
printed, he viewed it closely and in vari-
ous other perspectives, seeking a clue,
though, Biana being Biana, he felt that
any opinion he arrived at would be guess-
work at the best.
That did have something to do with
the setting up of the picture in its place
of honor in the centre of the main show-
case, where it posed a pertinent question
against the Valley’s male inhabitants.
The arrangement of koala and kooka-
burras also had something to do with it,
linking little Beulah directly back to her
ancestors of the Valley that used to be,
just as the pink frock (hand colored)
suggested as direct association with the
modern settled and cultivated Valley ; the
picture being therefore an even better
example of Mr. McFee’s visionary genius
than the original clam-shell idea.
Even so, a good share of the credit
belonged to Beulah in person. As pic-
tured, she may have been first of all
symbolic of her race and what had hap-
pened to it, but next to that there was
enough of enigma in her frowning-
smiling expression to let her pass .as an
epitome of the eternal feminine, and
hence not to be denied a claim to Mr.
McFee as her first conquest.
j F any element of doubt may be
1 thought to have applied to that as
a confirmation for those who thought
Beulah lovely, there was no question
whatever about the first such confirmation
in print.
Attendance at the State primary school
in Town being by Government ukase
compulsory, Biana in due course was
packing little Beulah off there five days
a week in the open, unroofed lorry which
called at the Cqmp in the mornings and
went off with its assorted load of picca-
ninnies, all of them standing up in* it in
fine weather or rain, as, for that matter,
the calves and pigs it carried when not
thus engaged also had to do.
At school Beulah learned the mysteries
of reading and writing and adding up,
a source of great pride to Biana, par-
ticularly because in no time Beulah was
the acknowledged best from the Camp
at all three branches of learning, though
some of the others were a good deal
older than herself.
The reading was especially a cause of
great pleasure to Biana, because pre-
sently it enabled Beulah to reverse the
usual role and read out to her mother
the children’s stories in the books brought
home from the school library. Of them
all, Biana’s favorite was “Little Red
Ridinghood.” “My word, that ole wolf
bad one orright,” Biana would exclaim.
“Read him agen, Beulah.” It helped
Biana to go to sleep.
It was when so occupied, in the thick
of the beetles, moths and multitude of
flying insects of all sorts swarming round
the smoky glass of the hurricane lamp
in the hut one night that Beulah made
the wonderful discovery of her own name
in print; and more even than that. She
was reading the meanings of names as
given in rows of columns in a big picture-
book when she came upon it. There,
imperishably to her mind, it stood, and
she read it out loud:
“Beulah . . , Beautiful.”
No doubt a
mother more
rightly f o re-
thoughtful o n
her daughter’s
behalf would
have instantly de-
livered a moral
lesson on the evils
and pitfalls of
vanity ; but Biana was, in fact, every bit
as delighted as Beulah.
“Ohr, go on, now,” Biana said, “that
one you make up, Beulah!”
“Ohr, I do not,” protested Beulah.
“Here, you read for y’self! ”
Biana looked and laughed heartily at
the picture of the elephant squirting
water into his keeper’s eye at the foot
of the page, which was all she could
make out of what was printed there ; but
she hadn’t doubted Beulah for a moment,
and thenceforth she thought Beulah more
lovely than ever, and so did Beulah.
“My word, big girl now that one
Beulah,” they already said of her in the
Camp, when, as the first representative of
that address thus to succeed, Beulah
went on from the primary school to the
big new High School out on the hill near
the Town cemetery. Beulah was fairly
tall, too, for her fourteen years, with all
the promise of the roguish little face, still
exhibited in photographer McFee’s show-
case, now very much in evidence.
An odd thing, which the psychologi-
cally learned no doubt be able to
explain, was that, whereas that budding
maturity developed with striking rapidity
and effect during the couple of years of
her reign (especially over the big boys) at
the High School, Beulah’s early promise
as a scholar just as strikingly remained
stationary. She could still read, write and
add up, but, by the High School
standards, towards the end of her second
year (and her scholastic career) she was
as surely among the dunces as among the
leading coquettes in the place. She could
well claim to be the leader of the
coquettes, attested to by the quality of
Wonder.
I choose more than darkness at my back
slipping out through the net of stars, and
more *
underfoot than so trodden a track
as dust has traversed heretofore.
Whether as planet-moths, or spun
on a living rim whirled up from birth-
circling not only round the sun
but down again to circling earth.
Such motion rolls across all choice;
yet so caught up, geared in, with spheres
somewhat my voice becomes their voice
thus, and booms laughter at the years.
And though obedient to strict law
I skirt, in epicycle, night,
the headlong comets of wonder draw
centrally to some source of light.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.


the catch which represented, after Mr.
McFee, her second notable conquest, and
therefore further irrefutable confirmation
for those who looked upon her as lovely.
That the climax in this instance was ex-
tremely painful in one respect and drastic
in another is no doubt regrettable, though
it must be said that it did not unduly
worry Beulah or greatly upset Biana,
either.
The one it
did worry and
upset was
Jim m y
Turner, the
best footballer
in the school
and, what was
not so healthy
for him, the
son of one of the best forwards
the Valley ever produced. As for English
and sports master Mr. Sexton, it should
be said for him that he was a most up-
right and moral gentleman, and when he
caught Jimmy and Beulah locked in a
canoodling embrace down behind the die-
berry bushes in the schoolground he was
greatly surprised, and so were they. Also,
he was so shocked that he not only saw
to the instant expulsion of Beulah but
carried out his threat to inform Jimmy’s
parent, and the flogging Jimmy took in
consequence was one calculated to make
a better man of him, and perhaps a
tougher footballer, too.
SO far from being put opt by these
happenings, Beulah got as great a
thrill out of them as she now got
vicariously two nights a week at the
Picture Palace in town, where the well-
circulated scandal of her expulsion from
the High School rivetted a variety of
attention on her, not all of it as disap-
proving as it perhaps should have been.
In any case, she had had enough of
schoolhad demonstrated her ability to
hold her own easily against the keenest
(non-scholastic) competition there ; and,
besides, harking back to the restlessness
of her ancestors on the shady side of the
possum-rug, she now wanted, as the ex-
pression runs, to go places and see things,
though in s rather different
from those of her forebears in their
wallaby-hunting and oyster-feasting and
other excursions and forays about the
Valley.
In fact, she set herself the high aim
of becoming a waitress, malted-milk
mixer and the like iff Samovar’s and Mar-
conti’s restaurant, an objective which she,
bosoming forth most convincingly into
seventeen-year-old womanhood, found
easier of attainment than she had ex-
pected. That alone further confirmed
what at least the camp and Biana and
herself thought of her, but it amounted
to nothing compared with what was to
come.
No doubt an effect of His Highness the
Sun, Beulah was now a shade or two
darker than as pictured in photographer
McFee’s showcase, but Samovar and
Marconti and the wives they had
specially gone back to their own country
to marry were all on the dark side, too ;
and Beulah was well enough aware that
she easily bore comparison with at least
those latter-day specimens of Mediter-
ranean beauty.
It transpired, too, some few months
later that that opinion was apparently
not confined to Beulah. The subsequent
rumpus was really awful, leading
Samovar, as it painfully did, through the
protracted processes of the divorce court;
a scandal not confined to the Valley but
widely aired in a city Sunday newspaper
under the alliterative heading “Love
Laughs at Locksmiths,” it having come
out in the proceedings that the locking
of Beulah’s door on the inside had not
proved an insuperable obstacle to the
straying Samovar, who had managed the
feat of climbing over a partition despite
the considerable handicap of a wooden
leg.
All this being
freely displayed
in him big noos-
paper, along with
confirming de-
scription of
Beulah as “a
dusky charmer”
and reiterated re-
ferences to the
alluring dark-eyed fascination that had
brought about the downfall of the agile
Samovar, everybody in the Camp,
whither Beulah had been sent packing
with haste and contumely, was finally
and for ever convinced that Beulah was
indeed lovely. For those who could not
read there were the pictures on the page
of both Beulah and Samovar, and what
had all that schooling been for if Beulah
could not read the rest out, sitting there
outside Biana’s hut in the sun, for the
time being resting on her laurels, with
her bare toes idly picking up and drop-
ping again the fallen dry gum twigs and
leaves and a crushed ant or two.
RUI’S SHIP
By RODERICK FINLAYSON
THE first time I saw young Rui was
out on that part of the Bay of
Plenty coast where we often went
in summer to sVvim in the surf. Rui
was only two years old then. His mother
had taken him on to the beach below the
old-man pohutukawa tree that sprawled
on the crumbling earthworks of the old
pa.
Rui played in the wet sand, patting it
into mountains with his chubby brown
hands, while his father fished for snapper.
His father was Tane Kairangi, who, hav-
ing no boat at that time, fished from the
beach, throwing his snapper-line odt over
the surf.
It was grand to watch Tane Kai fish-
ing. He was a big, yet lithe, Maori man.
He stood where the sea swirled often
higher than his knees, his pants rolled
away up his thighs, his black cotton shirt
blowing open in the sea breeze, an old
peaked felt hat on his head. It was great
to see him standing therfe, his legs braced
against the drag of the backwash, swing-
ing above his head the sinker of the fish-
ing-line—a heavy, knotted trace-chain.
With a final heave hfe sent it soaring
easily far out over the surf, plonk into
deep water.
He was using mussels for bait, tying
the soft fleshy part on the big hooks with
cotton. He had to rebait the line and
hurl it out time and again as the surf
threw even the heavy trace-chain quickly
inshore. But every third or fourth cast,
sometimes every second one, a snapper
would take the bait with a tug, and Tane
Kai would strike the hook home and haul
in the line. He caught many fine fish.
Young Rui gurgled with excitement
when his father landed a 12-pounder. He
watched Tane Kai take the big plunging
snapper off the hook and throw it well
up the glistening wet beach out of reach
of the waves. Rui wanted to grab the
fish. His mother had to keep him away
from the needle-like fin spines and the
thrashing tail.
“Eh, don’t let him prick you. You will
get sick and die,” she warned him.
WHEN he had caught enough Tane
scaled and gutted the fish, strung
them on a strip of flax and washed them
in the sea. But one fish he didn’t string
on the flax. He took that one by the gills
and, wading out up to his thighs, he
swung it three times around his head and
flung it out to sea, where it sank before
any gull could get it.
“For Maru,” he said, and turned to
wade ashore.
He saw me watching him and laughed
a bit self-consciously.
“For Maru,” he repeated, looking at
me. And he told me how his father had
taught him so. “Maru the old ocean-man.
Good to keep the old ways,” he said
in explanation. “But perhaps the pakeha
finish all that.”
Mrs. Kairangi had picked up the
bundle of fish and was making for home
and the little fellow ran to his father.
“Come on, Rui,” Tane said quickly,
changing the subject. “Come for the big
splash.” He took the eager youngster
and held him, fat vigorous legs splashing,
in the fringe of the surf.
“E kau-kau! ” that’s to say, swim-swim,
baby Rui chuckled.
Then his father whittled him a little
boat from a piece of driftwood, and Rui
clapped his hands and gurgled gleefully
to see it picked up on the crests of the
breakers and hurled in a smother of foam
up the beach, and sucked back into the
trough of the waves by the undertow, and
flung ashore once again.
“Rui love the ship and the sea,” said
Tane Kai. Then he added, “You eat
fish with us.”
He took me up to his home on the hill
above the beach —a big weather-beaten
wooden house with a long front verandah.
We went in the front door, down a pas-
sage into the kitchen. Some of the in-
side partitions were only a framework of
wooden studs. You could tell that they
had never been lined with boards. So
that you looked right through the house
from the kitchen, across a big room con-
taining a round table with a phonograph
on it, a brass-and-iron bedstead, and a
curly-carved sideboard, to the cracked
front windows. But I noticed that anyone
going from the one room to the other,
instead of just stepping through the open
partition, was careful to go through the
doorway. ■ v
In the kitchen it was hot with the range
going full blast. Tane said, “Eh, easy on
that fife wood, Kate! I chop jolly well
all day.”
“Plenty driftwood if you go sledge it
up,” said Mrs. Kairangi easily. She
cooked the snapper in seawater, and we
ate it with potato and drank cups of tea.
It was good.
Little Rui played around me chanting
,baby words. “He take a fancy to you,”
ẃ
ẅ
DISASTER BAY
( Concluded .)
The coast wades past. Now you can feel
Storm broaching calm, the clock run back;
You see through distance, shrouds of black,
The white bone-arm of fear wind out
On a squeaking rafehet-wheel,
As, hard alee, the air’s fringe shakes,
The ghost of a rocket trails along
A thin red wire, a whining song.
Over the shrinking hulk wedged fast
On a reef where lightning quakes.
Like the snap of a pistol or a whip
One damp patched sail in the acute
Drive of the wind flaps a grey salute —
What freed this craft from tfie muzzling sand ?
Ship cries to passing ship.
Storm drove the Jane Spiers in so far, a dense
Tumult pinned her, tacking warily, down;
She rammed the beach at unnatural speed; at
once
Foremast and mainmast cracked like brittle
bone.
But the mizzen still held, death swung the loose
boom about;
When she struck, when that wind-slung missile
of wood
Fetched up so quickly, air seemed to give out;
Men sprawled on the decks, scrambled up spit-
ting blood.
Panic below, of course lights went by the
board,
Some of them plummeting down in a guttering
arc,
And lights are important when life’s an over-
taxed cord:
There were curses and fists and uproar down
in the dark, 1
And then nothing but dark, garotting sound,
Only the dazed, hushed memories struggle forth,
And out of *he planes of memory, bleak polar
ground,
Men, lights and ships and action go further
North.
The barque, Jane Spiers,
Little clutter of forgotten timbers
Under the ti-tree, buried in sand;
Keel and ribs and spars
Drowning in the yellow clutch
Of Stephen’s Beach.
Only a twisted shank,
Oddity of time like a fossil,
N.s.w.
Curls up out of the■ sand;
Only the sea-birds think
And the hopping land-birds watch
On Stephen's Beach.
But minutes tick past; Cape Howe slips far
behind;
What cause for fear ? No one may trust the
night
That plucks response from things lodged deep
in the mind,
Omens, unreason. While the wake skims level
and white,
Churned away from the blade of the steady
bows,
And steady’s the course, untroubled the drowsy
guide,
You know that this wraith of a ship ’must safely
browse
Home in the roadstead, nudged by leisurely tide.
And now, as a cloud topples from the moon
like a leech,
The seaway eases and flakes into brilliant caves,
A gully of pearl loops out on the distant beach,
And oars of silver lick at the turning waves.
Midnight stuns the air. The piano stops playing,
The shuttle of voices drops, screws muffled in
the hull;
The flimsy envelope of water tears with a fray-
ing
Bustle, like a whisper, the wind flags in a lull.
This watch is up: the officer makes his brief
Entry in the log, checks the charts, no longer
alone:
Ready, yawning a little, stands the relief;
Something makes both of them speak in an
undertone:
“Reporting for duty, Sir, everything right up-
here?"
“Everything right here, but a bit shaky myself,
Joe,
Been seeing things and hearing noises.. .queer.
Must be getting too old —any trouble below ?
“Nothing? Well, good-night and kbep your eyes
skinned,
The glass looks fair enough, but I don’t trust
that wind.”
Echoes and whispers bubble around the keel;
A shadow goes out, a shadow takes the wheel.
Yet there’s no danger from wind when moon-
light carves
The course to follow, a blazing, narrowing scar;
When the fine thread of the fore-stay cleanly
halves
The Green Cape light, pinpointed, like a low
star.
w
FRANCIS WEBB.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE STATE OF THE WORLD.
There has been a lull in the storm of
debate concerning the probable future
course of world history—whether there
shall be one world or two —not because
the subject has lost any of its interest,
but rather because the question has
already been largely decided, and, U.N.O.
notwithstanding, has been decided, on a
basis of division. William Henry Cham-
berlin, writing in the “Wall - street
Journal,” says that “however distasteful
it may be, the nations-of the world are
sharply divided into Soviet and non-
Soviet camps.
“Thirteen countries and areas, with a
population of almost 25,000,000 and an
area of 273,947 square miles, have been
formally annexed to the Soviet since the
beginning of the Second World War.
Moreover, Soviet political hegemony is
undisputed in nine other European coun-
tries and areas, with a population of
more than 100,000,000, namely:
Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia,
Hungary, Bulgaria, Rumania, Finland and
the eastern parts of Germany and
Austria. The three countries which are
members of the U.N. and which have
been participating in international con-
ferences, Poland', Yugoslavia and Czecho-
slovakia, almost invariably vote as a
solid bloc with the Soviet itself and the
two member icpublics, Byelorussia and
the Ukraine, for which extra votes were
wangled. Soviet domination of these
lands is both political and economic.
“In response to this purposeful expan-
sion of the Soviet empire,” says Cham-
berlin, “the U.S. has until recently pur-
sued a vague woolly sentimental ‘one
world’ policy which bore little relation
to the realities of the situation. Diplo-
matic agreements with the Soviet at
Tehran, Yalta and Potsdam and else-
where were largely a matter of trading
substance for shadow. The U.S. acqui-
esced in Soviet annexations which com-
pletely contradicted the Atlantic Charter,
in the establishment of a Soviet sphere
of influence which destroyed the balance,
the independence, the economic unity of
Europe. While the Soviet calculated
every move in terms of ‘two-worlds’
power politics, rewarding submission and
ruthlessly punishing any show of resist-
ance or independence, the U.S. proceeded
on the bland but sadly mistaken assump-
tion that it was one world after all.”
“World Report,” which reviewed world
strategy as it was evidenced -during 1946,
found this same sharp division, and be-
lieved it likely to persist and widen.
It remarked that “a few years ago there
existed a balance of power among six
or seven ‘great Powers.’ Today there are
only three great Powers, and their balance
or unbalance is as yet undecided.
'“Russia, as the second of these great
Powers, has gathered to it certain satel-
lite States and adjacent areas to form a
compact political, economic and strategic
unit. The U.S. and Britain, first and
third of these great Powers, are united in
their ideals and in many common in-
terests and policies. They tend to oppose
the aggressive policies of the Soviet
world. There is a clearcut division be-
tween these major parts of the world on
ideological lines, the theories of govern-
ment and international conduct. Three
potentially great States, Germany, Japan
and Italy, are completely controlled by
the principal Powers which defeated
them, and two secondary Powers, China
and France, owing to political necessity,
are being ascribed the technical status of
‘great Powers.’ ” -
In examining the basis of strategy
which “forces” this division into “two
worlds,” “World Report” considered the
world as grouped in four parts. “These
may be labelled the secure areas, the
disturbed areas, the critical areas, and
the dominant areas. These terms spring
from the basic fact that relations among
the U.S., and Britain dominate
and determine most of the world strategic
pattern.
“The secure areas owe their security to
their location. They are not directly in-
volved in the conflict between the Soviet
and Western world. They comprise Aus-
tralasia, no longer under the threat of
an aggressive Japan, and the southern
half of Africa and of South America.
The disturbed areas contain in themselves
disturbing elements owing to their own
peculiar problems. These problems,
however, are not unrelated to the great
Powers. Russia sees in these areas prom-
ising fields for the spread of Communism.
The Western Powers see in them a threat-
ened loss of their preferred position.
They may eventually become critical
areas, but at present they can be con-
sidered separately therefrom. China,
India, South-east Asia, the Netherlands
East Indies, and the northern half of
Africa constitute the disturbed areas.
The critical areas are those where the
policies and interests of the Soviet and
the Western world clash most directly,
the areas of most probable trouble. They
are the Middle East, Central Europe, and
to a lesser degree North China. The
dominant areas comprise the so-called
Western world and the Soviet world.
The Western world may be roughly de-
scribed as including North America, the
upper half of South America, Britain and
Western Europe. The Soviet world ex-
tends from the Bering Sea to the Elbe and
the Adriatic.
“The Soviet world covers about one-
fifth of the earth’s land surface. It is
the largest and potentially the most self-
sufficient part of the world ever to be
united under one all-powerful authority.
Defensively it occupies the strongest posi-
tion in the world. Offensively its strategic
position is unsurpassed as regards land
and air warfare, but greatly restricted as
—Dublin ‘‘Opinion.”
“GENTLEMEN! GENTLEMEN! IT APPEARS THE INTERPRETER
MISTRANSLATED AN IDIOM.”
to sea power by lack of adequate access
to the sea. The Soviet world is abso-
lutely controlled by Russia, and for that
reason has the great and rare strategic
asset of a single directing head who is
vested with umtstricted power and re-
sponsibility. Russia, while an unde-
veloped nation as judged by U.S. and
British standards, is the largest and most
populous white country, and possesses
vast resources, the world’s largest army,
and a growing productive capacity. It
has a marked toughness in its natiohal
fibre, the discipline of a police State and
a political and ideological urge to expand.
It is capable and confident of producing
atomic bombs in the hear future.
“The Western world is roughly of the
same area as the Soviet world. In other
strategic factors, however, it is quite
different. Physically it is divided by
the Atlantic —its leadership is the dual
and at times divided leadership of
the U.S. and Britain. The bonds between
these leaders and the other Western
States are neither definite nor strong.
From the strategic point of view, the
Western world in comparison with the
Soviet is deficient in organisation and
unity of command. The strategic loca-
tion of the Western world taken as a
whole is inferior to that of the Soviet,
because of the vulnerable position of
Western Europe and Britain. Except for
these two factors, however, the Western
world is superior to the Soviet, in almost
all strategic elements.
“Considering only the American part of
the Western world, its strategic position is
fully comparable with that of Russia.
Placed between two oceans, it is as secure
against invasion by the land power of
Russia, as Russia is secure against being
overrun by the forces of the West. Offen-
sively it is in a better strategic position
because of the flexibility of its naval and
air power and the two' oceans which sur-
round it. The U.S. alone, in most ele-
ments of military power, resources, wealth
and industrial development, stands above
Russia. For the present and some years
the West has the advantage of the atomic
bomb —a strategic factor which is not
yet accurately measured.
“In Russia’s policy of aggressive
nationalism, and continuing effort to
achieve world-wide Communism* the U.S.
and Britain see a serious threat to both
national and world-wide security, and the
possible overthrow of the basic concepts
of Western civilisation. The Soviet on
the other hand claims to see in this Anglo-
American leadership an attempt to en-
cncle and eventually destroy the Soviet
W °Tt i 7ihf> ° f fif C ‘“w
believes, that
will exist where theSt two worlds meet
and their interests and policies come in
direct conflict. The most threatening of
these areas is the Middle East, where
Russia for a century has sought an outlet
to the warm seas, and where oil is a
coveted prize. Russian expansion in this
area strikes at one of the cornerstones
of the British Empire—a secure line of
communication to the Far East—and
threatens British interest in Middle East
oil. For the long-range view of its own
national interests, the U.S. must fully
support and assist Britain against
threatened Russian expansion in this area,
“The critical area in Central Europe
is not so immediately dangerous as the
Middle East. Apparently Russia has not
yet decided its policy as regards Germany.
If Russia, as seems possible, decides to
split Germany into two parts, then this
critical area will have been advanced that
” ul * £ar * er into West “ n Eur0 P fc T Jj e
Wes, f rn . E” nat '° ns > normally
a strate B lca l umt Britain as
re B ards Russia, may be weakened in
that relationship, and the strategic
position of Britain thereby made even
weaker. In Central Europe, therefore,
the strategic problems will be directly
affected by the peace settlement in regard
to Germany and Austria,
“The situation in the critical area of
North China and Manchuria is less clear
and apparently less urgent. It would seem
that Russian policy at present is to con-
centrate her efforts in the Middle East
and Central Europe and to await develop-
ments in the Far East, This situation may
change at any time.”
THE OUTLOOK FOR BRITAIN.
On the last day of 1946 the London
correspondent of the “Wall - street
Journal” reported that “Britons face a
New Year of uncertainty. Standard table
talk at Christmas dinner was the acute
shortage of coal, gas and electric power
and the inevitable further cuts in these
fuels during the coming year. Britons
discussed the ominous news that coal sup-
plies may run two to five million tons
short of demand during the winter. They
weren’t quite sure what it meant, but all
agreed it didn’t sound good to hear that
coal stocks were at a record low. Some
manufacturers brooded over the fact that
their plants were down to a few days’
coal supply. Others wondered how soon
their factories would be hit by the pinch,
like the Austin Motor Co., with the re-
sulting threat of plant stoppages. Busi-
nessmen asked themselves how soon the
increasingly drastic cuts in electricity
would begin to gnaw at the nation’s trade
recovery.”
Charles E. Egan, writing to the N.Y,
“Times,” had reached much the same con-
clusion. “Britons,” he said “must endure
at least another year of austerity.” He
found the export programme running
“well ahead of schedule,” but imports, he
said, “continue heavy, and production is
lagging in many key industries.
“There is need for increased effort in
every line of work. Britain’s bill-
boards and fences display posters bear-
ing slogans and pictures extolling the vir-
tues of working harder now to enjoy
more later.
“Measured against the tremendous need
for goods at home as well as the clamor
from abroad for manufactured products,
the gap between production and demand
is still gigantic. How it is to be bridged
in time to keep the country’s workers
from becoming completely discouraged is
the problem. Opponents of the Govern-
ment insist it cannot be done.
“Being a nation dependent upon im-
ports not only for food but for most of
the raw materials she fabricates into
goods for sale to the rest of the world,
Britain must export to live. The money
acquired from sales abroad supplies the
funds with which to purchase foodstuffs
and raw materials. In pre-war years in-
vestments and shipping, in addition to
exports, helped materially as sources of
funds for imports. Most of the invest-
ments were liquidated during the war to
get money for munitions. A good part
of the merchant marine went down in the
war with Hitler’s U-boats. That is why
in the years immediately ahead Britain
is looking to exports more perhaps than
she ever did before. To bridge the in-
terval, until she can establish trade on
normal lines, she has been compelled to
borrow heavily from both the U.S. and
Canada. From these funds she will make
up in part the £550,000,000 sterling deficit
in her foreign trade operations. -
“Repayments on the American loans
are due to begin in 1951. By that time
the nation must have stepped up its out-
put and increased the efficiency of its
productive plant to the point where
British goods can meet the competition
in world markets. When the sellers’
markets of today no longer prevail and
the hunger for all types of goods has been
satisfied Britain wants to be in a posi-
tion to challenge the mass production of
the U.S. She foresees trouble unless her
industries are equipped with the most
modern machinery. That is why a long-
term programme of mechanisation in the
coalmines has been mapped out by the
Government, which took over the mines
on January 1. It is the reason also for
the Government’s announcement, that it
will pay 25 per cent, of the cost of in-
stalling new machinery in Manchester’s
privately-owned cotton mills. Small mills
will be encouraged to group together in
large plants.”
In its review of the situation “World
Report” found “Britain’s drive to build
up exports beginning to pay off. For
the moment, she is concentrating on im-
mediate problems. Markets abandoned
during the war, when exports fell off 71
per cent., are being regained. Foreign
credit is being established from sales to
help pay for vital purchases of food and
raw materials. British industry is mobil-
ised to production for export. The living
standard at home is to be kept at a level
below that of war-time until exports are
75 per cent, greater than before the war.
Then Britain can begin paying for im-
ports.”
“World Report” saw “a new pattern
showing up in British export trade.
Finished goods, which the world needs
most, are leading the list of exports.
Britain, which once produced four-fifths
of the world’s exports of coal, two-thirds
of its textiles and half of its ships, now
is concentrating on iron and steel, agri-
cultural and industrial machinery,
vehicles, electrical equipment, chemicals
and rayon. Markets are, by and large,
the same ones Britain had before the war.
Germany, in 1938 Britain’s best customer
outside the Empire, now is gone. But
Germany also was Britain’s closest com-
petitor for second place in the export
race behind the U.S. More than half of
British exports still go to the Empire.
India, South Africa and Australia are the
best customers for heavy machinery.
India alone is taking as much as Russia
did during the war. Scandinavia and the
Low Countries are taking a big share of
British consumer goods. Only 25 per
cent, of British drugs and chemicals go
to non-Empire countries. Half of
Britain’s automobile exports go to the
Empire. Middle Eastern markets have
come back in a big way. There now is
no problem in finding markets. World
demand is at a peak. Britain hopes to
gain a competitive advantage by meeting
that demand first.
“Despite shortages at home, most
Englishmen see the urgency for building
up their export trade. More than
1,250,000 persons, 30 per cent, more than
before the war, now are producing goods
for export. Favorable factors for the
future are the rising prices in the U.S.,
which give Britain an edge in world
markets; the loans from the U.S. and
Canada, which enable Britain to import
raw materials needed to build up export
production, and gains now being made in
developing markets for the future. Diffi-
culties centre around shortages of
material and labor.”
“World Report” believes that “once
the pressure of demand eases, Britain
hopes to keep many customers, because
she delivered the goods when they were
needed. New industries in India, Aus-
tralia and Latin America are expected to
increase purchasing power in those coun-
tries and thus create still more demand
for British goods.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
NOW. . .
H
m.
mm
is the time
to ensure that your estate will be administered in
accordance with your wishes.
Have your Will properly drawn by yo«r solicitor.
Re-read and revise it from time "to time, taking
into consideration any changes which occur. Mak-
ing a Will is important, but keeping it up to date
is equally necessary to ensure that your wishes will
be carried out. We shall he very glad to discuss
this matter with you at any time.
Write for Booklet
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. BOND, CHAIRMAN
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE
F. W. HIXSON
F. H. WAY
E. V. T. WHITTLE
(MGR.)
N. L. SHAW
(ASST. MGR.)
COUNTRY REP.:
BRUCE MACDONALD
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
For 68 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for the if dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius,
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
ZL 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
Nobody Wants the Homeless.
There still does not seem to be any
answer, to the question where Europe s
2.000. or so refugees are to find a
haven. As director of U.N.R.R.A,
America’s Fiorello La Guardia appealed
to 44 Governments for help in settling
them. The answers have not given much
cause for hope. The majority of the
countries appealed to have not yet sent
answers of any kind.
“World Report” listed some of the re-
plies: “The U.S. says it is giving the
matter ‘most interested and thorough
consideration.’ Britain says it is ‘unable
to add to the large number of refugees
and displaced persons who have already
been admitted.’ New Zealand ‘does not
favor mass immigration of refugees.’
Australia will be unable to launch its
immigration programme for two years.
Canada feels she can ‘not be of any
direct assistance to the immediate prob-
lem of resettlement.’ India is ‘unable to
offer any constructive suggestions.’ El
Salvador, Panama, China and Costa Rica
gave similar responses.” Brazil did offer
to take 100,000 immigrants, then asked
for time for thought, and Peru reneged
on its first acceptance and promised to
“study” the question.
“World Report” investigated the nature ■
of the problem. It found that “the
largest number of the homeless are slave
laborers who were imported by the Nazis.
Others include racial and political
prisoners released from German concen-
tration camps, Jews who survived Nazi
terror in Poland and Germany and
Spanish Republicans who fled Franco’s
rule. Anti-Soviet exiles from eastern and
southern Europe make up the bulk of the
remainder. How many D.Ps. there really
are no one knows precisely. Of
20.000. people who moved from their
native lands during the Hitler era
18.000. are believed to have returned
home. Half of those who remain, or
937.000, are receiving assistance from
U.N.R.R.A. or Allied armies in Ger-
many, Austria and Italy, About 125,000
of these are Jews. An additional 294,000
refugees have been registered by military
police in Austria. About 220,000 others
are living in Germany and Italy. In addi-
tion to 200,000 Spanish Republicans, who
are mainly in France, 238,000 others are
scattered through 16 countries of Europe
and the Middle East. The Polish Exile
Army numbers about 108,000. The grand
total is in the neighborhood of 2,000,000.
“Nationalities represented number more
than 60, but the major problem concerns
Poles, Balts, Yugoslavs and Polish and
German Jews. The 570,000 Poles and
78.000 Yugoslavs fear unsettled economic
conditions or persecution by their
Moscow - oriented Governments, The
199.000 Balts, from Lithuania, Latvia and
Estonia fled Soviet occupation or went
to Germany for labor during the war.
The 125,000 Jews, mostly of Polish origin,
are being joined by 10,000 more each
month who are fleeing anti-Semitism in
Poland.
“The U.S. and Britain are concerned
primarily with the 937,000 displaced per-
sons they are feeding in Austria, Italy
and Germany. Repatriation of most of
the refugees is the Allied desire. Russia,
Poland and Yugoslavia especially want
their nationals sent home, for they fear
the existence of organised groups of
dissidents abroad. The U.S. and Britain
favor repatriation, but refuse to force
the unwilling to go.
“Absorption of 50,000 to 100,000 dis-
placed persons, half in Germany and half
in Western Europe, is hoped for by the
end of 1947. Much depends on the
rate of economic recovery. Sweden has
agreed to take several thousand Jewish
children temporarily and may add others
to the 11,840 refugees she took during
the war. France is short of labor. Dur-
ing the next decade, she plans to take an
average of 200,000 immigrants a year.
But most of these will be Swiss, Italians
and Dutch, Very few will be refugees
of the war. French parties of the Left
are strongly opposed to admitting dissi-
dents from countries in the Soviet sphere.
“Resettlement overseas is the only other
solution for 600,000 to 650,000 displaced
persons. If Britain yields to President
Truman’s insistence that 100,000 Jews be
admitted to Palestine, a total of 150,000
D.Ps. may leave Europe by the end of
1947. Otherwise, few more than 50,000
may find new homes abroad. All in all,
prospects are that Europe will be left with
between 500,000 and 600,000 displaced
persons in 1948.
“Latin-American countries including
Brazil, Argentina and Bolivia want half
a million immigrants in the next three
years, but U.N.’s refugee organisation
believes only a small number of dis-
placed persons can be sent there. Brazil
prefers Portuguese and Italians, All
three countries want their immigrants to
settle in remote areas which they would
like developed. Such projects are diffi-
cult, costly and take a long time to
organise. The U.S. and the British coun-
tries could absorb the D.Ps. economically,
but there is little likelihood that many
will be taken.
“Existing U.S. quotas permit the annual
entry of 27,370 immigrants born in Ger-
many and Austria, but there are fewer
than 50,000 displaced persons who can
take advantage of this. The Polish quota
is only 6524 a year, and only 845 Yugo-
slavs and 738 Balts can be admitted
yearly. The U.S. limits each country
annually to 2 per cent, of the U.S. popu-
lation in 1920 derived from such national
origin. It was drafted to assure Northern
and Western Europe 81.9 per cent, of the
—Chicago “Tribune.”
CIRCLING.
total quota on the theory that these
, . -i , , •. +VIo _
peoples are assimilated more easily than
Eastern and Southern Europeans, who
nrp limited tn ner rent of the total ”
are limited to lb per cent, or me lovdi.
Gertrude Samuels, writing m the N.Y
“Times,” says that “many nations are
... ’ ~ , ' ■ t i TT Q
waiting to see what happens in the U.S,
first. Until America does something in
this respect—which means a change in
, . . .. / , „ r ,i
her immigratioh laws we may expect the
argument that no one else need do any-
tbimr either”
She points out that U.S. quotas
“stand at a total of 153,879 annually
from more than 25 countries. Quotas
• ot ihc pmi O oi-fi
are not cumulative , at the end or each
year those not filled simply expire,
Britain alone accounts for 65,000 of the
quotas, which she has never used up.
Tj t i u c *
And except for 1939, the number of un-
used quotas has exceeded 100,000 in every
year since 1931. Only 7 per cent, of
the total quota for 1945 was used.”
She sees little likelihood that the quota
system will be revised. That difficulty,
and the “political problem”—the in-
sistence by Russia that “the refugees
have been misled by ‘propaganda’ about
their home Governments and should be
returned” —make any solution almost im-
possible. Miss Samuels then believes “the
alternative to repatriation or resettlement
is to turn the D.Ps. loose in Germany with
no special provisions made for them.
Lacking a positive solution, this last
course of action may be taken, though
U.N.R.R.A. and U.N. officials have
warned of chaotic conditions which may
follow.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Since the war ended relations between the
great Powers have been anarchic. There have
been too many voids left by the war and too
eager competition to fill them. Now not only
are some of these beginning to be filled by a
process of natural growth, but the great Powers
have had time to test each other, and to find
that pone of them can have things all its own
way. The main test is yet to come, in the
attempts to reach a German settlement. It will
be a slow business at the best; only a rash
prophet would foresee the signature of a Ger-
man peace treaty in 1947. During the war it
was often suggested that the making of peace
with Germany should be deferred for several
years after her defeat. Arguments used to
justify such a course were based on an over-
• estimate of international morality and of the
power of the victors to control events. They
assumed that the situation in Germany could
be maintained in the artificial stability of cold
storage, while the victors’ passions cooled, and
justice entered again into its own. Passions
may have cooled, but they are being replaced
not so much by justice as by interest, the
eternal efficient, and necessary (if sometimes
disreputable) currency of international affairs.
Meanwhile the situation in Germany has re-
mained anything but stable. Many things have
happened already in Germany which no peace
tre^y £ an regul ' te or restore; but at least it
W in b e framed with better knowledge of the
nature and limitations of the situation than if
it had been made as quickly as the Treaty
o j. Versailles. By the time it is made Germany
may have travelled far enough along the path
towards some rudimentary equilibrium of un-
subsidised survival for the lowest limits of what
j s necessary to her existence to be discernible,
The treaty will be good or bad in so far as
it takes account, not merely of the victors’
paramount and proper requirements for secu-
rity, but of these limits, too. — London “Times.”
* * * *
The ®l itis h are trying to do four things at
once. They are rebuilding their country after
a devastating war. They are carrying on normal
business. They are constructing the new
Socialist economyi And they are carrying
greater defence burdens than ever before m
their peace-tmle history. Merely from the
standpoint of manpower, the demands are a
little greater than they can quite meet. The
adverse factors bulk large, but it is my opinion,
that the British experiment will be made to
work somehow or other. The reason was
simply put by an Englishman who said: “What
we are doing is the only beaxab'le escape from
the choice which faces many nations in the
world nowadays—the choice between the knaves
and the Communists.” The British experiment
is Socialist. It is based on government plan-
ning and control to provide the most economi-
cal use of existing resources. But it is emphati-
cally not totalitarian. In fact, it will break
down very rapidly if it ceases to command
majority support in Britain. Thus it is an ex-
periment which free men can attempt with
honor, and can even embark upon with
enthusiasm. — Joseph Alsop in the Washington
“Post.”
» * * * /
Before the war only 15 per cent, of British
industrial production went abroad. Now ex-
port takes 50 per cent, of the automobiles, 33
per cent, of the trucks, 60 per cent, of the
motor-cycles and bicycles, 75 per cent, of the
sewing machines, 38 per cent, of the radios,
50 per cent, of the machine tools, 65 per cent,
of the gasoline engines, 25 per cent, of the
timepieces, 50 per cent, of the cameras and
100 per cent, of the pianos and fancy laces. —
“World Report.”
* * * . *
“The preparation of the treaties has been
done by the Council of Foreign Ministers, be-
ginning with Italy and the ex-satellite States of
Germany. We have had to devote 98 meetings
to the discussion of these treaties. Every clause,
every paragraph, has been contested and then
judged by the test whether it would ultimately
fit in with the greater organisation. The treaties
are ready for signature. From them I take just
one illustration —Trieste. Why is it so impor-
tant? Well, it is where the Latin and Slav
meet, where for centuries they have struggled.
We nave now left as few ,of the Italians as
we could under Slav rule, and as few Slavs
as we could • under Italian rule. By the for-
mation of an international zone under the U.N.
we have created a meeting ground at a port
where, I hope, great trade will develop and
which, if used rightly, will serve at least
70,000,000 people in Europe Yugoslavs,
Italians, Czechoslovaks, Poles, Austrians, Hun-
garians and Swiss. I can only hope that the
Yugoslavs and the Italians will seize this oppor-
tunity for eo-operation. Yugoslavia has suf-
fered. She has a great task of economic re-
construction ahead, and will, I believe, co-
operate to the fullest possible extent. Italy,
injured as she is by the war, can be sure of
the help of the rest of us. She must herself
provide \ will and leadership on the part of her
own democradc leaders. If this is done she
will soon get on her political and economic
legs. And the Balkan countries may be assured
that if they desire trade they can have it. That
is why I am glad our treaties provide for no
discrimination.” — Bevin in his broadcast report
to the British people on the work of the
Council of Foreign Ministers.
* * * *
The French consider the Viet Nam republic
as Communist. That is ' partly true. Ho
Chimmh, the Annamite revolutionary who is
president and semi-deity of Viet Nam, has
spent nearly all his life as a Communist
organiser. Viet Nam on the surface is a
fiercely independent nationalist movement
with mildly socialist aims. Its assembly tolerates
two other parr.es, and is much more easygoing
toward the opposition than China’s or Yugo-
slavia’s Communists. There is a far more
plausible facade of democracy, if not the real
thing. The republic has its master revolutionary
party in Ho’s Viet-minh or Viet Nam Indepen-
dence League. But it also has a right bower
in the conservative elder National party, and
also an outrigger for international storms in
the pro-Chinese Dong-minh or League of Revo-
lutionary Viet Nam. Ho’s Viet-minh gets most
Cabinet posts, but the pork is rationed to all.
Viet Nam has a few things to explain, however,
before it can be considered a genuine reformist
party and not an arm of Comintern expansion
in Asia’s Balkans, There is Ho himself. For
years he has lived on the run as president of
the Indo-Chinese Communist party. Born in
Northern Annam in 1890, he worked his way
to Europe as a steward in his early twenties.
Tor a while he ran a paper in Baris called the
“Pariah” and eked out a living by photography
and painting. He became a Communist. He
skidded through World War I somehow and
then went to Russia. At Moscow he studied
revolutionary agitation and organisation. The
Comintern sent him to China, where he was
an aid of Russia’s Borodin during the revo-
lution of 1927. — George Weller in the “Satur-
day Evening Post.”
* * * »
The U.S. House of Representatives Naval
Committee has approved a report offering the
following general recommendations for Ameri-
can policy in relation to Pacific bases: (1)
For its own security, the security of the Wes-
tern Hemisphere, and the peace of the Pacific,
the U.S. should have at least dominating con-
trol over-:he former Japanese-mandated islands
of the Marshalls, Carolines, and Marianas, and
over the outlying Japanese islands —the Izus,
Bonins and Ryukyus. (2) The U.S. should be
given specific substantial rights 16 the sites where
American bases have been constructed on island
territories of Allied nations. (3) With respect
to Manus, Noumea, Espiritu Santo, Guadal-
canal, and other sites of American bases on
islands mandated to or claimed by other
nations, full title should be given to the U.S.
because of our chain, of security. London
“Times”


STEELBILT. . . PARTNER OF MODERN INDUSTRY
gas
.
SSSgSSS
ill
iilliililii
lilSiii
mmmmm
/f
•Sg
f
I
■p
Hi
i:■■■:
mmtm
ti. iS
'
X". ' '
SWSS4
4!S
HH
LIMITED
Her ‘Goodwill ’
means a lot to her
\ - •
employer. .
# ' : v,
In Australian industry to-day the welfare
of employees is a first consideration.
In factories, plants, warehouses, offices
and stores, Steelbilt Locker Installations
have replaced old-fashioned cloakroom
fittings. Not only providing security and
privacy for employees . . . but building
goodwill for employers.
Quality-made, distinctively finished in
olive green, Steelbilt Lockers can be
assembled individually, back to back, back
to wall or flush with wall.
’Phone MX 3572. A call places a Steel*
bilt expert at your service.
(A WORMALD. BROTHERS INDUSTRY)
Sydney and Melbourne
Represented elsewhere in Australia and New Zealand by
Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.
w
'■'"i
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
LOCKERS
SHELVING
CABINETS
STORAGE BINS
FILING CABINETS
FACTORY EQUIPMENT


The Brlletin
Vol. 68—No. 3493
Wednesday, January 22, 1947
JUST AN IMPEDIMENT.
“To Moscow’s disgust, M. Blum is negotiating an alliance with Britain.”
“I forbid the banns!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
GOING OUR WAY.
Going about London this last week
or two, our Mr. Beasley must have had
home thoughts of a touching description.
His mood could scarcely have reproduced
that of Ruth
When, sick for home,
She stood in tears amid the alien corn.
Our Mr. Beasley is no lachrymose
character. He was trained in the stern
school of Sydney “Labor” politics, in
which—notwithstanding occasional plea-
santries such as that of the party ballot-
boxes with sliding panels—the curriculum
is starkly materialist, and graduates are
expected to 'be tough, not tearful.
All the same, nostalgia comes to all
exiles, and our Mr. Beasley could not
have been exempt from it when he heard
“London’s mighty heart” miss a beat and
found the historic markets closed:
Covent Garden, Borough, Smithfield,
Spitalfields and the rest. There had been
a strike in the Transport and General
Workers’ Union, and market porters,
shopmen and the like joined in. So did
wharflaborers, known in Britain as
“dockers,” and “employees of the Lyons
chain of cafes and hotel employees.”
And all in defiance of their wages-board
commitments and their fealty to the
Labor Government, as well as their duty
to the public, condemned to monotonous
food rationing and in the grip of one of
the fiercest winters in modern times.
With all this Mr. Beasley, as a “Labor”
Minister, was familiar. But a feature
novel to him was introduced by the
Labor Government. Conscious of the
probability that people left to the caprices
of the strikers might die of hunger and
cold, tlie Labor Government ordered
officers and men from all the fighting ser-
vices to attend to deliveries of food. Ser-
vice trucks and lorries were concentrated
at all vital points and manned. And
there were other novel features.
To Smithfield went the Scots Guards,
“more than 2000 meat porters and pro-
vision workers there having abandoned
their jobs.” At Smithfield, according to
a Melbourne “Herald” report, the old
Cockney sense of humor and fairplay
asserted itself:
A corporal, ordered by an officer to
“handle this cow,” struggled with the
carcass and got it on his shoulders, but
staggered and slipped; and the carcass
slithered off. The corporal fell down, got
up, swore and said apologetically to the
officer “The cow ain’t dead yet—it kicked
me.”
Laughing porters watched soldiers trying
to balance carcasses on their shoulders.
“We carry three hundred pounds in one
go; you’re staggering with a hundred and
twenty pounds,” they shouted. Then one
porter said, “Come on, lads; I was in
khaki two months ago; let’s show them
how to do it.” He and a dozen other
strikers then mingled with the troops and
demonstrated the method of carrying.
“Ease it this way, Tommy; then swing it
over —don’t get the weight on your neck,”
the striker said. The soldiers listened,
watched and thanked the strikers; then
laughingly went on with the job. The
strikers then showed them how to pack the
meat properly in the lorries.
Characteristic of the English. In this
country, with its six “Labor” Govern-
ments, strikes have a merciless character.
Whether climatic or other influences
operate, we don’t do that there ’ere.
Of the Transport and General Workers’
Union Mr. Bevin was once secretary.
The present secretary is Mr. Arthur
Deakin, who is also president of the In-
ternational Federation of Trade-unions,
Mr. Deakin tried to prevent the strike,
and then to restrict it, but his representa-
tions were ignored. The road-transport
business is to be “taken over” by the
Government, “nationalised” as the saying
goes, but that didn’t make a particle of
difference. Indeed, when Mr. Deakin,
addressing a meeting of the strikers,
appealed to them to return to work, “em-
phasising the executive’s willingness to
support them if they used constitutional
means to obtain a settlement,” he was
“booed and shouted down. Communists
and Trotskyists being among the gate-
crashers.”
At the end of a fortnight the strikers
returned to work on the terms offered:
an eight-hour day, a 44-hour week and
overtime pay when the eight-hour day
is exceeded. Simultaneously the N.S.W.
Government tram- and busmen com-
pleted their arrangements for another
stoppage. Their “Labor” Government,
which is running the trams and buses at
a loss of £50,000 a month, had agreed
to give them four weeks’ annual holi-
days and time and a half on Saturdays,
but they are demanding also a 40-hour
week and double pay on Sundays, regard-
less of these claims having been referred
to the Arbitration Court. So it cannot
be said that London transport workers
have completed a course of training in
the art of the highwayman.
Nevertheless, it looks as if Britain is
in for a great deal of what Australia has
had, and will still have, to endure.
On the strength of a success in
one election, the Attlee Government
blithely embarked upon a policy of
Fabian socialism, planned for it by a
parcel of old boys who ignored historical
lessons and racial aptitudes and were never
checked by the sobering influences of
financing a payroll and dealing with
union bosses and mobs. Shaw, Wells,
the Webbs and the rest they were
certain that “nationalisation” would
automatically mean transfer of the profits
of industry to the State for division
among the workers, less the cost of gov-
ernment, and establish a reign of general
happiness. It did not occur to them to
study the working of Government owner-
ship in countries like Australia, where
/veiled bankruptcy is the normal condition
of Government “enterprises,” and where
there are no rdbre discontented workers
than GovernmSit employees, nor any
more prone to strike.
Urged on by doctrinaires and itself
blind to the results of “nationalisation”
in Australia and in European countries,
the Attlee Government light-heartedly
“took over” the Bank of England and the
coalmines and Cable and Wireless, and
arranged to “take over” the iron and steel
industries, gasworks and power plants,
railways and road-haulage. It never
dawned on the Government and party
that these extensions of compulsory
collectivism would mean a gigantic
transfer of political and industrial power
to union bosses and mobs, together with
a colossal sacrifice of taxes, or that with
every instalment of “nationalisation” and
promise of more there would be a loosen-
ing of wholesome restraints on the general
body of unionists and a weakening of the
rule of law. We have had these effects
in Australia, and other effects as
evil, and it is not even remotely probable
that Britain will escape them.
Alliance With France.
After many elections and plebiscites and
administrative changes, the Fourth
French Republic has acquired a Presi-
dent and, barring accidents, is to have a
British alliance. The President is M.
Vincent Auriol, an elderly Socialist, who
was elected by a combination of Com-
munist deputies with those of his own
fading group, now the weakest of the
three main parties—there are several
others —having lost ground at every
appeal to the electors. The alliance was
negotiated by M. Blum, another elderly
Socialist and head of a stopgap Ad-
ministration, who is to be succeeded as
Prime Minister by M. Ramadier, a
Socialist of a vintage somewhat less
mature.
For Britain and the Empire French
alliances have a luckless history. They
have figured in the three European wars
in which the British peoples have been
involved since Waterloo. It would be
wrong to say that the alliances caused the
wars, but the wars were assuredly conse-
quences of the alliances. When, as in
1859 and 1870, there was no alliance
there was no British participation in
French wars.
“In March, 1854,” as an encyclopaedic
historian has it, “France and Britain
found themselves in alliance . against
Russia.” Britain’s object, never clearly
stated, or perhaps comprehended in high
places, was to prevent the advance of
Russian imperialism to Constantinople
and the Middle East. The Government
of the third Napoleon, while professing
horror at “the Russian claims to special
treatment for Orthodox Christianity in
the Ottoman empire,” was actuated by a
desire to achieve “respectability” by asso-
ciation with the decent Victorian Court
and to consolidate the Emperor’s power
by victory in battle. There followed a
muddled campaign in the Crimea ofl
which little is remembered in Britain save
Bright’s magnificent speeches, the miseries
of the 1854-55 winter, Florence Nightin-
gale, the British commander’s “incurable
habit of referring to the enemy as ‘the
French’ ” (he had been one of Welling-
ton’s young men in the Peninsula) and the
dry judgment of a later Prime Minister:
“We backed the wrong horse.” All
that was achieved was the neutralisation
of the Black Sea, accepted by Russia in
the peace treaty and flatly repudiated in
1870.
The second alliance, contracted after
the lapse of half a century and called a
cordial understanding to satisfy British
scruples, found the French little better
able to meet the German onset alone
than they were in 1870. They had, in
fact, been permanently weakened by their
frightful losses in the wars of the First
Revolution and Empire, by the civil wars
and massacres which came between and
by the divisions then bred, which broke
out again on a frightful scale in 1871.
This should have been realised, and
realised it must have been by British
observers, or those with trustworthy
sources of information ; but the know-
ledge went for nothing; a sentimental
attachment to France and a disposition
to exaggerate its strength had become
fashionable. So the land forces sent to
the invaded country in 1914, and even
in 1915, were far short of requirements.
In the first month of “Daddy’s war,”
the French suffered dreadful defeats,
and from the first day to the last their
casualties were cruel. The flower of the
nation perished in the heroic defence of
Verdun. After the failure of the April,
1917, offensive on the Aisne, there were
mutinies of whole divisions and in
elements of 16 corps. The rot spread to
Paris politicians, and if it had not then
been known that America was coming in,
and if Britain had not undertaken to
bear nearly the whole brunt of the con-
flict with the German army that year
with British, Dominion and colonial
forces (the Russians were virtually out
of the combat), the French would, in
all probability, have made a separate
peace.
In their agony they turned to Clemen-
ceau and, a little later, to Foch. These
two men, with men of equal fortitude
among the English-speaking democracies
—among them our own M onas h> a m ili“
tary genius—and with the great material
strength of the English-speaking demo-
cracies devoted to the common cause, the
Allies ploughed on to victory, unexpec-
tedly swift after the disasters of March,
April and May, 1918.
But France came out of the war sorely
stricken. This central fact was masked
for a time by bold strokes like the in-
vasion of the Ruhr; by other military
adventures such as Weygand’s mission to
Poland when that ill-fated country
seemed in danger of being overwhelmed
by the Bolshevists ; by the erection of the
Little Entente, which was built on
sand, and by the maintenance of an army
too vast for the country to support.
Before the “great” Revolution there were
as many Frenchmen as Germans. In
1919 the Germans were in the proportion
of six to four, and even the Weimar
Republic addressed itself to the task of
regaining Germany’s industrial and mili-
tary supremacy.
By the time Hitler shot up, the French
“hegemony of Europe” had become a
bad joke. The Communists, whose leader,
Thorez, had bolted to Moscow in 1939,
were back, and a series of internal dis-
asters —the old fatal divisions, faction in
the Chamber, sit-down strikes and the
Stravinsky scandal —had brought France
as low as it was during the period of
the Dreyfus case.
, In the British Empire and the United
States this was known only to the few.
If the world press knew, it concealed the
truth. Right up to May 10, 1940, when
Hitler’s Germans launched the offensive
that settled the French in a few weeks,
and extorted a peace void of honor from
the palsied hands of Retain, the journal-
istic view of France was that it was ready
to the last button and saturated with
the spirit of victory: “We will settle
accounts with the Boche this time, and"
for all time.” One who knew the truth,
and who shaped his policy accordingly,
was the most abused and injured man of
his generation, Neville Chamberlain.
A life of Neville Chamberlain has been
written by Keith Feiling &pd published by
Macmillan. It is not the last word on
Chamberlain, for the book was finished in
November, 1944, when it was still im-
possible to speak out on such matters
as the sinister delay in the French de-
claration of war on Germany; but
within its limits it amounts to a noble
vindication of “the man of Munich,” arid
as such it will be matter for another
article. Meanwhile, passages from
Chamberlain’s letters on French policy
and French politicians may be repro-
duced.
October 19, 1935 [the Abyssinian busi-
ness] : I have always said that, when it
came to a decision, Laval must come down
on our side, though he would wriggle and
jib up to the last moment. But the French
have been as disloyal as they could.
November 29, 1935: Economic sanctions
are now in force, but hitherto they have
not included oil. [They never did include
oil; “Russia’s sale of oil to Italy had risen
sharply.”] Laval once again has been
wriggling.
March 12,1936: Talked to Flandin, em-
phasising that public opinion here would
not support us in sanctions of any kind.
His view is that, if a firm front is main-
tained by France and England, Germany
will yield without war. We cannot accept
this as a reliable indication of a mad
dictator’s reaction.
September 25, 1936: I have had a >4ery
difficult time over the sudden French de-
cision to devalue the franc by a method
which is not at all agreeable to us.
M. Blum emerges as leader of the
Popular Front. “Before the month closed
a series of immense strikes paralysed
French capacity for war.... .The finances
were in danger; from both Right and
Left came a waft of civil war.” The
Chamberlain correspondence proceeds;
Jan. 16, 1938: Unhappily France keeps
pulling her house down about her ears.
France’s weakness is a public danger just
when she ought to be a source of strength
and confidence, and as a friend she has
two faults which destroy half her value.
She never can keep a secret for more than
half an hour nor a Government for more
than nine months.
March 21, 1938: With Franco winning
in Spain by the aid of German guns and
Italian planes, with a French Government
in which one cannot have the slightest con-
fidence, with the Russians stealthily and
cunningly pulling all the strings behind file
scenes to get us involved in war with Ger-
many, and finally with a Germany flushed
with triumph and all too conscious of her
power, the prospect looks black indeed.
I have therefore abandoned any idea of
giving guarantees to Czechoslovakia, or to
the French in connection with their obli-
gations to that country.
May, 1938: Fortunately the papers have
had no hint of how near we came to a
break over Czechoslovakia I don’t find
Daladier as sympathetic as Chautemps, but
he seems simple and straightforward,
though perhaps not as strong as his repu-
tation. Bonnet I have known since 1932:
He is clever, but ambitious and an intriguer.
The French are not very fortunate in their
foreign secretaries.
And here Keith Feiling comes in on
the Munich affair:
Before Chamberlain first visited Hitler
inquiries at Paris convinced him that France
had no intention of fighting. Even the tone
in the mass of the French press must have
delighted the German heart. But he had
before him also the utterances of French
Ministers: let Great Britain arbitrate, and
if the Czechs refused a fair offer it was
their funeral All the French had done
was to call up two categories of their
reserves, not much above half a million
men [this was the famed Munich “mobili-
sation”], and in London conversations
Gamelin left an unhappy impression.
Chamberlain goes to Paris:
Nov. 6, 1938: I felt it would be the
right thing for many reasons... .to
strengthen Daladier and encourage him to
do something at last to put his country’s
defences in order and to pull his people into
greater unity.
The war came, and with it “a vibration
of anxiety about France” in the Cham-
berlain letters. The Russian attack on
Finland had “reawakened the ugliest pre-
judices of the French Right, many of
whom would have preferred a joint front
with Germany against Communists.”
Chamberlain wrote to the President that
the tour of Sumner Welles would have
results that “ ‘might be in time to avert
catastrophe’ He did not much care
about Daladier’s successor, Reynaud, but
believed there was some restoration of
French morale,” Thfcn the catastrophe
arrived:
May 25, 1940: It is as clear as daylight
that, if we had had to fight in 1938, the
results would have been far worse. If full
access is bbtained to all the records, it will
be seen that I realised from the beginning
our military weakness and did my best to
postpone, if I could not avert, the war; but
I had to fight every yard against both
Labor and Liberal leaders.
May 26: The blackest day of all. Rey-
naud coming over Plain from his atti-
tude that he had given up all idea of serious
fighting.
June 8: lam sure the French are already
beaten in spirit.
June 17: The French armies ceased fight-
ing about midday.
After that Chamberlain wrote that,
though he judged General de Gaulle “a
stout fellow,” he had despaired of the
French, “who have been nothing but a
liability to us”;
* “It would have been far better if they
had been neutral from the beginning.” He
had never had much faith that the offer
of an Anglo-French union would induce
them to maintain the fight.
“The offer of an Anglo-French union”
came, of course, from Mr. Churchill. It
could not have bound the Dominions, nor
will the proposed alliance bind them if it
comes off. Mr. Churchill supports it,
seeing in it a method of preventing
France from going Communist and a
step towards realising his conception of
a united Europe west of “the iron cur-
tain,” A survey of France, at home and
abroad, its Communists the chief metro-
politan party, its empire threatened
(violently in Indo-China), renders it diffi-
cult to go all the way with the unquench-
able old enthusiast, while awarding full
marks for his historian’s sense of French
resilience and patriotism, latent in
scoundrels like Talleyrand and Fouche
and possibly in Marty and Thorez. But
the negotiations for an alliance have had
a nasty reception in Moscow; and that
is a good sign*


PLAIN ENGLISH
Case for Preference.
Risking harsh words and harsher action
from A.L.P. and Labor Council bosses,
W. F. Sheahan, M.L.A. for Yass
(N.S.W.), had the courage to express
what many inside his party and many
more outside it feel at the prospect of
having the N.S.W. Premier inflicted on
the country as Governor-General and
Commander-in-Chief. Mr. Sheahan, an
Old Digger, came out for the application
in this case of preference to ex-service-
men, to which his party is so devoted in
the case of pick-and-shovel men, though
not politicians. Premising that “the
appointee should be a distinguished Aus-
tralian and his background such as to
command respect, esteem and dignity,”
Mr. Sheahan said:
As we have lived three generations and
have suffered, known, and seen two wars
which have threatened our existence as an
independent State, the appointee should
have proved his patriotism by active ser-
vice .... I am of the opinion that the vast
majority of returned soldiers would be dis-
appointed if a man with such qualifications
as the Preference Act contemplated were
not appointed to the head position in Aus-
tralia.
There was a howl from the bosses, but
JVIr. Sheahan, undismayed, said he was a
Labor not a McKell man,
nor had he *en a Lang man. He was
prepared to let the electors of Yass judge
him. After several days’ silence “Labor”
thrust forward W. M. Currey, V.C., to
reply. It was a tough assignment for the
old warrior, and he made heavy weather
of it.
I was able to do a better job for service-
men in my capacity as a member than I
could have done had I remained in the
services. I think this also applies to the
whole of the Ministry If a man has
not had a good deal of military experience
he cannot do a good military job Mr.
McKell gave the Federal Government 100
per cent, co-operation and allowed nothing
to stand in the way of obtaining the best
results in the prosecution of the war. >
Admittedly, Mr. McKell would have
been more liability than asset as a service-
man in 1939-45, whatever may have been
the case in 1914-18 ; and, if performances
like the Sydney Turf Club Act and toad-
like inertia in the presence of rackets and
blackmarkets amounted to “100 per cent,
co-operation,” the Currey claim may
also be conceded. But didn’t Mr.
McKell, whatever he may have had in
mind, give preference to an Australian
soldier in the appointment of a Governor
of his own State? And didn’t Mr.
Hanlon, the Queensland “Labor”
Premier, have another Australian soldier
installed in the Government House at
Brisbane? Of course they did. Then
why should Mr. Sheahan be railed at and
threatened for arguing that the principle
thus adopted should be carried a step
further, especially as the King’s repre-
sentative at Canberra automatically be-
comes Commander-in-Chief?
Cheap Science.
The Chifley “Government” is to embark
on “an enormous programme of expendi-
ture” in providing research facilities at
the National University to be established
at Canberra. These facilities are to be
offered on a standard which will attract
the world’s leading scientists. Professor
Marcus Oliphant, the Australian-born
world authority on atomic research, has
been asked to advise on the subject and to
take charge of the physical laboratories.
Professor Howard Florey, discoverer of
the applied uses of penicillin, is also to be
invited to return to his homeland, and
other distinguished scientists of Aus-
tralian birth and upbringing but now
working abroad are to be approached by
an ostensibly grateful and appreciative
“Government.”
There is, however, a serious practical
defect. Exhausted, possibly, by its re-
cent strenuous efforts in providing rich
jobs for political ex-colleagues discarded
by the electors, the “Government” dis-
plays an unwonted regard for economy
of wage. When endeavoring to attract
scientists it proposes to emphasise the ad-
vanced research facilities rather than to
offer “exorbitant salaries.” It will do
this, of course, in the “honest” belief
that such men are more concerned with
the work than with the possibility of
attaining the salary-level of, say, Mr,
Forde or Mr. Frost, the latest defeated
“Labor” politician to be provided for.
Scientific workers are certainly not
fools. The main reason why Australia
has lost so many of its best scientific men
to other countries has been the utter lack
of interest in their work by Govern-
ments and the meagreness of pay-rates in
universities and other subsidised institu-
tions. Exorbitant taxation of relatively
low salaries is another factor—even a
scientist wants a reasonably comfortable
standard of living and a reasonably
assured future for his family. Yet another
is the fact that under Federal “Labor” he
has no hope of ever achieving public
recognition of his work in the Empire
Honors list.
Whatever research facilities are pro-
vided at Canberra now or in the future,
they cannot possibly be expected to out-
class those of the rest of the world. Even
to attain and maintain reasonably com-
parable standards the outlay involved
would be such that if every research-
worker were paid at full Forde rates
salaries would be a mere drop in the
bucket.
Instead of attempting to buy scientific
knowledge at sweating rates Canberra’s
rulers would be wise to apply their own
boasted rule of a fair day’s wage for a
fair day’s work.
Secret Ballots.
In accordance with the modern journa-
listic policy of pleasing everybody part
of the time, if nobody for long, “S. M.
Herald” is giving space once a week to
one J. P. Ormonde, whose task is to pre-
sent “Labor’s” viewpoint.
It has been a hard job catering for
readers whose homes were without gas,
despite the fact that “Labor” appointed
a Gas Administrator —“Labor” let him
go away on holidays a few days after his
appointment, to learn in his retreat that
there was no gas to administer —readers,
too, whose homes were without meat be-
cause “Labor” has mismanaged price
control and allowed for the umpteenth
time a small section of the community to
take out its grievances on the rest; with-
out potatoes because of a wharf hold-up ;
and with day-to-day threats of a tie-up
of tram and bus services, fulfilled on
Monday,
With all these things in mind it is not
surprising that Mr. Ormonde should
have shied away from the obligation of
justifying gasless and meatless weeks. He
THE EVER-OBLIGING SENTRY.
“When the Hwalien berthed at Darwin nearly 500 ‘European’ refugee immigrants
swarmed along the wharf and overran the town. They are a section of more than 2000
‘European’ immigrants in Shanghai who have been granted permission to land in Australia.’
“Halt! Who goes dere?”
“Anodder five hundred of your Jewish broteges .”
“Pass, vriendts! All's veil.”
elected to prattle for a couple of columns
in defence of “Labor’s” opposition to
secret ballots. He expressed the fear
that secret ballots would be “the cause
of an open breach between ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernments and the trade-union movement,”
and that they would interfere with “the
rights and established practices of trade-
unions.” Other objections were that
secret ballots would slow down trade-
union activity, discourage negotiations,
cause industrial unrest (!) and be found
unworkable.
Mr. Ormonde, while refusing to con-
cede to “unwilling and disinterested
trade-unionists... .the shelter of secrecy
for their vote which they fear to declare
openly at a meeting,” denied that such
men exist in any considerable numbers.
If they don’t, then surely there can be no
fear that their votes would affect the
issue. If they do, then under the demo-
cratic principle of majority rule, to which
“Labor” gives lip-service, they are en-
titled to express their vote on matters
vitally affecting them without fea» of the
“scab” label; without the raucous mob
cry “Pull your head in, mug” ; without
the ominous “Put y’r hand up —you’re
in this” ; without the threat of assault
and persecution, extended to women and
children.
Queensland “Labor,” out of step on
this matter with Mr. Ormonde, the Mc-
Kelly Government, the Commos, the
A.C.T.U. and Federal “Labor,”
lately amended its industrial laws
to strengthen provisions for secret
ballots. Such power has long ex-
isted in Queensland, as it has existed in
N. S. Wales, but the Queensland amend-
ments, designed to streamline the In-
dustrial Conciliation Act, give the In-
dustrial Court express authority to carry
out such a ballot itself if a union is tardy
in doing so. Mr. Gair, Minister of Labor
and Employment, in introducing the
amending Bill, said that the amendments
aimed “at arresting industrial disputes as
early as possible with a view to eliminat-
ing or obviating industrial trouble in in-
dustry and subsequent industrial stop-
page.” The Minister also said:
There are some factions in the industrial
movement of this country, as in other
countries, who appear to have no other
purpose than to create dissension and in-
dustrial unrest. There are some who believe
that harmony in industry is to the worker’s
detriment. They disturb the industrial life
of this country and often without real
reason.
It is obviously with the intention of
curbing the activities of these “factions”
that the Queensland Government brought
in the legislation. Apparently it does not
believe that secret ballots will cause an
open breach between itself and the trade-
union movement, cause industrial unrest
or prove unworkable. And presumably
Mr. Gair and other members of the Gov-
ernment, themselves trade - unionists,
do not fear the effect of the ballots on
the rights and established practices of
trade-unions or consider they will slow
down trade-union activity. If in this they
are out of step with “Labor” opinion else-
where in the Commonwealth, they have
nothing to be ashamed of.
One Union Is Right.
From the National Union of Rail-
waymen to “its 5700 members through-
out N, S. Wales, Victoria, South Australia
and Tasmania”:
Members are hereby reminded that the
policy of the union is set out in rule No.
82 of the registered rules:
ILLEGAL STRIKES. Neither the
union nor any of its members shall at
any time take part in an illegal strike,
nor refrain from handling or dealing with
v any article or commodity, nor do any
act or thing to induce or compel any
person to refrain from handling or deal-
ing with any article or commodity during
the currency of any strike.
The union, now as always, gives full
support to the policy of conciliation and
arbitration, and to the Prime Minister in
his wise counsel to unionists throughout
Australia.
The National Union of Railwaymen of
Australia is convinced that “jungle law,”
that is, the law of the club and tooth and
claw, which, is now being , urged by a
minority of workers and alleged workers,
can never bring about that state of peace
and contentment in industry which all right-
thinking people desire, but, on the contrary
will surely result in anarchy and a de-
terioration of mental and physical stand-
ards. The union stands for discipline both
on the part of the employers or control-
lers and on the part of employees. Con-
ciliation and arbitration is the real and
effective remedy for all industrial ills.
The union agrees that the Arbitration
Acts are in need of urgent revision, par-
ticularly as to the time taken to bring
plaints before the Court, and we believe
that unions and employers alike should
bend their energies to the task of amend-
ing the Acts where necessary and “stream-
lining” their processes.
And the strange part of it is that the
N.U.R. members are far better off than
those of kindred unions run by Com-
munist gentlemen who believe that in-
dustrial progress can only be achieved by
continual savage blackmail of the com-
munity.
Members of the N.U.R. have had full
pay for years. They have no difference
with their employers which they have not
been able to settle constitutionally. They
have never had the experience of some
gasworkers in Sydney, who were photo-
graphed for the Communist “Tribune”
having alms counted into their palms.
These gasworkers stood at attention in
servile mendicancy before Communist
agitators who had taken up a house-to-
house collection to support them and their
families while they were ratting on the
Australian housewife.
Meteorologists Meet.
International weathermen from the
Pacific region, Maoriland, Indonesia, the
U.S.A. and the French Asiatic colonies
are meeting in Melbourne this week to
discuss all aspects of modern meteorology.
They are planning increased co-operation
between international weather authorities
in the matter of upper-air observations.
S. H. Ebery, the amateur weather
prophet who has been predicting Aus-
tralian weather with uncanny accuracy
from his private station at Black Rock,
near Melbourne, could tell the visitors
something about it.
After a long struggle against official
obscurantism Ebery got the co-operation
of Government departments, including the
Air Force, but so far he has found the re-
sults from any single station extremely
variable and disappointing. Ebery con-
siders that unless these observations can
be stepped up to five times their present
volume his hopes of extending either the
area or time limit to seasonal predictions
will receive a setback.
Hundreds of Victorian and Riverina
farmers have testified to the value of
Ebery’s long-range forecasts, especially
during the drought years. It seems
strange that in a country like Australia,
so dependent on most of its wealth being
won from the soil, and where seasonal
variations are of paramount importance,
such a state of affairs could possibly be
allowed to happen. Still, perhaps horse-
and dog-races. Test cricket and Davis Cup
matches are of greater importance.
Leigh Creek.
Five years ago, in an effort to break free
from the tyranny of Communist-led
N.S.W. coalminers, the S.A. Govern-
ment began boring operations at Leigh
Creek, 400 miles north of Adelaide, Sub-
bituminous coal had long been proved
there; distance was the barrier to de-
velopment. In 1942 open-cut mining was
commenced and the output, at first small,
steadily increased, shortage of N.S.W.
coal applying a spur at frequent inter-
vals. On August 1, 1946, the mine pro-
duced its 150,000 th ton —a modest figure,
certainly, but one which, along with the
Victorian plans for greatly increased use
of brown coal, should make N.S.W.
miners pause to wonder whether
their short-sighted policy which forces
coal-users to look elsewhere for supplies
can possibly benefit them in the long
run.
A party of 80 members of Parliament,
businessmen, Government officials and
union leaders visiting the field in August
learnt some interesting facts. Leigh
Creek has estimated reserves of
380,000,000 tons ; August output was 4500
tons a week, and with the installation
of new machinery, this will be
stepped up to 8000 tons. Later it is
planned to reach 13,000 tons —about half
of S.A.’s total requirements. Leigh Creek
coal has a 30 per cent, moisture content
—drying reduces this to 15 per cent. —
and its calorific value is about three-
fourths that of Newcastle coal.
Commonwealth railways on the Alice
Springs line and S.A. railways are using
a proportion of the coal, and the Par-
liamentary inspection party travelled the
400 miles from Adelaide in trains drawn
by engines using a 50-50 mixture of the
local and Muswellbrook coal. Adelaide
tramways have been using a proportion
of Leigh Creek coal for some time, and
during the July coal famine over 200
firms drew upon the S.A. fuel to tide
them over.
The chief difficulty about Leigh Creek
coal is that it is a slow burner and needs
other fuels as a starter. Wood, oil and
Newcastle coal have been used for this
purpose, but repeated hold-ups—occa-
sioned by the stand-and-deliver tactics of
N.S.W. miners and their friends and
associates —have determined many Ade-
laide firms to install forced-draught
grates to permit using the local fuel by
itself.
It is rather ironic that thousands of
S.A. workers, sentenced to unemploy-
ment by the utter selfishness of fellow-
“workers” in another State whose
“ ‘Labor’ Governments” are powerless to
control them and incapable of leading
them, should be saved by a non-Labor
Government which, while believing in
private enterprise, has opened a State
mine which looks like being successful.
And the Playford Government does not
believe in half-measures. Leigh Creek
coal is useless for gas production by
ordinary methods, but research is being
carried out to overcome the difficulty.
If the experiments are successful it may
well be that South Australia’s own mine
may be able to supply all the State’s
needs in the way of fuel, and South
Australian industry will be able to thumb
its nose at N.S.W. coalminers.
The Maoriland Government, for its
part, having abandoned hope of getting
its N.S.W.-coal requirements supplied,
has become a large-scale importer of
U.S. coal.


'
’Pamo* i^*t
CRAVENA
made specially to prevent
sotethtomts
? %2P
4
Obtainable
in lO’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
In Chifley’s presence Victoria’s soldier-
Goverpor, Sir Winston Dugan, was
sworn in as Administrator of the Com-
monwealth while the Duke of Glou-
cester was on his way to England. Sir
Winston was Administrator for nearly
five months (September 5, 1944, to
January 30, 1945) before the Duke be-
came Governor-General. In the case of
Lord Tennyson a corresponding interreg-
num lead to full appointment; but in
this instance Chifley has other, and worse,
views. Whether he will get what he wants,
or whether Caucus will, is another pair
of sleeves.
Thus far circumstances, among them
the gas and metal-trades strikes, which
have dipped heavily into union funds,
have prevented Brown, the Government
railwaymen’s Communist boss, from
carrying out his threat to compel
Victorians to “do a lot more walking” ;
but Brown must have been a gratified, if
distant, spectator of the scene in Sydney
and Newcastle on Monday. In both
cities people dependent on Government
trams and buses had to do a lot more
walking, the Government caravans being
off the streets once more, though the
men had been promised four weeks’
annual holidays—indeed, almost every-
thing except the earth. As is always the
case on these occasions, the privately-
owned buses and company-owned ferries
were running. So many unionists are en-
gaged in (many of them being dragged in)
these stand-apd-deliver proceedings that
they can’t all benefit, and, in actual fact,
none does. They hurt only their own
people, themselves included. But in in-
dustry and politics alike they have sin-
fully poor leaders.
Sixth on the list of defeated Federal
“Labor” members marked for juicy jobs
—Martens, Forde, Bryson, Breen and
Mountjoy were the others —Frost was
named Commissioner to Ceylon last
week. That leaves only Smith of Wake-
field unprovided for, Morgan having
returned to his law practice. What is
being readied up for Smith?
Except for the Jewish-refugee racket,
for which Parliamentary authority has
never been sought, the bottom has fallen
out of “Labor’s” immigration scheme.
The “target” was 35,000 Britons in 1947
and 70,000 in 1948 and in each succeed-
ing year. By the look of things more
Jews than Britons will arrive this year,
and the “target” is one with Nineveh
and Tyre. British Government resent-
ment at the purloining of part of its
tragically-small building-labor force, and
the objections of shipowners to the
hold-up campaign of the Communist-
controlled Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion (extended" to the N.Z. Government
barque Pamir, laden with timber, and to
Tas. potato ships for spud-starved Syd-
ney), are factors in the situation; but, as
usual, Calwell is Warning everybody but
himself and his party of duds and weak-
lings.
All Federal “Labor’s” wheat measures
have a mournful history. For “stabilisa-
tion” at a price—a bad one —the con-
sent of State Parliaments had to be
obtained, and the S.A. and Westralian
legislatures made it a condition that there
should be polls of growers. That taken
in S.A. was hostile, which means that it
is all up with Scully’s plan. But the last
has not been heard of the commandeering
of 1945-46 wheat for local consumption
and supplies to N.Z. at not much more
than a third of the current export price.
Dr. Evatt is already assured of results,
though not exactly in the way of trade
and commerce, from the Mission to Eire
which is costing £30,000 a year: Mr.
Dignam, High Commissioner; Mr. Mul-
rooney, secretary. Mr. Mulrooney, a
football enthusiast, has arranged for Aus-
tralian teams to play in Eire and for
Eire teams to play in Australia. De
Valera’s bhoys favor the Gaelic code. In
Gaelic you kick the ball if you can’t
kick the man.
Gas is on until it is off again in Mel-
bourne, so housewives who have learnt
the new technique of cooking on a kero-
sene-tin in the backyard won’t, for the
present, be required to man the lorries to
fetch the coal the “Government’ 1
“neglected” to get to the gasworks.
Meantime Barry, the Housing Minister,
has bought himself a row with the
harassed feminine population over a chal-
lenge he issued to Mrs. Maine, secretary
of the United Women’s Movement, to
supply women to fell trees and chop up
domestic fuel for the winter. Asked
whether he meant it for a joke, Barry
said he was perfectly serious, as
the work would be no heavier than
carting coal and police protection
would not be needed. Possibly true ; but
if a socialistic Government has to rush
to the women for assistance to tide it
over every strike which produces a
shortage, how are cradles to be kept
supplied? The ladies might follow the
example of the Greek women in Lysis-
tratus, and have a strike of their own.
Soldiers can learn something about
organisation from politicians. Perman-
ently incapacitated ex-servicemen get
£4 16s. a week, subject to a means test.
N.S.W. Assemblymen are to draw £5 to
£6, and Victorian State politicians the
basic wage, when they retire or are de-
feated, and their pensions are not subject
to a means test. Meanwhile Queensland
“Labor” politicians have caught the con-
tagion, though they are not expected to
disclose the fact till after their election.
In a note on the 146,000 Britons await-
ing passages to Australia, Commander
King Hall (quoted by Baume of the
“Budget”) says “the Australian Govern-
ment is rather particular as to whom
Australia receives.” Right as to the “dis-
placed persons” shipped from Marseilles,
Port Said, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Complexions must be swarthy and poses
hooked. Names are unimportant—in any
case they can easily be changed by deed
poll to Blake, Drake, Nelson, Welling-
ton, French, Alexander and the like.
Has Britain, which stood alone against
Nazi Germany, triumphant everywhere
else* for 15 terrible months become in the
interim “a symbol of oppression, perfidy
and lawlessness”? Is Bevin’s Palestine
policy “in full accord with his anti-
Semitic tactics and expressions”?
Have he and his colleagues “killed
not only time, but Jews”? Is it
a “plain fact that by his oily hypo-
crisy he completes the work begun by
the forthright bestiality of Hitler”? Do
British soldiers in Palestine “bloodily beat
Jews, abuse them and loot their homes”?
Are their generals and Palestine adminis-
trators —such as are left of them since
the murder of Lord Moyne and the
bombing of the King David Hotel-guilty
of “bloodstained tyranny”? Will Britain
“capitulate in her ignoble extermination
campaign against the Jewish people”?
All this, and more, is asserted in a full-
page Zionist advertisement, hundreds of
which have appeared in New York papers,
with appeals for cheques. Cheques from
this country -will no doubt -be welcomed,
though not'publicly acknowledged.
Before the British bricklayers, hod-
carriers and carpenters had been a week
in Canberra it was given out that at least
a sixth would quit as soon as they got
their first pay, being dissatisfied with
everything, from “the strong Australian
sunlight” to the quality of the sand-
wiches provided, the dearth of beer and
tobacco. There are footballers among
them, and the footballers have received
Sydney “offers.” Now Somebody has an
uneasy feeling that he was spoofed.
Woodward, the Lane Cove (Sydney)
M.L.A., has issued an ultimatum to the
A.L.P. bosses —“unless I can put the
Communist candidate,” one Greenfield,
“last on my ‘How-to-vote card,’ I won’t
stand again.” “Communists,” he added,
spiritedly, “are like barnacles on a ship,
and all that can be accomplished by
barnacles is to stop the ship.” A nasty
one for the bosses, especially as Lane
Cove is a borderline electorate, mostly
middle-class, which only a man like
Woodward could hold./
The Hon. Aubrey Augustus Michael
Coverley, M.L.A. for Kimberley (W.A.)
and Minister for the North-West and
Minister for Forests, is to have formid-
able opposition at the Assembly election.
Kimberley Durack is out against him,
and Kimberley is a rather unique char-
acter, as well as being a member of the
original Kimberley family of overlanders,
pastoralists, writers and artists. Kimber-
ley has a programme for his native
province founded on studies in South
Africa and the Rhodesias. Coverley’s
main idea is that all is for the best in the
best of all possible worlds while he re-
mains member an€ Minister.
According to Barnard, Frost’s successor
as Repatriation Minister, at the end of
1946 nearly all the wives and children
of Australian servicemen who married in
the U.K. had been brought to Australia,
and over half of the fiancees who have
been nominated had either arrived or
were in transit. With the coming of the
Orontes on January 14 there were left in
Britain 128 wives and 14 children, who
are expected to arrive “very shortly.”
“The position is very satisfactory,”
Barnard says. His position is, anyway.
The “Red Dean” of Canterbury,
whose enthusiastic books about the glories
of Soviet Russia have sold in millions
to the great benefit of a party which is
death on deans, is appealing publicly for
£300,000 to repair war damage to Can-
terbury Cathedral and the Deanery. The
voice of gratitude does not tell how much
has been contributed to the fund by (1)
Comrade Stalin and (2) the Central Com-
mittee of the Australian Communist
party, which peddles the Dean’s books
on commission.
While the Victorian Government is
building new suburbs at a painfully slow
rate a whole town of * upwards of 133
Ijouses, with bituminised roads, every
mod. con., e. 1., laundries, lavatories and
washrooms, football fields, gymnasium,
tennis courts, gardens and a theatre
capable of seating 1000, is about to go
under the hammer of the wrecker 50
miles from Melbourne. It is the R.A.A.F.
camp overlooking Westernport Bay. Any
non-official person with an ounce of im-
agination could suggest a dozen uses for
it. The “Labor” reply to a demand for its
preservation was that it was of no value
to the “Government” except in bits and
pieces.
One ugly feature of the new Russian
imperialism is its threat to Scandinavia.
The Swedes have been intimidated into
subscribing to a trade agreement so favor-
able to the U.S.S.R. that it might have
been drafted in Moscow and presented
for signature stuck on the point of a
bayonet. Norway had a Russian army
of “liberation” in its bleak north during
the last year of the German war, and
what happened there and then (a still-
unwritten chapter of war history) doubt-
less contributed to the attitude of the
Norwegian delegates in U.N.O. discus-
sions, which often gives the impression
that they are scared stiff. It recently came
out that Moscow had asked Oslo for “the
right to instal bases in Spitsbergen,”
which has become immensely important
in this atom-bomb age. There followed
a Moscow communique to the effect “that
Russia and Norway have reached an
understanding about the necessity for the
joint defence of the archipelago.” Previ-
ously Russia had demanded the with-
drawal of all American forces (there are
only a few details left) from Iceland.
Arguing in the U.N.O. Assembly for
the incorporation of South-west Africa
into the Union, which has held “South-
west” longer than the period of German
occupation. Smuts said it had the sanction
of the great majority of the natives; a
vote taken according to native custom
showed 208,854 for and 33,520 against.
“This attitude,” the old man said, “is in
contrast to the action taken in another
part of the world where, three border
States [Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia]
were incorporated in a larger union with-
out any consultation with the comity of
nations.’.’ Malan, the Opposition-leader,
is for withdrawal of South Africa from
U.N.O. if that concern refuses incorpor-
ation and insists on the Union negotiat-
ing with India over the treatment of
Indians in the four provinces, without
reference to the Court of International
Justice.
According to Professor Sauermann, of
Frankfort University, by the end of the
century there will be only 35,000,000
people left in what is left of Germany.
The professor estimates German war
losses at 4,000,000 soldiers and 1,000,000
civilians killed and 2,700,000 permanently
disabled, besides ; of 2,000,000
still in captivity. Karl won Wiegand,
the old Hearst writer, declares that only
500,000 of the captives in Russia have
survived “hunger, cold and privations.”
As anticipated, the N.S.W. “ ‘Labor’
Government” proved too yoomanitarian
to hang Garvie, sentenced to death for
the most fiendish rape-and-murder case
on record. Had the law taken its course
with Garvie, who was set free after serv-
ing only part of a sentence for a crime
equally ferocious, except that the victim
was not raped and murdered, he wouldn’t
have been where he was that dreadful
night. Neither would the murdered man,
a decent worker, nor the stricken girl,
his fiancee, had they been able to get one
of the houses promised by “Labor,”
which was more interested in setting
up another glorified gambling hell, called
a racing club. Presumably if Garvie
kills a warder during his period of in-
carceration he will again be treated as a
victim of a nefarious capitalist society.
When the State of California tried to
slap a 3 p.c. sales tax on fuel oil sold
to New Zealand the U.S. Supreme Court
pronounced the tax invalid. Just as well.
With a precedent like that every Aus-
tralian Premier would have been rubbing
his hands.
In abject imitation of American
journalism, our Great Dailies have in-
stalled a parcel of “columnists.” Cock-
sureness is the badge of the breed, and
one editor has had to disagree with
his “columnist” on the subject of Poland.
EDITOR.
Britain and America,
naturally gravely con-
cerned, have protested
to the Warsaw Gov-
ernment. Mr. Mikola-
jczyk, leader of the
Peasant Party the
majority of the Polish
people—has given the
democratic world a
story of suppression
and intimidation. Five
prominent members of
the party have been
beaten and tortured
to death. Thousands
of Opposition sup-
porters have been
arrested, and 135 of
the candidates are in
prison; 250 have
found their names
struck off the rolls;
newsboys have been
beaten in the streets.
So it goes on.
COLUMNIST.
Anglo-U.S. protests
on Polish electioneer-
ing methods should be
balanced against more
cheerful aspects. The
Warsaw correspondent
of the New York
“Times” has described
Poland’s new economy
as a neat compromise.
Rather less than half
of Poland’s 2,000,0QP
industrial workers are
employed by the
State; big estates,
formerly held by 9400
families, have been
parcelled out to private
ownership by 367,000
families. Nationalisa-
tion of heavy industry,
transport, banking and
shipping is no more
than the peopla of
England voted for.
Leftism is no longer fashionable among
editors, but it is still fashionable among
“columnists” and correspondents.


THE WOMAN PAYS, AS ALWAYS.
“The gas strikes in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne and the butchers’ strike in Sydney have been ‘settled’ at the expense of the customers, and Mr. Chifley has
‘averted’ a milk strike in Sydney with a subsidy which will come out of the taxes. Other strikes, actual and threatened, are expected to be ‘settled’ on the same lines.”
“Thank God everything’s settled—or nearly everything. Sign this blank cheque, please!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Uco”: Parties to the crime passionel
are usually young, less frequently in the
uneasy forties, but if the facts alleged in
the case in which T. J. Ley, some-
time N.S.W. Minister of Justice and
M.H.R. for Barton, is being tried
in London for murder are anywhere
near the mark, the background of the
crime must be nearly as fantastic as the
methods allegedly used. Ley is 67.
According to the prosecution, he was in-
sanely jealous of his lady-love—a widow
of rising 66 —and conceived a fantastic plot
to rid himself of a suspected rival. It
was as involved as any in the pages of
popular crime fiction. A woman cook
was to masquerade as a rich woman, to
scrape acquaintance with the intended
victim, Mudie, to throw a cocktail party
and induce .Mudie to attend to mix the
cocktails —all this in order to bring Mudie
to London. To secure the services of
other accomplices, the Crown alleges,
there was a story of. Mudie’s blackmail
and seduction of the .widow and the neces-
sity of getting him to sign a confession.
In evidence there was mention c I Mudie
being trussed and gagged, of large sums
of money being passed in packages, of a
drive-yourself car, of a man seen running
away from a chalk-pit, of a body being
found in the chalk-pit, of a pick-axe, a
clothesline and a rug. After one of the
accused, who had turned King’s evidence,
had been heard, the Court adjourned for
a week—possibly to confer with the
Crime Club.
* * i * *
“Eve”; I have three rich memories of
’.mateur theatricals. One is of a player
who interrupted another’s lines, pulled up
quickly and said “Sorray!” Instead of
carrying on and letting the audience get
over its titter, the second player snapped
“Ass—you shouldn’t say that on stage.”
(2) A gramophone recording of the
National Anthem, an after-the-show task
assigned to a member of the company
with instructions to turn it off half-way.
A forgetful chap, he wandered »from his
post, and the unusually, slow record
dragged on to a dreary finish, the
audience standing like miserable statues
and the cast, qn stage, grinning
broadly from sheer tension. Just
as the last few bars sounded the
negligent operator raced back to duty,
yelling to someone unseen “Quick, cur-
tain! I forgot to stop the King.” (3)
An overenthusiastic amateur couldn’t
find the stage-“doorway” in the gloom of
backstage. Excitedly he forced two
“panels” of the oak-wall apart, squeezed
through like a rat and was off into his
main speech before the audience could
get its breath.
* * * »
“Lao-dah”: An unfortunate error crept
into a newspaper article on a projected
ceremony in Melbourne. The ceremony
in question concerned the opening of the
first office of its kind in Australia, a
branch of the great Indian firm of
Kamani, which supplied £l5 millions’-
worth of non-ferrous metals to the Allied
war effort, has 12 factories and employs
9000 persons. Mr. Shashi Kant Desai, its
representative, was to hand a padlock
and key of solid silver, artistically in-
scribed, to Minister Pollard. Nothing
could be more respectable, but the re-
porter added that an Indian blessing
ceremony would be performed by Mr.
Desai in a religious setting, with incense,
floral decorations and “idols.” The word
“idol,” meaning an image or object to
which worship is offered as to a heathen
god or goddess, has a very unpleasant
connotation for most Orientals. The
first missionaries saw a difference between
the heathen in his blindness bowing down
to stocks and stones, and the Christian
with his statues of saints and Madonnas,
many of them, like the Indian examples,
executed by great artists, but an educated
Hindu or Buddhist would hardly feel
complimented to find that distinction
made in the columns of the most respect-
able organ of enlightenment in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
“C. 8.”; Of all the queer things put up
by Army Disposals at Fishermen’s Bend,
Melbourne, the queerest was a crossbow.
It was alleged to have been used as a
lethal weapon and to have been captured
from a Gallipoli Turk.
* * * *
“Hacksaw” on the case of twins:
Mystics, believers in telepathy and others will
find significance in the case reported from Bris-
bane of two South Australian twins meeting
accidentally in Queen-street. They had seen the
last of each other at the age of eight, when
they left an orphanage in Adelaide, and each
found that the other had precisely the same
habits, had suffered the same physical mis-
adventures and bad acquired the same associa-
“Stop whingeing — you’ve still got two hours to go.”
tional likes and dislikes. Both are sft. 6in.
in height with only a pound difference in
weight; both are heavy smokers and moderate
drinke's; they dislike marmalade, love horses,
have lost the same teeth and had the same
teeth filled, and neither has ever had a serious
illness. At the time ol the encounter each was
wearing an open-necked shirt and was smoking
the same brand of tobacco. The differences
were that one is a wharflaborer and married
and the other is a bachelor and is looking for
a job after being discharged from the Air Force.
Analysis of the similarities doesn’t yield very
extraordinary results. It is by no means un-
usual for twins to be weight and
height, whether they Ir e together or they don’t,
and most heavy smokers are moderate drinkers,
lalf the adult population of Australia loves
horses, probably a majority has never suffered
from a serious illness, and most Brisbaners
wear open-necked shirts. The distaste of mar-
malade may have been fixed by their both seeing
it once too often on the orphanage breakfast
table. Whether there is anything extraordinary
about the teeth could only be settled by a resort
to statistics of their class and the population
in general. As to their having the same brand
of tobacco, preference probably didn’t enter
into it; in these days one takes whatever brand
the tobacconist offers.
The most unusual thing about the brothers
is that they have lived apart for so long. It
is a well-known phenomenon of twins that they
tend to stick together and copy one another’s
habits. The Bedsers, for example, and I have met
local instances. There are twins in Melbourne who
dress exactly alike, have the same mannerisms
and can’t be distinguished from one another.
When they go to a party one walks into the
drawing-room a few minutes ahead of the other
and is generally mistaken for the other. When
the other walks in he makes the hit of the
evening without the slightest effort. Any psy-
chologist could give this a simple explanation.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The square - cut, side -
whiskered features of Colonel Thomas
Livingstone Mitchell which look out from«
our still-war-surcharged 2£d. stamps re-
call that, as the challenger of Stuart
Alexander Donaldson, later a Premier of
N.S.W., Mitchell was a principal in the
last formal duel fought on Australian
soil. As a candidate for the Leg. Coun-
cil, Donaldson had criticised the expendi-
ture of the Surveyor-General’s Depart-
ment, of which Mitchell was chief. After
some heated correspondence and the
failure of attempts by friends to patch
up a peace, they met on the morning of
September 27, 1851, at a quiet spot in
the Sydney water reserve, near to the pre-
sent Centennial Park. Three shots were
exchanged, the last pair going through
Donaldson’s bell-topper and grazing
Mitchell’s neck. The seconds then inter-
vened and honor was declared satisfied,
but they remained estranged until
Mitchell’s death some four years later.
Robert Lowe (B. 15/1/’46) was himself
challenged to fight two duels. In each
case he brought legal proceedings, and
there was no fight.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Before his school curriculum
enjoined reading of the papers my
nephew was a happy little fellow, and
his nose was the normal shape. Now his
wistful worried little face is set off with
a proboscis closely resembling a “?”,
“Uncle,” he said during a recent study
of our Great Dailies, “it says here in the
‘Telegraph’ that the two little girls shown
looking out of the portholes of the Largs
Bay are daughters of ‘one of the 200
builders who arrived from England on
the liner.’ Yet on another page I find that
all the builders are ‘ex-servicemen and
single,’ ” I tried to think out a reply, but
before I could manage one the lad was
off again. “And it says here in the ‘Sun,’
in an article about pinching from the
University:
One painting in a gilded wooden frame
represents a street scene in Cairo as seen
through- an archway. It has “Arthur-street
in 1898” on the painting, and the title
“Street Scene in Cairo” on the frame.
“But, Uncle, I find in the ‘Herald’ that
the painting really bore the signature of
an artist, ‘Arthur Streeton, 1898.’ How
do you account for these things, Uncle?”
“Don’t bother me, young ’un,” I replied.
“Can’t you see I’m busy with the ‘Form-
at-a-glance’?”
* % Jfc Jfc
“Nakhoda”; I can’t understand the im-
plications of this rocket-range racket.
Mentioned as the ultimate objective is
Christmas Island. If this means that it is
to be the final target, the 1500 Malays,
Indians, Javanese and negroes who form
the polyglot population of that tiny dot
of guano 200 miles south-east of Java
are in much more need of commiseration
than the Centralian abo. Still, being 12
miles long and nine wide, it will test the
skill even of an atomic scientist to score
a bullseye. Moreover, it is a lovely
island whose palms and other verdure
cover vast deposits of phosphate in a
cloak of tropic glamor, and it attracted
the attention of Ross, founder of Cocos,
when that enterprising Scotsman set sail
from Singapore to establish his private
empire. Ross had no notion of the real
wealth of the island, bad methods of
farming not having brought artificial fer-
tilisers into prominence as an aid to agri-
culture, but he added it to his empire.
It was placed under Straits Settlement
administration in 1889.
* * * «
“Cauboy”: Touching this dabbling by
the filmsmiths inpseudo-psychologicalfare
(B, 8/1 / ’47) “The Seventh Veil,” excel-
lent as a story and magnificently handled,
is quite incomprehensible if viewed from
any psychological standpoint. A girl who
is focussed on the piano suddenly suffers
complete paralysis of the hands, so that
she can’t strike a note and has to cancel
her engagements. It is the psychoanalyst’s
job to unearth the conflict which is in-
hibiting her, and, after being put under
hypnosis, she tells how she was whacked
on the hands by a schoolmistress just be-
fore she sat for a musical examination
and how those delicate members came in
for another beating from James Mason,
her jealous guardian and second cousin.
Unfortunately for the psychological
validity of the picture, it is in the very
nature of a conflict for the determining
factor to be unconscious. If the patient
were conscious of it there would be no*
conflict. In this case Ann Todd is repre-
sented as being perfectly well aware that
she was smacked at school and by her
guardian. When the young woman gets
this childhood experience off her chest,
she sits down at the piano and, per
medium of the ghosting of the Aus-
tralian pianist Eileen Joyce, plays a
Chopin nocturne or something like an
angel. It also has the effect of unleash-
ing in her an overwhelming affection for
‘ Mr. Mason, into whose arms she falls as
the picture closes. Thus is Freud
butchered to make a playgoer’s holiday.
* * * 9
“Chas Joey”; That football ground in
Yarra Park, mentioned by “Old Rich-
mondite” (B. 11/12/’46) as extending
from Jolimont-terrace, Jolimont, to
Berry-street, Richmond, was certainly no
undersized arena, the distance between
points being just on four times greater
than that from one set of goalposts to
the other on the Melbourne C. G. In
other words, it’s just on half a mile from
the old barracks site in Berry-street to the
eastern boundary of that piece of land
on Jolimont Hill (12 acres two roods)
bought by Latrobe in 1840 for £5OO or
so. Latrobe’s wooden house still stands
on portion of this land, and is now
owned by boot-and-shoe manufacturers.
Some of the original trees surround the
old house, which, in addition to being an
object of interest to students of early
Victorian history, provides evidence of
the lasting qualities of timber as a build-
ing material.
* * * *
“Melbn”; Next July Melbourne will
have another centenary. In 1847 Mel-
bourne was still a town in the Port
Phillip district of N.S.W., with two
churches of the Anglican persuasion—St.
James’s and St. Peter’s on Eastern Hill,
now High Church. A flood of immi-
grants made it necessary for the flock
to have a bishop, but a bishop can only
reign over a city. Queen Victoria, by
Royal proclamation, raised Melbourne
to that exalted status: in Westminster
Abbey on St. Peter’s Day, Juee 29, 1847,
Bishop Charles Perry was created first
bishop of the city. C. of E. celebrations
include a historic pageant at the Town
Hall and services in the parishes.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Convincing
evidence of the lack of genuine national
spirit among our “Governments” is their
attitude to two-up. Police squads
are employed to discourage and sup-
press the favorite sport of the down-
trodden proletarian and thereby to force
him to risk his hard-earned wages
at unfair odds on dogs, horses, or, worst
of all, human speedsters. Unlike those
diversions of the wealthy master-class,
two-up gives him an even chance on his
“investments.” Although “Government”
support and encouragement would mean
the appointment of innumerable inspec-
tors, ring-keepers and clerks, in addition
to a well-salaried Board of Kip Control,
a definite saving would be made on nit-
keeping and pimp-squaring. Congenial
and well-paid jobs woul4 be available for
failed politicians, and the police would
have more time to devote to murderers,
hold-up men and burglars. And once
the splendid game became an approved
“sport” Canberra would never dare to
take its cut of the winnings,
* * * *
“Passun”: One of our inflictions at
Haisho, Hainan Island, was a Jap who
couldn’t speak Japanese. His parents
had been shopkeepers at Honolulu and
their offspring had gone off to Nippon
just before Pearl Harbor. Why the Jap-
Yank finished up on Hainan is a mystery
to us, for his knowledge of the American
language (oddly enough he spoke the
Bowery dialect) was wasted there. Our
work parties at the railhead often saw him
swotting his “Kana” and he always
greeted the boys with abuse unfamiliar
until the Yank recovery team rescued us.
He was fanatically pro-Jap, and his ambi-
tion was to manage the Waldorf Astoria,
with the Emperor as proprietor.
* * * *
“Hamer”; The first act of some of my
friends from other parts on arrival in
Sydney is to polish off a glass of water
and ejaculate “That’s good!” My own
travels have been considerable; perhaps
it is because I prefer beer that I have
never personally noticed the superiority
of Sydney water, but it was brought to
my attention this week by a friend newly
arrived from Adelaide. Invited by me
to a refreshment-room, and seeing a
carafe apd glasses on the table, he got
outside three glasses of aqua pura before
reading the menu. He said it was his
invariable habit when in Sydney, and
that he had been joyfully contemplating
a taste of Sydney water all the way from
Albury. Possibly not one of Sydney’s
million-odd inhabitants feels any such
appreciation of the stuff that flows
through the domestic' taps.
CHIFLEY IN THE MOATED
GRANGE.
“I admit that I am getting rather tired of these
industrial disturbances that are occurring so fre-
quently.”— Mr. Chifley.
The air was thick with talk of plots,
And threats of what might yet befall.
The harassed housewife’s pans and pots
Were ranged unused against the wall.
The kitchen wore a weird and wan
And thoroughly distressful look,
For those with any meat to cook
Had got no gas to cook it on.
He only said “The outlook’s dreary,
And something no one likes.
Take it from me, I daily grow more weary
Of never-ending strikes.”
With dockyards closed and wharfies out,
And colliers, as usual, vexed,
And milk supplies in constant doubt
A worried public asks “What next?”
No use to ask, for who can tell
When trains or trams may stage a stop
Or come near butcher close his shop
Because he’s nothing left to sell.
He only said “I too am weary
Of strikes, fed fairly full.
You chaps who’re raising all this miserere,
I wish you’d take a pull.”
What use are Arbitration Courts
If their awards, he heard men say,
Can be ignored with scornful snorts
Unless they go the unions’ way?
What Government esteemed can be
Which daren’t enforce the laws it makes,
Instead obsequiously takes
Its orders from mobocracy?
He only said “Too right, it’s dreary.
Gimme a match,” he said.
“Industrial upheavals leave me weary,
I would I were in bed.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Zake”; Ten seconds after the beach
patrolman on duty sighted the raised arm
the husky beltman hit the water and with
long, strong strokes rapidly reached the
surfer, a flapper, who promptly threw
her arms around his neck. Rapidly and
urgently he released himself, whisked her
on to her back and gave the signal to
be hauled in. In the shallow water, and
before the rest of the patrol could go
in to take her from the beltman, the
“patient” twisted out of his grip, stood
up, eyed his sturdy form with undisguised
admiration, turned on him a gorgeous
smile and said, “Oh, how perfectly thrill-
ing to be rescued! I was swept off my
feet by a wave, you know.” The belt-
man sourly eyed the surf, which a strong
off-shore wind had flattened to almost a
ripple, said, “Sister, would you mind in
future not to wave back?” then went to
dump his belt and resume his interrupted
sunbake.
* * * *
“Cheroot”: We all have our firsts, i
remember the cigar which initiated me.
I was about 10 when I sneaked one from
the old man’s box. He seemed to get a
lot of pleasure from the things; I didn’t
see why I shouldn’t share in the fun. It
was after dark when I hid in the saddle-
room of the N.Q. station my father was
managing. I lit the smoke, puffed, sat
back to enjoy it. I don’t know how
much I’d done when I realised the thing
was a fake; there was no fun in it. My
head was reeling ; my stomach was float-
ing ; my eyes didn’t focus. I didn’t know
a blackboy was strolling past just as I
“Come, come. Petal —pull yourself together !”
decided to jettison that cigar with all
the force of hate behind the throw. It
hit the ground at the boy’s feet, exploded
for some reason with a delightful “pop”
and showered sparks all over the boy. I
don’t know quite what happened then —
I couldn’t see straight. But I do re-
member that boy’s yell of alarm, his
hurried condemnation of some debbil-
debbil which had attacked him, and the
way he threw dust behind him as he
legged it for the safety of the camp.
* * * *
“Spike”: My son and I were enjoying
peeps through the window of a
shop selling ex-Army gear. His grin
came from the array of “pouches basic
and aluminium dixies —mine from the
leather bandoliers and trench-tools which
were issued in the other war. The store
seemed to be doing a brisk trade, some of
its customers, oddly enough, being also
ex-Army Disposals. It may have been
caused by the idea of being legally able
to call their own articles branded with
S.R.D. (remembered by old hands as
having to do with rdm), and the D.D.
of the more recent stoush. Old Army
stock is selling even better in America.
One gent, there had developed, since
leaving the service, a sentimental leaning
towards Army soap. He bought some
and found stamped on each bar “Save
Soap to Win the War (Signed) Com-
mander-in-Chief, Abraham Lincoln.”
* * * *
“O’Yen”: Australia’s first cavemeering
club, formed in Tasmania towards the
end of last year with a membership of
50, has been co-opted by the Speck’s
Tourist Bureau to explore and survey the
picturesque Hastings Caves near Hobart.
The club, which includes 16 women, is
expecting an assignment from the Hydro-
Electric Commission to inspect the valley
of the upper Gordon River before the
go-ahead is given on the construction of
dams in that area.
« * * * *
“Niloc”: Not since the Sunday-night
concerts staged there for troops during
the war. had Sydney Stadium produced
much in the way of community singing.
Instead, it had merely gone in for the
music common to all such arenas —the
warning buzzer, the bell, and the grunt-
ing of boxers and their managers. At
the Burns-James fight, however, as referee
Joe Wallis squeezed through the ropes,
the building found its voice again. The
singing started quietly in the bleachers,
swelling to a crescendo at the song’s
ending, which carried even to The ref.
The smile <on. his face broadened to the
approximate width of his abdomen as
he heard, chanted with the beauty of a
church choir:
I hear the gentle voices calling
Old black Joe.
We expected a vehement encore when
Joe declared the fight over in the fourth
round, but, like us, the choristers were
speechless.
* * * •
“Tackline S.”: An amusing sidelight of
the gas strike was the logical mind which
refused to panic when threatened for
non-payment. Told that if he did not
cough up the company’s workmen would
cut off his gas, a Melbourne bloke sent
a cheque and queried: “Excuse me, but
where are your workmen? And, inci-
dentally, where is this gas supply?” An
equally neat reply must have been hard
for the creditors to think up.
* * * *
“Hamer”; “Justin’s” par on the “live-
wire salesmen of former days” (B.
8/1/’47) reminds me that long after the
employment of touts outside Sydney
shops (once a general practice) was made
illegal touting was carried on in a dis-
guised form, especially in parts like
“Central,” where country visitors were
plentiful. Some of the “gabbers” were
freelances. Catching sight of a greenie
having a look at a shop window the
“gabber” sidled up to him, drew atten-
tion to something which he pronounced
amazing value —he had himself bought
in that shop “the very suit I’m wearing
nnw ” nr n.prham a watch <in annd that
® ow ’ IJ °J penmps a watcn so goou mat
I sold it for twice what I gave for It
and suggested an introduction to the
manager. The “gabber” was entitled to
commission on whatever the customer
bought then and an return visits. An
“Hurry, Mum —We must be getting near the Water now.”
admirer described one of these men as
“the best bloke in Sydney for picking
flies off a window” (gaping customers
being, of course, the “flies”), and
assured me that it was a poor week when
the tout made less than a tenner.
* * * »
“Flea”: While Chif sat in the grand-
stand at the M.C.C. during the third Test
and puffed his pre-rise tobacco we in the
outer found the ceiling lifted off
almost everything. Ice-creams 7d. (our
local shop sells them for 4d.), pies 6d.
(from 3d.), lemonade 6d. (3d.) and,.to
crown the lot, a penn’orth of fresh salted
peanuts for 6d. Besides all this the pop
of a cork signalled a herd of small boys
with big bags who stood around im-
patiently until the bottle you had
rescued from Christmas became an
empty. No wonder the drink-vendors
warbled “Who’ll ’ave a cooler?” We
needed one,
* * * *
“X.S.”; The housing shortage and its
consequent labor troubles have produced
a new profession in
tapping.” The roof-tapper approaches a
likely-looking subject—a house that needs
repairs to roof or paths—and tells the
housewife that he is engaged on a neigh-
boring job and is available for hire when
the job is finished. Contract made, the
roof-tapper and his mate climb out of
sight while the housewife goes about her
housework, cheered by the sound of per-
sistent tapping from above. In due
course the repairer and his matef climb
down and collect their wages and depart,
and at the next downfall of rain it turns
out that the house lid is leaking - worse
than ever. One victim reports a pay-
ment of £25 for two hours of roof-tapping
attentions and in one street in St. Kilda
roof-tappers are alleged to have cleaned
up £125.
* * * *
“SpokeshavS”; Our newsagent’s wife
suddenly lost the normal use of her eyes.
She could see, but everything was in a
queer way distorted. She went to the
doctor, who gave her a brief examina-
tion and finding nothing organically
wrong with her optics concluded that
there was a psychological element in the
case that merited further investigation.
“Your constitution’s a bit out of order,”
he said. “I’ll prescribe a tonic and you
can come back tomorrow.” Next morn-
ing his patient rang up. “It’s all right,
doctor,” she said. “I’ve found I’ve been
wearing my husband’s glasses.”
* * * *
“Bo” on some Russian music, new
and old:
, Britishers who were regaled with the spec-
tacle of Monty being lavishly caviared and
vodka’d while Moscow Radio was savagely
lashing at England will evince no surprise that
Dmitri Shostakovich, the Soviet’s leading
“composer,” should have been awarded
the Order of Lenin, and that while the
Communist organ “Life and Culture” was
putting him through the mincer because
his recently-composed Ninth Symphony failed
adequately to express “the political aspirations
of the proletariat.” Just how a series of
noises without words can clearly express politi-
cal aspirations is a profound secret which is
enjoyed only by Commo-controlled tyrannies—
composers of the decadent Western democracies
could never hope to do it. Perhaps, though,
the high honor bestowed on Shostakovich is
a belated recognition of his 1930 ballet “The
Age of Gold,” which was “a satire on decadent
capitalism, Fascism and bourgeois psychology,”
and the polka from which the composer “in-
tended” as a caricature of the Geneva Dis-
armament Conference. Oh, a very devil of a
fellow is this Dmitri among crotchets and
quavers. Breaking out into a rash of Bolshevik
fervor he wrote his Fifth Symphony to mark
* e twentieth of the Revolution
The younger Tolstoy wrote that “the powerful
rous i n g sounds stirred the audience.” Certain
it is they couldn’t have slept through the awful
din and the thought that perhaps a keen-eyed
O.G.P.U. agent might be in the next seat.
But this horror is nothing to his Leningrad
Symphony—a riot of cacophony which seems
to have been scored for several concrete-mixers
and a few riveting machines. The, only other
notable “composer” thrown up by the Revo-
lution is Prokofiev, whose works could be
accounted great but for their total lack of
harmonic beauty. Russia has had six great
composers: the greatest of all, Tschaikowsky,
and the “Russian Five” who devoted them-
selves to the creation of Russian nationalist
(Oriental) music: Balakirev, Borodin, Rimsky-
Korsakov, Caesar Cui and Moussorgsky. Five
of the six, strange to say, died in St. Peters-
burg. Their music, composed mostly between
1850 to 1905 —under the Czarts —still lives. But
then they weren’t ordered to write ideological
“music.”
* * * *
“McNephew”: Uncle Angus, with ex-
pression far more mournful than could
be associated with having dropped a
bottle of the best, strode through the
front door, kicked his bagpipes-box
across the room, and slumped into an
armchair. Tea-time arrived, but he was
still there, gazing at the wall and mutter-
ing “The puir wee things. O thet sich
wickudness cud be.” He refused to eat
even an oatcake. The reason for his
sorrow seemed to be contained in the
newspaper which had fallen from ; his
hand, so we picked it up and read the
tear-stained article:
Just Deserts. In London members of ■
the Board of Trade got three heavy pack-
ages with fuselike appendages, frantically
cleared the office, opened the packages,
found haggises inside.
# * * *
“Flathead”: Declare a “safety-week,”
and the public will turn up with more
freak accidents than in a normal fort-
night. Recently, in the State of Washing-
ton (U.S.A.), the authorities declared a
“Non-accident Week.” Posters appeared'
bearing such warnings as “Death Lurks
at Your Doormat.” Fired by the cam-
paign, one citizen, about to switch on *
the radiator in his bathroom while
standing in the water, remembered the
equation: “Moisture plus amps equals
Morgue.” He stepped out of the bath,
and not wishing to use his drippingjiands,
reached up to the switch with his big toe.
He was found unconscious by his
landlady. Saddest victim of the cam-
paign was a man already in hospital with
a broken leg. While reading the growing
casualty lists, he decided to get more com-
fortable, placed his good leg under the
heavy cast in order to lever it into a
better position, and broke that one, foo.
* * * *
“Flip”: Having rented an old two-
storey house in Baker-street, London, I
recently woke at the tick of midnight, and
heard an eerie voice: “I say. Holmes, I
read here in my copy of the American
publication ‘Collier’s’ of an amazing
piece of criminology given as fact:
A small piece of string left' at the scene
[of the crime] was whirled in a centrifuge,
and an analysis of the dust shaken out re-
vealed that it had come from a farm having
pine trees, certain rare plants, a Jersey
cow, a sorrel horse,, black-and-white
rabbits and Rhode Island Red chickens.
With this description, detectives soon
located the farm and captured the criminal.
Well, what do you think, Holmes?”
From somewhere across the room, where
a violin softly played, there came a quiet
laugh, followed by “Elementary, my dear
Watson, when you consider my most
recent exploit. I have found the ball in
one of those Sydney newspaper competi-
tions.”
ANOTHER EXPLANATION.
“An English paper, on the authority of a Sydney
correspondent, attributes the poor showing of Ham-
mond’s team in the field to the good time they have
been having off it. Unlike their opponents, it is
alleged, they are not going to bed early during
Tests.”
Some hinted failure to regain the ashes
And leaving their supporters in the dumps
Was largely the effect of certain laches
(As lawyers term them) on the part of umps.
All told, we’ve heard a number of excuses
For ill success —not from themselves, it’s
true —
And now another pressman introduces
A point at least that’s new.
Some held that the inadequate nutrition
Obtainable from Britain’s scanty stores
Of tucker, followed by abrupt transition
Thence to the fleshpots of these favored shores,
Left them, at mounting weights, unfit to grapple
With batsmen’s enterprise and bowlers’ wiles,
Upset, to use a vulgar phrase, their apple-
Carts and impaired their styles.
Some censured the selectors and controllers
Of cricket’s destinies beyond the foam
For fancying a team so weak in bowlers
Had Buckley’s chance to bring the bacon
home.
Through various weaknesses the critics go, all
On showing their intelligence intent,
How far from difficult to be a know-all
Is —after the event!
Lots of advice, judicious and judicial,
Is apt to come* a luckless captain’s way,
Though whether Wally finds it beneficfel
Or not is possibly too soon to say.
But when his sturdy side prepares to bank its
Strength ’gainst the foe in Test match Number
Four,
Perhaps (who knows?) he’ll have it ’twixt the
blankets
At nine the night before.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


F
LEA &
PERRINS
<»£ ECOHOW V ***
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
DADVA condition powders i/c
DAKIiU SKIN MOTION 2/9
*'******■'“' lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/0
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ŵ
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump oat
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two poundt
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up,” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER'S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3. ,
m
tm
* * 1
*(M?6 \- ' v : ' c««v & • ••. - + .< ■'
£***
mm i
I •
T^j
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
HAVE A CITY KITCHEN
ms
;
The AGA Cooker brings all the comforts and conven-
iences of city cooking to country homes. Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean' 1 baked enamel
finish; special insulation—keeps kitchens cool—delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
the convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are less than cost of wood even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
1. It is guaranteed not to burn more than an amazingly
small specified quantity of fuel per annum.
2. It Is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue—showing the complete range of
models.
AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney.
432 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
Sts., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G.
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
THE SERVICE MAN
Our sweates forces.
ẃ
“ Don't shoot, Appleby — he's only being playful .”
“undemocratic” to be either smart or
colorful.
British troops now have the best of
accommodation, the best of uniforms and
food and a scale of pay which would
make the mouths of Australians water,
in the ranks as well as in the “officer
classes.” It is recognised in Britain that
soldiering, sailoring and flying in the
R.A.F. are highly skilled businesses, and
that the class of men needed can only be
attracted by liberal offers and guarantees.
Recognised also that the best guarantee
is early marriages. For that reason the
old marriage regulations, along with the
old complicated system of child and de-
pendent allowances, has been swept away,
and a single marriage allowance is
granted which enables a young couple
to get a good start, and continue solvent.
British Scales of Pay
British pay on a new scale introduced
early this year varies slightly in the
three services owing to the fact that there
are different periodic methods in arrang-
ing promotions, mainly necessitated by
training exigencies. As far as possible
there is equality of treatment for
Navy, Army and R.A.F. The Navy,
however, in some of its lower officer
ranks remains the best-paid. The figures
given are in English money; 25 per cent,
must be added to bring them to Aus-
tralian terms.
In the R.N. a lieutenant, 25 years of
age, receives £347 per annum, plus £228
a year for marriage allowance if he has
married—total £575. If his promotion
follows the normal average course he
should be a lieutenant-commander at 30.
His income will then be £620, if single,
and £B4B if married, which means £lO6O
Australian.
If he remains a two-and-a-half striper
till he is 38, his married pay will have
risen to £958. If he has any normal luck
he should be a commander at 36, receiv-
ing £ll4l, which increases to £1323 if he
remains in the rank till he is 44.
A captain, R.N., at 41, has pay of
£llB6 plus £274 marriage allowance,
which means £1460. After two years this
figure (married) increases to £1515 and
after eight years, with his marriage allow-
ance increased to £316, his pay should
be £1724, or £2155 Australian. And
these figures are outside various allow-
ances for special duty, e.g., command pay
on seagoing ships, 10s. a day for captains
down to 3s. for lieutenants, and flying
pay for junior officers.
In the Army, the lieutenant of 25,
married, is not quite so well off in actual
figures. He and the flying officer in
the R.A.F., of the same rank, age and
condition, have £538 per annum. As a
captain at 27 he draws £684, including
marriage allowance of £228, and if he
stays in the rank till he is 33 he can
rise to £757,
A major and squadron-leader at 34
can expect to reach £867 and rise in five
years to £975—£1220 in Australian
money. A lieutenant-colonel, promoted *
at 39 and having held the rank for six
years, is on £1049 salary, plus £274 mar-
riage allowance —£1323.
A married colonel’s pay rises from
£1460 to £1624 in six years. His basic
pay, without marriage allowance, after
six years’ service is approximately eqifal
to that of our Chief of the General Staff,
With marriage pay it is higher than is
paid to any Australian officer in the
Army, except the C.1.G.5., £2030 Aus-
tralian per annum. A British brigadier
on £1405 (English currency) is a couple
of hundred a year better off than an
Australian major-general in command
and he draws £319 family allowance. With
this he is better off than the Australian
C.I.G.S.
R.A.F. pay runs throughout the equiva-
lent ranks practically parallel with those
of the Army.
In the higher ranks remuneration is
suc h that a first-class business executive
would not scorn it, especially in view
of the handsome pension conditions
attached. Rear-admirals, major-generals
an d air vice-marshals draw £2007 plus
£365 marriage allowance ; vice-admirals,
lieutenant - generals and air - marshals,
£2828 ; admirals, generals and air chief-
marshals, £3285, including £365 for their
wives and families ; admirals of the fleet
field-marshals and marshals of the Royal
Air F° rc e, £3285 plus £365 marriage rate,
Add to all these figures, again, special
qualification allowances from 2s. 6d. to
ss. per day in the Army and R.A.F.; e.g.,
to staff officers who are “passed staff col-
lege” and officers who hold university
honors degrees in branches of use to the
service and who are majors or of lower
rank,
( „
L/ther Ranks
In the Army other ranks’pay has been
considerably liberalised. On entry a
recruit receives 28s. per week (355. Aus-
tralian); as a three-star private 495. Eng-
lish currency, plus a family allowance of
about 255. a week, plus civilian endow-
ment of ss. per week for the second and
each subsequent child. On a generous
basis, in fact, military and naval wages
have been related to civilian wages. Non-
commissioned officers are in a position to
rise to standards of comfort. A W.O. I
in the Army with eight years’ service in


WHEN THINGS SEEM TOO BIG FOR YOU
iiwaw'
wm
m . ;:•!
m
>y.‘X&
#&SsBS&A«SS&
mm:
m
mi
m*
Kwi«
MvWiM
/
'j&ly.'l+AC
c_
IT S TIME FOR A
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
—-in fhe smarf HCU7 packs.
628 D-1 1.46
FESQ.
ml*
rn
L>
RUM
BOTTLED OVERPROOF IN BOND
nVERPBOor
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY CORRESPONDENCE
The Technical Education Branch of the Department of Education
offers through the
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE
the means of ensuring your future by providing you with sound and modern training in
a wide range of subjects by correspondence instruction.
PROMOTION AND SUCCESS
depend upon your ability to keep in touch with up-to-date methods and modern trends. No part
of the State is too remote to prevent you from receiving instruction. Young persons, other than
school pupils, and adults who live too far away from any New South Wales Technical College
to attend classes, are recommended to apply for enrolment in any one or more of the following
Correspondence Courses.
Instruction is available as follows: —
ART. —Dressmakers’ Art, Figure Drawing, Free-
hand Drawing, Lettering, Short Display Card
Writing, Still Life Drawing, Ticket Writing.
COMMERClAL,.— Bookkeeping, Business Prin-
ciples, Accountancy, Auditing, Commercial Law,
Cost Accountancy, Company Secretarial Practice,
Income Tax Law, Banking, Finance & Foreign
Exchange, Bankers’ Institute, Commercial Corres-
pondence, Shorthand, Typewriting.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT.— LocaI Government
(Town and Shire) Clerks’ Certificate,
ELECTRICAL. —Electrical Trades (Electricians’
Licence).
ENGINEERING.— DieseI Engine Operation,
Engineering Trades Calculations, Engineering
Trades Drawing, Motor Maintenance (for owners
and drivers of .motor vehicles), Steam Engine
Driving, Boiler Attendants, Gas Engineering,
Refrigeration.
HOME HANDICRAFTS.—D ressma k i n g,
Millinery. *
PREPARATORY. —EngIish and Mathematics
(approximately from Ist year to Leaving Certifi-
cate standard), French, History and Mechanics
(approximately from Intermediate Certificate to
Leaving Certificate standard).
BUlLDlNG.—Building Construction, Building
Trades Calculations, Carpentry and Joinery.
PRlNTlNG.—Composing, Printers’ English and
Arithmetic, Linotype Operation.
PUBLIC EXAMINATION S.— Intermediate
Certificate (see Secondary), Leaving Certificate
and Matriculation (see Preparatory), Nurses’
Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists’ & Tele-
graph Messengers’ Entrance.
PUBLIC HEALTH.—HeaIth Inspection, Meat
Inspection.
RURAL.—Agriculture, Care of Animals, Pig
Raising, Poultry Farming, Sheep & Woolclassing,
Dairy Technology, Beekeeping, Farm Mechanics
(including Farm Arithmetic, Farm Machinery and
Farm Science), Station Bookkeeping.
SANITATION. House Drainage, Sanitary
Engineering, Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumbing.
SECONDARY.—Art, Business Principles and
Bookkeeping, English, French, General Mathe-
matics, Geography, History, Latin, Mathdfnatics I
(Arithmetic and Algebra), Mathematics II
(Geometry and Trigonometry). (All from Ist
year to Intermediate Certificate standard.)
If you cannot attend a Technical College, study by Correspondence.
FEES.
25/- per year or 10/- per term per single subject. Course rates where applicable. Half fees to
students under 21 years and receiving less than 30/- weekly.
A. DENNING, for Superintendent of Technical Education.
-“MAIL coupon for SYLLABUS
To the Officer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division, Sydney Technical College,
45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
Correspondence Course.
NAME (in Block Letters)
ADDRESS
Are you an Ex-serviceman or -servicewomanf You may he eligible for Commonwealth
Reconstruction Training benefits.
the ranks may draw £7 7s. per week in
pay, plus special and family allowances
—the equivalent of £ll in Australian cur-
rency.
Australian Starvation Rates
A comparison of British with Aus-
tralian rates is humiliating to this Com-
monwealth.
Here an Army lieutenant’s basic pay is
round £270-280 per annum, plus 4s, 6d. a
day for a wife and a receding rate down
to Is. 6d. for children as they arrive. In
terms of English money this £270 is £256
against the £356 paid to British Army
lieutenants. The total, with married
allowance on which the lieut. starts house-
keeping (at a greater age), is about £370
p.a., against the 25-year-old British lieu-
tenant’s £672 (Australian).
At the other end of the scale, the Aus-
tralian major-general’s £l4OO-odd is miser-
able beside the Briton’s £2500.
But this is not all. The Australian
services each have a separate method of
disposing of retiring officers. In the
R.A.N. there is a gratuity system ; in the
Army, a very limited pensiofi system
under which a full colonel leaves the
forces, usually worn out and of little use
for civilian life, with a retiring allowance
almost equal to that of a N. S. Wales
police sergeant.
The appalling position here is hardest
on those officers who retire round the
rank of major or lieutenant-commander,
as it is inevitable that a substantial pro-
portion must do, since they cannot be
kept in those ranks beyond middle age.
The British system is generous all
round. The normal minimum service
for full pension qualification is 20 years
for a lieutenant R.N., captain or flight-
lieutenant. The rate of pension for
those ranks basically is £375, roughly
£460-a-year Australian more than a
married Australian captain’s full pay!
A lieutenant-commander, major or
squadron-leader can retire after 22 years
on £475 (English currency); a com-
mander R.N., lieutenant-colonel or wing-
commander on £625; a captain R.N.
with six years in the rank, a colonel or
a group-captain on £825 after the age of
49. After six years in the rank, the
pension is £9OO per annum.
Thus, any Army, Navy or Air Force
officer who serves up to 50 can be sure
of spending his declining years on a
pension equivalent to more than £lOOO a
year Australian.
A retired lieutenant-general at £l3OO
English is nearly as well off in terms of
Australian currency as the Chief of the
Australian General Staff as regards basic
pay!
Our Sweated Forces
In Australia today it is better to be
a bricklayer or a wharfie than a field
officer of junior rank. A machinist would
turn up his nose at the wages of a
junior major, whose working hours,
if on the staff, know no Arbitration Court
limitations. Any “columnist” on the Syd-
ney press earns more than a brigadier
with a district command.
The position is a disgrace to the Gov-
ernment and to the country, both as it
affects the 6s. 6d.-a-day private and the
higher commands.
The professions on which the safety
of the country depend are sweated to
the bone. They are the only ones in
which pay has not been substantially in-
creased for 30 years.
Even in 1912-13 when there was no
difference between the Australian pound
and the pound sterling, and when living
costs and prices were low, the young
officer entered the old R.A.A. at round
£250 a year.
Came the 1929-31 period and savage
and almost suicidal “Labor” retrench-
ments. The military services were bled
to the bone and many fine officers sent
on holiday without pay (while continuing
to do their work!). Succeeding Govern-
ments were too penurious and ignoble
to compensate these officers for their
loyalty and self-sacrifice.
Behind the Curtain.
“Ek D.”: What is happening in Poland
seems to be part of a pattern of what is
happening in the Balkans.
, And the model seems to be what hap-
pened in Russia a couple of years before
the outbreak of World War II on the
verge of the establishment of the Russian
“Parliament.” Then it became necessary
to purge “old” leaders of the Communist
party engaged in world propaganda for
“the revolution.”
This was achieved by charging them
with espionage on behalf of a foreign
Power, with sabotage of war industries
and with plots to assassinate public men
—charges like those fabricated against
unfortunate Australia First men when
they were railroaded to an internment
camp.
Upon charges of contacts with foreign
Powers for the purpose of giving them
military and political information to the
detriment of the Soviet Union, countless
thousands were done away with between
1936 and 1939 —Marshal Stalin’s own
estimate was 250,000 in the Communist
party alone. Some of these “reptiles”
had descended, it appeared, to un-
believable depths of traitorous infamy
—one was confronted by that smooth
diplomat Mr. Vishinsky, beloved of
Leftish “diplomatic writers,” with the
admitted fact that he had revealed to a
British lady Red Cross worker, who was
trying to mitigate the socialist famine in
the'Ukraine with capitalist donations of
food and clothing, the statistics of
Ukrainian grain production. Executed!
“Free” Elections
Poland’s recourse to the same technique
is motivated by the fact that its Govern-
ment had to stage “free”, elections, in
accordance with the Yalta agreement.
There seems to have been some misunder-
standing as to the word “free.” A'“free”
election in Britain and U.S. is one in which
all are free to nominate any candidate,
canvass for him, abuse him or praise him
publicly in almost any terms, interrupt
his meetings and sometimes,, even, heave
banana-skins at him.
In Russia and in its satellite countries,
a “free” election is one in which the pro-
letariat are “free” to support anybody
proposed by the Communist party and
to vote for him under the eye of an
armed guard. The concepts of freedom
include the right of the Government to
freely arrest for “terrorism” anybody who
asks a Commo candidate “When did
you stop beating your mother-in-law?”
Anybody who sets up an opposition com-
mittee is guilty of “underground con-
spiracy” and anybody who heaves a
banana-skin at a Government candidate
of “attempted assassination.” All and
sundry on the opposite side become auto-
matically guilty of espionage, sabotage
or anything else which is likely to em-
barrass nosy outside nations under the
delusion that agreements made between
Great Powers should be' honored.
In Rumania the elections were carried
out under armed supervision. In the re-
sult the Communist Government, heads
of which are imports from Russia, was
returned with scarcely any dissentients
except dead ones.
In Poland the state of affairs justi-
fied the sending of three strong British
protests. The Peasant party had com-
plained that five of its candidates had
been battered to death and 135 arrested,
apart from the removal of 250 from the
voting lists and the wholesale breaking up
of its committees, on the ground that they
were “terrorist” organisations. There
had been wholesale interference with the
Peasant party campaign by police and
wholesale throwing into dungeons of
people opposed to the Communist party.
Having the full backing of the Soviet
Union, the Polish President, whose pre-
sent pame is Beirut, brazened it out. His
crowd, of course, won the “free” election,
“Death to Opponents”
The most sinister feature of the matter,
however, is the revival of the old Russian
technique of cleaning up> the enemy by
charging leaders with espionage, and em-
barrassing the senders of international
Notes by involving their Ambassadors by
innuendo or accusation, made in such a
way that the accused diplomat has no
means of appearing. Thus in Poland
three persons have been sentenced to
death for espionage and communicating
military and other secrets to the British
Ambassador. As is customary with
prisoners in Communist hands, they “con-
fessed.”
While these “trials” were in progress
three persons were sentenced in Yugo-
slavia to death by a “people’s Court” for
communicating military and economic
secrets to the United States Embassy
economic attache, who published them in
a 40-page pamphlet. Among this “gang”
the former Premier of the exiled Yugo-
slav Government was sentenced to eight
years’ imprisonment and deprivation of
civil rights (he hadn’t any, anyway) for
complicity. The sentences in Poland and
Yugoslavia were in marked contrast to
the mild ones imposed on Red spies in
Canada.
Communist parties the world over
have devoted themselves to the theory
that the Canadians and the British, who
gave Dr. Nunn May ten years for be-
traying atomic secrets to Russia at a
price, are brutal Fascists interfering with
the liberty of the subject.
For Poland (though not “Beirut’s”
Poland) the British Commonwealth risked
its existence by going to war, while Rus-
sian agencies the world over pleaded with
London to retire since, Poland having
been divided between Stalin and Hitler,
there was “nothing else to fight for.”
Poland and Yugoslavia were armed by
Britain and the United States and have,
since the war, been fed, clothed, doc-
tored and hospitalised by them through
U.N.R.R.A. —as, indeed, have White
Russia and the Ukraine.


(Vilcutdo
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia loses a fine geologist and ex-
plorer, C. T. Madigan, much too soon,
at 57. Rhodes Scholar for S.A. in 1911,
he went first to the South Pole with
Douglas Mawson, and then to the Great
War, in which he was twice wounded, so
that it was not . until 1919 that he took
up his studies at Oxford. After a couple
of years in the Sudan Civil Service he
returned to Adelaide and for the rest
of his life, when not needed elsewhere, he
was at Adelaide Uni., chief assistant in
geology to Mawson, who always gave
him high praise as sledging leader. There
he built up another reputation as ex-
plorer-five times he was leader, by land
or in the air, in Centralia, notably about
the Simpson Desert and other reputedly
inaccessible posts, of the use of which to
Australia he had on the whole very small
opinion. He went down with heart trouble
a year ago, while out on Kangaroo
Island with students, and he never really
recovered.
John Vincent William Barry, K.C., first
of the two new Supreme Court Judges to
be appointed by the Cain Government,
has been one of the rising young lawyers
who have struck a note in Victorian
Labor circles. One-time junior to Eugene
Gorman, £.C., he was a foundation
member and vice-president of the Aus-
tralian Council of Civil Liberties and,
after the death of Maurice Blatikburn, be-
came president. Labor candidate for
Balaclava in 1943, he afterwards in-
vestigated the R.A.A.F. grievances at
Morotai, and was appointed chairman
of the Federal committee inquiring
into the compensation of N.G. natives.
Chairman of the Ethics committee
of the A.J.A. and chairman or member
of half a dozen of Commonwealth com-
missions, he is a versatile man and, at 43,
will be one of the youngest Judges ever
appointed in Victoria. Born at Albury,
he was educated at St. Patrick’s College,
Goulburn, and admitted to the Bar in
1926. He was made a K.C. in 1942.
Born in Chile 60 years ago, William
Heneage Ogilvie, vice-president of the
Royal College of Surgeons and one of
England’s leading surgeons, has served as
surgeon in three wars—the Balkan
scrap and the two World Wars. A
K.B.E. came his way last year. His mis-
sion to Australia is concerned with the
preliminary examinations for fellowships
of the college, and with him are two other
eminent physicians—Professors A. Mc-
Swiney and G. Hadfield, Ogilvie has
seen all the big advances in medicine
brought on by the inventiveness produced
by war-time needs and restrictions.
Sulpha drugs have multiplied until there
are now dozens infinitely better than the
first one, as well as penicillin, and the new
SURGERY.
closed circuit form of anaesthesia, in
which the drug is breathed in anti out
of a closed bag and actually breathes for
the patient, makes the old methods look
like something out of the Dark Ages.
Its use is said to reduce mortality rates
to 2 p.c. While in Melbourne Sir Hene-
age left his hotel at 8.30 in the morning,
returned for dinner and was out again
before the coffee, but he snatched a few
minutes to sit down in the lounge and
give a public sitting for Mcßeath.
Biscuits, bowls and dahlias are the three
main interests of Philip Motteram, presi-
dent of S.A. Chamber of Manufactures.
The mixture is all the more surprising
when it is realised that Motteram is a
Bachelor of Engineering. Son of the
founder of Adelaide’s biggest biscuit-
making firm he won a diploma in
mechanical engineering at Adelaide
School of Mines away back in 1902. He
put in three years in Britain with the
Westinghouse concern, returning to lec-
ture in electrical engineering at the School
of Mines. It was while he was holding
that position that he completed his B.E.
BISCUITS.
course at Adelaide Uni. But the family
business needed him, and in 1918 he
joined his father and brother in the firm
of which he is now chairman of directors.
“S. M. Herald’s” £lOOO prize for a war
novel went to John Hetherington, a
journalist who made a considerable name
as a war correspondent, first with the
A.1.F., and later in Western Europe. A
Melbourne man, he went away with the
first convoy and covered the desert cam-
paigns and the fighting in Greece, Crete
and Syria. He saw most that was to be
seen of the Greek campaign, and that
glorious defeat is the subject of his
winning novel. R. S. Porteous collected
second prize, £5OO, with a story based on
his own experience in small ships running
supplies to battle areas in New Guinea.
He’s an old Lighthorseman, who put in
a few years in the cattle country of
Western Queensland before he took to
the sea. Written under the. name “Stand-
by” many of his short stories hafe
appeared in The Bulletin. An ex-
p.-0.-w., H. J. McNamara, got the £250
prize for the best factual story of the
war, a record of his experiences in Thai-
land and Japan.
With over 12,500 hours’ flying to his
credit, P. T. L. Taylor, flying superin-
tendent for A.N.A., is one of the select
band of pilots with more than 10,000
hours in their log-books. He has carried
over 45,000 passengers and is licensed to
fly 30 different types of aircraft. Hailing
from the Speck, he got his early educa-
tion under his grandfather at the State
school at Sorell, Hobart Tech, finished
him off and in 1924, after 12 months on
an orchard, he bought a garage and a
fleet of vehicles and operated a service
between Hobart and Sorell and the Tas-
manian east coast. Tasmanian Aero
Club taught him to fly, and he got his A
licence in 1930 and his commercial ticket
in 1933. He became pilot for Nettlefolds,
of Hobart, flying a Hawk Moth on a
regular Hobart-Launceston service. Joined
Holymans—later A.N.A.—in 1934 and
by 1941 had completed 2000 round trips
between Sydney and Melbourne. During
the war he was in charge of flying opera-
tions of his company’s chartered planes
with the U.S. Army, and last year he took
the Warana on the first “familiarisation”
flight to Vancouver.
Adelaide Nat. Gallery gets a £lO,OOO
bequest from the A. R. Ragless estate for
the purchase of pictures. This is pre-
sumably to encourage bigger works being
bought; at any rate, no painting under
£l5O is to be bought. Max Ragless,
the Adelaide artist, is a nephew of
the testator.
Edward George Brooke, retired Aus-
tralasian divisional manager of Cable and
Wireless in Melbourne, is better as a
stayer than his horse Tea Cake, Caulfield
Guineas winner in 1942. Under the rules
of the company Brooke was due for re-
tirement in 1921, but he stuck on for
another 26 years, and at 81 is as alert and
active as many men half his age. He
was in charge for his firm when the
Emden raided Cocos and made a landing,
and when the Japs, 27 years later, raided
it with bombers and omitted to make a
landing, being bluffed by a fake message
to Java stating that the atoll had been
demolished—actually it was functioning
again within six hours. In his last few
years of office Brooke saw every cable
station in his system except the Australian
occupied by the Japs; 815 members of
the staff were captured, and many were
killed or reported missing. One of his
last jobs was the reconditioning of these
same stations, oTie by one, as they were
recaptured, and their remanning by re-
leased p.-0.-w. He has also seen his con-
cern amalgamated with Wireless and then
beebme a nationalised institution. Born
in Melbourne when his parents were on
the way to M.L. from Yorkshire during
the gold rush, Brooke joined the cable
service in Hobart when it was in its
infancy and has seen the speed of work-
ing go up from 15 words a minute to 200.
A personal note from one of the oldest
Bulletin bards, whose existence many
readers have doubted, but who is still
very much alive:
) Dear Sir, —Received payment with thanks.
I’ll endeavor later to forward further items
of verse. The grip of rheumatics at un-
expected times makes old age weaker.
Under the circumstances I’ve a lot to be
thankful for. I can dip the pen and hobble
about for exercise ‘ like a knocked-kneed
donkey.—Yours truly, Bellerive.
It came from Melbourne, which has been
the city of “Bellerive’s” soul for some
years.
Awarded the Air Force Cross, E. H.
(“Tim”) Lonergan, eldest son of the
Mudgee family which owns a big slice of
the town and district, learned to fly with
the N.S.W. Aero Club, and before the
war was one of the leading owner-pilots
of the State, flying everywhere in his own
Beechcraft and regularly figuring in air
pageants. He enlisted in the R.A.A.F.
early in the war as an instructor at an
E.F.T.S., eventually gravitating to the
staff at Airboard with the directorate of
training. In addition to managing the
family interests he has his own aircraft
workshops, where repairs and conver-
sions of military aircraft to civilian use
are carried out. Arriving at Narromine
for a pageant dance one Saturday night,
he landed with the help of a set of car
lights. When the door was opened Tim
stepped out in top hat and tails.
When the Astronomer Royal, Sir
Harold Spencer Jones, arrives shortly on
a visit to this country he will meet an
old friend and protege in Dr. Woolley,
Director of the Commonwealth Solar
Observatory at Canberra. Jones was
director of the Cape Observatory when
Woolley was a student at Capetown Uni-
versity and uncertain what profession to
follow. The elder man directed him to-
wards the stars, and ever since they have
been in correspondence on the subject;
in fact, they exchange wireless communi-
cations daily. It was by this means
that Sir Harold was able to fix the exact
longitude of the Canberra Observatory.
His own observatory at Greenwich, in-
cidentally, is under a cloud, literally as
well as figuratively. Modem industrial-
ism has so obscured the atmosphere about
the famous old place and million-power
lights have made the sky so bright that
the observation .tower will shortly be
shifted to Hurstmonceaux Castle in the
south of England. Time measurement is
Sir Harold’s specialty—he is the world
authority on it, and only a handful of
scientific men can understand him on the
subject.
Research which enabled him to warn
pastoralists of the locust plague in the
northern areas of S.A. last spring earns a
D Sc. for Dr. W. G. Andrewartha ento
mologist of the Waite Institute in S.A.
who has spent eight years in research on
plagues of locusts and grasshoppers. He
finds that, after several years of more
than average rain in arid areas, plagues
of locusts mbve south into the agricul-
tural areas, whereas grasshopper plagues
which incidentally contribute to soil ero-
sion, do not migrate outside a definite
climatic belt, and occur after years of
less than normal rainfall. Andrewartha
collected his B.Sc. at Perth Uni. in 1929,
spent several years in the Westralian De-
partment of Agriculture, then conducted
research on thrips in Melbourne for the
C.S.I.R. prior to his appointment at the
Waite in 1935,
A headmaster of a great school who,
as far as he knows, has never seen his
pupils sounds something of a phenome-
non, but this is the case with W. H.
Fredericks, new head of Wesley in Mel-
bourne. He’ll be getting his first glimpse
of their well-washed faces about the time
this par. sees print. Fredericks came to
his appointment from the University,
where he was senior lecturer at the school
of education, and when he took it up
most of the youngsters were on Christmas
vacation at a forestry camp and else-
where. Born at Williamstown, and edu-
cated at Castlemaine and Geelong High
Schools, he got his degree in French and
English at the University of Melbourne,
and went to the Sorbonne in Paris for
further polishing up. In 1930 he returned
to the staff of the Teachers’ College and
then to his old Alma Mater, where he
founded the “French for Schools” broad-
casting session. With the aid of a French
singer who sang folksongs and a French-
THREE Rs.
man with whom he argued he made it the
most attractive way of learning a foreign
language any kid could hope for.
Into the silence:
At Basingstoke, England, at 75, Brigadier-
general William Robarts Napier Madocks, who
served two years with the N.Z. forces during
the Boer War; commanded a battery in the
first few months of World War I and later
served on the staff, collecting a D.S.O. in
1917 and a C.B. in 1919. He retired in 1927.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 64, Arthur Leslie
Braisby, a veteran of the Boer and first World
Wars. He was a member of the force guarding
Von Luckner at Motuihi and had been inspec-
tor in charge of the Samoan Constabulary since
1924.
At 79, in Melbourne, Frederick William
Kaiser, who, for services to ambulance work
in Victoria, was made an officer of the Order
of St. John of Jerusalem. For 50 years he
trained and examined thousands of first-aid
students.
At Maleny (Q.), at 96, John Robert
Pattemore, native of Somerset, who came to
Australia in 1857. He is survived by 39 grand-
children, 97 great-grandchildren and seven great-
great-grandchildren.


ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN,
PADDINGTON (300 Beds).
MATRON required for the above Hospital.
Salary at the rate of £6OO p.a. and quarters.
General and Obstetric Certificates essential.
Applications, stating qualifications, experience and
age, and enclosing copies of testimonials, to be
addressed to Secretary, Benevolent Society of New
South Wales, Thomas Street, Sydney.
Applications will be treated as confidential. Closing
date February 28, 1947.
W. B. RODD, Secretary.
Women's letters
From Melbourne
Every Bayside resort is filled with
holiday-makers, with families out to make
the most of the last week of the school
vacation, and from Lome to Apollo
Bay, the coastline has been bathed in
glorious sunshine. Girls this season have
become very beach-clothes conscious,
with a sun dress with full peasant skirt
and square-cut bodice and shoulder straps
most favored.
This week’s Chatter takes in news of
South Australia, Passing through Mt.
Gambier were many well-known Mel-
bourne residents on the way to Adelaide.
The Blue Lake, one of the town’s most
popular beauty spots, had many visitors.
Every hotel in Adelaide has been booked
out for weeks, and the unwary traveller
has a hard time finding accommodation.
The shops are well stocked and the
Adelaide women are well dressed, albeit
in simple, casual fashion. Unusual sight
to the Melburnian is the white-helmeted
policeman who, from the centre of the
street, and shielded from the glare of the
sun by a large umbrella, directs the
traffic.
At the Hotel Richmond in Rundle-
street, Melbourne artist Alan Bernaldo
and his wife have their headquarters.
Alan left home, fully prepared for the
lack of accommodation on the way, but
camping out wasn’t necessary. Their
leisurely progress around the coast nas
been very profitable, for Alan made many
sketches, and he is also spending time at
Victor Harbor, capturing with his brush
the beauties of the coast. Peggy Bernaldo
says the hospitality of Adelaide friends
is overwhelming, and tennis parties, cock-
tail parties and dinner dates are coming
their way thick and fast. Also at the
Hotel Richmond is Len Norman, who
motored from Sydney to Melbourne, and
then on to Adelaide by the coast road.
Former Melbourne resident, Mrs, Stan
Tibbett, is now firmly established in her
home at St. Georges, one of Adelaide’s
many beautiful suburbs. She and her
daughter Pearl go soon to Victor Harbor
for a short holiday. Pearl’s friend Pat
Turner, who is the only daughter of Mrs.
Turner, of Napperby Station, Alice
Springs, and the late Thomas Turner, is
in the empyrean, for she has just had a
cable from her fiance. Major John Doyle,
of Ordnance, who has been in England
for the past two years, to say he is com-
ing home.
The reception rooms at the Hotel Rich-
mond were gay with bowls of hydrangeas
and gladioli for the wedding of Wendy,
elder daughter of Mrs. Stuart Halliday,
of North Adelaide, and Maxwell, only
son of Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Monfries, of
Medindie. Wendy wore a simply-tailored
gown of ivory satin, with crystal beads
taken from her mother’s wedding gown
adorning the yoke and sleeves. The full
skirt, gathered at each side of a centre
panel, ended in a short train. Her lovely
cream Honiton-lace veil, which was also
worn by her mother, was held with
gardenias and stephanotis, and her bouquet
of the same flowers was mixed with ivory-
tinted rosebuds. Her sister Jennifer,
whose apricot-tinted frock of satin was
made with a fitted bodice and bouffant
tulle skirt, was bridesmaid. On her hair
she wore a wreath of pink Cecil Brunner
roses and blue delphinium, Murray
Burchell was best man. Marriage was
celebrated at St. Peter’s College Chapel,
the school chaplain. Rev. McLaren, offi-
ciating. Assisted by the bridegroom’s
parents, Mrs. Halliday received the guests,
wearing a floral crepe frock and small
flower-trimmed hat. Among the guests
were Rachel Hopton, smart in a wine-
toned ensemble and half-hat of burnt
straw trimmed at each side with clusters
of flowers; Margaret Bradbury, in a
floral frock and Leghorn halo hat;
Shirley Monfries in a pink linen suit and
white hat, and Barbara Metters, whose
choice was a brown crepe frock with gold
sequins trimming the yoke worn with a
white straw flower-trimmed hat.
During the war years, Joyce Macartney,
possessor of a very lovely voice, gave
her services freely to various patriotic
organisations. Every week she went to
the Heidelberg Military Hospital and
entertained the patients. Recently she
won the P. and A. Parade, sponsored by
a local broadcasting station. Early in
April Joyce, with her husband, will go to
America to fulfil a series of engagements
on American radio. At Menzies recently
Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Tracey gave an
afternoon-tea party, with a view to gain-
ing the assistance of representatives of
the organisations helped by Joyce, for a
complimentary concert to be given for
her in the Melbourne Town Hall, on the
night of February 25. Assisting hostesses
were Madeline Tracey and her twin
sisters, Margaret and Eunice, Mrs. lan
MacFarlan, Mrs. Barry Thomson and
Miss Jessie Shmith (who was Joyce’s sing-
ing teacher) were among the guests. Presi-
dent of the Woollies Appeal, Mrs. J.
Keys, offered the city offices as head-
quarters for the concert committee.
Joyce, very thrilled at the prospect of
going to America, looked charming in a
beige-sheer suit with brown accessories.
The lass pictured here is Joan, elder
daughter of Mr. C. E. Barnes, of Canning
Downs, Warwick, Queensland. From St.
Margaret’s School, Berwick, near Mel-
bourne, Joan went to the University, She
had just completed her second year Arts
course when Manpower sent her back
home to help her father on his property.
That settled her academic career. Nine
months ago Joan joined the staff of the
U.S.A. Government Information Library
and is still there. Joan has just announced
, . c
her engagement to Gordon, only son of
Mrs. Byron Moore, South Yarra, and the
l ate Mr. Eric Byron Moore, Gordon
served in the Middle East and Pacific
a f eas six .
d> a mond and sapphire No plans
aTfte Town
The Sunday night show at the Town
Hall compered by Tommy Trmder, given
Mayor’s Food-for-Britain
A PP eal > att / acted a J ;
had a great run for . its < money. „In parti-
uular the epical andTypicalgrinder gags
ha i 1 , . .1'
From the Tivoli, His Majestj-s and the
Comedy came top-line stars among them
Jenny Howard. Lord Mayor Connelly,
who has done such a grand job with Ins
Appeal, obviously enjoyed the show At
he conclusion of the performance he
tanked the audiimcean? all
of Melbourne for generous support to the
Efms P e °P e -, , .
the Lord Mayors party were his
br ° th er Dermot and Mr Dermot Con-
nelly, Town Clerk Harold Wootton and
his wife and other councillors Lady
f ras « r " ®2 lart as H sual in black, celebrated
her birthday anniversary by commg to the
show, and many others broke away from
holidays to be present. Mrs T m Jones
w ith son Ben and daughter Betty, came
&°m K . ynet ° n Waeffk/
a ” ew X J “a ™ll M K
white check. frock alliedwvift whit* cune
wdh her husband an E tty
Mitche 1 from their seaside, home at
Era ?, s l on ' ,ess,e ? ei i, secre ifV w
L°rd Mayor was also there At the l close
of the show theaud.eiree ldmost I:ifted the
J, with There Always
Eng } ana : . w r
.The American Women s Auxiliary to
the Children s Hospital will soon lose two
Q f - ts most energetic members, Mrs.
Reng jj 0 | t and jyj rs Ear f Moser, who are
} eav j ng sbo rtly for America, where they
ma j ce tbe j r homes. Mrs. Holt has
g j ven unsparingly of her organising
g alents fof g^ d cau§e fm the past n
years During the war the staffing and
cater j ng 0 f t h e American canteen took
up the fe lioi p s share of her time> she re .
tums noW) a widow, with her 16-year-old
son Gordon, having completed a grand
j ob — or f WO grand jobs. Mrs. Moser, who
w - tb ber husband has lived in Melbourne
for j 2 wag a]so active in the
American Red Cross during the war.
Last year she did a Very fine job for
T7 rclt ,bcfr>n rtrostnkino the Tnninr T ihrar-V
EranJCStOn, Organising me Junior LlDrary
and Craft Centre, which has developed
un hl there is now a membership of 650
gMs and boys.
From Sydney
By the time this is in print the Duke
cff Gloucester is just about back in Eng-
land. He flew off in his Avro York,
Endeavor, from the Kingsford-Smith Air-
port shortly after eight o’clock on Friday
morning under a grey sky and a thin
drizzle of rain. This was the passing of
the freak thunderstorm that had savaged
Sydney on Thursday evening and caused
a delay of 12 hours in our royal
Governor-General’s departure. Prime
Minister Chifley was, after all, not at
the final take-off. With Dr. Evatt he had
flown from Canberra on the Thursday
evening and Mrs, Chifley had motored
from Katoomba. At the Duke’s invitation
the Chifleys and Dr. Evatt then went to
Admiralty House, where Mr. and Mrs,
Chifley said farewell and then departed
for Bathurst.
Dr. Evatt was among the 200 or so
who were at the airport on Friday morn-
ing. The State Governor and Premier
McKell were there, too, also heads of all
the services. •
Among those who received the royal
handshake of farewell were the Duke’s
chauffeur, Tom Gale, who plans to stay
in Australia, Mrs, C. H. Miller, wife of
the Duke’s Chief of Staff, Elspeth Miller,
and Mrs. Michael Hawkins, whose hus-
band is A.D.C. to H.R.H.
On Saturday evening music-lovers went
to the Conservatorium to hear tenor
William Herbert. Mr. Herbert is the
young Melbourne singer whom Eugene
Goossens has specially recommended to
the Covent Garden management. He has
been trained by Dr. A. E. Floyd, of
Melbourne, since he was a choir boy at
St. Paul’s Cathedral in that city. The
singer is tall and slim and in addition to
his vocal gifts, which are beyond ques-
tion, he has the appearance of a young
hero. He sings all the time as though he
loves every phrase. His “Ecco Ridente in
Cielo” had a Borgioli-like quality. The
night’s pianist was Eunice Garland, pic-
torial and vivid in her short gold jacket
and flowing green skirt —a nice color
concerto. This was her first Sydney
appearance with the A.B.C. Sydney hopes
to hear her on many more occasions.
The Dominion Monarch will carry
away from Australia the bright-faced girl
of this picture. She is Patricia West, who
came down from Ceylon, 10 years ago.
to go to school at Abbotsleigh, the well-
known North Shore Line training ground.
Pat has now completed her school days
(she sat for her Leaving at the end of
last year) and she goes off with her
mother, Mrs. R. M. West, and young
sister Gillian for South Africa, where Mr.
West is eagerly awaiting their arrival.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
Australian championships drew vast
crowds of tennis-lovers to the White City
last Saturday afternoon. The weather
was ideal for players and onlookers.
Women followers of the play wore tub-
bable frocks, very often white, and large
shady hats. Of course there were the hat-
less women, among them Mrs. Pat
Osborne, of Harden. Mrs. Charles Lloyd
Jones, there with her husband, wore a
white frock flecked with red. With them
was attractive Phyllis Hughes, Youngest
visitor present was Robyn Bromwich,
three-months-old daughter of the famed
John Bromwich. She was carried on to
the ground by her mother and grand-
mother Mrs. Oliver, of Melbourne, in a
cosy-looking basket. Mrs. Adrian Quist
was among the enthusiasts, as was
Claudia Beazley.
When the Sydneyite read of the trans-
port and engineering strikes in England
and America he never thought of their
interfering with the work of the Anti-
T.B. Association’s Clinic in Albion-street,
Surry Hills. But the association’s travel-
ling clinic, which was to have taken the
road last June or July on a tour north and
south, east and west of the State, will not
commence its journey till the early
months of this year. Delays in the de-
livery of the X-ray plant and the chassis,
and then delays in assembling them at this
end, have put back one of the most essea-
tial jobs in Australia. When the clinic
gets going it will consist of an X-ray
plant and a fully-equipped, lab. Its very
coming will be a morale builder to out-
back families whose members may be
suffering from the dread disease.
During the Health Week Campaign in
the Town Hall towards the end of last
year hundreds of boys and men queued
up daily for the free X-ray provided by
the association. A few weeks ago the
father of one of the lads who had been
rayed came into the clinic. As a result
of what his son had told him of the
work of the association, he had travelled
over 300 miles to Sydney to have his own
chest X-rayed. In spite of the sun and
our wonderful climate the ravages of
tuberculosis in Australia are staggering,
so your aid and mine is needed to help
build up funds for the successful carrying
on of the work.
Last Friday Diana and Judith Roche
gave an informal dance so that their
friends might meet three of Adelaide’s
best-known girls: Anne Bonython, Pat
Hardy and Elizabeth Jolly, who are
staying in Sydney. The dance was at the
Roche home, Cranford, Edgecliff. The
three visitors are well-known social
hostesses, the parties at their respective
homes being always delightful.
Kenn Brodziak, some time out of the
Air Force, is now settled in Melbourne.
He spent a recent holdiay in Sydney
and did the rounds of the little
theatres. Before the war he used to
write and produce his own (and produce
other people’s) plays with great enthusi-
asm. Down in the southern capital Kenn
runs the Aztec Services Pty, This has
lately produced something new in the
way of guide books. It is called High-
lights on Melbourne. It has lists of the
leading hotels and restaurants, theatres,
shops—even a puppy-shop among them.
It tells of parks, gardens and tours in and
around the city. And it doesn’t forget
that the Sabbath comes once a week, for
it names churches of every denomination
and tells where to find them.
The A.B.C.’s music director, William
G. James, went flying last week across
the Pacific on the first lap of his journey
to America, Canada and Europe. He wants
to study post-war developments in music.
The great thing about this quest is that
William G. knows and understands what
he is looking for. Aft Australian-born
musician with a distinguished reputation,
he is known here and abroad as a pianist,
conductor and composer. He has played
under the leadership of Sir Henry Wood
in the Queen’s Hall and the Royal Albert
Hall, London, and in his young days had
been in the same companies as Tetrazzini,
our own Brownlee, Melba and Melchior.
In that exquisite little bandbox of a
theatre the Savoy, he conducted his own
ballet, “By Candlelight,” with Sir Thomas
Beecham’s orchestra. His visit should
succeed in snaring many singers and
musicians to the A.B.C. net.
An interesting visitor to Sydney from
Melbourne is Miss S. A. E. Strom, who
is editor (for love) of the “Dog Watch,”
the annual magazine brought out by the
Shiplovers’ Society of Australia. To be
a member of the Shiplovers’ fraternity
you need not have served two years be-
fore the mast, nor need you have been
captain of a ship of the line, or even
a stoker in a transatlantic liner. All
that is necessary is that you have some
slight connection with the sea, and that
you really love ships. Of course many
of the members have been born and bred
in the traditions of the sea. Miss Strom’s
father, for instance, was a captain in the
Mcllwraith McEacharn line for many
years, and the list of members fairly
bristles with the names of old salts.
On this year’s cover of the “Dog
Watch” is a most spirited picture of the
Swedish training ship Abraham Rydberg.
Perhaps there is no more graceful sight
in the world than a tall ship in full sail.
This sailing ship has had three names,
first the Hawaiian Isles, second Star of
Greenland. What a pity the christenings
did not stop at the second piece of
imagery. The tang of the sea breathes
through every one of the 128 pages of
“Dog Watch.” For those who like to fol-
low the history of those ships of far-off
days and their ventures from England,
Canada, France, the U.S.A., this annual
has strong appeal.
If you have an inclination for high
society in England from the late
’nineties to the years before the first
Great War and for beautiful English
you’re going to have some fine hours
with Osbert Sitwell’s Scarlet Tree. It
is, too, the correct thing at the moment
to ask for it at your library or book-
shop. The jacket cover is an amazingly
arresting and fanciful one. It shows the
figure of a young man with all his veins
and arteries traced in scarlet. The title
of the book refers to the belief of the
old anatomists that the blood formed a
growing tree within the human body.
Reading this book now, after the last
war, has a strange effect. It is a way of
life that sounds almost fairylike.


&e.
SB?
"CTH
One Executor
with the Knowledge
of many
When you take the serious step of appointing someone to
. act as manager, executor or trustee of your estate you ate
entitled to be fully satisfied as to capacity to do what is
required.
The future of others who mean much to you depends upon
your choice.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia meets all require-
ments. For sixty years it has rendered service precisely
similar to what you require.
It has built up a fund of knowledge and experience which,
through trained executives, is readily available to you.
Its directors are men of substance and standing, themselves
well accustomed to the discharge of very responsible duties.
Their accumulated experience is also at your disposal.
Estates worth in the aggregate many millions of pounds
have been handled by the Union Trustee, over two genera-
tions. That is the basis of the confidence Which has led so
many prudent people with responsibilities to choose the
Union Trustee.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporate in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS;
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor: Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Larritt.
Manager: J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c. ; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g. ; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager; L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager; H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager),
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street—A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
' PRICE.
ŵ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery .including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories,
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
I Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.
( D ivs. %
Net Pref. To Ee- Re-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves)
£ £ £ £ £
1939.. 94,184 5983 10 p.c. = 57,899 ) 23 321 8.505
Share-issue exes., £6981 .. )
Additions reserves, £24,068 .. .. 27,573
Added goodwill, £18,129 .. .. 9.444
Establishment accounts w/o, £2157 .. 7,287
1940. .140,153 14,400 10 p.c.= 61,058 64,695 71,982
Net reserves capitalised in subsidiaries,
£20,137 51,845
Goodwill disappears, £7670 .. .. 59,515
1941. .116,674 14,400 10 p.c.= 74,723 67,551 87,066
Share premiums, £117,984 .. .. 205,050
Unexplained additions, £13,524 ..218,574
Share-issue exes., £5899 .. .. 212,675
Goodwill added, £39,879 .. .. 172,796
Debits new subsidiaries, £10,025 ..162,771
1942. .193,861 14,400 10 p.c.=109,743 69,718 232,489
Goodwill added, £3302 .. .. 229,187
Unexplained reduction, £10,751 . • 218,436
1943. .186,208 14,400 10 p.c.=117,984 53,824 272,260
Goodwill added, £903 271,857
Unexplained addition, £372 .. .. 271,729
1944. .208,663 14,400 10 p.c.=117,984 76,279 348,008
Added intangibles, £53,482 ... .. 294,526
Unexplained reduction, £2382 .. .. 292,144
1945. . 200,454114,400 10 p.c.=121,508 64,546 356,690
Net reserves new subsids., £17,469.. 374,159
Added intangibles, £82,432 .. .. 341,727
Debenture-issue expenses, £17,864 .. 328,868
1946.. 236,866 14,400 10 p.c.=125,031 97,435 421,298
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
+ After deducting intangibles, now £130,660
j After reducing published figure by £14,000
extra tax subsequently paid.
Stimulated by prospects of a new share
issue and impressed by the co.’s rapid and
profitable development to date, the
market for the ords. has been strong and
lively. After being jammed at the old
official ceiling of 495. 6d. the scrip was
among the first to gain freedom under
the new Stock Exchange internal control
plan. The price shot up to 595., and
then eased to around 58s. At
58s, the immediate return would be
3.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The in-
vestor who looks for a shade over 4 p.c.
on his money counts on a one-for-three
new issue at par or something equivalent
thereto. Last issue, one-for-two in 1941,
was at a premium of 50 p.c.
On February 3 shareholders will be
asked to increase nominal capital to
£5,000,000 by creation of 3,000,000 new
£1 shares. No details of the expected
new issue have yet been announced.
Since end 1936—just after the public be-
came interested —£1,370,382 has been
added to paid capital, making it
£1,490,312, of which £240,000 carries a
fixed cumulative 6 p.c. p.a. Of the in-
crease the public put up £1,039,517,
bonus scrip accounted for £135,500, the
balance being issued mainly in part pay-
ment for subsidiary interests. Also,
£1,000,000 of 4 p.c. 20-year debenture
money was gathered early last term.
The co. and its associated and subsi-
diary interests are scattered throughout
Australia, Maoriland and S. Africa. They
are a self-supporting complementary
group which turns out felt piece-goods,
carpets, footwear, dress cloths, men’s
suits and wool tops and yarns.
Further extension of interests and all-
round expansion of output are reported
last term, and a ready market awaited
the goods. Including an unexplained
addition of £18,360 to reserves, the net
result was £36,412 stronger at £236,866.
That covered pref. requirements and
17.8 p.c. on the £1,250,313 of ord. capi-
tal, compared with 14.8, 16.4, 14.4, 16.3,
13.6 and 20.6 p.c. back to 1940. The
div. remained steady at 10 p.c., and has
done so for the last 10 years. After
allowing for various adjustments on ac-
count of new and old subsidiary interests
and for the cost (£17,864) of the de-
benture issue, reserves increased the book
value of their lead over intangibles by
£64,608 net over the twelvemonth, mak-
ing the excess £421,298.
In Australia the year’s developments
included formation of British Australian
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd., in conjunc-
tion with English interests. Issued capital
is £125,000, of which £92,500 is held by
Felt and Textiles. The new co. is to
turn out Wilton and Axminster carpets
from looms now being installed. Also,
three new footwear factories —one in
N.S.W. and two in Vic. —were opened
up and two more clothing factories- —one
each in Melbourne and Adelaide —were
acquired.
The Maoriland subsidiary (Felt and
Textiles of N.Z., Ltd.), now a public
co., has a paid capital of £325,000 in £1
shares, of which the parent owns 225,000.
It paid 8 p.c. last term. This offshoot
has also formed a carpet-manufacturing
subsidiary to operate in the Dominion,
and will presently offer 130,000 new £1
5 p.c. prefs. and a like number of ords.
—two prefs. and two ords. for every five
shares now held. The parent intends to
take up its quota—9o,ooo each prefs. and
ords.
Felt and Textiles of S. Africa, Ltd.,
has a paid capital of £738,811 in £1
shares, of which the parent holds 310,000.
It paid 8 p.c. last term. It bought a half-
interest in the 80-year-old wool-scouring
business of Gubb and Inggs for £71,500,
and a 40 p.c. interest in Fine Wool Pro-
ducts of S. Africa, Ltd. (paid capital
£450,000), for £lBO,OOO. The last-men-
tioned co. owns topmaking and woollen
and worsted spinning and weaving plants
at Uitenhage. The balance (£270,000) of
its capital is held by the Industrial De-
velopment Corp. of S. Africa, a Gov-
ernment concern. Felt and Textiles of
S. Africa will presently offer 260,189 new
£1 shares, and proposes to increase
nominal capital as well.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures of the group:
1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £1,183,786 £1,490,312 £1,490,312
Outside interests.. 259,791 ■ 154,102
Debentures .. 1,000,000
Mortgage .. 183,293 158,353
Overdraft .. 970,609 1,274,138 1,078,461
Sundry creditors, etc. 343,484 510,170 597,362
Tax provision .. 146,650 435,997 362,724
Inter-eo. balance.. 4,127 6,753
Freeholds.. .. 351,136 702,519 707,513
Plant .. .. 573,219 875,633 941,764
Shares other cos.. . 25,882 36,230 354,151
Stock . . . . 1,313,211 1,881,815 2,365,162
Debtors .. .. 534,123 940,511 925,238
Cash, etc 25,445 23,665 18,226
Mortgage sinking fund 10,000
Inter-co. balance.. 9,073
The debenture money went mainly into
stocks (up £483,347), shares in other cos.
(up £317,921) and plant (up £66,131).
The reduction of £105,689 in outside in-
terests relates to adjustments in connec-
tion with the S. African co., technically
no longer a subsidiary.
Beau Monde, Ltd. (Melb.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £ £ £
1936 .. 80,034 25 p.c. = 22,956 7,878 76,175
1937 .. 30,610 25 „ „ 25,507 5,103 81,278
Special tax assessment, £2099 .. 79,180
1938 .. 28,209 20 p.c. = 25,500 2,709 81,889
1939 . . 14,370 10 „ „ 12,750 1,620 83,509
1940 .. 15,820 10 „ „ 12,750 3,070 86,579
1941 .. 13,022 10 „ „ 12,750 272 86,851
1942 .. 14,533 10J „ ~12,113 2,420 89,271
1943 .. 15,941 10 „ „ 11,475 4,466 93,737
1944 .. 12,247 10 „ „ 11,475 772 94,509
1945 .. 11,638 10 „ „ 11,475 163 94,672
1946 .. 16,571 10 „ „ 11,475 5,096 99,768
An interesting development. Assisted by
a fat pile of reserves and connections in
all States, the co., which turns out
women’s hosiery and lingerie, set up at
Moreland (Vic.) in 1929, and paid some
fat divs. (average 23% p.c.) for four years
after the public became interested in 1935.
Then a jump of 50 p.c, in the cost of
raw silk, and price-cutting—a common
feature when plant capacity in an industry
runs too far ahead of demand—combined
to bring the div. down from 20 p.c. in
1938 to 10 p.c. in 1939. The rats has re-
mained steady since at the lower figure—
war eliminated the cutthroat competi-
tion, and Government contracts and care-
ful control offset the effects of rising costs
and difficulties associated with rationing,
raw materials, manpower, plant, etc.
Owing to use of cheaper raw materials,
liberal allowance for depreciation, etc.,
and inability to obtain new plant or re-
pracements, a fine pile of cash and Gov-
ernment securities was accumulated dur-
ing the war years:
1989. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £127,764 £115,015 £114,767 £114,767
Creditors .. 11,502 3,427 3,624 6,854
Tax provision 1,433 10,375 7,920 11,002
Freeholds .. 59,414 58,514 56,883 67,639
Plant, etc. .. 57,652 30,916 7,804 10,186
Stocks . . 83,478 ' 65,554 50,602 55,488
Debtors .. 22,402 15,991 15,766 19,970
Cash, etc. .. 14,238 52,850 95,665 84,847
Last term’s net addition of £10,756 to
freeholds and of £2382 to plant reflect
establishment of a branch factory at
Dandenong (Vic.) to help overcome the
labor problem. Cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £lO,BlB, reducing the figure to
£84,847. Debtors’ balances alone more
than covered outside liabilities, thus leav-
ing the co. well-equipped to bring plant
abreast of latest overseas technical de-
velopments, including use of nylon and
other synthetic yarns, so as to maintain
competitive ability. First deliveries of
new equipment, now on order in Britain
and America, are expected early this
year. ,
There was no difficulty in selling last
term’s increased output on the hungry
civilian market. After allowing an addi-
tional £3337 for taxation (£11,000), an
extra £1166 for depreciation (£8364) and;
including £4OOO specially set aside for
plant replacement, etc., the net result
was £4933 stronger at £16,571. That was
14.4 p.c. on capital as against 10.1, 10.6, ■
13.8, 12, 10.1 and 12.3 p.c. back to 1940. |
Shareholders’ prospects depend largely
upon what happens within the trade itself
after the initial post-war hunger for goods
is satisfied and competition begins to
make itself felt again. Selling prices are j‘
still officially controlled, and costs remain j
on the up-grade, and seem likely to con-1
tinue so, for a while at any rate. Only
very limited supplies of raw and artificial
silk and nylon yarns are available to date.
The price of raw silk is now four times
its pre-war level.
The pound shares, jammed at the old
ceiling price of 365. 3d. at end 1946, re-
cently fetched 38s. 6d. At the higher
figure the return is 5.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 375. 4d.
Hordern Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
( Dividends To
Prefs. Ee- Re-
July, Profit. 6.9 & 6.2 p.c. Ords. serves.serves.*
£, £ £ £ £
1936.. 39.048 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,124 11,749 51,976
1937.. 42.313 13,175 6 „ „ 14,530 14,608 66,584
1988.. 44.497 13,175 6 „ „ 14,530 16,792 83,376
Written off buildings, £20,000 63,376
1939.. 42.087 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,811 14,101 77,477
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO .. 67,477
1940. .45,710 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,986 17,549 85,026
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO .. 76,026
8 & 8 p.c.
1941. .51,778 16,000 8 p.c. = 19,982 15,796 90,822
1942. .42,714 16,000 8 „ „ 19,982 6,732 97,554
From specific reserves, £20,000 .. 117,554
1943.. 38,235 16,000 8 p.c. = 19,9,82 2,253 119,807
9 & 8 p.c.
1944. .41,661 17,000 9 „ „ 22,479 2,182 121,989
1945. .40,556 17,000 9 ~ „ 22,479 1,077 123,066
1946. .41,630 17,000 9 „ „ 22,480 2,150 125,216
Transferred from tax prov’n, £18,747 148,963
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (£48,093).
There is £449,775 of capital to feed in
100,000 9 p.c. first and a like number of
8 p.c. second cum. prefs. and 249,775 ords.
The ords., held mainly by the Hordern
family and their friends, are not listed.
Public interest is confined to the prefs.,
which are subject to a 22% p.c. cut under
the outmoded N.S.W. Interest Reduction
Act, with the right to advance point for
point with the ords. to their original con-
tract rates.
The policy has been to strengthen the
co.’s shock-absorbers, visible and other-
wise, to brighten and improve shopping
facilities for customers, and offer keenly-
priced goods, thus strengthening goodwill,
valued at £48,093 in the books and worth
a lot more. So for nine years to the
close of accounts in 1940 the ord. div.
was kept at 6 p.c. and the first and second
prefs. received 6.9 p.c. and 6,2 p.c. re-
spectively. Then an all-round 8 p.c, was
paid for the three years to 1943, since
when the firsts have had their full con-
tract rate, and the ords. 9 p.c. Latest
reported sales, before the turn of 1946,
were 325. 6d. firsts and 30s. seconds, at
which figure the return is an attractive
5.5 p.c, and 5.3 p.c. respectively on the
basis of last term’s distribution. The
full contract rate on both lots of prefs.
and 9 p.c, to the ords. together calls for
£39,480, which has been more than
covered by declared net earnings for
each of the last 10 years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, retailers were in clover,
as the following table shows —it gives
percentage changes in aggregate turnover
of 22 Sydney stores compared with cor-
responding periods of the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended
A N
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- + 2.6 + 5.6 + 3.2 + 6.3 + 4.6
1940- + 7.5 + 7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 + 9.4 +11.5 2.4 + 8.0
1942- 6.0 —19.3 —lB.B 6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 1.6 + 1.3 1.8 5.7
1944- + 6.6 + 7.4 + 4.8 + 3.2 + 5.4
1945- +22.5 +30.8 +37.2 +35.3 +31.6
Buying pressure eased only slightly dur-
ing the last half of 1946, though the
public is becoming much more discrimi-
nating in its purchases.
After providing for taxation, deprecia-
tion and other contingencies, the board


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
PATENTS, TRADE MARKS,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH. HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS—EST. 1595
Asbestos House, 67 York St.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone
BW 4931
Contractors to Government Municipal ,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
'JACKSON &
40 SHLliVA]v
pram
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who (have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 28M) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
TALLOW WANTED
Consign your Prime Mutton and
Beef Tallow to
Vegetable Oils Pty., Ltd.,
52 Gardener’s Road, Mascot.
Price £27/15/- per ton
at Darling Harbor.
Reference Bank of New South Wales.
yioney for
Development
IT will not have escaped the
* notice of most people that
the Nation’s need is the produc-
tion of more goods and services.
It is not any shortage of money
that stands in the way of nation-
al progress. This Bank has ample
resources for financing the devel-
opment of healthy enterprises
be they big or little. Its long
experience in helping its thou-
sands of customers build their
businesses is an assurance that
it can help new customers.
The Managers of the Bank’s
Head Office and of 311 Branches
will be glad to discuss the
question of credit with those
4 desiring it.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
01 SYDNEY UNITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
w
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS”
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Piy. Ltd.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty.,
Ltd. VICTORIA—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick,
Melbourne. Q’LAND —Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialities, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
ŵ
I
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q’LAND OF
MEEHANITB
METALS
wrote last term’s net result £1074 better
at £41,630, enough to cover full pref.
requirements and 9.8 p.c. on ord. capital.
And £18,747 previously overprovidea tor
taxation was tossed into the general lay-
by, raising it to £148,963 in excess of the
intangible. Prospects of last year’s rates
of distribution being repeated during.the
current term are encouraging, despite
maintenance of price control, the lift in
the basic wage and rise in costs generally.
The financial position improved:
1939. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £449,775 £449,775 £449,775 £449,775
Overdraft, etc. 22,986 12,180 •
Mortgage .. 100,333 100,333 100,333 100,333
Sundry ‘ cred.* 97,038 159,278 209,321 218,760
Premises .. 290,561 273,064 273,064 273,064
Fittings, etc. 88,380 79,280 65,381 61,998
Stocks .. 178,688 306,428 403,834 424, oi<
Book debts .. 88,903 58,885 45,153 53,340
Mortgages .. 54,932 52,317 54,933 53,413
Cash, etc. .. 59,987 49,146 52,618 52,307
* Including tax provision.
To carry an extra £20,213 of stocks and
add £BlB7 to debtors’ balances only
£9439 was added to the outside debt. The
year’s improvement of £27,765 in the
more or less liquid surplus (£274,549) sug-
gests that the year’s profit was not over-
stated.
From a man on the spot; — ■
Mica is in short supply in Australia and all
over the world. The one worth-while field in
Australia, and that potentially a major one, is
located at Harts Range, Northern Territory.
Here condition of the industry is pitiable.
Production continues to fall off, and up to
50 per cent, of miners have left the field in
the past 18 months. Despite many applications,
Commonwealth authorities refuse to do any-
thing about it. At present ceiling prices miners
can barely pay expenses, let alone make wages,
and, with costs still on the up-grade, the
position must continue to deteriorate.
Yet to import mica from overseas, as will
be shortly inevitable, will cost the importer
two to three times the ceiling price paid to
the miner. This mineral was essential to suc-
cess of the war effort. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, at astronomical cost, endeavored to
produce on a large scale, and failed dismally.
The experienced individual miner (as with
wolfram) maintained the supply, but tdday he
is forgotten, as with the necessity of yesterday.
One tangible way to improve the present
position is to raise the price ceiling and allow
men to earn a decent living. On this field
men and their families live in rough sheds and
tents; small amenities, such as wireless sets and
refrigerators, essentials in a hot climate and
on an isolated field, can be counted on the
fingers of one hand. Domestic facilities are
crude. I called at a leading producer’s the
other day. Dinner comprised galah stew, with-
out vegetables, bread but no butter, and only
a little hard cheese. Typical of a way of life,
born of economic necessity, and possibly only
with faith in the future.
Of more value to the miner than all the
so-called Government assistance and control
in the world is this question of an increased
price for his product. The lift must be sub-
stantial ; as much as 100 per cent, would still
keep the Australian internal price belpw cost
of importation. With expansion of the industry
beyond Australia’s needs an export trade of
considerable importance may well develop. This
field has a tremendous potential, at present
ignored by authority.
* * * *
The lift in the overseas price of lead
has sent miners’ wages at the Barrier
(N.S.W.) rocketing, and therefore bumped
up the cost of ore extraction. Under
agreement with the cos., the miners get
a lead bonus of 6d. a shift for each £1
rise in the realised price of the metal
above £AI6 per ton. Average realised
price for lead obtained by the cos. dur-
ing December was £A63 4s. 7d. a ton.
That means the lead bonus payable to
the miners for February will be 245. a
shift, or £6 a week, as against £4 2s. 6d.
a week at present, and £5 a week (pre-
vious highest) in September last. For the
12 months to end June, 1946, the bonus
averaged £2 19s. Id. a week, and added
9s. 3d. a ton to the year’s average mining
costs at the South. For the same period
average basic wage at the mines was
£5 14s. lid. a week, plus 3s. 6d. a week
war loading, which is still being paid.
Recently the Arbitration Court added an-
other 7s. a week to the basic wage. So
miners’ wages at the Barrier will average
at least £l2 ss. sd. a week for February.
* * * *
Because the surface in Australia has
already been well scratched for minerals,
attention is now ‘being turned to geo-
physical methods in the hunt for major
discoveries. This class of prospecting is
usually carried out in three stages; (1)
geophysical surveys to delineate likely
ore-bearing country, and to determine
structural features controlling minerals,
(2) concentrated geophysical surveys to
directly explore ore-bodies or structural
patterns under cover and (3) adequate
diamond-drilling to test located targets.
J. M. Rayner, chief geophysicist of the
Bureau of Mineral Research, says some
of the most interesting results of geo-
physical work in Australia to date have
been tracing the structural continuity of
the southern extension of the lode at
Broken pill, of deep leads near Tingha
(N.S.W.), of ironstone lenses, some con-
taining gold, at Tennant Creek (N.T.), of
low-grade copper deposits at Cloncurry
(Q.); and exploration of the West Lyall
(Tas.) ore body, of ore extensions *at
Renison Bell (Tas.) and of copper-nickel
occurrences near Zeehan (Tas.). Satisfac-
tory results have also been obtained in
application of the gravimetric method to
problems associated with the extension of
coal deposits. At the moment this method
is being applied in a survey of the coal
basin in Westralia.
* * * *
Brisbane-controlled Raub Australian
Gold, operating at Pahang (Malaya), ex-
pects to receive a Government rehabilita-
tion loan of $1,250,000 (approx.
£A35,714) on terms yet to be arranged,
and anticipates renewal of leases for an-
other 50 years. Most of the materials
for two sets each of five-head of stamps
is on the site, and the ten-head is ex-
pected to fall by end February. Another
ten-head battery is on the way. With
20-head of stamps falling a daily through-
put of 120 tons of soft-surface ore,
averaging about 2idwt., is expected.
Power house is in fair order, with enough
current available for immediate require-
ments. A ball mill has been delivered,
water pump and pipe line are in course
of erection, but classifier requires repair.
The overall plan for lay-out of the new
mill is not yet complete. Ore reserves
are estimated at 158,150 tons —92,700
tons probable and 65,450 tons prospective
—expected to average 4dwt. to 6dwt.
There is about 32,000 tons immediately
available. Prospecting is expected to dis-
close more pay-ore. The f.-p. ss. shares
recently sold at 7s. 3d. in Brisbane.
Owing to continued low recoveries
and rising costs, Barrytown Gold Dredg-
ing’s big 2,500,000-c.y-p.a. bucket-dredge
ceased operations at end May, 1945, when
f , j ’
it was placed on a care-and-mamtenance
basis. Some surplus stores and other
materials have been sold, and a start has
been made with the dismantling and crat-
ing of the dredge preparatory to dis-
posal. At end March last the dredge
stood in the books at £123,346, property
and sundry plant £59,863. Government
securities (£60,000), cash (£20,383), shares
in Gold Mines of N.Z. (£1125) and
debtors balances, spares, etc., totalled
£91,970, against winch there was £1859
"mmg to outsiders• Surplus current
assets were thus equal to over 14s. per
d Qrd share 4 Th( . dredge wiu need
tQ rea^se a jjttie over one-quarter of its
value for the ords. to get their
cap i ta i back. Paid capital is £128,750 in
125,000 £1 ords'. and 75,000 deferreds of
i s . each. The ords. are entitled, to their
paoney back before the deferreds come
into the picture on a capital basis. Sellers
recently asked 18s. for the ords.


ill
te tit an,
B FINE HOFEI
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENFWDRTH
in
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
BRANIMJER3
PS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
Missing Friend.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of CHARLOTTE
STEVENS, formerly of Fitzroy, in the State of Vic-
toria, please contact HUGHES, BROCKMAN &
PRICKETT, of 201-204 C.M.L. Buildings, 53 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL JOHN O’NEILL late of Euston Hotel
272 George Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
HELEN MARY O’NEILL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4296 of 1946 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before the 24th day of February 1947 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from HILL,
THOMSON & SULLIVAN, Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— -(1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN - THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ARTHUR COBDEN late of Wagga
Wagga.—TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET HELENA
COBDEN has filed her Petition for Divorce No. 4740
of 1946 on the ground of your desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 17th day of February 1947 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from McDONELL &
MOFFITT, Petitioner’s Solicitors, 6 Wynyard Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MAUD IRENE LAMOND formerly of Numbaa
Nowra and late of 14 Linthorpe Street Newtown in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that OLIVER THOMAS LAMOND has commenced a
Suit for Divorce No. 738 of 1946 against you in this
Court on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House King Street
Sydney by the 17th February 1947 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from ALFRED
J. 'MORGAN & SON, Petitioner’s Solicitors, 129
Pitt Street, Sydney.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
Sunday shows
WYNNE AND ARCHIBALD.
This year’s Wynne Prize went to Lance
Solomon’s “January Weather.” The judges
could hardly have awarded it to anyone
else. There were two outstanding paint-
ings in this section, “January Weather”
and another Lance Solomon, “Pleasant
Day, Canley Heights.” Neither of them
is as good as some other Solomon
paintings—“ Smoke Haze” and “Aus-
tralian Coast” come to mind —but they
were unquestionably the best submitted ;
subtle, masterly and presenting some-
thing of this painter’s unique contribution
to Australian landscape painting.
If it is depressing to pass from the
Archibald section to the upper reaches
of the gallery, where the great portraits
of Lambert hang, it is more heartening
to compare Solomon with the great land-
scape painters. Dargie may look weak
beside Lambert, but Solomon has some-
thing to say beside Gruner and Streeton.
Taking him at his best, the comparison is
not unfair. But, looking again at the
giants, one is struck by the size of some
of their canvases ; they painted in the
grand manner. It seems a natural and
necessary development of Solomon’s
talents that he should now tackle some-
thing on the scale of “Fire’s On” or
Gruner’s spring frost masterpiece.
The other Wynne Prize entries were
on a different level. Alfred Fischer’s
“Tranquil Day” had something to say,
and promised more ; though the influ-
ence of Buckmaster is too much
apparent. Orban’s “Bronte” was interest-
ing but muddled, and S. Herman had an
“Outback” landscape, the kind of bare
statement which is rapidly becoming a
cliche.
Although Solomon’s work might have
won the prize in any year, it is obvious
that both competitions have fallen on evil
days. It may be that in view of some of
the extraordinary decisions in recent
years—the award of the Wynne to Her-
man’s “McElhone Stairs,” for instance —
many artists have lost all faith in the
trustees’ judgment. It may be, too, that
the more sensitive artists do not care
to submit themselves to the abuse
commonly hurled by “S. M. Herald” at
all work not imitating the latest European
crazes —or, rather, the crazes of 20 years
ago. Again, it seems to have become an
unwritten law that no watercolor paint-
ing shall ever be awarded the Wynne
Prize, so that the leading members of the
Australian Watercolor Institute seldom
bother to compete.
Solomon, good as he is, would not
have the Wynne all to himself if, among
others, John Eldershaw were to enter a
watercolor or Percy Lindsay an oil. In
the Archibald competition, where the
general falling-otf of quality is most
noticeable, Arthur Murch and Mary Ed-
wards are notable absentees.
William Dargie’s portrait of L. C, Rob-
son, which won the year’s Archibald
Prize, was the best of an indifferent lot.
Competent enough as a piece of realistic
portraiture—using that expression in the
superficial sense—it is conventional, unin-
spired. The head is painted with fidelity
and technical skill, but in the clothes,
though the paint is not slapped on any-
how, there isn’t the fine finish of the
great portrait-painters.
But there is nothing else there which
could have taken the prize. William
Dobell’s portrait of Mrs. F. Clune has
the Dobell vitality, a certain charm and
the well-known green gloves; but it is
too slight and light-hearted an effort to
be worth seriously considering for the
prize. There is a portrait of W; J.
McKell by Joshua Smith, painted with a
fine regard for the fabric of his suit, sur-
rounded by the epistolary trappings of
state and with a salmon-pink face; a
dignified study of John Frith by H. A.
Hanke, and a good deal of other unin-
spired work. Also two vigorous and un-
finished-looking self-portraits by Jorgen-
sen. But in all the entries nothing really
Don't show him in, Denise, till I finish doing my finger-nails .”
worthy of the premier Australian prize
for portraiture.
For the good of Australian painting it
might have been better to hold over the
award.
S. Herman won*the Sulman Prize with
“Natives Carrying Wounded Soldiers” a
crude mass of greens and loincloths.
Pirandello at the Independent
As has been mentioned before on this
page—several times —it is necessary to
travel to see drama in Sydney. To Reiby-
place ; to odd comers of Darlinghurst;
to Mosman and Killara. And also to the
Independent Theatre, North Sydney,
where Doris Fitton is producing Luigi
Pirandello’s “Six Characters in Search
of an Author.”
The Independent Theatre, perhaps, is
more fortunate than some. It has a
theatre. But it is unfortunate that a
theatre which has persisted in putting on
a wide variety of famous plays should
be remote from the city. Not too far,
perhaps—a tram gets there fairly quickly
when trams run —but sufficiently isolated
to miss out on the bulk of city custom. It
is doubly unfortunate for the casual
theatre-going public, who have a choice
—a dozen and more choices —of cheap
synthetic emotion practically on every
street corner.
“Six Characters in Search of an
Author” belongs to the category of plays
which may fairly be labelled “interest-
ing” ; it is. The author plays tricks, and
gets away with them. The scene opens
with a cast preparing to rehearse. Actors
and actresses appear on the stage,
sauntering, conversing; the women, as
women will, conversing excessively. The
producer chivvies them a little. The
play is by a well-known dramatist —
Pirandello! Then the Six Characters
arrive—dramatically.
After a good deal of conversation, the
characters explain themselves. They are
creations —full-blown—in the round, as it
were, but with no parts to play. The
author made them, got them hopelessly
tangled up, then left them. An intoler-
able situation, as the Father explains ;
for ever on the knife-edge of an emotion.
Incredible? Well, no, the Father ex-
plains. Is not Puck real? And Shylock?
More real, perhaps, than the producer.
The producer runs the gamut of amaze-
ment, bewilderment, anger, thus taking
the edge off the incredulous surprise of
the audience —the real one, not the stage
one, who sits down on the left-hand side
and registers all the required emotions.
And that, of course, is the way of it in
all good fantasies.
It is skilfully done. The story of the
six characters is told backward, sideways,
all ways, but always moving to a focal
point. There are a middle-aged man and
woman, man and wife. The husband
highly-educated, introspective, with a
“demon of experiment,” and weaknesses
which shame and exasperate him. The
wife is uneducated, emotional, and, as he
says, “mentally deaf.” Then there is their
son, a tortured adolescent, who is legi-
timate. And her three illegitimate
children, the Daughter, the Boy, the
Child.
The acting, throughout, is good. Diana
Perryman, as the Daughter, is superb;
flashing, passionate, gay, caustic. Edgar
Veitch, as the Father, has a difficult part.
Most of the philosophy stems from him,
and it is a highly philosophical play.
Whenever this threatens to strangle the
theme, Pirandello, somewhat unfairly,
evades the charge by admitting it.
The Boy and the Child, important
characters, never speak. A difficult job,
technically, one might say, with a large
cast on the stage (the other cast swells the
numbers) and silent, central figures. And
yet, precisely because it is the stage the
illusion is good. One can see them.
Among the crop of Hollywood pro-
ductions at present in town, there is no-
thing to match it. And that, perhaps, is
the special virtue of the stage: despite
occasional fine films, it is difficult to get
the “atmosphere” of the theatre, the
“feel” of it, from close-ups of this or that
starlet’s long lashes and attractively coif-
fured hair.
William Herbert Recital.
At his farewell concert at the Sydney
Conservatorium on Saturday night the
young tenor William Herbert revealed
in ample measure the qualities which so
impressed Eugene Goossens, He opened
his concert in traditional tenor-rdcital
style with a Handel aria: “Would You
Gain the Tender Creature?” Always a
stern test of breathing, a Handel piece
invariably demands legato singing of a
high order. The tenor sang this number
as to the manner born, with a commend-
able “attack,” a bell-like clarity in the
head register and excellent resonance in
the chest. Beethoven’s “Adelaide”—a
most difficult song, for Beethoven never
wrote well for the.voice—wasn’t in Mr.
Herbert’s happiest vein, but a group of
Schumann and Schubert lieder was a
sheer delight, especially the latter’s “The
Wraith.” The Roger Quilter song cycle
“To Julia” was tenderly expressive, and
a Rossini number showed that Mr, Her-
bert can turn on a respectable dash of
power when required.
Eunice Garland accompanied nicely,
and in solo work passed with facility
from the delicate touch necessary to the
Mozart A Major Sonata to the wild
vigor without which the works of
Granados and Albeniz are as the oyster
soup without the bivalve.
At the Talkies.
“Mildred Pierce” (Regent), Warner
Bros.’ version of James M. Cain’s novel,
is taut and exciting, with patches of un-
realistic drama ; small patches, however,
for which the story is more responsible
than the drama.
Acting, generally, is good, with Joan
Crawford starring, looking sufficiently
exotic and listless, and at the same time
making a sympathetic and intelligent in-
terpretation of character.
Drama, indeed violence, is created by
the opening, a murder; the story is then
traced, very neatly, by a flashback tech-
nique, during an interview between Mil-
dred and a police inspector. Film in-
spectors, by the way, are steadily improv-
ing: this one is ably played by Moroni
Olsen.
If murders and flashbacks are becoming
screen commonplaces, at least “Mildred
Pierce” is a model of its kind. And Mil-
dred’s life, as might be expected, is com-
plicated. She starts off as the wife of
Bruce Bennet, who plays the part of an
unemployed estate agent; they part, and
she slips into the role of a determined
mother.
Ann Blyth as Veda, the adored and de-
testable child, is unconvincing. But here
again some of the fault lies in the role.
Mildred makes good, provides riches
for her daughters, and marries a
scoundrel (Zachary Scott) who, with Jack
Carson, provides much of the support-
ing talent. And she also tries her hand
at murder, which is what the story is
about, anyway.
* * * *
“Rhapsody in Blue” (Mayfair) is the
story of the life of composer George
Gershwin, told with a collection of his
popular compositions floating in the thin
air of the artist’s mental strife. Add to
that even the choice selections from his
love-life, and the total is still far from
really good entertainment. The Gersh-
win melodies are beautiful; the title com-
position is always well worth hearing.
However, the spaces between the music
are blank indeed. “Rhapsody in Blue” is
like st novel which, if carefully pruned,
would make a first-rate short story. To
make a biographical film entertaining is
a feat not beyond Hollywood. “The Jolson
Story” proved this. In the latter, the
personality of a great entertainer was
recorded in song and placed, by the
neatest sound-track manipulation we have
seen, into the mouth of a completely dif-
ferent human being. Even though
“canned,” A 1 Jolson enjoyed a great
success, and although not a tear
dampened scribe’s gimlet eyes, he admits
that occasionally through the perform-
ance a lump performed vigorously just
south of his front collar-stud. From the
aspect of truly portraying personality, and
from the mere narrative point of view,
the Gershwin opus is a foil to the Jolson.
In “Rhapsody in Blue” one suffered no
emotions beyond wondering when it
would finish; in “The Jolson Story” one
hoped it would not.
* * * *
Give Hollywood producers enough
rope and they’ll make a .film out of it.
“Undercurrent” (Sydney St, James) is
their latest length of binder-twine, its
fibres of woeful plot and poor directing
successfully stifling the natural ability of
the principals. Katharine Hepburn un-
wittingly steps into a self-stirred whirl-
pool owned by Robert Taylor. With
drama flaming from each nostril, she is
spun in the current until the 99th reel,
when she definitely looks like sinking.
Tense scene with Robert preparing to
ruin her coiffure with a small boulder.
Then the only member of the cast worth
his oats leaps into action. It is a horse,
which pleasingly paws Robert to death.


Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon totaled by Quticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticuia cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder. c
Do you need a
personal -
If you're troubled with money J SLf B Jl&m f
worries or need funds for some •
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance. THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN:
Repayment of loans may be arranged for periods up to 3 years.
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
[Hural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage*
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —•
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The S.T.C.’s card of eight races at Canterbury
on Saturday included three divisions of a fixed-
weight Maiden Stakes, and as well only one
of 24 youngsters competing in two juvenile
events had previously won a race. One would
have thought that should have been enougn
to repel punters in droves; actually attendance
and tote figures showed a considerable increase
on those of the corresponding day last year.
Results were in accordance with the appearance
of the programme, not a favorite winning.
A belief that the starting boxes at the six-
furlongs barrier would cure his roguery led
to Felstar being sent out favorite for tde Flying-
He took kindly to the stall and got away well
enough from the rails position, out thereafter
didn c look like winning at any stage. Claim-
ing 71b. allowance for apprentice R. Mclntosh,
to carry a mere 6.9, the Pentheus gelding
Pearler led all the way, hanging on well to
win a photo-finish from El Grandee, with
Dutchman third. Pearler had drifted in the
betting to 20 to 1.
The Lord Mayor’s Cup over 11 furlongs
attracted a pretty poor field, though with £louo
added, plus trophy, it was a race worth win-
ning. Lord Mayor Bartley handed the Cup
to F. C. Kiilick, owner of the Marconigram
gelding Courier (A. Ward). Well in it with
7.8, Courier finished too powerfully for Sitent
and Homeleigh Dick.
Even among Sydney’s bookies it takes a
fair weight of money to bring a price tumbling
from 25 to 1 down to 7 to l. Such a plunge
was successful when Sueanne (£. Ross), a
Bourbon filly having her first run, defeated
Sunbrown and the favorite Ashmaganda in the
Nursery for fillies. Sunbrown, a Manitoba filly
also having her first run, might have finished
closer to tne winner had she not been bustled
along disputing the lead with Ashmaganda most
of the trip, in the colts and geldings division
of the Nursery, Pharmmda and Heroic
Sovereign had a ding-dong tussle from start to
finish. Pharminda fN. Sellwood) drew a little
ahead as they reached the post, while a Titan
colt, Rabelais, was a moderate third, appearing
lucky to beat Lucky Me, whose finishing run
was worth keeping in mind.
All that could be said after three big fields
bad scampered over six furlongs in the Maiden
events was that three out of the 60 animals
engaged were now no longer maiden per-
formers. In the first division a Coronach
three-year-old, Rotoiti, defeated Havachat and
Penthrillus, honors of the race resting with
apprentice B. Robards, who scrubbed the win-
ner home with rare determination. Then the
Harinero filly Raceme won narrowly from
Doubloon and Golden Guinea, the latter im-
pressing as the one most worth remembering.
G. Moore gave his evidently-numerous fol-
lowers some respite by winning the third
division on The Buzzard gelding Hijacker, who
accounted for Young Andrew and a likely-
looking Ajax colt, Trajant. Hijacker was third
favorite at 11 to 2, but Moore’s losing mounts
during the afternoon included four favorites;
one of them was Right Royal, who finished
fourth in the Welter behind The Doctor (N-
Sellwood), Silver Spear and Darnley.
V * * *
The handicapper expressed a very high
opinion of Invasion Chief’s chances against
a moderate bunch in the Ascot Thousand at
Mentone on Saturday, awarding him 9.13 —
411 b. above the minimum. Next in the weights,
Unfurl, had 101 b. above the minimum, and
with Badger up had to carry a pound over-
weight. Seven of the 15 starters had the
minimum 7st. Punters agreed with the handi-
capper by sending the Valiant Chief horse
out favorite at 5 to 4, but he needed all the
luck of the running and failed to get it. He
was last to leave the barrier and, under his
big weight, failed to make up the leeway.
Unfurl led the rush round the six-furlongs trip,
but failed to hold off Apropos (J. Purtell) as
they neared the judge. Tamerlane was third,
the three placegetters sharing second favoritism
at 7 to 1.
Apropos was a course scratching from the
10|- furlongs Devonshire Handicap in favor of
the shorter trip—a wise move as it proved.
Evidently her recent runs over middle distances
have improved her stamina without impairing
her speed. For the Devonshire, Logical was
favored, but any of his supporters who watched
him all the way would have missed seeing
most of the race. In a close finish Night
Fighter returned to the winning list with a
half-neck victory over Bannerette, followed by
Dominate. G. Bougoure won the race when
he ran Night Fighter smartly up through the
field to take the lead ’from Finlarig entering
the straight, whereafter he outlasted Bannerette.
Another to come good after some recently
disappointing form was the Manitoba filly
Amelia. A 71b. allowance for the stable appren-
tice K. Tully reduced her weight to 8.7, under
which she was able to recover from a seemingly
hopeless position half way down the straight.
Switched to the outside at about the last
possible moment, she produced a beautiful ran
down the centre to just head off the Hellespont
filly St. Marion. Blank Music bagged the minor
place.
Evidently considering him the least favorably
handicapped, the Willmott stable scratched
Royal Mark from the two-year-old’s Shrews-
bury Handicap, pinning their faith instead to
Vrondi, a full brother to the recently-successful
Judith Louise. Vrondi failed to enhance the
family reputation, finishing only a moderate
third to Viking (20 to 1) and Perola (100 to 1).
Viking, ridden by W. Richards, first out
from the barrier, dropped back a place, Rich-
ards being content to allow Perola to make the
pace till the time came for a successful dash in
the straight.
In the Gainsborough Handicap at a mile
Anstey again proved an expensive failure, being
well beaten by the Aztec gelding Bronx (H.
Badger). Anstey made all the running in Satur-
day’s race, but showed no heart when chal-
lenged by Bronx, meeting him on equal terms
with 9st.; Benambra was third.
The only successful favorite on the day was
the Waikare gelding Faunus (G. Bougoure),
who downed Panahero and Golden Pheasant
over 13 furlongs. Bougoure repeated the tactics
which had proved successful on Night Fighter,
moving up very sharply to cut off the oppo-
sition at the turn; then in the straight Faunus
left them standing. The Trial Hurdle was won
by Louisville, in the betting though others were
preferred. John Emery and Canadian Wonder
were placegetters.
» * * •
For Randwick: The Anniversary Double
(before acceptances):—•
Challenge Stakes (Saturday): Cragsman, 1;
Native Son, 2; Earl Pcntheus, 3.
Anniversary Handicap (Monday): Homeleigh
Dick, 1; Codicil, 2; Cavalero, 3.
"There's been a mix-up, Snowy. You re on in the next fight."
Appeals on behalf of Melbourne trainer
S. Murphy, stable jockey S. Henry and the
horse Prating against the 12-months’ suspen-
sion imposed as a result of an inquiry into
the horse’s running at Flemington on New
Year’s Day were successful. Additional wit-
nesses and veterinary evidence satisfied the
officials.
* * * *
The catalogue for New Zealand’s twenty-first
National Sale of Thoroughbred Yearlings lists
464 youngsters, representing the progeny of 71
sires ranging alphabetically from Airway to
Vaals. With many Australian buyers attracted
hy the offerings, they’ve been selling at high
figures. At time of writing, with two days
of the sale still to go, 37 lots had each brought
1000 guineas or over, and in all 140 had aggre-
gated 112,015 guineas at an average of 800
guineas. Very high prices have been paid
for the progeny of Foxbridge, not surprisingly
since the Foxlaw stallion has headed the N.Z.
sires’ list every year from 1941 onwards. Ten
of them fetched a total of 20,750 guineas, one
colt out of the Spearfelt mare Rosespear bring-
ing 4000 guineas.
* * * *
Lord Rosebery, one of the three stewards
of the Jockey Club, presiding at the annual
meeting of the Thoroughbred Breeders’ Associ-
ation, dealt with the French invasion of the
English turf:—
“We welcome these invasions. They are good
for trade; they are good all round. We cannot
expect constantly to sell our horses in the export
trade unless the buyers of these horses do well
with them. We have been told repeatedly
recently that our method of breeding is wrong
and that we are getting no stayers. I would
point out one thing first of all, that the aim of
everyone in England is to breed the winner of
the Derby, a race which is run over a mile and
a half —admittedly, at the pace at which it is
run, about the severest mile and a half that
there is.
“The French goal, on the other hand, is the
Grand Prix, a race of nearly two miles for
three-year-olds. During the whole 167 years
the Derby has been run it has been won, so
far as I can make out, three times by French
horses, Gladiateur in 1865, Durbar II in 1914,
and Bois Roussel in 1938, and it has been won
once by an American-bred horse, Iroquois, in
1881. This is not a bad record in the race and
at the distance for which we set our highest
standard.
“The 1946 Gold Cup at Ascot was won
by a French-bred horse, and French-bred horses
filled the remaining places, byt the previous
time they won the Gold Cup was in 1924.
“The same criticisms on our horse-breeding
were made then as are being made now.
In those days we had no rationing problems,
after the war, but in these days we have, and,
so far as I can see, we will continue to have
them.
“In England mares, foals and yearlings had
all been on short rations for several years.
It was a curious coincidence that the French
victories had occurred when an Irish breeder
headed the list for the first time. An Irish-bred
horse won the Derby for the first time for some
years, and the fastest three-year-old, The Bug,
also came from Eire, and in Eire there also
had never been any rationing for horses. In
spite of the fact that only our best mares re-
mained, the percentage of barren mares, which
in the period 1937-40 was approximately 33.4
per cent., had risen to nearly 44 per cent. That
could come only from lack of proper feeding-
stuffs.”
* * * *
Determined to add a world championship
horserace to the extraordinary number of sport-
ing world championships they promote in
America, officials of the Empire City racetrack
are putting up a gold cup for their autumn
meeting. For three-year-olds' and upwards,
it’s to be run over 13 furlongs at w.f.a.,
with $lOO,OOO przemoney. It is intended to
invite outstanding gallopers from other racing
countries, particularly England, .France, Aus-
tralia and Argentina. Winners of American
and British classics will automatically be
eligible. The promoters are depending on
air transport, proved all right by the recent
flying of a load of six thoroughbreds from
Ireland to California. It is claimed that
horses are not susceptible to nervousness or
airsickness when flying, and that after a long
air trip they are ready to start work in a day
or two. After the same distance by sea they
require some weeks of rest. Still, it would cost
a bit, and the starting fee is $1000! The Empire
City people may have to do some subsidising.
* * * *
In winning last year’s English St. Leger
the grey Precipitation colt Airborne joined
distinguished company. Coronach, Trigo,
Hyperion, Windsor Lad and Bahram are the
only others to have brought off the Derby-
St. Leger double since 1919. Precipitation,
who also sired last year’s St. Leger winner,
Chamossaire, is by Hurry On, the sire also
of Coronach. Imported in his old age to
New Zealand during the war, Coronach there
sffed the Melbourne winners Anstey qnd
Revinach and the recent Sydney winners Grove-
town and Rotoiti.
* * * *
M.C.C. in Tassip:
At Hobart a Combined XI (Miller, Johnson,
Barnes and Hassett went over) scored 374 and
2 for 145; M.C.C. 278 and 9 for 353 (dec.).
A couple of Apple Islanders pinched the lime-
light—wicketkeeper J. Gardiner 94 not out,
and Laver (a relative of one-time great Vic-
torian player Frank Laver) 5 for 26 (he wasn’t
asked to bowl in the first innings). Denis
Compton’s 124 was the only three-figure of the
match.
Against Tasmania at Launceston M.C.C. rattled
up 467 for 5 wickets (dec.), Compton getting
163, Hardstaff 155 and Hutton 51. Tasmania
on a wicket crashed for 103 and 129 for
six wickets.
Compton (1182 runs, av. 56.28) and Hutton
(1093, av. 60.72) are first over the thousand-
runs mark, with Washbrook (901, av. 45.05)
and Edrich (829, av. 59.51) close up. Sut-
cliffe’s 1626, av. 73.90, in 1924-25 in Australia
is the record they have to chase in the remain-
ing six matches of the tour. •
* * * v
There’ll be no changes in the Australian XI
for the fourth Test at Adelaide on January 31,
though a djffprent player may hawk the drinks.
Also Scott* and Berwick will be the umpires.
Hammond and Bradman had the right to have
either removed from the provided they had
“a reasonable and tangible objection.”
* * * *
“Long Leg”: With the “ashes” in the can
the selectors could reasonably have asked some
of the eligiblys on the doorstep to step up.
Among these are Lukemajn, Saggers (reserve
’keeper) and Pettiford, of N.S.W.; Loxton (his
innings in first-class matches this year are 232
not out, 73 and 87), Harvey, Tamblyn and
Meuleman, of Vic.; Gogler (who has got
double figures in every Sheffield Shield match)
and Hamence, of S.A.; Carrigan and Rogers,
of ' Q’land. Time was when young players
were sought out: Clem Hill, Archie Jackson
and Bradman were in Tests when 19.
* * * *
In the liveliest batting burst of the season
Victoria piled up 466 v. Queensland at Brisbane.
It began when Miller and Meuleman scored
93 for the second wicket, then Hassett and
Loxton used the long handle to add 172 in
106 min. for the fourth wicket. Hassett scored
200, Loxton 87, Miller 81. McCool (5 for 170)
and Raymer (3 for 114) took the wickets.
Queensland’s reply was 235, Carrigan (58) and
McCool (36) alone showing out against the
bowling of Miller (3 for 21) and Tribe (3 for
83). Hassett’s 200 lifts his Sheffield Shield total
to 2865, averaging 63.66. Nothing short of an
earthquake will rob Victoria of the Sheffield
Shield.
* » » *
American swimmer Ralph Wright
smashed three Australian breaststroke
records in N.S.W. championships in Syd-
ney last week. He pushed the 110 yards
behind in Imin. 16.35ec., 200 yards in
2min. 32.85ec., and the 220 yards in 2min.
50.4 sec. The figures are a long way off
world’s records, but Wright won the
events very easily,
* * • *
Losing the Davis Cup has evidently ha<J
its effect; teams to tour MX. and
S’Africa include some young players.
Brodie and Sedgman (Vic.), Worthing-
ton and Quist (N.S.W.) and Mrs. Bolton
and Mrs. Long (Vic.) head for S’Africa ;
Brown, Sidwell and Gilchrist (N.S.W.)
and Long (Vic.) go to MX.
*»* * *
Queenslander Tommy Burns, who lost
his Sydney Stadium scrap against Ron
James—arranged when the Patrick-James
scrap fell through because the Welshman
couldn’t get down to the lightweight limit
—should have beeji warned against what
he did by a notable precedent. In 1941
Patrick lost Jiis first fight against Tod
Morgan in exactly the same way—by
whacking the American when he was
down. Patrick did it in the fifth round ;
Burns a round earlier.
* * * *
Flyweights Jimmy Hogg (7st, 131 b.) and
Rip Bunker (7st. 121 b.) furnished action
galore at Leichhardt. For a few rounds
it looked as if Bunker’s advantage in
height and reach would prevail, but
Hogg’s snappy straight punches were too
good. As the dingdong scrap progressed
it several times seemed that another solid
punch woul4 have stonkered Bunker, but
Hogg failed to follow through. Hearty
Leichhardtian hoots greeted referee Art
Mawson’s decision, but Hogg won it all
right;
* * * *
Without having to call on atomic or
any other special energy Sel Hamilton
(10.2) outpointed the blocky Sydney
welter A 1 Moran (10.9) all the way at
Melbourne Stadium. Hamilton’s sup-
porters have big money to say he would
make it considerably harder for Burns to
pass a screen test if a match was
arranged; in fact that the view would
crack the camera.


Hu
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
incorporated in England)
Overseas (business
comprehensive service is avaitabUe to ai
exporters, importers and others having business
overseas.
dJhe Union idanh specialises in every description
ofibanking and exchange business.
OF
fit's
&
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
Business. Rollery, Etc
Share-controls Gone
A free market is now established for all
active Stock Exchange securities, and
sellers as well as buyers are generally in
evidence. In one group—insurance shares
—only a couple of stocks had freed them-
selves by last wfeek-end, but this condition
of things was rapidly becoming the excep-
tion. From the beginning of the present
week control of share prices has become
a thing of the past.
Early last week the upsurge that fol-
lowed the first relaxation of controls
ended, and Tooth, for example, declined
from 765. 3d. to 735. 6d., and seemed
inclined to stabilise at that figure, return-
ing a yield of £3 11s. per cent. Closing
(pegged) price for 1946 was 68s. 3d.
Felt and Textiles, which rose from a peg
of 495. 6d. to 58s. 9d., came back to
565. 6d. In the overdone retailer group
there was a sharp reaction, the Sydney
index for this type of shares, which rose
from 156.6 on Dec. 23 to 186.9 on Janu-
ary 13, slipping back to 180.6 on January
18. Bank shares, led by the ’Wales, rose
smartly early under the new conditions,
then reacted slightly. Highest quote for
the ’Wales was £4O 17s. 6d. (the peg was
£34 155.). North Broken Hill, after reach-
ing 695., steadied around that figure, while
New 8.H., unavailable for months, were
offered at under 41s. eventually.
Volume of trading has been heavy—
possibly a record—and brokers have been
busy. How long the present tempo of
dealings will be maintained it is hard to
say; no doubt there has been a banking-
up of deferred sales in anticipation of
the free market. In this connection the
initiative has been all with the seller until
just recently ; now there is a tendency for
the market to swing the other way. But
until banked-up selling orders are cleared
away it will be impossible to judge the
state of the market with any accuracy.
Considerable confusion exists in the
whole picture, especially where N.Z.
quotations are available for the same
stocks. London sales and free Australian
quotes are coming approximately into
line, on the other hand. Within Aus-
tralia there has been very little oppor-
tunity for arbitrage, Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide quotations being closely in
keeping with each other in spite of the
unusual nature of trading*
A suggestion from the position last
week that the market for many leaders
had reached its peak for the time being
will probably bring in a number of addi-
tional sellers who have bfeen waiting an
opportunity to sell shares at what they
consider to be a reasonable price. Some
such investors are wondering what the
taxation position is in the event of their
making a profit after, possibly, years of
holding. The attitude of the Federal
taxation commissioner is that he taxes
such profits only when he considers that
there is evidence of trading in shares.
Evidence of trading would include a case
where there had obviously been numerous
dealings in a short period, indicating pur-
chase with the objective of making quick
market profits. So far as investment
activity over the past five years is con-
cerned it would be hard indeed to estab-
lish evidence of trading, as, up till the
end of 1946, it was illegal to sell shares
within five months of purchase, and it
\yas often impossible to buy scrip at
pegged prices, or, if it was, to sell it again
at more than th.e pegged price except after
a long period of waiting.
Those who have any doubts as to their
position can derive a clue from the
“Pity they haven’t got a gas-stove in the office !”
manner in which they have been assessed
on the dividend income in the past. If
dividends have been taxed at the property
rate it is clear that the taxation commis-
sioner is not treating the shareholders as
traders, since trading would imply per-
sonal exertion, even so far as dividend
income was concerned.
Where there are potential traders on
the market at the present time, they should
give their position serious consideration.
Speculation in shares involves risks of
loss, while “trading” profits will be subject
to prevailing heavy taxation rates. Though
profits judged to come from trading will
increase taxable income and the tax-
payer’s general tax rate, losses may not be
allowed as a deduction unless taxable
profits from share-dealings have been
established in a prior year. This situa-
tion in general may slow down Exchange
dealings of a speculative nature as soon
as the present long-delayed meeting of
buying and selling investment interests
adjusts itself. The heavy trading over
the two or three weeks since the Ex-
changes reopened may later on prove it-
self to have been mainly a balancing of
deferred buyer-seller interests, with little
real speculation involved. The seemingly
slavish attention to yields offering on the
shares supports the suggestion that in-
vestors have predominated among
buyers, and speculators have been a
minor quantity. Which should be all in
the interest of a steady market in the long
run.
On the whole the industrial group has
been the most neglected by buyers during
recent dealings. This appears to be
mainly because of labor troubles, especi-
ally noticeable in the case of A.C.1.,
bottle-manufacture having ceased before
Christmas. From the long-range point of
view, however, industrials are the most
attractive on the market —that is, to those
who believe that Australian wage-earners
will one day return to their senses and
agree to do a fair thing for fair pay.
Retailer Stocks
• The greatest price-rises in any active
section of the share-lists since Treasury
control was lifted have taken place among
retail stocks. Retailers have had an in-
teresting war-time history. Most of them
have been able to get rid of dead stock ;
it has been unnecessary to advertise ex-
tensively or push sales, and their chief
problems have been the getting of mer-
chandise, price-control and heavy taxa-
tion. Man-power call-ups took care of
surplus staff during the war—only during
1946-47 have staffs been restored to 1941
levels.
Some arfeas “have received a small
share of manufactured goods avail-
able —Brisbane suffered in particular—but
concerns with well-stocked shelves and
low earning-power at the outbreak of war
have registered an astonishing recovery.
Among such enterprises have been Allan
and Stark (Brisbane), Gowipg Bros.,
Mark FoyS and Marcus Clark (Sydney)
and Mutual Store (Melbourne). Among
the chain stores, the leaders, Coles and
Woolworths, have suffered a fall in profit,
partly because of the incidence of war-
time (company) tax; but Edments and
Selfridges have gained ground.
Here is a list of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane retail stocks showing July,
1939, prices, and dividends and those pre-
vailing last week:
July, 1939. Jan., 1947.
Allan and Stark 8/6 (2* p.c.) 25/-(8* p.c.)
A. Hordern .. 14/-(5 p.c.) 27/9 (6 p.c.)
Buckinghams . . 24/- (8 p.c.) 43/-(10 p.c.)
David. Jones . - 34/6 (10 p.c.) 54/6 (10 p.c.)
Edments .. .. 29/-(10p.c.) 56/3 (12* p.c.)
Farmer and Co. 28/9 (8.7 p.c.) 48/6 (JO p.c.)
Finney Isles .. 30/-(10p.c.) 42/6 (10 p.c.)
Foy and Gibson 33/10 (6 p.c.)
G. J. Coles .. 72/-(18.7 p.c.) 88/-(12p.c.)
Gowings .. .. (Nil) 33/6* (10 p.c.)
London Stores . 27/-(10 p.c.) 47/- (12* p.c.)
Marcus Clark .. 3/10 (Nil) 12/4 (6 p.c.)
Mark Foys .. 16/6 (6 p.c.) 40/6* (12* p.c.)
McDowells .. 44/-(l2* p.c.) 74/6 (15 p.c.)
Mutual Store .. 9/-(Nil) 31/6 (8 p.c.)
Myer .. .. 29/-(9 p.c.) 43/6 (9 p.c.)
Selfridges .. .. (Nil) 38/9* (8 p.c.)
Woolworths .. 22/-(l7* p.c.) 27/9 (12 p.c.)
* Buyer.
In ordinary circumstances retail shares
(chain-store scrip excepted) are not very
interesting as a whole, competition being
keen and turnover restricted to the growth
in population and buying power ; manu-
facturing industries, by contrast, have
the import trade to eat into, and find
markets away from the local retail trade.
But the past half-dozen years have been
an exception. The general thing has been
an increase in retailer divs., and the
sl\are-price index for Sydney retail stocks
has risen from 99.1 in July, 1939, to
180.6 last week. By contrast, industrials
have only lifted from 127.6 to 173 in the
same period. But investors should not
become over-optimistic about retail scrip
in the mass. Price-control and labor
troubles do not bear as heavily at present
on the trade as they do on manufacturers,
and when our national productive capacity
recovers competition is again bound to
become keen. The retail trade is indeed
living in artificial conditions at the pre-
sent time, and is helped to a degree by
inflated prices. Also, it may be that some
pre-war weaklings in the business which
gained strength during the war will
influence a redistribution of shoppers’
patronage in the years to come.
“Cheap money” of the present day is
an artificiality forced on the people of
United States, Britain, Australia and
other Dominions by Government decree.
Its chief objective is to enable Govern-
ment deficits to be financed at the
lowest possible rates and loan conver-
sions to be arranged on the same basis.
The conversion aspect is particularly im-
portant in Britain, where a large part of
the debt is short-term. So long as Gov-
ernments are able to arrange for loan
finance at a cheap rate, so long will the
cost of servicing debt, as reflected in
taxation rates paid by the people, be kept
low. But there is a tendency for cheap
money to defeat this object and to be-
come, instead, an instrument of Social-
ism; While interest costs are low there
is a tendency to borrow excessively or
to spend taxpayers’ money in ways other
than in paying interest. Indeed, in Aus-
tralia, while such a keen regard is shown
for low interest rates, the country has
never before seen such extravagance in
public expenditure and very little of it
doing a thing to increase national pro-
duction. The annual saving in interest
costs arising from the “cheap-money”
policy is many times over outweighed by
“political” spending. It is extremely
doubtful whether the “cheap-money”
policy to date has saved the Australian
taxpayer a penny; the saving has merely
meant that the Government has had that
much extra money to spend. And when
such Government spending has taken
place it has often represented an obstruc-
tion to private enterprise either (a) by
competing for labor, materials, finance
or business, or ( b ) by providing a Jiving
for recalcitrant “workers” who would be
better disciplined by industrial hardship.
“Cheap” Government borrowing and
high taxation rates both favor the ex-
pansion of Government Budgets, which
means an extension of financial control
over private industry. There is no doubt
about it; a Government bent on Social-
ism can pave the way to a great extent
by heavy taxation and “cheap” forced
borrowing.
* * * *
As mentioned here several times, Aus-
tralian coastal shipping cos. will inherit
a legacy of high costs and labor indisci-
pline when Government charter of inter-
state vessels ceases. Shipping shares
have been exceptionally weak in the
“freed” ’Changes. It hhs been cabled
from Washington that some U.S. ship-
owners have refused to take back their
vessels because they believe profitable
operation wifi be impossible, even with
subsidies. The Maritime Commission is
therefore preparing to carry on until
June 30, when it is hoped the costs and
labor position will be more stable. The
Australian Government appears to have
made huge losses on its coastal shipping
operations, though the position is par-
tially concealed in Budget figures.
* * * *
Broken Hill Proprietary shares remain
weak. At 465. last week they were ob-
tainable 2s, 9d. below the highest price
of 1946 and 3s. 6d. above the lowest. At
465., on a 71 p.c. div. basis, the yield is
£3 ss. per cent. , Though the current
div. is higher than the 1945-46 rate of
profit-earning, production so far in 1946-
47 is appreciably greater; and it has only
been restricted production and conse-
quent high costs that have prevented
the co. from earning profits which the
scope and efficiency of the enterprise
warrant. Finances are strong, and the
plant is adequately written down. An
approach to normal production condi-
tions in all Australian industry, with costs
and prices in balance, would make a
return to a 10 p.c. div. an easy proposi-
tion for B.H.P, The scrip is now much
below pre-war and early war-time parity.
« * *% «
C.S.R. scrip has attractions at £53 per
£2O share. The sugar industry is ex-
periencing seasonal difficulties, but these
are likely to pass. Meanwhile overseas
markets are strong, and this should bring
profit from the Fiji end of the C.S.R.
undertaking, where war-time demand for
labor upset production for a time. The
co. is spreading its interests in Australian
industries. The div. dropped from 81
p.c. in 1943-44 to 8 p.c. next year, and
has not since recovered ; yield at present
prices is about 3 p.c. Highest price for
the shares in 1946 was £6l 10s.


(GOODYEAR
TYRES
See your
Goodyear Dealer
now lor pre-war
quality tyres
ŵ
100%
NATURAL
RUBBER
GOODYEAR
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
N!a-47
Australia’s overseas trade, particularly
on the export side, continues expanding.
The volume of foodstuffs going away,
generally speaking, is not as high as in
the corresponding part of 1938, especi-
ally so far as butter and meat are con-
cerned, though cheese and tinned-milk
products and flour are much higher in
quantity as well as in value. But value
of all exported foodstuffs is considerably
higher than in 1938, and as for wool,
rabbitskins, textiles, metals, etc., their
total value is more than double pre-war
figures. In the four months to the end
of October, 1946, we sent away merchan-
dise of all kinds priced at £109.6 million,
compared with £43.8 million in the same
part of 1938. In the same time our
imports cost us £69.2 million, compared
with £44 million in the 1938 period. Our
favorable balance of trade in the latest
four months was £40.4 million in Aus-
tralian currency. Exports of wool have
been exceptional for the period, and are
unlikely to be maintained at the present
rate for the full year unless there is a large
war-time carry-over still to be shipped ;
this may be followed by a slackening in
the additions to our London funds in the
second half of the financial year, especi-
ally if imports rise to anything like the
existing public demand. Treasury accounts
two months later than the export-import
figures show Customs revenue to be in
excess of estimates.
After Great Britain, which took £29.5
million in goods from us ih the four
months to Oct. 31 (£20.7 million, 1938),
Malaya was the next-best British
customer, buying to the value of £8.4
million from us, whereas our pre-war
exports in this direction were insignifi-
cant. We have a big present flour trade
with Malaya, Ceylon and India. Among
foreign countries we are doing largest
business with the United States, which is
taking unusually large amounts of our
wool, and with which, for the time being,
at any rate, we have a favorable balance
of trade. About 68 p.c. of our imports
come from British countries, to which we
sell about 56 p.c. of our exports.
For the present our external trade posi-
tion is relatively satisfactory; but it is
plain that if our production was in keep-
ing with our “employment,” and if our
waterfront was not the plaything of in-
dustrial saboteurs, we could be making
and shipping a great deal more merchan-
dise, benefiting ourselves the coun-
tries receiving the goods. Anarchists
along the waterfront in particular have
done grave damage to our trading pros-
pects with the Netherlands Indies.
* * *
Business is being done in Gordon and
Gotch ords. at 795., the yield being over
5 p.c. if the 20 p.c. distribution continues.
This concern was one of the surprises of
the war period. After a short stretch of
uncertainty it began making greater
profits out of its distribution of periodicals
than before the war, and that experience
has continued. The shares were fre-
quently recommended here in 1939 and
1940 when available at depressed figures
—sometimes under 40s. .
th 6 present year is tipped to be a diffi-
cult one for United States newspapers,
.*.7, P a Y r °bs about 50 p.c, higher than
in 1941, with newsprint' up from $5O to
$B5 a ton in the five-year period, and with
a large part of both the increases a re-
cent thing, higher advertising rates are
expected to be the means sought to bal-
ance accounts in 1947. It is estimated
by the Wall-street Journal ’ that adver-
tismg revenue of the 1755 daily and 485
Sunday papers during 1946 was .$7BO
million, with income from sales $520 mil-
lion. About 50 million copies of morn-
ing and evening papers are sold daily.
and on Sundays about 41 million papers
are issued. Revenue and circulations are
now a record. But the industry is run-
ning close to the wind ; with costs so high
and rigid there is very little between a
highly prosperous year and heavy losses,
From the depression up till Pearl Har-
bor the U.S. newspaper industry had a
shaky time, beset as it was by radio com-
petition and a cutting-in on the adver-
Using side by new or expanded weeklies
specialising in color pages. From 1942
to the present prosperity has been general
in the business, but only recently has
additional newsprint enabled dailies to
absorb all the advertising revenue offer-
ing. Now there are fears of a recession
in all U.S. industry, and newspaper pub-
Ushers are expected to anticipate it by
increasing advertising rates in advance
of reductions in space taken by adver-
tisers. ,
A peace-time economy is infinitely
more complex than that of war-
time, but a war-time set-up is some-
thing under which no progressive
country can continue to exist for any
great length of time. Just as war is the
opposite of peace, so are the “austerity”
principles of a war-time economy almost
the opposite of those of peace-time. The
Labor party is wedded to the idea of a
war-time economy during peace because
the war-time economy is closely akin to
the socialistic, in which individual initia-
tiVe and spending power are largely taken
over by the State,
**’ * *
As employer or quasi-employer the
Commonwealth Government has yielded
to outrageous demands by Com.-run
unions, and its retreat has ex-
posed the flanks of other employers
trying to carry on essential industries,
Australians must work out their pbst-
war salvation. The more citizens there
are engaged in productive effort, doing
a fair day’s work for fair pay, the sooner
will the present monstrous tax burdens
fade away and living standards reach and
surpass those enjoyed in 1938. But to
induce such a productive effort "by all
classes there must be a meeting of in-
terests; Governments must make rational
tax concessions and at the same time de-
mand observance of industrial discipline,
There must be no creating of jobs that
result in little useful work done for the
country: there is too much of that sort
of thing now. And rates of pay should
bear a relationship with each other and
with profits.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Mac was a trifle
grumpy and refused to go to the New
Year sports, announcing that he’d stay at
home and “do a bit o’ work about the
place —everybody can’t be goin’ spendin’
up big at shivoos.” So Mrs, Mac and
the family and the hired hand drove off
to town in the car. Mac pottered about
restlessly for about an hour, oppressed
by the general quietness and loneliness
and the reflection that all his cronies
would be crowding the publican’s booth
between events. Presently he made a
decision, shaved and dressed in his best,
picked up a bridle and went for a horse.
The only one he managed to' yard was
Blackie, a lively colt, and with a qualm
or two Mac mounted. Blackie proceeded
sedately enough until entering the sports
ground, when a pink balloon escaped
from some juvenile hand darted through
the air at Blackie’s head. The colt stood
on his hind legs, clamped on the bit and
lit out across the sports ground. Dogs
came out of nowhere and joyfully chased
the panicky steed into the middle of a trot-
ting race. There was a flurry of jinkers,
swearing horses and neighing drivers, and
when the dust settled Mac crawled forth,
booted a couple of dogs, mixed himself
up with the crowd and roared, “Where’s
the p’lice? Who was that ruddy fool
gallopin’ across the ground? Ought t’
get jail or somethin’.” Then he caught
sight of his elder son about to catch the
reins of the trembling but blown Blackie,
and fled to the booth.
* * * *
“Wopag”: Somehow the firing-out had
broken into the hanging wall despite the
ukase laid down anent this sin in sloping.
]Now, a huge slab of the wall hung high
in the stope, seemingly maintaining the
pause in its descent on the off chance of
catching an unwary miner underneath.
The shift boss cautiously climbed half-
way up the stope and peered towards the
dangerously hanging mass, taking care
not to cough lest it charge down upon
him. Then he crept down, bringing with
him the sixty-six-pound-ten-p/ws-a-cake-
of-soap question: “Now who’s gonna
bar it down? I think you’re about the
best man for the job,” he said, looking at
Mick. Mick was indignant; “Me?” he
screeched. “Me—work under that? Me,
with twenty-seven quid in the bank! ”
* * * ~
“Plop”: Skin rabbits for any length
of time and sooner or later you will
come across a pelt bearing on its inner
surface a perfect replica of a sitting
bunny. Old whiskered bushwhackers
will put up any number of pots in sup-
port, of their claim that the pattern has
been imprinted by lightning. Scientific
blokes consider it due to a remarkable
coincidence caused by the disposition of
the hair tracts or the arrangement and
shrinkage of the surface blood-vessels.
Both theories run aground when it is
considered that rabbits are not the only
form of life which go in for interior
decorating. A type of blue-nipper crab,
if shelled immediately after being caught,
“Hey, Ma, there s someone at the front door to see y'.”
sometimes bears on the flesh of its back
a reasonable pattern of the surrounding
waterfront. This could be due to neither
lightning nor “hair-tracts.” Any other
theories?
* * * *
“Rat-bag”: Vast indeed is the differ-
ence between the filthy, shaggy-haired,
disease-carrying, drain-dwelling rodent of
the coastal cities and the real Australian
water-rat. The native varieties are clean
in their habits, bearing a rich fur, like
that of the American musk-rat, which
sometimes realises for trappers up to
4s. 6d. for a single pelt. The little fellow,
however, would be far more valuable to
the country if he were allowed to keep his
clobber. Occasionally he raids poultry
yards, but he more than offsets this fault
in irrigation areas by dining on the
yabbies which honeycomb canal banks,
and on the pond snails which are carriers
of the liver-fluke infecting sheep.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d just got into the
' Gippsland town from our road job, had
cashed our cheques and were standing
outside the pub when the inevitable bot
appeared. “Got \ deener for a drink,
mate?” he whined. “Garn,” Mat snarled,
“you never done a day’s work in your
life.” Unabashed, the bot grinned im-
pudently and retorted, “Well, what about
it? You can’t say I ever done anybody
out o’ a job, can y’?” It earned him a
deener.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: “Overange” (B. 1/1 / ’47)
is off the track in describing Jacky abo’s
powers of visual observation as “much
of a standard with the white man’s.”
More than a generation ago Dr. R. J.
Berry, Professor of Anatomy at Mel-
'bourne University, demonstrated from
abo. skulls and preserved brains that they
possess a much larger amount of cerebral
tissue in the area where vision takes
place than does any white race. He and
other observers checked the matter up by
careful tests of living aboriginals with
respect to visual acuity. In all cases it
exceeded that of the average white, often
by large percentages, particularly at the
relatively short ranges used in tracking
and in stalking game. Nor does my ex-
perience tally with “O.’s” regarding
Jacky’s sense of direction. A score and
more of Gulf Country landings and in-
land wanderings with abo. boat-boys who
had never been in those parts before led
me to place more reliance on their un-
erring sense of just where we’d left the
boat than on my compass. Early ex-
plorers have recorded similar experiences.
* * * *
“Fang”: “Had a good day’s fishin’ last
Tuesdee,” said Ben. “I got a twenty-
eight pound cod an’ a two-pound redfin.”
I said I’d heard that he had only the
cod when he dropped in at the store to
weigh his catch. “Yair, but when I got
home an’ cleaned it there was this redfin
inside, which it had swallered,” Ben said.
“Then the cod would naturally be a
twenty-six pounder,” I said. Ben eyed me
scornfully. “Y’ count the weight as be-
fore y’ve cleaned ’em,” he said. “Gripes,
you’d try an’ talk a man out o’ catchin’
his thirty pounds o’ fish!”
* * * *
“Jl.B.’^: When our first picture “theatre”
was erected at the foot of a small New
Guinea hill, there was plenty of room for
our mob and a few visitors, but the
“architects” hadn’t foreseen the arrival
in the area of a negro transport unit.
Those colored gemmum would all knock
off around six and make a beeline for
the show/ For two nights the locals
were left sitting in the kunai be'hind the
screen while the newcomers filled the
“dress circle” early, playing tag with their
flashlights on the screen to pass the time.
Much thought was devoted to the prob-
lem. The next/ night, a quarter-hour
before starting time, three shots—-“air-
raid impending”—were fired, and while
the negroes were frantically dispers-
ing their vehicles and themselves the
troops moved quietly into the good posi-
tions on the hill. They had to wait a
while till the puzzled controller gave the
all-clear, and then the show began,
♦ * * #
“E.P.”: Till this week I had always
subscribed to the theory so ably ex-
pounded by “Luna” (B. 1/1 / ’47) concern-
ing the rising full-moon’s size. But now
I am a convert to the comparison-with-
other-objects theory. I was drafting
lambs for inspection and put the tail of
the mob into the shed. They were every
bit as prime as the tops, but rather lacking
in size. To my amazehient the buyer’s
opinion of them was: “Damn fine lambs,
those—the best o’ the mob.” And in the
shed they certainly did look whoppers.
* * * •
“C. D. Mine”; I too have often heard
of death-adders leaping from the ground
to strike (B. 25/12/’46); the bigger the
liar, the greater the leap. After 10 years
spent in the brigalow and belar scrubs
of Queensland, where I have killed up to
a dozen in an afternoon, I have never
seen one raise itself from the ground
even after prolonged teasing. The adder’s
striking range would be no more than
“E.V.S.” estimates: about a third of
its length. Another bush fallacy is that
the adder has hollow fangs; actually the
poison is emitted beside the fang and not
through it.
♦ * * *
“R. 8.”; The city brothers, both pretty
hopeless, were anxious to repay the hospi-
tality of their cocky cousin. He told them
to get in four horses while he hooked a
few harrows together, and thought up a
job where they could do the least harm.
He put the team in the traces and told the
boys to run them over the lucerne pad-
dock. On the first round Bill held the
horses while Jim went ahead to drag
aside a fallen branch. It was heavy, but
he just had it clear when the team tore
past going hell for leather, leaving Bill
behind. They watched in dismay as the
horses went through a fence shedding
harrows, hide and harness, and disap-
peared in a patch of scrub. To their
cousin’s loud and profane demands Bill
answered, “I dunno what happened. I
pulled them up on that bare patch, and
after a while they started to play up and
then just took off.” “I might have known
it,” quoth their cousin gloomily. “There’s
1800 acres in this place and only one
antheap, and that’s the spot you pick to
stand my best horses!”
* # * •
“Grayelsnatcher”: “Zake’s” theory
that the circular wanderings of the hope-
lessly bushed are due to a difference in
the length of most pairs of legs (B.
25/12/’46) is feasible and on a par with
the twin suggestion that the usual dis-
crepancy in the strength of legs may
produce the same result. But another
human peculiarity has been noted by old
bushmen with whom I’ve discussed the
problem. Confronted with a series of
obstacles, the average man will pass them
all on the same side. In the bush the line
of obstacles such as trees, shrubs, boulders
and antheaps is almost incessant, and by
contihually veering to, say, the left, the
walker unconsciously describes a circle.
3$ * * «
“Bull-ant Bill”: Butcher Harrigan’s
beer-level had reached the point • when
every corner of the bar resounded to his
tales of fistic conquests. “ ’Eaviest ’itter
in the ’ole flamin’ districk, though I sez it
meself,” he roared, “Alwiz beat ’em ter
the punch an’ they didn’t get up neither.”
As he reached for the next pot little old
Andy piped up, waving the remains of
what had once been a silk handkerchief.
“Hey, Butch, betcher drinks yer can’t ’it
me wiv yer foot on one end uv this
’ankercher an’ me wiv mine on the other.”
Butch’s glare relaxed into a grin. “Garn,
yer silly old cow,” he scoffed. “Don’t
wanter kill yer,” But old Andy kept on
in spite of all attempts to divert him from
the insane idea, and his taunts at last
forced Butch into action. “Won’t really
’urt the silly old ,goat,” he whispered to
Bung, who was beginning to fear man-
slaughter on his premises. “Orl right,”
he told Andy. “Shove down yer wipe an’
I’ll oblige yer.” “Not ’ere,” said Andy.
“Come over where there’s a bit more
light ter see yer”; and he led the way
to the open door. “Stand out there,” he
directed, laying dowh the rag, now wet
with beer, across the sill. Butcher
obeyed, grinning, and placed a vast boot
on the handkerchief corner. Promptly,
Andy slammed the heavy hardwood door
above it, turned the key, and with a
foot on the inside corner squeaked:
‘'Now, ’it me!” To do Butch justice he
paid up like a man and enjoyed the take-
down as much as any of us.
* ' * * *
“Salmon Gums” : The big apricot-tree
grandpa planted owes it survival to
sentiment supported by the advice of a
knowledgeable old orchardist. Pruned
ruthlessly to atone for six war years of
neglect, it has just produced a fine crop
of fruit. The yield is entirely from new
wood which has sprung from long-
dormant buds stirred to life by the lopping
of the top branches. These buds, low-
down on the tree —some of them on the
trunk —must have been incorporated in
the structure of the tree early in its life.
Some of them must have been provided
for in the first quickening of the seed;
yet for 60 years they lay dormant,
a reservoir of life held by nature against
just such a contingency as a drastic
pruning after years of neglect. That
reservoir may be barely tapped. There
may be many more buds awaiting —some,
no doubt, vainly—a call to life. But by
what mysterious power does the tree
contain within itself so many wells of life
which, evidently bursting with the desire
to blossom forth, can yet be so com-
pletely disciplined into awaiting an emer-
gency which may never come?
* * * *
“Niloc”: Bert went about it very
methodically, his scientific means justify-
ing a glorious end. As home-brewing was
a game he had never tackled before, he
made the School of Arts library his first
source of information, supplementing it
with the quoted experiences of several of
the district’s amateur brewers. Then,
armed with kerosene-tins, yeast, hops,
egg-shells and so- on, he started opera-
tions at one end of the verandah. His
first couple of batches exploded through
the kids running on the boards. His next
lot looked like perfection, and he invited
the mailman in just on dinner-time one
evening to sample it. The tucker served
and on the table, Bert’s missus waited
several minutes, then went on the war-
path. She found the pair of them, both
with expressions of supreme contentment
on their unconscious faces, lying beside
the one partly-empty bottle.
STEPHEN BROWN.
That Stephen was a thrifty man
His neighbors don’t deny;
He came with swag and billy-can
On foot to Gilgami
The year Resolve ai Randwick ran
And Wombat Creek went dry.
MacPherson’s sheep were getting down,
His rouseaboul was thrown —
They drove him sixty miles to town
To set his collarbone.
Mac filled the gap with Stephen Brown,
A stranger yet unknown.
But, fixed in Stephen’s mind, a light
Of bold intention burned;
Towards one objective day and night
His.eager f? cies turned;
He never drank; he scorned delight
And saved what cash he earned.
Mac grudged no traveller bite or sup,
And for all hands would shout ;
The racing game he followed up
And threw the cash about —
When Shinbone failed to win the Cup
Steve got MacPherson out!
That secret plan for many years
Had been his constant care ;
He’d dealt a bit in ewes and steers
And dabbled here and there
In matters which one greatly fears
Were not exactly square.
In further time, as boss, he made
Big money out of stock,
Improved the place and duly paid
A mortgage off the block;
But, through it all, the man displayed
A heart as hard as rock.
He centred all his life on gain;
If any bloke got down
He’d turn his head in sour disdain
Until, in bush and town,
The saying went to this refrain —
“As mean as Stephen Brown.”
But.when he died—a miser old
Who’d have no doctor in—
Intestate, what he hifii was sold;
He’d neither kith nor kin.
The firm of Merryficld and Mould
Bought all the assets in.
Which left the district to decide
By arguments that spread
From Gilgami to Sunnyside—
Where Stephen went when dead.
Some held he might aloft abide;
“Elsewhere,” the others said.
At Casey’s pub it came to blows
The factions loud between,
Ted Travers blooded Thompson’s nose,
Herb Smith floored Harry Green.
This might have brought—a novice knows —
The Law upon the scene!
Pat Casey rose to arbitrate;
He leaned across the bar
And shouted “Gintlemen, I’ll state
’Tis blanky fools ye are,
To carry from the churchyard gate
This scandal wide and far.
“Ye, here, contend that on the whole
Quid Stephen merits bliss;
Ye, there, declare he’s raking coal
In warmer parts than this;
But Stephen never had a soul,
And that’s the point ye miss!
“Although he chiselled, screwed and saved —
They say he’d skin a louse—
He can’t be damned; he won’t be saved
No irfhtter how ye rouse;
So be at ease, and well behaved —
This dhrink is on the house!”
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


ẃ
barbed appendage is presented to the
victim complete with a set of muscles
ruptured from the worker’s abdomen, an
ingenious arrangement which drives the
dart deeper into the flesh. Contrary to
“T.W.H.’s” optimism, the bee is then
doomed, for Nature hasn’t provided its
body with the means to heal the breach
or grow new tissue. Certain crustaceans
and reptiles can produce new limbs or
“Get back to the circus or you'll be late for your act."
tails in place of those detached, but not
the insect world. Apis, short-lived even
among insects, is not physically con-
structed to be able to replace her sting,
and the presence of an underdeveloped
sting or entire absence of one in an active
worker could only be the result of defor-
mity. Perhaps by generations of careful
breeding it would be possible to evolve
a strain of bees stingless or with effete
armament, but without the standing army
of female warriors the colony would be as
open to the invader as if “Labor” had
laid the defence plans.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The probable reason why
“Pateppi’s” meaties didn’t break into that
white - ant outpost beforehand (B.
25/12/’46) was that they didn’t recognise
it as one until he opened it up. As with
bees, and many other old-maid com-
munities as well, their reasoning capacity
is very limited. True ants- —the white
folk aren’t really ants at all —are their
most active and inveterate enemies, eat-
ing out the inhabitants of a termitarium
by repeated attacks and then occupying
it as a ready-made nest for themselves.
It is not an easy job, for the termite
organisation includes quite efficient
fighter-castes, some armed with sabre-
like jaws that will behead any ordinary
ant at one slash, others with sharp-
pointed heads which they thrust into the
enemy’s bingey, and yet others with a
jet apparatus in their heads with which
they can shoot an irritating milky fluid
to a range of a foot or more. A curious
practice amongst practically all termite
species is that of biting off the legs of
their own dead. Apparently they don’t
make any use of them for food or other-
wise, and no reasonable explanation of
the queer habit has yet been forthcoming.
* * * *
“Prop”; The petulant pastoralist can,
even in a good season, find plenty to
growl about in a list of pests that ranges
from politicians to grasshoppers. But he
“The tyre must be flat on your side.”
has also the benefit of a regular army of
helpers that cost him nothing in wages or
taxes. Kelly, who does subtract a lamb
or two for his trouble, and his allies the
magpies and woodswallows are obvious
enough, but there are other efficient
agencies at work. Down along the creek
flats here at present you walk into patches
of grey slate sand that spring up around
your feet. By the time you remember
that you haven’t been near the pub for a
fortnight the sand grains resolve them-
selves into infant grasshoppers. But if
you’re game to take a second look you
will find your unpaid vermin board at
work. Everywhere are armies of meat
ants, scouting over the sand and through
the tussocks ; and a surprising number of
those thousands carry young ’hoppers in
their jaws. Again, the sand is dotted with
hundreds of ant-lion pits along the water-
courses. You squat down and drop a
tiny stone into one of the pits ; instead
of the usual indignant reaction from the
invisible larvae nothing happens. Won-
dering why, you carefully blow the sand
away and, underneath, discover Mr. Ant-
Lion with a baby grasshopper clasped in
his pincers. Around other pits are the
dried shells of the ’hoppers, sucked dry
and cast out by the voracious “lions.”
Then you wonder how many more flying,
crawling, creeping or burrowing things
are preying on the nascent pest —and you
don’t need a drink quite as badly as be-
fore.
* • • *
“Betty North”: From Brisbane came
the report that, before a four-year-old
mare went on the track to race on New
Year’s Day, her owner-trainer had to
milk her, as her swollen udder was caus-
ing her great discomfort. He says he has
to do this in the stable. The mare has
never been in foal, and her owner is at a
loss to understand what causes her dis-
ability. It calls to mind a cow, owned by
P. Bryer, of Sharon, near Bundaberg (Q.),
which has kept his family in milk and
butter for years. The cow, a Jersey, has
never had a calf nor even been in calf.
4 * * *
“Wonk”: Barney and old Fred lived
on different sides of town, but on’ cream
days it was their custom to meet at the
pub for a weekly gossip. “Bung’s got a
cold,” remarked Barney as they finished
their second and retired to the verandah.
“What else could you expect,” g owled
Fred, “with a L e that wraps »• an’
mollycoddles like Bung uoes?”
“Well, he has to, doesn’t he?” “ ’Course
he doesn’t! ” Fred oozed in disgust. “If
he hardened up a bit he wouldn’t get one.
Nor would anybody else. The whole
world’s too pampered to my way of
thinking. That’s why they get all these
diseases and Icings.” “Aw, be hanged,”
Barney broke in, “What about me? I
get colds, don’t I?” “Yair, and you’re
pampered, too,” persisted Fred. “When
y’ get soaked through, what do y’ do, eh?
Change your clothes, o’ course. If you’d
let them dry on y’ like I do you’d be
better off.” Barney rubbed his chin
thoughtfully. “Yair, but” “Now,
look here,” pursued Fred. “What about
rabbits and things. Gripes, sometimes
they get wet as blazes a dozen times a
week, don’t they? An’ have you ever
seen a rabbit with a cold?” “Well, no, I
haven’t,” admitted Barney, “That’s be-
cause they dry out slow,” declared Fred
stoutly, “just as foxes, goats and every-
thing else do. You try it.” The following
week Barney poked a crimson beak round
the bar door. “Hab y’ seed thad siddy
ode goad Fred aboud?” he inquired
truculently.
* * *
“Blime”: “Come' on, Ben,” I called,
“we’d better go and see to those sheep.”
The old Border opened one eye, gave an
acknowledging thump and subsided
again. “Hey, what do you think I keep
you for?” I prodded him. “It’s your
job, you know.” Grabbing hat and coat
I once more bawled the old chap awake
and, with a wary eye on him, made for
the paddock and put him around the mob.
Instead of coming the woollies stuck up,
several old rams advancing threateningly.
“At ’em, Ben,” I yelled encouragingly.
“Get hold of ’em, there.” The dog backed
off steadily, and, seeing me, the belliger-
ents turned to stamp in my direction. I
shooed, roared and shoved, while Ben
took turns yapping a challenge from the
outskirts or retreating ignominiously for
cover. “Hang it, you’re only going into
a better paddock,” I yelled at the jum-
bucks. “You silly cows dunno when
you’re well off.” A few old ewes seemed
less stubborn, and I’d succeeded in
getting a handful of them several chains
down the paddock when a bleat called
them back in a mad dash to the mob. I
struggled, sweated and groaned. Then
Ben, no doubt feeling he had done all
he could in the matter, turned homeward
with an I-could-get-you-if-I-wanted-you
look on his lofty mug. With a long-
suffering sigh I followed. These sheep-
dogs—starting to get Commo ideas!
• * * *
“Stanus”: A once-common but now
rare sight came to a Gloucester (N.S.W.)
sawmill recently, when a giant red-cedar
.was put over the benches. The 25ft.
butt-log had a mean girth in excess of
18ft. and a superficial content of about
6500 ft. The stump circumference of the
tree was 37ft., with a 14ft. spread at the
widest point. A lot of old-time log-
fallers had regretfully walked past the
giant, with good reason. A half-mile of
road had to be cut to enable a cater-
pillar to get in to it, after which an ex-
perienced team of log-fallers and haulers
spent eight days in getting the tree down
and the logs to the millyard.
* * * *
“Zake”: Except for such monickers as
Baldy, Captain, Pilot, etc.,. common to
most teams, bullock names seem to
revolve round certain districts, in
particular where the now-moribund
calling, as often happens, is in the
exclusive hands of a parent family
and its numerous offshoots. I knew
one family out from Stroud (N.S.W.)
which had about eight branches,
all in the ox-persuading game. For over
40 years the old man had named every
off-side leader he’d had Scratcher, after
a peculiarity of the original toiler in his
team. All his sons and nephews operat-
ing for miles around called their off-sider
leaders Scratcher, and nomenclature was
borrowed for several other members of
the team. At least seven teams had a
Plum, Bruiser, Hardhead, Jacko and
Butcher. The old man’s invariable name
for his near-side poler was Snow —the
original one of his team having
been a pure white. It seemed comic to
hear his “Git into it, there, Snow—
whee-ah!” addressed to a bullock that
was the color of walnut.
♦■- ♦ * *
“Betcha”: It was school holidays, and
as Hopkins mooched into the store he
spotted the storekeeper’s kid kicking his
heels on a large packing-case. “How’d
y’ like a job ridin’ a nag f’r a week or
two, sonny?” he asked. “He’s out o’
condition, an’ ridin’s about the only
thing’ll fix him.” “Want him fined down,
do you?” “Gripes, no, me lad; he’s too
fine now. Want him fattened a bit.
There’s plenty o’ feed, but it’s a bit old
like, an’ he don’t bother Batin’ enough t’
keep himself goin’. Y’ c’n start t’morrer,
if that suits y’.” The following morning
the kid presented himself at Hopkins’s
yards. “Well, there y’ are, son,” an-
nounced the horse’s owner, altering the
stirrups on a bony-looking nag. “Best
stock pony I got. Give him his head, an’
ride him at a walk up an’ down the
paddick f’r a few miles, wherever y’ see
the feed is anyway decent. An’, son, just
whistle now’n then, will y’, an’ yell like
y’ was mad at a dog, so the moke won t
know y’ puttin’ one over on him.” The
kid mounted, and turned the pony to-
wards the open paddocks, “An’ if y’
think he’s gettin’ suspicious,” Hopkins
called, “just pull him over near a few
jumbucks. Then he’ll soon get the idea
again that he’s on a drovin’ job, an’
start grabbin’ every flamin’ mouthful o’
grass he c’n find.”


EVERY FRACTION OF A WENMY PER LB. COUMTS
Whether you get that extra fraction of a penny per lb.
for your wool depends ultimately upon the standard of '
appraisal and the auctioneering technique. Unchallenged
in both respects is the staff of Australian, Mercantile, Land
& Finance Coy. Ltd., whose outstanding ability is one of
the main characteristics of the company. To be sure
of that extra fraction of a penny per lb., write now to *
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Fi
inance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England ItSOS
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A 2.22.76
(Regd.)
v FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by 1 trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.. LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
LYS^GHTS
m
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
mm
■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable*''from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
"
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Sheepskins for Market.
“Atlanta”: Owners should realise that
returns would be greater if skins were
shorn and the wool submitted in the
usual manner. Apart from higher freight
and handling charges on actual wool
weight, skin wool brings considerably
less per pound than similar wool shorn
from living animals. It pays to shear the
killers —enough of them each time to last
two or three months, or if the shed is
handy to the killing-pen they can be
shorn as required. Alternatively, skins
should be shorn after they have dried,
but they must be kept free from weevils.
Where it is impracticable to shear or
treat skins, take care in their preparation,
as values of skins damaged in any of
several different ways may be reduced by
from 2d. to 3d. per pound. This loss
can make a very appreciable difference
in the returns from even a small con-
signment. With the exception of skins
regarded as faulty through grass-seed
penetration, and those from dead sheep,
all skins classed as “damaged” have
deteriorated through carelessness in
skinning, drying, preserving or packing.
“Damaged” includes cut or torn skins,
weevil-eaten skins, sun-dried skins, or any
which have perished, shrunk or wrinkled
through exposure to weather. These
faults can be easily avoided.
In skinning, tears or cuts can be
minimised if the knife is used only where
necessary, and if the skin is separated
from the carcass by pulling with one
hand and punching against it with the
other. Blood on wool should be washed
before it dries. After removal, the skin
should be stretched on a flat, sheltered
surface, preferably the grating of a
shearing-shed. Treatment with a weak
arsenical wash or sheep-dip solution will
discourage weevils. Skins must be
thoroughly dry and all trotters and use-
less trimmings removed before packing.
They should be folded at right-angles to
mid-back line, with wool side outwards,
and placed flat one on top of the other,
with backs facing alternately to either
side of the press. Finally, each bundle
should be secured with strong wire, like
a bale of hay.
Dipping Off Shears.
“J.R.D.”; Though the general practice
is to dip a month off shears, by which
time the sheep have got over the shock
of shearing, cuts have healed and suffi-
cient wool has grown to retain a quantity
of the poison usually employed in dips
to kill ticks, it would suit graziers better
on the whole if sheep could be dipped
immediately after shearing. That would
not only save additional mustering, but
would prevent ticks dropping off the sheep
in the paddocks.
There is a fair amount of danger in-
volved in dipping freshly-shorn sheep in
an arsenical fluid, one of the main reasons
why the operation is usually postponed.
However, recent experiments with D.D.T.
and 666 insecticides have raised hopes
that dipping straight off the board will
soon be an accepted practice. The ex-
periments - were conducted under official
supervision and the sheep were put
through a power-spray dip, in which each
pen was given three minutes overhead
and three minutes underneath spraying.
The wool under the neck was not
thoroughly saturated, and this site was
the only one on which further tick in-
festation was noted.
The ticks (or keds as they really should
be called) appeared to be able to survive
for a limited period in the partially-treated
neck wool, but as soon as they strayed
to other parts the insecticide deposited
“ She's cheaper to run than the bike and sidecar.”
there was sufficiently strong, even after a
month off dipping, to kill them. Eggs
were not killed by the dips, but few of
the young keds survived contact with
treated wool. Much work will have to
be done by dip manufacturers before a
foolproof dip of this type can be put on
the market, as it loses strength with each
lot of sheep put through it.
Nevertheless, the results generally must
be regarded as very satisfactory. The new
dips were still killing ticks on the sheep
a month after dipping, which gives more
hope of cleaning up a flock. Cost of
the new dips will be higher, out there will
be less danger and they should be simpler
to use.
Oats for Pigs.
“Mr.”: With cereals in short supply
some pigowners are feeding oats, but
they should watch the price, as oats
haven’t the same feed value as wheat or
maize for pigs. L. A. Downey, in the
Vic. “Journal of Agriculture,” points out
that if oats form the bulk of the diet pigs
will make slow growth, whereas one bag
of oats mixed with two bags of wheat,
fed in combination with separated milk
or meatmeal and minerals and some
green feed, will give good results.
When fed to pigs in the proportion of
one bag of oats to two bags of wheat,
oats at 3s. 3d. per bushel is approxi-
mately equivalent in pork-producing
value to wheat at ss. 6d. a bushel. Oats
should be crushed before feeding.
Seed Wheat in S.A.
“Myrrhee”: S.A. Department of Agri-
culture has graded and selected seed
available from Turretfield and Minnipa
farms, orders to be lodged with the man-
agers. Turretfield has Sword, Ranee 4H,
Ford, Warigo, Ridley, Bencubbin, Dun-
dee, Gluyas and Scimitar. Minnipa will
distribute Gluyas, Totadgin, Bencubbin,
Merredin, Ranee 4H and Dundee. No
more than five bags apiece for a start;
if more seed is available later this will
be increased. Prices are 6s. 3d. a bushel
unpickled and 6s. 6d. pickled, c.o.r.
Veldt-grass.
“Prof.” i Perennial veldt-grass is in the
boom in the Vic, and S.A. Mallee. For
drought resistance, quantity of feed and
palatability it seems to be unsurpassed,
and a recent pasture competition in the
Meningie district (S.A.), which included
highly-improved pastures on the Murray
swamps, was won by a farmer with a
paddock of veldt-grass and lucerne. His
cows milk well on the mixture and prefer
it to pure stands of lucerne. In some
districts barrel medic grows well with the
veldt, but we find that the clover is soon
choked out by the grass. Sow (not too
deep) at the rate of lib. of veldt-grass
and 21b. of lucerne seed to the acre on
clean cultivation. Mix the seed with
super, and run through the fertiliser-box
of the drill. Owing to the lightness of the
grass seed it is liable to “float” on the
super., so keep well stirred up while in
the box.
Soil Conservation.
“C.S.”: The Vic. Soil Conservation
Board announces that the third annual
Goulburn Catchment Soil Conserva-
tion Competition will be conducted
early in 1947, open to farmers and
graziers within the prescribed “catch-
ment area”; the Shires of Mansfield,
Alexandra, Yea* Broadford, Seymour,
'Goulburn, Violet Town, Euroa, Benalla ;
the parishes of Pine Lodge, Dookie and
Currawa in the Shire of Shepparton, and
that part of the Shire of Healesville north
of the Dividing Range. Entries to the
Secretary, Soil Conservation Board, 175
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. There
is no entry fee.
Dental Fluorosis.
“Agric”: Tests by the Queensland Gov-
ernment analyst have shown that a con-
siderable number of artesian bores in
Queensland contain more than the ac-
cepted maximum of one part of fluorine
per million parts of water for a domestic
supply. Presumably, says the analyst,
the fluorine exists as sodium fluoride.
Some bores were found to contain from
four to 10 parts of fluorine, but the
waters from these bores are used for
human consumption only in times of
drought. It is now accepted that the
continuous use of water for drinking or
cooking containing as little as 0.9 parts
per million of fluorine will cause
fluorosis in some degree, and as the
damage to the teeth is permanent and
irreparable children during the suscept-
ible period—three months to eight to ten
years—should not use continuously water
containing more than 0.9 parts of
fluorine per million. The effects of
fluorine on teeth vary from mere loss of
translucency or a dead-white appearance
to a mottled appearance with a discolora-
tion of all shades of brown, yellow and
black.
It was not until 1931 that the Uni-
versity of Arizona determined that the
presence of fluoride in drinking water
was the cause of the mottling of human
teeth. The disease had been known from
the birth of civilisation, but the cause
had baffled all investigators. Teeth
properly developed outside an affected
area will not become mottled if the in-
dividual shifts to an affected district. In
view of the alkalinity of Queensland
artesian-bore waters, tests were conducted
to ascertain if this had any effect on vita-
min Cin cooking. The tests established
that the artesian-bore waters used for
human consumption destroy no more
vitamin C in the cooking of vegetables
than rain water or Brisbane tap water.
i
A Poplar Fence.
“E.H.S.”: When a line of fencing re-
quires more than ordinary attention to
keep it serviceable try planting a line of
poplar cuttings about Bft. apart and as
close to the fence as possible in antici-
pation of the day when it must be
scrapped. On country with a good rain-
fall the cuttings will strike at once and
make rapid growth ; on less favored areas
they may require some nursing at first,
but once firmly rooted they will make
steady progress without further attention.
When the trees attain a diameter of about
Sin. (five or six years after planting) they
are ready to serve as a line of live posts
which will become stronger as time goes
on.
The wires should be drawn on alternate
sides of the trees until the required lengths
are run out, and as each one is strained
it, should be fastened to the trees with
fairly long staples. The zigzag method
of stringing the wires adds stability and
prevents pressure applied by stock from
starting the staples. A fence of this kind
is not affected by grass fires; it costs


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
• 11
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Ply.. Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
New
Cream Deodorant
Stops Perspiration
I Does not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
8 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
3 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can bs
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Arrid is the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-day 1
ARRID
Also in did. jars Belling toile * B ooda
Distributors: Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
safely
At all chemists & stores
A Good Is. Worth.
Handy Hints for the Farm, now in a
second and revised edition, is on sale at
Is. per copy (Is, 2|d. posted). It contains
a tenner’s-worth of information.
Order from The Bulletin or news-
agents .before supplies run out.
HIRES THE SECRET.'
r
ALL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
anmam
Insulation with
SLAHIMI
Write for full facts and .
particulars to-day. They
vill be freely given. A
,#OOl.
MD / ..
in?motion
HEAD OFFICE; .190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 3038.
Ibc
PTY.
LTD.
BRANCtf OFFICES:" 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; Shell House,
Nth. Terrace. .Adelaide,
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. .Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St.. Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER. DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
WATER INTO. GOLD, by Ernestine Hill, author of “Great Australian
Loneliness.” Numerous illustrations. 7/6 (post. 6d.).
LITERARY PARTICLES, by R. G. Howarth. The book ranges from
Shakespeare to the latest in literature of today. 6/- (post. 4d.).
SLAVES OF THE SAMURAI. An Australian Odyssey, by W. S. Kent
Hughes. Illustrated. 15/- (piost. Bd.).
AUSTRALIAN JOURNEY, by Paul McGuire. Revised edition with 33
half-tone plates. 13/6 (post. -Bd.).
WHERE THE TRADE-WINDS BLOW. Pacific Islands Stories and Sketches,
by R. Robson & J. Tudor. Illustrated. 9/6 (post. 6d.).
DARWIN DRAMA. A review of a momentous phase in Australia’s his-
tory, by Owen Griffiths. 12/6 (post 6d.).
ISLE OF MOUNTAINS. Roaming through Tasmania, by Charles Barrett.
Numerous illustrations. 12/6 (post. 6d.).
FROM KOSCIUSKO TO THE SEA. A journey along the River Murray,
by P. J. Hurley. Numerous illustrations. 15/- (post. Bd.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
wmkh
I
w,
&
s}
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMICAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH
HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS,
AND THE ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING.
WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other chemical closet the public
is invited to investigate the integrity of the Hygeia Sanitary Co.
Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee compared with any other guarantee.
The HYGEIA GUARANTEE includes SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements.
Buy only that which has an unsullied
reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
■\.,J ■
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 83 Coulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolworths Buildings, Adelaide
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., jLtd., 578 Little Flinders St.., Melb.
S. Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: B. P. Slclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart. i
less to construct than a conventional
fence, and last very much longer.
On Peanut Land.
“Atlanta”: In the Kingaroy district
(Q.) peanut-growing has caused one of
the greatest problems of soil erosion. The
ground must be kept absolutely free from
weeds and the removal of the whole pea-
nut plant during harvesting results in a
serious organic deficiency. To counter-
act this farmers are advised to plant
only 30 p.c. of total arable land with
nuts and to adopt a cropping rotation
which allows Rhodes grass on another 30
p.c., while the remainder is planted ac-
cording to usual farming practice. In the
Kingaroy area additional crops include
maize, Sudan grass and cow-peas, but the
planting of these or other crops depends
largely upon dairying or agricultural re-
quirements and upon personal inclination.
Although the suggested rotation may
mean temporary reduction in returns, the
increased profits at the end of four years
when the first Rhodes grass land is com-
ing back to production will more than
compensate for the loss from land out of
cultivation.
Under this system 10 p.c. of the arable
land will be returned to Rhodes grass
each year. After four years the first of
the land would be brought back to pro-
duction and a further 10 p.c. placed
under Rhodes grass. No land would be
more than seven years from grass, and
each year 10 p.c. of rejuvenated land
would be planted with nuts. This method,
in conjunction with mechanical contour-
ing and draining of land, should do much
to preserve soil fertility and combat
erosion.
Hints for the Farm.
“Outback”: The C.S.I.R. reports that
while the American hornfly trap had
been successful against buffalo-fly on milk-
ing cows, partial spraying with D.D.T. is
so simple, cheap and efficient that it is
doubtful whether the cost of installing the
traps could be justified. When spraying
cows in the bails, milk buckets must be
kept well away from the D.D.T. mist,
and care must be taken to see that udders
do not become contaminated ; after using
the spray-gun, hands of milkers must be
washed.
“W. Court”: Every stable should have
a dry, well-ventilated loose-box for the
use of ailing nags. The structure should
be roomy enough to accommodate the
animal easily and enable it to rrlove
around freely. Collect rainwater from
the roof in a tank; tank water is better
than well or creek water for sick animals.
When stock are shut up in a loose-box
for a few days they should be rugged
when let out. Otherwise, the illness is
likely to come back on them and end
fatally.
“Billjim”: Victorian Department of
Agriculture recommends oil of cheno-
podium for large roundworm in pigs. The
patient should be starved for 24 hours,
after which the doses should be adminis-
tered according to weight. 251 b., Ic.c. in
loz. castor oil; 501 b., 2c.c. in castor
oil; 751 b., 3c.c! in 2oz. oil; 1001 b., 4c.c.
in oi l; 1501 b., 6c.c. in 3oz. oil.
After recovery run the pigs in a paddock
which has not carried pigs for two years.
“Big Billy”: A well-drained, loamy
soil is most suitable to nut-bearing trees,
but they will succeed on most soils where
drainage is good and often crop well in
stony, gravelly soil of fair quality. A
very rich soil is ‘not desirable. Plant the
trees about 12ft. apart and allow a short
clean stem before branching them, then
shape as an apple-tree with an open
centre. Prune in spring when the young
female flower buds with red plumes are
visible. When the male catkins are
empty of pollen they can be pruned off,
leaving the fruiting twigs.
“Recco”: Kurrajongs, best of all
fodder trees, will grow quickly if given a
chance and well protected from stock
provided they are not planted in black
soil. They prefer the lighter red soils,
particularly in the N.S.W. central west.
Experiments by graziers have proved it
to be a complete waste of time to try
them in black soil. Ninety p.c. die, and
the 10 p.c. which live never make any
growth worth while.
“Sarina”: The best crops of pumpkins
we ever harvested came from vines grow-
ing in stump-holes filled with a mixture
of stable manure and the ashes of the
burned stump. Wood ash, because of its
high potash content, puts size into sweet
potatoes.
“W.E.M.R.”: If you cannot obtain a
“B” size lamp-glass for wall-lamps use
a hurricane-lantern glass inverted. They
are easily procurable and effective.
“Mr.”: In very hot weather inspect the
fowl-pens every hour or so, particularly
from early afternoon onwards, and dis-
turb the birds to see if any are prostrate.
Hold distressed birds under the tap for
a moment, wetting head and under wings,
but don’t saturate the bird. Then place
the patient on a moist piece of ground
in the shade, preferably where there is a
draught. Most chooks recover quickly
if treated as soon as they show signs of
distress, but advanced cases may need
several wettings. '
“Myrrhee”: H. E. Orchard in the S.A.
“Journal of Agriculture” recommends
this arsenical weed-killer: lib. of white
arsenic ; 11b. washing soda ; Igal. water.
Boil on a slow fire until the liquid is quite
clear and frfee from white particles ; give
an occasional stir, take care not to inhale
the fumes. The solution, which will con-
tain approximately 10 p.c. arsenic, is
broken down by the. addition, when cold,
of 4gal. water to each gallon of solution.
“Bennie”: Potatoes are good for
chickens of about eight weeks old, but
they should not be given too frequently.
For 100 chickens boil about 21b, of
potatoes and incorporate them with the
morning mash once a week. Potatoes
are ideal for birds being fattened for the
table, and should be given twice a week,
allowing about 41b. each time to 50 birds,
given in the morning mash.
“H.M”: Gullies and pockets of rough
land can be improved by fencing them
with an electric fence and letting pigs
grub out the tussocks of coarse grass.
The pigs will do a lot of rooting, and
grass seeds or lucerne can be sown where
they have turned up the soil. Plenty of
water should be provided for the grubbers
and a daily feed may be necessary.
“E.V.S.”: That method of removing
dried paint from brushes (B. 25/12/’46)
strikes me as risky if the brush is a good
one ; boiling might loosen the bristles at
the butt. A simpler way is to soak the
brush in phenyle until paint is dissolved,
then clean up in kerosene.
“Gip”: I made a good paint for inside
and outside walls with the following:
To one 2gal. bucket of unslaked lime add
one pint of boiled linseed oil after having
boiled the lime by adding water and let-
ting cool. The lime must be the consis-
tency of putty and the oil well stirred in,
otherwise it won’t mix. Now dissolve
lib. glue in 2gal. of hot water and thin
the lime mixture down with this as re-
quired. Rain won’t wash it off on out-
side walls, but if using inside it is best
to strain it. Apply with a large stiff brush.
It will take three or four hours to dry.
Any color can be obtained by adding
powdered ochre. This paint could easily
be used temporarily on a house until
proper paint supplies become available.
“E.V.S.”: When working a dog in very
rough or bindi-eye country fit it with
boots made from soft, pliable leather.
Cut to shape of foot with holes for
claws, draw round leg with running cord
not too tightly. He will object strenu-
ously at first, but will soon appreciate
them.


sea. He own a fast little schooner name
Ocean Star. He trade around the coast
with cargoes of firewood and maize and
wheat, long time ago.” Tane puffed at
his pipe. “He do a bit of smuggling at
times, on the sly, eh?”
Tane laughed quietly, but his wife said,
“Pah!”
Tane Kai went on: “One day he put
to sea with a cargo of maize, and such a
nor’-easter came up all of a sudden, the
old folk say it the worst gale that ever
blow in this bay. God help any poor soul
near the coast dn such a night, they say.
Well, the old man was never seen again,”
“But how do you know grandpa was
drowned?” Rui argued. “No one saw
the wreck or ever found grandpa. It’s
just like grandpa hiding the whisky. No
one knew where to find it. Grandpa sailed
away to some new place,” Rui said.
Since he was only 10 and so very
obstinate they left him have it his way.
THE last time I saw Rui was when he
was 16. Now he had to help his
father with the work of the farm, but
the horses and the cows and the pigs had
little place in his thoughts—his heart was
still with the sea. At night after supper
he pored over pictures of ocean-liners
and foreign lands in the weekly paper,
and sometimes he read true yarns by old
sea-captains in well-thumbed magazines.
If he wasn’t &oing those things he was
pestering the life out of his father with
questions as to when he could go to sea
and how he should go about it. His
father remained vague. He just couldn’t
see how it might be managed. “Perhaps
you better off on the farm, eh? As your
mother wishes, eh, Rui?” said Tane Kai.
Rui said, well, he would build a boat
of his own and go all round the world
like the man that sailed here from
Norway last summer. He would get
away from the cows somehow, he de-
clared.
Jokingly I said what a good-looking
sailor Rui would make with his black
curly hair and his strong white teeth and
his clear brown, smiling eyes. And to
hear him laugh—well, the girls in any
port would lose their heads over young
Rui.
His mother pretended to take no notice
of that kind of talk. She said he would
soon grow out of the madness. He would
be a good boy and settle down on the
farm. “The sea too cruel,” she said.
And for a while it seemed that Rui had
given in. He helped with the cows, and
cheerfully fed the pigs and did his share
of work in the maize patch.
j T was after a big blow —just such a nor’-
1 easter as the one in which his grandpa
was lost —that I went along the beach
with Rui one evening to fetch the cows
home. For three grey days and black
nights Kairangi’s house had been buf-
fetted by a tempest of spindrift and sand.
Another window had blown in and Mrs.
Kairangi had expected the roof to go
too.
Now, everywhere along highwater-
mark were tangles of seaweed, uprooted
kelp, driftwood and bits of wreckage.
On the sandhills we found bones and
crumbling skulls, chalky and weathered
by age, that had been uncovered during
the gale. The sea was still very rough,
the surf angry. Rui, who loved storms,
danced along the beach before the wind
and sang at the top of his voice above the
thunder of the surf a wild sort of chant.
At last we rounded up the cows from
the rough pasture beyond the lagoon, and
drove the herd back along the beach to
the gap in the sandhills where the cows
should turn into the home paddocks.
One obstinate beast avoided the turn and
Rui ran down toward the sea, shouting
and waving his arms, to head her off.
But he stopped when he saw a swamped
boat rolling sluggishly in the trough of
the heavy swell just beyond the surf.
“Aha! ” Rui shouted. “My ship!
Here’s my ship- come for me!” And
then and there he decided to try to get
the boat out of the water.
“Don’t be a fool,” I said. He only
laughed.
With a hurried rush he sent the last of
the cows crowding over the sandhill, and
returned to the water’s edge. The breakers
had by then brought the boat well in-
shore, and Rui splashed into the water
nearly up to his waist and grabbed the
gunwale before the backwash could take
the boat out again. It was so broken,
though, it could scarcely be called a boat,
and being heavy with water and in the
grip of the undertow, it refused to be
hauled ashore.
“The tide will leave it stranded,” Rui
said. “I’ll come for it then.”
“All right,” I said, relieved. Anyone
but Rui would have seen that the old
wreck was only fit for firewood.
“For Maru! ” Rui shouted, unex-
pectedly remembering his grandfather’s
old saying. He gave the boat a parting
shove and waded ashore.
All he got for his trouble was a splinter
of the broken woodwork in his arm.
On his way to the milking-shed he
plucked the splinter out and thought no
more of the matter,
“See you again,” he said.
“So long, Rui. Tell Tane I’ll be out
fishing next week,” I replied.
SURE enough, the ebbing tide left the
broken boat high and dry on the
sand, and Rui’s people chopped it up for
firewood.
But two or three days later Rui be-
came sick. His father went out to work
in the maize paddock and left Rui at
home with a bad pain'inside him. “You
know, you shouldn’t eat so much of that
pork last night,” Tane Kai said as he
went out. And Rui’s mother began to
turn out the cupboard for the bottle of
castor-oil.
By the time she had found the bottle,
the boy had disappeared, having no liking
for castor-oil. On the way home at mid-
day his father found him near the cow-
shed, crumpled up and past speech. He
carried the boy home, and the parents
had a job trying to force a little oil be-
tween Rui’s clenched teeth.
“Ah, we do nothing for him—l get him
to the doctor,” the father stammered at
last. So he harnessed the horse to the
buggy and set off with the sick boy for
the nearest township,
The old horse seemed to take ages on
the journey. It seemed almost as long
before the doctor could be found. And
when the doctor did look at the boy he
too could do nothing for him.
Rui died that same day at the hospital
in the township. Later they brought him
home, and there was a tangi and he was
buried under the sprawling old-man
pohutukawa-tree on the hilltop earth-
works that were built long ago by Rui’s
seafaring ancestors from Hawaiki.
THE FLOWER OF PEACE
By ISABEL KNOX
PETERA GEMMEL was going
home after a bout of trying to
teach her grandmother to suck
eggs. It had been exhausting:
Gran’ma was a spirited woman. The
point at issue had been the length of
Petera’s new dress for the school con-
cert. As far as clothes went Petera’s
grandmother was indispensable, for
Petera’s mother, a satisfying parent in
many ways, lacked needlecraft.
“Oh, Gran’ma, not that long!” Petera
had groaned and hitched up her
shoulders impatiently when she felt
Gran’ma’s firm thumb pressing on the
tape-measure where it showed one inch
above the knee.
“You’d like it bally-dancer’s length, I
suppose?” Gran’ma had inquired causti-
cally. “You forget the weather is cold
and vealy thighs, my girl, are never
elegant.”
Vealy! Petera had seethed while
Gran’ma just went round marking the
hem in French chalk. She whispered
something to herself, but Gran’ma heard
and stood up. Their gaze locked.
Gran’ma said “Very well, Miss...
get someone else to do it.” And Petera
flounced out of the house.
She glared about her. Where was Satan?
He didn’t seem to be about now, just
when she could have done with him.
Busy, no doubt, with his going to and
fro over the earth, he was missing a
golden opportunity right here at home.
Petera felt all set to do something fright-
ful, but lacked the imagination to find it,
SHE contemplated briefly a stampede
across the lawns of the public garden
where the sign read “Keep off the grass.”
But they were still sparse and brownish,
and not even a crabby park-keeper could
mind much. Petera thought, with long-
ing, almost, of the fabled “man” she was
foredoomed to meet some day, who
would speak her fair, offer her sweets
and then, if she didn’t run away quick,
would Be Awful. She wished she could
meet him now. Gripes! would he get a
shock!
Anyway, there was no man. She
glared belligerently at the frail old gentle-
man sidling past on the farther side of
the path.
Then Thamar Findlay came along
pushing the Findlay baby in its pram.
Thamar’s family kept the “Tassie” fish
shoo, and Thamar walked the baby up
and down on Friday afternoons to give
her mother fair burl. She had a crush on
Petera, and there were times when
Petera found her adulation acceptable.
At the moment she could bear it. She
smiled in reply to Thamar’s greeting,
shoving her bad temper out of sight like
a dirty handkerchief.
“\ \ / HAT’S happening to the kid?” she
* * asked conversationally.
The baby was navy blue about the
cheek bones, slowly choking. Thamar
crooked an expert finger down his throat
and hauled out some nameless obstruc-
tion. He regained his expression of ex-
treme composure.
“Fat,' don’cher reckern!” Thamar re-
marked complacently. “Just going round
to get his meringue. Come with us, eh?”
Mrs. Findlay didn’t believe in the
Health Centre, and solved most of her
problems with meringues,
Petera hesitated. The Findlay entour-
age was not the most elegant thing in
the world ; and yet it offered an excuse
for not going home at once. To dally
constituted defiance in her Gran’ma’s
code book. Thamar saw the hesitation
and pressed her point.
“Show y’ the new English bride in the
fruit shop,” she volunteered. “Talks
funny, like.”
“Talks English, doesn’t she?” Petera
inquired with mild interest.
“Sort of,” Thamar conceded. Cun-
ingly she moved forward a step or two,
“H’nnn!” Petera followed. No harm
to take an ear-bash, she supposed. They
stood at the door of the fruit shop and
unashamedly listened in while the bride
held converse with her customers.
“She sez orange instead of oranges ...
you listen,” Thamar prompted. And
“three-fourpenny-orange” counted the
bride obligingly.
“Whadder y’ know! ” Thamar put her
hand over her mouth and sniggered. The
pram got in the way of somebody trying
to enter the shop. The procession pushed
on its ley. Petera sagged, and Thamar,
looking'tt her, saw that she would have
to exercise herculean powers of
sociability to retain her much longer.
“Tell y’ sumpthink in a minute after
I bought the kid’s meringue,” she
promised importantly. “Here, hold the
pram while I go into the shop, willya?”
Reluctantly Petera grasped the grimed
handle, while Thamar, grinning, disap-
peared. Petera being embryo woman
would wait at any
cost to hear the sump-
think, but as soon as
she had heard she
reckoned she’d get.
The stale smell of
the baby cloyed her
nostrils. She looked
at him crossly, and
he replied with a
sudden Mo - esque
leer, hugely disconcerting. Crumbs,
Thamar better hurry! Thamar came out,
still smiling blandly.
“Well, what?” Petera asked impatiently
as Thamar handed over the cake to the
baby with curious congratulatory mur-
murs.
“Oh ... oh, that. . . well, yestiddy, do
y* know what? I seen y’ going to prac-
tise for the school concert.” Thamar
wriggled herself ingratiatingly. “Gee,
Pete, y’ gonna sing?”
“Depends . . .” Petera fclt mollified
by the implication of her importance, but
panic sped through her at the same time,
since she knew Gran’ma to be quite
capable of keeping to her threat about
the dress.
With genius Thamar ignored the note
of doubt. “Gee, wish I could hear y’
sing first! ”
A MADNESS came on Petera, born
partly of her desire to show
Gran’ma ; partly of her highly suggestible
vanity. She remembered the bit she had
seen on the back of a cigarette card about
how the Swedish Nightingale had once
dazzled a poor man who desired to hear
her sing by warbling an unrequested
number to him in his shop. The Findlays
had a shop, hadn’t they? She and
Thamar were just getting to it. And if
Jenny Lind could, then why couldn’t she ?
She might go down to posterity on the
back of a cigarette card, too.
“I’ll sing if y’ like,” she declared mag-
nanimously. “In y’r own shop, if y
like » . .” She gestured and moved to-
wards the smoky chasm where Friday
afternoon customers milled. But Thamar
wasn’t as far gone as that.
“Dadder don’t like music,” she told
Petera with that resource that would sup-
port her through life’s crises. “Come
round the back . . . backyard’s good-ee-
oh!”
She gave a good shove with the pram
at a broken-down paling-gate that gave
on to the main street. The gate swung
slowly open and they passed through,
Petera, abruptly deflated and caught in
her own net, struggling feebly to with-
draw. But Thamar was too good for her.
With Marlburian skill she manoeuvred
Petera in between herself and the pram
as they walked the length of the repulsive
alley-way. The pram took the last bump
and purled into the backyard. Petera
cast a desperate look behind, but Thamar
firmly closed the ranks; and they were
in.
Thamar shut off the retreat with the
dustbin and said: “I’ll tell Mum . . .
she’ll come and listen. Or if she’s too
busy she’ll listen in the shop. Y’ can
hear all right. She can hear the kid
howling in the backyard even when the
couta’s frying. Mind the kid, wiffya?”
Within her own stamping-ground, t
Thamar had unconsciously taken on a
new tone of voice, and this was command
rather than wheedling. She rushed inside,
only to be back again in a moment.
“Mummer can’t come,” she detailed.
“ ’Zbusy with the flake. She said you
start ’n’ she’ll try ’n’ get out before y’
finish.”
With strange meekness Petera opened
her mouth and began her concert song:
“My soul, there is a country
Afar beyond the stars,
Where stands a winged sentry
All skilful in the wars ...”
Her voice, pure and true, carried the
wistful words through the air in crystal
rings of sound as the perfect melody un-
furled itself.
“If thou canst get but thither
There grows the flower of peace,
The rose that cannot wither.
Thy fortress and thine ease ...”
MRS. FINDLAY came to the door
with a dish smoking in her hands.
She had a big white face topped by an
enormous forehead signifying nothing.
She stood, listening. The baby making a
big thing of the last of the meringue
paused for a moment, arrested in his
mastication by sheer wonder at the
flowing, beauty of this marriage of poetry
and music,
Petera sang the last verse. “Sounds
real nice,” called Mrs. Findlay calmly-
The baby licked down the last crumb.
Thamar began briskly to wind up the
proceedings.
“Good-ee-oh, Pete,” she said. “Sounds
beaut... Well, cheer-oh, see y’ Mondee. 1
Petera found
herself ushered
forth into the
alley-way with an
insulting rush.
But it didn’t
matter. She went
on wings. She
had never heard
of Aristotle, but
his particular
brand of catharsis
had worked on
her like a spiritual cascara. She was
purged of her evil like an ancient Greek.
The dying spark of a Calvinist conscience
illuminated the fact that it was a victory
for Vaughan and Bach rather than
Gran’ma, but Petera scotched it firmly-
She encouraged the pagan levity, mur-
muring that Gran’ma, the recipient of a
handsome apology, wouldn’t be in any
mood to inquire too deeply into its
source.


WMM.
man
i m
mm
/ .
aji’i
'
*
S3®
m*m
7 m
frusabsr
w
(«■ I
J, k
*
IP
#/5w
m
xSw*'
mv
IB
■■
»
«sw__ *
A ~ • •.
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR_SjIRiNiL
WORLD BOOKS
woiiooeoeccj^cwww*
$ h
SsllKo!
m
»v,a
mi
■
mmm
liiliil
iiiiiii
liiiili
■ ;
IM ; I -
f
m 1
Best Sellers for Only 5/6 Eachl
START now to build your own per-
sonal library with these lovely
de-luxe editions.
“World Books’’ are superbly bound
in buckram and cost only 5/6 each,
irrespective of the regular selling
price of the books.
Subscription rates for “World
Books,’’ which become the mem-
ber’s own property, cover all costs
including postage and the price of
the books.
Lodge your order early as only a
limited number of new subscribers
can be enrolled each month.
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED.
Jan.: “The Ballad and the Source” Rosamond Lehmann
Feb.: “The Commodore” C. S. Forester
Mar.: “Elizabeth and Leicester” Milton Waldman
Apr.: “Collected Kipling Stories” Rudyard Kipling
May: “Fanny by Gaslight” Michael Sadlelr
June: “Four Portraits” , Peter Quennell
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
6 MONTHS
£l/16/-.
12 MONTHS
£3/12/-
(Incl.).
Kindly add exchange to
Country and Interstate
Cheques.
f
MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP, 9 Castlereagh Street, I
Sydney, N.S.W. I
Please enrol me as a member of “World Books.” J
I enclose £ / /
Name
Address ■
B. 22/l/’47 |
SMOKE-OH
To the bestl
with the bestl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
m *4' « • . -
“At the bottom of the criminal financial
ladder are the forgers, who have to do a great
deal of highly-skilled technical work for very
little.” — “Sun.”
In fact they’re just scratching for a
living.
“There is no average face.” — “S. M. Herald.”
But some look rather mean.
•E •I- -h
“Luxurious and expensive metal cloth fabrics
arc dribbling back.” — Woman’s mag.
And with them their purchasers expect
to make quite a splash.
“Exclusive cafe requires 2 waitresses, spoon
and fork.” — “S.M.H.”
They’ve got a knife, apparently.
•I* -I* •{- 4*
“The percentage of diabetics among the Jews
is higher than in any other race.”
— “World’s News.”
The making of sugar seems to be in
their blood.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She felt the moment she had longed for
had come at last as they sat looking up at the
stars. ‘Will you marry me, darling?’ he whis-
pered.”—Story.
He got his answer in a twinkling.
4* 4
“Mother with nine tiny appreciate
discarded old furniture and clothes.”
—Brisbane “Telegraph.”
This makes the Dionne Quins look a
trifle out of date.
•5> 4* 4* 4*
“Quantity of tradesmen for sale.”
—“Great Northern” ( N.S.W. ).
Contractors will bid recklessly for these.
•J*
“On her fortieth birthday Anne was forced
to admit to herself that she no longer made
a hit with any of the men in the office.” — Story.
Just a plain miss, in fact.
“ an d the fellow cant run because I've got his hracesr!”
Exception.
“Officers and n.c.os. at Aldershot may decor-
ate their walls with photographs of relatives,
but not of scantily-clad pin-up girls.” -
You’ll note, no matter where you find
him.
It seems to cheer the soldier’s lot
To have beside his lonely cot
An illustration to remind him
Of all the girls he left behind him ;
Yet though they say the Tommy’s got
A home from home at Aldershot,
There’s one amenity declined him.
Well, even now, although they’ve banned
The limbs of bathing beauties and
The torso of the strip-tease dancer.
With what remains I’d say offhand
Male relatives of Sally Rand
Could make a tricky case to answer.
P.M. LUSK.
Definition.
“Throughout the ages poets have been trying
to define love, and the psychologists are still
trying.”— “New Idea.”
For anyone as green as I
To venture rashly in the lists
With erudite psychologists
And, uninitiated, try
A task considered hopeless by
All poets dating from the mists
Of ancient times to modernists,
Were impudence, Til not deny.
But ndw that I have burnt my boats
And blithely pay for theatre seats
Or watch my dwindling store of notes
Go up in smoke or down in sweets,
No longer humble. I’ll make free
To swear that love’s a luxury.
D.H.E.
Bright Days Ahead.
“After 26 years Wick, in the extreme north-
east of Scotland, ceased to be a dry area.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.
Dour prohibitionists are foiled
And Hielan’ lads may take a cup;
For Wick can now be safely oiled
Or legally remain lit up.
BERT.
The Grand New Game.
“The third Test match created so much in-
terest in Moscow that, at the urgent request ot
the Legation at Canberra, the D. 0.1. had news-
reels of it flown to the Soviet capital.”
The first Test match between the
famous Moscow Generators team and
one from the autonomous Soviet Repub-
lic of Kazak was about to commence
at the October Revolution Cricket
Grpund.
It was an animated scene. The great
stand with its red plush-cushioned seats
was crowded with the Red Army officers,
party officials and their ballerinas for
whom it was reserved exclusively, gratis.
As an earnest of that total absence of
class distinction which is so publicised a
feature of Soviet life, the proletariat, clad
in the regulation 800-rouble paper sports
suits, were standing packed shoulder to
shoulder in the broiling sun on the “hill,”
to which they had been marched by their
army guards. “Seats,” 200 roubles each,
plus 300 roubles amusement tax.
The band of the Collectivised Firing
Squads Union was playing Dismalski’s
gay “Crematorium” waltz. Political
commissars over loudspeakers had for
two hours been telling the toiling masses
that the U.S.S.R. was the only demo-
cratic country in the world where cricket,
the new game which had recently been
invented by Professor Dumski and which
crystallised the spirit of Soviet sports-
manship, was allowed to be played.
As Joe drove up in his grenade-proof
car 20,000 political police began moving
about on the packed “hill,” and soon the
applause became deafening. Acknow-
ledging the spontaneous outburst of
affection with grim, set face, the Soviet’s
Flihrer, in the centre of a solid square
of his bodyguard of 200, moved swiftly
into his special bullet-proof enclosure.
The two captains then came out, stood
to attention, raised clenched fists, shouted
“Heilski, Fiihrer,” and walked to the
wicket.
Ivan Ichinek, captain of the Gener-
ators, tossed a rouble, and as it was spin-
ning he called “Headski.” It fell heads.
Ilyich Tartaroff, captain of the Kazaks,
stooped and picked it up, turned it over
and pointed to the reverse side, his
almond eyes half closed.
“There must be some mistake, com-
rade,” he said, toying with his pigtail,
“This coin has two headskis, and, anyway,
it was my call.”
“There is no mistake, comrade,”
answered Ivan. “I always call, and the
coin has not two headskis.”
“But,” protested Ilyich, “see, there
they are.”
“One of them is a tail,” went on Ivan
evenly. “Perhaps you would like the
N.K.V.D. to check up on your eye-
sight” he nodded towards a uni-
formed group standing near by. “Pos-
sibly,” he added significantly, “you
haven’t been told that the Genera-
tors is the Marshal’s favorite team.”
“You won the toss fairly, comrade,”
muttered Ilyich, his face inscrutable.
Ivan, with his left-hander Qlum
Whiskeroff at the other end, opened to
the bowling of Serge Pantsoff. He made
a wild swipe at the first ball, missed and
heard the rattle of timber behind him.
The umpire held up his right index
finger. Instead of turning towards the
pavilion, however, Ivan walked down the
pitch, accompanied by two of the politi-
cal police who had been standing a few
yards from the popping crease.
“That was a no-ball,” he said.
The umpire pointed to the ground.
“No, comrade,” he answered, “his foot
was at least a yard behind the stumps
when he delivered it.”
“It was a no-ball,” repeated Ivan. “Of
course, if you wish to be ‘interrogated’
about it and perhaps other things by the
secret police”
“Comrade,” said the umpire hastily,
“it was a no-ball.”
The captain resumed batting. The next
ball, a fast one outside the off stump, he
attempted to cover-drive. There was a
loud snick, and the wicketkeeper threw
the ball up and exultantly shouted
“Owzatski! ”
Ivan beckoned to two N.K.V.D. men,
who came across.
“Appealing like that might give you a
sore throat, comrade,” the batsman said,
“and if your health fails you may have
to take a lengthy vacation in a Siberian
saltmine, wondering what happened to
your family- Now, did you hear me
snick it?”
“No, comrade ; what I must have heard
was a joint crack in my finger,” replied
the ’keeper, glancing nervously at the
batsman’s companions.
Five days later, with the score at 0
for 750, Ivan, who had been bowled 212
times, caught 190 times, stumped 118
times and run out 86 times, “declared.”
Fifteen minutes later, whenjlyich, who
had ordered the heavy roller to be used,
came out to open the Kazak innings the
groundsmen were just taking away the
light plough and the hose with which
they had flooded the pitch on Ivan’s
counter-orders.
Ilyich made to protest, but decided to
bat instead. The first ball, a full doss, he
belted back to the bowler, who dropped
it. 'From the “hill” came a yelled “Get
a bagski! ” A minute later from the same
direction came screams, and then a figure
was carried out on a stretcher followed
by four men holding knouts. The second
ball Ilyich stepped into and hooked over
the fine-leg fence. The bowler appealed
and the umpire gave him out l.b.w.
An hour later the Kazak team were
all out for the second time, having failed
to score in either innings. The Mos-
cow Generators had won by an innings
and 750 runs, and the proletariat on the
“hill” were marched out by their guards.
As “Depravda” said the next day, in
no other country in the world could such
an exhibition of clean sport, played be-
fore laughing, happy citizens revelling in
their freedom, be seen.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Army Equipment
I can assure “Nexa” (B. 25/12/’46)
that my experience was gained in the
field in Northern Australia, New Guinea
and New Britain. Before the war I had
also done a lot of bushwalking over
some of the most rugged country in Aus-
tralia.
I have weighed the buckles off Army
gear—on belt, webbing* pack, faater-
bottle carrier, etc., our soldier carries
exactly of solid brass in the form
of buckles, tags and clips. A similar set
which we made from aircraft alloy
weighed a trifle over six ounces. In that
one item alone you could save nearly
half a pound of useless weight. The
Army issue claspknife weighs five ounces,
but a Lockwood “cold-finger” one with
aluminium sides is half the weight. An
aluminium water-bottle —even the Italians
had one —is less than half the weight of
ours and the American plastic “non-
" freeze” type is even less. That eliminates
over a pound and a half of useless dead-
weight, with no loss of strength or utility.
1 took my old kangaroo-hide walking
boots with me to New Guinea and wore
them till they fell to pieces. The boome-
rang tread on the rubber soles did grip
on mud slopes for the same reason that
' the tread on Army truck tyres grips on
similar surfaces—because pressure on
them squeezes surplus mud out of the
sides. The Army issue boot was good,
but heavy—only kangaroo hide can give
an upper just as strong but half the
weight.
Apparently “Nexa” has never seen a
modern rucksack. The frame is outside
the pack and holds it clear of your back.
The only things which touch your body
are the broad greenhide shoulder-straps,
usually padded with sponge rubber for
additional comfort, and the webbing
waistbelt. It cannot chafe, your back
doesn’t get hot and sweaty and it won’t
sway and throw 4 you off your balance
on hard going. It is standard equipment
with ski troops, it was issued to the U.S.
infantry towards the end of the war and
bushwalkers, ski clubs, and mountain-
climbers wouldn’t dream of using any-
thing else. Only three sizes of frame are
needed to get a perfect fit on anybody.
After a few hours in steady rain our
Army greatcoat will pick up and hold
from five to seven pounds of water and
take hours to dry out again. The type
of overcoat which should replace it is
merely the officers’ trench, coat of the
1914-18 war, with a few improvements
made possible by the far better materials
now available. Arctic explorers, ski-ing
enthusiasts and mountain-climbers know
that two or three Shetland sweaters, each
weighing only four ounces and worn one
over the other, give far more warmth
than a single heavy sweater weighing two
or three pounds. A coat with a water-
proof and windproof outer layer and
woollen lining, which can be detached,
folded and carried in the pack when
only a raincoat is needed works on the
same principle.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Efficiency
On discharge all my papers were ready,
including the will that I had to make
when I enlisted in the A.I.F. in 1941. A
civilian solicitor helped me prepare this,
and it was still sealed in its envelope with
all my regimental details on the outside.
It looked so neat and secure that it
seemed a pity to open it.
Two years after discharge I decided to
glance at it before depositing it with some
other papers. It must have been written
in invisible ink because all that came out
was a blank will form. Apparently the
will I made is in someone else’s envelope
or in some w.p.b.— Xenexer (N.S.W.).
Preference
“8.J.L.” (B. 25/12/’46) and his mates
who served overseas deserve preference,
but it should not be granted to men who
served only on the mainland, whether
they volunteered for service anywhere
or not.
During the last year I have worked with
two ex-servicemen. One served 18 months
in Darwin, and the other spent 12 months
in Canada under the Empire Air Training
Scheme, returned to Australia and
got his discharge.
As a civilian I worked over 50 hours
a week in the outback, before and
during the war., During that time I re-
ceived only one short holiday. -I twice
tried to enlist in the R.A.A.F., but was
finally told in writing by the department
which employed me that I was not to
enlist in any of the Services. With no
deferred pay to collect, heavy taxation
and high cost of living during the war, I
finished the war years with less than I
started—my wages were pegged,
I recently applied for one of eight
positions for which I have special train-
ing and aptitude, only to be told that,
although no ex-servicemen had applied
for the vacancies, I was not an ex-service-
man and could not be engaged. That has
happened to me four times in the last
year. Yet my two workmates, who spent
a few months in Darwin and Canada
respectively, have preference over me and
could get the jobs if they wanted ’em.
By all means grant preference to
“8.J.L.,” but not to those who did not
serve overseas. —Lignum (N.S.W.).
Drought and Labor
The drought has been the subject of an
occasional article in the press, but city
dwellers, who must eventually feel some
of the repercussions, don’t seem to be very
concerned.
Whole* flocks and herds have been
wiped out in many places, and in others
a few feeble walking skeletons are all
that are left. Holdings, generally smaller
than in the 1902 disaster, are owned by
men who have worked hard and put their
money back into building flocks and herds
of good quality to make up for the smaller
numbers. In many cases, after spending
everything in a fruitless effort to save
their stock, these men have lost the lot.
A bitter blow to pastoralists is that
industry, once more free to supply
civil needs, has been held up by
incessant strikes, which have meant
dire shortage of bore casing, piping,
troughs, windmills, pumps and parts
necessary to repair broken - down
machinery. Doubtless these strikers shud-
dered at tales of German cruelty, but
they did not hesitate to condemn many
thousands of helpless animals to death
from thirst, and their owners to com-
plete ruin.
Most of these pastoralists worked seven
days a week, daylight till dark, during the
war, when labor was practically unobtain-
able. Even women and girls have had
to help cut scrub and pull out bogged
beasts. Meantime the papers report un-
employment among discharged service-
men.
In Queensland the senseless meat-
workers’ strike stopped the sale of many
thousands of fat stock. For the most
part these beasts are now dead or reduced
to walking skeletons. Cows are the first
to die, so it will take a long time to
build up the herds again.—M- M- J. (Q-).
Gas Strike
Conspicuous on street corners in Ade-
laide are sticklers demanding that the gas
company be “nationalised.” No doubt
this is “tactics” to the Reds. But some
people do not forget that the Queensland
taxpayer is still paying for the wild-cat
ventures of the Ryan Labor Government
in 1915, nor do they forget that strikes
occur easily enough in publicly-owned
utilities.
Adelaide’s gas strike was prolonged by
a noisy minority. At a special meeting
recently nearly* a half of the men, led by
the union president, voted for a return
to work, but were intimidated by “Red
Raggers.” The president said “We are
losing public support and are being made
a chopping-block for other unions.”
The union’s secretary’s reply was
characteristic: “We must fight to a
finish,” though his seven pounds a week
are secure no matter what happens.—
A. D. (S.A.).
A shareholder in the Australian Gas-
light Company tells me he gets 6 p.c.
on his shares. The N. S. Wales Gas Act,
1932, keeps the dividend at that figure or
lower. It’s not much, considering that
the union delegate in the job I’m work-
ing on gets 10 per cent, for collecting
union money from men on the job. That
is only a sideline, and the union supplies
him with a pencil and receipt-book.—
B. W. I. (N.S.W.).
Jerry’s Builders
Years ago the comic act of the day was
Jerry’s Builders, starring several dogs.
To the commands of their trainer, these
little dogs tried to build a house about
10 feet square, of which only the scaffold-
ing and a couple of walls of bricks were
completed on the stage. In aprons and
overalls, and very busy with rulers,
trowels and kids’ buckets in their mouths,
the dogs careered around the scaffolding,
knocking bricks on to their trainer’s
head, slopping cement down the neck of
his shirt and drenching him with water.
Although the pups were natural
comedians, ithere was sadness in their
antics—an impression of earnestly trying
hard to do something beyond their under-
standing. Desperately ? night after night,
they tried to build that house and never
got a brick further.
Through the years I’ve remembered the
pathetic futility of those pups, but I
never expected to see the act performed,
with all its pathos and none of its humor,
by an all-star cast of politicians and
Government housing experts.— Yarra-
SIDER (Vic.).
Union Officials
A word in defence of that most
criticised individual the union official,
who has to accept all the brickbats thrown
from the press, public and his members
whenever a strike occurs.
I’m a member of a trade-union with
Wish I had that bloke's hitch-hiking nerve, Alf !”
11,000 members in N.S.W. We hold a
general meeting once a month and the
average attendance, when things are
normal, is about 50 members. But when
members consider they have a grievance
they roll up in thousands.
Most disputes start on the job, when
the workers consider they are being badly
done by, as is often the case. At first
there is a muttering, then the delegate
is asked to call a meeting on the job,
with the result that a resolution is carried,
instructing the president of the union to
call a special general meeting of all
members to discuss the grievances. The
president, being bound by rules, has no
other .course to follow than to call the
meeting, very often knowing full well
that the men s claims are against the law.
So the first thing he does on the meeting
night- is to try to explain to members
the full implication of the regulations
governing their particular industry, and
also to inform them that as their union
is affiliated with the A.L.P. it would be
wrong to embarrass a Labor Government,
Generally the president is howled
down and a resolution carried to the
effect that direct action will be taken,
The secretary is then placed in the same
position as a lawyer defending a man
who he knows is guilty. He has to
do his best. The rules of the union speci-
fically state that members must abide by
a majority vote. The officials, like any
other members, must abide by those rules,
but their job is much harder because they
must fight the case in the court and else-
w b ere .
I have been associated with the trade-
union movement for many years, but I
am gradually coming to the conclusion
that the worker is hopeless.— Dajarra
(N.S.W,).
Clothing Shortage
Seventeen months after the end of the
Japanese war most items of clothing
are still in very short supply and manu-
facturers and retailers say this state of
affairs will continue well into 1948,
During the war the swiftness of the
change from civil to war production was
our continual boast. Surely, even allow-
ing for labor shortage, as good an effort
could be made in reverting to pre-war
footings. But industrial troubles and
labor shortages aren’t the real reasons
for the scarcity of clothing.
There is no price control on goods for
export and many people are taking
advantage of tempting offers from over-
seas. For the four months ended October,
1938, value of textiles exported from
Australia was £458,000, and the value
of apparel and attire was £700,000; for
the same four months in 1946 the figures
were £2,218,000 and £1,422,000.
Can anyone argue against those
figures? C. T. (N.S.W.).
Dairymen
Industrial workers have conciliation
commissions and Arbitration Courts to
hear and settle their grievances. Why
not a similar set-up for dairymen? Cer-
tainly more strikes occur among those
blessed with arbitration than among those
without, but dairymen are individualists
and it takes a pretty strong grievance to
stir them to direct action.
Why not set up a costing system,
acceptable to both the Government and
the dairymen, by which payments reflect-
ing the rise and fall in production costs
could be quickly and simply adjusted
from time to time? Such a scheme would
remove the cause of frequent complaints
from the farmers and the threats of milk
stoppage to the consumers. —K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
Visual Education
Victorian educationists are pinning
great hopes on visual education and
cinemas are to be installed wholesale in
school rooms. Teachers are hailing the
innovation with enthusiasm, but is the de-
velopment of any real value?
The cinema as a technique for speed-
ing up education has advantages, but it
can only teach more facts; it can’t teach
children to reason. There are plenty of
facts in the world but very little reason-
ing about them,
• Another objection to films as a medium
for teaching is that they are too quick
and a thing can never be learnt quickly.
Children’s moods are constantly chang-
ing and in the classroom there will always
be some children in a receptive mood and
others, normally intelligent, who feel dull
and unresponsive. If a child failed to
pick up the meaning of the first part of
a visual lesson he would be in the same
position as a pupil who has missed a term
through sickness. At the next lesson he
would be endeavoring vainly to pick up
the thread and would inevitably become
discouraged by his failure. Each succes-
sive lesson would add another discourage-
ment to the others until the subject would
be surrounded by such unfortunate asso-
ciations that he would probably give it
up altogether.—L. I, (Vic.).
S.P.
The town in which I live (population
6000) has at least a half-dozen families
living on incomes derived solely from
illegal s.p. betting and “sports clubs.”
Twice that number obtain part of their
income from the same sources, the big
s.p. men paying a commission of three
shillings in the pound to their runners and
agents. Although 90 per cent, of the
townspeople know, who and where the
“operators” are, the “industry” enjoys
immunity from the police.
Over the Christmas holidays the local
police checked up on motorists. Breaches
of parking regulations and the carrying
of families on the backs of motor lorries
were the main offences for which hard-
working timber-haulers, millhands and
cockies were booked.
If the Government does not wish to
suppress s.p. betting it should be legalised
and proper taxation exacted. Until such
time as it is legalised the police should be
instructed to give s.p. joints and “sports
clubs” the same attention as has been
bestowed on the motorists. —A. S.
(N.S.W.).
Duties on Timber
Despite the fact that the U.S.A. pro-
duces large quantities of timber it has
removed all duties on timber, plywood,
box-timber, shingles and other wood
which might be required for the housing
programme. The “House Expeditor” is
empowered to admit pre-cut timber
houses, portable houses, prefabricated
panels for houses and “panelised” parts.
In this country our “Government” has
still not made a decision on the question
of lifting all import duties on imported
timber. We are not in the race to supply
our own needs in softwoods, and the
necessity for free imports of timber, no
matter where it can be bought, is of vital
importance to the speeding-up of home
construction. Building costs are soaring
all the time.— Wilydah (N.S.W.),


Pubs
The war-time custom of closing the
doors of hotels when the beer was “off”
has become a peace-time custom assumed
as a right, which it is not.
Publicans are licensed to serve the
public. They are required to have their
bars open during legal trading hours
to all who may wish to buy wine
or lemonade, spirits or sarsaparilla,
as well as beer. They are also required
to be open at all hours, with a light out-
side to guide travellers at night, and to
supply food, refreshments and accommo-
dation to all who need them.
It is time that the police took action to
prosecute offenders. —Mos (Vic.).
Our town is in the west of the Riverina.
Every year a large number of shearers
pass through en route for the sheds.
For 40 or 50 years it has been the
shearers’ custom to put up at a
hotel conducted by the one family for
generations. Here the men could get
excellent meals and clean beds, with good
service, at fair prices. It is one of the only
two non-tied public houses in the town.
But “regulations” are now being en-
forced, This well-known and admirably
conducted hotel is being squeezed out of
the hands of the family. The building is
to be demolished because the present
occupier cannot spend thousands on re-
building. A new hotel will arise in all
its meretricious splendor, but where will
the industrious shearer be accommo-
dated?—Mercutio (N.S.W.).
Latin
There is an old gag about a man who
said that the use of Latin in conversation
proved that the speaker was a “pedantic
ignoramus.” “F.S.” (B. 25/12/’46)
writes that Latinists are “pedantic.”
Apropos of only one of the writers
alleged to have been comparatively ignor-
ant of the “dead” tongue, H. G. Wells,
like Bacon, took all knowledge for his
province. In our scientific age every bug,
drug, gadget, theory or ology is given a
Latin or Greek label. Wells, in his wide
studies, must have acquired an immense
vocabulary of both languages, for the
study of science without such derivations
is impossible, and the attempt to teach it
would be absurd.
In biology, his pet subject, Wells eluci-
dated in a masterly way the evolution of
the primary protoplasmic unicellular
organisms, through all their polymorphic
gradations, species and Mendelian modi-
fications to Homo sapiens. Could he
have done it in Anglo-Saxon? And did
his linguistic versatility render him
pedantic and “non-creative”?— Anno
Domini (S.A.).
Whyalla
J. P. Brazel refers to a “union award”
of wages being paid to non-unionists as
if it were taking money by false pre-
tences. The award rate is one that is
promulgated by the Arbitration Court
for a type of work, whether it be per-
formed by unionists or non-unionists. To
call it a union award is typical Com-
munist presumption of the functions of
the Court,
Apparently the worst effect of living
at Whyalla is that one gets a full medi-
cal service for Is. 3d. a week and that
the milk comes from Laura. This is a
very poor stick with which to beat
8.H.P., but it seems to be the only one
which Mr. Brazel can find.—R. C. (Vic.).
Contrast
The experience of two young women
who won Sydney “Morning Herald”
prizes affords a striking commentary on
the absurdity and injustice of Australian
income-tax assessments.
One, who gained first prize in the
“Herald” novel competition, will have to
pay a substantial proportion of £2OOO
in tax. Her companion-in-success,
who was lucky enough to hit on
the right spot in a “Find the Ball” con-
test and thereby landed over £l7OO,
won’t have to pay one penny on that sum.
Winnings on the racecourse, unless
the punter makes an actual business of
his betting, are also immune from the
taxgatherer. Lottery wins and similar
gains from chance enjoy the same ex-
emption. All are classed as “recrea-
tional earnings,” and as such are not
considered legitimate sources of taxation.
If, however, it is just to tax what is
won in a literary competition surely that
which is the fruit of chance, gambling or
speculation should not be free. — Lyle
(N.S.W.).
“Saving Timber”
Has “S.H.K.” (B. 8/1 / ’47) been asleep
for 20 years? His timber-saving ideas
have already been put into operation.
Cement and, occasionally, brick —
piers have been popular with Queensland
home-builders for at least a decade.
They are permanent and proof against
termites. Since the war ended wooden
house-blocks have become the exception
rather than the rule.
“S.H.K.” wants to know why build-
ing authorities insist on 4 x 1 or
6xl tongued-and-grooved vee-jointed or
tongued-and-grooved beaded boards for
ceilings and linings. They don’t.
More than 20 years ago fibro-cement
sheets commenced to replace wooden
ceilings. Nowadays, fibro-cement and
fibrous-plaster ceilings are invariably the
rule.
Not for many years has the tongued-
and-grooved beaded lining board been
used. The 4xl tongued-and-grooved
vee-jointed lining boards (used perpen-
dicularly on walls) replaced the beaded
board at least 40 years ago, and about
30 years ago the 4 x 1 board was replaced
by a board measuring xl. Not only
are the vee-jointed boards old-fashioned
today, but it would be impossible
to buy sufficient of them to line a home.
Timber is too scarce. — Taffy (Q.).
Round Pegs
“Pubserv” (B. 1/1 / ’47) hits a nail on
the head when he points out that in his
unit a p.-t. instructor was sent to a school
for orderly-room clerks. This was a* de-
finite weakness in Army system. Unit
C.Os. required to nominate men for
training schools usually selected those
they would miss least. These men, gener-
ally uninterested, would attend the
school and then return to the unit and
their normal jobs. The men who should
have gone missed valuable instruction
that would have made them more effi-
cient in their job and qualified them for
specialist pay.—T. S. (N.S.W.).
According to Means
There is much talk of abolishing the
means test for social benefits, but it is
strange to read “Teret” . (B. 1/1 / ’47)
advocating a means test when imposing
fines. One punishment for the rich and
one for the poor is merely re-stating
“one law for the rich and one for the
pqpr” —a suggestion repulsive to British
communities.
To carry “Teret’s” idea to its logical
conclusion, if a person is poor enough
he should go unpunished because, being
unable to pay the fine imposed, he would
have to go to jail, whereas his richer
fellow could pay any fine within his
means and avoid prison.
The main dread of ‘offenders (unless
hardened by years of lawbreaking) is
the mere fact of a conviction. The ad-
ministration of justice is daily becoming
more complicated, so why seek to com-
plicate it further? Consider the additional
work entailed and time required to verify
the means of a person before assessing
his fine.
At all times the punishment should fit
the crime, not the criminal. Gyx
(N.S.W.).
Capital Punishment
In his condemnation of capital punish-
ment “A.D.” (B. 8/1/’47) seems to jump
to the conclusion that all men come from
the same mould and are all capable of re-
formation to a state of innocence.
“The number of innocent men who
have been hanged” is a bagatelle com-
pared with the number of guilty men who
should have been. Take recent prison
records. Men who should have been
hanged have served their sentences, re-
gained their freedom and. committed the
same crimes again. If, as “A.D.” claims,
they have a right to their lives, the
ordinary citizen has a greater right to his
and to protection from such fiends.
Let me ask “A.D.” this, and he can
pass it on to his mates at the next stop-
work meeting: If his wife or daughter
were outraged or murdered what stand
would he take? I’m prepared to give
him a fair hearing provided his answer
is* honest. —W. Z. (Q.).
Road Accident Control
While I write this Australia will lose
another citizen —either dead or terribly
injured—through a needless traffic acci-
dent. Replace the term “accident” with
“unadulterated carelessness,” and you
have a more accurate picture. In
America, with its infinitely greater
volume of road traffic, a car becomes a
coffin every second of the day, seven
days a week. Yet from that country
comes an answer to the problem. Over
the last six months, when most American
cities have had a traffic-casualty list
higher than ever before, Omaha
(Nebraska) has been without a fatal road
accident. This city of more than a
quarter of a million people made its
formula “applied common sense.” Ten
years ago it formed a Safety Council,
and it began a decade of persistent hard
work:
We tried to find out how the traffic
accidents originated, where the gaps were
in our programme, and then fixed up the
weak spots and plugged the gaps one by
one. We secured the passage of the neces-
sary laws and then hammered away at
education... .Omaha needed motor-vehicle
inspection. We secured passage of a city
ordinance requiring semi-annual inspection
of all motor vehicles whose Owners reside
in the city... .Applicants for driving
licences have to pass examinations in
knowledge of traffic regulations... .The
safety council does not believe in “cam-
paigns.” It is the constant work —year after
year—that brings results.... Any city in
the world can do just as Omaha has done
if the municipality organises itself and
makes up its mind that traffic deaths are
needless and can be eliminated.
The apparent magic of the city’s
scheme can be traced down to three “E’s”
—engineering, to round off danger spots,
education, both for motorists and pedes-
trians, and enforcement for all. — Dino-
saur (N.S.W.).
Defence
As the months pass it becomes increas-
ingly evident that the present “Govern-
ment” does not intend to reintroduce
compulsory military training. Defence,
apparently, is a matter to be handled by
conferences, with the same degree of
success as attends conferences dealing
with industrial upsets.
A continuation of the V.D.C., complete
with an air arm, might produce some
results. The 1914-18 Diggers did a decent
job in the last fracas, and certainly en-
joyed the spirit of comradeship reborn in
their camps. Many serious-minded 1939-
45 servicemen would' be happy to assist
in carrying on until such time as a Gov-
ernment with guts Comes along.
There should be ample material avail-
able to equip such a concern, and those
who realise how unprepared we were in
1939 would spare no effort to ensure that
their sons will not have to face similar
shortcomings in another 25 years’ time. —
Stanus (N.S.W.).
The Tangled Web
From the moment they were introduced
the regulations gazetted under the
National Security Act, 1939-46, have been
attacked from all sides on the grounds of
anomaly and careless drafting. In N. S.
Wales Justice Owen, trying to unravel a
legal tangle, referred it to the Full Court,
and remarked that he regretted he could
not, order the person who drafted the
regulations to pay costs. He went on to
describe the regulations as “an impene-
trable jungle.”
Almost every set of regulations that
has been gazetted has had to be amended
because of some fault or discrepancy in
the drafting. The time and money wasted
because of this kind of thing must be
immense,
Canberra’s “amended” wage-pegging
regulations immediately drew criticism
from Judge Foster in the Federal Arbi-
tration Court and J, V. Barry, K.C., on
the ground that relaxation was illusory,
and that the change did not give the
Court the powers anticipated. The P.M.
remarked that ignorance and misinter-
pretation apparently extended into the
most unexpected quarters. A day later
he intimated that the Government had
again amended the wage-pegging regula-
tions to end the confusion brought about
by the first amendment.
On the same day Canberra announced
to curb activities of
real-estate blackmarketeers.” These new
regulations make it mandatory for a
person who takes an option over land to
disclose the fact when applying for
Treasury consent. They also provide that
any person who has paid more than the
sum mentioned in the contract of sale may
sue for recovery of the excess. They do
not state whether he is liable to or is
immune from prosecution if he goes into
Court. This leaves the way open for
blackmarketeers to continue their opera-
tions, because it is patent that no pur-
chaser will sue if in doing so he auto-
matically proves a case against himself.
The confusion and uncertainty created
by such absurdities add to the general
restlessness and serve as a smokescreen
behind which politicians can evade re-
sponsibility for their shortcomings.—
Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Bushfire Control
As “Wilydah” says (8.1/l/’47), we can
learn much from the IJ.S.A. in bushfire
control —the use of “smoke-jumpers,”
parachutists and modern equipment is
highly commendable. But “W.” forgets
that American forestry and, indeed,
every branch of industry over there, is
far more highly developed than the Aus-
tralian infant.
In years to come Australia will also
possess these improvements, but in the
meantime what would a handful of men
and a few ’planes do to control an Aus-
tralian bushfire, so different in character
from the American type?
The solution lies in the use of material
we can actually get—extensive reading
systems of State forests and timber re-
serves, culvert dams, patrolling jeeps with
trailer, tank and pump, look-out towers,
wireless, and, above all, a “fire-conscious”
people who will regard a bushfire with
the same concern as a blaze in the next
* street. — Saligna (N.S.W.).
Wages and Salaried Men
A Melbourne builder put the present
labor situation in a nutshell for me.
The modern worker is paid a good wage,
but he knows he can get precisely the
same wage elsewhere. Half his wages are
taken in direct or indirect taxation. So
what incentive is there to do a good day’s
work?
Salaried men are in much the same
position now tha£y Governments are
nationalising everything they can lay their
hands on. In a bar the other evening I
counted over 20 young men, most of them
with university educations, who were in
Government billets. None of them had
much interest in the jobs they were doing,
which ranged from hashing up news to
research into the psychology of workers.
Most of these leisured young gentle-
men, in pre-war days, would have been
earning £3 a week at some dead-end job
in an office. The chief topic of conversa-
tion was the better job that was available
in some other Government department.
This is the new bureaucracy in the mak-
ing, and it is producing a type as old as
the Byzantine Empire.— Lord Luvus
(Vic.).
Housing in N. S. Wales
TTiousands of ex-servicemen willing to
build, even at today’s inflated values,
cannot even begin because a suitable
block of land is unobtainable at a reason-
able price.
At a conservative estimate, there must
be 50,000 to 100,000 vacant building
blocks in the Sydney metropolitan area.
Of these, only a small percentage come
on the market. They are generally the
worst blocks and outrageous prices are
demanded. Negotiations for any other
blocks usually result in a blackmarket
deal or no sale.
If there were some scheme to make
building blocks available to ex-service-
men, the majority of home-seekers would
have something to start with. At present
they have nothing but airy promises. If
the Government offered me the choice
between a building block and my deferred
pay, I wouldn’t hesitate. And I had over
five years’ service.— Rehab (N.S.W.).
Building costs could be reduced if
there were a law to stop contractors pay-
ing above the award wages for tradesmen
and unskilled workers. A contractor who
pays more than the fixed price for bricks,
“Turn the tap on, Bert!”
timber or any other material is guilty of
a blackmarketing offence and liable to
punishment, but the same contractor can
pay a pound a week or more above the
award wage to a bricklayer, carpenter or
a laborer without breaking the law, and
any builder will tell you that he has to
pay his workmen well above the award
wage to keep them with him.
The Government has rightly controlled
the prices of materials in short supply,
and this has checked inflation, but noth-
ing has been done to control blackmarket-
ing in wages. If the Arbitration Court
sets a bricklayer’s wage at £7 a week it
should be as much an offence to pay
more than that as it is to pay less.
If wages were pegged at award rates
the present cost of a cottage would be
reduced by a couple of hundred pounds.
—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).


m
mi
mu
i
;
%
m
i
m
SR
m
im
Mmm
m
m
I
m
MB.
1
1
»
ji
*
\m\
imipu
M
zvm,
I A
mm
m
m
m
I
mwm
m
mm
!3 ISir'ilKulV
1
iill 5-)’■:
s'-v i:!: ?
i:;:: :| l^S§
■?,';/■; v,•■.■■•; i. ••’• p ■ Y'iWStMW/ijl
t
i /
m
•< : /,'x ' r v."’>o , «^T
IT,* V "
• *sVl
wci{? y
' V,>
k
,
J
irs>.; * /
B 7
I ’ ■■■
* 1
:x
m m
m *
ILMaST EVERY
BENEFITS EVERY DAY FROM THE
PRODUCTS OF THE STEEL INDUSTRY
ŵ
Industrial drama is graphically por-
trayed in the above picture showing
molten iron being poured into an open
hearth furnace at The Broken Hill
Proprietary's Newcastle Steel Works.
The manufacture of steel provides em-
ployment opportunities for thousands
of workers, and its subsequent shaping,
transport and fashioning into the count-
less steel articles used in our daily life
helps fill the nation's pay envelopes.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
v. wmssm ■■
iron and 'srea
OFFICE. 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Offices also at Sydney. Adelaide. Perfe* London and Singapore,
