

ROYAt
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68 -No, 3505
Wednesday, April 16, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
DONEGAL'S DERRYBEG CHAPEL.
in a bleak corner of the northwest Donegal coast,
Derrybeg Chapel is typical of many ecclesiastical buildings
scattered throughout Ireland. Compensating for its lack of pre-
tentious architecture by its venerable history, Derrybeg Chapel
stands for Irish faith and devotion to fatherland. The pastor shown
in the foreground of our view was a Father McFadden who became
noted sixty years ago for his interest in his parishioners and> who
during the Land League agitation laboured so untiringly for his
people that his name is still honoured by their descendants. When
Robert Bridges wrote “The Fair Brass” he might have been writing
of old Derrybeg’s McFadden:
Across the deathful days
Link’d in the brotherhood
That loves our country’s praise
And lives for heavenly good.


sdf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
Sly Name
Sly Address
8.8. 147 AGE
The Red Page
BLETHERIN' IN THE BARLEY.
Uncle: Wullie, my boy
Willie; My name is Willie.
Uncle : Then keep your wool on
Wullie. I’ve brocht ye a gey fine buik t
be reading. Losh, mon, a novel on th
life o’ Robert Burns, no less! —Th
Wind that Shakes the Barley, publisher
by Collins, written by James Barke. Aye
Wullie, as the poet says, what a granc
time ye can have, bletherin’ wi’ a cron
round the tavern fire ; and Mr. Barke
a grand crony to blether wi’, forbye!
Willie: At what age, Uncle, die
Robert Burns, according to Mr. Barke
express a desire to blether wi’ a crony?
Uncle; Why, Wullie, at aboo
eighteen, if I remember rightly.
Willie: I verra much doot, Uncle —
hang it, I very much doubt —whethe
Burns ever used such a revolting phrase
in the whole of his life. Certainly no
at the age of eighteen.
Uncle: Wullie, lad, Mr. Barke says he
has read all the authorities, and that hi
book is more accurate than the standarc
biographies. Dinna ye doot his authen
teecity.
Willie: It is my firm belief, Uncle
that The Wind that Shakes the Barley
was written for professional Scotchmen
by a professional Scotchman. And when
Mr. Barke pretends that the poet, stil
in his early youth, meditates like this—
“ Nights with some of the cronies, anc
the coggies lipping full! Aye, many
canty night he’d had with randy chiels
when the nappy was in grand order” —
my Scottish flesh, Uncle, creeps on my
Scottish bones. And I am ashamed, anc
would that I were, by descent, a Hotten-
tot.
Uncle: I’d no’ be surprised, Wullie
if ye were.
Willie: Dinna ye call me Wullie!
It is like reading an Australian novel
Uncle, in which the heroine says “Stone
the crows!” and “Starve the spadgers.’
Such things, it may be, are said; and
may be used in fiction with very good
effect, to give local color. But the thing
should be done delicately; and Mr. Barke
has about as light a touch as a steam-
roller.
Uncle: Ye hae read the buik then,
ye young gomeril?
Willie : Aye, that I hae. And sooner
than read it again I would strangle my-
self with a haggis.
Uncle: Ye hae no respect for your
elders. You should have had William
Burns, the poet’s father, for your uncle.
Willie: I note. Uncle, that on page
20 Mr. Barke declares of William Burns
that “Laughter never broke the line of
his drawn, purposeful lips.” And on
page 236 Mr. Barke says William does
laugh sometimes—“ Aye, and a good
hearty laugh at that.”
Uncle: We all slip sometimes, Wullie.
Willie: But Mr. Barke spends his
time in a perpetual skid. He says on
page 62, describing the life of the Burlfs
family at Mount Oliphant, “The years
dragged on in a grey monotony of labor
and semi-starvation.” And nine pages
further on the “grey monotony” is
broken, apparently for the first time in
years, by fine weather: “There was an
exhilarating feeling about harvest time;
the reaping and bringing into the barn
of the fruit of a hard year’s work. The
weather held good. Day after day the
sun shone round and warm with lazy,
ripening heat.”
Uncle: Aye, Wullie, but Mr. Barke
has toiled late and early, trachling in
the glaur and gitter.
Willie; The fault of this novel.
Uncle, is, in a word, exaggeration. Ex-
travagance of style, for William Burns
has a “strutted spine” and eyes that
“screwed up from their recessed sockets
and went out through the back of Mur-
doch’s skull”; extravagance of charac-
terisation, for Mr. Barke actually says* on
page 20 that William had never, in the
whole course of his life, “known any-
thing to arouse laughter”; above all,
and around and encompassing all, the
novel suffers from exuberance of emo-
tion. This, I need hardly remind you,
is particularly—and most embarrassingly
—evident in the love episodes.
Uncle: A mere bairn, Wullie, should
look the other way.
Willie: Personally, Uncle, I believe
all bairns, as you call them, should be
compelled to read Rabelais at the age of
six. It would do them not the slightest
harm, for Rabelais is not nearly as rude
as the average small boy ; and it vyould
do them the great good of teaching them
not to be shocked at the commonplace
facts of life when seen in print. My
objection to Mr. Barke’s love episodes is
that they are utterly different in tone
from Burns’s poetry. Burns is light and
fresh and gay; Mr. Barke’s novel, on
the contrary, reminds me again of a
steamroller —a steamroller in the spring.
At the mere mention of love —and of
course he has to mention the subject
many times—the great rollers of his
prose wobble and squeak in ecstasy,
sparks fly out of his paragraphs, there is
a clanking and a groaning of metaphors,
the novel is a cloud of steam. There
are “pulsing stars,” Bums’s country
Wenches become “panthers,” and a great
lyric is rewritten in prose like this: “The
chemistry of their blood was flashing to
contact across the stillness of the over-
charged room. The air was impreg-
nated with desire. The leap across the
arc of reciprocal attraction was immi-
nent.” It is not Burns;,, it is not good
English; it is not even good science;
and I will have no more of it.
Uncle : Haud your whist, ye young •
whippersnapper, ye’ll hae twa mair
volumes yet o’ this grand and mighty
work! Mr. Barke is only beginning.
Willie: If Mr. Barke will write a
simple little fairy story about the sex life
of the Loch Ness monster I will read him
with pleasure. Uncle. But I have some
regard for both Burns and hisjpoetrymnd
I can no more recognise the one,
smothered in steam and sentimentality,
than I can enjoy the other when, quot-
ing, Mr. Barke foully prints the lines of
verse as prose ; and if there are to be
two further volumes, complete with
“burbling” skylarks, I think, Uncle, T
will give them to you. In the meantime
I have great pleasure in returning to you
The Wind that Shakes the Barley.
Uncle: Hoots! Toots! Awa’!
Willie: What on earth do you mean
by that?
Uncle: That, my bletherin’ crony, is
a steamroller expressing uncontrollable
aversion.
A Book for Fishermen.
Great Fishing Stories, compiled by
Edwin Valentine Mitchell (Doubleday;
Angus and Robertson), is a better book
than a first glance would suggest. It is
an anthology of fishing yarns—admittedly
fictional —chiefly modem and American,
but with some selections from other times
and other lands, including a short story
by de Maupassant.
The opening story is “Big Two-
Hearted River” from Ernest Heming-
way’s In Our Time. Hemingway writes
like this:
Nick slipped off his pack and lay down
in the shade. He lay on his back and
looked up into the pine trees. His neck
and back and the small of his back rested
as he stretched. The earth felt good against
his back. He looked up at the sky, through
the branches, and then shut his eyes. He
opened them and looked up again. There
was a wind high up in the branches. He
shut his eyes again and went to sleep.
The word “back” four' times in three
successive short sentences! Hemingway’s
prose, as time wears the gloss of new-
ness from it, begins to look so cheap and
so thin that one can hardly believe it was
ever taken seriously.
It is the redundance of it—the mean-
ingless repetition—that shows most ob-
viously faulty in “Big Two-Hearted
River.” Just as Hemingway has to re-
peat the word “back” four times to make
it clear that his hero is lying in the shade,
so, to show that the fisherman is enjoy-
ing his day, he has to say twice in one
paragraph “Nick felt happy,” and then,
to make it perfectly clear, “He had not
been unhappy all day.”
To make sure the reader understands
that fishing is a pleasant occupation he
has to say, at short intervals, “The earth
felt good” ; “His hands smelled good” ;
“There were plenty of good places to
camp, but this was good” ; “It was a
good camp” ; “It was a good feeling.”
And with these errors of “toughness” go
the equally absurd errors of tenderness,
intended to show that, for all his affec-
tation of manly wooden - headedness,
Hemingway is really a writer of exquisite
refinement and intellectuality: “His
tongue was very sensitive.”
The extraordinary thing about all this
“feeling happy” and “feeling good” is
that Hemingway is utterly incapable of
awakening joy in the reader. He is, in this
story at any rate, altogether lacking in
that human warmth which expresses it-
self naturally in humor of outlook and
mellifluousness of style.
“Big Two-Hearted River” is a fishing
story, and, like beer, fishing stories are
never wholly bad. At least Hemingway
catches a trout or two, and wades a
noble river. But, on the whole, it is as
poor an evocation of the delight of ang-
ling as it is thin and stumbling in style.
For fishing is not, as brothers of the
angle know, some grim and miserable
ritual, but the sport R. D. Blackmore—
the Lorna Doom man —paints to perfec-
tion in “Crocker’s Hole”: in which are a
little of the primitive thrill of the chase,
some pleasant endurance of rough
country and rough weather, combined
with comedy and the observation of the
wonders of Nature, and delight in sun-
light and sweet water:
The great trout was stationary almost as
a stone. He was gently fanning with his
large clear fins, b'ut holding his own against
the current mainly by the wagging of his
broad-fluked tail. His size was such, or
seemed to be such, that I fear to say a word
about it; not because language does not
contain the word, but from dread of ex-
aggeration Swoop came a swallow, as
we gazed, and was gone with a flick, hav-
ing missed the May-fly. But the wind of
his passage, or the skir of wing, struck
the merry dancer down, so that he fluttered
for one instant on the waves, and that in-
stant was enough. Swift as the swallow,
and more true of aim, the great trout
made one dart, and a sound, deeper than
a tinkle, but as silvery as a bell, rang the
poor ephemerid’s knell. The rapid water
scarcely showed a break; but a bubble
sailed down the pool, and the dark hollow
echoed with the music of a rise.
“He knows how to take a fly,” said
Pike. “He has had too many to be tricked
with mine. Have him I must; but how
ever shall I do it?”
Blackmore doesn’t say once in
“Crocker’s Hole” that he, or Pike, or the
May-fly, or the great trout “feels good” ;
yet it is a story full of happiness, charm-
ing in style, a May-fly that would take
any angler. And the book, once it has
got rid of Hemingway, is all more or less
in this style. Other contributors include
Zane Grey, Compton Mackenzie, Marlin
Armstrong, Henry Williamson and (with
a delightful comedy about an angler who
rashly taught his wife: to fish) Henry van
Dyke.
Prose From a Saucer.
A pleasant little novel about wheat-
farming in Western Australia, John K.
Ewers’s Men Against the Earth (Georgian
House) is in the tradition of dead-flat
naturalism which has been established by
latterday followers of Henry Lawson.
It seems possible that Mr. Ewers has
deliberately adopted a drab, colloquial
style to suit the type of country and
people he is writing about. The people
think in cliches, so Mr! Ewers writes in
cliches;
Page 5; When he was sober all the world
and its aunt could call him Lee, and he
_ didn’t care a button.
Page 16: The children came in hungry
as hunters.
Page 40: The boy’s right arm was always
as crooked as a dog’s hind leg.
Page 66: Granpa’s. cup of happiness
was really full that night as he watched
them stuffing those peas into themselves.
Page 72: Dandy put his ears back and
went like streaked lightning.
Page 76: Arvie was out of bed like a
shot.
Page 100: He dropped his hammer like a
hot brick.
Page 110: He was like a cat with two
.tails over each new arrival.
Page 125: She looked up at him, hardly .
able to believe her eyes.
Page 136: Arvie could hardly believe her
eyes.
Page 139: Ross woke up a bundle of
nerves.
Page 143: She was a chubby little imp,
as agile as a monkey. V.
Page 170: He wished the floor would
open up and swallow him.
Page 205: Granpa couldn’t drive a drill
for nuts.
Page 220: When his name was in the
paper for winning a Military Cross they
said, ray word, it was a feather in the cap
of South Yorallin all right.
Page 226: The success at Villers-Breton-
neux was hailed as a great feather in the
cap of the Australian troops.
The people use plenty of “gots” in
their speech, so Mr. Ewers uses plenty
of “gots.” The people use slang, so Mr.
Ewers writes (page 52); “They had to
keep their eyes skinned for snakes”;
(page 55) “What broke Tommy up” and
“That got Tommy’s mad up” ; (page 171)
“That made her mad and she went for
him” ; (page 184) “She had bucked up
after dad had died” and, astonishingly
on page 115, “He was a kindly old gent.,
white haired and with a little white
moustache.” The people speak ungram-
matically, so Mr. Ewers does likewise
(page 72); “Her dad bought it off Fred
Martin.”
A foreigner reading this novel would
certainly need a. glossary, for otherwise he
would be under the impression that the
children were going about with skinned
eyes, that Tommy had been broken into
pieces, that Bessie, upon seeing granpa,
had madly gone somewhere else to find
him, and that the same Bessie, after her
husband’s death, had shamelessly bucked
like a horse. But Australian readers will
be able to follow Mr. Ewers’s colloquial-
isms well enough. And, up to a point,
both the slang and the cliches are effec-
tive. The housewife in the novel is
usually “tousled,” the husband drinks his
tea out of his saucer and when Mr. Ewers
comes tousled to his typewriter and, so
to speak, drinks his prose out of his
saucer, the style emphasises the effect of
simple crudity he is trying to paint.
But this is as if a landscape-painter,
working with worn-out brushes and in-
ferior paints, had set down on canvas a
representation of a cowshed as crude in
execution as the subject was ramshackle
in construction. It is possible to paint a
cowshed exquisitely.
Mr. Ewers has not, except in such ex-
amples as the “feather” on page 220,
the excuse that can be offered for Law-
son’s cliches or colloquialisms, that they
are spoken by the author in the first per-
son as a character in his story or by
Mitchell or some other narrator. Nor,
except in isolated cases, do the examples
quoted occur in the meditations o
characters in the novel, who might legi
timately be expected to think in hack
neyed or ungrammatical terms. Whether
deliberate, or partly so, or merely
thoughtless, the crudities of style occur
in the author’s own prose.
Nor, again, can Mr. Ewers, writing so
“naturally,” be said to be using the ver-
nacular to enrich the language as Synge
did or to create a new sort of prose
rhythm as Hemingway and Gavin Casey
have, not altogether successfully, tried to
do. Nor is he using his cliches for the
purposes of humor. The absence of
artistic control in the writing, or at any
rate the laxity of control, is evidenced by
the author’s use of “rouse” with two
different meanings in the one paragraph:
He lit the fire, milked the cows, and had
bacon and eggs sizzling by the time Arvie
roused the younger ones out of bed. Little
Tommy was the sleepy one. Arvie had to
rouse at him more than at any of the
others.
Whether or not the prose is deliber-
ately slipshod—and of course Mr. Ewers
can write better than this; indeed, there
is occasionally an attractive description
of the landscape—it is impossible to find
artistic merit in a book so ill-written. And
the construction is similarly rough. At
first the novel appears to be developing
the theme set out in its title, Men Against
the Earth —the struggle of Tommy Lea
to make a living in difficult conditions.
A secondary theme, running naturally
along with the first, is the story of
Tommy and his wife: her nagging, her
complaining, her growing antagonism.
This is, of course, the hackneyed stuff
of the bush, the story faded Lawson as
the style is faded Lawson. But still, the
life of the land goes on ; a minor novel
about the slums is not necessarily better
than a minor novel about farming. It
is the characterisation that is really im-
portant ; and Mr. Ewers’s Tommy and
Bessie, though commonplace, are por-
trayed with sufficient human warmth to
hold the attention.
But, then, just as Tommy is becoming
interesting, Mr. Ewers tips him off a
wagon and kills him. The theme now is
Bessie’s struggle against the land. And
then, towards the end, there is a further
change of direction, and the interest is
focussed on the daughter Avea or Arvie.
Possibly, since Arvie occupies the
centre of the stage at intervals through-
out the novel—as when, for instance,
granpa explains to her about “father
flowers and mother flowers” —and since
the book ends with the caption “End of
an Episode,” Mr. Ewers intends to write
a two-decker or trilogy, at the completion
of which Arvie will be seen to have been
the central figure all as
the embodiment of the social history of a
generation.
This, depending on Mr. Ewers’s de-
velopment of his powers of characterisa-
tion and not on his capability as a social
historian, might make the complete work
satisfactory in form. But, regarding the
first volume as it is submitted, it seems
episodic and effortless in construction,
merely following the fortunes of a
family from day to day. As an everyday
novel of everyday people, written in an
everyday style, the book should find a
public ; but its “naturalness” is a little
too natural for art. The best of it is in
some episodes, such as the destruction
of a house in a cyclone and the drown-
ing of a child in a dam, which have been
published as short stories.
Reviewed in Brief.
The Years Between: Lyle Stevenson
(Australasian Publishing Co.)- A family
novel, set in Sydney, with virtues of con-
struction and observation stifled by a
general, invincible dullness.
Victory Roll: (Australian War
Memorial). A large handsome book,, like
others in the Services’ series, with splen-
did photographs, reproduced sketches and
paintings, stories, articles and verse, all
illustrative of the service of the R.A.A.F.
in what was, practically, every corner of
the earth. Among much interesting
material, an article on prison-camp life in
Germany by Flight-Lieutenant Norman
Bartlett is balanced, vivid and pertinent
in view of a recent debate in the Federal
House, Ex-members of the R.A.A.F. are
entitled to a copy on application to Aus*
tralian War Memorial, Post Office Box
214 D, Melbourne.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
i
SSSSK
r
Vs
A
fm
Ko>
w
'J-
r
\
a
\
cr
ii
4
«
I
5
i" ' ' •V" c .. T f
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
STURDY
American Naval Boots
The ideal work boot constructed from an imported Specifica-
tion, in reversed leather, giving a Fawn Suede appearance;
genuine welted clumped soles, iron heel plates ... in full
and half sizes, 7 to Hi; Narrow, Medium and Wide fittings.
The most comfortable work boot produced. Price 26/8
• Metis Shoes —Ground Floor, George Street.
Tough, Hard-wearing
WORK TROUSERS
(IJlasirated at left)
Specially reserved for our Country Customers! Mens English
made Work Trousers. These are tough, hard wearing Fawn
Cotton, made in England to the rigid standard of the Royal
Navy. These trousers represent a real bargain and we
guarantee satisfactory wear.
1. High Body Rise.
2. Roomy Side Pockets.
3. Deep Pocket Hole and Button.
4. Large Flap Pocket.
5. Double Sewn Seams.
When ordering, please state waist and leg measurements.
Sizes, 30 in. to 38 in. waist. Assorted leg measurements for
short, medium or tall men. Price 17/6 and 2 coupons.
• Men’s Tailoring—Ground Floor, George Street.


the Advantages of
this roofing
■sheet!.
Imxh .
c? r
i. -j?
*te
j'Aiv.-:-
str 0
•asn
n 8
Ser
ft
!*«%
*«%
for
er *on
Wa t e
Go
On
%
%
er
• Because of its greater covering
capacity, Lysaght's 10x3" COR-
RUGATED GALVANIZED IRON
permits of faster construction,
requires fewer roofing timbers and
cuts costs all along the line. Add
to this its extreme rigidity, great
tensile strength and longer life
and you'll find why it pays to
specify Lysaght's 10 x 3" Corru-
gations on ail your building
projects!
10
LYSAGHT’S
GALVANIZED IRON
Ll47a-5270
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd. V dMy
tM: WitSM
8? V
O'VsM&Vy/.
wmmsmmm
is t ' ?
55
5554
s/Jytyyty///-
W»E
ure .
Britain, short of light-weight metals, called on her furniture
craftsmen in the dark days of the war for that famous fighter-
bomber, the Mosquito.
From wood-working industries came the laminated wood
components for this wonderful aircraft and for the high-speed
sea-rescue craft and torpedo boats.
From the chemical industry came BEETLE SYNTHETIC RESIN
CEMENTS revolutionary in their ability to provide glue-lines
which were waterproof, impervious to fungal and bacterial
attack, immune to the most varied and destructive climates,
outstanding in strength* and consistency.
BEETLE CEMENTS met the demands of war. They are now
available for bonding wooden laminates and components to meet
specifications calling for the maximum of durability and strength.
BEETLE ELLIOTT PLASTICS PTY. LTD.
35
8
TERRY STREET,
ROZELLE, N.S.W.
’Phone; WH2521
16 ROND STREET,
MELD O URNE
'Phone; MU1568
>
& *
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of verse beginning:
I must go down to the show again,
For the call of the bloodstock there
Is a wild call and a clear call.
And I hear it once a year.
—3985.
To buy Scapegoats of the Empire, by G. R.
Witton.—3983.
To get in touch with buyers of peat in
Sydney.—39B6.
Information Sought.
What were the circumstances of the expulsion
in the ’eighties of Dr. Chas. Strong, of Scots
Church, Melbourne ?
In 1881 Dr. Strong was asked to explain
certain statements which he had made in an
article on the Atonement in the “Victorian
Review.” At first he refused to reply; eventu-
ally he agreed to a resolution which urged him
to make prominent in his preaching certain
fundamental Christian truths. On August 1,
1883, he invited to his pulpit in The Scots
Church a Unitarian layman, who lectured on
religion and science and spoke against the divin-
ity of Christ without protest from Dr. Strong.
After various moves the General Assembly de-
clared Dr. Strong no longer a member of the
Church.
* * * *
Particulars concerning the short-nosed bandi-
coot of Victoria?
It is a compact, short-legged animal, some-
what larger than a rat. Although called “short-
nosed” its muzzle is long, though the long-
nosed bandicoot and Gunn’s bandicoot have
longer ones. The tail is short, and the hair on
the body is coarse and spiny. The upper sur-
face is grizzled, yellowish-brown, and the under
surface yellowish-white. This is the common-
est species in Victoria, and it is found in num-
bers quite close to Melbourne. It feeds upon in-
sects and their larvae and earthworms, and will
also eat roots and bulbs. It makes its home
among the roots of trees, or by scratching a
depression under clumps of grass or low bushes.
The species may be identified by its short,
rounded ears.
* * * *
(1) Origin of the word squatter? (2) Does it
refer to a large or small sheep-farmer? (3)
What is the difference between a pastoralist and
a squatter?
(1) It was originally applied to the cattlemen
and sheepowners who “squatted,” without legal
right, on land outside the region in N.S.W.
where settlement could legally be established,
with the view of later securing full title to the
land. Governor Brisbane encouraged the prac-
tice, disapproved by Macquarie, and allowed
them to settle on Government land under legal
restrictions. (2) The squatters usually occu-
pied large areas and raised sheep on an exten-
sive scale. (3) A pastoralist is one who raises
sheep or cattle. A squatter could be any sort
of farmer, though he usually did go in for
livestock breeding. \
* * * *
(1) Will frequency modulation render obso-
lete existing radio sets ? (2) If so, how many
years’ use may one expect from the present type
before f.m. makes it useless? (3) Can wirelesses
be converted ? (4) Would the cost be reasonable
if conversion is possible? (5) What is the out-
standing advantage of f.m. from the point of
view of the listener?
(1) No. (2) More than 20 years, if then.
(3) and (4) Not economically. It will be a
better proposition to obtain a separate re-
ceiver designed for the purpose. Conversion
would mean that only a few of the existing
components would be applicable and therefore
the cost would be as high as the new receiver
designed for f.m. (5) F.m.’s great advantage is
in the effective elimination of unwanted back-
ground noises that are evident on the existing
a.m. system in the form of static, and
radio inductive interference caused by near-by
electrical circuits and appliances. By virtue of
the silent background there is a very close
approach to realism in fidelity of reproduction.
# * * ♦
(1) How can an aboriginal in N.S.W. dbtain
exemption from the provisions of the N.S.W.
Aborigines’ Protection Act ? (2) If exemption
is granted could he still live on an aboriginal
reserve? (3) What Act of Parliament covers
such exemptions? (4) Can an exempted
aboriginal demand to be served with liquor in
a hotel?
(1) Any person of aboriginal blood may
make application to the Aborigines’ Welfare
Board for the issue to him of a certificate
exempting him from the provisions of the
Aborigines’ Protection Act and regulations
therein. Each application received is investigated
and the board gives consideration to the ad-
visability or otherwise of the issue of a cer-
tificate upon reports received regarding the
applicant’s character, sobriety and living con-
ditions. (2) Any aboriginal person to whom a
certificate has been issued is then deemed not
to be of aboriginal blood and is not, therefore,
entitled to receive any benefits from the
Aborigines’ Welfare Board, or to remain in
residence on an aboriginal station or reserve.
(3) Provision for the issue of exemption cer-
tificates was included in the amendment of
the Aborigines’ Protection Act passed in 1943,
(4) There would not be any restriction on
an exempted person being served in a hotel,
but the possession of a certificate would
not necessarily give him the right to demand to
be served as, as in the case of white persons,
it is at the publican’s discretion whether he
serves or not.
* * * *
Recipe for the making of Black Leaf 40?
Take 21b. waste tobacco (dust), three gallons
cold water and 7oz. quicklime. The quicklime
is slaked with a small quantity of the water in
a kerosene-tin. The 21b. of tobacco is then
added, the whole well stirred and the substance
allowed to react for 36 hours, the mixture being
well stirred from time to time. At the end of
this time the product is strained through a piece
of coarse sacking (chafibag). The residue re-
tained on the sacking is washed with water, and
the washings added to the liquor which has
already passed through until the total volume of
washing measures three gallons. This three gal-
lons of liquor is transferred to a glass vessel,
if possible, to allow sediment to settle, leaving
a clear, light-colored product, very much the
color of beer. Before using dilute with equal
quantity of water.
* * * *
(1) Can you suggest a few bush walks (about
16 miles ) not too far out from Sydney ? (2) A
week-end bush walk?
(1) Hornsby to Castle Hill, via Galston
Gorge, Galston, Dural and Kogan’s Hill, about
16 miles; take the bus at Castle Hill for Parra-
matta. Pymble to The Spit, via St. Ives and
French’s Forest, 15 miles. Signposts are plenti-
ful on both routes, but a road map is useful.
(2) Take the train to Cambelltown and walk to
Appin on the first day (11 miles). Next day
follow the road to Cataract River, Broughton’s
Pass, Wilton, Nepean River, Muldoon and
Picton, about 16 miles.
* * * •
How to grow horseradish? Can it be stored?
Horseradish is grown from root-sections sold
by merchants. Plant sections (about 3in. long)
in a slanting position in light soil (without man-
ure), and keep the beds watered; if allowed to
become dry the roots lose their “bite” and are
unpalatable. The plants should be dug up
every year and strong young sections replanted.
As the plants multiply enormously the first
year’s cost is generally the last. Surplus roots
can. be grated and stored for use. and if corked
will keep for a long time.
* * * *
Cause and cure for heavy losses of seedlings
in boxes and beds?
Three things (and there are others) are gen-
erally the reason for the losses —faulty drain-
age, poor quality seed or disease in the soil.
When boxes are used drainage trouble can be
minimised by placing' crocks in the boxes and
making plenty of holes for the water to escape;
the seed trouble depends on the merchants;
and soil diseases can be overcome by sterilisa-
tion with boiling water or baking it on a plate
over a fire. It is always advisable to make up
seed-beds every time with fresh virgin soil;
building them up higher than the surrounding
paths will give natural drainage. The addition
of lime to both boxes and beds has a purifying
effect and, provided it is well mixed into the
soil, is not injurious to seedlings.
Brief Answers.
R.J.W.: Handy Hints for the Farm (Is. 2-jd.
posted), obtainable from The Bulletin Office.
G.G.: Write N.S.W. Bookstall Co., corner
and Market-streets, Sydney—
C.C.G.: Write Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney.
J.A.: Max Schmeling knocked out Joe
Louis in the twelfth round on June 19, 1936,
and Louis knocked out Schmeling in the first
round on June 22, 1938. Both contests were
staged in New York F.J.W.: Gunegaldra
is an aboriginal word meaning “place of the
female opossum” J.M.S.: Newport’s The
Conduct of Meetings (65.), from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .M.S.: Proposal would
be perfectly legal but don’t draw the will
yourself. Get a solicitor to do it E.G.W.:
Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, for pamphlet
“Rabbit Destruction.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
„ CANTERBURY DISTRICT.
CHRISTCHURCH ..REGISTRY. —In Divoece.
■No. 4264.
TO JAMES MATTHEW SMITH of address unknown,
_T° 4 U T^ r ’ K™°L LILLIAN SMITH of Christchurch
TAKE NOTICE that a petition by your wife for
dissolution of her marriage with you on the ground
desertion has been filed in the Supreme Court
e ‘P a ” d . at Christchurch with a notice to
pnless you file an answer to the
an Vo°, n said Court at Christchurch within
rnL+r , fro ™ th f, last publication of this advertise-
-10474 ( yii lC n wdl occur on th e 16th day of April
r. ' ® Court may hear the petition and pro-
wu ti? d if ment • Wlthout Your being heard and that
npr g l}’ on an address for service in man-
by - tbe Rules of Court you will not be
receive any further notice or documents
hi connection with the proceedings. A copy of the
Notice will be supplied to yofon you?
?t P Ch^tchnrS e - Bai S e at the ® u P reme Court Office
at Christchurch m New Zealand.
?94^ d _r a , c 4 r r St n Ur ? l * his 31st da y of March,
r p ?* RANSOM, Deputy Registrar.
who?e addrpßH o< f 18 the . solicitor tor the petitioner
MUc?tor d ?t i 4Q f rr Se T C< i 18 at the office of her
rdiiSfE 449 * Hereford Street in the City of
Christchurch in New Zealand.
to forward £f po ? den * are particularly requested
the foregoing advertisement.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
src • “
12 months fl 4 0
® » 12 6
8 .» 3 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:—
12 months .. 15 0
5 » 8 0
' f .. 4 0
y to members of the forces 1c the
islands —3 months ..£lB 0
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
liqueurs
m
#
mm
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
liqueurs
it's "good taste" to serve them!
HIGHEST AWARD AND FOUR FIRST
PRIZES 1947 ROYAL EASTER SHOW
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY., LTD. —Established 18&
PSD (a).
sd
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Built entirely In Australia by
’THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
THE “ ‘WILD CAT MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
21- per copy. 22/6 a year post free.
• •
It is a simple matter to buy bonds in the Third Security Loan. Just walk
into any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
Apply for the number of bonds you require, and then —buy some more.
Even though you can’t pay cash at the moment, you can always pay for
them by suitable instalments.
You can then forget about them because your Bank will take care of them
without charge and every six months will credit the interest to your account.
Of great importance to young people and the parents of growing children
is the 12 years’ period of investment which pays interest each six months at
the rate of 3J% per annum, and which over 12 years would earn £37/10/-
for every £lOO invested. £lO or £l,OO0 —it still holds good—Third Security
Loan Bonds are a better than hank interest investment, without worry,
without risk, backed by the resources of Australia and guaranteed by the
Commonwealth.
Listen to the
AUSTRALIAN
NATIONAL QUIZ
CHAMPIONSHIP
OF 1947
M/
AUSTRALIAN FINAL over two-
way landlines Friday, April 25,
at 8 p.m. All Stations.
(South Australia 7.30 p.m.)
FACTS ABOUT THE THIRD SECURITY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used to finance continuing war com-
mitments, important national works and the continued re-
habilitation of ex-service men and women.
2. Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO, or Inscribed
Stock, may be purchased for cash or by instalments through
any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stock-
broker. Interest is payable each six months at 3£% per
annum for 12 years or 2% per annum for 3 years.
3. Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Com-
monwealth. Bonds and Inscribed Stock are readily saleable
to meet an emergency.
4. On your application form, credit your subscription to
your district to help its quota.
SA VE FOR SECURITY - Invest in the
f *
Third SECURITY loan
35L.16.113
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed
to the Editor. \ 1
Dorking: It’s walking A.L.C.M.: As soon
as we saw the title “I Knew,’’ and the weary
heart” in the first line, we knew... .R.D.M..
Bless your heart, come in:
“Why in this universe that we call
life Must our lot be filled with worry and
strife?” Thousands will mourn with you; par-
ticularly those who have to read poetry. •••
F H • “And what portends that thick nmg
haze?” Another bushfire poem, for a moral.
.W.J.M.: Your little brown house has a
strange and heartrending resemblance to the
little brown jug in the song... .P.G.: You shall
try your wings:—
....R.M.: No matter how warmly you feel
about them you can’t rhyme redhot kilns with
doctors’ bills D.8.H.: You sail on deep
waters V.R.J.: The other poem is for Jill’s
eyes only, but this is for the nation: —■
J.H.: The old chap didn’t make the grade
W.P.E.; Easter verse missed the target
J.N.H.: We knocked that yarn back some time
last year, didn’t we? W.T.D.: We receive
few as feeble P.N.: Not a Bulletin yarn.
NJ.McG.: Faced with a shortage of stories
a woman’s paper might take it 8.W.: We
have had enough Centralian murders to last us
a lifetime R.E.: Story of husband on strike
and his anxious wife much the same as a crop
of other similar stories that have descended
upon us lately K.F.: Glad you found him;.
R.L.F.: No place in our pages for your
spy-hunters K.E.G.: Earbiting football
player sent off the field D.L.R.: Dreary
J. : Glad that the little fellow put his Dad back
on the right track H.E.: “Pocket of Gold”
wouldn’t earn you a pocketful of coppers
W.C.: Suggest that you bury “The Dead
Dilettante” as soon as you can K.R.: A
host of similar, sad romances always turn up
in the autumn... .E.M.H.; You would do bet-
ter if you wrote about something you knew
C.C.: We were not in to your invisible man....
FJ.S.: Cannot understand why your spies
should make their in the middle
of the Macpherson Range L.M.: Others be-
fore you have thought of tattooing the map
of a treasure island on someone’s back....
K. : Avery small storm in a very small tea-
cup... .-J.L.M.; “Murder at Midnight” is
hackneyed....P.McM.: Where did you read
that yarn, Pete?... .A.M.D.: Firebrand is the
tenth untamed brumby to win an outback
picnic race this week... .J.D.D.: You stop too
often to admire the scenery W.A.: Reads
more like a divorce-court report than a short
story L.R.: Humor is not robust enough.
T.T.: You, too, could pack more laughs
into your yarn... .D.L.M.: Unconvincing from
beginning to end... .R.C.A.: You shed too
many tears over the sensitive soldier who went
“ack-willy” to nurse his sick dog N.J.: We
daresay that there is a point to the yarn but we
couldn’t find it....B.F.: All three yarns sub-
mitted are poor L.S.; Spotted the thie
in the second paragraph A.B.W.: Cannot
undertake to furnish detailed criticisms by post
M W.H.: The rocket-test spy is at present
in custody in the w.p.b... ; .P.S.: Female
motorist in distress—gallant traffic-cop wed
ding bells. No thanks L.B.: Stirring stuff,
but not for us....Bill G.: You might gam
glory as a footballer, but not as a storyteller
of the game....Norm: “The Galley Slave is
an uninteresting sluggard... .L.K. .
Pigeons” started off well but failed to make the
distance. Try them out again... -S.A.S.:
story sickly PS.; “The Ba i; k . . P^ doc
too many rocks in it C.McN.. Verses
terrible.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.G.S.: Picture of disappointed fisherman too
depressing S.A.S.: Why dress your angular
surf girls in 1927 costumes?... .X.T.C.; Puns
are out. Other gags not suitable for illust?ation.
....O.P.: Suggestions for illustrations are wel-
comed and are worth 7s. 6d. each if used....
L.R.: Drawings could not have been repro-
duced even if they had been good enough.
Gags flat V.W.G.: Yours worse... .T.X.:
Not up to the mark, and don’t draw on colored
paper or board... .R.P.: If you are very young
you might become an artist... .Ted: Come
again—you nearly made the grade.
Pioneered by those of British stock,
Overcoming virgin bush and mountain range,
Starting the nation’s woolly flock
With adventures both glorious and strange,
The name of all this is Australia.
Why does the fly
up the windowpane
buzz,
slides down;
rubs
its forelegs
strokes
its hindlegs
crawls up
buzz,
slides down;
seems
so futile.
Then why
do I
watch the fly?
How the hell
Hid Bill McKell
Ring the belli
What a sell 1
Oh, hell!
LOST: ONE PLUMP OFFSPRING.
Change procured for my cluster,
Through the entrance gates we fought.
Once inside, I held a muster.
Finding signs of Willy nought.
“Perhaps the side-shows might have got him,”
Bawled the missus with a wheeze.
“If he’s there, I’ll tan his bottim,
“Probably bring home p’formin’ fleas.”
Willy’s face appeared like magic,
From the pig pavilion near,
Sobbing in a manner tragic,
His purple ribbon’s meaning clear.


THE STORY OFA SHOWMAN
BY STANDBY
(R.S.PORTEOUS.)
HIS manner was not impressive, his
hard-luck story was neither
appealing nor particularly con-
vincing, yet my friend Buckley
listened to him attentively. The man
claimed to be a showman —one of those
hoarse-voiced, barking sellers of tawdry
trifles one sees around the side-shows of
every country Show. He certainly looked
and sounded it.
“How much will it take to set you up
in business again?” Buckley asked.
“Twenty quid, boss. If I ’ad twenty
quid I could lay in a noo stock and catch
the Show up at Gladstone. Fair
dinkum”
Buckley cut him short by turning his
back and walking across the office.
Never a man to waste words, he aston-
ished me by taking a roll of notes from
his safe. He counted out twenty pounds
and then added another two.
“For incidental expenses,” he explained
curtly. “Goodbye and good luck.”
“Thanks, boss.” I think the husky-
voiced man was as astonished as I was.
“The name’s Moles worth. Archie Moles-
worth. I’ll pay y’ back next Show-time.”
We watched him slouch out to the street,
“I suppose you think I’ve gone a bit
soft?” Buckley asked, eyeing me with
obvious amusement.
I did. I’d known him for some years
and I’d always regarded him as a shrewd
businessman. He owned the biggest hard-
ware store in town. I liked him im-
mensely. I admired his brisk, incisive
speech, his direct, uncompromising
manner, softened occasionally by a quick,
flashing smile. I respected his ability and
judgment. Certainly the last man I’d
have expected to fall for such a “touch.”
“It’s a bit beyond me,” I admitted.
“You don’t really expect to get it back,
do you?”
“Perhaps not. I’m not greatly con-
cerned. That chap belongs to a fraternity
that you despise. You steer clear of
him when you hear him barking out-
side his shoddy stall at the Show-
grounds because you feel that he’s out to
take you and everyone else down. And
yet, there’s not such a great deal of dif-
ference between his business methods and
ours —yours and mine. We buy things
that allow us the biggest margin of profit
and we call that good business.
“But that’s beside the point. I want
to explain to you why I gave that chap
what he asked for.” Buckley lit a cigar-
ette and leaned forward across his desk.
“The finest man I ever met belonged
to that profession,” he declared.
“It was just after the 1914-18 war, and
I was right on my uppers—not just hard
up, but stone, motherless broke. I’d
done pretty well for myself in the Army.
Started off as a private and came back a
captain with a pretty fair record and
damned expensive tastes. I made a great
splash while my deferred pay lasted. It
didn’t last long, but I was a very popular
young man until it cut out.
“I wasn’t worried
when funds began to
get low; I’d made
up my mind to take
a job when I’d had
my fling. With the
influential friends I’d
made I could practi-
cally pick my own
job, I reckoned. You
can guess the answer.
It’s an old enough
one. It took me a
month or so to real-
ise that being Cap-
tain Buckley, a hell
of a fine fellow with
a good war record,
was no asset in the
’business world. I
had no qualifications,
no business training,
and there were hun-
dreds more like me
wandering round
Sydney looking for jobs.
“Don’t tell me that a good man can
always find work. I’ve heard that one
before and I know what it’s worth. I
soon dropped the ‘Captain’ and I even
chucked away my returned-soldier
badge. Things were tough in Sydney
then and the returned-soldier racket was
being worked to death. Someone told
me things were better in Queensland so
I spent my last couple of pounds on a
second-class ticket to Brisbane. Things
weren’t any better there.
“U/E’LL skip the details of the next
VV month or two, up till the week of
the Brisbane Show,” Buckley went on.
“I was out at the showgrounds be-
cause I reckoned it was about the likeliest
place to pick up a free feed. Ten minutes
after I’d gate-crashed into the grounds
I saw Mortimer Mendelssohn.
“He stood on a crude platform of
planks laid on boxes, a big man, stout
and downright ugly. Unlike most of his
harsh-throated business rivals, his voice
was mellow and booming. His clothes
reminded you of the caricatures of book-
makers you see in comic papers.
“Loud check suit, black bowler hat,
glaring tie and diamond rings—he had
them all.
“In one hand he held a cigar and,
balanced on the index finger of his left
hand, was a large crystal bowl, spinning
rapidly without any noticeable assistance
from the finger. The man himself was
not even glancing at the spinning bowl;
he was addressing the crowd.
“No ; that’s not right. He was address-
ing each and every individual member
of that crowd. It was a trick he had —
of making every man in his audience
feel that he was being personally ad-
dressed. Occasionally he’d pin-point a
man by flicking his cigar forward and
pointing it like an extension of his plump
forefinger.
“I’ve forgotten what he was selling that
day. Not having even the price of a feed
I was not a prospective buyer. I only
know that instead of melting away, as
most crowds do when the free entertain-
ment ends and the business starts, this
crowd remained and bought eagerly.
“Now, this will give you some indica-
tion of the character and remarkable per-
ception of this man. Right in the middle
of a booming sale, just as I was begin-
ning to mooch off, he straightened up
and pointed his cigar at me.
“ ‘You, sir,’ he called. ‘Don’t go away.
If you can spare a few minutes I’d like
a word with you when I’ve satisfied my
clients.’
“ T STAYED,” said Buckley. “Apart
* from the fact that I had absolutely
nothing to do, the man had practically
hypnotised me. When the crowd had dis-
persed he introduced himself.
“ ‘Mortimer Mendelssohn is the name,’
he said. I don’t know whether it was his
real name. Probably it wasn’t, but it
certainly suited him.
“ ‘lf you’re not otherwise engaged and
don’t mind waiting while I pack up I d
like you to have lunch with me,’ he said.
Never a hint that he’d, spotted that I was
broke and hungry.
“We must have looked a strange pair—
he with his loud clothes and his elabor-
ate, theatrical gestures; me with my
worn, crumpled suit, broke to the wide
and looking it.
“But it didn’t worry him in the least.
He ate, if possible, as heartily as I did,
remarking that he liked to see a man with
a good appetite. When we’d finished he
handed me a cigar and lit it.
“He didn’t light one for himself.
Later, when 1 got to know him better, I
realised that he hated smoking. He was
never without a stock of cigars, seldom
without one in his hand, yet he never
smoked them. Occasionally, addressing a
crowd, he’d light one purely for effect,
but he wouldn’t really smoke it.
“ ‘l’ve got a proposition to put to you,’
he announced when I’d got my cigar
going. ‘I need an assistant in my busi-
ness. Experience is not necessary, I
want a man who’s honest and willing to
learn. I don’t need a talker. I can do
that myself, but I want a man I can trust.
I’ll pay all hotel and travelling expenses
and a share in the profits. Are you inter-
ested, young fellow?’
“Was I interested? I jumped at it.
“ ‘You’ll need some decent clothes,’ he
stated. ‘Go and buy yourself whatever
you need and then bring your luggage up
to my hotel.’ He pulled a roll of notes
from his pocket, peeled off a fistful and
shoved them to-
wards me. ‘Buy
good stuff,’ he
said. ‘lt pays.’
“That was all. As far
as I could see he hadn’t
even counted the money. I de-
cided that, as he obviously
wasn’t a fool, he must be a re-
markable judge of character. He was.
11 1 TURNED up at his hotel that
1 afternoon a well-dressed man
again and with four pounds eleven and
sixpence in my pocket. I’d kept all the
dockets, and I handed them and the
change to my new boss. He
waved them aside.
“ 'Burn ’em,’ he said, ‘and
keep the change. Call it an ad-
vance.’
“My education began that night and
continued every night for the next two
years. No matter how tiring the day
had been Mortimer would pace up and
down the hotel bedroom till all hours of
the night, waving his arms, explaining his
theories of crowd psychology, how to
turn a disinterested onlooker into an
eager buyer, how to gauge the right
moment to part mugs from their money
and a hundred other things. -Talking,
talking, talking while I sat on my bed
trying to keep awake.
“We travelled from Show to Show.
We visited large towns and small towns
all over Australia. Wherever a crowd
gathered for any function yo*u’d find us.
Always we stayed at secondrate hotels —
not because they were cheaper, but be-
cause there Mortimer met the class of
men he worked with and dealt with.
“Wealthy men did not interest him.
He made his money from the working-
class men and he really enjoyed their
company. Because he loved good food
we often dined at the best hotel while
still paying board at a cheaper one.
“Mortimer had no fixed lines. Any-
thing he could buy cheap in bulk he
would foist off on the public, often at
fantastically high prices. We made
money—good money—and we either
spent it or Mortimer threw it away.
“That was the strange thing about that
man. He’d put over some of the most
outrageous things in the way of robbing
an unsuspecting public, practically take
them down for their last penny, but he
didn’t care a hoot for money, I’ve seen
him, after selling a line of cutlery at
four times its value, hurl fistfuls of cash
back to his audience.
“‘I don’t want your money, gentle-
men!’he’d boom. Take it back! You’re
paying more than the article is worth!’
“Of course -a lot of it was good show-
manship. He’d get it all back and a bit
more later on by auctioning a line of
cheap rabbitskin coats or rugs.
“Once he bought up a line of razors. I
think they cost him two and elevenpence
each, but he put them up for auction
one day when he had the crowd in a
spending mood. It was one of my jobs
to move about and take bids, and I'd
almost mastered Mortimer’s art of mak-
ing up a wavering man’s mind for him.
“The razors went off like hot cakes at
seventeen and six a time.
“The sale was booming when Mortimer
hurled his bowler-hat to the ground and
ran his fingers through his hair. It was
an old trick of his. He had a great mop
of grey hair, worn long and brushed
straight back. When he ruffled it with
that grand gesture it fell forward over
his eyes.
“‘Gentlemen! Gentlemen!’ he
boomed. ‘l’m not here to take you
down. You’re paying too much for those
razors. They’re not worth it. Ten
shillings is their correct value. Any man
who has paid more than ten shillings will
have that extra amount refunded. Please
go to my assistant.’
“And while I was refunding seven and
sixpences right and left Mortimer began
selling a ‘guaranteed mink coat.
“Good salesmanship? Undoubtedly it
was. But there was more to it than that.
“Mortimer was a born showman. He
loved to prove his ability to rake the
money in from any crowd. It was his
hobby, his whole existence. He gloried
in his ability to do it, but he placed no
value on the money when he got it.
“A fellow-showman, down on his luck,
could always count on Mortimer for
assistance. He was the most generous
man I’ve ever met.
“He never read or went to the pictures.
He neither drank nor smoked, but the
money he spent buying drinks and cigars
for others would have kept me in luxury.
He never banked a penny in his life. In
his philosophy, if funds were running
low it was a simple matter to move on
and rake in some more.
“I often tried to persuade him to start
a banking account, but he wouldn’t listen
to me.
(been together for two years
VV when I hit on the idea of opening
a bank account for him. You see, I'd
grown so fond of him that I felt I had
to do something to repay his generosity.
“It was easy for me to get away with
part of the takings. I collected all the
cash and Mortimer never bothered to
count it. We were partners now, he in-
formed me once. Share and share alike.
“I saw a bank-manager and arranged
the details with him. All we needed was
a specimen signature and even that was
easy. Mortimer trusted me implicitly
and, particularly when he was holding
forth on his pet subject, he’d sign any-
thing I shoved in front of him without
even looking at it.
“In one way and another I got a tidy
sum salted away in the next twelve
months. It was a great comfort'to me
to know that the money was there.
“You see, I’d had such a gruelling be-
fore I met Mortimer that I wanted some
sense of security for us both. If any-
thing happened to him, an accident or
an illness, I wouldn’t be able to make two
bob while he was laid up. Moreover, I
was getting a bit fed up with this life
of drifting from town to town, constantly
on the move. In the back of my mind I
had ideas of a small business for the two
of us, somewhere where we could settle
down.
“Ours must have befen a darned strange
partnership. We kept no accounts and
had nothing in the way of a written
agreement, but we never fell out over a
single thing until the day Mortimer dis-
covered I’d been getting away with some
of the proceeds.
“I was sitting in my hotel bedroom
reading a detective novel when he strode
in. He hurled his bowler hat over the
verandah rail into the street below and
ran his plump fingers through his mane
of white hair,
“ ‘Well! ’ he thundered. ‘What have
you got to say for yourself?’
“I honestly didn’t know what he was
talking about. My private banking had
been going on so long that I never
dreamed Mortimer would discover it I


Is your wife driving with
on the road?
M
mm
mm
1
COS#-!
m
A
%
m
ISSS
Ssk-
Ssssv
Is
i
she still driving on tyres that you are “making do”?
Those tyres on which
you worried-through
the rationing years
might skid your car
into an accident on
the next strip of wet greasy road.
Or a blow-out on any sharp corner
- or even a stone. Tired tyres are
a danger to your family. Get a real
grip on the road with a new set of
Goodyear tyres.
Goodyear tyres are available every-
where. Fit them now and drive on
safety once again.
C 3-47
100% natural rubber again in
GOOO/VEAR
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
m
mm
Where the
other car skidded
Goodyear grips as it
passes smoothly along ,
said, ‘What the devil’s the matter with
you, jVTort?’ *
‘“Don’t try to stall me, young man,’
he roared. ‘You fooled me once, but
never again.’ He shook his mane back
into place. ‘Fooled me into thinking 1
could trust you! Me! Mortimer Men-
delssohn, who never picks a wrong ’un.
Yesterday 1 only thought there was
something wrong. Today I made sure.
I kept a careful check, a very careful
check, on everything. Well, I’ve worked
it out now and I find I’m four pounds
short.’
“I started to grin. Actually he was
ten pounds short that day. ‘Hold on,
Mort,’ I said, T can explain.’
“‘Don’t bother,’ he said, shaking his
head and using the low sad tone he some-
times used on an audience. ‘Don’t
bother. It’s not the money I mind ; God
knows I’ve never valued it. It’s the fact
that I’ve trusted a dishonest man. Not
only trusted him but liked him. Loved
him like a son.’
“He was in his stride now, enjoying
his talent as an actor, but at the same
time deeply and genuinely hurt. It took
me half an hour to convince him that
the money was all in the bank and that
he was the only man who could withdraw
a penny of it.
“For the next few days he seemed
quiet and thoughtful—something quite
new for him. When we took to the road
again we skipped the next two towns
and came up here. Instead of opening
up business when we arrived he spent
the first two days watering round the
streets. On the third morning
fast quietly,
‘“How much did you say we had in
the bank, Dick?’
“I told him the amount and he nodded
and went on with his meal. He went off
straight after breakfast and I didn’t see
hkn again until six-thirty that evening,
He strode into my room, hurling his
bowler hat into the corner and rumpling
his hair in the old theatrical manner,
‘“Well, my boy,; he announced.
‘We’ve bought a business! And don t
try to tell me you haven’t been hoping
f° r this for the last year. > You can
f°°l Mortimer Mendelssohn.
_„ r _ , •, «
* 4 HT WO weeks later, Buckley said, we
moved in here. It wasn t much of a
business then—the previous owner was
decidedly unenterprising but it had
possibilities. Mortimer handled every-
thing the sale, the stocktaking and the
planning of the improvements,
“ ‘Hardware’s the thing, my boy,’ he
declared. ‘Give the public something solid
for their money. They appreciate that,
Besides, your stock never goes bad, like
fruits or cakes.’
‘“We can’t go wrong, Mort,’ I said,
‘With our combination we’ll swipe
all the business in this town. We’ll make
a fortune.’
“Mortimer shook his head. ‘No, we
won’t,’ he added. ‘There’ll be no “we” in
it. The business is yours. You’ll never
make a fortune. You’re not the type.
But this town will go ahead. That’s why
I picked it. And as for the business—well,
even you couldn t go wrong m it it you
only remember half the things Ive aught
you. Ive fixed everything up with the
solicitors and 111 be catching the Southern
Mail in the morning. The Brisbane Show
opens next week and I want to lay a
stock in.’
“I did my best to persuade him to stay
but I knew it was hopeless. As well try
to cage a wild duck and expect him to
be happy. Without the open spaces and
the distant lagoons the duck would pine
and die, just as Mortimer would pine
away without his ever-changing but al-
ways gullible crowds.
“To hide our feelings we parted casu-
ally—Mortimer to travel on alone, mov-
ing always from town to town—l to
settle down to a lonely, humdrum busi-
ness life.
“As you know, the business prospered,
Each year I divided the profits and put
one half aside for Mortimer. Some day,
1 felt, he would tire of the road or grow
too old to travel it. It was comforting
to know that when that day came he
could retire in comfort. He knew about
the money but he never came to claim it.
Instead he added to it.
“He died in a Cairns hospital after a
short illness and the first news I had of it
was a letter from the doctor saying that
a Mortimer Mendelssohn had passed away
j n his hospital on the tenth of August
a f ter leaving his entire possessions to me.
g same m ail, the doctor said, he was
£orwarding t 0 me the sum o( thirty-four
and Spence; and by rail
P £o| owi day a case containing two
* y box of cutler and two
f ’
lu r coas. , , ~. u ,
Buckley stood up and took his hat
from the P£S-
“lt’s early in the day for me, he said,
“But we’re going over the road for a
drink.”
“You see now,” he said as we crossed
the street, “why I gave that man what he
asked for. I could never touch the
money I set aside. It isn’t mine. It’s
Mortimer Mendelssohn’s. I simply hold
it as a trust fund for him. He would have
shared it with these showmen; they were
his people. The least I can do is to carry
out his wishes.
“Every showman and cheapjack in the
country knows the story, I get ‘touched’
regularly but you’d be astonished if you
knew how many of them turn up next
Show-time to pay me back. I never ask
them to but they do. I’d never seen him
before he walked into my office this
morning, but I’ll bet you drinks that
hard-faced spieler pays me back next
year.”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners* and Householders*,
Workers* Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
V
v#
2
•j
<
z
o
-♦RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS * .
i’ f i
as*fc
if you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL BANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
“ 2
* MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
*>>
9 * SO33N IVNOSH3d KOJ A3N O IN SON3I XNVB IVanM#’*
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but Is
now back again on active service to
cater (or our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage*
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —•
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FIRST VITAL PEACE TREATY.
Of the five countries for which peace
treaties have so far been concluded, Italy
is the only one in the Western section of
Europe. With a population greater than
that of France, it is the only one of the
five with any claim to be rated a major
Power. Hence Italy’s prospects under
the treaty are assessed as outstandingly
and vitally important to future world
peace, with the general view that it will
be a sorry day for the world if nothing
better comes out of the Moscow wrangle
on Austria and Germany.
Italy’s treaty, compared with the other
four announced, is looked on by many—
not Italians only—as decidedly harsh.
American criticism of it has been par-
ticularly severe, with this N.Y. “Post”
comment by Dorothy Parker a quite
typical example: “The Italian treaty
cannot be defended by reference to any
standards whatsoever, of ethnology, his-
tory, defence, economics, or even the
primary self-interest of the Western
world.” Another acute woman corres-
pondent, Anne O’Hare McCormick, of
N.Y. “Times,” after visiting other parts
of Europe and then Italy, summed-up:
The outstanding feature of the treaties
in the view not only of Italy but of all
Europe is that the vanquished States in
the Eastern zone got a better deal tljan
the “co-belligerent” in the West.
In this correspondent’s view, the' treaty,
while it has not helped Russian popu-
larity in Italy—“decidedly less than it was
a year ago”—“does diminish the prestige
of the Western Powers, notably the United
States, and must influence internal de-
bates in countries watching to see how to
jump.”
A visitor from England, C. M. Fran-
zero, writing in London “Fortnightly” as
an Italian trying to present a detached
idea of the state of the country, changes
the emphasis on diminished prestige from
the U.S. to Britain. Stating that, while
everywhere he went he was told that
“after 1943 the Italians were ready to
throw themselves on the neck of the
Allies and in particular the British,” he
says he would not be telling the plain
truth if he “said that much love exists
today”:—
Whenever I brought up the subject I
was told that “the British have let us
down.” People of all classes kept repeat-
ing: “Where are all the promises of the
war years?” The promises then made
over the radio rankle more bitterly than I
can express.
A Picture of Contrasts
“In more than one sense,” the “Fort-
nightly” writer says, “Italy is ruined —
materially, economically and spiritually.”
The N.Y. “Times” correspondent, while
speaking of the “ruin and misery,” de-
clares : “Seen at the end of several months
in Europe, Italy seemed not only more
uncertain but more alive, in some ways
more potential than any other country”;
After the nightmarish gloom of Ger-
many, Italy is almost cheerful. The mood
of England is a sober grey; in France it
is black under a coat of white, and the
surface is very thin when you scratch it.
Italy has less to hope for, less to build
on, but a sense of the future gleams in the
darkness.
As to that future, these and other visi-
tors see it as very much in the lap of
the gods, depending both on whether
adequate assistance is given the country
by the U.S. and Britain and on just what
the present national bewilderment will
eventually emerge into. Regarding as-
sistance, the N.Y. “Post” foreign affairs
writer Edgar Ansel Mowrer expresses a
fairly widespread American view in urg-
ing:—
At this point the U.S. and Britain ought
to throw diplomatic tact to the winds
and deliberately set about strengthening the
pro-democratic, anti-Communist wing of
the Italian Socialist party.
With such assistance from outside,
Mowrer contends that those assisted
should have “little difficulty in keeping
Italy in the ranks of the democracies—
where history placed it.” The N.Y.
“Times” writer declares that “Many
shrewd observers believe that Italy is the
chief Communist target in the West. Cer-
tainly internal conditions are ripe for
revolution. The Fascist era prepared the
ground. The present treaty extends the
Soviet pressure to the gates of Venice.
The only resistance is in the people. Will
they hold? By an odd turn of history
this country that once ruled Europe by
her power may by her weakness again
decide the course of Europe.”
Same Wine, Different Labels
In the “Fortnightly” writer’s view,
some of the changes in Italy are more
apparent than real; the same wine with
different labels on the bottles.
He hears an old cabby say, while
pointing to a big building topped with
the hammer-and-sickle; “It used to be
the Fascio’s Headquarters, now it is H.Q.
of the Communist party, the label has
—"II Travaso Delle Idee" (Rome).
“AND THE STARS LOOKED ON.”
changed, but the scoundrels inside are the
sai "?. e -” , , , , ,
Similarly, the abundance of hammer-
and-sickles” stencilled on walls just as
in former days the face of Mussolini with
the haunting eyes gave you the shivers.
Also:
tU ® ne .4? indeed painfully surprised to find
that things have changed—but m name
only. Here are some instances. The Gov-
eminent published a special issue of the
Official Gazette giving the narnes of the
informers of the once dreaded O.V.R.A.
( the , secret political police). But people
m die know tell you that there is already
a Vl ne ] w in , exi s te nce which is
called S.I.R.N (Investigation Services for^
Repression of Neo-Fascism); and people
a dd that a good many names are missing
from the published list of the O.V.R.A.
because the agents have tactfully passed to
the service of S.I.R.N. The former
G ;J-L- (Youth Organisations) are today
called Youth Front, to which is added the
UD I (Union of Italian Women), which
are supposed to be non-political, but are
Communist centres. Peace-loving people
*£
havoc in the same way as the Squadristi
did 25 years ago. All day long, in the squares,
under the arcades, you see men preaching
and haranguing—they are the professional
propagandists of the Communist party,
whose job is to denounce the church, the
rich, the bourgeois and to assert that the
keys of the kingdom rest with the true
prophets of Moscow.
In Rome a British friend said to him:
“There is an unpleasant feeling all over
Italy. The press is writing in the strain
of 1939.” To which he replied “No,
the Italian press is writing in the same
strain as it did in 1919.”
Everywhere this visitor noted, “in an
astonishing degree,” a “spirit of national-
ism—an almost rabid nationalism.” The
peace treaty has helped bring this to a
head; it will, he says, “leave a bittjr
taste.” Italians “loudly recall the con-
sequences Of the bad treaties of 1919”:
Yet all this white heat of nationalism
seems utterly futile when one considers
the absolute chaos that is troubling the
life of the country in every field. The new
Republic is everywhere treated as a joke.
Only the politicians, you are told, take it
seriously, probably because it pays them
to do so. Everyone tells you that the
proclamation of the Republic was a frame-
up; and everyone complains that there is
no first-rate man at the wheel. The poli-
ticians are simply beaming with delight at
finding themselves Cabinet Secretaries.
There are still 43,000,000 Italians —but there
is no Count Cavqur.
The Political Prospects
The “Fortnightly” writer quotes “the
men of the Vatican, who are accustomed
by centuries of tradition to collect facts
and views from all sources and quarters
and collate and weigh them in the light
of deeper and wider events,” as declaring
that “Italy today is merely a pawn in a
greater game, which can be bluntly called
the Sovietisation of Europe”;
“The outlook is dark,” they say, “and
full of danger. The Demo-Christian party
will do no good, no better than the
Popular party did 25 years ago The
real danger comes from outside, from the
hidden hand that directs Communism, in
Italy as elsewhere. Italy is the crucible
into which the opposite conceptions of
Eastern and Western Europe may either
fuse or explode.”
The same writer states further that
“many sober-minded men do not hesitate
to say that the Communists are aiming at
a total disruption of the country in order
to bring about that zero hour when they
will be able to seize power in the name
of the people. They call the present
phase the Kerensky phase in Italy.”
“On the other hand,” the writer him-
self believes, “we may see a coup in the
opposite direction ; one of those coups in
the Italian style, such as the March on
Rome of 1922, which was a farce, or the
overthrowing of Mussolini in 1943, which
was the most constitutional and peaceful
of counter-revolutions. The Italians love
these simple strokes of politics; they
almost have a knack for them.”
If any “coup in the opposite direction”
should be brought off, happenings such as<
the following would have contributed
their bit towards it:
At Milan’s central station I saw a kiosk
plastered all over with photographs of
young officers and men and heartrending
appeals for news of them. Those were
m the pictures of war prisoners lost in Russia.
There were 127,000 prisoners in Russia;
only 12,500 have so far returned. Those
who came back were at first met on arrival
by Communist processions; but they tore
the red flags and beat the “comrades.”
Ever since, I was told, the return of
prisoners from Russia has been reduced to
a mere trickle.
Pola, Trieste
So, too, would the decision to lop away
Trieste, Pola and the rest play a part in
bringing about any such coup.
The bitter feeling regarding Pola was
tragically pointed by the shooting of a
British brigadier there by a frenzied
Italian woman. It has been further, tell-
ingly, depicted in a vivid dispatch by a
London “Times” special correspondent.
Simply as a fine piece of direct reporting,
providing people in Australia with a
realistic basis for forming an understand-
ing of recent and possible future events,
the dispatch might very helpfully have
been given at length in cables. The
correspondent reported that some 25,000
people, refusing to live under Tito,
were packing up everything they could
take and getting out; “The earnestness of
some of them is amplified by their ex-
humation of their dead from the local
cemeteiy and the shipment of the coffins
to Italy for reburial.”
The London “Times” man began his
dispatch: “This ancient Italian city, once
a proud Roman citadel.... has indeed
fallen on evil days.”
The same bitter feelings, “political and
racial tensions boiling up,” have been re-
ported in N.Y, “Times” by Miss McCor-
mick regarding Trieste. Hers is a rather
different version from one given by an
“S. M. Herald” special correspondent on
March 11. According to the “Herald”
correspondent, the people of Trieste
are neither Italian nor Yugoslav but Tries-
tinos, a strange indefinite body who have
lived for many generations under so many
different regimes that they are almost con-
fused as to what they really are. If yon
ask a Triestino today what he thinks of
the peace settlement he will most likely
tell you that it is all right by him.
And, Miss McCormick suggests, if you
are a superficial observer that is just the
kind of impression you will carry away.
She herself says of the “Triestinos”:
Four times out of five you would not
know whether they are Italian, Slav or
German, and if you ask the first answer is
they are “Triestini.” They are wary and
glum, and it takes a long time before they
feel safe enough to reveal their inner
allegiance.
Then it turns out that four times out of
five that allegiance is to Italy. It does not
augur well for the future that in the long
and comparatively easy years of Austrian
domination the bulk of the population re-
mained stubbornly Italian. As a cfentre of
irredentism for more than a century
Trieste is certainly not the best place for
a trial of international rule.
In fact, this alert observer questions
very much whether the peacemakers have
not “set an unfair test for the United
Nations” in deciding to have Trieste run
as an international port. However: “The
die is now cast, and it is the responsi-
bility of those who made the settlement
to make it work. On economic grounds
alone this will be more difficult than they
dreamed when they sacrificed practical
considerations for a precarious ‘agree-
ment.’ ”
The view of the Trieste decision as
mere weak expediency and foredoomed
has been even more strongly expressed by
former U.S. Under Secretary of State
Sumner Welles:
The Italian people know that the deci-
sion to separate Trieste from Italy is due
to no question of equity. They know that
it runs counter to every principle of self-
determination. They are fully aware that
the Western Powers have agreed to this
fatal expedient, which jeopardises Italian
security, solely because of their willing-
ness to agree to this compromise in order
to obtain some kind of peace treaty.
Welles sees “little reason to applaud
any agreement which is inherently vicious
... .Few experienced observers would
maintain that the peace treaty with Italy
offers the Italian people either justice or


F °r gg Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius,
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
SI. 117 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
At all times, and
especially in the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper-
ties which remove all trace <*74
of roughness and soreness* - *
One of the famous trio—-,
Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment,
Powder. r '=—
528
u
SOAP
“SOUTHERL Y”
A LITERARY MAGAZINE OF ABSORBING INTEREST
“Southerly” is Australia’s leading
literary magazine. It abounds in good
writing and sound criticism. Noted
authorities are regular contributors
and new writers are welcomed.
Literary developments in Australia
and overseas are dealt with, stories and
verse are published, and significant
books are reviewed. Under the editor-
ship of R. G. Howarth, liberal prin-
ciples are followed. “Southerly” is
an adult magazine that stands for the
most sincere and advanced literary
effort of this country.
By subscribing to “Southerly” you will
be keeping yourself in touch with worth-
while writing, contemporary and past, and
playing your part in Australia’s cultural de-
velopment. Fill in this form now.
I
TT ——————
| ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
I 89 Castlereag-h Street, Sydney
j Please enter my name as a subscriber
I to the quarterly magazine “Southerly”
J beginning with the first issue of 1947.
| The annual subscription (12/6), including
j postage
I (a) is enclosed, or
| (b) may be charged to my account.
I NAME i
I
I ADDRESS ...
J B 2
security, or that the arrangements cover-
ing Italy’s eastern frontiers will promote
European stability.”
The Italians, he says, “see quite as
clearly as every delegate of the United
Nations Assembly that the plan for a
Free Territory of Trieste cannot work
and that in the not distant future Trieste
will fall under Slavic control.” The
treaty, he asserts,
makes tragically plain that the expansionist
aims of the Soviet Union have been con-
ceded at the expense of Italian security.
No lasting peace can be erected on so de-
fective a foundation.
In its more impolite style, Chicago
“Tribune” brushed off the Trieste
arrangement as only what could be ex-
pected from “the crew of cheaters who
have been dealing with it.”
One specially interesting thing these and
other observers have in common: none
of them regards Italy as in any way deca-
dent. They find it, rather, freshly re-
surgent ; a country and a people with a
future, even though, for the present, the
exact political shape of that future seems
unpredictable, with the balance of power
in the Mediterranean certainly dependent
on it, and in fair measure, too, the peace
of the world.
CURIOUS PEARL HARBOR.
The full story of Pearl Harbor has
apparently not yet been told by a Jong
way. In the latest contribution to the
telling —Pearl Harbor: The Story of the
Secret War —an American author, George
Morgenstern, makes the suggestion that it
was a well-planned plot, not by Japan
but by America!
As reviewed in the “Wall-street
Journal,” the book declares there were
several “opportunities to avoid, or at least
postpone. Pearl Harbor.” Months be-
fore the Japsiptruck„“a chance for dip-
lomatic discussion was allowed to slip
away.” Again, “on the very eve of Pearl
Harbor Secretary of State Hull was on
the point of . proposing a temporary
arrangement to continue diplomatic
relations with Japan,” but “he dropped
the plan, even though the military leaders
warned they were not prepared for war.”
The review further represents the book
as setting forth:
If Pearl Harbor had been better equipped
with patrol planes and radar detection,
the Japs would have been discouraged from
attacking, because surprise was essential
to their plan. Much of the material was
available but it was sent elsewhere.
If after war became almost a certainty,
Pearl Harbor had been properly alerted to
use the defences that it had, the Japs, whose
spies were everywhere in Hawaii, might
not have taken the chance an attack in-
volved. The U.S. Army and Fleet com-
manders were not given proper orders.
If in the hours before the attack, there
had been proper evaluation of the infor-
mation at hand, Pearl Harbor could still
have been alerted to minimize the damage
from the attack.
None of these things was done, despite
the fact that Washington—the Jap code
having been cracked—“had almost as
much warning of impending war as
though American officials had been sitting
in meetings of the Jap Cabinet.” .
For Pearl Harbor to happen it was neces-
sary for a number of people in various
places to be asleep at the switch, all at ‘
one and the same time. And subsequently
many of . these same people showed them-
selves very alert and competent planners
and administrators. That this is due to
mere coincidence is a colossal incredibility.
There must be some other explanation.
“Mr. Morgenstern,” declares the re-
viewer, “says an incident in which the
Japs would appear the aggressors was
wanted.”
NAZIS: “FINAL
SOLUTION."
Whatever treaty for Germany finally
emerges from the Mnscow and sub-
senuent conferences Britain has evi-
quern coni rences, m iam nas evi
dently accepted that its occupation role
is to last at least another 10 years,
probably more; unless perhaps those
Germans to be jailed under the “final
solution of the problem of the destruc-
tion of Nazism and militarism” are to be
found lodgings elsewhere.
Under the “final solution” plan now
being tried out five categories are listed:
(1) Persons who have committed specific
war crimes or crimes against peace or who
are guilty members of organisations declared
criminal. They will suffer death or im-
prisonment and will have their property and
accounts blocked. They may also have their
entire wealth confiscated or be ordered to pay
a fine.
(2) Nazis who, while not criminals, are the
most dangerous to the revival of democracy
or the maintenance of peace. They will be
interned up to a maximum of 10 years and
will have their property and accounts blocked.
They also may have their entire wealth con-
fiscated or may be fined.
(3) Nazis considered sufficiently dangerous to
merit very close surveillance and control. They
will remain at large, but will not be allowed
to vote or to take part in any political activity
and will be restricted in varying degrees in
regard to positions in Government or private
employment. Their property and accounts
will be blocked, their movement will be re-
stricted, and they will have to report regularly
to the police.
(4) Nazis who appear to be the least danger-
ous. They will not be allowed to stand as
candidates at elections, and some may have
their property and accounts blocked.
(5) Persohs who have passed the
denazification machinery and have been cleared
of any active connection with Nazism, and
also Nazis who have been graded down from
higher categories or who have been exonerated.
They will not have to submit to restrictions
and will be issued With clearance certificates.
There are some 34,000 interned Ger-
mans in the British zone alone to be
dealt with under the new scheme, and
—London “News Chronicle”
“ HAVEN’T I SEEN YOU BEFORE?”
20.000 of them have been provisionally
put into the first category—more than
1000 accused of specific war crimes and
the rest as members of the German
organisations declared criminal. Of the
other 14,000, about 5000 are to be put
into the second category and interned
for 10 years.
As well, there are the millions of Ger-
mans still held in various countries *as
p.-0.-w., a good many of whom would
come under one category or other of the
“final solution,” and a good many of
whom, also, will one day return to the
British zone. In Britain itself there are
about 330,000 of these, with another
80.000 to 90,000 held by Britain in the
Middle East. Whether or not other
countries holding such p.-0.-w. will be
so particular, all held by Britain are be-
ing subjected to a “screening” to separate,
so to speak, the sheep from the goats.
Lord Pakenham (Under Secretary, War
Office) has told the House of Lords
that the British-held prisoners are being
screened and graded politically as A
(actively anti-Nazi), B (nomNazi), C
(tainted with Nazism) and C -plus (ardent
Nazi). Of those screened, there
were 8000 As, 231,000 Bs, 33,000 Cs
and 4000 C -plus.
That will add a fair number to those
the British will have on their hands, in
Germany or elsewhere, for very many
years under the “final solution.” It has
led Lord Cherwell to declare in the
House of Lords that “there is great
danger of overdoing denazification.” He
suggested that “the real criminals and
those on top who bore ultimate respon-
sibility in Germany should be punished,
but the mass of the people should be
allowed to come out of the camps and
assist in building up the Germany all
hoped to see.”
How the denazification, re-education,
etc., plan will all work out in the end
should be an interesting experiment to
watch perhaps best recommended to
those who are still schoolchildren and
will have the time. Meanwhile, Britain’s
control staff in Germany has been cut
down, with further cuts to take place
before the end of the year. Meanwhile,
too, the chief administrative officer of the
British Control Commission, General
E. B. de Fonblanque, has admitted that
“the morale in the Commission ts low.”
This, with singular frankness, he puts
down to “one-sided publicity, which sug-
gests that nobody but a nitwit, would join
the organisation.” A
SICK FRANCE.
Reporting on France as he saw it in
the depth of its winter, the Overseas
Director of the U.S. Save the Children
Federation, Howard E, Kershner, has
declared that the country’s “surface
gaiety belies its bad condition.”
People appear to be well-dressed, there
are plenty of fetes, plenty of citizens eat-
ing good food in the restaurants ; but
there are also “millions who live on
dark bread and potatoes” and in hospitals
“tubercular children sleeping on straw
beds with one or two thin blankets and
without sheets or pillowcases.”
Specially interested in the children,
Kershner found that more than half the
total of 7,600,000 of them “regularly
attend tuberculosis dispensaries.” The
T.B. rate is higher than in Britain,
Belgium, Italy, Germany, Denmark,
Holland, or Switzerland.
Medical authorities informed Kershner
that in 1945 the infant mortality rate in
Paris rose to 130 deaths for each 1000
births; in other French cities it went as
high as 25 per cent. The figures under
this head for 1944 and 1945 were higher
than during the occupation years 1940-43.
The long term of privation is now having
its effect.
“There are widows and orphans every-
where,” Kershner reported.
Doctors were seen waging a tough
fight against T.B. “There is, however,
little that can be done with tuberculosis
when adequate nourishment is not avail-
able nor a sufficient number of beds in
sanitoria. How can one stop the spread
of this terrible disease when infected
children must continue going to school
or living in homes with brothers and
sisters because there is no other place
for them and when all the children are
cold and poorly clad?”
With all this under the apparently
bright surface, it is no great wonder
the French want it made absolutely
certain there will be no third German
war.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Strange Words, Very.— “ The Labor move-
ment must realise that the export trade is in
the hands of private enterprise, and where
private enterprise is doing a good job they must
help it and proudly acclaim its achievements.
It is an odd paradox that the success of
Socialism in Britain depends in large degree
upon the efficiency of private enterprise.”
Speaker? Mr. R. Blackburn, Labor M.P. for
King’s Norton (Birmingham).
* * * *
Particularly Vodka. —U.N.O. might do a good
deed in an oversoleom world by adopting a
pledge which the American Board of Temper-
ance wants it to putto all U.N.O. delegates:
“Do you promise, God helping you, to abstain
from all alcoholic beverages, particularly vodka,
until you are relieved of your duties and re-
sponsibilities as a member of this body?”
* * * *
Exit Prussia. Nobody has expected much
finality about anything from the Foreign
Ministers’ palavers in Moscow, but at least the
first agreement reached was as final as anything
of the kind can be called. It was for the burial
of Prussia, and commenting on it London
“Times” has suggested that “it would be unjust,
in this moment of her extinction, to overlook
altogether the better side of Prussian character
and achievement.” The “Times” holds that the
“harsh authoritarianism, rigid bureaucracy, blind
obedience and brutal militarism” associated
with Prussia “were only too, often the corpor-
ate expression of individual characters in them-
selves loyal, industrious, thrifty, patient, God-
fearing and law-abiding.” Also it points out
as worth remembering that Hitler’s early pro-
gress was “slower in Prussia than elsewhere in
Germany” and that “none of the leading Nazis
was Prussian by birth.”
» * t ♦ «
African Experiment. A N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” correspondent on a matter mentioned
in B. 19/2/’47: “A vast system of mechanised
peanut farms is to be established in
Kenya, Tanganyika and Southern Rhodesia
....In all, 107 farms will be established.
Each will be approximately 30,000 acres in
extent —making a total of 3,317,000 acres —
and fully mechanised to obtain maximum
production. A new railway linking the farms is
to be built, and harbor facilities will be installed
on the East African coast.” The American cor-
respondent’s figure for the cost is $ 100,000,000;
estimated production cost, $17.25 a ton, “com-
pared with today’s purchase price of peanuts
of $l2B a ton, a level likely to be maintained
for several years.”
♦ * * *
British Industries Fair. —Designed to give a
boost to J.B.’s exports, this big show is due to
open in London on May 5, with a record of
3116 manufacturers representing 80 separate
trade groups displaying their products, and, on
latest information, a swarm of buyers represent-
ing at least 20 overseas countries heading to be
there. Invitations were sent to 100,000 business-
men throughout the world and were backed
up by a world-wide publicity campaign in 25
languages. “Wall-street Journal” has reported
that to get over accommodation troubles for
Scandinavian visitors a Swedish shipping com-
pany is anchoring a couple of its vessels in the
Thames. “No previous British Industries Fair,”
the “Journal” reported, “has offered the over-
seas buyer so many items to see, but manu-
facturers, plagued by. the fuel crisis and other
production difficulties, will in most instances be
quoting long delivery dates to foreign buyers.”
« # * *
U.S. Divorce Records. —At the rate they are
going in divorce and remarriage Americans
might as well adopt polygamy outright. Check-
ing up on latest available figures, a N.Y.
“World-Telegram” special correspondent has
found that one in three marriages ended in
divorce in 1945 and that last year the figures
were closer to one in two. The correspondent
'puts it down to the Hollywood example; in
that “turbulent, immature, shallow community,”
where “the holy sacrament of marriage is a
farce,” three out of every four marriages end
in divorce. It amounts to an admission that the
Hollywood influence on the nation is as strdSig,
on the one side, as that of the churches is on
the other.
* • » •
Coupla Floppolas. —N.Y. “Post” has quoted
the theatrical publication “Variety” as reporting
that “the Soviet super-epic ‘Life of Stalin’ is
doing a floppola at most of Europe’s cinema
box-offices.” Another “floppola” is evident
from a N.Y. “Times” report on U.N.O. audi-
ences. Last year there were daily audiences
of 3000 ; for the whole of one week this year
the total was only 1500. One day’s audience
was 30 schoolchildren and a few members of
women’s clubs.


mm
I
■
■_V: : v : -
m
m
H
■
ii.-S
u
I If
m
r ■’
'
,
■
&
m
nm
lIL
'
i
i ;
-
■
M
4
M : .
m
' ■ '
V :■ • :•
. vi
~ 1
«
■■■l
MW
■ ■
m
I
ill
Si
it
m
i
■
ms
mimm
m
Hi
: i'vV
tom
I I
1
■ i
y
Hik
W.
\
m
1
linn
■■■ m
The
lightest
touch
moves .
when it 9 s fitted with
BANGOR
Sliding Door Fittings
There’s a New, Improved
Bangor for every type
of door!
The modem sliding door has
tenfold advantages. It saves
space ... is sound-proof ... it
moves easily, noiselessly and
smoothly at the lightest touch
and grooves in perfectly with
practically any modern design.
Years of research and ex-
perience have perfected
“Bangor” in its numerous types
and applications... it is acknow-
ledged the best sliding door
track manufactured today.
All Bangor Tracks and Fit-
tings obtainable from your usual
hardware dealer.
A PRODUCT OF
WORMALD BROTHERS
PTY. LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
SYDNEY : NEWCASTLE : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE : TOWNSVILLE : DARWIN : ADELAIDE
PERTH : HOBART : WELLINGTON : CHRISTCHURCH : AUCKLAND : DUNEDIN


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3505
Wednesday, April 16, 1.947
NONE SO DEAF AS THOSE WHO WON’T HEAR.
“Last session the P.M. gagged discussion on Food for Britain three times in five days. He stated last week that Britain had not asked his ‘Government’ through
any official source for more food.”
"This is for Miss Australia. I didn’t hear YOU order anything.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THUMBS DOWN!
In 1916, the year of the first campaign
on the Somme and the first conscription
referendum, six of the seven Australian
Governments called themselves “Labor.”
In 1917 only one could, and did —the one
in Queensland.
In 1929, when the depression made its
appearance, four “Labor” Ministries were
in office, though not all the time, and in
1930 five were—again not all the time.
By the end of May, 1932, the number
had again been reduced to one, a dis-
tracted and doomed improvisation in
South Australia, though June 17 brought
another —in Queensland again, with, for
leader, an honest and capable Scot, a
great election asset.
At the beginning of last month there
were once more six “Labor” Govern-
ments, and no one was more confident
than Mr. Chifley—here of the same mind
as Mr. Ward—that South Australia
would present him with a seventh. With
that choice of words which distinguishes
him the Prime Minister blithely urged
Opposition-leader Richards, a nine-weeks
Premier in 1933, to “complete the chain.”
On March 8 Mr. Richards led his fol-
lowers to a rout as ignominious as that
of 1933. On March 15 the Westralian
electors roughly expelled a “Labor”
Cabinet which, because the party had
since 1924 had possession of the Treasury
benches for 20 years, and because it was
abundantly served with pocket-boroughs
and unopposed returns (15, there being
50 seats), had deemed itself invincible.
And the outlook for the “Labor” Gov-
ernments in N. S. Wales, Queensland and
Victoria became so bleak that desperate
promises were and are being made
to groups of electors —abolition of wage-
pegging to unionists, drought-relief pay-
ments to wheatgrowers, a money gift to
N. Government tramway- and bus-
men, whose “undertaking” is hopelessly
insolvent, and, crowning infamy, the re-
jection of national service so that the
youth-and-mother vote, disregarded in the
O. and in “Labor” Britain itself, may
be brought in on a platter—all with the
object of preventing a reversion to the
situation in June, 1932, at all costs
chargeable to the country.
These things, it seems, run in cycles.
Every 15 years the people come to the
conclusion that “ ‘Labor’ Governments”
are worse than useless in critical times
and get rid of them.
The composition of the electorates has
changed greatly since the cycle began to
operate. Many, if not most, of the Aus-
tralians who voted in 1917 are now dead.
Those who voted in 1932 are perhaps
now in a minority. But the feeling that
prevailed in 1917 and 1932, sharpened by
bitter memories in the case of the middle-
aged and old, has asserted itself again ;
the feeling that “Labor” fails the
country in every emergency, whatever the
emergency—and that of 1942, which
brought into swift review, though not
by the then news-starved constituencies,
all “Labor’s” hostility to adequate de-
fence, to the Empire Air Training plan, to
the raising of the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth
Divisions for overseas service, and even
to the protection of island territories by
called-up men, would have been fright-
ful beyond description if the Americans
had not arrived.
In 1917 and 1932 “Labor” contributed
to its downfall by whirling itself into
faction fights, sons and grandsons of Erin
being on one side in 1917 and in the fore-
front of both in 1932. Save for some
Ward manoeuvres in the Donnybrook-
cwn-Moscow spirit, hastily abandoned
when Mr. Ward felt himself in danger,
there has been no repetition of the fac-
tion fights this year. There are factions, but
recollections of long years in Opposition
and a keen regard for the sweets of office,
for place, pay and patronage, have kept
them from flying apart.
Instead of faction fights there has been
something, far more ignoble, a thing un-
exampled in other parts of the English-
speaking world; an alliance between
a “Labor” party as predominantly Irish as
Tammany, and with Tammany proclivi-
ties, and Russian Communism. After all,
pluck, as well as wrong-headedness, is
an ingredient of faction fighting, and to
that extent factionists are .not altogether
undeserving of respect.
But this unholy alliance, which Tam-
many itself would reject with loathing,
reveals only cowardice on the one
side and insolence on the other.
It has been directed against the best in-
terests of Australia and the British Com-
monwealth (illustrated, for one thing, in
the sacrifice of the White Australia
policy to the caprices of “our Inder-
nesian comrades” and for another in the
slow and periodically strangled move-
ment of food ships for Britain), and,
because “Labor” has become a cocktail
party, it has continued even into this
election month. In warranted contempt
of his “Labor” allies, Comrade Thomson,
boss of the Victorian Building Trades
Federation, has boasted that the
McGirr Forty-Hour-Week Bill was
“due entirely to pressure exerted by the
trade-union movement” —meaning the
Communist section of “the trade-union
movement,” whose “policy” is to delay
recovery and wreck Australian industry
and do all the harm it can to Britain
by strikes and go-slow.
Mr. McGirr, though responsive to such
“pressure,” is not himself a Communist.
In union matters he sides with “mode-
rates,” such “moderates” as Coughlan
and Ferry, leaders of the latest wicked
strike on the Sydney waterfront, the evil
results of which continue. The Cough-
lans and Ferrys have no use for the
Food-for-Britain movement. Mr. Murphy
himself had no use for it when it was
launched in Adelaide nearly 18 months
ago without reference to him or to
“Labor” ; and Mr. Murphy spoke as a
most important functionary, the Com-
monwealth Food Controller.
Said Mr. Murphy on December 13,
1945:
Funds raised by these [food-for-Britain]
appeals might, if they became big, seriously
deplete the supplies of an important class
of food available to Australian civilians.
People think that surrendered meat,
sugar or butter coupons should be used to.
buy quantities of these foods to send in-
dependently to Britain. Such a course is
impractical and undesirable.
Under the impulse of the Murphy pro-
nouncement, Minister Dedman arrived
in Adelaide. Said Mr. Dedman:
People should destroy coupons rather
than send them to the fund. No coupons
will be issued for buying food.
To this a scandalised Lord Mayor .re-
plied :
The food the Commonwealth Govern-
ment sends to Britain is sold. What these
funds send is given. Buying and selling are
plain commerce. Giving and receiving
spring from ties of sentiment and strengthen
them.
The cold heart of Mr. Chifley was not
moved by this indignant remonstrance,
nor has it been moved by the English
blizzards and floods, except that he nas
been heard to bleat that Australians
“should economise in the use of coupons.”
Mr. Chifley asserts that his “Govern-
ment” is “doing all it can, having regard
for what we are doing for our own
people.” Every Australian who has sent
a food parcel to Britain can give Mr.
Chifley the lie.
Mr. Chifley said, in addition, that “we
have never had any complaint from
any official United Kingdom source
that we are not doing all in our power.”
If he knew the English he would know
that, dire as their extremity is, it is not
in their nature to “complain” to his
Government or to appeal or squeal.
Australians are in the mass a gener-
ous and a courageous people. They can
now see that they have tallen into the
hands of a crowd which is void o;f
courage and generosity, and it is mainly
for that reason that they are going to
boot it out, bag and baggage.
Acid Test on Russia.
Four weeks of debate in the Foreign
Ministers’ Conference at Moscow ran the
Great Powers well into the expected dead-
lock. The political rift has been drawn
seemingly deep and impassable between
the English-speaking nations and the
Soviet, and M. Molotov’s grudging agree-
ments on some untenable points of detail
became worthless when, after three weeks
of fencing, he came out plainly with what
General Marshall for America called an
ultimatum on the whole plan for Ger-
many.
Moscow and Washington having locked
horns, Mr. Bevin, who has for long held
back in order to incur no complaint
from America that Britain had led the
Atlantic Powers into difficulties, an-
nounced in blunt language the principles
on which Britain takes her stand. The
Yalta secret agreement was disclosed by
Russia only to be promptly disowned as
impracticable by the Western Powers.
Russia’s reply was that, in that event,
there will be no German settlement.
Towards this point the parties to the
conference were, it is now clear, driving
from the outset. A solution of the Ger-
man problem is crucial for the re-estab-
lishment of order and freedom in central
Europe, but canvassing for agreement
about Germany remains quite idle so
long as relations between the Powers are
governed by ineradicable distrust of and
by Russia. What worse sign of Russia’s
temper towards the West could there be
than the refusal of Moscow to allow 15
Russian women who married British ser-
vicemen during the war to leave the
country and join their husbands?
The atmosphere for the conference
was electrified just before it assembled by
President Truman’s announcement of
American economic aid to Greece and
Turkey, in support of Britain’s burden
and to check in that region the Soviet
policy which Mr, Dean Acheson had
officially described in Washington as
“aggressive and expansionist.” When the
conference met, M. Molotov’s first riposte
to America’s “intrusion” was to widen
the scope of dispute by moving for the
addition of China’s civil strife to the
agenda paper. Mr. Bevin and General
Marshall having side-stepped that
one, the meeting got down to the real
business: consideration of the deputies’
draft treaty for Germany,
After preliminary exchanges on the
familiar approaches to that subject M.
Molotov played what he regarded as a
trump card by revealing terms of a secret
protocol signed by the “Big Three” at their
final war-time meeting at Yalta, which
approved reparations being drawn from
Germany’s current production after the
end of the war. Mr. Bevin and General
Marshall retorted that the Yalta protocol
was superseded by the Potsdam agree-
ment six months later, for otherwise the
Potsdam instrument would have meant
nothing at all in its economic clauses.
Mr. Bevin spoke Britain’s piece in his
best style. Both Russia and France had
been blocking economic agreement. He
turned to Russia first, He said Britain
flatly refused
The Moscow demand for payment of
reparations from current German produc-
tion.
To put a dollar valuation on reparations.
To leave the Ruhr before there were
economic unity and four-Power control of
German industry.
To annul the Anglo-American fusion of
zones in Germany.
To relate the level of permitted German
industry to reparations from current pro-
duction.
Consent to resumption of the Moscow
Reparations Commission’s activities.
Turning to France, he said that he was
sorry to reject "the French demand for
definite coal deliveries from the Ruhr —
M. Bidault, for France, had declined to
enter into any agreement at all over Ger-
many until her coal demands were first
settled —but it would disrupt any arrange-
ments for restoring German economy,
and he would not accept any condition
which would involve Britain in further
financial commitments over Germany. To
both of them, in short, he said Britain
had been milked enough, and Germany
had got to begin paying her own way.
M. Bidault later relented; M. Molotov
not at all.
London “Times” summarised the
British case in this way:
There must be an equitable sharing be-
tween the occupying Powers of the costs
of occupation, past, present and future,
and expenditure incurred shall be recover-
able from Germany as a first charge on
production—that is before any deliveries
on reparations account.
And to the devil with the Yalta protocol!
The “Times” went on:
In effect, Germany could not repay be-
fore 1960 British and American claims for
costs of food and goods already imported.
This is unacceptable to Russia—that she
should forgo her present handsome divi-
dends now drawn from eastern Germany,
and contribute instead an annual sum to
meet the German deficit. [The annual sum
about 100 million dollars equivalent.]
Is it any wonder that Britain and
America, especially Britain, are tired of
paying, out (in urgently-needed goods)
huge sums annually to prop up a para-
lysed German industry and people, while
the Soviet complains that it is not getting
its dues and bleeds eastern Germany of
goods currently produced, as consolation
for having received so far from the
western zones only 1} millions sterling
worth of reparations? Russia has already
carted off factories wholesale from
eastern Germany, Austria and the Balkan
States, has (with Poland) monopolised
the Silesian mines and now wants a
quarter cut of the Ruhr. If, in addition,
the Western Powers will consent to all
German production being drawn off for
reparations until Russia has received
10,000 niillion dollars’ worth, then Russia
will consent to existence of a unified
German State.
Mr. Bevin’s downright speech did much
to counteract the resentful astonishment
aroused among the British public by M.
Molotov’s revelation of the secret Yalta
agreement. It also brought a temporary
cessation, for purposes of digestion, to
the economic debate.
The Foreign Ministers turned aside from
the subject and quickly agreed, M. Molo-
tov abating a former stand, that in the
political reconstruction of Germany there
is, after all, no alternative to a federal
system of government, though there were
evinced varying views as to the appropri-
ate time for setting it up. Then, passing
that back to the deputies, the delegates
came to Austria, plucked from their
sleeves the Potsdam secret agreement re-
nouncing any Austrian reparations and
found Russia again at odds with the West
on the question of what were German
assets (seized from Austria) and what
Austrian assets —since the former were
not only (in the Russian view) seizable,
but had already been seized by the Red
occupation forces. Back to the deputies
with this item also. Next the conference
produced its customary fissure on the old
dispute, upon which the Foreign Ministers
had battled lustily last year, whether the
smaller Allied States should be per-
mitted a voice on the treaty-drafting
committee. M. Molotov banged that out
again, and they all went to the ballet
for a breather before returning to the
battle over Germany’s economic recon-
struction.
That battle was duly, resumed when
General Marshall took up the gage which
M. Molotov had earlier flung down—
that Russia would accept economic unity
for Germany with reparations (meaning
the Russian Yalta demands), but not
without them. General Marshall rejected
a policy which, he said, would make Ger-
many a congested slum in central Europe,
and said he would later submit proposals
for more effective use as a food producer
of that part of Germany under Polish
occupation. To M. Molotov’s retort that
the American was not advancing the
debate, Mr. Bevin then delivered another
broadside with a detailed plan. He pro-
posed
Unification of Germany to be accom-
plished by removing, irom July 1 nexi, all
restrictions on transport of goods between
zones.
Repayment by Germany of suras ad-
vanced by the controlling Powers, as a first
charge on exchange resources after satis-
faction of Germany’s essential needs, the
Powers to furnish Germany administration
by September 30 with an agreed statement
of sums owing.
The controlling Powers to give full credit
for exports, or proceeds therefrom, from
current German production and stock,
whether or not taken under the head of
reparations.
No reparations to be taken from current
production until Germany has a balanced
economy and has repaid advances for im-
ports and costs of occupation.
The future of Germany as an integral
or a partitioned people, of the major
Powers’ co-operation in any effort to re-
organise Europe, perhaps of U.N.O. itself,
depends upon Russia’s answer. Trying
to persuade the Soviet to make at least
some move out of its stalemate position,
General Marshall offered M. Molotov a
limited allotment of current production
for reparations if M. Molotov would
implement the Potsdam agreement for
establishing German economic unity. But,
according to General Clay, the United
States adviser, the chances of agreement
are hopeless. Evidently the resort will
be adjournment to a later conference.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Hanlon's Handicaps.
According to the “Courier-Mail’s”
reckoning 600 people were present when
Premier Hanlon delivered his policy
speech, 1200 when Mr. Pie, the QP.P,
leader, delivered his. “Labor” is more
given to staging “rallies” than its oppo-
nents are, and Mr. Hanlon can take no
comfort from the difference, as he knows
non-“ Labor” voters have to be deeply
stirred before their feelings will
carry them to meetings. The Westralian
Wise and his followers and beggarly
attendances at their election meetings, and
they suffered a dreadful defeat.
Mr. Hanlon must be conscious of the
handicaps to his bringing his party home
on May 3. “Labor” is favored by the
electoral boundaries, though not nearly
to the Westralian extent. It did no good
for itself by summarily abolishing prefer-
ential voting, by allowing the liquor posi-
tion to become nearly as bad as it is in
the McKell-McGirr State, and by first
making a stab at transport reform, and
then reducing it to nothing. It insisted on
favoring its slow and cumbersome rail-
ways system, and in slapping passenger
and freight taxes, some of them of a crip-
pling nature, on all forms of private and
local-authority transport.
Three main grievances of Queens-
landers concern housing, transport and
idle ports, and it is no use pleading,
in the stale buck-passing phrase, that they
are “Federal matters.” They are in a
sense, and so is the McKell appointment,
bitterly resented in Queensland, but the
ignoble old excuse will not now avail. The
Communist conspiracy brought about de-
structive strikes in Queensland early last
year, and has created such conditions at
ports that shipowners avoid them.
Queensland has suffered also from strikes
on the wharves and in the mines and
heavy industries of the south, and out-
raged pastoralists, cane-farmers, manu-
facturers, shopkeepers and consumers are


in no mood to be meticulous about fixing
the blame. It is sufficient for them that
“Labor” is at the root of their troubles,
because “Labor” cannot govern.
Then, except for the 1929-32 period,
“Labor” has been in office since 1915,
and people everywhere grow tired of
seeing the same old faces around. This was
one of the causes of the smashing defeat
of the long-term “ ‘Labor’ Government”
in Westralia, Mr. Wise himself was re-
elected without a contest, having a pocket-
borough at his disposal. Mr. Hanlon is
not in this comfortable position. Even
in 1944, when there was no swing, his
majority was less than 1000 in an effec-
tive poll of 11,675.
In Queensland last September there was
a decided swing against “Labor.” Out
went Mr. Forde, who had been M.H.R.
for Carpentaria since 1922, and in went
the three Opposition Senate candidates.
Now there are not only strong C.P. and
Q.P.P. teams, with young servicemen
conspicuous, but the Bundaberg Barnes is
in the field with 12 candidates, all after
“Labor” seats. Mr. Barnes, at whom the
abolition of preferential voting was
aimed, could become the instrument of
retributive justice.
England in Adversity.
A Red Cross flood-relief fund has been
added to Food for Britain appeals and
the good work of sending private parcels
goes forward. But the voice has yet to
be raised which will lift into a burning
cause what should be national in every
sense of the word, and the voice can
come from one quarter and one quarter
alone. Instead of that loud clear call we
had the repeated application of the gag to
stifle debate on the subject nearest to all
warm Australian hearts.
We know disasters by flood and fire
in Australia. We do not know the
degree of calamity they can cause, with-
out extra natural severity, in communi-
ties which because of sheer numbers
cannot abandon the scene of their visi-
tations.
The people of England, worn down by
the strain of war carried on at their doors
and over their heads constantly for five
long years, are now meeting an
extreme challenge to their endurance and
to their faith in themselves. They are
for us not merely fellow-creatures, but
our closest kin. They are the men and
women and children of that England
without which Australia could not have
lived in one hour’s security this past 100
years. They are the homeland race which
we dare not desert lest we ruin ourselves
in the jprocess, or retrain from succoring
to the utmost of our power and with
whole-hearted effort, lest otherwise we
damn our own soul. They are the
people who received many thousands
of Australians during two world
wars as sons and brothers around their
hearths.
Australians owe it —to England, yes,
but still more to ourselves —to give now,
to give liberally and without delay, to give
till it pinches us too a little, when still
it would not hurt us.
The Government at Canberra must do
something in this way on behalf of the
whole Commonwealth, and must do it
soon, lest delay be construed as some-
thing other than insufficient appreciation
of the tragedy. Let it clamp down on
Australian rations to provide relief stores
for Britain. Let it see that the ships are
turned round rapidly in our ports, and
sent back full, not half-loaded. And let
it call for volunteers to service those ships
if the Waterside Workers’ Federation
should continue to disregard the signals
over there of distress.
Was Keane a Crook?
It was no mystery at Canberra last
session that the Opposition-leader’s sense
of legal propriety was outraged by the
only features of the Goldberg-Keane-Kelly
case then open to comment. Such were,
in particular, repeated adjournments
of the Special Federal Court proceedings
—strangely paralleled by the repeated ad-
journments of Police Court cases against
Communists, accused of violence at
public meetings and the air-travel
priority and passport obligingly
granted to Goldberg—“ Joe” to York-
street, Sydney—-while a charge was hang-
ing over his head.
And it is highly improbable that Mr.
Menzies will consider the affair finished
by the conviction of and the penalty im-
posed on Goldberg—a £250 fine, plus
£5O for witnesses and £5 13s. costs. The
charge was the unlicensed introduction
of goods under import prohibition, or
some euphemistic rigmarole like that. In
another Customs case, heard in the same
Court on the same day, one David Stern
being the accused, “smuggling” was the
term employed, and to the fine, £250,
there was added confiscation of the goods,
valued at £750.
Far greater in value were the goods in
which Goldberg was concerned —both
consignments were shipped by the
Monterey, though not on the same
voyage. And how did Goldberg come
to be concerned in them? He gave his
story to two Customs men at Sydney,
one of whom, J. B. Maher, repeated it
under oath.
In March, 1946, he was a fellow-pas-
senger to the U.S.A. with Senator Keane,
then, and since October, 1941, Minister
of Trade and Customs, and “a very dear
friend.” With Keane and Mrs. Keane he
stayed for two days at Washington, and
during the reunion of souls “the Senator
asked me to buy some goods for him”:
Some pearls, 1000 dollars’ worth of dress
ornaments, 100 pairs of nylon stockings,
some perfume, handbags, shoes and other
things. He handed me 3000 American
dollars to pay for the goods. I bought
some of the goods and then I had a serious
heart attack. I was still ill when the
Senator died.
The Senator died on April 27. Grief
and heart attack surmounted, the
Goldberg mind worked hard and fast.
He bought not only 100 pairs of nylons
but another 38 pairs, and nearly a hun-
dred other articles, for the most part in
stacks—“ 39 bracelets, 22 pairs of ladies’
footwear, 156 brooches,” and so on.
Also bought by Goldberg, on his own
account, were “two strings of pearls for
SYDNEY TURF CLUB DIPLOMACY.
“The envoy from Dublin and Mrs. Kiernan, who had come specially from Canberra to
Sydney to receive 23 debs, at the St. Vincent’s Hospital nurses’ ball, found themselves sud-
denly replaced by the Governor-General.”
Voice from the Rear: “Him in his soup-and-fish, and me all correct in me
tails!”
Bill,” identified as W. T. Kirk, one of
Keane’s secretaries, and “some key chains
for friends of mine: Dr. McMahon,
Frank Carberry and E. J. Ward.” These,
with the purchases for Keane, which
came to “more than 4350 dollars,” were
packed in trunks for Mrs. Keane and —
although he, Goldberg, was not aware of
it —became part of the baggage of Miss
Rosetta Kelly, secretary to the Australian
War Supplies Procurement in Washing-
ton, who arrived in Sydney by the
Monterey in July. He himself travelled
by the Monterey, and he was sure Miss
Kelly had no knowledge of the contents
of the trunks.
Miss Kelly was not called as a witness.
Neither was Mrs, Keane, nor Kirk, al-
though Goldberg told the Customs men,
according to the second-hand evidence,
that Mrs. Keane had not paid him for the
purchases made in excess of the alleged
3000-dollar agreement and that he, Keane
and Kirk had made an arrangement to
enter into a business partnership.
The only other person who gave evi-
dence, part of it very peculiar evidence,
was R. F. Kerr, San Francisco representa-
tive of Australian War Supplies Procure-
ment. This person admitted conducting
a private travel agency while still in the
Commonwealth service. He denied hav-
ing seen Goldberg aboard the Monterey
and left a card in the Goldberg cabin.
A card being produced, with the words
“Sorry, I’ll take a rain check” written on
the back, he admitted that card, words
and writing were his. “The expression,”
he said, was “as though he had been
invited to have a drink and couldn’t go.”
All in all, this is far from being good
enough for Mr. Menzies, nor should
it be good enough for the Prime Minister.
As the case rests. Senator Keane stands
accused of having had an inordinate
amount of American dollars in his posses-
sion (“You or anybody else wouldn’t
know how many he had,” Goldberg said
when one of the Customs men questioned
the 3000 dollars), and of entering into
a private deal with a manufacturers’
agent to whom he was in a position to
grant favors. Emphatically a matter,
every phase of it, for immediate in-
quiry by a Parliamentary select com-
mittee, extenuating nothing and with no
limits set to its powers to call witnesses
and to extend the scope of the investiga-
tion. Alive or dead a Minister of the
Crown is accountable for his actions as
a Minister of the Crown, and if Senator
Keane has befen traduced it is due to
his memory and the natural feelings of
his family that his name should be
vindicated by a tribunal appointed by
Parliament, and reporting to it as the
highest authority in the land.
The Subject Is Fish.
A few months ago an islander came to
Sydney intent on buying a motor vessel,
having heard that there was a suitable
one in the market. He arrived too late,
but he became curious about the motor
vessel in question, H.M.A.S. Anaconda,
the identity of the purchasers and the
price accepted; and, denied information
via the customary channels, he enlisted
the aid of Opposition members, among
them Mr. Menzies and Mr. Fadden. Again
there was a curious delay, but before
Parliament rested from its labors some
information was supplied by Mr. Riordan,
one of the five Defence Ministers who
look after a miVed foree of fin 000
iook alter a mixed toice ot bb,uuu,
women and clerks included,
Mr. Riordan’s answer, necessarily ab-
hreviated is here suhioined •
oreviaiea, is nere suDjoinea
Hie Anaconda was built for the Army
in Tasmania at a cost of £62,500. After 20
months she was disposed of by tender in
Decemoer, 1946; only one tender received.
On declaration as surplus for disposal, the
Anaconda was valued by a qualified marine
surveyor at a certain simi. The successful
tender price was greatly in excess-of the
va ». atlon t£le mann ® surveyor.
Many hon. members have been ap-
proached by a certain individual to ascer-
tain the price. The question of business
ethics is involved and it would be highly
improper for me to divulge the price. There
is no objection to the successful tenderer,
Australian Fishing Industries, disclosing
the price, if they so desire.
They, or it, did not “so desire,” nor did
Mr. Riordan go into the question of
, . ,® u , 2 ~ .
whether or not the taxpayers have a right
to know what was paid for ships during
the war—it is notorious that Tasmanian
shipbuilding was tremendously costly
and how much is lost when they are
sold ; in this case, to the only tenderer,
U n w t¥ ..',fV feW ?? nt t S ° f th ?v 34th
N.b.W. Parliament, Young Digger
Bate, M.L.A. for Wollondilly, had a great
deal to say about Australian Fishing
Industries He aliened that it had re
inausines. _ Tie aiiegea tnat it naa re-
ceived special consideration m Canberra
and Sydney. One of his assertions was
that “the Prime Minister granted a per-
„ T - v,; ° • 5 •
mit to Australian Fishing Industries in
ten minutes, and that Mr. Baddeley, the
N.S.W. “Colonial” Secretary, authorised
the concern to “process fish and do all
. £ ... *., •. „ .
sorts of things with it. Exposed to a
sweeping Bate barrage, Mr. Baddeley
was stung into using the expression “a
dpH hern to He ” Galrmna rlnwn He nleaHed
aenoerate lie. calming aown, tie pleaded
that we owe something to peopie who
are prepared to invest £50,000 in an
attempt to establish a new industry.”
r - „ . .. _
One of these people is Mr. T. G.
Murray, M.L.C. Another is Mr. Jack
Gordon Beale, Independent M.L.A. for
the South Coast, who in Mr. Murray’s
absence presented the first annual report
as substitute chairman of directors.
Mr. Murray (“Tom” to the bhoys) was
originally appointed to the Leg. Council
as a “good Labor man,” and he has since
been “good as Labor” or something. He
voted for the Parliamentary Pensions Act,
which established the “ ‘Labor’ principle”
that Assemblymen who have “served”
two Parliamentary terms (normally six
years) and part of another have a greater
monetary claim on the nation than war-
wrecked servicemen, and twice as great
a claim as servicemen’s widows. On this
measure his substitute did not vote. Un-
like Mr. Bate, who during the election
campaign will no doubt return to the sub-
ject of fish in the manner of Diggers,
Old and Young, who never mince their
words, Mr. Jack Gordon Beale is very
shaky in his electorate. “Labor,” of
course, is not opposing him.
Embarrassment and Sham.
When it was reported that two pro-
grammes on the A.B.C. Forum of the
Air had been cancelled because “they
might prove embarrassing to the ‘Govern-
ment’ ” Postmaster-General Cameron was
asked to comment. He replied that he
could not imagine any question being
discussed that would embarrass the
“Government,” provided “a ‘Govern-
ment’ spokesman” was “one of the de-
baters.” But he did not think “any sham
debate made for the purpose of ridiculing
the ‘Government’ ” should be tolerated.
The one consistent thing about these
“Labor” Ministers is their passionate love
of freedom of speech—for their own
point of view. Still, the P.M.G.’s faith
in Government spokesmen is rather
touching. It doesn’t require any great
effort of imagination to picture the “Gov-
ernment” being at least a trifle embar-
rassed if Mr. Ward were put up to ex-
press its views on Bretton Woods or Mr.
Calvell to discuss Jewish immigration ;
but probably both these subjects could be
dealt with as “sham debates.”
The sham-debate blanket would prob-
ably also be used to smother any attempt
by the Forum to get Mr. Chifley to argue
the negative side in a debate “That We
Should Send More Food to Britain,” so
far roughly sketched by him under two
heads; (i) We can’t spare it, and (ii)
Britain hasn’t begged for it. Even Senator
Cameron himself might feel slightly em-
barrassed if asked to put his Govern-
ment’s view, choosing whichever side he
pleased, in a debate “That S.-P. Book-
makers’ Telephones Be Limited to Six
per Man.” But that of course would be a
sham debate, because nothing would be
done about it no matter which side won
the argument.
Out with Our Memorials!
Written by the office historian:
It gives a very poor impression of Australian
regard for a proud history that societies and
individuals are compelled to fight for the re-
tention of historic buildings, the cradles of
Australian history, which Government vandals
are seeking to destroy, as they have already
destroyed many of the most priceless ones.
No other country 150 years old owns such
memorials as the central pillared portion of
N.S.W. Parliament House, the so-called Old
Mint and the old Convict Barracks in Queen’s
Square, Sydney.
The Parliament House block was originally
the home of D’Arcy Wentworth the elder.
From the inception of a Legislative Council
in 1824, it has continuously been a legislative
building—the only one with a continuous record
in the British Commonwealth, the London
Houses of Parliament not excepted. Thence
William Wentworth went forth to force the
Constitution on the British Government. There
he, Bland, Lowe, Robertson, Parkes, Reid,
Barton walked in their day. There the first
legislation was passed in Australia, the first full
national sovereignty exercised. Thence Edmund
Barton walked to become the Commonwealth’s
first Prime Minister.
The old Mint was far a time the home of
Redfem, first prophet of vaccination in Aus-
tralia. It saw the foundation of Australian
civil commercial life when the initial meetings
to form the Bank of N. S. Wales, the country’s
first public company, were held there in 1816.
It was the Mint in the historic gold days which
changed the face and fate of the country. It
was the Sydney Headquarters of the Civil
Defence during the early days of the Japanese
war—the first occasion when Australia was
seriously threatened with invasion.
The Convict Barracks are not merely the
earliest extant work of Australia’s first archi-
tect, Greenway, but a monument to Macquarie,
its first humanitarian, who fed the convicts with
plum pudding and punch when he opened it
in 1819 and called on the company to drink to
their “health and prosperity.”
If only as a memorial to Macquarie, these
buildings should be taken oyer as national
possessions. He it was who gave Australia its
name; who was the first to adopt officially
its concept that “it should" be a happy home
for all who deserve it”; its first civil govern-
ment; its first paved, named and regulated
streets (all the main streets of Sydney City
were named by him); its first real interior
exploration; its first native-born Australian
officials and commissioned officers; its first
roads, its first real public buildings and hos-
pital accommodation. Macquarie raised the first
articulate cry for freedom in the antipodes. He
was the first patron of the arts and literature—
the only Governor to boast a poet laureate.
And above all he was the first patron of the
young Australians, of whom he always had a
galaxy around him, the foremost among them
William Wentworth.


■
nAm
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!/
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LTD. ■ OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
Hi
6744
POLITICAL POINTS
Melbourne awoke on Monday morn-
ing to find that it had no suburban rail or
’bus service, the A.E.U. and F.E.D.FtA.
having “pulled out” their members from
Newport workshops as an extension of
the Communist-run metal-trades strikes.
The city also faces gas and electricity
shortages. Ole Man River Chifley he
“doan’ say nuffin’,” but Cain, Premier of
the stricken State, has convened his Par-
liament a week ahead of itself. It will
be Cain’s last Parliament as Premier.
Melbourne looks like celebrating its
110th anniversary today without gas or
electricity, with factory after factory
closed and closing down and the hand of
the Communist conspiracy reaching into
every home. Melburnians have a repu-
tation for their ability to kick bladders
of wind good and hard about open spaces
on Saturday afternoons. The practice
should be extended.
Sullivan, the N.Z. Minister who
brought off that wheat deal with Scully—
as ratified by Pollard, 18,000,000 bushels
at ss. 9d, —has gone to his account. He
brought off a fine stroke of business for
his Dominion, but Australian wheat-
men’s comments on it and Scully—some
were made at the Victorian Wheat- and
Woolgrowers’ Conference in Melbourne
last week —have to be censored.
Calwell went over to Fremantle to
welcome about 620 “migrants” from an
Egyptian ship, but was “obliged to re-
turn” before inspecting the ship. He had
smelt it and heard the noises emanating
from the score or so of different nation-
alities aboard.
The wars hit the N.S.W. Country party
harder than they did any other group,
but the Agrarians are back again in excel-
lent shape and determined to do away
with legalised robbery like pensions for
Assemblymen. And it was a fine thing
Colonel Bmxner did when he placed in
the forefront of his speech to the N.S.W.
country people his party’s determination
that the common, magnanimous senti-
ments of our people, and their eagerness
to help England in distress out of the full
pool of Australian resources, shall not
be smothered in this hour of electioneer-
ing.
There has been a tendency lately for
newspaper-writers to divide strike leaders
into extremists and moderates. For the
benefit of those who don’t understand the
distinction, an extremist is one who be-
lieves in a policy of “strike now and hang
the consequences”; a moderate is one
who favors postponing a strike until after
May 3.
Henry Ford is dead at 83, leaving a
fortune reckoned at the equivalent of
£65,000,000 Australian. His country will
inherit most of it, and no one has ever
been a penny the worse for his having
made it. On the contrary, millions of
people throughout the world—even in
Communist countries, which don’t, and
never will, produce Fords and Edisons—
are the better for Henry’s having lived
and toiled ; and he was a toiler all his
days after he left school.
If A.B.C. really wants to get a Govern-
ment spokesman to debate over the
national network it would have a surefire
subject in “That Communism Is a
Menace.” Doc Evatt could present both
sides of the subject, and there would be
no question of a sham about it. For his
arguments for the positive side he could
draw upon his utterances at U.N.0., and
for the negative he could outline what he
hasn’t done against the Commos in his
own country.
It will be interesting to see McGirr’s
gymnastics on his 40-hour-week legisla-
tion in advance of the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court’s decision. He expects it to be
a winner in Sydney, though it wasn’t in
Adelaide or Perth, but in the country
there is already alarm about its effects on
land industries, especially dairying. The
argument that higher wages and shorter
hours for hands will mean more produc-
tion, and that heavy overtime pay for
Saturdays and Sundays will help all
farmers to grow rich, ought to go down
well. Farmers have noticed for years
how steadily-increasing labor costs on
everything they have to buy promote their
prosperity.
Melbourne tramwaymen are objecting
to the loading of trams by people who
have been deprived of ’buses. The
assumption is, apparently, that the onus is
on the population to reduce its numbers.
The N.S.W. “ ‘Labor’ Government,”
having, through its supine attitude to
wreckers, seen industrial undertakings it
might have secured set up in South Aus-
tralia instead and other projects aban-
doned altogether, is now worried about
Courtaulds and their rayon - factory
project. McGirr’s promise of water rights
to the company brought a protest from
the Hunter District Water Board, and,
true to form, the Ironworkers threatened
to declare the proposed works “black,.”
On top of this McGirr learned that Cain
was angling for the big factory. They’d
both better keep an eye on Playford,
Hanlon is not in the race.
From Canberra it is reported that the
Commonwealth “Government,” always in
or meditating retreat, proposes to fix its
“defence” plans, which include the adop-
tion of a theory that compulsory training
is not needed, and that the next war will
be a “push-button” affair, before Field-
Marshal Montgomery arrives in July.
The only secret not revealed to the daily
press is who has been chosen to press
the button at the Australian end.
Mountjoy perhaps!
The shocked voice of Mr. William
Winter, a San Francisco radio uncle who
has been crusading against White Aus-
tralia with the aid of a grovelling A.B.C.
management: •
One thing I have noticed is that most
people here say they are British rather than
Australian Canada, which is a Dominion,
is full of people who call themselves
Canadians.
There is a difference which Mr, Winter,
by reason of his environment, would find
it difficult to understand. About 98
per cent, of Australians are of U.K.
origin. Few have had to change their
names from Vinterboloniski to Winter to
make themselves sound like a human
being instead of a bad cold. In Canada
it is different; 50 per cent, of the popu-
lation is non-British in race.
In the home State, “other States and
overseas” (N.G. and Japan), 931 Wes-
tralian servicemen marked Assembly
ballot-papers, many for uncontested elec-
torates (two-fifths). Only in Geraldton
and Pilbara could they have been de-
cisive. Recorded distribution in these key
electorates and five others:
“Labor.” Opposition.
Canning .... 20 15
Nedlands .. .. 9 23
Katanning .... 6 9
Bunbury .... 9 9
Geraldton .... 3 4
Avon 3 3
Pilbara .... 0 4
Canning, Bunbury, Geraldton and Avon
were wrested from “Labor,” Bunbury
and Geraldton for the first time since
the first German war; and the one
formal vote in Pilbara —there was an-
other, declared informal —made it level
pegging. The returning officer gave his
casting vote to the “Labor” member,
Hegney, but there is to be an appeal.
Hawke, who was Wise’s deputy in the
Westralian Ministry that got its issue on
March 15, is No. 2 in the Opposition.
“Unable to attend the declaration of the
poll” at Northam, where his majority
was reduced from 1600 in 1943 to 400 or
so, Hawke sent a message saying that “the
reasons for the swing against the Govern-
ment arise mostly out of Federal issues,
including those of industrial disputes and
taxation.” Hawke is an old campaigner
in S.A. as well as the West, and his
“reasons for the swing” are frightfully
embarrassing to Hanlon and McGirr.
A Mr. Coward, an “Independent
Labor” candidate for Brisbane, pro-
posed to buy a travelling circus, “com-
plete with wild animals,” and use it in
his campaign, but had to abandon the
notion. It was unnecessary, anyhow,
since the Queenslander has a pretty good
circus in his Parliament and any time he
wants to see wild creatures he need only
talk to a few neighbors about wharf
strikes, houses and Communists. If Mr.
Coward is really stuck for performers he
might consider the entertainment value
of Barnes, the “Bundaberg Bombshell,”
Aikens, the Mundingburra muck-raker,
and Paterson, the Bowen Communist.
Paterson and Aikens look like being open
for some sort of engagement after May 3.
Experience of the 40-hour week, to
which McGirr and Hanlon have light-
heartedly committed their States without
considering reactions in country districts,
has moved the N.Z. Council of Federated
Farmers to demand “the same conditions
in regard to payment for Saturday and
Sunday work and statutory holidays as
those enjoyed by other sections of the
community by a raising of farm prices .”
Dairyfarmers intend to press for prices
based on a 56-hour week, in their case
for an increase of Bd. a lb. for butterfat.
Neither McGirr nor Hanlon ever thought
of anything like that.
The P.M.G. Cameron, whose speeches
and replies to questions have caused many
A.B.C. subscribers to wonder how he ever
rose above the level of a minor union
secretaryship or membership of an
obscure municipal council, let himself go
at the Victorian A.L.P. conference. To the
undisguised consternation of Dedman,
he proposed that people on £3OO a year,
cockerels, flappers and all, should be ex-
empt from income tax. And, with the
Cain Government at the mercy of two
Independents, the old boy supported a
Kew motion that all Independents
should be opposed in the constituencies.
He added, regardless ’of corns, that “in
the Federal sphere. Labor has paid too
high a price for the support of Indepen-
dents, most of whom are political black-
mailers.” There have been only two in his
time at Canberra, Wilson (Norfolk Island)
and Coles (Airlines Commission). Cal-
well, who was among those present, was
too flabbergasted to spring to their de-
fence and that of their high-minded
patrons.
Nothing of any value to Australian
wheatgrowers came out of the London
wheat conference. Argentina was never
keen, and the ideas of importing and ex-
porting countries on prices and thq dura-
tion of any price agreement were as far
apart as the Poles. Meaptime, Australian
growers may amuse themselves, if they
wish, by working out the Australian-New
Zealand agreement, whereby N.Z. gets
Australian wheat at ss. 9d. a bushel and
guarantees 7s. 4d. a bushel to its own
growers.
The first soldier-settlement land ballot
has been held in Queensland. There were
nine blocks and 231 applicants; thfc
largest block, 595 acres; smallest, 400.
If this rate of allotting land can be main-
tained it is fairly certain that the first
1000 soldier-settlers in Australia will be
on their land —or under if as dust —by
2047.
The Federal-Aid road agreement dies
on June 30, and Ward intends to replace
it with a bill granting the States £4,500,000
a year for three years for “road works,”
plus another £1,000,000 for roads through
“sparsely settled areas.” Expenditure will
be “subject to a policy approved by the
Transport Minister,” which, with Ward
as the Minister, could mean anything.
The money is to come from part of the
petrol tax. Tasmania is to get 5 p.c. of
it, and the other 95 p.c. is for the main-
land States “in proportions of two-fifths
as to areas and three-fifths as to popu-
lation, as recorded at the next census.”
Meantime, petrol rationing, which every
motorist and motoring organisation in the
land condemned as unwarranted, con-
tinues to cost the taxpayer £250,000 a
year.
All Queensland is grinning at the tactics
of Frank Barnes, leader and only Parlia-
mentary member of the “Frank Barnes
‘Labor’ party.” He has 12 candidates for
the State election, eight of them for
Hanlon “Labor” seats. He didn’t an-
nounce the fact until after the Towns-
ville “Labor” conference; had he an-'
nounced it before it is a dead certainty
that the Hanlons would have rushed
preferential voting back. They abolished
it mainly to beat Barnes, and now any
vote that goes to Barnes candidates is a
vote against the Hanlons.
On the word of its Professor G. L.
Wood, Melbourne University is consider-
ing a course for union secretaries. Pre-
sumably it will deal exhaustively with
the proper use of the term “Pull y’r ’ead
in, mug!” and the correct tactics to be
used in branding Australians as “scabs.”
The Auditor-General coldly reveals that
during the year to June 30 A.B.C. lost
£13,745 on its “Weekly” and was losing
£l6B a month on its “Talk.”
At the beginning of 1946, when the
Lord Mayor of Adelaide launched a
Food-for-Britain appeal, it rained food
coupons in S.A. Then arose a Mr.
Murphy, followed by Mr. Dedman. Mr.
Murphy announced that Food Control
would not supply food for the coupons
and that, in effect, the appeal would get
no help from the Commonwealth “Gov-
ernment.” Now the Prime Minister is
inviting citizens not to use coupons so
that the food thus saved may be sent to
Britain! _
The meat price-fixing business has be-
come so confused in Melbourne that if
a housewife buys a joint at the price de-
manded by the butcher she, as well as
the butcher, is liable to a fine of £lOO
or six months. If the butcher sells at the
fixed price he loses threepence or four-
pence on every pound and if he sells
above it he is a criminal by bureaucratic
definition. Some butchers have had some
peace of mind by closing their shops for
two “months.
When Queensland Premier Hanlon
wept electioneering in western Queens-
land a graziers’ deputation sought some
reforms in wool and stock transport and
said something about decentralisation.
Whereupon Hanlon flared up and de-
clared that workers, would be attracted
to the west only when the graziers pro-
vided them with “amenities.” This should
raise a howl of joy from Hanlon Gov-
ernment employees on W.Q. railways,
who have to live in “sweat-boxes” that
are a standing disgrace and which, if
any private employer was responsible,
would involve sharp prosecution under
awards and health acts.
Making a show of force after the
Queensland strikes last year, the Hanlons
brought in a bill obliging union bosses to
lodge with the Industrial Registrar the
names and addresses of their members
to admit of secret ballots. The time for
lodgment of lists is past, but to all
attempts to discover whether Communist-
bossed unions have complied with the
law a deaf ear is turned. Gair, the
Labor Minister, pressed for an answer,
muttered something about “calling for
a report in due course” and then hurried
off to prepare for the election. He is
member for South Brisbane, which three
years ago gave him 5940 votes and a
Q.P.P. opponent 4611. It was a rela-
tively small poll, 82.83 p.c.—the average
for 20 metropolitan electorates was 89.31
p.c., for 23 southern electorates 88.28
p.c. and for nine central electorates 85.66
p.c.—and a lot of dirty water has rushed
under the bridge since April 15, 1944.


THE RELUCTANT FIREWALKERS.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
“El Verdugo” gives it up:
In an earnest attempt to aid sweating official
heralds in their search for McKell origins and
arms, I have just completed the most barren
research of the kind 1 have ever undertaken.
I have gone through Burke’s Peerage and Landed
Gentry, Douglas’s Baronages, Burke’s History
of the Commoners, Debrett, the Guide to Re-
lative Precedence, the Registers of Extinct and
Dormant Baronetcies, the Genealogists’ Guide,
Adam’s Clans, Septs and Regiments of the
Scottish Highlands, the lona Club excerpts of
Scottish documents, Fox Davies’s Armorial
Families and the Aberdeen and Edinburgh
Directories without drawing a single McKell.
Ruvigny’s tremendous tome on the Titled
Nobility of Europe (though it boasts an honest
Papal Count styled McSwiney of Mashanag-
las) has never heard of our Commander-in-
Chief or his forebears. And O’Hart’s numerous
erudite works on Irish pedigrees and the landed
bhoys brack to the days of Brian Bom’s great-
uncle can' produce nothing more apposite to
our purpose than a McLoingseachin or McGilly-
golly. The only learned volumes which yielded
pay dirt at all were (1) the Glasgow Directory,
which names seven McKells, mostly living in
suburbs frequented by visiting Hibernian potato
dealers and diggers, (2) the Dublin Directory
which, in its section for "Mobility, Gentry,
merchants and traders,” records a lone Mrs.
McKell (spouse unaccounted for) living near a
racecourse, (3) Fairbairn’s Book of Crests, which
lists a single McKell crest, without motto:
"Issuing out of clouds, a dexter hand brand-
ishing a scimitar. AH proper. 213.5.” In-
spection proved that the figures were not a
quotation of Sydney Turf Club odds brut a
reference to an illustration, which established
the scimitar as being about big enough to open
a thick pay envelope. There is no vestige of
tradition about a McKell coat of arms. A suit-
able blazon would be a large, green Christmas
tree hung with ten thousand o’goblins on a
field of gold, set off with some such tasteful
motto as “Hurroo for Ben!”
* * * 9
“Clooter”; Time was when a para-
graph writer could wedge himself into
an Australian crowd and gather a small
crop of quips, humorous incidents and
cheerful ripostes with which later to as-
sault some editor. But good humor, like
other things, seems to be fading out. I
was at Sydney showground on Easter
Saturday, one of 260,000 people ; pushing
and being pushed, stood upon, squashed
against walls and rails, abused and even
assaulted. People in front hurled in-
vective at those shoving from behind,
those behind blasphemed and cursed those
in front irrespective of sex or age. When
police tried to sort out the jams and get
some semblance of order they, too, re-
ceived abuse. Carried from stands to
streets, past sideshows and through
pavilions, I listened eagerly for the re-
lieving touch of humor, the sardonic
Australian remark that brings the house
down. In all that time 1 never heard it;
only impatience, fury and bad language.
Maybe I was unlucky, but I escaped and
got home, weary and saddened, with no
bright memory to relieve the experience.
What has happened to us?
“Sucker 2”: I wish those Adelaide
police who straightened up the hoop-la
racket at Adelaide Show (B. 9/4/’47) had
been sent over to the Sydney one. There
the Prices Commissioner turned loose a
horde of inspectors to police prices
charged by the various food purveyors,
but apparently no notice was taken of
balloon-sellers who. demanded 3s. to
4s. 6d. for their wares, and in some in-
stances a further sixpence for inflating
them ; up to 11s. 6d. for dolls, and various
outrageous prices for ether gewgaws dear
to the heart of a child. What was more
astonishing was that most of them sold
out, which seems to argue that the aver-
age adult isn’t to be trusted with money.
On the other hand, admittance to side-
shows was usually 1 got your
change if you demanded it after tender-
ing a shilling—an open scheme to do Mr.
Chifley’s Treasury out of the entertain-
ment tax. Since more than a million
people visited the show and a fair pro-
portion went to the sideshows, the loss
of entertainment tax must have run into
thousands. Still, knowing the Taxation
Department, I’m sure they’ll make it up
some other way.
“Pitt St.”: I’m waiting for somebody
versed in human psychology to explain
the phenomenon of the crowds at
Sydney Show. On Good Friday
about 200,000 crammed themselves into
the grounds, there were minor riots at
turnstiles, women fainted in the crush and
children were lost and there were in-
evitable transport crushes and hold-
“I have no record of my pedigree; but We have a family-tree!"
ups. Yet, next day, no fewer than
260,000 got into the jammed trams and
buses, thence into the long queues, then
—after more minor riots and casualties
—into the packed grounds, fought and
struggled through the mass all day and
half the night, battled their way home,
rested on Sunday, and went back into
the fray, 173,000 strong, on the Monday
to repeat the performance. My own con-
clusion is that the average Sydney person
has become so used to being jammed in
among other persons that he is beginning
to like it. You can’t tell me that the
three separate crowds were three entirely
different lots of people.
* * * *
“Bethune”; It is a common complaint
among philatelists that postal authorities
in postmarking stamps show no con-
sideration for collectors. In South
Africa the issue of stamps commem-
orating the Royal visit has produced the
usual crop of letters to the paper pro-
testing against clerks.
One correspondent, not satisfied with
attacking present-day officials, delved back
into history with a complaint that “dur-
ing the Matabele campaign of 1896 the
postmaster at Bulawayo defaced the pro-
visional issue in such a way that very
little trace of the stamp could be seen.”
Going back further still, he deplored that
“between the years 1864 and 1875 the
postmaster at Graaff-Reinet defaced
stamps on letters received at his office a
second time—thereby completely ob-
literating all traces of the stamp; many
fine philatelic items were ruined by this
man.” Perhaps it’s a little late now, but
it seems a clear case for the War Crimes
Commissions,
* * * «
“Squizz”: That metal foil dropped by
Allied aircraft (B. 2/4/’47) was the
cause of our Lancaster squadron failing
foul of a Nottinghamshire farmer. Every
time our Lancs' were flight-tested large
quantities of “tinsel” was hurled out over
the slumbrous English countryside to
test our own airborne radar gadgets. This
reached such a pitch that a farmer
’phoned the C.O. and complained bitterly
that one of his cows had died and two
were sick as a result of eating “that
dratted rubbish you’re dropping all over
my fields.” He wasn’t to know that it
was making the Luftwaffe’s technical ex-
perts a lot sicker. With the flight-paths
of thousands of bombers meshing across
the map of Germany there could have
been few square miles of German soil
on which the “dratted rubbish” did not
fall. During the several days of furtive
liberty which I spent in Germany after;
being shot down I vividly remember
seeing “tinsel” everywhere, from the
muddy depths of ditches to the tops of
the tail pines. It must have been as in-
furiating to the bomb-happy locals as
it was comforting to me.
* * * *
“Flathead”: Americans have been
reaching for the salt when confronted
by the unexplainable, ever since they were
taken in by Orson Welles’s broadcast of
an imaginary invasion from Mars. Re-
cently New York was the scene of “a
mighty flash in the sky, followed by a
deafening report,” and in consequence
the telephone switchboard at police head-
quarters “lighted up like Luna Park.”
Some of the citizens feared that a muni-
tions ship had blown up. One old duck,
who knew her atom bombs, declared that
she saw a “mushrooming blue flash, and
was knocked over by the blast.” The
police rang up the weather bureau, whose
experts reported “lightning, followed by
thunder.”
* * * ♦
“Territorian”: They’ve been arguing
in Adelaide as to who was the first white
child born at Darwin, the report going
that Surveyor-General Goyder presented
the baby with a square mile of land.
George Palmerston Hay ball claims the
distinction. He is probably the oldest
living Territorian, but he was only fourth
in the list of births. First listed was
Walter Reginald Gardiner, son of Robert
Edward Gardiner and his wife Mary,
formerly Halse. Walter was born on
December 2, 1868 ; another child was
born to the same parents on October 10,
1870, and registered as Charles Arthur
Darwin Gardiner. The name of the third
infant is not known to me ; but the date
of Hayball’s birth is December 15, 1870.
* * * *
“Niloc”: As one who frequently burns
the midnight coffee percolator and
smokes a vicious brand of cigar, I was
horrified to read thaX by now my heart
may be permanently damaged. Dr. Oscar
Strauss, of New York, spilt the dreadful
beans: —
Coffee and tea properly prepared can
be emulsified by the human body and car-
ried away without harmful effects. But
once the oil is separated in coffee it won’t
unite again on reheating. This oily sub-
stance in coffee is an irritant to the inner
wall of blood-vessels. Tobacco tar has
similar irritant qualities.
I took up my quill to pen some appro-
priate words to my dependants, when
hope came again—and what hope! An-
other doctor, on the same topic, page,
and periodical:
If a person’s blood-vessels are sensitive
to nicotine and coffee ingredients, the best
antidote is alcohol, which dilates the
arteries.
I have made photostatic copies of this
testimony, which I will gladly forward
to interested parties.
* * * *
“Craiser”; The housing shortage has
hit artists as well as laymen. Flats and
boarding-houses aren’t the best places to
study art in and studios are over-
crowded. One pupil of a well-
known teacher, having no home ac-
commodation except a back verandah, set
his easel up on a city pavement and pro-
ceeded to paint still life, using the street
lamp for illumination. This so violated the
prejudices of a passing policeman that he
wanted to arrest the youth for disorderly
behavior. “Well, if you’re going to arrest
me, you’ll have to arrest Miss So-and-
So,” said the student, naming a woman
artist famous for painting Melbourne
streetscapes. “Yes,” said the John, “but
she paints all her pictures in the daylight.”
“Perhaps she does,” said the student, “but
Rembrandt didn’t.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: People are strangely inexpres-
sive in moments of emotion. A woman
with a three-year-old girl entered a
crowded compartment and was offered a
seat alongside a window. “Thank you
very much,” she said. She settled down
with the baby in her lap and then, want-
ing to get at her handbag, placed the
infant on the floor. The child leant
against the door and, looking over the
top of my newspaper, I saw the door
move. The next moment the door flew
open and the child started to fly out —
another train was passing. I automatically
put my hand out and grabbed the child’s
arm. “Thank you very much,” said the
mother. “Don’t mention it,” I said. My
reaction came at least ten minutes later
when I felt a distinct heaving in the
stomach.
* * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: Touching
Japanese four-line poems. In saying that
verse is not meant to be rendered into
prose “Findy” (B. 2/4/’47) is going
against the authority of Goethe, who said
the test of a good poem was whether it
could be translated into prose. What he
meant by that was that the important
thing in a work of art is not how a thing
is said but what is said. The opposite view
is taken by most literary professors who
have lauded Shelley’s “Ode to a Sky-
lark,” which dozens of poets could have
written, and ignored the much greater
poems in which the most intellectual of
English poets expressed his beliefs, and
which only Shelley could have written.
Thousands of schoolboys can recite “Hail
to Thee, Blithe Spirit,” but few people
have ever even heard the verse in
Epipysychidion : “I never did belong to
that great sect,” which contains the
essence of Shelley’s philosophy.
* * * *
“X.L.”: Much exposed in my youth
to canned-fish diet, I never expected to
see the day when I should long for it.
During the war years in our N.Q. port,
knowing perfectly well that I could not
get it legitimately, I developed an urge
for good pink salmon, and at breakfast
one day spoke feelingly of my desire. Up
piped small daughter boastfully: “Pooh,
I can have salmon and sardine sandwiches
every day if I want to.” Polite expres-
sions of doubt on this extravagant claim
brought explanation. “I can, see.
Betty Balehook is in my class, and she
has salmon and sardine sandwiches every
day. She’s sick o’ them, and we swap
sandwiches at lunch.” “But, dear, where
on earth does Betty get salmon and sar-
dines?” queried Mum. “We all asked
her that,” replied s.d., “and she said her
father works on the wharf and all the
men there get paid half in money and
half in fish,”
* ♦ * *
“R.H.P.”: There is still hope for us.
On a recent hot Sunday in a Melbourne
suburb a float loaded with picnickers and
drawn by a very venerable and skinny
nag approached a very steep hill. My
heart started to turn in sympathy for
the unfortunate neddy. I needn’t have
worried. Every passenger, man, woman
and child, hopped out and practically
carried the vehicle over the hUI.
* * * *
“R.A.C.”; We were ferrying aircraft
from down south to Noemfoor, and as
the weather ahead didn’t look bright we
decided to call in at the Yank met.
station at Tadji to check up. The met.
officer was away, so his offsider gave us
the lowdown. “How’s the weather up
ahead?” “Overcast, boy—overcast!”
“Much rain?” “Rain, boy, is she rainin’ !”
“How’s the wind?” “The wind, boy, is
she Mowin’ ! ” A report which for lucidity
would take a lot of beating!
* * * *
“Melbn”: In Victoria, on ‘ which he
left his mark more than on any other
State, the centenary of Baron Ferdinand
von Mueller seems to have passed un-
noticed. Born in Denmark, the future
Australian botanist and explorer was
educated at Kiel and was a doctor of
philosophy with the prospect of an
academic career when he was threatened
with t.b. and ordered to the sunshine of
Australia. Setting up as a chemist in
Adelaide he mqde his first scientific con-
tribution with a paper to the Linnasan
Society, which got him the appointment
of official botanist to Victoria. During his
term of office he did an incredible amount
of research and exploration. He traversed
most of the south-east of the colony,
then practically unknown, and went
with Gregory on an attempt to solve
the disappearance of Leichhardt and find
the source of the Victoria River. In one
of his numerous expeditions he covered
1500 miles and added 963 species to Aus-
tralian flora. He was an active member
of over 150 societies for the diffusion of
scientific knowledge. When he died at
71 a poor man, having spent his private
fortune on his work, the whole scientific
world did him honor. The King of
Bavaria made him a baron and he got
a knighthood from Queen Victoria. He
was all the time dogged with fear of
consumption and wore a thick woollen
muffler in the height of the Melbourne
summer. His best monument is the Mel-
bourne Botanic Gardens.
MILLIONS OF UNIVERSES.
“According to Sir Harold Jones, the Astronomer-
Royal, Mars is the only other planet in this universe
where there is reason for suspecting that life exists,
but there are probably millions of other universes
where all the proper conditions pertain for life to
exist.”
Here’s what appears a genuine
Advance on all we have to show
That earth’s a lonely planet in
The only universe we know.
Take thought on this as well, my son.
Straight from a source that none asperses:
Our universe is merely one
’Mong millions of universes.
There may be beings on Mars or not,
Giants or dwarfs, quaint gnomes or elves,
Humans who differ quite a lot
Or just a little from ourselves.
This problem, with its pro and con,
Science assiduously nurses,
But few reflect on what’s upon
Dead loads of other universes.
The dlction’ries are up the pole,
’Twould seem, by Jones’s reckonings,
In ruling “universe” the whole
Caboodle of created things.
They need revision, one must own,
The sort regard for truth coerces.
Should there exist, not one alone,
But countless hosts of universes.
It fairly beats the wit of man,
All our perceptions it eludes,
To comprehend when time began
Or how, if ever, space concludes.
New paths astronomy unbars
And now the startling news disburses
Our earth’s but one in crowds of stars
In myriads of universes.
The planet Mars may yet be found,
Viewed through some telescopic lens,
An uninhabitable ground
For good old Homo sapiens.
Still, what’s the odds now Jones explodes
Old myths and outworn faiths disperses
To show he may exist, by loads,
In further-off, unglimpsed abodes,
Cool millions of universes.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Findy”; So N.S.W. pubs are to have
standard glasses bearing a Government
stamp. If Messrs. Nicklin and -Pie want
to win a few extra seats in North Queens-
land they’ll propose something of the
sort for pubs north of ’2B. In 1943 I
went into a beer joint in Atherton just
as the beer came on. The bar was
crowded but the barman’s method was
not to draw a drink until everyone round
the bar was provided with a drinking
vessel. Starting from one end he sup-
plied the first half-dozen with long
glasses ; the next few got “ladies’ waists,”
then came an assortment of glasses of all
shapes and sizes, the relics of half a
century. That finished the glassware
proper, but a dozen jam-jars were fished
out from under the counter and then a
like number of “Lady Blarneys.” By this
time he was half-way along the bar. I
was at the far end and things didn’t
look promising. They weren’t either.
After a few handleless cups had been
distributed he got on to the “pewter”—
tin pannikins looking suspiciously like
Army pattern. If you’ve tasted beer out
of tin pannikins you’ll understand why
a shudder shook my end of the bar.
But there was worse to come—lidless
jam-tins. He *was still a fair way off
when the jam-tins started, but I didn’t
wait.
* * * *
“Bo”: That hysterical adulation and
loudly blared hooey about film stars which
(I say which ) are as vital a part of U.S.
life as grape fruit, gas stations, gal
parades, gun battles and gum-chewing
may wrench from the Australian a cyni-
cal grin, but you’ve got to go to the
Maorilander for a downright evaluation
of the importance of the hero and heroine
in the screen world. In the N.Z.
“Herald” an ad. for “The Over-
landers” announced that the film
would be “starring ‘Chips’ Rafferty and
Daphne Campbell.” Then underneath,
in small type, “Perhaps you haven’t heard
of the stars, but you’ll never forget the
cattle! ”
* * * *
“Hep-2-3-4”: Of all the speedy envoys
in our signal section’s pigeon-loft, Minnie
was the bird we built our hopes on. She
was proud, reckless, and, we thought,
dependable, so to her went all messages
of grave importance. One day Minnie’s
cylinder received a slip worded “Base
Canteen: Last lot of beer was nearly
flat in the bottles.” She circled above and
went out of our lives. We never saw her
again, and from the dven feebler sparkle
in the next lot of beer concluded that
she had gone through. All this occurred
in New Britain; members of the old
signal section have since gone their many
ways. While going mine, down
Martin-place, Sydney, 1 ran into Minnie
again. It must have been Minnie —same
coloring, size and overbearing manner
with the other pigeons—and as I turned
a cold eye on her and murmured
“deserter,” she hunched her head and
crept into a shadow.
» * ♦ *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The two young
women who run the lending library
(one of them looks as if she might be a
Sunday-school teacher, but she is the one
that isn’t) are enjoying a little joke.
Snagsby, who had borrowed a book con-
sidered risqu£ a generation ago, expressed
himself as “deeply shocked,” but asked
for more books of the same kind. He
felt it his duty to see what fiction was
being presented ; he had to make up his
mind whether it was right for his inno-
cent young daughter to be permitted the
chance of coming into contact with such
reading. He is no doubt enjoying his
course of out-of-date shockers, but he is
a long way yet from being admitted to
the inner circle whose members, for an
extra fee, are given temporary possession
of modern banned books. The innocent
young daughter is the librarians’ source
of supply, and 50 per cent, of the special
fees go to her. She gets them from
British and Yank sailor friends.
“Tell me, Miss Jackson , have you ever been bushed?”
“8.J.L.”: Sid Black’s sketch of the
warder who was worried about the
broken gallows step (B. 5/2/’47) re-
minds me. At a N.Q. meatworks the
engineer installed a shallow trough con-
taining running water, at the entrance to
the killing pen. The idea was that, as
the cattle walked through it, their hooves
and legs would be washed, thus ensuring
cleaner handling. When informed that
the men were having difficulty in making
the cattle cross the water the engineer
remarked, “Oh, there’s bound to be
trouble for a while, but they’ll soon get
used to it.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”; Residents of a
Sydney suburb were stunned to see a sign
on a wall giving a list of butchers’ prices
which included “Fores of Lamb Is. 3d.,
Hinds Is. 9d., Legs of Mutton 9d. each.
Shoulders 6d., Beef Roasts 3jki. 'lb
Sausages 21b. 3yd.” It was a very old and
dingy sign, however. A frame for a pic-
ture-show advertisement had been taken
off the wall Where it has stood for
decades and had temporarily uncovered
the memory of the cheapness and plenty
of a former day. There was a mention
of coupons even in those far-off times;
but they were the coupons the butcher
himself handed out to customers.
“Macnell”: H.M.A.S. Perth and Stuart
were ordered to embark troops from a
beach 20 miles south of Nauplia Bay, on
Crete. The cruiser lay out; the destroyer
went right in like a motor-boat, loaded
up, ran alongside Perth, then back for
“ Here—Wear 'em and stop nagging!"
more. The operation promised to be un-
eventful, till in the gathering darkness
outside Suda Bay Junkers landed a stick
of heavies down the length of a packed
troopship. She was sinking rapidly and
the destroyers raced alongside to take
her men off. Because of the big ship’s
list the square port through which Stuart
was refilling her upper deck was well
below her own decks. There was a fairly
wide gap between the two ships, with
the black sea rushing down the sides. A
sailor leaned over and grabbed a hand
in the darkness. The owner hesitated.
“Come on, you bloody fool,” Jack
shouted ; “can’t stay here all night.” “I’m
coming,” returned a voice from the hole.
“Then for the love of Mike, get a move
on —and talk like a man!” “For 24
years,” replied the nurse, “I’ve retained
my sex, and I don’t intend to change it
now.” She waited for the surge, then
stepped nimbly across. The sailor turned
to apologise, but she was already at a
bandage under the torpedo tubes.
« * * «
“Penelope’s Mate”; David was not
only an optimist—he was a liar. Edu-
cated in a Hong Kong seminary that
must have been run on the free-school
pattern, he had been brought to Hainan
Island by a Jap civilian engineer and put
to work as a houseboy whose main duty
was to wave the flies from his master’s
rice. He lived across the road from our
prison camp and fearlessly went about
making contacts and friends and nicely
“spoiling the Egyptians” for our benefit.
Work parties going out of camp would
see him unexpectedly appear from, no-
where when the guards were well out in
front. In precise English he would say
good morning and add “Hitler dead,” or
“Tojo dead” or “Nippon lose China” and
so on. The 11-year-old possessed the
indomitable spirit of the Chinese, though
we must have hurt him with our scornful
laughs. But once he made the grade all
right. This day he said, “Yesterday big
earthquake in Japan.” The date? August
7, 1945!
* * * *
“Kelmscott”: “Eve’s” cobber who got
mad because the council eradicated a
blackberry plague on the adjacent block
at fruiting time (B. 5/3/’47) should con-
tact a Westralian gardener. The council-
owned property next door harbored a
sizable blackberry bush which threatened
him with peaceful penetration. In self-
defence he tried to interest the council
in its eradication, but failed. Not
sure how he stood as regards trespass he
let the curse grow until what had been a
one-man job looked big enough to take
an an army. By that time he was fight-
mg a losing battle against the pest in-
side his own boundaries. His threat of
legal action produced results; the
council tackled the job and “ran” the
runners to the boundary fence. A month
later the gardener was summoned for
failing to keep his ground clear of a
noxious pest—blackberries.
* * * *
“Squizz”; Most convincing advertise-
ment I’ve seen for years is in Fitzroy
(Vic.). From the top deck of a bus I
spotted it over a bicycle-shop: “Get off
that bus! You’ll never own it! Ride
a bicycle and save money and health!”
I would have been across the road and
the shop brandishing the money for
a deposit on the next available bike but
for the fact that the bus was so crowded
that I was carried on three stops before
I could get out.
**♦ ‘ *
s‘Erned”: “Exdig” (B. 2/4/’47) is sur-
prised that the worst obscenity he heard
during World War I came from a parson’s
lips. “Where in the world did he learn
it all?” In the Army, I should say. But
as a youngster I heard many bullockies
eloquent over the bogging of their teams
on the black-soil plains. Came a
day when three of four men were spread-
eagled by Hun gunfire. My mate was
out to it. My obscenity-soaked mind
abandoned self-repression and came to
light with a wonderfully varied vocabu-
lary.
* * ♦ ♦
“C.Q.”: It is safe to say that never be-
fore in history has there been a war like
the late one for culture. The Australian
Army was a positive whale for it,
and as evidence Army Disposals is offer-
ing for sale 70,000 books as a first instal-
ment of volumes surplus to the Air
Force. They range from Camm’s Watch
Adjustments and Repairs to the Bible and
Trollope’s Barchester Towers, from
Beethoven’s “Fifth Symphony” to Wag-
ner’s “Flying Dutchman.” There is one
bookseller in Melbourne who will view
the sale vyith mixed feelings. Sitting one
day in his shop in the early days of the
war he was subjected to a military in-
vasion. A lieutenant came in and ear-
marked almost his entire stock ; a truck
arrived a few hours later and carried off
the treasure. Whether the Army knew what
it was getting is a moot point. The place
happened to be a Leftist bookshop.
* * * *
“Bungle”: Man can be an unobservant
beast on occasion. The little school on
the corner had been transferred to an-
other centre a good 12 months when
election day came round, Smithers’s car
swirled round the corner and pulled up
with a grinding of brakes under the big
silky oaks; Smithers alighted, and
went briskly in through the gate and up
the path. He propped dead within a
yard of what should have been the old
school porch, and hailed me. “What’s
happened?” he asked. “I came to vote.
Where’s the school?” “Pulled down a
year ago,” I told him. “The polling
booth is in the hall —quarter of a mile
from your own backyard! ”
* * * *
“Loc”: Stage mishaps (B. 9/4/’47)?
Considering herself, at 60, a little too
old for hurling herself into the Tiber,
Sarah Bernhardt, in “La Tosca,” teed up
with Scarpia’s agents to be shot instead.
The effects man mislaid his blank cart-
ridges and when Sarah’s death scene
came there was a noticeable absence of
assassins. The actress waited, then moved
to the stage bridge, but, seeing no wait-
ing arms to receive her below, returned
to the footlights, and cried out “Tuez
moil” Panic in the wings became acute,
and finally a youth dashed out with a
walking-stick, said “pop,” and Sarah fell
just ahead of the curtain. James Agate,
recalling -the occasion, wrote that from
behind the curtain came a noise “that
all Bertram Mills’s forest-bred lions and
tigers have never equalled.”
* * * *
“Moola”: Like “Old Bill” (B.
26/3/’47), I remember the comic post-
cards of our schooldays. But I had an
even more depraved taste. Fifty-six years
ago, attending school in a Melbourne
suburb, we used to bolt our lunch, dash
down the main street every Thursday to
spepd 10 minutes looking goggle-eyed at
the attraction spread out in the window,
then bolt back to school. The attraction
was the “Police Gazette” depicting the
latest crimes with all the morbid detail.
* * * *
“A.M.Q.”: It was just on three o’clock
when a dear old lady came into the bank
to pay into her account. The teller wrote
out the credit slip, which included a
cheque drawn on one of the other banks
in the town. As he handed the slip
to the old lady to sign he put his head
round the corner of the teller’s box and
called out, “Just a minute, Bill —there’s
another 0.8. here.” The old lady, looked
up with the pen suspended in mid-air and
exclaimed, “Young man, I want to see
the manager immediately—l’ve never
been so insulted in my life.” It took the
red-faced teller five minutes to convince
her that the initials referred to cheques
drawn on “other banks.”
WHERE DO THEY COME IN?
“The N.S.W. Government having decided to grant
tram and bus employees an extra day’s pay or an
extra day’s holiday leave for their work at Easter,
police and railwaymen are pressing for a similar
concession on the same ground.”
They worked like beavers building dams,
Disdaining plaints and fusses,
The blokes who man our crowded trams,
The coves who steer our buses.
For them the season’s always when
They toil like Kentish hoppers.
But how about the railwaymen?
And what about the coppers?
The trammies bore from mom to eve
The Easter heat and burden,
And no one, you may well believe,
Would grudge them extra guerdon.
Yet others, too, endured the strains
Where’er an outsize mob is.
What of the chaps who run the trains?
And how about the bobbies?
Think of the crowds in record force
Who surged on scores of stations
To climb aboard the iron horse
On various destinations!
Think of the specialists in crime,
The thugs and crooks and spielers
Who multiply at Eastertime
The strenuous work of peelers I
I’d hold it an injustice sore
To growl about a bonus
For any worthy souls who bore
The usual Easter onus.
But if it goes to those who snap
“Fares, please” and ticket-choppers,
Well, how about the railway chap?
And how about the coppers?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


I
« :
%
TIME
MROTfflE®
B.P.AH I).
For over 34 years CAPSTANS fiave
teen firm favourites all over the British
Empire. At present, unfortunately,
the full demand from eager CAPSTAN
smokers cannot be met, but the output
is gradually improving. The consistently
fine quality of CAPSTAN’S OWN
BLEND (whether Mild, Medium or
Full Strength) ensures that it is always., g
TIME FOR A CAPSTANI
SPEC
Time far a
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
in the smart MUf packs
DISMISSALS For
BEGIN S’®*!
Coal Crisis
. Friday, mmmm
*ms
Th,
crises ,
l° u { d cee *oi d
so/uti
**o ye,
Port Kembla^e»^::;;
Is ,
Basic heavy industries at Port KemW- T\ \ I I,**"“ “
are taoetine off onerations I .* f jtV*^ 4 T - f -tf'b 1
as. cbisis b V^®
COAL
Mass
Bunnerong
Precipice
Meeting^
, '"'l GAS CUTS AGAIN IN
“On ADELAIDE
Edge”
Coal stocks at .Bunnerong
power house were again at an
turn
Jobs In Peril
Talks Held
“*■■ 1 »—«i because of t
ALL MINES IDLE
TODAY '
We
Chifi
ADELAIDE, Thursda) —j
Gas reslriciions are lo be
reimposed in Adelaide from
midnight to-night because of
ahirmingTylow chair- i *&***. g-**
““ f£ » p COU % y Ira^Vetlo^L^ss—S
Pursell, [deliveries from the Leigh Creek,
told the Council yesterday. [field which supplement sea-borne
Councillor Purscll said that Bun-] supplies of New South Wales coal.
J Tram and trolley bus services
Cpql shortages are also*
affecting a,wide area Qtv ■ .
Queensland —north, and souTH,
Areas affected include:—
[South Brisbane. South Coast
North Coast, and as far west a.-
Toowoomba—all supplied by Clt>
Electric Light Co., which ha-.
I only li weeks’ supply of
[Townsville, Ayr, and Mom
General Coal
Strike To
Be Discussed
District presidents of the
Miners’ Federation fro nr
Queensland. N«.SJgL
a turning
BJB.C
I
utes
pelaV
nt the ~
in l>
srsy*-
ln du * t 6xtin si ° n *,.i‘
’
SaJastS
.1 coNSH^i^' Vf ts
OF u \V^ lOH5
-
.ftF
"SS.Wo' 4
of t' lp
M 1
VS*
©n
P.RC.
9
9
■
V CAN YOU AFFORD TO BE WITHOUT AN
• EMERGENCY POWER PLANT ?
We have British Built Diesel Engines in our Australian Stocks, from 5i
to 45 H.P., and on order for Early Delivery to 360 H.P.
Some Engines complete with Alternators.
Huston & Hornsby
SYDNEY BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE,
THE SERVICE MAN
WHEN THE ENEMY CAME TO RABAUL.
[This facet of war history was written by one of the four civilians who were
captured by the Japanese in Rabaul in January, 1942, and who remained their
captives till the end of the war in 1945. It is a restrained picture of what it feels
like to be invaded in Australian territory.]
The outbreak of the European war in
September, 1939, brought varying reac-
tions to Rabaul and the Mandated Terri-
tory. Enemy nationals were interned,
National Security Regulations were
applied, reservists called up and volun-
teers enlisted for overseas service. On
September 19 the first members of the
New Guinea Volunteer Rifles were en-
rolled for local defence.
Then came German raiders in the
Pacific. Perhaps, after all, it would be
better to take some protective steps, said
officialdom. So Refuge Gully was
established on the way to the Namanula
—the Government House suburb: grass-
leaf houses nestling in deep ravines as
shelter from a possible bombardment
from marauding raiders.
Mysterious visits by flying-boats from
Australia became more frequent. High-
ranking Army, Navy and Air Force
officers arrived in special planes.
Rumors drifted about: Was Rabaul,
after all, to be militarised?
In 1940 a handful of militiamen
arrived, livery movement was shrouded
in mystery ; an all-high censorship pre-
“Call this a three-decker sandwich? There's nothing in Number
Two hold
vailed both in outward private corres-
pondence and in the press. Buildings
were erected. A Second A.I.F. battalion
arrived, and there were a military band,
guard-mounting, route marches and social
amenities—provided by the local women’s
organisations.
The servicemen were not a very happy
crowd. Why should they be stuck in
Rabaul when there was a job of work to
do in the East? There was a
distinct line of demarcation between the
A.I.F. and the A.M.F., ‘ Chocos.
The latter had a legitimate grouch, for
they were not considered to be on over-
seas service. They were receiving no
deferred pay. Their salaries were not al-
ways made up by the firms who promised
to do so when they went ‘ overseas. ’ A
depressed atmosphere prevailed amongst
the troops. And then the tropic environ-
ment and the climate stepped in and took
to ll; . a . •j 7 ,Be
To keep them occupied the soldiery
were employed in constructing strong-
posts machine-gun nests and redoubts at
street corners, in residential gardens and
at strategical points. It gave the impres-
sion of a plan to defend the town street
by street.” None of them was ever used.
In September, 1941 the Administrator
moved to Lae, which was declared the
new capital. Two Government depart-
ments complete with officials and records
were transferred at the same time. A
other officials remaining in Rabaul were
busily employed m packing records pre-
paratory to the transfer to Lae,
Pearl Harbor Month
Then came Pearl Harbor, and the
atmosphere changed as if by magic. Petty
differences between the A.I.F. and A.M.F.
disappeared; their fighting spirit was
aroused. There might be some stoush
after all! Unidentified planes were re ■
ported as passing over the town. De-
fensive measures were speeded up ; mors
planes arrived.
Two weeks after Pearl Harbor the
Administration ordered the evacuation of
all European women and children to Aus-
tralia. Most of them departed a few
days before Christmas by the Macdhui
and the Neptuna. Others from more re-
mote districts were brought to Rabaul a
few days later and sent out by two special
planes.
On Sunday morning January 4, 1942,
Rabaul received its first aerial bombard-
ment. Japanese bombers, approaching
from the north-west, passed over Tunnel
Hill and the centre of the town to drop
their A.P. bombs on the Lakunai ’drome
and adjacent buildings in which natives
were housed. About a d'ozen natives were
killed.
Rabaul realised that war had come to
its front door. It also realised that its
defences were far too inadequate to meet
anything in the nature of a full-scale
attack: A thousand or so troops, a couple
of siege guns and a few ack-acks and
some Wirraways. That was all.
For the first time the seriousness of
the situation dawned on the Army and
Rabaul. In the event of an invasion what
was to happen? What were civilians ex-
pected to do? Neither Army nor civil
authorities issued any instructions for the
civilian population in the event of an
invasion, but some A.R.P. pamphlets were
distributed by the civil authorities. Slit-
trenches were dug, air-raid wardens were
appointed and Refuge Gully, originally
prepared against shelling from German
raiders, was renovated for use in case of
an invasion.
Business was carried on as usual, and
the hundred or so civilian European
males of the town tried to penetrate the
military silence and conjecture what the
future held.
Most of these civilians were Old
Diggers. They sensed something was
wrong. A state of war had existed since
the f lrst week in January, and air-raids on
neighboring ’dromes had been almost
daily occurrences. The civil authorities
administered certain controls ; the
Army and Navy were supreme authorities
in other ma tters. “Gilbertian” would
have described many situations had the
position not been so serious.
sides the civilian European male
po p ula tion in Rabaul, there were some
thousand -odd Asiatic men, women and
children? most of them New Guinea-born,
and severa j thousand native laborers from
var j ous districts in the Territory,
The Hoersten Arrives
when air . rajds were , fa 0 ress
h civilians worke d in their vocations,
Steamers were arriving to be discharged
and |Qaded Qne suc[) was , he Norwegian
vessel Hoersten, a modern-built ship of
some 800 Q with a speed of about 17
Rnots W|(h the arrival of this vessel in
Rabaul a request was made to the Aus-
tralian authorities by the deputy-adminis-
trator to utilise her for evacuation of the
civilian population. The request was re-
fused. The position growing more serious,
the request was repeated, in stronger
terms, and again refused. ,
As the frequency of air-raids grew
speculation increased as to the general
tactical set-up. Would the military foice
be increased? Would naval units be sent
to assist in the defence? And would
the air arm be supplemented?
Surely some move must be contem-
plated to strengthen the town’s defences
And yet, expected military supplies and


Missing Friend.
HERBERT GEORGE STOCKLEY, or anyone knowing
of him, is asked to communicate with the under-
signed. He was born in London in 1887 and was
apprenticed to the Softgoods Trade in Ainjtralia about
1906, and is a beneficiary in lijs late mother’s
estate. —GORDON GUMMOW, Solicitor, 422 Collins
Stteet, Melbourne.
>
(V
GROM 6BS5S1M«3
CAWTiaVdkY
look both ways,
Dashing through darefully never pays.
Don’t be a funker, don’t be a fool,
Courage with caution is wisdom’s rule.
Check coughs and colds, avoid all delay,
One prompt dose may mean health in a day,
All you need, full relief to assure
Waits in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Precaution against influenza infection,
Woods’ Great Penoerodwt Gore.
'
—’1
I
■y $
*
U
■M
■■
5 ft. long x 1ft. Sins, wide x 3ft. high.
THE PERFECT KITCHEN UNIT
The attractiveness, cleanliness and advantages of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks will be readily recognised when you in-
♦ spect them in our Showrooms.
The all-metal, lustrous cabinet appeals too, because of its
modernity and hygienic qualities.
As rapidly as material supplies come forward, Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks, with or without cabinet, will be available.
Visit our Showrooms, or ‘phone MX 2411 or write <S.P.O.
Box 474, Sydney.
Kitchen unit
SINK • DRAINER. • CABINET
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN. SVDNEV. BRANCHES AT
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.; BRISBANE. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON,
HOBART. PERTH: H. L. BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LTD.
mm
m
»
im
m
m m
m
(frusctder
m
B
W
NEVER TQ FADE OR SHRINK
equipment from Australia were being off-
loaded at Port Moresby.
Bitter criticism could be heard oh every
hand. The fact of there being no or-
ganised movement to evacuate the civi-
lians, Europeans and Asiatics, created the
impression that some last-minute coup
would be made—possibly from Moresby
or Australia —to save Rabaul from be-
coming a Japanese stronghold. An
attempt at invasion there was a foregone
conclusion.
On January 16 the last passenger plane
arrived from Australia, bringing with it
several old residents. But there were
many others who were outward passen-
gers next day when the plane took off for
the return journey.
The following week was a tragic one
for Rabaul. On Tuesday January 20,
full-scale air-raids were launched against
the battery at Praed Point and shipping
in the harbor. The Hoersten was hit and
set afire, despite the heroism of the ship's
gun-crew. The town itself was left prac-
tically untouched.
The Heroic Wirraways
It was on this day that half-a-dozen
Wirraways took off with the audacious
idea of intercepting 80 Japanese bombers
and a fighter screen of 40 Zeros. It is
doubtful if, in the history of the air arm,
pilots and crews had ever before or since
faced such overwhelming odds; not only
numerically, but mechanically as well.
The Wirraways were asked to do the
impossible. At least they showed the
fighting spirit which has made the Aussie
famous. But after contending against
such stupendous odds there was little left
of the machines and six of the 12 men
were killed. It was a wonderful example
for the ground troops and was a great
morale-builder.
Rabaul now found itself without air
support of any kind, and with its six-
inch guns out of action. The garrison anc
civilian populations were like rats in a
trap. There was no line of retreat.
Invasion Comes
On the following day (January 21), a
report was received in the late-afternoon
of a Japanese naval squadron and trans-
ports approaching from the north-west.
That evening the majority of the civil
population retired for the first time to
Refuge Gully. A few civilians departed
by motor car for the Kokopo district to
seek safety on plantations.
There was no invasion that night or
the following morning, and the civilians
sheltering in the Gully asked the military
authorities what the position was.
“Return to town and resume normal
duties,” was the reply.
No sooner had the civilians returned
to town and breakfasted than intensive
air-raids were launched. Normal duties
were not resumed.
In the early afternoon the second an-
nouncement of an approaching invasion
was given by the military, and there was
an exodus to Refuge Gully. Others
departed by car for outlying dis-
tricts, fearing that the town would be
heavily bombarded and shelled. Patients
and nurses from the Namanula civilian
hospital were hastily transported to the
Roman Catholic mission station at Vuna-
pope 20 miles away. Word was passed
found with alarming swiftness: “Every
man for himself! ”
There was no organisation ; no plan
for evacuation. At least three small ships
left Rabaul harbor that afternoon carry-
ing only a few passengers. Why? God
alone knows. Perhaps because men did
not like to “run away” ; perhaps the odds
of a ship getting through the Japanese
naval and aerial watchers were greater
than standing fast and facing the conse-
quences. Each man had his own idea of
what was best.
Those small vessels made a safe get-
away. Sortie of the men who motored as
far as the roads would take them reached
safety eventually; others died in the
attempt to escape through the jungle fast-
nesses of New Britain. Others again
were fortunate enough to find flying-boats
down the south coast of New Britain.
There is no suggestion of favoritism re-
garding transport at that time, for top-
ranking officers were struggling through
the bush for months, some escaping;
others were eventually taken prisoners by
the Japanese.
By 3 p.m. on January 22 Rabaul was
demilitarised. Loud explosions denoted
scorched-earth tactics being adopted. The
troops had taken up their battle-stations
outside the town. The staunch little band
of New Guinea Volunteer Rifles had
been merged in with the general military
set-up.
There have been so many and varied
versions of the defensive action fought
by this “handful of brave men and a few
strands of barbed wire” that it is difficult
to describe exactly what did transpire in
the early hours of the following morning,
when a thousand Aussies faded more
than ten times their own number at Vul-
can on the beach.
When fighting ceased along the fore-
shores of Blanche Bay our forces re-
treated through the jungle for the south
coast or the Baining district.
, In Refuge Gully there remained some
30 Europeans, a hundred or so Asiatics
and a handful of faithful native servants.
Irregular shooting along the ridges over-
looking the gully was taking place in
the early hours of the morning. As day-
light approached reconnaissance planes
circled over and around the gully. A
consultation was held amongst the
civilians, and it was decided to send a
white-flag party into the town to avoid
an attack being made on the gully, with
its unarmed civilians and Asiatic women
and children.
Civilian Surrender
Three Europeans comprised the white-
flag party. Reaching a machine-gun post
erected across the main Namanula-road,
they were divested by the Japs of their
white flags and roughly handled by the
victory-crazed Nips. After being loaded
with Japanese military equipment they
were marched to an interpreter, to whom
they gave the information concerning the
civilians in the gully and asked for recog-
nition as civil prisoners-of-war. During
the morning all the civilians were
marched from the gully to the baseball
oval in the town, the Europeans taking
shelter from the sun in the grandstand.
But this was not in conformity with
Japan’s co-prosperity policy. They were
unceremoniously turned out and made to
stand in the sun while the Asiatic and
native prisoners were placed in their
seats.
' The next indignity to which they were
subjected was being searched and relieved
of all articles of any value. All day they
remained on the baseball oval under a
strong guard while the Japanese Army
ransacked and looted the town from one
end to another, throwing out from pri-
vate homes expensive wireless sets and
refrigerators lest they should prove to be
some queer type of booby-trap.
Small parties of our captured soldiers
arrived during the day. Many were sub-
jected to beatings during their first in-
terrogation.
That night, without food or bedding,
soldiers, civilians and Asiatics were all
housed in the Kuomintang Hall in
Rabaul’s Chinatown, half-drunken Nips
their guards, the cement floor their bed.
Captftves of the Nips
The days that followed were filled with
hours of wharflaboring for the captives,
unloading transports and supply ships
that filled the harbor. This coolie work
was supervised by some of the lowest
type of Jap soldiery, who gloried in
having at their mercy members of the
hated white race, in degrading the white
man in the eyes of the natives. No op-
portunity was missed by these overseers.
No task was too menial, no command
too arrogant, in the endeavor to belittle
the white and assert the authority of
Nippon. But the Nip failed in this, for
civilians! and soldiers alike did the lowest
jobs with a smile and a carefree action
which, to the Oriental, with his penchant
for “face,” was incomprehensible.
Tn the hearts of all the prisoners there
was the hope that soon “something”
would turn up. “In a little while,” they
said, “our people will attack and we shall
be free again. There must be some deep-
laid strategy which allows the Nip to cap-
ture Rabaul with so little resistance.”
But the months dragged on. The num-
ber of prisoners, civil and military, in-
creased each week until they totalled
800 servicemen and over 200 civilians.
And then, shortly before the Jap landing
at Gona, civil and military prisoners,
with the exception of about a dozen tech-
nicians, were placed aboard the ill-fated
Montevideo Maru and sailed away—to be
torpedoed on its way to Japan.
There were no Australian survivors.
Only the officers and nurses who
travelled in another vessel and spent long
years of imprisonment in Japan came
out to tell the tale, besides half-a-
dozen civilians who survived Allied
bombing and Jap atrocities in Rabaul
and who were rescued when our troops
arrived there in September, 1945.
Such, in brief, is the story of Rabaul
before the blitz. The town was
fated to become the headquarters of the
Japanese Army in the south. That
same army fortunately delayed six months
in consolidating its position, and in that
time gave Australia and the U.S. the op-
portunity of turning the Jap victory into
a defeat.
If it had not been for the Oriental
habit of procrastination other towns in
Australian territory would undoubtedly
have shared the bitterness of our cap-
tivity. Next time they may not be so
lucky.


Hhi
iiiiii
Hi
'
’V' ,/’ M II I
iiiiiiiiiiiii^^
v
||P|| ;Pj r y ■,; f:
■".'/, 4 ' f ,' V ; '■ "
"■■■**' i**Wi ' -f r . I ... | '
■
s " '■’■'W, 3r- x '
r Sx--:
:
' 'W' ?*'V v
:■
..
PERSONAL ITEMS
Renewing old acquaintances in Mel-
bourne, mainly on the marine front, is
Wilfred O. White, of Boston, who has
gone far since he paddled about the
waters of Port Phillip. His father,
WiUiam White, built ships when Williams-
town was the resort of clippers. Wilfred
witnessed the first flow of water into the
Coode Canal, designed by his father.
That was in the ’eighties. Then he took
to seafaring, met Lord Kelvin in Scotland,
impressed that scientist with his grasp of
the strange new gadgets he was inventing
and became a partner. Now he is presi-
dent of the firm they founded. He
supplied Commander Peary with the new
compass which enabled that explorer to
locate the North Pole, and he turned
Henry Ford’s mind in the direction of
radio location for his ships. His firm
supplied an incredible variety of new
devices to the American Army, Navy and
Air Force during the late war. He is an
American citizen these days.
Visiting this country for the centenary
*>f the founding of his order in Australia
.Sir William Williams, High Chief Ruler
of the Rechabites, is an abstainer who be-
lieves that the cause of abstinence can
best be furthered by example and pre-
cept rather than by statute. A Welsh-
man born at Pontypridd 68 years ago,
he was a railwayman for most of his life,
first with the Rhymney Railway—he
was their traffic superintendent for close
on 20 years—and then with the Great
Western. His two passions in life have
been the temperance movement and civic
affairs; elected to the Cardiff City
Council way back in 1913, he was Lord
Mayor in 1928-29. When the Cymrnro-
dorion Society of Sydney met to welcome
the Rechabite chief early this month there
was the biggest gathering of Welshmen
since the massacre of the Bards. It in-
cluded British High Commissioner E. J.
Williams and two recent arrivals from
Cardiff, Professor T. David Jones and
J. C. Webb.
This tired-looking individual is 7 3-year-
old Ernie Old, who recently gave point
to the adage that a man is as aged as
his arteries by riding a pushbike to Bris-
bane and back to Melbourne —25Q0
miles. This was to assist the National
Fitness Campaign, but similar flips are
an annual affair with Ernie. He served
in the Boer and ’l4-18 wars and his
two sons served in the Air Force in the
last one. A bullet copped at Flers in
1916 hasn’t prevented his maintaining
his interest in cycling, which started at
16. Altogether Old has covered over
40,000 miles —270 in one day during his
recent flurry. His best effort in road-
racing was in 1903, when he landed fourth
PEDALS.
in a race in the days of Kellow, Martin
and the Arnsts. Born at Blackwood near
Ballarat, he is a non-drinker and non-
smoker.
Frank S, Appleton has returned to
Australia after nearly a year in China
with U.N.R.R.A. Port survey work took
him to Chinwangtao, Hulutao, Yinkow,
Whampoa, Port Bayard and Kongmoon,
and he surveyed relief supplies in
Manchuria, Kwangtung and Kwangsi
provinces. A graduate of London Uni-
versity College, Appleton served as a
commander in the R.A.N. and was
awarded the D.S.C, for his work at the
Normandy invasion.
Just what a Master of Science and
Lecturer in Physics should be doing on
the International Wool Secretariat it is
WOOL.
rather difficult for the lay mind to
fathom, but no one who came in contact
with Edgar Harold Booth in any of his
previous jobs would have any doubt that
whatever it is he is doing it very well.
Booth was assistant lecturer in physics at
Sydney Uni. when he went away to the
Kaiser’s war. He fought with the mortars
and field artillery in France and Belgium
and came through with a Military Cross
and a mention. Back again at the physics
lecture room, he wrote textbooks on the
subject, went to Goondiwindi in 1923 as
observer on the solar eclipse expedition,
became Consulting Physicist to the
N.S.W. Government, dabbled in earth-
quakes with the Imperial Geophysical
Survey, found time to become president,
secretary or fellow of various scientific
and cultural bodies and, until 1930, con-
tinued as a spare-time soldier with the
medium guns. In 1937 he became Direc-
tor of the University College, Armidale,
from which post he was appointed to the
Australian Wool Board 18 months ago.
When he took his seat as Australian rep-
resentative on the International Wool Sec-
retariat, he was promptly elected chair-
man. Since then he’s been continually on
the move ip Britain, the Continent,
Canada and U.S.A. In drawing this
sketch Heth made a slight allowance for
the possible effect of six weeks of Aus-
tralian beefsteaks on a frame inured to
British rations.
“C. 8.”: The Melbourne stage lost a
burly figure and a first-class actor when
Alec Pratt died at 44. One of Gregan Mc-
Mahon’s finds, he was a perfect Shavian
performer, having wit and intelligence.
He had a varied life. Born in Scotland
he was educated at Scotch College and the
University of Melbourne. He went into
journalism on the “Age” and then threw
himself into the hurly-burly of Chinese
politics, editing ah English-language
paper in the Flowery Kingdom. Return-
ing to the “Age” he chucked it for the
buskins, and after a term with McMahon
joined J.C.W., and appeared in “Arsenic
and Old Lace” and other astringent
pieces. A writer also, he wrote the
biography of Dr. Littlejohn, principal
of Scotch, and published a book of
essays, “Humors.” He was well-known
on the radio networks.
Adelaide Public Library loses another
good officer when J. L. Stapleton departs
for Queensland to become State Librarian.
Applications came in from all parts of
the Commonwealth, so the appointment
is an honor to S.A. and to the institution
wherein Stapleton was trained. His
appointment follows close on the pro-
motion of two other Adelaide library
officials —Lanyon as S.A. Parliamentary
Librarian, and Gunthorpe as assistant
librarian, Hobart University. Nine years
ago Stapleton laid the foundations of the
Country Lending Service. One of his big
jobs in Queensland will be to organise
a similar service. Stapleton’s friends
term him a bookman, not a bookworm.
He takes a great interest in adult educa-
tion and is president of Adelaide’s W.E.A.
He’s 43.
A General retires:
A week ago the Malayan war may be said
to have ended with the quiet retirement from
the Army of one of the best beloved of Aus-
tralian generals, Major-General Cecil Arthur
Callaghan (“Boots” to the boys), after a service
in two wars which began at Gallipoli and ended
with the surrender of Japan and his release
from a Jap, prison camp. Callaghan was one of
the little band of seniors on active service who
could claim to be a real “original” of World
War I, having been allotted under Rex Rabett’s
command to the 2nd Battery, Ist Field Artillery
Brigade, on August 23, 1914, along with a small
group of officers, all of whom won subsequent
distinction —E. A. Olding, J. C. Selmes, who
later commanded the Brigade in 1918, and
C. A. Clowes, defender of Milne Bay, one of
the earliest fledglings of Duntroon. The battery
was the first citizen battery formed for use in
the war —No. 1 was a permanent prototype
battery of the R.A.F.A. It was concentrated in
Sydney Showground, a few hundred yards from
where the General ended his military career,
on August 24, received its guns on August 29,
1914, and its horses on Sept. 10. At Gallipoli
it was sent to Helles to join the guns of the
British 29th Div. and take part in the Achi Baba
operations, and was early in action. In hard,
tough fighting in France General Callaghan
rose to command of the 4th Brigade A.F.A.,
the culminating point in his career being his
participation in the four-brigade bombardment
on the 2500-yard arc of Gottlieb trench, in the
dawn of August 31, 1918, the awesome prelude
to the assault on Mont St. Quentin. He came
out of the war from Belgium-, having been
through from first to last and having won a
C.M.G. and a D. 5.0., four mentions in
dispatches and the Croix de Guerre. He served
in 1920-21 in command of the 3rd Brigade,
A.F.A., and from 1921 to ’26 of the 7th Brigade.
For the next six years he was C.R.A. 2nd Div.
Artillery, held his first infantry command —
Bth Brigade—l 934-39, and on the, outbreak of
World War II became C.R.A. Eastern Com-
mand, a position which he held till he left with
the Eighth Division for Malayaf. There he bore
much of the brunt and responsibility of the
terrible last days of the campaign' before Feb.
15. It was to him, ill in his tent with malaria,
that Major-General Bennett went to hand over
command on the eve of the surrender before
escaping. Throughout the ordeal which fol-
lowed he upheld the dignity and earned the,
thanks of his country, of the Army and of his
troops. He has spent much of the period
since his return in hospital.
The University of Indiana (U.S.A.) has
enticed away from Maoriland Dr. Brian
H. Mason, senior lecturer in biology at
Canterbury University College, where he
was educated. On the eve of the war
Mason went to Britain and was in Oslo
engaged in research work when the Ger-
mans invaded Norway. The Govern-
ment of Sweden recognised his woric
when it granted him a research scholar-
ship. Just 30, he took up his post at
Canterbury Uni. in 1945.
“Dick Tafone”: They grow up durable
in the New England country. Nearly
90 years ago Edward and Mary Egan
were married at Tenterfield. Their seven
surviving children total 545 years among
them, ranging from 87 to 65, One
sister, Mrs. Mary McPhillips, a widow of
79, has recently returned by air from New
York after 36 years in one of the New
England States. She will spend the rest
of her days in her native New England,
in company with an 83-year-old sister.
“C.Q.”: News of the Cartwright Pul-
sator mentioned in a recent Bulletin
par. has already reached England. E.
Cartwright, chief engineer of the Austin
Hospital at Heidelberg (Vic.), has re-
ceived an inquiry from a i.p. sufferer
in Hants, who is condemned by the
disease to spend his life in an iron lung
and wants to join his wife’s people on
a farm in South Africa. He had no idea
how he could exist there without the
generators, batteries and other accessories
required to keep the “lung” going, and
he asked if Cartwright’s invention would
fill the bill. The inventor’s answer was
that if he had an ordinary watertap avail-
able the pulsator would work as long as
the tap could be kept running.
Dead in Brisbane at 75, Brigadier-
General Lachlan Chisholm Wilson first
saw action in the Transvaal and Orange
Free State in 1899. Before and after the
Boer War he practised law in Townsville
and soldiered with the Light Horse. By
the time the first German war started he
had moved to Brisbane, and he sailed with
the A.I.F. as a major in the 7th A.L.H.
He landed on Gallipoli as 2/i.c. of the
sth Light Horse, fought in Palestine
and Syria, and in 1917 was promoted
Brigadier-General and given command
of the 3rd Light Horse Brigade. Wilson’s
decorations included a C. 8., C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., V.D. and Croix de Guerre. For
a time during World War II he was
Queensland commander of the V.D.C.
Seen here as a young man with
a pipe, Charles Wilmot, 0.8. E., is
a young man with a mission. He
intends to give us British culture
of varied sorts in judicious doses,
and right now is grooming the Boyd-Neel
String Orchestra, which arrived last week
and will inject some preliminary shots
of- music into the public for a season
beginning tonight. Wilmot is the Aus-
tralian representative of the British
Council, whose function is to carry
British culture into the Dominions and
foreign countries. Financed by the
Treasury, the Council hopes to make
known the life and thoughts of the British
people by way of the arts. In Australia
Wilmot will co-operate with A.8.C.,
Education Departments, press. Govern-
ments, Universities, art galleries, entre-
preneurs and pretty well anybody else
who feels like it. The Boyd-Neel orchestra
—the best in Britain and comprising about
20 players—will open in Sydney and
tour the Commonwealth. It will be fol-
lowed by Laurence Olivier and Vivien
Leigh. Wilmot himself, when not
mustering string orchestras and things,
ARTS.
makes the study of local government a
hobby. A Londoner and a M.A. of
Corpus Christ! (Cam.), he is an alderman
of Lambeth, and has passed a critical eye
over town and village councils all over
Europe and parts of Africa. He has not
yet, it seems, discovered a N.S.W. pas-
tures protection board in the middle of
a discussion with the stock inspector as
to whether or not pigs are animals.
Into the silence: —•
At Somerset, Tasmania, at 87, Robert Laird,
for many years director of the North-west Dairy
Co. and member of the Tasmanian Farmers’
Co-operative. The old Laird home was at
Westbury, and Martin Cash and his men had
their retreat in the mountains not far away.
The bushranger paid an Official call on the
Lairds and information sent in by the head ot
the house led to the gang’s arrest.
In Melbourne, Gavin Charles Gemmell, a
pioneer in western N.S.W. pastoral districts.
From Scotland, he started in 1886 at Tonga
station, 100 miles, north of Wilcannia. Later
he managed Weinteriga station and owned
North Monegeeta in the Romsey district.
At Brisbane, aged 80, William Markwell, one
of the last Cobb ant Co. Queensland drivers,
and regarded in his day as amongst the best
of them all. Queensland-born, he had lived
at Winton for more than 50 years.
At Upper Hutt, Wellington (M.L.), at 70,
David Pretty, the greatest axeman M.L. ever
produced. His cut through a 2ft. log in 3min.
34 l-sth sec. is a world record. Marchant,
United States champ axeman, went to JvI.L.
to meet Pretty and succumbed to the Maori-
lander, who cut through an 18in. log in imm.
7sec. —a record.
In Brisbane, A. D. Christie, installation man-
ager of Shell Oil, which he joined in 1928.
Earlier he had been a marine engineer and
during World War I he was captured by the
German raider Wolf.


Women's Letter
From Melbourne
Rain squalls didn’t stop music-lovers
from turning up in force at the Town
Hall for the first appearance of British
conductor Warwick Braithwaite with the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra. Vera
Bradford was soloist in the Bach Piano-
forte Concerto in D Minor. Her white
gown, with full skirt and cape sleeves,
was beautifully ornamented with a fern-
leaf pattern. Back from their honey-
moon, Mr. and Mrs. Ron Findlay en-
joyed the performance ; Betty wearing a
black crepe frock trimmed with gold em-
broidery. Two who braved the weather
in formal attire were Mrs. Harold Holt,
her gown of old-gold satin, and Betty
Coldham, who trailed an ice-blue satin
gown. Dorrie O’Neill, concert manager
for the A.8.C., sponsored the tunic
blouse ; hers was of deep primrose satin
embroidered in black, and was worn with
a formal black evening skirt.
Those who went to Moonee Valley for
the Charity Meeting were almost unani-
mous in their choice of autumn suits.
Enjoying a day’s racing was Matron
Hanrahan (she has just been appointed
head of the Repatriation Hospital at
Heidelberg); she was with Helen Ellison,
who was formerly a sister in the 2/2nd
A-G.H. and served overseas with Matron
Hanrahan. Captain Alice Adcock, who
is with the Heidelberg Military Hospital,
wore a grey suit with a bright-red blouse,
her accessories being dark brown. The
Knox lady had grey fox furs and a
feather-trimmed grey hat to go with her
grey suit. A braided bolero suit of black
cloth, with a mustard crepe blouse which
was relieved with a faint grey fern-leaf
pattern, was favored by Vera Pritchard-;
her small black hat was trimmed with
wide ribbon. Mrs. Brendan Moynihan
(soon to leave for America with her hus-
band) wore a grey jacket suit with a
white embroidered blouse,
Mrs. E. G. Fowler was hostess at a
small luncheon party at Menzies. Her
daughter, Mary Louise, who in June will
marry Dr. Desmond Hollywood, of West
Maitland, N.S.W., and Dsirdre Holly-
wood, who will be her bridesmaid, were
the guests-of-honor. Mrs. Fowler wore
an attractive black ensemble with a black
hat trimmed with lime-green ribbon
chou. Mary Louise chose a pastel-bhie
frock and wide-brimmed black straw hat.
She also wore her fiance’s birthday
present, a silver charm bracelet. Deirdre
wore a cyclamen-and-white printed frock
with a full-length matching coat and a
hat of cyclamen trimmed with pastel-
blue. Kathleen Pappadakas’s small white
straw bowler-hat trimmed with a fine
lace veil was worn with a blue-and-white
striped dressmaker suit.
Many women who went to Moonee
Valley for the Findon Harriers Hunt
Club meeting gave new autumn suits and
felt hats a tryout, only to find themselves
uncomfortably warm. This popular mid-
week meeting was revived for the first
time since 1940. During the afternoon
Noel Mason, Master of the Findon Hunt
Club, and his wife entertained at after-
noon tea. Among their guests were Mr.
and Mrs.. Frank Watts and Major and
Mrs. George Maxwell. Mrs. John Mc-
Grath, whose husband owns Hemlock,
wore with her smart, black suit a large
natural-straw hat trimmed with pastel-
toned tulips. The fashion limelight was
on footwear. Platform-soled shoes, many
brass-studded, were popular. Two-toned
shoes also hold their favor, and toeless
shoes which matched bag, gloves and hat
trimmings. Mrs. A. Aitken’s black faiKe
frock had the skirt finely pleated; her
small hat was lined with pastel-blue and
trimmed with blue and cyclamen ribbons.
Mrs. Bill Gahan had a fine lace yoke
topping her black frock. A pastel-pink
straw hat trimmed with pink and blue
‘'ribbon set off Mrs. Norman Lynch’s black
frock. Mrs. Roy Honeyman’s beech-
brown frock had bead trimming. Mrs.
H. Silk wore a guardsman’s jacket of
royal-blue with facings of white braid
with a matching skirt; her small hat was
fashioned of white ostrich tips. Mrs. C.
Curtain’s tailored suit of cream cloth was
worn with a brown-and-white striped
blouse and matching hat. June Harper
topped with a navy bowler her del-blue
linen suit. Audrey Fairthorne, from
Tasmania, chose a black crepe frock, the
skirt featuring unpressed pleats.
Mrs. Hilary Lewis, wife of Professor
Brian Lewis (he was recently appointed
to “The Age” Chair of Architecture at
Melbourne University), is herself an
architect, being a member of the Royal
Institute of British Architects and a
graduate of the Liverpool University
School of Architecture. In her honor
14 women members of the Australian In-
stitute of Architecture entertained her at
dinner in the “Gowrie Room” at
Menzies. Arrangements for the dinner
party were made under the expert guid-
ance of Ellison Harvie. Mrs. P. D.
Phillips and Misses Cynthia Teague and
Mary Turner-Shaw were among those
who welcomed Mrs. Lewis to this city.
The small, picturesque C. of E. church
of St. John’s, at Maffra, Gippsland, was
the setting for the marriage of Beatrice
Ormond Foster and Ronald H. Mac-
donald. Bride’s family are among early
Gippsland settlers, forebears having
arrived there in 1844. Beatrice is the
daughter of the Askin O. Fosters, of Bois-
dale, Maffra. Ronald’s parents were the
Hector Macdonalds, of South Yarra.
Golden ninon and exquisite old Carrick-
macross lace, which had belonged to the
’groom’s mother, formed the wedding
dress. The bride’s flowers were tuberose,
lily of the valley and white heather tied
with the Macdonald tartan.
Pictured here by Athol Shmith is
Beatrice O’Connor, who is a director, of
Aztec Services J publishers of the High-
lights Series. Beatrice, who is at present
in London, writes to say that Vivien Leigh
and Laurence Olivier, who leave towards
the end of the year for their Australian
tour, will do three plays, which will in-
clude “Skin Of Our Teeth,” by Thornton
Wilder, and Shakspeare’s “Richard III.”
She is now busy compiling “Highlights
of London,” and thinks she might also
do a book which will give the Australian
visitor of moderate means full informa-
tion on the less expensive hotels and cafes,
what clothes to bring and a wealth of
other invaluable information.
Feature of Commencement festivities
was the ball, sponsored by the
’Varsity Students’ Representative Coun-
cil, held at St. Kilda Town Hall.
Guests of honor were the Vice
Chancellor (J. D. G. Medley), Mrs.
Medley and Diana Medley, who were
welcomed by the president of the S.R.C.
(lan Turner)* and the organisers, Valerie
Fawcett, whose gown was of white lace
with black lace insertions in the cap
sleeves and bouffant skirt, and Robert
McGowan, whose wife chose midnight
blue. There were striking frocks in bro-
cades, satins and lace. Bright-checked
ginghams, striped seersuckers and floral
taffetas were chosen by many of the
young dancers. Styles were varied ; the
off-the-shoulder line is still in favor,
whilst many of the gowns featured the
popular hip-draping and the slim skirt
with slit-centre seam.
An invitation from Mrs. Eric Byron
Moore to an At Home at 480 Punt-road,
South Yarra, also% carried the words “to
meet Gordon and Joan after their
marriage in Queensland.” Joan, who was
Joan Barnes, married Gordon Byron
Moore at Southport. At the party Joan
wore the smart jacket suit of pastel blue
with white accessories which she had
worn at her wedding. Mrs. Byron Moore
pinned gardenias on her black frock.
Assisting her mother in entertaining the
guests was Marjorie, who wore a cock-
tail frock of blue and silver lame. Anne
Bailey chose a beige frock; Meril
Staughton’s black frock was worn with
a tiny matching cap. With Major Sharma,
of the Indian Army, was his attractive
wife, whose beautiful sari of aqua-blue
silk gauze was banded in silver. Another
interesting guest was Joan Richmond,
well known for her exploits as a racing
motorist. Just returned from England,
where she worked for several years in
the British Columbia canteen in Regent-
street, Joan now has turned to yachting.
Mrs. Ernest Poolman was smart in
burgundy, and Robin Mac Kay wore a
paisley silk frock under her three-quarter
length coat of lime-toned wool. “Jo”
Gullett and his wife, in town frofn Can-
berra for the Easter recess of Parliament,
were also there.
From Sydney
This Easter the fullness and the plenty,
the sunshine and gentle rain of this land
have been a grand Hallelujah chorus in
themselves. Now it is for us who have
savored these blessings to remember to-
day, tomorrow and every day the people
of our own kin across the seas who have
seen the crops and cattle, even the homes
of their country, destroyed by the de-
vouring flood. An ounce of help is better
than a pound of pity. Send that dona-
tion to the Red Cross British Flood Re-
lief Appeal today.
After the first day’s sodden glumness
Randwick was gay as a carol in the sun-
shine of the following days. Then, of
course, women either went back to sum-
mer clothes, or suffered in the vanity of
autumn frock and suit. Frankly, on
Wednesday there was too much dash of
coque feather, too much glitter of sequins
(or similar dazzle). Perhaps the sequins
were going, later on, to add sparkle to
the many bright cocktail parties, of which
the largest, and most super, was
the Union Club’s: “The Ladies!
Heaven bless ’em! ” and one of the
friendliest that shaken up by the Women
Pioneers.
If bird-like she must be, the trig girl
will get a lot of effect this season out of
the pheasant’s feather, the quill, or the
soft, curled ostrich feather. Mrs. Wallace
Anderson’s blue off-the-face hat with a
bird perched on the brim was a hat to
remember. White felt hats seemed the
right crescendo to dark suits when worn
by Mrs. Henry Rosenthal of Melbourne,
and Mrs. Herbert Douglass. Mrs. Tom
Bateman’s toque was a tiny affair of
white ostrich. Her frock was black and
slim fitting. Shirley Kinnear, of Mel-
bourne, was among Wednesday’s admired
in a jade-blue frock and matching coat.
Mrs. Paul Cahill’s straw hat was prim-
rose in tone, small and flower-trimmed.
Her black frock had a striped
design of the yellow at the neck-
line. Claudia Beazley’s brown hat was
worn with a tailored beige suit. Mrs. E.
P. Houghton’s pale-grey suit had its skirt
finely pleated. Noreen Dangar’s color
choice was grey. Melbourne’s Mrs.
Neville Palmer’s haze-blue crepes and a
small feathered hat were a nice
harmony. All the vice-regal Northcotts
were at Wednesday’s race meeting. The
Governor, Lieut-General John North-
cott, lunched with members of the AJ.C.
committee. Mrs. Northcott, assisted by
daughters Marjorie and Elizabeth, gave a
lunch party.
Soprano Peggy Knibb (herewith) will
come from Melbourne to sing during the
Boyd Neel orchestral season. The first of
these concerts will begin at 8.15 tonight
in the Town Hall. Dr. Boyd Neel and
his string orchestra are famed to lovers
of good music the world over. Sydney’s
Lord Mayor Bartley and his wife held
a Town Hall reception last week in
honor of the members of this company.
The whole atmosphere was so musical
that the Girl in the Flat Opposite who
had a cold said she was afraid to cough
for fear she’d cough flat.
There’s still a buzz of talk about the
Mask ball. It was comic as well as gay,
and the many prizes for the spot dances
were in the right spirit—whisky among
them. Marcel Dekyvere deserved and
got a prize for his mask; a woman’s
hand in a black tulle glove complete with
jewelled ring and bracelet. But time has
marched since the masked balls of old.
Two young men were hidden behind gas
respirators. The prize for the most
attractive bit of concealment went to
Mrs. lan Platt Hepworth’s jewelled trifle
in white lace. Mrs. Ewart Brisbin’s be-
feathered mask was among the admired.
The Peter Pan Kindergarten benefits, and
the 350 dancers had a night’s fun. The
women’s dresses were lovely of line and
glowing in color and a pair of nylon
stockings brought £3B at auction.
Lorna Sydney, straight from Vienna
and its famed opera house, was the star
of the opening concert of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra season. She sang to
a packed Town Hall, for the subscribers
to these symphony concerts are now so
many that three concerts of each pro-
gramme must be given. Lorna has all the
fire, imagination and intelligence that go
to the making of a great operatic artist.
Her singing of the Samson and Delilah
number “O Love From Thy Power”
proved it. Her manner has dignity with-
out pretension, and her smile is warm
and friendly.
Her black velvet frock had narrow
wrist-length sleeves, and its skirt swept to
circular fullness from above the knees.
The white embossed motifs of Chantilly
lace that curved from the hem, up the
front of the dress almost to the neckline,
riveted every woman’s gaze. Absent from
her usual place was Miss Nancy Jobson,
but friends brought news that she is just
entering the final stages of her convales-
cence after her bad accident. Pretty Mrs
Fawsitt and her Professor husband, Mrs.
Ben Edye with still further word of
Stephanie’s success in London, the Ernest
Lashmars full of their intended visit to
London, where he is attending the authors’
and composers’ conference, the Roland
Fosters —he is busy writing another book
—•were spotted in a foyer as densely
packed as a R.A.S. pavilion.
All the owners of the mounts in the
Hobby Horse Derby, which was the big
flutter of the Easter Race Frivolity, paid
an entrance fee of £5. So that whichever
way they ran the Food for Babies Fund
was on a winner. From the great blue
and pale-pink egg which had hatched a
mountain of lucky numbers just within
the door of Rose’s, the Easter Race
Frivolity was a success. Doors opened
at seven and guests were still arriving at
nine o’clock. There were posies and
lucky fans for the women, and there was
a three-course dinner for everyone.
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, president of the
committee, wore water-green marquisette,
flowing and pleated, and slightly pan-
niered. Her flowers were red.roses. She,
and her husband entertained a large party.
So did the L. McEacherns. Pretty girl in
this group was Margaret Newland, who
has just announced her engagement to
Len McEachern. Her black chiffon frock
had narrow bands of blue down the
front panel, each band finished with a
tiny bow. Fay Plasto, in an off-the-
shoulder blue frock, was an efficient
younger group president. The races were
directed by Jimmy Bancks and John
Gqodali.
Saturday was a busy day. There were
polo at Kyeemagh, races at Randwick
and the Head of the River regatta on the
Nepean. Estimated that over 10,000 were
on the banks to cheer on the rowers and
to applaud the great win of Newington
as its eights crew shot forward to the
Head of the River. It is the first time for
26 years that Newington has held that
proud place. There was a very festive
dinner and dance at the Log Cabin in the
evening, and in the city mdst of the
G.P.S. held dances and dinners to round
off the fun.
Week-end wedding of interest to Aus-
tralia’s tennis players was that of Joan
Hartigan, former Australian tennis
champion, to Hugh Bathurst, of Vic-
toria. The two were married in St.
Mary’s Cathedral on Saturday and
will join the Orion at Fremantle ror
England, where they will make their
home. Joan’s father is N.S.W. Railways
Commissioner.
The country foregathered at the Troca-
dero last Thursday night when the
Country Women’s Association held its
silver jubilee ball. This was not a crowded
ball, and there was a very neighborly feel-
ing about the affair. Mrs. Colin Venn
was dignified in black chiffons. She was
the ball president. M.s. Mac Smith, the
C.W.A.’s State president, wore blonde
lace and pearls and had her daughters,
Mrs, Service and Felicity Mac Smith, with
her. There was warm greeting for the
C.W.A.’s first president, Mrs. Hugh
Munro. Former presidents Mrs. Matt
Sawyer and Mrs. A. J. Studdy were also
at the party. Mrs., Rupert Wilson’s frock
was another proof that England can make
it. It was a slim draped and sequinned
number made in English crepe so fine it
looked like chiffon. Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax’s ivory satins had a painted design of
red roses. Noreen Dangar’s ivory moires
were flower-patterned. Mrs. Harry
Dangar brought a party. Miss Warby
and the A. J. Munros were among the
hundreds. The Colin Sinclairs, of R.A.S.
renown, were guests of the evening.
Night’s great moment was the cigarette
auction.
French soprano Ninon Vallin, who
arrived by Skymaster last week, gave her
first Sydney concert in the Town Hall last
night. The singer has had many suc-
cesses. She has sung for the King and
Queen when their Majesties were in Paris
in 1937, and she has sung at the White
House for the late President Roosevelt
and an audience of diplomats from all
over the world, Madame, Vallin is on a
world tour. Her next concert will be on
April 21, also in the Town Hall.


The
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
invites your discussion
of atty matters affecting Wills. Executor-
ship, Trusteeship and Estate Manage-
ment. With over sixty years of
experience, The Union Trustee offers
specialised knowledge in all such
matters. Its comprehensive organisation
ensures permanent, competent and sym-
pathetic administration, in complete
confidence. Charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance .
*Cth
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Labritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c. ; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g,, d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street —A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER SXREE TS. SYDNEY.
E. B. KNOX (Chairman). OB ***“**'
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends ■,
Pref. - To Re- «r-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c, Ord. serves, serves*
£ £ £ £ £
1937. .116,468 30,000 11 p.C.= 82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. .132,164 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 7-2,642
1939. 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 4,216 776,858
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.!
Surplus sale investment, £6450 .. 2,028,157
1940. .128,634 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 8,634 2,036,791
Adjustment outside interests, £9986.. 2,046,777
1941. .140,213 30,000 12 p.c. =90,00020,213 2,066,990
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..2,056,990
Adjustment outside interests, £4892 .. 2,061,882
Surplus sale assets, £5457 .. .. 2,067,339
1942. .125,416 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 5,416 2,072,755
Profit liq. subsidiary, £75,376 ~ 2,148,131
Adjustm’t outside infests, etc., £7244.. 2,155,375
1943. 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 2,143,331
Surplus sale assets, £3148 .. .. 2,146,479
Unexplained addition, £13,651 .. 2,160,130
1944. .103,911 80,000 12 p.c. t= 90,000 2,144,041
Unexplained addition, £61,379 .. 2,205,420
1945. . 149,901 30,000 !2 p.c.= 90,000 29,901 2,235,321
Unexplained addition, £17,574 ..2,252,895
1946. .138,572 80,000 12 p.C.= 90,000 18,572 2,271,467
* Excluding specific reserves until 1940. ! EHminat-
ing outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
What will be the position of Australian
shipowners when their vessels, now on
charter to the Government, are returned
to them? Nobody can say precisely. But
a set of circumstances very different
from those that prevailed pre-war is at
hand. Among other things, the Govern-
ment proposes to regulate freight and
passenger charges, and the coastal trade
is to be reserved for Australian-built
ships, which are to be delicensed when
they become 25 years old. And the Gov-
ernment proposes to set up in the coastal
trade on its own account.
The charter rates have been more in
the nature of austere compensation than an
adequate return for use of the ships. The
fees have not covered advancing charges
for maintenance and repairs (which have
more than doubled since 1939), plus ade-
quate depreciation and a reasonable re-
turn on the capital involved. Govern-
ment handling of the ships has resulted
in heavy losses. Certainly these losses
are not borne by the cos., but they indi-
cate difficulties which will confront owners
when the ships are handed back to them.
Unlike the factory, which can in-
crease or reduce its operati/ins according
to demand, the economic* of a ship are
comparatively inflexible. It has to run
its coal or oil-fired propulsion unit for
24 hours a day while on a voyage, it
cannot increase or reduce its carrying
capacity, and operating costs and capital
charges are not very flexible. Costs have
rocketed since 1939, owing partly to lifts
in wage rates (war-risk bonuses are still
paid to seamen) and increased prices for
fuel, stores, etc., and partly to delays in
the turn-about of ships. The speed at
which the loading and discharging of
cargo and stores can be carried out and
repairs effected has been greatly reduced
by the go-slow and hold-up tactics of
waterside and dock workers, thus im-
mobilising ships and their crews for long
periods. This is a dead loss to the public,
because it needlessly increases the burden
of the already sharp rise in other
costs, all of which will, in the long run,
be paid for by additional freight and
passage money. Furthermore, higher
freight rates finally express themselves in
higher selling prices for goods.
What profit the shipping cqs. will be
able to earn on capital invested in ship-
ping assets will rest largely in the hands
of the Government, the seamen and
waterside and dock workers. Although
management can plan to meet and miti-
gate the effects of changed conditions,
the carrying out of the plans rests not
only with the few who direct, but also
with the many who operate.
Last year all H.P.’s vessels (two pas-
senger ships and half-a-dozen freighters)
remained on charter. The Wanganella,
which had done good work as a hospital
ship, was reconditioned, handed back
and put on the trans-Tasman run again
just after the close of accounts. She ran
aground at the entrance to Wellington
harbor, but was refloated, after suffering
heavy damage, and will not contribute to
the co.’s earnings again for many months.
The cost of getting her back on the run
again won’t be all covered by insurance,
either.
Shareholders can thank returns
from investments other than ship-
ping for most of their dividend. These
investments include £1,612,030 of Govern-
ment securities, which is £362,030 in
excess of paid capital. Other interests,
which have a book value of £1,067,161,
include holdings in Hebburn, Metropoli-
tan and J. and A, Brown and Abermain
Seaham —all in the distraught coal trade
—and in A.W.A., Melbourne Steam,
A.N.A. and Tasmanian Steamers.
Gross return from investments last year
was £112,654 (down £12,864). After
allowing for taxation, depreciation and
contingencies, and deducting the amount
to which outside interests were entitled,
the net return from all sources was
£138,572 (down £11,329). That leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained
addition of £17,574 net to reserves. The
£138,572 covered pref. requirements and
14.5 p.c. on the £750,000 of ord. capital,
compared with 15.9, 9.8, 10.3, 12.7 and
14.7 p.c. back to 1941. The div. re-
mained at 12 p.c. for the seventh year in
succession, making the average 12.3 p.c.
over the last decade.
Financially the business is well ribbed:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* .. 418,529 417,416 421,838
Sundry creditors! 278,029 481,223 565,242
fnter-co. balances! 13,161 13,386 3,934
Freehold & leasehold 521,250 524,741 523,511
Ships, plant, etc. 1,156,467 702,643 639,532
Government sec. .. 1,281,935 1,612,030 1,612,030
Shares, etc. .. 764,975 934,497 1,067,161
Stores .. .. 77,223 88,472 84,169
Sundry debtors .. 200,485 468,571 534,670
Cash ~ 66,601 138,892 118,918
* Includes proportion undivided Pifcflts. t Including
taxation. J Due to variation iit balancing dates.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£2,847,762) was
£104,919.
The price of the f.-p. pound shares has
advanced from the old official ceiling
of 575. 3d. to 645. in the market. The
return at the higher figure is 3.7 p.c. on
a 12 p.c. div. basis. At 30s, 9d. the
6 p.c. cum. prefs. yield 3.9 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover is £7 os. lOd. prefs. and 80s.
7d. ords.
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses,* serves. Reserves.
£* £ £ £ £
1936.. 396,245 240,144 99,304 56,797 2,812,413
1937.. 386,732 294,378 104,072 t 2,800,695
Surplus sale leasehold, £1631 .. . . 2,802,326
1938.. 389,295 327,166 103,176 2,761,279
Tax refund, £8439 2,769,718
1939.. 389,796 350,183 106,466 2.702,865
1940.. 387,682 377,818 105,130 - 2,607,599
1941.. 375,083 34-0,345 108,125 2,534,212
1942.. 375,330 337.876 98,911 2,472,755
1943.. 388,213 277,228 99,164 11,821 2,484,576
1944.. 406,068 242,227 99,221 64,620 2,549,196
1945.. 440,732 241,563 121,407 77,762 2,626,958
1946.. 475,014 230,846 139,306 104,862 2,731,820
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1936,
£9000; 1937-40, £4500; 1941, £9OOO ; 1942,
£4600; 1943-48, £9OOO.
J Including loss on King-street property, £4994.
The A.P.A., in common with other life
offices, wrote a record amount of new
business last term. The figure was
£1,743,972 (up £426,841), or 33 p.c. above
the previous year’s. And, again in
common with other offices, the greatest
problem the management has to wrestle
with today is the effect upon earnings
of the drop in interest rates and the un-
fair incidence of land tax. The co.’s
premises at Sydney, Melbourne and New-
castle, which have plenty of letting space,
returned 3.8 p.c. before payment of land
tax last year. After deducting the tax,
the net return was a mere 1.8 p.c. Free-
holds appear in the books at £757,040.
Today the cost of assurance, like
everything else, is higher than it used to
be; this because of inflation and the
Government’s cheap-money drive. Among
other things, the forcing down of interest
rates has reduced the surplus available
for distribution among policyholders and
shareholders. To help offset the effects
of the shrinkage, the co. lowered the
basis of valuation of its policy liabilities
from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c. in 1943.
Still, the margin between the
assumed and actual rate of in-
terest earned on the mean assur-
ance fund has contracted. In 1939
the net effective rate (after deducting taxa-
tion) was 4.3 p.c. It was 3.3 p.c. last
term, thus reducing the rhargin to 0.6 p.c.,
as against 1.3 p.c. seven years earlier.
And the management is now considering
a further reduction in the basis of valu-
ation to 2\ p.c. This means further
strengthening the position of policy-
holders, possibly at the expense of share-
holders, who have received a modest 2\
p.c. div. for each of the last four years.
Still, it is the only policy likely to yield
satisfactory results to both policyholders
and shareholders in the long run, and life
assurance is essentially a long-term busi-
ness.
If the benefit payable at maturity under
a with-profits life policy is to exceed the
amount paid by way of premiums, the
interest earned on the premiums must
cover the whole of the death risk and
all expenses associated with the contract,
as well as provide a margin for bonuses.
And the Australian type of bonus scale
requires a rapid release of surplus as the
duration of the policy increases. A low
rate of valuation meets this need by lock-
ing up in the early years sums which
would be otherwise available as surplus
and by releasing them with interest at a
later stage.
The year’s income from all sources was
£475,014 <up £34,282). After paying all
legitimate claims and exes., £113,863 (up
£27,100) remained. This, together with
£lO,OOO from the tax reserves, £9OOO from
the div. equalisation reserve and £5OOO
from the bonus to policyholders’ reserve,
was used in this way: £103,441 to the
assurance fund to cover the growth in
liabilities under policies, £20,077 was dis-
tributed as bonuses to policyholders,
£2OO was added to the reserve for un-
expired risks in the accident department,
and £9OOO was handed to shareholders
in a 2% pic. div. Thus the whole of the
div. and £5OOO of the bonuses to policy-
holders came from reserves.
The financial structure is now more
solid than at any time in the co.’s history:
1939. 1942. 1945. 1946.
£ £ £ £
Public sec. 1,273,452 1,082,573 1,272,235 1,357,830
W.gagej.. 51 *,449 403,515 433,907 404,636
Loans on
"t,c. 119,389 89,062 61,020 61,648
Book debts,
cu6ii, elo. 97,365 104,631 124,232 171,278
Equipment. 16,088 7,929 3,695 8,585
Properties.. 814,462 818,786 781,096 757,040
Shares .. 385,321 416,750 443,154 472,001
Tangibles 3,223,526 2,983,245 8,119,339 3,228,018
Creditors .. 161,218 142,061 118,384 119,621
Net tangibles 3,072,308 2,841,184 3,000,955 3,108,397
Assnr. fund* 2,629,684 2,341,030 2,524,246 2,647,964
Paid capital 360,000 860,000 860,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: £15,000,
1939; £21,000, 1942; £lB,OOO, 1944 ; £18,300,
1945; £18,500, 1946.
Last year’s surplus earnings, and more
besides, went into Government securities
(up £85,595), cash, etc. (up £47,046) and
listed stock exchange securities (£349,058,
up £27,610). Although the net improve-
ment on shareholders’ account since 1939
amounts to only £17,809, the position of
policyholders over this period has been
strengthened very considerably, which is
as it ought to be.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 18,003 4.63 p.c. = 18,024 155,844
Unexplained addition, £378 .. .. 156,222
1937.. 11,322 2.78 p.c. = 10,814 508 156,730
Written off stocks, £7166 .. .. 149,564
1938.. 10,654 10,654 160,218
To bad debts provision, £43,017 .. 117,201
Written off investments, £2250 .. 114,951
Loss.
1939.. 18,922 96,029
To bad debts provision, £41,265 .. 54,764
Profit.
1940.. 4,344 4,334 59,108
1941.. 11,533 2.80 p.c. = 10,815 718 59,826
1942.. 22,129 4.70 „ „ 18,024 4,105 63,931
1943.. 25,788 6.02 „ „ 23,431 2,357 66,288
1944.. 26,215 6.02 „ „ 23,431 2,784 69,072
From bad debts provision, £55,932 .. 125,004
1945.. 23,907 6.02 p.c. = 23,431 476 125,480
Profit on property resumed, £2992 .. 128,472
1946.. 35,307 8.80 p.c. = 34,247 1,060 129,532
Formed into a limited co. in 1883, when
the business was already 30 years old,
Palings then had capital of £40,000. Bal-
ance shests were not published until 1934,
but the co.’s early years were prosperous.
Dividends averaged more than 10 p.c.,
with several bonus issues of scrip and
large accumulations of reserves. Branches
were opened at Newcastle, Wollongong,
Lismore and Orange (N.S.W.) and at
Brisbane and Toowoomba (Q.). Evil days
began when wireless- and sound-films put
thousands of professional musicians out
of work, and caused the market to be
flooded with discarded domestic pianos.
The situation worsened with the onset of
the depression —which dislocated the
co.’s large time-payment business.
Apart from heavy debts owing to
the co., the first published balance sheet
in 1934 revealed a satisfactory financial
position ; but reserves had to be drawn
upon to pay the divs. (averaging 4 p.c.)
for the first three years. Two shillings per
share was returned to holders in 1935,
reducing capital by £43,258 to its present
amount. Meanwhile competition within
the trade was becoming more serious. A
complete reorganisation of business
methods began in 1938 and ended in
1940, By then war had cut off overseas
supplies of musical instruments as well
as locally-produced refrigerators and
vacuum-cleaners.
With business half-dormant, idle cash
holdings have been large, and the co. is


Mining.
Owner of a Queensland mining property containing
about 300,000 tons of I.4dwt. tailings is prepared
to consider propositions for re-treatment. Consider-
able buildings and plant that could be utilised are
already on the ground. Reply Auriferous, care
Bulletin Office, Brisbane.
BRANDAUER*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you fetire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £47,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,000,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.*.,
General Manager.
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
O’SUIXTVAjf
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
READ OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype & Linotype Operators
. Steel and Copper Engravers
Copperplate Printers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope & Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rubber Stamq Manufacturers
Rulers, Bookbinders, Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists & Illuminators
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twine
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLUNSON, Patent Attorneys, (Joliina
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
PATENTS. TRADE MARKS.
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GR FF T LAND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS—EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St., Telephone
SYDNEY, N.S.W, * BX 2649
—Protect your Property—insure
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office; Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: BWBI3I (3 Lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
fsd
fs
df
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
Wc are the patentees and nianufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W
The Messing of
CAPITAL
THERE are many who talk
* disparagingly about Capital
without having any idea of either
its source or its function.
Capital is that portion of the
annual production of the people
that is set aside to supply future
wants. It is the accumulated
savings of the thrifty and ad-
venturous, set to work to secure
and enlarge the various means
of progress.
Most men engaged in this
business of enlarging the various
means of progress have need
at times of bank credit and
know how to use it wisely. If
YOU desire bank credit, talk
your plans over with the Man-
ager of the Bank’s Head Office
or any of its more than 300
Branches.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK 01 VICTORIA LTD.
temporarily over-capitalised, owing to
evaporation of t.-p. business:
1936. 1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital . £389,321 £389,321 £389,321 £389,321
Creditors .. 1 ia0 o»( 27,714 22,808 49,409
Tax provision J \ 1,450 20,651 35,820
Freeholds .. 113,500 113,673 119,949 119,949
Plant .. 5,175 16,279 15,959 15,436
Stocks .. 99,129 94,269 42,891 70,227
Debtors .. 344,276 268,311 47,194 78,158
Cash, etc. .. 6,557 1,075 358,690 354,558
The co. is thus exceptionally well
equipped to finance expansion of the busi-
ness, in North Queensland and elsewhere,
to revive its t.-p. connections, and to buy
abroad again, as soon as overseas sup-
plies are obtainable. The rise last term
in stocks (£27,336) and debtors (£30,964)
shows the beginning of a revival.
Liquid assets exceed liabilities (includ-
ing tax provision) by £417,724, and there
is net tangible backing of 255. 7d. for
each 18s. f.-p. ord. These shares, priced
at less than ss. in 1941, now fetch 265. 9d.,
at which the present yield is 5.9 p.c.
Briseis Consolidated, NX., the end of
whose mine at Derby (Tas.) was hastened
by falls of overburden and drift in July
last, records a loss of £12,251 for 1946.
That includes a loss of £1752 on realisa-
tion of assets, £865 spent on salving
equipment and £4Bl on development.
When the books closed the co. held
£14,531 in cash (£9520), debtors’ balances
(£2145) and tin on hand (£2866). There
was £2252 coming to outsiders. Since
the close of accounts equipment sold has
brought in £7700, and the water rights,
dams, races and cottages are under offer
to the Tasmanian Government for
£lB,OOO until end of this month. Esti-
mated value of remaining plant and
equipment is £lO,OOO, but there is no cer-
tainty that buyers will be found at this
figure. The tin area in Malaya, on which
the co. held an option, was abandoned,
because the leases could not be consoli-
dated and the labor and costs position
was too uncertain. In conjunction with
Burma-Malay Tin the co. proposes to
hunt for another property. Paid capital
is £150,000 in ss. shares.
* * « «
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) has asked share-
holders to meet on April 18 to talk
over things. The board says acceptance
of the Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments’ latest conditional offer of financial
assistance would mean giving the said
Governments two-thirds of any profit
made in perpetuity, irrespective of
whether the Governments financed test-
ing of other areas than the Nerrima bore.
This might stand in the co.’s way of
obtaining financial assistance from other
sources. The board finds it difficult to
understand why such stringent conditions
for assistance should be insisted upon by
the Governments, since the work being
carried out by the co. is of a national
character, and Governments are now tak-
ing much greater interest in the search
for oil in Australia. To end 1946 opera-
tions had resulted in a loss of £92,837.
Assets include oil licences with a book
value of £31,066, deposit on plant £6OO,
Commonwealth bonds £4OOO, cash £1637
and drilling equipment £1270.
« ♦ * •
From London: For the good of the
industry, an early visit here by the new
Westralian Minister for Mines, Hubert
Parker, is suggested. Only one previous
holder of that portfolio in the West
thought it worth .while to come to
London. The result was important talks
with controllers of cos. operating at Kal-
goorlie and elsewhere, and a lot of new
money was found for mining develop-
ment in Westralia. Such visits by
Ministers for Mines in other parts of the
Empire are fairly frequent.
♦ * * *
The secretary of the Meekatharra Sands
Treatment Co., which has installed a
treatment plant to recover gold from a
large dump on the old Ingliston Consols
and Fenian mines at Meekatharra, Mur-
chison field (W.A.), writes:
Comprehensive testing of samples obtained
by boring at equal intervals right through the
dump disclosed no trace of ash or any other
feature which would present difficulty in metal-
lurgical treatment. Since the date of the pros-
pectus a parcel of 42 tons of sands taken from
the dump was treated in a full-scale plant of
identical type to that which is being installed
by the co. This parcel assayed considerably
higher than the figures shown in the prospectus,
and the anticipated extraction of gold was
obtained. The consumption of chemicals was
lower than that allowed for in the original
estimated cost of treatment, and the test in-
dicated that the plant which the co. plans to
install will easily have the Capacity to treat the
desired tonnage.
* ♦ * *
Herman Mandelstam, who from time
to time raised capital in London and
New York for Westralian goldmining,
is in Perth again. Among the mines he
found money for are Big Bell, Tindals
and Edjudina Consolidated. Object of
his present visit is to get the two latter
properties into production again. Both
are idle, and machinery was impressed
from each by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment during the war. Mandelstam
was one of Coolgardie’s earliest pioneers
and, for a brief period, in addition to
buying and selling mines, was editor of
the Coolgardie “Miner.” Those were the
days when the departed F. C. B. Vosper,
Smiler Hales, McCallum Smith and Jack
Drayton traversed the local inky way.
♦ * * *
“Two Spot”: The stuff still turns up
in large lumps in odd spots. A Mareeba
(Q.) bank took delivery of two gold bars
the other day, one worth £BOO and the
other £544 They came from the Minnie
Moxam, about 20 miles out of town, and
were from the first two crushings. The
mine hadn’t been worked for six years,
and the first 72 tons crushed yielded
1250 z. Such pockets are rare.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
, EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies: —
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Missing Friend.
ADEN ARMSTRONG, late of Warrnambool, to con-
tact hia brother Tom Armstrong, London Inn,
Market Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO RONALD JOSEPH GASS late of “Tiom, Kis-
sing Point Road, Dundas.—TAKE NOTICE that a
Decree for Restitution of Conjugal Rights dated
16th January, 1947, has been made against you m
a suit No. 3641 of 1946, wherein EILEEN MARY
GASS was Petitioner, requiring you within 21 days
after service of the decree to take back or return
home to the Petitioner and render to her conjugal
rights. In accordance with a Substitued Service
order made on 9th April, 1947, a copy of the de-
cree and notic.es and a copy of the order have been
forwarded by post to you care of W. J. Gass,
“Tioni,” Kissing Point Road, Dundas. You may
communicate with your wife at No. 25 Crescent
Street, Granville. Service of the decree will be
deemed complete on Ist May, 1947, when the said
21 days will commence to run. A copy of the
decree may be seen at the Court or the office of
the undermentioned Solicitors. Dated the litn
April, 1947. —(1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar.
LAMARO & McGRATH, Petitioner’s Solicitors, 104
Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO PETER HECTOR McDONALD (in the Marriage
Certificate referred to as Peter McDonald) formerly
of Lawson Street Redfem. —TAKE NOTICE that
MURIEL LILLIAN McDONALD has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3159 of 1946 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office, Supreme Court,
King Street, Sydney, by the 6th June, 1947, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
Messrs. E. H. Tebbutt & Sons, Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairmanj F. W. Duesbwry; Sydney
B. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. BUTTER, Ge n «alManage.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. Pitt Street, Sydn y.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"THE RAZOR'S EDGE."
This film opened at Sydney Regent with
handsome advance publicity and the usual
inaugural flourish of names. Then flashed
on the screen the plain and unequivocal
statement: “Darryl F. Zanuck’s ‘The
Razor’s Edge.’ ” And, it transpired,
Darryl F.’s it was.
Somerset Maugham is given his due
as author. His name is prominently
displayed, his story adhered to in out-
line, and if there were any danger of for-
getting him he is in the film itself in
the well-groomed person of Herbert
Marshall. But in essentials, in spirit, the
film is Mr. Zanuck’s baby. And the
baby of Mr. Power and Miss Tierney
and the obscure but well-documented
persons who have to do with gowns,
sounds and cameras. It is, in short,
Hollywood. And if there is something
faintly ridiculous about Somerset Maug-
ham trying his literary hand at mysticism,
there is sustained comedy in the spectacle
of Hollywood cavorting in those un-
familiar regions.
The story concerns Larry, a young man
who returns to America after the 1914-18
war restless and superficially a “no-
hoper” ; actually he is consumed by a
philosophical or religious fervor which
leads him to study and travel and away
from conventional ambition and his
fiancee Isabel. After a variety of adven-
tures in Europe he seeks truth in India,
and Isabel marries a wealthy and devoted
young man. The searcher after truth
succeeds, in«part, and returns to Paris,
where he meets Maugham, Isabel and her
husband, Isabel’s uncle and Sophie, a
childhood friend who has sunk to the
sordid bedrock of vice.
After some hypnotic passes with a coin
Larry cures Isabel’s husband of disabling
headaches. Then he sets about curing
Sophie, but is foiled by Isabel, who
tempts Sophie to drink and sends her
careering off to her old haunts. Finally
their lives work out, somewhat vaguely,
and the whole is interspersed with long
patches of dullness when Mr, Maugham
becomes engulfed with this or that
philosophical cloud.
This pattern is more or less adhered to
in the film. But with a wizardry which
excels Larry’s coin-juggling Darryl F.
Zanuck manages to falsify and prune
almost everything significant in the novel.
Maugham, with all limitations accepted,
told the story in a personal, retrospective
way, made up of observation, conversa-
tion and a wondering kind of comment.
This had its limitations—Maugham is no
Conrad —particularly in the character of
the narrator, who appears inhumanly
wise and poised and improbably under-
standing. But at least the method built
up realism. With the straightout film
story the dullness is retained, Maugham
himself seems more improbable than ever
and the fine shadings of the characters
are lost.
Isabel’s uncle, Elliott Templeton, a
kindhearted, ridiculous snob, is well
played by Clifton Webb. Anne Baxter’s
Sophie gained an Academy award, which
leads to the conclusion that they must be
easily come by. A necessary part of the
character, her pathos, is recognised, but
she is pathetic with maddening persist-
ence, and in one important scene—the
cafe where she recognised her old friends
—when she should be hard and strident
she is still pathetic and utterly unreal.
Tyrone Power, as Larry, has a difficult
part, and, as far as he was capable, does
it justice—being glowing eyed and in-
tense and, with a little technical assist-
ance, having his face suffused in light
from time to time. The unfortunate im-
pression remains, however, that he is
starring in some picture as a G.I. making
a speech about democracy; or as a two-
gun sheriff, burning with righteousness
in Tombstone ; or —the comparison in
some scenes was irresistible —a comely
college boy listening .ardently to some
gnarled old coach explaining the intri-
cacies of gridiron and the honor of the
college. Instead of the coach there was a
fine old Indian fakir from whom Larry
learnt his mystical secrets. With excel-
lent diction and a lofty presence the old
boy bore a startling resemblance to any
one of a dozen fine old screen colonels
hastily brushed with coffee-colored paint
and equipped with a robe.
In Australia the film has had extrava-
gant publicity, and the repeated claim
has been made that here, at least, is a
film Hollywood hasn’t botched up. Well,
the novel itself has been somewhat over-
valued. There is about Mr. Maugham’s
mysticism something vague and dull and
subtly irritating—it is like something solid
sugar-coated to please the popular palate.
But here and there the artist peeps out,
as, for instance, in the powerful image
of Isabel, the respectable matron, fascin-
ated by Larry’s hand lying carelessly on
the back of the driver’s seat of a car.
She is consumed for the moment by a
violent and ruthless passion. Darryl F.
neatly avoids this by giving Tyrone and
Gene a conventional love scene in which
Gene throws her arms around Tyrone
and, with a somnambulistic calm, an-
nounces that she loves him.
The Dreadful Sequel.
Occasionally Hollywood turns out a
film which proves to be popular. This
can be unfortunate, for it often inspires
some filmsmith with the idea of making
a sequel. Then, apparently, old props
are wheeled in and dusted off, the direc-
tor briefly scans the original yarn (prob-
ably holding it upside down), puts on his
sun-glasses and bellows “Action!” May
his megaphone choke him, for generally
these “sequels” are only a second and
even third degeneration of the original.
The rule of successive deterioration
does not always apply —the “Andy
Hardy” pictures were right at the nadir
when they started, and even Hollywood
could not make them any worse ; on the
brighter side, the periodical jaunts made
by Hope, Crosby and Dorothy Lamour
on their series of “roads” to mirth have
kept to a fair standard.
Such exceptions, however, are scarce.
One excellent picture, the memory of
which has been clouded by some woeful
offshoots, was “The Hound of the
Baskervilles,” first of the “Sherlock
Holmes” series. Its followers have been
successively heavier doses of cyanide.
Others hard hit were “Dracula” and
“Frankenstein,” which both produced
most gratifying shudders ; their successors
have become tepid, and audiences
scarcely bother to glance over their col-
lective shoulders on the way home.
Dropping still further down the graph
of film entertainment —right off the bot-
tom of the sheet, in fact —the filmgoer
will find such efforts as “The Return of
Monte Cristo,” a “sequel” now showing
its horrible self at the Lyceum. It fol-
lowed another atrocity, “The Son of
Monte Cristo,” which had the honor to
come after a really good film about the
original count of the same .address.
Dumas must have spun vigorously in his
crypt when his famous character was
given offspring by the movie-makers, but
this latest outrage will no doubt finish
him. /
Melbourne Music.
Another musical marathon threatens in
Melbourne, where the tempest of song
started at then Town Hall with a mag-
nificent performance by the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra and the Philhar-
monics of the “St. Matthew Passion.” It
was Professor Heinze’s first public appear-
ance since his Canadian visit, and he
handled his colossal forces more confi-
dently than ever. Bach’s great work is
a sort of compendium of music, and pro-
vides opportunities for almost every kind
of instrument and executant. Thea
Phillips and tenor William Herbert
dominated the solo portions. There was
exceptional intelligence as well as feel-
ing in the soprano’s singing, and Her-
bert’s ringing tones and his perfect
enunciation made the Bible story live
more than the bare words do.
A product of St. Paul’s Cathedral
choir and an old pupil of that fine teacher,
Dr. Floyd, Herbert has more than a mere
voice—he is a gorgeous musician. There
was a lack of richness in Joan Jones’s
contralto, though one of the highlights
of the evening was the aria “Have Mercy,
Lord,” to Bertha Jorgensen’s violin obbli-
gato. Stanley Clarkson was a trifle
declamatory in the bass role. The huge
house was pledged to silence, which made
the performance doubly impressive.
The place for Lidia Paolozzi’s concerts
of Italian opera and Neapolitan folk
songs should have been a barge floating
down the perfumed Yarra on a summer
evening instead of the Town Hall, and
the accompanist should have been a
swarthy guitarist instead of the Danish
pianist Leo Demant on the Steinway.
Miss Paolozzi doesn’t display many evi-
dences of the traditional training that
turns out grand opera prima donnas, but
she has a pleasant, flexible vocal instru-
ment. Her voice is apt to become a trifle
shrill in the higher reaches, but is ex-
tremely expressive on the plane of folk
music, which has a charm of its own that
is frequently lost when great composers
start tampering with it.
Miss Paolozzi is one of those singers
who have a special audience of their own.
The piano had only to strike up the first
notes of the opening bar of an item for
her small house to go into transports of
emotion.
Like Backhaus, Jascha Spivakovsky
makes no concessions to his audiences.
On one occasion Backhaus played five of
Beethoven’s sonatas in the one evening
at the Melbourne Town Hall. The Rus-
sian pianist played a modest four the
other evening with no tiddlywinking en-
cores, but they were Opuses 31 No. 2,
81a, 109 and 111, four of the most
emotionally and intellectually exacting of
Ludwig’s piano compositions. They re-
quire a colossal musical memory, and
Spivakovsky has that as well as a solid
quiet assurance at the keyboard. One
of the loveliest passages of the evening
was the Absence Andante Beethoven
wrote to his pupil-patron, the Archduke
Rudolph, when that young aristocrat had
to scuttle out of Vienna to avoid
Napoleon’s soldiers. Another was the
opening movement of the Op. 11l sonata
with its likeness to a charging bull.
Heinze and Lorna Sydney.
At her opening concert with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra the Westralian
mezzo-soprano revealed in the “O Love
From Thy Power” from “Samson and
Delilah” a fine, clear voice, even through-
out a range which, in the lower register,
extends well into the contralto category.
Richard Strauss’s “Thus Spake Zara-
thustra” —given for the first time in Aus-
tralia, although it was composed 51 years
ago—is a curiously uneven work. In the
andante passages, especially for full
orchestra, there are passages of great
beauty. At other times there are frenetic
outbursts and a fuzziness of thematic
material which are the essence of
abstruseness. So far as the “program-
matic” music is wedded to Nietzsche’s
philosophy the title of it might as well be
“Musings of an Isosceles Triangle” or
“The Love Life of an Aardvark.”
There is some splendid writing for
’cellos and bassoons in the Von der
grossen Sehnsucht movement. Over the
whole tone-poem plays Strauss’s un-
doubted mastery of orchestration.
The orchestra under Bernard Heinze
gave a very good account of itself in
this exacting work, following it up with
a captivating rendition of Beethoven’s
“Dance Symphony”—the seventh.


<J)aJt&Ls /m
tw o- ...
icorrEEji.
“Pistols at twent
grim but fashion;i|lllo
of honour ii
Many
in roij
a fashioii
adversary over
duelling pistol
able meeting bti
York and the Hoi
Wimbledon Comnl
of the encounter is
in the duel, testifyh*
Consisted
with harci'-. i_
ammunitio 1
Dt ., x oi the metal
AS the supply
trades a mac h.nes are
oi shot, our 'i; a t production «
idle. Shotgun Cartridgesjvi
resumed Shog. n supp ly.
necessanh the present
XV e are hopeiU . > es will soon be
industrial can once again
so tnav t sporting
settiea . « range oi
produce a
__ kY NOCH
g cMvrRi pGE i
SP (
w
r v’
It
V
3
ICI
✓
No. 5 of i Series
GUN LORE
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
There were many good races, with exciting
finishes and the camera deciding them, in the
four days of the A.J.C. meeting at Randwick,
but none of them came up to Saturday’s
AJ.C. Plate. Russia, ridden by D. Munro, won
it from Proctor and the New Zealander Golden
Souvenir, and it was a great performance of
• both horsemanship and horse.
It was w.f.a., over 2i miles, a distance many
present racegoers had never seen run at Rand-
wick, and about the last sort of event that any-
one would expect to be exciting from start to
finish. It was something more than exciting.
Most horseraces are, after all, repetitions; they
have been run before exactly the same way
hundreds of times; but this was rare.
To deter the sort of farcical running that
usually used to .happen in these long-distance
tests there was a stipulation that the prize would
be halved from £l5OO to £750 if they didn’t
run it in 4min. 15sec. or under —a generous
enough allowance, with the Australian record
Marauder’s 3.47£ and Randwick’s best
the only record still standing to the name of
Phar Lap. Actually, Russia had plenty of
time to spare as far as the stake-halving went,
and the remarkable thing about it was that
he led practically all the way carrying 9.4,
equal topweight with Golden Souvenir.
They started from the seven-furlongs chute,
Proctor and Russia getting away best, with
Proctor showing out about a length. Then,
of all super-confident tactics to use on a top-
weight in such a race, Munro at once urged
Russia to the front and led by four lengths
along the side to the turn. Up the straight he
kept the chestnut to the rails, taking a look
over his shoulder at Proctor three lengths away
as they passed the winning-post the first time.
He had another look rounding the turn at the
mile-and-a-quarter start, and as the bay colt
had moved a bit closer he let Russia go out
another length or so by the mile. They kept
like that along the back; Proctor gradually
gaining to be drawing alongside as they came
on to the three-furlongs; Munro, narrowly
ahead, scraping the paint off the rails and sit-
ting still.
There was less than half a length between
them as they were on the turn, and they came
round with Proctor up nearly level. It had
looked such heady riding all the way by Munro
that there you expected him to call on what
he’d been conserving in Russia and run clear.
Instead, Proctor came up to him and before
they reached the distance had a clear neck in
front. Then Munro began to ride with everything
but the whip, and the way Russia responded was
something to look at. The six-year-o(d chestnut
horse and the bay colt came on together head
to head over the last 50 yards and past the
post. From the press-box it looked like Russia
all right, but the judge, who probably had no
doubt about it either, called for a photo.
While that was being fixed they came trotting
back to the gate, Briscoe with Proctor half a
dozen lengths in front, as if he, too, had no
doubt about it, and then Russia, with Darby
grinning at Briscoe’s back because he had no
doubt about it whatever. The photo, said
Russia by a head, with Golden Souvenir four
lengths away. Time, 3.5 H. Spam and Rain-
bird (she pulled up bleeding) finished in that
order, but they merely made up the field.
The Russia-Munro combination have, of
course, won other good races, including their
Melbourne Cup, but neither horse nor rider
ever had a better win than this one. An un-
canny bit of horsemanship; and the way Russia
came from the leger a great bit of horse.
Also Proctor proved himself a very game stay-
ing colt. By Excitement from Lady March,
Russia looks the shape to get some fine stayers
later on.
Rider Briscoe and the Lewis stable—very
successful at the meeting—also had it narrowly
against them in the day’s other race for stayers,
the photo, showing Derby-winner Concerto a
head behind Avalanche (J. Thompson) in the
13-furlongs Dangar Handicap, with Mentone
four lengths away third. Concerto may be
recovering his Derby form, but he’s not as
good as Proctor; and the other stable colt that
nothing is now heard of, Prince Standard, iS
better than either.
The cheers that rung in Sweet Chime (N.
Sellwood) in the Adrian Knox Stakes had a
crunching undertone of gnashed teeth, Mel-
bourne visitors risking huge dentists’ bills over
Badger’s performance on Amelia. It happened
in the stiaight opposite the main paddock stand.
The Oro filly Tattling had led to the distance;
Sellwood there took Sweet Chime to the front,
and, with Tattling being beaten off, Badger
tried to go through on the rails. He failed,
and by the time he’d pulled Amelia back and
tried again on the outside Sweet Chime was
past the post a clear winner. Still, Sweet
Chime would have won anyway. She’s a
deceptively inconspicuous brown, almost mousy,
but looked at closely she is shaping into a
beauty. Definitely Flight’s successor.
As the first test over a bit of distance for the
season’s two-year-olds, the mile Fernhill Handi-
cap was also a test of the handicapper. He
came out on top, Cherson (G. Moore), at
the head of the weights, winning by three
lengths and going away from Sea Spartan, with
Sovereign third.
Tactician (E. Swinton) won the highly-
weighted six-furlongs Rous Handicap clearly
from El Grandee and Vermeil, but it should
be said of both runners-up that they seemed
“If this doesn't Work , old boy, at least I've done my best."
to be stopped only by the weight. Both would
be tough for any of the current sprinters on
a lower scale. The mile Woollahra Handicap
gave H. Hanley a win on Edinburgh (brother
of Sweei Chime) in a photo.-finish Jrom
Maelstrom. Fort Denison was third after
getting too far back in the first furlong. Mel-
goda (W. Cook), a handy seventh in the Don-
caster, proved the soundness of that guide by
winning the Final Handicap from Laudus and
Royal Peer.
* * * *
For the first time in nearly six years they raced
at Randwick on a Wednesday, and with perfect
weather it was a pleasure to be there, though
results mostly benefited the books.
Temeraire duly brought his record to six
wins from six starts by taking out the Cham-
pagne Stakes, a three-horse procession. The
remarkable thing about the race was the betting;
in the course of his unbeaten record Temeraire
had downed both his opponents, The Groom
and Deep Sea, yet it was possible to lay the
books as good as 6 to 4. Even the 9 to 4 on
he started out was a good price. Evidently
Munro was expected to achieve some minor
miracle on The Groom, who was heavily backed.
Three lengths was as close as he got to the
winner.
* * * *
Very consistent when once he has struck
foitn, the five-year-old Valiant Chief horse
Valcurl lumped the burden of 9.12 and made
the rest of them look cheap in the 13-furlongs
Hospital Handicap at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. Valcurl won by four lengths, with Canada
and Lord Cavil best of the others.
The punters made Valcurl a 5-to-2 favorite
and were right again in backing the Theo-
Sports Flash filly Broadcast at the cramped
odds of 5 to 4 in the five-furlongs Foundling
Plate second division’s big field of maiden two-
year-olds. Broadcast also got there by four
lengths, with Carmyle five lengths ahead of
Mantinia. In the first division of the Found-
ling the fancied ones were absent at the finish,
the 14-to-l shot Star Port (a Portofino gelding)
winning it from Sandy Bay and Cyclades.
In the other Valley events, Sir Valiant im-
proved on recent promising form to defeat
Priority, Kungelinga and the rest of the
hurdlers; the John James filly Gay View
downed Stormy Sea and Top Rank in the mile
Talbot Handicap for three-year-olds; Prattle
Joy won the six-furlongs Society Handicap
from Audacity and Joystream; and Spanish
Legend and Keller Star dead-heated in the mile
Highweight, with Cellini third.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Youthful Stakes: Sea Spartan, 1; Le Petit
Due, 2; Karachi, 3. Novice Handicap: Dieppe,
1; Lord Ivan, 2; Lady Mathew, 3. Three-
year-old Handicap: Prince Consort, 1; Hiraji,
2; Smooth Action, 3. Gus Mooney Handicap:
El Grandee, 1; Earl Pentheus, 2; Tahmoor, 3.
City Tattersall’s Club Handicap: Laudus, 1;
Air Flare, 2; Tamaroa, 3. Club Welter: Fort
Denison, 1; Pufiham, 2; Edinburgh, 3.
The picnic meeting at Oakbank in the Adel-
aide hills has developed into a two-day fixture,
with thousands camping for the week-end on
the spot, alongside of the Onkaparinga River.
This year’s Great Eastern Steeplechase of Si-
miles saw a remarkable finish, Marble Hill
winning by half a head from Ajester, last year’s
winner. Both carried 10.7; Bay David, with
11.3, was favorite and a very close third. Marble
Hill, a flat-race performer, used to carry the
colors of Lady Muriel Barclay-Harvey when
she was at Government House, and bears the
name of the Governor’s country residence.
♦ * * *
The muddied oafs took over the Syd-
ney fields on Saturday, and the Union,
with the All Blacks coming over, looks
like having a bumper season. The League
crowd lived right up to form in trying to
have the Union refused the public’s
Cricket Ground for the All Blacks game
on June 7, but the ground trustees gave
them the snub they asked for, and the
All Blacks will be playing there on that
date and on June 21 and 28.
In Saturday’s opening round East went
north across the Harbor and there North
went East to the tune of 28 to 19, A.
Harrison touching three of the winners’
seven tries and Cornforth booting four
goals. With defending tactics still to be
tightened up all round, there were whop-
ping scores everywhere. Gordon ran
over the new Eastwood club, 40 to 9;
Manly downed Western Suburbs 20-11 ;
Randwick took things easy after piling
up 32, allowing Uni. to put up 20; St.
George beat Drummoyne, 24-19.
• ♦ * *
On the Nepean:
A very even bunch of crews contested all
five events of the Sydney G.P.S. Regatta on
Saturday, providing those who made the trip
to the Nepean with an afternoon of grand
sport. The senior eights championship, and
with it the title of Head of the River, went to
Newington for the first time in 26 years.
It was between Newington and High all the
way, with the fast-rating High crew doing the
pacemaking but unable to draw clear. Over the
last quarter-mile both rowed magnificenUy and
the heavier Newington lads had the advantage.
Shore and King’s dead-heated for third, most
unusual in rowing. Newington’s time of 6.31
was lOsec. better than last year, when the race
was rowed over a mile and a quarter for the
first time; previously the distance had been a
mile and a half, held by many to be far too
severe for schoolboys.
High and King’s had a good day all round.
In the first fours King’s defeated High by 6ft.,
with Newington third. High had their turn in
the second fours, ditching Shore and Riverview.
The third fours gave the best finish of the day.
Shore, King’s and High crossing the line with
only 2yds. between the three. Then King’s took
the fourth fours from Scots and Shore.
* * * ♦
This year’s Stawell Easter Gift pro-
vided more than its share of sensation.
There Was a great rumpus when Don
Cameron and Des Crowe, after winning
their heats, were disqualified on a point of
incorrect entry forms. Both were* well
fancied. The final, for the first time in
the 70 years of the race, produced a dead-
heat between A. C. Martin, off 4j yards,
and D. J, Gardner, off 7yds. Gardner
wanted a re-run, while Martin would have
been content with a division. The com-
mittee did Martin a good turn by de-
claring for a run-off, which he won by
inches in 12 6-16 sec,
«•••••
The professional ped. generally has the
edge on the amateur, but it would be in-
teresting to see young John Treloar
stacked up against the Stawell runners.
Too young to be at his peak yet, Treloar
needs only a little more experience and
tougher opposition to force him to equal
the world 100 yd. record of 9 2-5. He
has run 9 3-5 at least half a dozen times
in the past season.
* * * *
Cricket lasted on into football times
in Adelaide owing to a belated decision
to revive the “final” system. Kensington,
easily top on the season (though mainly
without Bradman), could not in the final
(with him) get out Sturt (Len Darling,
the old international, 107) and lost the
title by six wickets. To make the honor
complete, the Sturt B team also easily
won from Glenelg B.
* * * *
It was a dandy scrap flyweights
Jimmy Hogg (7.13 y) and A 1 Peterson
(7.13) put up at Leichhardt, Peterson has
a weighty wallop for a little fellow, but
for every time he landed it he took a
battery of straight lefts. Hogg on points,
and the customers for once satisfied,
* * * *
Both Les Fuller and Frankie
Flannery (9.1|) shed claret by the quart
at Melbourne Stadium ; a tough, hard,
evenly-matched fight through every one
of the 12 rounds, with Flannery, despite
being carved up, all the time eager to mix
it even more, and Fuller, despite being
ditto, a shade too clever for him, and so
taking it narrowly on points.


Jiinvrro
*0 SIYH
vaanny
pq.Bj siii? joj sjpo'i
ALL-YEAR ROUND
TTT
I
SIWKWI
Write for full facts and
particulars to-day. They
vill be freely given.
mm
\ mm
PTY.
LTD
til
HEAD OFFICE; 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. 3 &38.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins Street Melbourne: Shell House.
Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM; .Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T, F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St., Perth,
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER. DAVIES *
y JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New-Zealand Agent: WINSTONt
LTD. Auckland. Wellington, Palmerston N.. Christchurch, Dunedin.
Business, Rellery, Etc.
Overseas Trade
Australia’s overseas trade resulted in a
favorable balance of £62 million for the
eight months to end February last, an im-
provement of £6O-odd million compared
with the corresponding period of 1945-46.
Here are the figures in tabloid form —
Australian currency:
Eight months end Feb.,
1946. 1947.
Exports: £A £A
Merchandise .. 117,803,000 203,728,000
Specie, etc. .. 19,554,000 112,000
Total .. .. 137,357,000 203,840,000
Imports:
Merchandise .. 134,009,000 141,114,000
Specie, etc. .. 1,388,000 723,000
Total .. .. 135,397,000 141,837,000
Excess exports .. 1,960,000 62,003,000
The leap of £66.5 million in the total ex-
port figure is due to increased quantities
and higher prices. We sold substantially
increased quantities of wool, meat, fresh
and dried fruits, wheat and flour. And
wool, wheat, flour, lamb, tallow, lead
and zinc all fetched higher prices on the
average. Lower average prices -were
realised for butter, raisins, beef and
mutton.
Our best customer was, of course, U.K.
and the rest of the Empire, which, to-
gether took over 54 p.c. of our total
exports. Next came U.S., taking 16 p.c.
It was the largest buyer of wool, followed
by France and then U.K. We sold a lot
of wheat to all countries of s.-e. Asia
from India to China; also to Maoriland
at'the socialistic price of ss. 9d, a bushel
—world parity was three times this figure.
Clearly political control of trade in com-
modities is a financial disaster for pro-
ducers, who have already expressed them-
selves in ho uncertain terms at the polls
in two States, and anxiously await the
opportunity to do so in three more.
Of our total imports we bought 47 p.c.
from U.K. and 11 p.c. from U.S. Larg-
est item on the list was textiles, fol-
lowed by machinery. Our favorable bal-
ance with U.S. was some £AIO million.
The rise in the price of imports has helped
to bump up public revenue from Customs
collections, but the impact upon our
price structure has not yet been fully felt.
Altogether the favorable trade position
has given the national income a nice lift.
It will tend to strengthen bank deposits,
and so broaden the credit superstructure,
and generally contribute to maintenance
of easy-money conditions. It also helps
to obscure the menace of rising costs.
The Federal Government’s consoli-
dated revenue figures for the nine months
to end March show that receipts for the
period totalled £285.2 million, or over
£35 million more than for the cor-
responding period of the previous year.
Chief sources of increase were customs,
excise and sales tax collections. Indica-
tions are that excess of actual over esti-
mated receipts from these sources alone
will amount to nearly £2O million by
June 30, and other items are expected to
yield more than was expected, too. So
Mr. Chifley has been able to promise in-
adequate tax cuts from the beginning of
July, without in any way curbing the
Government’s socialistic extravagances.
The Treasury will pocket the windfall
revenue for the current financial year.
All but £19.9 million of expenditure for
the nine months was met from tax and
other revenue collections. Loan funds
were drawn upon for £11.9 million to
meet “defence and post-war” charges and
for £8 million for housing advances to
the States. Demobilisation of the forces
is reflected in a drop of £172.2 million
in defence and post-war expenditure of
£137,7 million. A heartening feature is
“Two bob he heads 'em!”
that for the first time since war began
the Budget promises to show a substan-
tial surplus without resort to deficit
financing; a state of affairs for which we
can thank a buoyant national income,
due to post-war pressure of demand for
goods and services at high prices. The
Government, which proposed to keep
future public expenditure around the £4OO
million mark as against £94.4 million in
1938-39, is in no way responsible.
The British Ministry of Supply has
lifted the sterling price of lead and cop-
per again, this time by £2O and £lO
a ton respectively as from the beginning
of April. The figure for zinc remains
unaltered. It is the seventh lift in base
metal prices since June, 1945, which sug-
gests that British control is buying at
world price levels, which today are
governed largely by the position in the
United States. Changes in London (sterl-
ing) metal prices have been as follows:
London Metal Prices.
Date Lead. Zinc. Copper.
Altered. £stg. £ stg. £ stg.
Aug., 1939 16 141 49-1-
Dec., 1939 .. .. 25 251 62
June, 1945 .. ..30 31* 62
Jan., 1946 .. ..39 31$ 62
April, 1946 ... .. 45 39$ . 72
July, 1946 ■.. ..55 49* 84
Nov., 1946 .. .. 55 55 98
Jan., 1947 .. ..70 70 117
Feb., 1947 .. ..70 70 127
April, 1947 .. ..90 70 137
Since 1939 the total increase in the ster-
ling price of lead has been £74 a ton, of
copper £B7 55., and of zinc £55 10s. In
Australia the Government has been able
to exploit the country’s strong position
as a producer of lead and zinc by keeping
the control screw at the discriminating
£A22-a-ton level for each of these
metals. To stimulate production and help
cushion the loss on imported metal, the
local price of copper was lifted, by halt-
ing steps, from £A63 17s. 6d. a ton at end
1939 to £AIOS a ton in May, 1942, and
then eased to £A9.5 a ton. The anoma-
lous position that now exists between Aus-
tralian fixed prices and the world market
value of metals as expressed by London
quotes is seen in the following compari-
son: —
Lead. Zinc. Copper.
London price .. £9of £7of £l37f
Aus. equivalent .. 1121 87$ 1711
Aus. fixed price .. 22f 22j 95*
t Sterling, delivered buyer. % F. 0.8. smelter.
* Ex works.
It is doubtful whether the £A22 now
covers cost of production, which is still
rising. It is plain, therefore, that ex-
ports provide the dividends paid by Aus-
tralia’s big lead and zinc producers, while
local consumers get both metals at an
artificially low figure. The whole ques-
tion of local metal prices is long overdue
for review. Appearances are that the
world shortage of lead is unlikely to be
overtaken within the next three or four
years. For zinc the bottleneck seems to
be smelting. Here shortages of fuel and
strikes have impeded treatment of con-
centrates, which are not cheap. The posi-
tion of copper is more difficult to judge.
Many consider ore reserves and plant
capacity equal to world needs, but again
strikes and other labor difficulties and the
fuel position have hindered output and
increased costs.
* * ♦ ♦
The Federal Treasurer came into the
market again on April .15 with the Third
Security Loan of £25,000,000 in bonds
and/or inscribed stock. The paper carries
interest at 2 p.c. for two-year securities
and 3| p.c. for the 12-year currency.
The money is to be used for rehabilita-
tion, repatriation and other “war” pur-
poses, and for Commonwealth and State
public works. Two outstanding features
of the issue are (1) The low rate of
interest offered —it is one-eighth of one
per cent, less than long-dated issues have
carried since end 1940 —and (2) the com-
paratively small amount asked for, which
is also the lowest since end 1940. The
pressure of institutional and other funds
awaiting investment should ensure full
subscription before the loan closes on
May 7.
* * * •
At end March the Australasian Pet-
roleum Co,.’s oil bore at Kariava (New
Guinea) had reached a depth of 7654 ft.,
of which 724 ft. had been drilled during
the month. The plant, powered with four
Superior diesel engines, each of 310 h.p.,
cost about £200,000, and is capable of
drilling to a depth of 10,000 ft. Though
flow oil has not yet been met with,
geological indications strongly suggest
presence of the stuff somewhere in the
area being tested. Two more drilling out-
fits are on order for use in testing other
favorable structures. They will be lighter
and more easily transported than the
equipment at Kariava, and will be cap-
able of drilling to 5000 ft. and 7000 ft. re-
spectively. They are to be powered with
Patman diesels, and the total cost is
expected to be around £160,000. The
search for oil today is a speculative,
highly scientific and usually a very ex-
pensive business, sometimes involving the
sinking of several wells before success
is met with.


THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
\
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
-WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeja
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides '
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements . Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation,
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders §t., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart. ■
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he la list-
less, -won’t eat
or la out ol
sorta—be may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course a
of BAREO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAREO
Condition Powders and apply BAREO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
JSAREO lodine Dog Soap.
s
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN LOTION ....... 2/0
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
‘lkt
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England)
Uhe Union idanh offers a complete overseas
. ddhrough iti (tdranches and -Agents
all parti oj the world, information and
acililieS are available for handling all
transactions. dJhe Hjanager at any of the hanh S
branches will he pleased to discuss
problems relating to overseas trade.
Service.
of
*Us
5®
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
Glamorous Interlude
m
m
h
mm
,
FROM Aswan to Cairo the age-old course of the Nile penetrates
the very soul of Ancient Egypt. Along its banks stand awe-
inspiring monuments bearing Witness to the sple’ndour of a
bygone civiliiation. Luxor with its stately temples ; the Valley
of the Kings, Tutankhamen’s Tomb, Memphis, Sakkara, Giza
the Pyramids ! And finally, Cairo, that city of delightful contra-
dictions. Here especially does the sophistication of today mingle
with the strange history of the past, for the brilliant season
presents a round of social gaiety including music, dancing, opera
and every attraction for the sportsman.
Egypt offers a glamorous interlude and everywhere a
courteous, friendly welcome —to those on their way to
Europe. Her luxury hotels are world-famous, and there is
no lack of first-class pensions. The climate is delightfully
exhilarating. Travel facilities are up-to-date. Many clubs
admit temporary members.
Special Tourist Visas obtainable in the British Common-
wealth and Empire. Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
i '
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
TIM?
M
%
w
a
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and Incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your solo Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Lee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. K. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIM 1 T E P
7 BRIDGE STREET.
PHONE:' 5901.
SYDNEY
Box 543 G.P.O.* Sy*MT.
BP tit.
The Female Labor Problem
Like most other traders, manufacturers
of clothing, hosiery and knitted wear have
the overflowing order books that go with
a sellers’ market. And they have the
plant to cope with the demand, too. Yet
they are unable to deliver the goods. An
acute shortage of juvenile labor, especi-
ally female, has been a prominent factor
limiting output since war eroded. Another
has been the dislocation caused by indus-
trial stoppages. The labor problem is
particularly acute in the spinning section
of the mills. This mfeans that the supply
of yarn is limited to a volume far short
of the needs of the weaving and knitting
sections, which are therefore unable to
meet wholesale and retail orders in full.
The following table shows what has
happened—it sets out the age-groups of
male and female employees engaged in
manufacture of clothing, hosiery and
knitted wear throughout the Common-
wealth in June of 1939 and 1945 respec-
tively :
Males. Females.
June, June, June, June,
Age. 1939. 1945. 1939. 1945.
Under 16 . 1,443 842 8,313 5,155
16 to 21 .. 5,267 3,525 25,481 23,022
Adult .. 17,487 18,120 39,721 48,956
Total* . 24,197 22,487 73,515 77,133
* Excluding working proprietors.
Figures to bring the comparison up-to-
date are not available; but reports of
large manufacturers indicate that their
labor troubles have increased'since June,
1945. Females represent more than three-
quarters of the total labor force em-
ployed. In June, 1939, over 41 p.c. of
those on the payrolls were under the age
of 21 years. The proportion had dropped
to 33 p.c. six years later. The shrinkage
reflects a loss of 7960 juniors, which was
offset by a growth of 9868 in the number
of adults employed. Over the same period
the population to be clothed had in-
creased by some 400,000 persons.
Among the factors responsible for the
shortage of juvenile female labor are the
low birth-rate of the late ’twenties and early
’thirties, the raising of the school leav-
ing age in some States, and relinquish-
ment of factory employment for resump-
tion of home duties' following demobilisa-
tion of the forces. Also, continuance of
a sellers’ market for all classes of labor
has made it easy for young females to
get jobs, even at less pay, which appear
socially more attractive and are less
arduous than work in the mills.
It is difficult to say exactly when the
problem will be overcome. Indeed, it
might get worse before it gets better.
The average term of employment of a
female operative is about five years. On
the basis of the 1945 figures this means
that over 15,000 women are required to
enter the industries, mentioned each year
to replace normal wastage, without allow-
ing for any net expansion in female em-
ployment.
To help overcome the difficulty many
manufacturers have successfully set up
branch factories and workshops in coun-
try centres, thus drawing upon hitherto
untapped reservoirs of female labor. And
to some extent male is being substituted
for female and adult for junior labor.;
What effect this substitution will have
upon costs remains to be seen. The
difference in wage rates is now narro.wer
than it was pre-war; and other factors
besides crude wage rates enter into a
comparison of costs. These include a
higher absentee rate for women, owing
to illness and other causes, and the rate
of labor turnover already referred to.
The Government can help by providing
greater facilities for industrial technical
education, where preliminary interest and
training in skilled trades for women, such
as spinning and weaving, can be en-
gendered and received with the idea of
further development in the factories.
Immediate spending on new plant to
give Auckland the “most modern gas-
making facilities known to the indus-
try” will amount to more than £400,000.
On this development Auckland Gas Co.,
hardest-hit of Maoriland’s gas-producing
concerns by chronic coal shortages, bases
a forecast of better times in 1948. Be-
sides a main carbonising unit, the co. is
installing the latest in ancillary plant
from Britain —an electro-static detarrer
for instantaneous removal of all tar from
the gas stream, a static washer to re-
move ammonia, a mercury arc rectifier
to operate gasworks motors by electric
power, a wilton tar and chemical plant,
and latest coal and coke handling equip-
ment. Orders were placed in January,
1945, and new plant has been arriving
almost on schedule. The rejuvenation
programme is the mainspring of the co.'s
barrage to break down mounting costs.
Government subsidy handouts to the tune
of £32,000 took care of wage increases
last year, but other rises in outgo which
added up to £44,000 drew a grant of
only £17,000 from stabilisation moneys
under gas price-control.
* * * ♦
First interim ord, div. to be paid by
Foy and Gibson (Melb.) since the public
became interested dn May, 1946, is at the
unchanged rate of 6 p.c. p.a. For the
year to July, 1946, 6 p.c. was paid, of
which 3 p.c. was tax free. For the half-
year to January last, mill operations were
hampered by scarcity of labor and fuel,
and by industrial disputes. Still, produc-
tion was maintained at a satisfactory
level. In addition to its own stores and
mills, the co, has a controlling interest
in Foy and Gibson (W.A.) and in O.
Gilpin, Ltd., which operates 93 drapery
stores throughout Vic., N.S.W., S. Aus.
and Tasmania. Since Foy’s acquired
control of the Gilpin business, the A
7 p.c. pref. div. arrears have been paid,
and a first 3 p.c. on account of B 6 p.c.
pref. arrears was paid last month, leav-
ing approximately 4s. 9d. per share still
to come. The chairman thinks it will
be at least four years before Gilpin’s
ords. get anything.
9 * * *
In lifting its interim ord. div. from
5 p.c. to 6 p.c. for the half-year to Jan.
19, Robert Reid and Co., wholesale soft-
goods merchants, says payment is made
on the assumption that the increased
rate of turnover will continue for the re-
maining half of the year. In common
with most others in this type of business,
the co.’s gross profit rate continued to
decline through withdrawal of subsidies
and special price orders. For many lines
demand exceeded supply. Though output
of Australian mills can be expected to
increase as industrial conditions improve,
imports of cotton piece goods and rayons
are likely to remain restricted for some
time. Ord. shareholders, y/ho went-with-
out for the seven years to 1936, averaged
only 3.35 p.c. over the last decade ; 5 p.c.
was paid for the three years to 1946 from
profits averaging 18.98 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal. Turnover and prices are at the
highest level in the co.’s history ; but how
long they will remain at present levels
remains to be seen. The board’s policy
is to further strengthen reserves. No-
thing further has yet been heard of the
contemplated formation of a subsidiary
to handle freehold and other properties
connected with the organisation. If such
a course is decided upon, shareholders
are to be asked to contribute.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Greenhlde Bob”: When Shotgun
Mick came in off the first watch Monkey-
strap handed him a pannikin of tea and
asked him why they called him Shotgun,
seeing that he was the mildest-looking
and -behaving drovers’ cook in Queens-
land. “Well,” said Mick, “it was this
way, d’ye see. The horse bucked just as
Maria pulled the trigger of the first
barrel. She missfed me an’ shot her old
man. Then she let go the other barrel
an’ missed again.” “But who was
Maria?” I asked. “Well, it was this
way, y’ see,” Mick replied. “Me an’
Johnny Bogan had been on Hazard
Creek back country for a year,
livin’ mostly on jerked beef an’ Barcoo
rot. The rum at the pub was pretty vital,
an’ Maria wasn’t knockin’ back any
chances to git off of the shelf. So when
I told her I was a bit under the Weather
the night before, she went for the gun an’
her ol’ man. My horse wasn’t as fast as
theirs, so they cot me crossin’ the
Angelala. So they named me Shot-
gun Mick, an’ it stuck.”
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: • On district patrol we
landed on Mohur, a lonely island in the
Mandated Territory. The chief, who met
us, was accompanied by an old man
wearing a tattered tunic of the Boer War
and the medallion of the Bushmen’s Con-
tingent. “I drink public-house,” said the
old man. This cryptic announcement
called for explanation, Sarli (Charlie)
told of having been blackbirded by Bully
Hayes; of years in Queensland, where
he had the privilege of joining the cane-
cutters in the bar; of his young master’s
return from South Africa; and of his
being the recipient of young master's
tunic and medallion. “He always gets
a present from the white masters,”
whispered the chief. The old fellow’s
yarn was Worth a few sticks of tobacco.
• * * *
“D.R.H.”: Coming home the other
night I pulled out my glass-topped speci-
men box and invited the missus to “have
a look at this centipede.” She took one
look and recoiled across the verandah,
threatening me with dire things if the
brute were brought into the house. Now,
I had suggested that the animal was a
centipede but, against this, the missus
had seen me produce that box a score
of times recently and each time its inmate
had been a lizard. Moreover, she had
looked into the box so thoroughly be-
fore reacting that it took me a couple of
minutes to convince her that under the
glass was no bootmaker’s dream, but a
lizard. You see, almost every rotting log
round here provides a roof and a meal
for a nest of white ants which, in turn,
provide a meal for a large centipede.
The said Chilopod is a clear, light, golden-
brown with just a sinister hint of green,
and the rear edge of each of its segments
is barred with a narrow dark band. On
the day in question I’d lifted a slab of
wood and found beneath it the usual cen-
tipede and a lizard so exactly like it in
color that I hesitated for a moment to
grab the reptile with my hand. The small
saurian is the banded skink, Hinulia fas-
ciolata, a slim, quick relative of the old
sleepy lizard. He lives beneath logs and
gorges himself on white ants, small grubs,
moths and other minor beasties. His pro-
tective coloring—it must save his bacon
often when predatory birds are on the
job—was so perfect that I was inclined
to think the deception might be subjective
until I tried it on the missus.
» * * *
“Rhabdomantic”: Science, investigat-
ing the matter long ago, decided that the
dipping of the forked stick had nothing
to do with underground water, but ori-
ginated from the dowser’s own nervous
and muscular reactions. “G’snatcher”
(B. 12/3/’47) presses the right button
when he speaks of “instruct them (pupils)
in the correct holding.” That’s just the
point—the stick is held by both hands in
such a manner as to impose both mus-
cular and nervous strain on the wrists and
forearms. This, in some persons, develops
an involuntary twitch —and so the stick
drops downwards. Many persons have
such twitchings even without imposing
strain on nerves and muscles. I knew one
quite young man who, reaching for som e
object, would suddenly develop a twitch
and perhaps knock the object over. Re-
moval of septic tonsils eliminated such
twitchings. The real test for dowsing is
not on fertile country where underground
water can be found almost anywhere, but
on, say, the Great Victoria Desert. If a
dowsfer could cover a square mile of that
and have his forked stick not dip the
proof would be almost positive.
* * * *
“Dusty Gully”: After hoisting our
blueys over most of the State we felt
ready to take it easy for a couple of
“You beaut!”
months. We weren’t above contemplat-
ing a casual job or two to allow us to
live in the state of respectability de-
manded of and befitting a town of our
choice. The one we entered showed
signs of being peaceful and orderly, and
we had practically decided to look around
for a suitable camp when Harry’s eye
spotted the “Please, Don’t Expectorate”
notice. “That decides it,” he declared.
“We stay here.” “But why?” I asked.
“Haven’t y’ bin instructed often enough
before not t’ spit on the footpaths? Well,
this is the first one I seen that ses ‘please.’
Y’ can’t go wrong with people who take
the trouble t’ insult y’ as perlitely as
that.” The little town was right up to
Harry’s expectations.
0 * * *
“E. 2”: Dan set out to have a month’s
holiday in Melbourne, but was back in-
side the week. “It’s the meat famine,”
he said. “I was stayin’ at me sister’s,
an’ she knows a joker who gits them
plenty o’ rabbits. She ses, ‘Well, I s’pose
you’re used t’ rabbit, Dan. It’ll make
y’ feel at home.’ That set me thinkin’.
I might jist as well be home diggin’ the
pests out o’ burrers on me place as down
there diggin’ ’em out o’ the stew.”
* * * *
“Simon”: Years ago fox-terrier fighting
was held to, be a “sport,” and the game
little dogs put up some marvellous tussles
in which quitting never figured. When
they got a holt'they held, but they were
fair holts. On a very rare occasion you
could find a foxy that would fasten to
his adversary’s foot or leg and then he
was a sure winner. Strange that crafty
and intelligent fighters amongst other
animals never work out a bit of ring
generalship like that.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Old Charlie was a bit of a
character to camp with, so Ben, going
with him on a fencing job, took a careful
inventory. Ben had three glass cups
to Charlie’s one and, as they were all of
the same pattern, he figured that Charlie
would claim as his the last one to remain
unbroken. So, in case of accident that
might otherwise reduce him to drinking
from a jam-tin, Ben unravelled a length
of wool from his cardigan and wound a
couple of turns on the handle of each
of his own. Charlie regarded him sus-
piciously ; and next evening Charlie’s cup
was decorated similarly. “What did y’
do that for?” inquired Ben. “Well, I seen
y’ markin’ yours,” Charlie replied.
“Hardly fair havin’ yours branded an’
mine a cleanskin. Gripes, the way things
are here a man’s got t’ be sure he knows
what’s his own! ”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”; The emu-apple con-
troversy (B. 5/3/’47) recalls that a simi-
lar argument has raged for years
throughout the Australian wheatbelt,
where it is widely held that the sandal-
wood-trees’ nuts require a trip through
the emu’s digestive tract as a prelude to
germination. I’m neutral myself. But in
emu-denuded districts I’ve never seen a
young sandalwood-tree.
0 * * •
“Horseless Horseman”: Mention of
peacocks thriving on bleak stormlashed
Hummock Island, Bass Strait (B.
19/3/’47), recalls it is also the best pad-
dock X know for domestic turkeys-gone-
wild. Half a dozen or so of these birds
that were deserted there five years ago
have bred up so strongly that last Christ-
mas a party from Whitemark—Flinders
Island’s little capital, some 12 miles away
—went over and shot 70 birds. As well,
the crew of every coaster weatherbound
at the island’s anchorage helps himself
to a turkey or two, as feeding among the
gr&ssy hummocks they are all mud-fat.
The, ’birds’ ancestors were left on an
ocean-fenced six-miles-long sheep-and-
cattle run when Frank Jackson and his
family shifted to Flinders after 20 years’
residence. What beats me, though, is
how the turkeys breed, with snakes so
abundant. Except for the islands of the
Hogan and New Year groups, there are
more longtails on Hummock than any-
where I know. Ashore there washing
clothes at a well once, my mate and my-
self killed 26 copperheads in an afternoon.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Spieler, a brindle grey-
hound whom nobody loved, and Tot, a
small yellow dog of doubtful ancestry
and ownership, were inseparable com-
panions in peace and war. They battled
around our district, taking tucker where
it occurred, playfully ganging up on
pampered pets of their own kind and
skilfully avoiding disputes with dogs that
would stand no nonsense. Their favorite
ruse was for Tot to appear at somebody’s
front gate and hurl insults and challenge
at the household dog, which promptly
rushed at the gate and made awful
threats. This, naturally, drew every loose
dog in the vicinity, and, when all of them
were congregated by that front gate and
the householder came forth to stop the
row. Spieler slid over the back fence,
silently acquired a chook or anything eat-
able that was accessible and vanished.
Presently, while the excitement in the
street died down, the pair would lunch in
some quiet place. Then somebody wrote
nastily to the council about the preva-
lence of stray dogs, and forth there issued
the nuisance inspector, armed for canine
destruction, driving his old touring car.
After some minor carnage the inspector
shot at a brindle rear disappearing be-
hind a shop, left the car and chased it.
But Spieler and his yellow mate had dis-
appeared. Having cleared up the town,
the inspector drove out along the high-
ways and byways, combed the surround-
ing villages and at dusk returned home.
Just as he was about to shut the garage
doors on his vehicle a long lean shape and
a short dumpy shape shot from the rear
seat and fled into the darkness. It ought
to end there, but a respect for history
compels me to say that next evening
Spieler was shot in a lane and Tot, after
howling up in the scrub most of the night,
was never heard or seen again in our
district.
“Notaden”**. Queensland’s luckiest dog
to date is a month-old blue cattle pup.
Trying to cross a six-inch bore-hole in
process of being sunk at Kingaroy his
back legs failed to connect and he fell
80ft. to the bottom. Had it been rock
or even hard earth he could not have sur-
vived, but the earth bottom had just been
watered for the next lift, and he landed
on soft mud, though not soft enough to
submerge him. Whimpers from below
brought the wellborer’s mirror into action,
the earth-socket was dropped, and after
a couple of attempts came up full of mud
with a nose and one ear sticking out. A
minute later an excited and quite un-
damaged pup was licking his rescuer’s
hands.
* * * *
“Zake”: The camp-mate who rolls on
to his back in the sma’ hours and pro-
ceeds to hack the welkin with double-
bass snore with trimmings can be silenced
without jerking him into hostile wake-
fulness. An ex-shearer showed us how,
when one night the latest comer to our
army tent began working his bugle over-
time with some fancy noises on the side.
Someone was about to heave a steel-
studded trilby at the offender in the
fitful light of a match when the shearer
said “Hold it!” He then proceeded to
whistle in unison with the snorer and
in the same key. After about half a
dozen whistles the snorer emitted a sigh
that seemed to start from down around
his ankles, got on to his side and the
roarings ceased. I saw that shearer suc-
cessfully work the same thing with several
men, and in no case was the snorer, when
questioned next day, aware of the whistle.
* * * *
“Betcha”: “Johnny” (B. 19/3/’47)
claims that animals deprived of salt “will
continue in apparently good health for
a time, but eventually they fall away, and
deaths will occur if salt is not given ’
How, then, can one account for the fol-
lowing? Twenty years ago, it was the
accepted practice in our East Gippsland
(Vic.) district to feed salt to sheep.
Troughs were in every paddock, sales-
talk plentiful, and salt or a salt-lick con-
sidered one of the essentials. Then came
a newchum who settled in, bought a
thousand jumbucks and began to breed
up. No salt was ever given, and the only
water for stock was rainwater stored in
dams. Watching the new settler’s pro-
gress, and admiring his healthy stock that
often topped not only local but occasion-
ally Newmarket sales, the neighbors
began using salt less seriously. The news
spread, and the salt-licks dwindled Ot
late years, the district owner that feeds
salt to his jumbucks is rare, yet the
locality is noted for quality in the many
thousands of sheep that is its annual out-
put.
* * * f •
“Mat’s Mate”: We were making for
the Workers’ Club in Mildura one Satur-
day afternoon, and stopped to watch a
couple of blokes having a dust-up in a
lane. The fight was a pretty fierce affair,
and about a score of onlookers had
gathered when a fairly substantial woman
came by carrying a baby. She stopped,
looked and, shoving the infant into Mat s
arms, cried “Here, hold me kid. That s
me old man in the brawl.” Mat stood
there, stricken, while the mother shoved
through the crowd, grabbed one of the
gladiators and dragged him forth.
“Thanks, mister,” she said, retrieving the
child, then with child and husband moved
off. Mat stood among the breaking
crowd watching her go. Then, feelingly,
“Well, by cripes, that’s marriage for y.
Man couldn’t even have a stoush m
peace!” And, brooding over the enormity
of it he led me in search of refreshment.
’** , * *
“Bray Rock”: The Commonwealth
Fisheries School’s new trawler, H. C.
Dannevig, perpetuates a name long and
worthily honored in Australian marine
research. Appointed by the Common-
wealth Government in 1907 as Director
of Fisheries, H. C. Dannevig carried out
for five years an extensive series of ob-
servations in the specially-designed
Federal investigation ship Endeavour.
These revealed for the first time the irn*
mense extent and value of commercial
fisheries adjacent to or within practicable
access from Australia. Specimens thus
obtained are still on view in Australian
museums and the Commonwealth Fishery
Museum. On December 3, 1914, the En-
deavour sailed from Macquarie Island
for Hobart and was never seen again, nor
was any trace of thq vessel or her com-
pany ever found during weeks of con-
tinuous search of those lonely waters by
two Government-chartered vessels.
CALL OF THE ROADS.
One day when but a village lad, my native bush
With 1 Caldwell of the Mounted Force I rode
to Duckmaloi. , . „ , .
And on that road to Duckmaloi, from bush
and creek and dust,
My country laid a charm on me, the spell ot
wanderlust. ,
On cloudless nights I’ve watched bright stars
burn o’er the open plain,
I saw the karri forests tall, the jungles sleek
with rain, ,
The mountains mantled dark with pines, me
mountains white with snow,
Long sluggish rivers turning west, swift streams
that eastward flow.
I’ve seen fierce Central suns decline, to cast a
glamor strange ,
Of purple, rose and violet upon the Flinders
Range.
I’ve listened to the Asian songs a northern
monsoon drew
Beside the steamy Adelaide from screw-palms
and bamboo.
The road that runs from Loltus-street to
Busselton and Broome
When I was choked, constrained and cramped
brought air and elbow-room;
The track that turns from Bossley Park to
Townsville, once-a-day,
Intrigued my roving waggon wheels and rolled
my cares away.
The world will be for ever wide, wild geese I
know are we
Who hear the calling of the Roads to open
spaces free;
The voice I heard at Duckmaloi still lures me
with its song—
Bear witness, you wild bridle tracks of
Croajingalong! '
VICTORIA.
E. J. Brady.


* “Flathead”: Darby Valley is a bucket-
shaped depression with walls so steep
that flies are frequently reported to be
seen climbing up them roped together
with strands of cotton like mountaineer-
ing teams. At the bottom of the valley is
a pub where sleeper-cutters come from
the surrounding hills. Lately the font
has - become the setting-out point of
hikers up for a week-end from the city,
and one who came in recently was the
last word in de luxe bluey-humpers.
Blankets, sleeping-bag, frying-pan, billy,
primus, water-bottle, mossie-tent—he had
them all. He entered the pub, backed up
to the counter and walked away leaving
a pile like Vesuvius. Harry winked at
us and sidled up to the newcomer.
“Coin’ hikin’, mate?” “Yes,” “Have ya
got a map and compass?” The bloke
produced them from his hip pocket.
Harry went on: “How about a pack of
cards?” “No —what the devil would I
want them for?” “Ar, they’re darned
handy if ya get lost. All ya have to do
is sit down, take out the pack and set
yourself up a game of patience. Next
thing ya know some goat’ll come up be-
hind ya and start tellin’ ya what card to
play next.”,
* * * *
“Bob H.”: If “D.R.H.” thinks that the
mole cricket is “a perfectly harmless citi-
zen” (B. 5/3/’47) let him try to grow
seedlings in Perth sand in the warm
weather. , Not that Gryllotalpa is a
serious menace to established plants—
his occasional sampling of potatoes and
suchlike may be forgiven. But his mad-
dening habit of uprooting seeds just after
they have sprouted earns him the bitter
hatred of all good gardeners. Let
“D.R.H.” waste good booze on the under-
ground nuisances if he will: I’m going to
keep right on gassing the blighters with
carbon bisulphide. /
* * * *
“Bo”; McCaffrey was busy with the
strainer on the corner post of his road-
side fence when a footfall made him look
up. The small, spare man with the swag
Don't get him too close to you—you know you've got a cold."
■ho could have been anything from 50
10 70 had a face the color and texture of
d pelt that’s been hung on the fence for
d year. He was dressed in vivid blue
jtenims, a singlet, an ancient, double-
reasted, satin-edged dress waistcoat, a
' oa t which was big enough to serve also
as an overcoat and a moss-encrusted
eggboiler which only his waterwing ears
prevented from falling over his faded
blue eyes. As he stopped and looked
quizzically at McCaffrey he said in a
lugubrious voice “Y’ wouldn’t ’ave a job
for a man be any charnce now, I s’pose.
No, o’ course” without waiting for
the other to speak. “Well, in that case
I don’t s’pose y’ll ’ave one nex’ week, or
nex’ month f’r that matter. Well, seein’
y’ ’aven’t I better be gittin’ along. Map
can’t waste ’is time ’angin’ round.” He
hitched his swag, adjusted tucker-bag and
billy and had resumed his shuffling gait
up the road before the astonished ■ Mc-
Caffrey could find his tongue. “Hey!”
he called to the departing figure. “I
can do with someone for a day or two
to” The venerable one glanced back
over his shoulder as he kept on, and his
high-pitched voice was full of scorn as
he said. “You bleedin’ cockies is all
the same. Y’ ’urn an’ ’ar about things
too much. Trouble is, y’ can’t make up
y’r minds. W’en I strike a cove ’oo takes
me offer as if ’e meant it, I’ll drag on
a job, but not before!”
» * ♦ ♦
“Atrax”: When I showed him
“Betcha’s” enthusiastic advocacy of ring-
barking and “cleaning up” every tree
within sight as a sure and certain method
of preventing erosion (B. 19/3/’47) Billo
sighed heavily. “That’s the sort of (de-
leted by censor) that’ll be the ruin of this
country,” said he. “Come and take a
squiz at what one of those same (more
deletions) did to the back paddock while
I was away attending to the Japs.” As
we topped the ridge and looked down on
the devastated rocky slope and silted
muddy creek that five years previously
had been nearly ten acres of first-rate
grazing paddock, with two lines of fine
shade-trees running across it at the top
and halfway down, deep shaded pools in
the creek below, the change since I had
last seen it seemed unbelievable, “That’s
what Ted did while he was supposed to
be looking after it for me,” said Billo.
“Reckoned the trees took up too much
room. Thought he was doing me a good
turn by getting twenty quid from the mill
for them. Next big wet that came along
did most of that. Next one finished the
job. If I had my way silly (lots more
censor) like that would be bunged into
clink till they learned sense.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: The little bloke was spread
untidily across the front of the bar when
Hefty strolled in and looked round in-
quiringly. “Where’s Bung?” he began.
“Eh?” the little cove countered. “I said
‘Where’s Bung?’ ” “Gone down the cellar.
Won’t be long.” “ ’S’e got any whisky?”
“Eh?” “Has ’e got any whisky?”
“Dunno ; but he’s got plenty else.” “What
sort? Any beer?” “Eh?” “Any beer?”
“Yair.” Hefty propped himself on the
bar. “Must ’a’ got ’is quota,” he said
genially. “Eh?” Hefty repeated the re-
mark. “When’d it come?” he went on.
“I said ‘When’d it come?’ ” “Eh?” Hefty
scowled ominously. “Stranger round
here, ain’t y’?” he inquired presently.
“Eh?” Hefty’s eyes narrowed, and his
voice dropped shrewdly to a whisper as
he took in the other. “See here, mate,
are you deaf?” he murmured almost in-
audibly, “or d’ y’ want a flamin’ sock
on the jaw?” The little bloke snatched
a dismayed glance at Hefty’s muscles and
backed off. “Y-yair,” he screeched
earnestly. “That’s right. Honest, I’m as
deaf as a gate-post.”
“Propalong”; There were a few rats
about at Long Jack’s place, and he de-
cided to make a trap. After breakfast he
went out to the shed and began a dusty
hunt for some suitable boards. At last he
found what he wanted and sawed out the
required lengths. Next he wanted a bit
of light stuff to make a run for the slid-
ing door. A profane search being unsuc-
cessful, he set to and cut down a piece of
board to the right sizes—a lengthy busi-
ness. Finally he cut out and finished off
the door. By the time that was done and
balanced and the trap boards nailed to-
gether his missus was calling him to
dinner. After dinner he spent an hour
“Swamp it up quick and get back to Sister”
digging like a terrier in every scrapheap
on the place for a bit of screen-wire for
the rear end. That unearthed, cut out
and tacked on, he wanted a cottonreel to
act as a bush for the revolving trigger.
An hour later the missus hunted him out
of the house and he sat down in the shed
to wind the thread from a stolen reel of
cotton on to a bit of wood. Then he
went back to the scrapheaps to look for
a bit of heavy, soft-iron wire that
wouldn’t laminate when bent. The wire
when found had to be tapped into a very
exact shape on the anvil, a hole bored in
the top of the trap and the trigger-wire
inserted and hooked. After that there
was only the matter of rigging the door
and trigger with string and going into
tea at sunset. A couple of days later
Johnson out at Three Oaks wanted Jack
to come out for a few days’ burr-cutting.
“Awright, then,” the long bloke agreed,
“but me time’s worth a quid a day, y’
know.” <
* * * *
“Solitude”: I met Seventyfiver and his
mob of bailies 20 miles up the old Sel-
dom-Seen track. “The old man’s changed
his mind about leaving this bunch here,”
I told him. “Wants you to shove ’em on
to the run over the other side. It’ll only
take you another two days.” He nodded,
agreeably. “Awright.” Then, a bit later,
“Hey, Sol, y’ didn’t bring any tucker, did
y’?” “No. Thought you’d have plenty.
Why?” He shrugged. “Mine ’ll cut out
t’night,” came his drawl, “but don’t
matter.' I’ll manage.” His eyes roamed
over the cattle ; then, as a sudden thought
struck him, he s\yung round protestingly.
“Two days!” he gasped. “Without a
thing t’ eat! Aw, cut it out, Sol, y’
know that’s a starvation strip o’ country
t’ get through. Ain’t a rabbit or possum
nowhere. Not even a flamin’ lizard that’s
eatable.” He scowled accusingly at the
slopes ahead. “No,” he decided, “it’s
too much to expect. I bin whackin’ me
grub with him these last coupla days, but
now it’s done, an’, cripes, I can’t ask old
Blue t’ work cattle in that belt f’r two
days without a bit t’ eat.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Obviously “John Dory”
(B. 19 /3 / ’47) knows sharks and their
habits ; but apparently he knows little of
the vagaries of that other queer fish the
surfer. Both surfer and lifesaver are
aware that a shark could leave the com-
paratively clumsy surfboat behind if it
wanted to; that is why the boat is put
out —a shark driven out to sea is a
menace removed. But often the monster
prefers to cruise around in the hope of
picking up a succulent surfer, its grey
form visible whenever a wave “stands
up.” It’s then the harpoon provides a
little moral persuasion. Pouring fish
blood on the water as hurley is an ex-
cellent idea from a fisherman’s point of
view, but from the surfer’s angle it is
suicidal. Men who have studied the sub-
ject claim that sharks will always return
to a place where they have attacked a
victim or found food. In Georges River
(N.S.W.) a man and a young girl were
attacked on the same day, within a mile
of each other. The man died from shock
and loss of blood when his leg was torn
off ; the girl recovered—to go through life
without arms. The next week two local
men caught the monster lurking within
that mile of water.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Evolution must be
one of the slowest of Nature’s processes.
In one case it may be claimed almost to
have stopped. For aeons before man
knew the civilising influence of the fire-
stick male moths had responded to a
female mating call which, inaudible to
human ears, lay in the same range of fre-
quencies as the glow from camp fire,
wax taper or electric-light bulb ; an in-
genious arrangement which enabled the
female of the species to remain station-
ary, broadcasting her sex-appeal, while
the males furthered the? principles of
natural selection in a battle that was none
the less fierce for being bloodless, Came
the fire-stick and confusion. Male moths,
in a frenzy of desire/Tought for pro-
prietary rights of a flame, and immo-
lated themselves on man’s first crude
central-heating systems. Inevitably the
fittest —the fleetest of *wing and those
equipped with the most sensitive receiv-
ing apparatus—perished first. Out of the
myriads of wave-lengths available it is
unfortunate that the moths should have
chosen the one which was, later, to be
usurped by man as one of his vital neces-
sities ; but surely sufficient time has
elapsed for a creature with the ingenuity
to evolve such a call to have modified it
so as to bring it into a different metre-
band or to give it greater selectivity in its
own. That evolution has not moved in
this direction is the reason why a mix-
ture of molasses and phosphorus will
still lure to a sticky end the few moths
who fail to hurl themselves at a light
bulb and fall fluttering into your soup.
* * * m
“N. Sylvester”: As boundary rider
on a bep farm Harry Simms had
the job of yarding in wandering swarms,
his tool a chaff-bag, his modus to en-
velop the hanging swarm with the mouth
of the bag, then make one long sweep-
ing stroke with one edge of the mouth,
drawn taut after which it only re-
mained to twist the mouth of the bag
and carry the buzzing horde home. Also,
having a supreme contempt for bees he
on such occasions did not condescend to
wear a veil. Then came the day when
he discovered a truant swarm hanging
in an immense cluster from the bare
limb of a jarrah some distance from
home. Inspection showed that the limb
was a couple of feet beyond reach. How-
ever, in a corner of the paddock stood a
decrepit box manger. This gave the
necessary elevation, and with the swarm
encircled Simms poised to give the swift
stroke with the cutting edge. But just at
that moment the manger collapsed.
There were probably 40,000 bees in that
swarm and quite 20,000 rained down
on their would-be captor, bald and hat-
less. His theory that bees won’t sting
when swarming proved untenable.
* * * *
“Bill Bush”: The great disability that
sheoak labors under as a commercial
timber is the enormous waste in sawing,
.due primarily ta fire burns, which in turn
induce “shakes” and dry patches in the
grain that render it valueless. So to pro-
duce sheoak as a commercial timber
under any plan of reafforesfation it would
be necessary, to introduce some means of
guarding the young trees from fire. Like
the pine, the sheoak is a great shedder
of needles. The sapling, being largely of
a vertical growth like the poplar, tends
to shed these needles so that they accu-
mulate thickly and closely to the butt.
Thus, when the inevitable fire happens
along, the blazing pile produces a fur-
nace heat that seriously n damages the
young trunk. This may be followed year
after year by fires,, with the result that it
is uncommon in the sheoak forest to
find one tree that has escaped injury.
Oddly, too, the burnt faces will invariably
all face the same way, the direction from
which the afternoon wind blows. For
fires burn much more fiercely in the
afternoon; the forest in the forenoon
is always slightly damp from the
previous night’s dew, which by afternoon
is entirely dissipated. To ensure the
safety of a she-oak plantation it would
be necessary to keep all saplings clear of
accumulated needles.
COMPLAINT.
“I only want t’ grow a bit o’ wheat
On what I’ve earned —a snifter stretch of land.
The faller, since the rain, is soft and sweet;
Me elder boy is here t’ lend a hand.
One never had t’ worry much before;
The combine boxes loaded, off y’ went;
gut ever since we won the flamin’ war,
Y’ dassen’t move without some bloke’s con-
sent.
“I only want t’ grow a bit o’ wheat —
But, cripes, y’d think I done a deadly crime
The way these booroocrats turn on the heat
An’ want me application dead on time.
‘Sign here,’ it says, an’ quotes some Gov’ment
Act;
v ‘This space for office use,’ an’ ‘State your
age,’
An’ ‘state’ a lot of other things they’re
cracked!
I do me block an’ splutter in me rage.
“I only want t’ grow a bit o’ wheat —
An’ wheat throughout the world’s a howlin’
need.
The farm is mine; I’ve everything complete:
The plant, the toil, the super, and the seed;
So I’m the bloke that loses if she fails.
Y’d think ’twas theirs, the elbow-grease
an’ tin,
These Gov’ment chaps, t’ listen to their wails
Because some flamin’ form ain’t bin filled in.
“I only want t’ grow a bit o’ wheat—
T’ help t’ give some hungry mouths a feed.
These ‘documents’ has fairly got me beat;
They turn up like the bloomin’ rabbits breed.
It must be nice t’ have an office seat
An’ file a thousand forms in blue an’ red;
/ only want t’ grow a bit o’ wheat —
It looks as if I’ll have to loaf instead.”
N.S.W.
BEN CUBBIN.


TEAM UP a| u
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863)
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACCA, MOREE, HENTY AND HAY
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
GREVE ROE. Poetry by Victor Daley. Edited by Muir Holburn and
Marjorie Pizer, with foreword by E, J. Brady; drawings by Roderick
. Shaw. 10/6 (post. 4d.).
CENSORED. By Brian Penton. A true account of a notable fight for your
right to read and know, with comment upon the plague of censor-
ship in general. 6/6 (post. 4d.).
PARLIAMENT AND HOW IT WORKS. By John E. Edwards. Foreword
by Senator The Hon. Gordon Brown. 1/6 (post. 2d.).
THE GETTING OF WISDOM. By Henry Handel Richardson. (Australian
Pocket Library). 2/6 (post. 3d.).
MY ODESSEY SOUTH SEAS ADVENTURES. By Jack McLaren. (Aus-
tralian Pocket Library). s 2/- (post. 3d.).
DUST OF NINEVEH. A novel by Mary Kent Hughes, author of “Matilda
Waltzes with the Tommies.” 8/6 (post. 4d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Cast!ereagh Street, Sydney
MA 6511.
r
J
(Regd.)
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
WEIGHT
APPROX.
4i TONS
The “MARS” Heavy Duly
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to •
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS machine
TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.
sd
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
nt c frihniinti Aoents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty.,
Ltd VICTORIA —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick,
Melbourne. Q’LAND —Intercolonial Boring Co., lAd., Brisbane.
\V A —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. T ASMANIA
Oharies Davies, Ltd., -Hebert. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland CALCUTTA—Ross'tteil & Sons, Chownnghee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE —R. S. Mehta & Co. Ltd Port Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI —The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q’LAND OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
THE MAN ON THE LAND \
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle at Sydney Show.
“Bulago”: Strong evidence of the
growing popularity of Polled Herefords
and Shorthorns comes from a comparison
of this (year’s Sydney entries with those
of 1941.' In that year Polled Shorthorn
entries were 37 and Polled Herefords 28 ;
this year they were 92 and 84 respectively.
In the six years the advance in quality
has been even greater. These breeds have
still a long way to go/before they can
meet their horned brethren on equal
terras, but every year there’s a gradual
narrowing of the gap. Tops were very
good this year, but they emphasised the
the falling away in classes which had
a considerable tail.
In the Polled Shorthorns colors were
occasionally weak and washy. Klany
animals were poorly balanced. If they
had been as good in the hindquarters as
they were forward of the girth the judge
would have had a more difficult task.
Exhibitors included a new recruit, Merry-
ville Pty., Ltd., in both-Polled Shorthorns
and Herefords. Champion and junior
champion bulls were both whites, bred
by E. L. Killen. ((Champion Antrim Hail-
storm by a U.S.A. bull is rising three
years and a splendid specimen—wide,
deep and well-fleshed.
J. T. Scrymgeour (Q.) bred the reserve
champion bull and res. jun. champion,
both sired by a Nether by bull, whence
came the champion polled cow, a pleas-
ing roan by a horned Coonong bull from
a polled cow. A Wfendouree heifer won
reserve and also female junior champion-
ship, while the res. junior went to a roan
heifer from Gunnawarra.
Polled Herefords attracted several new
competitors and the judging was fol-
lowed keenly. Most of the tops were by
imported bulls and their quality was re-
markably good. The Milton polls main-
tained their customary lead —five of the
eight championships. Milton Freddie M,
open and junior tricolors, is low set and
deep, with a, beautiful head and classic
top and underlines.
Many of the breeders have had a diffi-
cult year with drought and bushfires, and
they deserve all credit for.the&way they
prepared their cattle. Cudgeena, Inver-
nisk and 7 Heathfleld won the remaining
championships.
Beef Cattle Sales.
“Bulago”: Except on odd occasions
bidding at the beef-cattle auctions lacked
spirit, and in rfiost breeds prices were
lower than breeders expected. Many
cattle were passed in, some of the tops at
figures that would have enhanced stud
averages had they been acceptable.
.Herefords were the only breed to make
sales at four figures. Sales were spread
over four days, and were well attended ;
seating. accommodation round the ring
was unable to cope with the crowd at
times. Aberdeen Angus were sold- first,
and the success of the sale was due en-
tirely to demand from Victoria. Many
animals were passed in, but a fair pro-
portion Was sold later by private treaty.
Kahlua cattle met a ready demand, and
obtained top price at auction—4sogns.
for a bull purchased by Werribee (Vic.).
A Wallah bull went to Bald Blair at
420gns., the next-best price. The best of
the Booroomookas were passed in, but
four were sold at auction at an average
of just over 200gns.
Bidding for Polled Shorthorns was
patchy. After a poor start the market
brightened when Jack Parker, of Old
Canowie (S.A.), paid 800gns. for the Show
champion—Antrim's white bull Hail-
storm. Then from the sister Stud Armagh
Scarlet Pimpernel realised 500gns., and
a bull from Albinia went to a W-A. buyer
“Half a turn on the middle C, Dan.”
for 425gns. These were th* only high-
lights of the sale; many bulls, including
all of the Netherbys, being passed in. The
females met with a better demand.
Some fair prices were obtained for
Shorthorns. Coonong had the best clear-
ance of nine bulls, including prices of
600, 500 and 400gns. Woomargama’s
Show champion bull brought top price of
800gns. and went to Werribee State farm
(Vic.). In turn, Woomarghma paid
500gns. for a stylish red bull, unplaced at
the Show, from the Victorian breeders
Lithgow and Ross. Second-best price was
700gns. for Borambola Air-Marshal, a
very nice red bull with a double infusion
of Calrossie Red Baronet blood. Of the
Shorthorn females only four changed
hands at three-figure* bid's, the top being
260gns. for a roan Coonong heifer.
Polled Hereford bulls offered were of
mixed quality, and newer studs fared
badly. Cudgeena Mogul, reserve cham-
pion, brought top price of 360gns., and
the Invernisk bulls met a fair demand.
There wasi a better market for the
females, however, particularly for the
Miltons. Lady Puma, junior champion
heifer, made top price of 475gns. and
others from this stud brought 335, 270
and 190gns.
Herefords opened quietly, and consign-
ments from some of the well-known studs
were not up to usual quality, probably
owing to drought. About halfway through
the sale things began to sparkle when
Werribee paid 750gns.’ for Myra Wonder.
Then 400gns. was reached for a Hobart-
ville bull, and again for one from Her-
bert Park. When the Golf Hill cattle
entered the ring buyers began to sit up
and take notice. Golf Hill Bucephalus,
junior res, champion, brought the record
price of 2350gns. for a Sydney Show
auction after a spirited duel between J.
N. Laurie, of Gloucester, and the Werri-
bee buyer. Both sire and dam of this
bull are imported. He went to Rawdon
Vale, and Werribee then went on to pay
1850gns. for Golf Hill Brigadier. These
were the two outstanding prices of the
sales. J. N. Laurie also paid top price of
430gns. among the Hereford females for
Windsor Virginia 11th. The Golf Hill
heifers averaged good figures.
Devons sold well, top price of 325gns.
being made by Havilah. Red Polls met
a patchy demand, but prices were fairly
satisfactory.
Illawarras at Sydney.
“Darbalara”: After six years’ absence
from Sydney, A.I.S. enthusiasts made up
for lost ground this year. Their 251
entries was highest in the dairy-cattle
section, and no other judging ring at the
Show held so many keen spectators. H.
Dudgeon and Sons’ Parkview cattle
gained a memorable victory through sheer
merit. Parkview has long been a name
to conjure with in A.I.S. circles and they
uphold their reputation in no uncertain
fashion. Parkview Minnie and Rose 7th,
winners of the female championships,
led the team and showed Sydney a degree
of quality and udder development that
have to be seen to be believed.
Alne Bank cattle fared very well, par-
ticularly on the male side. One of the
most interesting classes was that for bulls
over four years. It included a number
of country show champions that have
been see-sawing for top honors for some
years ; on this occasion the judge had
no hesitation in awarding first and second
ribbons to two Chittick bulls—Alne Bank
Glen and Anniversary. Other competi-
tors who scored well included Tabba-
gong, Lemon Grove and Riverview, but
the bulk of the ribbons went to the
N.S.W. South Coast.
At the sales following the judging the
cattle were of varying quality. Many
of the young bulls were definitely poor,
and although on paper the prices realised
seem low they were not cheap bulls.
Buyers Were disinclined to pay stud prices
for animals that were definitely not up
to standard and as a result many were
passed in. A number of better-class
animals failed to sell, as their breeders
would not meet the market. A two-year-
old Dudgeon bull, Parkview Celebration,
blue-ribbon winner at the Show, was
easily the choicest animal sold and
brought top price of 146 guineas. An
Alne Bank heifer changed hands at 100
guineas.
Bungulla Wheat.
“Milton”: The flourmillers of W.A.
donated £495 as prizemoney for a 50-acre
wheat crop competition in seven zones
within the State The millers having in
view' the gluten strength of the flour, 30
points was allotted to those wheats which
showed a strength of 10 minutes or more
by the farinograph, the test being the*
time the dough will stand up to the action
of the beaters before its structure breaks
down; a breakdown in under four
minutes debarred an entry.
Thirty-three farmers competed and 22
chose the new wheat, Bungulla, a W.A.
selection from the W.A.-bred Bencubbin,
the most widely grown wheat in Aus-
tralia.
Bungulla won first prize in six out of
the seven zones as well as lesser awards;
its very earliness and high yielding re-
commend it for light-rainfall areas.
The 33 plots, totalling 1650 acres,
averagfed a little over 26 bushels per acre,
the highest yield being 40 bushels per
acre. The competition is on again this
time.
Sugar Prospects.
“Plane Creek”: There won’t be much
sugar produced by Mackay (Q.) district’s
seven mills in the coming season (B.
19/3/’47). Mackay had a continuous
drought from the second week of March,
1946, until the first week of February,
1947. It prevented canegrowers from
making normal plantings for the 1947
season, and also stopped ratoon crops
from coming away after the 1946 harvest,
which was a darned poor one.
Not many growers will have any cane
left for milling after they’ve planted up
again ; some poor devils haven’t a stick
of cane standing on their farms. There’s
talk of getting caneplants from Ayr to
enable these heavy losers to re-plant their
farms, but railway freights will be high,
unless the State Government decides to
waive the freights, this being election
year.
Blasting with Gelignite.
“Goldie”: For excavations in rock or
very hard earth, blowing out postholes
in rock, clearing outcrops and large


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
X
m
(P
itj
17
r 2
m
h
Hi
«
M
m
\ps
Sn
wholesome
most
the
Wine
of
beverages
hygienic
LOUIS PASTEUR
Pasteur's labours and discoveries in the realms
of health and hygiene made undying history.
From knowledge came his tribute to good
wine, and from his knowledge came
methods to improve wine to the excellence
achieved today in Tintara Gold Label Port,
Gold Label Muscatel, Amontillado Sherry,
Old Castle Riesling and Cabinet Claret,
the Tintara Sparkling Wines—Cham-
pagne, Hock, Moselle and Burgundy—
and Tintara Old Brandy.
/ often wonder what the Vintners buy
One half so precious as the goods they sell.
—Omar Khayyam.
R & Me
THBG
CHEFS EVERYWHERE USE LEAPERRINS
tAsk tjoub jfaut jpi
f
f
\&2
mm.
SB
%
U* Sauce with a
LYSACHTS
,4,r
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
WM
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■jm
ESfsTABLISHED 1884
Barbdfed Wire
Zinc Osxide
QUALITY, GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Cos. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYS AGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
floating boulders, the skilful use of gelig-
nite is a big asset. Augers for earth or
soft rock, chisel-bitted drill steels for
harder rocks, are the boring tools, and
the best work may be expected from
holes just slightly larger in diameter than
the gelignite plugs used. Placement and
depth of holes and the amount of charge
needed can be determined only by ex-
perience, but for general surface work
the charges are best laid in the core of
the obstruction.
To make up a charge, cut off the re-
quired length of fuse squarely with a
sharp knife. Fuse burns at the rate of
a foot a minute, and a fair margin should
be allowed for the operator to reach a
spot safe from flying debris. Shake the
’ sawdust from the detonator, slip it on
the fuse as far as the composition in the
business end and crimp the other firmly
to the fuse with pliers. Then push the
detonator into a half-plug of gelignite,
after making a hole with a large nail.
This is the primer for exploding the main
charge.
Bore the hole to the required depth
and tamp the gelignite .in firmly, using
a wooden rod; then push the primer
down to the charge and proceed to fill
up the hole with damp clay or wads of
paper. Tamp loosely for the first six
inches and ram the remainder solidly.
The fuse may be spitted on the projecting
end with a very small bit of geli. for
easy lighting. Safety precautions must be
followed at all times when handling ex-
plosives. The stuff should be locked
up when not required and not left in a
makeshift hiding place where kids are
apt to wander. Misfires should be deton-
ated by placing a parallel charge a few
inches away. When firing in the open it’s
best to get well away from the scene and
use whatever protection is afforded.
Allow a safe period to pass before in-
vestigating misfires.
Churnless Butter.
“Agric”: The Caboolture (Q.) butter
factory has been tentatively chosen by
the Australian Dairy Produce Board for
experimental work with the churnless
butter machines to arrive in Australia to-
wards the end of April. These machines
treat milk direct, and therefore it is
necessary to have them where milk in
bulk is readily available. The machines
will revolutionise the dairying industry
if the tests prove successful.
Hints for the Farm.
“West”; To treat scabby mouth in
sheep remove scabs and wash affected
areas with a 1 p.c. solution of lysol. Then
apply the following ointment: cresol five
parts, sulphur 10 parts, vaseline (or lard)
100 parts. Repeat treatment three or
four times a week. Affected animals
should be isolated for at least a fortnight
after recovery.
“0.M.”: Carefulness when storing
seeds of tomatoes, beans, peas, pump-
kins, carrots and parsnips always pays.
Cover the seeds after they have dried
thoroughly with naphthalene or tobacco
dust to kill off pests, and then place them
in jars of dark glass with a label showing
date of packing and variety.
“Rupite”; At this season large quan-
tities of salt are being used to destroy
hoarycress in the Rupanyup and Murtoa
districts of Victoria. It is necessary to
keep all stock out of paddocks when
treating the weed to prevent them eating
the salt. Apply the salt freely to the
cress. Then if light rain comes the salt
will dissolve and soak down to the roots
of the plant. I have used salt in this way
with great success, and land thus treated
comes back to productivity in three years
time.
“Sarina”: Mackay (N.Q.) cane-growers
are taking on nicotine production as a
sideline. Used in the preparation of nico-
tine sulphate, used by market-gardeners
to combat cabbage aphis, it is obtained
from a plant called Nicotinia rusticans.
This plant the farmers are trying to
grow. Drug Houses have promised to buy
the crops when available at a fair price.
They have sent men to North Queens-
land to advise farmers on the cultivation
of the crop, and doubtless would answer
any letters from farmers unable to con-
tact their agents.
“Artunga”: The life of iron troughing
and tanks will be prolonged and small
leaks can be satisfactorily repaired with
a cement-oil wash. Mix cement with
sufficient boiled linseed oil so that the
mixture can be daubed on with a white-
wash brush. The coating will level off
as it settles, but should not be tflin
enough to collect at the bottom. When
treating new or smooth iron produce a
rough surface by painting over the trough
or tank with cement and water and a little
fine sand. The cement and oil will then
hold much better.
“Wilydah”: On an ll : acre plot an
English farmer had sown turnips, rape,
mustard and grass seed. He fed alter-
nately on this plot 100 crossbred lambs,
40 pigs and 20 head of stud Devon cows
for several months and between times
harvested from it £lOO worth of mustard
seed. When the turnips had been eaten
out he had a magnificent stand of grasses.
“W. Court”: There may be difficulty
with soya beans if planted on poor land
that is deficient in the bacteria that fix
atmospheric nitrogen. The bacteria occur
abundantly in soils that have grown
leguminous plants, but are unlikely to be
present in other soils. If soya-bean land
is to have its first experience of legumes
it will not grow a good crop unless nitro-
genous manures are added to it or the
soya seed treated with nitrogen-fixing
bacteria prior to sowing. The bacteria
can be got cheap from State agricultural
departments.
“Flea”: When bagging poultry manure
get liold of an old coal shovel. It’s light
and holds enough to fill a super, bag in
three or four loads. I’ve given up sewing
manure bags since I made a threader like
a long wire skewer* They’re made out
of No. 8 gauge fencing wire and thread
through the top of the bag in about as
long as it used to take to find the needle.
“Will C,”: One of the best ornamental
trees for east-coast homes is Poinciana
regia, or the bird-of-paradise-tree. Semi-
deciduous, it reaches a height of 30ft. or
more and its wide-spreading habit makes
it an ideal summer shade tree ; in summer
it becomes a mass of reddish-orange
flowers, very showy from a distance.
Hundreds of plants can be found under
any established poinciana during the
autumn months.
“M.H.”; In warm districts the Cape
gooseberry is a good marketable pro-
position. Trench the area and make the
soil fairly rich. Sow seeds in boxes or
narrow beds in June or July and set the
plants out in the garden in October.
Allow 18in. apart, and sufficient room
between rows for cultivation purposes.
A sprinkling of fertiliser-or rotted manure
along the rows when the plants are in
flower makes for larger and better fruit.
“Ah Gow”: If cabbages have been
well watered and looked after but show
no signs of heading, a dessertspoonful of
sulphate of ammonia applied to each
plant will give quick results. Give a dose
once every three weeks.
A Good Is. Worth,
Handy Hints for the Farm, now in a
second and revised edition, is on sale at
Is. per copy (Is. posted). It contains
a tenner’s-worth of information.
Order from The Bulletin or news-
agents before supplies run out.


HERE AGAIN
*V ■ ■ . ’ _ *
your favourite Tetroi 7
TJ^
m
V\\"V
\S^ NNN '
0 ‘
SSJCCS**'
S\\\\w
fiWtfSSf
#**■
m
1 «»r*
sg
il % e ; @
y s
SsS
g §g
gg :
mmmmmi
WBPW%
Ml II
K-iigg?
J
■aa*“"
a* '•"
W<"
n*#*
Or
U M
W
Ml
tfA.Cj
R 1
/
an!
sm
h
m
KM
S»5
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
Great News-Plume, your favour-
ite petrol, is here again-a Plume
which will enable you to get
from your car or truck all the per-
formance that was built into it.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
P 4611
A Short Story
Tim Hopjuice, Sport
By F. L. Combs .
VOUNG TIM HOPJUICE was small,
noisy and cocky. He drifted into
Paka Puki as a peddler of a treadle
sewing-machine which he confi-
dently asserted would displace a world-
famous make.
It did not; but Tim, as he declared,
gave it a good go. Had the best market
for his article been in hostelries and
billiard-rooms he would have won
through with it. ,
Tim was in pretty low water when ,t
occurred to him to set up as an auctioneer
in a ramshackle building near the town
hall.
The room soon acquired the look and
smell of all auction-rooms. It gathered
an aroma of mouldy potatoes and became
quarter-filled with lumber—battered
books that were never put up for sale,
and maimed and disconsolate iron-
mongery.
Tim very successfully took to putting
under the hammer odd lots that had hung
fire in city warehouses. It is thus that
George Bolt, the nightsoilman, became
possessed of a dozen bowler hats at half-
a-crown a piece. Twenty-four cases of
cider, eulogised by the auctioneer as a
temperance drink which yet had a kick to
it, put life into Paka Puki for half a
week.
But Tim was at his best when giving his
services gratis—to the Methodist Church,
school, to the fire brigade, to the
football club Paku Pukians were not
cheerful givers of hard cash. Even ladies
h s |d , , en shiuingsworth of in-
.” . * , f h ° rhnrch Fair
f * c
found it painful to part with a florin. So
fairs we had and Paddy s Maikets and
J umble saies - r u
What stirred Tim to give of his best on
these occasions was that the reward was
pure popularity. He was a glutton for the
goodwill of his fellows.
At a Paddy’s Market for the Metho-
dists he touched a new high. The goods
collected, apart from the produce, were a
depressing-looking lot of junk, but the
sale happened on a pay day of the
workers on the new branph railway line.
Visiting the Cri. and the Arms and learn-
ing of this distraction they rallied to the
cause of religion. Rivalry was keen from
the jump.
A gate-legged table which, as the
auctioneer pointed out, wanted only a
couple of hinges and a new leg was
knocked down for six notes, and a pea-
rifle so leaded up that its barrel was
impervious to light brought twice its shop
price. Its buyer, honestly puzzled, spent
half an hour trying to see through it.
A coop of six bantam hens caused such
bitter animosity that the little birds had
to be sold separately.
TO auctioneering T. S. Hopjuice and
Co. (who the co. was was never
divulged) added land agency; and as,
with rising prices for butter, the whole
district was in a state of speculative flux,
the firm throve. Young Tim’s best effort
was the sale and then the resale
of a particular dairy farm in a single
day.
Automatically as his bank account
grew he mounted in the social scale. And
it was then that he blossomed out as a
sport.
Tim measured up to a code at once
exacting, chivalrous and uplifting. He
was a free spender and made a sacred
rite of setting them up for all hands ; and
he devoted the highest powers of his in-
tellect to mastering the ins and outs of
racing and football. He was at the
zenith of his prideful success when he
owned a flat racer of his own, mounted
by a rider who wore his own colors.
The intricacies of racing taxed his
mental powers, but he devoted them to it
ungrudgingly. He never jested about rac-
ing as he did about bowls and sometimes
even about football. But he was pitting
his powers against a breed of men who,
as their mask-like faces showed, had
given a lifetime to the game. Though
he never blanched he found horseracing
very expensive.
At the same time as he raced and
bowled and with fervid patriotism fol-
lowed the Pirates whenever they played
away from home. Young Tim, with that
insatiable desire for action that brought
about Napoleon’s downfall, went in for
public life. He had hosts of wellwishers
stirred to enthusiasm by his exemplary
sportsmanship, his democratic willingness
to mix with all and sundry and his flair
for publicity.
Thanks to his buoyant, breezy tempera-
ment he infused a careless rapture into
local politics. His meetings were hilari-
ous, the gatherings after the meeting were
feasts of good fellowship and (rare quali-
fication for civic leadership) he was never
afraid to say what he thought; even if it
was what hosts of others wished said but
preferred not to say themselves. Of all
the jolly good fellows ever known in the
district Tim Hopjuice was the recognised
jolliest, and he revelled in his ascendancy
in that role.
WHAT goes up must come down.
While still brimming over with mirth
and admired for, and admiring his own
insouciance, Tim became over-assertive.
He made pert remarks about men in
(for Paka Puki) high places and, though
they said little, it is likely that he gave
umbrage.
Then, on the spur of a carefree im-
pulse and with a following frothing tide
of popularity, he threw his hat into the
ring as a candidate for Mayor; this re-
gardless of the fact that for a decade it
had been taken for granted that only
Arn Mills could be Mayor. The conser-
vative element drew closer together and
Young Tim found that an underground
and unscrupulous, or mean and envious,
intention to bring him a cropper was
afoot.
Never mind, he knew things.
How came it that the contract for re-
roofing the Town Hall was given to a
brother-in-law of one of Arn’s hench-
men? Could the same Arn explain how
to the extent of an acre the site of his
residence had come to encroach on the
Domain? (It had not, but let that pass.)
What about Rating on the IJnimprovbd?
Wasn’t it the only fair and scientific
way? A hot one this; but Tim, pro-
voked, had matchless audacity. Paka
Puki needed a good shaking-up and he
was the man to see that it got it.
What could be more public-spirited
than such a campaign? But devious in-
fluences were at work. Tim found that
he could not renew the lease of his busi-
ness premises.
And some of his own doings as a
councillor were misrepresented. What
about that three-acre section that the
borough had bought for its gasworks at
a good round price, in fact a very good
price indeed? Had not the transaction
passed through his hands? Scandal was
also made of the jolly Sunday afternoons
he had inaugurated on the bowling-green.
Curious how easy it is for a scandal-
loving township to become scandalised
when the right people take the matter
up.
Young Tim was staunch. All this be-
littlement, this smearing of his record,
was as fuel to the fire of his righteous-
ness. But then came a blow that could
only be construed as the true spite of
Destiny. Tim’s misguided steed, giving
way to pure caprice, won a race that it
had been carefully arranged it should
lose, and he found himself hopelessly in
the red.
Notwithstanding, he made a good fight
of it, and ever afterwards he boasted that
he had given Arn Mills the fright of his
life. The voting was 490-502. Seven
votes the other way and Young Tim
would have been the Mayor, the bank-
rupt Mayor paying 3s. 2d. in the
£, but nevertheless the Mayor of Paka
Puki.
T. S. Hopjuice left, Paka Puki shortly
after that election. He had to leave it or
starve. His own crowd, which it must be
admitted did include some rafferty ele-
ments, rallied to him and presented him
with a wallet whose contents were not in
his then circumstances to be despised.
I ran into him 10 years later working as
a clerk for an auctioneer in a borough
200 miles from Paka Puki. He was as
spry and chirpy with his employer’s
'clients as ever he had been with his
own.


mmm
tm
°t
and
m
BEATRICE KAY (Comedienne)
THE ELM CITY FOUR
The Curse Of An Aching Heart and
If I Was A
Millionaire D 0.2954 (4/-)
FRANK SINATRA
The Things We Did Last Summer and
She’s Funny That
Way D 0.2968 (4/-)
DINAH SHORE
I’ll Never Love Again and
That Little Dream
Got Nowhere D 0.2964
THE CHARIOTEERS (Vocal)
On The Boardwalk and
You Make Me Feel
So Young D 0.2960
FRANKIE CARLE (Piano)
After You’ve Gone and
Somebody Loves Me . D 0.2958
VICTOR SILVESTER’S JIVE BAND
Coquette and
Undecided D 0.2951 (4/-)
(4/-)
(4/-)
(4/-)
ASK YOUR NEAREST MUSIC DEALER FOR
THE LATEST RECORD SUPPLEMENT.
Columbia
e. 5.47. THE FINEST NAME ON RECORD
Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Homebush, N.S.W.
The Yalet razor
strops itself...
%
H
and every
morning
gives an
edge like new!
Vl/127
OF All DEA.LERS • BRITISH MADE
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Even dogs are suffering from nervous break-
downs these days.” — Sydney "D.T
Perhaps from wondering where the
next sausage is going to come from,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“They say there would be fewer divorces if
people married their opposites.”— "New Idea.”
To begin, with, the short-tempered
should marry the long-suffering.
“Marshal Tito is in a spot; it is hard to
keep even a Communist Government in favor
if the people are hungry.”— "Sunday Telegraph.”
And harder still if they’re fed up!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Whereas experts used to advise girls to
say ‘prunes’ when applying lipstick, now the
word to produce the right lipstick outlines is
‘cheese.’ ” — Sydney "Sun.”
The word comes easily to young things
with jumpers.
“Everyone has a say in the wedding except
the bride.”— Woman’s paper.
She has it all afterwards.
“’Being a milliner is sometimes like being a
doctor.” — Woman’s paper.
But there’s always a difference of
degree. ,
4* 4* 4* 4* .
“Juries are already disposed to give the
benefit of the doubt to females.” — "Woman.”
Especially if they acquit themselves
well in court.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Are divorce laws fair?” — Womans paper.
It depends what you mean by “fair.”
If the word means “just” I declare that
I’m left rather up in the air, and I
don’t understand the remark. But if
“fair” means “not dark” they are right,
and divorce laws can warrant no fight, for
they certainly do bring to light a lot that
you’d rather keep dark.
YAIR.
Prisoner at the Bar.
“In Trenton (U.S.) Edward Wiley wandered
into police headquarters, loudly ordered a
beer, was served with two months > in jail for
drunkenness.” — "Sunday Telegraph ; Sydney.
Don’t waste your pity on the chap
Who makes the laughable mistake
Of thinking he can freely slake
His thirst where liquor is on tap,
But finds too late that sad mishap
Has furnished him with cause to quake
When, sobered up and wideawake,
He finds his tavern just a trap.
For, though he won’t have bottled ale
Or foaming beer served up in jail,
The thirsty gent, can thank his stars
He’ll have the atmosphere of bars
And, better far than glass or mug,
Free drinks passed to him in a jug.
D. H. E.
Grammar Lesson.
“Give an example of a verb which changes
its vowel.” — English paper.
The bright boy of the class wrote:
“One such verb is ‘sink.’ It can be ‘sank’
or ‘has sunk.’ Thus: The lady sank
back in the man’s car. Then she sank
into the divan of his flat. But when
they married and she found he expected
her to show some interest in the kitchen
sink, well, she; was sunk.”
E.
Imperfect Crime.
“In Manhattan (U.S.) two men charged with
burgling a store protested that they were
unionists, hired to do the job at 75 cents an
hour.”
The master crook waited impatiently
in his office for news that his plan had
gone through. He mentally checked
every detail to make sure he had taken
care of all contingencies.
The union tickets were in order —he
had checked that carefully as being the
first essential. One slip there might cause
a tie-up that would paralyse the crime
front for six months. Could his men be
trusted?
What could be wrong? He snatched
the telephone and dialled a number.
“Spike? Any news?” he breathed.
“We got the front door down, but
there’s a dispute about gettin’ into
the strong-room,” the ’phone whispered
hoarsely. “Half of ’em can’t make it and
the ones at the back are talkin’ about a
new roster, or else”
“Give it to them, quick!” barked the
master crook. A few minutes later the
’phone rang again.
“No go, Boss,” it said.
“What’s up now?” grated the master-
mind.
“Coupla cops outside, Boss, and the
boys are all cornin’ out unless they get
danger money!”
PLUM.
Perfectly Sickening.
“Hollywood struck an all-time highlight with
the actress who sought divorce because her
husband was foo perfect.”
—"Sunday Sun,” Sydney.
He never let his glances stray
To blondes who chanced to pass his way,
Or, like the average thoughtless sinner.
Brought unexpected guests to dinner ;
And being the acme of perfection
He didn’t turn in Iter direction
A whiff of smoke or beery breath.
But still she wasn’t true till death;
One thing she hated worse, you see —
The odor of his sanctity.
BERT.
Much Hon. Clarity.
“How will the Allied Powers regard this
germ of Fascism which shows among our people
as secret societies? Where there is a germ there
must be a root.” — Tokyo “Asahi Shimbun.”
In a striking editorial on the resurgent
activities of the Black Dragon Society, the
“Ichi Ichi Shinbone” says:
“The tentacles of this hydra-headed
monster are still firmly entrenched in the
saddle, and if this cancer in the body
politic does not at once have the founda-
tions kicked from over it, thus causing
those on the topmost rung of this ladder
of crime to be deprived of the vital sap
from its branches, patriotic Japanese
everywhere will be compelled to pull up
“Wider, please !”
honorable sox with one hand and dribble
the ball of outraged national pride with
the others. If not, this snake in the grass
will surely crush us all beneath the weight
of its iron hand, which, like the boy
who cried ‘Wolf!’ once too seldom,
trims the wick too short and risks electro-
cution
“This must not be our country’s fate!
Honorable General MacArthur will, we
trust, continue to keep a tight rein on
this black cloud which rises pendant from
our horizon, and which, if allowed to
blossom, will eventually spike the
economic rails and cause a cataclysm
that, sprouting the wings of bestiality,
may bring our nation toppling from the
depths.”
The Osaka “Hoki Poki” expresses
concern at another post-war feature of
Japanese life;
“The unchecked activity of the black-
marketeer is like the hideous, ever-
tightening coils of the python—the harder
it is drilled the more stubborn it becomes.
Appealing to the Government for strong
action is like pouring water off a duck’s
back —it merely goes out of one ear and
into the other. Like a pricked bubble
seeking its reputation even in the cannon’s
roar, this evil in our midst pokes out
honorable chest with superb arrogance,
defying authority like Ajax did honorable
Mrs, Ajax. Respectable citizens are, as
were Charybdis and Scylla, booted likfc
lowly football between home and first
base,
“But there is a sovereign (equal at
current exchange to several hundred non-
blackmarket yen) remedy. Let the fierce
light of publicity beat constantly like an
eagle’s pinions against this cesspool until
virtue, springing like honorable Minerva
full-armed from the Ides of March, pour
the whips of scorn across a cavern which
threatens to tower, Damocles-like, across
the life of our country like a wave which,
mounting and ever mounting, bursts at
last like a doormat upon which have been
wiped ad lib. the filthy feet of men who
would climb over the necks of their
fellow-Nipponese as though the glorious
ideals of a Greater East Asia were still
not a sounding cataract breathing the
soft air of hope to teeming millions.”
The Kobe “Hotcha Kuti” waxes elo-
quent on another Nipponese evil:
“As gushed forth water when Moses
was found with his staff in the bulrushes/’
says the paper, “so must the bright
countenance of Truth, so long absent
from politics, be given a facelift among
those who hold the destiny of our coun-
try in the hollow of honorable grasping
digits. Corruption among high officials
is like cattle upon a thousand hills, which
‘melt like kisses upon a female mouth at
the first searching wind of inquiry,’ In-
tegrity in public life is the cornerstone
from which, spreading like the green bay,
flow the swift-tempered arrows of Light.
It is a tide in the affairs of men which,
sweet and musical as Apollo’s lute, will
pinch like a new shoe unless there is a
strong thread at hand to hold them to-
gether.
“It is no good the Government saving
its breath to cool a mess of pottage if
at the same time it tends to flog a dead
horse without using the brand of infamy.
Caesar’s wife may have had a lean and
hungry look, as Milton claims, just as
Desdemona was above suspicion. Never-
theless, it behoves the Government, if it,
like the above honorable characters
(fiction), not to suckle the grapes
of wrath, to take a tumble to itself and,
like Cato of old, say, T had rather men
ask why my statue is not set up, than why
the frogs do not die in sport than in
earnest.’ That profound truth, like a
rich stone, can babble o’ green fields and
weigh solid pudding against empty
phrase.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Equipment
We landed in England in 1940 with not
a gun to the whole artillery regiment and
about a score of rifles. In fact, thousands
of A-LF. marched weaponless about
Salisbury Plains for so long that even the
trusting English villagers became curious.
The stock reply “Our arms are still being
unloaded” was wearing a bit thin by the
time we were divided into infantry units,
and a trickle of arms began to come in
from sorely-pressed British arsenals. Re-
member, we were not training at home,
thousands of miles from the front, or
hastily forming units to guard our home-
land. We had been sent —presumably—
to attack.
Came that fateful night in September
when all England stood to. Standing in
company parade awaiting orders, one
fellow asked permission to collect the 2in.
mortar from the store. Sadly the platoon
officer told him not to bother, as there
was no ammunition for it. “But,” he
added, brightening a little, “you can get
the anti-tank rifle. I believe the Q has
five rounds for it somewhere. And, Ser-
geant, make sure every man has 50
rounds for his rifle.” Fifty rounds!
The desert. Ikingi, and we were pre-
paring signals gear to move up to
Matruh. Into the tent walked two
Diggers. “Excuse us,” they said, “we’re
camped across the way and noticed these
affairs as we were passing. We’re just in
from Australia and wondered what they
were,” The “affairs” were field tele-
phones, Don s’s, basic medium of com-
munication in all forward areas. Yet
these lads, who were possibly to meet
the Afrika Corps in a few days, hadn’t
even seen them.
Finally, Syria. After a week or so we
found company H.Q. supported by a
group of arty men with a strange weapon.
Scratching his head, the O.C. asked what
the Hades it was. “That, sir,” replied a
grinning n.c.0., “is a dinkum League of
Nations outfit. A .8 German anti-tank
gun, captured by the British from the
Italians in Libya and used by the Aus-
tralians against the French in Syria.”
And we were attacking! —B. J, L. (Q.).
Suitings
Six months or so ago the Minister for
Supply announced that export of woollen
piece goods had been totally prohibited,
except to New Zealand, until the clothing
shortage in Australia was overcome.
Good, but look how it works out.
Official figures for shipments for the
last 12 months make interesting reading:
Jan.-March .. .. 1,852,000 sq. yards
Apdl-June .. .. 1,393,000 „ „
July-Sept 1,773,000 „ „
Oct.-Dec. .. .. 1,573,000 „ „
Permission for individual shipments is
supposed to be granted only for token
shipments to countries other than M.L.
Is it any wonder one cannot get a suit
length anyhow or anywhere?— Simple
Simon (N.S.W.).
What Natives Need 1
“J.D,” is only partly right—it is not
enough to “leave the poor devils alone”
where the natives of the Pacific are con-
cerned (B. 27/2/’47). The story of the
Marquesans is one of the world’s great
tragedies, beaten only by the mass sui-
cides of the original inhabitants of the
West Indies when the Spaniards tried to
make them work as slaves. The Mar-
quesans were among the finest of the
Polynesians physically and well up to the
average mentally. To a certain extent
they were debauched by the crews of the
whaling ships which called there, but the
real damage was done by a single priest
who so played upon their superstitions
that they lost the will to live, withered
and died.
Other missionaries have made the same
dreadful mistake of preaching hellfire and
gloom to a previously happy people, have
destroyed the natives’ ideology and have
failed to replace it with something which
the native mind could grasp—and have
' then wondered why the birthrate dropped
and the people died out.
I’ve seen the native in the islands at
his best and his worst. You’ll see them
at their best where white control has
wiped out their diseases, made them stop
fighting and headhunting and insisted
upon sanitation in the villages. The
worst types are found among the “un-
controlled” villages in the interior of
New Britain and New Guinea —children
with their abdomens distended by en-
larged spleens and covered in ringworm ;
adults half-rotten inside with hookworm.
What a contrast the poor wretches make
when you compare them with the sleek-
skinned, happy and healthy police boys!
Medical service, plus a balanced diet,
does the trick.
If anyone wants to, know what should
be done he should read the , late Dr.
Lambert’s A Doctor in Paradise. I
would make it compulsory for all mis-
sionaries to hold a medical degree, with
at least some knowledge of carpentry —
particularly boatbuilding—blacksmithing
and agriculture, and a sound knowledge
of ethnology into,the bargain. His first
job would be concerned wholly and solely
with health —eradication of hookworm,
yaws and other maladies which yield so
readily to treatment. Malaria control,
strict village sanitation and better crops
to improve the diet should also be at the
top of the list.
It’s only fair to record that many mis-
sionaries are already working along these
lines and that others are following suit.
No sect, however, should be allowed to
insist upon vegetarianism among its con-
verts. The diet of many natives is de-
ficient in protein as it is. When vege-
tarianism lowers their protein intake still
further the t.b. incidence among them
rises to ghastly figures—the Rennell
Islanders are a horrible example.
When the native can stand on his own
feet with nothing save a regular routine
medical examination, then you can leave
him practically alone, —Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Banks and Insurances
The Victorian “Government Gazette”
of March 12 gives a list of licenses
granted to carry on insurance business
in Victoria for 1*947. The list reaches the
staggering total of 120 companies, most
of them engaged in fire, marine and
fidelity - guarantee business. The life
companies are not listed. This number
is in marked contrast to the small and
diminishing number of trading banks.
Ofythese there are now only seven, soon
to be further reduced.
The modern trend of amalgamation in
banking does not appear to have touched
the insurance world. In towns of any
size, branches of the various banks are
maintained in their own substantial
premises and they are all prepared and
competently staffed to transact all classes
of banking business. With insurance
companies, anything out of the very
ordinary has to be submitted to “Head
Office” for attention, as the representa-
tives in most towns are only agents
whose duties rarely extend beyond col-
lecting and issuing receipts for premiums.
A better service would be rendered if
insurance companies followed the banks
and opened large branch offices with
trained staffs. With fewer companies
operating, overhead could be reduced
with consequent lower premium rates.
Amalgamations would release trained
men from the city head office to staff the
country branches. Suitable premises
would not only provide office space for
the companies but could, in part, be made
available for letting, thus providing an
additional investment avenue for funds.
A good building is also a good adver-
tisement. With a trained local manager
more business would be obtained. There
are many classes of risk to be
covered other than fire, which is all most
of the agents seem to worry about. —•
Ceg (Vic.).
Widows’ Pensions
“T.M.S.” (B. 12/3/’47) queries the dis-
parity in war and civilian widows’ pen-
sions. Here are a few facts for considera-
tion.
The soldier died in defence of civilians,
including their widows. He went volun-
tarily and deliberately to a task in which
he knew that his chances of survival were
considerably less than those of a civilian.
The income of a soldier’s wife dropped
to a pittance at his enlistment and even
while he still lived she had to work to
augment it. The soldier who fell
never had a chance to “live a
long and useful life” in which he could
have provision for his wife’s
widowhood.
I query “T.M.S.’s” appreciation of the
word “useful.” The men who lie in
Europe, the Middle East and South-West
Pacific played a useful part before, in
dying, they became useless to civilians.
It should also be remembered that the
civilian widow receives certain benefits
denied the war-widow—a 5.0 per cent,
rebate on wireless licenses, for instance.
In the two cases specified by “T.M.S.”
the civilian widow has had the felicity
of sharing a long life and raising a family
with her husband beside her. The war-
widow has a job, so is presumably young.
She must fend for herself through the
long and lonely years without the com-
forting presence of her husband or grown
children. Surely the country does not
grudge her a* little grace.— Bim (N.S.W.).
Erosion
In a recent copy of a Queensland
farming paper an indignant grazier writes
to refute a charge that the “graziers
themselves are mainly responsible for soil
erosion in Queensland.” The grazier
puts some of the blame on a succession
of “lackadaisical Governments” which
failed to implement promises made in
regard to reafforestation and water con-
servation. He also imposes a share of
the blame on old .man drought.
He submits a good defence, but a point
he overlooks is that Queensland was
subject to drought for hundreds of years
before the first white man sailed up the
Brisbane River. Yet, up till about 30
years ago, there was practically no erosion
in the State.
When I first went to the Callide Valley
17 years ago to gro.w cotton, the valley
was rich in brigalow and pine “belts.” It
was ideal cattle country, heavily grassed
away from the timber. These days you
can already see signs of erosion—there
isn’t much timber left, little natural grass
to hold the soil, and every drought sees
tons of precious top-soil carried away
by the wind.
What is to blame for erosion in the
central districts? Excessive cotton-plant-’
ing in the boom years, the wholesale
slaughter of timber “belts,” drought, or
a combination of the three?
Most graziers and politicians are now
prepared to admit that irrigation and
large-scale reafforestation are the only
forces that can check and eventually
defeat erosion. Why, then, should we
waste precious time in windy debate as
to who or what caused erosion? Less
talk and more practical planning and
hard work are what is needed. —R. C.
(Q-).
A Contrast
The Wanganella seamen got £3OO a
man “danger pay.” Whether this
money was earned or not does not enter
into the argument; the fact remains
that it was obtained mainly through the
efforts of a trade-union nabob. At the
same time all the main servicemen’s
organisations have been battling to Obtain
some recompense for the ex-p.-0.-w. who
were in the hands of the Japs. These
associations ar«f, unfortunately, non-
political, and so far have met with little
success.
After the 1914-18 war, together with
many of my mates, I believed that all
soldiers and their wellwishers should
band together to the end of their form-
ing a non-party government. I took it
as read that men who were prepared to
sacrifice their lives for their country
could be relied on to work out an honest
solution of peace-time problems.
In 1943, along the Burma railway line,
when we still felt like talking, the future
of our country was discussed with great
enthusiasm and idealism. Later, in Thai-
land, after the iron had entered into our
souls, we talked less. But one truth
was evident to us —the emergency always
found the man. There was always a
leader—and not necessarily an officer —
who stepped into his self-appointed posi-
tion to carry the rest of the boys over a
tough patch, and to give them the inspira-
tion they needed. They are the type of
“See? Entree! That's you!”
men who should be at the helm now, and
if things ever get desperate enough, they
are the type of men who .will step for-
ward and take charge of the nation’s
affairs. '■
Their names are legiop, but there were
Coates and Dunlop, and Anderson from
Westralia, among the M.Os.; lan
Campbell and Clive Nason of the
Pioneers ; John Garran, from Canberra,
known far and wide as Holiest John, and
Alex. Bushell, most selfless of medical
orderlies. With many others of similar
calibre, they travelled the whole way,
asking nothing for themselves: models
of duty, self-sacrifice and devotion
to their suffering mates. Australia
could face the future with confidence with
that type of patriot at the helm. — Re-
Tread (Vic.).
Alpine Guest-houses
Many Australians in Japan with the
8.C.0.F. are being introduced to the
joys of ski-ing for the first time, and
they are taking to it with the delight of
outback children at the beach. Troops
of 8.C.0.F. have opportunity for ski-
ing during short leaves at Lakeside
Hotel, near Nekko, about 4000 ft. above
sea-level, and at Dogayama. These
troops will do much to advertise and
popularise snow sports in Australia.
There should be increasing demand
for guest-houses in our snow country. The
prospects of such businesses are excel-
lent. The mountain guest-house as a
business proposition has more attractions
than the seaside house. Beach guest-
houses are unattractive and have a lean
time in the cold months. If the alpine
guest-house is provided with a -swimming
pool, tennis courts, saddle horses and all
the information required by hikers, its
bookings and income should be. steady
throughout the year.— Alpha (8.C.0.F.,
Japan).
Coupons
Large Sydney retail stores claim that it
is no longer necessary to continue coupon
rationing of clothes and textiles. With
the exception of cotton goods, which are
likely to be scarce for another 18 months,
they can meet all demands of other lines.
This year only 56 clothing coupons have
been issued to each person to last at least
a year, whereas 112 were issued the pre-
vious year. Slight and not proportionate
reductions have been made to compensate
for this.
The anomalous position is that some
stores are overstocked with lines that are
actually in short supply. One store esti-
mates that if it received 85 per cent, of
the total coupons issued to the public it
would still not have to draw on its factory
for reserves. Thus the position arises
where the factory has been instructed to
cease manufacture of goods actually in
short supply.
The Government in its plan for de-
centralisation of industry encouraged the
opening of many country factories on
sites previously occupied by its war an-
nexes. Today these factories are com-
pelled to put off hands because stores are
overstocked with goods they can’t sell.
—Ess (N.S.W.).
Small Houses in Sweden
I read that 1400 British architects,
to.wn-planning specialists and others inter-
ested in housing are to visit Sweden to
study how things are done in that country.
One aspect they might study is the way
Swedes have of building their own homes
instead of sitting down complaining of the
dilatoriness of officials.
In the Swedish, small-cottage system
officialdom actually helps the individual
because he Jielps himself. Houses are
built by community labor, each family
unit assisting at each other’s dwellings. In
the case of pre-cut houses, the materials
arrive on the site and are set up by gangs
of workers of all ages and both sexes,
the job, as a rule, being finished in a few
days. Overseers are provided to super-
vise construction. The cost compared with
Australian standards, where everything is
left to the official, is astoundingly cheap,
and there is no need for a Swede to have
hung round his neck a millstone of £l5OO-
- for the whole of his lifetime.
The Swedes have always been more
co-operative than most people and there
is no reason why Australians shouldnj
try to copy them. —Bumpkin (Vic.)!


The Spirit of Peace
After the 1914-18 war we set up an in-
ternational body, but it had no soul and
perished ip the hour of trial. .Now we
have set up a similar body with a dif-
ferent name. The nations are about to
build it a fine home, but we still have not
made any plans for its religious educa-
tion. Will it be another body without a
The success of U.N.O. will depend
upon the spirit which guides its decisions,
overrules its passions and silences its
Surely a piece of land on the
permanent site of U.N.O.
granted for this purpose? Here could be
built a Hall of Peace surmounted by a
dome, and immediately beneath the
dome would be glass panels, bearing in
stained glass the Beatitudes, which are
the Magna Charta of World Justice and
Peace. In a crypt, beneath the Hall of
Peace, should be an uncensored War
Museum depicting thfe waste and horror
of global warfare.
I visualise the four entrances to this
Hall of Peace forming a cross. One
entrance would be allotted to the British
Empire, another to U.S.A, and the Pacific,
a third to the U.S.S.R. and Asia and the
fourth to Europe. Each of these
entrances would contain the graves of
Unknown Warriors of the zone con-
cerned. Between the arms of the cross,
three in each section, would be 12 chapels
provided by the main branches and de-
nominations of Christendom. Here chap-
lains would provide the appropriate daily
services and act as guardians of the World
Shrine.
It would not be long before the faith
and spirit which caused such an edifice
to be built would become an influence in
the International Assembly Hall and the
permanent secretariats of U.N.O. —
A.L. B. (S. A.).
Indian Prospect?
Twenty-five years ago H. G. Wells
pointed out that: “India is an autocracy
without an autocrat... .The Indian with
a complaint to make has no visible
monarch to go to; his emperor is a
golden symbol; he must circulate pamph-
lets in England or inspire a question in
the British House of Commons. The
more occupied Parliament is with British
affairs, the less attention India will re-
ceive.”
The British Cabinet’s decision that
India will have to settle all its own affairs
after June, 1948, is a direct outcome of
increasing Parliamentary preoccupation
with British affairs since the First World
War began in 1914. Its unavoidable re-
sult has been to permit the active develop-
ment of opposing factions in India,
separated irreconcilably by questions of
religion, custom and outlook. Mr. Attlee
has stated unequivocally that Britain
will leave India at the appointed time
whether or not a constitution has been
agreed upon. Mr. Churchill has pointed
out that this is tantamount to inviting
Indian leaders to prepare for civil war.
That war has already begun in the
Punjab and has necessitated the use of
British troops for its control. The great-
est sufferers will be the Sikhs, a rela-
tively small people but the best and most
consistent supporters of law and order
to be found in all India. A hundred
million “Untouchables,” scorned by
Hindu and Moslem alike, will be doomed
to starvation and slavery whichever side
wins. And whichever wins, Hindu or
Moslem, a helpless and exhausted coun-
try of vast potentialities, and already a
hotbed of Communism, will lie ready to
the hand of an ever-grasping Russia. —
Colbun (Q.).
Recent Visitors to N.Z.
Two figured prominently in the head-
lines. The first was young John Treloar,
who proved to American athletes that
they haven’t a monopoly of human speed.
Each of his successes was hailed with de-
light, a compliment not extended to the
operations of the second visitor, Mr.
E. V. Elliott, secretary of the Australian
Seamen’s Union.
He arrived to see about the stranding
of the good ship Wanganella on Barrett’s
Reef at the entrance to Wellington
Harbor about midnight on January 19.
When and after the mishap occurred
officers and crew worked magnificently.
Most- of the passengers and crew were
transferred to harbor ferry steamers.
Seven men who volunteered to stick to the
ship carried on the good work and helped
to get the vessel off the reef and alongside
Aotfea Quay in Wellington Harbor.
Then Mr. Elliott blew in by plane from
Sydney to ensure that the members of
his flock came to no harm. He de-
manded that the seven seamen should be
paid an additional 17s. per hour for a
24-hour day as danger pay.
The seamen carried on, however, until
the Wanganella was being manoeuvred
into the floating dock, when they struck.
Not only that but the crews of the tugs
also stood off and refused to assist. The
Wanganella was thus in grave danger of
being lost at the last obstacle. Only
magnificent work by her officers, both
deck and engineroom, saved her.
After prolonged discussion it was
finally decided to compromise and pay
the seamen an additional 15s. per hour.
They each win over £3OO in danger pay.
Mr. Elliott is no doubt quite satisfied
with the result of his mission, particularly
when it is remembered that war-risk pay
for seamen travelling in mine- and sub-
marine-infested waters was £l2 a month.
—Teaenam (M.L.).
Financial Genius
The Communist-party conference held
in Melbourne forecast a financial
depression in Australia. This, be it noted,
will be “due to the prevailing high levels
of production and the low purchasing
power of the people.”
These conclusions will be news to
people trying to buy anything from
cigarettes to motor-cars. Even the
worker who wants his home is painfully
aware that practically everything needed
to build is in short supply because of
lack of production.
When the Commo sees his favorite and
every other pub shut on Saturday after-
noons does he blame “the prevailing level
of production”?— Don (Vic,).
Public Servants
A country girl came to the city for a
change of air and occupation. She got
both. Her new job was with a Govern-
ment department. At first she worked
on a temporary basis, relieving other staff
members on holidays. Being a reasonably
competent typist, she had no difficulty
in coping with her allotted share of work,
but some of her companions, as .per-
manent and accepted public servants,
openly boasted that they couldn’t lose
their jobs and that there was no need to
worry about toil.
So for months now there has been an
accumulation of work until now an
“overtime” roster has become necessary.
Towards the eijd of each week the staff
are asked to nominate on which even-
ings of the following week they would
like to work back.
Even with the extra night work, for
which “tea money” and “overtime” are
paid, the back work will never be over-
taken. In case you think that doesn’t
matter very much work this out.
The girl from the country has qualified
as another permanent public ser-
vant. Her weekly pay is normally
£4 15s. With overtime, tea money, etc.,
she now averages £7 12s. 6d. a week clear
of tax deductions. She is one of many,
and they are not all girls—most are
male employees on an even higher basic
salary. And we have more public servants
than at any other time in the history of
the country.— Puzzled (N.S.W.).
Art Judges
Judges of art competitions should
'award the prize to the picture they think
the best, but they should not arrogate
infallibility to themselves as the Archi-
bald committee did by only hanging pic-
tures of which they approved. They
should hang every picture submitted
whether they like it or they don’t. Judges
have often been wrong in the past —
Manet, Whistler, Monet, Sisley and a
dozen others all had their works refused
admission to the Paris Salon and they
hung the rejected canvases in a salon of
their own, the Salon des Refusees. Those
pictures are now regarded as the only
significant ones of their time. Those
approved by the committee of the Salon
have been completely forgotten.—Hack-
shaw (Vic.),
The Living Wage
Being accused of idealism does not
in any way disprove my line of argument
and “Ballot,” too (B. 26/2/’47), has
neglected one or two facts. He asserts
that “the workers are neither led nor
misled. They are driven.” Large bodies
of men are not driven unless they have
accepted, to some extent, the ideals pro-
pounded by the driving force. And the
acceptance of new ideals presupposes a
dissatisfaction with the old.
To the capitalist the continuance of
the present order is an ideal; on the
other hand, the overthrow of capitalism
is the avowed ideal of the revolutionary
union boss. Influenced by both is the
Worker, whose ideals are affected by the
power of his living wage.
The prevailing industrial unrest is a
manifestation of the waning efficacy of
old ideals. The belief that a high stand-
ard of living can only eventuate on high
productive output is no longer strong
enough to resist the revolutionary ideals
advanced by the union bosses. As a
possible means of reviving faith in the
ideals bound up in our present system
I suggest that the living wage be made a
present fact instead of as it is, a future
promise.
I agree that the duty of Government
is to protect society against revolutionary
chaos ; but the present .Administration,
theoretically, is sympathetic to many of
the principles of the revolutionary. More-
“Bring in the electric fan , will you, Martha—I'm becalmed .”
over, it is difficult to say just how far
Government action can intrude without
violating some vaunted democratic free-
dom. Nor would Government action
restore the lost faith which is essential
if men are to turn a deaf ear to revo-
lutionary ideals.
The living wage remains an economic
problem and must be settled as such. Has
“Ballot” considered the rapid transition
that is taking place in society? Once
dissatisfaction in the masses reaches a
point where any change is better than
none, society, as we know it, is finished.
If we are intelligent enough we will try
to guide the masses by restoring their
faith in the problems of production and
living standards —not by reiterating the
old promises which they no longer be-
lieve, but by an immediate adjustment of
the thing that counts most, the living
wage.—J. A. (Fiji).
Science
I enjoyed “Midford’s” poem “One
Thousand Million Years Ago” (B.
12/2 / ’47), but could not swallow the state-
ment by Sir Harold Jones that “astro-
nomical theories present no conflict be-
tween scientists and religion.” It is true
that all great religions possess much
beauty and truth, but scientists deal
with them as they deal with a plate
of prunes they swallow the edible
parts and leave the stones on the plate,
thus obviating “conflict.”
Many of our religious leaders main-
tain a discreet silence about the discover-
ies of the physicists. One very orthodox
church permits its preachers to make a
mental reservation, when, on their in-
duction, they “accept” such dogmas as
the story of the Creation.
The. differences are there, uttered or
unexpressed, and it says much for our
democratic way of living that so many
can and do agree to differ. There is
continual conflict between scientific
and religious theories, even when
there is peace between the theorists. Why
not admit this truth, which can be demon-
strated without the aid of microscope,
telescope, or crucible? — Pikestaff (S.A.).
Incentive
I am much interested in those words
of a Russian worker to Mr. Alaric Jacob
(B. 26/ 3 / ’47):
I don’t work for a fixed wage and
pension. In my factory the more I pro-
duce the more money I make. People
must have an incentive, you’ll find.
In N. S. Wales a public school-
teacher (male) is paid a certain wage ;
a teacher (single female) is paid
two-thirds of the male wage; a teacher
(married female) is paid £4O to £BO a
year less than a single female teacher —
all without regard to production and
purely on a basis of sex and marital
status. A little of the Moscow plan
might be highly appreciated by N. S.
Wales women teachers.
Then, again, in N. S. Wales (and all
other Australian States) a collection clerk
(male), on £7 a week, dictates his cor-
respondence to a shorthand-typist (female),
on £4 a week. But a collection
clerk (female) composes her own collec-
tion correspondence straight on the type-
writer for £5 a week —if she can screw
that much out of the employer. Produc-
tion doesn’t count. The incentive to the
employer to employ female rather than
male labor is £6 a week. When the
female collection clerk gets fed-up and
leaves for a purely automatic job at the
same money, the employer talks in a
grieved way about “women, they ve got
no ambition—you can’t rely on them,
Perhaps Mr. Jacob should have been
censored. Commo propaganda comes in
all forms and it’s a very insidious thing,
Once Australian women get the idea that
in Russia the more you produce the
more money you make half of our female
population is likely to go over to the
Commos without notice. — Leda (N.S.W.).
Rail or Road
The average man calling for road
transport against the railways (B. 5 /3 / ’47)
is prompted not by concern over the
country’s finances but anxiety for his own
goods. A costly piece of furniture for-
warded to me by rail failed to arrive in
reasonable time, and inquiries elicited the
news that it had reached the terminus
so badly smashed it was sent out by the
railways for repairs. It is now worth a
fraction of its original value.
Again, had a smith been allowed half
a dozen vicious blows with' a hammer he
could hardly have wrought greater de-
struction than did the Victorian railways
on a new wireless set received some time
back. Split front and sides of the polished
cabinet were glued together by the rail-
ways’ repairers, and legs were put on
again in a patched-up job that would pass
muster and receive the carrier’s signature
for the final 60 miles of road transport.
Most of the inner parts, including a
smashed speaker, had to be scrapped.
Goods pass through so many hands on
a rail trip that the blame is handed back
and forth, and, no one being responsible,
the criminal carelessness goes on. Coupled
with this is petty pilfering. The rail-
ways, it seems, are fair game. In road
transport the truck-driver is directly
responsible. Therefore he packs care-
fully, guards his load and delivers it
personally. He cannot afford loss or
breakage, cost of which will come from
his own pocket.— Chuck (Vic.).
Free Medicine
Although free medical treatment is in-
advisable (B. 12/3/’47), free dispensing
of medicine has much to commend it.
Chemistry is a skilled profession, but
does not require such individual bril-
liance to warrant selection of dispensers,
and the charges for medicine are fairly
uniform.
The modem chemist’s shop appears to
have a preponderance of “patent” medi-
cines which are also obtainable at
general stores and at a fixed price. Also,
a number of chemists, particularly in
suburban and country areas, supplement
their business by selling all kinds of fancy
goods displayed for sale in large quanti-
ties. That seems to indicate that dispensing
alone is insufficient to provide an ade-
quate living for them. There are two
reasons: the modern tendency of doctors
to curtail the use of drhgs wherever
possible, and the vast increase in distri-
bution of “patent” medicines, which has
encouraged many thousands of people to
treat themselves for all manner of ail-
ments, imaginary or otherwise.
Here the Pure Foods Act safeguards the
public up to a point, but does not go
far enough. In America restrictions are
more drastic and articles cannot be adver-
tised as having specific beneficial results
when such is not the case. Even a tooth-
paste cannot be advertised or labelled
as a “Preventive for Pyorrhoea”—it can
only be described as an “antiseptic.”
Taking medicine when it is not neces-
sary becomes a habit. Free medicine,
under a social-services scheme, would
ensure accuracy of treatment, reduce
drug-taking and banish nostrums that are
a menace to public health.—C. E. T-
(N.S.W.).


YOU CAN
/
MOTOR
