

The House of Seppelt... producers of
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
« I
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68~No. 3518
Wednesday, July 2, 1947
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission hy Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BROODING KELSO RECALLS THE TURBULENT DAYS OF BORDER WARFARE
jVfORE than one visitor to Kelso in the Scottish border country
has remarked on the French appearance of this old and
richly historied town. In this view—one of a series by the House
of Seppelt—the foreground is occupied by the classical spans of
the bridge designed by John Rennie and said by some to be a
prototype of his Waterloo Bridge across the Thames. Kelso has
associations with Sir Walter Scott, who described it as the most
beautiful if not the most romantic village in Scotland. The present
Kelso grammar school is the successor of the one at which Scott
was educated, and also at Kelso lived his publishers, the Ballan-
tynes. Among the hostelries of Kelso is that famous old coaching
inn, the Cross Keys Hotel. The dominant feature of the Kelso
skyline is the tower of Kelso Abbey, founded about 1120 a.d. by
David I, whose sister married Henry I of England and perpetuated
the Saxon royal line. Kelso Abbey has been gifted to the nation
and, restored by the Office of Works, is a memorial of the days
when it amassed a history of attack and siege equalling that of
many a border-country castle.


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please tend, withovl obligation, your Hew Fret
It tablet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.'’
Uy Name
il/j. Address
S B. 247 AOE
The Red Page
SATIRE ON THE SOVIET .
Unless the publishers took extra-
ordinary precautions in selecting quot-
able remarks to reprint on the back of
the jacket, the reviewers of the first
edition (1945) of George Orwell’s Animal
Farm (Seeker and Warburg, Ltd.; Angus
and Robertson) were all singularly tactful.
The “Observer,” usually blunt enough
in its opinions, said vaguely that the book
was “compact of parallels for all to dis-
cover.” An “Evening Standard” reviewer
said, with the same sort of indefinite
daring, “There is no appeasement here.”
Peter Quennell in the “Daily Mail” made
a rather too generous comparison with
Swift and Anatole France. “Punch”
talked about Candida. “Time and Tide,”
using the most hackneyed of reviewers’
nouns, said it was “a gem of satire,” and
“The Times,” wisely avoiding both super-
latives and cliches, said the book was “as
entertaining as narrative as it is apposite
as satire.” *
What every one of the reviewers
avoided stating—unless that has been sub-
edited from their criticisms —was the
•simple fact that the book is a satire on
the Soviet. The publishers’ blurb is
similarly discreet, describing the book
merely as “a good-natured satire on dic-
tatorship.” , ,
But, though the cap fits Hitler and
Musso well enough, and any of the
tyrannies of history, it could hardly have
been the German or Italian dictatorships
Mr. Orwell had in mind;
The four pigs waited, trembling, with
guilt written on every line of their counten-
ances Napoleon now called upon them to
confess their crimes. They were the same
four pigs as had protested when Napoleon
abolished the Sunday Meetings. Without
any further prompting they confessed that
they had been secretly in touch with Snow-
ball ever since his expulsion, that they had
collaborated with him in destroying the
windmill, and that they had entered into
an agreement with him to hand over Animal
Farm to Mr. Frederick... .When they had
finished their confession the dogs prompt y
tore their throats out and in a terrible
voice Napoleon demanded whether any
other animal had anything to confess.
The three hens who had been the ring-
leaders in the attempted rebellion over the
eggs now came forward and stated that
Snowball had appeared to them in a dream
and incited them to disobey Napoleon’s
orders. They, too, were slaughtered. Then
a goose came forward and confessed to
having secreted six ears of corn during the
last year’s harvest and eaten them during
the night.... And so the tale of confessions
and executions went on, until there was a
pile of corpses lying before Napoleon’s
feet and the air was heavy with the smell
of blood, which had been unknown there
since the expulsion’of Jones.
Napoleon, it should be explained, is an
immense boar, who has taken charge of
an originally idealistic revolution staged
by the animals of Jones’s farm, they
having chased the drunken proprietor off
the premises when they were informed
that
“Man is the only creature that consumes
without producing. He does not give milk,
he does not lay eggs, he is too weak to pull
the plough, he cannot run fast enough to
catch rabbits. Yet he is lord of all the
animals. Is it not crystal clear then, com-
rades, that all the evils of this life of ours
spring from the tyranny of human beings?
Never listen when they tell you that
Man and the animals have a common in-
terest, that the prosperity of one is the
. prosperity of the others. It is all lies
All fnen are enemies. All animals are
comrades.”
There are, at first, some difficulties in
the way of establishing the perfect class-
less society. The cat, an admirable char-
acter who disappears too soon from Mr.
Orwell’s scene, has reservations concern-
ing rats. A mare named Mollie, very
pretty and feminine, has a lingering affec-
tion for the ribbons that only man can
twine in her white mane. A wisely pessi-
mistic donkey named Benjamin refuses
to believe that anything will funda-
mentally alter the hard lot of donkeys
on this earth.
But objections are silenced by the mass
singing of an exciting song entitled
“Beasts of England” and by the bleating
of the sheep who cry in chorus, in answer
to all arguments, “Four good, two
legs bad.” And, largely by the efforts of
a carthorse named Boxer, who wolks a
60-hour week and meets all doubts and
difficulties with the slogan “I will work
harder,” affairs on the farm go along
more smoothly than the human beings
on neighboring farms can credit.
A windmill is built and blown down
again. It had been intended to provide
the farm with electricity and all sorts of
mechanical devices to make work un-
necessary, and some say it was too
flimsily made and some, chiefly the pigs
led by Napoleon, say it was destroyed
by the machinations of a former leader
of the pigs named Snowball. A second
windmill is built, Boxer working harder
than ever. And men, after Napoleon
has engaged in some complicated dickering
with two neighboring farmers, hostile to
each .other, named Mr. Pilkington and
Mr. Frederick, the cohorts of Frederick
march in and blow the structure to pieces
again—and this just after Napoleon had
finally decided to trade with Frederick
instead of Pilkington. Pilkington, of
course, is John Bull, and Mr. Orwell is
talking first about the Five Year Plan
and then the Russo-German Pact.
When the animals have driven Fred-
erick from the property they have very
little food, but a pig named Squealer
convinces them, by statistics, that they
would have had less in Jones’s time.
Boxer, still working harder than ever
but wistfully thinking of his promised
retirement when, never having had much
education, he hopes to “study the remain-
ing 22 letters of the alphabet,” is sent
by Napoleon to the slaughterhouse. The
pigs rule Animal Farm, and the sheep
are taught a new slogan, “Four legs good,
two legs better ” ; for Napoleon, already
accustomed to sleeping in a bed and
drinking alcohol and other strangely
human activities, has at last learned to
walk upright. He begins to dicker with
Mr. Pilkington again and the hungry and
bewildered animals, staring at their festi-
vities through the window of the farm-
house, see a strange sight:—r
Yes, a violent quarrel was in progress.
There were shoutings, bangings on the
table, sharp suspicious glances, furious
denials. The source of the trouble appeared
to be that Napoleon and Mr. Pilkington
had each played an ace of spades simul-
taneously. ,
Twelve voices were shouting in anger, and
they were all alike. No question, now, what
had happened to the faces of the .pigs.
The creatures outside looked from pig to
man, and from man to pig, and from pig
to man again; but already it was impos-
sible to say which was which.
The book is satire more in sorrow than
in anger and, though the dolorous
Benjamin may express the author’s real
convictions —“Hunger, hardship and
disappointment being, so he said, the
unalterable law of life” —the book is told
from the viewpoint of a disillusioned
idealist. It is hardly to be mentioned in
company with Penguin Island or Gul-
liver’s Travels for it lacks the marvellous
conviction that Swift, especially, by his
magnificent effort of the imagination,
was able to give to his fantasy. Mr.
Orwell has been more concerned with
satirising the Soviet than with making
his animals convincing as animals. Still,
Boxer and Benjamin are characters in-
stead of mere puppets, and the whole
thing is amusing as light entertainment
as well as inescapable as satire. In spite
of the decorousness of the jacket an-
nouncements, it seems to have been re-
ceived with joy in England, for it is
already in its third edition.
A Welsh Revenge .
The best thing about Gwyn Jones s
The Green Island, apart from its for-
mat—it has been very handsomely
printed in a limited edition by the
Golden Cockerel Press—is its “atmos-
phere”: a beautiful Welsh landscape
painted in an appropriately sensitive
prose; —
Winter had clung hard to the Welsh hills,
spring was short and bitter, but now m
the last days of May sunshine fell like
cloth-of-gold over the western seaboard.
Where he lay his heels sconched the last
short salt-bleached violets, there were cow-
slips half-opened, and he saw the blue
* shield of the sea across a flame of gorse. .
Near the cliff wall the bushes had been
clamped to earth by heavy winds from the
south-west; their branches were tentacles
of grey and gold, the spikes gripping at the
stub grass.
In its. emotional atmosphere the short
novel is also compelling; not quite so
stirring to the imagination as an Aus-
tralian novel which it much resembles
(and which should not be left out of print
too long)—Leslie Mellor’s Quartet— but
still both gripping and unusual.
Opening with a glimpse of an English
visitor and his wife in a remote Welsh
village. The Green Island develops an ex-
cellent situation; the Englishman, having
succumbed to the charms of the wife of
the Welshman with whom he is staying,
rows her to an island for a day’s picnic,
and the pair, when the boat drifts away
with the tide, are left marooned, at the
mercy of the jealous Welsh husband who
can rescue them or not as he chooses.
He chooses not to.
It is a situation full of dramatic possi-
bilities. The Welshman, if he pleased,
could murder his wife and the English-
man by simply allowing them to starve
to death. If they were really in love,
then either by starvation or by suicide
(neither of them can swim) they could
have a martyr’s death, with a touch of
the heroic in it. Or they could be res-
cued by some passing fisherman and
come home to have it out with the Welsh-
man. Again, if the pair were not in love,
merely the victims of a passing physical
attraction, there is a very choice oppor-
tunity, since they are supposed to be
short of food, for one of them to murder
the other.
Gwyn Jones has hardly realised to the
full any of these possibilities ; which ex-
plains why Quartet, where the situation
was developed to a queer intensity of
drama, was a better novel. He does not,
indeed, seem to have visualised the island
quite as clearly as the headland from
which it was first seen, for surely there
would be edible shellfish on the rocks: a
point which does not occur to either of
his starving lovers. Shortage of water,
if that is possible in the Welsh climate,
would have been a more useful device
than lack of food to bring his drama to
crisis. More importantly, there seems to
be some uncertainty in his handling of
his characters. The author deprived
himself from the start of any chance of
drama on the heroic, Conradian scale,
by making the attraction between his
lovers too crudely physical; and then,
having lightly placed them in a situation
where hate is the likeliest development,
he fails to work out to the full the possi-
bilities of hate.
The beginning of hatred is shown
promisingly in the first two or thr£e days
on the island; then, when the drama
should be growing deeper and richer,
there is a gap of five days, after which
the couple are rather tamely rescued by
a “wise man” who has little really to do
with the logical development of the
narrative. Thopgh the “wise man” is
amusingly portrayed, it would have been
better to have left him out of the story
or else to have shown him in argument
with the Welsh husband over his refusal
to rescue his wife.
The Englishman at the end is half-
mad, he has been shown a weakling, and
there have been striking scenes of hatred
between the lovers, so that the story is
by no means negligible. But it is over-
compressed and it tails off disappoint-
ingly.
Paintings and Forgeries .
Apparently the jury of international
art experts appointed to Judge Van
Meegeren’s “The Child Christ in the
Temple of the Elders” —deliberately sub-
mitted by the painter as a fake Vermeer
—is still wrangling about it. Some of
the members have resigned, consultants
have been called to Amsterdam from
every capital in Europe, and still the ex-
amination goes on.
Van Mebgeren is a 58-year-old Dutch
painter who, in his young days, attained
to some distinction. Then critics and
contemporary painters began to ignore
him, deeming him to be old-fashioned.
They also resented the biting satire, not
unlike Whistler’s, that he used against
them.
In 1936 Van Meegeren boiled over.
He became obsessed with the idea that
he, as an artist who could demonstrate
his knowledge, knew; and that they, who
who could describe but couldn’t demon-
strate, didn’t know. So he decided to see
if he could hoax the critics by forging an
old master.
After long consideration, he selected
Vermeer, his reasons being that that
painter was a Dutch national institution,
and that very little was known about his
life except that he had been successful
and must have sold many pictures,
although there are only 36 authentic Ver-
meers in existence.
Van Meegeren made a long and incred-
ibly painstaking study of Vermeer’s
actual painting ; the repetition in certain
pictures of the same objects; the char-
acter of his brush strokes ; and, what was
more important from the point of view
of fooling the experts, his colors and
varnishes. For instance, Vermeer used
an oil that dries hard. Most modern
painters use linseed oil, which dries soft
and isn’t proof against alcohol tests. Van
Meegeren discovered the recipe that
Vermeer used. In short, he resorted to
every device he could think of to
deceive the experts—who employ X-rays,
quartz lamps which get behind the var-
nishes, and glazes and hypodermic needles
to discover the chemical content of the
pigment.
Van Meegeren took a villa at
Nice and started on his first Vermeer.
During the periods of his life of which
there are no records, Vermeer might
easily have visited Italy, as did most
Dutch artists. The Vermeer would be
found there. Van Meegeren would hear
of it and buy it cheap.
Van Meegeren arrived in Amster-
dam with his picture, A certifi-
cate of genuineness from an expert was
necessary before he could sell it. There
was a 90-year-old art historian in Rot-
terdam who had gone out of fashion and
Van Meegeren showed him his Vermeer.
Th<k half-blind old gentleman put his seal
upon it. The most important art gallery
in Rotterdam found it authentic and
landed Van Meegeren 500,000 guilders.
Exhibited in 1938 the painting shook
the art world. Van Meegeren had
floored his enemies, although they didn’t
know it. He should have stopped there;
but temptation to continue the game,
which, incidentally, returned a handsome
profit, was irresistible.
So next year a second work of the
great master was discovered. Four more
followed, each bringing a bigger price than
the last one. Van Meegeren liked the
sixth so much that he kept it in his studio,
and that was his one mistake.
In 1939 the war broke out and in 1940
the Nazis occupied Holland. A Dutch
syndicate bought the picture and sold it
to Goering. The first Van Meegeren
heard of the transaction was when he
received a letter from Goering expressing
his pleasure and hailing the author of
it as “my painter-laureate,” much to Van
Meegeren’s indignation. Even then the
fraud might not have been discovered
had not Allied investigators discovered
a Vermeer among Goering’s looted art
collection. Their interest quickened when
they found a receipt showing that the
picture had not been pilfered but bought
by Goering for 1,600,000 guilders.
The transaction was traced back
through various dealers until it reached
a little man who said he had got the
painting from an Amsterdam artist. Van
Meegeren was popped into jail on sus-
picion ot having sold a national art trea-
sure to the Germans. As dawn broke
after a night of interrogation his self-
control broke down. “You fools,’ he
shrieked, “I didn’t sell a Vermeer. I
sold a Van Meegeren.”
The fat was in the fire now in every
art centre in the Continent. If Van
Meegeren could prove he had painted
the picture, he would be liable, to six
years’ imprisonment, but scores of the
most eminent authorities would also have
suffered sortie damage to their reputations.
There was a strong move to have the
affair hushed up ; and hushed up it might
have been if Van Meegeren hadn’t in-
sisted on providing every assistance to the
officials to show he was a forger and a
crook. Finally a minor functionary sug-
gested that Van Meegeren should be
allowed to paint, under strict police
supervision, still another Vermeer which
could be submitted to the experts. The
artist jumped at the suggestion with more
alacrity than the experts. He was pro-
vided with a barred studio, all the special
materials he needed, a daily bottle of
Burgundy, cigarettes and a packet of
sleeping tablets.
After a few weeks “The Child Christ
in the Temple of the Elders,” by Van
Meegeren-Vermeer, was finished, and this
is the picture the experts are now trying
to make up their minds about.
Meanwhile, the author of the shindy
lives in his palatial mansion in Amster-
dam and drinks in his favorite pub under
police supervision. He wants the ex-j
perts to affirm his principle by declaring
his pictures fakes, even though the
he has to pay is a fine of 2,000,000
guilders and six years in jail.
The case has interest for Australia
now that most of our galleries have con-
siderable benefactions, and the Mel-
bourne one a bequest which has earned
it respect wherever two art dealers are
gathered together. The Felton Bequest
has an accumulation of nearly £200,000,
and its experts are doubtless scouring the
markets of the Old World at the present
moment.
Van Meegeren seems to have shown
pretty clearly that not all experts, at all
events, are reliable. Moreover, the
number of Rembrandts bought and sold
is far more than the number Rembrandt
could have painted, and that is true also
of Raphaels and Millets. There are 2000
pictures attributed to Van Dyck, and
only about 70 executed by his hand. A
standard joke about Corot is that of the
2500 paintings done by him in his life-
time 7800 are in American collections.
Coming nearer home, there is the new
Rubens in the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne. After the official speeches an
artist edged his way through the crowd
and looked at it for a second, “Is that
the Rubens?” he said. “I wonder who
painted it.” This was the immediate re-
action of an artist in whose judgment I
have faith.
The picture may be perfectly authentic.
No doubt it was tested with X-rays and
analysis of the pigment. Whether there
is the real quality of Rubens in it is
another matter. If it hasn’t got the real
Rubens quality the price paid—£37so—
too much, though it would be small
for a good Rubens.
F. S.
Contributions are invited for the
seventh (1947) Coast to Coast, to be
edited by Don Edwards. Contributions
should be addressed to the editor, c/c
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., Sydney. The
closing date is - July 31.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
■v*=
> /Js.
.* 'I
MS
a
>
5f
v
ifs
MpA,
Ai.
F Oe
fy
’■Wf
!?cff
?AVf S
Aet f
Slow
R
“
k*.
«Llj&
m
WmmA
.
G.T.I. Cultivating Equipment includes one
G.T.r. single row equipment. This is used
primarily for hoeing and cultivating narrow
row vegetable crops. You will, no doubt,
appreciate the value of such equipment.
J
GT-lEOUIPT
GT 2 EOUIPT.
GTS EOUIPT
’PHONE M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
ANTHONY
ccSHOUUEIINN
BOX 2712 C. G.P.0.. SYDNEY
The real value of your Planet Jr. Tractor is the greater production achieved, and the time,
labour and money you will save. The Planet Jr. Hand Tractor is ideal for the
vegetable grower ... if you are to be a successful man on the land, you cannot be without one.
The Planet Jr. is supplied complete with a Three Row Seeder Attachment which will
sow almost every type of seed. It also has a Fertilizer Attachment which it puts into the
ground up to four inches deep, in a band beside the row as desired.
G.T.2. Single row equipment is generally used in larger
growing crops and for heavier cultivating.
Seven 8-inch reversible cultivator steels are furnished
with the G.T.2.—two i-'inch steels for
making neat the row, and five steels.
£5
5
G.1.3i Three row equipment tor narrow rows, it makes an efficient three row cultivator
for such crops as onions, spinach, beets, carrots, etc. It will handle
three rows from 12 inches to 15 inches apart, and will do just as good and just as
thorough a job of weeding and cultivating as a one row outfit.
If you wish it, terms can be arranged, and the price of the Planet Jr. complete is £l5l/15/-.
Eight-inch Plough, £l2/15/- extra.
• Agricultural Implements—Fourth Floor, Pitt Street.


ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
BOOK SELECTION
MONTGOMERY, a penetrating biography of one of the greatest leaders of
our time, by Alan Moorehead, with photographs and maps.
16/- (post 6d.).
TEN CHAPTERS, 1942 TO 1945. A short and personal record of Lord
Montgomery’s activities in outline since August, 1942, to May, 1945.
6/6 (post. 3d.).
NORMANDY TO THE BALTIC. By Field-Marshal the Viscount Montgomery
of Alamein, G.C.8., D. 5.0., C.I.G.S.
In it the present Chief of the Imperial General Staff, and one of the most brilliant
Generals in our history, describes in meticulous detail the full story of the greatest
offensive operation in the history of war.
Containing 47 maps in colour and 3 diagrams numbered for easy reference to the text.
30/- (post. 9d..J.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA 6511.
m
BARM
W
J^NIbE
TO
-s;
In a confident style,
With a smile that is out to win*
In making your pile or sprinting a mile;
There’s a charm in a cheerful grin—
Learn to smile when all others look sad:
Give them a smile and they’ll all feel glad.
When there are coughs and colds to endure
Recommend Woods’ Great Peppermint Tore:.
'A:v-
I
■;, "...
s
c’ 1
:■■■■■;;
IN
.
■1
vff
itfri
t
BH a
lEtiliull
Tie Ibest aie
Most great racehorses are at their
best between 3 and 5 years old
and up to 6 years old for
Sprinters but there are notable
exceptions.
Geldings for example sometimes put
up outstanding performances when
younger or older than the average
such as Amounis, who won the
Caulfield Futurity Stakes as a 7 year
old and the Caulfield Cup as an 8
year old and Mollison, who won
£26,249 in stakes as a 2 and 3 year
old and then faded out.
Ajax, High Caste, Peter Pan, Heroic,
Eurythmic, are four instances of
famous horses who were great as 3
year olds, great as 4 year olds, and
great as 5 year olds.
Unlike racehorses, whisky never
enters its prime until it is over 5
years old. Not until then does it
attain fine bouquet and mellow
flavour. Corio Special is aged for
over five years (more than double
the minimum set by Commonwealth
law).
fM'
J
&
vorio Special
tvi
OLO WHISKY
i
Corio Special
WHI S KY
W2O/33
CALLING ALL EX-MEMBERS OF
H.M.A.S. SYDNEY
This is the book for you!
“STORMY PETREL’
being the life story of your ship
by. Lt. Com. (s) H. W. Ross.
Complete list of officers and
crew at time of sinking included.
Amply illustrated with photo-
graphs and maps.
250 Pages, Stiff 1 Cover. 10/6 post free
Send postal note to
PATERSONS PRESS LTD.
65 MURRAY STREET, PERTH
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy “National Geographic Magazine” for
August, 1926, and September, 1937.—-4036.
To bjjy copy of magazine “Hoofs and
Horns.”—4o3s.
Married couple seek working holiday August
10-31. Wife, children’s dressmaker; husband,
accountant. Both tackle anything. Competent
run household while mother has holiday.
Further from Melbourne the better.—4o34.
To buy copy of Ethics, by Dewey and Tuft.
—4037.
To buy The Encyclopedia Britannica (Rice
paper English edition, The Cambridge Press,
1910-26) and AEsop’s Fables with original Bar-
low illustrations. —4038.
Information Sought.
(1) I am 82 and in good health, but a gall-
bladder has developed. Am I too old for an
operation ?
(1) Medical attention advised at your age.
Simplify diet avoid greasy, seasoned foods,
curries, thick soup, cheese, hot biscuits, new
bread, pastry, pickles, excess sugar and sweets.
Toasted bread is permissible, also cornflour,
rice, sago and tapioca. Beef, mutton, lamb
and pork may be eaten in limited amount (as
age permits) provided it is lean, but chicken
and white meats, brains, etc., are best. Green
vegs. and fruit excepting bananas should be
included with one meal daily. Drink water
freely—add a mild saline to the morning glass
of hot water.
* * * *
Formula for making mortar for joining stone
for a fireplace?
The following mortar is suitable: Sand, 801 b.,
powdered clay or ground limestone, 201 b.,
sodium silicate (waterglass), 81b., and water to
suit, 81b/approx. The sand and clay should
be well mixed dry. The waterglass should
then be mixed with the water, hot, and mixed
in thoroughly with the clay and sand. More
water may be added to produce a good work-
ing mixture. The mortar will set hard in about
24 hours, so that too iquch should not be mixed
at a time. The joints between the stones should
be as thin as possible. For parts of the fire-
place which are not subject to much heat
ordinary lime sand mortar is suitable.
* * * #
What 'Australian championships did Bill Jen-
nings and Herb McKell hold, and whom did
they win the championships from ?
Jennings beat Billy Edwards for Australian
middleweight championship in 1895, and
Edwards regained title'by outpointing Jennings
in a return bout the next year. Billy McKell
beat Bert Weekes for the Australian bantam-
weight championsip in 1901, but there is no
record of Herb McKell winning an Australian
title.
♦ * * *
Information about fishing and camping
facilities at Wallaga Lake, near Bermagui?
Fishing possibilities are lauded as excellent,
with launches and dingies on hire. Cottages,
cabins, boarded tents and bare camp-sites are
available at Beauty Point, Wallaga Lake. For
further information contact J. J. O’Connell and
Son, Bermagui, N.S.W.
, Brief Answers.
G.D.M.: Robert Bryce and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
188 Kent-street, Sydney, are buyers of grass-
tree resin. A sample of resin containing as little
debris as possible should be sent to the firm
for valuation... .J.W.R.: Admission to the
Lidcombe (N.S.W.) or Liverpool State Hospital
and Home may be obtained by the applicant
calling at the Hospital Admission Depot, 93
Macquarie-street, Sydney, on any day of the
week (Monday to Friday) between the hours
of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., or the medical prac-
titioner attending the applicant should phone
the Hospital Admission Depot (806, ext. 676),
giving full particulars of his case A.G.:
Tuggerah means “cold”; Terrigal, “place of
••••J-D.S.; (J) Money, by Mills
and Walker, obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney. (2) Commonwealth Official Year
Book H.M.A.: To make diabetic jam or
marmalade use saccharin tablets to sweeten,
and isinglass to thicken the jam. Add 1 tablet
saccharin at a time till desired sweetness is
obtained; then dissolve isinglass in the jam till
it reaches desired consistency. Make jam in
small lots; keep in very cool place and seal
perfectly. Bottle all jam hot and seal 24 hours
later M. 8.: Suggest that you write to thfe
Society of Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-
street, Sydney...,B.LM.: There is no simple
way of calculating the date of the full moon for
a number of years ahead. There are tables —not
simplei published by the British Astronomical
Association, Burlington House, W.l, London,
and available for 5s J.D.: (1) The maximum
prices for second-hand motor trucks having a
higher rating than two tons in manufacturers’
standard capacity, except for those disposed of
through the Commonwealth Disposals Com-
mission, have not been fixed. (2) The truck in
question was of a higher rating than two tons
and was not disposed of through the Common-
wealth Disposals Commission. , ..J.S.: Badges
of rank, unless the cap issued to luluais, tultuls
and doctor boys be. loosely termed a badge of
rank, were not at any time issued to- natives
in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea.
During the German regime caps were issued to
a limited number of native officials. The piac-
tice was continued during military occupation
(1914-21) and subsequently by the Civil Ad-
ministration of the Territory. The issue of caps
was first made in the Rabaul area and gradu-
ally extended throughout the Territory
H.G.8.: The Graziers’ Assoc, of N.S.W. is
sponsoring a shearing contest through the Royal
Agricultural Society, and it is the intention
to make it an inter-State affair. You Should get
in touch with the Secretary, R.A.S., Macquarie-
Place, Sydney, for details. You would be able
to get the services of a reliable judge by apply-
ing to the ' Secretary of the Stock Owners’
Association of South Australia, 23 Waymouth-
street, Adelaide... .L.K.: The secretary would
appear to be primarily liable, but the facts
stated are insufficient to express any real view.
The matter, particularly as to the title to the
land and hall, seems sufficiently important to
consult a solicitor upon... .P.S.: The proprietor,
if ready and willing to perform his part, is
legally entitled to payment for the full two
weeks. The guest cannot evade his legal respon-
sibility under the contract by walking out
before the fixed term has expired and not pay-
ing for the balance of the term L.A.S :
Write John Young, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
•• • • W.T;: No chemicals are used to soften
the bones of fish during the process. Fish are
canned under pressure at a temperature usually
of 240 deg. F. and this alone causes the bones
to soften.,, .S.H.H.: Logging winches are made
by A. T. Harman, Derham-street, Port Mel-
bourne, Vic. The one which would suit your
purpose is a Harman No. 4 Double Drum
Winch. The price for this unit, less engine,
would be £650 f.o.b. Melbourne. An engine
of approximately 50 h.p. would be needed,
cither petrol or diesel. Suggest you get in touch
with the Brisbane agents, Engineering Supply
Co. of Aust. Ltd., Edward- and Charlotte-
streets, Brisbane.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
—ln Divoece.
TO CLARENCE DAVID LAMBERT—TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this Court endorsed
in a Notice to you to appear and answer the charges
in the Petition of CATHERINE ANNIE LAMBERT
of Hobart in Tasmania praying for a dissolution
of marriage In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the purposes
aforesaid within Thirty days after the date of this
publication an appearance must be entered at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart. —J. R. REX,
Principal Registrar.
N.B. —Friends of the above-named Clarence David
Lambert who may see this advertisement are re-
quested to bring it under his notice.
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
s
Mail Order Tobacconists . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.,
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
TH*>
%
<5
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simp!© codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By mean# of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sol© Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. X. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Eee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP IRUSI
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 " G.P.0., Sydney.
SF f-,4.
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance Free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defi-
nitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed
no matter where you
live. Call or send stamp for details. Self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE BODSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
BARKO
u
n
»
x
>
*o
O
ir*
M
m n
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor,
Old Fred: No go, Fred E.M.H.: A
touch of poetry in it, but Masefield was before
you... .E.8.H.: The world needs reforming all
right, but so does the poem J.G.G.: Rings
true enough, but the theme’s an old acquain-
tance A. 0.: Lightweight Morepork:
Don’t care a hoot for ’em.... G.Y.; Sympathise
with the thought. You should sympathise with
us for the poem M.Q.: “I am enclosing
two of my latest efforts, not for publication,
but merely to keep your art editor abreast of
contemporary thought.” Well, thank you very
much K.K.: A glimmer in it P.8.R.:
And where did you see any “modern” poetry
like that? L.G.: Well, if you’re quite sure
Australia can take it: —
. ...A.M.F.; Very touching, but a little too so
for us C.E.G.: Your mouse in the cake
story is going to keep us away from afternoon-
tea parties for a long time to come... .D.P.:
You should be able to.raise a few quid on
the dingo’s scalp J.L.G.8.: There’s a good
idea buried there, but the sketch needs brighter
presentation R.C.: Wearisome E.M.:
F.a.q. bushfire yarn V.C.W.: Ten thousand
words story is 9000 words too many... .A.J.R.:
You might give us a rest from those coy little
sketches about your playful kitten A.L.:
Most incredible character this week is your
ventriloquist who caused the foreman of the
jury to utter a “Not Guilty” verdict E.M.:
It does sometimes happen that a bush dance
ends up without some rustic being murdered.
J.O’D.: We’d like the address of that sly-
grog shop where a “case of the best imported
champagne can be picked up for a tenner”
A.BJ.: That romance belongs to the days of
hansom cabs G.L.: Your hero, Plantagenet
Orlando Postlethwaite, “known to one and all
as ‘Pop,’ ” was a flop 8.5.: “The Colt from
Boggajogga” broke down in the first furlong.
C.R.: You do seem a little perturbed:
A.S.: If you’d like a Bulletin cheque to
frame that’s not the way to earn it J.McC.:
“Fiction writing keeps me up until the early
hours of the morning.” Take a sleeping
draught J.G.: Too wild and woolly for us.
P.T.: “My Life in the Army” as exciting
as a tram trip to Bondi... .W.D.E.: Our legal
man tells us that you’ve got your law all
wrong K.M.: Newchum who rides the
station outlaw, licks the station bully, saves
the overseer’s daughter from drowning, solves
a murder and inherits a fortune all in one day
was a little more than we could stand.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.M.8.: We thought that jest had been
forgotten C.L.F.: You might find a place
for it in an autograph book J.N.: The
basket claimed the deformed foreman and the
spindly hodcarrier A.P.V.: You managed
the full moon, but you made a mess of the
couple on the beach 8.A.: Almost tempted
to print it as a horrible example T.S.:
We’ve met some freakish art contributions, blit
you’re the first to turn in a sketch on a paper
serviette P.C.G.: Wash drawing looks like
a faded photograph of a mud geyser C.K.:
That M.H.R. looks nothing like your caricature.
H.H.: You’ve earned one distinction:
yours was the only plumber addressing a lady
in the bathtub to arrive this week L.H.:
We gather that it is Chifley chasing Evatt
around a tree, but why?. .. .A.T.: A horse
is not built along those lines G.D.: Be-
tween them the two wrestlers and the referee
appear to have seven legs... .W.A.: Phil May
illustrated that jest 60 years ago R.N.J.:
You might make a tattoo artist or a sign-
writer, but doubt whether you’ll ever make a
humorous artist W.McL.: Not a winter
passes without that gag making at least half
a dozen reappearances... Why are all
the figures crowded into the bottom right-hand
corner?... .S.T.: You must have wasted several
gallons of ink trying to break into print
K.F.: Caricature bears no resemblance to the
subject H.P.: So the good old “Ship of
State” is on the rocks again R.W.: Jest has
whiskers a yard long P.D.: You would be
better employed playing noughts and crosses.
E.H.F.: We keep a special fireproof basket
for that class of wheeze J.M.R.: You’re not
far off the mark; let us have brighter gags.
. ...8.W.: Even the liberal use of Chinese
White couldn’t conceal your mistakes M.F.:
Not one of them looked even faintly like a
winner B.B.: Those dogs should never have
been allowed off the chain... .W.G.W.: Not
amused by conversation between the front and
hind legs of the pantomime elephant C.S.:
Give us something original H.J.H.: You’re
a heavy-handed penman and a dull jester
C.N.: Colored studies of your neighbor’s
children, no matter how good, have no appeal
for us R.E.: We ordered the handyman to
get rid of your bar-room nuisance H.M.:
Lass with legs like cricket stumps and a
pumpkin for a head sent back for repairs
J.W.G.: Six members of the staff saw them;
not one smiled P.H.D.: You could do with
some lessons; also a smarter sense of humor.
R.K.S.: A front-page cartoon needs to
consist of more than a small boy waving a
flag and crying “Hooray for Australia”....
R.T.: We’ve never seen the gentleman, but
we feel sure that he doesn’t look like that.
D.H.: Those rustics are American hill-
billies, not Australians W.C.: Percy Lindsay
beat you to it....A.L.: The pug didn’t last
one round with our Art Editor.. .'.V.M.:
Terrible.
Now —back stiffer through grill—
Stands the Nation whose drill ,
With eyes wider-opened will wake it.
And this way revealing
The right cards for dealing
Will certain a greater one make it
Who’ll turn down the strikes,
Crazy tax and the likes
As sure thing Australia can take It.
IN PENSIVE MOOD.
This world, I find, is impossible,
With ethics, philosophies, past defining;
Amuck my pen runs, but from it ne’er comes
The spurious nursery rhyming;
Society must bend to the will of Fate —
For unanswerable Fate’s not addicted to fawning;
Tho’ Heaven or Hell cracks, the perennial tax
Eestraineth elbows —abbreviates snoring.
Who glibly deflneth the good—or the bad?
Who, lacking conscience, shall seek for its vendors?
When dollars vanish, wise men famish—
Or bush-range a rise like Federal members.
This world, I repeat, is implacable—
And if the cap fits you may don it;
I know that some ass full of Casuist’s gas,
Will say “It’s the people upon it.”


The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
MARS Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. AH essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - - all gear teeth are generated.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. P-y. Ltd.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Ohowrlnghee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
fd
: ■'*>
Licensed
MaNDFACTUEBES
IN Qld. OF
“Mbehanite”
Metals
DAILY IRREGULARITY]
3)ont uxut to&£cmg action J
m
if
■ /
r*
~ ; 3ri
If you suffer from biliousness, headache or
other symptoms of daily irregularity or, in
other words, constipation, do something
positive about it now. Delay may aggravate
the symptoms. To-night, take Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, the gentle-acting* veget-
able laxative. This household remedy usually
relieves constipation quickly and thoroughly,
without griping or unpleasant after-effects.
Get an economical bottle of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills and take a course.
DR MORSES ig
Indian
pills
A FLAT
AT KINGS
CROSS
By JOHN
FOUNTAIN
MICHAEL Patrick Flannigan
O’Shea stood in an island of his
luggagb on the grey, grimy outer
platform of Central Railway
station at six o’clock on a Monday morn-
ing, peering uncertainly for a taxi.
Michael, at 25, was a civilian and a
free man. Tall and well set-up, with a
long, solemn brown face ; a large nose
and weak, wide blue eyes with incon-
gruously long eye-lashes, he was immacu-
lately suited in dark grey, with a wide-
brimmed grey felt hat. He wore also an
ex-serviceman’s badge and an anxious
gape. At his feet were three suitcases, a
rug, a pink cushion, a cardboard box
full of food, and his big tin trunk. Each
with a ticket, and “Michael P, F. O’Shea,
Passenger, Toomalong to Sydney” printed
in neat block letters.
A taxi pulled in to the kerb, “ ’Struth,”
the driver said—reminding Michael for a
fleeting second of his father —“it’s a
bloody van y’ want, not a taxi.”
Michael opened his mouth to speak,
thought better of it.
“Where to, George?” The driver asked,
swinging the cab round.
“The Australia,” Michael said with
dignity. And then, hastily, “If you don’t
mind,”
< <U/ HAT are you doing in Sydney?”
» ■ they asked together, and laughed.
Betty came from Toomalong and they
met, as people do, in King-street. Too-
malong people always meet each other
when they come to Sydney,
“I thought you were still in the army,”
Betty said.
“Got out a month ago,” Michael said.
“Going to do medicine.”
But Michael was aware of a creeping,
stifling sense of discomfort. Every time
Betty turned those merry, sparkling,
quick glances on him he thought she was
remembering that night, before the war.
A hot summer night, and Betty in the
garden with him, near the old green
creeper that screened the front verandah.
Betty with the small oval of her face
white in the starlight, tilted invitingly.
His own voice, stumbling and halting. “I
—that is—l’ve always, Betty ...” Betty
giggling. And then—he could hear himself
now above the traffic noises in the street
—“Let me kiss your hand, my little white
dove.”
Then, from the verandah behind them
a terrific roar. And the shape of his
father’s bald head. “Little white dove!
Little white dove!” chanted in a wild
howl of jeering fury.
Michael wondered, staring at Betty’s
small, mobile face, the quick, dark eyes,
whether she had ever been able to for-
give his father’s gross rudeness. “I’ve
had a bit of a row with the old man,” he
told her proudly. “I’m, fed up with
Toomalong.”
Betty nodded. She, too, it appeared,
was fed up with Toomalong. They stared
approvingly at the trams. “I’m working
here,” she said. “Got an office job , . .
But how did you manage to find some-
where to live?”
“I’m at the Australia. Only for a
night, though. I thought I might get a
flat at King’s Cross,” Michael said.
“I think you mightn’t,” said Betty.
MICHAEL did not move into a flat
at King’s Cross, for there was none
to be had. He found temporary quarters
in a cheap pub in the city. Twenty-five
shillings, to share a room, no meals.
He had been there a week, and had
enrolled at the University, and started
lectures, when he visited Betty Cahill.
Betty lived in a handsome block of
flats at King’s Cross, in one of those
small streets where there are trees, and
small mixed shops, and where taxis al-
ways seem plentiful. Where, too, a little
excitement may be expected at times —a
•brawl, late at night, or a violent love
scene—where cats sleep in the sun and
old ladies sit on porches and knit, and
women walk down the street in kimonos
on Sunday mornings, to buy milk.
Flat No, 8, Betty had said. This must
be it. On the first floor. Pausing before
the bland yellow woodwork, Michael
hesitated about ringing. Perhaps she didn’t
mean him to call at all . . Girls were
funny. Rosy Grant, for instance, who
had been so friendly up in Toomalong.
Michael had gone all the way out to
Manly to see her, and she had been very
off-hand. Very. Well, she wouldn’t get
any more cigarettes out of him. But
Betty wasn’t like that . . . He rang.
A stout, dark-complexioned man with
sleek hair, grey at the temples, and alert,
intelligent brown eyes, opened the door.
“Mees Cahill? Certainly.” He called
out “Mees Cahill . . , Visitor!”
Betty came out, smiling. “Why, hullo,
Michael. Come in.” He went in, into
the big brown lounge room, and met Mr.
Wiener —who had admitted him —Mrs.
Wiener, the children, two Wiener cousins
—thin dark girls with flashing eyes—and
Sue Adams, a tall blonde, unbelievably
glamorous to Michael’s eyes. The
Wieners, it appeared, owned the flat and
had sub-let a room to Sue and Betty.
IT was all very crowded and, with the
heartiest goodwill on all sides, general
conversation was hard to sustain. Betty
suggested they go for a walk.
“Er—what say we go to a show?”
Michael asked, striding along toward the
Cross, with jewelled signs above and
crowds below, restaurants thrown open,
and the pavements' lined with parked cars.
But Betty and Sue thought it was too late.
Michael didn’t know the Cross very
well, which was why he almost steered
them into a restaurant where waiters were
moving around deferentially, with snowy
napkins and bottles in silver pails, where
there was the lilt of music and the high
bay of well-lubricated laughter.
Betty dug her firm little fingers into
his arm, “No! Michael. Not there,” and
she carried him past the expensive place,
down into Macleay-street, where they
found a small cafe with shaded lights
and small round tables. “This’ll do,”
Betty said, sinking into a chair. “Yes,
coffee, thanks. And how are you getting
on for accommodation, Michael?”
Michael was getting on terribly,
“A boarding - house might' suit you
better,” Betty said. “Going to lectures
. , . Men never look after themselves
properly.”
Michael had tried boarding - houses,
too. They were impossible. There was
one place not far from here, a street full
of cats and garbage tins, with a boarding-
house which was quite cheap. But it was
below street level, beds crammed every-
where, and a horrible smell of soiled
linen and cabbages hung over the place
like a curse. Three to a room, too.
“It’s tough, all right,” Sue said, in her
surprisingly deep, pleasing voice. “Rooms
are just as bad.”
Rooms! Michael knew all about
rooms. There were damp, dark, airless
rooms being let in tiny houses for £2, £3,
even £4 a week.
“Well,” said Betty slowly. “I do know
of a place because the fellow there put
his head in the gas oven. Mr. Wiener
told me. You might have to pay Mr.
Wiener something. The flats are called
Paradise Court.”
“But he couldn’t live there!” Sue shud-
dered.
“I know it’s pretty terrible,” said
Betty. “But he does seem to be desper-
ate. And then —you’ve been in the Army,
haven’t you, Michael?”
“Well, of course,” said Michael defen-
sively, “I didn’t exactly get overseas. My
eyes, you know. Do you really think I
could live in a place where a chap put
his head in the gas oven? Who was he?”
“Oh,” said Betty, “just a foreigner of
some sort. Mr. Wiener knew him. Still,
you don’t have to take it.”
MICHAEL took the flat, a flatette,
really.
After the first night, when he kept
imagining that there was something not
quite normal about the movement of the
curtains and the shadows passing over
the gas oven, he forgot about the previous
occupant. It was convenient to forget
him. The flat was central, and close to
the girls. Michael had acquired the habit
of dropping in after tea, or taking one
or the other to dinner.
Then there was Madge. A flamboyant,
fleshy, good-natured red-head, Madge,
with real red hair —not dyed.
It was through Madge, in a way, that
Michael left Paradise Court. Although
Rosy Grant had her part in it, too.
Michael met Rosy Grant by chance, in
a tram one day, and she had been much
morfc friendly, recalling old days in
Toomalong. They had had lunch to-
gether, and Rosy told him she was very
fed up. A tall young girl with wary eyes
and a small, discontented mouth. Rosy
had worked for the Americans during the
war, and had found difficulty in getting
a stenographing job that suited her so
well since. Rosy asked, did Michael go
to nightclubs at all?
Michael didn’t, not as a usual thing.
But by an odd coincidence he had just
had a ring from an old schoolfriend of
his, Bruce Boeuf —Rosy would like Bruce.
Rosy looked doubtful.
Well, perhaps she wouldn’t, he was a
good chap, Bruce, one of the best, but,
well
“A wolf?” Rosy looked interested.
Well, Bruce had rung him up, asked
him to go to a night club, that night.
Rosy smiled warmly. Would Rosy like
to come? Rosy would,
THEY made a cheerful party, Bruce,
and Madge, and Michael and Rosy,
and Bruce’s great friend, “Bubs” Lang-
ford, who owned greyhounds, and Coral.
Bruce said, “Mr. Bruce Boeuf’s table,”
very importantly, and the waiter, a slim
man with a brown astute face, took them
to their table. Soon there was beer.
Your Eyes.
Secret, in close retreat within your head.
Of, and beyond its deft anatomy.
Must be a store, a solitude of light,
Some marvellous negation of dim night
Or constant re-creation of surprise.
This is, of you, the riddle, the mystery;
When all your other attributes are said
How else explain the deep strange shining
eyes ?
This feature and that feature make a face,
Grey cells in convolutions, here’s a brain ;
Bones, nerves and muscles as a textbook
shows.
Explicit no doubt; and yet on earth who
knows
Anything, even a tenth part of the whole ?
And I, in wonder, look once and again
To find my swiftest thought cannot keep
pace
With the elusive exposure of your soul.
Forever hidden it only seems laid bare,
Beneath dark brows mockery, worry,
mirth;
If your mouth smiles or twists I under-
stand,
You frown, I see the cause, the reason and
I sorrow with your tears. Each day I
rise
Forget the other days, how little worth
My knowledge; but come half dazzled,
half unaware
To seek the fires and snows behind your
eyes.
N.s.w.
NANCY KEESING.


.
•_. :
'-I
:
urn
Photograph by Davis Boulton
4 H
• • and lovely Valerie
Hobson wears the
Dickensian ensemble with fine demureness for her part as Estella
in “Great Expectations”. But, once ‘shooting’ is over, out
come the modern clothes and new Clarks shoes which trans-
form Estella into a very twentieth - century Miss Hobson.
Made by C. & J. CLARK, Ltd.
(Wholesale only). Street, Somerset, England.
London Office: Mitre House, 177, Regent Street,
London, W.l
CloAk
5
SHOES
sssssk
AMD
Sv it 'v
Pin
Ct
0F p '
REA”
*
\- - ,r .
lf®»
M**"
dsho**
Mt* r *
«*«*?
Bonus Distribution
£6,000,000
On 30th June the A.M.P. Society divided amongst
its members a surplus of £3,679,478, the result
of economical management, and wise investment
of members’ funds. This represents a return to
members of almost one quarter of all premiums
received by the Society during the year 1946.
The Cash surplus will provide in the form of re-
versionary bonuses a total of over £6,000,000 as additions
to nearly 800,000 Ordinary and approximately the same
number of Industrial Department policies entitled to
participate.
Absolute security is and will always remain the
Society’s principal concern, and ample reserves are made
for all contingencies before each distribution of surplus.
Let the strength of the 4.M.P. stand behind your
plans for your own and your family’s security. Write or
telephone note to any office or representative of the
Society for information.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY;
Security through Co-operation
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN. K.8.E., Chairmkn.
SYDNEY OSMOND, General Manager.
H. B. G. WALKER, Manager, New South Wales Branch,
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
If any illustration m “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Michael was a little overwhelmed by
the brilliance of it all. There were cele-
brities here. Rosy—no stranger to night-
clubs, apparently—kept pointing them out.
There was a famous model. Here, com-
ing in in furs —furs on a night like this!
—a well-known bookmaker’s wife. A
leading jockey ; a prominent divorcee ; a
newspaper columnist; a wide variety of
other faces, fresh, youthful, excited,
bored, ugly, old, foreign, and some which
were frankly villainous.
A nice evening. But expensive. Tips
here and there and everywhere.
Bruce was a bit embarrassed, too.
He had changed into the wrong suit,
had only brought ten shillings. Could
Michael lend him a couple of quid?
Michael was delighted—he had been to
the bank that afternoon. Would two
pounds be enough—was Bruce sure?
Bruce said, well, three pounds would be
nearer the mark, and Michael insisted on
his taking four —just in case.
When they were out in the street again
Madge said she was hungry. Starving.
“There’s no place open now,” Bruce
said, turning round and laughing at her.
Bruce had his arm round Rosy.
“Well, I’m starvin’,” Madge said flatly.
She was a little thick in her speech now,
her red hair tousled and a dull glint in
her green eyes.
Michael said there was a cake in his
room. Also tea, milk and sugar, and
the gas stove. “Lead on, McShea,” Madge
ordered. .“I’m starving.” But they must
be very quiet, Michael said. No visitors
were allowed after eleven.
“Quiet as little mice,” Madge assured
him.
But for all their precautions the first
steps squeaked horribly, and then, from
the doorway that was always open at the
bottom of the stairs, came the landlord’s
voice, loud and weirdly hollow. “Get
those people out of here, Mr. O’Shea!”
“Er—it’s all right, Mr. Herbert,”
Michael said apologetically. “Just going
to have a cup of tea. Be back in a
minute.”
But no sooner had Michael come
from the blackness of the stairway into
the blinding light of the flatette than Mrs.
Herbert appeared, more in sorrow and
surprise than anger, in her red kimono
and with her mop of hair.
Mrs. Herbert was surprised at Mr.
O’Shea —very —he knew the rules, surely?
Michael said he was very sorry, and
couldn’t they just have a cup of tea. Mrs.
Herbert said, firmly, no, they would wake
the tenants.
“But it’s you that’s making all the
noise, you silly old duck,” Madge said
unexpectedly.
That spoilt things. After that, for
all Michael could do, there was a most
coarse and acrimonious discussion among
the women, ending by Mrs. Herbert’s
going red in the face, quite crimson, and
screaming, “Get these women out of here,
Mr. O’Shea. This isn’t a brothel.”
A brothel! Terrible words, and a
terrible scene to follow them.
MR. and Mrs. Wiener, and all the
children and cousins, were out when
Michael called on Betty and Sue the next
evening, so they had the big brown lounge
room to themselves: Michael, sitting with
his legs crossed in the big armchair;
creasing his forehead up into convulsive
patterns ; Sue, with her shoes off, lying
back on the lounge; Betty, watching
Michael with brown bright eyes.
“What’s the trouble, Michael?”
“Oh, nothing, Betty, That is—yes, I
was wondering about accommodation” —
“But you’re at Paradise Court!”
“Well —no.” Michael reddened. It
was against his nature to lie, but he
couldn’t tell thfese girls about the happen-
ings of last night. It didn’t sound well.
“Had a row with the landlord —about —
about the bath-heater. I’ve got to get
out, even if I sleep in Hyde Park.”
“We might be doing the same,” Sue
said slowly. “The Wieners are expecting
a couple of cousins—or uncles —or some-
thing —■ out on the next boat from
Europe.”
“They can’t kick you out, can they?”
“No. But they can make it very un-
comfortable. Of course they did tell us
about another flat we could have.”
“By cripes, that’s lucky,” said Michael
“Not for us,” said Betty. “We can’t
afford it. There’s a catch.”
“Hell! ” said Michael. “There’s a catch
in everything.”
“The catch in this case is 50 pounds
for the key. Terrible, isn’t it? But they’re
not bad flats. Bit old-fashioned, but solid.
The rent is pretty reasonable, too. Three
guineas.”
MICHAEL didn’t think much of the
flat when he saw it, Mr. Wiener
throwing open the door like a brisk con-
jurer. It was necessary to switch on the
light—heavy, soiled curtains covered the
windows —and, by the light of the dull,
dust-covered globe, they saw a large
lounge-room, a solid brown table, chairs,
a long sofa, and an ancient shoe lying in
the middle of the % carpet. And, covering
everything, a fine powder of dust.
Betty crossed the room with her quick,
determined steps, pulled back the curtains.
That was better—a yellow shaft of light
coming in, but exposing the dust fearfully.
The covers on the sofa —brown and dull
red —had, apparently, been hacked with
a knife.
Betty and Sue were everywhere, ex-
amining, appraising. “There’s no hot
water in the kitchen,” said Betty. “No
refrigerator,” said Sue. Michael pointed
out that the bath was rusty, but to this,
and more besides, Mr, Wiener was un-
moved, “Take it or leave it,” he said.
“Ganz egal! ” It -was all one to him. He
consulted his gold wristlet watch, com-
pressed his tight lips. He was a busy
man.
Michael decided to take it, paying Mr.
Wiener on the spot in crisp new fivers
and tenners.
“Gee, I wish we had this, Betty,” Sue
said wistfully, sprawling on the carpet,
her long length of sunburnt leg showing
under the faded floral dirndl, her fair
hair rumpled attractively, her cheeks
flushed.
Michael had an idea. He would be
going home, soon, anyway for the vaca-
tion. If the girls had to leave Wiener’s,
why not take over while he was up in
Toomalong? The girls were tempted.
MICHAEL was astonished to discover
how narrow-minded people were,
back in Toomalong. When he told them
where he had been living —at King’s
Cross —and that he had a flat, they either
looked shocked or guffawed, depending
on age, sex, and social standing. Even
his father, when Michael told him, said
“’Struth! ” softly, and looked at him
queerly,
Michael was sure he would never
understand about *Betty and Sue living in
his flat while he was away. There would
be nasty insinuations for sure, and
coarse guffaws. Especially as he had
overspent his allowance.
Toomalong bored him.
He left a week before he had intended
to. But first it was necessary to ask his
father for more money. “ ’Struth! ” his
father said glaring up at him, under his
shaggy grey eyebrows. “You had plenty
when you went down, didn’t you?”
“Y-yes,” Michael said. His father still
had the power to terrify him, “But there
were a lot of things to get—books, and
instruments, and so on ... ”
Back in Sydney, Michael found the flat
almost spick-and-span. New curtains,
everything scrubbed and polished. The
girls had a lot to tell him, sitting around
the lounge room in their kimonos, their
hair in pins, drinking the tea Sue made
for Michael when he arrived. They had
had trouble. “Some character, who calls
himself Mr. Bruce Boeuf,” Sue said.
“Always ringing up. Wants to know
when you’ll be home. We always pre-
tended we were from another flat, just
answering the ’phone. ' But I think he’s
suspicious.”
Betty giggled, “And Rosy Grant has
been ringing, day and night. You’re a
deep one, Michael.” Michael began to
think that he might, indeed, be a deep
one.
This impression was directly fostered by
Bert. Bert, a short, nuggety little man,
with a pink face and muscular reddish
arms, brought the ice in the mornings and
collected the garbage-tins at six o’clock
every night. Bert had seen a lot in his
50 years or so, and didn’t blink a sandy
eyelash when he came in in the mornings
Bert never bothered to knock and
found Michael sleeping on the lounge.
Bert knew all about the girls, of course.
Bert knew everything.
{Continued on page 32.)


The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £51,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
What a Trustee should know.
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
' of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
p. W. Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
Manager;
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.:
C. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty oI
akin and com-
/ plexion! Use Cuticura
' Soap regularly Its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticnra Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder. „
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
OUR TROOPS IN JAPAN.
A report by the “Christian Science
Monitor’s” chief Far Eastern correspon-
dent, Gordon Walker, does not square
well with some of the glowing accounts
that have been given of the British occu-
pation forces in Japan —a large number
of the 35,000 of them Australians and
New Zealanders.
Walker reports that the area they
occupy—roughly 20,000 square miles in
the lower half of Honshu Island and
Shikoku, with a Jap population of about
11,000,000 “is noticeably lacking in
large cities and modem homes and con-
veniences.” When Walker reported, most
of the time of Australian Lieut.-Gen.
Robertson, who commands the British
occupation forces, was taken up with
getting “adequate accommodation for
troops.”
“It is apparent to the visitor,” Walker
wrote, “that British forces in Japan still
lack many of the comforts and amenities
which are enjoyed by American forces in
their area.” Nor was this wholly a matter
of the Americans having pegged out for
themselves the best part of the country,
including the big cities. The compara-
tively bad state of things was admitted to
be largely caused by the “dearth of first-
class food shipped into Japan by the
British Commonwealth Governments,
and the fact that British troops are paid
in highly-inflated Japanese yen, while
American forces receive payment in occu-
pation dollars of steadily mounting
value.”
Apart from what would seem to have
been shoddy treatment of the British
troops —particularly in comparison with
the American forces: until the beginning
of this year the British troops did not
even have access to rest and recreation
centres, “such as are maintained on
relatively lavish standards by American
forces” —a serious aspect of the general
set-up commented on by Walker is the
lowering of British (including Australian
and New Zealand) prestige in the eyes of
the Japs.
That is brought about not only by
what the Japs can see of the way our
troops have been treated compared with
the Americans, but also by the secondary
role allotted to our forces in the occupa-
tion. On this important aspect Walker
reported;
The chief purpose of British troops has been
to supervise Japanese demobilisation. That has
included cataloguing of enemy war equipment,
destruction of explosives, and supervision of
Japan’s naval base at Kure, where British
occupation headquarters is located.
As tactical troops, they fulfilled an important
role during the so-called “doubtful” period when
Japanese reaction to the occupation was ques-
tionable. Now that it has become plain that
the Japanese are accepting the occupation peace-
ably, however, the role of tactical support is
largely nominal.
Whether or not the assigned area and the
role played by British forces is consistent with
original British Government intentions, the
British now feel that in many respects they have
been relegated to a position in Japan which
may jeopardise British prestige and interests in
the Far East for the future.
Walker states that the feeling on the
loss of, prestige has been based on two
major contentions: (1) With British
forces left out of any active role in the
Military Government, the task of re-
educating and reforming Japanese poli-
tical, economic and social institutions has
become purely an American prerogative ;
(2) by occupying an area which is
patently lacking in large cities, industries,
good hotels, European-style homes and
other modern conveniences (as in many
American occupation areas) British forces
are forced to maintain a considerably
lower standard of living—with conse-
quent “loss of face” in the eyes of the
Japs: —
The British point to the fact that American
Military Government teams in British areas,
which formerly displayed the sign “Allied Mili-
tary Government,” changed this to “American
Military Government” at the beginning of the
year.
Many British officers with whom this cor-
respondent talked during the course of a tour
of the British occupation area complained about
the fact that, while they were nominally in
tactical command, actual ahthority was vested
in American Military Government officers com-
manding local Military Government teams, who
in most cases considerably under-ranked the
British.
Walker concluded his report by quot-
ing British authorities in Japan as sug-
gesting that it would be better if the
British were permitted liaison staffs in
all of the Military Government sections.
There would then be none of that serious
lowering of British prestige in the eyes of
the watchful Japs which is now going
on. Moreover, under that arrangement
“Britain’s participation in the occupation
could be successfully achieved with only
a battalion of British troops stationed
in Tokyo,”
In another dispatch Walker reported
Chicago "Tribune.”
THE CAT THAT CAME BACK.
that “for the moment the Japanese as a
whole are either satisfied or at least
apathetic and complacent under occupa-
tion. Most are waiting to see what the
future holds.” Washington “Post” re-
ports that most observers returning from
Japan declare •that “the people are dis-
playing a sincere enthusiasm for their
democratic institutions.” The “Post”
comments, however, that “the Japanese
have a faculty for embracing ideas which
are expedient and prevalent,” and, point-
ing to the fact that the Japs are now
acting under what “is in fact an im-
posed Constitution,” it adds: “The
danger remains that at some future time
the foreign origin of the new organic
law may serve as a rallying-point for
the charge that the Constitution is an
alien document.”
That “future time,” when a strong
British prestige would be a very impor-
tant impression to have left on the minds
of the Japs, might profitably be kept in
mind by Dr. Evatt during his visit to
Japan, if that is to include taking a
glance at the general conditions, and
especially the role, of our occupation
forces. There seems to have been no
thought at all for that future ; pone even
for the present.
BRITISH GUTS.
Britain’s Ambassador, Lord Inver-
chapel, refuting in America the notion
much publicised there that J. Bull is done
for, has been speaking plainly enough for
any taste.
Appropriately, it was an English-Speak-
ing Union he was addressing when he
said; “I may be obtuse and slow-witted,
but I fail to follow the arguments of
people who say that our guts have
withered and shrivelled within us and
that we have lost our power and will to
work.
“History has shown that the British
people possess in a remarkable way just
those extra few inches of guts that make
all the difference. Believe me, those
extra few inches are still with us and
will carry us out of the present crisis as
they have carried us out of far graver
crises in the past.”
Instancing actual achievements —among
them, that “within 18 months after V.-J.
Day Britain’s export trade had been re-
stored to a higher level than before the
war, that 300,000 of its homeless families
had been housed, that it had built the
same number of merchant ships in 1946
as in 1938,” apart from, as he said,
having “overdone all this expenditure
abroad” in helping to get the war-devas-
tated European countries back on their
feet —the Ambassador added:
“I am being taunted with not being a
realist, because, whilst I recognise there
is a crisis in the domestic affairs of
Britain, I reject, with all the strength at
my command, any suggestion that we are
finished as a world Power and that we
are incapable of overcoming the diffi-
culties which six years of bombardment,
of submarine blockade, of overwork and
dull food, have left us.”
The American reaction to the Am-
bassador’s confidence, however, has been
that all it amounts to is that Lord Inver-
chapel is himself an admirable example of
“British guts.” The gauge they go on is
chiefly the loan of $3,750,000,000 ad-
vanced to J. Bull last July. At the time
the chief negotiator, the late Lord Keynes,
insisted that the loan terms were too
severe to allow Britain a sufficient margin
of safety, but it was most evident in the
Congress discussions that those terms
were the absolute limit that would be
agreed to.
What now impresses Americans, as
against Lord Inverchapel, is that, while
the loan was intended to last three years,
J.B.’s latest withdrawal (in May)
brought the total withdrawals to
$1,750,000,000 in 10 months—nearly half
the sum advanced.
Chicago “Tribune” and one or two
others that get their greatest delight out
of tugging the Lion’s tail put it down
wholly to J.B. being on a socialising
binge. More impressive, because repre-
sentative of those who have always been
Britain’s best friends in America, the
N.Y. “Sun” writer George E, Sokolsky
joins in feeding the very widespread be-
lief that J.B.’s continuing troubles are
largely a result of socialising and re-
covery being impossible to bring off to-
gether :
The Socialist Government of Great Britain
has been unable to mobilise British labor for
increased production. When this Government
came into power the British worker apparently
assumed that Utopia had arrived. Why work?
The Government guaranteed subsistence from
the cradle to the grave. Nationalisation, the
hope of the Socialist, did not increase efficiency.
No doubt with Lord Inverchapel in
mind, Sokolsky says of the “British
capitalist”:
He resents those Americans who say that
Great Britain is done for and he sentimentally
insists that there will always be a Britain, which
is undoubtedly so. But he not say what
kind. He even resents any discussion on this
side of the Atlantic of British credit, particu-
larly by those hard-headed folk who insist that
this country does not have the money to finance
British failure to produce by means of Socialism.
He then points to Britain’s sacrifices in the
war, which were enormous, larger in com-
parison to any other country. He wants the
United States to share in those sacrifices by
providing dollars, not recognising that it would
be no aid to Britain if the United States went
broke, too.
The British often make the point that tariffs
close trade areas to them, but they rarely point
also to the fact that two of their principal
competitors, Germany and Japan, are out of
business and that Great Britain could have
absorbed their markets had she produced the
goods. In fact, in the present world shortage,
any production is worth more than normal
value by the operations of the law of demand
and supply. It is not today a question of
tariff concessions as it is one of meeting in-
exorable demands.
Only work, only production, only hard labor
for many hours a week, can save Great Britain.
Only the abandonment of Socialism can extri-
cate Great Britain from her difficulties, because
obviously Socialism is not producing goods.
There are many talking in terms
in America just now. It foretells that
securing another loan a year or so hence
will be pretty hard, not to say humiliat-
ing. The last one was bad enough in
that respect.
Whatever grains of truth there may be
in that outlook, “World Report” has
fairly pointed out that apart from the
trouble J.B. ran into in the winter from
the freeze, the floods and other “acts of
God” almost unprecedented in their
severity, a major factor acting against the
calculations of those who arranged the
loan has been that higher prices in the
U.S. have shrunk the loan’s real value
substantially. Another severe drain on
J.B.’s resources has been the slow re-
covery in Europe ; a factor on which the
Kremlin has been calculating to bring
about Britain’s collapse.
The “World-Telegram” foreign editor,
William Philip Simms, states what is now
generally accepted: “Another sizable
dollar loan to Britain will become im-
perative next winter to tide her over for
two or three years, despite official dis-
claimers.” Simms points out how the de-
lay in the peacemaking is acting against
Britain’s recovery:
To meet her balance of payments, Britain
will have to sell abroad approximately 175
per cent, of her pre-war exports. That pre-
supposes a somewhat better than normal world


■
1
- !
S'®
Sy ONE V ft MBi-fOU
W, V» .. TW(< I*C
3*i
' ■-■
P
ES*
GIVE YOUR DRINK A SPARKLE
*.. The serving of
Schweppes Table
Waters exclusively
is a sure sign of
the standing of any
hotel or restaurant.
effd°v
es
c c )im
U U GINGER
ti> er
DRY
ALE
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
“JUST CAN’T HELP LOVIN’ THAT MAN.”
—a world in which people are working at good
pay and buying the things which Britain has
to offer. And no such world immediately is
in sight, due to the failure of the great Powers
to make peace.
“Britain,” Simms concluded, “ap-
parently needs two things to keep her
from being ‘finished.’ One is another
loan to tide her over the next critical
period and the second is world peace to
give her a chance at the vastly better
markets vital to her existence as a
Power.”
The American view is not based merely
on J.B.’s having drawn in 10 months half
of what was intended to last three years:
the British Conservative party’s recent
manifesto of a policy listed a new
loan as a definite objective. “World Re-
port” believes that a new loan appeal is
working up, “although Government
leaders in both countries are reluctant,
for political reasons, to discuss such a
possibility now”:
A financial crisis \yith world-wide repercus-
sions is rapidly shaping up in Britain and is to
come to a head in 1948. The U.S. Government
is to be offered the choice of extending more
help on a large scale or letting Britain go
under and trying to maintain the world balance
of power with Russia almost singlehanded.
Three widely different items on how
J.B. is making out and trying to make
out might be appended here as belonging
to the category bf “British guts.” The
first is the statement of Paul Bareau, joint
editor of the “Banker,” that “London has
made an astonishing recovery in inter-
national banking activities and today
stands unchallenged as the international
banking centre of the world,” Mr.
Bareau explained that one factor in this
was “the virtual absence of any effective
competition”:
One might have thought that American banks,
for example, would have been admirably placed
to supply most of the available demand for
international commercial credit. But the com-
petition from the commercial banks of the
United States in the financing of international
trade has been negligible.
To an American bank, a foreign credit must
be a 100-per-cent.-secured credit, whereas more
than half the acceptance and cash credits
granted by London to finance overseas trade
are completely unsecured.
I am not suggesting that American credit
and capital have not been extended. But they
have tended’ to follow closely in the wake of
American exports. Much of them are being pro-
vided through an official institution, the Export-
Import Bank, in some of whose operations the
commercial banks have participated.
But of that official or even semi-official com-
petition, London need not be unduly afraid.
When it comes to financing trade which never
touches the country providing the credit, Lon-
don is still not merely supreme but without
serious challenge.
Another item is on a much humbler
level —a report by “Wall-street Journal’s”
London correspondent that boarding-
house- and hotel-keepers irf Britain’s
summer holiday resorts “are circularising
thousands of prospective holiday-makers
offering credit notes for board and lodg-
ing in exchange for gifts of crockery in
lieu of cash.” The correspondent added:
“There is no indication how many cups
and saucers are equivalent to one day’s
board, but teapots —almost unobtainable
today—should command a de luxe suite.
That is, of course, if their spouts aren’t
too much chipped to ensure a reasonable
flow of the nectar.”
A third item, from “World Report,”
touches on the heroic; at any rate Eng-
land’s old-sailor ,Poet Laureate would
think so. When the great freeze was on.
Fishing trawlers reported icicles in the engine-
room and that the fish froze solid as they were
hauled out of the water. Some fish broke into
pieces as they fell on the deck. Cutting, them
apart in that weather was torture. Yet the
fishermen carried on, oblivious of the fact that
ice fields moving toward the coast were loosen-
ing buoys, lightships and mines.
Sufficient justification, of course, for
the optimism of Lord Inverchapel, think-
ing of the background which all that
represents.
WALLACE TALKS.
Mr. Henry A, Wallace’s talk-tour of
Britain and Europe must have left wide-
eyed amazement, unless he had his
speeches prepared beforehand and stuck
to the script.
On that tour his repertoire consisted
chiefly of attacking American foreign
policy as “ruthless imperialism” while
spouting what N.Y. “Post” described ag
“the most arrant propaganda in behalf of
Moscow.” It led Senator Vandenberg to
refer to him as an “itinerant saboteur.”
Back in America Mr. Wallace, in N.Y.
“Post’s” words, “sought to recoup any
reputation he may have as a construc-
tive force in our society by disavowing
the more glaring of his recent boners.”
That is, he resorted to the dodge familiar
enough in Australian politicians of say-
ing he had been misquoted. This led a
N.Y. “Herald Tribune” reporter to take
a deadly revenge.
The reporter described Mr. Wallace’s
first press conference after his return,
and, suggesting that “Mr, Wallace would
be very well advised to settle for a few
misquotations, rather than have his off-
the-cuff remarks quoted exactly as made,”
went on to print a shorthand transcript
of questions put to Mr. Wallace and Mr.
Wallace’s answers. One typical question
and answer may be thought to say more
about Mr. Wallac? than whole reams of
comment (the breaks shown in the answer
are not deletions, but Mr. Wallace’s oral
style):
Q. Would you care to elaborate on your
statement that this country lend 15 or 17 billion
dollars to Russia?
A. I might say with regard to that...that
the...that the...the thing came up in informal
conversation with the members of the French
Chamber of Deputies. In general conversation
it came up about the difficulties with the Mos-
cow Conference and what might be done to
establish peace.
That is how it originated and at that point-
well, I had also discussed as a separate point
the need for developing the backward areas of
the world and taking care of the reconstruction
of the devastated areas and indicated that it
would amount for that programme over a
period of five years... the need might be be-
tween ... somewhere in the neighborhood of
50 billion dollars.
That was one segment.
The other segment was the difficulty of the
Moscow Conference, and at that stage I in-
dicated that Russia’s devastation was probably
greater than any other place, partly because of
the drought, partly because of the devastation.
There were at least 30 million in Byelorussia
and the Ukraine who live under the most dif-
ficult situations.. .That Russia had to do some-
thing for those people and that they were
taking it out of Germany’s ,hide, but in the
process the results might be to make Germany
into a plague spot.
The only place where adequate supplies were
available was the United States, which I recog-
nise at the present time it is politically impos-
sible to get goods from for Russia now, but
later there will be a surplus and at that time
the picture might change.
Another sample:
Q. You were quoted as advocating a loan
to Britain, also.
A. I don’t remember doing that on this
occasion. I don’t remember [turning to an
adviser at his right], did I advocate a loan
to Britain? Yes, I might have. I don’t think
that came up.
In reply to another question Mr. Wal-
lace had said: “I have always criticised
Russia, but that is never news. Appa-
rently it falls between the situation . . .
between the man and the dog. One is
news and the other is not. I have spoken
for free enterprise capitalism. It has
never appeared in the press”:
Q. Do you think there is a fundamental
difference? '
A. It is parametric more than fundamental.
I also mentioned that only four Russians —I
don’t know about this myself but I was told
by reliable authorities —are employed in the
secretariat of the United Nations, whereas
there are some 260 Americans and 100 British
and 60 or 70 others. I think that is parametric,
too.
“Parametric” being a new one on him,
the reporter looked it up in the dic-
tionary, and had the unkindness to
append the definition:
Webster’s definition of “parameter”: 1.
Math. A. An arbitrary constant characterising
by each of its particular values some particular
member of a system of expressions, curves,
surfaces, functions, etc. B. A variable through
functions of which may be expressed other
variables, as the co-ordinates of a locus. C.
In conics, the third proportional to any diameter
and its conjugate, or in the parabola, to any
abscissa and the corresponding ordinate. Web-
ster’s definition of “parametric”: Of or per-
taining to, or in terms of, a parameter.
On that, and such complete sentences
as “And I should think definitely, so far
as the general impression is concerned,
I don’t think it makes any difference,”
the “Tribune” man made the charitable
understatement that “the reporters, one
and all, had some difficulty in following
him.” Others may feel that it makes
Mr. Wallace and his talk-tours much
more understandable.
It might, however, make less under-
standable why the Wallace ditherings—
apparently after friendly doctoring by
reporters —are considered worth cabling
round the world. In one of his latest
(June 16) he suggested that Truman
should invite Stalin to meet him in
Berlin “as a. first step in guaranteeing
world peace.”
The President, once bitten (at Pots-
dam), long ago invited Stalin to meet
him in Washington. The offer stands.
So does Joe—pat. Ditto the President.
Maybe they both think it’s parametric.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Ratcatchers Preferred. —A good deal of agita-
tion has been going on in America to get U.S.
teachers’ screws lifted, and on some of the
figures published they would seem to be worse
off than Australian teachers and a lot
worse otf than Americans in other occupations.
As an example, a N.Y. “Journal-Americari”
writer has reported that in Detroit —“one of
our wealthiest cities, with a labor programme
second to none”—dogcatchers are paid nearly
$lOOO a year more than teachers, others all
better paid than the teachers including rat-
catchers, the garbage-collection foreman, the
prison cook and the keeper of the zoo.
# * ♦ ♦
The Old Lady Won’t Talk. —A complaint
that used to be made about the Bank of
England (the “Old Lady of Threadneedle-
street”) was on the score of secretiveness. Even
a bank chairman looking at the balance-sheet
once commented that there was only one line
he understood, “Gold coin and bullion.” This
was expected to be altered af least to some
extent with nationalisation. Commenting on
the first report under nationalisation, “Wall-
street Journal’s” London correspondent finds
it as secretive as ever: “The report may be a
historic document, but if any proletarian should
read it—which is most unlikely—he will be
sadly disillusioned if he expects illumination
about this much-publicised acquisition of the
people. There is no profit and loss account.
The balance-sheet • remains a model of
obscurity.”
* * * *
German Merchant Marine. —Among the sug-
gestions made by former U.S. President Hoover
for getting Germany sufficiently on its feet
to ease the present heavy cost to U.S. and
British taxpayers was a limited revival of the
German merchant marine. This, says “World
Report,” is now being seriously considered by
the U.S. Government. The Hoover suggestion
was to send Germany 75 Liberty ships to be
operated as food transports by German crews.
They could carry about half Germany’s neces-
sary imports, at a saving of many millions of
dollars. The price Fritz is paying for following
Hitler is well illustrated by this one item of
shipping. Before the war Germany’s merchant
fleet totalled 4,480,000 gross tons; today it
stands at 165,526 tons of old small ships good
only for coastal trade.
* ♦ * *
A Very Sick Bear. —By way of overcoming
lingering isolationist feeling, one argument
lately getting a lot of airing in the U.S. press
in support of Uncle Sam’s barging out into
the world is that Russia is in no shape to
fight, anyway. William Henry Chamberlin hqs
put the argument briefly in “Wall-street Jour-
nal” : “We should not overrate Russia. We
are dealing here not with a fresh military
Empire ‘rarin’ to go’ on to new conflicts, but
with a tired country that has been bled white
in human and material resources, that is gravely
deficient in naval and air power, that has no
atomic bomb, that has to wrestle with some
very difficult problems of food supply and
elementary reconstruction behind its iron cur-
tain. We can safely proceed on the assumption
that the Soviet leaders, however much they
may bluster, know they cannot risk a conflict
with America.” The argument is perhaps not
as heroic as it might be for one said to be
stepping into J. Bull’s shoes; but then, even
now there is still a great deal of opposition in
America to Uncle Sam’s new role.
* * * ♦
J. Bull Aloft. —An American aeronautical
engineer, Philip B. Taylor, having checked up
on the aircraft industry in the U.S. and Britain
and on the Continent, told the Congress Com-
mittee on Commerce that “within three years
Great Britain is likely to have air supremacy
over the United States in commercial transport
aircraft.” The British, he said, are concentrat-
ing on planes equipped with turbo-jet and turbo-
propeller engines “which will be superior to
any present U.S. type.” Taylor believes the
British objective is to capture from the United
States a large share of world air travel, as well
as the world market for commercial aircraft.
Within possibly three years the British would
be able to sell in quantity aircraft “which will
operate with safety at higher speed, with greater
comfort and at lower cost than planes available
in the United States.” These aircraft would
outspeed U.S. airliners by “almost 200 miles
an hour.” Some U.S. airline heads have dis-
counted Taylor’s findings, holding that “the
British are making claims they cannot attain
within seven or eight years.” One said, “The
British are bluffing,” which, if true, would be
something surprisingly new in J. Bull’s character.


m.
i
H
m
: : : '■ ''
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
m
SR
:
i
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
\
\
’H V-v
V'\ '
■
'> 1
>*/ fi x*B&&sstsssssitt:x ■■
■if %:% « •y.-jf .-jf .X' s•<£' f %’$ f '■■%■*(' %■*s s■%■<
S* if «f %*-? tf <f
■liisi
Mm
mm
'?«?»f
;•s%•*.%■ * #**K* *4>**B3Sm
*•* ti-kz ss%m
ptiii»ii|
■ Australian
rgin Wool
*
ss *f I’ Jit?* 4 '
lllllllilpSJtß
.:• .£% ...• < j '■; * '? f? •: ■'•• •• >4; •■>■’•■
.
iiiilii|iiiiPi:i
■■i™!
MfiMi
s&*•?> Illi
- - -I '■■. - .:. v %£*'' H
111
i
(Renowned for
THE EXCELLENCE OF ITS WORSTED MANUFACTURES
ALL MADE FROM AUSTRALIAN VIRGIN WOOL
V
i
iiiiiiii
s' ;£ *4',U
■ V* :»« ?*.?/<*. >s; <iv <•.'


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3516
Wednesday, July 2, 1947
SCENE FROM “ALLUVA TWISTER.”
“More! More!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man” f
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SURLY AND SERVILE.
Our Foreign Policy has got down to snip-
ing at General MacArthur and perhaps
making it impossible for him to remain
in Japan. It seems bitterly ungrate-
ful considering all that the General
has done for this country, as well
as his own country, and remembering how
glad “Labor” was to see him and accept
his strategy in March, 1942, when its own
strategy or that of the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” (“Fight for Australia in
Java!”) had doomed one heroic force
after another to wounds, death and cap-
tivity, which was in thousands of cases to
prove crueller than death in action.
Perhaps it was the ingratitude of it
that moved Mr. Pollard, the only Digger
among the 19 Ministers (he wasn’t a
Minister in 1942), to dissociate himself
from the sniping. In an independent
utterance, as refreshing as unique, the
Minister of Commerce and Agriculture
said there were “special reasons for the
United States decision authorising a
second Japanese expedition to
the Antarctic”:
The Japanese depend upon whaling for a
very large proportion of their protein foods.
If they don’t obtain the whale meat they
will call on the rest of the world for other
types of protein foods, such as [butchers’]
meat and oils. Either one or the other
alternative has to be faced.
With “the United States” substituted for
“the rest of the world” (a pardonable
euphemism), this is one of the considera-
tions that moved General MacArthur and
General Marshall, on whose instructions,
as Secretary of State, “the Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers” acted. As
responsible American leaders they can’t
see the force of imposing another burden
on their country, in the process leaving
a whaling fleet rusting in port and a
discontented element hanging round the
waterfront, by way of humoring a
Government informed by the spirit of what
James Edmond called “the eternal Sydney
nark” —a Government which, to the ill-
concealed chagrin of Tasmanian Premier
Cosgrove, has not only neglected its own
whaling opportunities but hasn’t even
sent an exploring and scientific outfit to
the Antarctic, though half the world has
done so.
One of Dr. Evatt’s “strong and urgent
protests against the American decision,”
so described by a friendly newspaper,
was salted with unconscious humor.
“Australia,” the doctor said—and on
these occasions “Australia” nearly always
means himself —“had proposed that a
unit of the Japanese whaling, fleet should
be operated by Australia” —here mean-
ing the Seamen’s Union, Imagine that
Communist-controlled concern agreeing
to man any of the crazy vessels in which
the Japs go whaling! If the thing can be
imagined, how pyramidal would be the
bills for “danger-money”! The Wanga-
nella business would be nothing to it;
every gallon of whale oil won would
cost the taxpayer anything from a hun-
dred to a thousand pounds.
Another Evatt effort was expressed in
the words “The decision by-passes the
Far Eastern Commission, which alone
was supposed to determine such questions
of policy.” This differs from what the
doctor told the House on February 17:
Policy decisions of the Far Eastern Com-
mission are subject to veto by each of four
Powers. Any one of four nations can, by
merely delaying the matter and without
actually voting against a proposal, prevent
a decision on policy being given. Unless
that decision is given no directive can be
issued to the Supreme Commander.
Nor can the Advisory Commission in
Tokyo, on which body that very aca-
demic “representative of Australia, Mr.
Macrnahon Ball, also represents the
United Kingdom, India”—until Mr.
Nehru and Mr. Jinnah decide otherwise —
“and New Zealand,” issue a “directive”;
It is purely advisory in character, and its
views do not bind the Supreme Com-
mander.
In “Basic Policy for Japan,” a
brochure issued with Dr. Evatt’s bless-
ing, it is stated that the Far Eastern
Commission consists of “representatives
of Australia, Canada, China, France,
India, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the
Philippines, the United Kingdom and the
United States of America.” In the terms
of this State paper wide discretionary
powers are vested in the Supreme Com-
mander. He may even call off the exac-
tion of goods and services for the occu-
pation forces if, in his “judgment,” it
threatens to cause “starvation, widespread
disease and acute physical distress.” And
he is bidden to remember that “access to,
as distinguished from control of, raw
materials should be permitted,” and that
“eventual Japanese participation in world
trade relations will be permitted.”
In short, General MacArthur had an
unassailable right to authorise the Japs
to get more whale meat in the Antarctic
(the oil, as in the first instance, will be
the property of the International
Emergency Food Council) ; and, as well,
to mine a bit of phosphate rock—a baga-
telle to what Australia should be taking
from Nauru, if anyone at Canberra knows
where Nauru is—from one of the 650
former Jap islands mandated to
the U.S.A. The.second transaction, like
the first, is the subject of “a Protest by
Australia” (i.e.. Dr. Evatt). Both are in
keeping with the wise and generous policy
of that great man General Marshall,
which policy, if the dead could return to
earth, would be applauded by the states-
men who made the peace with the French
in 1815 and with the Boers in 1902. That
policy, in essentials, is to prevent Japan
from falling into the clutches of the
Communists who threaten to overrun
East Asia, to call the Russians’ bluff in
Europe (that has been done most effec-
tually, though distracted France remains
a problem), and to give friends and foes
alike an opportunity of leading a full
national life. It is a policy which should
command the support of and the sus-
pension of minor disputes, real or
vamped-up, by all the English-speaking
nations; but they are all out of step but
Bert.
While. America is standing up to
the Communists, at home to the extent
of expelling them from the civil service,
jailing such as crept into it fraudulently
and outlawing them from trade-union
positions—this to the bitter indignation
of Mr. Ward, who blackguarded U.S.
domestic and foreign policy from the
shelter of the 1.L.0. conference at
Geneva —“Australia” is crawling, as
usual, to the comrades in these parts.
A woman known as “Sourabaya Sue,”
a heroine to the “Indonesian comrades”
who murdered three unavenged Austra-
lian officers, arrived in this country with-
out a passport. Waterfront Communists
got to work in her interest, and instead
of being imprisoned preparatory to being
deported the woman was straightway
granted a permit to remain in the country.
Simultaneously the Dutch had to load
one of their ships in Sydney Harbor, the
Communist ban on Dutch shipping and
on Australian trade with the Nether-
lands East Indies being still in force,
with the “Government’s” connivance.
And “the A.C.T.U. is trying to the
Approved Defence Protection Act re-
pealed.” This measure, designed to pro-
tect the rocket-range project against Com-
munist sabotage, has been devoted to
execration by A.C.T.U. Reds and
Yellows, and total and ignominious sur-
render by the “Government” is expected
by these persons.
Surly to friends, servile to foes, med-
dling everywhere and getting nowhere —
such is Our Foreign Policy,
The Touchstone in Germany.
Six months ago 1947 was here saluted
as the year of crisis in Europe. As each
month has passed the sense of crisis has
deepened. Before the year js out the
world , should know definitely whether
Russia and the West can co-operate in
Europe, in U.N.0., or anywhere.
Two years have passed since the sur-
viving German leaders formally signed
the surrender terms at Rheims. It has
taken Russia most of that two years to
agree to even the simplest peace settle-
ments with Hitler’s satellite States, and
Moscow has so far resisted every effort
of the Western Powers to settle the terms
for Germany. Yet after the Armistice
to World War I the statesmen of the
victorious Western democracies were
assailed from all quarters because five
months had-passed without peace having
been formally restored.
How little the peace settlements are
worth when made is shown by the Russian
action in Hungary and the Balkans. A
prime consideration with the peoples of
Central Europe—and of the English-
speaking peoples—is that the Allied
forces of occupation, living as they are
on those countries, shall be reduced as
far as possible so as to leave local food
and housing for the hard-pressed popu-
lations. The Russians deliberately
blocked a settlement with Austria last
March in order that they might have
legal excuse for maintaining not only
forces in Austria, but also “lines of com-
munication troops” in Hungary and
Rumania, for which countries peace
treaties had been “settled.” While that
condition lasts, and the Red locusts
scourge these Danubian lands in undi-
minished swarms, the provision in these
peace “settlements” —that Allied troops
shall be withdrawn 90 days after the
treaties come into force —makes a jest of
Central Europe’s misery.
Nothing has been made plainer during
the past six months than that West and
East cannot agree in Europe. As Wash-
ington’s Secretary of War said last
February;
No amount of wishful thinking can
obscure the fact that collective security by
a world organisation for peace does not
exist.
That truth has overclouded all Europe
since the failure of the Moscow meeting
of Foreign Ministers which ended early
in April. It will darken the skies more
and' more deeply as each month passes
until the four Foreign Ministers meet to
resume negotiations about Germany next
November—unless some break should
come from current meetings on the latest
American offer to Europe.
For Germany, as its old opponent,
Lord Vansittart, has put it, is the supreme
test of whether Russia and the West can
work together in anything. On that
ground their rival policies, ideologies and
economic theories meet in complete
mutual opposition. Past decisions, open
or secret, on the programme to be pur-
sued for Germany, have been thrown to
the winds. Refusing to budge an inch
towards any sort of compromise, Moscow
throws out daily over its radio a stream
of the most dastardly distortions of every
Western effort to break the deadlock.
That propaganda has one effect to which
Moscow itself can scarcely be blind: it
gives the lie direct to those like Henry
Wallace who preach that Russia can be
wooed to friendship if the democracies
will but take the trouble, and it confirms
the impression of people in every free land
that Communism and Democracy cannot
live in the same association of nations.
Until a fortnight ago there seemed no
sign of anything to stay the drift of
Europe into a fatal decline. Then the
American Government gave out the de-
claration that, while willing to help
Europe with dollar credits to save itself,
Washington would require a preliminary
economic agreement among all European
countries, or at least those in Western
Europe. The announcement was worded
to allow Russia in, but Russian co-
operation is not essential. The Secretary-
General of U.N.0., welcoming the move,
declared:
A background for discussions is already
available in a report by the Economic
Committee for Europe [one of a long list
of international bodies which Russia has
refused to join], showing that over 12
European countries the gap between im-
port needs and foreign exchange resources
amounted in 1947 to 3500 million dollars.
Replies expected by July 1 to a question-
naire sent out to all. war-devastated
countries will help the picture.
In Washington the State Department’s
European section has advised that
Europe’s needs for the three years contem-
plated in the President’s proposal will
be between 5000 and 6000 million dol-
lars. But all American comments stress
that European co-operation is Europe’s
own affair, and is essential if America is
to find further dollar credit issues for
reconstruction.
Moscow pondered in silence for some
48 hours, and then “Pravda” screamed:
It is only a repetition of Truman’s plan
for political pressure with the help of
dollars, a plan that interferes with the
domestic affairs of other countries. Truman
and Marshall are attempting to convert the
American people to their own belief. Is
it not for the purpose of this converslbn
that the campaign of slander against the
U.S.S.R. and the baiting of democratic
East European countries has been begun in
the United States?
Then, having thus set the tone for Com-
munist newspapers in the West, Molotov
announced that Russia would attend the
Anglo-French conference in Paris to
discuss the American offer. But this time
Moscow’s “yes,” if phony (as the “Daily
Mail” expects), will quickly be tested.
How will it be tested? The Repub-
lican Senator Vandenberg put up a plan,
which the President accepted, for ap-
pointment of advisory councils to com-
pute:—
Available resources so as to determine
the latitude within which America might
safely and wisely plan;
The basis on which aid should be under-
taken, including reciprocal considerations;
Comprehensive needs of Asia as well as
Europe.
On the second of these points, and in-
deed involved in the whole idea of united
self-help, it is expected that Moscow
will be asked how much Russia can put
into the pool. It is also clear -that, since
recovery of Europe is impossible without
a stabilised new Germany, a German
settlement will figure prominently in the
economy of a United Europe.
The plan is U.N.R.R.A. revived in a
new form, and a much more efficient one.
Every country which gets this help will
have to help itself and its associated
beneficiaries. If Russia comes in, as Mr,
Bevin and Mr. Bidault hope, there
will have to be a big change of behavior
in Moscow. If Russia stays out the iron
curtain will likely remain a fixture, and
a Western Union, including a Western
Germany, seems the next best thing.
Mr. Truman’s proposed period of three
years for his scheme is not fortuitous.
Poland and France have already em-
barked each on a three years plan for
reconstruction which will exact the most
intensive efforts from their people. In
Britain, too, the programme for restor-
ing a healthy export trade as the basis
of a remodelling of British economy aims
at results by 1950. All three countries
are recruiting man- and woman-power,
Britain and France want coal; as well as
credits for other needs; Poland wants
machinery and livestock and is ready to
t co y al „ for the mos t part from the
ex P G^rman Sllesian fie i ds . An obvious
corodary j s tbe intensive development of
, mii ;> • . p.-hr
th £ begins to form a nd
acute for a German settlement
what sort of a settle .
ment - t wiU bg cannot be forese en without
an answer to t he question whether it will
be made with or without Russia—
whether Germany is to be a single State
or divided jf the latter, the Western
Powers may ha ve to run the risk of
allowing German industry to be built up
tQ a pot ential which would arouse
anxiet i es lest it be convertible for war
purposes aga i n> and w i t h the financial
hel of Germany’s victors—a return to
the ost .Versailles policy, the prospect
of which has done much t 0 deter hitherto
Anglo-American action. The decision,
however, will have to be made, and soon ;
and •£ j be democracies must act alone,
there win pro b a bly appear the stronger
reasons f or a political as well as an
economic t i e . up> i n order to bind a re-
stored Western German State indissolubly
with the f ortvmes of all Western Europe,
Thjs poss i b ilit y seems to have a strong
hold on General Marshall’s mind. Cer-
tainl j t iooks as though Western Europe
wj „ have to poo i ] ts man- and woman-
ower Even the return of all German
ar prisoner s by the victor nations—
Molotov has adm i tte d to nearly 900,000
in Russ | a —would not do more than re-
jjeve cond jtions in the western occupied
zo where there is a heavy preponder-
ance of women and ng ch ii dren .
y^ ctheT Russia’s “yes” to President
Xruman is phony should quickly be
demonstrable' by a test in Germany.
Wheels at Gundagai.
Five miles north of Gundagai (N.S.W.)
the stone dog sits on its stone tucker-box
beside the two tin lavatories erected by
an unimaginative shire council, and
stonily regards the ceaseless traffic of the
Hume Highway, main trunk road from
Sydney to Melbourne. Just south of
Gundagai the old plank bridge over the
’Bidgee groans and creaks ceaselessly
under the weight of the same traffic.
Between them Gundagai isn’t quite sure
whether it is asleep or awake. The Hume
Highway is its main street, and that
street is a contrasting collection of
modern shops and hotels and garages,
interspersed with ancient shops and hotels
and garages, whose old verandahs lean
sleepily or drunkenly this way and that
against their modern and somewhat dis-
dainful neighbors.
When the old bridge was built and be-
fore Jack Moses wrote of the tucker-box
dog, before “The Road to Gundagai” be-
came a popular song, the town was a
meeting-place of the teams. Horse and
bullock, they came down from Jugiong
and Coolac, up from Adelong and
Tumut and Tarcutta, in from Tumba-
rumba and Holbrook (Germantown
then) and Harden, and they camped along
the river below the town, their wagons
loaded with all kinds of merchandise. The
drivers went into the town and did what
drivers do when they come to a river
crossing and rest their teams and dis-
charge and take on their loads. Gun-
dagai was a lively place then, and it got
itself into the national literature by song
and story, so that there was hardly an
Australian anywhere who hadn’t heard
of the place.
Then the railways came, reaching down
to Tumut and Tumbarumba and Bom-
and gradually the teamsters faded
away. Presently Gundagai had only the
excitement of a train a day puffing
slowly over the river, and the place fell
into a doze.
Time passed. There came wars, and
young men went away. Motor-cars and
-lorries ran along the Gundagai roads ;
there was a vast waterworks put in at
Jugiong to supply all south-west N. S.
Wales; east and south with the new
war there sprang into being canneries
and irrigation projects. , And down the
great highway through the town rumbled
the mechanised might of America. The
Americans passed; and presently, un-
touched by Jugiong waterworks or Bat-
low cannery, Gundagai dozed again.
Then the teamsters came back. Not
with beards and whips and bullocks and
horses and talking of sore backs and
broken hames and looking for saddlers,
but with clean-shaven faces and the grim
jook of men weary of driving.
In Gundagai they get down from their
great six-, eight- and ten-wheeled trans-
ports and eat in the cafes and talk of


blow-outs and hot bearings and tlv- *ough
drag up Jugiong hill. In the street their
great vehicles stand, on them sheeted
loads of all kinds of merchandise, Syd-
ney to Melbourne and Melbourne to Syd-
ney, and Gundagai and its old bridge
the halfway mark. Drive along the
highway and you’ll meet one of these
transports every four or five miles,
crawling up some hill, rolling mightily
round a curve or forlorn and silent by
the road while its grimy grooms probe
its steel innards.
The wheel has turned full circle. The
railways put the slow horse and bullock
team off the road. Now the huge motor-
transport pushes the slow railway into the
background. Governments try to save
their railways; by tax and regulation
they try to halt the motor. But it won’t
be halted. Night after night the sheeted
monsters stand in the streets of Gundagai
and Yass, Holbrook and Wangaratta
and all along the highway between.
Railways plagued with strikes and
short of coal and rolling stock. Rail-
ways slow and fixed on their rails. Rail-
ways irresponsible as to time and con-
dition of freight; condemned to
tranship at the border; at the mercy of
city union bosses; above all, out-
moded by the internal-combustion en-
gine, which is elastic and mobile, speedy
and strong—they have no chance in this
march of progress. Meantime, for old
Gundagai, eyeing the transports in
its streets, hearing the grind of gears and
the rolling purr of huge tyres, there is
more hope of revival in all this than in a
ton of political promises. And that goes
for the rest of the country.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Golden Age's "Recession."
The projector of the “Golden Age” in
our time is a worried man.
In Adelaide Mr. Chifley renewed—
and even sharpened—before a Trades
Hall audience the warnings delivered to
the N.S.W. Labor Conference.
“ ‘Labor’s’ objective,” he said in both
places, “cannot be achieved unless the
workers play their part.” The strikes
caused by inter-union disputes—“not dis-
putes with bosses” —are, he told the
Sydney crowd, fit subject for comic opera
In Adelaide he called them ludicrous
They are, in fact, suicidal.
“It might be all right for unions to
fight against the Government,” said this
extraordinary leader of a Ministry who
wants to make his Government run
everything, “but ‘Labor’ can’t progress
if its members fight among themselves.”
To his own “Government’s” back-
sliding, to its white-livered acceptance
of “the shocking” strikes against judicial
verdicts, the P.M. did not refer.
The unions have in fact killed Mr.
Chifley’s confidence in the “Golden Age.”
That is the motive cause of his present
lamentations; indeed, so far has his
confidence waned that he said to the
Adelaide unions outright: “Australia
must be geared to meet a depression that
appears inevitable in countries where in-
flationary trends have gone high.”
What the P.M. does not divulge is how
we are to be “geared to meet this crisis” ;
nor, if he (or his Dr. Coombs) has in
contemplation any such preparations;
nor does he relate them to “Labor’s”
pandering to further inflation (in this
country also) by permitting the enthron-
ing of a shorter working week (meaning
less production) at higher wages. What
right has a Prime Minister with powers
such as Mr. Chifley possesses to blame
his coming “recession” on to inflation-
ary policies in other countries?
• If Opposition leaders were in charge
of the Government today, and if Mr.
Menzies were parading the country talk-
ing as Mr. Chifley is, “Labor” would be
howling its head off at him as a “Dismal
Jimmy” trying not to avert, but to bring
on, a depression. The “recession,” if
it comes, will be “Labor’s” own.
Meanwhile another plague of strikes
and stoppages is beginning because
N.S.W. “Labor” spread before electors
the clumsy bribe of a 40-hour week with-
out bothering about how the thing was to
be worked even in its own insolvent trans-
port departmeijts, and “S. M. Herald,”
whose industrial information is pretty
good as a rule, ended an article on the
latest manoeuvres of the Communist crew
controlling the Ironworkers with the words
“Without any real opposition the State
can expect to be plunged into a major
upheaval in the first or second week of
July.”
"Fores, Please!"
July has come in with reduction of
income tax, though not for companies;
with expectations of additions to shop
goods, hitherto scarce or unavailable —
the “Labor” theory was that supplies
were kept off the market till tax-reduc-
tion became effective—and with a 40-
hour week in N. S. Wales, promised as
election bait and still to be embarrass-
ingly “adjusted.” It has come in also with
increases of bus and tram fares in Sydney
and Adelaide, and with increases of Gov-
ernment railway freight-rates and fares in
N. S. Wales and Victoria to follow when
the “Labor” Governments can put off the
evil day no longer.
Adelaide has municipal trams, trolley
buses and diesel buses, operated by a
trust with the able William Goodman
as chief engineer and g.-m. Tracks and
equipment have been kept in good .order,
and the public comfort and pocket are
studied, nor are conductors compelled to
risk their lives and health on footboard
trams like the Sydney juggernauts—
Adelaide has none. The trust’s chief
worry is Newcastle coal, consignments of
which are irregular, often of poor quality
and always dear. Mainly for this reason,
and also because more has had to be
paid for labor and other materials, fares
are up a penny a trip ; but “only at
week-ends and on public holidays and not
on private buses licensed by the trust.”
Sydney has Government trams and
buses, and the trams are in every way
the worst in the civilised world. The
Auditor-General reported that it will
cost £3,000,000 to “rehabilitate the per-
manent way,” and another £7,000,000 to
put modern trams on it. Also that the
Sydney and Newcastle trams and buses
are showing huge annual losses which
MOSTLY FROTH AND BLUBBER.
will be at least £1,500,000 in 1947-48
unless fares are raised and collected—for
hitherto “scaling” has been rife. So fares
are to be lifted a penny a trip on week-
days, and more during the now-abolished
“concession hours”—lo-to-4 —and on
Saturdays, when racing and football
crowds will be charged another threepence
to sixpence. And all with claims for
higher pay and with the 40-hour week
still to be taken into account.
Nor is that the whole story. In Ade-
laide you could buy city tickets at eight
for a shilling, and monthly suburban-
route tickets for up to 18s. City tickets
are now to be six a shilling and monthly
tickets up to 19s. 9d. In Sydney the
minimum fare for the shortest journey,
be it only a hundred yards, will be three-
pence. There are no monthly tickets and
no issue is contemplated. Busriders in
Newcastle can buy weekly tickets—they
are to be charged another shilling a week.
What a privilege it is for the travelling
public to live in a “Labor” State!
Shopboy Once.
After a recent Sydney Turf Club “meet-
ing” the Sunday papers, whose main
topics, in war and peace, are horse-
racing and houris with next to nothing
on, had a lot to say about a Mr. Arthur
Murrell, a fishmonger and poulterer. Mr,
Murrell owns a horse called Codicil,
which won a race at 20 to 1 in a field of
eight, and on this achievement the Sun-
day papers spread themselves.
One of these sheets had it that “Big
betting owner A. Murrell had a wager of
£2250 to £lOOO about Young Veilmond
and only £lOOO to £5O about his own
horse Codicil”:
Codicil shocked his owner by scoring a
runaway win, while Young Veilmond failed
to fill a place. Mr. Murrell did not decide
to save on Codicil until a few minutes
before the start.
One of the rival publications agreed
that Mr. Murrell backed Codicil for £5O
to win £lOOO, but added that “as
he wagered in thousands on Young Veil-
mond, his own winner was not as profit-
able as it might have been.” It, however,
asserted that “Mr, Murrell made many
winning bets, and won £30,000 in the
afternoon.” The other rival publication
alleged that the fortunate fishmonger
and poulterer had “invested” £l5O on
Codicil at 20 to 1 and brought off a
starting-price coup, cleaning up £19,000
on that animal alone.
The really interesting thing about Mr.
Murrell, at least to people who are not par-
ticularly mad about horseracing or Our
Girls, and who nevertheless know some-
thing of what goes on in Sydney, con-
cerns his industrial origins. As a youngster
he was employed in one of the Govern-
ment fish shops which “Labor” tried to
run in the early nineteen-twenties, and
certain features of which interested a
commission of inquiry.
One of the Lucky Lazzarinis was the
last Fish Minister. When the under-
taking folded up, after losing about a
quarter of a million of good borrowed
money, Mr. Murrell remained behind
the counter. Before long he was
operating in one of the very shops which
the Government had abandoned, and in
process of time he prospered exceedingly.
There is a moral here somewhere, but
it is improbable that “Labor” will point
it. “Labor” never learns from its follies,
and is still committed to backing Gov-
ernment “enterprise” with other people’s
money.
National Stocktaking.
“C.S,” goes out with a census party:
The area in which we delivered papers is
inhabited largely by professional and middle-
class people, and by people who used to be
well-to-do until tax-gatherers bled them white.
Among recipients of the papers there was a
persistent fear that the information would be
used against them —not unnatural in view of
all the form-filling which has had to be done
in the past seven or eight years: National Regis-
ter, Occupation Survey and the rest. Prevalent
likewise was the fear that the whole business was
just one more step along the road to Socialism.
An elderly man growled: “All right; I’ll fill
the blasted thing up. The only thing a man
can keep to himself these days are his thoughts.”
The fact that Commonwealth Statistician
Wilson found it necessary to make repeated
assurances that census information is secret —
“Under no circumstances will particulars be
disclosed to anyone, whether Government de-
partments or private persons”—shows that the
fears are widespread. And for that “Govern-
ments,” particularly “ ‘Labor’ Governments,”
have themselves to blame. These “Labor” Minis-
ters are far too fond of talking loudly about what
they will do to people, whether farmers with
their wheat and meat and eggs, private builders
with their housing materials, retailers with their
stock and prices, housewives with their ration-
books or men with their jobs. Added to this
are the constant stream of threats to take over
airlines, coalmines, steelworks and so forth, and
the arbitrary decisions of a multitude of boards
and commissions in relation to cutting down
milk supply, increasing fares, restricting travel,
imposing fuel and lighting cuts and so forth.
And above all is the burden of taxation, made
worse by the utter impossibility of any in-
telligent private person understanding how his
assessment is arrived at.
Plainly people are scared both of their
“Governments” and of the army of bureau-
crats. Necessary as the census was, specific as
are Dr. Wilson’s assurances, Australians have
not only become sick of filling in forms but
are convinced that, for the most part, there
is a sinister design behind every official form
thrust before them. Over-government and the
cloud of officials buzzing about have combined
to make us a furtive people. Neither in 1921
nor in 1911 nor yet in 1901 was the census-
taker met with a cold and suspicious eye.
"Labor," the "Magician."
A somewhat cryptic paragraph from
Mr. Lang’s “Century,” which often gets
exclusive “Labor” information:
Room 32 hit the pot of gold when it
collected 2HD, Newcastle. Profits are head-
ing towards £lO,OOO a year, so Room 32
is pressing the remaining private share-
holders to get out. They are Dan Mulcahy,
M.P.; Harry Whittle, the builder; and Les
Cole or “Levante the Magician.” Bill
Taylor is no longer a director. He has
been replaced by Ferguson, of the A.R.U.,
while P. Buckley, the other vice-president,
is also on the board.
The paragraph needs some elucidation,
and should have received an answer from
the “Government” at Canberra which it
didn’t get.
Room 32 is “Labor” headquarters at
the Trades Hall, Sydney. 2HD is one
of the radio stations taken from Jehovah’s
Witnesses in 1944 and offered to churches
on terms which reserved a substantial
interest for “Labor,” which was to come
in on the ground floor without being
required to put up a penny. In respect
of SKA Adelaide, the terms were accepted
by the Central Methodist Mission, where-
upon John Wesley probably turned over
in his grave; but over contemporary anc
subsequent aspects of the transaction a
veil has been drawn.
The 2HD Newcastle offer was made
to the Church of England. The New-
castle diocesan council was, in effect, to
provide all funds and give “Labor” a
one-fifth share in the station, its own
director and “the right to broadcast
propaganda for one hour in each ordinary
week, and for one hour each day be-
tween the issuing of writs for a general
election and the holding of such election,
all without payment. The diocesan
council rejected the proposal. In th
words of Bishop Batty, it “refused
ensure the acquisition of 2HD by making
concessions of great commercial value to
supporters of the party in power.”
So 2HD passed under the control o
the company which is doing so famously
Of the “private shareholders” mentionec
by the “Century,” “Dan Mulcahy” is
the “Labor” member for Lang (N.S.WV
who made his money in the beer and
whisky business. “Harry Whittle, the
builder,” is presumably the Mr. H. W
Whittle who got 123,250 bricks for Sydney
Turf Club “renovations” at Rosehil
racecourse and 23,750 for the Astra
Hotel, Bondi, all from “Labor’s” brick-
works, without the authority insisted upon
in the case of private dwellings for the
pathetic army of the houseless, and with-
out being haled into any court. “Bill
Taylor” was president of the N.S.W.
“Labor” organisation, and was placed by
“Labor” first on the Commonwealth Bank
Board and then on the Airlines Com-
mission. t
It is a great age for “Labor” and its
dear friends, old and new. Many of the
new friends have close affiliations with
the Booze and Betting interests. The Syd-
ney Turf Club, McKell “Labor’s” great
Japanese-war improvisation, which is
locally renowned for its vittles as well
as its Whittles, is stiff with them.
Spend! Spend! Spend:
People who listen to the “independent”
news served up by A.B.C. and are un-
able to detect any improvement on or
any particular difference from the ser-
vice ditched by “Labor” can scarcely
fail to be curious about the cost. That
won’t come out till the Auditor-General
passes judgment on the accounts a year
or two hence, but the P.M.G. Cameron
has given an airy estimate of weekly ex-
penditure ; y
In N. S. Wales, £296; Victoria, £204;
Queensland, £250; South Australia, £180;
Westralia, £250; Tasmania, £204; overseas,
£385.
Nothing about the weekly expenditure at
Canberra, though Canberra has a staff
of its own. As for the staff in general:
Forty-three additional full-time journalists
have been appointed throughout Australia,
making a total staff of 77 full-time sub-
editors and reporters. The appointment of
part-time country correspondents is not
completed, but approximately 250 have been
offered positions. Fifty-nine of these
appointments are in large centres on a
small annual retainer, plus a small fee for
each item used. The remainder do not
receive a retainer, but are paid on the basis
of each item accepted.
Before he went abroad laden with
demands for service on the hard-pressed
English—2oo,ooo emigrants, ships to
carry the lot and free passages for all ex-
servicemen—Mr. Calwell obliged with de-
tails of staff and salaries;
The salary of the Director of News is
£l6 a week, plus £72 p.a. cost of living.
There is an officer in charge in each capital
city [the one in Sydney is the National
News Editor], and in addition there are
sub-editors and reporters—Canberra, 4;
Sydney, 20; Melbourne, 14; Brisbane, 6;
Adelaide, 8; Perth, 7; Hobart, 6.
Salaries: Grade A plus, £l7 175.; Grade
A, £l6; Grade B, £l3 95.; Grade C,
£ll 11s.; Grade D, £8 12s. The officers in
charge get £l6 in Canberra, Adelaide and
Brisbane; £l3 9s. in Perth and Hobart.
Of their assistants Canberra has three
Grade B, one Grade C; Sydney, six Grade
A, eight Grade B, five Grade C, one Grade
D; Melbourne, seven Grade B, four Grade
C, three Grade D; Brisbane, two Grade B,
three Grade C, one Grade D; Adelaide,
five Grade B, two Grade C, one Grade D;
Perth, four Grade B, two Grade C, one
Grade D; Hobart, two Grade B, two Grade
C, two Grade D.
The news staff in London is paid at the
ruling rates there for such employment.
Salary and allowances of the N. York
representative have not yet been determined.
Nothing about annual holidays, but no
doubt, the A.J.A. rule—four weeks for
everyone—will be observed. As time
wears on someone will be away every
week in Sydney and Melbourne.
To the extent that the expenditure on
the scrapped service is exceeded, the
thing amounts to a wanton and wicked
waste of the people’s money.


CRAVENA
■for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10’s & 2«’s
CARRERAS’ LTD.-OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
President Truman vetoed the Wool
Tariff Bill, and it looks as if this par-
ticular veto will be effective. Australian
woolgrowers have no objection to the
34-cent tariff, but Dedman brayed at
Geneva that it must be reduced, a pre-
vious bray being that Australia would
“require” the reduction. This country is
becoming notorious for loutish diplo-
macy, though the country itself is guilty
only of having placed its affairs in the
hands of coat-trailing doctrinaires and
theorists.
Ward’s Geneva outbreak of Russo-
mania and Americophobia must have
reddened the cheeks of Communist-
plagued Australian wagepayers who con-
tinue to send delegations to the 1.L.0.
racket. As well as attacking the U.S,
labor law, because it is Unkind to Com-
munists, the political larrikin from Sydney
alleged that the threat of war was com-
ing, not from the U.S.S.R., which has
“made more progress in 25 years than
any capitalist country has made in 250
years,” but from the U.S.A.:
World peace will always be endangered
while international trade is based on the
profit motive. For the preservation of
world peace it will be necessary to destroy
the power for evil possessed by the financial
and commercial interests which control
almost exclusively the news channels of the
world.
Every wordl might have been put in
Ward’s foul mouth by the Oriental im-
perialists who have abolished “the profit
motive”—except for themselves —and who
control “exclusively” the costliest and
most abusive and mendacious “ ‘news’
channels” in the world.
In a report from Tokyo to Sydney’s
“Sunday Sun,” the journalist Richard
Hughes says “Australia’s trade and
foreign policy is still a gigantic question-
mark : no one in Japan—expert, diplomat
or observer —has the faintest reliable
notion about it.” But everyone is aware
of a “grisly fact”—“the surrender by the
Government of Australian foreign policy
on Indonesia to the wharflaborers.”
Moscow has seen to it that all Asia
knows about that.
Exit for a prison term of one to three
years Carl Alda Marzani, “a very active
member of the American Communist
party.” Under other names Carl “worked
to defeat selective military service and to
damage the morale of U.S. forces through
agents whom he had inducted into the
military.” He was employed in 1942 by
the Co-ordinator of Information; then,
on transfer, in the Office of Strategic Ser-
vices, with military status, and finally in
the State Department. * What a fool the
fellow was not to come to Australia and
get a Government job under “Labor”!
Had he done that he would not only be
at large but full of information and in-
come and taking a hand in the direction
of policy. And he needn’t even have
taken another name, as did the Queens-
land “Healy,” of Dutch-boycott and
police-record notoriety, who changed
from McCracken,
The N.T. was stirred when an order
arrived for 18,000 head of cattle for the
Philippines at about £9 a head f.0.b.,
the buyer to provide the ships. About
2000 will get away this season, since ship-
ment is limited to the March-September
period. The cattle boats will do a trip
a month. Whether the shipments keep
up to a high level or not, there ought to
be chances for trade in things other than
cattle —if only the palsied hand of Gov-
ernment can be kept out of it.
Cain, the Victorian “Labor” Premier,
is to refer a question to Chifley, the
“Labor” Prime Minister. It comes from
Maltby, M.L.A.; and it invites Cain to re-
strain Chifley from building elabor-
ate new Commonwealth Bank branches
in Victoria while there is a shortage of
bricks and everything for houses.
Chifley’s answer is expected to be “I
can’t hear you.”
When Premier Hanlon was heard
hoping that “it won’t be long before-
there are more air services to inland
centres” in Queensland, H. F. Walsh, of
A.N.A., arose to declare that no new
airline licences had been issued for 18
months. With the Deputy-Director of
Civil Aviation also a member of the
Commission controlling the Government
airline (T.-A.A.), Canberra was deliber-
ately “sitting on” private applications to
start new intra-State air services until
T.-A.A. had picked “the plums.” Upon
which private airline men in Brisbane
told the “Courier-Mail” that applications
for 30 new air routes in Queensland had
been lodged months ago, but “no satis-
factory” answer could be obtained. The
people’s wishes don’t amount to a row
of pins in Canberra.
For an example of Australian initia-
tive, skill and courage chalk up the job
done at Aberdare Central, on the v Mait-
land (N.S.W.) coalfield, after the explo-
sion and fire in 1942; “the first
occasion on record anywhere in the world
where a deep mine”—the shaft goes down
1200 feet —“has been recovered in its
entirety.” The mine had to be sealed for
12 months after the fire, and experts con-
sidered its restoration impossible. The
manager, Fred Hemingway, did not agree
with them, and he infused his spirit into
the miners he selected who, all wearing
proto apparatus and beginning in
August, 1944, reclaimed the underground
workings. In March fresh air was
pumped in and shiftmen were able to go
down, clean up the masses of fallen coal,
reorganise the pit bottom and instal haul-
age gear. The mine is now being worked
again.
When it became obvious that a lot of
people feared that the information sup-
plied by them in the census might be
used against them by some “authority,”
Statistician Wilson announced that all
was confidential and that nobody outside
his staff would have access to census
. papers. Whereupon an alert person wrote
to “S. M. Herald” pointing out that
Section 264 (1) of the Income Tax Assess-
ment Act gives the Tax Commissioner
power to demand information and evi-
dence from all and sundry, in or out of
Government employment. There was no
official answer to that one.
Auckland Chamber of Commerce is
urging the Maoriland Government to ask
Australia to transfer Norfolk Island to
the Dominion. What, with Wimmera
Wilson and all?
Before he left for London Calwell
signed an order for the deportation of
Karel Zoubek, the violinist, who was in-
terned in England, sent to Australia, in-
terned here and released after a couple
of years’ confinement, during which he
composed several pieces of music. He
has since given concerts at which he
demonstrated that he is a violinist of
high class, a fine pianist and a composer
of some significance. He was teaching
and preparing for more concerts when he
was arrested and lodged in Pentridge,
pending deportation aboard the Asturias.
Friends and admirers of his music have
sought a writ of habeas corpus and others
have asked for an explanation of the
change of attitude. Calwell has since
announced that the case has been ex-
amined and that it is unlikely that the
deportation order will bd rescinded. One
thing is plain: Zoubek is not a “Pales-
tinian” or a “refugee” from the anti-
British Jewish colony in Shanghai. He
is a Czech.
Press reports of “fierce rioting” in
India, splashed with sensational head-
lines, rather debunk themselves when
they come down to details. One ex-
ample :
At Amritsar Moslems, Sikhs and
Hindus used bombs, rifles, revolvers,
shotguns and home-made bombs in a
fierce 90-minute battle, and troops and
police had to fire repeatedly. Missiles rained
on the streets and roofs. Four people
were killed and 22 injured.
Melbourne has had as many people
killed and maimed on motor roads in
the same time.
Protests against the Federal law de-
signed to protect the rocket range have
come mainly from Friends of the Soviet,
although they don’t call themselves that
nowadays. They have howled about
freedom of speech and freedom of the
Press. Meanwhile in Hungary other
Friends of the Soviet are showing what
they think of freedom of speech by break-
ing up opposition meetings by methods
identical with those used by the Nazis.
As for freedom of the Press, a new
“Hungarian” decree threatens critics —
even foreign journalists—with the death
penalty.
Despite the talk of full employment,
Federal unemployed relief is being paid
to nearly 7000 persons in Queensland.
Officials complain that although all cases
are' investigated before payments are
made, there is no follow-up system to
check whether work is subsequently
obtained. There is no limit on the period
for which the relief can be collected and
it is suspected that many persons in whole
or part employment are still drawing on
the public purse. The department’s sug-
gested remedy is to employ more inspec-
tors. There should be no difficulty in
getting these; the department has the
addresses of nearly 7000 eligibles.
Hanlon’s thoughts have turned to the
decentralisation he dilated on during the
Queensland election campaign:
Groups of regions in the southern, central
and northern portions of the State will be
established. As experience is gained, the
scheme will be extended until ultimately
each region has its own local administra-
tion.
Though indefinite, an immense improve-
ment on the Chifley plan for local self-
government —“Bank with the ‘Common-
wealth’ or else.”
There was 12,5001 b. of mullet in
Townsville (N.Q.) last week. The fisher-
men couldn’t sell it because all their catch
must go to the Fish Board; retailers
wouldn’t buy it from the Board because
the margin of profit wasn’t big enough ;
the Board wouldn’t allow the fishermen
to buy back their fish and sell it to the
public, nor would it sell it to the public
on its own account. When last heard of
the mullet was being dumped. Such are
the benefits of bureaucracy.
For three years Townsville was
virtually a front-line military post. It saw
hundreds of thousands of American and
Australian troops ; saw also the move-
ment of millions of tons of military
equipment—guns, tanks, lorries. Now
Townsville City Council wants the Com-
monwealth Government to help it repair
its roads and streets. Chifley has re-
plied that “unless the Council can sub-
stantiate the claims that heavy vehicles of
war did the damage or narrate any specific
damage” the “Government” will not help.
There is no complaint that the state of
the roads from Canberra to Yass and
Go'ulburn is objected to by Ministerial
fluid-drive Chryslers,
Sydney “Sun” has published an article
about one Francis Michael Forde, de-
scribed by a Canadian reporter as “like
a humming-bird in an arbor of honey-
suckle—he never stays long in one spot.”
“Capricornia, here I go!”
Whatever else Victoria’s “Labor” poli-
ticians may be good at, arithmetic isn’t
one of their. strong points. It was
officially announced that 173 houses had
been completed by the Housing Com-
mission in a month, a figure inflated to
200 in a Governmental statement. It
was averred at the same time that about
350 homes had been privately con-
structed. Adding these two estimates to-
gether and multiplying them by 12,
officialdom came to the surprising con-
clusion that there were good prospects of
15,000 houses being erected in 12 months.
Evidently Cain’s Government, like Mc-
Girr’s, has up its sleeve a magical
formula for producing unlimited quanti-
ties of cement, steel, flooring boards,
baths, stoves, lavatory equipment, coal
and skilled workmen, plus six months
without a strike or stoppage in N. S.
Wales or elsewhere.
That the British building tradesmen re-
cruited for Canberra would leave as
soon as they got to know their way about
was only to be expected. After all their
patron and all other politicians clear out
of the place whenever they can. Before
he went globetrotting Calwell confessed
that 246 of his proteges, more than half,
had quitted the “projects” on which they
had been employed—without mentioning
what has happened to the “projects.”
Chifley is no master of the art of
paying compliments. Speaking to
“friends and supporters” in Perth (W.A.),
and saying he was sorry the Wises had
got their issue, he professed to be “par-
ticularly interested” in the West because
it had sent him “an outstanding team”:
Men of experience and long service, and
three very young and capable men who are
a complete credit to the movement.
Not a word about Senator Tangney, who
can hold her own on the platform with
any of “the three very young and cap-
able young men” and never stumbles
into absurdities as does the P.M.’s par-
ticular pet, Lemmon. Miss Tangney
twice polled a victorious vote, only to be
twice passed over in the distribution of
overseas trips for that voluble vote-losing
Friend of the Soviet Mrs. Street.
By an amendment passed by the Vic-
torian Leg. Assembly, now resting
till the spring, a practical farmer with
a knowledge of soil conservation is
to be a member of the authority to be
set up under the Soil Conservation Bill
If this revolutionary procedure is con-
tinued some authority will, one of these
days, appoint a Socrates to the Depart-
ment of Information.
“Pontius Penwiper”: There was a
rush for census jobs. In my electorate
180 persons put in for the 10-day con-
tract distributing and collecting papers.
Of course not all these people were out
of work. Nearly all proposed taking
“time off” from their regular jobs and
so double-banking their earnings.
The Australian is not as hungry
for holidays as he would seem to be by
the frequent claims made for them. What
he wants is holiday pay.
Maoriland Labor’s grandiose pre-elec-
tion plan for establishing a daily in each
of the four cities tapered down to one
in Wellington. The first year must give
sore heads to the small shareholders and
the unions who put up the dough to
launch the “Southern Cross.” A net losss
of £36,804, and a despairing appeal for
another £lOO,OOO, with a prayer to share-
holders to ‘‘boost” the paper and bring
in advertisements. Experience in almost
every Australian capital has shown that
“Labor” can’t make a daily pay.
The workings of the gold tax, accord-
ing to A. E. Sellars, a Charters Towers
man, reported in “N.Q. Register”:
In the 1930 depression taxation was re-
moved from goldmining. In 1941 the
Towers produced £150,000 worth of gold
and production was expanding. Japan’s
entry into the war stopped it. In 1942 the
Government clapped on a tax of 50 p.c.
of all gold valued at oVer-£9'per fine
ounce. The value of such gold today is
£lO 15s. 2d., so the tax is 17s. 7Jd. an
ounce, and is imposed irrespective of profit
or loss. In 1945 the Black Jack mine
produced £14,000 worth of gold. Dividends
paid totalled £1930; taxation was £1776.
In 1946 production was about the same.
Increased working costs reduced the divi-
dend to nil, but the co. had to pay £ 1700-
odd in tax.
Possibly shareholders will solace them-
selves with the thought that they’ll soon
be able to treat themselves with a free
bottle of nerve tonic.


ONE GENERALISSIMO TO ANOTHER.
"Are you satisfied with your training courses, commander-in-Chief?"
"Pretty well for the present. In Sydney we have Randwick, Rosehill, Moorefield, Canterbury and Victoria Park, that Nuffield wanted for one
of his silly old factories; and there’s Harold Park for the trotters and dogs."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Melbn”: Without any pomp and cir-
cumstance, Melbourne celebrated last
week its centenary as a city. The previ-
ous centenary was concerned with its
constitution as a village. It grew so
quickly that in 1847 Queen Victoria
decided to give it a bishop, and as a
bishop can’t function in a village she
declared by Letters Patent conveyed to
the bishop-elect, Charles Perry, that it
should henceforth be called the City of
Melbourne. Victoria further declared and
ordained that “the church called St.
James the Great in the said City of Mel-
bourne shall henceforth be the Cathedral
Church and see of the said Charles
Perry and his successors Bishops of Mel-
bourne.” The fine old church still stands,
but for some years the Letters Patent
were missing. They were mislaid at the
installation of Bishop Perry, and the
ceremony had to proceed without them.
It was opined that they were left on the
vessel which brought the bishop and were
taken back to London. The bishop was
later suspected of keeping the documents
among his personal possessions and tak-
ing them home after his resignation.
Twenty years ago an antiquarian found
them in a secondhand shop in London,
bought them and presented them to the
Melbourne Diocesan Synod. Melbourne
had no Town Hall in those days! It
conducted its business in rented premises
on the site of the present Athenaeum
Library in Collins-street.
“C. 8.”: Riled, no doubt, at his in-
ability to get anybody to take any prac-
tical action to fulfil his dream of a
brighter Melbourne, Lud Mayor Con-
nelly acidly announced on the eve of the
centenary of the city that it had arrived
at this landmark in its history “as jflsl a
humdrum city without a single outstand-
ing attraction ; a town with a bullock-
wagon constitution in a jet-propelled age,”
Hard words, but with some truth in them.
Melbourne refused even to accept the
fact that it was a city for years after it
had reached that exalted status. Its citi-
zens still called it a village or a town-
ship or a mudhole. In August, 1869, the
municipal authorities solemnly caused “a
Bill to be introduced into the Legislative
Council to alter the style and title of the
Melbourne Corporation from a Town to
a City.” This was a bit of an insult to
Queen Victoria, who had already done
that by Letters Patent.
« * ♦ *
“Bo”: My morning paper has described
the “jet-propelled justice” which operates
at the Sydney Traffic Court, where “the
average time for the magistrate’s decision
was 40 seconds flat.” They must be
slowing up. In my unregenerate youth I
roared around on a motor-bike. One
night I careered along a well-lighted
suburban shopping centre at no more
than 10 m.p.h. above the maximum speed,
with a windblown flapper clinging on
the back. A few days later I got a “blue”
for riding without lights. In the local
court I pleaded “not guilty,” strong in my
innocent belief that Justice would recog-
nise the logic of my plea that the
brightly-lit thoroughfare made it im-
possible for me to see whether my bike
light was on. After the constable witness
had deposed that “on the night of such
and such the defendant was riding his
motor-cycle north-east along, etc.,” and
specified the awful charge, the Beak cut
him short with “Pound and six shillings.”
I reared up. “Here, half a minute,” I
began, “haven’t I got a say about”
The magistrate gave facial evidence that
his blood pressure was shooting up, a
voice boomed “Silence,” then a cove, evi-
dently hard in the ways of Courts, whis-
pered hoarsely behind me, “Cough up,
and shut up, or he’ll sock y ' another flag.”
I coughed up and got out as quickly as 1
could. That Beak took exactly two
seconds to make up his mind.
* * * «
“K. Ley”: I handed the census-paper
to the rather forbidding woman who
opened the door, made a brief explana-
tion and was about to go when she said,
obviously with reluctance, “Er, there’s
another family— two families in this
house —do they need a paper?” “Are
they separate from you? That is, is it
like two homes?” She seemed distraught.
“I don’t know them,” she sighed. “My
husband lets them their half of the house.
It was against my wishes. You’ll find him
in there,” she added, with a sort of
gentle bitterness, nodding towards a
lighted window along the verandah.
Then she withdraw. I went along the
verandah and discovered a chap of obvi-
ously Mediterranean extraction—big,
dark, oily, ringletted and full of ex-
plosive gestures and laughter—and a
young woman with three very young
children. It would take a column to
“They must be economising on their meat coupons .”
detail the interview, but it seemed certain
that he was the only man resident there
and owner of the place. I gave him a
form and did my best, but I’m darnfed if
I know how the enumerator is going to
work it out when he comes to those two
forms.
“Becks” on the Census:
Census-taking is a sport of considerable
antiquity. The Jews were at it in the time
of Moses; their first census took place on
the first day of the second month of the second
year after their escape from Egypt. They
numbered every male over 20 years old “by
their polls,” and the total tale of their polls
was “six hundred thousand and three thousand
and five hundred and fifty.” Earlier still the
statisticians were juggling with figures in
Babylonia, Persia, China and Egypt; then-
usual purpose was to find out how much spear-
fodder was available for their armies, how
much grain and livestock was on hand with
which to keep the armies quiet and how much
hard cash was waiting to be gathered into the
royal purse.
Rome, at the height of her power, took a
census every five years through the whole
Empire, but after the sacking of Rome the
enumerators were out of a job for over 12
centuries. They cropped up again in a place
far removed from their former haunts —French
Canada, where between 1665 and 1754 15
censuses were taken. During the 18th century
they put in an occasional appearance in various
German States, in Sweden, Denmark and Spain.
In 1790 the infant American republic carried
out its first census and has since repeated the
process every 10 years. With the exception
of the Domesday Book, there was no census
taken in England until 1801, when a decennial
count was introduced. France also began
counting heads, homes and hobbies in that
year, adopting the Roman five-year plan, and
gradually all civilised countries became census-
conscious.
In Australia there were various “counts”
and “musters” from shortly after the First
Settlement, but the first regular census was
taken in N.S.W. in 1828. By the time the
Commonwealth was established most of the
States had adopted a decennial count. All
States took a census on March 31, 1901, a
date chosen for a count in Britain and in most
parts of the Empire. Since then the enumera-
ting has been a Federal affair, but circumstances
have upset the intended 10-year system. George
Knibbs carried out the first Commonwealth
Census in 1911 and the 1921 encore went off
in accordance with the programme. The De-
pression caused a two-year postponement of
the next count, which was held in 1933.
Whether in the ordinary course of events the
fourth census would have been held in 1941
or 1943 is a matter for debate, which probably
doesn’t interest many of the “heads of house-
holds” who struggled through the 13 schedules
last Sunday night.
* * ♦ *
“Craiser”: It is not as difficult as
“Hamer” imagines (B. 18/6/’47) for
people to deceive themselves about bever-
ages. A young man who considered him-
self a connoisseur was at a party in his
girl’s house. Wishing to take him down
a peg or two, the lass said her father had
a very rare old liqueur in his cellar. She
brought up a bottle, poured out a glass
of the ruby-red liquid and handed it to
him. He sniffed it, took a sip, rolled it
round on his palate, gazed ecstatically at
the ceiling and murmured “Perfection.
What is it?” “Raspberry vinegar,”
chortled the damsel.
♦ * * m
“Clooter”; Chifley’s “Golden Age” has
its little comedies—though the comic
part soon wears thin for the actors. In
many a country town and city suburb
post-offices have for years been deposit-
ing their cash for safe-keeping in the
nearest bank. Now the ukase has gone
forth from Canberra that the doings must
be dumped in the nearest Commonwealth
Bank branch, often entailing a journey
of up to a mile. One p.o, staff bucked
and told the “heads” it wasn’t going
to hump a bag of cash a half-mile or so
each day when there was a perfectly
good repository just across the road.
Canberra considered the ultimatum for
several days ; then back came the answer
—the p.o. staff was to requisition for an
amount of 4s. a day for taxi-fare to carry
the money. Thus in one place the tax-
payer has to cough up 245. a week for
a service which a trading bank was ready
to supply for nothing.
* * * *
“Subcheese”: Early in 1942 the Yanks
were ferrying fighters to India and
Burma to reinforce the “Flying Tigers.”
One morning on a Bengal strip a young
Californian pilot rushed out to his “ship,”
roared her down the runway, carved a
pathway through the trees and finished
up in a swamp. The R.A.F. duty pilot
in his utility rushed up as the dishevelled
Yank appeared scratching his head.
“What went wrong?” asked the duty
pilot. “I can’t make it out, feller,” the
Yank replied, “but I sure ran out of
runway.”
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Another coincidence
which no story-writer would dare to in-
vent took place in the Brisbane General
Hospital recently. A 63-year-old woman
patient got into conversation with a
somewhat older woman who told her she
came from Bundaberg. The first woman
said that she had had a brother-in-law
there and mentioned his name. “Good-
ness gracious,” replied her companion,
“I am his widow.” Then it came out that
they were sisters who had not met for 50
years. They had been in the same ward
for three weeks without recognising each
other. Separated by 15 years in age, they
had lost touch for more than 40 years.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The senseless hoaxer! Three
years ago a message found in a bottle
telling of shipwrecked mariners on Mud
Island, at the stormy entrance to Port
Phillip, brought out a rescue party, the
message turning out to be a fake. A
similar message washed up at Mount
Martha beach recently said: “Help, Mud
Island, three men lost, Norm.” Three
fishermen were missing and, although
none was named “Norm,” a search party
of 12 fishermen and two policemen set
out in a shark boat in the dirtiest weather
the Bay has seen for a long time. Barely
saved from swamping in the high seas,
the boat anchored 700 yards off the island
and 12 men went ashore in a dinghy.
There was no trace of any castaways.
The leader of the expedition, Constable
Farrell, was the man who was the victim
of the first hoax.
* * * *
“Jasby”: A field of study usually ne-
glected by students of political trends is
that presented by the deep thinkers who
scribble on walls, I don’t mean mere
statements of fact such as “Joe loves
Mary” or “Tom is mad,” important
though these remarks may be to the
writers and thfe persons named. I refer
rather to comments on political issues
of the day. From my office window I
look down on a wall that seems to have
a peculiar fascination for anonymous
political pamphleteers with the gift of
packing a whole sermon into a pithy sen-
tence. Just before the war an unknown
scribbler urged me to “Boycott National
Register.” This disappeared after a few
weeks to give place to “Stop the War,”
a task that was a little beyond my
powers. “Don’t Send Australians Away
to Fight” was my next instruction, fol-
lowed not long afterwards by “Demand
Second Front” and “Intern All Fascists.”
Since then the wall has carried in turn the
slogans “Vote Yes,” “Send the Yanks
Back Home,” “All Sydney Women Are
Harpies,” “Ban the Bulletin,” “Vote
No” and “Close All Pubs.” A few
months ago I looked out the window and
was urged to “Send All Commos to
Russia.” At present there are two in-
scriptions on the wall. One is a kind of
double cross insignia, a vertical line cut
by two horizontals. It’s either a sign that
the building is marked for destruction
when the Revolushun comes or else a
street musician’s warning to his fellows
that they’ll be wasting their time playing
outside my window. The other is even
more mysterious; it merely observes
“Stinkbomb McKell.”
* * * *
“Col Mi”: I see that “Honeisty
Boxes,” for uncollected fares, are being
placed in the doorways of some Sydney
trams. The idea was tried out in Glas-
gow and paid dividends out of all pro-
portion to what had been expected.
Officials investigated and’found that the
excess oof had come from Scots who,
fueled with their national beverage,
dropped in many mickles towards what
they thought would be some charity’s
final muckle. Whatever happens when
the boxes are installed in Sydney’s con-
veyances they will be an excellent means
of posting stiff notes to the tramway
authorities.
«= * * *
“Youanmi”: The sidewalk salesmen
who infest Sydney streets, vending every-
thing from razor blades and spot remover
to art-union tickets, have a good work-
ing knowledge of psychology. Just up
from my office one chappie has been sell-
ing tickets in something or other and
using the catchcry “Who’ll buy the lucky
last?” That, to me, seemed to be
bad salesmanship—the average person
who indulges in lottery tickets and raffles
generally dodges the low and high
numbers, preferring to be somewhere in
the middle of the field. Apparently the
same idea has occurred to the vendor of
chance —I passed him the other day and
he had changed the call to “Who’ll buy
the third-last ticket?”
* * * *
“Stone”: Reports that the recent
Sydney fire destroyed part of the old
Bulletin printery sent me back to one
of my books. I have a water-stained copy
of Arthur Maquarie’s play, “The Days
of the Magnificent,” given by the author
to J. Le Gay Brereton. In the latter’s
handwriting there is a short pencil note:
“Destroyed in the fire at the Bulletin
Office, Feb., 1912.” Maquarie is an
expatriate Australian author, residing in
London; he prepared Lawson’s books
for the English publishers.
* * * *
“Plop”: The plum pudding looked
quite innocent; it gained the prefix
“Atomic” by exploding when its string
was cut. I put it down to steam collect-
ing under pressure beneath the dough-
boy’s paper cover —the wife blamed the
new recipe. I had forgotten all about
the culinary blast until I read of an
award given to an American doctor. He
had been asked to produce an explosive
which would defy recognition as such,
to be sent to Chinese patriots during the
war. The result was a substance which
looked, smelt and tasted like ordinary
flour. It could be detonated as flour,
dough, or even piecrust. Shipped to a
Japanese Army Q.M. through neutrals
it eventually fell into the hands of the
patriots, who used it to make scones
which would really sink a ship. Still, un-
less my wife has been to a Disposal sale
I’m sticking to my “steam under pres-
sure” theory.
MORE ABOUT MARS.
“Lyman Spitzer, Professor of Astrophysics at Yale,
predicts that atomic power will make it possible
to travel to the moon and Mars within the lifetime
of the present generation. He also suggests that, if
human life on Mars developed earlier than on earth,
civilised Martians may already have visited this
planet without leaving any record of their visit.”
My heart goes out to scientific gents
For the intriguing theories they dispense
In their conviction
Science will yet disclose facts rich and strange
Outside the purview and beyond the range
Of wildest fiction.
Will folk still living board aerial craft
Booked for the moon? Our fathers would have
laughed
And called them noddies
Who hinted such a journey could be gone
With firm assurance of alighting on
Far astral bodies.
Will trains, expresses or excursions, ply
Through the interminable wastes of sky
That lie between us
With blaring notices upon the cars
Such as (conceivably) “All Out For Mars”
Or “Change For Venus”?
And, little as it is of Mars we know,
Spitzer reminds us it is hard to show
That countless seons
Or merely some few thousand years ago
The Martians (if any) didn’t know
Much more of we ’uns.
They may have paid on us a social call
And got the hang of this terrestrial ball
Over and under,
Ere Eve and Adam munched the fruit forbid
Or any Pharaoh built a Pyramid,
And left no record of it if they did.
We can but wonder.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Momokan”: Before the Yanks in-
vaded Manus they were anxious to get
hold of some Japanese p.-0.-w. to find
out the enemy dispositions on the island.
A.N.G.A.U. made their needs known
amongst the natives, and rewards were
offered for prisoners. The Nips had
abandoned badges of rank, and the only
way to distinguish officers from o.rs. was
by their physical condition. Thfc higher
the rank of the officer the better he ate,
and the fatter he was; consequently fat
prisoners usually brought a higher re-
ward than thin ones. Everything went
well for a few weeks and then there was
a dearth of p.-0.-w. A.N.G.A.U. sent a
w/o over to Manus to investigate. He
found the “boongs” had developed a
business sense. They had set up their
own p.-0.-w. camp and had about 15
Nips in residence. These were being fed
freely with sago, a healthy diet designed
to bring a better price at the Allied H.Q.
markets.
“Frank Mauri”: After V.P. day our
p.-0.-w. camp in Siam looked as though
a bulldozer had been through it. Amazed
Japs shook their heads and muttered as
valuables and wireless sets came to light.
All but “Gunzo,” an expressionless fatal-
ist, who moved from one working party
to another, finally halting near a large
hole from which an iron box was being
lifted. Diggers hastily lifted the lid to
ascertain condition of battalion records.
“Gunzo” was not greatly interested. “Bat-
tery 0.k.?” he queried.
* ♦ * *
“Pleasant Creek”: Stawell (Vic.), re-
nowned in the ’sixties and ’seventies first
for its alluvial and then its quartz mining,
is wakening to the fact that it has a
bigger population abroad than at home.
A pedestal in what is now an open un-
tenanted paddock records that 50,000
miners once “gloried and drailk deep”
on that spot, an alluvial lead known as
Commercial Street. And that was only
one of the rushes. With the passing of
the gold they scattered, and it’s a local
saying that you can’t throw a brick about
any settled part of Australia without hit-
ting an ex-Stawellite. Now those expat-
riated folk are being asked to Come
Home in October for a week of welcomes.
The Town Clerk wil send a programme
of the festivities to anyone forwarding an
address. The old brigade will get a few
shocks on returning. Mining has almost
completely gone. In its place are second-
ary industries, the most astonishing being
a doll factory which turns out over a
thousand jointed and sleeping beauties a
week and can hardly cope with a tre-
mendous demand.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: That libel case (B.
25/6/’47) in which the Sydney book-
maker obtained a verdict against the
“Sporting Globe” had some amusing
repercussions. Sydney dailies and week-
lies publish a lot of short stories which
read like weak imitations of Damon'
Runyon and are generally liberally
sprinkled with names of racing, boxing
and other sporting identities. Since the
libel case, the names have miraculously
vanished from the stories, and the familiar
“All characters in this story, etc.,” now
appears regularly under most yams.
Sydney’s Sunday “Sun” had a boxing
yarn in which it was related of a young
pug that:
when some sweetie he’s chasing is coming
round his way, why, he’d make look
like a punk gym sparring partner.
I don’t know what name originally
occupied the gap, but apparently, after
the page had been made up, someone de-
cided that discretion was the wiser course,
even though it meant leaving the sen-
tence like a mouth with two teeth out.
**♦ * ~
“X.S.”: Piecemeal transition from the
old to the new uniform of the Melbourne
John Hop led to a regrettable misunder-
standing lately. “I feel very sorry for
those poor boys of the Air Force now
the war is over,” remarked an old lady
to a tramful of citizens. “Why—what’s
the matter with them?” asked a neighbor.
“This is the beginning of the end —mechanising our industry like that!”
“Well, I suppose it’s having so little to
do in peace-time gets them into so much
mischief. That’s the second one I’ve
seen under arrest in two days,” she re-
plied, indicating two policemen in the
old costume walking down Collin s-street
with a third between them. He was in
the new clobber.
“Chevroford”: Melbourne’s police
patrol has a high reputation for the speed
with which it responds to calls from dis-
tressed women disturbed in their rest by
night-prowlers, but there is one house-
holder who isn’t so enthusiastic about it.
Russell-street got an urgent call from a
woman in the outer suburbs; some
scoundrel was trying to enter her dwel-
ling. The patrol car was out in eight
minutes. It promptly apprehended a dis-
hevelled individual, and found him to be
the husband, trying to get into his home
without attracting undue attention.
* * * *
“Dial Number”: Common courtesy, is
it? During the war I broke my alarm
clock and, as I had to start work well
before dawn, I arranged with the
P.M.G.’s early-morning call service to
get me up on time. Those time-calls are
good; the girl keeps ringing till she gets
“Would you mind using the fanlight, lady? ”
an answer. One morning I asked her
how many calls of that sort she made.
She answered about a hundred. “And
from how many of them do you get a
courteous reply?” “Two others beside
yourself.” Honestly, I* don’t feel like
calling anyone “sweetheart” at that time
in the morning, but I don’t think it fair
to blame a girl for doing what she’s paid
to do.
“Pontius Penwiper”; Of all the pencil-
marked and disfigured books I have en-
countered an old copy of Dombey and
Son provided the most pathos. When
taken off its shelf in a second-hand book-
store the volume opened at a place
where a page had been dog-eared ; it was
the part about the death of Paul. Written
on <he margin in a feminine hand was the
note “Dear mother was reading this just
beforfe she died. She had turned down
the corner so as to know the place again
but she did not wake up any more.
Please do not interfere with it.” There
was nothing to indicate who mother was,
and the people who had kept the memory
of her death-bed had obviously followed
her to the grave ; but the corner was still
turned down as mother left it.
# ♦ ♦ ♦
“H.W.M.”: I seek enlightenment re-
garding the stamp allowance of £BO a
year for Federal members. Does this
mean that each member has to lick his
own stamps or does Parliament supply
the necessary labor to lick them? lam
horrified at the thought that members
may have personally to lick £BO worth
of 2£d. stamps.
* * * ♦
“Eve”; The elderly lady twittered un-
certainly on the fringe of the traffic. The
ghost of my Aunt Elsa, who used to be
a Girl Guide in the days when girls
were willing to be guided, nudged me
to take the old dame over the street. As
I did so, she confided, “I’m so afraid of
being fined as I cross the streets. They
don’t let you jazz-walk now.”
* * * *
“Sister H.”; It is true that Australians
have developed “somethink” into a
vocal disease (B. 11/6/’47), but I think
more virulent epidemics are constituted
by “I sez” and “like.” My fruitiest ex-
ample of the “somethink” tag was pro-
vided by a young fellow who explained
that a certain Jewish celebration marked
“the day that Adam ran away, or Gawd
made the world —or somethink.” The
usual reason for the “somethink” is that
the speaker wants to dodge being too
precise, or feels that a little amplification
is needed, but can’t find the right words.
So with “like.” Once, in the Victorian
Mallee, we paused to ask a youth the
name of his hamlet. “Arrr,” he said,
“we calls it Willenabrina —like.” But
“I sez” routs both “like” and “somethink”
by being used, not as a postscript, but in
the beginning, middle and end of a sen-
tence. Think how often you have heard
an ardent gossiper (usually feminine) de-
claim righteously, “I sez to him, I sez,
‘you can’t do that there ’ere,’ I sez!”
“Ross”: “Tummas McN.” (B.
11/6/’47) brings back memories. Was at
the wheel of a Swedish ship one day
when the skipper, apparently acting on
the assumption that all foreigners are
halfwits, said, “Roos, s’pose man fall
overboard, vot you do den?” I replied
that I’d “throw a lifebelt or something.’’
Says he, “Vat you mean, someting?”
Well, I suppose the “someting” could
have been a firebar or other hard object,
depending on the recipient, but that angle
had not occurred to mfe.
* * * *
“Jobber”: On a Sydney tram recently
my wife was given four halfpennies in
change. When she handed the coins to
the conductor on another tram he hurled
them into the gutter with the air of a
politician giving himself a rise and the
remark “That’s what I think of those
rotten things.” Just flashness, as he
would have to make up the shortage when
paying in. But some fellows revel in
flashness, even though it may only cost
tuppence a gesture.
* * * , *
“Flathead”: Commenting on the pre-
valence of lift accidents, Melbourne’s
Chief Inspector of Lifts recently declared:
People trapped in a lift should be patient
until experts arrive and are able to adjust
the trouble. Unless the lift is on fire, no
harm can come to them.
His words became law to one old lady
who, laden with parcels, was merrily
shooting skywards in an automatic lift
when it suddenly stopped dead. She did
not panic, but quietly waited, a model to
the temperamental souls buzzing angrily
on every floor. Experts arrived, scaled
down the lift-well and into the top of
the car. They found her there smiling,
serenely calm, and with her onion-bag
still hanging from the “Emergency Stop”
lever.
“Lesdun”: “Wusslean” (B. 11/6/’47)
is a bit late with his story of Jenkins’s
gift of a couple Of bob to a stranger who
bought beer with it. James Agate in his
Ego 3 quoted a similar happening, ex-
cept that in his story the benefactor gave
half a sovereign, with which the recipient
bought a large plate of smoked salmon.
*•** „ * ,
“Cauboy”: For the perfect approach
to the piano (B. 18 /6 / ’47) I nominate
the average Town HaH assistant. Al-
though he usually wears the same sort
of clobber as the virtuoso, and is often
just as distinguished-looking, he affects
an air of businesslike abstraction which
never permits his being mistaken for the
musician. There was an exception at a
recent Lorna Sydney concert at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall. After Marshall
Sumner had done his stuff on the key-
board the assistant entered and lowered
the lid of the perkakas in preparation
for the singer, doing it with such
deftness that the audience broke into
appreciative clapping. He stopped, sur-
prised, and then turned the joke by giving
a low bow that would have done credit
to a Chaliapin.
* * * *
“Shavia”: Another unusual hobby (B. ‘
4/6/’47) is that of collecting railway
tickets. An Adelaide acquaintance re-
ceived a request from a Canadian seeking
samples of cancelled Soqstralian tickets
to add to his world collection. The
department has advised him it will be
pleased to fix him up,
* * * •
“Chevroford”: Those disastrous ex-
plosions in American ports take my mind
back to pre-Federation days when South
Australia had its own navy, composed
of H.M.A.S. Protector. Explosives were
stored up a mangrove creek near the
mouth of the Port Adelaide River. I was
one of a party of yachtsmen who got
blown into the creek by stormy weather.
We anchored and landed to look for
rabbits for the pot, but the first gunshot
brought a yell of protest from the gather-
ing darkness. Round the corner was a
hulk, a one-time famous clipper, and on
the deck was an aged watchman dancing
with rage and indignation. He explained
that he was standing on sufficient ex-
plosive matter to blow us all to King-
dom Come. The old ’un calmed down
when we invited him to share the rabbit,
and after dinner he got out a mouth-organ
and played us all the latest song hits. His
virtuosity and up-to-dateness surprised
us. He explained that he refurnished his
repertoire during his annual leave, which
he spent at the Adelaide Tivoli.
LOTTERY “INVESTMENTS.”
“Premier McGirr, defending the introduction of
bigger lotteries in N.S.W., pointed out that this
would give people the opportunity of ‘investing’ their
money locally instead of being attracted by larger
lotteries in another State.”
People will gamble, clearly an assertion
That none will fault, and shows he can’t but
feel
The chance to win a wad without exertion
Contains an irresistible appeal.
A frailty no commonsense can skittle,
As old as human nature, is it not?
The constant readiness to risk a little
In hope to gain a lot.
A lottery ticket stands for no transgression
Of moral laws for churchmen to deplore,
Merely an amiable indiscretion,
A bit of venial folly, nothing more;
Something on which no State can put a stopper,
McGirr reminds us, even should it try,
So why should it do anything improper
In profiting thereby?
He aims to keep our egg 3 in his own baskets
Instead of letting them depart by heaps
To swell the spoil in Brisbane Golden Caskets
Or Hobart Tatts, and all such outside sweeps.
People will gamble, as their tastes and fancies
Dictate, he knows full well, and makes it
clear
His mission is to give them all the chances
They need to gamble here.
Strange, is it not, when wagering a deener
At two-up schools in this enlightened clime
Is held to constitute a misdemeanor
And playing fan-tan very near a crime,
That rival States should still be found contesting
The dubious honor of how best to please
The crowd by offering the most arresting
And advantageous methods of investing
In Gov’ment lotteries.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


f Tß %foa^ vtMlBs '
Black tragedy when dolly falls and breaks!
Bring Tarzan’s Grip to the rescue, make
dolly as good as new and the tears will stop
like magic I
a
Ml
<5
T
\
SAY
LL
YOU
/LmJ{ tjoodrm^
TARZANS GRIP
THE UNIVERSAL FIXER
Mends ulmost anything Broken china ■ Kitchen utensils •
Furniture • Woodwork • Antiques » Jewellery •
Luggage • Leatherware • Joys » Fabrics • Canvas
■ Family heirlooms' • Leaky car radiators
Gasoline tanks • Glass to other materials • Model
aeroplanes • A thousand and one things too
numerous to mention.
_
TUBE
EVERYWHERE
ffpi J V!
<K <>?
;
4J
2?
/-p
•n.
s, e£^
BIG
business!
When shillings are put away regularly they
become “big business” in any savings account,
so start saving now.
At current interest rates a regular deposit of
1/- a week would amount
in 5 years to £l3/12/1
in 10 years to £2B/12/2
in 15 years to £45/ 3/6
in 20 years to £63/ 9/4
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
THERE’S A BRANCH OR AGENCY IN YOUR DISTRICT
C.S.B. 19.82
THE SERVICE MAN
Montgomery Here.
“Ek Dum”: Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery has reached Australia. He is
to visit all States, very hurriedly, spend-
ing 16 days in the Commonwealth, and
not more than two in any one place, in-
cluding Canberra, where he will be the
guest of the Commander-in-Chief, Mr.
McKell, from July 3 to July 5.
There will be very little time for any
discussions on defence, save with the
founder of the Sydney Turf Club. This
is just as well, since there is no real de-
fence to discuss.
Yet never was defence more ripe for
full and frank discussion. Never was a
situation more ominous.
The Chinese armies arfe being driven
backwards with Russian arms.
A distinguished United States Commis-
sioner in the Philippines, Mr. Paul Mc-
Nutt, has said after a wide and unob-
trusive tour of the Pacific, Australia in-
cluded, that the American frontier —de-
fensive frontier —had moved into the
“Far East.”
General Eisenhower dwelt last week
on the “urgency” of the need for co-
ordination of defence between the United
States and Canada, since in the event of
the outbreak of a war, the Great Lakes
region would almost certainly become
the venue of an immediate attack. He
has also warned his country that unless
Uncle Sam arms other American nations
they will turn elsewhere for arms.
In Europe Government after Govern-
“Did you see a Tiger Moth come this way?”
ment is being thrown out in favor of
Russian-sponsored, Communist-run police
Administrations.
No protests, no agreements avail against
this trend. The Balkans are a seething
mass of Communist-implemented blood-
shed and intrigue. Turkey stands fully
armed to protect its frontiers. So does
Greece.
Communist strikes hamper production
in Britain, in America, in France and in
Italy. A struggle is in process for the
control of the approaches to India, via
Afghanistan.
And everywhere, including Australia,
the most curious happenings are taking
place connected with the Communist
party and its operations.
In Prague a Russian-sponsored Youth
Conference is in progress. Australia has
a delegation there, largely from the
Eureka League of Youth, a band of
young brothers who have been sent as
the “Australian Reconstruction Corps.”
They are to stay there two years, after
which graduates will, no doubt, converge
on strategic points, available to become
instructors in tommy-gun and gin-bottle
warfare, and blossom forth as authorities
on war with a pro-Russian bias, or per-
haps infiltrate newspaper staffs.
Going Underground
At the same time, the Australian C.P.
has begun to show signs of going under-
ground. Last week there was scarcely a
news-stand in Sydney on which Com-
munist journals, a fortnight ago pro-
minent at every corner, could Be bought,
except on day of publication.
Some Communist bookshops were sud-
denly, last week, stripped of all their
Communist literature and reorganised
under the supervision of well-dressed and
apparently prosperous foreigners about
whom there was a distinctly diplomatic
odor.
And to cap it all the party suddenly
took the Sydney Town Hall to plead for
funds for Food for Britain!
The whole atmosphere has a strong
smell of the period just before the col-
lapse of the Moscow Conference in
August, 1939, when the U.S.S.R. was
organising throughout the world to be in
a position to aid its German ally in the
attack. Then the party went on with
much the same sort of antics,
The World Situation
Field-Marshal Montgomery arrives in
Australia at a very peculiar crisis in the
world’s history,
of the “Great” Powers only one is
economically in a position to feed and
clothe its people on a really civilised
modern standard at 1939 levels—the
United States,
Britain is going through the painful
process of recovery, having expended so
much of her machinery of survival and
development that she cannot make any
progress until it is replaced,
Certainly replacement is taking place
on a tremendous scale. The British ship-
ping industry is booming. Every berth in
the shipyards is full. Tankers, freighters,
halTand-halfs and big mail vessels are
turning from skeletons into hulls and
from hulls into ships at a ratfe never be-
fore known. At Belfast alone 17 large
vessels were building a month or two ago.
To carry out this shipping programme
it has been necessary to subordinate the
interest of the R.N. to civilian needs,
But this to a certain extent suits the
British plan. New weapons and new
methods have called for a complete recon-
sideration of naval strategical and tactical
needs, especially in view of the altered
shape of communication routes and of
the air.
The R.N.’s Changed Position
At the beginning of World War II a
common subject of debate among naval
students was: Which is the greater factor
in naval warfare—the new power of wide
reconnaissance developed through the in-
vention of the aircraft-carrier, or the new
striking power afforded by the aircraft-
carrier?
By the end of the war, especially
after such battles as that of the Coral
Sea in May, and the Solomons in
November, 1942, this question had been
very largely settled. Now the debate has
been taken a stage further and the ques-
tion becomes: When will the aircraft-
carrier cease to be necessary?
A thousand other problems make
strategists, tacticians and naval architects
inclined to pause before they commit
themselves.
Air Developments
In the air the same process is going on
as in the water. The British and
American aircraft industries are working
night and day to replace their depleted
and obsolete civil aircraft, and reorganise
their aerodromes and other facilities to
meet the new post-war conditions.
This task is even greater than that
which besets the maritime business, which
has no revolutions to cope with.
The aerial side has seen the introduc-
tion of jet engines, among other factors.
The rising tide in 1939 had just reached
the point when long-distance aircraft
carrying 24 passengers or so at speeds of
about 200 miles were not yet in general
use.
In the 1948 models speed will have
increased 100 miles per hour over 1938,
with more to come. Hops will have been
broadened by thousands of miles.
Against the 24 passengers of the DC3
of 1939, the Brabazon of 1948 will be
able to carry 202 passengers, over certain
distances. And the Brabazon is not the


Public Notice,
I, CARL JOSEPH WILHELM PETERS, of German
nationality, born at Elberfeld, Rhineland, and resi-
dent 21 years in Australia, new residing at 72 West
Esplanade, Manly, in the State of New South Wales,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1930.
Country Customers! *gip|[
H.J.GOONEY
bring their famous
30-DAY
DELIVERY
right to your
door!
P %t
Your new
suit. ..
immaculately
tailored-to-measure
in 30 days
M
i- i
YOUR OVERCOAT
tailored-to-measure
IN 30 DAYS
However far away you live you can
obtain the very best in tailoring from
Australia’s largest tailored-to-measure
organisation with the famous 30-day
delivery service. H. J. Cooney has a
specially trained team of cutters who
can “visualise” your figure type from
the thorough and foolproof self-
measurement form supplied you.
Write immediately for self-measure-
ment forms, pattern brochure and
style leaflet.
Choose your own style (5.8., D. 8., or
the “one-to-button” front, illustrated),
and your own material from the pat-
terns H. J. Cooney will send you on
request. Faultless styling and careful
personal attention ensure that YOUR
suit from H. J. Cooney will fit you
perfectly. Send coupon below
immediately.
a
rr
c
v
0 /
<3
Cj
\uj
©
(3 s 1
• A choice of styles.. .polo, S.B. or D.B.
(illustrated).
• Fully lined throughout with art silk.
• Full, roomy cut, precise tailoring, and
careful finish to detail.
• Send coupon for self-measurement form,
pattern brochure, style leaflet.
SPORTS TROUSERS
tailored-io-meahure
IN U DAYS
• A choice of fine, all-wool worsteds in
blue-grey, silver-grey, mid-grey, fawn
and brown.
• Choose your ow-n style.
9 Any style of waistband you prefer
(including one-button extension-band or
“boler o” band).
MAIL THIS COUPON NOW I
H.J. COONEY PHONE: M 6248
449 PITT STREET (opp. Hotel Sydney), 2nd FLOOR
Please send me, without obligation, patterns {suit/overcoat/sports coat/sports trousers*'),
illustrated style brochure and self-measurement forms.
(* Strike out whichever is NOT required.)
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
C 37 Bulletin 2.7.’47.
largest aircraft in contemplation by a
long way. .
The problems of the two great Anglo-
Saxon countries, masters of the world's
cross-ocean communication and of the
world’s machinery, are magnified by the
fact that they must feed tens upon tens
of hungry millions and prevent less
favored allies from collapse. And the
whole of their difficulties*add up to one
fact; they are so beset with the urgent
problems of peace that they cannot allow
the problems of war to impinge upon
them, except in a desperate situation.
The most they can do is to carry on some
system of readiness in training achieved
through research, the existence of a
regular-forces nucleus and a compulsory-
training plan of some sort which cannot
be applied to the full.
Russia and Its Losses
Contrast that position with Russia’s
position. A large, sprawling, backward
Asiatic country which has no external
trade and does not understand external
trade, Russia has no leeway to make up
in external communication systems, no
shipping to rebuild. Since the people are
always regimented, constantly under com-
mand in a system of rigid political dis-
cipline, there is none of the popular
clamor for demobilisation which goes
on among peoples which know the de-
lights of freedom. Demobilisation merely
means what in Australia would have been
meant in 1943 by transfer from the Army
to the A.W.C. The state of the U.S.S.R.’s
economy is such that the desperate con-
ditions under which the individual can-
not possibly fend for himself make the
population tend to favor continued
military discipline.
Russia lost 7,000,000 lives dfiring the
war —a terrible price. It is fairly obvious
from the statistics that for every German
killed on the Russian front the Russians
lost from three to five men and women —
the known shift in German population
statistics makes the position pretty clear.
From this fact careless people are in-
clined to argue that Russia must be as
much disabled as other countries and
therefore would be averse to war. But
the fact is that with its large popula-
tion and immense natural increase the
U.S.S.R. is in the best position of all the
nations for recuperation of human war
losses. Its economic necessities do not
call for the absorption of highly technical
ability to handle problems like world
transport. And the immemorial cure of
the Slav peoples for general starvation
has been to pour westward or eastward
of their centre.
Books like those of Major-General
Deane, the United States Military Liaison
Officer at Moscow during the war, make
it plain that technically Russia is a land
of barbarism. Its secrecy on the battle-
field proceeded not from fear of disclos-
ing its amazing scientific war secrets but
from fear of disclosing its amazing
scientific backwardness.
Its few outstanding weapons were those
of which it had gleaned the secrets from
the Germans who were allowed to make
Russia their training ground up to 1936.
For the rest it had one weapon which
nobody else could produce on the same
scale. It had endless rolling masses of
manpower which the Government of the
Brotherhood of Man sacrificed without a
shudder and without stint.
On and on they moved westward. The
Germans killed them in heaps, mounds
and mountains. The rivers ran red with
their blood. But they simply went on,
rolling over an enemy enormously out-
numbered and faint with the fatigue of
slaughtering them.
This weapon they still possess. Aqd
this weapon they can use, come atom
bomb or rocket, and in the same way.
The European continent is disarmed.
Japan is disarmed. The Anglo-Saxon
nations have recast their factories for
civilian purposes.
The advantage is all with an enemy
who has no sea to cross and who has
broken peoples in Europe only in his
western path, the surviving nations such
as France and Italy hamstrung by
Russian-paid traitors and saboteurs, their
industries deliberately and carefully
honeycombed.
In East Asia the position is as bad.
Manchuria has been stripped of industry.
Japan is helpless except for American
aid, which would take some time in com-
ing. The Manchurian Communist armies
have been mysteriously armed, after the
Russians had been successful in bluffing
the fair-playing Americans out of China.
And wherever there is any chance of
moral or material support for some vic-
tim of Communism, there Communism is
virile and active, savagely boring into
the defences and into the industrial life
of the community.
The period in the world’s history
during which Communism gained its
greatest amount of ground was the de-
pression of 1930-1931. Depression is
again so much on the map that even Mr.
Chifley, thre& years behind such prophets
of gloom as Mr. Forgan Smith, is pre-
dicting its imminence.
From the sound of Moscow Radio and
the —as' usual —well-regimented Com-
munist parties throughout the world, the
imperialists of the. Kremlin expect it to
be a time of harvest for themselves, and
they will undoubtedly use it everywhere
to produce chaos —and civil war if they
can.
The Difference.
“Ek Dum”: One circumstance in con-
nection with the retirement of General
Eisenhower from his position as Chief
of the U.S. General Staff next year should
make Australians, and particularly the
Commonwealth “Government,” blush
with shame.
General Eisenhower is still a compara-
tively young man —56. In the First
World War he was spared the strain
which told so severely on many a senior
British and Australian officer, and is still
showing up in death notices. He goes to
the headship of Columbia University, the
best-paid scholastic position in the world.
When General Eisenhower ceased to
be commander-in-chief Congress passed
a special act making him a five-star
general for life, whether militarily em-
ployed or not, which was equivalent to a
pension of about £4750 a year. Had he
retired in the ordinary way he would, like
all other U.S. generals, have been entitled
to a pension of about half that amount.
Any British general in the regular Army
who retires under the present scheme of
pay can be sure of drawing anything
from £lOOO a year to £l7OO according to
rank and service.
Any Australian general or other senior
officer who retires after a lifetime of
service can fend for himself on a meagre
pittance which will scarcely do more than
pay his rent and tobacco bills. In the
case of generals who died in action, their
widows are condemned to a life of
poverty.
The Commander-in-Chief of the Aus-
tralian forces —who also was Monash’s
C.O.S. at the end of the last war —has
not even been thanked by Parliament for
his services.
And some senior officers who went
grey before their time, in six years of
arduous labor, have so far had no ade-
quate decorations and no acknowledg-
ments.
Policy in these matters, of course, is
determined by Communist and “moder-
ate” union leaders from whom the
“Government” takes its cue. And it is
part of the dirty Communist game to
sneer at British Commonwealth military
leadership and dishearten the command.
Thus, though conditions were bad enough
before the present regime, they are at
present disgraceful.
The Effect of Disarmament.
“Ek D,”: An old war-time argument
about the biggest weapons in use in World
War II seems to have been settled by
the ransacking of the German armament
centres,
Essen produced a monster 130 ft. long,
calibre 32in., weight of gun 1300 metric
tons, weight of projectile seven tons,
range 34 miles.
In 1926 when all Essen was dedicating
its efforts to making sewing machines
and typewriters, its economy operating on
a workers’ welfare plan about 50 years
ahead of anything in Australia today,
one of Britain’s first-rank munition manu-
facturers assured the writer solemnly that
it would take Krupps at least a quarter
of a century to return to the manufacture
of heavy weapons even if they desired
to do so.
Six years afterwards they were begin-
ning to re-gun the German army on an
unprecedented scale.
Among other weapons they made the
heavy guns which shelled Dover from
the French coast and 380 and 406 mm.
naval guns for the Gneisenau and other
ships.
In the building of outsize weapons other
nations never overtook them.
New Zealand’s rehabilitation pro-
gramme, especially in farming, has
reached such proportions that some
people are growling about it, leading the
Governor-General and former C.-in-C.
Frey berg to remark last week that no
matter how much the scheme was costing,
the country could not afford to do other-
wise than it was doing. He said that the
settlement of good soldiers on good land
was the best kind of investment. About
nine thousand men have been established
on farms under rehabilitation. How
many in N. S. Wales? A hundred and
twenty-seven!


txtbt
////'
THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
WHEN IT’S AN EXIDE YOU START!
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD., 44 BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
sin?
PERSONAL ITEMS
Peter Ephraim Teppema, new Nether-
lands Minister to Australia, is no stranger
to this country. A big, heroically-built
Dutchman with an amiable nature, he had
just on 20 years’ sojourn here from 1913
onwards in Queen Wilhelmina’s service,
was consul at Melbourne from 1918 to
1931 and was then elevated to the consul-
generalship for Maoriland. Consequently
he has had dealings with every Australian
Prime Minister from Fisher to Scullin,
His dream is to see trade between Aus-
tralia and the Dutch dominions restored
to the flourishing state it was in when a
boatload of Melbourne and Sydney busi-
nessmen and their wives took the trip to
the N'.E.I. and barely survived Dutch hos-
pitality in those islands.
When Archbishop Mowll attends the
meeting of the International Missionary
Council, at Whitby, near Toronto, this
month he will be on familiar ground.
He spent many years in Canada before
he became Assistant Bishop of Western
China in 1922. He was tutor at Wycliffe
College, Toronto, from 1913 to 1916,
was professor there until 1922 and served
as a chaplain in 1918 and 1919. He be-
came Bishop of the Diocese in 1926 and
was elected Archbishop of Sydney in
1933, His jurisdiction extends over the
central coastal part of N.S.W., and at
the last census the diocese had a church
population of nearly 700,000 persons. The
archbishop has been Senior Chaplain of
the Military Forces in N.S.W. since
1936.
A great Australian soil scientist, Pro-
fessor J. A. Prescott, director of the
Waite Agricultural Research Institute
since 1938, scored a C.B.E. in last month’s
Birthday Honors. As chief of the Soil
Division of the C.S.I.R, this quiet
scholarly Englishman was directly re-
sponsible for this organisation’s valuable
work. As Agricultural Chemistry Pro-
fessor at Adelaide for 23 years, he has
steered the way for a group of highly
esteemed soil scientists. He is a past
president of the Australian Institutes of
Chemistry and Agricultural Science. A
British Agricultural Ministry’s research
scholar, he was trained at Rothamsted
and became chief chemist of Egypt’s
Royal Agricultural Society, then super-
intendent of field experiments at Bahtim
Experimental Station in Egypt.
Arthur Sims, a Maorilander who re-
cently added to the list of his benefac-
tions by offering £2OOO a year for a travel-
ling professorship in surgery and allied
branches of medicine—Hugh Cairns is to
be the first to lecture under the scheme —
provided £lO,OOO for scholarships at Cam-
bridge for M.L., Australian, South
African and Canadian graduates. He
also made available an annuity for Sir
Alexander Fleming, of penicillin fame.
Formerly a Christchurch businessman,
Sims has lived in England since 1938,
and pays periodical visits to his own
country. He toured Australia with the
1899 M.L. cricket team and played
against Australian teams in Test matches
in the Dominion in 1905 and 1910.
At 59, Group-Captain “Tom” White,
M.H.R., might be expected to have had
his bellyful of adventure. He was one
of the earliest fliers to cock snooks at
Fate in the old box-kite aeroplanes, and
was in one when he was captured by the ’
Turks near Baghdad in World War One
while trying to cut communications. His
attempts to get out of confinement made
his Guests of the Unspeakable one of the
best escape books to come out of that
war. During the piping times of peace
White was one of a party of distinguished
Melbourne who ate a four-
course dinner in a lions’ Wirth’s
Olympia. His latest exploit was probably
his toughest. As a member of “The Pen-
guins,” he took part in a swim off St.
Kilda beach with 40 others, including
eight women. It is an annual event
which takes place on the shortest day of
the year.
“Bump”; The figuring of the name of
Utiekah II in a strange landfall made at
Coff’s Harbor in N.S.W. stirs memories.
Utiekah I was the name of the first yacht
owned by that intrepid yachtsman. Elliot
Giles, who subsequently made yachting
history round Port Phillip. After an
interlude at Oxford and on the Western
Front as a gunner in World War I
Giles came to Victoria as a master at
Melbourne Grammar, and hundreds of
schoolboys got a taste of deepsea cruis-
ing in Utiekah 11. Utiekah 111 was an
ocean-going yawl, and in her Giles made
a 10,000-mile cruise of the South Sea
islands. Now in retirement, he uses her
as a houseboat in Tasmanian harbors.
Westralia loses a fine surveyor with
the appointment of H. C. Barclay as
N.T. Director of Lands. For the W.A.
Lands Department he has carried out
much important survey work in the south-
west, the Warburton Ranges, the Gas-
coyne, Murchison and West Kimberley,
followed by a job in 1935 as surveyor
in charge of an expedition sent out to
determine the 129th meridian. Not long
before the war Barclay surveyed a new
stock route from Fitzxoy Crossing to
Wyndham; during the war he served
with the Survey Corps in New Guinea
and N.E.I.
“F.S.”: Rupert Bunny was in Paris at the
time when the Dada, vorticist and other move-
ments were efflorescing. One day an artist-
teacher asked Bunny to look after his school
while he himself took a holiday. “An
artist shouldn’t want a holiday,” said Bunny.
“Well, I do,” said the teacher. Bunny con-
sented to give the class an occasional look-
over and a few days later dropped in to see
how the students were progressing. After
staring in stunned amazement at the first pupil’s
picture he said mildly: “Look here, old man,
that thing you’ve painted over there ought to
be over here.” “That’s how I see it,” retorted
the pupil. “Either I’m mad or he is,” reflected
Bunny and moved on to the next easel. “The
model’s got red hair, not blue,” he remarked.
“That’s the way I see it,” said the second pupil.
When the teacher returned a fortnight later
Bunny rushed up to him and shouted: “Thank
God you’re back. Your pupils are all
mad. If you’d stayed away much longer I’d
have gone nuts myself.” “Now you know why
I wanted a holiday,” retorted the other.
These days not much is heard of Gus
Scott, owner of the Milong Merino and
Aberdeen-Angus studs out of Young
(N.S.W.), but 16 or 17 years ago, when
he was Sydney’s Metropolitan Meat Com-
missioner, meat-workers at Homebush
abattoirs were likely to hear from him if
they stopped work over some trivial cause
or other. A just, if somewhat forthright,
man, Scott is always ready to listen to
genuine complaint or argument, but
trivialities and fools get short shrift. He
began work as an auctioneer, held grazing
property about Canberra before moving
up to Young, and now has as fine a line
of Merinos and Black Polls as anyone
could wish, putting into their develop-
ment a wide experience in pretty well
every branch of stock-raising from the
farm to the dinner roast. In that experi-
ence he acquired a vast fund of good
stories and anecdotes, but his grin be-
comes most infectious when he shows
the visitor his “souvenir” —the framed
judgment which awarded him £7OOO com-
N.S.W. CATTLEMAN.
pensation when the Stevens Government
curtailed his appointment as Meat Com-
missioner. ,
R. S. Porteous, who lives at Mackay,
North Queensland, and who writes short
stories for The Bulletin under the name
“Standby,” has been receiving the
agonised congratulations of fellow-writers.
He sold one long story to the U.S.
“Argosy” and got 750 dollars for it.
What makes everybody’s pleasure more
painful still is that the money, though
taxed at the American end, comes tax-
free into Australia.
“Gryllus”: The picturesque S.Q. dis-
trict of Caboolture must be feeling proud
of its native son. Captain Joseph New-
man Wilson, senior route captain and test
pilot for 8.0.A.C. with over a million
miles flown in his. log-book at 39. His
solo flying began in a plane given to him
by an uncle. After service with Qantas he
transferred to 8.0.A.C., and in 1939 was
shot down by Japanese fighters while on
a flight from Britain to China. Held
prisoner by the Japs, he escaped to Hong
Kong, cabled a proposal of marriage
from there to a Brisbane girl and a few
weeks later married her in Singapore.
During war days Wilson did many hush-
hush flights and secret missions with
British agents and received special men-
tion for flying vital supplies to Malta at
great risk. With the cessation of hostili-
ties he returned to 8.0.A.C. and was
transferred to Canada with h.q. at
Montreal. His present routes are familiar
—he helped to pioneer them in 1940
when flying American-built bombers to
Britain.
Flying from Adelaide to Melbourne
the other day, Mcßeath wanted relaxa-
tion, and found it sketching the faces of
his fellow-passengers. He discovered that
the one here reproduced belonged to
Wing-Commander H. C. Plenty, D.F.C.
and Bar, who has been selected to
fly the Dakota aircraft supplied by
the R.A.A.F. to carry Monty on his
MONTY’S PILOT.
Australian visit. The fresh-faced young
airman has a distinguished record.
Joining the Air Force straight from
school, he was one of the first in
Singapore, where he carried out recon-
naissance along enemy-occupied terri-
tory and was many times attacked by
enemy fighters. Shot down once, he
brought his crew back to the Lion City
after four days’ struggle with the jungle.
He was over the same territory next
day. Of portion of his subsequent career
a citation states:
Since being posted to No. 100 G.R./B.
Squadron Squadron-Leader Plenty has par-
ticipated in 20 operational sorties, including
19 strikes, four of which were attacks
against Rabaul. His fierce determination,
skill and coolness have been outstanding
factors in the many successes achieved by
his squadron. On one occasion when lead-
ing an attack he dropped his bombs and
then circled the target area in a deliberate
and successful manoeuvre to divide the
ground defences. This was of great assist-
ance to other aircraft.
Plenty’s home is at Port Pirie,
Captain J. W. Burgess, the Maorilander
who flew the Tasman Empire Airways
craft from 1939 to 1943, is a real
“mileage millionaire,” having flown
1,500,000 miles, equivalent to 60 times
round the Equator. His latest job is to
take charge of three new Bermuda flying-
boats between Baltimore and Bermuda,
for the 8.0.A.C. He has logged 10,500
hours.
Of ,the last three and a half months W. H.
Raikes, here depicted by Dubois, has spent
one in New Zealand and the remainder
in Australia interviewing Australian bank-
ing men and people interested in import-
ing from or exporting to Canada. Raikes,
who is assistant to the g.-m. of the Bank
of Montreal, has been looking over these
parts together with E. R. Ernst of the
Bank’s foreign department. They have
visited all States and interviewed hundreds
of people. Born in Alberta, Raikes
CANADIAN BANKER.
joined the Bank of Montreal in Van-
couver in 1911. During 1914-18 he
served overseas for four years, first with
the Canadian Mounted Rifles, then with
the infantry and finally as an observer
with an Australian pilot in the R.F.C.
After the war he returned to his old
job and served the bank in Victoria,
Ottawa, Vancouver, Trail and Regina,
put in some years in its New York office,
and was appointed to his present position
in 1946. Like most Canadians who visit
these parts, Raikes and Ernst are ex-
cellent unofficial ambassadors for their
country.
“Puyyaka”: Dead in California at 79,
Lloyd Osbourne, stepson of Robert Louis
Stevenson and collaborator with him in
The Wrecker and The Ebb Tide. He was
12 when R.L.S. married Fanny van der
Grift, Lloyd’s mother, and Treasure
Island was written to satisfy the
youngster’s love for stories of sea-adven-
ture. Although his collaboration in later
years was often scoffed at by rivals it was
genuine. He wrote the original text of
The Wrong Box, later revised and
touched up by Stevenson, and also the
earlier chapters of The Wrecker. He
visited Sydney several times with R.L.S.,
and was U.S. Vice-Consul in Samoa from
1893 to 1897.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, on his 52nd birthday, Frank
W. Faulkner, Melbourne manager and director
of Huddart Parker. A Digger, he was on
Gallipoli and in France and won the M.C. and
bar. The two wounds he got in action were a
factor in his last illness.
In Sydney, at 74, George Craig, C.M.G.,
1.5.0., former Controller of Customs in
Maoriland. He was several times sent abroad
by his Government as tariff expert at Imperial
conferences and on other missions. Craig held
an LL.D. degree, and of three daughters two
qualified in medicine and one in law. All
three lost their lives through Japanese bombing
in Malaya.
In Sydney, at 79, Frederick T. Berman, for
50 years an educationalist and the founder,
with W. W. Froggart, of the Australian Forest
League. His Junior Tree Wardens’ League en-
rolled 100,000 young tree-lovers, and he was
known as “Father of Arbor Day in N.S.W.”
In Adelaide, at 85, Duncan Fraser, former
Superintendent of Police. He was a Scotch-
man with Manchester training, but lived in
S.A. from the year 1883 onwards. A Free-
mason, on his retirement at 60 from the force
he became S.M., chief of the Caledonian Society
and an official of the S.A.J. Club.
At Montrose (Q.) at 77, Charles Stirling,
grazier, formerly of Montrose on the Goondi-
windi line. He served with the Darling Downs
Mounted Infantry and is credited with being
the first to sport an emu plume in his hat.
During the First World War he trained recruits
in Brisbane.
In Brisbane, at 57, Robert Ellersleigh Nixqn-
Smith, prominent in shipping, wool and in-
surance circles. He began with A.U.S.N., but
during the 1920's founded his own firm. From
1931-34 he was Vice-Mayor of Brisbane.
In Sydney, at 62, Peter Riddle, owner and
trainer of champion racehorse Shannon, for
which he recently refused a very high American
offer. Before he turned to gallopers Riddle
for 20 years trained and drove trotters, includ-
ing The Sheik and Homeleigh Dick.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Bird of Time has but a little way
To flutter! and the Bird is on the wing.
Omar Khayyam said that many potato
crops ago, and no one has ever been able
to contradict him. Therefore, remember
that the Miss Australia Quest will be
finalised in October. If you have a pretty
and popular girl in your town, suburb
or district, and a local charity to benefit
in addition to the ultimate objective
Legacy and the Kindergarten Union—get
busy and put another Miss Australia
among the contestants. Already there
are 100 from New South Wales but there’s
room for more. There can be no two
causes dearer to Australia than Legacy
and the Kindergarten.
The children of the dead, the sick and
the maimed soldier are the care of every
true citizen of Australia. We must no ;
fail them. The Kindergarten Union sup
ports 29 kindergartens. These happy
training grounds for children are always
full, and always there are more little ones
clamoring to pass through the doorway
to the magic of game and nursery songs.
And the Miss Australia Quest of 1947
wil help them, too. In the last count it
is a case of 50-50 between Legacy and'the
Kindergartens. Last year this quest
brought in £320,000.
The Boyd Neel Orchestra takes away
with it a memory of Sydney audiences,
appreciative and friendly, of people
whose enthusiasm brought them again
and again to fill the halls wherever these
music-makers appeared. Sydney people
have a memory of a group of charming
people who have filled their nights with
enchantment.
The Town Hall almost rocked with
applause at the last concert, and the con-
ductor was recalled again and again.
The audience wasqplcased, if a little em-
barrassed, when Dr. Boyd Neel said that
“Sydney has the best audience we have
met anywhere.” Soprano Peggy Knibb's
“Dies Natalis” shone high in the night’s
constellation.
The next time you hear a jibe at Aus-
tralia’s architecture refer the speaker to
Kenneth McConnel’s book Planning the
Australian Homestead. Even if you have
not the money, the material or the land
to build a home there’s joy in the pic-
tures of lovely old homes which adorn its
pages. Many of these homes, with their
long straight lines of walls and eaves and
gracious doorways, were built as far back
as 1840. There are pictures of such his-
toric places as Camden Park, Cressbrook
in Queensland, Harben Vale. There has
been imagination in naming the old
homes, too : Calm Downs, Green Creek
—they tell the setting of wide horizon
of tree and slope. But Mr. McConnel
only brings in the past to show how it
can be wedded to all things modern in
the way of home-making.
Guests came from all over Australia
to the wedding at St. Michael’s, Vaucluse,
of Elizabeth Morshead and Michael Kidd,
son of the James Kidds, of Echo Hill,
Kootingal. The bride was given away
by her father, Lieut.-General Morshead
(of Rats of Tobruk and Ninth
Division command fame). The graceful
wedding frock, with its softly-draped
bodice and bouffant skirt, was of white
marquisette over taffeta. A circle of
garden flowers held in place the finger-
tip-length tulle veil, lent by Mrs. Stanley
Eskell. Mrs. James Petrie, Mrs. James
Thompson and Phyllis Cook attended the
bride. Their wide-brimmed golden crino-
line hats had green velvet streamers;,
the shade of the apple-green moire taf-
fetas in their old-world frocks.
The reception was at the Royal Sydney
Golf Club, and here Lady Morshead’s
ensemble of lupin-blue crepes was seen
at its best. Her small hat of the same
shade carried a matching feather. Mrs.
Kidd wore a berry-red wool romaine
frock. Among inter-State visitors were
Frank Thomas, of Queensland, who was
A.D.C. to Sir Leslie in New Guinea,
General and Mrs. Clive Steel, who came
from Victoria, and the W. R. Morshead
couple, from Ballarat.
Margaret Fyvie Watt, whose engage-
ment was recently announced, is the
only child of the L. Fyvie Watts, of Kil-
lara. The man in the case is Arthur
Guy MacKinnon, of Vaucluse, Conara,
Tasmania. The MacKinnons are well-
known breeders of Corriedales, and
Vaucluse was one of the properties visited
by Lord Bledisloe in his recent visit to
Australia —Arthur served as a captain in
a cavalry regiment in the Middle East
and later in New Guinea. Margaret’s
ring is a ruby set in diamonds.
If winter comes then spring’s not far
behind. Next spring and summer, accord-
ing to Paris designers, we will be wear-
ing the softest of colors —soft greens like
Lime and eucalyptus, lichen and tender
spring-leaf greens and every imaginable
shade of yellow from cream and straw
yellow to lemon, canary and a bold sun-
flower shade are to be fashion’s
favorites, and are presented in sheer
woollens—fine wool mousselines sound
particularly attractive. These are
printed in floral patterns reminiscent of
oldfashioned chintzes and Victorian
wallpaper. One design in a leading Paris
show is described as splashing deep red
roses with sombre green leaves on a
pale tea-rose yellow ground. Well, here’s
hoping we’ll find these delights in Sydney
stores when the wattle blooms again.
Back in Sydney for a brief visit is
Louise Lightfoot. Louise was part of
Sydney’s ballet world from 1931 to 1938.
Then she went to India, where for eight
years she studied Hindu dancing and its
ancient sources. During that time the
Australian toured with various Indian
companies as producer and art director.
For six months she was with Kalaivani
Films in Madras assisting in the produc-
tion of their all-dance film “Narthana
Murali” (the story of Krishna). From
July 5 to 19 at 2KY Radio Theatre,
Dymocks Buildings, Louise will present
Shivaram, a professional temple dancer,
in Hindu dance recitals. With him will
star Ruth Bergner, a Polish girl who has
studied Central European dancing. About
20 Australian girls will make up the rest
of the company. These will play minor
parts in the Dance Dramas and will be
seen in modern Indian dances. A Norton
Trevaire photo.
Linfaye Curnow, who has just an-
nounced her engagement to Lester Pad-
man, is the daughter of the Reg Curnows
of Murwillumbah. Linfaye served with
the A.A.M.W.S., and she is the R.S.L.
candidate in the Miss Australia Quest.
Her fiancd is the only son of the H. L.
Padmans of North Sydney. He served as
a lieutenant in the A.1.F., and is a well-
known amateur athlete.
On Sunday the Roland Fosters are
giving another one of their nice parties
at their home perched 25 steps above
Loftus-road, Darlihg Point, and that, you
are reminded, is 14 steps fewer than John
Buchan’s. The invitation is in rhyme,
and on it is a drawing of the steps show-
ing the guests in various stages of pear-
exhaustion being cheered along and wel-
comed at the top by, presumably, the
hostess.
Dr. Boyd Neel and every member of
his orchestra went to the goodbye
given for them by the Musical Associa-
tion. This was held at the Trocadero,
where president Alexander! Sverjensky
and Mrs. Sverjensky received the guests.
Members of the women’s committee Mrs.
Wilfred Arlow, Winifred Burston, Gladys
Teece and Gwynth Hawkins helped with
the entertaining. This wasn’t hard, as
the party was one of those happy walk-
about parties at which guests are here
one minute and there the next exchang-
ing greetings with seldom-met friends and
with the guests of honor.
Earlier in the day four members of
the orchestra, Kathleen Sturdy, Vivian
Dixon, Samuel Rosenheim and Peter
Beaven, contributed to the Lunch-time
Music Club’s programme. At this was
played for the first time a special
transcription of the alt solo and quartet
from Mahler’s Second Symphony, which
had been made for the club by Mr.
Rosenheim. At this luncheon Diana
Lake sang three songs by Wolf. Dorothy
White was the accompanist. '
Lovers of John Charles Thomas’s
attractive brand of song-making are still
crowding the Town Hall, and the “House
Full” signs, which haven’t been in use
for years, have* been out every night.
Among the notables at Saturday’s concert
were America’s Ambassador, Robert
Butler, his wife and daughter.
From Melbourne
Dressing at Moonee Valley was sombre.
The black coat was favorite, with gay
hats a bit more than a neck away.
Feathers have ousted flowers from head-
gear, and sprays of flowers pinned in coat
lapels were a defiance of bleak con-
ditions. Mrs. E. Phillips was mink coated
and wore a small black halo hat. Mrs.
Norman Robinson contrasted her black
coat with a cyclamen hat and accessories.
Mrs. Charles Baumgartner set royal-blue
feather plumage on the brim of her black
halo hat, which was .worn with a tailored
black coat, Maureen McCarthy’s outfit
was two toned ; a brown skirt worn with
a brown-and-white checked jacket and
brown hat. Mary McCarthy chose a
hand-woven check in cyclamen and blue-
grey with grey beret and accessories.
Mrs. Gordon Fenton’s hat caught the
eye: black halo, trimmed with azure-
blue ostrich feathers. Mrs. H. Vinton
Smith brought daughter Iris, who wore
a three-quarter brown lambswool coat
over a brown frock; her brown hat,
trimmed with rust-toned ribbons, was
matched with rust gloves.
The Y.W.C.A.’s livewire president, Mrs.
T. C. Rentoul, with her legions of helpers
is out after more funds, and it looks as if
she’ll get them. The plans call for a
Silver Radio Drive, which takes the place
of the annual public appeal. Mrs.
Gladys Hain, the organising secretary,
will be delighted to give all particulars
to any women who are willing to help
this fine organisation. A great Silver
Fair is to be held in the Town Hall in
September. Always interested in the work
of the Y.W.C.A., Lady Dugan has con-
sented to be patroness of the drive and
will receive at G.H. every hostess whose
party yields over two guineas and give
them a chance to present personally the
proceeds from their parties. The organ-
ising secretary’s address is 60 Russell-
street.
At the party held for the display of
necklaces and rings given by Miss Carrie
Francis for the Royal Empire Society
Women’s Group’s effort for the Food for
Britain funds, amethysts and Mexican
fire opals in hand-wrought settings
attracted great admiration. One necklace
in the shape of a bouquet of flowers was
one that Melba greatly admired. Also
irfcluded in the display were some hand-
wrought teaspoons, each set with a stone,
in the centre of the handle, miniatures
of Limoges enamel, etchings of Scottish
and English scenes and hand-wrought
fire screens. The display, which was held
at Mrs. A. C. Drury’s Hawthorn home,
was opened by the President, Lady Dixon.
Capt. H. Curmi, High Commissioner for
Malta, said the display took him back
to the Louvre and London galleries. Mrs.
Drury was assisted in hostessing by
Muriel and Marjorie Drury. Among the
guests were Mrs. W. B. Edwards, hon.
secretary of the Women’s Group, Mrs.
Muir Reid, Mrs. H. Sheppard, Mrs. H.
Ogilvie and Mrs. F. M. Syme.
The lovely subject of this week’s pic-
ture, by Rob Hillier, is Mrs. Ralph
Michaelis. Formerly Joy Field, of
Sydney, she married Col. Ralph Michaelis,
U.S.A. Army Air Force Attache, in 1944,
and now the family of three live at
Toorak. On rare occasions Mrs.
Michaelis has been seen wearing exclusive
models in mannequin parades, but off
stage she is well known for her own
quietly elegant taste in dressing. She
is a member of the American Women’s
Auxiliary, and is working hard with other
members to make the Fourth of July
Ball next Friday a success.
Presswomen invited to Menzies to meet
American lyric soprano Vivian Della
Chiesa, who has arrived to give a series
of concerts, were captivated by her charm
and good dressing. Her shoes, which
were of fine black suede cut away at both
back and front and with a double ankle
strap, were worn with nylon stockings, a
finger-tip length black Persian lamb coat,
black wool frock and jet sequin-trimmed
halo hat. The singer, who was married
just six months ago, is accompanied by
her journalist husband, George Ellis
Born in Chicago of Italian parents, Del
Chiesa commenced her career when fro
among 3700 contestants she won an Un
known Singers Contest sponsored by ll
Columbia Broadcasting System. She ha
now reached the front rank of America
concert artists, and is one of the few t
sing under the direction of Toscanin
One dressing problem is always solved fo
Della—before every concert her pianis
Bill Summer, presses her frock.
Mrs. Vance Palmer opened the exhibi
tion of designs for stage sfets and costume
by Warwick Armstrong at the Rowde
White Library, Melbourne University
The designs will be used for the Theatr
Guild’s production of “Othello,” whicj
will be presented by the newly-formed
Repertory Company at the Melbourn
Repertory Theatre, Middle Park, on July
10. Warwick Armstrong and hi
associate, Anthony Underhill, are “re
hab.” art students at the Melbourne Tech
nical College, and as well as executing
share of the decor Anthony is playing
Roderigo. Among those who attendee
the opening were Mrs. G. Armstrong
(the artist’s mother), Gloria Mallody, who
will play Desdemona, thus adding Shak
speare to her varied repertoire (Gloria
at one time was playing Tondeleyo in
“White Cargo” at night and Peter Pan by
day), Paul Hill, producer of “Othello,’
June Clyne, whose busy life is occupiec
with the clothes to be worn in the produc-
tion, Peter O’Shaughnessy, who will play
Othello, and Mary Ward. Mary Ward is
busy rehearsing the lines of Portia, for
C.E.M.A. will produce “The Merchant of
Venice” at the Princess Theatre late in
September. Mary will alternate with
Patricia Kennedy in the part of the lady
who outwitted Shylock.
Dawn Ingram and Joan Allerton, two
of the “Miss Australia Quest” candidates,
did a nice job, with other mannequins,
when the little country town of Olinda
put on a fashion parade for the Food for
Britain Appeal. The temperature was
well below zero, but that did not stop
350 people from filling the Quamby
Cafe, where the parade was held. Re-
cently arrived home from her travels
abroad, Reta Findley described the lovely
frocks and accessories which had been
sent to Olinda by Georges, Ltd. This
was the first time a smart fashion parade
and mannequins had been seen in a tiny
country town, and among those who
shivered as they watched the mannequins
display dinner and evening gowns were
Sir George and Lady Knox, Mrs. Arnold
Isaacson and Mrs. W. Brown, who was
responsible for the floral decorations.
Mrs. Maurice Nicholas was in charge of
the gift stall.
The Henty family veil, over 200 years
old, was lent by the bridegroom’s family
to Pamela Katherine Barrett, when she
went to Melbourne Grammar Chapel to
exchange vows with James Robert Grice.
The bride, who is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. T. D. Barrett, of Franks-
ton, wore a gown of cream satin, with a
crinoline skirt and high neckline edged
with ruching. The veil was held in place
with tuberoses. The ’groom is the only
son of the J. E. Grices, of Frankston.
Nell Heginbotham and Brisies Grice,
sister of the bridegroom, were the ’maids.
Their pretty bouffant frocks were of aqua-
tinted marquisette, and they carried
bouquets of cyclamen. John Utber was
bestman and Tom Williams groomsman.
Rev. Lloyd Whitfeld officiated.
Netherlands Navy headquarters at St.
Kilda-road was decorated with Allied
flags for the late-afternoon party and
buffet dinner given by Commander J. G.
Schokking and his officers to say good-
bye to the many friends they have made
in Melbourne. Mrs. Schokking, who
assisted her husband to receive the guests,
offset her black crepe frock, which fea-
tured a low neckline and wing sleeves,
with a corsage of gardenias. Guests in-
cluded Victoria’s Chief Justice Edmund
Herring and his lady, the First Naval
Member, Admiral Sir Louis Hamilton,
and his sister the Hon. Mrs. Ronald
Douglas and General Tom Blarney and
his wife.
Melbourne Grammar Chapel was the
venue when Jess, only daughter of Mrs.
M. Austin, of Toorak, exchanged vows
with Clive, only son of Mrs. C. Mac-
dougall, of Caulfield, and the late Mr. C.
Macdougall. The bride, who was un-
attended, wore a frock of ice-blue flat
crepe. Her curvette had curled ostrich
feathers of the same vintage shade as her
accessories. Orchids made a neat em-
bellishment to the frock. The bride’s
brother, Ron Austin, gave her away;
Rev. L. F. Whitfield gave his blessing to
the nuptials. Reception was held at
Menzies’.
The exhibition of paintings by Aileen
Dent was opened by Sir Winston Dugan.
His Excellency was accompanied by his
sister, Mrs. J. Haselden, whose burgundy-
and-black tweed suit was worn under a
black Persian lamb coat; her hat was of
matching burgundy felt. Also in the
official party was Penelope Nettlefold,
wearing a London-tan dressmaker suit
and felt upturned hat in the same shade.


df
How Will My Estate
he Administered?
This Is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over oo years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.8., Eng.
General Manager; w, Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
I
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Rnssell French.
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
§
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1910 . 121,588 39,352 28,961 7,388 45,887
1920 . 464,079 158.487 70.134 663 284 793
1930 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1935 . 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1940 .. 1,432,037 650,433 188,272 40,698 552,634
Assets written down £557,308 —£322,307 from
visible and £235,000 from inner reserves.
1941 1 457,722 727,279 247,390 11,991 471,062
1942 1,509.888 636,190 261,342 7.7.61 I 52 9 595
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 ( ’
1943.. 1,586,207 663,209 218,235 8,321 1 621,442
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 f
1944 .. 1,712,023 697,274 233,745 15,411
To staff fund, £5OOO -741.236
Reserved for contingencies, £19,357
1945 .. 1,786,135 783,182 273,715 39,931'
To general reserve, £50,000 .. .. -624,307
To tax reserve, £15,000
Profit., sale of property, £36,248..'
Interest from previous years, £71,571 ap7 0f , 7
1946 .. 1,964,122 796,221 297,730 40,783 '
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO .. ...
Activities of the 68-year-old City
Mutual are confined to the writing of
ordinary contracts within the Common-
wealth. The co. is thus free of the head-
aches now everywhere attaching to in-
dustrial business. In common with other
life offices the story last year was one
of expansion.
The amount of new business written
(£4,779,901, up £1,477,449) was 44 p.c.
greater than in 1945, and over double
the 1939 figure. And the average per
policy (£560.2, up £19.2) was the highest
yet. Deferred demand for cover from
service personnel, a high level of employ-
ment and earnings, and the popularity of
group assurance in the superannuation
schemes of commercial houses helped to
bump up the figures, which were excep-
tional. However, since money the world
over appears to be permanently depre-
ciated in terms of 1939 values, annual
new life business might well be estab-
lished on a high level. Much will depend
upon continuance of present levels of
employment and incomes, and upon
whether the Government damages thrift
by forcing interest rates too low.
The year’s total income (£2,071,941,
up £285,806) included two exceptional
items—£7l,s7l of accrued interest on
Commonwealth bonds not previously
taken into account until actually received,
and a profit of £36,248 on sale of proper-
ties carrying a high rate of Federal land
tax. One of the properties was Bryant
House, Pitt-street, Sydney, bought by the
Queensland Insurance Co. Premium in-
come was £1,366,470 (up £137,704), and
gross interest and rents, including pre-
vious year’s accruements, £669,223 (up
£111,854). After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., £977,990 remained, of
which £40,783 was used to, further write
down the book value of assets, £lOO,OOO
was tossed into general reserve (now
£500,000) and £837,207 was added to the
assurance fund, raising it to £14,149,077.
There was a shrinkage of £19,782 in
the surplus earned (excess of assurance
fund over policy liabilities) for distri-
bution among policyholders:
1944. 1945. 1946.
Amount brought forward £161,423 £36,252 £8,722
Surplus earned.. .. 336,818 260,454 240,672
Total surplus .. £498,241 £296,706 £249,394
Bonuses policyholders.. 147,024 209,780 228,590
To actuarial reserves .. 314,965 •
To other reserves .. 78,204
Amount carried forward 36,252 8,722 20,854
Still, an extra £18,760 was distributed,
thanks to the special reservation of
£78,204 in the previous year, and bonuses
to policyholders were maintained on an
even keel.
Owing to inflation and the Govern-
ment’s cheap-money drive, bonus rates
have been cut severely since 1939, and
there appears no prospect of their restora-
tion to the old level again. To protect
future bonus-paying capacity the co.
lowered its basis of valuation of policy
liabilities from 3 p.c. to 2} p.c. in 1943
and to 2\ p.c. in the following year.
This called for extra additions to
actuarial reserves of £300,000 in 1942
and £314,965 in 1944.
After deducting taxes, etc. (£61,662,
down £17,965), the net effective return on
the mean assurance fund last term was
£3 19s. 6d. p.c. (up ss. 9d. p.c.). This
anomaly resulted from (1) a change in
accounting procedure connected with
treatment of accrued interest on public
securities, and (2) disposal of properties
whose unimproved capital value was high
compared with the improved value. The
land tax on these properties had reduced
the net return from them to a figure be-
low that obtainable from Government
securities. Apart from exceptional cir-
cumstances such as this, as old securities
mature and the money is reinvested at
lower rates, the net interest return will
approach that obtainable from new in-
vestments. There is, however, a margin
of approximately p.c. between last
year’s actual and assumed rates of earn-
ing, whereas 1 p.c. has usually been con-
sidered adequate for maintenance of
compound reversionary bonus rates.
Here is the co.’s investment portfolio
in condensed form:
~ ' 1945. p.c. 1946. p.c.
Uovt. securities. . £8,191,819 57.8 £9,902,799 65.6
Mortgages, etc... 1,964,288 13.9 1,581,162 10.4
Loans on policies 1,017,241 7.2 1,053,182 6.9
Properties .. 1,928,338 13.6 1,451,615 9.7
Shares and deben-
tures, etc. . . 947,782 6.7 966,653 6.4
Cash and sundries 126,552 0.8 152,166 1.0
The year’s reduction in the book value
of properties was £476,783 and in mort-
gages £383,126. The lot, together with
the year’s surplus earnings, was invested
in low - interest - bearing Government
securities (up £1,710,980), which now
account for 65.6 p.c. of total assets as
against 23.2 p.c. in 1939.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1937.. 18,910 7 p.c. = 6662 7,248 132,863
1938.. 22,746 7 „ „ 6662 16,084 148,947
To contingency fund, £2OOO .. 146,947
1939.. 27,366 7 p.c. = 6662 I
To contingencies, £2500 ( 18,204 165,151
1940. 30,077 7 p.c. = 7517 \ ....
To contingencies, £2500 1 20,000 180,211
1941. . 28,585 7 p.c. = 8891 ( „q„ ,q-
To contingencies, £l5OO ) 18,11,4 203, 4Uj
ITrom inner reserves, £25,000 .. 228,405
1942.. 42,823 7 p.c. = 10,211 32,612 261,017
1943.. ,44,024 7* „ ~10,960 33,064 294,081
1944.. 35,674 8 „ „ 11,691 23,983 318,064
1945.. 48,634 8} „ „ 12,422 81,212 349,276
1946.. 46,243 9 „ „ 13,716 32,527 881,803
1947.. 75,213 9 „ ~17,097 58,116 439,919
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
The near-gilt-edge quality of shares in
a sound and progressive insurance office
puts them high in the investment cate-
gory. And their equity status —seldom
are there any debenture or pref. claims
in front of the ords.—makes them attrac-
tive to the long-term investor by reason
of the policy of profits allocation, which
ensures strong reserves and, at intervals,
lifts in the div. and other benefits.
Admittedly underwriting runs into bad
patches at times, but over-all the law of
averages works well.
From the start, 26 years ago, B. and T.
kept its div. moderate (7 p.c. for 17 years
to the close of accounts in 1942) and
placed substantial sums to reserves, which
are now heaped £243,694 higher than the
*£196,225 of paid capital. The two com-
bined are invested in sound securities, re-
turns from which have trod close on the
heels of the dividend charge, thus leav-
ing the bulk of the underwriting surplus
available to swell investments and returns
therefrom. The official pursuit of cheap
money and rise in taxation, which have
restricted interest earnings, etc., can be
expected to widen the spacing of dividend
lifts.
Last term another 2s. 6d. a share was
called on 200,350 contribs., making the
whole of the 392,450 issued £1 shares
paid to 10s, each:
1940. 1943. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £120,825 £146,188 £171,181 £196,225
Sundry
Creditors*.. 247,274 379,511 341,071 355,577
Public
securities 221,073 315,328 411,102 441,737
Fixed deposits 32,500 65,000 65,500 61,250
CasE, etc. . . 57,262 88,641 106,548 92,984
Shares subsid. 4,996 9,996 9,990
Book debts, etc. 54,590 149,609 106,048 192,584
Freeholds .. 195,401 202,000 202,000 202,000
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
An expanding volume of business sent
debtors’ balances, etc., up £86,536 last
term. Public securities include £46,971
(up £35,359) advanced to co-operative
building societies under Government
guarantee. This class of business shows
a slightly better return than is to be had
from Government loans.
In its underwriting activities the co. is
stepping along like a thoroughbred. Most
of the 18 Asiatic and island branches
which folded up owing to the Jap in-
vasion are operating again, and the co.’s
connections in the Middle East, India
and elsewhere continue to expand. The
growth in last year’s gross premium in-
come (£745,001) was £202,061, which
came in almost equal proportions from
foreign and Australian sources. Re-
insurances (£291,117) were £102,476
heavier, thus leaving the gain in net pre-
miums at £99,585: —
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 p.c. 32.3 p.c.
1934.. 105,781 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
1939.. 224.287 132,110 77,277 58.9 „ 34.4 „ '
1941.. 266,267 148,269 110,931 55.6 „ 41.6 „
1942.. 302,454 154,324 130,222 51.0 „ 43.1 „
1943.. 334,988 160,267 156,276 47.8 „ 46.6 „
1944.. 334,263 165,249 143,357* 49.4 „ 42.8* „
1945.. 342,481 163,893 146,788* 47.8 „ 42.9* „
1946.. 354,299 160,917 160,567* 45.4 „ 45.2* „
1947.. 453,884 224,709 169,815 49.5 „ 37.4 „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
Australian business was less profitable,
owing to unsatisfactory results from
workers’ compensation and motor vehicle
risks. This largely explains the jump
of £4 2s. px. in the loss rate and a reduc-
tion of £27,679 in the aggregate tax bill
(£32,141). More, however, was picked
up on the swings that was lost on the
roundabouts, thus leaving the underwrit- •
ing surplus £26,545 stronger at £59,360,
of which £40,000 was reserved for un-
expired risks.
Interest and rents turned in £15,853
net (up £2425), or only £1244 less than
the div. called for. The surplus from all
sources, including the amount reserved
for unexpired risks, was £75,213 (up
£28,970), or 38.3 p.c. on capital as against
27, 21.7, 24.4, 30.1, 29.3, 19.5 and 21
p.c. back to 1940. The div. was kept at
9 p.c., and it is doubtful whether better
need be expected for some time. The
trouble in India and the Middle East, and
the position in respect of the two classes
of local business already referred to, make
the outlook uncertain.
lllawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Be- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1938 .. 14,581 9 p.c. =» 9,000 6,581 62,890
1939 .. 10,905 9 „ „ 9,000 1,905 64,795
1940 .. 11,243 9 „ „ 9,000' 2,243 67,038
1941 . . 12,686 9 „ „ 9,000 8,686 70,724
1942 .. 10.797 9 „ „ 9,000 1,797 72,521
1943 . . 15,446 9 „ „ 9,000 6,446 78,967
Loss.
1944 .. 8,512 5 „ „ 5,000 70,455
1945 . . 2,460 5 „ „ 5,000 62,996
Add charter rates adjustment, £5422.. 68,417
1946 .. 8,845 5 p.c. = 5,000 60,072
Surplus sale assets, £395 .. .. 60,467
Cost refitting, £4OOO .. .. .. 50,467
Profit.
1947 .. 1,850 5 p.c. = 5,000 58,317
Figures since 1943 tell of the sorry plight
of this nearly-century-old and hitherto
prosperous N. S. Wales South Coast
shipping co. since its fleet passed to Gov-
ernment control —three of its ships were
taken by the Navy and two by the Ship-
ping Board, the co. acting as agent. Over
the last four years the business has
shown a net loss of £2045, subject to
adjustment of charter rates for last term.
This will probably transform the net
figure to a small profit; but no specific
allowance has been made for deprecia-
tion over the last four years, and when
the books closed the co. was holding over
£145,000 in Government securities alone.
It is obvious therefore that the ships
are now an even greater drag than the
published figures suggest. Because of the
snug financial position, the board has not
hesitated to hand shareholders 5 p.c. For
30 years previous divs. averaged 8.3 p.c.,
sweetened with a one-for-one bonus
scrip issue, and £78,967 of visible re-
serves had been accumulated at end
March, 1943.
In July last the Navy handed back two
of the vessels “ready for service.” After
the co. had spent £4OOO of its own funds
on further reconditioning them, they were
placed on the old run again, and taken
over by the Shipping Board. The Navy
has since returned the third vessel, plus
an unstated cash consideration to cover
cost of reconditioning. But the outlook
for coastal shipping is so grim that,
rather than, risk further expenditure on
what used to be the chief earning asset,
the board is considering disposal of this
vessel in its present condition. Another
unit of the fleet, undergoing special
boiler repairs at Mort’s Dock, has been
out of commission since October last,
because industrial troubles held up the
work, which was expected to be com-
pleted at the end of last month.
What will happen when coastal ships
are presently handed back to their owners
is difficult to say at the moment. The
Government proposes to regulate freight
and passenger charges, to delicense the
ships, which henceforth must be built in
Australia, when 25 years old, and to
barge into the trade on its own account.
Charter rates, which have been more in
the nature of austere compensation than
an adequate return for use of the ships,
have not covered advancing maintenance
and repair costs (they have more than
doubled since 1939), plus adequate de-
preciation and a reasonable return on
capital involved. Costs have rocketed
owing to lifts in wage rates (war-risk
bonuses are still paid to seamen), pay-
ment of attendance money and go-slow
in the stevedoring industry, increased
prices of fuel, stores, etc., and delays in
the turn-about of ships. Unless the Gov-
ernment grants coastal cos. an adequate
increase—probably well over 50 p.c. —
on pre-war freight and passenger rates,
or bridges the gap with a subsidy, there
is likely to be a general tie-up of coastal
shipping, because the cos. would other-
wise have to run their ships at a loss.
This lllawarra co. is well-ribbed finan-
cially :
1940. 1944. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Liabilities* .. 8,554 16,172 10,733 45,540
Ship property 24,880 24,880 24,880 24,680
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 2,460 2,455 2,455 2,15 a
Plant, stores, etc. 1,740 2,078 2,140 2,120
Book debts .. 17,176 9,689 16,459 22,300
Public securities,
cash, etc... 133,807 152,524 129,872 152,603
* Including tax provision.
Growth of £34,807 in liabilities last term
mainly reflects the amount received for
reconditioning, already referred to. When
the books closed shareholders could see
the whole of their capital, and 10s. 6d.
per f.-p. pound share besides, in Gov-
ernment securities and cash.
The market slims up the risks by pricing
the scrip at 325., at which figure the re-
turn is 3.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The return from Government securities


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jackson rtr
OSUUJVA* ,
rf* mm . ;
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporatinsr
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS «c OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS ANT
COUNSELLORS ! I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“.TACKSUL,” BRISBANE
-fdfiLtit....
Making provision for the
family's future welfare is a
big responsibility. It can be
so easilyand definitely fulfilled
by taking out a suitable life
assurance policy with the
Equitable Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice on all insurance
matters on request.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6 GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD
//earf 7* Queen !t, ffnsbane
WINQELIG HOUSE, AHOU PLACE, SYDNEY
OOLLIHJ HOUSE COLLINS ST, MEIBOUPNE
L
J
d
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts &s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED. /
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
1 W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
TRAVEL IN GREAT BRITAIN
rwr
Recovery from war-time conditions is still proceeding
although handicapped by fuel shortages. We are
anxious to welcome visitors from Australia and if
they find train services not quite so frequent or speedy
as before the war, we are sure they will understand.
The world-famous FLYING SCOTSMAN, which never
failed to run during the war, continues its daily journey
over the historic route between LONDON and
EDINBURGH.
LONDON & NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY.
of England and Scotland.
Representatives in Australia:
Burns, Philp & 00., Ltd., 7 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, and branches.
alone should be almost sufficient to main-
tain a 5 p.c. div.
Professor W. R. Jones, in his presiden-
tial address at the Institution of Mining
and Metallurgy in London last month,
said gold deposits east of the Urals had
placed Russia second among gold-pro-
ducing countries; Canada, chiefly in
the Porcupine and Kirkland Lake fields,
was next on the list. As to the
world’s future tin requirements, it
would seem reasonable to assume that
most of this metal would be obtained
from fields already known, and that when
surface deposits, which now supply the
bulk of the world’s requirements, became
less productive, lode mining would come
into its own again. Greatest known tin
lodes are in Bolivia and Cornwall. Re-
ferring to copper, the Professor said that
at the present rate of production known
deposits in United States would prob-
ably .be exhausted within 30 years.
There were, however, big reserves
of copper in Chile and Northern
Rhodesia, which two countries would be-
come the world’s chief producers in the
future. The depletion of U.S. reserves
of lead and zinc was a cause of great
anxiety. The lead deposits of south-
eastern Missouri, and in other parts of
U.S., will be unable to maintain their
present rate of output for more than a
few years. In Australia the big lodes
at Broken Hill will long remain a major
source of supply. The Sullivan mine in
British Columbia, which produced almost
all Canada’s lead and two-thirds of her
zinc, presented a bright picture with an
estimated life of some decades.
• * * *
Hoping for the best, a Westralian
Chamber of Mines deputation asked
Prime Minister Chifley for a bounty on
gold production. The request was based
mainly on rising cost of production. The
Prime Minister said he could not see
the Government, agreeing to such a bonus.
Asked what was the Government’s policy
on gold, he answered that one could pay
too high for a thing. Gold was handy
to have, but he did not think the world
would go on producing it at uneconomic
levels. It was a handy exchange medium,
but could be too costly. It was not of any
particular use at the moment except to
produce dollars, and in the aggregate
the amount of dollars it produced was
not great. He looked upon the main-
tenance of the industry from the angle
of employment and keeping towns in
existence. Briefly, the Prime Minister
ignored the teachings of history and gave
the old one-eyed socialistic views about
gold an airing.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Noting increased gold sales
abroad, particularly in Europe, Gruss and
Co., bullion dealers of New York, say
that, with the Swiss National Bank sell-
ing gold and with considerable quantities
of Mexican gold being shipped abroad,
more of the metal has become available
in the free markets. Moreover, with
shipping restrictions and exchange deal-
ings eased, bullion is beginning to appear
more freely among the individual
markets, with the result that the wide
variations that existed between Alex-
andria, Bombay, Zurich, Panama, Buenos
Aires and other markets are gradually
disappearing. Gruss and Co. point out
that the trend for gold, as in the case of
silver and many other commodities, is
towards a more uniform price all over
the world ; a price that may be eventually
somewhere near the gold price quoted in
Mexico or Switzerland (approximately 40
American dollars an oz.), plus shipping
and other charges.
•Je * ♦ *
At Golden Horseshoe’s recent annual
roll-up in London, chairman Ellerton
Binns gave tonnages of the two tailings
dumps on Boulder Perseverance which
Horseshoe has contracted to treat on a
profit-sharing basis. No. 1, on which
operations have begun, is estimated to
contain 600,000 tons, about 14 months'
work, and tests indicated a reasonable.
profit. No. 2, not yet fully tested, is
known to be of lower grade. Whether it
is likely to yield a profit will depend
largely upon the course of wage and
other costs,
» * * ♦
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., operat-
ing on the eastern side of the Kalgoorlie
Mile, reports treatment during year to
end March last of 156,311 tons ore for
a yield of 36,106 ounces fine gold, an
average of 4.62dwt. a ton. Of 638 ft.
of development done, 1895 ft. were in ore
averaging 7.B6dwt. over a width of 69in.
Diamond drilling, which pierced a number
of makes of highly-payable ore, totalled
10,760 ft.
* * * *
Westralian Gold Notes: Evanston, NX,,
states that 1712 tons treated during a
recent 28-day period yielded 438 ounces
fine gold, including concentrates. What
shareholders want to know is the actual
quantity of gold banked... .London-
controlled Mt. Magnet Mines, Ltd., which
unsuccessfully worked the Hill 60 ore
deposit at Mt. Magnet, announces a
scheme of reconstruction of which full
details will be available shortly....
London liquidator of Southern Cross
Gold Development, Ltd., reports a sur-
plus of £2415, which is insufficient to
discharge the balances due under notes.
As there is no prospect of further receipts,
there is no likelihood of any dividend for
rnsecured creditors. So it is no use
hareholders thinking about joining the
iueue.
VICKERS LIMITED
The 80th Annual General Meeting
of Vickers Limited
was held on May 30th in London
Sir Archibald Jamieson, the Chairman,
in the course of his speech, said: Our
main problem in 1946 has continued to
be the replacement of our armament work
by commercial productions, and if we
remember that our own specialised com-
mercial products were few in number we
have achieved greater success than might
have been anticipated. It is an indication
of the extent of this conversion that
whereas the Works were wholly em-
ployed on Armament work at the end of
the war, analysis of productive wages re-
veals that for the last month of 1946 the
expenditure on commercial work was
about 80 per cent, of the total. I must,
however, make it plain to our Stock-
holders once more that in addition to
expanding our commercial activities it is
our policy to maintain our specialised
capacity for the wide range of armaments
for which this Company has built up a
world-wide reputation, and also to retain
the highly qualified staff of specialists
necessary for the design of such pro-
ducts. Stockholders will realise that this
policy involves them in un-remunerative
expenditure in maintaining this capacity
as a reserve for possible future national
demands.
DIFFICULTIES OF TRANSITION.
In our efforts to carry through the
changeover to commercial work we have
had disappointments and difficulties.
Firstly, there was an inadequacy in num-
bers of certain types of labour. Secondly,
we are suffering from an acute shortage
of many materials, and only recently our
steel allocations for ship-building and
other purposes have been reduced seri-
ously. Thirdly, we have had rising costs,
which'shake the confidence of our cus-
tomers and contribute to the feeling of
■ insecurity both at home and in the export
markets of the world. Fourthly, there
has been unavoidable delay in carrying
out our programme of modernisation and
re-equipment.
LARGE ORDERS BOOKED.
The Shipyards at Barrow and New-
castle, besides being modernised in every
possible way, are being modified and re-
equipped to allow' of the introduction of
welding and prefabrication on a large
scale, with the appropriate modifications
to cranes, etc., to enable large prefabri-
cated sections to be handled in the shops
and on the berths. Our Yards at both
Barrow and Newcastle are very heavily
booked.
In our Engineering Works we have
been involved in a considerable amount
of rebuilding and restoration and the
rearrangement of plant to deal effectively
with the large volume of commercial
orders which have been secured.
The sale and production of the “Vik-
ing” proceeded satisfactorily during the
year under review. In 1946 we were
honoured by an order for four special
“Viking” aircraft to form part of the
King’s Flight and to accompany His
Majesty on his South African tour. Our
technical staff are well advanced with the
design of civil transport aircraft which
should ultimately replace the “Viking,”
and it is hoped that the prototype will be
flown in the early part of 1948. During
the summer of 1946 Supermarine flew
their first prototype single jet aircraft.
FINANCIAL POLICY.
The Profit and Loss Account was
drawn up on lines which I may describe
colloquially as conservative. It was pre-
pared at a time when the Country was
emerging from an acute stage of the
“fuel crisis,” and, consequently, at a
time when we could make a close esti-
mate of the actual cost to Vickers Arm-
strongs of the stoppage of work; this
estimate was in the neighbourhood of
£350,000, and that amount has been ap-
propriated from a reserve not now re-
quired and specifically set aside for the
purpose of meeting that cost. In addi-
tion there are bound to be consequential
delays in completing contracts. This is
one of the reasons which prompted us
to set aside the sum of £950,000 to cover
possible losses on contracts in hand, and
I am satisfied that this was a wise and
necessary precaution.
VISITS TO THE DOMINIONS.
Your Executive Directors have been
active in visiting the Dominions. I my-
self have recently returned from a two-
months visit to Australia and New Zea-
land, and during this short time, thanks
to the courtesy of the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Company and my friends in New
Zealand, I was able to see and under-
stand many of their activities. Sir Robert
Micklem has visited Cahada and Sir
Ronald Weeks and Major Kilner have
been to South Africa. The object of these
visits is to renew old contacts and
friendships which had to be neglected
during those long years of war and to
investigate new developments and condi-
tions in these great and progressive
countries ; and to ascertain whether as
time goes on we can make some useful
contributions to their further develop-
ment.
In South Africa and adjoining terri-
tories our Subsidiary, Vickers and Metro-
politan Carriage (South Africa), Limited,
represents the Group Companies, and I
am satisfied that the prospects for in-
creased business in that field are en-
couraging. In India also where the prin-
ciple Group Companies are served by
Vickers (India), Ltd., I am hopeful of ex-
panding business. The well-known firm
of Killick Nixon and Co. were appointed
Managing Agents of Vickers (India),
Ltd., as from Ist January, 1947. In Aus-
tralia Sir Keith Smith gives us most
valued service in his capacity as General
Representative of the Vickers Group, and
in New Zealand Messrs. Cory, Wright
and Salmon, Ltd., act as our agents and
efficiently handle our interests in many
and varied directions,
FUTURE PROSPECTS.
If we are given adequate raw materials
and reasonable supplies of our other re-
quirements we have at our disposal the
necessary skill and craftsmanship in our
Management and Work, people and the
necessary cash to make a very solid con-
tribution to the export markets and the
essential requirements of the home
market, but at the present time there is
every indication that supplies will be in-
adequate for our requirements. However,
the conservative policy that has been
followed for many years has placed your
Company in a position where the Stock-
holders can look forward to the 1947
Report with reasonable confidence.
The Report was adopted.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO PATRICIA CARROLL late of 59 Bombay Street
Lidcombe.—TAKE NOTICE that SYDNEY CHARLES
CARROLL has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1480
of 1947 on the grounds of desertion without cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney on
or before the Twelfth day of September 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
LIONEL DARE & DAWES, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—(n.s.)
0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JAMES CORDWELL (also known as
WILLIAM JAMES HOPPER) formerly of 150 Old
Cleveland Road South Brisbane. —TAKE NOTICE
that LOLA MARY CORDWELL has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 5498 of 1946 on the ground of your
desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse You may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the Tenth day of September 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER & MANSFIELD, Solicitors,
350 George Street,' Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SUNDRY SHOWS
ARNOLD SHORE.
If some of Arnold Shore’s paintings—
now on show at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney—assault the eye, others delight it.
Paint is used generously, and sometimes
excessively, but in the clear light coming
through the Bligh-street windows the
flowerpieces “Cannas” and “Dahlias” are
bright, gay and symmetrical. The paint
falls into seemly proportions of color in
the large “Cannas” to make a vivid yet
measured statement, with bulk enough
to bear the roughnesses.
The exhibition falls into two categories.
In the first there is clear and unusual
vision, adequately sustained. The second
shows a decided drop to prosaic work.
There is, perhaps, a third group—a kind
of splitting off from the second and
represented by “Wild Country, N.5.W.,”
an ambitious project which, however, has
resulted in a depressing scramble of
brushwork.
“Chooks, Nandi, Victoria,” is just a
fowlyard, with heavily pigmented fowls.
But “Bush, N.5.W.,” bought by the
N.S.W. National Art Gallery, expresses
in its light greens and dark greens —the
lighter shade predominant —and indeter-
minate blur of dark timber behind some-
thing of the tangle of nature —not the
accidental roughness of an uncertain
technique, but the real thing.
Shore’s use of light is well demon-
strated in a slighter work, “The Little
Hill.” Despite its faults, it is a fine little
study of a peculiar mingling of hard
light and shade, with the hardness over-
accented in the rocks.
A point of interest is the artist’s treat-
ment of trees. Foliage is done well, at
times achieving something of the mysteri-
ous quality of Solomon’s saplings,
but Shore’s tree trunks are just timber,
as though he had studied paintings of
trees, instead of trees themselves, and as
though he were unaware of the majesty
and delicacy and infinite variety revealed
in gum-trees by the paintings of Heysen.
The general impression of the exhibi-
tion is that the artist, having discovered
an unusual and effective modification of
technique, has worked it to death. Where
technique does not wed happily with sub-
ject, as in the painting “Bannockbum-
road, Turramurra,” the work degenerates
into a Hesling-like piece of humor.
"Circle Seven."
This, used as a title by an association
of artists, has a vague esoteric, alarming
sound. But the group, now exhibiting at
David Jones’, Sydney, seems to owe its
existence less to any common and ardent
aesthetic theory than to the number of
members and to their joint and sensible
desire to present their wares more fre-
quently to the public.
Thus there is a wide and welcome gulf
between Hesling’s wistful tigers and his
whimsical leopard and some of Dignam’s
watercolors.
The best of Dignam’s paintings on
show is the watercolor “Everton,” a
pleasant study of a house with a green,
autumn-tinted roof and a fine screen of
trees. Approaching it, but less success-
ful, is another watercolor, “Rock and
Surf.” “Everton” looks like a house at
Springwood (N.S.W.), and although a
good deal more might have been selected
from the subject—the painting itself is
essentially selective —the picture is, in a
low key, charming and sufficiently faith-
ful.
Maurice Cork, on the other hand, with
his “Tumut Hills” and “Tumut River”
has done his home district scant justice.
The hills are set back from what looks
very like the Tumut (N.S.W.) swimming
pool, which, in reality, is a beautiful spot,
with the river curving through smooth
stones in a little waterfall below the pool
itself and, above and below, the willows
leaning over to leave a broad band of
dancing light, with the rest shadow. The
artist’s version has the dressing sheds —
realistic enough in all conscience—and
willows which are more symmetrical than
arboreal. The hills are verdant lumps,
and there is plenty of green. The best
feature is the sky, surprisingly good, a
mingling of gentle white and genial blue.
Frank Beck has a few drawings, some
heavy oils and, in “the Spit,” a chalky
spread of harborside and an inky, sullen
harbor. There is too much raw color ip
his other oils, and the artistic fodder
seems both ill-digested and disorganised.
The artist, according to the catalogue,
is “self-taught.”
Newton Hedstrom has a portrait,
“Sergeant Bowman,” which has been seen
before ; a mediocre landscape, some odds
and ends and “Sand and Shovel,” a
spirited bit of machinery which suggests
that the artist might do well with this
sort of thing—there are color, luminosity
and vitality which are promising if not
very startling.
Ewart Collings and Marjorie Penglase
have 10 and 11 paintings respectively,
the former showing traces of his “ab-
stract” affiliations in the more stodgy of
his landscapes, the latter, in “Victoria-
street, Midnight,” giving a good average
representation of what may be called the
midnight school of ruthless art. At mid-
night the logical thing to do is to look
past Victoria-street to the light-studded
harbor.
John Charles Thomas.
Audiences which have been packing
Sydney Town Hall three nights a week
have been surprised and delighted not
only by the quality of so many new songs
introduced by Mr. Thomas, but by the
highly individualistic manner in which
he sings them.
Particularly has this been true of the
French songs, some by comparatively un-
known composers. One such song, pre-
faced by a humorously-spiced explana-
tion, was “Requiem du Coeur,” by Emile
Pessard. It deals with the quaint fantasy
ALL AT SEA.
Neva Carr-Glyn and Edward Howell as Jane and Julian Pugh in “Clutterbuck,”
the sparkling light comedy at Sydney Minerva.
of the man who, seeing his own heart
being buried, dispassionately analyses that
organ’s penchant during its life of getting
its owner into endless trouble. So he
bids it a not-tod-reluctant farewell. The
baritone invested this with its full due
of cynicism. In the same group was
“L’Angelus,” by Ducondray. Here Mr.
Thomas phrased the legato passages with
spirit of the peasant’s quiet prayer of
thankfulness in thb twilight as another-
day passes.
This is Thomas’s strength as a concert-
platform singer—he not only sings each
song, but acts it as well. He can go with
complete conviction straight from
Malotte’s “Lord’s Prayer,” delivered with
ringing reverence, to such a ditty as “Mr.
Jim.”
We had a fellow in our town whose Chris-
tian name was Jim.
He got his foot caught in some glue and
so Jim broke a limb —BANG!
The agonised look on the singer’s face
as he emits this is worth going miles to
see. Even more agonising is his expres-
sion as he gives his own brightly-spiced
version of “Tit Willow,” and for once
a falsetto is perfectly permissible.
As fine a ballad in the quiet mood that
the baritone has given is “Alone Upon
the Housetops,” by Tod Galloway. An
Eastern song, it is smoothly flowing with
an undercurrent of passionate yearning.
The singer achieved the right effect with-
out having recourse to those devices so
beloved of bel canto tenors.
One of the happiest groups was one
devoted to music set to Shakspeare. “If
Music Be the' Food of Love, Play On,”
by John Charles Clifton, was strong
music which well suited the text. There
was an elf-like quality in Joseph Vernon’s
“When That I Was a Little Tiny Boy,”
from “Twelfth Night.” Sullivan’s “Sigh
No More, Ladies,” from “Much Ado
About Nothing,” was a delight.
Roy Urseth accompanied unobtrusively
and efficiently, and earned encores with
some light solos by Lucuano, Debussy,
Creighton Allen and Shostakovitch.
"Madame Bovary."
Betty Roland’s attempt to contain
Flaubert’s novel in a play of three acts
and 13 scenes has lost the essential thing
—the character of Emma Bovary, which,
after all, is the beginning, middle, end
and, almost, the whole reason for the
book. The play, as presented by the In-
dependents at North Sydney, is a series
of incidents, none of which is suffi-
ciently revealing of Emma’s character
and a few of which could be dispensed
with completely. In the book, for in-
stance, the clubfoot operation and its re-
sults provided highly revealing facets of
Emma’s character ; translated to the stage
the incident loses most of its intended
significance and becomes plain melo-
drama.
Flaubert drew Emma Bovary with fine
Gallic delicacy and a detailed realism
that, at times, becomes almost tedious.
He welded into the one novel a dozen
different aspects of women, each of them
generally enough for one novel, and made
them an extraordinary portrait of one
woman. She wds petulant and moody in
her frustration, selfish and reckless in her
satisfactions, kittenish in her love, always
shallow and often foolish. That char-
acter does not emerge from the play,
partly because it has -not been written
into it and partly because it does not
come within Doris Fitton’s histrionic
range.
Miss Fitton is an excellent actress, but
there is always about her playing the
suggestion of imperiousness, of thinking
and of intelligence, and however admir-
able those qualities may be they do not
fit the character of Emma Bovary. Miss
Fitton’s acting is a study and her voice
and modulation—even her whispers can
be heard like ice drops at the back of
the theatre —would be hard to surpass,
but those things are not sufficient to
bring Betty Roland’s version of Madame
Bovary to life.
Frank O’Donnell’s Charles Bovary was
also a departure from Flaubert, although
acceptable within the limits of the play.
Flaubert’s figure was insensitive, but
slightly pathetic and always human. For
the most part Betty Roland’s doctor is
too much of an amiable buffoon to be
human, and only in his fears and doubts
before the operation on the clubfooted
boy is it possible to feel sympathy with
him as a human being.
Desmond Rolfe, as Homais the
chemist, and Edward Smith, as Lheureux
the moneylender, were the most fortu-
nately cast and both turned in excellent
performances.
"Stage Door."
The Kuringai Theatre Guild, in its pro-
duction of “Stage Door” at the Killara
Hall, has done the best possible with a
play which, as such, is poorly constructed
around a non-existent plot and seems
devoid of any point. The most baffling
and exasperating feature of the play
is the introduction early in the piece
of a character who at once arouses in-
terest, promises to be the centre of the
thing and then, inexplicably, is called
upon to commit suicide —off stage—
during the second act. Any vestige of a
plot vanishes with her.
Despite this melancholy happening the
piece is intermittently amusing until the
finale, which is simply unconvincing and
leaves one wondering just what the moral
of the tale was meant to be.
As the central character Dawn Hughes
made a very fair fist of a difficult part,
and just about overcame the handicap
imposed on her by the authors.
Reviewed Briefly.
Stage and Concert
After a burst of exceptionally exalted
music there has been a lull in Melbourne.
It was broken last week by a fine concert
by two duettists, Victoria Anderson and
Viola Morris, who could have sung at
the Town Hall instead of the Assembly
Hall. The two singers have delved with
good taste into almost forgotten fields of
music and brought up some lovely trea-
sure. Of such were their Bach, Schutz,
Wilbye and Monteverde. Able to stand
vocally on their own feet they were like
some wines, even better when blended.
They were particularly ingratiating in a
panel of songs set to Shakspeare, some of
which were unfamiliar.
* * * *
One of the most dazzling displays of
virtuosity and fine playing Melbourne
has seen for a long time was provided by
Karoly Szenassy at the Assembly Hall.
It was the last of a series of recitals by
the Hungarian violinist. There is prac-
tically nothing the young man can’t do
with a fiddle, and, if some of his achieve-
ments were more in the acrobatic than
the artistic class, his more serious items
put him in the ranks of the great, or near
them, anyway. His tone was particularly
lovely in the Concerto of Tschaikowsky,
which had Henri Portnoi at the piano.
There was sufficient enthusiasm among
the crowd who packed the place to fill the
Town Hall.
• • * •
“The House of Regrets” (Brisbane
Repertory Society): Peter Ustinov’s play
is a story of exiled White Russians in
England, the older generation yearning
for their fatherland as it was, the younger
for what it is. Set in the first years of
the last war, the play, as presented, is
too long—judicious pruning of the repe-
titive verbosity would make it better
entertainment. The men carried off the
histrionic honors with Leonard Culpin
giving an excellent and sustained char-
acterisation as the Admiral. The General
moved as though tightly and uncom-
fortably corseted.
* * * ♦
“Woman Bites Dog”: This American
satire by Bella and Samuel Spewack on
the American yellow press, put on by the
New Theatre in Melbourne, is funny
enough, but one feels that it would be
funnier still to an American audience
which knows its Hearsts and its Colonel
McCormicks by acquaintance. The authors
only see what the American man in the
street sees —the play concerns a“schlenter”
put over a newspaper proprietor
by a returned soldier, who convinces him
all too easily that the town of Danville
has gone Red and established collectives
in everything from sex to finance. John
Robertson as Commander Southworth,
the England-baiter, gave one of the best
performances, and the instigator of the
hoax was first-class.
At the Films
“Green for Danger” (Sydney Empire):
Good entertainment, mainly because of
Alistair Sim. Although the food shortage
has left him looking even more like a
used pipe-cleaner, he is still the canniest
Scot in Scotland Yard. While not dodg-
ing “doodlebugs” he has the gruesome
task of deciding which sawbones
in an emergency operating theatre has
been doing a spot of homicidal overtime.
He finally runs the “scab” to earth and
applies a poultice of constabulary, com-
pleting a very successful and entertaining
operation.
* * * *
“A Woman Destroyed” (Victory): From
the “Mother’s Ruin,” “Uncle’s Under-
miner” and other forms of bottled pros-
tration which Susan Hayward consumes,
she appears to own a thirst capable of
lasting the distance with Ray Milland.
However, while Milland was given an
Academy Award for his performance in
“The Lost Weekend,” Miss Hayward’s
acting only appears to earn her aspirins—
a small bottle.


No. 11 of Series
Bricks and Mortar ...
trrr i
n
CTJ
m
m
WHEN a builder mixes mortar or cement, he
starts several chemical processes. Ordinary
mortar is a mixture of sand, slaked lime, and water.
As this dries and sets into a solid mass, part of the
lime —or calcium hydroxide, as chemists call it—
combines with carbon dioxide from the air to pro-
duce calcium carbonate. This forms a skin over
the mortar and protects it from rain. Portland
cement is made by heating clay, sand and chalk
or limestone. When a mixture of cement and water
dries, it hardens, and the water combines with
elements in the sand and limestone to form hydrates
of calcium silicate and calcium aluminate. Simply
expressed, this is the chemistry of building—a trade
which the British chemical industry helps directly
by supplying chalk, limestone and
cement, and indirectly by making
explosives for quarrying limestone,
stone and slate.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates IL-25-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Bookies had far the best of it on Saturday
at Moonee Valley, where punters had to survive
to the last of seven events before seeing a
favorite successful. One, at least, apart from
the books was able to leave the course feeling
cheerful—J. Purtell, who thoroughly clinched
his grip on the jockeys’ premiership. With a
mount in each of the five flat races Purtell
scored four winners and a second.
Because he was a hot favorite and didn’t
run a place, Latani’s effort in the Federal
Hurdle might be termed disappointing, but it
would be hasty to dismiss him, on that one
run, from considerations for next Saturday’s
National. Rather it seemed just the right
type of run to bring him to his peak
for the National. Winner of the Federal, and
living an excellent display, the Tasmanian
representative El Regis (B, R. Smith) hit the
front with seven furlongs to go and was not
headed. Latani was ranging up promisingly at
the last jump, but blundered and lost enough
ground to put him out of it, being beaten home
also by Boondale and Reynard. For the
National Hurdle: Latani, 1; Boondale, 2;
John Masefield, 3.
A much worse disappointment was Quixotic
in the Commonwealth Steeple; he was simply
never in the hunt. The David gelding Illumina-
tion did a good job of front running, main-
taining the lead until about three.from home,
where Salvo (C. Morley) came on the scene
and won from there on. Illumination found
another effort in the straight, but it was short-
lived and Biblical also beat him home.
Ridden more patiently than at his previous
start, when he tried to lead all the way, Black
Law (Purtell) scored the best win yet seen
from him in the 13-furlongs Mt. Alexander
Handicap. Much of the early pacemaking was'
done by General Cunningham and Spawater,
a couple of the jumping brigade. Between the
half-mile and the turn Purtell moved Black
Law up gradually to lead them into the straight.
Thereafter it was nearly all Black Law, with
the only threat coming from Arduli, making a
game effort under 9.5 in what was possibly
her last public appearance. Nepal was five
lengths away third.
Black Law’s win no doubt retrieved any of
the O. R. Porter cash that earlier went down
the drain on Heroic Lad in the first division
of the Piccaninny Handicap. This Ajax colt
showed plenty of speed, but went under to
Purtell’s mount Cyclades, a son of Helios and
Rangi. The favorite, Bellows, was next best.
Purtell’s only miss of the day was in the
second division of the same race. His mount,
Leros, was given every chance, but was unable
to run down Viceroy (H. Badger), who led
nearly all the way. Viceroy is another of the
Dhotis, as is Genoese, who finished third and
should have her turn shortly.
Yet another of the Dhotis, Mahram, gave
’em curry in the Keilor Handicap, a six-
furlongs sprint. Felstar, just returned from
a fruitless visit to Sydney, was always prominent
and beat all but the winner, while Approve
was a promising third. A favorite at last, and
another, of course, to Purtell, was Allied
Power, who downed Sir Locket and Sir Charles
in the Ardoch Handicap.
* * * *
Not out of their turn, punters had things
a bit their way at Randwick on Saturday.
Two particularly hot favorites did the right
thing, with one exception other winners were
>vell supported, and, in any case, the sunny
day, with just the right nip in the air, was
about perfect for racing.
Though carrying, with 8.7, almost a stone
more than when he took the June Stakes re-
cently, Gay Monarch won the Flying stylishly.
One of those gallopers who get there with a
strong finishing burst, Gay Monarch was well
back in the field as they started the run home,
with Petulance, Vermeil and Lord Luck showing
tht way. Vermeil hit the front and looked the
possible winner until W. Cook brought Gay
Monarch along with a perfectly-timed run for
a narrow but decisive win. Vermeil is now
racing more consistently and should manage
to win one soon, a,s should Petulance. On
the other hand, Gay Monarch gave the impres-
sion that a rise in the weights will probably
stop him.
After being well out of his ground early
Oriental rattled home into fourth place in
the Flying, whereupon stewards took the rather
unusual action of holding a lengthy inquiry into
his run—unusual in that the Beau Pere horse’s
most recent form has been very poor and
punters didn’t exactly rush the books quoting
him at 50 to 1. There would have been cause
for surprise if he had won.
D. Munro made one of his nowadays in-
frequent appearances, to ride Chaytor in the
10-furlongs Belmore Handicap, but the Harinero
horse began slowly, failed to make up any
ground and beat only two home. Active Ser-
vice, at one stage behind Chaytor, moved up
sharply when called upon, joined the leaders
as they entered the straight and had the race
well won at the distance. Right Royal ran a
much improved race to finish second ahead
of Debenture. Old Kiaree, who was well sup-
ported, ran as though he’s beginning to feel
his years.
Although he missed out with Kiaree, trainer
Maurice McCarten had better luck with Regal
Light (N. Sell wood), successful in the 12-
lurlongs Encourage. Showing a surprising
flash of form, the poorly-performed Fresco
gelding Mumbil was hard ridden to take the
lead in the first furlong and stayed in front
until headed by the winner in the straight.
Even then he hung on far too well for Regal
otep and -some dozen others.
In addition to reducing her burden by 51b.,
apprentice T. Mullane gave Nizam’s Ring the
benefit of most creditably vigorous riding when
U came to a close finish in the event for two-
year-old fillies. Nizam’s Ring and the Golden
Sovereign filly Rosewell (with Sellwood up)
went together stride for stride nearly all the
way down the straight, and Mullane’s stout
riding earned a narrow victory. After getting
into all the bother about the place April Pride
was a fair third.
. The Novice for two-year-old colts and gcld-
mgs attracted a large field of maiden per-
formers, of whom The Gaffer had the nearest
approach to anything like form and was sent
out favorite. With W. Cook in the saddle this
Perimond colt was given every chance but was
fairly outstayed over the seven furlongs by the
Brueghel colt Imperium (N. McGrowdie), four
lengths to the good, with Staunch third.
The handicapper seemed to be asking too
much of Monogram in awarding that three-
year-old topweight of 10.2 in the first division
of tire Highweight, for which the next in the
weights was the four-year-old Cavalero, with
form, on paper, at least as good as Mono-
gram’s. Certainly punters thought so, neglecting
Monogram (25 to 1) entirely, while making
“ Perhaps, caddy, it would be safer if you stood
back a little."
Cavalero second favorite; but once again the
handicapper was right. Making up a lot or
ground in the straight Monogram (A. Mulley)
finished fast on the outside to comfortably
defeat Drummer Boy and Lord Rex, with
Cavalero nowhere in sight. The second division
gave punters their revenge, the hot favorite
Bundagen (E. Fordyce) doing everything ex-
pected of him to down Beau Pebble and
Pennicuik.
« * * *
The B.A.T.C. handicapper has been getting
mainly brickbats over his handicapping of
Attley for the Doomben Ten Thousand. In
the original weights Attley was ranked equal
to Shannon at 10.3. Very few who have seen
both horses in action would consider any horse
in Australia Shannon’s equal. Then, for win-
ning a moderate sort of a sprint, Attley was
rehandicapped 41b. under the absurdly niggardly
penalty clause of the rich sprint, bringing his
weight to 10.7 or 2lb. more than Bernborough
had last year!
Attley, of course, may win the rich sprint
and thus prove the handicapper right, but
being right after the event and being justified
before the event are different matters. The
Doomben candidate who most appeals to this
page is the Queenslander Maa Leesh, a fair
example of the incongruity of the Ten Thou-
sand’s penalty clause. A couple of weeks back
Maa Leesh won over the Doomben course,
breaking Bernborough’s record for the distance,
yet as the race was not of sufficient value
Maa Leesh escapes penalty. He remains in
it with 7.13 and at that should take a power
of beating. Running with model consistency,
Hiraji would be stiff to miss a place, and
Attley, of course, is too good to be ignored.
About the next best may be Wellington with
8.11. So for the Doomben Ten Thousand:
Maa Leesh, 1; Hiraji, 2; Attley, 3; Wellington,
4.
* ♦ * •
For Randwick (before acceptances):
July Juvenile: April Pride, 1; Cardinal Color,
2; Virtue, 3. Three-year-old Handicap: Beau
Pebble, 1; Lord Rex, 2; Beau Brummell, 3.
Trial: Drummer Boy, 1; Frontal Attack, 2;
Grovetown, 3. Moore Park Handicap: Ver-
meil, 1; Petulance, 2; Monogram, 3. Pacific
Handicap: Spearex, 1; Right Royal, 2; Kiaree,
3. Maroubra Handicap: Baccarat, 1; Pearl
Trader, 2; Marlume, 3.
« if * m
At Sydney Cricket Ground the All
Blacks won the final Rugby Union Test
27-14 in a hard game with bursts of bril-
liance. Lack of a goal-kick of Scott’s
phenomenal prowess and lack of a full-
back who could nearly approach him
made a big difference to Australia. Even
so, the All Blacks had the edge, and there
were times in the game when they didn’t
seem to be pushing that extra grain of
adrenalin into their systems; it wasn’t
necessary.
Australian forwards have brightened
up considerably, and were holding the
All Blacks in the lineouts and rucking
with determination, but there were weak-
nesses in the backs. The Ail Blacks had
no weak spots, no one was left unsup-
ported, and they were at once tougher,
more consistent and more polished. Full-
back Scott —who is already being
bracketed with George Nepia—is worth
watching any time he goes near the ball,
and Jim Kearney (five-eighth), Johnny
Smith and skipper Fred Allen played the
type of football which exploits the
slightest weakness. Trevor Allan was
outstanding among the home backs.
♦ * * ♦
N.S.W. has 22 reps., Queensland seven
and Victoria one in the Rugby Union
team to tour Great Britain, and probably
France and America. N.S.W,; Piper,
Eastes, Walker, Allan, Macßride, C.
Burke, Cawsey, Buchan, Col Windon,
Stenmark, Hardcastle, Fuller, Shehadie,
Kearney, Dawson, Tweedale, Emery,
Cremin, Howell, Keller, Kraefft, Tonkin.
Queensland: McLean, Cook, McMaster,
Broad, Winning, K. Bourke, Windsor.
Victoria: Davis. With McLean cap-
tain and Allan vice-captain, it is
good material —if only, as an All Black
critic said at the dinner which heralded
the announcement of the team, the for-
wards will be content to play as forwards,
and not imitate backs.
* * * *
Just on a quarter of the 97,600 who
attended the six V.F.L. games on Satur-
day went to South Mel-
bourne expecting to see
Footscray kick its way
into the four. But ’Scray,
short of several good
men, lost Oliver at half-
time and couldn’t pace it
with the determined
“Sowth,” who won
15.9-12.10 in a fast and
.spectacular match. Carl-
ton, well clear in League
leadership, could attract
only 8000 to the local
oval, where the Blues
morosely allowed Haw-
thorn to gather 8.14 to
their own 18.17. ’Twas
different down at Gee-
long, where Fitzroiy
found an attendance
record for the Geelong
ground, 15,900. Geelong
put up a great last-
quarter rally, but was
down 11.15-10.10. Mean-
time Richmond beat St.
Kilda 23.15-7.10; Col-
lingwood beat North
Melb. 14.19-9.15; and a
sternly-contested debate
at Essendon gave the
Dons a 12.13-10.15 de-
cision over Melbourne. It’s Carlton, Col-
lingwood, Essendon, Melbourne, with
Fitzroy and Footscray trailing.
* * * *
S’Africans in England:
The second Test, at Lord’s, was England’s
by 10 wickets. Piling up 554 for eight wickets,
England declared. Compton (208) and Edrich
(189) helped with 370 in 340 min., wiping out
all Test records for the third wicket. The
only better figures for the third wicket in first-
class cricket are 389 by Ponsford and McCabe
for Australia v. M.C.C. at Lord’s in 1934, and
375 by J. W. Hearne and Patsy Hendren for
Middlesex v. Hampshire at Southampton in
1923.
S’Africa replied with 327 (Melville 117, his
third successive Test century, and Nourse 61);
and in the follow-on fell for 252. Hutton and
Washbrook (13 each) got the required runs.
Wright, who bowled finely with the M.C.C.
team in Australia, took 10 for 175, Compton
4 for 78 and Edrich 3 for 53; Edrich also
caught four in the second innings.
♦ * * *
Big Jim Perrier, the ex-Manly (N.S.W.)
golfer who’s been in the U.S.A. these
past seven or eight years and now be-
longs there, broke out in a rash of in-
credible golf to become the first Aus-
tralian- or British-born player to win the
American professional championship,
which practically amounts to world
champion. Perrier’s approaching and
putting staggered the onlookers —and his
opponent—and he had no fewer than 17
one-putt greens in the final, dropping
them in from anywhere and everywhere.
Apart from the prizemoney (£A1094) the
win will put many dollars in the Perrier
pockets.
* » * *
The first major upset to Australian
hopes at Wimbledon was the defeat of
Bromwich by the American Budge Patty.
Patty isn’t ranked in the first 10 in the
U.S., whereas Bromwich was seeded
No. 2, next to Kramer, for Wimbledon.
The shot for which Bromwich is famed,
his two-hander on the right side, brought
about his downfall. The double-handed
grip has the disadvantage of shortening
one’s reach, and, seeming just a trifle
slower on his feet than of old, Bromwich
was not quite getting fairly to the ball.
Earlier Budge Patty also defeated Sid-
well, but Sidwell had his revenge by team-
ing with the English player Mottram to
eliminate the American pair Patty and
T. Brown.
* * * *
When Jackie Wilson’s left knocked Ray
Coleman (8.13) to his haunches in the
first minute at Leichhardt, Wilson (9.2)
looked like an early winner, but Coleman
was back fighting before a count could
be started, and then outfought Wilson in
a majority of rounds. The declaration of
a draw drew hoots loud and prolonged
from the customers, who reckoned Cole-
man won it clearly on points. He did.
* * * *
Former amateur welter champ. Archie
Kemp (9.7|) made his professional wins
four in a row by defeating Jimmy Hill
(9.8|) in a 12-rounder at Melbourne
Stadium. Kemp got there easily on points.


a a
DIRECTORS;
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Avoid the Pitfalls
of Home-Made Wills
A Husband Can Unwittingly Void
a Gift to His Wife
WHATEVER your wishes you should have
them clearly expressed in your Will
drawn by a Solicitor. There are many pitfalls
for the inexperienced which can defeat their
wishes.
For example:—
By witnessing a Will a husband would auto*
matically void any gift thereunder to his wife
—thus a Testator should not permit a son-in-
law to witness his Will even though he be not
a beneficiary thereunder. By so doing he would
automatically void a gift to his (the son’s) wife.
Be guided by a Solicitor in the drawing of your
Will and consider carefully the choice of your
Executor upon whose trustworthiness and ability
your beneficiaries will be entirely dependent.
If you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor and Trustee you will
be ensuring that the terms of your Will shall be
faithfully carried out, and you will be ensuring
to your dependents a courteous and sympathetic
service.
Call or write for a copy of the Company’s
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It de-
scribes the Company’s service and the charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£68,008,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Eiverina Bepresentative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Bepresentative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Bepresentative: J. L. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
School resumes 29th May.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump oof
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The Uver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn (
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcon*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working ana
make you feel ”up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin#
else. 3/- & 1/3.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Sunset of the “Golden Age”
At the Trades Hall in Adelaide last
week Australia’s dual political person-
ality, the Prime Minister and Treasurer,
talked of the danger of impending “eco-
nomic recession,” which, he hoped,
would not be as bad as that of 1930-31.
He said inflationary trends in France,
America and China, and on a lesser scale
in the U.K., Maoriland and Canada, were
the villains of the piece, and that they
“will undoubtedly produce a reduction in
the present high export prices,” With the
instinct of the politically astute he
sedulously evaded reference to the infla-
tionary trends in Australia, responsibility
for which sits squarely on the shoulders
of his Government.
It is these Australian trends, coupled
with the burden of taxation, that will
make the bump more severe than it ought
to be for the Australian people. Costs,
which are still being forced up by power
politics, such as the introduction of the
40-hour week in N. S. Wales, and by more
pay for less work and the go-slow and
hold-up tactics of Communist-led labor
groups, are. already at such a high level
that a moderate reduction in demand and
prices is likely to express itself in such a
sharp reduction of profits as to endanger
the stability of our export and other in-
dustries. High and rising costs, coupled
with a decline in the productivity of labor,
will sooner or later price many goods out
of the market, and that spells trouble.
Manufacturers and other producers can-
not cut their own prices and still pay
higher wages for shorter hours, high
rents and high prices for stores and
materials used in conduct of their busi-
ness.
From the world point of view the key
of the position is in the hands of the
United States, which set the pace on the
way up and promises to be the leader
when prices turn down. Until such time
as there is not one economic world but
two —those dependent and not dependent
on dollars —world prices will almost cer-
tainly follow the U.S. lead. Production
and earnings in U.S. appear to have
reached their peak during the first quarter
of 1947. They have since levelled off,
and, if price and employment figures are
any guide, there is recent evidence that
production and earnings are beginning to
flag. Consumer credit is reported high, a
bumper wheat crop is in prospect, and the
Agricultural Department expects a 25 p.c.
drop in food prices, which are above their
normal relationship with other prices, be-
fore the end of 1947. On Wall-street,
too, prices for industrial and trading
stocks have eased, and bond prices have
become irregular. These things might be
taken as early indications that consumers
are unable, or unwilling, to absorb the
present volume of production at peak
prices.
Owing to the collective state of poverty
into which Europe has lapsed owing to
World War II dollars are urgently needed
outside U.S. to quicken the volume of
world trade. Hopes that dollar credits
already granted to Britain and other
European countries would bridge the gap
until their own resources were restored
to something resembling pre-war dimen-
sions are becoming illusory. To repair
the damage inflicted by six years of war
upon an economic machine that was none
too modern even in 1939 will, it now
seems certain, take more time and dollars
than originally expected. It is evident
from the gap between what U.S, is ex-
porting and what it is buying from other
countries that further large dollar credits
will be needed if chaos in some countries
is to be averted, war-torn economies
effectively repaired and freer trade made
possible. Where the money is to come
from and how Congress can be per-
suaded to act are two nuts upon which
the Truman Administration has yet to
try its teeth.
It is the deplorable lag in European re-
covery that is mainly responsible for the
“Not this time, Johnny — I'll let you do the next one!"
impending shortage of dollars. And the
speed of European recovery will depend
largely upon whether international states-
manship can avert unwanted political
consequences from the juxtaposition of
American and Russian power in Europe.
While further dollar credits can help
overcome world trade problems for the
time being, servicing and amortisation of
the debt created will raise a fresh crop of
problems in the future. Whether the rest
of the world will permanently remain a
good customer of U.S. depends upon en-
larged markets, especially United States-
ward. This places upon U.S. the respon-
sibility for leading the way in tariff reduc-
tion and in removing administrative
practices which restrict imports.
The most hopeful feature in the out-
look is that the world is suffering more
from high and rising costs and prices
than from saturation of demand, which
is the typical precursor to a major slump.
Those countries which are able to step up
production without allowing their wage-
price structure to get out of balance will
suffer least. The way to stop the drift in
Australia is to increase output and effi-
ciency and so absorb wage lifts and re-
ductions in hours of work without
further raising unit costs. To do this
industry must have adequate supplies of
coal, power and essential materials, and
labor must efficiently co-operate in keep-
ing the wheels of trade and industry run-
ning without interruption. To this end
legislation is needed to impose penalties
sufficient to deter those who flout the
overriding authority of the State as rep-
resented by the arbitration system.
Sterling Balances
In the very near future Britain and
her creditors in the sterling areas will
have to get down to the problem of
liquidating sterling balances. That there
will be some hard bargaining is evident
from the fact that a drastic scaling down
of the balances is now the declared policy
of the British Government, while two
of the principal holders —Egypt and
India—are in no mood for cancellation.
In all, these balances aggregate about
£3OOO millions, of which Australia’s share
is £220-odd millions. They were accu-
mulated largely on account of Britain’s
demand for goods and services needed to
maintain her fighting services—navy,
army and air force —in the struggle
against the Axis Powers.
The two principal Allies, Britain and
U.S., pooled their resources needed on
war account in the common struggle
agaipst a common enemy under lend-
lease and other arrangements. No such
arrangements existed within the Empire,
though what Britain did was in the in-
terests of all the Allies. Equal partici-
pation in the war is therefore the prin-
ciple upon which Britain’s counter-
claims against her blocked sterling credi-
tors rests. Moreover, in the piling up of
these debts Britain helped to construct
and expand many plants and other assets
now of great value to countries which,
by the fortunes of war, now find them-
selves owed money by her instead of
owing money to her. Any argument that
Britain was not called upon to defend,
say, Egypt or India against invasion and
enslavement by the Axis pales to insig-
nificance in the light of benefits these
and other Empire countries derived from
Allied victory and from their admission
to membership of U.N.O.
And behind the facade of moral and
monetary arguments lies the grim eco-
nomic reality that repayment of these
balances in full is beyond Britain’s pre-
sent or likely future capacity. It would
be possible only by depriving British
consumers of the fruits of British labor
to the value of most of the £3OOO mil-
lions already mentioned. This would in-
volve an intolerably drastic cut in the
British standard of living, and the bur-
den would continue for generations. It
wouid also impair Britain’s capacity to
buy the products of the countries con-
cerned and would increase their imports
from Britain to an extent likely to
jeopardise local manufactures. Con-
tinued blocking of the balances would
serve no purpose other than to weaken
confidence in sterling.
The possibilities are that early negoti-
ations will result in a deadlock, because
both the Egyptian and Indian Govern-
ments have already committed themselves
too emphatically to repayment in full to
be able to make substantial concessions
without first preparing! public opinion in
their own countries. Immediate an-
nouncement by Australia and Maoriland
of their intention to make drastic cuts in
their claims might strengthen the hands
of other creditors who could then argue
that Britain’s position would be
strengthened to that extent. Fortunately
Britain is in a position to wait until all
her creditors take a reasonable view of
realities.
Leading cutlers in Sheffield (Eng.)
have been warned that an Australian co.
—which has “American backing”—will
shortly embark on the manufacture of
steel knives. Sheffield firms are said to
be impressed with the need for speeding
up supplies to Australia in order to keep
their hold on the market. The reference
may be to Wiltshire File Co, Pty., Ltd.,
a Melbourne firm whose managing
director (F. Wiltshire) referred over
12 months ago to plans for manu-
facturing “high-quality stainless steel
table knives,” and suggested that
production might begin early in 1947.
Main shareholders in this proprietary are
8.H.P., McPherson’s, Ltd., and the
Nicholson File Co. of U.S.A. Since 1939
it has been turrfing out engineers’ files
and saw files, largely for defence con-
tracts, The post-war gamut includes a
wider range of files, rasps and other hand
tools. Mr. Wiltshire is at present in
Singapore endeavoring to establish an ex-
port market for these products. Compe-
tition with the renowned Sheffield cutlery
trade has some interesting possibilities.
Australian prices and costs are, at the
moment, less inflated than Britain’s; our
steel is cheap and good and a high standard
of efficiency can be expected from a firm
associated with B.H.P. The forging, grind-
ing and heatingprocesses in manufacture of
knives are allied to those in file production
* * * *
Forestry companies have experienced
more than a flutter of activity in recent
investment operations in Maoriland.
Premier concern, N.Z. Forest Products,
Ltd., at the end of June overshadowed
the investment field in a sustained wave
of trading. Neither the company’s heads
nor brokers could give any tangible
reason for this. A million pro-
gramme is being pushed ahead, but no
overnight development has been or will
be seen. When the 20-year cycle from
planting to milling is in full swing, 8000
of the 170,000 acres of soft-wood forests
will be ready for clearing annually.
Present milling capacity of a million feet
weekly is only a beginning. ( Chairman
D. Henry said at the last annual meeting
that total sales shouki soon reach a
million pounds a year. Dividends, how-
ever, are still over the horizon.
* * * ♦
The annual wool review put out by
Winchcombe Carson, the Sydney wool-
brokers, discourages £ears that artificial
fibres will displace wool in popular favor,
and sees no sound reason to doubt a
ready market for wool for some time to
come. When shortages in world sup-
plies of woollen goods are overtaken,
competition may lose some of its exist-
ing keenness, but it will be a long time
before people, shops and warehouses
throughout the world are as'well supplied
with fabrics and apparel as they were be-
fore the war. The present keenness of
buying and the general desire through-
out the world for fabrics made from the
sheep’s staple are bright and encouraging
features. European countries, compelled
to use synthetic fibres during the war
years, are now showing marked prefer-
ence for the genuine wool article. Ger-
man mills, and most of those in Eastern
Europe and in Japan, are operating on
a very restricted scale. And in other
world wool-manufacturing centres short-
ages of labor and power are restricting
the level of mill output.


SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces -are
worth the little extra
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of cord,
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication. £
CRAIGS, AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horderns) .
LET
r ATLAS >
CARRY THE
I BURDEN
W
0. \
Established 1808 in Beign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas" has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England ) *
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
P. V. MIEBS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * • *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourns, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
MEN of VISION
i
i
'V-
-4\
The successful manufacturer is a man of
vision. He looks ahead, prepares for
expansion of his plant, studies improve-
ments in factory methods and plans wider
distribution of his products.
Technical problems are the manufactur-
er’s own concern; yet, on the financial
side, he may welcome consultation with
an experienced banker.
The "Wales” invites applications for
financial assistance from manufacturers
who have sound projects for increasing
production or establishing new industries.
Consult the manager , . .
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability)
A4703D
NEW PLANS FOR
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
f
Negotiations between Chrysler
Dodge De Soto Distributors in Aus-
tralia and Richards Industries
Limited during 1935 resulted in ar-
rangements being made for Richards
Industries Limited to build motor
bodies for the entire group, and in
1937 the Australian Distributors of
Chrysler, Dodge, De Soto Vehicles
obtained a financial interest in
Richards Industries Limited, to en-
sure for themselves a permanent
source of supply for Bodies and other
equipment to be manufactured in
Australia.
During the years 1939 to 1945 the
Mr. Ferguson, Keswick and Mile End Plants of
Managing Director. Richards Industries Limited were
considerably extended to assist in
the Australian war effort.
A statement by Mr. R. S. Thomson, Chairman of
Directors of Richards Industries Limited, indicated that
the Post-War Programme of Chrysler Dodge Distribu-
tors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. envisages an increased Australian
content in Mne with the policy of the Commonwealth
Government, and to that end a closer relationship
between the two Organisations is essential, together
with the provision by Member Companies of Chrysler
Dodge Distributors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. of additional
Capital to take care of the contemplated expansion.
In order to implement this policy, which will call
for a progressively greater degree of co-operation be-
tween the two organisations, one of the Directors of
Richards Industries Limited, Mr. W. D. Ferguson, who
is also General Manager of Chrysler Dodge Distribu-
tors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., has been appointed Managing
Director, Mr. Thomson stated that' Mr. Ferguson
would direct the policy, of the Comany and the appoint-
ment would-facilitate closer co-operation between the
Automobile distributing interests concerned and the
General Manager of Richards In-
dustries Limited (Mr. A. B. Barker)
and his Staff.
Mr Ferguson, who is Canadian-
born, came to Australia 21 years ago
as an Executive of the Chrysler
Corporation. In 1936 he assumed
the Management of Chrysler Dodge
Distributors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., and
in 1938 was appointed a Director of
Richards Industries Limited. His
knowledge and experience gained
during nearly 30 years’ association
with all phases of the motor in-
dustry should prove to be of in-
estimable value to the Company in Mr
Its expanded programme. General
Barker,
Manager.
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Keswick. South Australia.
■
■
m
Broken Hill Corp., Ltd. .
Zinc Corp.’s new offshoot, Broken HiU
Corp. (nominal capital £5,000,000), which
has taken over the parent’s investments,
other than mining and milling, and is to
help provide funds for its big prospect-
ing and development programme, set up
an office in Melbourne last month. Issued
capital is £3,000,000 in a million 41 p.c.
cumulative redeemable prefs. and two
million ords., all taken by the parent-
750,000 prefs. for cash and the remaining
prefs. and ords. fully-paid in settlement
for assets transferred. The 750,000 prefs.
were offered at par (255. Aust.) to those
on the parent’s register (prefs. and ords.)
at June 6
The decision to offer these shares, re-
deemable at a premium of Is. (stg.) each
after end 1956, in multiples of 10, instead
of on a pro rata basis, stands in the way
of an open market for the rights. This
means that those shareholders who, for
financial or other reasons, are unable to
take up fixe new scrip are automatically
deprived of any value attaching to the
rights. Moreover, the principle is open to
criticism on the grounds that it encour-
ages “stags” to apply for large parcels
with a view to an early capital profit on
the market. Any argument that an offer
in proportion to existing holdings might
create administrative difficulties where
there are a large number of small hold-
ings, involving numerous fractional lots,
loses its force on the grounds of equity.
Even if it was thought that the issue
might not appeal to some holders, the
basis of allotment could still be a pro
rata one, with the right to apply for
shares in excess of the quota should any
be available.
Investments to be taken over from the
parent include the following:
No. of Paid
Company. - Shares. To.
B.H. Associated Smelters 700,000 20/-
New B.H. Consolidated .. 951,959 5/-
Westem N.S.W. Power .. 150,000 4/-
Do., Debentures .. .. 60,000
Imperial Smelting Corp. . 100,000 20/-
Metal Manufactures . / 86,705 20/-
The lot was transferred at market value
at end May last in the case of listed
securities and at directors’ valuation in
the case of others. Total value of all
securities taken over was £2,250,000 stg.
Gross income from these securities for
1946 was £118,794 stg. Allowing for Aus-
tralian and U.K. income tax at current
rates, and for double-tax relief under the
agreement recently reached between the
two Governments, net income would be
£62,124 stg. Administrative exes, of the
new co. are estimated at £4OOO stg. p.a.,
and the pref. div,, after allowing for tax
adjustments, will take £28,750 stg. Pre-
liminary exes., estimated at £50,000 stg.,
are being paid by Zinc Corp.
Zinc Corp. and its next-door neighbor
at the Barrier, New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated, have adopted a big joint ore-treat-
ment scheme. This and Zinc Corp.’s
other activities, including the hunt for
oil and minerals in other States of the
Commonwealth, are expected to involve
an outlay of about £7,000,000 stg. within
the next decade. By separating the co.’s
investments the board considers that the
finance required can be provided without
adversely affecting Zinc Corp.’s dividend
prospects, and without any risk to its
existing industry at the Barrier. Zinc
Corp.’s shareholders will later have an
opportunity of subscribing for ords. in
the new offshoot.
On the board of B. H. Corp. are J. R.
Govett, W. S. Robinson, L. B. Robinson
and A. H. Moreing ; they are all directors
of Zinc Corp. too.
According to Westralia’s Minister for
Industrial Development (A. F. Watts), the
big Dunlop Rubber Co. has decided to set
up a factory at Welshpool, near Perth,
to turn out a general range of rubber
goods. Total cost is estimated at about
£130,000, but shareholders aren’t likely
to be asked to assist —co.’s holding of
cash, etc., at June 30, 1946, was
£1,117,955. The co.’s decision means
much to the West, which lacks secondary
industries. Prospects of a sharp rise in
sea transport costs, which will express
themselves in retail prices when the Com-
monwealth hands back to coastal ship-
owners the vessels it has been operating
at a heavy loss, no doubt influenced the
board in its determination. At present the
co. has half a dozen factories—three each
in Melbourne and Sydney—and a string
of expanding subsidiary interests. The
market for the f.-p. pound ords. advanced
steadily from the old ceiling of 295. 3d.
at end 1946 to 38s. 3d. in April, and has
since fluctuated between that figure and
365. Last term 5 p.c. was paid from
profits equal to 8,2 p.c. on ord. capital.
At 38s. 3d. the return is 2.6 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for a shade over 4 p.c. on his money
counts, on an 8 p.c. distribution.
* * * *
Imported timbers and locally-produced
pine are coming to the aid of hard-
pressed timber merchants and builders
m Maoriland as supplies of rimu,
matai, totara and kauri from local forests
dwindle. One Auckland timber co.,
Parker Lamb, switched over almost
completely to pine last year, and
reports the best stock position since pre-
war Oregon and pine are free of control,
u° •,j. eres more timber for commercial
buildings than for years, but there’s a
big pent-up demand. Labor is now the
worst bottleneck.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Flathead”; The Yanks have been fre-
quently kidded up one of their lofty red-
woods by doubtful statements about Aus-
tralian animals, especially since the arrival
of the platypuses at the Bronz Zoo.
Covering the arrival of the plats., one
American reporter went in with both feet
about our possums:
There are two bush-tailed phalangers—
the Australians call them possums These
creatures are apparently none too smart in
trees. The man at the zoo said that when
a go anna' lizard, which likes to eat the
phalanger, climbs a tree the phalanger just
sits on the branch and waits to be killed.
Worse yet, Australian phalanger hunters
just rub a stick along a tree, so that it
sounds like a goanna and the phalanger
starts screaming, which makes it easy for
the hunters.
The scribe was nearer the mark when he
declared: “Platypuses are also said to
warble, in their natural state, a little like
Sinatra.” They can —every bit as well.
* * * *
“L. 8.”; Harper was known all over the
Territory as a wild man, and when the
new trooper rode nonchalantly into the
yard, dismounted and began asking ques-
tions as to dog registrations while he was
breaking in a fractious brumby. Harper’s
language was sulphurous and expansive.
The trooper proceeded with his questions,
and, losing his temper. Harper picked
him up and dropped him over the
rails of the yard. But the Law was a
good sport. A few moments later his
head appeared over the top rail and he
asked affably: “Mr. Harper, when you’ve
a minute to spare how about chucking
my horse out, too?”
♦ * * *
“Mark Time”; Don’t agree with
“Wippegong” (B. 4/6/’47) that swamp
birds remain wary or indifferent of man
even if they live in his midst. At two
Queensland seaside towns where swamps
are preserved right in the heart of the
places the water-fowl are very tame. So
used are the ducks and water-hens to
being fed by visitors that at the sight of
anyone walking towards the swamp they
sail up to the water’s edge to await the
offering of crumbs. The water-hens are
particularly friendly and wander up
streets and into backyards looking for
additional fodder.
* * * *
“Laetitia”; In comparison with Mauru
Lifu, late of Darnley Island, in Torres
Strait, “Nor’-west’s” Brobdingnagian
Binghi belles (B. 4/6/’47) were mere
sylphs. The R.L.S. monument in Thurs-
day Island cemetery commemorates
Mauru’s epic feat in which, as a then
lissom lass of 16, she carried on her
back through raging surf two white
survivors of the 1904 Cape Melville
cyclone which decimated the shell-
ing fleets. In the late 1920’s I
saw Mauru being “shipped” on her last
trip from her home island of Darnley to
the Thursday Island hospital. Block and
tackle was necessary to transfer the
mountainously-proportioned and grin-
ning Mauru from dinghy to lugger deck.
Obesity after the mid-twenties is the rule
among the Torres islanders, as a result
of the preponderance of dugong beef in
their diet. Typical examples are the men-
mountains of Mabuiag, in whose home-
waters the sea mammal still swarms off
Ormon Reef. Prior to the Nip war
officialdom exploited the flesh-building
attributes of dugong beef by using the
island as, a sanatorium, to which were
transferred incipient t.b. sufferers and
suspects. Often a living skeleton was of
Falstaffian proportions when he returned
to his home island after six months on
Mabuiag.
* * * *
“Double One”; Why go to the trouble
of holding a notched stick up at the
Southern Cross to get your directions (B.
11/6/'47) when midway between Beta
Centauri and Achernar always gives due
south, or as near as dammit? These stars
never set in southern Australia. They
set in latitudes north of Sydney,
but so does the Southern Cross. People
going to get lost - in Northern Australia
had therefore better learn a bit more on
the subject or choose a time when these
stars are not below the horizon,
* * * *
“Bo”: Dan, coming back in the dray
from a heavy Saturday in the township,
lost all interest in the homeward journey,
leaving it with supreme confidence to
the horse, which he’d bought only a few
weeks’ back from his neighbor Rogers
Just on dusk the horse pulled up outside
Rogers’s closed road gate and patiently
waited for it to be opened. Dan slum-
bered on. Shortly came by a motorist,
just as it was starting to rain. Noticing
the recumbent figure in the cart, he
pulled up, took the horse out of the
harness and put him through the gate.
Then he got Dan out of the cart and
rolled him underneath it, Dan being en-
tirely unaware of these kindly ministra-
tions. Some time in the night Dan
struggled to semi-consciousness, his hand
went out and he felt the wheel spokes.
With a resigned air, he poked his
face up against them, sang out, “Aw-
“Peep-oh!"
right. Sergeant, you can give the missus
a ring to come an’ bail me out, will y’?”
—then turned and rolled over to sleep
again.
* $ * *
“1.D.W.”: A flathead caught in the
Noosa River, near Tewantin (Q.), tipped
the scales at over 121 b. When cleaned,
however, it weighed only B£lb., most of
the difference having been made up by
the big fellow’s latest meal, a 31b. tailer,
whole, and as fresh as the flathead itself.
« * * * *
“Sarina”: Boobook owls seem to put
a greater faith in the efficacy of their
camouflage than is justified. Struck a
pair of the drab fowls vtfhich had chosen
as a roosting place a rail nailed between
two messmate saplings within 10ft. of a
bush track. The rail, which wasn’t 3ft.
above the ground, had been put up as a
wallaby snare in the absence of a wire
fence crossing a clearly-defined trail. The
mopokes camped there only the one day.
Perhaps, though, they realised that it was
a Sunday, the one day when “sportsmen,”
legally, at any rate, can’t get around with
their guns.
* * * »
“Horseless Horseman”’: The inveter-
ate habit emus have of rushing at an
obstacle, falling through it and pulling
their feet through it after them
keeps many a boundary rider outback in
employment. On a Murray River
station where in summer the big brown
fowls congregated in mobs to eat the
river grass, they broke and tangled
up wires everywhere. No fence would
stop them, either. Around the 600-acre
horse paddock we put up a new
six-posts-to-the-chain, double plain and
barbed netting fence. All went well until
one day a mob of 40 emus swam over
the river from Victoria, with only their
heads showing above the water like peri-
scopes. They began poking inquisitively
around the horseyards. Pursued by the
homestead tykes, they went at the new
fence, broke all the wires and, ripping
off a length of netting, wrapped it around
the green box timber in such a way that
it was useless. Our only consolation was
that two live emus remained behind
tangled in the mess.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Some o’ these‘police-
men is funny blokes,” said Big Mat.
“I’m camped just out o.’ Parkes, on the
Wellington-road, near a wine shanty an’
when I go up to the plonk joint after
tea there’s seven or eight bush larrikins,
with enough plonk in ’em t’ make ’em
game, hoppin’ into a copper out in the
road. Well, I rush up an’ dong a couple,
but I can see there’s too many of ’em
so I dong the copper an’ lay him out.
‘That’s fixed the cow,’ 1 yell. One or
two of ’em wants t’ put in the boot an’
while they’re backin’ an’ fillin’ about it
I grabs the copper an’ carts him into the
wine shanty an’ shuts the door, tellin’ the
wine bloke what I’ll do t’ him if he opens
it. Well, the mob outside yelled for
awhile; then they done a bunk. Be this
time the copper pulls round an’ I tell
him what happened. Gripes, the cow
wanted to pinch me then! Said I was
obstructin’ his duty or somethin’. Seemed
t’ think I oughter let him be kicked t’
pieces. Yair, they’re funny, all right.
How was It’ know he was tryin’t’ keep
that bunch together till a police car come
from Parkes t’ round ’em up?”
* * * #
“Atrax”: A pronounced earth-shake
over a 150-mile area between Nambour
and Bundaberg (S.Q.) has made startled
locals wonder whether their particular
part of the Australian continent is as
solid as the rest. Queensland’s seismo-
graph expert predicted some more shakes.
One was recorded on June 7, 1918, over
the same area, and another on April 12,
1935, the latter followed by intermittent
shocks of lessening intensity for nearly
a month. Legends of big-feller cor-
roboree b’long ground were common
amongst Fraser Island abos. 30 years and
more ago, evidently traditions surviving
from some long-past coastal quake in the
neighborhood of present-day Mary-
borough. Possibly the whole business de-
pends on slides in the rock walls of the
huge submarine chasm reported by
oceanographers as not very far northward
of Hervey Bay.
» * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Recent lurid press yarns
about fierce giant squids attacking sperm
whales in West African waters make old
whalemen grin. The writing boys have
got the business wrong end up. It is the
sperm whale, hugest and most powerful
of all carnivorous animals, that does the
attacking. Bulls grow to 70ft. and carry
a formidable armament of teeth in their
20ft. lower jaws. No squid, however big
—tentacles over 50ft. long have been
found —has any chance against a full-
grown sperm whale. A former Priflce of
Monaco fitted out his yacht as a
sperm-whaler and examined the stomach
contents of his numerous catches. All
showed that fish, cuttlefish and squid
were the main items on the menu, some
of the latter having been of immense
size. All adult sperm whales showed
numerous scars from the suckered tent-
acles of their prey.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Persons seeking the
scenic marvels of northern S.A. are ad-
vised, if they wish to preserve a remnant
of sanity, to eschew all alcoholic bever-
ages. Imagine yourself leaving Cradock
headed north. You travel a dozen miles
over a red plain, lured on by a blue
fairyland of peaks in the far distance and
by the map’s promise that you’ll soon
reach the sizable township of Chapman-
ton. You cross the right number of
watercourses, you reach Chapmanton
and the empty plain is still empty: there
is no Chapmanton. You resolutely pass
the two pubs of Hawker and bump on
towards the township of Wonoka. Un-
like Chapmanton, Wonoka is in the right
place, but the resident will be insistent
that it’s called Hookina, a spot your map
tells you lies away half a dozen miles to
the west of the road. So you go on in
search of Mern Mema, a township right
ahead on the stock route. You travel,
but no township appears. You reach an
unattended railway siding labelled “Mern
Merna” and press on, confident that the
damn place is behind the hills ahead.
Three miles further on you reach some
railway cottages, wade through a mob of
goats and find that these are Merna
railway cottages and that the next real
township is Beltana, a long perish to the
north. You sit down on the running
board and consult your trusty map and
discover that the phantom township of
Mern Merna is seven miles behind you;
you passed it on the plain without seeing
so much as a jam-tin!
♦ * * *
“Zake”: Harry noticed the dopy-
looking new hand squirming as he sat on
the upturned kero. case. At last he said
“What’s up with y’, mate —nerves?” The
new hand shook his head. Then slowly,
and with an agonised look, he got up
from his rough seat, reached out for
a billet of wood and started hammering
down about half an inch of the business
end of a nail that was sticking up, Harry
gazed pop-eyed. “Have you bin siltin’
on that all this time?” he asked. Then he
went on; “Why the hell didn’t you knock
it down before?” The new hand limped
a yard or two and then came back.
“Gripes,” he said, “I would ’a’ if I’d
known it was a nail —I thought it was
on’y a splinter!”
• * * •
“Salmon Gums”; Bill the Goose and
Rabbit Jenkins spent ten months of each
year trapping bunnies and becoming pro-
gressively fed-up with each other’s
company. The remaining two months
they spent in holidays in Perth, preceded
by a row at the local pub in which ten
months’ accumulated hate was liquidated
and the vow expressed never to be associ-
ated again. Each with his own battered
old car they sought lodgings in separate,
suburbs and gloried in their freedom for
a month. Then they tyad a habit of
meeting unexpectedly in their favorite
pub and drowning their animosity in ap-
proved bush style. Emerging at closing
time from one such meeting, the two
stood on the footpath gravely debating
the problem of how to get Bill’s car,
equipped with headlamps but no lighting
system, out of the city and safely home
without attracting the attention of the
roving traffic police. Finally, with true
bush ingenuity, Rabbit removed his own
glaring headlamp bulbs and inserted
them in Bill’s car. Then Bill rolled
merrily homewards, while Rabbit hugged
the side streets. As Bill explained in
court, it could have happened to any-
one ; but the magistrate, in making it a
fiver, said it had never happened to him.
* * ♦ #
“Puyyaka”: Australia’s first aboriginal
blood-donor unit is now in operation at
Normantoq in Queensland’s far north-
west. A party of trained nurses sent out
by the Red Cross blood transfusion ser-
vice to tour the west and north-west has
already enrolled 22 aboriginal volun-
teers, and more are likely to be forth-
coming in other districts through which
they will travel. Although their blood
can be used for white patients without
any risk or difficulty at all it will be re-
served for patients of their own race.
There is already available a sufficient
panel of white donors to serve all cases
amongst white patients. Aboriginals and
mixtures, however, form a substantial
proportion of local hospital patients need-
ing transfusion, and blood of white origin
can thus be conserved.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Put a luminous watch dial
under a microscope in a dark room and
you’ll be treated to as fine a pyrotechnic
display as you’ve ever seen. You’ll see
shooting stars, little explosions of
greenish fire that dart across the field,
leaving a momentarily glowing tail be-
hind. The better the watch dial the more
stars, and brighter —one follows the other
streaking across the field of vision at all
angles. And it’s interesting to know that
you’re watching a spot of atom-smashing.
The luminous paint is made up of a mix-
ture of a tiny quantity of radio-active
material with a fluorescent chemical. As
the unstable molecules of the former
break down, alpha particles shoot off into
space with great velocity. Some of them
hit the fluorescent material and induce a
brilliant glow—the shooting stars you see
under the microscope. Tha mass disin-
tegration goes on at such a rate that the
aggregate of hits is enough to produce the
steady glow that enables you to see the
dial of your watch clearly in the dark.
And there are so many countless mole-
cules or atoms in the tiny smears of paint
that there is no danger of the mechanism
breaking down or going on strike.
TO THE EARTH.
Old Peter spits at the dead crow slung on the
Surveys the weather, hopes for a clear to-
morrow, _
Flicks the reins and sucks his pipe while the
plough’s
Decisive steel slices the sullen furrow.
Ponderous hooves, thumping the fallow ground.
Raise sprays of burning dust that bob and
spin *
In the wind and powder the oily loam that lies
Revealed where the cleaving plough has lately
been.
And cattle, munching complacently on hillsides.
Ramble in their dream or lift foolish heads
To force a hollow moan that echoes, then dies
In the muffling silence of empty milking sheds.
Rusty haystacks bulge in prosperous paddocks,
And, whirling vanes of gold, the windmill rides
Like a vibrant mast on multicolored seas
Of billowing grain, impelled by old earth-
tides.
I
The farmhouse leans a little on the slope,
Remembering a wilderness and men who gave
Their labor, love, and hate to the warm-
bosomed earth,
At once their passionate mistress and traitor-
slave ...
To the earth, to the. redolent earth, my days
have bound me’,
Where laden, sunlit fields dip low and lovely
From dark hills dreaming in purple skies around
me;
Where great gums clap the singing air above
me.
i
And giant grasses wave and rustle in wind,
Melodic rhythms and chattering birds alight
On glinting winter leaves —where we may go on
Undivided, the earth and I, beyond the night.
QUPEkSLAND.
DAVID H. ROWBOTHAM.


“Wippegong”: Black Mick dwelt in an
old corrugated-iron tank which, like its
occupant, was past its prime and no longer
erect. He had lined and floored it with
bags, and a couple of sheets of bark
broke the main force of the gales at the
open end. Once Mick had occasion to
go in to the townsnip, so, deeming his
front door slightly insecure, he shut most
of his wad in his safe—a little pocket-size
one, with “Fine Cut” printed on the top
—and looked around for a suitable place
to hide it. He decided on the spud patch
near by, where one precocious plant had
burst into flower ahead of its fellows,
and beneath that prominent stalk went
the treasure. But in the township Mick
met an old cobber, and they adjourned
to the pub for a yam which lasted just
over a week; and when the wanderer
finally returned all the spuds were in
flower —20 acres of creamy blossoms in
nice even rows. Hennessey, who owned
both the taties and the tank, never for-
gave Michael for bandicooting a couple
of chains of prime spuds that were nearly
ready to catch the early market.
* He * *
“Old-timer”: Behind the 300-odd
Hereford steers heading for the Cohuna
trucking-yards rode Kelly, Pocket-knife,
Little Curl and the boss, and when they
camped on the river just, out of Barham
they didn’t know that another 100-odd
head of the same breed, age and condi-
tion were two miles out, coming in from
the north. There was a heavy, white
Murray fog that night and the two herds
had boxed before anything could be
done, so it was agreed to rest, make a
rough draft in the morning and a draft
and count on the Barham bridge. While
the rest strove with the cattle next morn-
ing, Kelly rode into Barham and warned
the police that the cattle would be cross-
ing. Then he rode over into Koondrook
to clear the way there. The lone police-
“Who put Walnuts in the atom-splitter?”
man he found in a quandary, being re-
quired at Kerang Court that same day.
“Lend me a uniform and helmet and I’ll
hold the bridge,” quoth Kelly. So it was
that when Little Curl led the cattle over
the bridge, he saw a helmeted figure that
was strikingly familiar, holding up two
cars and a baker’s cart. “Hey,” yelled
Little Curl. “You see anything of a
bloke named Kelly? He come over this
morning with word of this mob?” From
under the helmet a squeaky voice replied.
“Him. His horse played up an’ both fell
in the river.” “He get out all right?”
“Couldn’t say. Bin too busy. Can’t waste
time lookin’ for galoots who go failin’ in
the river. Come om, come orn, get these
flamin’ bailies over an’ out o’ the road! ”
It was a very worried Little Curl who
rode back round the mob when the tail
had crossed and told thfc boss. There had
been words between the disguised Kelly
and the rest, and they heard Little Curl
gravely and sighed sadly for their lost
mate. Just on dark Kelly rode into the
camp half-way to Cohuna. “Gawsh-
troolh! ” howled L.C. “Thought y’ was
drowned. Howja get out? Where y’
bin?” “Got carried away in the current
an’ went down the river 42 miles before ’
—began Kelly, but then the others
couldn’t hold their laughter. It took
seven Cohuna beers and a promise of a
new hat to restore Little Curl’s good
nature.
« * * *
“Sou’-west”: I like the easy way in
which “Bray Rock” (B. 4/6/’47) dis-
misses the suggestion that the catfish
possesses poison glands. My acquaint-
ance with the species extends only to
those inhabiting Westralian rivers, but I
know from experience that there are
few external inflictions that surpass in
acute and prolonged agony the sting of
a W.A. catfish; and a prick from a
dead one may be nearly as painful
as one from the living fish. The pain,
which of course varies in intensity ac-
cording to the depth of the wound, takes
the form of a feeling of intense com-
pression ; and it may last 24 hours. In-
jections of local anaesthetics afford the
readiest relief, though an application of
intense heat helps to allay the agony.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: “Flathead’s” discourse
on fish voices under water (B. 4/6/’47)
explains exactly the state of alarm into
which barramundi and other denizens of
Kimberley (W.A.) billabongs fall on
hearing a pair of oyster shells clapped
together just under the surface. This
is a performance conducted by the
natives when carrying through a fish
battue in rapidly evaporating waters:
the idea being to scare the fish up into
the shallow end of the pool where they
may be speared with comparative ease
or netted by means of a fence of brush-
wood. Evidently those clapping shells
sound to piscatorial ears as a booming
voice of Doom.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The belief that “a
snake is a rather helpless creature” (B.
28/5/’47) was shared by a couple of
snake “charmers” who used to provide
Perth citizens with a cheap thrill. In their
“pit of death” they handled snakes with
an abandon that culminated in an ex-
hibition of the effect of their poison on
fowls. As the chooks squawked and
fluttered to a quick death, and flappers
swooned, the operator would permit the
snake to drive its fangs into his arm.
There was no catch —the snake bit him
all right, but its poison had been ex-
pended on the fowl, and it required time
to build up a new reserve. Theoretically
quite safe, and the “charmers” actually
practised their “art” for many months.
But the “rather helpless creatures” won
in the end.
« ♦ • •
“B. A. Ker”: Something dark flitted
noiselessly across the angle of my vision,
and presently a startled cry came from
the wife in another room. Along the
dark passage the thing whisked close to
my face, eerie, noiseless and ghostlike.
I killed it with a shoe when I found it
hanging head downwards in the bath-
room. But how I regretted my deed a
minute after! No bigger than a mouse,
if a trifle wider, the quaint creature had
a plump, furred body. It wasn’t blind
—at least it had two eyes: mere
slits no larger than a pin’s head.
The ears were threequarters of an
inch long, each divided inside with a
curious membrane partition. Despite
the opinions of a radio quiz-master the
toes were not webbed; all five were
separate—soft, dainty members as thin
as thread. But the wings fascinated me.
Ten inches from tip to tip they stretched
in a strong, veined transparent mem-
brane from a spot high up the side, right
down the body, over the back legs and
“She still keeps losing a minute a week."
across the tail. The supporting “frame-
work” consisted of the main, wing bone.
At the third joint two strong additional
“stays” spread out to strengthen the
relatively enormous spread of wing; and
near this junction, on each side, was a
tiny hook. The little animal was
obviously hanging by these hooks when
I reverted to the primitive. But I’m
still puzzling out why a bat should leave
the haven of a dark night to fly through
a door into lighted rooms.
* * * ♦
“Lub”: Judd and his bride started
from scratch on a rough farm out Windy
Creek way and had a struggle. As the
years passed they made steady progress
and began to put aside money for the
house Judd had promised since they
first went there. The old shack, though
a couple of skillion rooms had been
added when the kids were born, was a
ruin. Mrs. J, pestered Judd time and again
about choosing the site and improving
the designs for a model home. Then the
great day arrived when Judd drove off in
the ancient flivver to consult a builder in
a far-off town. That evening a large,
shiny sedan rolled up to the shack and
Judd, resplendent in a new suit, stepped
out. “What’s happened, Dad?” his
wife asked. “And whose car have you
got?” “Our new car,” Judd said proudly.
“Ain’t she a beauty?” “Ye-es,” Mrs.
Judd said, “but now we w-won’t get the
new house w-we wanted till we can save
up again. It’ll take us y-years.” Then
she broke down in a flood of tears.
“There, there, Mum,” Judd patted and
comforted her with fine disregard for the
rivulets coursing down his new waist-
coat. “Don’t take on like that. I did
it t’ please y’; but I s’pose a man’d
never git t’ understandin’ the way wimmin
look at things. Don’t y’ see. Mum, we
had t’ have somethin’ better than the old
rattletrap t’ go with the new house?”
* * * *
“Geep”: When Rottnest Island, off
Fremantle harbor, became a popular
holiday resort, the island’s Government-
selected Board of Control erected a
memorial to Vlamingh. On the brass
plate it is pointed out that Vlamingh
“gave to it the name Rottenest from the
abundance of rats’ [wallabies’] nests
found upon it.” Vlamingh had regarded
the animal with which the island was
infested as a rat, the wallaby at that
time (1696) being known to the European
world only from Pelsart’s very super-
ficial description. It would need a fertile
imagination to dignify the resting place
of Setonyx brachyurus by the name of
nest.
» * * •
“Goldie”: Joe and Harry, driving a
tunnel on contract, used to bore a set
of holes a day and fire the charges at
knock-off. Joe loaded the holes one
evening and went out to light up the
forge for sharpening drills, leaving Harry
to pick up the tools in the truck and
ignite the fuses. It was about 400 ft. out
from the face and the truck line was
battered by the heavy stones hurled back
from the blasting. Harry got the fuses
spitting and set off at a canter with the
truck, which promptly ran off the fine.
He wrestled with the thing and got it
back on the rails and made another dash
for the opening. But the trip-lever on
the truck had come unstuck. The door
on the end swung open and a pick fell
out under the wheels. Harry and the
truck looped the loop. Joe heard the
shots roar out of the tunnel, counted the
fourth and last and hurried inside. He
was relieved to hear Harry groaning, for
that meant his mate was alive. Pick-
ing his way through the smoke and over
loose mullock, Joe found Harry mutter-
ing and cursing safely inside the up-
turned truck. “Scared, eh?” he taunted
his 'partner. “No bloomin’ fear,” re-
turned Harry. “I knew I’d be safe when
I took a header into the truck, otherwise
I’d ’ve bin out o’ the tunnel an’ half-
way down the spur with it on me back.”
* * * *
“Mug”: When the last signs of bush
track had petered out into tussocks and
kangaroo grass, Barney angled slightly
to the right and made for a low ridge
that showed in the distance. Topping
this, he came in sight of old Dick’s
humpy, standing out bleakly on the plain
about a mile away. Not a tree or bush
graced the area, and, except for a lone
cow feeding off on the left, nothing in
the view competed with the humpy but
two rows of groggy fence posts. Barney
rode on. Approaching the building from
the back, he rode round and discovered
Dick smoking contentedly on the door-
step. “Came with the money f’r that
greyhound I bought orf y’,” explained
Barney, moving a hand towards his
pocket. Dick looked up, threw a glance
round the empty horizon and waved
Barney inside. Then, carefully shutting
the door, he motioned the visitor to the
one chair, and, crossing to the window,
hitched a hessian bag across on to its nail
fastening. “Y’ can’t be too careful,” he
explained in a hushed voice. “A bloke
don’t want the whole bloomin’ world
knowin’ what ’e got f’r that dorgl’L
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Old Bob, normally the best
bread cook in the district, had been hav-
ing trouble with his home-baked loaves.
The weather for weeks had been hot
and humid when he told his tale of woe.
“Can’t understand it. Blanky yeast’s a bit
slow, but I keep ’er in the fireplace so she
never gets cool an’ she comes up all right.
An’ yet the bread’s rotten.” A
couple of days later he took me at my
word and brought a little of his spud-
and-hop concoction over. I put a drop
on a microscope slide and saw the cause
of Bob’s troubles. The living cells, little
yellowish ovals scattered round the field
of vision, were much smaller than they
should have been and they were badly
shaped: spindly and elongated instead of
plumply rotund. They were not “bud-
ding” as freely as they should have been,
and here and there among them were
small groups of tiny rod-shaped objects—
bacteria. What had happened was that
the cells, generation by generation, be-
came weakened and stunted by being
kept in a hot place. They were no longer
breeding as fast as usual, and because of
this, and of the high temperature itself,
disease was creeping in. Bob’s yeast bottle
was a perfect picture of a good stock that
had been, through bad management,
allowed to run down: he had a mob of
culls in the bottle. I told him to put his
yeast in a.cool place for a week or two
where the low temperature would favor
the yeast cells at the expense of the germs.
MOONSTRUCK.
I went last night where the wallabies feed
On the edge of the springing rye.
A moon, sag-bellied and gone to seed,
Crept carefully up the sky;
All by myself went I
To rid my soul of the day’s unrest,
To watch the night begin
Drawing a blanket of snowy mist
Up to the valley’s chin,
Tucking the ends well in.
The odor of wattles in winter bloom
Hung on the air like smoke;
A voice came solemnly through the gloom
(I thought that a gum-tree spoke)
“Mo-poke” and again “Mo-poke.”
And all of a sudden I thought it strange
That nothing startled or flew;
The wallabies fed at closest range,
A bandicoot or two
Scuttled close to my shoe.
A lazy wombat would not allow
Me room as we met on the rise;
The possum balancing on a bough
With moonlight in his eyes
Showed nothing of surprise.
Some gulf in time all unaware
I had crossed with a moonlit ease;
The whole wide night flowed through me
like air
Flowing through she-oak trees,
A breeze when there is no breeze.
I strained my ears for the grave command
I knew some faint voice spoke.
But before I could grasp it or understand
The moment shattered and broke ■
With the warning owl’s “Mo-poke.”
Then nothing at all in all the bush
Trusted me in the least;
Thumping away in the underbrush
The wallabies fled their feast,
And all the rustlings ceased.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


MO
COMBINED OUTLET-HYDRANT of simple but
Ingenious design is trouble-free, more efficient, yet
costs less than half old method. Minimum
obstruction in both outlet and main,
NEW TYPE FLEXIBLE COUPLING of pressed steel
construction stands up to rough usage. Quick
action, positive lock, 20 degrees flexibility.
IMPROVED SPRAY HEAD gives flat
square spray * • , used with 24 ft, pipes
gives 48 ft. coverage . , , one-third less
handling and work. Screw-on top,
NEW STANDS WITH NO CROSSBARS
eliminate interference to growing vegeta-
tion. Sturdy angleiron • • • welded
construction.
Literature on request.
Rainbow
SPRAY IRRIGATION
83 Pitt Street, Sydney
(.Factory: Pyrmont)
60/2C
mm
#
OYSRPftOOF
MSO. CAMON & CO PTY tTP. EST 18*8 tra8
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
C
BONE
Sterilised
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum oi
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. iune.
" All particulars from :—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Crutching Ewes.
“Kia-Ora”: It should be done a month
to six weeks before lambing begins, so
that the ewes are not knocked about
while heavy in lamb. Use patience and
careful handling in all operations. Pre-
mature births and malpresentations—
with serious threat to the life of the ewe
herself—frequently result from rough or
careless handling of the pregnant ewe. v
Crutching is essential, not only to re-
duce fly-strike but because removal of
wool from the crutch allows the lamb
easy access to the udder. Crutching lapib-
ing ewes appreciably improves the
chances of a high lambing percentage.
Removal of wool from between legs and
under tail is not sufficient. Above the
tail must be clean, too, though some
overdo it and lose, unnecessarily, portion
of the fleece. The width of a comb or
above the tail will be
enough.
All wool should come off the udder,
and wrinkles and sweat dags must go.
Speed in crutching must always be a
secondary consideration ; efficiency is the
first test. On small properties it will pay
the owner to split ewes into small lots
and crutch them himself. At all times
the operation should be under his per-
sonal supervision.
It isn’t usually necessary to crutch
wethers as severely as ewes. In
dry seasons when flies arfe inactive
crutching of dry sheep may not be neces-
sary. However, ringing of wethers and
wigging of both sexes are necessary in
most districts at least once yearly, and
should be done in conjunction with
crutching.
Should the crutchings be of sufficient
quantity, they should be sorted into two
grades branded respectively first and
second crutchings, or pieces and crutch-
ings. Stained wool should be baled and
sold separately, and it should be well
dried before being pressed. Stained wools
cannot be dyed as readily as other wools,
and are in correspondingly less demand.
Crutchings of good length and color, free
from vegetable fault, may be baled with
a minimum of sorting.
Red Poll Record.
“Myrrhee”: The standard herd test
for pure-bred cows run by Victorian
Department of Agriculture has unearthed
some high yielders in its time, but the
Department itself has not always figured
prominently* because it has stuck to the
dual-purpose Red Poll (never a yielder
in the Jersey class) and to running one
of the largest herds in the competition.
This makes for a lower average yield
than would be the case with a small
group of hand-picked top-notchers
specially “steamed-up” for the test.
The Department, however, prefers to
run its herd under normal farm condi-
tions to demonstrate what can be done
with a large herd of well-bred, well-
managed cows. In spite of its size (it
was the second-largest herd in the test
last year with 66 cows) it averaged 3001 b.
butterfat (3831 b. with allowances) for the
the 273-day period. In this year’s test
the herd produced a world record for a
Red Poll with a. butterfat yield of 7771 b.
During the milking year the record-
smasher, Victoria Electricity, yielded
16,1031 b. of milk testing 4.82 p.c. Bred
at Werribee farm. Electricity is a big,
dark-rfed cow with neat conformation
and a shapely udder.
Cotton in Queensland.
“K.W.R.”: Cotton is the outstanding
cash crop to grow for renovation of run-
down pastures on most Queensland dairy-
farms ; in addition the seed makes an
excellent concentrate for feeding. Though
production has declined considerably in
“A bit easier, Joe —my sciatica's had this mornin' !”
recent years, about 6500 acres were har-
vested during the 1946 season, lor an
average yield of 4891 b. seed cotton, or
1741 b. raw cotton per acre.
Under the cotton bounty Australian
growers are guaranteed 15d. per lb. for
raw cotton for the next five years. How-
ever, the final price is likely to be well
above that, as each year the basic price
approximates the import parity for cotton
of similar grade and staple.
For the current season the basic price
has been fixed at 19R per lb., which, on
a crop of 6000 bales, should return the
grower about per lb. for seed cotton,
or approximately a penny more than
any previous price paid for the Queens-
land crop.
With assured prices and a demand for
stock feed and cotton textiles, there is no
reason why production should not be in-
creased to the level of a decade ago, when,
upwards of 65,000 acres were planted
and yields of seed cotton ranged as high
as 26 million lb.
Tractor Heat.
“Aerogenes”; The soaring to super-
heated heights of the temperature indi-
cator on a tractor does not necessarily
mean a broken fan belt or other trouble.
Sometimes it is due simply to the fact
that the end of the thermometer tube is
inserted into the engine block at a place
where the water fails to circulate. With
the thermometer put in at the back, and
the tractor going downhill, the hottest
water will rise to the back end and stay
there. The thermometer will indicate
a temporary overheating which will be
relieved when the machine is on the level
or going uphill. A similar thing occurs
when the thermometer is at the top of
one side and the tractor is canted by a
furrow or a hill. Perhaps we should “log”
our tractor instruments on various slopes,
as aircraft compasses are “swung” for
deviation.
Thistles few: Silage.
“Bogan Joe”: Their value as a silage
proposition is not fully realised, and acres
of the kind known as variegated go to
wa&e in N.S.W. every year. When con-
ditions are right this thistle grows pro-
lifically on river flats in most parts of
the State —I have seen it 12 and 14 feet
high and so thick a horse could not be
ridden through it. In its green state
stock will not eat it, except when very
young, and then it is sudden death to
cattle. However, made into silage it has
a fodder value that is hard to equal, and
a dairyman in central west N.S.W. who
never fails to put it into a pit has re-
peatedly told me that with it as a standby
during dry spells his cows maintain their
yield of milk and butter-fat. He values
it so much that he takes his lorry 20
miles to secure the thistles any time he
can get them. To harvest them he uses
two horses and a drag log to knock them
over and break the stalks off at the
ground-level.
Using Gelignite.
“Bodo”: There’s more to the safety
aspect (B. 16/4/’47). When priming the
fuse make certain all sawdust is cleared
before inserting the squared end of the
fuse gently until it touches the fulrhinator.
Don’t use a screwing action unless you
wish to join the fingerless legion. When
crimping the metal with pliers hold both
cap and fuse firmly to prevent any
movement. In the old days of brass caps
miners crimped with their teeth ; modem
light metal caps make that operation ex-
ceedingly risky. Insert the cap into the
gelignite by holding the metal—don’t
push on the fuse, as the crimp may not
be tight enough to prevent movement,
and pressure on the explosive composi-
tion can cause disaster. Use a small stick
to prepare a hole in the stiff gelignite.
When tamping explosive into holes
bored in rock beware of small fragments
of stone which can (and do, as quarry
accidents prove) spark with the friction
applied by the wooden tamping stick. If
“spitting” the free end on the fuse to
facilitate lighting clean the fingers after
handling the bare explosive and so avoid
a certain splitting headache.
Carefully read the instructions card in-
cluded in each carton of sticks. It leads
to longer life and more powerful explo-
sions ; and always approach each task as
though it is the first time you have
handled explosives. Through the years
1 have lost count of the accidents I have
attended in which the victim was one of
those in whom familiarity breeds con-
tempt —and carelessness.
The Day-old's.
“Girrawheen”: It will soon be spring
hatching time, and for those who replace
laying stock by day-old pullets it’s worth
remembering always to have the brooder
ready to receive them and, as they are
usually hungry on arrival, place some
feed before them. Always give them the
first water lukewarm; this prevents
them being chilled, especially as they are
usually very warm when the box is
opened on delivery. Regularly clean the
brooder of droppings.
At six weeks wean them off the
heated brooder," and Jpy seven weeks no
heat is necessary. /Take care that the
pullets are kept growing; a check in
growth affects the laying. The only
profitable birds are those that are well
cared for. Non-layers eat as much as
layers and really cost more to keep.
Forests in S.A.
“Gumeraka”: S.A., a comparatively
treeless State, plans to expand forestry
production to 300,000,000 super feet
within 25 years. Ultimately between
4000 and 5000 men will find employment
in forests, sawmills and attendant in-
dustries. With 85,000 acres of forest re-
serves unplanted, chief expansion is to
be in the south-east. Present radiata
pine plantations will be increased from
75,000 to 100,000 acres, and an immediate
increase in log output from 60,000,000
to 75,000,000 super feet annually is to be
completed by 1950. Within eight years
between 120,000,000 and 150,000,000
super feet a year is expected from s.-e.
forests.
Coast Sickness.
“T.H.M.”: It is not only a sheep com-
plaint' (B. 9/4/’47), and is closely allied
with “bush sickness” in N.Z. On King
Island (where cattle were the main con-
cern and sheep were not grazed) correc-
tion of the trouble began. Cattlemen had
found that if animals could be confined


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
r ;!
Safe in his hands...
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique of thj A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged, that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently at A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
ustralian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree^HentyjnidJHaY.
DESTROY THESE PESTS
w»h CYanogaS
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
* Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
<
A'' *•
»» . >’
. *
. fVJvS -
%■&* ..••••>• ..
*•***'" ,- k ** ,-J, A. >
• - ,v * k\iV»^
*»•*.•«**' e.?
«S*
V*
YOUR PROBLEM OF SHIPPING
SMALL PACKAGES
• M •
&r.
M'S
,'v'-'
M**
tSP>
5*
?*5
ik
V ©*
fc«2
\
vji
Vj
THEM TO A MULTI-UNIT
PACK WITH A
GERHARD
Tettsionaf
Strapping
System
GERRARD Packaging Engineers are
freely available to demonstrate how
1. Shipping regulations can be observed.
2. Your handling costs lowered.
3. Your Product given better Protection.
mm
mm
■■ I ■
Mm
m
M
M
i,*:
s
NJ
Enquire at:
at
W!
GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES
Pt&*
CO. PTY. LTD
18-24 IRELAND ST., W. MELBOURNE, C. 3
269 SUSSEX ST., SYDNEY
240 BARRY PARADE, VALLEY, BRISBANE
168 GROTE ST., ADELAIDE
W. H. EVANS LTD., 115 ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH
: -v
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting •
LYSAGHTS
proof
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
.t.
m :f % SSopiri
ESTABLISHED 1884
Bfdarbed Wire
Zinfc Oxide
QUALdITY GUARANTEED .
Obtaifdnable from all the Leading
Merchanfdts, Storekeepers and Agents,
Lysaght Bros. & Cos. Pty., Lt<L
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydne*
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
to a coastal area with only iron-impreg-
nated water to drink they would keep
fairly sound, whereas after a few months
on the calcareous soils they would die.
Once removed to inland country, not
necessarily of pasture quality, as scrub-
land would act as a corrective, they would
recover. And soon after World War I
the Tasmanian Government put its
veterinary staff on to the matter. V. S.
Dickinson was the officer most con-
cerned, and after he had had considerable
success with licks he went to S.A., where
he became associated with the C.S.I.R.
Since the cobalt and copper treatment
came into use sheep running on coastal
soils give little serious trouble. Very
little work has, as yet, been done with
adult cattle, though young stuff is dosed
systematically. Some areas on King
Island, known locally as “hospitals,”
have a truly remarkable effect on cattle,
which apparently have only to be on
them for a short time to change from
utter emaciation to full health. These
areas are of granite base.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”; Botulism comes from
damaged and rotting fodder, mould, car-
casses of dead animals and water that
runs off contaminated areas such as
horseyards and strawstacks. By burning
all dead animals and unwanted straw
some measure of immunity may be ob-
tained, but it pays to have all animals
vaccinated with serum, readily obtained
from C.S.I.R. serum laboratories.
“Bill C.”: When a cow has to be given
a purgative, about lib. of Epsom salts
dissolved in li pints of water is the dose.
In severe cases of forage poisoning, |
pint of molasses may be added to the
salts. Bloat may be treated by adding
one tablespoon of ground ginger to the
laxative drench ; it will help greatly to
settle the intestines and stomach. Or two
tablespoons of soda bicarbonate and one
tablespoon of ginger may be given in a
pint of water to help the beast to expel
the gas already present, and to prevent
the formation of more gas. Repeat after
20 minutes if the beast is not much easier.
“Salmon Gums”: Heavy soil isn’t un-
suitable for cauliflowers (B. 4/6/’47), In
W.A. the best caulies are grown on heavy
loam with a heavy clay subsoil at about
ten inches. I’ve never used colloidal
sulphur to control mildew, but then I’ve
never had mildew in caulies. Derris dust
won’t control grubs on my patch. I dust
weekly with a mixture of arsenate of lead
(25 per cent.) and kaolin (sieved), and
for aphis I use nicotine sulphate mixed
into slaked lime to make it 2j per cent,
strength. In heavy soil hoe and culti-
vate between the rows at least weekly,
and don’t think that rich soil doesn’t
require manure ajid fertiliser.
“Big Billy”: One good colony of bees
per acre of fruit bloom is sufficient for
pollination, but it is desirable to distri-
bute them through the orchard; they
have less distance to fly to reach the
hloom, and much colony work will be
done between showers if they are right
on the supply. Because of the danger to
working bees spraying should not be done
during full bloom; best time is at petal
fall.
“Malo”; Do not be afraid to thin out
carrots by using some of them before
they are well developed. The spaces left
will fill with water and promote rapid
growth among those left. Should the
young plants be attacked by snails and
slugs poison baits should be laid at night
and collected before the birds are around
in the morning. A border of wood ashes
will keep snails away from the beds.
Apart from these pests, carrots have few
enemies.
“C.A.A.”: Where cockerels are penned
together for fattening, fighting often
causes disfigurement and loss of flesh.
Application of Stockholm tar to the
wounds will discourage the birds from
attacking one another.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to grow gardenias; position, best sorts
and trade prospects?
Warm, well-drained situation (protected from
strong winds, which quickly destroy the flowers)
is essential; Globosa (creamy white, tube
flowers, Bft.), Magnifica (double flowers, chalky
white, 4ft.) and Intermedia (double flowers,
creamy white, richly perfumed, 3ft.) are good
sorts. Trade prospects will depend on quality
of blooms and the number which can be sup-
plied. When blooms are ready consult florists;
generally it takes at* least three years before
blooms are ready to gather from the shrubs.
♦ * * *
How to destroy red spider on vegetable
plants ?
Spray liberally under and over the leaves with
quassia chips or lime-sulphur solution, also
the soil at the base. All stakes and sticks
which have been used should be painted with
creosote before being stacked away to get rid
of eggs. Beds in which red spider appeared
on previous crops should be sprayed with
kerosene emulsion both before and after
digging. ,


"THERE'S NOTHING
I/HE HOGGET TO
, MR HE SHOES SP/C
SPAH RHP PERPY t
FOP DOTY/"
(the owjg
\°N°uhofp
DOBS > t *
.NUGGET'
shoe polish /,.*
NP46/57
1
i
/In analysis of a womans 10ve...
DADDY SOWED
A WIND/
By Cynthia Reed
One of the most provocative
books of the decade... written
with rare understanding .and
deep feeling. The character-
isation is masterly, and there
are unusual glimpses of the
European and Australian
scene. It’s a romance you’ll
remember and talk about.
Price
8/6
A SHAKESPEARE HEAD BOOK
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
2/- per copy. 22/6 a year post free.
HARTS
Circular Charts i« «fl ty»n ai
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get mo quote
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
OUEEM STREET HTV. ÜB. BRISBANE. O ld.
You'll always qet
the best from the
PIUME pump...
Today, Plume is the best motor spirit you can buy. And as soon
as world conditions permit, the Plume Pump will lead in serving
the highest quality motor spirits, made by revolutionary methods
developed by the world’s largest research staff. So form the
habit now of going to the Plume Pump, where you’ll always get
the best motor spirit
VACUU
QMUTT PRODUCT
——— listen cash weak to ——
“OPERA FOR THE PEOPLE"
Australia's finest
Radio Entertainment
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. [lncorporated in Australia]
Bert developed the habit of winking
broadly whenever he saw Michael enter-
ing or leaving the lift, of crying jovially,
“How are you getting on, Doctor?”
with a sly and approving emphasis. Bert
was quite convinced Michael was a
doctor—further evidence of him being a
deep one—and nothing Michael could say
could make Bert disbelieve it. He
developed the habit of waiting for
Michael in corridors and consulting him
about his rheumatism, his kidneys, his
teeth.
The girls were still looking for ac-
commodation. And, in the meantime, liv-
ing with Michael, who, though he slept on
the lounge, was enjoying himself. Break-
fast was always cooked, and when he
came back from the University at night
there was always a hot meal waiting for
him. Life slipped into a pleasant, orderly
routine.
Rosy, of course, was a problem. Rosy
had quite rehabilitated herself in Michael’s
regard after her shameless desertion of
him for Bruce at the nightclub, and he
took her out regulafly, which was ex-
pensive. But although Rosy had an in-
satiable curiosity concerning the flat,
Michael managed to keep her away for
the time being.
Bruce was less easy. He kept ringing
and, at other times, called.
Then, one night when they had all
gone to bed, the girls in the bedroom, and
Michael on the lounge, the knocks were
particularly loud. Michael decided to
ignore them. He heard the lift, and
drifted into hazy dreams of his father,
and the horrified face of the sergeant he
had nearly shot on Liverpool Range.
Then he heard a key rasping in the door,
heard old Bert’s obsequious voice, “That’s
quite all right, Mr. Boeuf” —Bert pro-
nounced it “Boof”—“no, no, no trouble
at all.” Bruce’s loud voice, his genteel
drawl, and the high twitter of a girl.
The light was switched on, blinding
Michael, who sat up in a tangle of
blankets, his mouth open, blinking.
A little scream from the girl, “Bruce—
look!” Bruce’s voice, “No, it isn’t a ghost
—though it is a bit white round the gills,
isn’t it, Joan? Meet my friend Michael
O’Shea.”
Michael, very white, really, sitting up,
fumbling for his slippers, worried about
that dark bedroom, irritated by Bruce’s
easy manner, no more apology than a
casual “Sorry—thought you were out-
just came up to wait for you”—a likely
tale at that. But Michael made a cup of
tea, fearful of seeming too rude and in-
hospitable, all the time shooting nervous,
short-sighted glances towards the bed-
room door, fortunately closed. What he
would do if the door opened, and a
kimonoed figure—or two of them —ap-
peared, he couldn’t imagine.
< < \ \ /E’LL simply have to leave, as soon
VV as we possibly can,” said Sue at
breakfast next morning. “This is getting
altogether too complicated.”
“Yes,” Betty agreed, “we’ll get in
somewhere. This is too awkward for us.
Our friends don’t know where we are,
and I’ve been having my letters sent to
work. Next thing we’ll be into a scandal.”
Two knocks, very loud, interrupted the
conversation. “Bert, 1 suppose,” Sue
said, standing up and walking across in
her blue satin kimono. Sue had made
herself up after her shower, powder,
rouge, fair hair smoothed back over her
ears. “He’s early,” Betty said, briefly,
lighting a cigarette.
But that wasn’t Bert’s voice, A loud,
aggressive voice, coming from the open
doorway, and Betty poised, undecided,
like a wilted lily in a blue satin gown, her
blue eyes wide and her handsome mouth
gaping. And the voice, “ ’Struth! This
is a nice thing! Where’s Michael
O’Shea?”
“Oh, Mr. O’Shea!” Betty didn’t know
what to do. Glanced down at her pink
gown, up at the bald head of Barney
O’Shea, the hairy ears, the grim grey eye-
brows. “Would you like a cup of tea,
Mr. O’Shea?”
“I don’t mind if I do.” Barney O’Shea
stamped grimly over to the table, sat
down in an awed silence. He sipped
noisily. “It’s cold.” His fierce, reddish-
brown eyes looked up, fastened on
Michael, white and shrinking. “Here!”
He held the teapot out in one hard,
brown, hairy hand. “Put some hot water
in it. Shake it up!”
Betty rallied quickly. Still white, but,
smiling, she said, “You must think this
is funny, Mr. O’Shea. But we had a bit
of a party here last night, and well, Sue
—this is Sue Adams, Mr. O’Shea —Sue
and I slept here—in the bedroom.” She
glanced eloquently at the lounge.
Michael’s blankets wdre there, and his
pyjamas,
“Hmmn.” Barney O’Shea’s fiery brown
eyes turned round the room, observing,
noting. No empty bottles, but flowers
in the vase.
“Er” Michael’s face, pale and flus-
tered, protruding from the kitchen.
“Where’s the tea kept?” ,
The idiot! “In the kitchen,” Betty
said, in a thin small voice.
The whole atmosphere had altered since
Barney O’Shea came in. Apart from the
discomfort, he dominated the place.
Small, and dark, and wiry, with his dark
suit and dark tie and soft collar and his
shrewd reddish dark eyes. Not saying
much, but sitting with his work-hardened
hands idle on the table, still, solid, like
a piece of Toomalong granite.
Then, his mind made up, rising. Politely
bowing, “Good-morning, Miss Adams,
Good-moming, Betty. I’m going back to-
night—any message for your mother?”
Betty shuddered. “No.”
“Been talking to that porter,” Barney
said conversationally. “Yes, I was up
earlier. You sleep sound here. Name of
Bert Osborne. Used to be in the same
battalion at Gallipoli. We had quite a
yarn. Well, I must go. Got some shop-
ping. Michael! You come with me.”
Not a word as they went down the
lift. Bert smiling deferentially at his
father as they went out —damn him!
Then his father hailing a taxi —Michael
looked sideways at his brown, teak-hard
face. Still not a word. It was like go-
ing to an execution.
Round the city, carrying his father’s
parcels. Then, into the saloon bar at the
Carlton, two whiskys. His father order-
ing another two.
“ ’Struth!” his father said, “Why didn t
you tell me about this, Michael? You
you young dog. No wonder your bank
account was overdrawn!” Barney broke
into a regular bellow of laughter. “Two
of them. ’Struth!” <
Michael, going home with his father’s
cheque in his pocket, began to wonder
whether he wasn’t, after all, a bit of a
dog. Bert’s pink bald head poked out
from the lift. Michael winked back at
him.


m
WARNING!
neglected cuts cun
become very dangerous
guard against
infection with
Double “D”
0
There is danger of serious infection in the
smallest cut or scratch. Attend to all minor
injuries promptly with Double D Ointment
—it protects as it heals.
0
BATHE injury with warm water and
' Double “D” Eucalyptus.
APPLY Double “D” Ointment and
CO ver with a bandage.
Double “D” Ointment is a quick acting anti-
septic healing Ointment containing Double
“D” Eucalyptus and Lanolinfe. Always keep
a jar handy in your medicine chest for emer-
gencies.
1/6 per Jar.
Double D
OINTMENT
Soothing Healing-Antiseptic |
S3*
/DEAL
m
\\T-
mM
r
fZh <■
JjUr J
vLxv
I
irtWKSK
CONSOLE MODEL 327
Five Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
TABLE MODEL 847
Four Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
Without electricity ... you can bring the
choice of the world’s programmes to your
home. These new Dual Wave Receivers
maintain the high level of performance asso-
ciated with the famous “His Master’s Voice”
trade mark.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
true-to-life RADIO
Ask your nearest H.M.V. retailer to demonstrate
these new H.M.V. radios.
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
R9/47
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
*F 4- *»* 4*
“Beware the impulse to chastise someone
clse’s child.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
At least till you have sized its parents
up.
4. 4. * 4*.
“Some women were wearing bright red stock-
ings.”—“S. M. Herald.”
For two pins they’d try anything.
•I* *i* *i*
“Social climbing brings on stomach ulcers.”
—Daily paper.
After all, the belly isn’t meant to be
crawled on.
•g.
“It is eveiy woman’s dream to be married.”
—Daily paper.
And one which they often turn into a
nightmare.
“Chicago hold-up victim Stanley Kostka was
taken for a ride in a bathtub.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.
He had no fear when to the tub
At pistol-point they lugged him,
But subsequently — here’s the rub —
We may he sure they plugged him.
B.
4- -I- 4- 4*
“Amateur boxer lost cross Alsatian dog.’’
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Person detaining same does so at his
own risk.
4* 4- 4-
“Must a girl always wait for a man who is
slow in coming up to scratch?” —New Idea.
Yes, if he has no itch to get married.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Falstein, M.H.R., fined fof parking offence,
asks for time to pay.” —Melbourne “Sun.”
We thought he had most of the time in
Australia.
“Demand for full report on bricks.”
—Sydney Sun.
. ~
“A music-hall joke has annoyed the British
Amalgamated Union of Building Trade Workers
(71,350 members).”— Sydney “Sunday Sun.
The perpetrator should be sent to (he
scaffold.
uXm
Fashioning a Majority.
“Never underestimate the importance of
fashions in politics. Dresses will
voters as effectively as arguments.”—“ S.M.H.
1 doubt if Paris modes would tickle
The fancy of the crowd who vote,
Or whether any % tailored coat
Could rescue from a nasty pickle
Him whom the hammer and the sickle
Have made to look a public goat.
But surely no one will deny
That, when election-time is pressing
And members’ prospects are distressing,
What best will catch the public eye
And help a feeble programme by
Is lavishness in window-dressing.
D. H. E.
Repercussions.
“Sixty per cent, of the parents of Bavaria s
1,216,000 schoolchildren demanded, in a State
poll, that corporal punishment should be re-
introduced into primary schools.”
Antagonists of cane , and strap
No doubt would deem this a disaster
And register a fervent “No !”
Whereas the erstwhile harassed Master
Now blithely donning gown and cap
Would merely grin and say “Whacko /”
BERT.
Reports, no doubt.
In many ways
May hand bricks out,
But not bouquets.
LOOBY.
Diary of a Homecomer.
“Melbourne police arrested a man who was
trying to get into his home at Fitzroy without
disturbing his wife.”
1 a.m.: Found front door.
1.5: Found keyhole.
1.10: Found key ; also five more wrong
keys.
1.11: Discarded key-ring into shrub-
bery.
1.15: Opened servery hatch outside
back door.
1.18: Pocketed five milk bottles to
avoid noisy disposal.
1.20: Inserted head and shoulders in
hatch.
1.21-1.30: Short nap.
1.35: Head and shoulders emerged into
kitchen. Embonpoint jammed in servery
hatch.
1.36: Intolerable itch began on left
shin.
1.38: Contracted embonpoint to
standard size and propelled remainder of
frame into kitchen.
1.39: Scratched shin.
1.40: Started groping.
1.40£: Unprovoked assault by kitchen
table and edge of door.
1.41: Oblivion. .
1.50: Aroused by deafening tick of
wrist watch.
1.51: Started crawling ; mouse stamped
thunderously across kitchen.
1.52: Attempted to climb stairs,
1.56: Realised no stairs. Turned off to
bedroom. . . , 4
1.58: Thought better of it, retired to
lounge and fell asleep thinking up self-
sacrifice story.
1.59: Oblivion. .
2.45: Awakened by stealthy noise of
wife’s arrival home.
PLUM.
Side-splitting.
“Leonid Utyesov, director of the State Jazz
Band in Moscow, whom critics attacked
violently last year for ‘ideological impurities,
is now making audiences roar with laughter
at his barbed humor against Britain and the
USA Typical of the comedian s humor is
his question: ‘Have you noticed the relation-
ship between various parts of the body/
This Utyesov answers with: For instance, you
get your feet wet and you gel a cold. And
when a foreign diplomat shoves his nose into
someone else’s garden must use his legs to
run away.’ ” —Sydney “D.T.
The World Revolution Theatre in Red
Square was packed to where the doors
would have been if the miserable Ameri-
cans hadn’t heartlessly ended Lease Lend.
One night the week before Joe had
dropped in to get an ideological belly
laugh at the brilliantly witty sallies against
the U.S.S.R.’s allies. He was horrified
at the rows of empty seats. Next day,
after questioning by the secret police
as to why they weren’t patronising the
theatre, several hundred workers were
on their way in the penal trains to
Siberia. Since then the theatre had been
sold out.
Utyesov was in grand form this night.
His jazz band, which dispensed with
piano, saxophones, trumpets and side-
drums as being the products of decadent
Westernism, had got off to a rollicking
start with Ghoulski’s sparkling foxtrot,
“Reflections in a Charnel House.” The
merry mood into which the audience was
put by this number was made even
merrier by the ensuing Canadian no-step
in hot rhythm, “Ivan’s Got the Consump-
“If you insist then , madam —no custody of the
canary , no divorce."
tion—Quork! Quork!—He’s A-goin’ to
Die.” The humor of this was made more
telling by a skeleton in a coffin which
was borne around the band as it played,
followed by mourners doing the
rhumba.
After those two pieces the famous
comedian-jazz band director got down
to the really funny part of the night’s
work.
“Why is an egg like forked lightning?”
he asked. Before anyone could answer
he said “Because the capitalistic Demo-
cracies are mortally afraid of the gigantic
strength of the invincible Soviet
Union! ”
There was a momentary silence as all
eyes were turned anxiously to the plush-
lined, perfumed box in’ which sat M.
Molotov. At first it wasn’t quite certain
whether the Soviet Foreign Minister was
laughing or had the stomachache. It
was resolved when his mo. was seen to
oscillate. The workers on their hard-
wood benches obediently followed with
a roar of laughter.
“You know,” went on Utyesov, that
two railway lines go on and on and never
meet. What does that remind you of?”
He paused, savoring the delicious sus-
pense before he dangled before them this
coruscating gem of his wit. “A bloated
capitalist plutocrat who grinds his slaves
down while they toil do make profits for
him!”
Once again anxious glances were cast
at the almost-royal box to see the great
man’s reaction. This time the Foreign
Minister was visibly shaken. So were the
workers-in the earthly paradise where all
are equal, for their suits were of pressed
paper, it was a bitterly cold night and
the burning of oil heaters was forbidden
under the latest Economic Plan. But as
M. Molotov was snugly ensconced in his
imported 250,000-rouble fur coat it must
have been that he was shaking- with
laughter, so the workers followed, rock-
ing at the side-splitting sally.
“Wait!” Utyesov was
holding up his hand for
silence. The intoxica-
tion of the comedian’s
triumph rendered him
greatly daring in front of
the high-ups. “Here is
something extra choice
in the line of ideological
humor that I have
thought up,” he went on
modestly. He looked
around with a gloomy
eye. “If you saw a wolf
loping along beside a bul-
lock cart what would it
remind you of?” He
paused, then came his
shriek-provoking sally:
“Why, the discomfiture
caused to the proponents
of a Western anti-Soviet
bloc at a U.N.O. Con-
ference when M. Gro-
myko has made a power-
ful speech, of course!”
. As soon as they saw
hat the tears coursing down Molotov’s
;heeks were not caused by a raw onion,
which the Foreign . Minister often
champed in his box, the workers, aware
that not fewer than 800 secret police
would be sprinkled among the audience,
clung to each other and shrieked.
As the laughter was subsiding the
comedian, flushed with success, took a
step forward to give them one that Bob
Hope could never have thought of. As
he did so his foot caught in a leg of the
blurtophone player’s chair and he fell,
his head going through the bass
drum. . , ,
Without waiting to see if M. Molotov s
face had relaxed from its usual grimness,
several workers burst out laughing.
Ten minutes later they were lined up
against a wall.
They weren’t solid enough to withstand
the temptation to yield to unideological
humor, so they were liquidated.
BO.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£l4 0
6 18 8
8 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:—
18 months .. .. .. IB 0
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Salary Grabbers
Nearly all the arguments at Canberra
were, naturally, in favor of their own
pockets, but one unconsidered result of
high salaries is the undermining of
members’ independence.
In earlier days, when salaries were
admittedly only compensation for time
and expenses. Ministers who disapproved
of Government policy would resign.
Even members who did not wish to be
associated with certain measures would
do this. But no one ever resigns now.
Neither can the P.M. dispense with any
Minister, however inefficient he may be,
unless another position is found for him,
at the expense of the taxpayer. None
of that makes for good government.
That a few members may lose money
by attention to their Parliamentary duties
does not alter the fact that the majority
have never earned half as much as their
salaries, or ever had any expectations of
doing so.
I was sorry to see Dr. Page try-
ing to resuscitate the ancient furphy that
large salaries would enable “the best
men” to serve in Parliament. Can he,
or anyone else, truthfully say that the
18th Commonwealth Parliament is in any
way superior to the first, when salaries
were fixed at £4OO p.a.?—E. and O. E.
(Tas.).
Child Delinquency
After 12 months at the Juvenile Court
Sydney, I discarded most conclusions as
to the cause of it all, but became con-
firmed in one—that 90 per cent, of it is
the fault of parents. Environment has
little to do with juvenile delinquency,
and the sobstuff about the under-
privileged and being driven to it was not
reflected in the facts.
Sydney, as you read, abounds in cases
of dreadful neglect and cruelty to young
children that should melt the heart of a
politician. On the other hand, there are
occasional cases of boys and girls, fully
intelligent, carefully brought up and dis-
ciplined by the best of parents, who take
to serious crime and, after a dressing
down and release on probation, come at
it again.
After allowing for these, however, and
for the mentally hopeless and the perverts,
the bulk of the day’s charge list remains,
and as the facts come out in case after
case one is filled with angry contempt for
what many Australians have done to their
heritage of British morality. Brats of
14 or 15, carefully rigged out in all that
our press assures them they must have to
get glamor, including rolling hairdo, up-
lift, plucked eyebrows and silk stockings
—they look forlorn enough next morn-
ing after being brought in by the Vice
Squad, though they generally keep a
stiff upper lip.
Mother usually has plenty to say, on
the lines of “We never thought for a
minute.... ” and “She’s always had every-
thing she could wish for.” The magis-
trate takes it all in with weary patience,
knowing that the next five minutes will
show that Betty has, for a long time, been
going out four nights a week, and that
no one asks her where or with whom, ex-
cept as a matter of passing interest, in
«which case “the pictures, with Marje,” is
sufficient answer.
She comes home at any old hour at all
as she pleases; nobody is game to
criticise her a second time. Betty, in
fact, sometimes went to the pictures and
sometimes didn’t, but nearly always put
in some time around the penny arcades
and the hamburger joint having fun, and
a couple of times returned home the
following afternoon, complete with
excuse.
An attempt or two at bringing her to
'heel had probably been made, but the
parents, good picture-goers themselves,
who never missed reading their daily
chapter of the press, knew well that
children must be allowed to express them-
selves and must not be repressed, and
never, never belted. So Betty had an
easy victory.
Or take two hefty young 16-year-olds,
just caught after a lively week in which
they broke into 20-odd houses, took and
sold on the blackmarket everything that
wasn’t screwed down and smashed every-
thing that waSj beating up a householder
en passant. They can probably be made
into good citizens now, but meanwhile
many decent people have suffered irre-
parable loss because two fathers failed to
do their jobs.
The two boys are brought in, and stand
on the appointed spot, their hands in their
pockets, chewing. When told to take
out their hands and their gum they looked
rather bewildered, and hastened to
comply. Obviously a large proportion
of our Golden Age is genuinely unaware
that there is anything wrong about that.
Further, although they, know by in-
stinct it is wrong to steal, very many of
these lads literally have never heard any-
body say so. Every day at home they
hear how Dad stands with the bloke who
supplies the 7s. 6d.-a-gallon petrol, how
Mum beat the ration, and how Bert
diddled the call-up or stonkered the
hawks on the wharf. The rest of the home
conversation is covered by form and
sports “followed.” For leisure there are
the pictures, wolf-calling, pool, s.-p. and,
finally, “doing a bust.” Hobbies? Never
heard of ’em. As for church and religion
—the words bring the usual conventional
laugh, Dad generally rounding it off with
the statement that he hasn’t been inside a
church since he was married.
Better than my description there is an
example, available to all,* including
children, showing in clear and lively de-
tail how an undisciplined brat, with
nothing whatever in her head but “dates”
and men, may successfully dress and act
beyond her years, make a show of her-
self in public, and lie to and trick her
parents, who take it all lying down. I
refer, of course, to the Yankee strip
labelled “Penny” which “S. M. Herald”
has been featuring daily for two years.—
Khasi R. (N.S.W.).
«
Declaiming Youth
I agree that there is small cause for
worrying about university students in-
clined to the Left (B. 4/6/’47).
Southey and Wordsworth were staunch
champions of the French Revolution in
youth, but they ended as Tories. Their
examples have been paralleled often in
more recent times. Some of the stoutest
contemporary British defenders of
traditionalism (Harold Massingham, Sir
John Squire, Douglas Jerrold and Arnold
Lunn are cases in point) were in the
opposite camp as young men.
Another type of young person, especi-
ally in universities, thinks it clever to tilt
at institutions and beliefs held in rever-
ence by their elders.
There is danger in some manifestations
of that spirit. That Oxford Union resolu-
tion in favor of refusal to fight in any
circumstances for King and Country is
a case in point. Quoting from Major
Jarvis’s Half a Life:
It had instant repercussions on the Con-
tinent. Much of the aggressiveness of the
Fascist States may Well hive been due to
the fact that their dictators obtained an
indelible impression from it that Britain was
a spent force, if the youth of the country
gave public utterance to such lamentable
declarations and decisions.
—Sam (N.S.W.)
Pocket Money
1 have had no experience with ’teen-
agers (B. 11/6/’47), but can add some
remarks on school children who get far
too much money to spend as they please.
From the “infants” to the “super-
primary” we teachers find the same
trouble. The spending money we are
asked to “mind” each day amounts to a
sizable sum. A second-class boy gives
me a shilling. After school he buys
sweets which he hands round to his ever-
present “friends.”
The headmaster one day made a survey
of the super-primary classes and dis-
covered that the pupils’ pocketmoney,
except in tjyo or three cases, ranged from
2s. to 10s. a week, and that did not in-
clude cash for pictures. The mother of
one of the exceptions came to me and
asked my opinion. Should she, against
her better judgment, give her child more,
so that he would not feel an exception,
or leave things as they were? I told
her I thought a shilling a Week was
enough for a boy of 12. If he was not
satisfied, let him earn some.
She bought the boy a few fowls, in
which he takes a keen interest, and now
he has egg money to spend as he wishes.
She tells me that he banks a little as well.
Strangely, the more pocketmoney the
children have to spend, the harder it is
to get them to buy necessary school books
and other equipment. The familiar cry
is: “Mum says she can’t afford to get
it,” or “Dad hasn’t any money to spare
this week.” The lolly ration never seems
to fail, however. — Shirley (N.S.W.).
ft -
Population Lag
One wonders whether “Fed-up’s” hus-
band (B. 4/6/’47) will be much the worse
for his fortnight’s batching. Thousands
of others have had a. good deal of it
without having suffered overmuch. Thou-
sands of us have been without a tele-
phone all our lives and the lack has not
prevented us from raising families. Nor
did we receive any £l6 persuasions to
produce our first, or any other, child.
“Fed-up’s” letter is an outcry for things
and comforts which cannot be had at
present. And that is the root of the
matter. Everywhere the cry is “Give us
more money, more things, and you will
see the birth-rate rise.” In 50 years we
have had more of these than in any
previous period, yet, except for the arti-
ficial stimulus of the war years, the birth-
rate has fallen horribly.
The fact is that we have come to value
things above people, above families. Let
those who can cast their minds back to
the times before the movies, the radio, the
bridge-party; back to the days when
the family was the family’s pleasure; to
• the happy family groups gathered around
the hearth or the piano. In those days,
“home-life” meant something, and the
coming of another child really was a
“blessed event,” and one in which neigh-
bors also rejoiced—and helped. Today
the picture is different. Children are too
often a nuisance because they hinder the
parents in their pursuit of pleasure out
of the home. All sorts of associations
and clubs compete with the home for
one’s leisure hours and the much-
vaunted community-centre is not always
an exception. Too often, to be a “civic-
minded citizen,” means to neglect one’s
home life.
Schools are continually being pressed
to squeeze into their already overcrowded
curricula more and more of the matter
that used to be inculcated at home. Pre-
school kindergartens are increasing in
number, and parents are cheerfully sur-
rendering the joys of parenthood, the joys
of teaching their infants, which even the
lower animals jealously cherish. Many
women refuse even to suckle their young
because of the fear that their “figures”
will suffer in the process.
It all goes to prove that it is the mental
attitude towards parenthood that is at
fault —so many simply do not realise the
pleasure which real parenthood imparts.
If the birth-rate is to be raised, Aus-
tralians must regain some of its sturdy
pioneers’ spirit of independence and cease
to cry petulantly to the “Government”
for more things, while bewailing the
taxes with which those things are to be
bought. The young man and woman
just marrying cannot expect to start
where their parents left off —Heaven
help Australia if all married couples
have to be bribed with telephones before
they will produce offspring.— Wombat
(S.A.).
More Erosion
Australian food production is not so
far ahead of consumption that the coun-
try can afford to see any of its best soil
go out of commission. Aviation authori-
“Jast fancy Brother Jonathan going over to the heathen like that!”
ties seem to find it particularly necessary
to establish dromes on the most fertile
soil in any district and planes are becom-
ing so large that bigger and bigger areas
are needed. Civil aviation recently
claimed a huge tract of rich soil on
Mornington Peninsula, near Melbourne,
dispossessing nurserymen who had been
there for generations and market
gardeners who supply the city market.
Since then a commercial broadcasting
station has taken a famous old farm in
the fertile flats of the Yarra less than 10
miles from Melbourne. It has a beautiful
old farm house and was still being run as
a farm. Part of it had already been taken
for a golf course.
The Housing Commission is one of
the worst offenders. It has sequestrated
good dairying and orchard country near
the city without the slightest prospect of
using most of it for houses for at least
10 years. Private speculators did the
same thing during the 1920 land boom,
and some of the street signs they set up
can still be seen miles away from human
habitation. The paddocks were divided
into suburban allotments sufficient for a
population of 2,000,000. Fences fell down,
grazing land was lost, dairies went out of
operation and farmers had to go further
afield to poorer pastures.
Every piece of fertile land near a city
which is taken from production means
less food and higher prices. It is a
human form of erosion that shouldn’t be
permitted.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
“The Home Front”
Like “Minto” (B. 4/6/’47), I think it
time to put the home-front war effort in
the right perspective. For political pur-
poses a legend is being fostered that “the
workers won the war,” and legends can
greatly influence a nation’s future—if it
had not been for the German myth that
its soldiers were undefeated in 1914-18
we might never have had the 1939-45
show. If we allow the myth to persist
that wars can be won without fighting we
will not survive another world war.
Civilian war work certainly touched
some commendable lengths. Grand jobs
were done on the highest plane by many
engineers, chemists, physicists and busi-
ness executives. Skilled tradesmen, pro-
cess workers, women and office staffs all
combined to produce a huge quantity of
essential materials. But far too often
red tape, union politics, rank profiteering
and obviously wasteful expenditure also
combined to produce such a cynical out-
look that many men who started out to
give of their best were soon working with
the sole idea of getting every possible
penny.
I put in two years’ in a Government
factory that had a fine output record, yet
a mate of mine was not exaggerating
very much when he remarked “Never was
so little done by so many for so much.”
On another occasion, a pay-day, one chap
looked at his envelope and said “Good
old Hitler! May he never give in!”
There was a general laugh, but unfor-
tunately that was the real sentiment of
many of those present.
It would take a book to analyse and
account for the selfish, self-seeking spirit
that was far too common in the civilian
war effort. Perhaps the main reason was
that we, as a nation, lacked leadership.
We had a succession of Prime Ministers,
none of whom was an ex-serviceman.
We had a Wai» Council that knew noth-
ing of war and a Defence’ Minister who
was a tragic joke. It was only natural
that whenever there was a conflict of
loyalties a Labor Government would put
the interests of its supporters before those
of the serviceman.
We had a press that, for the most part,
glorified only Russian or American
achievements. And we had a Department
of Information that rated the war
correspondent at about £4OO a year but
paid £l5OO to the man who stayed at
home and edited the war correspondents’
work.
It may not be true to say that the
majority of civilians came to look on
soldiers merely as necessities to keep the
war going so that they could remain in
the big money, but it’s not very far from
the truth. — Harap (Vic.).


The N.T.
I was amused when I read of the 11,000
square miles of beautiful breeding and
fattening country we are supposed to
have on Victoria River Downs. The area
is, or was, near enough, but we could take
“Ek Dum” over miles and miles of sand-
stone, limestone and spinifex country
which is useless, and which no practical
man would consider holding. It is incor-
porated in one lease and held along
with better-class country. Good breed-
ing country we definitely have, but fat-
tening, no. “Ek D.” wants to try a
steak or two during the later part of the
“dry” to assess the fattening value of
the country.
The station house belonging to the
’nineties is presumably the homestead.
Accommodation in the ’nineties must have
been rather good. We have a fairly large
number of buildings including residences
and stores, vehicle sheds, etc., both at
the head station and the various out-
stations. Some of these buildings are old
in design and years, but more than 50
per cent, of them have been built since
1925, the majority in the ’thirties. I am
sure the manufacturers —they are build-
ings bought ready to erect —would not be
very happy if they thought their products
had made no progress since the ’nineties.
When I was last in Sydney I saw among
some of the modern and pretty homes
some far older and cruder than we have.’
Our capable head stockman and his
family at Monteginnie seem contented
with their lot. He and our other capable
stockmen would be very wrathful —if they
didn’t have a keen sense of humor —to
learn that their year’s work resulted in
no cattle being branded. No one with
any sense would be silly enough to grow
cattle and leave them clean, to be taken
and branded by whoever wished. Also
it is not permissible to travel cattle not
branded or earmarked along stock routes.
,Of course we have some cleanskins,
Who hasn’t? *
If “E.D.” would spend six weeks with
us next year he can have a couple of
weeks in a stock camp and can get first-
hand evidence of branding, A spell with
the fencers may convince him we are
putting up and maintaining fences, and
I am sure our windmill expert would
enjoy taking him on one of the frequent
trips round the mills and bores.
Two main roads pass through the pro-
perty. They are the main route from
Eastern States to Perth, via the North.
The Government does keep them in
order. Does “E.D.” really think the
leaseholders should be responsible for
their maintenance? I have not heard
of leaseholders being responsible for the
maintenance of the Pacific and Hume
Highways. We do pay car and petrol
tax the same as southerners and, with
one or two exceptions, our roads are
not joys to travel over.
Unless my memory fails me, I have
seen Government bores and facilities for
travelling stock along stock routes in
Stqtes which have Senators and voting
Representatives. There are three Govern-
ment bores along the stock routes from
the West on Victoria River Downs. Does
“E.D.” consider we should keep these
bores and mills in order for the con-
venience of travelling stock coming from
places we have never heard of and owners
we have never met?
We in the Territory have great faith
in the country. We know there can
be big improvements and we are working
with that object in mind. —H. Magnus-
sen (Manager, V.R.D., N.T.).
I am loath to cross swords with “Ek
Dum,” but he deserves to be spitted for
his statement that “Victoria River* Downs
does not even brand or earmark its
cattle.” He need only stroll around to
Bligh-street, Sydney, to have that remark
indignantly refuted by the interested
people. “V.R.D.,” like all other big
holdings in this unfenced land, certainly
fails to mark a proportion of its cattle,
but it is not for the lack of trying—
-11,000 square miles of country cannot be
mustered “clean.” Those main roads and
stock-route bores may “be kept in order
at Government expense,” but that is not
regarded as heinous, even in “E.D.’s”
N. S. Wales, where both facilities through
pastoral properties are maintained by
the Government.
I’ll grant this: “E.D.” is right about
the small man not having a chance up
here; but that is simply because the
Territory is, as yet, only a big man’s
country. As proof of that, and also as
an example that some of the hated
“absentee” companies do try to fulfil im-
provement covenants, consider the pro-
perty where I work. Four years ago
the company bought it from a “small”
man who had pottered about with it for
many years with little success. So far
the company has sunk half a dozen
bores and erected over 130 miles of fenc-
ing in strategical positions. At present
the place carries 10,00 cattle.
Admittedly the new “Legislative Coun-
cil” will not help much, but “E.D.’s”
proposed Royal Commission would
achieve nothing. If the amount of money
that ‘either will cost were spent boring
for water- some good would accrue. I
cannot understand all the present fuss
about developing the Territory in a
hurry as, after all, it is the last-settled
part of Australia, where settlement of any
sort is comparatively young. The “big
man” did most towards developing the
outback of N. S. Wales and Queensland
and, helped considerably by the residue
of the war (roads, airfields, building
materials qnd water equipment which
the Territory would not have seen in a
hundred years of peace), the “big man”
will develop the Territory. That is, of
course, provided Governments are far-
sighted enough to let him have a modicum
of his own way in running his own busi-
ness.
When the big fellows’ efforts and capi-
tal have made this country less of a
wilderness than it is today will be time
enough for the small man to enter into
the picture.— Birra Gurra (N.T.).
I heartily endorse “Ek Dum’s” remarks
regarding the anomaly of N.T. taxation.
The revenue received from the few
thousand pastoral and mining employees
cannot be very large and certainly would
not be missed. It is hardly fair that the
employer should be free of tax while
those who work for him are socked.
Pastoral and mining interests have
carried the country along to a limited
measure of prosperity and, in most cases,
have done a fair job. But some of the
credit and reward should go to those
who have done the practical side of the
work. — Ringer Ted (N.T.).
Those War Memorials
On a recent 200-mile trip into the
country, I counted 16 war memorials in
the towns through which I passed. In
each case the memorial was a stone
edifice, and of the 16 only one stood in
“Now if that's all you'd better scram—my husband'll be home soon
and he's awfully jealous!"
well-kept grounds and showed evidence
of care. The remainder were surrounded
by rank grass of varying heights, and
instead of carrying the words “Lest We
Forget” should have borne the final two
only.
About the only time anyone goes near
the monuments is just before Anzac Day,
when some of the grass is usually mown
down so that a commemoration service
may be held.
Putting up a stone does not help people
remember if they do not wish to. The
money could have been better spent on
something ’from which soldiers or their
dependants would receive some benefit —
there is still not room enough at hospitals
for ex-soldiefs. — Mark Time (Q.),
Senseless Strikes
When strikes are over it very often
turns out that even those most vitally con-
cerned don’t know quite why they came
out.
A case in point was a strike at a Vic-
torian State public authority by car-
penters employed there. The alleged
grievance was that carpenters doing cer-
tain construction jobs were not getting the
rate for construction workers moving
from job to job. It was higher than
that of maintenance carpenters, partly be-
cause of a disabilities allowance, but
mainly because it included pay in lieu
of annual leave, sick leave and statutory
holidays.
After three months the men returned
to work on instructions from their union.
The public authority decided to try to
meet the wishes of all concerned by form-
ing a construction gang to do construc-
tion jobs and receive the construction
workers’ rates of pay, but not, of course,
to be paid for holidays, sick leave and
annual leave.
To the authority ’s surprise two men
only volunteered for this gang. The rest
indicated that they wanted to stick to
their existing rates and conditions as
maintenance men. In the end the full
strength of the construction gang had to
be made up by drafting some of the less
senior men into it, very much against
their wishes. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Baby Clinics
I notice that N. S. Wales Minister for
Health Kelly is busy opening and laying
foundation stones for new baby health
'clinics. In ordinary times a very laud-
able occupation; at present rather out
of proportion.
The most urgent need of most mothers
today is a home to house the baby where
she can give it the necessary attention.
The mother living in a tent or garage is
not in a position to carry out clinic in-
structions. She might be if she had a
home of her own only half as fancy as
the clinics now being built. I inspected
one which tost about £3500, and 1 pass
another being built which will cost nearly
as much.
Incidentally, I live alongside one
woman with a child who has to make
shift with a tent while she waits with
endless patience for tiles and what-have-
you to get her new house completed.
Simple Simon (N.S.W.).
Cooper’s Creek
“Bogaduck” (B. 19/2/ ’47) is off the
beam when he ridicules as “crack-
brained” plans for diverting n.-Q. coastal
rivers to the dry interior. John Forrest
was scoffed at by pessimists when he
proposed to convey water from the Darl-
ing Ranges to Kalgoorlie.
There are hundreds of thousands of
acres of fertile black-soil plains down the
Cooper on each side and between its
great channels. The term “creek” is mis-
leading—there are several channels of
this so-called creek, each as wide and
deep as, and in places deeper than, the
Yarra at Princes Bridge. The Barcoo
and Thompson Rivers flow into Cooper’s,
and it spreads out to a width of 80 to
100 miles when in flood. The black allu-
vial soil of the Cooper flats must be of
great depth, and it is hard to conceive
better lucerne land.
In November, 1922, I went out to a
Cooper’s Creek station. At that time
s.-w. Queensland was drought-stricken,
and there was little to be seen but
scorched claypans and gibber plains be-
tween Charipville and Windorah. It was
a desolate and drab trip out, but down
the Cooper there was luscious green feed
up to the bellies of the bullocks, because
in autumn of that year heavy rains had
brought flood-waters down the Barcoo
and Thompson which spread out over the
Cooper plains. Thousands of square
miles were an oasis in the desert, and fat
cattle were waiting for rain to make the
stock route to Quilpie passable for stock.
The trouble is that a flood like that
only occurs once every five or seven
years.
But it is not beyond the capacity of
surveyors and engineers to dam and con-
vey some of the flood-water which flows
to waste down the coastal rivers every
summer back into the Thompson and
Barcoo and thus keep water always in the
great channels of the Cooper. South-
west Queensland then would become one
of the richest areas in Australia com-
parable to Mildura, Leeton and Shep-
parton.
If “Bogaduck” could inspect the
Cooper in 100 years he would probably
see flourishing towns like Echuca or
Swan Hill and on Mt. Howitt, Keeroon-
gooloo and Tanbar hundreds of fine
dairy herds, lucerne paddocks and citrus
orchards along the rich flats. That is, of
course, if we have optimism, faith and
some bold, confident statesmanship
Alpha (8.C.0.F., Japan).
Dairyfarmers
Dairyfarmers will throw a whoop of
joy on reading “W.P.T.’s” comment (B.
18/6/’47) that they just sleep and potter
around between milkings. He admits they
finish milking, separating, etc., by 8 a.m.
That means they started work about
4 a.m. He also says the evening milking
commences about 3 p.m. —many do not '
start until 4 p.m. in the summer. Allow-
ing another four hours for milking,
separating, cleaning up and feeding, it all
adds up to 16 hours from the time of
starting. Does “W.P.T.” think any
human frame can stand up to going flat
out for 16 hours per day, less eating-
time, for seven days a week and every
week?
“W.P.T.” is on the right track, how-
ever, in saying the unpaid sons and
daughters of dairyfarmers refuse to re-
turn to the farms after feeling the jingle
of Army and war-factory money. Wages
should be paid, even if farmers plan to
hand over their farms to their children,
but this will be impossible for as long as
cowcockies are unable to pass on the ris-
ing costs of production. The heavy load
of bureaucracy, the darg on the coal-
fields, go-slowism on the waterfront and
multiple industrial strikes all help to push
up prices against the farmers. Far too
many of them are finding butter-produc-
ing doesn’t pay.
In spite of our much-vaunted humani-
tarianism the cow-grease we spread on
our bread is too often produced for us
by sweated family labor. —K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
I don’t know where “W.P.T.” did his
dairyfarming, but it couldn’t have been
on a dairyfarm—not the kind one finds
in Gippsland, anyway. In all the years
I was working there I more often
finished up long after dark than before
it, and only in the summer months did I
ever start work after dawn had arrived.
Cockies may be finished with the cows
after about 8 a.m., but in spring and
summer the balance of the day until even-
ing cowtime is spent ploughing, sowing,
fencing, clearing, spud-growing, pig-rais-
ing, fern-cutting, repairing, pest-eradicat-
ing, marketing and buying. In autumn
and winter to those tasks may be added
such trifles as cutting and hand-feeding
maize, sorghum, rape or other green
fodder, to say nothing of rugging, clear-
ing mud away from sheds and outbuild-
ings, pasture care, etc. There isn’t much
time left for “sleep and gossiping.”
Up to a few years ago seven cockies
out of ten were working for the banks
instead of themselves, and under those
conditions were never sufficiently finan-
cial to be able to shut up shop for a
holiday every year.
From the foregoing comments I ex-
clude the big milking properties in the
western district of Victoria and else-
where, where between milkings the boy?
sleep or knock the heads off a few
thistles. But I am most interested to see
how Mr. McGirr applies the 40-hour
week to the dairying industry and what
explanation he’ll make to the poor cows.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Aerodromes
The announcement that Dubbo
(N.S.W.) has been selected as the alter-
nate airport to Mascot for international
purposes has received very little publicity,
but it will involve a colossal waste of
public money.
Before the war Narromine was the
best natural aerodrome in the State and
suitable for use in all weathers. For a
cost of thousands it has been made a
modern, up-to-date airport with full-
length sealed runways and taxiways,
complete boundary lighting for night
work, control tower, sewerage, water
supply, electricity and many hangars. It
requires only the addition of directional
finding and modern navigation aids to
make it a complete “A-class” airport.
Under the present policy this is all to
be scrapped and the lighting and other
amenities sold and removed.
The Dubbo field has one sealed air-
strip on the side of a hill and not one
other facility—no water, no electricity,
no sewerage and no buildings. To bring
it to the present standard of Narromine,
only 20 miles away, would probably cost
about £lOO,OOO.
The Dubbo strip is subject to much
more fog interference than Narromine
and even with directional aids would be
dangerous. On the other hand Narro-
mine can be, and is, used, even in the
rare fogs experienced there, by commer-
cial aircraft without navigational or direc-
tional aids.
Narromine has the additional advantage
of being entirely free from any natural
obstructions —such as hills or gullies—
to the direct approach of aircraft.
It is up to the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment to reverse the decision and
save the Australian taxpayer at least
£ 100,000. — Recco (N.S.W.).


✓
V
0
0
Q
o o J
(23>
%
0
»
IM'
•0
r^
A.W.A. RADIO ELECTRIC WORKS
ASHFIELD, N.S.W. f
on
S
CD
/
■m
:•:: :
L:
tx
oe
Pa
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BY
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Other products made by A.W.A. include: Broadcasting and wireless telegraph and telephone stations. • Airport and aircraft radio apparatus of ail
types. • Wireless stations for ships, direction finding apparatus, radar, automatic S.O.S. transmitters and receivers, lifeboat radio equipment, navi*
gation instruments. • Handset telephones, road traffic signals, test instruments for research and industry, induction heating apparatus.
• Centralised radio and sound amplifying systems.
It is with great pride that A.W.A. announces the finest and most advanced
broadcast receivers ever made in Australia. This has been made possible
by war and post-war developments in research, design and production,
which A.W.A. engineers are now applying without restraint to the manu-
facture of finer radio equipment for the home. No one can witness a dem-
onstration of the brilliant performance and qualities of these magnificent
new A.W.A. Radiolas without being convinced of their superiority. They
are the world’s finest broadcast receivers.
The range of new A.W.A. Radiolas includes: Compact and beautiful man-
tels at amazingly low prices Brilliant dual wave models outstanding ’
in performance and value Eight and five valve ‘‘all wave” receivers
with short wave bandspreading Console and (able radio-phonograph
combination models with automatic record changer Magnificent modern
cabinets Types for all city and country requirements, electric power
or battery operated.
Authorised Radiola Distributors will gladly supply further details, and
arrange for deliveries as early as is possible.
©RADIOLA
THE WORLD’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
