

The House of Seppelt ... pof
Sparkling Wines
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3514
Wednesday, June 18, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post. Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
DERRICUNNIHY COTTAGE GUARDS ONE OF KILLARNEY’S FAMOUS LAKES
/BOUNTY Kerry, in Ireland, derives its name from Carraighe,
the name of the descendants of Cair, who was one of the sons
of Fergus, an ex-king of Ulster, in Ireland’s ancient times. Kerry
is among the emerald isle’s most attractive counties, and few
visitors to Ireland miss a week or two in this enchanting district.
In county Kerry are the world-famous Lakes of Killarney, the
Upper, the Tore and the Lower. On the way to the Upper lake
a detour of half a mile brings one to the lovely cascade of Derri-
cunnihy and, close by, is this picturesque thatched cottage, named
after the waterfall. Derricunnihy Cottage was famous locally as a
favourite meet for the hunt, and its setting, in the shadow of a
mountain range known as Macgillicuddy’s Reeks, lends colour to
the claim that this district possesses some of the best of Ireland’s
scenic beauty.


df
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, wilhovi obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. /'
My Name
,1/f, Addreti
The Red Page
CAMPBELL COMES AGAIN.
Roaring through Africa on a motor-
bike in his Talking Bronco (Faber), Roy
Campbell comes upon “the City of the
Dreaming Spires”:
The City of giraffes! —a People
Who live between the earth and skies,
Each in his lone religious steeple,
Keeping a light-house with his eyes;
Each his own stairway, tower, and stylite,
Ascending on his saintly way
Up rungs of gold into the twilight
And leafy ladders to the day;
Nought of this earth they see but flowers
Quilting a carpet to the sky
To where some pensive crony towers
Or Kilimanjaro takes the eye.
Their baser passions fast on greens
Where, never to intrude or push.
Their bodies live like submarines,
Far down beneath them in the bush.
And this is, of course, a most disarming
' poem. It is light enough ; - yet in this
section at any rate —the total runs to 112
lines —is definable, for its touch of
grotesque majesty, as poetry rather than
merely comic verse. And humor in
poetry is not to be despised ; nor clarity,
nor concreteness. Delicate, quivering
souls, anxiously offering themselves for
inspection, are commonplace in contem-
porary poetry; world-reformers are two
a penny ; but giraffes are rare.
There are some similarly concrete addi-
tions to the poetic universe in Talking
Bronco. In the desert where he spent the
war years, fighting, Roy Campbell comes
upon the skull of a horse:
Foaled by the apocalypse, and stranded,
Some wars, or plagues, or famines back,
To bleach beside the desert track,
He kept his hospitable rule,
A pillow for the roving bandit,
A signpost to the stricken mule.
A willing host, adeptly able,
Smoking a long cheroot of flame,
To catalyse‘the sniper’s aim
Or entertain the poet’s dream —
By turns a gunrest, or a table.
An inspiration, and a theme.
No lion with a lady’s face
Could better have become the spot,
Interrogating time and space
And making light of their replies,
As he endured the soldier’s lot
Of dissolution, sand, and flies.
“Washing Day” immortalises the familiar
oddities of the laundry:
Among the rooftop chimneys where the breezes
• Their dizzy choreography design,
Pyjamas, combinations and chemises
Inflate themselves and dance upon the line.
Drilled by a loose disorder and abandon.
They belly and explode, revolve and swing,
As fearless of the precipice they stand on
As if there were religion in a string.
And “The Clock” shows how beauty may
be mixed with comedy:
But when, athwart an open door,
He smelt the orange-trees in flower,
And heard the headlong Tagus roar,
And saw the white sierras soar,
That moment cost him half an hour.
All this is such pleasant writing and so
typical (though a little below his highest
capacity in architecture and imagery)
of the best of Roy Campbell’s poetry
—his sparkling processions of meta-
phors—that it is difficult, if not dis-
tressing, to contemplate the rest of his
book; which, for the most part, is a
private fight between Campbell and half
a dozen poets and poetasters of the Left.
The Left is, of course, always an
eminently suitable subject for satire.
And, contemplating the performances of
various prominent members of the Left
when the late war broke out, Campbell
hits hard and tellingly;
For when the War-Cloud forks their sky,
They’ll seek Utopias oversea, .
To jobs in Ministries they’ll fly.
And funk-holes in the 8.8. C.
Where, snugly pocketing the kitty,
They’ll sell their pale commercial pity
In posh editions, for us mere
Shock-workers of the Camp and City
Whose sweat, and life-blood, is their beer.
The complaint to be made here, there-
fore, is not against Campbell’s theme, but
against the inadequacy of his treatment
of it. The stanza quoted above is, essen-
tially, all he has to say; and he repeats
it a hundred times. Without the wit of
Pope or the imagination of Swift, satire
is a dull and rancorous business, and in
Talking Bronco as in his last book,
Flowering Rifle, Campbell has fallen
away from the standard he set himself
in The Georgiad and The Flaming Terra-
pin.
His conception of himself as the sole
defender of Christendom against his hand-
ful of Leftists —which restricts the great
struggles of our time to a very small
circle —leads him into egotism. It is
natural for a young writer to be obsessed
by his own importance to the history of
mankind ; but Campbell—he must be in
his forties by now —should have out-
grown the necessity for singing his own
praises. When he portrays himself as a
hoopoe, or bird of fire, who had rushed
about the world warning of the war, one
cannot help recalling that Flowering
Rifle, whether or not it was prophetic,
also contained —in its attack on British
imperialism—the remarkable, statement
that the British had wiped out the entire
Maori race ; and Campbell, though he
now wishes to protect mankind against
both Left and Right, did write a lot of
tosh about “victorious Mussolini.”
If, as is hardly possible in a poetry of
ideas and politics, such recollections could
be laid aside when assessing his latest
writing, one must certainly observe that
his egotism, as in the self-portrait in his
title pofem, leads him into extravagances
of imagery and emotion;
So History looks the winner in the mouth
Though but a dark outsider from the South,
A Talking Bronco, sharked from ear to ear
With laughter, like a running bandolier,
With teeth, like bullets fastened in their clips,
To chew the thunder and to spit the pips,
Ejecting from the breech, in perfect time,
The shells of metre and the shucks of rhyme.
Even if this is said half humorously, the
picture of the poet with a mouthful of
bullets for teeth very closely resembles
the cheap I'ough Guy of Hemingway;
and besides, the metaphor is hopelessly
mixed. Campbell does more, really, to
restore the balance of English verse by
the beauty and laughter of his few good
poems than by the posturing and invective
of his satires.
He is, of course, trying to create —and
to live—a Campbell Legend ; like the
Byron Legend. There is something of
Byron in him, his vitality and his anger,
and perhaps when the full story of his
life is told —he fought for Franco in
Spain, and served with the British in the
Middle East in the late war —he will cut
more of a figure than the Leftist periodi-
cals allow him to do today. But, though
he has written some beautiful love lyrics,
he is Byron without Byron’s dramatic
succession of love affairs. Nor, impres-
sive as are some of his earlier satires, has
he yet written anything of the narrative
interest and universal appeal of “Don
Juan.” Since Mithraic Emblems, his
poetry has failed to develop; he has been
living his legend and recording it too
hastily and intemperately.
A Book of Bears.
Sometimes when an illustrated book- is
produced the total of the illustrations is
announced on the jacket or the title-
page. Thus, in Great Expectations, one
of the three books illustrated by Norman
Lindsay which the Shepherd Press
(Yurong-street, Sydney) has published
in one week, it is stated that there
are 46 illustrations in black-and-
white ; and on the jacket of Shipwreck,
a new play by Douglas Stewart, it is stated
that this edition has a frontispiece by
Norman Lindsay (a watercolor repro-
duced in color) and that a limited de luxe
edition, now in preparation, will have
five color plates and 23 pen drawings.
The third book, Ldward Dyson’s Billy
Bluegum, seems to have confounded the
arithmeticians of the Shepherd Press. As
well it might. A short book of 66 pages,
it is sprinkled with koalas right and left;
on the front of the jacket, on the back, at
the top Of the pages, in the middle, at the
side, at the bottom ; and a tally by The
Bulletin’s Astronomical Editor makes a
total of 69 illustrations containing alto-
gether 248 bears.
Shipwreck and the illustrations to
Dickens are subjects for another article ;
Norman Lindsay’s versatility is a subject
for an encyclopaedia. The Billy Bluegum
illustrations, exquisite little comedies of the
pen, are, naturally, chiefly concerned with
Dyson’s hero, whose name is stated in the
title. Billy is a bear who has been brought
up in captivity and returns to the bush to
civilise his poor, illiterate kindred who
do nothing but sit around in gum-trees.
The illustrations begin modestly with a
single figure of Billy in his morning-coat
and top-hat, setting off for the bush.
Then there is Billy meeting a very hairy
swaggie who, recovering from a spree,
mutters to himself, “This is a new one.
This is totally different. No pink spiders.”
Billy meets his first bear, blinking from
a gum-tree; he reproves him for his
nakedness, and, somewhat to Tom Ti-
tree’s dismay (“I do wish you knew some
work that would not interfere with one's
customary habit of doing nothing”), en-
gages him as his valet. Which makes two
bears in the illustrations. Then Billy
meets the Sapp family, also unclad, and
explains to them that civilisation is
founded on a scene of propriety:
“A sense of propriety, my boy,” Billy
explained, “is the capacity for being
thoroughly ashamed of oneself.”
“And should one be ashamed of one-
self?”
“Why, to be sure —almost invariably.
The boy’s a heathen!”
Counting a small animal almost com-
pletely immersed in Billy’s top-hat, there
appear to be five bears in the Sapp
family.
There are four more bears, portrayed
in wig and gown, when Billy establishes
a Court of Justice, and points out the
necessity for crimes to keep the Court
occupied. By this time the koala popula-
tion has been organised into a city very
much like Sydney and the illustrator hurls
into one street-scene 38 bears : some driv-
ing in a cab drawn by a kangaroo, one
drunk against a lamp-post, four playing
in a brass band, a gentleman bear ogling
a flapper bear, and a nursemaid bear
wheeling twins in a pram.
Thirty-eight is the biggest muster in
any one drawing. There are 10 bears at
the knighting of the Chief Justice for his
invaluable service to his country by go-
ing to sleep when cases are being tried be-
fore him ; seven, all sloping arms with
great difficulty and personal danger, when
the koala militia is formed; nine (count-
ing infants) when Billy tries to persuade
the matrons that their babies would be
much less trouble if they had them stuffed
like teddy-bears; ten, with a cowboy
and an orchestra, at the opening of the
theatre ; and, counting surfers, lifesavers,
sun bathers, a small female bear coming
bedraggled out of the water and a minute
boy bear with bucket and spade, 22
figures in the great surf carnival which,
for safety’s sake, Billy at first proposed
to hold on dry land.
At tlje end, in the last glimpse of Billy
high up a gum-tree, there are only two
bears ; Billy and his lady-love, swooning
with sentimental bliss, and wearing only
their native fur. For by this time the
reformer has been reformed; “‘I am
done wifh Civilisation,’ Billy said,
drowsily. ‘I want only to be lazy and
content.’ ” Which is the moral of the
tale ; and, all things considered, a very
Australian moral.
With its illustrations, Billy Bluegum
was first published in “The Lone Hand”
in 1912. Its republication now is per-
haps the first sign of the long-overdue
“revival” of Ted Dyson, who, at his best,
stands with Lawson and Tom Collins.
Billy Bluegum is not —and not meant to
be—in the class of “The Golden Shanty,”
a minor Australian masterpiece nor, of
course, has it the spirited realism of some
of the Fact’ry ’Ands stories ; but, part
nonsense and part satire, it still reads
pleasantly and freshly in its light way.
Though it is in prose, and the theme is
different, the general effect of the book
is not unlike that of C. J. Dennis’s The
Glugs of Gosh.
Up a Gum-tree.
Of all the birds, bears, possums and
other Australian citizens who spend their
time up a gum-tree none is more charm-
ing than the glider or “flying squirrel” ;
and in Gliders of the Gum-trees (Bread
and Cheese Club, Melbourne) David
Fleay has written an appropriately charm-
ing book.
Its format is worth noting. There is
no doubt that the craft of making books
is steadily improving in Australia ; indeed,
while the Americans continue to be
strident and while the English publishers
are hampered by shortage of paper, it
would be hard to find better books than
are now being made in this country.
Gliders of the Gum-trees is in no sense
a de luxe edition but, illustrated with ex-
cellent photographs by the author, and
running to 113 pages, it has been printed
with quiet good taste by John Gartner at
the Hawthorn Press, and its colored
frontispiece, from a watfercolor by M.
Cover Fleay, the author’s mother, makes
a work of art of what might have been
merely a naturalist’s study of a Sugar
Glider.
David Fleay is the man who breeds the
platypus and is in charge of the Badger
Creek Sanctuary, at Healesville, Victoria.
He breeds gliders as well as platypuses,
watches them in the bush, and knows
them as a scientist, a naturalist and a
friend. The principal families of gliders
which he discusses are: thfe Dusky
Glider, a big, dark fellow, sometimes with
white markings, who can “fly” 80 yards
at a time ; the Fluffy Glider (rudely called
Yellow-Bellied); the Squirrel Glider, “un-
mistakably the most beautiful, delicately-
colored and vivacious of all native
mammals”; the New Guinea Glider,
12 inches from nose to tail tip, which
airmen used to carry in their pockets
during the war; and the elusive Pigmy
Glider, thought to be plentiful enough
but difficult to catch sight of among the
gumleaves bigger than itself —“a light
and delicate elfin sprite, not as big as a
mouse, dainty, sensitive, and yet so active
in its flitting nocturnal movements that
science has named it Acrobates pygmoeus
—the pigmy acrobat.” And this is how
the gliders fly:
Though some are more efficient “flyers”
than others, all marsupial gliders progress
by means of similar structural specialisation,
consisting of a volplaning membrane or
skin-fold, extending usually from the fifth
“finger” or wrist to the ankle, and being
continuous with the flanks of the body,
so that in the air the animal appears to be
of rectangular shape, with flowing bushy
tail forming a plume-like rudder.
When Mr. Fleay is speaking purely in
his capacity as a scientist he is “not sur-
prised” at his very surprising gliders:
Isolation going back into the dimness of
antiquity has made the Australian continent
an unhindered preserve for the ancient
pouched animals; and it is not surprising
that, from the primitive marsupial stock
by the process of adaptive radiation, we
find that burrowers, land-dwellers, tree-
climbers and even aerial forms have been
produced.
But there are things in heaven and‘earth
that will yet surprise the scientists; and
one of them is the perfection of form, the
exquisite grace and beauty of the gliders,
which it will take more than such a tag
as “adaptive radiation” to explain. And,
in fact, when he is in his less formal
capacity as nature-lover, Mr. Fleay is
very often surprised—sometimes by the
oddities of the gliders’ behavior, and
sometimes by the wonder of their beauty:
Suddenly the faint but unmistakable
sound of claws on bark arrested attention.
A stealthy advance towards the trees was
rewarded by the sight of a shadowy body,
with long streaming tail, shcpoting down
through space from the high limbs. There
followed a clear, well-defined “clop” and,
running forward, we were amazed to see
not one, but two strange and beautiful
gliders perched about twenty feet up on
the white trunk of a manna-gum.
With long narrow ears turned towards
us they uttered conversational snuffling calls,
one to the other Suddenly one of the
animals ran to the end of a high branch,
made several preliminary launching Move-
ments, and shot down into the darkness.
I followed immediately.
Mr. Fleay followed that Yellow-Bellied
Glider all night, sometimes within arm’s
length of it, as, hanging head down, it
licked the sap that had exuded from the
trunks of manna-gums, sometimes, when
it fed on the nectar of gum-blossoms,
straining to catch “glimpses of the long-
tailed dark form against the feeble
moon.” His account of the chase should
find a place in any future anthology of
Australian nature-writing.
This is the great attraction of his
book, that it is close, intimate observa-
tion. Mr. Fleay has caught gliders in the
wild bush by intercepting them at a con-
venient point .on their regular aerial
“tracks.” He has seen the Powerful Owls
preying on them; and, a trifle discon-
certingly, known Sugar Gliders to devour
a young blackbird. He has seen Pigmy
Gliders nesting inside the lining of a
prospector’s abandoned coat. He knows
the tragedies that have been caused by
wild-cats and bushfires. He records that
the Dusky Glider’s favorite jam is melon-
and-lemon. And he has seen a Fluffy
Glider do a glissade of 110 yards, “and
in that long, graceful sweep the animal
manoeuvred perfectly, weaving from side
to side between the mighty trunks of in-
tervening eucalypts.”
The book, in short, has all the magic
and none of the discomforts of a night
in the bush ; a night of watching, in the
company of an expert, the loveliest of all
Australian animals. For those who would
not enjoy such a night there is no hope.
“MacH.”: It may possibly be some
grim consolation to Australian authors
who can’t get their books published be-
cause of post-war difficulties that English
writers seem to be in an even worse posi-
tion. The “Times” recently has carried a
flood of letters from authors and pub-
lishers all complaining bitterly of the
inadequacy of the paper ration. Osbert
Sitwell wrote:
Established writers have for years been
deprived of all income and all fame accru-
ing from their earlier books, which must
remain out of print As for young
authors their plight is pitiful. Many have
served in the forces, and, having been
stopped from writing for seven years, now
find their work prevented absolutely from
being published.
Another correspondent, putting the case
for the magazines, pointed out that U
tons of paper were used for the first issue
of “Coal” —a Government publication—
which was 110 times the monthly allow-
ance of paper (2cwt.) for flew periodicals
started by private enterprise. A third
writer, worried about both publishers’
problems and “the export of British
culture,” stressed the advance /of American
books into the Dominions/: “In 1939
South Africa was ninth in (total imports
of American books ; in 1946 it was fifth.
The comparatively small pre-war imports
of American books into Australia had by
last year risen to 1,300,000 dollars.- The
same story is told of lndia, China
and Scandinavia.”


d
WALLPAPERS, either plain or patterned, to suit all
rooms and furnishings, are obtainable from our
Wallpaper Department, 3rd Floor, in a wide range of
patterns. Papers from 2/6 roll, freizes from 3d. yard.
fd
'P
j
■ a
w
0
★ Durable yet
Beautiful
★ Lightest for
Flying
★ Roomiest for
Everything
"Durolite" Air Travel Case is beautifully constructed on a balsa wood
foundation and is covered with a watertight canvas with distinguishing
stripe . . , two English turn to safety locks, leather bound edges, cloth lined,
with inside pocket. Size 24'in. xlB in. x 9 in. Price .... £7/2/-
Also Hat Box with same features to match. Size 16£ in. x 16i in. x 9 in.
Price <£s/7/9
vermg
lit B
ags
> v f«- ’%
S«l?7
(m T...Lr
. a£l I'M/, D
m*
*<?/
irn
1\ 1L
P
S 3
m
m.
s' ' 0\
ip
Canvas Overnight Bag, made for
air travel, compact in size with
plenty of packing space, made with
slide fastener, cloth lined, inside
pocket. In Dark Khaki Green with
Fawn Leather Piping and Handle.
Size 17 in. x in. x 14 in. high.
Price 95/6
Leather Overnight Bag, made from
grained hide with slide fastener, cloth
lined, inside pocket, two secure
handles, in colours of Blue, BrOwn,
Fawn, also Black. Size 20 in., 9T/9,
and 22 in., price 108/9
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POSTAL ADDRESS; BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY


WEIGHT
APPROX.
4 i TONS
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.. _
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty.,
Ltd. VICTORIA —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick,
Melbourne. W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA —Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor
Specialties, Ltd., Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons,
Chowringhee Road. BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta &
Co., Ltd!. Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—
The Bast Asiatic Co., Ltd.
f
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN q-’land OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
XI your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if be is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course I
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS I/*'
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS
df
d
BARKO
SOLD
END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
m
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and U days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOESSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
‘ .*5
V # J CTii
$ S* N
V
k#
JM n\i
//?...* ?
,
flk *Sf:
3
«• ’w
ft
SS
Tme
The training of a gun dog
should begin as soon as he starts
losing his puppy ways. He may
be able to work intelligently at
about one year, and should be at
his best for keenness, steadiness,
intelligence and hard work
from about 3 years until old
age begins to overtake him.
A whisky enters its prime from
the age of five years onwards.
Maturity gives it fine bouquet and
mellow flavour. Corio Special
is aged for over five years
(more than double the
minimum prescribed
by Commonwealth
law).
4?
V * ll9
Hvrio Special
<g>
ii
rip
Corio Special
WHI S KY
Wl9/33
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy an instruction book on care and
maintenance of 15 h.p. Jeep army truck, Ford
model. —4030.
To buy The Game’s the Thing, by M. A.
Noble, and Bat and Ball, by G. Giffen. —4028.
To buy or borrow second-hand bagpipe
march gramaphone records. —4029.
To buy copy of A Natural Golfer, by John
Forrest.—4031.
Information Sought.
Method of silvering a mirror?
The least complicated method in use for pre-
paring mirrors is by depositing a thin film ot
metallic silver on the glass from a solution
containing silver salts and a suitable reducing
agent. It is extremely difficult to prepare a
satisfactory mirror and the process requires
exquisite care, cleanliness and skill. Of critical
importance is the cleaning of the glass before
silvering. The glass must be well scrubbed with
water and soap, swabbed with strong nitric
acid, washed with distilled water and stored
in water till ready for silvering. The actual
process of silvering is lengthy and is described
in Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 28th
edition, page 2451, available at N.S.W. Public
Library.
* * * *
Steepest grades on (1) main road between
Jenolan Caves (N.S.W.) and Edith, (2) Jenolan
Caves-road at Five Mile Hill on the Sydney
side, (3) main road at Kurrajong Heights (upper
section)? (4) Have any proclaimed roads in
the Coogee area a grade steeper than 1 in 5 ?
(5) Would a car of four- to six-cylinder type
be able to negotiate a grade of 1 in 5 ?
(1) Approximately 1 in 5. (2) Approximately
1 in 18. (3) Approximately 1 in 8|. (4) There
are no proclaimed main roads in the Coogee
area with a grade of 1 in 5. However, grades
of 1 in 7 and 1 in 6 are common on such
roads as Arden-street and part of Alison-road,
Coogee, and no doubt steeper grades exist as
in Melody-street, portion of which has a grade
of 1 in 5. (5) Would depend on the length
of the grade, the manner of approach, con-
dition of the road surface and condition of the
vehicle itself. A car of this type in good con-
dition should be able to negotiate grades of 1
in 5.
* * * ♦
Method of preparing an inlaid linoleum floor
for a dance?
Ballroom finish for linoleum: Dissolve loz.
beeswax in \ pint turpentine (stand in hot
water to avoid flame), then add i pint raw
linseed oil and 1 teaspoon spirits of salts.
Smear mixture on lino (previously washed and
dried) and polish with soft dusters or mop.
Surface is very slippery but protects inlaid lino
better than any other polish.
♦ * * *
In what position should a brick oven be
placed in a bakehouse, where prevailing winds
are from north-west in winter and from south-
east in summer?
If the oven is correctly designed and situated
it should operate properly independent of wind
strength and direction. The main points to be
watched are these. Firstly, the chimney top;
secondly, the fire-box opening; and thirdly,
any cooling effect the wind may have on the
oven as a whole, if very strong and cold. This
latter problem, however, is not of great concern.
If the oven is situated inside or very near to
a high building, as is most likely, the chimney
or stack should be high enough to be well
clear of the roof ofj the building. Otherwise
the draught of the chimney will vary excessively
depending on the wind direction. In any case
the top of the chimney must be fitted with either
a “Chinaman’s hat” or, better still, a swinging
cowl which moves depending on the direction
of the wind. A “Chinaman’s hat” consists of
a flattish cone or pyramid of sheet metal. Both
these devices are quite common and may be
purchased or made up by any plumber. The
fire-box opening, if in the open air, should be
shielded from the wind as much as possible.
It should preferably be placed “across wind,”
that is, in this case, facing either north-east
or south-west. If the fire box is in a closed
building it may face any direction.
* * * *
Method of extracting neatsfoot oil?
Boil in a suitable receptacle the feet and leg
bones (up to the knees) of well-grown cattle,
first scalding and scraping them to free them
from dirt, hair, etc. After the water has boiled
allow to simmer for about two hours, and
when the oil has risen to the surface skim it
off, boil the mixture again and make a second
skimming. Strain the oil through a piece of
cheese-cloth and boil it once more, taking great
care that the oil does not catch fire. Finally
it should be strained, cooled and bottled. Pure
neatsfoot oil should be light lemon color.
* * * *
(1) Who were the members of the 1945
Services XI which played in the “Victory”
Test matches in England, and their rank? (2)
Results of the Tests? *
F.Os. Miller, Cristofani, Stanford, Pettiford
and Ellis; W.Os. Hassett and Williams; Sgts.
Pepper and Price; Captains Whitington and
Cheetham; Sqdn.-Ldr. Sismey; Flt.-Lt. Car-
mody; Flt.-Sgt. Workman. First Test: Eng-
land, 267 and 294; Services, 455 and 107 for
six wickets. Second Test: England, 286 and
190; Services, 147 and 288. Third Test: Eng-
land, 254 and 164; Services, 194 and 225 for
six wickets. Fourth Test: Australia, 388 and
140 for four wickets; England, 468 for seven
wickets (dec.). Fifth Test: Australia, 173 and
210; England, 243 and 141 for four wickets.
Brief Answers.
C.FJ.: Unable to trace word in any vocabu-
lary of aboriginal names... .F.E.T.: Either
saltpetre or sodium chlorate is a suitable
material to place in the holes R. 8.: Jack
Johnson and Stanley Ketchell fought at Colma,
a suburb of San Francisco (U.S.A.), on October
16, 1909. Johnson knocked out Ketchell in
the 12th round A.F.N.: There is no truth
in the statement that plants pan be planted in
the vicinity of apple-trees and prevent damage
to the fruit by codling moth P.J.M.: Write
Cement and Concrete Association of Australia,
14 Spring-street, Sydney G.S.A.; Write State
Fisheries Branch, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Syd-
ney, for pamphlet “The Smoking and Salting
of New South Wales Fish” H.A.H.: Write
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney D.8.L.; Nothing better than raw
linseed oil. Apply lavishly at first, wipe off,
then rub slowly till dry. Polish with dry soft
rag or chamois. Give this treatment once a
week W.P.: Merely brush off remains of
outer husk, shake off the seeds, wash in warm
soapy water and dry in the sun. Then ready
for use... .H.W.M.: Queensland wicketkeeper
Grout’s efforts in Sheffield Shield cricket in
1946-47 were: Caught one and stumped one v.
Vic. at Melbourne; caught two and stumped
one v. S. Aus. at Adelaide; caught two v.
N.S.W. at Sydney; stumped two v. Vic. at
Brisbane... .S.H.D.: Write N.S.W. Blinded Ser-
vicemen’s Welfare Trust, 27 Jamieson-street,
Sydney....P.S.: Write N.S.W. Dept, of Public
Health, 52 Bridge-street, Sydney, for Booklet
“B,” “Get Rid of the Rats” N.T.: (1)
Great Britain won 6, Australia 2, scoring 93
points to 32; New Zealand won 19, Australia
7, drawn 2, scoring 449 points to 255. (2)
W. G. Garrard (two matches) and W. S. Corr
(two matches) in 1899; T. Pauling (two
matches) and W. H. Beattie (one match) in
1904; R. Cooney (one match) in 1930
H.W.C.: Anderson and Cos. (Sydney) catalogues
youngberries as large, firm, deep-wine colored
berries, changing to black as they ripen. The
flavor suggests a combination of raspberry,
blackberry and dewberry. Extremely vigorous
vines produce heavy crops. Berries practically
seedless —excellent for jam or jelly. Plant 7ft.
apart on wire trellises or fences in a sunny,
well-drained position R.J.S.: Australia and
New Zealand played drawn games at Sydney
in 1907 (5-5) and 1934 (3-3); N.S.W. and
N.Z. played drawn games at Sydney in 1905
(8-8) and 1929 (0-0). N.S.W. and Queensland
played drawn games at Sydney in 1890 (0-0)
and 1934 (8-8), and at Brisbane in 1891 (9-9),
1898 (3-3), 1908 (9-9), 1930 (6-6), 1931 (18-18)
and 1937 (17-17)... .J.J.McK.: Write Foster
Knitting Machine Cos., 75 King-street, Sydney.


Missing Friends. •
HOWE. —Anyone knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
WILLIAM HOWE, son of Charles Howe, of New-
castle upon ' Tyne, England, who emigrated to Aus-
tralia in about 1921 or 1922 and whose last lyiown
address was 9 Dart Street, Boulder City, Western
Australia, is asked to communicate with SLY &
RUSSELL, Solicitors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
WILL SPERRY VICTOR ELLIOTT, formerly of
Leeton, late of Tallandowring, via Huon, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. FLEMING HENDERSON & STEDMAN,
Box 44, Albury.
KITSON, Leslie, late of Lidcombe and Waterloo,
Factory Worker, died 1944, aged 75. Believed born
Lilydale, Victoria. His next-of-kin and all persons,
knowing thereof are requested to communicate with
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MASKELL, John Francis, late of Sydney, Labourer,
died 1944, aged about 68. Possibly bom Murrurundi
or Muswellbrook, N.S.W.; one time employed as
groom at Tarcoon, N.S.W. His next-of-kin and all
persons having knowledge thereof please communi-
cate with PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
TO MICHAEL BUSHALL formerly of 33 Dalgety
Street St. Hilda. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
SYLVIA RUTH BUSHALL has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground of de-
sertion Unless you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office Supreme Court Melbourne on or
before the sth day of July 1947 and file an answer
on or before the 15th day of July 1947 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs.—T. D. ARMSTRONG, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO ALEXANDER NEILSON at one time residing in
Sydney in the State of New South Wales but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE-NOTICE that under the Will
of your sister MARY ALEXANDER NEILSON de-
ceased you are entitled to a legacy of Five hundred
pounds and that this amount together with accrued
interest thereon is now held for you by the executor
of the said Will, the Union Trustee Company of
Australia Limited of 333 Collins Street Melbourne in
the State of Victoria TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that unless you claim the said legacy and accrued
interest on or before the first day of September One
thousand nine hundred and forty-seven the executor
will pursuant to an Order made by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of Victoria on the fourth day of June
One thousand nine hundred and forty-seven distribute
the said sum of Five hundred pounds and the said
accrued interest as if you had predeceased your said
sister without issue.—BßUCE, FROST-SAMUELS
LITTLETON & WATT, of Traralgon, in the said
State of Victoria, Solicitors for the Executor.
Books from Angus & Robertson’s
20 AUSTRALIAN NOVELISTS, by Colin Roderick, author of
“The Australian Novel.”
In this volume Mr. Roderick has again judiciously selected extracts characteristic of the
work of each novelist. These he prefaces with biographical notes, a survey of the author’s
work as a whole, and an estimation of hia or her place in Australian literature.
This book will be eagerly welcomed by all those who wish to make a comprehensive study
of Australian fiction, and to see the novels of today in their true perspective.
10/6 (post. 6d.).
SHIPWRECK, A Poetic Drama by Douglas Stewart, with a frontispiece in
full colour by Norman Lindsay. 12/6 (post. 4d.).
SOCIETY OF ARTISTS BOOK, 1946-47. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
PRACTICAL HOMES, A Book of Plans, by R. L. Spooner and C. T. Eeles.
7/6 (post. 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
<&L
7/
All HAMBS
OM DECK
Blow, tradewlnds, blow!
Spread skirt and make the "hooker” go.
Sing sing ye seadogs, stir the breeze!
Before your lung-traps start to freeze.
Claw aft those stunsaiis —Yo, heave ho!
We’ll splice the mainbrace as we go.
Pipe all hands down for good and sure —•
Time for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure!
For Children’s Hacking Cough,
Weeds’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Don't lose this eAs y mon By
<5
m
m
m
VK
s
m.
r \
:
m
mm
■m.
War Savings
about to mature can bring you
a total profit of 43% on the
money you invested in 1940
if you don't cash them!
In 1940 you saved good money
when you bought those War Savings Cer-
tificates to help win the war —and your
patriotism has already brought you a profit
of 25%. There’s no point now in cashing
them and spending the proceeds—you’ll
do much better with your money later.
It’s better simply to hold on to them—
you can earn another 3/- in the pound,
and a total profit of 43 % on your original
investment, just by holding on to them for
another five years.
HERE'S WHY!
Savings Certificates are now on sale in a new
five-year series for face value, in denominations
of £l, £5, £lO and £5O. In five years’ time
they will be worth £l/3/-, £5/15/-, £ll/10/- and
£57/10/- respectively.
These generous rates of increase will also apply
to maturing War Savings Certificates if you
don’t cash them! Every pound’s worth, for
which you paid 16/- seven years ago, will further
increase in value each year, at better than bank
rates of interest, to £l/3/- in five years’ time, a
total profit on your original investment of 43 %.
HERE'S WHAT TO DO
1. War Savings Certificates lodged with your
bank for safekeeping:
Just leave them there—the increase in value will
automatically continue.
If you have instructed your bank to redeem the
Certificates on maturity, cancel that instruction.
2. War Savings Certificates in your own
possession:
Hold on to them and they will automatically
increase in value—or, better still, lodge them
with your bank or savings bank for a further
five years. They will be kept in safe custody
completely free of charge.
There is no better place for your savings than in Savings Certificates. So hold
on to all you own, and buy as many more as possible of the new five-year series.
They are cashable at any time, and the annual increases in value are free
from taxation. Regardless of holdings of War Savings Certificates, everyone
can own Savings Certificates of £250 face value.
mm
' Don't cash your maturing War Savings
Certificates . . . They will continue to increase
in value at the same rate as the
Af&¥ 5-YEAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
55C13.113.57
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS, will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
C.V.G.: No bone here for the doggy poem.
K.E.G.: “Fulgent flattery vain” is unbear-
able M.C.: Never say we turned down a
tribute to the Harbor Bridge;
N.M.S.; Ah. So you’ve seen the sunrise.
E.D.: Too vague, too thin, too small
M.R.: For a woman’s paper W.A.: Half
as long and twice as good, they’d be worth
looking at; if you typed them legibly A.F.:
“Enclosed you will find what I call a poem.
Do you?” No J.E.: Be your age—even if
you are 12 D.If.G.: “And for the moment
I’m content to leave it at that, too.” So you
should be, after six solid pages of very solid
verse about industrial problems... .H. 8.: “Life’s
treasure-house holds many priceless gems.” So,
alas, does the w.p.b A. 8.: You’ve said it
better before E.L.: All words instead of
mushrooms J.H. (Broken Hill): Light but
lively V.M.G.: Well, it kicks its heels
pleasantly enough J.D.C.; Tut Bill S.:
Keep coming—and keep your shirt on
F.G.: Here’s a corner for you, then:
J.W.S.: Scrap the long-winded introduc-
tion and put more punch into the finish... i
A.L.D.: The two ifiembers of the staff who
read it are now down with sleeping sickness
C. 8.: Misunderstanding between Pearl and her
boy friend referred to Dorothy Dix G.C.P.:
We have a special incinerator for yarns about
the householder faced with eviction who digs
up buried treasure in his own backyard
R. : We refused to be amused by “The
Antics of Algernon” P.J.: Drunk who
found himself in the wrong bedroom was
gently conducted to the w.p.b N.W.: Since
we couldn’t read your handwriting, we are
unable to tell whether that first effort is good,
bad or indifferent J.C.K.: So far as we
are concerned the yarn with the trick ending
has had its day N.C.G.: “I’m afraid this
is a poor attempt.” You’re right, it is
S. : That sentimental trifle is a left-over from
a past age P. 8.: Write about what you
know J.L.: Suburban copper who flies his
own plane from Australia to France in pursuit
of jewel thief is a myth A.McD.: “What’s
wrong with them?” More than we could tell
in the space of this column E.M.: Can’t
believe that it took Aunt Flo all those years
to learn that Uncle Tom was a dipso
G. 8.: Didn’t finish the yarn but prepared to
bet that the missing will was found on the
last page F.R.: James Edmond wrote a
tale about a murderer who solved the difficulty
of disposing of the corpse by eating it.
E.S.: A neat and smart little yarn, but
more suited for a woman’s paper G.R.H.:
Cheer up, George! Even if you haven’t the
makings of a first-class storyteller you should
win prizes for your handwriting 8.5.: There
was no need to tell us that you are an ardent
admirer of Ernest Hemingway... .G.P.W.:
“Diary of a War Bride” is hardly in our line.
C.O’S.: We liked the title —“Twenty
Gallons of Blood” —but cannot find any use
for the story RJ.: Quite competent; the
trouble is that it has been done so often
W.W.: The reflections of a slum-alley oat failed
to interest M.R.: Not wanting stories
located in ancient Babylon... .C.H.J.; No dif-
ferent from a thousand and one other bush
picnics J.W.: It didn’t quite make the grade.
A.L.G.: Even the first page was too much
for us P.P.; You are another who takes
Hemingway for a model and slavishly imitates
him A.M.H.: We are becoming a trifle
weary of mad inventors... .R.K.P.: It came to
you in a dream, did it? Well, don’t eat lobster
for supper H.A.; Nothing new in any of
them.... W.B.: “I know that this is not the
work of a genius.” We are inclined to agree
with you, but, of course, there is always the
chance that one editor in a million will
think otherwise J.J.G.: Must you always
write about the beer parties you have attended?
A.McR.: Story shows a glimmer of
promise.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.W.: Your bathing belle is a fright.
C.R.: The jest had a wide circulation
during World War I E.D.: An untidy and
smudgy batch H.H.: Didn’t they teach you
anything about perspective at the art school?
K.B.: Caricature in no way resembles
the subject P.B.: Neat but humorless
W.J.K.: Doubt whether you could draw a
draughts board M.P.: What the lady in the
bath said to the plumber has ail been said
before... .R.B.W. : At least the Union Jack is
not badly drawn F.P.; “The Cow Cocky’s
Grace” was the subject of an old B. E. Minns
drawing W.S.: Your abo. and the telegraph
wires long ago illustrated by H. W. Moffitt.
A.M.; You should make a living designing
labels for jam tins R.McK.: Not keen
on those scratches B.J.S.: Admired the
bullocky’s vocabulary but not your depiction
of him V.W.; We, too, sometimes take a
glance at the black-and-white work published
in other papers G.J.M.: No G.D.: Head
studies not wanted nowadays J.S.M.: Don’t
imitate; develop a style of your own.
When the bustle and traffic has gone from the streets
O’er all there’s a grandeur as luna greets
The twinkling stars. While in the Harbor waters
deep
My memory holds that which forever I’ll keep
The silhouette of the monstrous Bridge, eerie yet
grand.
Reflection too of the Southern Cross —love doth this
command.
The oldest type of the human race is the Australian
aborigine.
And often when I was a child I would go and visit
him.
These aborigines lived in wurlies, which were neither
of brick nor stones.
These were built from branches of the trees and the
blacks they loved their homes.


THE LITTLE DOG
BY-CHARLES SHAW
50ME philosopher or other once
remarked that man was the only
animal that laughed. He never
met the black dog, Darkie, on a
bright autumn morning when the grass
was damp and the air sparkling and all
the world wearing the look of a boy
fresh from the bath.
Darkie would be in a strategic position
so that he could keep an eye on both the
front and rear of the house and the
moment someone emerged he’d dance
eagerly about until he discovered which
way they were heading and then gallop
madly ahead, chasing the magpies out of
the way and yelling at the day. Then
he’d fetch a half-circle and gallop back,
breathless with excitement and all a-
slobber and finally trot forward, grin-
ning hugely and in his brown eyes the
clearest of laughter.
DARKIE was a black Barb and his
original purpose in the world was to
work sheep a purpose that had been
prostituted since, as a pup, he’d been
allowed to chase rabbits. He’d work sheep
reasonably well, but would desert the job
in an instant if a bunny appeared.
He had early discovered that most
hollow logs contained a rabbit or two
and, if the sheep happened to pass such
a log, Darkie would leave them, investi-
gate that log thoroughly, study the pros-
pects of undermining it or dragging it
bodily home, rabbits and all, and usually
decide that the best way to get at the
rabbits was to start at one end of the
log and chew his way through to the
other.
Every hollow log within a radius of
three miles had been partly bitten to
pieces by Darkie.
Once, when some old and cunning
ewes were just consenting to enter the
dip, Darkie arrived in a great hurry look-
ing for a rabbit he’d lost and scattered
them in all directions. The boss fell into
the dip trying to block them and then
climbed out and raced to the house and
raced back again with a double-barrelled
gun. But Darkie was by then away
along the pine ridge, yelping furiously,
and the boss went morosely home and
cleaned himself and then began to see
the funny side of it.
DARKIE was a perfect foil to the
other dogs, both rather serious
gentlemen: Ruff, the red Kelpie, and
Bluey, the boss’s familiar. Ruff’s red
was really a dark ginger slightly faded in
places, and like the Barb, he had been
born to work sheep and, unlike the
Barb, nothing on earth or beyond it could
seduce him from that purpose.
Heavy-shouldered and grim, with deep
red eyes that had a touch of the fanatic
about them, he stalked gravely about the
place, standing no nonsense from any liv-
ing thing and quickly correcting man, boy
or animal who sought to challenge his
authority or assume his rights. He was
plainly contemptuous of Darkie, but toler-
ated him in much the same way as he
tolerated the fowls and other nuisances.
But woe betide the black dog if he pre-
sumed in any way, consciously or other-
wise. A red tornado would fall upon him
and for two or three minutes there’d be
dust and hair and howls flying and then
Darkie would depart for the scrub and
Ruff, without a second glance at him,
would retire disdainfully to his kennel
or somewhere and fall into an aloof and
dignified contemplation of some inner
thought.
In time, of course, Darkie learned to
keep clear of Ruff except on those occa-
sions when all three dogs joined forces
to repel an incautious stranger or greet
visitors.
Bluey, the third dog, was far from
third in importance and he knew it. A
Queensland heeler of doubtful age, of a
dark misty grey with black spots on head
and ears, black and red speckles on his
sturdy legs,, he had only half an ear on
the near side and a wall eye on the off,
a combination which gave him a sinister
appearance, far from relieved by a habit
of lifting his upper lip and revealing a
row of large, white and efficient fangs.
Bluey was aloof. He accepted food and
orders willingly enough but bore caresses
with obvious impatience. What there was
between him and the boss was never dis-
covered, but they shared some affinity,
and whatever it was it seemed that it
necessitated Bluey sleeping under the
window of the boss’s room. On the night
that he sought the same position Ruff’s
ideas of his own pre-eminence were
violently shattered.
Bluey never challenged Ruff’s assump-
tion of leadership in any other way, but
thenceforth Ruff left him severely alone,
having discovered that what Bluey had
he’d hold. Bluey could have been leader
of any group of dogs, but he wasn’t
interested in leadership.
D HJ*EY had secret affairs of his own.
I—-' He’d slide off into the dusk some
evening and be seen coming back next
morning with a pleased and shamefaced
look about him. There were tales of a
strange blue dog that sometimes visited
the town, four miles away, spent the night
fighting the town dogs and then dis-
appeared ; there were lady dogs in the
district which never should have had pups
with a heeler strain in them but did ; and
now and again some startled horseman
would have to grab at his reins as a silent
grey shape slid suddenly out of the dusk
and nipped his horse’s heels.
Bluey kept these affairs to himself. Let
Darkie meet some cheeky mongrel on the
road and give it a hiding and he’d laugh
and yell and race about and hurl chal-
lenges all the way home. Let Ruff meet
a lady dog of friendly disposition and
he’d stay with her for a day or so and
then come home and look positively
amiable for a time. Not so Bluey. He
fought his fights and left them ; he loved
his ladies and left them; he played his
grim jokes in the night and came home
and mentioned it to nobody, except, per-
haps, the boss.
Those two had much in common, both
in appearance and experience. Like
Bluey, the boss bore one or two scars of
battle on a hard face and there was about
his spare and wiry frame, the set of his
mouth and the glint of his eyes, as well
as a certain lightness on his feet, an
impression that he knew how to take care
of himself and was ready to demonstrate
it if the need arose.
THEN a little yellow-and-white dog
drifted on to the place from some-
where or other. It came as unobtrusively
as a diver appears on a tank. First it
wasn’t and then, presently, it was.
After its presence became a fact rather
than a supposition, there were some who
remembered having seen a small yellow
head peering furtively round a shed corner
or an animated bit of yellow and white
near the sheejp-yards at dusk, but the
memory was faint and not worth bother-
ing about and the thing seeped into the
life of the place, as a minor annoyance
which it was nobody’s business to remove,
rather like the appearance of ants in the
kitchen or a long-tailed straggler in a
back paddock.
It had apparently been begotten in a
moment of sheer forgetfulness and was
pathetically anxious to remain forgotten.
Possibly it had enjoyed a brief puppy-
hood in some town, the darling of some
small child, then had grown up and been
revealed for what it was. Heaven knows
what misery it had endured or what cun-
ning it had had to employ to stay alive,
what distances it had travelled, but it
was fairly obvious that it had survived so
far simply because nobody, human or
canine, had regarded it as sufficiently im-
portant to merit destruction. It had a
most humble air, was obviously puzzled
by the actions of the other dogs, was
neither useful nor ornamental.
It had a striking resemblance, in its
nondescript appearance and shrinking
manner, to the human deadbeats who
hang around towns, having no other
interest in life but to keep out of trouble
and wangle free drinks and free feeds.
Bluey ignored it utterly. The thing
had immediately sensed the underlying
menace in Bluey and it never got within
striking distance of him. It developed
a wry neck through trying to keep one
eye on Bluey while it was watching
other things, though it had nothing to
fear, since Bluey only sought battle with
that kind of dog when it was in company
in towns and about railway trucking
yards.
Ruff appeared to regard it with in-
difference for a day or so, then, coming
back disappointed from what he had mis-
takenly assumed was to have been a day
amongst -the sheep but was merely an
inspection of a windmill pump, he rushed
at it with his red eyes glaring and his
hackles up. The little dog flattened it-
self and remained still, looking desper-
ately about, and Ruff stood over it and
called it names and cursed it and threw
earth about and walked stiff-legged in
little circles around it. Then, since it
would neither fight nor run, Ruff drew off
and thereafter treated it with contempt.
Darkie thought it might be good to
play with. He ran around it, shouting
invitations and picking up bits of rubbish
and shaking them, then putting them
down and backing off, cocking his silly
laughing head first at the rubbish and
then at the little dog in invitation. But
the little dog sat down and shivered and
looked at Darkie in great bewilderment
and then backed off behind the wood-
shed and peered at Darkie from behind
a log.
It went to the sheepyards, the first time
it saw sheep mustered, and from outside
the rails watched Ruff at work and
Darkie rushing madly in all directions,
and was plainly puzzled. A gummy old
ewe got out and went propping round the
outside of the yards and collided with it.
She received a great fright and the little
dog scurried away to the homestead and
never went near the yards again, except
when there was a killer to be dispatched
and the odds were four dogs and one
man against one sheep, and there was
the smell of blood and warm entrails-in
the dust.
Then it began to follow Darkie about.
Darkie was pleased, at first. He led it
out into the paddocks and showed it
rabbits, told it what rabbits were for
and bit pieces out of several logs as an
example. It watched him solemnly, then
sat on its haunches and scratched an ear.
When Darkie went on, it smelled about
the log and then followed him.
In the mornings, when Darkie per-
formed his usual galloping about, the little
dog raced solemnly after him, preserving
a grave silence and with an absence of
enthusiasm which suggested that it con-
sidered itself to be obeying a duty rather
than indulging a pleasure. Darkie could
out-run, out-leap and out-bark the thing,
and he obtained such an absurd pleasure
from demonstrating this that he actually
began to swagger. But there was a
change in Darkie from the day the little
dog caught and killed a goanna in the
fowl-yard and the boss, happening to
witness the deed, so far unbent as to give
it an approving pat. Darkie immediately
thrust himself between them, squirming
and fawning around the boss’s legs and
shouldering the little dog aside.
Thereafter there was a peculiar seri-
ousness about Darkie’s performances with
the little dog. Though he continued to
lead it on rabbit hunts and clownish
exhibitions, it was with a certain im-
patience, as though he were disappointed
with its lack of enthusiasm. They cut off
a rabbit in a netted corner and when the
little dog somehow caught the rabbit
before Darkie could reach it he snapped
at the little dog with a viciousness alien
to his nature.
A strange heifer appeared in the home-
stead paddock and the little dog raced
toward it. Darkie, who hadn’t noticed
the heifer until then, raced at the little
dog, shouldered it aside and himself went
dancing and yelping around the heifer.
Darkie now maintained a close watch
on the little dog. If the boss approached
it, he cut in and fawned on the boss
with a new, wistful anxiety. If the thing
found a logged rabbit, Darkie thrust him-
self at the log and made a tremendous
fuss. He became so attentive upon the
boss that Bluey turned his wall eye upon
him more than once and appeared to
grin darkly somewhere down deep in his
sinful old heart.
ONE morning the boss rode out to
inspect the rams, Ruff beside the
horse, Bluey at its heels, Darkie scouring
ahead and the little dog toddling along
out on a forward flank. As the boss rode
along the foot of the ridge in the ram
paddock the little dog disappeared. The
rams were camped under a clump of
apple-box. They were unafraid of the
dogs while the man was there and they
merely turned their big amber eyes on
them watchfully as the man examined
them.
One ram was missing. As the boss
turned to look over the paddock, there
was a “yowp! yowp! yowp!” up on the
ridge, and there was Darkie dancing
about full of excitement. Slightly worried
about the absence of the ram, the boss
cursed Darkie absently and, because the
whole of the paddock could be seen from
the top of the ridge, rode up there. He
saw the ram.
Its great curved horns were caught in
the fence wire. Partly exhausted by its
struggles to free itself, it now lay awk-
wardly on its front knees, its rump stick-
ing up. Several crows had discovered it
and, for a moment, the boss watched.
The crows were hopping from post to
ground, and hopping tentatively towards
the ram. By this time they would have
had the ram’s eyes and probably opened
up its flank, only that the little dog was
there. It rushed at the ground crows,
drove them circling lazily into the air,
then leapt yapping at those on the posts,
every now and then running back to the
ram, then at the crows again.
The boss rode quickly down the slope,
dropped from the saddle, released the
ram, held it until it had regained its
strength, then turned it up the slope. As
it went stumblingly towards its mates he
stood watching it. Then he snapped his
fingers in invitation to the little dog. It
shivered and moved toward him, but
Darkie, all asquirm and slobbering, thrust
himself between.
Next instant, with the sidelong crouch-
ing run of his dingo ancestors, his scarred
face wrinkled with ferocity, Bluey struck
Darkie and the little dog. There was a
double howl of mingled pain, fear and
astonishment and Darkie and the little
dog fled. Bluey turned back to the boss,
snapping to clear his teeth of skin and
hair, and crept to his side. Some distance
away Ruff, stiff-legged, stalked about,
smelling at bushes and growling to him-
self. Unmoved, the boss mounted and
rode slowly home.
NEXT morning, with the sun bright
and the air keen with an early
breath of winter, with the blue smoke
from the kitchen going straight up to the
sky and the smell of dew-wet earth about
him, the boss walked forth. Ahead of
him, in joyful circles, yelling at the mag-
pies and the sun and everything else,
galloped Darkie, his face one wide grin
and* his body bounding in foolish aban-
don. Ruff trotted sedately a little way
off to the right and at the boss’s heels
Bluey ambled along serenely.
The little dog studied them from be-
hind a horse-yard post. Then it ap-
peared under the old dray near the wool-
shed. It vanished and re-appeared, mak-
ing to cross to the woolshed. The boss
spoke to it. Darkie stopped in mid-
gambol, cast a quick glance at the boss
and then went for the little dog, yelling
threats. In a flash Bluey and Ruff joined
in and the boss, momentarily astonished,
watched them as they rounded the wool-
shed and went on towards the scrubby
ridge beyond, all three racing, and ahead
of them the little dog, gomg for its life.
The boss went on to the woolshed and
his work. Presently the three dogs came
back, tongues lolling, and found him.
They were strangely friendly to each
other, Darkle laughing in through the
woolshed door, Ruff and Blue beside
him, their tails wagging. The little dog
was never seen again at that place.


i
/
E
'Ts*. "'»»»»"■"
,, mir****
ikkn
%av>
OIL
CO
S 3
of* 5
*3-
I
’.' I/I-.
?///
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
I
mf«t job
again !
Your wartime driving troubles are
over, because Plume the better
petrol —is here again. Plume
will once more enable you to
obtain from your car or truck all
the power and mileage it was
built to give.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY.
(Incorporated in Australia)
LTD.
P-463
ASFAL IN DUCKS
BY FRANK HOMPHP
HE hears the car long before it
appears between the trees along
the roadway and moves out of
the hayshed to watch it pass by
across in front of the house. It does
not continue on, however, but turns in to-
wards his front paddock gate and pulls
up.
He recognises Jack Butler from the
Three Mile then, as he climbs out to
open the gate, and surmises that the
reason for the visit is the purchase of
some ducks for the near-Christmas cele-
brations.
Well, he has plenty to sell.
He moves into the shade of the shed
wall and, squatting down on his haunches,
watches the old tourer chug along the
twin wheel tracks past the side of the
house and follow their curve round.
He watches the near-side front wheel as
it draws closer ; it revolves slower and
slower and draws closer and closer, and
about six feet directly in front of where
he squats it stops and is just a yellow
spoked mechanism, yet of such peculiar
interest that he continues to gaze at it for
a full 20 seconds longer.
Then, slowly, he raises his eyes to the
sole occupant of the car; who is now
looking straight ahead through the wind-
screen away over the paddocks to distant
timber on the horizon.
This concentrated distant gaze does not
waver or shift until he has pulled the
hand-brake slowly on; then, turning his
head, he grins.
“G’day, Bob.”
“G’day, Jack.” Bob shifts his gaze to
the far side of the house paddock,
JACK moves over from behind the
driving wheel and eases himself slowly
backwards out on to the ground. He
stretches his arms high over his head.
“Hi-ho!” he says, “I’m tired.”
Bob sneaks a quick sidelong look at
the stretching man and grins slightly.
“What, late night?”
“No, just getting old.”
They grin at each other. The visitor
moves closer to the shed wall and squats
down too. They are silent for a while,
both staring out into the sunlight but
there is little of interest there; only the
busy scratching of a solitary hen round a
manure heap.
Bob speaks again—“ Dry,” he says.
“Yair, dry all right,” says Jack. “How’re
they milking?”
“Oh, we’re still getting a drop,” Bob
replies, his voice carrying the suggestion
that the drop is a little more than any-
one else in the district is getting.
He studies the scratching hen as though
she were a new and interesting subject.
Jack Butler roves his eyes around the
farmyard and buildings. Presently they
light on two waddling ducks behind a
wire-netting enclosure. The interest in
them concentrates his gaze until he be-
comes conscious of it, and then fearing
that this interest will be observed he
quickly shifts it.
“Soon be Christmas,” he observes.
“Yair. Getting close all right.” Bob has
noted the momentary interest in the ducks
and now strives to get the impending deal
out of his own thoughts lest he acciden-
tally be the first to mention it. '
“It must be getting near dinner-time,”
he says, and then remembers there is
duck for dinner.
“How’s your corn looking?” he asks
quickly.
“Not bad; could do with a drop of
rain.” Jack picks up a straw and com-
mences slowly tying it into a painstak-
ingly adjusted reef knot.
They sit on in silence.
AT the house Bob’s young wife sits in
the kitchen nursing a fretful baby
and wishing that Bob would soon come
for his dinner. She had been about to
call him at 12 o’clock when the car had
come.
Now she waits for it to go. She knows
the visitor by sight and wishes she weren’t
so shy so that she could go out boldly
and ask him to stay for dinner. She
peeps backwards over her shoulder,
through the doorway, but the two men
sitting now by the shed wall show no
signs of major decisions or movement.
She vaguely hopes that Bob will bring
him over for the meal —but then there
will be the painful ordeal of awkward
introductions; she peeps out again fear-
ful lest they be already on the way to
the house. But they are not. They are
just sitting like two smouldering black
(Continued on page 32.)


Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m Mm
J
I
11W
£***
HOTEL METROPOLE
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telenhones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & 00. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TERRORIST INCITEMENT.
Mr. Truman has been led to protest
against American-Jewish attempts to keep
terrorist violence stirred up in Palestine.
Good, but belated..
As several documented articles in these
pages have shown, the attempts —often
in costly advertisement form—have been
going on for a long time, all the while
increasing in their brutality and aiming
more and more at producing hatred of
Britain.
One of the most brutal—Ben Hecht’s
“Letter to the Terrorists of Palestine,”
which appeared as a paid full-page
advertisement in N.Y. “Post” and
“Herald Tribune”—overshot the mark.
Mr. Truman’s belated protests came after
it; as well, it drew enough hostile com-
ment to cover far more space than the
original advertisement.
Hecht, who described himself as “a
thorough, full-blooded Jew, whose folks
come from Russia,” addressed his letter
to “My Brave Friends”:
You may not believe what I write you, for
there is a lot of fertiliser in the air at the
moment. But, on my word as an old reporter,
what I write is true. The Jews of America are
for you. You are their champions. You are
the grin they wear. You are the feather in
their hats. In the past fifteen hundred years
every nation of Europe has taken a crack at
the Jews. This time the British are at bat.
You are the first answer that makes sense —
to the New World.
Every time you blow up a British arsenal,
or wreck a British jail, or send a British rail-
road train sky high, or rob a British bank, or
THE TEMPERAMENTAL BEAR.
—Minneapolis (U.S.A.) “Star.”
let go with, your guns and bombs at the British
betrayers and invaders of your homeland, the
Jews of America make a little holiday in their
hearts.
Not all the Jews, of course. The only time
the Jews present a united front is when they
lie piled by the millions in the massacre pits.
I shenck you this front. I like yours better.
Historically, the corpses of the Jews are very
impressive as to numbers. But they are not a
monument to Jewish valor. They are a monu-
ment only to the brutality of the Europeans
who piled them up.
The Jews of America are for you because the
corpse of an Irgun soldier is a unique and
very high-class type of Jewish corpse. The
corpse of Dov Gruner hanging from a British
gallows is not a monument to the British
brutality that strangled him. It is a monument
to the Hebrew valor that fights for a home-
land of its own—and for the dignity of all
Jews such as myself who have a homeland
elsewhere.
Then came a passage about Jews
troubled in their minds by the spectacle
of their faith being linked with a
notorious political cause that espouses
violence and murder and devices
like “letter-bombs”; and about the
others who, in America, Britain and Aus-
tralia, object to the whole Zionist busi-
ness on the score of their being Ameri-
cans, Britons or Australians of the Jewish
faith. These people, who want or are
working for a fair and honorable settle-
ment of the Palestine problem, Mr. Hecht
dismissed as “Jewish Penguin Patriots.”
Mr. Hecht then reported the not sur-
prising fact that collecting for the Zionist
cause in America is tough going:
We are ringing doorbells and peddling your
cause and passing the hat and trying to lift the
heads of our Jewish respectables to have
a look at the ring It’s tough going—
even on the fringe of a fight for free-
dom. So forgive us if our take is a little
meagre for the time. The rich Jews are pour-
ing millions into the business of feeding the
survivors of the German massacre, Jewish
wealth and respectability are fearlessly rushing
sandwiches to them. But, for a change, the
Jews of America hear more than Jewish groans
to solace.
We hear Hebrew courage. We hear a battle
cry that rises above the pathetic gabble in
Flushing Meadows. We hear brave men fight-
ing on despite torture, calumny, low supplies
and overwhelming odds! We hear you. We
are out to raise millions for you.
And the money is coming in—not from Jews
alone but from all Americans. Because
America is not a Fact-finding Commission and
a State Department. America is a dream of
freedom in the hearts of its millions and a
cheer for all brave men who fight its never-
ending battle. Hang on, brave friends, our
money is on its way.
—Ben Hecht, ex-Chairman American League
for a Free Palestine.
Other reasons for the meagreness of
Mr. Hecht’s “take” were given in the
outburst of correspondence that followed
his “letter.”
“You are doubtless aware that the
policy advocated in this extraordinary
letter is condemned by an overwhelming
majority of Jews all over the world, in-
cluding the Jews in Palestine,” said one
writer; “a full-page advt. for the purpose
of raising funds to aid and abet crime and
violence in territory administered by a
nation friendly to the United States,”
another description.
The most representative summing up
of the American view of Mr. Hecht’s
letter, and the cause he espouses, was
forcefully put by E. A. L. Bennett
in a letter to the N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
“Mr. Hecht boasts,” he wrote, “that he
is breaking the neutrality laws of this
country and claims the sympathy of the
entire nation is with his cause. He is
entirely wrong on both points. All true
Americans are sick of the spectacle of
slick propagandists stirring up other
people to fight while they wrap them-
selves in the American flag and stay in
safety over here. If Bfen Hecht did some
fighting, Americans might have some
sympathy for him and his aims. As it is,
they look upon him with the utmost con-
tempt, and are especially enraged at his
endeavor to prove that Zionist and
American aims are synonymous. They
are not compatible at all.”
KOREA “AGREEMENT.”
Among Secretary Marshall’s difficulties
in the State Department at Washington
has been a recovery of prestige on the
East Asian mainland after the failure of
his Government’s (and his own) efforts to
reconcile the factions in China, In Ger-
many, Austria and the Balkans the Russo-
American tussle for diplomatic victory
has established a rivalry which makes a
test case of every issue where Russia and
America come face to face.
If they can agree in Korea, where they
have the lists to themselves, the example
may be valuable elsewhere. They have
been far from agreeing hitherto, and
though the Russo-American Military
Commission—reconvened after more than
12 months’ adjournment—was reported
on June 9 to have “reached full agree-
ment on the basis on which Korean
parties will be consulted in the formation
of a provisional Government,” that, ob-
viously, is only a first, tentative step.
The June 9 report from the Korean
capital stated that the latest “agreement”
embodies “the principles of freedom of
expression, and guarantees fair represen-
tation of the divergent Korean views.”
Anyone looking at what is meanwhile
going on in the American-Russian clash
in Europe, and also looking back at the
Russian way with past “agreements,” in-
cluding those on Korea itself, would be
something other than a mere optimist to
accept the latest “full agreement” as
final.
Still, it represents a change, though
one perhaps best viewed in the light of
the actual happenings in, and regarding,
Korea over the past year or two.
The arbitrary division of the country
along the 38th parallel of north latitude
began at the end of the war as merely a
convenient dividing line for American
and Russian forces that were occupying
Korea to accept the surrender of Japanese
there.
The division left 9,500,000 of the
Korean population in the northern zone,
in which the Russians have maintained
an occupation force of 200,000 men, and
19,000,000 in the south, where there are,
or were last year, 50,000 United States
troops.
Americans engaged in the occupation
have declared that nowhere is there a
more strictly locked, barred and bolted,
frontier than that in central Korea.
Machinery north of that line has been
carted off to Russia. Moscow-aided
economic distress there has aggravated
the food scarcity in the American zone,
millions of Koreans having crossed the
border.
North of the line the political rule has
been “join the Communist party or
starve.” South of it, the American en-
couragement of free political alignments
has resulted in a host of small parties
milling among themselves.
The Moscow conference of 1945 de-
cided that there should be a period of
political tutelage for Korea under Allied
trusteeship, but that all native organisa-
tions should take part in Russo-American
talks on the future independent constitu-
tion for the country. Because most
Korean party leaders agitated in favor
of immediate independence without any
tutelary period, the Russians early barred
them from the discussions on the ground
that they were opposed to the Moscow
decisions. This in effect would have made
only Korean Communists eligible for
attendance.
The deadlock has been costing the
American Government about 140,000,000
dollars a year in food, coal, medical sup-
plies and other aid for support of the
southern Koreans. The Russians’ ex-
pedient with unemployed and distressed
people is, of course, different. These are
simply pushed over the frontier to be a
charge on someone else.
Recently General Marshall wrote to
Molotov citing the injury done all round
by the continued deadlock, urging a re-
sumption of the. Joint Commission’s meet-
ings, and adding a barely veiled warning:
In the meantime, the United States, mindful
of its obligations under the Moscow Agree-
ment, sees no alternative to taking without
further delay such steps in its zone as will
advance the purposes of that agreement.
That warning meant that if the Rus-
sians—who have in fact been fast Sovietis-
ing northern Korea —would not abate
their opposition, the U.S. Government
would go ahead with its own plans in
the south. There the Koreans would
establish their own provisional Govern-
ment, supported by a 500-million dollar
loan from Washington. Thus Korea
would be divided as Germany is being
divided—-into democratic and Sovietised
zones.
Against that background it would cer-
tainly take a super-optimist to see any-
thing final in the somewhat jubilantly
reported “full agreement” of June 9.
THE GREEK GUINEA PIG.
Two intended purposes were combined
in Uncle Sam’s setting aside 350,000,000
dollars for Greece —the rebuilding of the
country’s shaky political and economic
structure, with Unde Sam keeping a close
watch on the books and a closer grip
on the purse strings ; and, in President
Truman’s view, “a decisive action by
America that has a better prospect of
leading to a working relationship with
the U.S.S.R. than any other policy.”
Greece, as a “Saturday Evening Post”
writer sees it, is “the only country in
Europe in which the Right and the Left
are shooting it out in the open.” The
Government forces are British-trained,
-dressed and -equipped, with American
assistance coming up; the Communist
guerrillas are receiving the “open spiritual
support of Russia” and whatever material
they may be getting across the border —
“The deadly parallel with the Spanish
civil war is obvious.”
The Greek sickness goes back a long
way, with Communism in the roots of it,
even though Greece is not favorable soil
for the Red doctrine —only one-tenth of
the country is industrialised and the one-
third of the country that is arable is
broken into small holdings belonging to
peasants who are individualists with an
instinctive dislike »of collectivist ideas.
The Corns, lessened their chances con-
siderably when, after the beating they
took in the 1944 revolution, they earned
the bitter hatred of most Greeks by
slaughtering hostages they had seized. In
those circumstances, and despite Russian
prodding, Communism in Greece would
probably have died by its own hand. The
Government, however, in its efforts to
stamp out the remaining rebels, seems
to have been almost as short-sighted as
the Communists. There is ample evidence
for the N.Y. “Times” report that “mem-
bers of the security police created by the
Germans, and a gendarmerie, to a large
extent recruited from the hoodlums of the
cities, were sent into the provinces to hunt
the rebels.”
The situation was not improved by
eager Right-wing citizens who rushed in
when the Greek army and police were
unable to enforce “even the Balkan
version of the law.” The British Parlia-
mentary mission which visited Greece in
1946 reported that “they never engage the


BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. It
keeps his tenderskin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trio-Cuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
530
Iz
fd
Safeguard the future
... of your family
. . . by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENCE
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Sir T. Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle,
F. W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.:
O. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY PT .s
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cpol for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.,
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
Communist bands in battle, but devote
themselves to terrorising the villages.”
In contrast, Red terrorism is organised.
A “Saturday Evening Post” man in
Greece reported:
There has been no indication of amateurish-
ness on the part of rebel bands. _ Everything
they do makes military sense. Their forays are
superbly planned and executed, and always
seem to break in the right places. Indeed, their
overall strategy compellingly points to the exist-
ence of a master mind behind the guns. Ihe
map alone warrants that conclusion. The
northern guerrilla belt cuts Greece in two, as
if deliberately designed to cripple the country’s
communications system. And, when the Gov-
ernment started complaining about trouble
“along the northern border,” guerrilla activities
promptly shifted southward, as if someone
wanted to prove that the rebels could get along
nicely without that helping hand across the
border.
The Soviet Union covets Greece and wishes
to absorb ksr into the Russian bloc. Russia’s
appetite for the lukewarm bays and fine harbors
of the Greek coast has grown with her in-
ability to swallow Trieste and the strategic
Dardanelles. Greece is the only Balkan nation
still outside the Soviet sphere—if she came in,
Soviet imperialism could give birth to a Red
Balkan federation reaching from the Danube
down to Crete.
The unhappy situation has not been
improved by the Government’s economic
record. A large part of the £80,000,000
which Britain lent Geece went on im-
ports of luxuries instead of wheat, fats,
clothing and shoes:
While the people of Greece shiver in their
roofless houses and walk through the snow
without shoes and overcoats, fortunes are
amassed in Athens In the swank shops
luxury goods from the far corners of the globe
are brilliantly displayed—Swiss watches, French
silks and perfumes, American cosmetics, foun-
tain-pens and cigarettes. And there are enough
people around to buy them Look at the
list of machinery imported into Greece, and
you won’t find a lathe on it. What you will
find is 132 brand new high-priced automobiles
for the use of bureaucrats and politicians in
mule-and-buggy Athens.
Uncle Sam trod warily before stepping
into such a political and economic tangle,
American investigation commissions heard
evidence from all sides; the commis-
sions’ final findings as given by a
N.Y, “Times” writer “that Greece’s
Communist-dominated neighbors have
been giving aid and encouragement to
Greek Left-wing extremists in the hope
that they will embarrass and eventually
overthrow the existing Greek. Govern-
ment, and that the internal political
situation in Greece is essentially unstable
and an almost irresistible invitation to
enemies to fish in troubled waters.”
Another consideration influencing the
American decision, of course, is the
strategic position of Greece, summed up
by “World Report”: “It flanks the East-
ern Mediterranean, Turkey, the Darda-
nelles and all western approaches to the
Middle East. In controlling Greece,
Russia denies it to non-Soviet Powers and
greatly enhances her own strategic posi-
tion, particularly at a later date when
she shall have developed effective naval
and strategic air forces,
“Russian success in Greece would be
of great and immediate value to the
Soviet Union because of the lift it would
give to Communism, and the blow to
democracy, in countries where the two
systems are actively opposed. It would
be both an encouragement and a warning.
It would favor the idea that Communism
has a quality of momentum that cannot
long be resisted. The combination of
these results would be particularly serious
in their impact on Turkey and the Middle
East.”
Having made up his mind to expend
the 350,000,000 dollars. Uncle Sam’s next
consideration was to guarantee success
of the move, Britain sank over £80,000,000
in Greece, while U.N.R.R.A, did the
major part of feeding the Greeks, and the
U.S. wants to see a little more for its
money than Britain received. It is hoped
that the American staff in Greece will
reach full strength during July and that
it will begin drawing on the 350,000,000
dollars by the end of that month.
The money will be split five ways
150,000,000 dollars for the army,
80,000,000 to the Government for recon-
struction, 20,000,000 for food production,
50.000. to stabilise the drachma, and
50.000. to combat hunger.
“The U.S. plans to do two things to
help the Greek Army end the civil war
and secure the northern frontier,” says
“World Report.”
“Modern equipment worth more than
$150,000,000 is to be sent, and the
use of American arms and equipment is
to be taught the Greek Army by the U.S,
military mission. Between 200 and 300
officers and men will be sent to Greece
to see that U.S. supplies are received and
properly used. Two British missions for
military training and police administra-
tion will remain and will work alongside
U.S. advisers.”
The same publication reports that
“Greek economy is to get a thorough
overhauling. Over-all control of econo-
mic matters will be vested in a U.S.
economic mission that will include about
20 experts answerable only to Washing-
ton. On paper, the U.S. mission may be
given only advisory powers. In fact,
however, it will have real power through
its ability to withhold all or part of the
$200,000,000 to be spent on non-military
—Cleveland ( U.S.A .) “Plain Dealer.”
DOORSTEP DEPOSITS.
aid to Greece, U.S. economists can ap-
peal to Greek public opinion if poli-
ticians refuse their advice,
“Greek trade abroad is to be supervised
by an American who is to be an employee
of the Greek Government, not a U.S.
civil servant. Thus he is to be free of
pressure from U.S. business and will be
able to have Greeks buy where prices
are lower and sell where prices are high-
est.
“Greek currency is to be stabilised
under the watchful eye of the currency
commission set up a year ago at Britain’s
request. Its members, three Greeks, one
American and one Briton, all are em-
ployees of the Greek Government. Each
has a veto over the issuance of currency
and all legislation or Government action
requiring expenditures.
“Greek banking, although the most
efficient branch of an inefficient Govern-
ment, is to have its wings clipped. The
Bank of Greece must surrender to the
Trade Administrator its monopoly on
currency for imports and exports.
“Greek civil servants are in for a shock.
U.S. plans call for a 25 per cent, reduc-
tion in the civil-service list.
“Greek taxes are to be carefully re-
vised. There is little or no income reach-
ing the Government through income taxes
on the wealthy. Thousands of taxes
produce nothing for the State, the pro-
ceeds going to charity and other funds of
dubious value.
“Revolutionary changes are not to be
expected immediately. For all its faults
the present regime in Greece is giving
Greeks far more personal liberty than the
citizens of other Balkan countries are get-
ting from their Communist-led regimes.
“Pacification of Greece is to be carried
out by the Greek Army under U.S. super-
vision. It is probable that U.S. advisers
will insist that non-partisan units of the
Greek Army be selected to disarm not
only Communist sympathisers but anti-
communist civilians who have been co-
operating with the Monarchy’s police in
bloody manhunts,”
So, according to the authoritative
“World Report,” the grand scheme pro-
ceeds, even to the “democratisation of
Greece,” known through history as “the
cradle of democracy”!
Anyway, as those undertaking it see
the job, it,is “the great test of whether
the U.S. is ready to take over the respon-
sibilities that go with world leadership,”
It is also a test of other things. Of Greece,
and of Russia, and of the yet-unproven
theory of the post-war world that one
country can, step in and rebuild the
wreckage of another.
WELTERWEIGHT
SINATRA.
When they read that crooner Frank
Sinatra had punched journalist Lee Mor-
timer and floored him in a night club
encounter, most average males found it
hard to believe. They found Still harder
to believe what was subsequently given
out —that Franky possessed the necessary
fistic ability from actual ring experience.
They had seen the darling of the
bobby-soxers in films or had heard what
is called his voice ; and they had formed
certain impressions. But anyone who
had ever seen a pale, pimply, weak-faced
youth get into a ring and put up a really
good scrap—anyone, that is, who has
seen a fair number of fights—might have
credited the tale, tall as it seemed.
It appears that they, and not the dis-
believers, would have been right. The
authority for this assertion is the Ameri-
can columnist Westbrook Pegler, at once
one of the hardest hitting (journalistically
speaking) and one of the most trust-
worthy of his profession. Refuting the
portrayal of Sinatra as “a wan and wist-
ful weakling,” Pegler describes him as “a
healthy welterweight in good condition
with competitive experience as a boxer.”
Pointing out —what most should know
—that “a welterweight with even a smat-
tering of skill at boxing, given the ad-
vantage of surprise or the sneak punch,
can bring down almost any layman of
any weight,” Pegler gave other interesting
information on the much-publicised en-
counter ; among other things, that the
“healthy welterweight” had three com-
panions to help him mob Mortimer.
It appears that, while Mortimer had
done all his fighting as a soldier in the
war, Sinatra, though, as Pegler describes
him, “robust, active and pugnacious, in-
temperate and profane,” had been “a
vicarious though ferocious warrior
against the Nazi, like Charlie Chaplin.”
Yet, regarding his fitness, Sinatra at one
time “displayed a draft card which he
said was marked 1-A and said he ex-
pected soon to embrace the privilege of
slaughtering the foul aggressors in per-
son.”
According to Pegler, plans are at pre-
sent afoot to present Sinatra in a film
in the role of an “idealistic priest.” Peg-
ler would have him cast in another role.
Mentioning that “other young men,
slightly maimed or blind in one eye,
managed to get into the war,” if not in
the armed forces, then as merchant
sailors or some other active service, Peg-
ler points out how the public has a tend-
ency to endow actors with the virtues of
the characters they portray; therefore
“Sinatra and the movie industry might
more honestly dramatise his life as it is
lived”:
The scenario here proposed should reveal
Sinatra’s social versatility, his economic thrift
through girlish adulation and, by all means, the
cruel frustration of his desire to slay the enemies
of “democracy” in person. And the public
should be given fair means to judge whether
his example and leadership, including gun-
toting in time of peace but never in battle
in time of war, were something that American
youth had been better off with —or without.
It would seem there have been quite
a lot of errors of impression regarding
the certainly meek-looking and weak-
looking delicate Franky. Perhaps it will
even turn out that Caruso’s voice was
just a weak mixture of syrup and slobber.
Whaffor No War? Against Uncle Sam’s
lending China any more until the fighting stops,
an at least original argument has been put
forward by the Professor of International Re-
lations at Columbia University, Nathaniel Peffer.
As the Prof, sees it, in the N.Y. “Daily News”
view of his comments, “the two leading Chinese
factions are still full of moxie and greatly
enjoying the civil war.” Hence, contended the
Prof., “any help, economic or otherwise, will
only aggravate the ill effects of the mistakes
already made in American policy and set China
further back.” Whether Uncle Sara advanced
five hundred million dollars or five hundred
cents it would be squandered on fighting. “The
only way to induce them to reform is to make
it plain to them that so far as America is
concerned they are on their own until they do
reform. They probably will not do so even
then, but at least we shall not have aided and
abetted them in a course which is bringing ruin
to China. For the present there is no hope
of peace in China. Neither sid.e wants it, the
Communists being as insincere iff their profes-
sions as the Kuomintang.”
$ $ $ &
Spies in U.N.R.R.A. —One of many very good
—or it should be very bad—reasons for the
failure of the originally finely-conceived world
welfare organisation was stated without any
mincing of words by the former British repre-
sentative in Germany, Lieut.-Gen. Sir Frederick
Morgan. He declared that it was packed with
spies; that the Russian “security police” (the
N.K.V.D.) “placed agents in every category
of U.N.R.R.A. employment, even down to what
were called Class 2 employees—that is, displaced
persons who were paid by U.N.R.R.A. for
doing work round the camps.” The N.K.V.D.
also “placed agents among the refugees stream-
ing into Germany from Eastern Europe.” Such
agents had three objectives, Sir Frederick ex-
plained. First, to spread disaffection and dis-
content among displaced persons to embarrass
the British and American occupation authorities.
Second, “the typical N.K.V.D. job, which is
to identify the home relatives of displaced
persons who refuse to return to Soviet-
dominated lands, particularly Poland, the Baltic
States and Yugoslavia.” Third, to ferret out
information of a military character. Hence, of
course, the loud Com. howls everywhere when
Uncle Sam, who was footing most of the bill,
and J. Bull with him, decided to call the good
thing off.


TUBE EVERYWHERE
>
m
m
mm
(/
)
&
TRADE - MARK
Mu
A
m-
r-
m
■vi.:"';:' *
'
mm
S4S:ViS '■•■•, ■•
•4il
' <
■
mmmmm
... ....
mi
Hi
iill
ii
WfW&m.
mWmm
i.\ I* p
■A
W
A
M
x
mm
:• y.
READY FOR IMMEDIATE USE
AUSTRALIA
DISTRIBUTING
AGENTS:—
N. S. WALES: Tarzan's Grip Mfg.
Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
VICTORIA: T. W. Heath Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Crouch Connah
Pty. Ltd., Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA: Ewer Auld & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA; Raphaels Ltd.,
Perth.
TASMANIA: F. W. Heritage <& Co.
Pty. Ltd. (Hobart and Launceston).
OVERSEAS
NEW ZEALAND; G. S. Llntott &
Co. Ltd., Auckland.
BRITISH MALAYA: Grafton
Laboratories Ltd., Singapore.
INDIA: J. A. Parker & Company,
Calcutta.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3514
Wednesday, June 18, 1947
SONG OF THE DANUBE BOATMEN.
“For Joe-o, heave-ho!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack. Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SHIPPING CHAOS.
During the war the Commonwealth
Government took over Australian ship-
ping concerns’ fleets, inter-State and
intra-State. Having in the sad procession
of the years run these once-flourishing
enterprises into a condition of horrible
loss in working costs, and haying sur-
rendered to the Communist-controlled
maritime unions in every way, it is about
to return to the owners such ships as have
not been handed back, sunk by enemy
action or sold. That, at any rate, is the
proposal on paper. Actually, with condi-
tions as they are —with the ships, Gov-
ernment-chartered, employed for the
benefit primarily of the Commo-run sea-
men’s and watersiders’ unions—the Gov-
ernment will be actually resigning to the
shipowners an industry which Ministers
have been unable to protect from the
militafits, and which Canberra evidently
has no intention of protecting hence-
forth.
The temper of the Communists of the
Seamen’s Union was shown during the
shameful affair of the damaged Wan-
ganella and not only by members of the
crew filling their pockets with “danger
money.” “As a result o,f the Wan-
ganella hold-up,” Mr. Semple, the N.Z.
Minister of Works, said at the beginning
of the month, “we ourselves have been
greatly embarrassed,” and he was moved
again to denounce Elliott, the Sea-
men’s Union secretary, notorious for
extolling “the work of Communism in
Europe, where traitors to the workers
have been killed off.” The Wellington
wharfies’ executive demanded that Mr,
Semple should be removed from his post.
Such are the people who are now pre-
paring to run Australian shipping under
the Canberra Government’s new order. It
is “socialisation of industry” as ordered
by “the party,” and it is being approached
with the minimum of consideration for
investors, who find shipping shares, before
the war in great demand, no longer sought
after, even at reduced prices. When
political brigandage was used against the
banks the public was, by dint of propa-
ganda, rendered more than a little blind
to what was going on. But the sabotage
of commercial enterprise in the shipping
industry can result only in heavy and
visible charges against all the community,
and the new regime will begin with plain
evidence in soaring freight rates and fares.
The shipping companies are getting
their ships back from the Government
seven years older, in much depreciated
condition (charter fees were inadequate
to meet advancing charges for mainten-
ance and repairs and depreciation), and
with the intimation (lately authorised by
legislation) that, on completing 25 years
afloat, every ship is to be scrapped and
replaced, if at all, by a vessel built in
Australia, Apparently Mr. Chifley re-
gards as balm to shipowners’ injured feel-
ings his offer, conveyed to a protesting
deputation, that , ships built by> the Com-
monwealth Shipping Board would be
available to shipowners placed in this pre-
dicament. This Commonwealth Shipping
Board, or a bureaucratic set-up en-
throned under some similar name, will,
moreover, “retain general supervision
over coastal shipping as regards freights
and schedules,” and thus assert control
over action which any commercial com-
pany may take to meet the conditions of
the industry under Government “super-
vision.”
And those conditions? The rot that
has eaten into the shipping business under
Government direction has been made
clear by statements at annual meetings
of one Australian shipping company after
another and by overseas companies
wherever their business touches Aus-
tralian trade connections. Let any citi-
zen calculate for himself the harm that
has been done (remembering that Aus-
tralia is a competitor for world trade)
and the cost that has to be paid —by him-
self in the end —from these incontestible
facts: —
A ship today by comparison with con-
ditions under which she worked in 1939 —
Costs three times as much to build;
Costs more than twice as much for
maintenance and overhaul;
Is held idle in Australian ports on the
average for twice as long (66 per cent, of
a round voyage instead of 33 per cent.);
In port her cargo costs at least twice as
much to handle (when the wharfies consent
to work 'it).
And there must now be met a higher
basic wage, higher marginal rates, “attend-
ance money”—for non-attendant idleness
mostly—perpetuation of war-risk bonuses
—still being paid although the war is over
nearly two years—and the altering of age-
ing ships to satisfy such demands as the
seamen may force upon the Government;
two-berth cabins and so forth.
What else will be required in penalty
against private enterprise by the board
that is to run Government ships against
the companies is yet to be computed. 1
For the Chifiey Government intends to
re-establish that highly expensive and un-
economic activity of 20 years ago known
as the Commonwealth Shipping Line, It
is on record that Senator Ashley’s Ship-
ping Department is now “assembling evi 7
dence for submission to Cabinet” in an
effort to prove that the figures which
wrote the epitaph of that ghastly under-
taking were all a horrible defamation of
socialistic control, and in particular:
That losses incurred by the former C.S.L.
were mere bookkeeping entries;
That non-possession of the Bay liners
hampered the war effort; >
That with these ships the Government’s
migration policy would have been acceler-
ated and food to Britain increased.
Concerning the second and third of
these points, it need only be said that the
flower of that CSX. fleet, the Bay liners,
were built in Britain in 1921 and 1922,
and thus would have been over the Gov-
ernment’s own age-limit for ships, even
if they had survived the late war.
“Labor” possession of these ships during
the past two years would only have
further congested Australian ports which
the Government has allowed the wharfies
to blockade, and thus would have “ac-
celerated” no Government policy, immi-
gration or other
The story of the former C.S.L. has been
told in the annual reports of Auditors-
General. It cost £15,000,000 to purchase
or construct. After making some trading
profits in the first years (late-war and
post-armistice) when even the veriest im-
becile who owned a ship could not help
making money with it, it showed a direct
loss of £2,707,719 for .the two years to
June 30, 1923. The Government then
passed the Line over to a board, first
writing down valuation by some £lO
millions to £4,749,350. There were
further capital losses through the sale* of
laid-up vessels (the plain gingerbread
years were beginning), and from June,
1923, to March, 1927, the additional trad-
ing loss was £1,922,406. The total over
nearly six years was thus £4,630,125. In
1928 the remnant was sold at a devalua-
tion to the White Star Line, and when
that Kylsant show was liquidated some
£400,000 owing to the Commonwealth
remained unpaid. The Auditor-General
said that total losses incurred by the
board from 1923 onward amounted to
£4,013,596 —or nearly -6| millions in all
during its managerial career.
Government * working of Cockatoo
Island dockyard (an appendage of the
Commonwealth Line) showed an annual
loss of £60,000 per annum until a private
company, which soon demonstrated its
efficiency, was induced to lease the yard.
After that not only was the annual loss
eliminated, but the rental paid to the
Government (on a sliding scale) rose
steadily from £lOOO a year in 1934 to
£15,000 in 1936 and £27,000 in the last
pre-war year. War business raised it to
£50,000.
These are the facts which Federal
“Labor” is trying to twist into evidence
that the Commonwealth Government can,
on past experience, run a shipping line
efficiently. Let us see (so far as is at
present discoverable from Budget dis-
guises) what Chifley and Co. did as ship-
builders and charterers during the late
war. The Auditor-General’s report for
1945-46 sheds a lurid light on those opera-
tions.
The Australian Shipbuilding Board was
constituted six months before the Curtin
Government came into office. Up to
June, 1946, it spent on ship construction
£10,294,165 ; on “facilities,” £1,420,648 ;
on loans to contractors which had not at
that date been repaid, £476,442. For this
£12,191,255 of public money it produced
14 ships—l 2 A-class 9000-tenners and
two D-class freighters of 2500 tons.
There were also partly built one A-class
ship and six D-class —three of these latter
launched. There were four B-class 6000-
ton freighters and five E-class freighters
of 500 tons, all in “early stages” of con-
struction and apparently discontinued.
During the past year six more ships (prob-
ably D-class) appear to have been com-
pleted, for it was indicated a few days
ago that the new Government Line would
start with “a nucleus of 20 ships, A and
'D classes.” »
The wooden-ship undertakings were
another farce reminiscent of the like ven-
tures in World War I, Twelve were
ordered in Westralia and 20 in Tasmania
at an estimated price of £37,500 apiece
—for 300-tonners. Ten were completed
in the West at a cost of over £61,000
each. Ten put together in Tasmania are
estimated to have made away with
£68,000 to £78,000 apiece. None was
finished in time for the war. Fourteen
were sold or are to be sold at prices
down to about £ll,OOO ; but the Auditor-
General has still to prepare a full report.
As for ships requisitioned by the De-
partment of Supply and Shipping, that
improvisation showed a debit of
£3,107,393 for the 1945-46 year. It esti-
mated that the debit on the same account
for 1946-47 would be £1,086,590 —an
optimism that must be heavily discounted.
Omitting the wooden-ship losses, this
particular Government “enterprise” dur-
ing this past six years has cost the
country over 16£ millions. Such is the
outfit which, according to Canberra, is
going to show the shipping companies
how to run their business in peace as in
war. The shipping companies have told
Mr. Chifley that they cannot place orders
for new ships until they have some assur-
ance about approval for the higher
freight-rates that must be charged under
the new The Prime Minister’s
reply was that the Prices Commissioner
was “having a look at that matter,” and
that the answer might be a Government
subsidy. The shipowners have rejected a
subsidy, as rendering them dependent
upon Government aid. They know what
that represents.
The “Labor” goal is Government
ownership of transport by land, sea and
air and to devil with the consequences.
Soon ships and airways will be run in
this country at as hopeless an economic
loss to the taxpayers as are Government
railways; and there is not one of these
undertakings that is not chronically in-
solvent.
The Great Disillusion.
For upwards of seven years the young
lions of the Stunt Press in the U S.A.,
Britain and Australia went all Riisso-
maniac. Their argument was that the
glorious Revolution had made supermen
of the male Russians and super-darlings
of all Red “guerrilla” girls, and anyone
who objected to this general proposition
and to the presentation of Russia as
superlatively efficient and trustworthy,
capable of licking both Germans and Japs
in jig-time and ushering in the general
reign of democracy, was dismissed as a
“Fascist.”
Harsh circumstances, first-hand evi-
dence and belated promptings of con-
science have obliged many of these en-
gaging youths to turn somersaults.
For example, Mr, Godfrey Blunden, in
the hectic seven years one of the Sydney
“D.T.’s” Roving Reporters. Nobody was
then more Russomaniac than Mr. Blun-
den, and the Communists cashed in on his
fustian. One of his proposals, dashed off
four years before Russia started its almost
bloodless war against the Japanese, was
that Australia should send 500 airmen
to Vladivostok, Could they have got
there every man would have been interned
for weary, dreary years, and the force
‘may not have escaped fhe fate of the
Italian prisoners taken by the Russians,
four-fifths of whom died of “typhus.”
In process of time Mr. Godfrey Blun-
den went to Russia. As in the case of
Mr. Paul Winterton, of 8.8. C. and the
“News-Chronicle,” his enthusiasm failed
to survive the experience. While in
Russia he wrote some chapters of a
novel in which his description of the
Workers’ Paradise is really ferocious.
Transferring to “S. M. Herald,”
the young gentleman penned a review
of an anti-Communist book, The Struggle
for the World, going all the way with
the American author and beyond that
worthy:
Russia is fundamentally weak, economi-
cally and politically, not merely as a result
of the war, but because of the very nature
of her system, and she may break down
at any moment. This possibility has caused
her rulers to stimulate the activities of the
foreign Communist parties in order to
weaken her potential enemies, but also to
provoke such animosity and threat by
foreign countries as to persuade the Rus-
sian people to fall in behind the regime.
If Mr. Godfrey Blunden ever ventures
on the Sydney Domain without police
protection he will be bashed.
Another erstwhile enthusiast who has
fallen out of favor with the former
miracle-workers is a Mr, Trevor Smith,
of Melbourne “Herald.”
Going to Moscow for the last confer-
ence of Foreign Ministers, Mr. Trevor
Smith wrote a series of shattering articles,
in one of which, as an illustration of the
state of the people, he wrote “The
waitresses of the hotels in which we
lived, and to whom we gave sugar that
was left over from tea, shed tears and
went down on their knees when they took
the sugar.”
This paragraph became the subject of
a Diplomatic Incident. Molotov, or
someone, rounded up four waitresses
who, in a most expensive cable, denied
the soft impeachment, characterising it “as
an insult to our national and professional
dignity and to our dignity as women.”
Mr. Trevor Smith , replied in a
sarcastic strain, allowing that “the
girls apparently should have clicked their
heels and sung the Soviet’s new National
Anthem and, with dry eyes, flung in our
faces these trifling offerings of soap and
sugar which many of us” —the corres-
pondents’ corps—“made.”
Sneering at British Army leaders
(“Blimps”) was a favorite pastime of
Sydney “D.T.” young men when Mr.
Blunden was one of them. They de-
manded the dismissal of the Eighth
Army dunces and their replacement by
Russian Generals such as the “brilliant”
Budenny, of whom a Canadian Intelli-
gence officer. Major Shulman, has written
that on the Kiev front in September,
1941, “Budenny’s force was wiped out
and over 600,000 Russian prisoners
taken.” Timoshenko, who disappeared
from his command the following year,
these Australian innocents nominated for
leadership of the Western Allies’ invasion
of France.
Mr. Trevor Smith seems to have had
the same charming notion that the
English Generals, and the Americans
also, didn’t know their business. Wasn’t
it he who, as late as January, 1945, sent
this stuff to his paper from Western
Front H.Q.? :
To win sweeping victories on a grand
scale you’ve [not “we’ve”] got to be pre-
pared to take risks and suffer heavy
casualties... .We haven’t. We still insist
on archaic, outmoded tactical methods
We save lives by that system, but we don’t
secure decisive results, which, of themselves,
save lives.
Then there’s the question of morale.
Every Russian going into battle is pre-
pared to die for the cause. He regards the
cause as sacred. Every Anglo-American
going into battle goes into battle with the
hope, possibly with the expectation, that
he won’t become a casualty.
And this only three months before
Eisenhower, Montgomery and Alexander
completed the rolling up of all the great
German armies in the west and south,
taking millions of prisoners—in “30 days
of April alone, over 1,650,000.” Hun-
dreds of thousands of their men are alive
today because of their superb combina-
tions and their care for the lives of their
soldiers. Millions of Russians, poor
devils, are dead because their leaders,
hi Mr. Churchill’s phrase, relied chiefly
on “the dull brutish force of overwhelm-
ing numbers.”
PLAIN ENGLISH
The War Widow's Lot.
Having noted how electors of both
sexes have rallied to Senator Tangney
and State Minister Cardell-Oliver, as well
as Senator-elect Rankin in Queensland,
thie Westralian Liberals, the Sunday
“Times” says, are thinking of bringing
out a lady Senate candidate of their own
next time. With General Brand and
Mr. Leckie perforce retiring and —
like Mr : Gibson —too old to come
again, the Victorian Libs, ought to
be thinking on the same lines.
An obvious choice for nomination, if the
ambition is there, is Mrs. Vasey, widow of
one of the ablest and best-liked A.I.F.
leaders, who has herself aroused atten-
tion by her work for and her speeches
and writings on the War Widows’ Craft
Guild and on the general treatment of
war widows,
Mrs. Vasey, on the “confusion grow-
ing up in the public mind as to the respec-
tive claims of war widows and civilian
widows on the community”:
Our men. were employees of the State,
and their lives were used to preserve the
State’s property and the civilians in it, along
with a great deal of other material. The
manufacturer who supplied the material
was paid on the cost -plus system. The
family who supplied the life which was
used is not being offered a tithe of the
cost.
By law an employer is compelled to com-
pensate the family of a man who dies in
his service, according to the value of that
man’s work. In N. S. Wales a widow and
child were awarded over £4OOO. Invested,
the money will bring in more than a war
widow receives, and the woman has £4OOO
to leave to her family. Not one of us, no
matter what our husbands’ earning capacity,
has been compensated in this way. Our
pensions should not be described as pen-
sions at all, but as compensation allotments.
Admirably reasoned and expressed;
and so were the lady’s subsequent state-
ment and comment on the situation of
war widows, compelled to try to live on
£2 15s. a week, plus 30s, for two
children:
Do we want the 20,000 children of our
war dead to grow up in slums and become
Communists, malcontents, rebels against
society?
No £lO-a-week-increase “Labor” Minis-
ter or member would relish having to
find counter-arguments and phrases on
the floor of either Chamber.


Banking and Politics.
It was an evil day for the Commonwealth
Bank —though unforeseen good may
come of it for the Country —when well-
disposed State “Governments” and very
unwilling local-governing bodies received
orders ’from Canberra to transfer their
accounts to that Bank at times to be
specified by Mr. Chifley, that whale of
an authority on banking, in his own
estimation. As the story goes, councils
and the like had already been offered
Commonwealth Bank accommodation
conditionally on their taking their
business from the trading banks.
Plans for resistance to the Chifley ukase
were discussed immediately. It was felt
to be a felon blow at local government,
conceived by a crowd which had in other
ways shown its dislike for one of the
foundations and guarantees of British
freedom, and which in this case had no
warrant for its totalitarian tyranny in
anything done or left undone by councils
or trading banks. Local government has
rights which existed and were in opera-
tion before the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion and the Federal Caucus were
thought of, and it seems highly improb-
able that the rights assailed can be
obliterated by any regulation issued under
a Caucus Banking Act.
But the Commonwealth Bank is choos-
ing to proceed as if there were no danger
of the whole transfer business being
ruled out.
Going to Brisbane, Mr. Armitage, the
Governor, whose term of office has been
extended by Mr. Chifley, blithely an-
nounced that “twenty new Common-
wealth Bank branches will be opened in
Queensland as soon as office and other
materials are available.” Seeing that
there is a continent-wide shortage of
offices and office materials, as well as
building materials (in Mr. Arlmitage’s
own city servicemen are saying they can’t
get office-room for love or money, and
others are reputedly living in stables and
fowlhouses, even in Premier McGirr’s
own Bankstown-Lakemba neighborhood),
it would be only reasonable to expect
that the Commonwealth Bank would
defer its programme until private neces-
sities have been supplied; but the bank
has other views and ambitions. Said
Mr. Armitage, also in Brisbane:—■
Six months ago we arranged for 180 new
banks throughout Australia [with] a tremen-
dous increase in staff. Already the bank
, employs 9000, with an annual salary and
wages bill of about £3 million.
The “tremendous” increase in staff and
the “tremendous” increase in offices and
office materials can in no way add to the
wealth and security of Australia and will
not assuage the bitter feelings of service-
men without offices or houses. The Tas-
manian R.S.L. has waxed sarcastic about
the grand new Commonwealth Bank
building to go up in Hobart, and has re-
fused to accept the official plea that it
won’t further darken the outlook for
houseless servicemen.
But Mr. Armitage is convinced that all
is for the best in the best of all possible
post-war worlds, for Commonwealth
Bank and Commonwealth alike. To the
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” he- “disclosed”
that “bank savings” had “fallen by £l6
million in the last nine months” without
being a bit worried about it; “ex-service-
men are using their deferred pay to buy
furniture and houses.” Yes, houses. Mr.
Armitage said also: — ,
While full employment exists in Aus-
tralia depression conditions of 1931 cannot
be repeated. Every man and woman pre-
pared to work can get a job today.
There is, nevertheless, a production de-
pression which extends from coal to
men’s collars. And as the Common-
wealth Year-Book shows, “full employ-
ment,” with, relatively to 1947, a far
greater volume of production over the
whole field had, allowing for unemploy-
ables, nearly been achieved in the
fateful year 1929 ; 90.7 p.c. in the first
quarter and even 90.1 p.c. in the second
quarter. Presently commodity prices and
export prices broke, and the bottom fell
out of the loan market, and Govern-
ment deficits (already back with us in
the transport field) went from “£1 15s.
per head in 1929-30 to over £4 per head
in 1930-31 and threatened to be £7 per
head in 1931-32, with consequent further
loss of business confidence and intensi-
fication of the depression.”
In its rosy anticipations of a swelling
future for the Commonwealth Bank and
everything, the management should not
neglect the lessons of history. It may
even find, if it goes back far enough, that
President Andrew Jackson vetoed the re-
charter of the Bank of the United States
on the ground that the bank, afterwards
liquidated, had become political.
Poison in the Bores.
“Norther” : Discovery of excessive
fluorine in Queensland bore waters
brought out scare headings in city papers,
and there was a lot of talk about “mil-
lions of sheep affected,” “danger to
human lives,” “special meetings ot
Cabinet” and so forth before the papers
turned to another thrill.
Diminution in bore supplies and grow-
ing content of the fluorine in them have
been known for a decade. It took the
1944-46 drought to make the Brisbane
Government realise that what its own
advisers had been telling it was true. A
report prepared by a committee of Lands,
Agriculture, Health and Home Affairs
officers, and now being pondered over
by the Government, shows that
fluorosis is evident in the State’s
sheep country—the sub-artesian belt
—and about 2,000,000 sheep are so
affected as to have their expectation of
life reduced by half. And there is
evidence of bone and teeth effects among
people using the bore water.
Some Queensland bores have a fluorine
content of 20 parts to the million, which
is much more than in those areas of
China where it causes human deformity.
New bores have a greater content of the
stuff than old ones, which suggests as
a general cause the falling -level of
the water in the sub-artesian basin. The
affected water can be treated for human
use, but it would cost far too much to
treat it for sheep. About all that can be
done is to close suspected bores and de-
pend on surface water, never plentiful in
the area.
During the war a device for making
sea-water drinkable saved the lives of
many cast Adrift from sunken ships. The
purifying Was done by chemical means,
without condensation. If that was pos-
sible the fluorine problem should not be
beyond the C.S.LR.’s fine equipment of
brains,
"Eat More Fish!"
The N.S.W. Fisheries Department re-
joices in a “spokesman” who, as Dr.
Goldsmith said of Dr. Johnson, is en-
dowed with the art of “making little fishes
talk like big whales.”
Every Government department has a
THE WAITS.
“Having to provide for thumping losses on the Government railways in Victoria arid
the Government tram and bus services in N. S. Wales, Premiers Cain and McGirr are
expected to make a duet of it.”
“Please give us a million , sir; a million each for fares.”
“spokesman” nowadays, and this par-
ticular "spokesman” has coined the
phrase “the fish-marketing structure of
New South Wales.” And on a little place
called Nimmitabel, far from the sea, on
the Monaro tablelands, about half-way
between Cooma and Bombala, he has
conferred the distinction of being “the
principal unit to facilitate handling fish
from the far N.S.W. South Coast.”
Orders have gone forth that all fish
caught between Bermagui and Eden must
be taken to Nimmitabel and there put on
the train for Sydney or Melbourne or any-
where else interested in Bermagui-Eden
fish. Until the order was issued the fish
went by road —a carrier said it took about
24 hours thus from Eden to Sydney, as
against three to seven days by rail from
Nimmitabel.
Railhead on the N.S.W. South Coast
is Nowra, 95 miles south of Sydney.
Under the new order relating to fish
Eden fish will go 90 miles by road to
Nimmitabel —there to be put on the
train, if and when one pulls in—and then
travel 300 miles, via Cooma and Goul-
burn, to Sydney on trains which might
average 20 m.p.h. The same fish, sent
from Eden to Nowra, 220 miles by road
at an average of 30 m.p.h., and 95 miles
by rail to Sydney, would have roughly
100 fewer miles to travel.
Eden fish consigned to Melbourne
formerly went by road to Orbost (Vic.),
145 miles, thence by train to the capital,
about 200 miles. The New Order relating
to Fish enjoins travel 90 miles by road
to Nimmitabel, thence back to Goulburn
and on to Alburv, for reloading, thence
to Melbourne, a total rail journey of
about 600 miles.
To an inquiring Sydney reporter, the
“spokesman,” pruning his florid style a
bit, said, “road haulage of fish was a
war measure and was never intended as
a permanent method of transport.”
Which can only mean that the “N.S.W.
fish-marketing structure” is nothing more
than another scheme to force perishable
freight on to the slow, dirty, irresponsible
and obsolescent N.S.W. Government rail-
ways, and to deprive the railless South
Coast of a necessary road-haulage system.
Gifts to Communists.
While Eastern European countries were
in process of being gobbled up by
Russia, non-Communist (i.e., “capitalist”)
countries saw to it that Russia was spared
the burden of feeding its prospective
victims.
The bosses of the Seamen’s Union, the
Waterside Workers’ Federation and
Thornton’s Ironworkers would scarcely
describe Australia as a non-Communist
country, but it has been all there with
relief. Dr. Evatt reckons its benefactions
at £22,745,000. Czechoslovakia has had
£918,000, Byelorussia—one of those
Soviet “republics”—has come in for
£320,000, Austria has had the equivalent
of £163,000, Yugoslavia £152,000, the
Ukraine £131,000, Albania £59,000 and
Poland £55,000. The thanks of these
countries, if any, are not on record.
Rumania, struck by a famine, recently
received many trainloads of food and
four shiploads of maize from Britain, it-
self on a mean ration, and the U.S.A.
There was no public acknowledgment,
though the official press dwelt on “the
invaluable aid received from Rumania’s
great neighbor, the Soviet Union.” The
“great neighbor” had sent two bargeloads
of maize and equivalent gifts to “Czecho-
slovakia, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia,”
themselves the objects of the generosity
of English-speaking peoples.
Australia has arranged to send a lot
of wool to Czechoslovakia on tick. And
now, no doubt, there will be a heap of
requests for similar favors from Yugo-
slavia, Byelorussia, Ukraine, Albania and
the rest.
Another Half-baked Ban.
In the present topsy-turvy Australian
scene it is often very difficult to get any
particular incident into proper perspec-
tive, Only when viewed as part of a
crazy-pavement world, in which a pleni-
tude of money amid a shortage of
material goods is mistaken for pros-
perity and in which to ask for and receive
more money for producing less goods
is accepted as the formula for even
greater prosperity, does any one piece slip
into its proper place in the jigsaw.
Taken by itself the refusal of Sydney
wharflaborers to load galvanised-iron for
export until local requirements for roof-
ing materials had been met may seem a
perfectly sane and logical proceeding.
But it is only part of a picture and it
is necessary to step back a bit to observe
the whole.
In Redfern, which for 30 years had as
its member and principal resident
W. J. McKell, translated to Yarralumla,
there are 2000 sub-standard homes.
Early this year many of these houses
suffered damage, as did dwellings in other
suburbs, from a hailstorm of unusual
severity. 'Through a shortage of tiles,
slates and iron, roofs in most cases are
still unrepaired and the winter rains have
been making the lives of the tenants a
misery of discomfort. Colds and other
winter ailments, rampant everywhere in
Sydney at present, find these damp homes
particularly attractive and in some cases
deaths from pneumonia have been blamed
on to the leaky roofs.
Last week a clergyman who had been
trying hard to get some relief for the
Redferners visited a wharf where roofing-
iron was being loaded on to two island
steamers. As a result of his visit water-
side workers refused to load any more of
the iron, maintaining that the Redfern
houses should be given priority.
Had the scene of the rev, gentleman’s
ministrations been New Guinea instead of
Redfern he would have felt just as indig-
nant at the non-arrival of the iron-
through the ban the Montoro left 150
tons behind—as he felt at the thought of
its being exported Actually most of the
iron was being shipped by External
Affairs for repair of war-damaged houses
in New Guinea. The parson and the
wharfies could see the Redfern houses;
the distant ones in New Guinea had no
meaning for them. That is the weakness
in all these cases where a minority takes
upon itself to dictate policy when it knows
only some of the facts. In this instance
the ban was lifted after a few days, with-
out surrender of usurped authority.
The W.W.F. has no more right to say
what should or should not be loaded on
a ship than the A.R.U. has to decide
where a train .will go. Unfortunately the
weak-kneed attitude of Federal “Labor”
on the Dutch shipping ban has en-
couraged the wharfie in the belief that
this is his business and his Communist
leaders for their own ends foster that be-
lief. Virtually all port “electorates” have
“Labor” members, and some of them are
Ministers. So it is a Government of their
own choice that these lumpers are flout-
ing with every act of lawlessness.
"Mug Coppers. 11
“Ex-Gunner” writes
The N.S.W. Police Department is con-
cerned at the mounting number of resignations
of senior officers, and at the insufficient numbers
of young men coming forward to take their
places. Despite a reduction of the age at entry
from 21 to 19 and of the minimum height from
sft. lOin. to sft. 9in., a recent survey showed
the force to be 222 short of its authorised
strength. Reasons advanced to account for this
failure to attract new blood have varied from
the suggestions of the Police Association secre-
tary that a five-day week of 40 hours —that
panacea for all industrial troubles —would be
an inducement to young men to put on the uni-
form, to a recipe offered a flapper paper by an
18-year-old Yankee sailor —“they should have
smarter uniforms with revolvers strapped on the
outside. They’d look more military-like.”
Wages and hours may be one factor involved
—when pension rights, uniforms and other
extras are taken into consideration the pay com-
pares favorably with wages in most industries,
but the shift-work hours and the fact that a
policeman may be called on at any time are
disadvantages, particularly to the youthful type
the Force seeks to attract —but the attitude of
the public towards the police is a much more
potent factor. “Kick the copper’s guts out,
mate,” one hooligan incited another who was
being arrested, adding, “If you can’t, there are
plenty of us here who can.”
The advice epitomises the philosophy of the
Sydney tough—the use of “copper” as a term
of abuse, the urging to -put the boot in and the
implied call to the mob, from whom and in
whose presence the larrikin derives his courage.
Several of the mob responded to the heroic
invitation, and although they were not entirely
successful in kicking the copper’s guts out they
inflicted enough damage to keep him off duty
for a couple of days. With the help of other
policemen he held his man and arrested
some of the other larrikins, including the one
who urged them on to assault. A magistrate
inflicted small fines, the biggest £5, which is
chickenfeed to these arrogant young toughs.
The incident is not isolated. Almost any
policeman who has to “pick up” a ruffian has
had the experience of being hampered in his
duty by a hostile crowd. Sometimes the inter-
ference is limited to abuse and revilement, in
the course of which the term “mug copper”
usually turns up; often the abuse gives place to
jostling and pushing the officer, who has his
hands full looking after his prisoner; frequently
the interference takes an uglier turn, particu-
larly if the mob feels that no other police are
handy to the scene —and it is quite a common
thing to hear of a constable being knocked down
and kicked by thugs.
Apart from those in any crowd who are will-
ing if not eager to join in the sport of copper-
kicking, there are many more who are pre-
pared to stand idly by, regarding the affair
as none of their business. In the case quoted
it was mentioned in evidence that several
people in the crowd said “You had better let
him go, constable; they will kill you.” There
was no mention of anyone in the crowd going
to the assistance of the policeman.
The attitude of the public towards the Force
and of young men towards the matter of
joining it will not be improved by admissions
of the Police Commissioner at the Keogh in-
quiry. Commissioner Mac Kay was speaking ot
a man whom he described as a “good general-
duty man,” “a live sergeant,” a man who
“would tell the truth even against himself,”
and of whom “I was told by everyone that he
was a first-class man and on the job all the
time.” It might be expected that a man of
this type would find favor with his chief and
be held up as an example to junior constables
and to likely recruits. Instead, the Commis-
sioner stated at the inquiry that “as a member
of the Force he is a pain in the neck to me.”
This sort of remark is likely to be remem-
bered in the Force long after Judge Kirby’s
finding that Sgt. Keogh’s transfer to Bathurst
“was ordered by Mr. Mac Kay in the ordinary
course of his administration” has been for-
gotten.
Nor will young men be induced to join the
Force by the knowledge that on two occasions
lately murderers who have shot detectives in
cold blood have had their richly-deserved death
sentences commuted to life imprisonment. For
the policeman killed in the course of duty there
is no commutation. The thug is his judge,
jury and executioner and performs all three
self-appointed tasks in the sure knowledge that
maudlin sentiment masquerading as humanity
will save his worthless neck.


m
6559
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
For greater smoking
enjoyment give me
CRAVEN A",
POLITICAL POINTS
At the A.L.P. conference in Sydney,
Chifley hinted that Australia would not
be immune from the effects of a possible
“recession” in America. Chif. had better
be careful. For as long as most of them
can remember his followers have been
taught to believe that the last depression
was a purely Australian disaster, brought
about by capitalists and anti-“ Labor”
Governments.
There’s been a spot of trouble among
the bhoys of the Federated Liquor Trades
-Union in Brisbane and the Industrial
Court was called upon to straighten it
out, Ryan claimed that he had nomi-
nated Clancy for vice-president, with Car-
rigan as seconder. To his surprise, the
ballot paper showed Clancy as a candi-
date for president; Ryan himself had
been nominated (by Fanning) for trustee
and Clancy had seconded it. Ryan
alleged improper practice and asked for
the ballot to be set aside. The union
secretary, Skeehan, objected, saying that
Clancy’s name was Michael Joseph and
not William as alleged by Ryan. The
Court (Riordan) ordered Clancy’s name
(W. or M. J. not mentioned) to be struck
off the ballot paper as a candidate for
president.
“Labor” Maoriland, with about two-
ninths of the population of Australia,
spent £35,007,000 on “social security and
other social services” during the year to
March 31. At this rate, allowing for
the fact that even “Labor” Governments
have not altogether departed from
Maoriland’s frugal Scottish traditions,
Australian “Labor” will be spending
£150,000,000 oq “social security and
other social services” before the day of
reckoning arrives. It is a disturbing
thought that in the last full pre-war year,
1938-39, when‘taxation was already far
above the average for the Dominions,
the entire tax-revenue of Australia, Com-
monwealth and States, amounted to
£124,500,000.
S.A. is pushing on with moves to
break down its dependence on N.S.W.
coal and the moods of N.S.W. miners. A
reservoir and pipeline for the Leigh Greek
coalfield is planned to provide water for
the steam-drying plant that will be neces-
sary when the mine reaches the present
target of 20,000 tons a week.
A majority of R.S.L. sub-branches —
one vote apiece—has refused admission
to Army and Air Force volunteers —
328,338 it is reckoned —who did not serve
overseas in 1939-45, N. S. Wales,
Queensland and Westnalia were favor-
able to admission, but Victorian, S.A.,
Tas. and A.C.T. votes were hostile. The
noes had it by 866 to 699.
From / Hitler’s private memoranda,
found by American Counter-Intelligence
at Berchtesgaden and republished in Mel-
bourne “Herald”:
The war has been sabotaged from the
beginning by a certain class of Italians.
Every message I sent to Mussolini went
directly to London. Once the Duce said
to me “I do not know what to do. I
have no successor. There is nobody to
carry on the Fascist revolution.”
It is the weakness, the fatal weakness,
of all revolutions ending in dictatorial
systems, as the Russians will find out
when Stalin goes to his account.
These Fish Boards! With the sea-
mullet running at Caloundra, 60-odd
miles northward of Brisbane, a fisher-
man netted 760 cases. All were accepted
by the board, and sent to Brisbane, where
they fetched the ceiling price. Two days
later the fisherman netted another 300
cases. They were refused by the board
on the alleged ground that the Brisbane
market was “glutted” and that he’d
caught his quota, anyhow. Yet ceiling
prices are still the rule in Brisbane, and
hospitals cannot get adequate supplies
of fish for their patients in this season
of plenty.
Remarking' acidly that the cost of
“free medicine” had jumped in N.Z.
from 4s. to 13s. 6d. a head last year, the
B.M.A. secretary reckoned it would cost
Australia, not the £2 millions a year
estimated by Senator McKenna, but £5
million a year within three years. He
added that a lot of the N.Z. free medicine
was shot into rubbish bins, Jhat no bottle
of medicine would cure “tuberculosis,
flat feet, knock knees or infantile
paralysis,” and that if half the money was
devoted to t.b. prevention the scourge
could be wiped out in 15 years. It is a
melancholy fact that t.b., well in sight of
extinction before the war, has become a
major problem. Government lotteries
were to have attended to the extinction
process, but they have failed tragically.
Chifley is showing signs of having too
much to do, one of the signs being that
he is saying too much. He said some-
thing about Blair Athol (Q.) coal bping of
poor quality and liable to spontaneous
combustion when carried in ships. “Rub-
bish,” cried Premier Hanlon in anger.
“Blair Athol is one of the best fuel coals
in Australia”** and Foley certified that it
was “particularly suitable for export,...
a good steaming coal.” Governments and
private concerns from Cairns to Bunbury
would like to get their hands on a couple
of million tons of Blair Athol coal and
chancfe the ducks.
The N.S.W. “Labor” eight-city plan to
wipe out 50-odd Sydney municipal and
shire councils is sleeping rather fitfully
just now, though more may be heard of
it presently. In Brisbane, where some-
what the same process resulted in Greater
Brisbane, ratepayers have just heard that
general rates are to go up to Is. 3id.
in the £, costing them an extra £160,000
a year. Only “Labor” politicians benefit
from local - government “reform” as
“Labor” politicians conceive it.
A prisoner was due for release from
Pentridge in 14 days. Meanwhile his small
son had been killed in tragic circum-
stances. Permission was sought for the
father to attend the funeral and the
matter was discussed in the Legislative
Assembly. It turned out that there is no
law or regulation that would allow the
authorities to grant the man permission
to attend his child’s funeral, even under
police escort. Australia is becoming one
Big Socialist bureaucracy, and socialist
bureaucracies are like that.
There has been more trouble over
housing 'in the Victorian Legislative
Assembly. A heated midnight clash be-
tween Barry, the Minister, and Hamilton,
the architect M.L.A. for Toorak, led to
Hamilton accusing Barry of being “the
protector of wealthy people,” and Barry
exhorting Hamilton “to practise decency
and honesty in his profession.” It cul-
minated in a Ministerial announcement
that Barry would prosecute Hamilton,
also a publican and a builder, concerning
building work done for the publican at
Lilydale, Melba’s township, Hamilton
said later he wasn’t worried over Barry’s
decision, since the further that gentleman
went “the more charges he would bring
against his administration of his depart-
ment,” He suggested a royal commission
on the housing chaos.
During a Vic. Assembly debate on soil
erosion Dunstan produced an English
magazine article on the destruction going
on in the Mallee. “This will have an
extremely harmful effect on Australia’s
immigration plans,” he objected. Premier
during many years of Mallee erosion,
Dunstan refused to admit that it existed.
In any event, the types of immigrants
Calwell is bringing in aren’t so much
interested in erosion as in King’s Cross
and St. Kilda flats.
Staff excepted, is anybody a penny the
better for the A.B.C. news service, intro-
duced at the beginning of the month with
such a flourish of trumpets and with
so much previous blah? Boyer, the
A.B.C. chairman a very reluctant
dragon—said the thing would cost
£155,000 p.a., and Senator Amour,
as chairman of the Parliamentary Broad-
casting Committee, blithely outlined his
committee’s “plans”:
Two hundred and forty journalists will
be employed in country districts, in addition
to journalists in the capital city and
centres like Newcastle. The overseas news
will be obtained from Reuters, British
United Press* and the American press, sent
to the Tendon office of the Commission,
and it will give both sides of every
question.
All this already reads like a very bad
joke ; but, as always when “Labor” plays
up public money, the joke is on the tax-
payers.
Always a jump or two ahead of The
“Labor” States, South Aust. is building
soldier-settlers’ homes at an astonishing
rate and at prices well below those ruling
in “Labor” Victoria and N. S. Wales.
R.S.L. men confessed themselves “stag-
gered” by the progress, but then the men
building the homes are those who will
own and occupy them, so there are no
Commo-led building unions and “go-
slow.” What’s more, State officers on the
project settle their own problems without
reference to a Housing Minister or a
Minister for Building Supplies or a
Deputy-Sub-Controller of Hooks.
“F.D,”; For the Stoutest Hide Stakes
I nominate the Dubbo (N.S.W.) branch
of the A.L.P., which has tried to touch
the Cobbora shire council for “a dona-
tion.” A councillor ejaculated “Blime,
that’s a new one” ; and the letter was
“received.” Cobbora village is in
Gwydir, represented by Scully, who as
Minister for Agriculture (since Minister
for the Gag) was responsible for selling
16s. wheat to Maoriland at ss. 9d.
For those interested, ’ here’s the way
Ms.H.R. voted on the salary grab:
For: Barnard, Brennan, Burke, Calwell,
Chambers, Chifley, Clark, Conelan, Duthie,
Edmonds, Evatt, Falstein, Fraser, Fuller,
Hadley, Haylen, Holloway, James, Langtry,
Lazzarini, Lemmon, McLeod, Mulcahy,
O’Connor, Pollard, Riordan, Russell,
Scully, Sheehan, Sheehy, Thompson, Wil-
liams (all “Labor”); Hughes (Lib.); Ader-
mann, Anthony, Corser, Davidson, Fadden,
Hamilton, McEwen, Rankin (all C.P.);
Lang (Lang Labor).
Against: Menzies, Hutchinson, Gullett,
White, Ryan, Holt, McDonald, Harrison,
Beale, Howse, Mcßride, Cameron, Falkinder,
Dame Enid Lyons (all Liberal); Bowden,
Turnbull,' Abbott (C.P.); Mrs. Blackburn
(Ind. Lab.); Francis (Lib.) and Lawson
(Lab.) were paired.
None of the new allotment of Senators
elected last September voted,. When they
take their seats they will have collected
at least £l2O they never bargained for,
and will go on collecting it at the same
rate.
K. L. Punjabi, secretary of the
Indian Government’s food department,
is after more Australian cereals for the
next three years at current high world
prices. Starving Indians are eating lin-
seed, which is why Australia can’t get
linseed oil for paints, Mr. Punjabi could
have done better had he come from New
Zealand as the representative of a
“‘Labor’ Government” —he’d have got
wheat at ss. 9d. then.
“There is no provision in the basic
wage for such things as beer, pic-
tures and tobacco —what we know as the
better things of life.” — W. Morrow, a
Tas. “Labor” Senator-elect, one of the
crowd that will begin drawing salary at
the rate of £l5OO a year 10 weeks or so
before they take their seats.
Treatt, the N.S.W. Opposition-leader,
has been very effective in his criticisms
on the projected raising of tram, bus and
railway fares, the certainty of which was
concealed from the electors until “Labor”
was back. Had Treatt become Premier he
would have made Rhodes Scholar history.
Although there have been Rhodes
Scholars for 44 years, with intervals
caused by the two wars, and although
they have been represented in all six
State Parliaments, there has never been
a Rhodes M.H.R. or Senator. By
contrast Congress has three Rhodes
Scholars (Fullbright, Hale and Clason),
the British Parliament two (Platts-Mills
and Thomson, the Lord Advocate) and
the Union Parliament one (Hofmeyr,
Minister of Education and Finance and
Deputy P.M.).
Yet another of these “Governmental
instrumentalities” has got itself into a
mess and yet another Minister doesnt
think the mess worth a public inquiry.
This time it’s in Queensland, where the
Egg Board had to get £65,000 from the
Government to guarantee its bank
account. H. Obst, one of its members,
said the Egg Board was £267,000 in the
red, and referred darkly to the dark pros-
pect of an inquiry. Then was heard from
the Minister, a Mr. Collins:
It’s all through extra accommodation
acquired during the war, and through
drought and feed shortages curtailing nocks,
bringing problems to the board which it is
now endeavoring to iron out.
Anyone else running an egg-marketing
business would be glad of a £65,000 irpn
with which to do the job.
Australia’s recent visitor James Farley,
who was the second Roosevelt’s first
P.M.G. and then his opponent for the
party nomination for President in 1940,
was recently asked whether Roosevelt
would have come out for a third term
had there been no war. The reply was
that “the President would have run re-
gardless of the war” ; and, as chairman
of the Democratic organisation for many
years, Farley was as close to him as any
other man. Farley is now a keen sup-
porter of a Congress proposal to limit a
President to two terms.
When De Gaulle came out for a
national party, of which he is the natural
leader, the London “News-Chronicle” be-
came a prey to tumultuous emotions:
We have watched the same symptoms in
other countries, the glamor of a great
figure, a hypnotic presence, crowds, intimi-
dation, the posing, the false dilemma and
the headlong rush into the totalitarian pit.
It would be heartbreaking if France went
the same way.
If France does go the same way, be-
cause the Communists and their friends
made democratic Government and the
Fourth Republic impossible, there will be
no crusading in Britain such as the
“News-Chronicle,” the “Daily Mirror,”
“Reynolds Nfews” and other Leftist paper?
advocated in 1936-39. Their country can
never again be “the knight-errant of the
human race.”
There were no summary proceedings
and farcical penalties in a blackmarket-
ing case heard in Melbourne. Prose-
cuted in the High Court under the Com-
monwealth Act, the managing director
of an Ivanhoe (Vic.) firm of wholesale
butchers was convicted by Justice Dixon
on three counts and sentenced to two
years’ imprisonment. Two employees,
also convicted, each got a year’s sentence.
Counsel for the defence pleaded, unavail-
ingly, that “sentencing these men for
offences two years old could have no
deterrent effect.”
Victorians Housing Commission chose
new territory for its latest land grab—
Burwood, and a square mile on the Mel-
bourne road near Geelong. Previous
acquisitions were large slices of Bray-
brook, Ashburton, Sandringham, Heidel-
berg, Ascot —one of Wren’s racecourses
—Coburg, Footscray, North Balwyn,
Mulgrave, Burwood and East Preston-
Northcote. Scarcely any of these areas
has been more than scratched at by the
Commission, and many of the houses
that have gone up are awaiting sewerage,
tgas and water.
From a letter in the “Yorkshire Post”’
Underground we have coal for 600 years.
Above it we have Mr. Shin Well. Reversal
of these positions would solve our present
troubles.
Any Australian could give this a topical
paraphrase


TABLES TURNED.
“Yah, Gut-line Ben!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hist”; Once more story-writers are
entitled to quarrel with fact for
the way in. which it calmly uses
coincidences which no editor would
tolerate in fiction. Consider the
case of Thomas George Jones, de-
ceased, whose identity the Sydney police
established by means of fingerprints.
Relatives were sought, came forward
and claimed the body. Three months
later T.G.J. walked in on them, undeni-
ably alive. It then transpired that there
were two T.G.Js. of similar physical
characteristics, but quite unrelated. The
police identification was correct; the
dead man was T.G.J. The relatives were
wrong; he was not their T.G.J. Nice
plot for a yarn there—but you couldn’t
get away with it,
* * * *
“Beta”: Yet another person—boy this
time —has been injured by the explosion
of a seemingly empty drum. Drums which
have contained petrol or other explosive
fluid that vaporises are always dangerous,
because it is not possible to absolutely
empty them through the screw-in bung-
hole. This is about lin. away from the
drum side and protrudes into the drum
below the top rim to allow screwing. A
small quantity of petrol will always be
left between the bung-hole and the drum
side. In the country where 5 the drums
are required for water butts, it is a com-
mon practice to screw the bung-hole
tightly immediately the drum is sup-
posedly empty, to avoid losing the bung-
tops. A day in the sun and the half-
cup or so of petrol has vaporised; you
have a cannon only waiting to be un-
screwed and the advent of a small boy
with a match. This I know to my own
tragic sorrow.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The 100th anniversary of
a tragedy has been marked here. Two
constables were drowned on the Murray
from a native canoe in 1847, and buried
in West Terrace Cemetery at Adelaide.
The grave has been “accidentally dis-
covered,” and a memorial plaque un-
veiled,
* * * *
“Uco”; That par. of “Cauboy’s” (B.
4/6/’47) about the absence of comedians
from the pages of Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia reminds me of a survey I made of
that publication a short time ago. I had
come across an old photograph of my
classmates at a High School in S.A.,
taken 30 years ago. They werfe a fair
cross-section of the youth of their day,
but the class teacher, a woman, was
definitely one in a thousand, and that
year in a class of 46 she had only two
failures. The class is scattered far and
wide now, and I thought it would be in-
teresting to see how many had made the
pages of Who’s Who. A diligent search
revealed one only. He’s managing a
pretty big concern now, and he wasn’t
among the 44 who passed.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Reported that Cornel Wilde
wants to make a talkie of the life of
Byron, but hasn’t been able to sell the
idea to Hollywood because the picture
would have to be in technicolor, would
have to include re-creations of Greek
battles and couldn’t be done under a
million. An intelligent producer who
understood Byron could cut out the
color and the Greek battles and make
a wondefful film for a few thousand v
Byron’s relations with Shelley would be*
a sufficient subject. Two more diverse
individuals could never have come to-
gether. For a film producer to waste a
lot of money depicting battles Byron never
engaged in—he died of malaria at Misso-
longhi—would be sheer idiocy.
* * * *
“Eve”: When I play the piano
I “turn it off” out of respect for neighbors
—in a block of 40 flats, you never can
tell who’s sick, cranky, worried or just
in a complaining mood. So I was sur-
prised the other night when, after I had
switched the silencer-button along, a
neighbor knocked at the door and said,
“That piano! It’s annoying me.” “But,” I
gasped, “I’ve got it turned off.” “Yes,
don’t I know it!” he snapped, “I sleep
near the dividing wall and thfe noise of
you snapping the button along is more
than I can bear.”
* * * *
“Hatchlands”: Solid structures are still
flying around down Mt. Gambier (S.A.)
way. First it was the £BOO stone and
timber Kongorong Methodist church
which was mysteriously reduced to a mass
of rubble overnight—presumably by a
freak willy-willy. Now, six weeks later,
a 60ft. by 20ft, iron roof of a fowl-
house has suddenly risen into the air and
come to rest 50 yards away before the
amazed gaze of a Glenburnie housewife.
Branches of near-by trees appeared to be
spinning, as well they might at sight of
such a phenomenon, but there was no
wind, thunder or lightning. Adjacent
buildings and the fowlhouse walls
“Why don't you blow your horn?"
emerged unscathed to lend color to one
more mystery in the district once roamed
by the Tantanoola “Tiger.”
* * * JK
“Hamer”; Of all the itinerant sales-
men I met in my experience the one who
gives the most interesting—and puzzled
—memory was a queer old cuss who used
to drive into the Sydney t)omain in a
wheeled stall 40 years ago and dispense
drinks from powders lined up on shelves.
He asked his patrons to name the drinks
they wanted, selected his jar, shook
some of its contents into a glass and
filled it with water—and there was the
drink asked for, whether it was raspberry
syrup or whisky. He’d even ask a cus-
tomer what brand of whisky he preferred
and serve the drink accordingly. How
did he do it? Maybe there might have
been a touch of mesmerism about it, but
that could not have been all. Of course
the old boy had a running fight
with the police, but they couldn’t pro-
duce anyone who had been boozed on his
concoctions, and analysis of his drinks
showed them non-alcoholic. Which
makes it all the more wonderful that
people should have been deceived into
imagining that they had had a whisky or
a beer.
* * * *
“Minto”: Shop assistants are con-
sidered to have a dreary existence, but
many of them have their bit of fun. As
a poker-faced salesman passed a rolling-
pin to Mrs. Suburbia the other day, I
heard him remark “Yes, madam, it’s
genuine Sassafras and won’t splinter the
head.” The words could not have regis-
tered, but his tone must have impressed.
She bought it.
* * * *
“Clooter”: The imminence of the
census has brought forth the com-
ment that women are not favored as
collectors because of the danger of be-
ing attacked by dogs. I’m not prepared to
debate whether a nasty dog is any less
likely to attack a man than a woman, but
I am reminded of a 1933 incident. In a
Melbourne suburb I came upon a census-
taker standing by a gate in some distress,
while within the yard stood an Airedale
with a truculent expression and a loud
and threatening voice. “The so-and-so
went for me,” he complained. “I just got
through the gate in time.” While we con-
templated the canine a young woman
came along, walked past the dog and
knocked on the door. Nobody answered.
As she turned to come away the Aire-
dale stuck her up. Badly scared, she
shrank against the door and called to
us, “Please call your dog off.” “He isn’t
ours,” we chorused. “We thought he
was yours.” She gazed at us imploringly,
whereupon that census-taker jumped the
gate, booted the snarling hound in the
slats and rescued the damsel. Perhaps
the census boss should give each of
his collectors a pretty girl assistant.
* * * *
“Applecross”; It was a graceful
gesture on the part of the French to
return to Australia the Vlamingh plate,
lifted from Cape Inscription by De Frey-
cinet in 1818, but why in the name of
Dirk Hartog should the relic be kept in
Canberra, which has even less claim to
it than Paris? In answer to protests
from W.A. Chifley has undertaken
to have a replica made for presentation to
the State, but a fairer disposition of these
mementoes of the early Dutch navigators
would be the other way round. Does the
P.M. intend to call in all relics of the
early days—the Sirius anchdr and Mac-
quarie’s milestone from Sydney, the Port
Arthur ruins from Tasmania, French-
man’s Rock from South Australia and the
rest of them for the glorification of the
National Museum at Canberra, which not
one-hundredth of the population will ever
see? France, in handing back the plate,
naturally passed it on to the Common-
wealth Government, but that doesn’t
justify its being retained in Canberra.
“Niloc”; An unfortunate impulse some
months ago left me with a cherry-red
pork-pie hat with aiyellow feather at the
side. I have not yet plucked up courage
to wear the article to work, but I some-
times give it an airing around the house.
Every time I do, my wife’s scornful
laughter makes its future as a gardening
hat seem fairly certain. The only argu-
ment I can dig up in the cady’s favor
is that when the Age of Atomic Clothing
comes its present buzzing noise will
be drowned amid far louder clamor.
Pooling ideas on clothing to match the
big bomb, several ex-service chaps in
England recently held an exhibition,
opened by Stafford Cripps, who said
politely “It is good to have our tradi-
tional customs stirred up and given a bit
of a shock, even in the matter of clothes.”
Then, shuddering, he had another look at
bright blue trousers, transparent plastic
shirts, multi-colored suede shoes, and
tartan pyjamas.
* * * #
“T.McN.”; There are still, thank
heavens, some fine shades of distinction
in the use of epithets, as witness the
dialogue between a couple of new Aus-
tralians at a Sydney factory. The shop
foreman, who came from Italy 12 years
ago, was annoyed with the little dark
irjan working at the corner bench. “Look,
what-a you think you do, you Dago
basket!” he shrieked. The l.d.m. turned
slowly, surveyed him coldly and said, in
soft Mediterranean tones, “I no Dago
basket; I Maltese basket.” Then, with
an indescribable gesture of superiority,
he turned back to his bench.
* * * »
“Col M.”: The girl in the fish cafe
had obviously had more than enough of
the humorist who was proclaiming loudly
that he had found a bit of shagreen
wrapped around his fried flathead, and
had learned too often from the manager
that as a waitress “she wasn’t worth a
bumper.” By the time she called for
our order she was sizzling like five feet of
potato chips. “Who wants to work in a
greasy joint like this, anyway?” came with
our bread and cutlery serving;
by the time we reached the fish
delivery she was “going to give notice
that’s what I’m going to do.”
Lulled into contentment as we devoured
our schnapper, we extended a sympathetic
ear. As I murmured something about
“things not being as bad as they seem”
I dumped a bone in the ash-tray. The
lass picked it out and put it on a saucer.
“That’s another thing,” she steamed, “I’ve
got to save the fish bones for them to be
put back into gummy-shark steaks.”
* * * *
“Puyyaka”: Admission of a 77-year-
old man from North Queensland to the
lazaret: at Peel Island brings the number
of white leper patients under treatment
to 56, the largest number on record.
Forty-two of them are males, 14 females.
Although males are more liable to con-
tact leprosy afte,r childhood because of
their greater risks of contact this large
difference seems to require investigation.
A slow but steady increase in the number
of known cases has taken place since the
beginning of 1936, negativing former
optimism of abolishing the fell disease
amongst whites in Australia. As the first
appearance of symptoms very rarely
occurs after 40, and the great majority of
cases show by 15, the latest reported
sufferer must have been a potential source
of infection to those in regular associa-
tion with him, particularly children, for
many years past.
* * * t ... *
“Salmon Gums”: A chap in our unit
claimed to be able to master any lock
or combination, given time and a few in-
significant tools. Raiding a Wog village
in Syria in search of stolen Army
property we encountered a massive
wooden door barring our entry into a
house whose owner couldn’t be located.
Rifle butts bounced off the timber, so we
sent for our lock merchant. For half
an hour, surrounded by grinning Wogs,
he scratched his head and studied that
door. Trying to force the lock? No!
Trying to find it. He was on the verge of
a nervous breakdown when the owner
came up at the run, produced a piece of
wood about a foot long with three nails
of varying heights in one end, inserted it
in a slot at the side of the door, raised
it and swung the door open. It took a
bottle of cherry brandy and a tumblerful
of nigger-head rum to restore Jimmy
Valentine’s self-respect,
* * * *
“Squizz”; One thing I like about the
Yanks is their lack of inhibitions. Typical
example was the recent Sydney march of
officers and men from the Task Force.
Aircraft crews from Shangri-La marched
in full flying suits, with parachute
harness and flying helmets. That act
contravened some of the most rigid
rules with which the lives of my fellow
pilot trainees were regulated at our Tas-
wegian Tigerschmitt flying school. To be
seen off the tarmac in so much as a pair
of flying boots was an invitation to a
couple of after-duty hours lying on one’s
back scrubbing the greasy under-side of
a Tiger’s nose. Wearing a helmet any-
where but in a cockpit was just one way
of announcing to a critical world of in-
structors and fellow-pupils that you con-
sidered yourself to be a second Mickey
Mannock. As for tramping around with
a R.A.A.F. pilot-type chute banging and
thumping at the back of your legs—well,
it was just self-inflicted misery. Any-
way by the time most blokes had finished
training it was a case of climbing out of
flying helmet, oxygen mask, goggles, fly-
ing boots, Mae West, scarf and other
warming items just as soon as was pos-
sible. I must admit, however, that our
family album includes a shot of myself
striking a heroic pose in a flying suit
that still showed the creases of the issue-
store.
* * * *
“Kenden”: A Perth businessman
moved quickly when his agents dis-
covered a heap of bricks in, the near-
desert country out from Southern Cross
(W.A.). Put together ten years ago when
a rich find justified the speculation, the
bricks formed a hotel of thirty bed-
rooms, lounge bar, public bars, parlours,
kitchens and all the appurtenances of a
first-class inland pub. Too substantial
to pull its stakes and follow the ghost
town when the gold petered out, it will
now be demolished and removed to Kal-
goorlie, to be reincarnated as a chain
store and five cottages.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: During the first blue
H.M.A.S. Encounter had a job of tow-
age ; three small patrol craft from Sydney
to Rabaul. Each vessel had a crew of
several men under a leading seaman who
was responsible for supplies of food and
water in case of breaking adrift. Immedi-
ately before departure the officer-of-the-
day made an inspection. At the last boat
he addressed Lofty. “See to the bung in
that water-breaker, Leading Seaman. The
froth is bubbling out.” The crew, antici-
pating a few days release from discip-
line, had filled the cask with beer.
BIGGER AND BETTER LOTTERIES.
They call themselves the worker’s friends,
McGirr and Co., whose attitude
Towards such admirable ends
Should fairly earn them gratitude.
His basic needs of life they make
Their first concern, and then it is
The necessary steps they take
To furnish its amenities.
They know what helps to keep content
A chap when he commences his
Day’s graft, and what th’ equivalent
For partem et circenses is.
They know, whatever he may earn
From physical activities,
His fancy’s always apt to turn
To leisure-hour proclivities.
They cater for his urge to win
A bit wherever courses are
For hounds to chase the flying tin,
Or raucous books and horses are.
And in a land where sport is king
What monumental nerve is his
Who doesn’t shrink from questioning
That these are “social services”!
Bigger and better trams can wait,
And bigger schools and colleges
For those who wish to cultivate
More solid “ ’isms” and “ ’ologies.”
But where our country’s laws are made
In Parliamentary potteries
And Ministries’ exploits are weighed,
One credit item will be laid
At least to the McGirr brigade:
Bigger and better lotteries.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”; A “famous” Sydney jockey
whose exploits on the pigskin and be-
hind wardrobes have been given acres
of print by an adoring flapper press is
fond of giving parties. The morning
after one particularly hilarious affair
the racing hero awoke to find, slap against
his front gate, a sizable load of manure.
Stuck up on it was a board carrying the
legend: “Bernborough Called —Couldn’t
Wait.”
* He * *
“Colbpn”: Prosperous and picturesque
Maryborough (Q.) is celebrating its cen-
tenary this month with a show and other
festivities suitable to the occasion. The
century mark is calculated from Burnett’s
survey of the Mary River in June-July,
1847, though five years previously Andrew
Petrie, Stuart Russell and Henry Joliffe
had explored the stream in a whaleboat.
Joliffe took up a run soon afterwards at
Tiaro, 20-odd miles to the southward,
but the abos. drove him off. The first
residents at the Old Settlement —now
Baddow —after Burnett’s survey were
Edward Aldridge, George Fowler and
Henry Palmer, Palmer being elected as
first mayor of the municipality, pro-
claimed some ten years later. The first
collector of customs and police magistrate
was Richard Brinsley Sheridan. City
status was achieved in the early 1900’s.
The industrial pride of the place is
Walkers, builders of ships and loco-
motives, who did invaluable work during
the war.
* * * *
“Hist”; As a philatelist who has had
to suffer the ungentle gibes of the philis-
tines, it delights me to point out that
Major-General Sir Edward Spears, reci-
pient of one of the “letter-bombs” in
England, possibly owes his life to his
interest in postage' stamps. Instead of
ripping the letter open with a brutally in-
serted finger, he “opened it carefully so
as not to damage the 100-lire stamp on
the cover,” and lived. So is our folly
justified.
* * * *
“Plop”: My leap in boarding the tram
and the ensuing gymnastics which kept
my hold on the hand-grip were surely
sufficient proof of my being young and
sound in limb. Yet a youth, after
regarding me a while with wondering
eyes, stood up and offered his seat. De-
clining, I thought it appropriate to ask
what school was teaching him such super-
fine manners. He replied that he didn’t
go to school —he worked on the wharves.
Totally inexplicable, or is it?
* * # ♦
“Clydesider”: For the information of
“Silvius” (B. 28/5/’47) a “boilermaker”
has been the British shipbuilder’s restora-
tive for more years than I can remember
—about three-score. So well established
was it that many hostelries had rows of
the two glasses arranged along their bars
in anticipation of the noonday knock-
off. The workers passed through in file,
drank the contents of the small and the
large glass in one breath and filed out to
eat their “cafry-lunch” wherever there
was shelter from the rain.
* * * *
“Geep”: In 1942 a woolly-headed
speech by Henry Wallace on why “we”
were fighting caused an American manu-
facturer to say that he hadn’t converted
his factory from peace-time goods to
munition production to get a quart of
milk a day for every Hottentot.
What has the happy-go-lucky Hot-
tentot done to be regarded as a world
standard in undesirable types? Lately
I have come across four other passages
which would discourage conceit in any
race. The first was that scarcely flatter-
ing compliment of Dampier’s written in
1689. He described the W.A. aborigines
as “the miserablest people in the world,”
and added, “the Hodmadods of Mono-
matapa, though a nasty people, yet for
wealth are gentlemen to these.” The
Dutchman Vlamingh soon after was to
refer to the first native huts sighted on
the banks of the Swan River as being
“of a worse description than that of a
Hottentot.” Kipling, a couple of cen-
turies later, describing a rather vulgar
Chicago night club, wrote that “the floor
was covered with coins sunk into cement.
Even a Hottentot would not have been
guilty of this sort of barbarism.” And
finally, Dr. Halliday Sutherland, in dis-
cussing the critics of the Spanish bull-
ring, writes in The Arches of the Years
that many of these critics “are no more
capable of appreciating the skill and
courage of the toreros than is a Hotten-
tot of appraising a game of cricket.”
That, perhaps, is the unkindest cut of all.
It would probably be an easier task to
pick up a Hottentot with a working,
knowledge of the game than it would
to find a cultured Viennese or Parisian
similarly equipped.
* # « ♦
“Bungle”: Hoaxes, eh? During the war
with the Japanese two American Army
officers made a survey of Lismore
(N.S.W.) with the idea of forming a rest
centre there for soldiers from battle
areas. A joker posing as a Yank n.c.o.
got in touch with leading citizens and
patriotic bodies and pitched a tale that
a contingent of American soldiers, com-
plete with nurses, would arrive in the
town “on Tuesday.” He made all arrange-
ments for their arrival, set in motion
wheels that promised unlimited entertain-
ment, planned bus tours, had streets
cleared of No Parking signs and thrilled
the Girls’ Patriotic League with the
promise of an all-American orchestra,
led by Jack Fisher, one-time member of
Benny Goodman’s band. “On Tuesday”
he announced that he expected a senior
officer at 9 p.m. and arranged for a room
for him. The senior officer had not
arrived by midnight, jjut morning found
a note attached to his door “Not to be
Disturbed till 9 a.m.” When they did
venture to call him they found the bed-
room empty, also that of the organiser,
whom Lismore has never seen since.
* * * *
“A.C.”: A recent reference to C. J.
Ash well of the Renmark “Pioneer” will
remind many of a long-ago “Pioneer”
wedding report. After doing justice to
the apparel of the bride, ’maids and
mothers of the contracting parties, it
went on to say that “the marriage was
consummated in Gaynes’s H&ll.”
* * * *
- “S.S.”: Drifting around in a half-alco-
hplic state he kept on saying “I jus’ wanna
make a small bet. I jus’—jus’ wanna
make a small bet.” The s.p. merchant,
working industriously in a corner,
finally became fed up. “Listen,
mate,” he said, “if you want a bet, have
it, but don’t keep on pestering me. What
do you want to back?” The drunk eyed
him sadly. “OF man,” he said, “I just
wanna bet half a note that those two
gentlemen at the window behind you
are two cops.” He won.
* * # *
“Bo”: The method by which famous
pianists approach the keyboard is a study
in itself. Moiseiwitsch gave the impres-
sion that he could never get to it quickly
enough and always left it with reluctance.
Paderewski’s approach was majestic, and
his’ bow seemed to confer something
gracious. The Palestinian
girl Psalzmann drifted
across to the open grand
like a wraith, bowed un-
smilingly and at the
finish of a group drifted
off with the same poker
face. Artur Schnabel
strode on with a let’s-
go-on-with-the-job air.
Mierowski, the Pole,
came up the inclined
ramp to the Sydney
Town Hall stage at a
gait which would have
delighted any medico,
and you almost expected
him t,o bow and say
“D inner is served,
m’lord,” his slight portli-
ness lending added veri-
similitude to his ponder-
ous butler - like tread.
Claudio Arrau, the
Chilean, tears up the
ramp with athletic tread,
sways from the waist in
a series of eurythmic
bows, dives for the seat,
and commences adjust-
ing it. But the most
entertaining of all was
Vladimir de Pachman.
In early 1919 I was one
of about 10,000 at London’s Albert
Hall when the pianist, then aged and
growing eccentric, gave a special re-
cital for charity. He toddled on
with a couple of attendants, turned
around and started to walk off again.
Eventually they kidded him to take his
seat. Followed a five-minute vaudeville
turn. Then just as the grfeat concourse
hung breathless waiting for the opening
Beethoven chords he decided the piano
was too close to him. Instead of getting
the attendants to move the stool away,
however, he insisted that they shift the
piano back! A gale of laughter swept
the austere walls, of which doubtless the
virtuoso was quite unaware. But when
he did start, the power and beauty his
still-supple fingers brought from that
piano were a revelation.
“Ah winna be a meenit, Mither —AKm just fixing ma pleats."
“Sach”: Souveniring? On the counter
of a small shop near our camp there used
to be an ornate ash-tray. One of the
troops “sept it off” and the sad-faced little
man of the shop approached our C. 0.,
telling him the tray was a gift from his
son, a R.A.A.F. pilot, listed missing; the
old man’s wife was very upset about the
loss. The C.O. lined us up and spoke in
no uncertain terms about this despicable
theft. The ash-tray was soon forthcoming,
and as an added balm the men threw in
and gave the old couple a tenner. The
couple touchingly accepted the gift, and
everyone felt a touch of pride at the re-
paration. Some time later in another area
one of our officers related the incident.
Five other officers who had been billeted
at different times in the same town had
similar tales to tell. For the temporary
theft of the prominently displayed ash-
tray the old couple had apparently been
netting a regular income.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Just possible that
the young chap who, viewing the march
of the U.S. Task Force, remarked “The
Japs had better look out now” (B.
28/ 5/ ’47) was having a quiet joke in his
own way. The quiet quip, delivered with-
out any intimation that a joke is intended,
is the highest form of humor, but among
such jokes infant mortality is high. Re-
cently heard one of a group discussing
the Government meteorologist say the
prophet was contemplating a shift. “The
weather here doesn’t agree with him,”
he explained. Nobody even smiled.
**■ * ■ *
“Minto”: I found my job as wireless
operator on transport kites flying between
"It'll ready tomorrow —Happisnap Studios."
N.G. and the mainland a pretty monoton-
ous one and asked the skipper for per-
mission to doff the phones and do some
study. He agreed, and handing me a sheet
of navigation problems he remarked
“We’re down low, so the altitude won’t
affect your study.” The altimeter indi-
cated 3000 ft. The problems seemed easy,
and for the first half-hour 1 raced through
them. After that I found them increasingly
hard though they looked similar. The
altimeter still showed 3000 ft. I was about
to confess failure when a glance out of
the window gave the skipper’s trick
away. While I was hard at it he had
taken the kite up exactly 10,000 ft, (a
complete revolution of the altimeter clock)
so that at a casual glance the height still
seemed to be 3000 ft. The effort of study-
ing at 13,000 ft. cured me. Thereafter, I
was satisfied to sit in a stupor for a whole
trip.
* * Jfc #
“R.D.”: Ghost-writing is spreading.
A Melbourne bookseller displays a
placard offering as the current special:
“The Making of a Sentimental Bloke
—the Autobiography of C. I. Dennis. By
Alec, H. Chisholm.”
* * * *
“J.0’8.”: Extract from an annual re-
port of the Commissioner for Railways:
The keepers ofi what are facetiously
termed “Refreshment Rooms” on our rail-
ways are little more than apple-stall holders
and vendors of lollypops and stale pastry,
serving out junks of sandwiches and messes
of tea and coffee to their customers, with-
out- any regard to their accommodation
and comfort; but arrangements are in pro-
gress for improving this state of things.
The report was dated 1870, when the
Commissioner was John Rae. It still holds
good as a description of Railway Refresh-
ment Rooms, but present-day Commis-
sioners aren’t so candid.
* * * *
“Sans Changer”: Coventry Cathedral,
reduced to a shell in the blitz of 1940, is
now rising from its ashes. Notable among
the gifts showered upon the cathedral
authorities from all over the world is
a crucifix carved from African ivory.
This exquisite piece, now in position on
the west wall of the Chapel of Resurrec-
tion, is the work of an 18-year-old native
boy from Tanganyika who modelled the
head of the figure from that of a tribal
chieftain. • .
* * * »
*
“C.C.” on a Governor-explorer:
Australia has special interest in the centenary
of Sir John Franklin’s death, which occurred
on June 11. He came out as midshipman with
Flinders; years later, after he had done a lot
of Arctic exploration, he voyaged south again
as fifth Governor of Van Diemen’s Land.
Franklin belonged to a family of five sons and
seven daughters, living in Lincolnshire his
birthplace, Spilsby, has his statue in the market
square. First intended for the Church, he
chose saltwater instead and joined the Navy
at 14. During his term in Tasmania, from
1837 to 1843, he and Lady Franklin (his
second wife) advanced scientific development
considerably, and gave educational affairs a
big push, in addition to extending exploration
of the island and its coasts, although their
efforts in advancement of culture didn’t always
meet with response. Franklin’s conscientious
and humane outlook somewhat cooled the
enthusiasm with which he was received, on
the part of those who were hoping to have
the Governor on their side; when he was re-
called to England he was not altogether sorry.
It was in 1845 that he set out on the last
journey in pursuit of the North-west Passage,
which he found, although it was not known
that he was the discoverer until the return of
the last search ship in ’59. More than a score
of expeditions set out to search for him —most
of them inspired by the unflagging energy of
his widow —and balloons and guttapercha boats
were tried in the effort to get news of
the missing explorer and his party of 138.
Much time was lost through the lethargy of
those whom Lady Franklin was urging to
undertake the search, and some of the first
parties covered the wrong field, going to the
north instead of the south-western part of the
Polar regions where traces of the lost men
were ultimately found. But one result of the
intensive search was that the knowledge of the
Arctic regions was furthered as it would not
have been otherwise.
The Franklins were a remarkable couple—
Lady Franklin’s travel exploits almost rank
in their way with the exploratory ventures of
her husband. She was a voluminous letter-
writer and a wonderful diarist. In the Arctic
seas many a cape, inlet and bay carry the names
of the Franklin family or their places of
qbode in Lincolnshire, and many Australian
place-names commemorate them.
THE UNPAID.
“Labor members of the N.S.W. legislative Council
are applying to the State Government for an allow-
ance to cover their out-of-pocket expenses.”
When Canberra’s high-placed legislative gents
Wallow in self-awarded affluence,
And even the Assemblymen we know
Rake in their sev’nteen quid a week or so,
Surely it’s time to spare a thought for these
Perhaps no less deserving M.L.Cs.,
The Cinderellas of our politics
Whom we expect to serve the State for nix.
Our so-called People’s House no law can frame
Till they’ve examined and approved the same.
They constitute, whoever’s at the helm,
One of the three estates that make the realm
(Or is it four?) their mission of vocation
To be a brake on hasty legislation.
And to ensure their vigilance unceasing^
They need, like other brakes, a bit of greasing.
Their trouble is they may not fix their screw
As other legislative bodies do. .
And what avail the touch of social swank
Conferred by the appendages of rank,
The prefix Hon’rable, that badge of class,
Even the serviceable railway pass,
Compared with the remunerative fee
Others accumulate so readily?
They might—and presently perhaps they may—
Stick out for genuinely worth-while pay.
Meanwhile, to show their philanthropic bent,
They do their job without emolument.
The only thing these worthy souls that vexes
Is being denied their out-of-pocket exes.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


m
88888 g
11
■■■ ;:
iiiw
. mmmm
H
■
iiiiiiii
'naiaqam
IMITATION PEARL
■
With all the richness and lustre of
natural pearls, these imitation pearl
necklets are of the finest quality,
Diamente-set snaps.
Single-strand. Prices £2 and £2/17/6
Two-strand. Price £2/15/-
Three-strand. Price £3/5/-
EAR RINGS too ..
To match the above necklets. Fine
quality,, will maintain their sheen
v in wear. Gilt-screw-fastening. Three
sizes. Prices, 8/6, 10/6 and 12/6
fd
Fronds
Comer Pitt and King Sts., Sydney. ’Phone; BW 2721.
Unly the finest of pure
Australian fur is used in the
manufacture of AKUBRA hats—
best Australian made.
Famous for long service 9 com -
fort and smart appearance,
AKUBRA
HATS 01
Q.DALITY
THE SERVICE MAN
World War 111 On?
“Ek Dum”: The European situation is
the most ominous since 1939. Indeed, the
atmosphere is very much that of early
1939, except that Germany at that period
was certainly ntot openly menacing the
parts of Europe that Russia is menacing
to^ay.
Anybody who doubts the position
should read a summary prepared by Mr.
William Bullitt, formerly United States
Ambassador to Moscow, who formulates
a parallel charge against Russia for every
one formulated at the Nuremburg trials
against the German leaders.
Rumania, Poland and Albania are in
Russian hands ; so are Finland and the
other Baltic States. Eastern Germany is
no.w a permanent Russian zone. The
whole of the Danube area, with the ex-
ception of part of Austria, now is in
“Giving it a trim up, Dick? Id leave it short back and sides .”
Bolshevik hands. The most powerful
figure in Italy is a member of the Comin-
tern of 1941 —Togliatti. The most power-
ful figures in France are Duclos and
Thorez, the 1940 bolter —Duclos so
influential that he brought down
Browder in the U.S.A. Yugoslavia
is presided over by Tito, a former
Red Army officer. Bulgaria is pre-
sided over by Dmitrov, formerly
secretary-general of the Comintern and
Governor-General of Russia-conquered
Poland; also the man who issued the
orders to the Australian Communist
party, which that party obeyed in 1939,
to change its attitude and conspire for
peace with Hitler.
Hungary has now fallen into the
clutches of Rakosi. The Australian Com-
munist party actually came into existence
as the result of the following telegram:
Berlin, August 16, 1922.
Secretary, Communist Party of Australia.
United Communist Party’s application
for affiliation accepted. Party now listed as
Comintern Australian section. United Con-
ference for September cancelled.
RAKOSI,
Secretary Communist International.
The Australian Communist party—then
headed by Comrade Garden, now Mr.
Ward’s right-hand man—remarked that
“the above cablegram- marks the begin-
ning of a new period of development”:
The party will now move forward with
the additional prestige of being an integral
part of the Communist International, the
strongest international organisation of revo-
lutionary workers the world has ever
known.
All these terrorist heroes —Togliatti,
Tito, Dmitrov, Rakosi —were associated
in the Soviet Foreign Office during the
early stages of World War 11.
It seems that from the Elbe eastward
all Europe is now a conquered territory
—conquered by an Oriental Power which
shouted for “no annexations and no in-
demnities” after World War I, and which
trained the German staff officers who
formed the nucleus of Hitler’s military
power in World War 11.
Hungary and even Italy seem far away
from Britain by old standards, but their
closeness is a startling reality. Britain
is within comfortable heavy-bomber
range by even the now obsolescent 8295.
Vienna is only 700 miles by road from
English shores.
But the most sinister feature of the
matter is that the sweep westward of the
Russians is part of a cold-blooded deli-
berate policy of world conquest, and that
it is being pursued internally along Hun-
garian lines in every country in the world,
including Australia, where the Govern-
ment sits meekly down and allows the
Communist party to run Australian
policy whenever the Communist Central
Committee issues an order.
The process of destroying all Aus-
tralian leadership other than that which
the Communists can control or bully has
been going on for years. Against the
old type of leader there have been waged
savage and sustained campaigns of libel
and slander. The prestige of “Labor”
leaders is being broken down in the
same way, though the campaign against
them has only reached a preliminary
stage, and their habit of bending to the
blast has made what is happening less
perceptible.
It is not only in Europe that the Com-
munists are taking over. Their campaign
is in being here. The war is on.
Manus.
“Ek Dum”: After the discussions be-
tween the Commonwealth Government
and Admiral Denfeld, Commander-in-
Chief of the United States Pacific Fleet,
U.S. Ambassador Butler and - Dr. Evatt
announced in a statement that they had
been “entirely successful,” in the process
confirming what a number of people had
already suspected—that there is a practi-
cal identity of Pacific interests between
Australia and the United States and that
most excellent relations exist between
them.
It was given out that the discussions
were “completely in accord with the
principles and purposes of the United
Nations.”
One of the largest of the United
Nations is busy digesting the half-dozen
European countries which it has grabbed,
while contemplating the swallowing of
other countries along its borders, such as
Turkey, leading them to keep their armies
on a war-mobilisation basis.
That mysterious Canberra “Govern-
ment spokesman” who materialises when-
ever there is anything unpopular to be
communicated to the public made it clear
that what was being sought for Manus
was a “United Nations trusteeship”—
the trusteeship which is to apply to the
whole of New Guinea Territory,
This trusteeship is to allow the erection
or maintenance of defence facilities on


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JULIA MARY IRVIN (formerly Julia Mary
Moore) late of Five Dock.—TAKE NOTICE that
BERTRAM GUAIRE IRVIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1793 of 1947 on the grounds of your
desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 16th July 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
ALBERT G. KENOH, Solicitor, 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K, BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
TO ARNOLD FREDERICK WITCOMBE formerly "of
Winchelsea in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
GRACE WITCOMBE has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the grounds that you have
without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her
and without any such cause or excuse left her con-
tinuously so deserted during three years and upwards
and that you have been guilty of a repeated act
of adultery, with a woman whose name is unknown
to the Petitioner. A sealed copy of the petition and
a copy of the citation has been served on your
mother Christina Witcombe of 71 Corangamite Street
Colac and this advertisement is being inserted in the
“Age” Newspaper published in Melbourne and the
Sydney “Bulletin” newspaper published in Sydney on
or before the Thirtieth day of June One thousand
nine hundred and forty-seven. UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the office of the Deputy Prothono-
tary of the Supreme Court at Geelong within fourteen
days from the insertion of the latter of the two
advertisements the case may proceed -in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs. If you intend
to defend this suit you must also file an answer in
the said office within twenty-four days from the in-
sertion of the latter of the two advertisements.
WIGHTON & McDONALD, 53 Yarra Street, Gee-
long, Agents for C. W. St. JOHN CLARKE, of Colac,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Public Notice.
I, JOSEPH VEGH, of Yugoslavian nationality, born
at Mali Bukovec, Yugoslavia, and resident 8| years
in Australia, now residing at Dickson Road, Lep-
pington, near Liverpool, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act, 1920-
X
/
H
mkM mrnr liiiiM iilii m 1 i 8 M m lill?
Product of the same organization that produced
the valiant Hudson Bomber and the famous P-38
Lightning, the Lockheed Constellation now offers
swift, comfortable schedules to most world capi-
tals. Among the great airlines selecting Constel-
lations for their leading flights are: aer uncus
. . . AIR FRANCE . . . AMERICAN OVERSEAS AIR-
LINES . . . BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORP. . . ,
EASTERN AIR LINES . . . KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIR
LINES . . . KNILM ROYAL NETHERLANDS INDIES
AIRWAYS . , . LAV LINEA AEROPOSTAL VENEZOLANA
. . . PANAIR DO BRASIL . . . PAN AMERICAN WORLD
AIRWAYS . . . QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS, LTD. . . .
and trans world airline. Book passage with
travel agent or airline.
.■- , -
.
Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Cal., U.S.A.
Sole Australian Agents: RHF.EM AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Aircraft, Spare Parts, Accessories. Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
MS
l
5564 U-I 1.46
TsA
€ o&m
PRO**
COBB
to
Records estab-
lished by Roman
Charioteers are not
available, but the current
one mile land speed record Is
held by J. Cobb, established at Bon-
neville, U.S.A., 23/8/'39 —an average speed
of 368.85 m.p.h.
/
Records come and go, but
the record of the fine
quality of Champion
tobacco amongst keen
sporting smokers remains
unequalled.
g ■jvr:-,:
M
vJMtCO
f
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for fhe Pipe,
Manus, always, of course, under the
thumb of the United Nations.
In any other age such a position would
generate side-splitting laughter.
In effect, it means that Australia’s
policy of defence for its approaches is
being handed over to a group which in-
cludes our only potential enemy. And
this enemy will be in a position to veto
almost everything Mr. Chifley and his
five (5) service Ministers propose.
Admiral Denfeld later summed up the
position with sailor-like directness: “I
told the Australian leaders that although
we spent a hundred and thirty-one
million dollars on Manus alone, our
Pacific Fleet would have to abandon its
South-west Pacific bases and concentrate
elsewhere. We just have not got the
money.”
In other words, this country, whose
“Government” won’t have compulsory
national training, is being asked to pull its
weight in Pacific defence.
Peace Army.
“Ek Dum”: In the report of the
Military Staff Committee of the United
Nations, U.N.O.’s military force is
solemnly described as “intended for the
maintenance or restoration of interna-
tional peace and security in cases of a
threat to or breach of the peace and acts
of aggression.”
It is to be composed of “best-trained
and -equipped units of member-nations,”
and to have all the “moral weight” that
can be assembled. “Moral weight behind
the forces will be great and this will
influence size,” which will be limited to
“a strength sufficient to enable the
Security Council to take prompt action
in any part of the world.”
However, Russia stipulates that per-
manent members shall make forces avail-
able “on the principle of equality re-
garding overall strength and composi-
tion,” deviations to be permitted by
special decisions of the Security Council.
Other members were in favor of the
principle that permanent members should
“make a comparable initial overall con-
tribution,” but that “contributions may
differ widely as to strength of separate
components, land, sea and air.”
The snag in the whole business from
Australia’s point of view might have
been that the “size and composition of
contributions of individual States” are to
be “determined on the initiative of the
Security Council with the advice of the
Military Staff Committee in process of
negotiations with each member-nation” ;
but there is a saving clause which de-
clares that “no nation is to be urged to
increase its armed forces or to create a
particular component for the specific
purpose of contributing to the United
Nations forces.”
A final bit of humor is in the Soviet
Union proposal, recorded by the staff re-
port,"that forces which have been used
to restore peace should be withdrawn not
later than 30 days after expiration of a
period specified in the agreement for
action. •
However, the Great Peace Army is
only a dream.
Fancy a U.N.O. Army consisting of
detachments from China, Liberia, Haiti,
Afghanistan, the Ukraine, Poland,
Belgium and San Salvador told off to
deal with the Chinese Communist
aggressors in Manchuria!
"The Bulletin" Trophy.
Last year The Bulletin established a
trophy for rifle - shooting among the
cadet corps of schools in N. S. Wales.
The basic competition was for the
highest possible by a team of 10 firers
(1250 points).
In the case of a tie the decision was
to rest with the team obtaining the highest
score on Practice No. 4 (controlled appli-
cation).
Seventy schools competed, with excel-
lent general results, having regard to the
fact that some of the schools are operat-
ing with new cadet formations and with
imperfect facilities which will improve
considerably as they grow older.
The influence of establishment and
numbers to choose a team from is clear
from the manner in which the old and
large schools headed the list. Scots Col-
lege (Sydney), The King’s, Sydney High
and Shore were second to fifth, with
D.L.S., Marrickville, sixth and Trinity,
the Armidale School, Lismore High,
Nowra Intermediate and St. Joseph’s
following in that order.
It was, therefore, all to the credit of
St. John’s College, Woodlawn, a Marist
College which was founded only in 1931
in a little village outside Lismore, that
its team should have won a victory which
placed the use of Practice No. 4 far out-
side necessity.
The winning score was 938 (for No. 4,
198). against Scots College, 886, The
King’s School, 882, and Sydney High,
862. Three schools, Scots (200), The
King’s (207) and Armidale (208), were
ahead of the winners on Pr. No. 4.
St. John’s had only one advantage over
some competitors—it is a boarding
school with 215 boarders, of whom 166
are cadets.
Perhaps the most remarkable fact
about its victory was that, the team
received all its training at the hands of
members of the Marist Order.
The instructors of Woodlawn’s win-
ning team were Captain J. G. Webber
(0.C.) and P. J. Donnelly (W. 0.1, chief
instructor), S.C.I.G. The team consisted
of Cadets L. B. Daniel, K. Price, J.
Thornhill, J. Small, J. Fahey, F. Lopez,
K. Sanotti, R. McCaughey, P. Ryan and
D. Golds.
The full results were:
Practice Total
No. 4. Score.
1. St. John’s College, Woodlawn 198 938
2. The Scots College 200 886
3. The King’s School 207 882
4. Sydney High School .. .. 171 862
5. Syd. C. of E. Grammar School 195 846
6. D.E.S., Marrickville .. .. 179 844
7. Trinity Grammar 155 829
8. The Armidale School .. .. 208 827
9. Lisroore High School .. .. 173 802
10. Nowra Inter. High School .. 181 757
11. St. Joseph’s College .. .. 156 747
12. Marist Bros., Parramatta .. 148 729
13. Nth. Sydney Boys’ High School 182 723
14. Christian Bros.’ Col., St. Mary’s 157 721
15. The Cranbrook School .. .. 143 703
16. Wollongong Junior Tech. .. 145 688
17. Barker College 176 681
18. Glen Innes High School .. 145 674
19. Inverell High School .. .. 167 673
20. Grafton High School .. .. 163 672
21. Lithgow High School .. .. 163 657
22. Newcastle Tech. High School 157 657
23. Knox Grammar .. .... 165 656
24. C.C.C., Wollongong .. .. 178 653
25. Hurstville Sec. Tech. School .. 147 653
26. Homebush High School .. .. 138 644
27. Marist Bros., Kogarah ... .. 135' 644
28. Newcastle Cent. Junior Tech. 142 637
29. Newcastle Boys’ High .. .. 162 635
30. Sydney Grammar School .. 152 633
31. Manly High School, Balgowlah 137 616
32. Orange High School .. .. 146 613
33. Muswellbrook District Rural 132 608
34. Marist Bros., Randwick .. 150 604
35. Christian Bros.’ Col., Rose Bay 155 602
36. Fort Street High School .. 148 602
37. D.L.S., Armidale 120 594
38. Newington College 145 592
39. Crows Nest Cent. Tech. .. 127 590
40. Marist Bros., Darlinghurst .. 152 58,6
41. Canterbury High School .. 125 580
42. Wollongong High School .. 162 570
43. Forbes Inter. High School .. 129 563
44. Mudgee High School .. ..133 553
45. Kyogle Central School .. .. 119 553
46. Canberra High School .. .. 130 550
47. Yanco Agric. High School .. 123 550
48. All Saints, Bathurst .. .. 114 543
49. Gunnedah High School .. .. 85 537
50'. Grenfell High School .. .. 131 534
51. Westmead Tech. High School 118 520
52. Waverley College 132 513
53. Murwillumbah High School .. 122 510
54. Casino High School .. .. 138 509
55. Christian Bros.’ Col., Wagga 143 505
56. St. Patrick’s Col., Goulburn 88 500
57. Canberra Grammar .. .. 124 497
58. Dulwich Hill Central Tech. .. 122 493
59. Tamworth High School ~ .. 106 493
60. Griffith High School .. .. 118 490
61. Dubbo High School .. .. 116 486
62. D.L.S., Cootaraundra .. .. 110 483
63. St. Patrick’s Inter. Tech.,
Goulburn 110 479
64. Holy Cross College, Ryde .. 76 475
65. Hornsby Central Tech 105 465
66. Wingham District Rural .. 108 406
67. Wagga High School .... 80 401
68. Narrandera High School .. 86 324
69. Hurlstone Agric. High School 55 314
70. Murrumburrah Inter. High
School 87 290


d
///•///
V'''' ' 1 1 / ,
STILL KEEPS COINS WHEN
EXIDE IS THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
EXIDE BATTER!
OF AUSTRALIA
X3.?4.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
Roy Lister Robinson, the second Wes-
tralian to achieve a barony, was born in
Perth 64 years ago. Educated at St.
Peter’s College and Adelaide ’Varsity, he
went to Oxford as S.A. Rhodes Scholar
in 1905. From Oxford he passed
into the British Civil Service, first with the
Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, then,
during the First World War, with the
Ministry of Munitions. In 1919 there was
a reorganisation of forestry control in
Britain and Robinson became a Technical
Commissioner; in 1932 he was made
chairman of the Forestry Commission
and three years later presided at the con-
ference of Empire forestry men in South
Africa. His elevation to the peerage
suggests that his work must have been
outstanding, as only on rare occasions is
a civil servant so honored.
James Hay Gosse, knighted in the
Birthday Honors list, has been prominent
in the Adelaide business world for many
years. He recently retired from the
chairmanship of George Wills and Co.,
and is on the boards of Adelaide Steam,
Royal Insurance and other concerns.
At the beginning of the century Jimmy
Gosse was one of Adelaide’s leading
athletes and for five years was a mem-
ber of the State football team and row-
ing crew. He still takes a keen interest
in both sports.
Departure of Colonel Sydney Elliot
Smith, dynamic and popular Chief of
Police in the Territory of Papua-New
Guinea —he is to take charge of a South
Australian vineyard—is a big loss to the
Territory. Elliot Smith left the Navy in
1927 to join the Papuan Administration
as a patrol officer under Hubert Murray.
He learned to understand the natives and
won their devotion. He was renowned
for his industry, fairness and a monstrous
laugh, which often broke up a tense situ-
ation. When war came to the Pacific
Elliot Smith became the C.O. and
founder of the Papuan Infantry Battalion,
the all-native unit which did invaluable
frontline work with the Allied forces.
After the war his knowledge of natives
was called upon again when he under-
took to re-form the Royal Papuan Con-
stabulary, which he soon restored to its
former excellence. At his departure the
native mem.bers of rhe R.P.C. presented
him with a cheque. They paraded at
the ship’s side as the colonel and his
wife embarked at Moresby, with the
police band playing on the wharf and
the white officers forming a guard of
honor. With his departure was lost
another of the few remaining administra-
tors of pre-war years.
When Lud Mayor Connelly started
campaigning for a brighter Melbourne
he probably hadn’t heard of Euston
Greene, though that sturdy Sydney en-
trepreneur has done more to realise his
objective than any other factor. It was
his enterprise which produced the extra-
ordinary popularity of the lunchtime
concerts at the Town Hall. Starting with
pianist Schramm he got the citizenry ac-
customed to munching a sandwich at 12
o’clock and then listening to a programme
of exalted music. Schramm is estimated
to have played to upwards of 60,000
people, and 6000 fought themselves
into the civic centre between 12 and 2
the other day to listen to the Boyd Neels.
Greene next proposes to inaugurate mid-
day dancing in the lower Town Hall
with a season of ballet to follow.
Dfead at Sandringham, Vic., at 78, John
Drysdale, solicitor. Born at Kilrie, Scot-
land, he accompanied his parents and
uncles to Australia after the failure of the
City of Glasgow Bank. The family
started the New Zealand, Australian Land
Co. and pioneered sugar-growing on the
Burdekin River, N.Q.; they still own the
Pioneer and the Inkerman Sugar Mills, of
which John Drysdale was a director.
Keen on field sports, he went home
each, season for the grouse shooting
in Scotland, where, among 'other
things, he was laird of Kilrie. One
of his fondest memories was driving out
in a carriage to the Melbourne Cup with
Wallace, the owner of Carbine, the day
that great horse won. An only son, Bill,
a 21-year-old lieutenant with an A.I.F.
commando unit, was killed at Wau. in
1942.
Across the Pacific, in Chile, the
Government seems to have the strange
idea that in the matter of culture music
is more important than horse- or dog-
racing. At any rate, when Claudio
Arrau gave his first piano recital in San-
tiago at the age of five, the Chilean
Government undertook to pay for his
musical education, sent him to Europe to
KEYBOARD ARTIST.
study and paid his expenses for 10 years.
Arrau won several prizes in Europe,
finishing up in 1925 with first place in
the International Congress of Pianists
held in Switzerland. Since then he has
played in most of the world’s capitals,
with most of the notable orchestras and
under many famous conductors. Arrau,
sketched here by Prior, has just begun
an Australian tour under the wing of
A.B.C.
“Cauboy”: Laurfence Kerr Olivier,
listed as a knight in the Birthday Honors,
was born in 1907 in Dorking, Surrey, the
son of a High Church parson of Hugue-
not descent. He went to the Oxford
Choir school and then to the Central
School of Dramatic Art. He first faced
the footlights at a schoolboys’ festival at
Shakspeare’s birthplace in 1922, playing
Katherine in “The Taming of the Shrew”
in the Elizabethan fashion. He joined
thfc Birmingham Reps, and while he was
with them St. John Ervine was the only
critic to recognise tl\e potential stage and
film star in the budding actor. Olivier
missed a big chance in “Journey’s End.”
He had played Stanhope in the Stage
Society’s production at the Apollo in
December, 1928, but he turned down the
part when the play was put on at the
Savoy a month later, taking instead the
lead in “Beau Geste,” The ghost stopped
walking in that show after two months;
“Journey’s End” ran for two years. In
1941 he became an instructor in the
Fleet Air Arm and was released to play
“Henry V.” He married the actress Till
Esmond and then Vivien Leigh. The
Oliviers were to come to Australia this
year, but are now expected in 1948.
St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, loses
a highly talented, personally engaging
member of its crew with the resignation
of Dr. A. E. Floyd, probably the best-
known church organist in Australia.
Floyd came from England 32 years ago ;
his master, Dr. Mann, was at King’s
College, Cambridge, for 54 years. Floyd
is one of the few organists to hold a
daily choral service and citizens fre-
quently drop into the beautiful fane to
listen to the evensong before leaving the
city. He has trained singers like William
H. rbert. Pressure of outside engagements
—he has been adjudicator at competitions
in Tasmania and at the Sydney Eis-
teddfod—is the reason for his resignation.
Visiting his native Maoriland after 20
years’ absence, A. F. Menzies, chief
engineer and a director of the Burrard
Dry Dock Co. of Vancouver, which built
corvettes and minesweepers, and 130
freighters. Menzies, who was born at
Tapanui, in Otago, and is visiting his
mother in Dunedin, says the American
Liberty ship was a copy of the British
North Sands design, adapted to suit the
Yanks’ own welding ideas.
Two Queensland civil servants have
received well-earned promotion. J. S.
Gibson, appointed at 61 as Registrar of
the Supreme Court at Brisbane, began
as a clerk in 1903, fought with the First
A.1.F., and was an inspector in the Public
Service Commissioner’s Department be-
fore becoming Second Deputy Registrar
of the Supreme Court in 1931. Alan
Ford succeeds F. M. Allsop as Public
Curator after 31 years’ service in the
department, the last three as Deputy
Public Curator. He is 51.
The first Australian aborigine to die in
England was mentioned in the cables
last month when High Commissioner
Beasley placed a wreath on the grave, A
young man who may be the first Aus-
tralian aborigine to sing from European
concert platforms is at present studying
at the Melbourne Conservatorium. He is
Harold Blair, the 22-year-old Queens-
lander who won a nation-wide singing
contest two years ago. He was born on
Purga Mission station, educated there
and at 13 started working on the cane-
fields. His mates were his only audience
until Marjorie Lawrence heard of his
talent and advised him to study seriously.
He is getting on so well that he expects
when he has finished his four-year course
to go to the negro university of Howard,
Washington. It was another colored voca-
list who advised him to do that —Todd
Duncan.
“Bo”: To the critic of drama or music
whose concern is less to criticise than to
feed his ego, anonymity is as a dose of
cyanide. James Agate early came to that
conclusion. Agate, whose Ego books—
he published eight of them —bespeak the
man, was dramatic and literary critic for
a long string of English papers beginning
with the “Daily Dispatch” away back in
1905. He was slashing first nights for the
“Sunday Times” up till the time of his
death, at 69, a fortnight ago. One theory
suggested for his demise is that an
anonymous hater, probably a playwright,
sent him an article Neville Cardus wrote
for the “A.B.C. Weekly” (“Those who
know their Cardus” ; “For the Cardus
giveth and the Cardus taketh away,”
etc,), accompanied by the information
that Neville was on his way back to
England.
Somewhere along the coast of N.S.W.
the yacht Kathleen is heading north on
the first leg of a world cruise her skipper.
Jack Earle, expects to take two years to
complete. Earle, a Sydney artist who has
been pottering around with boats since
he was a youngster up Torres Strait way,
has lived in Kathleen with his wife' and
two children for eight years, and sailed
her in the first Sydney to Hobart race —
she came fourth. Last year he sailed in
Christina, the winner, as did Don Angus,
navigator for the round-the-world cruise.
Brother-artist Unk White went down to
Kathleen’s moorings to wish the crew
good winds and caught them at lunch. In
anticipation of long stretches of open
ARTISTIC SAILOR.
sea and monotonous menus he expected
to find them sinking their teeth in a juicy
steak. Instead they were wallowing in
fish and chips. Unk is no yachtsman ; he
explains that “the thing that is blocking
the view of Jack is that girder arrange-
ment they hang the sail on.”
A man with an intimate association
with Marcus Clarke still flourishes in
Melbourne. Alexander Asher . was a
young comp, with Clarson and Massina
when For the Term of His Natural Life
was running as a serial in that equally
long-lived Melbourne identity the “Aus-
tralian Journal.” Asher was setting type
for the “Herald” when that paper was
changing from a morning suit into an
evening one. He published the Richmond
“Guardian” for half a century and then
bought “Table Talk ” ran it for 15 years
and sold it to the “Herald.” At 92 he is
the only surviving foundation member of
the Victorian Master Printers’ Associa-
tion.
Australia’s oldest knight, Thomas
Buckland, died in Sydney last week. He
was bom at Maidstone, in Kent, in 1848,
the year in which revolutions and civil
disturbances hit almost every country in
Europe. Coming to Australia as a lad he
worked for a while in his uncle’s office
in Sydney before taking up assaying. In
.1867 he joined a gold rush to Gympie
(Q.), first trying his luck at the diggings,
then joined the Bank of N.S.W. as an
assayer. He left the Bank in 1872; fifty
years later he became its chairman. From
Gympie he went to Charters Towers,
managed goldmines there, made money
and bought Cardigan cattle station in
North Queensland ; later he acquired St.
Anne’s and Yacamunda. In the roaring
’nineties Buckland went back to Eng-
land, but soon realised that his real roots
were in his adopted country and returned
to Sydney, to become a figure in
Australian commercial life with seats
on the directorates of several important
companies. His benefactions were con-
siderable ; they included a Boys’ Home
at Carlingford (N.S.W.), founded as a
memorial to his brother. In 1938 he
gave the R.A.A.F. £lO,OOO to buy an
Avro-Anson trainer and followed it up
during the war with a gift of £15,000 to
be earmarked for a bomber. Always an
active man, he was still playing golf, des-
pite his great age, a short time before
his death.
A fire which broke out in Underwood-
street, Sydney, on Sunday night recalled
an old chapter in Bulletin history, when
it destroyed a building which for many
years up to the time the paper moved
to its present premises housed the com-
posing- and stereo-rooms, the publishing
department, machine-room and store.
Leaping across the narrow lane the flames
then caught the back of a six-storey
George-street building and destroyed most
of it. Old hands on The Bulletin re-
member an earlier fire in the second
building nearly 40 years ago when the
whole place was reduced to a heap of
burning rubble which smouldered for
weeks. On that occasion the then Bul-
letin building had a narrow escape;
a staff salvage squad rescued equipment
from the threatened etching-room, but
the fire was put out before it spread to
the building.
Into the silence:
In Christchurch (M.L.), at 49, Very Rev.
Father Noel Hehir, principal of the Holy Name
Seminary, Christchurch, but best known as
headmaster of Riverview (Sydney) from 1940-45.
In a letter to the press L. C. Robson, head
of Sydney C. of E. Grammar School, paid a
fine tribute to the influence of Father Hehir
on his scholars and his contemporaries.
In New York while on a business trip, Henri
Van de Velde, a Belgian who came to Aus-
tralia as a child, became a, good Australian
and built up from virtually nothing a big
industry manufacturing woollen felt. In his
youth he was a competent heavyweight boxer
and played Rugby Union against the 1903 An
Blacks.
In N. S. Wales, at 81, Justice George Herbert
Pike, head of the Land Valuation Court for
many years and author of a drastic report on
soldier-settlement. Born at Hobart, he spent
most of his long life in N. S. Wales, practising
at the Sydney Bar for 30 years.
In Brisbane, at 82, J. B. Charlton, stock-
broker and one-time Mayor of Hamilton. He
came out to Queensland from Ireland 60 years
ago, settling in Gympie. In 1897 he moved to
Brisbane, was elected to the Stock Exchange
and became its oldest member. A keen racing
man, he won two Brisbane Cups with Spear
Chief.
In Brisbane, T. R. Quinn, secretary of the
Overseas Shipping Representatives since 1929.
An Old Digger, he was treasurer of Queens-
land Legacy and an active worker for the
Union Jack Club.
In Adelaide, at 77, Norman Taylor, 0.8. E.,
chairman of directors of a family firm of mer-
chants and importers. He was also chairman
of the Savings Bank of S.A., and at various
times of the National Roads Association, S.A.
Taxpayers’ Association, the C.T.A., Rotary
Club, Employment Promotion Association and
a dozen charitable bodies. From 1917 to 1919
he did good work in London as controller ot
stores for the Australian Red Cross.


Women's Letters
fjrom Sydney
There was mild whoopee in a corner
of the Pickwick Club one afternoon last
week when the committee of the Coral
Sea Ball met to wind up that success.
President of tjje committee Mrs. Sam
Jones, who presided, wore a suave black
frock with matching coat, semi-fitting,
and served with luscious snacks of silver
fox. Tho brim of her black hat, too, is
worth recording. It is wider at the front
than the sides, and it is lined with sea-
shell pink. But that, of course, had
nothing to do with the business in
hand. Briefly this was to record
a clear profit of over £BOO. Expenses,
too, had been fairly high, but it just
proves that these days you must spend
money to make money. The ball was an
Australian-American co-operation effort,
and the money will go fifty-fifty to that
movement and to Food for Britain. Mr.
Hauslaib, president of the A.A.C., and
Mayor Bartley (delayed appearance caus-
ing perturbation) had much to say in
praise of Mrs. Sam Jones, and her com-
mittee, as each took his cheque.
Although not unexpected, the engage-
ment of Eileen Phipps, who is p niece of
the Duchess of Gloucester and was in
Australia as H.R.H.’s lady-in-waiting, to
Australian Philip Kingsmill Parbury,
D. 5.0., M.C., of Port Kembla, is still
causing a little flurry of chat. Miss
Phipps is a pretty, tall girl with the nicest
taste in wide-brimmed hats. Mr. Par-
bury is manager of Lysaght’s Works at
Port Kembla. He served with distinction
in the Middle East, Greece and Syria and
later in the Pacific war.
On a night bright with stars and tonic
with cold Claudio Arrau gave his final
concert of the season. But after you had
stepped indoors away from the beauties
of Nature it was grand to find the Town
Hall radiators were in full blast. They
warmed the vestibule, where early arrivals
sat waiting for friends, and they made
pleasant glow along the great interior of
the palace of the ice kings. The Chilean
pianist once again had a group from his
country’s Embassy in his audience, which
was a very crowded and enthusiastic one ;
probably every Sydney pianist was in the
house. Sydney lire Smith, president of
the Society of Artists, now convalescing
after his long illness, was there sustain-
ing a barrage of greetings.
For three days starting on Wednesday
of next week the C.W.A. 25th
annual conference will rage. The sessions
are evidently set to cpuntry timetable, for
they start at half-past nine—and that’s
no concession to the slug-a-bed. There
will be over 600 delegates from all over
the State—from Goulburn, from Glen
Innes, Cooma, Waleha, Narrandera,
Boorowa, Emerald Hill, Armidale, Parkes,
Cowra, and, in short, from wherever the
C.W.A. has a branch. State President,
Mrs. Mac Smith, is withdrawing from
her leadership, and one of the excitements
will be voting in the new president. There
are two candidates: Mrs. G. L. Brooks,
of Jon Nama, and Mrs. J. M. Gordon’
of Burren.
On Monday of next week, at three-
thirty, the Musical Association is going
into business in a big way in the matter
of a tea-party. Invitations are out to
welcome Boyd Neel and his orchestra
back to Sydney, and the Trocadero will
be crowded with the city’s music-lovers.
During the afternoon Norman Chaffer
will show his color films of the Barrier
Reef and the wild flowers in Kuringai
Chase in spring.
By the time you are reading this John
Charles Thomas will have made his
first grand catch of Sydney hearts.
The Town Hall has never seen the
seats more closely placed than for
the baritone’s opening concert. Prob-
ably had the management the enter-
prise to put wooden benches, high in the
air, from balcony rail to balcony rail the
eager public would have rushed them.
There is something very vital and like-
able about this six-foot-odd of singer
who voices the classics with all the tradi-
tional graces, and then makes “Lindy
Lou” breathe warm and young romance.
John Charles Thomas has said that he
ikes to make his audience happy, he
likes to make his listeners laugh. And
who in these days of grim realism can
quarrel with that?
Harold Stewart, who went to London
two or three years before the war and
landed a good job with the 8.8. C., tells
in his last letter of London emerging
from its frozen winter. Harold has a
flat in Gioucester-square, and from where
he sat typing he could see an almond-
tree bursting into blossom, and a bed
of crocus lifting up their brave little
faces. Of course, since that was written,
England has had a heat wave, and
was probably glad to get thoroughly
thawed out. Harold had just got back
from Dublin, where, dropping into a
lecture on architecture, he found himself
close to Raymond McGrath and his wife.
Raymond lives in Dublin, now, and has
for home one of those lovely mellow
Regency houses which give so many
Dublin streets an unforgettable character.
He is still busy architecting and is de-
signing a broadcasting house for the city
of the Litfey. Raymond first hit the
headlines abroad when he designed a set
of furniture in black glass for an Oxford
Don.
Norton* Trevaire made this charmful
picture of Elizabeth Morshead, only
daughter of Lieut.-General Sir Leslie
Morshead and Lady Morshead. On June
25, in the church of St. Michael, at Vau-
cluse, she will become the wife of
Michael Kidd, only son of the James
Kidds, of Echo Hills, Kootingal, near
Tamworth. There is not any corner of
Australia which this news will fail to
interest, for Lieut.-General Morshead
was in command of the heroic Ninth
Division during the siege of Tobruk, and
at never-to-be-forgotten El Alamein.
Actor John Wood, ex-A.I.F. p.-0.-w.,
scurrying along Martin-place before
the stiff cold breeze last Thursday,
declared he is all for the old-
fashioned idea (as in Congreve’s days)
when a muff was a part of the
wardrobe of a gentleman of fashion. On
the other hand John doesn’t like the glare
of the fire, though he loves to crouch
over it. His wife says she is going to
make him a fan on the principle of a
hfmd firescreen, John, who has been
touring Victoria, South Australia and
the West with his “Hasty Heart” com-
pany, says the company will have to take
to the road again because there is no
theatre free in Sydney. This time, though,
they travel a sea lane —they go off to
Japan.
With a wave of his hand and a flirt
of his hair conductor Rafael Kubelik
roused the Town Hall from its usual
lethargy of appreciative acceptance to a
sort of frenzied delight. Rafael, who
is the son of Jan Kubelik, the
wonder violinist of his day, is conduct-
ing a series of concerts for the A.B.C.
and he had a great success with the
Symphony Orchestra last Thursday night.
He is tall, almost too slim, has a sensi-
tive face and really beautiful hands. He
conducts like a whirlwind, and ladies in
the audience, conscious of hip- and waist-
line, wondered if conducting might, after
all, be the slimming secret they have so
long sought.
Valda Aveling was the solo pianist.
Valda, who wenfe away a talented young
girl just before the war, returns to her
homeland with those talents polished by
hard work and experience. She reintro-
duced herself to Sydney audiences in the
piano part of De Falla’s “Nights in the
Gardens of Spain,” and both her listeners
and the conductor were delighted with
her. The fashionable and the social
were not absent from this concert, but
the bulk of the audience wore everyday
clothes and a musical expression. Three
attractive Symphony Concert regulars
were Chief Justice Jordan’s lady, Mrs.
R. E. Salenger and Mrs. Sep. Levy.
Mrs. Sep. Levy’s hat, an insouciant little
bunch of jade-blue feather, calls for
special mention. So does the pretty girl,
Maria Sevcova, in colorful Czech cos-
tume with its bright embroideries,
who presented a basket of fruit from the
Czech Consulate, tied up with green
ribbons, to her countryman Rafael.
St. James’s, in King-street, was bulg-
ing with past and present residents of
Orange when Elizabeth Howse, younger
daughter of Dr. C. B. (Jack to his pals)
Howse and Mrs. Howse, married her Alex.
Holcombe, only son of H; C. A. Hol-
combes, of Merriba, Boggabilla. The
bride, small, dark and vivid-looking, wore
tulle veil on a frock of ivory brocade
with a very long train. The bride’s
mother wore a long black frock,
a trifle of tulle for hat, and carried
a posy of delphinium. At the re-
ception in the Australia ballroom there
were Howses, Treweeks, Ryans (he was
P.M. in Orange before coming to Manly),
Mac Smiths, Colonel Colvin, who made
one of the night’s bright speeches, lots
of the ’groom’s relations, including his
father and mother, the H. C. A. Hol-
combes, Alice McKenzie, in flowered
chiffons, and John Howse, M.H.R. for
Calare, who also gave tongue to the
natty phrase.
From Melbourne
Bleak conditions outside meant nothing
to the guests at the vice-regal late-after-
noon party for delegates to the 20th
annual general meeting of the Royal
Australasian College of Surgeons. Crack-
ling log fires sent their glow out and
made even more warm looking the great
bowls of chrysanthemum and poinsettia,
red-berried holly and autumn foliage
which decorated the State drawing-room
and supper-room at Government House.
Lady Dugan received the guests in a
frock of black flat crepe which had tiers
of black silk fringe on the skirt and again
on shoulder epaulettes. A corsage of
gardenias made striking contrast. Sir
Winston’s sister, Mrs. J. O. Hoselden,
had a short silver-fox cape over her black
frock.
A distinguished visitor was Sir Gordon
Gordon-Taylor, who is a house guest of
Sir Winston and Lady Dugan. Among
the inter-State guests were the H. R.
Poates, of Sydney, the M. Carseldines, of
Queensland, the D. G. McKays and the
T. A. Britten-Joneses, of South Au-
stralia, Professor F. Gordon Bell, presi-
dent of the college, was there. So were
Sir Alan and Lady Newton, Sir Hugh
and Lady Devine, Dr. and Mrs. J. New-
man Morris, who came with son and
daughter-in-law Dr. and Mrs. Geoffrey
Newman Morris, Mr. and Mrs. Victor
Hurley, Mr. and Mrs. G. R. A. Syme,
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Coates and Mr. and
Mrs. J. H. A. Shaw.
v The Queen Victoria Hospital Re-build-
mg Appeal benefited by the gala night
put on at the Union Theatre by the live-
wire Ballet Guild. The Brookes lady,
whose cream lace gown had a design of
small flowers, was on hand (she had just
arrived by air from Sydney, last stage of
a flight from England) to give welcome
to the vice-regals. Lady Dugan, who was
accompanied by Miss Penelope Nettle-
fold, wore a graceful gown in two shades
of green. Among those noticed in the big
audience were the L. S. Lathams, Mrs.
Roy Chambers and her daughter Helen,
Mrs. Geoffrey Cohen, Mrs. Russell
Martin, the Ronald Marriotts, Mrs. Len
Buxton, Mrs. Dick Hamer and Mrs. Don
Gunner.
Juanita Fendick’s happy smile was
caught by John Duncan’s camera, just
after she announced her engagement to
William Morris Brever, only son of Mr,
and Mrs. F. J. Brever, of Bacchus Marsh.
Juanita, blue-eyed and fair-haired, por-
trayed Miss Australia in the pageant at
the Coral Sea Ball. She is the youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Fen-
dick, of Kew. Her grandfather is Sir
Herbert Onley.
The C.W.A. in this State certainly
doesn’t let the grass grow under its feet.
It has just on 20,000 members, including
4000 enrolled during the past 12 months.
This was disclosed by the retiring presi-
dent, Mrs. O. A, Hicken, during the
annual meeting which was attended at St.
Kilda Town Hall by more than 1600 dele-
gates, Stress was laid on the splendid
work of the various branches in the asso-
ciation’s drive to get more food for
Britain. Lady Dugan, who is the associa-
tion’s patroness, expressed hier delight at
the reception being accorded the home
science van, which brought to many
women far outback privileges which once
had been only the prerogative of their
city sisters. Mrs. Norman Welsh (Yarra)
was elected State president in succession
to Mrs. Hickeq, who leaves shortly to
attend the conference of the Associated
Country Women of the World in Hol-
land. Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald was the
unanimous choice for State vice-
president.
Down by air from Japan came Maori-
lander Jean Begg, director of Y.W.C.A.
Welfare for the Far East. Jean was
national general secretary of Y.W.C.A.
for India, Burma and Ceylon before the
war. When servicewomen went to the
Middle East the British Y.W.C.A. re-
quested the service of this energetic and
capable woman for the organising of
amenities for them. Cairo was the hub
from which radiated welfare work which
kept hundreds of girls happy in their war
jobs. Jean repeated the success in South-
east Asia. Fellow-countrywoman Muriel
Wilson, who is director of women’s ser-
vices in Japan, flew down with her. The
two fly across the Tasman this week for
a well-earned home rest.
The sixteenth birthday of the Ameri-
can Women’s Auxiliary of the Children’s
Hospital was celebrated with a party in
the Marina-room of the Australia. This
group of hard-working women has raised
more than £20,000 for the hospital, and
with the forthcoming July 4 Bali, it hopes
to put the total up substantially. Un-
fortunately the president of the Auxiliary,
Mrs. R. B. Bradley, was unable to be
present because of illness. In her
absence, Mrs. E. H. Young, senior vice-
president, welcomed the guests, who in-
cluded a number of newly-joined Aux-
iliary members, Setting of the ball will
be St. Kilda Town Hall, and the Gover-
nor, Sir Winston Dugan, and Lady
Dugan will be official guests with the
Consul-General of the U.S.A., Richard
Boyce and Mrs. Boyce. Newcomers
to this country included blonde
Mrs. Lou Bailey, smart in grey
tailoreds and a matching bobby hat
feather-trimmed, Mrs. A. J. Davidson,
Jnr., mink-coated and green-hatted, and
Mrs. Wayne Brown, of Michigan, also
wearing a mink coat and a feather-
trimmed hat. Mrs. Norman Picot is
organiser of the ball.
When fair-haired Betty, only daughter
of Sir Carl and Lady Jess, of Balwyn,
was married to Donald Jeffrey, only son
of D. W. MacLachlan, of Toorak, and
the late Mrs. MacLachlan, at the Church
of England Grammar School Chapel, she
carried an early-Victorian posy of gar-
denias tied with the MacLachlan tartan
ribbon. The Rev. Lloyd Whitfeld per-
formed the ceremony and the A.I.F.
General gave his daughter away. Betty
chose a white faille gown, the bouffant
skirt ending in a short train. Orange
blossoms, worn by her mother at her
wedding, kept the tulle veil in place, June
Hill was the only bridesmaid ; her frock
of white French romaine was cut on
Grecian lines, and she wore a curvette of
white stiffened net. Betty’s brother John
was bestman. The reception was held at
No. 9 Darling-street.
A biting wind at Flemington had race-
goers out in tweed suits, coats and furs.
Coats featured huge bell sleeves and the
new draped front. Hats were worn off
the face and many showed the trend to-
ward side trimming, with flowers and
feathers popular. With Mrs. C. O. Fair-
bairn were her daughter and son-in-law,
Mr, and Mrs. Phillip Russell. The
Blarney lady favored a two-tone ensemble
—brown skirt worn with a yellow jacket
and brown off-the-face hat. Mrs. Ellin-
son allied grey lizard-skin bag and gloves
with a black Persian lamb coat. Joan
Silk’s suit was of red wool. Beverley
Buxton’s was of light navy tweed. Mrs.
Eric Gregg’s black cloth coat, with its
balloon sleeves and full skirt, was set off
with a grey Arctic fox collar. Dr. J. G.
Whittaker’s wife chose a navy coat and
off-the-face hat.
Miss M. E. Sage, Matron-in-Chief of
the A.A.N.S., has been appointed Matron
of the Women’s Hospital. At the out-
break of war Miss Sage was matron to
the Victorian Baby Health Centre’s
Training School. She was appointed
Matron of 2/2nd A.G.H. three months
after entering the A.A.N.S. and saw
service in the Middle East. On returning
to Australia in 1942 she became Matron-
in-Chief of A.A.N.S. In 1942 she was
awarded the Royal Red Cross and in
1947 the Florence Nightingale Medal.
Whilst overseas with the Victory Con-
tingent, Matron Sage visited Austria as
guest-of-honor of U.N.R.R.A., and also
visited civilian hospitals and camps for
displaced personnel.
Hephzibah Menuhin (Mrs. Lindsay
Nicholas) is back again after a five-months
concert tour with her famous brother,
violinist Yehudi, of England, Scotland,
U.S.A, and of practically every capital
city in Europe. Hephzibah’s husband
and two children accompanied her and
the children were able to see their grand-
parents. The family go back to their
station home at Terinallum, near Mort-
lake.


Are You a Business
or Professional
Man?
If so, your days are possibly sq fully occu-
pied that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its 68th year of experience as
Attorney or Agent, and is well qualified to
relieve you of worry in arranging invest-
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if you will call or write at
your convenience.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Rennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. 8. Colman, C. 8.8.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., E.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WARES DIRECTORS:
R, T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Resile Morshead, K.C.8.,- K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager; J. W. Russell French,
w Incorporated in Victoria in 1878. /
ALADDIN
PRESSURE STOVES
Brand New Aladdin Kerosene Pressure Stoves,
35in. high, with collapsible Splash Back 22in.
high. Six Burner Fop (each, controlled sepa-
rately) 33in. across, 22in. deep. Separate large
oven below with two burners. Inside oven
measurements —1 Sin. deep, 23in. across and
1 4in. high. Will cook anything. Easy to use
and economical to operate. Ideal for country
use, holiday homes, caravans, boats and
general use. Better than an Electric Stove.
£45 EACH
F.O.R. BRISBANE
s
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES
Bowen Street, Brisbane. ______
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
E , r, knox hm OBWELI PHIU ' IPS
Fire, Marine and Accident instances of every_Descr.pl.on.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
r Dividends —\
Pref.
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. n Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 746,672 50,544* 65 p.c.= 627,770 575,480
Added insurance reserve, £25,884 .. 601,314
1937. 1,005,773 33,696 81.2 p.c.= 784,200 f 789,191
Added insurance reserve, £24,537 .. 813,728
1938.. 850,976 33,696 80 p.e.=1,400,000 231,008
From depreciation reserve, £300,000.. 531,0Q8
1939.. 703,650 33,696 45 p.c.= 787,500 413,462
1940.. 451,190 33,686 22.8 „ „ 398,875 432,171
1941.. 255,241 33,696 12.7 „ „ 221,545 432,171
From tax reserve, £94,000 .. .. 526,171
1942.. 276,297 33,696 18.3 p.e.= 319,753 449,019
1943. . 300,331 33,696 8.8 „ „ 153,667 561,972
From tax & inv’ry reserves, £295,381.. 857,853
1944.. 274,450 38,696 10 p.c.= 175,000 923,107
From inventory reserve, £203,910 .. 1,127,017
Loss.
3945.. 68,528 33,696 Nil 1,024,793
From tax reserve, £15,849 .. .. 1,040,642
1946.. 437,529 33,696 Nil 569,417
* Includes arrears,
t Paid by issue of 784,200 f.-p. £1 shares.
Last two lines of the table are no guide
as to what lies ahead of this big and
efficient motor-assembly, body-building
and distributing organisation. Recon-
version and other transition difficulties
have caused the co. to “run into the
red” for the second yfcar in succession.
During the war motor-vehicle and acces-
sories sales were practically confined to
the services, and the co. switched to pro-
duction of guns, aircraft, engines, muni-
tions, etc., at a capital cfcst of over a
million pounds. With the shooting out of
the way, plant had to be reconverted to
a fresh layout to meet the requirements
of a hungry civilian market by mass-
production methods. And no time has
been lost in the complex and expensive
process.
Last year the co. resumed its ordinary
activities to the extent that shortages of
labor and materials, etc., would permit.
Delay in delivery of chassis from over-
seas was the trouble early in the year.
Then supplies of local materials fell short
of requirements. Power restrictions, owing
to the coal position, proved a further
hindrance, and so did widespread indus-
trial hold-ups. Thus plant has operated
at only half capacity, or less, and pro-
duction and sales have been severely cur-
tailed. And to hold a full team of skilled
workers and staff together nearly £3 mil-
lions-worth of work foreign to the co.’s
%
usual activities was accepted at little or
no profit.' Also, the co. has been in-,
volved in a lot of heavy expense
associated with designing new models.
So, although the money value of the
year’s turnover stepped up £1,624,852,
reaching £8,311,695, the net trading result
was a loss of £437,529 as against a loss
of £68,528 for the previous term. For
the five years before that profits averaged
£311,502 compared with an average of
£796,025 for the preceding quinquennium.
Last year’s result was written after allow-
ing £186,454 (down £743) for deprecia-
tion. The prefs. received their full con-
tract rates, but the ords., held mostly
by the American parent, were passed by
again—they received an average of
28.2. p.c. for the seven years to end 1944.
Since the close of last accounts chassis
have been arriving faster than bodies
and other components can be turned out
and the lot assembled. Of 19,466 utility
chassis ordered from Britain and America,
11,114 had arrived at end May, but
only 5096 had been assembled .and were
available to the public.
Most important development is the
co.’s decision to manufacture an all-
Australian medium-sized car in the lower-
price group. This car has been designed
in U.S. and is now undergoing dura-
bility tests in Australia. Good progress
is being made toward production, but
shortages and industrial and other hold-
ups have made it impossible to give a
firm date for appearance of the car on
the market. The engine is machined and
put together at Fishermen’s Bend (Port
Melbourne), where a new building will
house about £1,200,000-worth of plant
and equipment. The bodies and some
chassis sheet-steel pressings will be
turned out at Woodville (S. Aus.), where
a big expansion programme, including
installation of pressing and welding equip-
ment, is also in hand.
Outstanding feature of balance-sheet
figures is a ,growth of £4,086,933 in
stocks: —
1989. 1942. 1945. 1946.
£ £ £ &
Paid capital 2,311,600 2,311,600 2,311,600 2,311,600
Overdraft .. 95,435
Creditors . . 1,697,650 940,424 1,022,828 4,429,593
Tax reserve 535,024 468,872 84,071
Premises .. 801,552 819,477 986,966 1,113,383
Plant . . 408,443 289,763 122,600 329,391
Stock . . 2,041,596 1,716,885 1,215,578 5,302,511
Debtors . . 284,374 795,422 868,573 683,442
Advances, „
etc. . . 1,476,651 542,244 290,475 289,612
Cash, etc.. . 224,469 131,739 975,948 244,389
To meet the stock and other outlay
£3,406,765 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, £635,170 to
the overdraft and cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £731,559. The more or less
liquid surplus (£1,455,091) was £882,655
less than at the previous balance.
„ 1 u , I.J J .
Mark Foy s, Lid.
'pref. IVI en 8 To Re- iVe-
Feb., Profit. 6P.C. series, serves.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 e p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
SS
loss.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16,374 6 „ 32.422 i 3 209 160*116
Net addition tax Reserve, £30,000.. 190,116
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201.323
Net addition tax reserve, £26,084 .. 227,407
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 9,039 236,446
Net addition tax reserve, £75,177 .. 311,623
1942.. 70,107 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 10,504 322,127
£i5i;262 induded . with ” editOTS ; 170,865
1943.. 62,500 16,374 *8 p.c. = '43,229* 2,897
1944.. 74,228 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 3,817 177,579
1945.. 75,931 10,374 io „ „ 54,037 5,520 183,099
1946.. 87,809 16,374 12+ „ „ 67,546 3,889 186,988
Profit sale property, £1,250.. .. 188,238
“Contingencies and depreciation re-
serve’* appears, £50,000 .. *.. 238,238
1947.. 227.16,374 12* p.c.=67,546 18,307 256,545
Although chairman W. J. Cleary warned
shareholders 12 months ago that the lift
in dividend from 10 p.c. to 12* p.c.
carried “no assurance or even implication
of permanence,” he has repeated the trick
rather easily. Turning it into a hat-trick
next year may require a little more
effort.
Period covered by the latest accounts
was a phenomenal one for retailers gener-
ally, and Mark Foy’s remained well
u 4. r .i_ / o. c 4.u +
abreast of the current. Strength of that
current may be seen in the last two lines
of the following table ; it shows the per-
centage rise in retail turnover of 22
Sydney stores, as compared with the
corresponding periods in thfe previous
vpor-1-
y ear ‘
Average for Three Months Ended
r K \
Sept. Dec. Mar. June,
1940-41.'.' +7!s +7!s +10.9 -f23!s -fil’.l
194211;; + iS:S -IS:} till -I;} - + iS;S
1943- —19.3 —1.6 +l.3* —l.B —5.7
1944- +6.6 +7.4 4-4.8 +3.2 +5.4
1945- + 22.5 +30.8 +37.2 +35.3 +31.6
1946- +34.6 +25.0
The weakening tendency indicated by
the last entry has since become more
pronounced. For the single month of
Februaiy last the increase was 11.9 p.c
on February, 1946, and for March 15.7
p.c. Sales are continuing to break all
previous records, but the tide is losing
impetus. For a few lines it has actually
begun to recede ; such are millinery and
footwear, and in the case of men’s foot-
wear particularly the sluggishness can-
not be explained by lack of supplies.
Mark Foy’s don’t publish their turn-
over figures, but last year’s gross profit
rose by 20 p.c. to £694,999, apart from an
enigmatic appearance of £5000) as re-
serve for contingencies and deprecia-
tion.” Notwithstanding this new reserve,
depreciation had been struck off the value
of fixed assets in the usual way, the
amount being slightly less at £29,679.
General expenses rose by £102,765,
leaving net profit £14,418 better than 1946
at £102,227. After paying pref. dividends,
it represented 15.9 p.c. ord. capital,
gToYbacktolSo’ ’ ’
Most notable movement in balance-
sheet figures has been the growth in
stocks (by £170,282) at the expense or
cash holdings (down £146,965), indi-
cative of the improved supply position :
Paid capital.. £813,269 £813,269 £813,269»£ 818,269
Liabilities* .. 432,740 515,617 479,709 449,348
Property . . 728,044 ’ 723,970 775,311 754,269
plant, etc. .. 9i,67s 5,748
Stocks .. 456,462 600,287 462,358 632,640
Book debts . . 105,223 91,941 66,192 103,863
Ca.h, etc. . in is,BTC ,2 ’ 10s
Liquid assets as a whole exceed liabilities
by £359,260, which is £91,348 more than
in 1946.
For n&xt yfear the wages bill may be
higher, since the effect of recent increases
be Mt over the whole period—with
possible additions. However, turnover
remain hig h compared with
normal standards, and the board has
added much strength to the financial
structure. It is worth noting that in
193 9 expenses amounted to 83.4 p.c. of
F cnbcpnnpnt
gross profits, and despite subsequent
ricinpr costs and pricC-COntrOlS the figure
f , f f oo nc C 0
for 1947 had Only FISCI! t • P* * -
f ar the co .’s satellite building across the
way in Elizabeth-street has not been re-
opened.
r rvrirf of
From an absurd pegged price o
28s. 6d. last December, the ord. shares
, advnnrpd to 52s 6d at which yield
UaV6 adVanCCO IO pu ; , di wiiivu yit-
-4.8 piC. OH last dIV. basis, OF 3.0 p.C. OH
a JQ p c rfiv. The 6 p.C. CUm. prefs. are
iced at 27s yielding 4.4 p.c. Net tan-
backing’is £4 Is. lid. for each pref.
f n d3is 4d for the ords.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net to
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
ig37 32,389 10 p.c. = 25,000 7,389 315,269
iqss’l se’osi 10 „ „ .37, ’500
costinew share issue l bitten off, £1337.. 312.486
Cost new branches w/o, £2200 (. 307,948
1939 .. 27,662 7* p.c. = 30,000 f 007 943
share premiums, £20,000 .. •• ||F l9B
px*= e 37,333 5,963 332,101
1941... 37,736 6| „ „ |7,708 JJB || 7 * a gg
Jggv ”1 8,126 f* 142 327,20 s
’Written o« goodwill,
29,496 4* p.c. =28,125 7 171 32 7,379
Written off goodwill, £1,200 )
1945.. 28,183 4£ p.c. = 28,125 68
1946.. 28,452 4*.„ ~28,125 7 2 7 327,464
= 37,500 270 327,734
Last term’s figures tell a straightforward
Story of improvement Which should con-
tinue without interruption ror some rime
. line of business is wool-
YCt. Main UJIC ui
broking, but the co. also acts as stocic
age nt, station agent and pastoral finan-
c|eri operating throughout Victoria and
tbe Riverina district of N.S.W.
Business in a ll departments increased
g . f stock were high and
“ sI J a^ecord whi i st land-selUng was
turnover a it-cui ,
ver Y ac hve.
As for wool, supplies improved witii
better seasonal conditions and the co.
sold 14,972 bales more than in the
previous season. More remarkable were
tbe i ncrea sed prices obtained for these
supplies T h e maximum price of 15.4 d.
"und, formerly obtained under the
appraisement system, was im-
oimtintK re-
mediately left beh . AVpr , AOe . nr i C e
sumed last September , averag p
realised so far for the season has been
24.2 d.
Younghusband’s gross profits reflected
the improved price position, but expenses
j- P g P fully in proportion. In the follow-
. table pro fit and expense figures refer
to “ mbiMd activit . ies o£ the C °> " 0t
to wool-broking.
Wo ° l al s e ° g w ' St. Exes.,etc. rfGro^.
1941 _ m,2Bi £199,778 £162,042 si.i p.c.
1942 .. 103,’913 i 96,407 173,345 88.2 „
S:??l S ”
.. 1 «M66 219,894 189,211 86.2,,
*' g2’m 279’579 238*809 85.3 „
1947 *'
Net nrofit improved by £9318, after tax
"y ,
provision Was Stepped Up by
£19,000) and staff fund allotment by £5OO
(to £3000); depreciation, at £3185, was


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys,
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.
Collins
Austra-
—Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
OSUIJJVAv
. v rretro,
K MB'S!" V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
j- ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'll Jump oof
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn't
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcon*
Stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 31- & 1/3.
CHARTS
Circular Charts Jot aU typos at
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Got our quotation.
df
,OU{CM STREET
PTV. LTD,
BRISBANE. 010.
<4//
\\
m
*
“Our knowledge is tke amassed tkougKt and experience of
innumerable minds.”/—Emerson.
A salient definition of knowledge in
principle, and especially true of tire
particular knowledge resulting from
our seventy-five years’ experience in
tke design and development of steam
generating equipment.
Tire fiistqry of Babcock & Wilcox
is largely tbe story of tbe successive
generations of engineers, metal-
lurgists, chemists and research
workers in Babcock factories and
laboratories throughout the world
whose co-ordinated efforts have pro-
duced the modern high temperature
and pressure boiler and established
the leadership of Babcock & Wilcox
in the field of thermal engineering.
Steam users in Australia may reap
the benefit of tbe synthesised know-
ledge of these " innumerable minds”
by seeking the freely-rendered advice
of Babcock engineers in every State
on all matters relating to steam in
industry.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS-INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in ail States.
★ i#r it
Looking to 10-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to pul to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . ,
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our World standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
d
Erected 200 B.C. to provide pro-
tection against nomadic Tartars,
The Great Wall of China extends
from■ the Gulf of Liao-Tong for a
distance of 1400 miles.
m
m
M
uw|
OF PROTECTION . .
For walling and roofing pur-
poses Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron
provides many years of service-
able life under all conditions.
Steel-strong and permanent . . .
fire-proof and safe ... it is the
ideal form of building sheet for
farm and factory. Available in 8
x 3" and 10 x 3" corrugations
and standard lengths to 12'.
fd
f
LYSnCHTS
l\ < 33 vv
r w
i iff 1 '
■
*
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Lid. srdn * y
• Brisbane
Perth ■'
U5O-5494
£612 less than for 1946. Over the past
five years, net profits have averaged only
3.2 p.c. of shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined): a very reason-
able charge for the service the co. pro-
vides to clients.
At close of accounts on March 31,
there was a carryover of 10,950 bales
as against 2534 bales in the previous year.
The balance-sheet shows a decrease of
£101,837 in advances to clients, etc., and
a corresponding decrease in total lia-
bilities by £98,481. Fixed assets rose by
£8826, and the surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities was slightly lower at
£708,231:
1940. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital £500,000 £625,000 £625,000 £625,000
Liabilities .. 693,451 138,010 '492,710 389,229
Tax reserve 14,295 22,000 14,000 19,000
plant 8 a ? d 212,855 249,324 260,552 269,378
Merchandise 6,555 10,436 16,492 18,042
Advances,
etc. . . 1,331,433 826,805 1 oaq okk i nos 418
Invests., etc. 9,005 34,535 J I’2(y 1 ’ 2(y0 > 255 1.098,418
Investors are optimistic regarding
Younghusband’s prospects, and value the
£1 shares at 315., yielding 3.9 p.c. on
last div. Net tangible backing is 30s, Bd.,
assuming that the somewhat ambiguous
balance-sheet item “Bills receivable, cur-
rent accounts and all other assets” in-
cludes no intangibles. It apparently did
include some goodwill until 1946.
Austral Malay Tin, Ltd.
There has been a marked change in
the political and industrial climate in
Malaya which has already expressed it-
self in increased costs, strikes and other
labor troubles. Meanwhile, the big
dredging cos. have made a preliminary
survey of their position, and some of thfc
dredges have set in again, while others
await re-equipment and reconditioning
in varying degree before they again
start earning. Hampering factors are
delays in delivery of plant and equipment,
inadequate supply of power —owing partly
to shortage of coal and partly to lack
of maintenance of power stations by the
Japs—high cost of labor and materials,
food shortage, strikes and lawlessness.
Having assessed the approximate cost
of rehabilitation, members of the pros-
perous Austral Malay group, operating
in Malaya, Burma and Siam, propose to
return part of their capital. That they
are able to do this without unduly de-
pleting working capital is obvious from
the following table. Since publication of
these figures, some of the cash holdings
have been spent on rehabilitation:
Paid Capital To Be Returned Cash
f f a—; N a.nd Govt.
Per Securities
Share.t Amt. Share. Amt. Held.
Kampong
Kamuntdng .. 5/-£35,000 4/- £28,000 £71,608
Thabawleik .. 20/- 160,000 10/- 80,000 251,702
Pungah .. 20/- 430,000 234,700
Austral Amal... 5/- 386,000 —•— 192,722
Austral Malay 20/- 100,000 31,450
f Face value.
When the position in respect of the
Pungah and Austral Amalgamated
properties becomes clearer, these two cos.
and the parent will decide how much of
their capital is to be returned.
Austral Malay’s total holdings in
associated cos., at end June, 1945, to-
gether with their dredging capabilities,
were as follows:
Dredges
Capital , A - \
Held by Monthly
Parent. No. Capacity.
Kampong Kamunting . . £2,000 1 120,000 c.y.
Thabawleik ~ .. 41,000 1 160,000 c.y.
Pungah . . . . . . 74,465 2 430,000 c.y.
Austral Amalgamated . . 281,860 2 500,000 c.y.
Austral N.Z. Mining .. 41,250* 1 300,000 c.y.
* Includes 35,000 1/- deferxeds.
Last term some of the holdings were
sold, reducing their aggregate book value
in the parent’s accounts to £122,662
(down £32,507). The money was used
to liquidate a guaranteed overdraft of
Austral N.Z. Mining. In 1941 the parent
paid Is. 6d. per 20s. share. Present market
price of the scrip is 595., or thereabouts.
Kampong Kamunting’s dredge, the
only one in Kedah (Malaya), began pro-
duction again in December last, but
shortages of firewood and labor have
impaired operations. The position is im-
proving. In 1940 co. treated 1,530,000 c.y.
of 0.561 b. dirt for a profit of £35,099,
and paid 2s. 4|d. a share. Tin was then
around £5256 a ton. There is about two
years’ work measured up, and the co.
has applied for additional ground near
by. Scrip recently sold at 18s. 6d.
Thabawleik’s dredge in Lower Burma
has been repaired and was undergoing
a trial run at the end of April. Here some
5,500,Q00 c.y., averaging nearly a pound
t. 0., await treatment. Digging, however,
will be on upward sloping ground, which
means that costs are likely to be high.
In 1940 the co. netted £50,822 from 0.661 b.
ground and paid 3s. 3d. a share. Sellers
now ask 595. 6d. for the scrip.
Of Pungah’s two machines in West
Siam, each of approximately 250,000-c.y.-
a-month capacity. No. 2 is not reckoned
worth rehabilitating, owing to damage
following immersion in salt-water. No. 1
handled about 5,153,000 c.y. on enemy
account. There is still over 18,000,000
c.y., averaging about 0.871 b., awaiting
treatment. In 1940 the co. netted
£217,243, and paid ss. a sharfe from treat-
ment of average-grade ground. The scrip
now fetches 275. in the market.
Austral Amalgamated has three
separate properties in Malaya. The Asam
Kumbang sector no longer amounts to
much, but plans for working remaining
ore reserves by gravel pumps are well
advanced. The 240,000-c.y. dredge will
have to be written off. Ulu Yam’s
150,000-c.y.-a-month steam dredge, which
was undergoing a trial run a couple of
months ago, resumed work on May 1,
and the first monthly report has been
encouraging. It has over 21,000,000 c.y,,
averaging 0.601 b. t. 0., of tested ground
ahead of it. Puchong’s big 350,000-c.y.-
a-month dredge, remodelled shortly be-
fore the invasion, has been found in fair
mechanical condition but stripped of elec-
trical equipment. Reconditioning and re-
equipment have been delayed by non-
arrival of parts and lack of power. It
has a lot of work ahead, over 59,000,000
c.y., averaging 0.371 b., plus some
16,000,000 c.y. of marginal-grade ground,
profitable treatment of which will depend
upon costs and the price of tin. # The
market prices Amalgamated’s ,scrip at
9s. lOd.
It is too early yet to say at what'level
costs will settle down ; at the moment
they are about 100 p.c. above pre-war
level. The London price of tin is £5437
a ton.
Austral N.Z., another member of the
family which does not operate in Malaya,
but handles auriferous ground near
Cromwell, on the Clutha (M.L.), made a
much more encouraging showing last
year. It netted £NZ36,650, and reduced
operating costs from 5.95 d. to 4.37 d. The
market prices the f.-p. pound shares at
11s. 3d


Everybodys
snapping it now!
Young Fred at tennis Fred’s
dad at bowls . . . when there’s a
pause in the game you’ll hear them
"SNAP” a big block of Small’s Club
Chocolate for a quick pick-up.
We men like our chocolate "not
so sweet” and that’s exactly how
Small’s have made their Club
Chocolate.
Remember, the louder the "SNAP” the
better the quality of the chocolate.
Club Chocolate breaks clean with a
good, loud "SNAP” every time.
&
as
if mmz
Small
Jl
%
wm
/
A
M
m
I
* ,. i
aim
Small’s Club Chocolate might
be made ’specially for men
. . . But girls like that "NOT
SO SWEET” flavour too!
Smalls make great Chocolate
-
&
n
PIPE SMOKERS
REPAIR SERVICE
An old pipe is like an old friend. How long
have you enjoyed his quiet companionship.
The mouthpiece may be broken, or the stem
cracked, but we can replace the mouthpiece,
and, by fitting a silver mounting, remedy the
cracked stem. If you think your pipe is too far
gone to repair, give our experts the opportunity
to decide. Acting on their advice, we will
communicate with you at once and let you
know their decision.
Genuine Vulcanite Stems, straight,
bent or square, each . . . . 5/
Sterling Silver Mountings, each . . 3/6
Plus postage for return.
All pipes returned per registered mail in
7 days. N.Z. and island trade catered for.
Trade enquiries invited.
RICHARDS & HAMILTON.
2nd Floor, 756 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone; M 2056.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"CLUTTERBUCK."
There is something light, fluttery and
conventionally comic about the name
“Clutterbuck” ; and Ben Levy’s play of
that title at Sydney Minerva is light,
fluttery and comic.
But not conventionally comic. True,
the setting is the private deck of a liner
cruising around interminate tropical
parts; and again, one of the characters
is a Malayan rubber-planter and the other
a novelist, and their wives are lifelong
friends. It seems obvious that what is
to come is the usual triangle situation,
which writers such as Somerset Maugham
and Noel Coward tend to handle rather
dolorously.
Ben Levy reanimates the situation by
introducing a Mr. and Mrs. Clutterbuck,
and it is found that the novelist and the
planter had loved Mrs. Clutterbuck long
ago, and both their wives had long ago
loved Mr. Clutterbuck. Which makes an
amusing sort of quadrilateral triangle.
But it is not so much the twist to the
plot as the sparkle of the dialogue and —
in a light way—the soundess of the char-
acterisation that lifts the piece out of
the ordinary. The novelist, who writes
highbrow books which he himself doesn’t
quite understand, is drawn with a touch
of satire that makes a human being out
of him ; and Edward Howell, portraying
him with grimy irascibility, made him as
convincing as he was delightful.
If there was another performance as
wholy admirable as Howell’s it was
Jessica Noad’s as Melissa, Clutterbuck’s
wife. Miss Noad is the only comedienne
in living memory to play a glamor-girl
without waggling her hips like Mae West
and talking out of the side of her mouth.
She gave an impression of complete
naturalness ; which means, of course, that
she has genuine artistry.
Rod Douglas, playing the earnest-
minded planter, seemed a bit too earnest-
minded about it himself, as if he were
desperately determined never to slip out
of character ; which, if a fault, was an
admirable one, and his performance was
only to be criticised for the lack of a
little spontaneity. Muriel Steinbeck and
Neva Carr-Glyn played the wives capably
and John Tate, after stalking proudly in
the speechless role of Clutterbuck, made
an appropriately witty curtain-speech.
"Dream of Gerontius."
The ladies of the Melbourne Philhar-
monic in their white dresses and the
gentlemen in their boiled shirts made
their first big appearance of the season
at the Melbourne Town Hall in Elgar’s
“Dream of Gerontius” under the Heinze
direction before a house of the usual vast
proportions. Before the evening had gone
far it was seen that the enormous collec-
tion of vocalists and instrumentalists was
unusually keyed up.
Elgar’s muse was at its most profound
in this work and Newman’s tale of the
vicissitudes of the soul of the saint is
almost on a par with the music. John
Dudley’s tenor soared continuously
through the proceedings, though it
was sometimes a trifle strident. Joan
Jones’s contralto was barely equal to the
occasion—her Angel wasn’t sufficiently
angelic—but Robert Payne took his part
of the Angel of the Agony with distinc-
tion. The choralists have never sung
better.
Lorna Sydney.
The quality of Loma Sydney’s singing
had no relation to the size of the audi-
ence that attended her first recital at
Melbourne Town Hall. She repeated the
experience of Ninon Vallin and it is to
be hoped that she repeats it at the con-
clusion of her season —Melbourne woke
up to the Vallin just as it was about to
lose her.
Miss Sydney’s voice is ornate and
comprehensive with a range which
covered the delicacy of Brahms’s lieder,
the robustness of the Russians, the volup-
tuousness of the Spaniards and the
exotics of a panel of the American John
Alden Carpenter, set to poems by Rabin-
dranath Tagore. Her accompanist,
Marshall Sumner, helped to make the
affair important with an impressive ren-
dering of Cesar Franck’s Prelude Chorale
and Fugue and Chopin’s Andante
Spaniato.
Kubelik.
Beethoven’s Third Symphony (“The
Eroica”), from its military opening to
the great chords in full orchestra of the
Finale, is red-blooded meat, and Rafael
Kubelik, the young Czech conductor who
made it his main offering at his first con-
cert with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, sunk his teeth firmly and
surely into it. It was a very well-knit
performance, marked by nicely-judged
elasticity of rhythm, especially in the
vital Scherzo, and a swift gathering of
tone masses mounting to true grandeur
in the climaxes.
In Dvorak’s “Carnival,” rich in its
Slavonic colors and with wild revelry
riding it most of the way, the conductor
pushed the orchestra to the utmost of its
resources. The response by the orchestra
in turn seemed to inspire the conductor.
A better work than De Falla’s “Nights
In the Garden of Spain” could have been
chosen for Valda Aveling at the piano.
This tone-poem trilogy is not kind to the
soloist —too often the heavy Andalusian
colors run into each other, giving a
blurred effect. However, Miss Aveling
played with spirit, firmness and an appre-
ciation of the peculiarities of the modes
and cadences which are strung through-
out the work.
"Quiet Week-end."
If the filmgoer who sees this English
comedy does not actually burst his boiler
he will at least know that he has been
laughing. The producers have made use
of some old-established chemistry: Take
the contents of the white paper —in this
case an English family funny enough in
themselves. Add the blue paper, wherein
dwells a highly proper magistrate. Stir
well and take while fizzing. The audi-
ence took it, effervesced and is prob-
ably chuckling still.
At one stage in his magisterial career
the learned J.P. is rash enough to wager
that “gaffing” salmon (a practice of Eng-
lish poachers) was not a specialised job,
and that any Tom, Dick or even a magis-
trate could do it. He does it, of course,
but is very nearly caught by one of his
own guardians of the law. The old boy
is finally punished, however, when he
falls hopelessly for a pretty little widow
living in the town.
A delightful study of a family, its
neighbors and other sundry characters.
“Quiet Week-end” is well worth a visit
at Sydney Lyceum.
Reviewed Briefly.
Stage and Concert
Presenting a programme which would
test the ability of a mature artist John
Glickman, a 16-year-old violinist, made
his first appearance on the concert plat-
form at the Assembly Hall in Melbourne.
He had trouble with his strings
and, in the Cesar Franck Sonata in A
Major, he paused at the end of every
movement and, with a complete indiffer-
ence to his environment or the smiles of
his accompanist, Leo Dimant, he ground
strange sounds out of his- instrument until
he got it as he wanted it, Beethoven,
Bach, Vivaldi-Bach, Mozart and four
items arranged by Kreisler also
figured on Glickman’s programme and
he played them with the same abstract
absorption. Unlike most prodigies, he
plays in a way which is extraordinarily
good for a youth of his age.
» * » *
Enith Clarke’s forte, as demonstrated in
her Sydney Con. recital, is the graceful
classics of the early masters. Her Haydn
Sonata in E Major, Op. 1 had in it full
roundness and a fluent harmony. Jhe
lilting measure and the simple contra-
puntal ornamentation and the requisite
clarity of tone were given ample expres-
sion by Miss Clarke. The Brahms
Klavierstiicke Op. 118, comprising four
intermezzi, a ballade and a romance,
ranged from the serene to vigorous
rhythm—all were given with interpre-
tative skill. A Debussy group was not
quite so successful, though “Reflections
in the Water” had something of poetry
in it. <
»*♦ * -
Doris Fitton’s Independents had a well-
merited long run with their presentation
of Jonson’s “Volpone” at North Sydney.
It goes off after three more performances
this week to make way for Flaubert’s
“Madame Bovary,” dramatised by Betty
Roland. “Volpone” attracted some public
criticism and was recommended to the
police for censoring, but .two policemen
who drifted in to look at it were reported
as enjoying it immensely. Eric Link-
later’s description of the play in Ben
Jonson and King James is worth record-
ing:—
But as the white monotony of light is
broken by a prism, so this dull idleness
by genius was broken, and in the hot
summer-stinking jail was conceived that
superlative comedy, “The Fox.” It came
in hot brilliant color, vivid with jewels of
the Renascence, a play that danced with
the muscular vivacity of Harlequin, glitter-
ing still, and turned at last Iniquity bottom-
up for the smacking hand of a robust
comic destiny. It invaded like a peacock
the grey squalor of prison. It laughed
uproariously at human folly, and terribly
at human greed. It was salt on the tongue,
and spiced wine in the throat. Ben forgot
discomfort and confining walls, forgot too
the solemn good man who shared his cap-
tivity, and thought of Mosca gulling with
such riotous invention the rapacious suitors
for Volpone’s wealth; thought of Volpone
doctoring his lust in vain with gold and
amber, the milk of unicorns and panther’s
breath...
A splendid surpmary, and one that ap-
plies, too, to the Independents’ presen-
tation of the play. Incidentally, the
theatre celebrated its 18th birthday last
week.
* * * •
Rosaleen Norton has a curious little
collection of symbolic and fantastic paint-
ings on show at Pakies Club, Sydney.
The artist, when she has a to do so,
can draw.


No. 7 of a Series
mm
rsi.
m.
m
d
CkIJMDV ItrCMUB-
WWOUi
ffii
Neapolitan brigands on mischief bent ... or French
Postillions carrying precious mail ... in the
adventurous eighteenth century, to each, this deadly
whip pistol meant prelude to murder or the promise
of protection.
To-day, good shooting depends on the steady
' hand .. . the well-kept weapon .. . and precision
perfect ammunition ammunition hearing the
1.C.1. brand.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOU SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The notorious unreliability of winter form
was again illustrated at Randwick on Saturday,
the only remarkable thing about it being the
way punters blithely disregard the annual lesson.
Still, the chap who’d have enough sense to
give them a miss for a few weeks probably
wouldn’t be a punter in the first place.
The most remarkable win and the best finish
of the day were seen in the seven-furlongs
Nursery for colts and geldings, in which the
long-promising Royal Reward scored his first
success. Mulley had the winning mount and,
while he judged it much too finely for the
comfort of his supporters, it was nevertheless
perfect judgment. Those who bet on photo.-
finishes, a practice which should not be allowed,
punted on the assumption that the lace lay
between Cardinal Colour and Slander. The
camera said Royal Reward.
Royal Reward finished on the outside, so, of
course, there was an immediate renewal of the
moan that the camera favors the outside horse.
Coming curiously from the very sources which
demanded the introduction of the camera, this
notion seems all wrong. The majority of
photo.-finishes do go to the outside horse
for the simple reason that nine times out of
ten the outside horse is the one that is finishing
on from behind —coming with a late burst of
speed and going better than the tiring animal
that has been in front. In any case, the
unanswerable fact remains that horses on the
inside have won photo.-finishes.
The winter double of June and Winter Stakes
used once to attract a good deal of interest
and some fair horses, but the class of racing
being provided in Brisbane now seems to have
rather overshadowed the A.J.C. meeting. Worth
1000 guineas plus sweepstakes to the winner,
the June Stakes of six furlongs went to Gay
Monarch, a well-deserved win, since the
Coronation Day gelding finished third last year
and has been consistently filling places.
The New Zealand-bred Lord Luck with 31b.
overweight still carried only 6.12 and, setting
a brisk pace, led from go to a bit short of
whoa. Gay Monarch had his measure at the
distance, but Lord Luck hung on well to
finish only three-parts of a length from the
winner. The camera showed that Vermeil had
just shaded Earl Pentheus for third.
Gay Monarch was ridden by W. Cook, mak-
ing his third winner of the day. Earlier he
was successful on Profound, who downed Nell
Gwynne and Overland in the Juvenile for fillies,
and on Dark Marne, a very easy winner of the
Trial from Beau Robert and Monsoon. Promis-
ing efforts in the Juvenile were those of Over-
land and Rose Marie, the latter a Midstream
filly having her first run. In the Trial excuses
were in order for the favorite Beau Robert,
who was on the receiving end of a bit of
equine stoush at the barrier.
In the Ellesmere Handicap of 10 furlongs
Turn Again revealed a glimpse of improved
form, leading the field up until collared by
Crusader, with whom he gamely fought out
the final furlong. Crusader’s effort also was
a vast improvement on his previous * run when
he finished second last after being last nearly
all the way.
An official statement should be issued on the
correct pronounciation of Raceme, the moniker
borne by the Harinero filly who downed Legato
and Scorn in the St. Aubin’s Handicap for
three-year-old fillies. Bookies displayed a dis-
tressing divergence of opinion on the matter,
their efforts ranging from Ray-seem to
R’k-aimee and the optimistic Race-me. How-
beit, she won well at 12 to 1 with G. Podmore
aboard.
The day concluded with a final volley of
abuse at the camera when it gave its decision
in the Exeter Handicap to Parfait, who finished
very fast on the outside to just head Mael-
strom, the leader from the furlong mark.
Verbage was third. Parfait, owned in part-
nership by two bookmakers, was 20 to 1;
Maelstrom equal favorite at 5 to 2.
* * * *
Prominent among hordes of “system” punters
are those who fancy doubling up on favorites.
For the benefit of any thinking of trying this
system, it might be recorded that any who
did try it over the last two Saturdays in Mel-
bourne, starting with a quid stake, would now
be somewhere over four thousand quid light,
12 successive favorites having been beaten.
Shortest-priced winner at Flemington on
Saturday was old Walladale (C. Morley) at
sixes, who thoroughly earned his victory in
the Hopetoun Steeple. For a steeple it was a
most thrilling finish, with Walladale and
Satellite taking the last fence together and
racing neck and neck over the remaining three
furlongs. • Satellite caused interference in the
straight, but there was still nothing between
them at the finish, where the judge had to call
on the camera. Consistent old Tente was a
laboring third, conceding the other pair around
two stone apiece.
Connections of the John ( James gelding
Lugano, in his day a w.f.a. winner, must be
kicking themselves for having prematurely
scratched him from the Grand National Hurdle,
in which he had 9.11. Having his first run
over the jumps he won the York Hurdle very
comfortably with 10.9, downing Repeater (9.9)
and favorite Reynard (10.7). Reynard set the
pace and with six furlongs to go had a lead
which seemed to spell certain success, but he
tired rapidly. Lugano (R. Hall) at that stage
was pretty well half a furlong behind the leader,
but finished far too well for any of them, which
"Autograph, Mr. Jones?”
says very little for the National prospects of
the others.
Altogether the manner" in which quite a
string of flat racers have recently had imme-
diate success when turned to jumping, doesn’t
say a great deal for the general standard of
jumpers at present. Nor has the handicapper
expressed a particularly high opinion of anything
in issuing his weights for the National double.
In the Hurdle Hiatus has been given a top-
weight of 11.8 and in the Steeple, Tente, 11.12.
With a few weeks to go yet, a pair which seem
well in on current form are Latani with 10.1
in the Hurdle and Satellite with 9.11 for the
Steeple.
Having learned their lesson the hard way,
punters forsook Rhythm Queen in the Royal
Handicap, turning instead to her relative, Gay
Queen. Rhythm Queen did much the better
of the pair, but again showed that she lacks
any finishing sting, the 25-to-l chance
Dureisani coming on the scene to down her
by three-parts of a length. Surprisingly, the
camera was called on to decide all the placings,
Busybody being awarded third.
Beau John, who had won at his previous
two starts, in each case after the favorite for
the race had fallen, was himself favorite for
the Two-year-old Rothsay Handicap, and duly
came a thud, or at least those who backed
him did. He ran an excellent race, leading
for the first few furlongs, conceding the lead
for a while to Henry the Fifth and then taking
charge again into the straight. All over a
winner until the Hellespont colt New England
tackled him near the distance and went on to
quite a comfortable win. Dumfries, one of the
favorites who had fallen in Beau John’s pre-
vious wins, was third.
The Sandringham Handicap over a mile and
five became a very open betting race, with
Arduli and Ellipsis equally fancied at> fours.
They finished third and fourth respectively,
after Drama had come home strongly to pip
Nepal. The promising jumper Latani, inci-
dentally, partook of a little exercise by running
round with them.
Neither Bronx nor Night Fighter, equal
favorites for the Buckingham Handicap, ever
particularly raised backers’ hopes, Bronx doing
the better to finish a moderate fifth. Punters
were noted looking round for their crossbows
after William Tell, at 33 to 1, had won the
event from Gallant Gentleman and Gayness.
*'* * *
. Before the June Stakes at Eagle Farm, Bris-
bane, connections of runners were told by the
stewards that their starters would be under
close observation. They go in for pre-race
“warnings” more in Queensland than in the
southern States, but it could be called justified
in this case with sundry Doomben hopes
engaged, among them Attley, who, against a
bunch of comparative third-raters, was at the
incredible odds of 8 to 1, with four of the
others preferred to him. Lumping 10.4, the
Melbourne champion downed Highstrung (7.8)
and Tea Cake (8.4).
* * * *
Conditions for the B.A.T.C.’s Doomben Ten
Thousand and Doomben Cup (£5000) contain
a penalty clause which seems completely un-
worthy of such rich events, in providing for a
penalty of up to 141 b. for winners of races
worth £4OO or more to the winner. The £4OO
figure is much too low, seriously restricting the
opportunities for trainers to give their charges
necessary race experience prior to the big events
and being in effect a sheer invitation to dis-
honest running. It also had the curious
effect of forcing the Ipswich Amateur Turf
Club to reduce its prizemoney in an attempt
to attract the better class gallopers to its June
meeting. The club had intended to stage a
£lOOO sprint and a middle distance cup event
of £750, Instead, both were made £6OO events
with the minor placemoney arranged so as to
net the winners £399.
* * * *
The All Blacks decisively avenged their
defeat by N.S.W., winning the first Test
in Brisbane, 13-5. Australian forwards
played solidly, particularly Cornforth and
Keller, but the backs lacked dash. The
AH Blacks tackled hard, backed up well,
and had the game in hand from the
start. Bastes, Australia’s main hope in
attack, had few chances. All Blacks full-
back Scott again was outstanding.
• • «
In Sydney R.U. Randwick beat Uni-
versity, 12-6; a poor game. St. George
beat Drummoyne, 23-13. Gordon beat
Eastwood, 23-14; • Manly beat Wests,
22-9 and Easts beat Norths, 18-3.
South Africa clinched the last of the
Soccer Tests by beating Australia 2-1 at
Sydney Showground. Play was rugged,
not to say darned rough. Anyway, the
visit has given the game a great boost.
* * * *
Footscray and followers journeyed
happily to Geelong on Saturday—and
got the shock of their lives. So, for that
matter, did Geelong and followers. In-
accurate booting by ’Scray had something
to do with it, but Geelong, showing its
best form since this season’s hostilities
started, was speedier and had it in the bag
after an overwhelming second quarter,
winning 16.7-11.20. At Richmond 35,000,
for the most part mournfully, watched
Essendon wipe the turf with the Tigers’
pelts, 18*. 17-7.14. Fitzroy walloped
Hawthorn, 16.15-8.14, and Melbourne
downed North Melbourne, 11.15-9.6.
* * * *
S’Africans v, England:
In the first Test at Nottingham the S’Africans,
with first use of the wicket, piled up 533, Mel-
ville (189) and Nourse (149) putting on 319
for the third wicket. Melville’s 189 bettered
H. Taylor’s 176 made at Johannesburg in
1922-23; and the total wiped out the S’African’s
records of 530 at Durban in 1938-39, and 492
(the best in England) in 1929.
England, playing seven of the Test team lately
in Australia, fell for 208 (Compton 65 and
Edrich 57), but in the follow-on made a grand
recovery—ssl; Compton 163.
With 2} hours left to get 227, S’Africa put
166 on the board for one wicket. Drawn game.
Melville (104 not out in the second innings)
is the first S’African to get a century in each
innings in a Test series. In four days 1458
runs were scored for 31 wickets, av. 47.03—a
taste of dinkum cricket.
* * * *
The Imperial Cricket Conference in
London cleared up a cloudy point
with a definite ruling that henceforth
“first-class cricket matches are those of
three or more days’ duration between
teams of first-class players, and the gov-
erning body in each country will decide
on the status of teams.”
* * * *
The £lOOO golf tournament at Liver-
pool (Eng.) resolved into a duel between
Von Nida and Henry Cotton. In the
first round Cotton equalled the course
record with a 66 ; Von Nida took 67, but
repeated the dose in the second round,
whereas Cotton took 72. With a 69 in
the final round, against Von Nida’s 73,
Cotton made it a tie.
* * * *
Bobby Locke, the S’African golf star,
is reckoned to have been making an
average of $21.50 a shot playing in
America. His game has averaged just
under 70 strokes per round. The like-
able S’African came to light as an
amateur when he won his country’s Open
in 1938, and he’s won every Open there
since. The Yanks call him “Putting
Pete” ; Fritz may have had another name
for him when he was flying with the
S.A.A.F, in the late war.
* * * *
Ted Sprouster (8.12 H was too speedy
for Danny Simmons (9.0) in their scrap
for the N.S.W. featherweight champion-
ship at Leichhardt, Simmons, rattled
early by a left hook to thediead, couldn’t
hit the shifty Sprouster, and lost many
rounds on misses alone. Sprouster very
easily on points.
* * * *
Billy Fletcher (9.12 i) and Alf Sands
(10.2*) unsuccessfully did their darnedest
to knock each other cold at Melbourne
Stadium, and when they’d finished the
crowd did its darnedest to knock ’em both
cold with coin of the realm. A grand
fight, with Sands depending on right
swings to floor Fletcher, and the latter
relying mainly on lefts to floor Sands.
In the end the lefts had it on points.


a iuj ita m
am I ana
am tana
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Avoid the Pitfalls
of Home-Made Wills
A Husband Can Unwittingly Void
a Gift to His Wife
WHATEVER your wishes you should have
them clearly expressed in your Will
drawn by a Solicitor. There are many pitfalls
for the inexperienced which can defeat their
wishes.
For example:—
By witnessing a Will a husband would auto-
matically void any gift thereunder to his wife
—thus a Testator should not permit a son-in-
law to witness his Will even though he be not
a beneficiary thereunder. By so doing he would
automatically void a gift to his (the son’s) wife.
Be guided by a Solicitor in the drawing of your
Will and consider carefully the choice of your
Executor upon whose trustworthiness and ability
your beneficiaries will be entirely dependent.
If you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor and Trustee you will
be ensuring that the terms of your Will shall he
faithfully carried out, and you will be ensuring
to your dependents a courteous and sympathetic
service.
Call or write for a copy of the Company’s
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It de-
scribes the Company’s service and the charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£06.006,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING DESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative; F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative: J. F. Mcßlroy, 140 Fords Place, Orange.
V
mf-- * > » . -
; t 0.
m
mmSLmi
iMpSI
4 ; 3p
\
mm
31
t
-f
*>
,11
frusaber
M
M
T:
CLOTH
sir!
I
I
SB
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Gushings Without Oil
Our Stock Exchanges will have to in-
ure themselves to the kind of gust which
blew up last week from the neighborhood
of Hosking-place, Sydney. Oil searches
on a really large scale are about to be
undertaken throughout Australia and
New Guinea, providing obvious scope for
rumors and speculative juggling. With
so much money about, the time was never
better for a speculative booth.
Not that there appears to havfe been
any design in last week’s excitement —
when the Bull was most in the ascendant,
on Wednesday afternoon, a comparatively
small turnover of Papuan oil shares was
recorded both in Sydney and Melbourne.
Price of the ss. scrip in Oil Search, Ltd.,
had risen quickly from 7s. 2d. to 11s. be-
fore subsiding to an overnight 10s. Id.;
there was more activity on the fol-
lowing day, but thereafter it began to
lessen, and when prices sat down for the
week-end in a rather perplexed middle
position (Bs. lid.), the combined official
turnover for Sydney and Melbourne had
amounted to about 20,000 shares—little
more than one per cent, of the company’s
issued capital. Shares in Papuan Apinaipi
Petroleum, Ltd., had followed a similar
pattern of conduct as to price, turnover
being about one-third that of Oil Search.
It will be recalled that less than
two months ago a similar rumor
blew into Sydney Stock Exchange,
puffing Oil Search scrip from 7s. lOd.
to 9s. 7d. Deflation gradually set in again
when confirmation was not forthcoming.
These rumors are not, of course, in
themselves impossible: it is on the feasi-
bility of just such an oil strike that ex-
perienced international companies as well
as the Federal Government have s6en fit
to stake millions of pounds. But Mr.
Ward’s recent pronouncement on “the
undoubted oil resources of Australian
external territories, especially Papua and
New Guinea,” only means, perhaps, that
the resources are not doubted by Mr.
Ward himself at present; he is known to
have held a different opinion of New
Guinea’s value at the beginning of the
war.
Moreover, it should be frankly recog-
nised that any quickening of interest
among great overseas concerns —Anglo-
Iranian Oil Co., Standard Vacuum and
otlters —has been partly induced by an
external consideration, the serious change
in the state of world supplies. The spectre
of a world shortage has never been far
off the scenes in the oil industry. Since
1880, consumption has been practically
doubling itself every 10 years, and a
definite limit can now be seen for North
America’s supplies, which have hitherto
accounted for two-thirds of world output.
In the words *of one of the American oil
barons (the chairman of Texas Oil Co.):
“New oil added to our reserves in 1946
was the lowest in any year in the history
of the industry.” Centre of gravity for
world oil is, in fact, passing from
America to the Middle East, whose
proved reserves are now equal to
America’s and are certain to take the
lead within a few years. Americans have
become deeply impressed with the con-
sequent need for adjustment of policy and
for conserving as much 'of their own re-
serves as possible for emergency pur-
poses. The recent projects for oil pipe-
lines as long as 1000 miles across Arabian
desfcrts, the deal whereby American in-
terests have contracted to buy 30 p.c. of
Anglo-Iranian’s output, and the Truman
policy towards Balkan countries have all
given testimony to this reorientation in
“ Frankly, Were disappointed in you as a taxpayer. You should
be able to make more money"
oil. And the intensified search in Aus-
tralia is a further reaction ; there is quite
a touch of necessity about it..
Sceptics, however, still have to ex-
plain away the favorable opinions of
some capable geologists. Latest is that
of Dr. H. G. Raggatt, who has returned
from a tour of Canadian and U.S. oil
regions believing that there are Austra-
lian counterparts for some of the sedi-
mentary basins he saw, particularly in
Montana and Wyoming. It is said that
this applies not only to the tertiary rocks
of Papua and New Guinea, but to several
basins on the mainland, including the
Kimberleys and the Great Artesian in
west Queensland- Previous prospecting
in these areas, according to some, was
either not exhaustive or based on wrong
theory.
The great reckoning is about to com-
mence: Vacuum Oil Co., for instance,
has set aside £l} million for exploration ;
Shell will spend £1 million in Queens-
land ; the Kimberleys will be tried again
by Zinc Corporation ; Australian Mining
and Smelting Co. intends to search in the
Victoria River district of Northern Terri-
tory and a group of four cos. announced
in March they would prospect 10,000
sq. miles in the Roma (Q.) vicinity.
Hopes for Roma go back as far as 1900,
following a strike of natural gas, which
is always associated with oil. One well
yielded thousands of gallons of petrol,
whilst 10 others were sunk to bedrock
without success. The four cos. now con-
cerned —Roma North Oil Co.; Aust. Oil
Development Co.; Roma Blocks Oil Co.
and Kalimna Oil Go, —regard that ex-
perience as inconclusive.
But the most promising work so far,
and accordingly the most ripe for specu-
lation, has been in Papua. The largest
.public concern, Oil Search, Ltd., is purely
a holding co., having a one-fifth interest
in A’sian Petroleum Co. Pty., Ltd. Ori-
ginally it held a one-third interest, but
was not financially able to accept its
quota of new issues. Remaining four-
fifths is held by Vacuum Oil Co. and a
subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian, called
D’Arcy Exploration Co. The operating
co. holds search rights over an area which
includes several of the anticlinal, or dome-
like, structures favored by oil-seekers. A
borehole at Kariava had descended
5000 ft. when Papua became a battlefield
in 1942 ; although no flow of oil had been
encountered, there were seepages of gas
and oil in the vicinity. Drilling machinery
having been preserved in good condition
during the war, work was resumed in
1946, and the latest report, for May 31
last, gave the bore a depth of 8468 ft.
Issue of this report, which in its published
form contained no further information,
almost exactly coincided with last week’s
fluster on ’Change.
Worth quoting are some remarks made
in New York last March by knight
William Fraser, who is chairman of
Anglo-Iranian Oil Co., and thus an in-
terested party in the Kariava bore:
The future may bring some surprises,
but it certainly looks as though two great
continental zones, Australasia and Africa,
are not possessed of large deposits in any
way comparable with those of the major
oil zones. Certain areas may make modest
contributions to the world total New
Guinea is a case in point—but I know of
no present reason for thinking they will
be sensational.
The other important Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum, Ltd., which has not
yet resumed drilling its well at Oiapu,
though its prospects would be influenced
by any developments at the Kariava bore.
Chairman W. M. Marks said at the
annual meeting last December that share-
holders could “look forward to important
activities in the co.’s affairs in the coming
year” ; the important activities have re-
mained unspecified.
Perhaps a shareholder in either co.
could reflect that these enterprises are
still in their infancy, and that, whatever
the merits of periodical bursts of optim-
ism which cannot be substantiated, it
appears that tlie future of Papuan oil will
not stand or fall by immediate results.
He may accordingly decide to stand firm
for the present and allow any gushing, in
the first place at least, to come from the
oil wells themselves.
Following in the footsteps of other tex-
tile manufacturers in Vic., Lincoln Mills
has leased a Government-owned factory
at Highett (outer Melbourne) where
worsted yarn is to be turned out to feed
hungry looms in the co.’s own and other
weaving mills. Originally constructed as
an aircraft foundry, the building was re-
leased early this year to Sheffield Corp.
of Ohio, U.S.A., which has now secured
an alternative site. Lincoln f.-p. 4s. ords.
have seldom appeared on ’Change of
recent months. Buyers offer 15s. 6d., at
which figure the return is 3.22 p.c. on the
basis of a 12} p.c. div., which is the rate
paid since 1939.
* * * *
Australian Taxation, 1945-46, gives a
lucid and complete statement of all the
direct taxes imposed by the Common-
wealth and States for the year which will
shortly be due for assessment. It is com-
piled on behalf of the Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation of N. S. Wales, by J. M. White
and W. Bgnjamin. Worked examples,
provided for the more abstruse sections,
and the rate-ta files and ready-reckoners
appended are valuable features.
Our copy from the Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion, 11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney.


Supplies now available!
Tell your Electrical Con-
tractor you want that
job done and specify
Olympic TRS.
SHBATH«**%
A Product of
OLYMPIC CABLES LIMITED
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED
CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
sh° cK - pr °?,c
SSW®S>
V A
03 \»
>- oa s> _ -f
<> S'
"h.O
©
«y
m
A
0
nm
0
SdOH rf,
& V $
v o> nvw
kl> A
M
»
fe
3IV
ij
f At
TOOTH’S
SHEAF
STOUT
Brewed by
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
SS 135.24
Catholic Life Assur’ce Office of Aus.
The first annual report of commissioner
W, C. Bamford, under the new Common-
wealth Life Assurance Act, 1945, dis-
closes a shocking state of affairs in con-
nection with' Catholic Life Assurance
Office of Australia, Ltd. This is a
small concern whose activities are con-
fined to N. S. Wales and is not to be
confused in any way with the healthy
and progressive Australasian Catholic
Assurance Co., Ltd., which operates in
most States of the Commonwealth.
An official investigation under the Act
showed that (1) the first-mentioned co.
will be unable to meet its obligations,
(2) the cost of conducting the business is
unduly high, (3) lapses are very high,
(4) the premiums charged for certain
security investment bonds are insufficient
to meet the co.’s liabilities under these
bonds, (5) the co. has failed to keep its
accounts in an efficient manner, and (6)
contrary to the provisions of the Act,
certain policyholders have not been
granted automatic paid-policies.
Exactly what is likely to be rescued
out of this mess for policyholders it is not
possible to say at the moment. But the
commissioner has intervened in their in-
terests and issued 13 very definite direc-
tives to the co. These are designed to
stop the drift toward the financial rocks
by preventing the writing of further
policy contracts, by curbing extravagant
expenditure and by preventing dissipation
of assets. Among other things, the man-
aging director’s salary (amount not
stated) is to be reduced by one-half; the
remuneration of a director is not to ex-
ceed £1 a week; no further payments are
to be made, directly or indirectly, to the
managing director by way of salary,
deferred salary, commission, deferred
commission or any other form of re-
muneration, except as already mentioned ;
no payments are to be made in respect
of policies issued by the co. to a director,
auditor or employee of the co.-; no pay-
ments are to be made, or assets sold,
mortgaged, charged or in any way dealt
in by the co. without the consent of
the commissioner or his representative.
The co. had the right to appeal to the
High Court against these directions, but
failed to do so within the prescribed
time limit of three months.
At the end of June, 1945, paid capital
was £BBO9 in 13,146 prefs. and 1657
ords. all of £1 each —6790 prefs. and
157 ords. were fully-paid and the balance
of both classes of shares was called to
ss. each. Assets totalled £9729, of which
no less than £8867 was represented by
“establishment and organisation account.”
Cash amounted to £254, investments
£219, mortgages £l6O, debtors’ balances
£69, and furniture, etc., £l6O. There are
180-odd shareholders, who reside mostly
in country towns in N. S. Wales and
Queensland.
At November 21, 1945, the directors
were Alfred McLean, Spring-street,
Sydney; A. J. Penning, Bateman’s Bay;
W. Higgins, Moss Vale.
Three Commonwealth loans, totalling
£71,110,280 and carrying interest at the rate
of 2\ p.c., 3-J p.c. and 4 p.c. will mature
at the end of this year. Market rumors
are that the Government will make a cash
and conversion offer of £100,000,000, but
the exact amount has yet to be announced
by the Treasury, Doubts as to the rate
of interest have been set at rest by the
Prime Minister’s statement that it will be
unchanged at £3 2s. 6d. p.c., and there
will be no short-term paper, which was
offered at 2 p.c. in the Third Victory
Loan. The last-mentioned issue of £25
million was oversubscribed by £4.7 mil-
lion in six days, the number of subscribers
totalling more than 70,000. The saving
in cost of debt service on the coming
conversions will amount to £805,832 ;
but the most pleasing feature is the Gov-
ernment’s decision to hold the interest
rate at 3f p.c., and so prevent further
inflation of capital values.
* * ♦ *
Following the decision to sell its assets
m Kenya, East Africa, and wind-up, Mel-
bourne - controlled Victoria Nyanza
Sugar has received advice that the plant
and property have fetched a “very satis-
factory price.” Exactly what that means
will be of considerable interest to holders
of the 300,000 f.-p. £1 shares in the co.
Late in May, when the shares were
changing hands at around 13s. 9d., direc-
tors advised holders not to sell, and sub-
sequently intimated that a return “of
not less than 255. a share is expected”
from the wind-up. Price of the scrip there-
upon jumped to 225. The directors’ esti-
mate is based on actual selling price for
the Kenya properties, plus a calculation
for Australian assets; a contract of sale
for the former is now being drafted, and
the preliminary deposit has been paid,
though actual price is not disclosed.
Balance-sheet figures for year ending
June 30, 1946, have only just been pub-
lished. A deficit of £13,160 for the yeaT
reduced carry-forward to £1215. Liquid
assets are shown as £117,351 in excess of
liabilities, and directors expect “a satis-
factory outcome” for claims made upon
the Government at Nairobi for loss sus-
tained by the co. in 1944-45.
Funds which took flight in pre-war
days and helped to put Maoriland
financially “in the cart” have been flow-
ing back. Lately the influx of capital has
been at an average rate of well over half
a million a month, and this channel has
become second only to exports as a
feeder for M.L. exchange. The money is
from far parts of the world as well as
from near-by Australia, but mainly from
Britain, India, America and the Middle
East. It helped to swell the total of “in-
terest, dividends, legacies, repatriated
capital and private debts due in New
Zealand,” listed by the Reserve Bank at
£14,459,000 for the twelvemonth ended
March as against £8,129,000 in the previ-
ous year and £5,861,000 in 1944-45. Be-
fore that the average over a period of
years was under £5,000,000, or nearly
ten millions below the present level.
M.L.’s Government still retains its tight
ban on exports of capital, imposed nearly
nine years ago, when exchange funds
shrank almost to vanishing point. Some
of the new money is seeking investment
on the stock exchanges, some is for use
by people who want to migrate and have
sent funds ahead and a good portion is
for business and industry.
* * * *
Nearly 12 years of political bludgeon-
ing have brought coal cos, in Maoriland
to the point where some at teast think
they might as well let the State take over,
and so end the struggle. First to throw
m the sponge is the Westport Coal Co.,
which operates at Denniston and Miller-
ton, in the Buller district, on the West
Coast of the South Island, and has an
interest in a Southland mine at Ohai.
Westport has had a life of years, and
for nearly 20 of them, 1913 to 1932,
capital stood at £450,000; it was then
halved by returning 10s. a share to
holders. For the last 11 years divs. have
been steady at 10 p.c., except for a drop
to 8| p.c, in 1945 ; but lately the board
has had to dip into reserves to keep
the rate up. With nationalisation in the
air, shareholders are sitting tight, because
they expect to get at least market value
(325. 6d. a share) for their scrip, though
net tangible backing (book value) is only
21s. 4d. per 10s. share.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Sam Bennet, tall andi
spare, with kindly blue eyes and quiet
voice, was a bee-farmer and therefore re-
garded by everybody else as a trifle
“toudhed.” He was never known to say
a harsh word, and used to drop into the
pub of a Saturday, shout once or twice
for the mob, be shouted for in return,
and then depart “f ride me fences,” as
he put it with his shy grin. He lived
alone on his bee-farm, sometimes loading
his hives on to an old motor-truck and
departing for parts where he “heard there
was good blossom,” there to “graze” his
bees while the flowers lasted. One year,
there being a dearth of tree blossom, he
got down into the lucerne country 100
milfcs south and “agisted” his flock on
the lucerne blossom. He returned as
quietly as he had gone, .and it was some
time before the- district discovered that
he’d acquired a plump little wife from
among the lucerne. The discovery stirred
the district for two days, then somebody
got the bright idea of tin-kettling the
happy pair, so one night a motley band
of men and youths, armed with empty
kero, tins and sticks, gathered round
Sam’s house and opened up. Just as the
row reached its crescendo Sam’s door
flew open and a shotgun roared twice
into the night. The mob fled. Next day
the Sergeant called on Sam. “Y’ can’t
go shootin’ at blokes,” he said, severely.
Sam was unrepentant. “I wouldn’t ha’
minded ’em cornin’,” he said, “but
bangin’ them tins an’ wakin’ me bees up
after a hard day’s work in the timber
wasn’t a fair go. Me bees earn their
night’s rest.” The Sergeant pondered.
“But wouldn’t the noise o’ the gun upset
’em?” he demanded. “No,” Sam replied
mildly. “They’re used t’ me shootin’ at
peewees an’ that! It ain’t the noise,
it’s crowds that upset ’em.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; “Hank o” (B.
21/5/ ’47) asks “What particular bird is
most numerous in Australia?” because he
supposes that we will never be as bird-
conscious as J. Bull. In this he does the
Commonwealth Government an injustice.
Canberra is fully alive to the importance
of this subject, and its plans for covering
it are well advanced and, if not carefully
laid, are at least comprehensive. The
whole of Australia will be combed, and
very shortly Mr. Chifley hopes to be able
to inform “Hanko” on, not only the
number, but the age, sex, social standing
and color of every galah in the Com-
monwealth.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”.: To me it has always
seemed peculiar that bush-bred possums
often prefer structures built by humans
to their native sleeping quarters. “Wippe-
gong’s” grey was no exception (B.
28/5/’47). I knew one that forsook a
safe, cosy hollow high up in a gum-tree
to spend the daylight hours brazenly
asleep on a rafter in a busy blacksmith’s
shop. In Parramatta Mental Hospital
a big doe discovered a way into the
mattress room; from then on her days
were spent on a nice comfortable mattress
in a safe position between the racks.
Whether the blessed event took place
there could not be ascertained, but a
joey became a regular dosser also, despite
the fact that a 60ft.-high pine offered soli-
tude and sanctuary less than 30ft. away.
A dancehall not 30 miles from Sydney
(I won’t say where for fear of “sports-
men”) is frequented by a pair of silver-
greys. Electricity, dancing couples, even
“hot” music do not interrupt their light-
hearted frolics along the roof-timbers.
I** * * *
“C.E.”: Don’t agree that on hearing
heavy explosions (B. 21/5/’47) most dogs
will “rush to the spot and hang around
trying to find out what’s happening.”
Occasionally, some silly tyke may do
that, but the ordinarily intelligent hound
will suspiciously sheer off, and watch the
area from a distance. Instinctively he is
afraid of something new and strange.
Many dogs are frightened of even
common sounds like thunder. One old
dog I had would crowd my feet in terror
when he heard thunder —which was
mostly before I would. Assurances and
orders were equally useless, and at sight
of a house, he’d leave my inadequate
protection and dive through the open
door to take refuge in cupboards or be-
neath beds, till forcibly extracted by the
astonished householder. In stormy
weather, my halting progress became a
chain of embarrassed apologies.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: It was somewhat aston-
ishing to read “Horseless Horseman’s”
description of the bugling °f black swans,
as they passed overhead, "honk-honk”
(B. 4/6/’47). Has he become confused
between black swans and wild geese?
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Here’s another reason for a
man signing the pledge. He fvas a team-
ster carrying Monaro wool to the sea-
board and returning with mixed goods for
business people and squatters. On the
way back he tapped a small whisky keg
many times, using the familiar brace and
bit method. He was met at Bombala by a
squatter, an amateur naturalist who had
been spending a holiday on the coast,
where he gathered many snakes, lizards,
beetles and spiders. These specimens
were preserved in cheap whisky in a
small keg which was consigned to his
Monaro home, via the teamster. That
teamster, on discovering that he had been
drinking real snake-juice, swore off for
life.
* * * ♦
“Gryllus”: Willy Wagtail is dancing
and bowing on the sunlit grass outside
my window, announcing in a throaty
little contralto that he is a sweet pretty
creature. The pair of black-backed
“Step on it, Harry — she's gaining on us!"
maggies who own this section of country
are carolling gloriously from the big
bloodwood across the road. The butcher-
birds join in with their rich organlike
melodies. A flock of magpie larks give
thanks for their pond-snail breakfast in
loud “peewee” calls. All are conspicu-
ously attired in black and white, all have
strong clear voices and use them freely,
all are pugnacious and aggressive of
habit. Yet they are amongst the most
numerous and widespread of all Aus-
tralian birds and seem to have no natural
enemies. The probable explanation lies
in their readiness for a scrap at any time
and particularly during the nesting sea-
son. Wily little Willy has fixed up an
agreement with the peewees for mutual
aid during that time of family care and
responsibility. A favorite place for the
grass and spider-web nursery is near to
their mud cup on the same tree or close
by, thus ensuring powerful aid against
any intruder.
* * * •
“Wippegong”: A snug southern pro-
perty of just under 1000 acres has lately
changed hands after being well adver-
tised in at least two States. To some it
was of interest as the one-time home of
a 100-to-l Melbourne Cup winner; to
me it was historic, for my grandfather
selected it, and when the ’93 “boom and
bust” wrecked his city business, took
his family to the bush. That was my
good fortune, for there Dad and his
brothers grew up and acquired the bush
lore which was passed on to me, with
tales which are now serving their turn
with my own boys. Later, some of the
granddad’s old town cobbers would drift
up to stay with him a while, and the
boys would thereupon demonstrate to
them the simplicity of rural amusements
by setting spring-pole traps on much-
used paths, and greasing the log by
which they crossed the swimming hole
in the creek. Native game was abun-
dant and, by the wanton slaughter of that'
era, every bed had its possum-, native
bear- or wallaby-skin rug. Came the
time when the home was considered suffi-
ciently comfortable to ask Aunt Betsy
up to stay, and up she came, complete
with shawl and mittens. On the way in
to meet her the boys shot a koala and
tossed a bag over it on the floor of the
cart; on the way back Aunt Betsy
couldn’t bide the joggin’ o’ the cart on
the rough track and without warning left
the board seat and flopped down on the
bag. The koala’s angelic expression is
probably compensation for the horrible
voice with which it is burdened; any-
way, the sudden weight on this one’s
back was sufficient to force a last ghastly
gurgle from its throat. When the boys
lifted Aunt Betsy off the stump over
which she’d landed, both ankles were
sprained and she remained resolutely in
bed until sufficiently mobile to return to
the city and safety.
-■- * #
“Lower Tops’l”: The presentation of
Willem Vlamingh’s plate to the authorities
in Canberra recalls that the place where
this historic relic lay for 121 years before
being taken to France in 1817 hasn’t
changed with the passing of the centuries.
It was at Cape Inscription on the long
finger-shaped island guarding the western
extremity of Shark Bay, that in 1696 the
plaque —it was made from a ship’s pewte-
—replaced one left on a post there 80
years before by Dirk Hartog. Today the
island’s only habitations, the homestead
of a sheep station and a pearler’s cottage,
lie at the opposite end of the desolate,
sandy island, so that Hartog’s post is more
often visited by men from the steamer
Cape Otway servicing the unattended
lighthouse near by than stockmen riding
sheep. Incidentally, the quaint sheep
station with its sea-washed boundary
fence, its stock routes along the beach at
low water, and its soaks on the beach.
winch pump stock water at high tide
only, has more of a nautical than an out-
back air. The time of the one huge
tide a day has to be watched and also
the weather, for the connecting link with
civilisation is a cutter. No dingoes,
drovers, bagmen or strange stock worry
you there ; the only callers are pearlers
and fishermen. In pre-war years the
wool used to go direct by steamer from
the bay near the homestead to London via
Singapore. The freight to London then
was cheaper than to Fremantle,
* * * *
“Marine Terrace”: If “Zake” (B.
14/5/’47) were to stroll along the banks
of the Swan anywhere adjacent to Perth
during the summer he would see dozens
of crab-fishers using much the same
apparatus as his tired hobo. Only that
even better results can be obtained by
using a net bag instead of a comsack.
The method is unsporting, since the crab,
once in the bag, doesn’t have a chance.
I prefer the more ancient method of a
•lump of bait, meat or fish on a line, the
crab, which indicates its presence by pull-
ing the line taut, being inched quietly to
the surface and then dipped up with a
hand net. Have a cobber, however, who
holds even the hand net to be unsporting ;
his method is to draw up the crab quietly
and then with a swift scoop of the right
, hand snap it just above the tail and, con-
tinuing the movement, hoist it over the
gunwale. Nice work —when a full-grown
crab may measure anything from 24in.
to 27in. from claw-tip to claw-tip.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Brisbane’s City Health
Committee has been getting all hot and
bothered in defence of a bad-tempered
little immigrant fish as a better destroyer
of mosquito larvae than any common
Aussie kind. Gambusia affinis by name,
and brought originally from the West
Indies, it was thoroughly tested out
against Australian larva-eating species
more than 30 years ago and found in-
ferior to at least four of them. The
blue-eye {Pseudomugil signifer), the green
perchlet {Priopis olivaceus), the fire-
tailed gudgeon ( Carassiops gallii) and
the spotted sunfish {Melanotcenia nigrans)
are all equally good or better at larva de-
struction and have the additional merits
of not attacking other fish or making
suicidal jumps out of tanks. All con-
form to the essential requirements of suit-
able size (2in. or less) for moving actively
in shallow weedy water, hardiness,
toughness enough to stand handling and
transport, and the ability to breed freely
in small areas of water. But, of course,
they’re mere Australians.
* * ♦
“Qwert Yuiop”: With brumbies and
dingoes over-running thousands of square
miles of grazing country. South Queens-
land pastoral interests are feeling dis-
tinctly uneasy concerning future pros-
pects. More than 10,000 brumbies have
recently been counted on one station
property alone. As consumers of pasture
each is equal to an average beast or four
average sheep. Dingoes, particularly
crossbreds from Alsatians and other big
breeds, are attaining unprecedented
numbers in many areas and even invade
the outskirts of Brisbane. Skilled doggers
and brumby-shooters are relatively few in
number and mostly already employed.
Rifles, ammunition, traps, and other gear
are expensive and in short supply. Dingo-
baiting from planes has not given the
results expected from it, and a proposal
to shoot brumbies in similar fashion has
not yet been put into practice. The most
hopeful present prospect for control of
the brumby invasion is the erection of a
£20,000 horse-abattoir near Beaudesert
by a Sydney firm. They expect to
slaughter 50 or more daily, yielding some
35001 b. of flesh for conveyance to Sydney
as food for cats and dogs. But how they
intend to get those swift and wily animals
into the slaughter-pens has not been ex-
plained.
* * * *
“Metax”: It was a big day at Bumble-
Toe Farm when the place was connected
to the public water supply. Taps ran
weakly, but no one was surprised, as the
farmhouse was up on a good rise above
the main. There was some astonishment,
however, among the elder inhabitants 40
years later when a pipe gang found that
the supply had never been turned on.
The farm had got its water all that time
from the leak past a nearly-closed cock
which had never been treated to an
inspection.
* * * *
“Bufo”: “Hanko” (B. 28/5/’47) is
badly off the track in his ideas that snake
venom does not affect cold-blooded
creatures, that snakes can’t bite, and that
they carry poison for only a short part of
the year. Fish are cold-blooded, most
sea-snakes are highly venomous, and their
chief food consists of fish killed or dis-
abled by their venom. Frogs, too, are
cold-blooded and can be killed quickly
by snake venom experimentally injected
or otherwise. Snakes can and do bite,
as “H.” can prove for himself if he is
game to pick one up by the neck to
prevent it from striking and offer it a
finger. In fact they have an elaborate
mechanisril of hinged bones to render the
bite as effective as possible in holding on
to the prey and, in poisonous species,
enabling the venom to be ejected effec-
tively from the special fangs. Experi-
ments on several Indian species have
proved that the poison glands remain
active through hibernation and that the
potency of the venom is not affected,
although there may be rather less of it.
As for being too slow to bite a goanna,
the principal food of many Australian
snakes consists of lizards, smaller and
speedier than any goanna.
* ♦ * *
“Salmon Gums”: Handouts on the
track (B. 21/5/’47)? A couple school-
teaching in a Westralian district during
the depression listened sympathetically to
the tale of an ex-boxer —he looked the
part —who, having been brought from the
east to fight a series of bouts in Perth,
had, after one failure, been dumped.
Having no friends in his new environ-
ment, he had sought work in the country.
It was a holiday week-end and the couple
had balked at the idea of going to Perth
and leaving their home to the mercy of
nomads. Most of them were honest, but
the exception was a worrying possibility.
The" earnest young pug supplied the solu-
tion, and installed in the spare room with
ample food supplies, he was left to wel-
come the next-comer —me —to whom he
extended an invitation to share his food
and vigil. When the chalkies returned
they gave us each a handout and solved
our food problems for a week. For 12
months that chap and I shared work and
unemployment, and I’ve never had a
better mate. But I’ve wondered if those
teachers would have reposed the same
confidence in him if they’d known, as I
discovered, that the week previous to
meeting them he had completed a sen-
tence for housebreaking.
THE YELLOW CART.
No sound was on the plain
. But the stealthy drip of rain
In the tall, bleached thistle : spires,
And the wind a-thrum in the wires.
The road lay washed and bare
With a look of winter-sleep.
Nothing was moving there
But a trickle of dust-brown sheep.
And then out of the sky
At the end of the road there came
A butcher’s cart that went lolloping by
Like a chariot of flame.
The wheels revolving spurned
The jagged ruts with pride,
And the butcher’s boy, his face upturned,
Sang, swaying.from side to side.
And the whole dim, desolate place
Bloomed into light and grace—
For here was the voice of very joy
Loosed on the lips of a butcher’s boy.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


“Bo”; Jimmy, the skinny well-sinker
who lived beyond the edge of the town-
ship with his large wife and larger family,
displayed fairly regular facial signs of
marital strife, but when some weeks had
elapsed with his face undamaged the mob
in the pub began to chiack him about it.
protested that he and his missus
could “git on jist as good as anyone else.”
TTien one Saturday afternoon he came
in with a magnificent multi-colored
shanty hung on his right eye. It was not
without some pride that he carried it
around, and when Wilson asked
facetiously if he’d been chopping some
wood Jimmy indignantly replied that he
hadn’t, that it was caused by a new em-
brocation he’d bought. “Don’t give us
that,” quoth Wilson. “How could rubbin’
embrocation on give y’ a stinker?” “Well,
it did,” rejoined Jimmy, “Y’ see, me
missus has had the screws in her right
arm for weeks. She could hardly lift a
cup o tea, it was that bad. She got me
to git that embrocation, an’ I bin rubbin’
her arm with it. Well, it’s better now!”
* * * *
“Naturala”; Some adult insects don’t
eat at all, while others have an appetite
surpassing anything on land or in the
sea. I watched a dragon-fly (horse-
stinger) hoeing into a swarm of gnats,
brought into activity by a brief shower
on a sultry afternoon. The “stinger”
took his meal in full flight, snapping so
quickly and unerringly that a constant
shower of discarded gauzy wings flut-
"He should be just about done now —I allow twenty minutes to
the pound!”
tered down. It must have eaten hun-
dreds. The dragon-fly is a glutton all its
life. Starting as a larva it is the terror
of pond and stream. Everything tiny,
even its own kind, is its prey. Crawling
slowly over the ooze it is like an insect
tiger ; nothing escapes that comes within
range of its teeth-armfed lower lip.
Emerging from its pond after months of
predatory life the dragon-fly bursts its
larval casing and spreads its* wings. Then
its real orgy of feasting begins. Have
seen one in captivity tested as to capacity.
Fifty house flifes went south, and still it
was like Oliver Twist. As a final test
its own long abdomen was brought under
and forward by means of forceps and
offered to the insatiable maw. Accepted
as an offering it was devoured until no
slack was left.
* * * *
“Mickey”: Where does “Blime” (B.
14/5/’47) cut out cattle that he only
uses “at least two mounts a day,” and
(horror of horrors) a stockwhip? Here,
around Springsure (Q.), anyone who uses
a stockwhip on a cattle camp would soon
get his marching orders, and the same
applies to the bloke who gallops in the
camp. Queensland cattle have a rooted
objection to remaining in the one place
while somebody careers around them.
So we ride quietly into the mob and work
our beast out, but anyone who has seen
my boss flat out down the face of the
camp after an unruly steer would doubt
“B.’s” theory that “any old mount will
do.” Three of us drafting recently used
nine horses in five hours.
* * * He
“Zake”; My Webster gives the deriva-
tion of jackeroo as “Jack plus kan-
garoo,” declining to go into any further
detail. I have heard various other ex-
planations of its origin, the two most
likely being Jack Raw, a corruption of
Johnny Raw, or new chum; and Jack
Carew, who, as one of the first of the
breed to come out from the Old Dart to
“acquaint himself with colonial life,” as
Noah puts it, gained some celebrity or
notoriety. Incidentally, the term seems
to be known also in the American West.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Flying foxes are certainly
not attractive - looking or -smelling
creatures, but they can be converted into
excellent tucker, resembling wild duck in
flavor and providing a welcome change
from the average bush-dweller menu.
Chop off the head and wings, skin the
body, clean the inside, as with a fowl,
and the smell will disappear completely.
Then soak in well-salted water for an
hour and the meat is ready for stewing,
currying, savory-making, or pies. Six
average-sized foxes will provide a good
meal for three people. They also make
extremely good soup. As for any squeam-
ishness about what they may have been
feeding on, any orchardist in flying-fox
country will tell you that they always
select the best and cleanest of fruit.
Fruits, flowers and honey form their
sole diet.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: April is a month of yawns
in the reptilian world. Preparations
for turning-in involve heavy suppers,
as well as the change into slumber
suits. They’re untidy beggars ; you find
their street clothes chucked promiscuously
about the landscape. The weathered skin
of the “sleepy” is draped against a post;
the brown snake’s form-fitter lies among
the stones near a rabbit warren; the
jewie’s cast-off clobber is strewn in
pieces along the netting. The little
red dragons of the tablelands scrape
off their overalls anyhow, but the
geckoes generally are more tidy.
You lift a rock or a log and find
beneath a tiny white suit, silken soft.
Towards the end of April Mum, Dad and
Grandpa are mostly well tucked in for
the winter, and, with the old folk out of
the way, the youngsters come out. There
are baby dragons among the north-facing
crags at the summits of the range, there
are baby geckoes and baby skinks, bright-
colored baby jew lizards and all the rest,
You’d think the little beggars knew that
the time to feed and grow was when their
cannibalistically-inclined relatives were
well out of the way.
“Good brew this , Joe — there’s BODY in it!”
“Mat’s Mate”; We blew into Sydney
on our way north just as winter hit the
city and decided to stay three or four
days. Mat didn’t like the place, but he
didn’t like cities anyhow, and I took
small notice of his grumbling. On the
second day he failed to turn up at the
pub for lunch, and when he did come in,
seemed more reconciled. “Where you
bin?” I demanded. He grinned, slightly
embarrassed. “Well,” he said, “y’ know
them warm winter days y’ get sometimes
outback? Well, y’ know how the lizards
come out on the rocks an’ logs t’ sun
themselves. I’m walkin’ down be the
post office an’ the sun comes out and
hits me on the back an’ I start thinkin’
about the lizards an’ outback an’ all that
an’ how a man ought t’ be shot f’r bein’
in the city an’ then I turns a corner an’
—strike me blue! —there’s the flamin’
lizards all out sunnin’ themselves on the
rocks.” I looked blank and he laughed.
“Yairs, all the blokes come out o’ office
an’ shops an’ stand in the sun on the
post-office steps, some eatin’ sandwiches,
some smokin’ and talkin’ an’ some
watchin’ the crowd. All in the sun, they
was, like a lot o’ flamin’ lizards. Cripes,
I thought I was home again till two
o’clock struck an’ they all rushed back
inter their holes.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “All the Asiatic
birds introduced to this country,” includ-
ing the mynahs mentioned by “Wippe-
gong” (B. 14/5/’47), don’t “stay close to
towns.” The mynah has established him-
self firmly in the Westralian wheatbelt
and appears to be thriving. I’ll warrant
many country kids dori’t recognise him
as an importation when they catch him
in their wire-netting rabbit traps, driven
there by a curiosity evidently less intelli-
gent than that of our indigenous sticky-
beak the magpie.
* * * ♦
“Goldie”: As one who’s turned down
any number of fortunes offered gratis
I’m not backward in appreciating the
generosity of old goldfield identities. The
histories of most old shows, quite a few
romantic even in their days, have grown
on them and the gold now reputed to be
left behind in large quantities is given
away liberally at every opportunity. All
that is needed to make an old mine worth
reopening is a good cave-in at the surface,
so that the investigator .can’t disprove the
evidence without putting down a tunnel
or shaft. Old chaps who’ve never done
much more than scavenge about old
dumps will persist in knowing where rich
gold' is to be had without much effort,
though probably the best strike of their
lives is the old-age pension. If there’s
not enough moral in that for the pros-
pector ready to fall for temptation it
might be worth considering how it came
about that a likely patch was left behind.
Plenty of reasons will be found, but none
is more likely than that the stuff wasn’t
worth working.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A party of Maori kauri-
gum-diggers, finding their labors un-
economic, asked the pakeha storekeeper
for a rise in the price. Grudgingly he
acceded, but when they brought the next
lot of gum he repudiated the agreement,
saying the Maoris did not understand.
The matter was discussed at the kaianga
and measures were adopted to exact
payment of the difference. One day a
Maori carelessly passed the store with an
empty sack when he knew the owner was
looking. An hour before the shop was
closed the same Maori called in at the
store and said the pig he killed was too
heavy and asked to leave it till the morn-
ing. Next morning the Maori collected
the bulging sack and cheerfully “cheeri-
oed” the storekeeper as he departed.
The storekeeper marvelled later at the
amount of missing tobacco and other
commodities. He never suspected that a
small Maori boy was concealed in the
sack, which had slits to enable him to
breathe, one extra large one permitting
him to thrust his hand through to untie
the mouth of the sack.
* * * »
“Plankton”: There is a risk of hand-
ling a cone-shell occupied by the living
mollusc. It has a long proboscis armed
with a double row of unusually long
barbed teeth, connected with a poison
duct. Recently in North Queensland a
young man died from this cause, and
another instance was recorded before the
war. The Conidae include many species,
and four are known to be dangerous.
The shell is perfectly cone-shaped, the
spire at the broad end very short, and a
straight narrow slit extending from the
widest part to the tapered extremity. The
outside is smooth, covered with a
yellowish epidermis, which conceals
the beauty of the shell beneath.
Design and color vary with the species—
black, white, brown and yellow are com-
mon ; the markings include bands,
dots, in one case a maze of fine zigzag
lines, and in another a black-and-white
mosaic effect. Particularly common in
the eastern tropic seas on coral reefs, they
are widely distributed in shallow rocky
localities in temperate climates.
* * * *
“G’roper”; The percentage of salt in
rainwater is something that has been
troubling the minds of Westralian agri-
culturists for many years past (B.
14/5/’47). Actually the salt floats in the
air in the form of infinitely fine dust,
caught up by the evaporation of spray
around the continent’s coastline. The
main factor is the dryness characteristic of
the Australian air, owing to the lack of
inland waters whose constant tribute of
evaporation would tend to keep it moist.
Which is why airborne salt is not re-
garded as much of a problem in the
moistfer lands of Europe and America.
But things could be even worse: as a
land mass Australia is singularly defi-
cient in coastline, her contours being of
the frying-pan type. Had we possessed as
much as Europe, though Europe is blank
on her eastern edge, the many extra miles
of sun-swept beaches would make air-
borne salt a real problem.
* * * *
“Horseface”: The first time I met a
king personally he was sitting outside the
store of Tinnenburra, on the Warrego,
picking up sticks with his toes to amuse
his grandson while he waited for a visit
from neighboring royalty, and telling the
youngster about the time the tribe lured
the police into the Simpson desert. He
was Maranoa Charlie, king of the Cutta-
burras, who lived on the Aboriginal Re-
serve on the Cuttaburra which ran
through Tinnenburra. He spoke in the
nearest approach to an Oxford accent
I’d heard in an abo., having been buggy
boy in his youth to an Oxonian. I eyed
the half-moon of brass suspended from
his neck, which proclaimed his royal
status, and listened. Those policemen, he
related, were after a killer from the
tribe, and sought assistance. The tribe
offered it with enthusiasm, and organised a
party which took the constables straight
out into the desert, every night finding a
waterhole that was dry and leaving them
parched. In the night the guides would
sneak off to where they knew there was
a native well, fill their bellies with good
water, and return to the camp, to lead
the police on next day to another dry
camp. According to Maranoa, who had
it from his grandfather, the police
perished in the desert to a man, and the
blacks returned home in triumph.
JUNE SATURDAY.
Five days a week I see
Late the sun rise—
Crystal or misty light,
Glinting leaves, grasses white,
And then the skies
Vanish behind cold walls
And when at last
Time breaks my prison bars
Blue dusk is pricked with stars,
The bright daylight past.
But today—happy day!—
I am set free
In, the warm gold of noon;
High steeples, chime it soon
So I may see
All through the pure, still hours
The sun dropping slow,
Washing the air with light.
Earth’s rim to angels’ height,
While its soft glow
Slants through the orange-trees,
Silvers the grey
Of bare apple-wood, till high
Bronze gums along the sky
Burn its last ray.
So clear the winter world
The veil wears thin,
Sharper the beauty grows—
Ah, beyond all earth knows,
Heaven breaks in.
Breaks on the lifted heart’s
Cloudless content
In seas of gold—l was blind
When I called fate unkind.
Here I repent.
All I have done of good
Or borne of sorrow *
Earns not a breath of this—
All this bright shower of bliss—
And Sunday tomorrow!
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.


term up *J! u »
A 6.22.17
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND, I 863)
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE WACGA, MOREE, HENTY AND HAY
_ T-
A FAMOUS
DOCTORTELLS.
i
gss
Hr
!H
m-s
df
Two books packed with practical
advice, by Dr. Charles Hill, Secre-
tary of the and one of the
world’s best-known physicians.
YOUR BODY
... .tells you how your body works and
how to keep it working WBliL.. Some
of the chapters—To the Over-Fat: Eat-
ing and Drinking: The ’Flu: Brain and
Nerves: Your Poor Old Feet, etc., etc.
YOUR ACHES AND PAINS.
about your complaints and
what you can DO about them. What
is Catarrh? What is Rheumatism?
What is Middle-aged Spread? What
are Nerves? What is Indigestion?
Two handbooks on health
that you cannot afford to
miss!
AT ALL NEWSAGENTS
AND BOOKSELLERS.
d
J
y M
.v
DESTROY THESE PESTS
CvanogaS
with
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
For Mineral Mixtures
kJairy Stock
and Licks for
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
O?tny other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32. S per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane. 712 F Adelaide. 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Dungaree”: Almost every section had
substantially increased entries. Merino
competition was very keen, except in
super-fine and fine-wool sections, where it
might have been expected that record
prices for these wools would have induced
fine-wool breeders to send more sheep.
Main feature was the overwhelming suc-
cess of W. T. Merriman’s Merryville stud,
and the veteran breeder —and consummate
showman —deserves the elation he must
feel. Apart from wins in various classes,
Merryville won three of the four grand
championships—the grand champion ram
was also medium-wool champion, the ewe
was superfine champion — all ram
and ewe championships in superfine, fine
and medium wools and all res, champs in
these sections but one: a Bundemar ram
won the medium reserve. Of the 24
championships, Merryville won 14 — a
record that will stand for a long time.
The grand champion ram is a splendid animal
with a beautiful head and sturdy constitution.
He is plain-bodied and has a fleece of out-
standing density, extra long-stapled and very
even. He isn’t as true to type as the Bundemar
ram; in fact, he is almost a borderline type-
just too strong for a finewool and not broad
enough for a typical medium. Medium wools
competition was keener than for many years;
Uardry made a welcome reappearance and
scored well; a newcomer was Kirkby Pastoral
Co., which has built up a good reputation and
did well against keen competition. The Merinos
were more of a type than ever before. Plain
bodies were the rule and overdevelopment was
right out. Heads and horns were better and in
the open classes there was practically no tail.
Strong wools were particularly good. A
huge ram from Mullengudgery beat a very nice
Uardry ram for championship. A fine lot or
ewes competed and honors were well divided.
A beautiful Rangari ewe won premier honors
but was run very closely by Bundemar —in fact,
the high standard of the entries gave the judge
a hard task to separate the tops, drawn from
Egelabra, Mungadal, Bundemar, Raby, Rangari,
Kirkby, Mullengudgery and Bullaway.
Extra-strong-wool classes were well supported
and the quality was never better. A
young Uardry ram was champion, and the
reserve came from Raby. Best ewe came
from Bundemar; Rangari scored with reserve
ewe.
The Stonehaven Cup brought out the finest
line-up for years. The margin between the
final three studs was very small but the judges
were unanimous in favor of the Bundemar
team, with Merryville second and Uardry third.
Novice classes were well supported, but there
was a tail and the general standard of the
rams could have been higher. The ewes were
very good and the Kirkby champion ewe would
have held her own in open classes. Champion
and reserve ram honors went to Wootton;
Kirkby took both ewe ribbons. In the small
graziers’ section (owners of under 3000) D. B.
Millthorpe, of Jerilderie, was on top in fine,
medium and strong classes.
The Fleeces.
“Murrawong”: In quality the entries were
excellent but as a competition it was a com-
plete flop. In this year of record wool prices
the sum total of exhibits at what may be
claimed to be the most important Merino Show
in the world was in the neighborhood of a
dozen fleeces.
A fortnight earlier the fleece section at
Dubbo show attracted nearly 150 entries, a
number frequently exceeded at country centres.
Whether the fault lies in lack of publicity or
in apathy is hard to say, but something ought
to be done about it.
The Australian Wool Board might consider
sponsoring the fleece section in future and it
would be an advantage to retain the champion
fleeces of each type for exhibition purposes.
It could make an excellent start with the fleeces
of this year’s event.
Conriedales and Polwarths.
These two were almost a Show in them-
selves. There were close on 200 Corriedale
entries, quality was excellent throughout and
the judges had a stiff task to separate the
winners. Prizes were well distributed, chief
recipients being M. Carroll and Son, W. C.
Carroll, Gundowringa, J. F. Guthrie, L. F.
Bennett and M. Phelan. M. Carroll and Sons
won champion and reserve for rams —a marvel-
lous effort in such strong company. The ewe
championship went to a newcomer, L. F.
Bennett, with a particularly fine animal, and
“ No , mister, I cant let it to anyone with children."
reserve to W, C. Carroll. There was practically
no tail.
Polwarth breeders gave the most impressive
show ever seen in Sydney. With assistance
coming from two well-known Victorian studs, it
firmly established the claims of the breed. There
was a fair amount of variation in type and
both polled and horned rams were shown. Bulk
of the ribbons went to A. J. Kendall, including
ram championship, Dowling Gumming (Vic.),
ram and ewe reserves, F. Jelbart, with champion
ewe, and J. E. Jelbart.
British Breeds.
“J.R.D.”; Entries from three States re-
sulted in the best Show for many years.
Romney Marsh classes were small and
there was a wide variation in type. The
Australian Romney is getting steadily
farther away from the English type —
lower-set and finer-woolled —while N.Z.
is also evolving a type of its own. The
Glasson sheep practically scooped the
pool, but Toonalook won the ewe cham-
pionship with a very fine animal.
Border Leicesters had some very big classes
—27 rams in one —and competition was very
keen. A b'ig proportion came from Victoria,
and as usual the visitors took a large share
of the prizes. G. Starritt and Son gained
highest points for most successful competitor.
A fair amount of variation in type was appar-
ent both in shape and covering. W. Lawrence’s
champion ram was a very fine specimen, and
so were W. A, O’Neill’s champion and re-
serve ewes.
Southdowns were in greater numbers and
appear to be emerging from their war-time
eclipse. The high standard set try the Ingle-
wood Southdowns was too much for the other
competitors, although Newbury’s sole entry won
the reserve ram championship.
Ryelands were represented by Dewang and
Patrician studs, which divided honors fairly
evenly. The ewes were much better than the
rams; some rams were not up to show
standard.
Dorset Horns were of general high quality.
The Dawkins Dorsets from S.A. won the cham-
pionships and reserves, the champion ram being
of excellent quality and a splendid handler.
Sales of British breeds were most unsatis-
factory. Buyers were apathetic and the bulk
of the offerings were passed in. There was
some competition for Starritt Borders, one ram
being sold at 200gns. and another at lOOgns.
A Wongajong ram brought 120gns. and a very
nice ewe bred by F. Gosper sold at lOOgns.
Apart from another Starritt ram at 85gns.
prices sloped sharply and stud averages were
very poor. Over 130 lots out of 200 were
passed in or withdrawn. Southdown prices
were even lower. One ram sold at 4gns. and
the breed average was lOgns. One compara-
tively good price was paid for a Dorset, 75gns.,
by a S. African buyer for a Broughton Brook
ram. Thereafter prices dropped with a thud
and only eight of the 46 sheep offered were
sold. Romney prices were worse. A S.A.
buyer paid 55gns. for a Tenandra Park ram;
the average of the remaining three sold was
sgns. Reason for the slump is hard to find.
Many complained that the sale was too early
When it started, judging was still in progress;
there was barely time to inspect the sheep.
Protecting Wheat.
“Bogan Joe”; C.S.I.R. experiments for
protection of stored wheat against pests
like the lesser grain borer C Rhizopertha
dominicd) and the long-headed flour
beetle (Latheticus oryzce ) proved that
carbon bisulphide gave a complete kill
of Rhizopertha and a satisfactory control
of others when poured on the surface of
the wheat at the rate of 16 fl. oz. per sq.
yard. However, in view of danger of
explosions and effect on health it must be
used with the utmost care.
A mixture of ethylene dichloride and
trichlorethylene (3:1) when used at 45
fl. oz. per sq. yard gives almost as good
control; it is more expensive but much
safer. Fumigation of top two feet of
the wheat is sufficient, because in the
deeper layers conditions are unsuitable
for pest development. The method was
used in conjunction with mineral dusts to
protect 3i million bushels at Murtoa
(Vic.) and enabled the wheat to be sold
without price dockage after three years’
storage.
New Concrete on Old.
“Girrawheen”; It is very often necessary
to place new concrete on old, such as the
raising of a wall on a silo or tank. This
type of work is called bonding, and if not
carefully done the joint will not be
watertight. First lightly scar the old
work with a chisel and then flush several
times with water to remove all dust and
chips. A layer of mortar comprising one
part cement to two parts of sharp sand
should be applied to the old work, making
the layer of mortar 4-in. thick. This
will form a bed for stones, etc., in the
new concrete. Without this layer of mor-
tar the rubble will rest on the old wall
with nothing to bind it and a leaky joint
will result. This same binding process
should be followed when it is impossible
to complete a wall in one day.
Grasses Not Enough.
“Sarina”: Whoever plumps for per-
ennial grasses alone, rather than grasses
in combination with trees (B. 14/5/’47),
forgets that even the best of grasses
wither in drought and heat. The danger
on wide, treeless stretches is that an
accidental fire will burn all the grass and
leave a dry powdery topsoil, and before
rain falls the topsoil and grass-roots may
be blown away. Strong winds won’t
cause as much soil injury on timbered
country as On treeless land, for trees
break the wind and prevent it from strik-
ing the surface directly.
Droughts, fires, poor soils and over-
stocking of pastures that work so destruc-
tively against grasses are much less hard
on trees. Trees survive when the grasses
on the same country have been destroyed
by one or other of these causes, and
at such times they form a second and
last line of land defence against erosion.
Nobody objects to judicious thinning
out of natural trees when their growth is
thick enough to interfere with that of
grasses under them, but the wholesale
destruction of timber on grazing land can
only lead to disaster, as it has done on
so much of what, a half-century ago, was
splendid grazing land.
Lard for Impaction.
“Peter S.”: One of the easiest and
surest ways of getting a cow with impac-
tion back on its cud is to dose it with lard,
half-pound for a start. Cut the lard in
two and shape with the fingers into rough
balls; place a ball on top of the cow’s
tongue or in the side near the cheek.
She must be allowed to swallow the lard
itself, but care must be taken that the
mouth is held shut for a few minutes or
she’ll spit it out.
When the ball has been swallowed,
give the second one. In most cases, after
24 hours, the bowels have been cleared


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0.. Sydney.
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
SUPERFINE
worth the little extra
CHEFS EVERYWHERE USE LEA PERRINS
jAsk Ijcwfc jtoM,
fd
IP D
Q
V
k
1
i
m
mi
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
t MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
☆ Abreks trousers & sovereign hats
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
out and the' cow is eating as contentedly
as ever. However, some cases are worse
than others and a second dose of |lb. may
be needed to clear up the trouble. We’ve
used this cure with success for many
years and consider it superior to drench-
ing.
Hints for the Farm.
“Prof.”: Caltrop, a sprawling plant
with burrs, is becoming prevalent through-
out the settled areas of S.A. Recommen-
dations by the Department of Agricul-
ture advising spraying infested areas with
light oils, such as diesel oil, have been
effective in this s.-e. district. Spray is
applied at the rate of about 100 to 300
gallons per acre depending on the extent
of infestation. Pasture plants and lucerne
were unaffected by the spray, and it is
thought that the burrs lose their viability
when coated with oil.
“Dasher”: In the packing shed —to
save time, temper and punctured fingers
when filling the nail tins from the boxes
of case nails —we use a small hand
garden-fork; one with vertical tynes is
best, and keep it in the boxes for that
purpose,
“Big Billy”: Thirty to 40 pounds of
oat seed per acre sown in association
with 21b. of lucerne seed will give a good
pasture stand for a period of three years ;
the same quantity of oats sown with 41b.
of lucerne will provide a stand for five
years. In the lighter soils it is advisable
to sow oats on the shallow side and the
lucerne fairly deep.
“K.W.R.”: For a good French polish
crush 2oz. of shellac and loz. of gum
mastic to a fine powder, sift through
muslin and melt slowly over gentle heat,.
Add one pint of methylated spirit, then
bottle and cork. To apply the polish,
saturate a cotton-wool pad and cover
with a double thickness of linen or cotton
cloth. Rub over the surface to be polished
with a light circular motion. Speed is
essential, as the spirit in the polish
evaporates and causes it to become
sticky. A smear of raw linseed oil on the
outer face of the pad will prevent stick-
ing.
“Sarina”: If the strip of grass you’re
burning as a firebreak takes in a dividing
fence, spray the fence-posts with water
before lighting up ; even if you have cut
the thickest of the grqss from around the
posts. If you have to bring water to a
smouldering post, scrape as much as pos-
sible of the burning material off and away
from the post with a, stick before wetting.
“Bill C.”: A very good handle for
kero.-tin or 4gal. drum “buckets” is a
length of broom handle sawed so that it
will fit tight across the inside of the tin
an inch or two below the rim. A nail
is driven through the tin into each end
of the broomhandle to hold it secure. To
remove the kerosene taint from a freshly-
emptied tin, light pieces of paper and
upend the tin over them as they burn.
When all kerosene has been burned, give
the tin a good washing.
“Johnny”; Pizzle-rot in wethers can
be treated by two methods: (1) syringing
with a 5 p.c. per gallon) solution
of bluestone (any pus should be squeezed
out before syringing ; where there is an
ulcer around the outside, a little powdered
bluestone should be sprinkled); (2) slit
with a pair of shears (surgical scissors
are best) as far as the infection has
attacked the tissues. After slitting swab
with the same solution. With either
method more than one application is
nearly always necessary,
“Kande” ; Two useful ant removers are
cyanide and phenovis. Two ounces of
cyanide mixed with a gallon of water
and sprinkled on with a watering-can will
kill the ants. However, if cyanide isn’t
available, and little phenovis is left
from the last sheep dosing, sprinkling a
little over the nest will make the ants
leave though it won’t kill them.
“Kandee”: Some types of tractors
have rubber washers inside the petrol and
kerosene tank caps. Often these washers
swell and will not fit in place properly.
A good idea is to have one as a spare
as the stretched one will return to normal
size after being hung up for a day. The
spare washer will save any trouble or
delay and spares are usually hard to
obtain in a hurry.
“Moira”; To get rid of noxious growths
it is necessary to keep them free of
leaves. When blackberry and briar
bushes have been cut and burnt there will
soon be new green shoots which are
sweet and succulent. The patches should
be fenced in and some sheep enclosed.
They will nibble the shoots as they appear
until the patch is eradicated. Pigs are
useful in such areas as they will root
about the bases of the vines in their
search for sweet roots and shoots. The
land thus disturbed can be sown with
seeds of grasses, clover and lucerne, or
even with corn or millet. Goats are the
best of all for clearing out noxious weeds
as they can be tethered where needed
day by day, but, unless their milk is
needed, they are not very profitable as
stock, and may become a great nuisance.
“C.A.A.”: A Launceston furniture
'manufacturer has found a new use for
lambswool. He covered an armchair in
pastel green, using wool as a chair cover-
ing. If it takes on it may provide a new
home market for sheepskins.


f
, ?/• YOU HAD BEEN
, BRIGHT AMP SHINING
YOG WOULDN'T HAVE
BEEN TAKEN EON
A HOBO SHOE L
the drily
DOSE of .
)nuggbt\
does /r/.
NUGGET
SHOE POLISH
NP46/56
OVERPROOF '
PESO, CASSOK & CO. PTY. ETO.
EST 1848 W
Last year Goodyear tyre testing reached
the total of 22 million tyre miles a
distance equal to 880 times around the
world or 45 trips to the moon.
It is because Goodyear has far greater
resources for tyre testing and improvement
that it is always first with every outstand-
ing tyre development . . . 1906——first mass
production of tyres. 1913—multiple-ply-
cord tyres. 1917—pneumatic truck and
bus tyres. '
Year after year the cavalcade goes on.
Always giving greater mileage. Greater
comfort. Greater safety.
The most convincing proof of that is the
fact that Goodyear has remained . . ,
FOR 32 YEARS more people
have ridden on Goodyear tyres
than on any other make .
C.
0 >
m
m
i
Cm r
w
, r IM a>
0?
&
VV II
/n One Fear
times around
the World
m
mm
m
m
Some
contri
T rre I)
1917 „
Pneu mati
° US ' tyres
nation (
tru °k and
1931 P
Pneuma
Farm
World’s first choice every year for 32 years ,
GOOD
EAR
you don’t stay first unless you’re best
stumps with the trails of cigarette smoke
about them, and the dinner is spoiling
and it is hot, and she has to hide here
in the* house because of an innate inex-
plicable fear.
Bob has found a topic of conversation.
“That blue dog of mine died yesterday.”
His face is sad.
“Tick, I think,” He adds: “He was a
good dog,”
“Oh, a tick’ll knock ’em all right,” Jack
says. He is beginning to wonder how he
is ever going to get round to the subject
of ducks. It looks a little impossible from
the present angle, but he’ll have to take
the bull by the horns soon, it is getting
late.
He sits still and tries to work out an
approach.
Bob has caught the waft of cooking
from the direction of the house and it
makes him conscious of his hunger, so
much so that at last he makes an opening.
“By gee! them ducks of mine are
growing,” he says.
Jack puts his head down and comes in;
“Don’t suppose you’ve got any for sale?”
he says quickly yet with an affected air
of indifference.
“Oh, I daresay I could sell a couple,”
says Bob.
Silence. Then: “The wife said that if
1 happened to be along this way I could
call and see if you had a couple ...” A
long look at the paddock. “There’s a tew
of her relations coming up for Christ-
mas.”
They both turn this intelligence over
in their minds for a time, then Bob
starts to get to his feet. He does it very
slowly as though racked with some afflic-
tion of the joints. When at last he is
fully erect he. stares in the direction
of the duck-yard,
“Well, we’ll take a look at ’em.” With
much leg flexing they wander off in the
general direction of the ducks.
THE ducks themselves greet the
arrival of these two with much ex-
pectant quacking and crowding one upon
the other against the wire netting. They
are a fine lot; of various colors but all
plump and sleek of feather.
Now that Jack can at last see the
ducks at close quarters he feels more com-
fortable and the improvement sounds in
his voice.
“They look all right,” he praises.
Bob has his head cocked to one side
listening to a cow’s distant bellow. He
does this as though it is the strangest
sound that he has ever encountered ; as
though about this particular bellow there
is a subtle and peculiar musical quality,
requiring full and knowledgeable con-
centration.
Presently he lowers his head but lets a
little more time slip by.
“Well, take your pick.”
He pretends not to watch then as Jack
dives through the gate among the now
panic-stricken birds, and when presently
he emerges with the first two he has been
able to grasp. Bob is busy tying loose
strands of wire across u: : mportant holes
in the netting and whistling a tuneless
melody.
They wander back toward the hay shed
then. Jack with the ducks swinging, one
from each hand. At the shed Bob gets
him some cord and soon the trussed
ducks are in a bag in the back of the
car. The buyer stares in after them for
a while.
“Now what do I owe you?” he asks at
last.
“Aw, I dunno ; what do you reckon?”
And Bob also stares with inward eyes at
the ducks.
Jack affects a short laugh. “Aw, gee!
I’ve got no idea.”
Silence; and they both stare on at the
helpless birds as though they might ven-
ture an opinion. But the two trussed
birds just wave their heads from side to
side through the hole in the bag. They
are in trouble enough.
Presently a car goes along the road and
the two are able to escape for a moment
from the problem at hand.
“Jim Burton,” Bob says, looking after
the cloud of dust on the roadway.
“Looks like his Chev,” Jack agrees,
and then the car is gone and there is the
price of these ducks still to be worked out.
At last Jack has an idea. “What do
you usually get for them?” he says and
relaxes.
“Well I got six bob each for a pair
last week,” Bob says.
There, it is out now, and he too re-
laxes.
“Well, that sounds fair enough to me,”
Jack says and reaches for the money.
And then the deal is over and he is
behind the wheel again.
“Well, I’d better be going,” he says and
sits still.
Bob leans against the shed wall.
“How’s the car running?” he asks.
“Not bad ; could do with a rebore ”
Silence. Then “Well, I’d better be go-
ing ; hope it soon rains.”
“Yair, could do with a drop now.”
They linger. Presently Jack leans for-
ward and switches the ignition key on;
then he switches it off again, then on,
then off. It seems to be functioning
all right, so he tries the starter next and it
works too. Then he tries them both to-
gether and darn me if the motor doesn’t
start.
THIS seems to surprise both of them
and they listen to it with thoughtful
expressions on their faces. It’s not worth
while shutting it off again, now that it
has started of its own accord.
“Oh well, I’d better be going,” Jack
says and grates the gear lever into low.
“Sort ’em out when I get home,” he
laughs. 5J
Bob laughs too. “Oh well, so long, ’
he says. “I’d better see how the dinner s
going.”
“So long.”
“See y’ again.”
When the car had gone Bob’s wire
shows herself in the kitchen doorway.
“Come on,” she calls. “The dinners
spoiled, it’s half-past two.”
Jack Butler, speeding along the road,
curses the lateness of the hour. He knows
now that he’ll be working in the dark,


m
n
v_
//
Dear Motorist,
Just as you seal an envelope when it
contains valuables, so the Shell driver seals the
Shell pump every time he delivers petrol, and there
the seal remains until his next visit.
This guarantees satisfaction to the
public and the trade alike. Everyone prefers to buy
and sell guaranteed products.
No other company has ever given this
service, or gives it now. Introduced many years ago,
and interrupted by the war, the service has been
resumed now that Shell completely controls its
petrol once again, from the ocean tanker to the
tank of your car. Most motorists want Shell, and
the Shell pump is again their faithful servant
am f m ipi a
SHELL
54712 F
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRAL! A LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
Because the contents
are so valuable,
the container is
fS. YOU CAN BE
SURE OF SHELL
SMOKE-OH!
TO the Bestl
With the Bestl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Pocketbook, containing names, memos, no
value to anyone.” — “S. M. Herald . v
Why advertise, then?
4* 'I- 'l*
“Railmen to air grievances.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
And why not? They’ve got to let
off steam once in a while.
•P *J* ...
“Means of checking the blackmarket in tiles
will be discussed at a conference.” — “S.M.H.’ 1 '
Tile racketeers will hit the roof at this.
•I* 4*
“Australians favor six as family.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
4* 4* 4* ❖ .
“American fleas are a lazy, irresponsible,
shifty lot.” —Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
They prefer striking to irritation tactics,
•p v *l* 'S'
“The encourage class, however, is fore to
the fore in the mile.” —Sydney "Sun.”
This is more conducive to speed than
tail to the fore.
“Bag lost, brown Gladstone, containing
Waverley College.”—“S. M. Herald.”
An infant school, obviously.
•I* *l* 4*
“White frock, with net, cheap.”
—“Great Northern” {Sydney).
Guaranteed to land the catch of the
season*
On the Nose.
“Hollywood inventor hopes to make movies
which will feature realistic and appropriate
odors.”
Though some will claim it were unkind
To tease us with the sight of stars
Complete with fragrance of cigars,
And deem it torture twice refined
To use a scent of hay designed
To make the slaves of trams and cars
Beat vainly at their prison bars,
This won’t disturb my peace of mind.
In fact I’ll promise not to gripe
Unless some super newsreel hound,
Au fait with all these latest tricks.
Trots out a man behind a pipe
And poisons all the air around
With whiffs of weed and politics.
D. H. E.
Six in a quiver is, we say.
The goal, if not the fashion.
For every extra kid today
Means one more butter ration.
EVE.
Answer to a Challenge.
“There is no real reason why women should
not wear slacks or long trousers, and I defy
any man to give me one.” —“New Idea.”
Dear lady, though my common sense
Warns me ’twere wiser to refrain
From matching my inferior brain
With your profound intelligence,
May I take up without offence
This challenge, lest with smug disdain
In future years you should retain
Blind faith in male incompetence ?
Your claim, then, madam. I’ll refute.
For though a woman’s slacks are cute
And tasteful in the choice of stuffs,
And though the tailor may allot ’em
Sufficient inches for the cuffs,
They still look tight around the bottom.
BERT.
Construction Job.
“Smugglers along the Italian-Swiss frontier
are using home-made submarines.” — Cable.
“I have devised a scheme,” announced
the Baron, “Smugdruggling. I mean
drug-smuggling. This cognac is too
strong,” he Ridded testily.
“But how” I began.
“Submarines,” he said. “Where
others have succeeded, so shall we. The
St. Gothard will be our goal.”
“Pass or tunnel?” I inquired.
“Both. We can steal through at the
flood-tide. I shall design a submersible
at once.”
As the Baron’s inspiration came to him
without regard to time or place, the com-
plete set of plans occupied a large fur-
niture van. It was not the old envelopes,
the tablecloths or the chair seats that
took up the space so much as the paving-
stones from the piazza, which carried
essential details of the engineroom.
After a pleasant month spent in empty-
ing the Baron’s wine-cellars to make
room, construction began. Besides using
all of the baronial plate, the work com-
pelled us to live on tinned food in order
to provide material for the hull.
Came the day when the Baron de-
parted, in the full regalia of a Swiss rear-
admiral, for the launching ceremony,
while I went down to the blackmarket to
buy a few tons of cocaine. On my re-
turn I found him beating his head reso-
lutely against the wall, while he muttered
imprecations in an obscure Balkan dia-
lect.
“Something has happened to the sub-
mersible?” I hazarded.
“It sank,” said the Baron heavily.
PLUM.
Quite Simple.
“Relationship of all people in a dwelling to
the head of the household must be disclosed to
the census-taker on June 30.” —Official order.
I recall that I was staying with my
Uncle Hercules the last time they took
the census.
Uncle happened to be whitewashing
the pianola when the man called. My
Aunt Agapanthus came, in to announce
the interruption to his labors.
“Show him into the laundry, m’ dear,”
bellowed Uncle, who is a mild-mannered
man. •
Ever meticulous in his appearance be-
fore strangers, he wiped his hands on
”Plugged s a low swine—I've seen 'Im drink beer out of a jam-tin!”
the red chenille curtains, pulled an old
football guernsey over his overcoat and
went out and had a haircut before inter-
viewing the official.
“Now,” began the census-taker im-
portantly, “I presume you are the head
of the household and are therefore re-
quired to”
By that time Aunt Agapanthus was
questioning the presumption. An hour
later the question of family headship
was still' being hotly debated, and the
census man had gnawed four fingernails
to the quick. Eventually it was mutually
agreed that Uncle should temporarily
assume the mantle for purposes of the
census-taking,
“Now,” began the official at last, heav-
ing a sigh of relief like a N.S.W. miner
when the “no work” whistle blows. “1
want the exact relationship to you, as
head of the household, of every person
in the dwelling. How many are there?”
“Well,” said Uncle Here., “we have
got one or two relations living with us.
For a start, there’s my great-aunt Hen-
rietta, who is also my niece. You see,
she’d been married twice before, and re-
cently she married a son of my wife’s
sister, who is about forty years younger
than she. Her name was “originally
Boobe, same as mine—that is, two mar-
riages ago. She is now a Mrs. Dongs-
nabble. Then there’s ray cousin God-
win—Godwin Snabdongle; he is also my
step-uncle. My great-aunt Henrietta
is also his great-aunt. Godwin married
my step-sister Christina, which makes him
also my brother-in-law —at least he was
until he got a divorce. They’re still
living here. Now, have you got all that
down?”
“Wait a mo,” put in the census man
hastily. “You say your Aunt Hen”
“Don’t interrupt, my man!” barked
Uncle testily. “I was telling you, I think,
about my stepson, Adolphus—he’s also a
Snabdongle—he’s a son of my wife by
a former marriage and he’s married to
my niece Hibiscus. They’ve got three
children, all living here with their fami-
lies. The eldest son, Plantagenet, mar-
ried a grand-niece of great-aunt Hen-
rietta on her mother’s side. Her maiden
name was Dongsnabble. You see, my
great-aunt married her second cousin
and they both had the same surname —
have you got all that down?”
“Wait on!” The census man looked
at the official form, which by now was
looking like a pak-a-pu ticket. “Let’s
start from the beginning again. Did you
say your aunt”
“Don’t interrupt!” roared Uncle Here.
“There’s another relative, Cadwallader
Bpobe, who is a second-cousin of
Dolph Snabdongle—he’s married to a
niece of great-aunt Henrietta on her
father’s side. That makes Cadwallader,
so far as I’m able to think it out, either
my third cousin, my stepbrother or my
father-in-law —or he may be a grand-
uncle. Then there’s Plantagenet’s brother
Moses. Moses didn’t like the family
name of Snabdongle and changed it re-
cently by deed poll to Dongsnabble,
which was his wife’s maiden name —
you see, he also married his second cousin,
thus becoming not only his great-aunt
Henrietta’s step-uncle and my own great-
great-uncle, but also my cousin and my
stepbrother—l think that’s how it is. His
wife, Mignonette, who is my stepson
Dolph Snabdongle’s daughter-in-law, is
my grand-niece, my fourth cousin and,
I think, my mother-in-law. Have you
got all that down?”
By this time the census-taker had
clawed his hair to a fine tilth. His grasp
of the various branches that grew under
Uncle Herc.’s roof-tree was made no
easier by the procession of relatives who
kept coming in and asking questions and
amending Uncle’s biographical and genea-
logical data. Giving vent to a mirthless
laugh, and muttering brokenly about the
joint being less a house than a warren,
the visitor asked who great-aunt Dolph
was.
“Shut up!” replied Uncle. “I haven’t
touched yet on my great-aunt’s two
daughters by her second marriage.
They’re married to the twin sons of
Dolph’s third boy Marmaduke. I haven’t
quite worked out whether Swithin and
Peregrine—they’re the twins —are my step-
cousins, uncles twice removed or
brothers-in-law. You might”
But with a wild cry the census man
rushed out the front door and cast him-
self under a passing steamroller. And
that’s what a lot of us think the rest of
them ought to do.
BO.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are; — ~ . „
12 months .. .. ..£l4 0
6 1* «
8„ ? 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia; —
12 months .. .. •* 150
6 ~ .. .. .. 8 0
8 „ • • .• •. 0
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
f
That Red Beret
For sheer ignorance of Army tradition
I award the all-time prize to Army
Minister Chambers for his suggestion
that the walking-out uniform should in-
clude “a maroon beret similar to that
worn by the airborne forces during the
Second World War.” Why not go a
bit further? Why not suggest that the
Australian soldier’s new uniform be
prettied-up with a pair of pilot’s wings?
And why not authorise the wearing of
medal ribbon of an attractive crimson
color, similar to that of the Victoria
Cross?
Neither of those suggestions is any
more ridiculous than the move to have
our Army adopt the beret of the British
airborne forces. By sheer guts and
dauntless bravery the airborne forces
made their beret something to be feared
by their enemies. The red berets created
an on-the-spot tradition in Sicily, Nor-
mandy and at the Rhine. At the carnage
of Arnhem the airborne forces dropped,
fought and died by their thousands —in
their red berets. X met remnants of
that hacked force as captives in Germany.
Wounded, hungry, filthy and suffering
from battle-shock that was weeks old
they still wore their berets at a rakish
angle. Many of them chose to fight in
their berets instead of helmets.
I watched a visiting German General
stalk through the Stalag ignoring every-
body—until he sighted the red berets
lined up for their ration of half-cooked
turnip floating in water. Then and there
he stopped to yhrn with the airborne
boys. He had good reason to respect
them. At the time of Arnhem, when
British and German blood was running
in the gutters of the little town, I labori-
ously translated a war communique in
the “Volkischer Beobachter.” It read
tersely, “Strong forces of our crack S.S.
troops together with Panzer units have
surrounded Arnhem, and are engaged
in bloody fighting with a force of elite
British paratroops and airborne forces.”
Coming from a Berlin newspaper that
daily ranted at British bomber crews as
“babykillers” and “terrorfliers” that
meant something. In the official pub-
lication on the war record of the British
airborne forces it was circumstantially
stated that Germans were observed to
throw up their arms and surrender on
recognising the significance of the red
berets worn by their attackers.
Our own Australian airborne Army
forces did similar work on a lesser scale
in the Pacific. They, too, treasured the
red beret and the hard-won traditions for
which it stood. Yet the Army Minister
casually suggests that the red beret be
included in the new walking-out dress!
p.s. I am not an ex-airborne Army
member. I had a safer job—Bomber
Command pilot over Germany.— Squizz
(Vic.).
Defence
In renouncing compulsory training the
“Government” has poured tt the £250
million defence vote down the drain.
There is provision for permanent
forces—of the pre-1914 British type!
And consider the citizen forces. The
citizen airforce is to have 190 members;
the citizen army is going back to the
old system of 12 days’ obligatory train-
ing for volunteers. And where will the
Army Minister find 50,000 volunteers,
even for week-end soldiering?
He should know that modern warfare
demands an all-out national effort, and
glib talk of scientific warfare should not
blind us to the essential role of ground
troops. We saw the hard fight that British
and American armies (conscripts too) had
to gain their victories long after they
controlled the skies. Yet armchair
strategists before the war ruled out land
forces.
The masses of Asia and the islands
will not let us hold this empty continent
without a struggle, and there’ll be no
preparatory period of “phoney war” next
time. Yet this futile five-year defence
plan, mildly criticised by the dailies as
not quite good enough, not only dodges
conscription, but ignores splendid chances
of building a really effective defensive
system with the U.S. in the islands. Our
best defence is co-operation with Britain
and America (for example, in scientific
research) while we prepare ourselves for
an emergency by training our men.
We don’t want the last war’s mistakes
repeated again. We don’t want the volun-
teer-conscript split. We don’t want ex-
pert permanent soldiers wasting their
time training recruits when the show is
on. And we don’t want the system that
made it possible for my company, when
in action, to receive reinforcements with-
out basic training. One of my reos in
the early New Guinea scrap fluked a Jap
the first time he had ever fired a service
rifle.
From the talk of pacifists anyone
would think that Army life corrupted
youth. My experience with training
battalions in the later stages of the war
revealed a very different story. Most of
the recruits I met had never had better
meals in their fives ; in a few weeks they
developed from city-slickers into stout
Australians, and already they were learn-
ing to pull together—a part of their
education apparently neglected in normal
society. Even if we were never likely to
have another war, universal training
should be introduced for the sake of the
nation’s health and moral outlook.
Not even the best instructors in the
world can turh out any kind of a soldier,
let alone the specialist, in less than six
months. Permanent soldiers (and I was
one) consider every man should undergo
a year’s full-time training (longer for
officers) and then go on to the active re-
serve. The same principle would apply
with the other services. If we don’t de-
mand universal training now we’ll never
get it. — Footslogger (N.S.W.).
R.A.A.F., Paint Cook
It strikes me that 4000 men (B.
21/5/”47) was an enormous number to be
congregated on one Air Force station in
Australia’s most southerly city in De-
cember, 1944. At that stage of the war
the Allies had left New Guinea behind
and were pushing beyond the Philippines
with their air-strikes.
Where were our aircraft and our air-
crews?
It is on record that General Kenny
asked for R.A.A.F. crews to man the
aircraft used in his advanced operations,
but when Air Board insisted on R.A.A.F.
•"administration going along with them,
the General declined very smartly.
Fine airmen like Gal well and Gibbs,
who had distinguished themselves over-
seas under R.A.F. control, were left pot-
tering about the Halmaheras. The
futility of these operations was clearly
shown in Group-Captain Arthur’s
“balance-sheet.” The result was that six
superb airmen asked to resign their com-
missions.
This state -of affairs obtained at the
very time that Point Cook and many other
stations handy to Air Board were flourish-
ing. The tail was wagging the dog. In-
dividual acts of bravery and skill right up
to VJ Day and since should not mask the
truth that the R.A.A.F. grew into a giant
bureaucracy masquerading as an Air
Force. And nothing has been done to
change that state of affairs.
We need an efficient Air Force, but
we’ve precious little hope of getting it
until the advice of the RA.A.F.’s only
fighting commander. Air Vice-Marshal
Bostock, is heeded, and a fresh start is
made in the organisation of the R.A.A.F.
—Minto (Q.).
Hydro-electric Power
“Longford” (B. 28 /5 / ’47) solemnly
suggests shifting industries to Tasmania
instead of cabling the juice to the main-
land. A moment’s thought will prove his
idea to be ridiculous.
The chief virtue of electric power is
that it can be reticulated. Industries can-
not be piped or cabled. To shift
machinery would be a tremendous task,
but we would also have to shift markets,
raw materials, railway and tram systems,
quarries, houses and populations. “L.”
is a modern Mahomet who insists on the
mountain being moved into his own
backyard.— Pluto (S.A.).
Sawmills
I have probably forgotten more about
practical sawmilling than “Sugar” (B.
28 /5 1 ’47) is ever likely to learn. I’ve dis-
mantled, transported up to 100 miles
across country and re-erected complete
spot-mills. I’ve built my own mill, which
I operate now in a small way, and which
incorporates several little improvements
and ideas of my own. So far from being
“lost” away from a sheet of paper, I
undertake to lose “S.” at each and every
task in connection with sawmilling, from
falling and log-trucking to bench work
and saw-doctoring.
My figures are correct, and I’ll eat all
the Canadian timber that “S.” can import
cheaper than our own—on the present
outrageous rates of import duties and
so forth.
His talk about driving mills with one-
ton trucks just shows the extent of his
practical knowledge—he doesn’t say how
long the diff. lasted. Of course, cockies
and other cheerful jacks-of-all-trades do
do this sort of thing, but it is not within
the realm of practical milling.
My own small mill is run by an old
car engine—a De Soto Eight—that I
picked up and reconditioned, but if I
were to work continuously I would have
to toss it out in no time. The running
costs would be prohibitive. As it is, with
intermittent work, no capital is lying
idle and running costs, over short periods
when output is at peak during the whole
operation, are offset.
This part of the world may be differ-
ent from N.Q., but timber is timber pretty
well anywhere, and you have to do much
the same sort of things to break it down.
Furthermore, I did not miss “S.’s” point
“ Yo-ho , skipper—how many for dinner?”
about royalty—my comment on this was
cut from my par. What sort of figures
do they have to pay over there? It is only
recently that royalty round here rose
above 7s. 6d. per load level. —R. H. G.
(W.A.).
The days of starting a sawmill on old
truck engines and the like are long past,
particularly when cutting pine, for all the
easily accessible Queensland pine has
long since fallen. To maintain a supply
the miller must reach out far beyond the
foothills. In the case of one chap I
know this has necessitated a crawler
tractor, plus hauling gear, a semi-trailer
truck, and now, as he pushes even further
back, a bulldozer for road-making.
All this is necessary for, if a. mill is
to pay, its log supply must be assured.
Then, to cope with the supply needed to
pay for the supplying machinery, there
must be an efficient mill. This one is
powered throughout by electricity, work-
ing at least half a dozen benches. Cost
was thousands, not hundreds.
Despite royalties (which are by far the
biggest single item on the expense ac-
count) the show is reasonably payable,
and supplies an essential commodity
from scrubs that were written off as im-
possible in days of Model “T” mills, • A
Government-sponsored project? Not on
your life. The whole thing was financed
by one of those trade-strangling, country-
killing institutions, a trading bank. —
B. J. L. (Q.).
Population
I went to see a friend at the local
and only hospital (in pre-war years we
had three flourishing private hospitals)
to inspect her new-born, and both saw
and heard all about it. There was only
one labor ward and two women were
waiting on stretchers in a draughty cor-
ridor while the ward was still in use.
Half a dozen babies were thrust into one
large cot by harassed trainee nurses.
Tliere was no proper maternity section
for convalescent patients.
At the same hospital—in a large N. S.
Wales country town —large new quarters
for the nurses are going up, and a grand
garden is maintained. Male patients
have ample quarters and the privacy of
sun-warmed screened verandahs on which
to recuperate.
If Mr. Calwell is really concerned
about our population and all the child-
less couples he mentions he should
look into maternity hospitals.—M. O. F.
(N.S.W.),
A Lesson from the Jap
Mother taught us to be thrifty, to save
a” bit for the rainy day and for old age.
We kept a cow, fowls, vegetable garden
and orchard and bottled the surplus fruit
to help through winter. A couple of
hives supplied the honey. We lived
well on wholesome food, and there
was much to interest us around the
home; we were healthier for the fresh
air and exercise of working about the
garden in our spare time.
Australia could do with more of this
thrift, and people would be better for
living nearer to the earth. We complain
of food shortage and high cost of living.
A great number have enough spare land
behind their houses to grow fruit and
vegetables to keep them going the year
round. If fruiterers and greengrocers
cannot sell at a more reasonable price
they deserve to lose the market.
It would be an eye-opener for our
people to see the quantity of food the
Japanese grow on their small hillside
farmlets. I’ve never seen poor land made
to grow so much. At the present time
(May) the barley and wheat is in ear,
English potatoes are just flowering and
look healthy, onions are about ready to
pull and sweet potato and tomatoes are
being planted out. These farmlets, mostly
along the terraced hillsides, are isolated
and away from owners’ dwellings. They
are unfenced and unprotected, but there
is apparently enough common honesty
and respect for other people’s property
for the crops to be unmolested by
thieves or vandals. — Alpha (8.C.0.F.,
Japan).
Great Unknowns
Hero-worship—a mild and not very
harmful version of idolatry—is an ancient
human weakness, and in some respects a
satisfying one. The forthcoming visit
of Montgomery is a poignant reminder
to many Australian ex-servicemen of the
last war that there is no Australian in
the bright company of Monty, Alexander
and Mountbatten.
Australia did, in fact, produce men
worthy to be named alongside them,
but Government squabbles, and enforced
incognito leadership of the great divisions
ensured that they received little recogni-
tion. Blarney might have occupied such
a position but for press and Parlia-
mentary antagonism, though he lacked
the common touch and ability to mix
with his troops—qualities which made
the late George Vasey beloved of the
men of the Seventh Div. Most of the
other divisional commanders were eventu-
ally sidetracked into positions as com-
manders of more or less non-existent
corps with few operational contacts
where they were out of touch with their
men.
True, the Second A.I.F. had many
heroes in its battalion and brigade com-
manders —men like “Drover Dick”
Marson of the 2/25th Battalion and
Brigadier “Bill” Porter of the Ninth
Div. —but none received public recogni-
tion.;
Perhaps that’s how it should be —after
all, it is the p.b.i. that really wins all the
battles. Still, it would have been nice
to have had just one public hero who
could be identified as one of the Second
AJ.F, I suppose we’ll have to be con-
tent with horses and jockeys and other
“spofts.”—C. R. (N.S.W.).


The Man Who Pays
As recently reported in The Bulletin,
Joe Thorn, general-manager of the
Lake View and Star (W.A.), stated
that tonnage per man-shift had dropped
on the mines under his control. The
reason, he explained, was the high taxa-
tion levied on machine miners and other
piece-workers.
I’m one of the machine men and my
average earnings for a fortnight are about
£24, of which £4 is absorbed in tax. This
deductioh did not worry me unduly, but
since I received my income-tax assess-
ment for the year ending June, 1946, I’ve
little interest in stepping up my produc-
tion.
For the financial year I earned £6OO,
having paid £lO4 in taxes at the source
of income. According to the assessment
I was entitled to a refund of £l5, but
reading further I found an item “Social
Services, £20.” So I have to send the
Taxation Department another fiver.
Normally I wouldn’t mind, but it hurts
me to have to support men who work one
week every three months to qualify for
the gratuity of 25-bob a week from the
“Social Services.” While I spend eight
hours a day boring and blasting under-
ground, they spend the sunlit hours at
“two-up” or earning an easy two-bob
urging for the s.-p. shops.— Cal (W.A.).
The Doctor
“C.E.T.” (B. 12/5/’47) obviously
speaks from experience, but I can’t agree
that “every doctor knows a very large
proportion of his patients are malin-
gerers and hypochondriacs, often with the
poorer classes in the majority, mainly be-
cause of lack of general intelligence.”
That’s an insult to a clever doctor and to
countless so-called hypochondriacs of the
poorer class who, in the hands of a good
medico, are often found to be suffering
more from a subconscious hatred of their
environment and many very real prob-
lems born of circumstances than from
any tendency to worry a doctor un-
necessarily.
It must be remembered, too, that a
malingerer is a genuinely sick person.
He tries, by drawing attention to fancied
or pretended illness, to focus attention
on worries which, even to himself, may
be obscured by a refusal to face them in
a positive manner. When dug out of
his mind by' skilful questioning they can
be explained away until they cease to
exist, or his attitude towards them under-
goes a healthy change. No clever doctor
ever refers to any patient as “just a
neurotic” or “a damned nuisance.”
A good doctor discovers the reason
for a patient’s persistent visits, and in the
poorer parts of a city this is often easy
because the doctor is perhaps the most
valued and trusted friend of the family.
If he finds he can’t help the malingerer
or the hypochondriac (and both terms
indicate truly unhappy people) he passes
them on to a psychiatrist.— Eve Merritt
(N.S.W.).
Malaria Control
For the first time in human history
there is now a definite possibility of
bringing malaria under world-wide control
and even of abolishing it as a disease of
major importance. Over 800 millions
of people —100 millions of them in India
—are now suffering from it. The Indian
death-roll alone is from U to two mil-
lions yearly, that for the world in general
12 millions or more. In addition to this
immense mortality the effect of malaria
on production and efficiency is incalcul-
able.
When the Dutch Indies came under
enemy occupation more than three-
quarters of the world’s supply of quinine
was cut off. British scientists saved the
situation by discovering mepacrine, a
synthetic substance of much greater
potency and efficiency in controlling the
disease than quinine. But for this and
for the new synthetic insecticide known
as D.D.T., effective military operations
against the Japanese in New Guinea and
the Pacific would have been impossible.
A year or so later. Dr. F. H. S. Curd,
Dr. D. G. Davey and Mr. F. Rose,
working at the Blackley Laboratories of
the 1.C.1. in Manchester, synthesised an-
other new anti-malarial drug, paludrine.
Large-scale trials proved that it not only
cured the acute forms of the fell disease,
but that it also conferred immunity
against the bites of infected mosquitoes
and prevented the later relapses which
are responsible for by far the greatest
proportion of death and disablement.
With splendid generosity the formula was
communicated to pathological and re-
search authorities throughout the civilised
world and paludrine may be manufac-
tured anywhere without restriction or
royalty.
Systematic treatment of exposed popu-
lations with paludrine will steadily lower
the proportion of infected mosquitoes,
but British scientists at the Ministry of
Health’s Malaria Research Laboratory, at
Horton, in Surrey, are initiating general
war against all of the 30-odd kinds of
anopheline mosquito which are known
to spread the disease in various parts of
the world. Attacks on their breeding
places with D.D.T. sprays operated from
’planes have already yielded striking re-
sults in East Africa. Given the requisite
co-operation by the countries concerned
malaria could be brought under reason-
ably effective control within the next 10
years, at any rate in the areas where it
now causes the greatest mortality and dis-
ablement. Unforunately for vast numbers
of suffering mankind, the present state
of world affairs does not seem to offer
much hope of achieving such a desir-
able result. — Puyyaka (Q.),
“Culture”
Two padres back from the occu-
pation forces in Japan have said that
many of the Australians' were lacking in
culture and education. The same senti-
ments are often expressed by overseas
visitors.
One thing is obvious about us —our
reading of good literature is at a low
ebb. Bathurst (N.S.W.), for instance, has
a population exceedihg 15,000 and a
library of over 25,000 volumes of history,
biography, poetry, science and other refer-
ence books as well as a full stock
of modern fiction. Although fees arb low
—6s, 6d. per quarter for families, 2s. 6d.
for single persons and nothing for
selected school students —total mem-
bership is 800. Of that number the
majority are of the older generation.
The most popular books are “wild
west” yarns and detective stories. These
are lacking in culture and refinement, but
not in uncouth language and spelling
and coarse idioms and figures of speech,
which are quickly assimilated by avid
young readers.
Printed trash is not the only culprit.
Uncouth grammar, mispronunciation
and cheap American slang predominate
in radio programmes which allegedly
cater for the young folk. Films, too, have
a devastating effect on our cultural stan-
dards—when the “talkies” first replaced
the silent pictures many American actors
had to be taught to speak correctly, and
a number of them actually couldn’t make
the grade.
It seems that people have the urgfe for
entertainment and excitement rather than
for mental advancement and refinement.
There may be some justification for this
among the older generation, who are
living under high pressure all the time,
but education of our youth should not
be sacrificed to it. Much that is uncouth
and ugly in speech and manners could
be eliminated entirely. Radio pro-
grammes and pictures should be better
controlled. Less of the reading rubbish
should be imported, and better types of
books should be sponsored. More direc-
tion in choice of books should be given
in our schools.
Discipline and mental advancement are
vital to our national progress.—C. E. T.
(N.S.W.).
Central Schools
Tasmania’s system of closing up all
small country schools and transporting
the children over long distances to central
schools, praised and dispraised in The
Bulletin, is now coming under fire from
public bodies. The municipal council-
lors of Westbury, in an important country
area, declared that the establishment of
area and farm schools had killed the
personal touch and parental interest,
which had proved very valuable in
smaller schools; and now others are
pointing out the disabilities incurred by
children, the young ones especially, who
have to travel daily long distances to
school by bus, frequently over bad roads,
which play up with the child’s nervous
system. Some have to leave home at
very early hours, walk a long distance
to the bus, and get home after dark. De-
centralisation of schools (with centralisa-
tion of educational facilities) is held to be
definitely harming small country districts.
There is a great deal of truth in all
this. While on the one hand there is a
good deal of publicity about “com-
munity centres” in the cities and larger
towns, on the other hand there is the
breaking up of the small country com-
munity centres in the form of the country
school.
A good deal of social life revolved
round the small school. % Week-night
gatherings, quiz nights, concerts, religious
services, pictorial lectures, even election
meetings brought the little- community
together at the school. (I remember in
one place a fight being put on one Sunday
evening after service, but this was not
officially organised!) The teacher, too,
filled a very definite place in the com-
munity. The place is vacant since the
school was closed and the building itself
removed elsewhere.
It is claimed, of course, that in the
bigger schools children have the advan-
tages of better teaching and opportunity
of closer competition, as well as the life
of fuller companionship. Well, I don’t
know. Some of the best penmanship I’ve
seen has been done by children in small
schools ; and children lose a great deal
of the individual touch in central schools.
Admittedly there are advantages in
the case of the older children. In the
case of the tiny ones, things seem to be
the other way. The hectic time they are
being subjected to with the daily rush of
catching the bus, and shrieking at one
another as it clatters along rocky’ roads,
may be good training for city life, where
train-catching is a nerve-breaking diver-
sion, but it scarcely seems necessary for
the development of the rural com-
munity.
In England now there is much concern
over Government policy in closirig the
smaller schools and building up big
central schools under the Butler Educa-
tion Act; one authority. Dr. Edward
Glover, maintains that small children
should never be educated far from home
or in large groups, even in cities,
although centralising may be adopted
when the children are older.' Dr. Glover
represents a large body of medical
opinion speaking from the point of view
of both character and development.
Other authorities point to the diverse
important functions of the small country
school, and consider that the centralising
policy strikes at one of the most valu-
able aspects of English life. The same
may be said with regard to things here,
and it may well be that the abolition-of-
small-schools policy will have to come
under serious revision.— Huon (Tas.).
Government Efficiency
I once knew a Government depart-
ment which proved that it could work as
efficiently as any private concern. The
heads of the various sub-departments
were keen and capable and kept their staffs
contented. Regular theatre parties, golf
and tennis outings and an annual picnic
indicated a happy family.
War put an end to the outings, whilst
deaths and retirements thinned out the
capable key men. Now the old spirit is
missing and chaos has come. The
trouble appears to be that men
who, by virtue of seniority, are now
heads of the sub-departments are
not fitted for their jobs. Capable enough
as clerks doing routine work, they lack
organising ability and initiative.
Seniority should be recognised up to
a certain point. It is often a failure when
applied to the higher grades calling for
ability to organise, deputise and supervise.
It should be scrapped when filling Public
Service jobs at over £5OO a year.— Stanus
(N.S.W.).
Dairyfarmers
Dairyfarmers do not “work from day-
light to dark” (B, 4/6/’47). They begin
early, but finish the actual dairywork
(milking, separating, etc.) by 8 a.m. Then
they are finished with the cows till about
3 p.m. Of course there is other farm
work to be done during the day, but this
is done in leisurely fashion. If it is not
too hot or too cold or too wet the farmer
might do a bit of ploughing, sowing or
some other necessary work. If he feels
like it he yarns with a neighbor, sleeps or
“This pair is all right for long distance .”
just potters about until it’s time to gather
in the cows again. Certainly milking is
unpleasant in wet weather, but so are
dozens of other jobs.
“A.C.S.” asserts that dairyfarmers can-
not take a holiday because the cows can’t
be dried off for a fortnight. At the last
Royal Show in Sydney I met dozens
of South Coast (N.S.W.) farmers
who were down for a fortnight’s
holiday, and most of them intended
coming again for the Randwick
Spring Meeting, It is the farmer’s wife
and kiddies with whom I sympathise. I
and hundreds of other farmers’ sons and
daughters left the farms and came to the
city for jobs because we got sick of work-
ing for Dad without wages.
When many of the sons of farmers
joined the services, they had the feel of
real money of their own to spend as they
liked. On discharge, they stayed in the
city instead of going back to work on a
dairyfarm for keep and pocket money.
Yes, the dairyfarmers have to face
droughts, but they wouldn’t be nearly so
hard to bear if provision were made in
good years for the bad years.—W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Food for Britain
Why don’t the postal authorities reduce
their exorbitant charge for food parcels
from private sources? The rate works
out at over £55 a ton ; ordinary cargo
rates are £5 a ton. Why not send food
parcels at ordinary rates or have a flat-
rate of, say, 2s. 6d. for parcels up to
101b.?—Ex-A.A.N.B. (Q.).
An Object Lesson
When I first saw the p.-0.-w. camp at
Hay (N.S.W.) about four years ago, it
was an object lession in what this western
country can do when put under irriga-
tion. The 600-odd acres of old race-
course which previously had been little
more than a flat stretch of dust, par-
ticularly in dry seasons, looked at that
time an oasis in the desert.
The 0.1. C., the late Colonel Thane, had
travelled in Egypt, U.S.A. and other
countries that have gone in extensively
for irrigation, and he had brought his
knowledge to bear in the conversion of
the Hay racecourse into a plot of abun-
dance. A very fine pumping plant was
erected on the bank of the Murrumbid-
gee, and soon every kind of vegetable
worth growing was sprouting in such pro-
fusion as to supply not only the prisoners
and garrison, but other camps as well.
Today the splendid work of the old
colonel is no more. The vegetable
patches are overgrown, the pumping plant
is rusting away, and the whole place is
rapidly “returning to the vile dust from
which it sprung.” Even now it might
not be too late for the Government to
take the place over as a training ground
for Young Diggers who are anxious to
round off their experience before taking
up a block of their own. — Aichess
(N.S.W.).
“Home-builders”
Isn’t it time that builders —particularly
home-builders —were licensed and their
work subject to rigid inspection, with
electricians and plumbers? Too many
young couples, after long waiting and
scratching together of furniture and other
home requirements, enter their new
homes only to be disillusioned by what
they find.
Poor workmanship abounds; “finish”
is a thing of the past, and pride in the
job seems to be regarded as an extrava-
gance. Infested timbers are built in and
are discovered far too late for effective
extermination treatment. There are in-
evitably sundries over which a little
thought would have saved occupiers
many a headache.
Certainly it is something to get a new-
home today, but it is rare for one to be
taken over without a handful of heart-
breaks. As it is, builders only have to
submit to municipal inspection. The
sooner licensing regulations aimed at ex-
terminating “jerries” and go-getters are
introduced the better. — Ad Rem (Vic.).


Blue Gillettes
mw*e tempered
electricully I
fd
BESS
*
SL
m
Made of the finest steel man 'can forge, tempered electrically to take
the hardest, sharpest putting edges science has yet achieved. The edges
themselves, shaped in three facets, on supporting shoulders for extra
strength and longer life. Uniformity ensured by testing at every stage
of production. You may ignore such technicalities,
but you will appreciate the quicker, smoother and
• more refreshing shaves Blue Gillette blades give you.
u
is
?S>s
*S
1
V/
d.<s>
<
c;
D
«
a
*Good Mornings 9 , begin with Gillette
f
