

The House of Seppelt.. . producers of
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vo!. 68 —No. 3523
Wednesday, August 20, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
KING JOHN’S CASTLE AND THOMAND BRIDGE, LIMERICK
npHTS massive structure was erected in 1205 by King John, son
of Henry 11. Commandinng the only entrance to Limerick
over the Shannon River, it was for centuries the object of contend-
ing armies in the various wars, and the marks of cannon balls
that its walls bear give evidence of its strength and of the sieges
and battles of which it was' the centre. One of the strongest
fortresses erected by the Normans, King John’s Castle is still
formidable looking and solid. Over a century ago the battlements
were dismantled. The seven towers were connected by massive
and high walls, and the interior was in recent times used as a
barracks. Thomand Bridge, shown in the illustration, occupies
the place of the old bridge, also built by Ring John and taken
down in 1838, The celebrated Treaty of Limerick was signed on a
large stone near the old bridge on the Clare side of the river.


r*
IBJS
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to ’ Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Addrest
8.8. 147 AGE.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD RELEASES
Recently Published
GEORGE AND MARGO
By Roland Hoffman. A deeply-moving
story of a man and his house of dreams, 8/6
PATHS TO THE GALLOWS
The factual, thrilling stories of real-life
crime, famous modern murder trials .. ’ 6/6
MURDER IN WHITE PIT
By John Barrington. The limited edition
of the mystery romance that thrilled
Europe 4/6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS pty. Ltd.
Central House, Eittle Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
A LITERARY BIRD.
Henry Williamson’s The Gold Falcon
(Faber) is the story of Manfred, a young
fighter pilot who was also a poet. He
wrote fiery, exultant poetry early in the
war of 1914-18 and was popular ; became
an “ace,” and was lionised.
After the war Manfred found himself
in a world which was “halLdead” and
became discontented. He married, and
was unkind to his wife and fathered a
child, and, it is suspected, wrote poetry
which was conscientiously despairing and <
obscure. He was unhappy because of his
treatment of his wife and son, which
made him more unkind, and he made
love unsuccessfully to a German girl
called Marlene, and was unhappy, and
told his friend Arnold Bennett about it
and also his friend Commander Volstead-
Wrink, who was making a very good
thing out of writing adventure stories
which, in Manfred’s opinion, were
blunted Conrad.
On receipt of Manfred’s confession
Volstead-Wrink wrote and told him he
was behaving like a cad; and this made
Manfred more unhappy than ever.
But he had written an autobiography
—a frank and searing sort of a book- —
and became famous. So, on page six,
we find him dining at his club, on the
eve of departure for America, where he
is to be properly lionised by his pub-
lisher. And there, prompted by nothing
more significant than a bellow of mirth-
less laughter from a war artist whose
pictures are too powerful for the
stomachless mob, he falls to thinking of
a communication he has had from T. E.
Lawrence, in italics:
The trouble with the War-generation is
that we can’t get away from our blooming
selves
Manfred is, of course, of the War-
generation, A symbol of it, in fact, in
its ecstasy and its disillusionment. Very
clearly he cannot get away from him-
self. And the identification with T. E.
Lawrence, artist and hero, is apposite.
A pointing of the theme. But, for the
filling of it, it would seem necessary for
some statement, some qualification; a
hint that neurosis is not peculiar to the
War-generation, and that all heroes are
not neurotics. And an emphasis of the
harsh truth that all neqrotics are not
herpes.
Throughout the book there is a con-
stant, though spasmodic enlargement of
the italicised musings, but no saving
breath of harshness. None of Manfred’s
conflicts and aberrations are themselves
improbable. The underlying falseness
lies in the acceptance of Manfred at
Manfred’s valuation; misunderstood
poet, spiritually-wounded hero, unfor-
tunate lover. By the very forcing of
sympathy the sympathetic bridge is
broken. Manfred is weary of himself
and, inescapably, .the reader wearies of
Manfred,
Yet, for all this, the book is not so
tedious as thin. And over the thinness
is stretched a coating of prose, brilliant
in patches, and there are color and
strangeness to break the monotony. And
there are Famous Personages. T. E.
Lawrence, Arnold Bennett, Aldous Hux-
ley, Joseph Conrad, D. H. Lawrence and
lesser literary fry.
It is not at all clear why these writers
keep company with The Gold Falcon at
all. There is, of course, a sort of detective
interest which makes one prick up one’s
ears when such names come on the page ;
a sharp curiosity as to where Manfred
ends and Mr. Williamson takes over; a
suspicion that some of the more unflat-
tering portraits—of Volstead-Wrink, for
instance—are satires whose meaning one
should comprehend; and then again,
just as one suspects that the study of a
bricklayer who had become unsettled by
warfare might have made more interest-
ing literary material, there is the con-
current suspicion that all this, after all,
is not worth while doing.
There is, in fact, no end to suspicion.
And whereas an honest-to-goodness de-
tective story tidies up the corpses and
fixes the blame, there is a certain dis-
tinguished fog shed on Manfred’s cere-
brations and doings. Clearing, at times,
to give clear bright glimpses, and falling
again enveloping and baffling. And
there is a grievous lack of villains, ex-
cept for the shadowy sort Manfred indi-
cates in a talk to a woman’s club; “a
couple of international financiers called
Rosencranz and Guildenstern,” who,
Manfred proves, were responsible for
the war.
The talk on Hamlet —who is Manfred,
and D. H. Lawrence, and the Spirit of
Humanity—is given in full. And this,
again, is typical.
It is literary talk. It is also spark-
liogly well done. But when it is studied
for what it is, a study of the play and
not, primarily, a presentation of 1 the
character of Manfred, it reduces to very
little. The ghost of Hamlet’s father
may, indeed, be the ghost of 10,000,000
slain ; Polonius may well be the spirit
of the Old World. And by the same in-
genious reasoning -Shakspeare may have
been attacking Fascism, the Comintern
or the Douglas Credit system. Manfred
—and Mr. Williamson —merely state
that Shakspeare’s characters are im-
mortal, man unchanging.
There remains an acute commentary
on the word “beautified” as an adjective
for Ophelia. Ironically, it is such snippets
of speculation, .literary crumbs, which
ar6 of most interest in the novel. There
are, for instance, Manfred’s thoughts on
war books: —
The critics had declared that AH Quiet
was mainly pathological: Manfred was dis-
appointed because it re-created almost
nothing. The soldier going home on leave,
and finding that civilians understood
nothing, was good, because true. Bad,
because untrue, were many of the criticisms
of the “revelatory” war books; bad the
unfocussed talk among survivors of the
Great War about their “enjoyment of the
War.” It was well to be exact in these
matters; to separate the experiences of
war-time, the more or less easy life of
officers, the comparatively frequent “spots”
of leave, the “gentleman’s life” —so much
more attractive to the large majority of
temporary officers than their civilian routine «
job's of earning bread and butter —from the
experiences (if any) under fire.
And Manfred’s meeting with Arnold
Bennett:
We shook hands,- and he stuttered, and
I waited, until with a little touch on my
shoulder, he stammered, in a voice that
reminded me of a reed, or a reed-warbler,
trying to express itself slowly: “I shall
probably be very rude to you, Manfred”
—long pause— pause—“l
shan’t mean it in the least”... .He showed
me the manuscript of The Old Wives’ Tale,
in a little booklet the size of a prayer
book, apparently hand-set in a rare and
beautiful ancient type; every word, every
letter incredibly, minutely made by the
strokes of a pen, more meticulous than the
manuscripts of William Blake. Blake had
more aerial fire in his belly, of cdurse, but
he had less understanding in everyday
life....
But, throughout the novel, the danger
is that of missing the wood for the trees.
Under the shadow of lofty literary trees
the central character develops, as may
be expected, imperfectly. And there is
a distinct danger that he may be for-
gotten.
Tigers and Englishmen,
Lieutenant-General Sir Philip Neame,
who was G.O.C. in Cyrenaica in 1941,
has a few things to say about the Aus-
tralians in his autobiography Playing
With Strife (Harrap)—“l must mention
the good work done in Tobruk by the
Australian Colonel commanding the base
area there. 1 recollect him perfectly, and
only wish I could remember his name”
—and he tells a lively story of his
attempts to escape from an Italian castle
after Rommel had taken him prisoner;
but on the whole his book belongs to the
First World War rather than the Second,
and to Kipling’s India rather than to
either.
His title is a quotation from Kipling,
and Kipling verses stand at the head of
each chapter. The book, though soberly
told for the most part, is fascinating both
as a personal record and. as a portrait
of a type. It is- a glimpse at the sources
from which Kipling took his material.
There is the solid English background,
of remote yeomen of Kent and of a
mother who had memories of Kitchener,
General Sir Bindon Blood (who died in
1940 at the age of 97) and, in a foot-
note, of Dickens. At the age of 12, while
shooting hares in a hop-garden, the
author is struck on the nose by a pellet
from a shot gun; then Cheltenham,
Woolwich and a commission in the Royal
Engineers at the age of 19. By Novem-
ber 11, 1918, Neame has the temporary
rank of Lieutenant-Colonel and has
amused himself by carrying on the war
half an hour too long.
Thereafter he is to be observed climb-
ing up the mountains of Switzerland, and
falling down them; stalking chamois in
the Pyrenees; pursuing the mouflon in
Sardinia; searching Poland in vain for
a bear; hunting the ibex in Spain. And
then, ranging from India to Tibet, shoot-
ing 50 ducks on page 113, geese, part-
ridge, snipe, peafowl, black buck, ante-
lope, hog-deer, crocodile and panther on
page 114, wild sheep and gazelles on
page 132, red bear, black bear, burrhel
ram and musk-deer on page 162, the giant
wild sheep of Tibet, “as big as a pony,”
one page 168, markhor, Himalayan ibex,
thar, shapu, chinkara, serow (“goat-
antelope”), the giant Kashmir stag and
Tibetan wolf on page 205, tiger on page
222, and on page 232 a python. These
creatures are described as “trophies” and
are shot in accordance with a strict sport-
ing etiquette.
In the intervals of acquiring trophies
the author advises the Tibetan Govern-
ment on military matters, copes with the
imbecilities of Indian peasants, and
admires the scenery:
And, to my mind the chief attraction of
all, one is surrounded by the most beautiful
scenery in the world rocky peaks, ice
mountains, hanging glaciers, snowfields,
juniper and birch forest, jungles of the
lovely deodar and other pmeirees, grassy
glades and lovely valleys, and everywhere
wildflowers and flowering shrubs, most
beautiful and varied, from tiny primulas
up by the snows to giant blood-red rhodo-
dendrons on trees forty feet high.
It never pays to under-rate the English.
Sir Philip looks a mild man in his photo-
graphs. Though he is continually risking
his neck at mountaineering or steeple-
chasing he does these things correctly, in
accordance with a code. But twice in
Playing With Strife he breaks out into
the most astonishing and dramatic in-
dividuality. One occasion is when he is
being mauled by a tigress in India, an
incident which results from his preference
for meeting tigers on ground-level:
I first saw an enormous head, with open,
grinning jaws, appear from the bush, then
she bounded at me with immense speed
..,. .Before I could get off another shot she
was at my side, standing up on her hind-
legs, and with one forepaw she knocked
the rifle out of my hands and clawed me
across the chest. There was her open
mouth a foot off my head, and her other
forepaw grappling at, and tearing, my
■ shoulder. I instinctively thrust out my right
arm to fend off her jaws. She seized my _
right forearm in her teeth and bit it to
the bone. • The sensation this caused was
like a terrific steel trap closing, causing
agony for a moment, and then numbness
for a time. I threw myself down on the
ground to try to escape, and found myself
rolling head over heels down the slope to
the bottom of the nullah.
The other occasion comes earlier in the
book when, during the First World War,
the author is fighting the German army
on his own and winning the V.C.:
While I crouched a German bomb came
over, fell right in the crowded trench just
. behind me, and burst with a frightful crash,
killing and wounding many of our men.
They cleared back out of that bay of the
trench and I withdrew once more behind
the next traverse. That was the last bay
I gave up: it was here that I held up the
enemy. The trench all round me was by
this time a dreadful sight, men lying with
bodies broken and maimed. .A bomb in-
flicts terrible wounds. I never saw anything
worse in the succeeding years of warfare.
I settled down and carried on with the
fight. I lit and threw half a dozen bombs
as quickly as I could in both directions
from which the Germans were bombing
me, as they were not only in our trench,
but also in one parallel, a little distance
off. My first bomb landed truly in the
trench beyond a traverse where I saw
Germans moving. It burst with another
roar, and I heard screams and groans from
the enemy. Each time I showed myself
crack! went the enemy rifle and machine-
gun fire and once while I crouched a Ger-
man bomb fragment knocked my hat off
I think my aim must have been, better
than theirs, or they were rattled, for their
bombs stopped ■ dropping in the trench
accurately, and often burst outside. Per-
haps I had killed their best bombers.
Perhaps what is true of the individual
is also true of the type. Mild, correct
men, innocently slaying antelopes, are
not noticed in time of peace. Mussolini,
according to Ciano’s Diary, went to war
believing that Englishmen werd “not like
Drake” any more. But that was notori-
ously an error. Neame is not at all un-
like Drake ; indeed, except for his con-
forming to a code, his humanity and his
love of nature, he is remarkably like a
tiger. His autobiography is a perfect
picture of the English professional
soldier; a man born to fight, trained for
fighting, doing his best to make his play
a kind of fighting when the time for
real fighting came, supremely dangerous.
Coral Sea Adventure .
A severe attack of melodrama makes
the opening of lon Idriess’s' Isles of
Despair (Angus and Robertson) seem
highly improbable. Truth, says Idriess,
truly if tritely in his introduction, is
stranger than fiction ; but when the mate
of a cutter says “Hell and fury! What
now? The very elements play with us
as a cat does a mouse” one cannot help
wondering whether truth could be quite
so strange as Idriess’s fiction.
Judging by a quotation from Dr.
Logan Jack’s Northmost Australia there
seems to be some historical justification
for the general outline of the opening
chapters. Perhaps lon Idriess has in-
vented the precise details of the villainy
in the Coral Sea, and surely he has in-
vented his villain’s name, Bill Plimsol
But whatever is historically true, or
partly true in this section of the novel,
it would read much more convincingly if
the boat could refrain from shivering
with fear, which “ever and anon” it does,
and if the mate could refrain from
“hissing.” .
As well as falling into period melo-
drama, the povel also suffers from
heroine trouble. Though Idriess’s his-
torical documents have told him that
Barbara Thomson was “completely
illiterate” and so, accompanying some
adventurers from Sydney to the Coral
Sea in search of a cargo of sperm oil
aboard a wrecked ship, might reasonably
have been portrayed as a fairly tough
character, Idricss succumbs to gallantry
and depicts only:
A pleasantly shy girl fresh from Scot-
land she sat there warm in a seaman’s
guernsey, a cloud of brown hair crowning
a small face piquant with interest, animated
now by an elusive questioning A blue-
eyed lass this, her fair Scottish skin soon
to feel the kiss of the brazen Australian
sun.
Idriess has to show how this girl be-
came, in the words of MacGillivray’s
Narrative of the Voyage of H.M.S.
Rattlesnake : —
so dirty and wretched an appearance that
some people who were out shooting at
first mistook her for a gin.... With the
exception of a narrow fringe of leaves in
front she wore no clothing, and her skin
was tanned and blistered with the sun and
shewed the marks of several large burns
which had been received from sleeping too
near the fire on cold nights; besides, she
was suffering from ophthalmia, which had
previously deprived her of the sight of one
eye....
and, having started with a mere con-
ventional heroine, sweetly unreal, the
writer has made it impossible for him-
self to convey a convincing picture of
the development of her character. From
the basis of fact on which this story rests
—a white woman living alone among
the savages on Entrance Island and
gradually becoming one of them—there
might be developed a drama of frightful
degeneration or of courageous accept-
ance ; but Idriess cannot develop, except
hesitantly or mechanically, a woman
who, as he has originally portrayed her,
does not exist.
Though melodrama and the hollow-
ness of the central character weaken the
entire structure, the book as a whole is
far more readable than the opening
would suggest. If it is not Idriess at his
best, it contains a good deal of what
Idriess can do best: descriptions of wild
places and wild people he has seen with
his own eyes. His heroine’s adventures
give him a chance to retail native lore
and legendry, both island and Australian,
to show scenes of fishing and hunting,
and to travel around the Coral Sea
islands, the Barrier Reef and Cape York.
While one cannot be certain what Bar-
bara Thomson thought of it all, or even
of what Idriess thinks she may have
thought—her marriage to a native chief,
for instance, is depicted without any
convincing examination of her state of
mind—there is, at any rate, a lively
description of the tribal life in the
white woman had to take her place.
As well as this sort of “documentary”
appeal, the book has some interest as a
novel on the popular-magazine level:
touches of comedy among the native
girls, a triangle situation, and some vivid
glimpses of an escaped convict who had
made himself king of some of the island
tribes and who pursued Barbara with
offers of marriage.
On the whole, the facts' remain more
interesting than the fiction—the inter-
woven stories of Australian explorers
and the plain statements from MacGilli-
vray’s Narrative as to how Barbara
Thomson, about five years after the ship-
wreck, was rescued at Cape York by
the Rattlesnake in 1849. Since the story
is dramatic and little known, and since
Idriess can describe the setting so well,
it would have been better to present it
straightforwardly as a historical and
documentary narrative instead of—how-
ever creditable the attempt—in padded
and uneasy fiction.
Newcastle “Morning Herald” (N.S.W.)
is looking for Australian novels for
serials. It recently ran Lucky Palmer, a
sporting novel by Lawson Glassop, who
was on the paper’s literary staff until the
war. The current serial is a new novel
by Miles Franklin, The Thorny Rose—
a light satire dealing with the Service Club
life of Sydney and Melbourne in the war
years.


iiiii
" _
W.A
i
#
W 4
U #
lit %
-
4? * ,
* a
fJBm
iJ
>•'
f %i#/ #lp A v '
| i4* ' A.*i*A %*// '
%~mK mk*%* JLI "
.««»>'• au ,
cT: ft H|
* : . ; -<:
>■
«* . t
» - 4*Wl ‘ '* 4 f
i-i- '. * ; v / »- - ■
■ ..:... ft*- :t ~ , II *xft
* * llf <f#t C***. 4 *
»
ft. ft
m;:
is V
«
S!
iiil
.» ■ j
M
■P
||||
Ml x
4:5 ,Jv;-:4
V
ft
■f:
Hi
Pi:
ift
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
Brighten that Shabby Room
Why worry about the scarcity of paint for that interior renovation when
we can offer you a large and varied selection of economically priced
Wallpapers in pleasing designs to suit all tastes? Also available are Friezes!
and Borders to match. Average room can be papered for from 25/- upwards.
When writing for samples, please state the type of room to be
papered and the approximate price you wish to pay per ro .
Example; Bedroom, 4/- to 7/- roll, or Lounge, 7/- to 10/- roll.
WALLPAPERS
Plain Paper, per roll, from . . .
Patterned Paper, per roll, from
BORDERS are priced at from . ,
FRIEZES are priced at from .
Vitrauphanie
Illustrated below left. , .
Vitrauphanie is an imitation stained glass paper which is
available in shades of Cream and also Colours, it is 18 inches
wide and is priced at 3/3 per yard. (Sorry, no patterns.)
2/6
2/9
lid. per yard
3d. per yard
• Wallpapers —Third Floor.
> CUT OUT <
MAIL ORDER FORM
Please send me Patterns of Papers for:
(State type of room to be papered)
p r j ce (approximate price you wish to pay per roll)
NAME please write in block letters
ADDRESS
Address your Mail Order Form to:—
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LTD.
■Phone; M2 4 oi, Day and Night BOX 2712 Q G.P.0., SYDNEY


MOUT
c
■b*
H
i
mm
I
:••>::■ x*
ss*
■
S
W
a
m
888
mm
■
.
■
■
m
'Os
m
w&
i
1
m
m
ymmi
mm
mf.-
m
I
mw&
W&M
■■zm
HERE’S THE WAY TO MAKE IT COME OUT RIGHT!
Are you in doubt about what the future holds for you?
Do you puzzle over methods'of making your dreams and plans
come true? It’s no good worrying about the details—the best way is to
start saying now ... to build up a substantial fund of money so that,
come what may, your future will be secure.
Now is the time to spend on essentials only, to save every penny you
can, to invest your savings in Bonds and Savings Certificates.
By doing this, you help speed recovery, you help combat the present
infiationary tendency, you bring nearer the day when shortages will
be overcome and better values will be obtainable everywhere.
When the time comes you’ll have your savings, increased by better than
bank interest, to put your plans into practice.
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR FUTURE—AND. AUSTRALIA’S
1. Buy only what you really need. Spend wisely
—get full value. Save all you can. 2. Pay no
more than the fixed or regular prices. Always
surrender coupons. 3. Don’t waste money on
blackmarket goods. 4. Pay your way. Settle
your debts. Buy for cash. 5. Invest your sav-
ings, at better than bank interest, in Common-
wealth Bonds, Savings Certificates and Stamps.
Later on you’ll have the money, plus the interest,
to spend on better goods in plentiful supply at
better values. Hold all the Bonds and Certificates
you own.
Save for
Security
BOY BONDS AND SAVINGS CERTIFICATES 'mm
N 521.113.67
gf
( THIS
DUPLICATOR
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Built entirely In Australia by
I has all the finest features of high-priced
Imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dap*
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
sydney and ebisbane sasssaas^a
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Canadian youth (17), high-school student,
seeks correspondence with young Australians. —
4073.
tv, r r a nn
To buy copy of Le Petit Larousse.— 4o72.
To buy library bookcase, 7ft. 9in. by about
ifah miA by 7ft ” for
N.S.W. high-school library.—4o74.
To buy copy of The Jackaroo, by Pinkerton,
pubhshed about 1890.—4075.
Words of verse “Why Doherty Died,” be-
ginning;—
It was out on the Bogan, near Billabong Creek,
Where the sky shines like brass seven days in the
week -
—4077.
To buy copy of The Leviathan, by Thomas
Hobbes. 4079.
l n co Pyof Packs addle and Waterbag,
by Buchanan.-—4078.
———
~. c ,
Information bought.
Origin of the White Australia policy, and
how it is enforced?
* It originated in the fifties, in the antagonism
felt towards the Chinese by the white miners
on the goldfields. Riots and attacks on the
Chinese on the Victorian fields and, late*, at
Lambing Flat in N.S.W. led to restrictive
legislation against Asiatic immigration in those
States, later adopted by South Australia and
Queensland. These restrictions usually took
the form of an entrance tax (which eventually
reached as high as £4O in Victoria), residence
tax and disqualification from naturalisation.
At first almost entirely racial, the opposition
later developed an economic aspect through
fear of the lowering of living standards as a
result of a flood of cheap Asiatic labor, and
on Federation the policy of exclusion of other
than white and approved immigrants was given
effect to by legislation of the first Federal
Parliament. The dictation test, consisting of
5° ' vord . s ““ an y approved language,” was
* a J y adopted, exemptions being provided for
students, merchants and other travellers. It was
based on a similar expedient already in force
j n Natal, South Africa ;
* * * *
Where c °" ld 1 obtain trout fry for stocking
a wdl on my NSW property?
Trout fry are distributed only to Acclimati-
sation Societies registered under the N.S.W.
Fisheries and Oyster Farms Act, 1935-42, for
the purpose of stocking streams in the district
under the societies’ control. Incidentally, trout
will not breed in Still water and, in addition,
require certain conditions and surroundings in-
consistent with life in a well.
* * * *
My dog recently bit a passer-by, who has
now claimed damages from me. It is a very
quiet dog and has never bitten anybody before.
Am I liable?
Yes, it is one of the penalties for owning a
dog. The owner of every dog is liable in
damages for injury done to any person, property
or animal by his dog, and it is not necessary
f 9 r the P art y seeking damages to show a pre-
Vl °us mischievous propensity in the dog or the
owner’s knowledge of such propensity or that
the injury was attributable to neglect on the
P ar f °f the owner,
* * * *
My daughter wishes to open a ladies' hair-
dressing salon. Must she register the business
as a shop? What closing times must she
observe?
Provided hairdressing only is carried on, the
occupier is not required to register the premises
as a shop in accordance with the provisions
of the N.S.W. Factories and Shops Act, 1912-
46, but must comply with the requirements of
the Act as to shop-closing times. However,
should any article be sold by retail it will be
necessary for the application to be made to
the Dept, of Labor to register the premises
as a shop. The closing times for female hair-
dressing salons in the metropolitan area are
6 p.m. Monday to Friday, inclusive, and 1 p.m.
Saturday, provided “no shopkeeper or per-
son shall be guilty of an offence by reason only
that within 15 minutes after the said closing
time yany work was done for a customer who,
at the closing time, was in the hairdresser’s
shop being attended to or waiting to be attended
to.”
*** . *
What does the divoroe term “decree nisi”
mean ?
It means that if at the end of six months,
or whatever other time is fixed by the Judge,
neither the Crown Solicitor nor any other per-
son has intervened and shown any reason why
it should not be done, the petitioner becomes
entitled to get his decree for divorce. During
the six months he is not, of course, divorced
and cannot marry again.
* * * *
Details concerning a weed known as Chickling
Vetch?
Chickling Vetch ( Lathyrus sativus) is an
annual herb, native of Europe, Africa and
Asia, and now naturalised in Australia. This
plant may be used as a fodder when it is very
young and before any seeds are set, but after
the pods have formed it becomes poisonous
to horses, cattle, sheep and pigs, and if the
seeds are eaten as a vegetable will be poisonous
to man also. Horses and cattle lose the use of
their limbs, and horses also suffer from
asphyxia, and death follows. Being an annual
it should be possible to eradicate the weed by
turning in before seed is set.
* * * *
What is the cause of nasal catarrh and is
there a remedy?
Nasal catarrh originates in congestion of the
mucous membranes of the nose; a post-nasal
catarrh usually involves passages of the nose,
throat and auditory canals. The condition may
develop as the result of recurrent head colds,
but irritative factors contribute to the trouble
where the subject is susceptible to catarrhal
lesions. There is no specific remedy; treatment
in all cases aims at correction of the initial
fault. In primary cases a saline nasal wash
is of service in clearing the mucous accumu-
lation. Vaccine treatment is useful in some
cases.
t /* * ♦ *
I am greatly troubled with constipation. What
diet is usually advised and is there a simple
vegetable laxative for relief?
Apart from diet, senna pods rather than the
leaves would suit your purpose as a laxative
Soak- from four to eight pods in a cup of
water overnight; drink the strained liquid in
the morning before breakfast. Meanwhile in-
crease fluids with meals, include an excess of
fats and green vegetables in the diet, and exer-
cise in the open air daily. Bran in any form
is of value, especially if added to porridge or
prepared in biscuits to eat with meals. For
a stronger laxative action prepare the senna
infusion with boiling water and drink when
cool (15 to 20 minutes).
* * * *
How many players were in the Australian
“Wallabies" R.U. team to England in 1908?
Who were captain and manager? Result of
tour ?
Ihe full team comprised 31 players. P.
Flanagan and P. Burge were injured after three
matches, and A. Burge and K. Gavin were
later sent as reinforcements; C. Murnin took
ill at Naples and returned to Australia without
playing a game. Dr. H. Moran was captain
and Jas. McMahon managed. The team played
31 matches; 25 won, 5 lost, 1 drawn; points
for 438, against 146.
Brief Answers.
P.A.D.: (1) If you have the powdered kalso-
mine you have a waterproofed wall-covering.
You may add 1 tablespoon each of borax, gum
arabic and salt, but this will certainly affect
the original balance and it may spoil the color-
ing. (2) Lemon yeast: Mix 5 dessertspoons
flour with 2 dessertspoons sugar and juice of
2 lemons. Add \\ cup warm water, pour into
bottle and cork. After use leave a little in
bottle as a starter A.K.F.: It is unusual
for the minutes of an ordinary general meeting
of a society to be read and confirmed at the
society’s annual general meeting, but there
would be nothing to prevent the society from
adopting such a procedure S.S.: “World
Report,” 24th and N-streets, Washington 7,
D.C., U.S.A. Subscription rates to Australian
subscribers, $5 for one year, $8 for two years
and $ll for three years N.P.S.: (1) A
publication dealing with the operation of agri-
cultural machinery in Australia is the monthly
journal “Power Farming in Australia.” (2)
The Farmers' Handbook, obtainable from
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Farrer-place, Syd-
ney; price 16s. posted L.P.T.: Kenneth
Grahame, author of The Wind in the Willows,
was born at Edinburgh in 1859 and died in
1932. He was Secretary of the Bank of Eng-
land (1898-1908). He also wrote Pagan Papers,
The Golden Age and Dream Days 8.F.H.:
For the bricking of a small boiler suitable for
a household hot-water system the use of lime
mortar rather than cement mortar is recom-
mended. A mix of one part hydrated lime to
five parts of clean, sharp sand would be suit-
able. Should the building-in of the boiler
require the construction of a footing on the
ground it is suggested that a cement mortar
of one part cement to three parts sand be used
for this purpose, the lime mortar being used
for that part of the structure subject to heat.
. ...K.W.: (1) If not employing labor it is
not necessary to register with Dept, of Labor
and Industry. (2) The trade name must be
registered under the Business Names Act, 1934,
at the Registrar-General’s office, Sydney—
W.G.M.: The executor must file his accounts
with the Registrar of Probates within 12 months
from date of grant of probate. Such accounts
are open for inspection by the beneficiaries.
The matter; seems to be one in which the bene-
ficiaries would be wise to engage a solicitor to
bring the matter to a conclusion K.J.R.;
The Bulletin of February 19, 1941, contained
two obituary verses on “Banjo” Patterson, one
by Edward Harrington, the other by Will
Lawson F.S.: The Ruskin Press, Ltd., 123
Latrobe-street, Melbourne, C.l. It is a very
expensive business; every design has to be
photographed, and every photo made into a
block. Craft instructions cost more to print.
W.J.S.: You are not liable for part cost of
the fence... .J.T.D.: Write Naval Staff Officer,
R.A.N., Beach-road, Edgecliff, N.5.W......
A.S.O’D.: Write Book Supplies, 55 York-street,
Sydney A.M.D.; N.S.W. Bowling Asso-
ciation, 79 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, issues a
free pamphlet “Bowling Greens: Their Con-
struction and Maintenance,” by S. J. Pierce and
C. B. Rigney, which you will find helpful
H.H.G.: Cream together 1 teaspoon starch,
i teaspoon borax and 2 tablespoons cold water,
then add boiling water, stirring all the time,
adding a small piece of beeswax. Dilute this
starch so that tablecloths and tablenapkins
are starched in 1 part starch to 4 parts cold
water and stiff collars and shirts in full starch.
Have clean hot iron; iron quickly; apply even
pressure.... J. 8.: If you send us your full name
and address we will forward you the “Disston
Saw, Tool and File Manual,” which contains
directions for sharpening a rip saw P.N.:
Stevenson’s Book of Quotations (£3 35.) obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney T.G.M.: (1) For
information regarding the production of eucalyp-
tus oil and tea-tree oil write to the Director,
Museum of Technology and Applied Science,
Harris-street, Sydney. (2) Refer maiden-hair
inquiry to J. Davis, Nurseryman, 553 Canter-
bury-road, Belmore (N.S.W.) T.W.S.: (1)
Either watch advertisements in newspapers or
apply to a reputable licensed business agent.
(2) Do not sign anything until you have con-
sulted a solicitor, who will recommend an
accountant to investigate J.P.G.: In this
case the club hand wins, ace being low in the
diamond hand L.E.L.: The papers are
manufactured in U.S.A T.H.M.: Linoleum
“takes” good oil paint, but best to use is pave-
ment paint, of which several excellent brands
are on the market. Full instructions on every
tin,.. .R.E.S.: In 1937 Sundays in October
fell on the 2nd, 9th, 16th, 23rd and 30th.


Personal and Missing Friends.
DAKIN. —Enquiries are sought of RUSSELL DAKIN,
horn in Tasmania about 70 years ago, or his children
(if any). Any person able to supply any reliable
information please communicate with PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
JOHN O’DONNELL, now aged (if alive) about 97
years, who left Berkeley, near Wollongong, New
South Wales, about 1904, communicate with under-
mentioned-news to his advantage. Anyone knowing
his movements since then or his present whereabouts
or any other information concerning him, please
advise D’APICE & D’APICE, Solicitors, Wollongong.
Legal Notices.
TO JAMES LOGGIE (the Elder), formerly of Auck-
land, New Zealand, and latterly of Melbourne, Aus-
tralia, and any child of his and any person claiming
through any of them.—PURSUANT to an Order made
by the Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are re-
quired to send in your claim to share in the estate
of John Loggie, late of Auckland, New Zealand, Lino-
type Operator, so as to reach the undersigned before
the 30th day of November, 1947, failing which such
estate will be distributed disregarding your claim.
THE SOLICITOR, Public Trust Office, Wellington,
New Zealand.
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE WESTERN
DISTRICT HOLDEN AT PARRAMATTA.
No. 165 of 1947.
TO FRANK ASTBY of Annangrove Road Kenthurst.
—TAKE NOTICE that a plaint has been entered
and a summons issued against you in this Court by
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
for the sum of NINETY-EIGHT POUNDS THIRTEEN
SHILLINGS AND ELEVENPENCE ( £9B/13/11)
being amount of overdraft and interest and an order
has been made that the delivery of a sealed copy of
the summons issued in this action* together with a
sealed copy of the order for substituted service to
some adult inmate at your last known place of resi-
dence or business situated at Annangrove Road Kent-
hurst and publication of a notice of the entry of
such plaint in the “Sydney Morning Herald” and
“Bulletin” shall be deemed to be service of the sum-
mons upon you The summons will be heard at
Parramatta on the nineteenth day of September 1947
at 10 o’clock in the forenoon on which day you
are required to appear and if you do not appear
either in person or by your solicitor at the time
and place abovementioned such order will be made
and proceedings taken as the Judge may think just
and expedient. Dated this Eleventh day of August,
1947.—J. M. GREIG (COLEMAN AND GREIG),
Solicitors for the Plaintiff, 16 George Street, Parra-
matta.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ADAM ERNEST GREEN late of Longreach in
the State of Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that
TERESA HOPE VERONICA GREEN has filed her
Petition for Divorce No. 769 of 1947 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 21st day of
October next and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from CHRISTOPHER LIGUORI SHEEHY,
Petitioner’s Solicitor, 76-78 Pitt Street, Sydney.—■
(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT SPECIALS.
Guitars from £5/5/-. Clarinets, £6/10/-.
Drum Outfits, Saxophones, Piano
Accordions, etc. Write for Lists.
Our Shop is as near as your Post Office.
CLEMENS MUSICAL SERVICE,
31 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
King Central. 1808.
%
s
- a
■ '•
TTlh© I > est a<'('
A Steeplechaser usually enters his
prime at the age of about five to seven
years. Up to this time schooling and
work aim at the improving of wind,
strengthening of muscles, and accumu-
lating of enough experience over all
types of jumps to build reliable
judgment. At the top of his form and
with a wise head, he is then
ready to show the
best that’s in him.
A Whisky enters its prime at the age
of five years. In its first five years,
a steady progression of changes brings
it from the rawness of immaturity to
the mellowness of fine bouquet and
smoothness on the tongue. Corio
Special is a fine whisky and is not
marketed until over five
years old (more than
double the minimum
prescribed by Common-
t*v
&
Htnio Special
wealth law).
Corio Special
WHIS KY
WlB/33
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Mtimp and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
suTmitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
T.F.: No accommodation here 0.8.5.:
The best thing about “Won’t You Buy My
Triolet?” is the title. Abo. poem heavy . ..
M.8.E.: So “Spring Is Here again.... C.G.:
Usual remarks about the old home... .L. 1..
No drought.... W.M.F.: Nearly... .K.McL.:
A featherweight J.N.: No g 0... .G.C..
Adds little *to the old theme of death m the
desert D.W.: Dead trees don’t really plead
for galahs to come and roost on them, you
know J.S.McK.; A harmless bit of descrip-
tion... .B.McA.: “It’s not really meant as an
epic.” That’s just as we 11... .E.J.P.; You
should choose easier themes than Eternity and
Passion Immortal....E.L.S.; Plenty of bread
but not enough circus... .A. 0.: Who is chew-
ing what? R.M.: A conventional gambol
along “the road of life”... .K.:_ Verses about
the Pearly Gates are out on sight... .D.M.:
Poem plodding and protracted J. 8.; I hope
you like it as we do.” Well, not quite so much.
F.G.: Come in and sink her here:—
by Miss Muffett... .F.McL.: Dennis and water
C.M.W.; How can you bear to write such
a line as “Affording rendezvous unique • • •• •
J.C.G.: “Memories” is too much like a hundrea
other poems on the same theme . • Bellenve.
The epic is off to a flying start:
V.M.: Bland Holt would have welcomed
.your story about the identical twins and the
forged wi11... .A.S.: Grandma read it as a
serial in “Sunday at Home” ... .P.M.: Have
long ceased to have any affection for sentimen-
tal burglars... .A.W.M.: “Solo Flight” never
left the ground W.W.; Edgar Allan Poe—
and a hundred other imitators—have said it
before... .M.P.: Before we finished the first
page we could hear the wedding bells chiming.
. ...A.8.D.; Your description of a Saturday-
afternoon pub crawl was no different from
the usual run of descriptions of pub crawls....
KB • Try again... .C.O’N.: Nearly made it.
EHM.: Condensed it might pass as a
paragraph....W.W.; “Gertie” didn’t make the
grade....F.R.: Novel plot badly presented.
J D • You have something there, but not
enough.V..T.A.: We read them, but that’s as
far as they g0t....C.L.: Have had enough of
dying prospectors to last us a lifetime... .J.M..
Expected more from your racecourse yarn....
M. "Fair, but miles off the track...-P.u.:
Eight gallons of sentimentalism poured into
thl basket....K.B.L.: Are you really trying
to hit the target? H.W.: Dont want
Moloney, drunk or sober... .V.A.: Too long
and motive too slight... .R.C.: It doesn t nng
true M. 8.: Very well done; but the theme
shows its age in spite of the care with which
you cut off its long, white beard.. ..P.L.o. •
Stilted and without much in it yet, but you
might do better later 0n....M.W.: Not much
use tackling that sort of thing unless you have
something fresh to 5ay....G.C.: With more
pains and fewer words you might get some-
where. .. .R.A.: Small-talk and sentiment.. •.
R.M.U.: Don’t want those gangsters on the
premises... .A.F.: More liquor than laughter.
C.C.: A melodramatic shriek E.N.:
Have met the old bushman on that track
before T.J.: They have an outback flavor,
but that’s a 11... .D.F.: You didn’t even breast
the tape G.W.: Returning both... .F.R.P.:
You weren’t fishing for compliments when you
sent us that... .L.W.: Too much detail, too
much acti0n....J.E.8.; Hopeless... .W.M.A.:
Even the Religious Editor couldn’t swallow it
and he had to wash it down with rum
R.R.J.: Sending youthful effort home
N. Can’t smuggle in contraband story.
W.L.L.: Travel sketch travelling home
M.S.J.: Turf story fell at the first fence
G.G.H.: Impossible to acknowledge para-
graphs ; it’s a poor week when we don t get
hundreds R. 8.; Sorry snarling dogs inter-
fere with your job as a hawker. Why don’t
you read some of your prose to them?....
W.G.: We were not amused H.M.F.:
“Dancing Dolly” is waltzing her way home.
A.P.: Heaved tlie sentimental coal-lumper
out of the window J.R.: A bright idea
poorly treated... .A.H.McK.: It should suit
a woman’s paper... .5.8. A.: An unconvincing
climax G.N.C.: A tedious tale W. 8.:
Not keen on that type of horror yarn.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.M.S.: We are still yawning G.M.; Kind
of stuff any youngster could dash off.
A.T.: What superb eyebrows you
draw! G.L.F.: Be kind to you! Were you
kind to us when you sent them! P.McD.:
You can’t make that gag new by giving it another
setting A.R.Q.: If you can’t draw a cup
and saucer how can you expect to draw a
curate? F.C.: It was thought a good joke
when they were building the overland telegraph
line V.A.: Be content with tackling simple
subjects until you acquire more skill with the
brush A. 8.: They give the impression of
being in invisible straitjackets J.J.: Why
not send it to the paper which fathered that
type of jest? 8.C.: Have seen many worse
and heaps better J.M.H.: Still below the
cheque-earning standard... .W.J.W.: Still re-
fuse to admit your policeman although he’s
more presentable this trip... .S.P.: So that’s
your idea of the inside of a police court
K. 8.: You haven’t learnt what not to put in.
A.R.J.: None of them will do W.R.:
That fly in the beer should be completely
drowned by now G.S.; Faint pencillings on
crumpled paper W.H.E.: It’s not your
patriotism we doubt... .J.A.: Shows a certain
merit, but it is off our beat M.S.: Jim
looks more like an English gamekeeper than
a bullocky J.S.H.: Quite promising; strive
to attain clear and contrasting tone values
GD.: Picture of fat lady staring at thin gent,
declined P.M.: All off the mark.
A FIERCE SHARK.
It was in the Investigators’ Straight, off Cape Casino,
Kangaroo Island, and just before dark,
When the fishing cutter lone of Edithburgh was sunk
by a 20ft. shark. ■
The fishing cutter Canowie from Pt. Adelaide well
away on the lea,
And her crew down below in the cabin having their
tea.
Charlie Ichoff the cabin boy came up on to the
Canowie’s deck from below,
It was calm —he then looked to the sky and was
wondering when a wind would blow.
He then gazed to where the lone should have been.
But not a sign of that vessel was to be seen.
“Captain Tate,” he called—“the lone that boat she
has gone.
She is nowhere to be seen out on the low horizon.
There is only a small object I can see,
And it seems to be coming this way”—says he.
Captain Tate came up on the Canowie’s deck.
And through his spy-glass he Ipoked towards the
crew that were shipwrecked.
“There is something that has happened to the lone,”
says he,
“And it seems to be another sea mystery to me.”
Giiliu and Dugan, rowing the lone’s dinghy with
all their might,
And wondering if the crew on the Canowie would
see them in their plight,
Frank Fleetwood waving his hat in the air-
There was a look on his face —as if in dark despair.
A strong sou’-west wind now sprang up in the night
And the shipwrecked crew were in a most sorry plight
When the cutter Canowie loomed up in the dark.
When aboard that boat they then told them the story
of that fierce shark.
S.G.: The trailing bark is the only piece
of close observation... .J.D.C.: “Inspired by
the story of Bruce and the spider I am trying
again.” Unless you can do better than that
turgid sunrise you might as well be inspired
TRAVELS IN A WAGON.
(Country Hawking Travels in a Wagon from
Recollections of My Early Twenties.)
1. BLAZING SUNLIGHT AND FLIES.
’Twas the afternoon of
A blazing hot day.
Slowly onward we were
Wending our way._
Clusters of flies in
A prancing throng
Followed the wagon
As we travelled along.
Lobbed on the horses.
Did descend and arise— ■
They suffered torment
From the horrid flies.
At the foot of hills
The horses we’d rest.
Old Paddy and Bill,
Two friends of the best.


WILD
GINGER
By GLORIA RAWLINSON
* HIGH of you broke the lid of
\A / t^ie su B ar basin and hid it
VV behind the dust bin?”
“He did! ” said his sister*
Margaret.
“He did, too!” shouted little Evelyn,
pointing her spoon at Robert,
“Me! Broke what? I didn’t. I don’t
remember. I’ve got earache. It’s the
wind. I always get earache when it
blows. Let me alone for goodness sake,
can’t you?”
His mother frowned at Robert, noting
the look of impenetrable idiocy he always
assumed when he had failed to convince
her that an indefinite ache somewhere
was too bad to take to school.
Margaret, that smart child, curled her
lip. “He did break it. I saw him. He’s
a dirty big liar. He hasn’t got earache
either.”
“Oh, get off to school the three of
you,” said' their mother. “And stop
using that horrid expression, dirty this,
and dirty that. And stop quarrelling.”
ROBERT lagged behind them. He
had hoped in vain for a wet day.
Real, torrential rain, sub-tropical deluges,
may have kept them all at home.
Miracles happened sometimes —but not
today. Today,
only the wind,
the whirling,
screaming mad
wind and
school. The pain-
f u 1 automatic
regularity of the
world made him
peevish. He
simply could not
learn anything in
school on a windy
day. It was like
caging a bee and
expecting it to
gather honey.
Some boys, he
thought, have all
the luck. He pulled a notebook from his
bag, remembering the list of Extra Holi-
days he had compiled a few days ago,
Tui Rorke now, his grandmother died
last Friday afternoon and had been buried
yesterday, Sunday.
“Lemme see now, Friday, Saturday,
Sunday,” Yes, Tui was entitled to a
holiday today. He read through his list,
his back to the wind that tried to wrest
the book from him.
Catching death of cold equals 1 week’s hoi.
Relations dead of it or flew .. 1 week’s hoi.
Wedding of Aunt if carrying 1 day’s hoi.
skirt Mork did.
If Dad had horse and it won 1 week’s hoi.
Grandmother or grandfather
aged 3 days’ hoi.
Dog or Cat (Bunty) None.
King or Queen 1 day I think.
Prime Minister 1 day I think.
The mare (Mug’s uncle) .. .. Half-day.
He put the book away and began to
run. The wind galloped along with him.
He gulped it down and fought it with
his fists. He overtook his sisters and
twitched off their berets, screaming at
them. He threw the caps in the air, let
the wind whirl them about, chased and
caught them, and then waved them in
Margaret’s face.
“Ow de doodley! Doodle doo. See a
monkey at the zoo! Here’s a dirty big
hat to put on your dirty big head! Ow
de doodley!”
Margaret flushed with rage. “All
right! I will tell on you now! As
soon as I get home, I wasn’t going to,
but now I just will. You just wait,
Smarty. I’ll tell about the sixpence you
said you found!”
Then, remembering the prevailing
fashion in adjectives, added, “The dirty
big sixpence you spent on a dirty big
ice-cream! ”
A GREAT gust of wind caught the
children and rammed them against
a hedge. The two little girls gasped, hit
out at the air, flailing their arms, and
then, hand in hand, stepped bravely out
to battle their way to school.
But Robert had had enough. He
turned his back and the obliging wind
propelled him along. He shouted his
“Ow de doodley!” as he passed other
children, heads down, screaming with
laughter, as Robert, sticks, paper, leaves
and branches blew by.
Robert found the going very easy now
with the wind behind him. In the dis-
tance he could see a little figure sway-
ing at the corner of Kitikati Lane. The
boy, who was tali for his nine years,
had a light golden skin, black hair and
fine dark eyes. He was Tui Rorke.
Tui knew every inch of the overgrown
lane. Many years ago some enterprising
Road Board had decided to make a
decent road of it, but after dumping a
few loads of blue-metal at the entrance
between two stony paddocks had
abandoned the idea. The lane now gave
small evidence of its existence. Ragwort
and fennel, hemlock, toad-flax, and puha
had found a haven of peace all along
the way. Bracken and fern lived cosily
in the ditches, and scores of larks used
the imprints of cow and horse hooves
as nurseries year after year. Quails called
“Tobacco! Tobacco!” from the clumps
-of gorse.
Tui had good reason to know every
inch of the lane. At the very end was
an old floundering house enclosed in
untidy hedges of privet and bamboo
where his grandmother had lived for
over 60 years; and where she had died
only last Friday. There had been a whole
column about her in the District paper
called “The Passing of an Old Colonist.”
Tui gave a big sigh of relief. Never
again, he thought, will L have to take
her dirty big dinner down there! He
was a little sorry she was dead and would
certainly miss the shillings she used to
give him and the plates of rather salty
toffee she made.
Only last Thursday she whispered to
him about the Leprechaun she had
brought all the way from Ireland in a
tin.
“He’s at the bottom of the garden,
in among the wild ginger, and he’s for
you to look after now, me dearie, me
pretty love, me grandsonny bright-boy.
He’s yours now, Tui, that’s true!”
But oh dear, how she used to go on!
He remembered the hateful days when
she waited for him after school, waving
her old umbrella in front of a dozen
giggling children, “Here he is and all!
Och! a wee darlin’.” And how she used
to push her face down close to his in
the little old kitchen that smelled of
mice and cloves and something in a
bottle. “Y’ loves y’r old Irish Gran better
than y’r Maori granny, don’t y’, me
dearie, me love-boy, me grandsonny wish-
wish ! ”
Sometimes he was frightened of her.
Then again, she’d go on about this
Leprechaun she had brought with her
all the way from Coleraine, “where there’s
salmon and nice linen and where they
makes good whisky, me Och! A wee
darlin’! ”
Tui shuddered. He had always said,
Yes, Oh yes, yes, yes, when she asked
him if he loved her best, and tried not to
think of his other lively grandmother who
lived Up North. Once he had visited
her and he never forgot her bright
face and sad brown eyes or the way she
thumped him on the back and gave him
cold doughnuts dipped in honey.
He did not want to go to school today.
But his mother said it was all over, “And
I don’t want you under my feet all day
long.”
He felt that something should be done
about the Leprechaun in the treacle tin
but was too frightened to go down the
lane to the house by himself. And then,
blowing towards him, screaming his “Ow
de doodley! ” came Robert Meade.
“Hi, you aren’t going to school today,
are you? You got another day you
know.”
“Yes, I think so. But my mother said
I had to. I wish I didn’t. I want to get
something from my Grandmother’s. She
has a little old man, all naked, a Lepre-
chaun, she brought him, out from Ireland
with her. He’s hidden in the garden.”
“Crikey! A Leppard’s Corn, eh?
Little old man naked, eh? Crikey, what’ll
you do with him? How big is he?”
“I don’t know, Robert. How big is a
treacle tin?”
“One pound, two pounds, four pounds.
But he can’t be very big, say six, nine
inches, eh?”
“I don’t know. Perhaps we’d better
be getting along to school.”
“Oh, now look, Tui, maybe we should
go and get that Leppard’s Corn. You
can’t leave him there alone. I ought
to come with you in case you’re fright-
ened. He might starve, mightn’t he, this
Leppard’s Corn?”
“I don’t know. Look, Robert, what’s
the matter with this boy? He’s howling
like mad. He’s holding his pants up!”
THE little boy who now blew towards
them with his hands clenched to his
sides was Jamesie Stewart. His face
was very red and tears streamed down his
cheeks in little runnels. He was shaped
like a wooden clothes peg and he had a
mop of bright red curls.
On Sundays his mother, who was proud
to be a Scotswoman, dressed Jamesie in
kilts. She was always saying to him,
“Whatever you do, remember your name,
laddie. Jamesie Stewart —there’s a lot
in that name! ” Sometimes she really
made Jamesie mad by asking “Would
yon laddie I ken*by the name of Jamesie
like a wee bittie bread or would he
rather wait a wee whiley?”
A long' time ago, before he started
school, Jamesie used to love his tartan
kilts. But he was a big boy now. He
was critical. He was interested only in
school. He loved his teacher and his
tears were tears of humiliation because
she had seen him holding up his pants
and blushing furiously.
Everything had gone wrong for
Jamesie. The wind made him noisy and
he had rushed through the house, bang-
ing doors and irritating his mother, who
had, she said, one of her “wee bittie
headaches.”
On the way to school he stopped on
the overhead bridge to watch a train go
by. Capital fun trying to spit on the
fourth carriage! But the wind blew his
bubbles over his shoulder, so he took off
his belt and Waved it madly round and
round. He screamed down to the rush-
ing carriages and then the wind seized
his belt and dropped it on the top of
the good’s van at the very end of the
train. It was gone for ever.
Jamesie, clutching his pants, turned and
saw his teacher, Miss Hedge, approach-
ing with the Infant Mistress. He flushed
to the rim of his grey flannel cap, which
he wore, schoolboy fashion, hindside
before.
“Good morning, James,” said Miss
Hedge, but he turned away, pretending
he did not hear, and both women
laughed. “Wasn’t that your nice James
Stewart?” asked the Infant Mistress.
“It was my nice little James. He
looked bustled about something. I ex-
pect we will have trouble today. Children
and kittens go mad on a windy day,”
Jamesie, clutching his pants, turned
and let the wind blow him down another
road away from school. In the distance
he could see a boy blowing along ahead
of him. It was Robert Meade, and
although he had devilled Jamesie’s soul
with his imitations of the Highland reel,
Jamesie thought him the cleverest person
in the world. To stand high in the
opinion of Robert Meade and Miss
Hedge was his highest goal—with a dis-
tinct leaning toward Robert.
“Hoots awa’ wi’ ye! What’s the matter
wi’ ye breeks, laddie?” asked Robert as
he came up to the two boys.
Weeping Jamesie told them.
“Hi, Tui, now look here! This kid
can’t go to school without a belt. It
would be disgraceful. See? His pants
are too wide to stay Up without a belt,
they’d fall down and shock Miss Hedge.
She’d give a dirty big blush.”
“He could go home and get another
belt, couldn’t he?” Tui said.
“Mumsie’s gone to town and the house
is all locked up,” wept Jamesie.
“There, you see, Tui. Murasie has let
her wee laddie doon! Aw, come on.
We’ll go along to your grandmother’s and
get a rope and have a look at this
Leppard’s Corn. Hey, Stewy, stop snivel-
ling, and I’ll tell you something. Tui’s
got a little man in a tin, all bare, his
grandmother, you know Old Kate Rorke
with the wet nose, she kept him as a pet
in a treacle tin, brought him from Ireland
with her, 60 years ago.”
Jamesie stated at Tui. “A little man,
all bare, how big, is he alive, have you
seen him?”
“No, I haven’t, she said he lived in the
tin among the wild ginger at the bottom
of the garden. I suppose we had better
go and give him something to eat.”
“I have some raisin sandwiches, an
apple and two wholemeal biscuits, and
he can have the lot,” said generous
Jamesie.
“Well, come on,” said Tui, and the
wind blew the boys down the lane.
THE old house looked very lonely when
they opened the gate and suddenly
they whispered as if they thought the
old lady might still be sitting in her
kitchen. The privet and bamboo, grown
tall, woody and unkempt* broke the wind
and it was very peaceful in the garden
at the back of the house.
Robert pointed to some huge clumps
of green leaves with tall spikes of wild
ginger flowers among them. The heavy
scent of the amber-colored blossoms was
all about them. A cat, folded up like a
round of beef, was asleep under one of
the clumps.
“It’s Tibby,” whispered Tui. • “Hey,
Tibby, Tibby!”
The cat roused herself, sat up and
blinked at them. She knew Tui —but the
bottom had fallen out of her world. The
old lady was gone and Tibby needed her
very badly Just now.
“Treacle tin, eh?” Robert peered
thoughtfully among the leaves.
“Now look here, you two, when you
find it, don’t go opening it too quickly,
these Leppard’s Corns might be pretty
slippery for all we know. This little
old bare man might get away.”
“Little old man all bare!” snickered
Jamesie.
“She always said it was the biggest
clump. It should be about here, or say,
here.” Tui, who had brought a spade
from the near-by shed, began to dig in
the soft earth.
“Did Old Kate say he was alive?”
“I don’t know. But I once put a piece
of gingerbread down here for him and
when I came back next day it had gone ”
“Then he’s alive all right! These
flowers certainly stink!”
Then Robert gave a cheer—Tui held
up a long thin can.
“Here, young Stewy, you stand in
front. Hold your hands out. Never
mind your pants. Be ready to catch the
Leppard’s Corn if he tries to hook it,
see? Now I’ll stand here. Hang on, even
if he bites —his teeth won’t be very big.”
Tire grey cat sat looking at them with
an expression of contempt on her round
face. Tui prised the lid up carefully
and as he lifted it off the cat sprang at
a bird, missed it, and sat down again.
“Hey!” cried Tui, dropping the tin,
“He got away. I saw him. Over there,
by Tibby!”
“I saw him too, I did, I did,” Jamesie
danced about, his pants down to his
ankles. “I did see him, a funny little


»V,V
’ *
$
m
%
mm
m
WmWm
wm is
mm
HI
.
S?S>>;
m
MM
mm
mm
&:::M
§i
sm-.
mm-..<
Y
mm
m
mm
esss
m
wm
Rubber Mould Buns "Little Sir Echo 7,
The science of sound control or
acoustics has reached a new peak
over the last few years, particularly
in the Radio and Movie industries.
A major contribution toward this
ban on echoes and unwanted noise
was made with the production of
a decorative, fibrous-plaster tile that
helps to absorb 90% of the sound
waves striking its surface.
The effectiveness of this echo-eating
tile could be achieved only by
extensive perforation —45% of the
surface must be simply —holes ! The
problem that faced the manufacturers
was to find a mould that would
give this very open construction
without damage to the finished tile
when the mould was removed.
The contribution of Dunlop technicians
was to design a special RUBBER
Mould similar in principle to the
domestic, rubber, ice-cube trays for
refrigerators. The Dunlop Mould is
literally PEELED OFF the finished
product, as illustrated above, leaving
the tile clean-cut and perfect.
This case is typical of the many
manufacturing problems solved by
Dunlop experience in the application
of rubber. That same Dunlop
experience and its application to a
host of more familiar rubber products,
is the reason behind Dunlop’s
continued leadership in the rubber
industry.
DUI\ILOP> Ilhs1 l hs VullekVncUstty
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
D 354
man, all bare. You saw him too, didn’t
vou Robert?”
But Robert was of a cautious character,
f -35
“You''know what? X believe Tibby’s
Sow m sJSf^tf^%tt™ , “ctaS
said she ate her out of house and home.
Look how fat she,is!”
in.tm oil nVhti” shouted
Jamesie *1 saw h gobble h m up
Lo?k, you can see him moving about
inside her, the poor little Leppard’s
"made a lunge a, Tibby, bu, the
cat was too quick for him and whisked
away under the house. After a while the
disappointed boys gave up calling her.
“There’s something here in the tin,”
said Robert “Look, screwed up in bits
of paper Tui! It’s his money! The
Leppard’s Cora’s money! A bag of
halfpennies.”
They counted them. “Forty dirty big
halfpennies,” said Jamesie.
Tui stirred the pile with a finger. “Per-
haps they are no good. They look a bit
like the phoney money we have at home
for playing poker, ‘Here’s to the good
old days’ on them.”
“No, they are good halfpennies, they
ring,” said Robert. “And Queen Vic-
toria’s head on them. Let’s eat our
lunches, I’m hungry.”
“I’ve only got bread and butter. But
I’n teU you what, there’s jars and jars
°f ruit J el ly inside * Gran made it. one
calls it Dumpsie Deelie. But I don t
k ~u. my he.,.’ ashed lames.
to* train doesn’t
“ ™ >* “>» wa^-it gMS ° n UP
niimnv ; e llv
,|. ets . get 1 f t iPJ u a |f.
and then well take some or the nail
Pennies and ge, S.ewy a belt. He can't
go. on like this. It’s gettmg on my O
strm §-
JT was old Kate Rorke’s bedroom that
1 they climbed into. The bed had been
made up and a Steal patchwork qmlt was
bunched in a great heap at the loot. It
looked like a huge body,
Then Tm and Jamesie nearly jumped
out of their skins. A squeaky voice
said, “Och! Here’s my wee darlm !
But i* was only Robert, who laughed at
them and strode across the room into
the kitchen.
They ransacked the old cupboards,
opening jelly jars and sampling the pre-
serves, nibbling at cloves* ginger roots,
and stale biscuits. Tui wound an old
clock that played “Killarney ’ on the
hour. Then Robert made a gadget out of
wire and rope that he said would hook
up Jamesie’s belt if they happened to be
on the overhead bridge when the tram
passed. It wasVhen they were about
to climb through the window that they
all heard something move.
“Mice ” said Robert as the terrified
Tui backed against a wall. But Jamesie
was staring at the bed—the patchwork
quilt was moving. “Look! Oh look!”
Tui jumped through the window with
Robert after him, and Jamesie, shaking
like a leaf forgot all about his lost belt,
and scrambled after them, leaving his
pants behind.
“Robert! Robert! My pants. Oh my
pants!”
p t jjj s Now he’s lost
his pants Go back and get them.”
“But I saw the cover move, Robert,
Do you think it was the Leppard’s Corn?
Please Robert, you go, or come with
me i” ’ ’
“Look Tui, I’m sick of this. We’ll
have to get him a belt. Stewy, you just
sit by the wild ginger and wait until we
come back. School’s gone in again and
we can go up to the shop. We won’t be
j on g ”
Jamesie sat down on an upturned
bucket. In the garden the little flowers
and ferns nodded gently to him. It was
not cold now, and the wind had dropped.
He forgot his predicament and a quiet
feeling of joy came over him. He gave
a happy sigh, “He calls me Stewy!”
ROBERT and Tui entered Miss Black’s
Fancy Goods with some misgivings,
The cheapest belts were sixpence each,
which meant that they had to offer 12
halfpennies. They apologised profusely,
“It’s for a kid who’s lost his belt.” “We
had to lend him this money. My grand-
mother gave it to me.” “We’re sorry it’s
such a lot of halfpennies, but they are
good ones, just a little dirty.” “My
grandmother gave them to me,” “Tui
had them in a tin, you know; they go
that color when they are shut up,” “The
rust had got on them.” “My grand-
mother gave them to me.”
Miss Black looked at the row of money
on her counter and then at the boys.
She picked up a coin and let it drop.
“It is good money all right,” was all
she said. But as they walked up the
street they knew that she had come to the
door and was looking after them. They
decided to spend another six of the half-
pennies on bananas; speckled ones in a
box outside Mr. Sung’s shop looked a
bargain. They went through the same
rigmarole to Mr. Sung as they handed
him the money.
He peered at them over the top of
his glasses and did not put the half-
pennies in the till. When the boys turned
the corner they glanced back and saw
Miss Black and Mr. Sung .talking earn-
estly together,
“Having a dirty big gossip!” said
Robert, peeling a banana.
It was later in the afternoon when
they decided that before school came out,
and now that Jamesie had a new belt
and Robert had retrieved his pants with
a rake, they would spend the rest of
the halfpennies. “An ice-cream each,
some buns and a bottle of the doings,”
announced Robert.
(Continued on page 32.)


A large percentage of economic waste Is
caused by the destruction of property by FIRE,
and while such waste cannot be eliminated, the
individual can avoid financial devastation by
making adequate use of the valuable and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstruc-
tion to commence immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
realise that the support of Australian indus-
tries by every individual is helping the country
generally to right its difficulties, but continued
patronage is necessary in order to reduce our
country’s “total indebtedness” and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR 68 Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
WEIGHT
APPROX.
4J TONS
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.
fg
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VlC.—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Boss Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q'LAND OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Hou seh older s’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PLANS FOR PALESTINE.
Even before the hanging of the two
British sergeants there were signs that
the Palestine terrorist outrages and the
American-Jew incitement of them were
beginning to backfire, particularly in the
country the Archbishop of York had
chiefly—if not singly—in mind when he
said:
This cold-blooded murder of the sergeants is
a logical outcome of the lying propaganda
which the Zionists in Palestine and other coun-
tries have directed against the British.
Many American papers have run that
openly inciting propaganda—very profit-
able it must be, too, in dollars for them —-
on the lines of the Ben Hecht “open
letter” to the Palestine terrorists;
Every time you blow up a British arsenal,
or wreck a British jail, or send a British rail-
road train sky-high, or rob a British bank, or
let go with your guns and bombs at the British
betrayers and invaders of your homeland, the
Jews of America make a little holiday in their
hearts.
As reported by N.Y. “Times,” Hecht,
asked if he did not think that was “an
incitement to plain murder,” answered;
“Of course. Any child can see that. I
tell the terrorists to kill British troops.”
When Britain officially protested against
the hate propaganda President Truman
voiced a warning against “activities cal-
culated further to inflame the passions
of the inhabitants of Palestine.”
The warning is somewhat late. The
way things are now shaping, the time
may be when there can be a “little
holiday” for American lads murdered in-
stead of British.
U.S.-Soviet “Walk On Eggs”
Fed-up with the thankless mandate job,
and especially with American inter-
ference, Britain sent the issue to U.N.O.
That at once had several effects and re-
sults which should be set down to the
credit of a body which certainly needs all
the credit that can be mustered for it.
At the special session of the Assembly
not only the Jewish case but, for once,
the Arab case was given an airing and
thus made known to the world. Also a
special U.N.O. commission—a party of
about 120 in all, representing 11 “medium
and small countries,” Australia among
them —was appointed to make investiga-
tions in Palestine. The party set out
across the Atlantic in planes early in
June; has since been in touch with all
sections in Palestine, including the terror-
ist leaders; and will make recommenda-
tions for consideration by the September
16 session of the General Assembly*
That cannot help being an extra-
ordinarily interesting session. It will
force still further into the open
what was already noted at the
special session which opened on April
28 —that settling the Palestine problem is
not a mere private issue between Zionist
extremists and Britain as mandatory
Power, nor merely a piece of bait to be
used, as the present President of the
United States has himself used it, for
vote-catching in American politics. U.S.
national responsibility now enters into the
drama.
At the special session N.Y. “Times”
noted “a strong feeling among delegates
that an ‘unwritten issue’ on the agenda
might cause >serious trouble” ; that issue,
“the fundamental one of Russian-
Ameripan rivalry—a rivalry that encom-
passes the ‘oil country’ of the strategic
Middle East.” As a pointer to what lies
ahead, N.Y. “Times” also reported:
There were Russian-American clashes at the
session; but serious trouble did not develop.
Both the Russian and American delegates
appeared as careful as if they were trying to
walk on eggs. Both seemed aware that their
countries would bear major responsibility for
an ultimate solution to the Palestine question.
Neither came out for an immediate decision
on the problem that has brought the entire
Palestine issue to a climax —the problem of
hundreds of thousands of Jewish D.Ps. [“dis-
placed persons”] in Europe who want to migrate
to the Holy Land.
The problem, also, it should be said,
of dealing with the emphatic Arab objec-
tions on that very issue of immigration.
Arab and Jew Aims
In its barest essentials, the Zionist aim
is unlimited immigration into Palestine
at once, to bring about a Jewish majority
there; the Arab aim is to halt immigra-
tion and have Palestine immediately
established an independent State, which
would mean retaining an Arab majority
of about two to one; 1,200,000 Arabs to
600,000 Jews. As reported by N.Y.
“Times,” Palestine terrorist leader Beigin,
in a “clandestine discussion” with the
Richmond (U.S.A.) “ Times-Dispatch."
“HERE, YOU TRY IT!”
chairman of the U.N.O. investigation
commission, stated the following aims:
(1) Abolition of the British occupation.
(2) Transfer of power to “a democratic rep-
resentative body of our [Jewish] people,”
(3) “Repatriation” to Palestine, with the aid
of an international body, of all Jews wishing
to transfer.
(4) Holding of “democratic general elections
after ‘repatriation’ is completed.”
(5) Obtaining of an international loan for
the development of the soil for use of Jews
and needy Arab peasants.
“Christian Science Monitor,” which
has paid more attention to the Arab case
than have most American papers, recently
published an interview with Lebanese
Foreign Minister Frangieh, who said on
behalf of the six Arab countries of
Lebanon, Syria, Egypt, Iraq, Saudi Arabia
and Yemen:
The Arab Governments are convinced they
have the right, in fact, the duty, to do their
utmost to ensure the safety of their peoples
and to repel any aggression with which they
are confronted.... should the Jews persist in
pressing their ambitions or should they suc-
ceed in establishing a [Jewish] State.
The Arab States will not stop at an economic
or political boycott, but will in their turn take
effective and positive measures to return the
country to its lawful owners.
Furthermore, this Jewish State which the Jews
are striving to establish cannot hope to survive
indefinitely. On political and economic grounds
this alien element in language, habits, attitudes
and methods will permanently alienate the
Arabs, who, prompted by the feeling of injustice
suffered by them, will seek a favorable oppor-
tunity to retrieve what they may have lost.
The Arab States demand: —
(1) That all Jewish immigration into Palestine
be stopped forthwith.
(2) That there be no relaxation of laws which
limited Jewish land buying.
(3) That there be immediately established an
independent Arab Government without delay.
They also declare their belief that partition
of Palestine [into Arab and Jewish States] will
not solve the problem, but on the contrary will
make it more complicated.
The only possible and reliable settlement,
which at the same time constitutes a compro-
mise on the part of the Arabs, is to regard
every Jew who has lawfully obtained Pales-
tinian citizenship, despite Arab opposition, as
equal in rights and duties to Arab inhabitants
of the country and on that basis to set up an
independent national Government on the basis
of proportional representation.
Armed-action Threats
Reporting that interview, the “Monitor”
Beirut correspondent added:
It is incontestably clear that at present the
situation is worsening rapidly. Although the
problem inside Palestine is most dramatic,
that immediately outside the Holy Land’s
borders is also worth the closest attention.
The correspondent reported the general
situation as “tense,” with “open threats
of Arab armed action against the Jews.”
At the same time (July 28) the N.Y.
“Times” correspondent in Jerusalem re-
ported the Syrian Premier as stating:
A partition of Palestine or establishment of
a Jewish State would sound the signal for
general agitation throughout the Near East,
with incalculable consequences.
Since the World War ended the Arabs
had been till recently strangely quiet, so
that the whole trouble in Palestine was
made to appear a clash between Jews
and British. Cables on August 12 re-
ported the worsening Arab-Jew clashes,
which have lately been growing in vio-
lence.
Also indicating the general tension as
observed by correspondents on the spot,
a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” representative
in Jerusalem has reported;
Security officers of the Palestine Jewish com-
munity are banking on one and maybe two
military divisions of American Jews in case
the United Nations Holy Land settlement should
leave a young Jewish State faced with an Arab
war of aggression.
It should be added regarding that clos-
ing note that a “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent in Palestine has been often
anti-British, hence pro-Jewish, and hence
again anti-Arab; and to this should
further be added the cabled comment of
the “Herald Tribune” on the murder of
the British sergeants: “The cause of
Zionism faces a disaster which it would
be folly to disguise.” Conscience is be-
coming a notable corrector in more than
one quarter in America, where the stric-
ture of the Archbishop of York is found
impossible to answer and hard to shake
off.
In the editorial from which that brief
“facing disaster” extract was cabled, N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” (August 2) also said:
“However one may sympathise with the
Jewish people for their delays and dis-
appointments the events of the last few
days have revealed a barbarism in the
terrorist mind which threatens to com-
promise a great cause.” The editorial
quoted the Palestine Jewish Agency de-
scription of the killing of the sergeants
—“the dastardly murder of two innocent
men by a set of criminals”—and asserted
that the U.S. “should share in full with
Great Britain responsibility for Pales-
tine.”
“Christian Scieq.ce Monitor” com-
mented on the murder of the sergeants
and America’s share of responsibility:
It would be well if all who have supported
the Zionist cause—particularly American agita-
tors and irresponsible politicians—could more
sharply dissociate themselves from terrorism
in Palestine. For without indirect support from
many who would not engage in such barbarity
directly, but consciously or unconsciously incite
it and accept its help, terrorism on the present
scale could not go on, ,
As a further sign of the dawning sense
of responsibility, a N.Y. “Times” staff
writer has stated;
The inconsistency between what we [Ameri-
cans] demand of others and what we are
willing to do ourselves is highlighted by a
comparison of the number of immigrants
allowed to enter Palestine legally right now and
the number received in the U.S. under the
quota system. Under the restrictions of the
hated White Paper, still in operation, 18,000
Jews are permitted to settle annually in the
Holy Land, a tiny and barren country with
a population around 2,000,000. The average
annual immigration into the United States since
1929 is hardly more than twice as much, 40,000,
and this includes people of all nationalities and
denominations who scatter over a territory of
continental extent, vast resources and many
thinly-settled areas.
Plan That Was Shelved
Another interesting comment —touch-
ing on inconsistency and responsibility—
has been made in a “Christian Science
Monitor” article by Major William Yale,
who has had many years of service as a
U.S. Department of State representative
in Palestine, Egypt, Turkey and other
countries of the Near and Middle East.
Major Yale wrote:
The U.S. President and the Secretary of State
have not announced a policy with respect to
Palestine. The President has not repudiated
the promises made to the Arabs by Mr. Roose-
velt. He has, however, by advocating the
admission of 100,000 Jews to Palestine, made
a peaceful and compromise solution far more
difficult.
The tragedy of the Palestine situation lies
in the fact that a highly-organised minority
group in the United States has been able to
exert such political pressure that a proposal
for a reasonable and compromise solution has
been shelved.
The shaping of an American Palestine policy
is not in the hands of the Department of State.
By promises and commitments to the Zionists,
the President is shaping the Palestinian policy.
This he has done without informing the Ameri-
can people of the price they will have to pay
for a Palestinian policy which ignores the Arabs
and favors the Zionists.
The adoption of such a policy would be
fraught with dangers for the United States
and for a variety of important American in-
terests in the Near and Middle East. It is now
clear that Great Britain cannot possibly bear
the burdens inherent in enforcing a pro-Zionist
policy. It is certain that the United States
will have to assume the financial and military
responsibilities of such a policy.
In his article Major Yale gave details
of the shelved compromise solution, of
which more may be heard:
A primary fact about Palestine is that there
can be no solution without compromise. Yet


SMOKERS
Direct from Manufacturer to You
Special money-saving offer of high-
class toasted pipe tobaccos blended
with the best imported tobaccos.
RICH DARK MEDIUM PIPE
MIXTURE, 15/- per lb. Posted.
MEDIUM HIGH-CUASS PIPE
MIXTURE, 13/6 per lb. Posted.
HIGH-CUASS TOASTED READY-
RUBBED PINE CUT TOBACCO,
17/- per lb. Posted.
Make your post box your nearest store.
Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
BY ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
You are invited to inspect our New and Enlarged
Secondhand Book Department.
This department comprises many thousands of
secondhand volumes of Travel, Biography, Theology,
Art, Australiana, etc. Also a special selection of
Novels offered at 2/6 per volume.
If unable to call write for our special novel list and
a copy will be posted to you free of charge.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Rtl'tf'
BLOTCH t
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder. 533
_ - hopeful plans to compose
hptwppn Arabs and Jews never has
the conflict between Araos an today,
£ w ** «
rf’yraS'Sf'Sort. ° But 1 just as it was about
to be presented as one of several al ernatives
for a Palestine solution, it was by
a development of Zionism as a domestic
political issue in the United States.
The plan approached the problem with the
understanding that rival populations are so
distributed that Palestine cannot be divided
into two self-governing Jewish and Arab
geographical areas. The drafters of the pla ,
however, perceived that, for the most part,
Arab's and Jews live in separate communities.
This is basically true with the exception of the
two cities of Jerusalem and Haifa. Since, for
the most part, the villages, the towns, and
cities are almost exclusively either Arab or
Jewish, a political division rather than the
geographical division was proposed.
Jewish Governments would be established
in Jewish communities; Arab Governments in
the Arab communities. _ There would be only
slight need for population transfers. The two
metropolitan centres would remain under some
form of joint, or mandated, control.
Provision for dealing with the problems of
immigration and land transfer would be in-
cluded.
In Palestine today there exist Jewish political
organisations which legally have many of the
functions of a Government, and which illegally
have assumed other Governmental functions.
In fact, there is in Palestine a Jewish Govern-
ment within a Government. Gradually the
Arabs are developing organisations which are
on the way toward an Arab regime within a
regime.
It would be a logical development to give
legal recognition to an Arab Government and
to a Jewish Government, each having juris-
diction over those communities, villages, towns
and cities which are predominantly Arab or
Jewish. With wide measures of self-government,
such Arab and Jewish government could be
established under general control and super-
vision of a United Nations trusteeship.
All such planning is a far remove from
President Truman’s endorsement of
Zionist claims for the immediate admis-
sion of 100,000 Jews into Palestine; an
endorsement announced just previous to
the Congressional elections last year,
when winning—or trying to win—those
elections was a more pressing considera-
tion than American responsibility for any
consequences in the Middle East. With
such responsibility now better realised,
the official U.S. policy on whatever
alternative plan or plans the investigation
commission presents to U.N.O. next
month should mark a decided change
from the long-enjoyed luxury,of heaving
spanners and abuse at the British manage-
ment.
MIDDLE EAST OIL.
Against the widespread view of the
U.S.A. as a land flowing with oil and
money, there is, in regard to the oil,
President Truman’s statement:
We [U.S.] are faced with the danger of a
shortage of petroleum products. The United
States is now using more oil each day than did
the entire world before the war.
To overcome this shortage Uncle Sam
has pegged out his claims, and is buttress-
ing them with power, in the Middle East,
where, as a “Christian Science Monitor”
correspondent puts it, “under the shifting,
timeless sands there is oil more abundant,
perhaps, than in all the United States
combined”:
The modern Aladdins are business executives
who live in cloud-piercing skyscrapers in New
York and California. They are frockcoated
financiers who travel about with the birds, in
swooping airplanes, and the genie they have
unleashed by rubbing their lamp is Mediter-
ranean power politics, in a world that has the
atom bomb.
The “Monitor” correspondent com-
mented on the way the U.S. State Depart-
ment “appears to follow, not lead, the
pioneering of American corporations in
the far corners of the world,” and added:
Let there be no mistake, the wealth buried
under the hot sands of feudal Arabia, on which
far-off American executives have first option, is
one of the prize possessions of power politics.
The quiet widow who owns a few shares of
Texas Corporation stock now has a stake in
Ibn Saud’s medieval kingdom, where Wall-
street and Mecca meet. Standard of California
and the Texas Company own all the stock of
the Arabian-American Company, which latter
has an oil concession of 162,000,000 acres,
embracing all Saudi Arabia’s probable oil ter-
ritory.
But that isn’t all. Standard of California
and Texas own between them the Bahrein
Petroleum Company, which operates on Bahrein
Island in the Persian Gulf. Then there are
British concessions, and those of other coun-
tries. Russia casts a covetous eye over the
territory, knocking at the gates of Greece and
Turkey. The U.S. Navy took much of its
oil for the Pacific war from this wealthiest of
all remaining oil fields; one report says it is
drawing one-third of all its fuel from this area
now.
Under the heading “Oil Draws U.S.
Into the Middle East to Stay,” “World
Report” describes what is happening as
“sensational.” At least half a billion
dollars of private capital from American
industry, it states, is pouring into the
Middle East: “A gigantic deal involving
seven oil companies, four of them Ameri-
can, is releasing this torrent of dollars.”
In this the “finishing touches are being
applied to a grand scheme that will divide
the oil of the world between the Western
and Eastern hemispheres.”
The output of U.S. and Caribbean
wells would then be reserved for North
and South America, while the “expanded
output of the Middle East —more than
90 per cent, of it controlled by British
and U.S. interests —is to take over the
European market, and have some surplus
for distribution elsewhere.” Commenting
that “once the U.S. becomes firmly en-
tronobed in th : s explosive area, American
relations with Britain, France and
KEEPERS OF THE KEYS.
Russia will fall into a new pattern, and
on an additional front for years to come
the U.S. is to face Soviet Russia,”
“World Report” gives these details:
Four hundred million dollars is going into
Saudi Arabia, the kingdom of Ibn Saud, where
U.S. firms have a monopoly over proved re-
serves of oil estimated at five billion barrels.
Potential reserves are guessed to be many times
that.
The new dollars are to build a thousand-
mile pipeline from the Persian _ Gulf to
the Mediterranean, probably terminating in
Lebanon. Some of the dollars are to go into
storage and refining facilities, and some into
development of a deepwater port on the Gulf
side. Late in 1949, when the pipeline is finished,
the oil of Arabia and neighboring Bahrein
Island can flow to the Mediterranean at the
rate of 300,000 barrels a day.
A hundred million dollars, or more, is to
go into countries of the Middle East where
America’s oil stake, up to now, has been less
important than in Arabia. Thus, U.S. capital
is to finance half the cost of laying a pipeline
to the Mediterranean from Iran, long restricted
to Britain’s Anglo-Iranian Oil Company. And
more U.S. dollars are going into Iraq, whose
oil is controlled jointly by British, French,
Dutch and U.S. firms. The expenditure in
•Iraq is also to construct a pipeline, in this
instance to parallel an existing line to the
Mediterranean.
Flow of oil from the Middle East through
these overland lines, when all are in operation
about five years hence, will approximate a
million barrels a day. By contrast, the present
line from Iraq pumps only 90,000 barrels a day.
But since current output in the whole area
is less than a milliipn barrels a day, an in-
crease in production is part of the plan. Some
of the dollars are going into the Middle East
for this purpose. And as production and
markets grow, it is expected that still more
dollars will flow into the region in order to
finance more intensive exploitation. Within
six or seven years, oil men anticipate, produc-
tion in the Middle East will be at least double
its 1946 rate of 700,000 barrels a day.
Actually, a slice of the half-billion dollar
investment already has taken effect in Saudi
Arabia and Iraq. Contracts for steel for the
Arabian line have been awarded to U.S. mills.
In Iraq construction is under way.
Thus Uncle Sam now has a big stake to
guard in “a region which has for cen-
turies been one of the world’s trouble
spots,”
One group that must be looking on
with some misgivings is the Zionists, who
might well have nightmares regarding
possible unannounced understandings
with the Arabs. Failing such under-
standings, U.S. oil interests might have
the nightmares, in the event of any
U.N.O, move on Palestine provoking the
Arabs into action. On that prospect a
N.Y. “Times” Jerusalem correspondent
has reported:
Oil men #re concerned about the security
of the present and future British and American
oil pipelines through Arab territories. “Inci-
dents” are expected. When an Arab news-
paper man in Lebanon heard recently that
Jewish terrorists had again blasted the Iraq
petroleum line near Haifa, he said: “The Arabs
will blow it up all across the desert. The Arabs
were the first to think of sabotaging the pipe-
line.”
The Arab newspaper man was, of
course, thinking of past American pro-
Zionist pronouncements on Palestine,
made regardless of the Arab hold on the
Middle East’s ocean of oil.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Dog Licks Belly. —Victor Andreyevich Krav-
chenko, the Russian industrial engineer who
walked out of his job with the Soviet Pur-
chasing Commission in Washington and after-
wards wrote I Chose Freedom, told the Con-
gress Un-American Activities Committee the
other day that Russia’s policy made war “in-
evitable” ; that Moscow was pouring out
“material, manpower and money to get the
atomic bomb”; and that all “responsible”
Soviet representatives in the U.S. may be re-
garded as economic or political spies.” That
testimony having been brought to his notice,
Soviet U.N.O. delegate Gromyko spoke the
parable: “When a dog has nothing to do, it
licks its underbelly. Sometimes this attracts
spectators.” To which Mr. Kravchenko re-
sponded; “I wish to say when the dog does
what Mr. Gromyko describes, it does it for
its own pleasure. But Mr. Gromyko, in order
to please the Kremlin, is forced to do to all
the members of the Politburo what the dog
does for itself.” Please, Mr. Gromyko, bait
him again!
♦ * * *
Best Way in Greece. —Advice to Uncle Sam
as he steps into Greece; quoted in N.Y.
“World-Telegram” from a letter written by “a
successful American who has spent a lifetime
knocking around the world and who has lived
through too many crises to be appalled by the
present one”: “If we went into Greece with
the dominant aim of creating a democracy and
soundly reviving or better establishing real
capitalism based entirely on the theory of
helping the Greeks and not on any idea of
preserving what remnants of economic colonial-
ism that still exist there and if we could
succeed in doing it —we’d stop Communism
throughout the Balkans in its tracks. The
people are Communists or go Communist be-
cause they want things—seeds, bridges, roads,
sewers, and goods in the little crossroads stores.
For over 10 years they have had practically
nothing. Get that going and the boys in the
hills will race back to get in line and start
farming again or tending their goats.”
* * * *
One-time Sovereign Lands. —In his N.Y. “Sun”
column, George E. Sokolsky has dug up an
interesting fragment of fairly recent history;
concerning nations which met in London in
July, 1933, their main business being (of all
things, for them) defining aggression; “They
were Rumania,, Estonia, Latvia, Poland, Turkey,
Soviet Russia, Persia and Afghanistan. Of
these countries Estonia and Latvia have dis-
appeared ; Rumania and Poland are puppet
States; Persia has become Iran and a battle-
ground ; Turkey is the ward of the United
States; and we know nothing about Afghanistan.
Yet, back in 1933, they were proud and
sovereign and concerned with definitions,” on
aggression, of which they’ve had plenty—from
one of themselves!
* * * *
U.S. Congress. —ln its first session (it’s now
in recess) the present U.S. Congress (the
Eightieth) got through these jobs, among
others: $250,000,000 economic and military aid
to Greece, $150,000,000 to Turkey (Greece
asked for the aid; Ttirkey didn’t). $332,000,000
for relief to Greece, Italy, Austria, Trieste and
China (but relief to Soviet-dominated Hungary
and Poland barred), $75,000,000 for care of
displaced persons in Europe (but no action
on the Stratton bill to admit 400,000 displaced
persons into the U.S. during the next four
years regardless of quotas). Senate ratified
peace treaties with Italy, Hungary, Rumania
and Bulgaria. The Taft-Hartley Act (revising
the Wagner Act of 1935) imposed many re-
strictions on unions (overriding the President’s
veto). U.S. Army and Navy were united in a
single national defence organisation under one
Cabinet Secretary. The Speaker of the House
(Joseph W. Martin) and the Senate president
pro tempore (Arthur H. Vandenberg) were
placed first and second in line to succeed to
the Presidency when there is no Vice-President.
A Constitutional amendment to limit future
Presidents to two terms was submitted to the
States, with the certainty that the necessary
three-fourths of them would ratify.
* * * *
Marshall Plan Prospects. Reporting from
Paris on the Marshall plan discussions, N.Y.
“Times” correspondent Lansing Warren states
that “the consensus among economic experts
is that the West can manage on its own”;
that is, without Russia and its Eastern European
satellites. “There is nothing economically to
prevent the 16 countries represented from so
balancing their production and exchanges by
self-help that judicious use of United States
credit can revive their collective economy in
the next four years.” Those countries will be
deprived of Poland’s coal, Rumania’s oil, the
large wheat and food production of the Danube
Valley, Yugoslavia’s copper and Czecho-
slovakia’s and Austria’s manufactures, all of
which would be valuable assets. Against that,
however, there will be “the elimination of
pressing needs of all those badly war-wrecked
economies,” which could be very costly. It is
quite certain that U.S. Congress will not vote
a single dollar for any of them.
* * * *
Wars’ Beginnings.—' “Wall-street Journal” Ber-
lin correspondent on the failure in Germany :
“Wars, however old-fashioned it may sound
(and it is old-fashioned in about the same
degree as the teachings of Christ), have their
beginnings in the hearts of men. And no
matter how much war potential you remove
or relocate, there will be no hope of peace
as long as the hearts of men in Germany par-
ticularly and Europe generally continue to be
filled with suppressed rage, self-pity and bitter-
ness The imposition of a Christian instead
of a more or less barbaric control on Germany
might have been an experiment at least worth
making in this regard.” On which the ‘ Jour-
nal” commented: “We went to teach the Ger-
mans, but we did not take our morals with us.


It
1
I
%
:
*
a
e*3
rO
3V
CR*-
S:
you build
or buy a home
consult The
MIX
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or
Representative.
MLC
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co.Lfd.
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH:
1 79a St. George’s
Terrace.
HOBART:
Bank of Australasia
Chambers, Elizabeth and
Collins Streets.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.):
M.L.C. Building, Lambton
Quay.


The Bulletin
Vok. 68— No. 3523
Wednesday, August 20, 1947
BLOWING THE HOUSE DOWN.
“We’ll have to try it from another angle, Chif. This time you huff and I’ll puff.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
. Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
ONE THREAT AVERTED.
Local Government as a British institu-
tion has its roots in half-written history.
Centuries before the first English Parlia-
ments began their long struggle to curb
the power of the King scores of towns
and boroughs had gained the control of
their own affairs in greater or less degree.
These rights, jealously guarded, .grew
with the passing of the years and, during
the 19th century, were codified in Britain
and Australia under Local Government
Acts.
Until “Labor” came along it had
long been accepted as axiomatic that, in
matters of local import, men living in
a particular locality, and thus having a
personal interest in its problems and its
progress, could give more useful service*
to its affairs than paid Government
servants. It was from this very conviction
that Local Government sprang. But in
“Labor” Australia this sturdy tradition
has come in for the contempt which
“Labor” feels for all sturdy traditions
inconsistent with rule by a centralised
Caucus and bureaucracy.
Federal “Labor” in particular regards
all forms of government not emanat-
ing from the party room at Can-
berra as effete survivals from a benighted
past that knew not “Labor.” It
showed what it thought of Local Gov-
ernment by decreeing, without consulta-
tion, that all local authorities, from city
councils to remote shires, should hence-
forth conduct all their banking business
through the Commonwealth Bank. It
impudently argued that the order was
not aimed at the municipalities or the
State Governments included in it, but
was “an attack on the trading banks.”
The answer of the municipalities, to which
the Melbourne City Council gave an
honorable lead (the Sydney City Council
sidestepped the argument), was that to the
extent that the ukase interfered with their
freedom of action it was a blow at civil
liberties and at the right of councils to
conduct their affairs as they thought fit.
And the Full High Court, in a memor-
able judgment, has upheld the municipali-
ties and the two State Governments asso-
ciated with them, those of South Aus-
tralia and Westralia, by declaring section
48 of the “Labor” Banking Act unconsti-
tutional, and so “invalid” and “void.”
So one felon blow at Local Govern-
ment has been averted. But in N. S.
Wales another threat to it remains.
It has long been the desire of
“Labor” czars in N.S.W. to gather Local
Government into the party net. In 1931
when he was Minister of Local Govern-
ment in the third Lang Government, Mr.
McKell brought in a Greater Sydney Bill.
The fall of his then chief threw it into
the discard. But three years ago the
McKell Government, turning aside a
moment from proud contemplation
of its war-time love-child the Sydney
Turf Club, bethought itself of the
waif deserted 13 years before.
A brief history of “Labor’s” Greater
Sydney “scheme” from then on is in-
formative, though not at all surprising to
anyone familiar with the twists and turns
of N.S.W. “Labor.”
The County of Cumberland, stretching
from Sydney towards the Blue Mountains
to include Penrith and Richmond, north
to the Hawkesbury and south to the
Shires of Bulli and Wollondilly, in-
cludes 69 municipalities with a population
of a million and a half. When the Sydney
Government proposed to centralise
control of these municipalities by “elimi-
nating” most and “amalgamating” others
the Local Government Association urged
a royal commission of inquiry. This was
agreed to, the Commissioners appointed
being Judge Clancy, Mr. Haviland
(Assistant Under-Secretary of the Local
Government Department) and Mr. Storey
(Mayor of Drummoyne). After 10
months‘they presented different findings.
The Haviland plan provided for eight
cities —one of them, Greater Sydney,, to
include 39 existing councils between
Manly and George’s River and westward
to Homebush. Mr. Storey recommended
37 municipalities and Judge Clancy 18.
The Government decided to adopt the
eight-city plan—if a fourth Commissioner
had produced a six- or five-city plan it
would probably have taken that. Natur-
ally there were protests, and a referendum
was asked for. This Minister Cahill re-
fused. But in reply to further protests
—there was- a State election on the
horizon—he announced his willingness to
defer the whole thing in the hope that
“the Local Government Association”
would be “able to see him at an early
date with some unanimity.”
In order to sound the feeling of all
councils the association arranged 12
group conferences to discuss the plans;
Only three agreed to any of the plans.
, On June 9, the McGirr Government
having in the meantime survived the visit
to the country, Minister Cahill told the
association that (a) he was going ahead
with the amalgamations, ( b ) he was will-
ing to consider other proposals from the
association provided they were received
within ten days and (c) anything less than
the Storey plan would be “unacceptable.”
As the association had already con-
vened a meeting of all councils for June
20, 11 days later, it asked for an extra
day. The Minister said 10 days was the
absolute limit; this on a matter that had
been in abeyance for months.
Realising that “Labor” was determined
to go ahead with some kind of “plan” the
association executive, in an effort to save
something from the wreck, reluctantly
recommended adoption of the Storey
plan, with certain modificatiohs. This re-
commendation brought no response for a
couple of weeks; then, out of a hat or
a dustbin or somewhere the Minister
produced his own “compromise plan.”
It made provision for 14 “cities,”
that of Greater Sydney to extend from
Middle Harbor to Botany Bay, absorbing
30 existing councils, but excluding Banks-
town (Mr. McGirr’s electorate) and Can-
terbury (of which Mr. Parry, a “good-as-
Labor” M.L.C. under a cloud, was
Mayor), although those two places are
nearer to the Harbor than some of the
councils eliminated.
This plan, Mr. Cahill announced, would
be brought before Parliament next
session. He wanted it “finalised” in time
for the municipal elections in November,
voting at which the Government proposed
to make compulsory.
To inquiries as to why “Labor” hadn’t
mentioned the “scheme” during the
Assembly election campaign Mr. Cahill
replied along these lines: Liberal candi-
dates had opposed the amalgamations;
the Liberal party had failed to secure a
majority; therefore “Labor” had a man-
date to go ahead with the “scheme.” This
specious argument deceived no one. In
the Lane Cove electorate the Liberal can-
didate, Mr. McCaw, had come out strongly
against the amalgamations and had won
the seat from a strong “Labor” member.
In Mosman P. H. Morton, an ex-Mayor
and a leading opponent of the massacre
of the councils, got a big majority over
a “Labor”-supported Independent.
To the repeated suggestion of a
referendum the Minister bleated that
the Government had no power to
order one. It could give itself
,the power in as short a time as it
will take to pass its Salary Grab Bill,
another item to which silence on the
hustings apparently gave the people’s con-
sent. But “Labor” passes the referendum
buck only when it wants to shelter behind
the people, as in the case of the Liquor
Poll; when it is a question of deciding
what is good for the people “Labor”
alone is the judge and the sole criterion
is what is good for “Labor.”
The coming session of Parliament will
see an attempt to pass an Act “imple-
menting” the 14-city plan. The McGirrs
are sure of their numbers in the
Assembly, but doubtful of the position in
the Council, especially as Mr. Parry has
“gone to Suva” —or somewhere. And
municipalities opposing the massacre will
be inspired to increased resistance by the
High Court judgment freeing them from
one attempted exercise of “Labor”
tyranny.
If the Cahill bill goes through there
will be an end to Local Government,
other than a “Labor” mockery of it, in
the County of Cumberland. Party
politics will take control, with, if
“Labor” can manage it, a plague of
paid bureaucrats administering affairs to
the greater glory of “Labor,” And there
will be no reduction of administrative
costs to ratepayers. On the contrary,
there will be a massive increase in ad-
ministrative costs, for every employee of
the councils to be scrapped is to be
guaranteed continuance of employment,
even if he has nothing to do but swat
flies and wear out the seat of his pants.
The Change in India.
Last Friday Britain’s Indian Empire, “the
brightest jqwel in the Imperial Crown,”
ceased to exist, and India itself became
twin self-governing Dominions within the
British Commonwealth of Nations. The
event occurs just 90 years after the
Mutiny and 70 years after Queen Victoria
had assumed the title of Empress.
The old prophecy that the British would
be out of India by the time the
centenary of the Mutiny arrived
may thus receive some vindication
among extremists. It is not literally
true, for Britain pledged itself 30 years
ago to prepare the way for self-
government as something earned by
India’s support of the Empire’s struggle
during the First World War. * Nor is it
yet clear that the changes inaugurated
entail so much the departure of British
influence from India as the introduction
of India into the brotherhood of the
British Commonwealth.
This is by far the greatest of all British
experiments in the extension of full
democratic liberty within the King’s
realm. It is still full of hazards. Whether
the new Dominions will be content within
the association which satisfies the other
members of the British community of
nations remains to be discovered. Of this
community Canada is far away, and the
three Dominions in the southern hemi-
sphere have been vitally concerned to
preserve their racial and economic in-
tegrity from Asiatic infiltration.
With India and Pakistan the natural
pull is towards Asiatic connections rather
than towards the Britains beyond the seas,
but it does not necessarily follow that the
one association promises greater harmony
than the other. It was noted by British
observers at the Inter-Asian Relations
conference that “differences exist in Asia
as deep as those in other continents”:
Indonesia, Ceylon,. Burma, Malaya, all
expressed profound misgivings about Indian
and Chinese migration and economic pene-
tration. They made it abundantly clear
that they Vere not anxious to shake off
Western Imperialism in order to find them-
selves placed under closer and more strin-
gent control by great Asiatic neighbors.
Something of the same sort appeared
during the closing months of the long
dispute in India about partition. Mr.
Jinnah’s insistence upon separate identity
for Pakistan won the day partly on the
implied stand for minority rights, which
was assured of great sympathy in Britain
and in many parts of India, and partly
on the formidable argument that the
Moslem community was not going to
work for the withdrawal of the British
Raj in order that a dominating Hindu
Raj might supplant it.
There is a vast amount of sediment
yet to settle in the cauldron before the
new political concoction can be usefully
analysed. For the moment Mr. Jinnah’s
victory looks to be greater than that
gained by Pandit Nehru, He is both
head of the Pakistan Constitutional
Assembly and Governor-General; is as
much the personification of the new State
as he was of the Moslem League. To his
Pakistan the North - West Frontier
Province elected to join itself by an un-
expectedly emphatic majority. His food
resources are ample, and he is holding,
on this ground, useful bargaining cards
against the Inman Dominion. His State
is enthusiastically welcomed throughout
the Mohammedan world, with which the
Western democracies, in their own in-
terests, are intent upon improving ties of
friendship. The current rioting in the
Punjab and in Bengal is against Partition
Council decisions which have upheld
Moslem rather than Hindu objectives.
On the Hindu side, the Dominion of
India has received numerical, if not
political, reinforcement from the adher-
ence of all the more powerful Indian
princely States. Even the long-hesitating
Hyderabad, whose Nizam is the chief
Mohammedan ruler in India (though his
subjects are predominantly Hindu), and
which has long had specially close associa-
tions with the British, has decided to join
India. The access in population repre-
sented by the native States’ adherence
compensates India in numbers for the
separation of the Moslem regions.
What Gandhi calls “the erstwhile
enemy” has done its best for both com-
munities. Its troops were due to
begin their withdrawal on Sunday, with
ceremonial farewell parades. It is leaving
behind high and experienced officexs
to initiate the services of the two
Dominions in their new careers, Field-
Marshal Lord Auchinleck is supreme
commander of the two armies, each with
a British General at its head, and Lord
Mountbatten, Governor-General of the
Indian Dominion, is also chairman of the
joint Defence Council. Another British
General, who commanded the 19th Indian
Division in Burma, directs a special
neutral Indian force to maintain law and
order in the districts along the new
boundary in the Punjab, where the Sikhs
count themselves the unhappiest party in
the Indian partition. ,
If the statesmanlike provision for the
interim Governments is preserved, there
will continue to be joint meetings of the
two Cabinets to consider questions of
common concern. Two such matters are
likely to be the control of widespread
communal unrest and the co-ordination
of policy in foreign affairs.
But neither of the new Dominion Gov-
ernments is likely to have very much
time —or influence—to expend on foreign
affairs just yet. The riots in Bengal and
the Punjab will afford a serious test of
the authority of the new Administrations,
especially of that in Delhi; and they will
be exacerbated by the critical food short-
ages in Calcutta and Bombay. I n the
first of these regions conditions are worse
than at any time since the Bengal famine
of three years ago, and the prospect of
importing cereals is bleaker than it was
then. In the Bombay coastal areas the
poor monsoonal season is causing alarm
Moreover Mr. Nehru has to combat an
incipient revolt within the Congress party
of the growing Communist groyp Its
leader, intensely anti-British, is Sarat
Chandra Bose, brother of that quisling
who raised the “Indian National Army”
to support the Japanese in Burma; and
its avowed object is the formation’ of a
“Union of Indian Socialist Republics.”
It will be interesting to observe whether
Mr. Nehru includes the Russian as one
of those “foreign armies” which arfe not
to be tolerated on Asian soil. There
is little doubt as to how Mr. Jinnah,
though he may use different words, re-
gards the Red Army and its agents. ’
In all the jubilation over the British
departure it deserves to be remem-
bered that but for Britain, the British
Dominions and their allies there would
have been no Indian freedom with self-
government, but subjection under Japan.
The threat, thus dispelled, of a Japanese
yoke is not the last one that can come
out of Asia to dismay the peoples of
India and other countries.
Ignominious Retreat.
Mr. A. E. Monk is secretary of the
A.C.T.U., that facing-all-ways concern
which, “created in May, 1927, to function
on behalf of the trade-unions of the
Commonwealth,” and with “the socialisa-
tion of industry” as its “objective”
(“Official Year-book”), has laid it down
in August, 1947, that “free or private
enterprise, in the past and at present, is
the major avenue for providing work.”
On August 5, after “a [Sydney] con-
ference of Federal unions convened by
the A.C.T.U.,” Mr. Monk conveyed to
a party of newspaper reporters that “the
conference lasted 2j hours and the de-
cisions were unanimous.” “The de-
cisions”:—
We declare our complete opposition to
Dutch imperialist aims in Indonesia, and
we condemn the Dutch war of aggression
against the Indonesian people. We call
upon all trade-unionists to refuse to assist
in any way whatever the movement of any
Dutch goods or the repair, refuelling
and/or movement of any Dutch trans-
port, vessel, vehicle or aircraft in or
adjacent to this Commonwealth,
On August 14 there was another “con-
ference of Federal trade-unions convened
by the A.C.T.U.,” and when the delegates
dispersed Mr. Monk again informed
the reporters that “the decisions were
unanimous.” The “decisions” this time
were that the ban should be restricted
to “ships carrying munitions or service
personnel for use of the Dutch against
the Indonesians,” Mr. Chifley having
“delivered a blunt warning” that a boy-
cott of Dutch ships from the Netherlands
carrying essential commodities from
Europe and India to this country-
linseed oil, jute, window glass and the
like —and picking up wool, sheepskins,
wheat and mineral concentrates would
“seriously disrupt the Australian
economy.” But Mr. Chifley presumably
gave his blessing the “modified” boy-
cott, while instructing his Security Council
delegate to pose as an “impartial” arbi-
trator between the Indonesians and the
Dutch.
The Dutch are a stubborn people,
not lacking in a sense of humor, and
they must be laughing grimly at the
discomfiture of the “ ‘impartial’ Govern-
ment” and its A.C.T.U.
Without waiting for the “modification”
to take effect, a Dutch vessel in Sydney
Harbor pulled out for New Zealand.
Why should it go there? Because the
Minister of Labor, expressing friend-
ship for “the Dutch and. Indonesian
peoples,” said “a statement that Dutch
ships will not be permitted to enter New
Zealand ports is without foundation.”
His Government had that day introduced
a bill providing for “compulsory secret
ballots among members of a union before
a decision is made to strike”; penalties,
in case of a strike without a ballot,
£2O for every official and member.
In the U.S.A. under the new Taft-
Hartley Act, unions are denied investi-
gation of complaints unless .they file a
sWorn affidavit by each official stating
that he is not a member of the Com-
munist party or any affiliation. No U.S.
union or group of unions would have
dared to pass such a resolution as Com-
munists forced on the “moderates” of the
A.C.T.U. The law has other provisions
outlawing “jurisdictional” strikes, requir-
ing union balance sheets and' protecting
the individual unionist at the point of his
job. It was alleged in reports published in
Australia that its promulgation would
be followed by nation-wide strikes. None
has come to light; on the contrary, the
Government, fortified in its foreign re-
lations by uninterrupted production, has
proceeded from strength to strength.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defeat and Desperate Threat
The High Court’s judgment in the bank-
ing case was, and is, a dreadful facer
for the Prime Minister and his Attorney-
General, who is also Minister of External
Affairs, and they have given notice of
retaliation in their muddled and forcible-
feeble fashion.
These gentlemen and their associates
have never had reason to complain of
the Court’s interpretation of the defence
power, which has been liberal in the ex-
treme. In their Banking Act they and
their Caucus tried to go beyond the vast
authority they have exercised, directly
and indirectly, and often arrogantly and
unwisely—tried to compel State Govern-
ments and local-government authorities
to do all their banking with the Com-
monwealth Bank. That institution showed
itself much too eager to accept the in-
vidious position assigned to it and, in
addition to gathering in accounts from
municipalities resigning themselves, as
they thought, to the inevitable, blithely
announced a vast extension of branches
and building—this to the bitter indigna-
tion of houseless servicemen.
To municipalities which had not trans-
ferred their accounts, orders were issued
by Mr. Chifley that they must, and that
while his precious measure was under
challenge, the Court having heard argu-
ment and reserved its decision.
In a majority judgment (5 to 1) their
Honors pronounced the compelling sec-
tion (48) unconstitutional, in effect hold-
ing State Governments and local bodies
free to make their own banking arrange-
ments without centralised coercion.
The dissent came from Justice Me-.
(Tiernan, who laid down the remarkable
proposition that “Section 48 is valid even
if it interferes with the freedom of the
States to select bankers and arrange loans
and overdrafts.” Justice Williams, how-
ever, declared that it must fail because it
“clearly discriminated against the States
and their agencies,” and in respect of
the States violated the Financial Agree-
ment. Said Justice Starke “The States
and local-governing authorities* not the
Commonwealth, have the power and the
duty of administering, and controlling
and banking their revenue and funds,”
and Justice Rich said “that power cannot
be impaired.” To Justice Dixon it was
no “material distinction” that “the
primary prohibition was laid on the
banks”—it had been argued for the Com-
monwealth that the measure was not an
attack on States or municipalities but
“an attack on the banks.”
And Latham, C.J., held Section 48 in-
valid because the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment was without power to make such
a law. If it were valid then it would be
valid for the Treasurer to prohibit a bank
from conducting business with any per-
son “professing a particular religion, be-
longing to a particular political party or
following a particular occupation,” and
to compel such persons to deal with a
particular bank. ■
“The judicial power of the Common-
wealth” is “vested in the High Court,”
and in this case it has been nobly exer-
cised. In the pass to which things have
come in “Labor” Australia, the Courts are
the people’s only protectors against the
audacity of elected persons and their
non-elected instruments.
But there is to be another “attack on
the banks.” These institutions are to be
wiped out if “Labor” can manage it and
Mr. Chifley, Dr. Evatt and Senator Mc-
Kenna are confident that “Labor” can.
They were equally confident in the case
of the airline companies and of the State
Governments and municipalities, and in
their new hastily-improvised plan for
“socialisation” they are up against the
same sub-section of the Constitution
(XIII of 51) on which their Banking Act
crashed. The Constitution compels them
to keep their clumsy hands off State
banks operating within the limits of
particular States, nor could they interfere
if, With that limitation, State Govern-
ments declared the trading banks State
banks. But no such expedient will be
necessary. With public opinion aroused
at last against a mob that couldn’t run a
saveloy-and-roll monopoly without blun-
dering into vast losses, there will be an-
other failure or another ignominious re-
treat,
»
No Laughing Matter.
A Local Authorities conference in Bris-
bane spent hours discussing dingoes and
ways to beat them. It came out that in
the Cloncurry shire alone dingoes had
destroyed last year the equivalent off
10,000 bales of wool worth £300,000.
Sheep in the shire numbered 941,234 in
1940; at the end of last June they were
reckoned to make barely 400,000. From
1940 to 1947, Cloncurry Council paid
£10,698 for dingo scalps, 2221 being
brought in during the. year to June 30.
The increase in dingoes throughout
Western Queensland is putting property
after property out of sheep and into
cattle.
The State’s sheep population has fallen
from 22,000,000 in 1944 to about
12,000,000. Drought caused much of
this loss; dingoes the balance.
Few people in the dingo country con-
sider that poisoning by air will do any
good. There is a general belief that the
best way to make war on the dogs is to
raise the scalp bonus sufficiently high to
attract doggers, singly and in gangs.
A continent-wide war on the warrigal
was here suggested as a depression
measure. Our rulers preferred such
pathetic expedients as sand-shifting and
footpath-chipping.
Manus.
“On his return from Japan Dr. Evatt declined
to Say anything about his visit to Manus.”
—Daily paper.
Experts flew from Navy Office to
Manus to sniff round what the Ameri-
cans had left. The place has become
known as “the Manus Jest,” and Aus-
tralia’s interest in it seems possible of no
other interpretation at the moment. The
storage sheds, the curved backs of 45,000
STEPPING DOWN.
“When the hour for the change in India struck, the statue of Queen Victoria in the
riot-torn heart of Lahore was garlanded with flowers and the pedestal loaded with gifts of
eggs and rice, placed there by old Indians who recall with longing the peace of Victorian
days. Near by sat Moslems in a sanctuary recognised by the Hindu rioters. Legends about
Queen Victoria are spreading through India; one says she will return as a peace-bringer."
“S. M. Herald” correspondent.
Quonset huts wriggling over the hillsides,
the piers and pontoons,' messes and huge
airstrips could comfortably house all of
Australia’s defence forces.
Directors of Plans, Supplies, Boom-
defence, Engineering and Electronics
will attempt to select a site and
condense this vast paraphernalia of war
into a workable base for our dozen or
so ships which will use it. For even this
task 150 shipwrights are needed. In all
the R.A.N. there are 39.
A tentative date for shifting from
Dreger is October, 1948. Whether we
will be ready or not, the Yanks are pulling
out with all their accustomed vigor.
From the height of the bridge, coming
alongside, the-long pier looked like an
ants’ nest with-the lid off. Cranes and
derricks of two 10,000-tonners nodded
over the crowded wharf. Sixteen-wheeled
trailers jack-knifed themselves with facile
ease. Trucks, command cars, bull-
graders, 5-ton ships’ anchors, baulks of
timber and mooring buoys like giant red
tops went swinging inboard and down.
Most of it is bound for Guam, where
the U.S.A. has established the world’s
largest overseas Marine base. •
Australians could sleep more com-
fortably in thfeir beds had the Americans
remained in or retained the use of Manus,
but Our Foreign Policy shilly-shallied so
much that they decided to shift.
Communism and Coons.
Written by a second-generation Aus-
tralian :
If the Communist conspiracy prevailed this
country would cease to be White Australia.
Inspired by Eurasian bosses whose Asiatic
levies, going into Europe, indulged in fearful
orgies of rape which will be remembered for
ages, Communists have a boisterous con-
tempt for race-purity. During the war they
gave their blessing to the association of White
Australian girls with American negroes and
“our Indernesian comrades.” In this degrading
work they had, and still have occasionally, the
assistance of Legs-and-Leftist papers. Although
Leftism is no longer a profitable journalistic
fad, Legs are still “good for circulation.
When the spectacle of white girls consorting
with American blacks in uniform had become
disgustingly common it was suggested to a
United States officer then in Sydney that the
odious business warranted the publication ot
a newspaper* article. “Please, no. he re-
plied. “It would do more harm than good.
We’ll attend to these uppitty negroes back
home.” One of the Sydney Sunday papers
came out with an appeal for the entertammen
of coons in Australian homes, publishing a
photograph of a fraternisation party. It droppea
the subject suddenly when —as was stated in
divorce proceedings —one of the ‘ frats, a pig
smelly nigger, was found by a decent whi
man in bed with his wife. ,
Colored men who do the jitterbug with white
girls as partners have been “glamorised py
two Sydney papers. One, the Tele-
graph,” spread itself on the subject of ne Bf?
lightweight boxer Eddie Hudson, who bought
20 seats to hold a special cheer squad during
his fight with Australian Ken Bailey.
Jitterbug fans believe that at least 200
jitterbugs will attend the fight to back up
the squad, whose ages range from 16 to 21.
The squad comprises mostly girls.
Eddie is a snappy dresser—in a jitter-
bug way. He paid £l5O for a large diamond
ring. He also bought suede shoes and six
Monty berets. From the United States he
brought 11 suits, some of which are zoot-
suits with a drape shape, slack back, mt
pleat and shuff-cuff. Most of the Sydney
jitterbugs with whom Eddie associates wear
similar clothes.
A “Sunday Telegraph” reporter inter-
viewed Eddie and the kids at a city dance
hall. Eddie said: “The girls here can sure
swing it. I just had the most wonderful
dance with a slick chick in a brown gown.
She really was a zopper topper baby with
a slip hip.”
Accompanying this mullock were portraits of
“ ‘Eddie’ crackin’’ and dancing with a young
white girl, by no means a subnormal type;
and this girl or another certified that “Eddie’s
the greatest thing that’s hit this little old town
since Bob the Lob came from Melbourne.”
Bob the Lob was divine, but he was
nothing on Eddie. When Eddie’s in the
ting fighting that Bailey we’ll have every
Repeat in Sydney punching with him.
“S. M. Herald” boxing reporter noted that
“Hudson’s cheer squad of jitterbugs livened
proceedings between rounds.” He noted also
that “Bailey’s supporters roundly hooted them”
(so even a Stadium crowd can show honest
Australian feeling); and “Eddie” got the thrash-
ing he richly deserved.
A couple of days later the Sydney “Sun,”
in a dispatch from Broome (North Westralia),
reported that “many Australian women, some
from King’s Cross, Sydney, and others from
Melbourne, are living here with colored divers,
Malays and Koepangers,” and “invading the
hotel with their colored men for hilarious
drinking.”
Other white Australian girls have contracted
alliances with “our Indernesian comrades,” and
some of them have gone to Indonesia, to find
native wives of their lords already installed in
the connubial huts. And “Terewth” had a
report of a case in which a white man sued
for a divorce from' a woman with whom
he had lived happily until she met “two very
nice Javanese boys on Bondi Beach.” She
brought the “nice” boys into the home, but
it was a third “nice” Javanese boy who gave
cause for a divorce, after the woman had been
caught kissing her coon in the street in the
sight of her daughter: —
They were embracing and fondling in the
kitchen. She whispered something in his
ear and went to the bathroom. He fol-
lowed. The woman came from under the
shower in a raging temper, saying “It’s
just like you to come and spoil everything
when I am having a good time. I want
that boy and must have him; he’s part of
my life now.”
Such scenes of degradation were never wit-
nessed in Australian homes till Communism,
which has intrigued with blacks in South Africa
and the U.S.A., threw a mantle of protection in
these parts over coons as lecherous as monkeys.
Williams to Playford.
With the Gallagher Coal Tribunal hand-
ing out concession after concession to
N.S.W. miners, whose production has
fallen to an unspeakably low level, in-
dustries and public utilities in South
Australia have, in the words of the
Premier, been completely dislocated by
the non-arrival of coal cargoes. The
position became so bad that Mr. Play-
ford said he might be baited into “taking
advice concerning the Commonwealth-
N.S.W. coal legislation with a view to
testing its constitutional validity.”
The miners’ Communist leader, a Mr.
Williams from Wales, retorted that if
Mr. Playford carried out his “threat” no
N.S.W. coal would be exported to South
Australia. So, not content with control-
ling foreign policy, Communists are
making a bid to control domestic policy,
in contempt of a State’s rights under the
Commonwealth Constitution. The S.A.
Premier is not the man to sit down under
this sort of insolence. His Crown
Solicitor had a hand in the preparation
of the case against the Chifley-Evatt
banking legislation which has been
rubbed out; and while Communist
threats of a boycott send “Labor’s” heart
racing to its boots they have no terrors
for men like Playford and A. J. Hannan.
Incidentally, with Leigh Creek doing
well, and with Victoria and Queensland
planning coal production on an im-
mensely increased scale, the. inter-State
markets for N.S.W. coal are going the
way of the foreign coal trade in which
scores of ships were once engaged. In a
few years it won’t matter much to any-
body outside the N.S.W. coalfields
whether Badly’s miners work or not.
From Old Junee.
Into Sydney the other day there came a
man from Old Junee, a farmer named
Hugh Roberton. He addressed other
farmers, reminding them that the country
had just come out of a struggle for ex-
istence ending in victory, which must
have exacted a terrible price from a
minority of the people. Yet there was
little or no sign that we appreciated the
sacrifice and were resolved to turn it to
worthy purposes. “On the contrary, there
are signs that it is our political intention
to lie back and enjoy the fruits in social
ease and spurious affluence.”
Then Hugh Roberton pointed a few
truths and hammered them home;
We cannot house our people; we can-
not clothe our people; we cannot supply
them with the goods and services they re-
quire, nor with machinery and equipment.
We cannot educate our children. We cannot
nurse the sick or care for the dying. That
is the state of our society.
And, looking aboijt him at the life
of the big Australian cities and back at
the life of inland Australia, he said;
If ever the time comes when the rural
population demands the right to share in
this alleged standard of living that is
enjoyed by the urban population the nation
will come to disaster.
No Dismal Jeremiah, the man from
Riverina finds it “impossible for me to
believe that this wretchedness will stay
with us. Sooner or later men and women
must turn to building a future worthy of
our past..[to] a reaffirmation of faith
in ourselves, our country and our way
of life.” Hugh Roberton was speaking
to a gathering of his fellows —farmers
and their sons, but his message is for all
Australians; and what better message
could there be?
Music Had Charms.
“Bo”: The Soviet Union, as well as
practising the sturdy democratic right of
preventing married women from leaving
the Workers’ Paradise, and taxing them
for “childlessness,” has a tight ban on its
musicians.
No composer or executant is allowed
to leave the sacred soil, lest he see how
other people live, and feel reluctant to
return or, worse still, return and tell
others what he has seen. Even the
compositions of Soviet composers are
dribbled to the outside world very re-
luctantly—and for this use of the Iron
Curtain Western concertgoers should be
grateful to Uncle Joe.
Those whose eardrums took a thrash-
ing from the “Leningrad” Symphony will
be delighted to know that there are 107
active Soviet composers listed in the
Music Cyclopedia. From Abramsky to
Zolotareff—including Popoff, Rakoff and
Ramm—they are all busy putting to
“music” every phase of Soviet life. One
genius so far has 24 symphonies
chalked up—Beethoven managed nine in
his 57 years—and the hallmark of every-
thing they turn out, from chamber music
to the sonata and the symphony, is that
it must be ideologically pure—or else.
The composer whose piece could be in-
terpreted as reflecting on the foreign
policy of Molotov may look forward to
a prolonged holiday in a saltmine.
But one thing puzzles this capitalist
serf. Is Mossolov’s symphony, “Soviet
Iron Foundry,” scored for eight or ten
rivetting machines?


m
1111
■
6558
4
Jk
i CRAVEN A
specuUltf prevent
soiethtomts
' Obtainable
in lO’s & 20*8
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Chifley’s proposal to expropriate the
trading banks is cheered by Commos
and fellow-travellers, who know that
the thing means a first step in the denial
of the individual’s right to own anything
of his own. But it is an omen of ruin
to investment in Australia of overseas
capital. The Americans have been very
rough on the results of socialism in
Britain, where so far trading banks have
been spared. Assuredly they won’t trans-
fer enterprise to Australia to be at the
mercy of socialisation of banking and
industry. -
One certain result of the threat to
the banks will be a cordial understanding
between Libs, and C.P. everywhere. In
Victoria they had been drifting apart,
though the process was arrested when
the Cains supported the Chifleys in try-
ing to put a stranglehold on State Gov-
ernments and municipalities.
There are to be 16 Commonwealth
Conciliation Commissioners at £l5OO p.a.,
instead of 15, as was announced. When
15 had been chosen as conforming to
requirements “commonsense, human
understanding, courage, impartiality, a
strong sense of social justice and a high
degree of personal disinterestedness” —it
apparently dawned upon the Great Brains
that there was not a returned soldier
among the union and other secretaries
whose claims had been attended to,
Dwyer, Donovan and the rest, so Black-
burn, V.C., was added. And, alphabeti-
cally, Blackburn’s name “led all the rest.”
The V.C., who was Adelaide coroner,
and Wallwork, the Perth magistrate, are
the only two with experience in weighing
evidence, and none of the 16 has been
accustomed to finding a big payroll and
payroll tax. Not even Comrade Kelly,
who has been taken from the presidency
of the A.L.P. (N.S.W. branch) and of a
beer-pump to exhibit “commonsense,
human understanding, courage” and the
rest. And there is no Queenslander in
the happy band—a curious omission.
Macmahon Ball, a career “diplomat”
to a pro-Evatt newspaper when he was
thought to be high in the doctor’s favor,
has turned in his Tokyo job because “I
felt I could not carry on under Dr. Evatt.”
His grievance is that the doctor “twisted”
on Our Foreign Policy for Japan; and
the doctor did “twist.” All his crowd
“twists” under pressure from a deter-
mined character like MacArthur or from
Communist union bosses. Those persons,
as Congress has shown, are really not
determined characters, being in fact a
lot of squibs, but they can always put
the wind up the gutless mob at Canberra,
A tragic sequel to the proceedings at
Tokyo was the loss of General Mac-
Arthur’s plane Bataan, bound from
Japan to Hawaii, with 13 members of his
staff. Among , the missing is Gfeorge
Atcheson, chairman of the Allied
Control Council and U.S. Ambassador.
He it was with whom Macmahon Ball
“often clashed,” and the shattering end to
their relations must have overwhelmed
the Australian.
One of thfe Senators (and one of the
best of them) who retired at the end of
June, having been defeated 11 months
ago, is dead in Perth (W.A.): Herbert
Brayley Collett, After a career as a
citizen soldier dating back to 1894, and
distinguished in Gallipoli and France as
C.O. 28th Battalion, Collett entered the
Senate in 1933 as a nominee, succeeding
Hal Colfebatch, and was re-elected in
1934 and 1940. He was a Minister for two
years, 1939-41, winding up in charge of
Repat. Returned men gratefully re-
member his services and officers and men
of the 28th will never forget him until
they, too, follow their old colonel, who
“raised, organised and trained” the bat-
talion, and never left it until he was badly
knocked at Pozieres. „
Westralian “Labor” is annoyed with
the McLartys for giving a Government
publicity job to N. A. Clementson. Its
Panton, formerly Mines Minister, de-
livered himself of the unworthy sneer
that “Clementson was trained as a
journalist under John Curtin, but when
the ‘Labor’ party became poor he left it,”
In point of fact Clementson came out
for “Labor” when its stocks were very
low —candidate for Fremantle in 1919
and for Perth in 1922. Leaving Westralian
“Labor” journalism, in Curtin’s time a
one-man affair, he joined the “West
Australian” staff, becoming a gallery re-
porter at Canberra in recent years. Per-
haps he gave offence by being impartial.
Welcoming McKell (“The Prisoner of
Zenda”) to Brisbane, and perhaps decid-
ing that warmth of statement would make
up for frigidity in other directions,
Premier Hanlon let himself go:
The Governor-General stands above Par-
liament, and has the right to veto its acts
in the interests of the people, a right which
has helped to keep Parliament acting along
democratic lines.
This is stretching the thing a bit. The
Governor-General may withhold his
assent to a proposed law, or return it to
“the House in which it originated,” and
“may transmit therewith any amend-
ments which he may recommend, and
the Houses may deal with the recom-
mendation.” And the King “may disallow
any law within one yfear from the Gov-
ernor-General’s assent, and such dis-
allowance, on being made known by the
Governor-General, shall annul the law
from the day when the disallowance
is so made known.” But if the Gee-Gee
tried to exercise an absolute veto he would
risk being retired to his racing club,
station property or wherever he hung out
before taking up residence at Canberra.
A very odd Assembly by-election for
Pilbara (W.A.) has resulted in the return
of Hegney, the “Labor” member. At the
March general election the free and
enlightened made it 234-234, an Independ-
ent, Taplin, being the other candidate, and
the returning officer gave his casting vote
to Hegney, The Court of Disputed
Returns ordered another contest, and
with the number of electors strangely
increasing from 652 to 736, Hegney got
in with a majority of 31, Port
Hedland, the principal polling place,
turning a loss of 9 into a gain of 24.
In the House there are now 25 Lib.-C.P.
and 23 “Labor” members and two In-
dependents, one of the Libs. (North)
being Speaker.
Eight weeks ago the Sydnfey Labor
Council “unanimously resolved to pre-
vent inter-union disputes from causing
strikes.” This sub-authority of the
A.C.T.U, undertook to examine all issues
in inter-union disputes and to enforce its
decisions on disobedient unions. It would
direct unionists to continue working, and
“if necessary supply others to replace
them.” There was a lot of table-banging
—“the time has come when,” and that
sort of thing. It might almost have been
Chifley speaking for all the good it did.
The Sydney waterfront was laid idle
again last week by two just such disputes,
the unions concerned treating the Labor
Council ruling as a joke. |
On August 12 Bulcock, who was a
“Labor” Minister in Queensland before
hfc was named Commonwealth Director-
General of Agriculture, joined the hegira
of Ministers, officials and offsiders going
“abroad”; his purpose, to “discuss the
British Government’s £50,000,000 food
drive which envisages wide food produc-
tion in Australia for the British market.”
Bulcock or somebody must have “en-
visaged” a grand new department on the
strength of it, for the “Commonwealth
Gazette” advertised for an “Assistant
Director of Agriculture” at £22 10s. a
week. Both purpose and “Assistant” have
bfeen blown out, the first by the bursting
of the Attlee socialist bubble, the second
by Pollard, the Minister, who said the
advertisement had been published with-
out his consent. Asked if there’d be an
inquiry, he testily told a reporter “There’ll
be nothing more; the matter has passed
away.” Bulcock also has “passed away”
—to Geneva. *
The S.A. Homes Trust is about to begin
a programme of building 1500 houses in
Adelaide suburbs and country to cost
£1,650,000, or £llOO each, including cost
of the land. They will be five-roomed
houses, of pre-fabricated timber frames,
external walls covered with asbestos
cement and roofs of the same material.
The contractor, E. F. Marshall, an
Old Diggfer, has already begun or com-
pleted 500 homes ordered by the Trust
last June, and he and his two sons are
now directing a constructional staff of
some hundreds of men. The Common-
wealth Deputy-Director of Housing, re-
porting to his “Labor” Minister,
Lemmon, gave June costs of brick dwell-
ings per square at £l4O in Sydney, £132
in Melbourne, £l3l in Brisbane and £llO
in Adelaide. No wonder a great many
S.A. workers voted for Playford.
When the Premiers meet in Canberra
Hanlon must either join with Playford in
an assault on uniform income taxation
or swallow the words he used during a
debate in the Queensland Assembly:
The present uniform taxation system
should have been killed at birth It is
encouraging mendicants. It is unsound.
If he repeats the word “mendicants,”
Cosgrove, as well as Playford and Mc-
Larty, will have a crow to pluck with
him. In any case all Queenslanders in-
terested in politics will ■ e listening when
Hanlon gets up.
Eire was a member of thfe League of
Nations, and a good member, but Russia
has vetoed its admission to U.N.O. on the
ground that it took no part in the German
war. Whereupon De Valera said:
Russia did not enter the war until it was
attacked, and for almost two years pre-
ceding its entry it assisted the Germans in
the terms of its arrangement with Ger-
many.
“Dev” then made some cutting references
to the fate of Finland, Poland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania, and with a final
flourish of his shillelagh he said “Eire
is not disturbed at being refused member-
ship through the Russian veto.” But
Ward should be disturbed, and perhaps
this was impressed on his —er —mind
when he was in Dublin. He-is of Irish
descent, and so much a Friend of Soviet
Russia that he said it had made more
progress in 25 years than any “capitalist”
country had made in 250 years.
Nearly 200 passengers on the Taroona,
booked for Tasmania, had to go back to
their homes on Friday, departure having
been postponed until Monday because
Melbourne tugboat crews have banned
overtime. Some non-Victorian families
were allowed to stay aboard ship; Tas-
manians and others with business in Tas-
mania rushed off to airline booking offices.
This fresh blow to sea transport came
as a ukase from the Seamen’s Union, with
which the tugboat men became affiliated
eight months ago. It synchronised with
the flying of two racehorses over Mel-
bourne in a gale of wind in T.-A.A.'s
new horse freighter, and preceded the
return of “controlled” ships to the ship-
ping industry or what “Labor” and its
Communist friends have left of it.
The “dispute” gt the Government coal-
mine at Wonthaggi (Vic.) has been
“settled,” The weighman who offended
the union and its Communist president
by obeying a managerial order and re-
fusing to weigh damp coal is to be sent
back to his weighbridge for a fortnight
and then transferred to a position as dirt
inspector. There was great secrecy about
the discussion between Mr. Gallagher, of
the Coal Tribunal, the Miners’ Federa-
tion and the management, but there is
nothing secret about the fact th,at the
honest weighman has been penalised in
the cause of industrial “peace” or some-
thing. The one thing certain about the
nasty business is that the mine will go
on losing whips of tax-money, probably
more than ever.
The new flags are up in the two new
Indian Dominions. That of India
is a horizontal tricolor of deep saffron,
white and dark grefen, with a navy-blue
wheel, symbolising unity, .on the white
band. That of Pakistan is of green and
white, with a white star and crescent
superimposed on the green. From
Gandhi, now “retired from politics,” came
an expression of regret that the Union
Jack does not appear anywhere on the
Indian flag, because “its appearance on
the corner would have been an act of
courtesy to an erstwhile enemy.”
Planners abound at Canberra, and Bul-
cock, now bearing down on Geneva with
the usual party, has a plan of his own.
It is designed “to eliminate all hazards
from agricultural production and to
assure farmers throughout the world
guaranteed markets and reasonable
prices.” How? By “(1) security through
an international agency, (2) adequate dis-
tribution of products on an international
basis and (3) better nutritional standards
throughout the world.” The caprices of
Nature and the cussedness of man would
wreck the Bulcock plan as they have
wrecked the building plan of little Dr.
Coombs, who, in 1944, was going to
“catch up” on the housing shortage in
two years.
A. B. Black, a builder, returned from a
four months’ tour of Maoriland with the
report that Queensland Government
houses looked like stables by comparison
with N.Z. Housing Department homes,
though over there a five-roomed brick
house can be rented for 275. 6d. a week.
The difference seems to lie in the fact
that in N.Z. building is done by private
contractors.
Historical note on banking powers:
Whatever the actual powers of the Common-
wealth to “take over” banks, the intention
of the founders of the Constitution 'as to the
banking powers to be assigned seems clear
enough. In the original draft the wording of
Section 91 of the British North America Act
was used, “Banking, incorporation of banks
and the issue of paper money.” This was
adopted By both the 1891 and 1897 Federal
Conventions, but at the final Sydney Con-
vention N.S.W. and Tasmania secured the in-
clusion of the words “excluding State banking
not extending beyond the limits of the State
concerned.” According to Quick and Garran
in their monumental work. Commonwealth
powers “include laws regulating, the inception,
organisation and conduct of banking business;
the terms, conditions and securities of good
faith under which it could be carried on; the
powers, rights and privileges to be exercised
and enjoyed by bankers; the obligations and
responsibilities of bankers.” These commen-
tators did not obviously deduce a power to
destroy all the private rights of citizens in the
banking field, merely to regulate them. In the
United States, whose constitutional-powers
section is analogous to Section 51 of the
Commonwealth Constitution, it was even a
moot point whether the Government had power
to incorporate a National Bank, in the absence
of specific authority, a matter which was
ultimately decided, on “liberal construction”
by the Supreme Court, in favor of the Govern-
ment. If the framers of our Constitution had
contemplated the use of a power to destroy
private banking, they undoubtedly would have
debated the matter at length.
From “Ex-Serviceman”:
Amend that statement in B. 6/8/’47 to
“Rosehill was the one Sydney racecourse which
didn’t suffer regular occupation by troops
during the war.” Another unit was sent to it
from Narellan, like the one mentioned as having
been chased away the day it arrived. The
other lads from Narellan turned up pn a
Thursday evening and were refused admission
to the course because there were to be races
on the Saturday. They pitched temporary camp
in the paddock (now a car park) outside the
course, and remained there in pelting rain.
After the “sports” had been catered for the
troops were allowed to move in. They were
quartered in the stables which had quartered
the horses, rendering them habitable, as it
were, by obtaining a few loads of sawdust
and making a thick bed of it on the floors.
Those stables, supposedly good enough for
troops during the war, were subsequently con-
sidered so inadequate for racehorses that Mc-
Kell’s Sydney Turf Club set about improving
them and the glorified gambling hell in general
by, among other things, getting 123,250 bricks
from the Government brickyards.


RUNNYMEDE IN REVERSE.
“This measure is intended to pillage the well-to-do and bring serfdom to the workers.”— Churchill on the Attlee Supp lies and Services Bill.
“Nice work, Clem!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Stagnant Waters”; Maybe there is no
significance in this, but my mind, trained
through a lifetime of private investigation
to suspect a relation between apparently
unrelated facts, can’t help wondering. A
few weeks ago I read that a group of
Brisbane citizens intended to petition the
Crown for the removal of Governor-
General McKeil. Last week the papers
carried a picture of the G.-G. in Brisbane
“sharing a joke with Lieut.-Colonel C. B.
Withy, his hon. A.D.C.” My files tell
me that Lieut.-Colonel Withy is, or was
till recently, Disposals Commissioner in
Brisbane. As I said, there may be no
significance, but . . .
4= * *
“Nevsky”: Destined to be a howling
success if shown in Britain is “The Battle
of Stalingrad,” a lopsided “documentary”
in Which Stalin is depicted accusing his
allies of purposely delaying the Second
Front in order to weaken the Soviet and
thus be able to dictate peace terms. The
villain is Churchill, who lights cases of
cigars, says little and looks a demon.
Roosevelt is more kindly cast, and at one
stage declares to a reporter:
There is only one thing for which I am
too old, and that is to drag Churchill
across the Channel in chains.
The reporter replies:
Yes, the British are anxious for a cheap
victory.
The President agrees and after that the
film gurgles on and finishes in a messy
smear of the actor Stalin turning to the
camera:
They want us to fight their battles for
them. It won’t work.
J. Bull wanting his battles fought for
him! Anxious for a cheap victory. This
Moscow masterpiece would give the long-
suffering Britons the first real laugh
they’ve had for months.
* * - *
“Curtain Raiser”: Melbourne patriots
are demanding that an Australian
singer be selected to take the part of
Melba in the projected British film of the
diva. I couldn’t imagine a worse choice
than Deanna Durbin. Her nice little
college-girl »voice has nothing of the
quality of Melba’s and from the human
aspect she is the antithesis of the Aus-
tralian singer. Melba was a great artist
with a fine brain and personality. The
Durbin is just a conventional young
woman.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Suggestion plays a great
part in suicide cases, as was exemplified
when the Sydney Bridge was first opened
and jumping from that structure became
a fashioft. A man deliberately electro-
cuted himself in Sydney ; now a similar
case has occurred in Melbourne, Re-
peated telephone rings to a house
failed to produce a response and a neigh-
bor, investigating, found that the owner
had tied wires round each of his wrists
and completed the circuit by attaching
the ends to a power plug. Would-be
suicides ought to be warned, however,
that this is not by any means a sure
method of self-immolation. The resist-
ance of the human body varies enorm-
ously in different individuals and what
would be a lethal charge for one person
might be harmless to another. Worse
still, it might produce, indescribable
torture without being fatal.
* * * *
“Niloc”: “Pookie’s” mention of Crown
and Anchor (B. 13/8/’47) recalls a
horrible occasion when someone almost
did beat the board. Until Blue and I
laid down our cloth near a canteen at
Warwick (Q.), the lads had been playing
humdrum games of “Under and Overs”
class. Ours was a novelty, and business
boomed. At first we imposed a limit on
the betting; but when funds reached
twenty quid we felt safe enough to
cover anything. We had not been calling
“Sky’s the limit” for long when one of
the deposed gambling barons strolled
over. He dropped a wad which fell with
a thud on the Anchor. Blue and I held
conference and decided to delay the throw
for as long as possible and try to even
up the board with other bets. We lasted
about three minutes before the mob
began to close in murmuring. Then that
bloke whom we cursed every morning
“I won't bother with the hat — I'll just take the box !"
for blowing his bugle and dragging us
from sleep came to our aid, and he
blew a glorious blast. Because of an
offence connected with some missing
beer, .our big punter happened to be
“Chasing the bugle.” With a snort, he
grabbed his wad and departed at a gallop.
Three mud hooks came up in the delayed
throw. After that warning we folded up
the cloth, and spent our evenings play-
ing draughts,
* * # ♦
“Saucy Varlet”: The Yongala’s
stewardess, mentioned by “Rob Mc-
Austral” (B. 30/7/’47), was probably Mrs.
English, who, I believe, was still aboard
the Yongala when she foundered. Well-
known around the coast, she was
stewardess of the old Marloo when I
made my first trip to sea, and was after-
wards transferred, to the Yongala when
that ship and the Grantala, known as
the “Grannie,” replaced the Marloo and
Wollowra. I would say she was the
best-liked woman I’ve ever met; she had
an irresistible charm that seemed
inherent, no more a mannerism than
her avowed love of ships and the sea.
In bad weather her efficiency and calm
assurance were a magic sedative to nervy
women passengers.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: An old sailing ship’s
steering wheel soon to be added to the
exhibits at Trinity House, London, has
an interesting history. It belonged
originally to the square-rigger Otago,
once commanded by Joseph Conrad.
Afterwards a coal hulk at Hobart for
many years, the hull was bought by a
retired master in sail, Captain Dodge of
Bridgewater, for breaking up. Conrad’s
old friend Christopher Morley asked an
American visitor to Australia to track the
Otago and her fate. The wheel was given
to him by Captain Dodge and thereafter
sent to Captain David Bone, the English
sea-writer. He will send it on to Winston
Churchill for presentation to Trinity
House, of which Mr. Churchill is an
Elder Brother.
• * * *
“Zake”; Having paid my first increased
fare to the McGirr’s railways, I raise my
lid to the memory of the late Edward
Kelly, for whom I am nurturing a new-
found rbspect. The McGirr, in announc-
ing the slug by which he hopes to stave
off rigor mortis in his transport system
a little longer, said that, except on the
inter-city run to Newcastle, no fare would
rise above 20 p.c. From my Sydney outer-
suburban station to the next is a mile ;
old single fare 2d., return 4d. Twenty
per cent, on the single fare would
make it 2fd., and as calculations were to
be made to the nearest penny there
should have been no increase. Never-
theless the price of a ticket went up to
3d., and the return fare to 6d., also
a rise of 50 p.c., although by the 20 p.c.
calculation it should have been 4fd. — i.e.,
sd. to the nearest penny. But what’s a
matter of 30 p.c. between —er —friends?
* * * *
“Jasby”; Walking along in an ex-
clusive Sydney suburb I came upon a
fountain-pen lying on the footpath. It
was a well-known make and my first im-
pulse was findings are keepings. Then
I noticed two early teen-age schoolgirls
ahead of me, and what passes for my
better nature asserted itself. Lengthening
my stride, I caught up with them just as
they drew level with the gate of my
friend’s house. “Excuse me,” I said, “did
either of you girls drop a fountain-pen?”
They gave me an icy stare and replied,
“No. We saw it on the footpath back
there.” At this blow between the eyes my
better nature crawjed back into its shell
—it hasn’t been seen since—and I
tottered in through the gate.
* * * *
“Passun”: Paddy and Cal had been
taken off the work party and detailed as
hewers of wood and drawers of water for
a Jap civilian in Haisho. They had a
successful day, were well fed, and not
overworked or annoyed by screaming
and brutal guards. The big shot’s cook,
alone in the house, ordered them to
stack thfe chopped wood in the kitchen.
Scrounging possibilities were excellent,
and they made use of the empty-handed
return trip to the woodpile to help them-
selves to loose cigarettes, pencils and
paper, stray newspapers and other
articles not likely to be missed. Cal, a
keen student of literature, was hungrily
eyeing two English language books on
the tablfe. With the last load in and the
coast clear he dived over to the table and
read the titles: No. 1, Will Japan
Fight? Grabbing a pencil he wrote on
the dust-jacket, “Yes, but dirty!” No. 2,
Gone with the Wind, he dropped down
his shirt-front. Unfortunately the theft
was reported and next day at the guard-
house Cal handed over G.W.T.W. and
received a hiding in return. Nothing was
said about the comment left at the house.
♦ * * *
“Findy”: Mention of the C.S.I.R.’s
work in the production of agar from
seaweed (B. 13/8/’47) set me wondering
whether the council has done anything
lately to investigate the commercial pos-
sibilities of the marine fibre Posidonia
australis, of which there are vast deposits
in the Spencer and St. Vincent Gulfs. This
plant—naturalists insist that it is not a
seaweed, but a flowering plant—grows
on the seabed and normally when it dies
it disintegrates and drifts away, but in
the sheltered parts of the S.A. gulfs it
settles on the bottom, and in places the
deposits are several feet thick. Forty
years ago several companies were formed
to exploit the fibre. One of them, with
an elaborate dredge and a processing
plant at Port Pirie, worked the deposits
between Port Pirie and Port Broughton
and raised several hundred tons of the
fibre. Experimentally it has been mixed
with wool and woven into cloth, used as a
substitute for kapok in bedding and jute
in sacks, and paper has been made from
it. The First World War seems to have
killed the project; it is a wonder the
shortages of the Second did not revive it.
* * * *
“Ad Rem”: That Japanese skipper
who misunderstood the great Australian
epithet (B. 30/7/’47) calls to mind an
experience at my favorite pre-war pub.
run by a generous old girl who was never
able to clear her bar before 6.30. Police
warnings made action imperative, so a
16-stone ex-bruiser was engaged for the
job. On his first night of duty the bell
rang and his cannon-like voice boomed
“Time, Gents! ” Everyone went on drink-
ing. Thbn the bell rang the second time
and the voice shook the rafters: “I said’
‘Time, Gents!’ Now get going, all you
so-and-sos, or I’ll be breakup a few
necks.” The mob paused for a moment,
took in the threatening monster, and
scattered. Just as the giant turned to
accept the landlady’s thanks he spotted an
anaemic weed still perched on a stool
drinking. “Didn’t you hear me tefi those
blankards to get out?” the bruiser bel-
lowed. The little bloke looked up, and
in a confident but rather squeaky voice
replied, “Yes, I did. And, my word,
wasn’t there a lot of them?”
* * * *
“Yarralena”: “Where do they keep
them” (B. 16/7/’47)? At a disposals
sale recently X bought several dozen
canvas horse wipers, stamped 1917! Also
offered were numbers of riding saddles
of an unusual design, each having two
wooden bearers to rest on the horse’s
back. Relics of the Boer war?
* * * *
“Derwent”: “Spokeshave’s” predic-
tion (B. 23/ 7/ ’47) of fierce opposi-
tion to the proposal for universal finger-
printing of the Victorian population im-
pels me to throw this in on the other
side. Recently a mummified and un-
recognisable body was washed up on
Sister’s Beach (near Stanley) on the
n.-w. coast of Tasmania. Tasmanian
police obtained impressions of the tips of
four fingers and circulated them through-
out Australia. Bruce Hudd, of the S.A.
Police Department, after a two-hour
search was able to prove that the body
was that of a N.S.W. seaman. The ob-
jection that compulsory tabbing of
fingerprints savors too much of the
criminal-detection office carries weight
with some ; but it would serve a most
useful purpose for record and identifi-
cation when'other methods fail.
* * * *
“Cedi Mac”: One would perhaps have
expected that “hiccough,” as an alterna-
tive spelling for “hiccup,” would have
been wholly discarded by this time, yet
it still seems to crop up in print. It was
always wrong, resulting, as any standard
dictionary points out, from confusion
with “cough,” though actually there is
no connection. “Hiccup” is an imitative
word, and was originally “bucket.” How-
ever, now and then an old diehard is
met with who, having been born, so to
speak, with “hiccough,” is not now going
to be fobbed off with a simple “hiccup.”
Even harder to combat, though, is the
highly superior person who, besides
clinging to the erroneous spelling, in-
sists on pronouncing the word “hic-
coff”(!) and be hanged to all hiccupping
ignoramuses.
* * * *
Old fighter:
Australia was famous for fighting men long
before there was any thought of Diggers. In
the ’eighties and early ’nineties of last century
there went from this country overseas the
greatest band of glove-fighters ever known. In
the U.S.A. and England they whipped the best
men of their weight from “bantam” to “heavy.”
Some of them, notably Fitzsimmons and
“Griffo,” have been unsurpassed since, for the
art of boxing, like that of bowling, has de-
teriorated.
Not the least of the travellers in point of
pugilistic prowess, and far and away the most
successful in after-life, was George Dawson,
who came down to Sydney from Queensland in
1890 or thereabouts with a challenge to all
the lightweights. Dawson’s “finish” fights with
Jim Burge—the first went 39 rounds, the second
50 rounds and the third 31 rounds —are still
memorable in the annals of the Ring. Embark-
ing for San Francisco, George was found by
Sydney friends to have booked a steerage pas-
sage—it was all he could afford. They collected
enough to pass him into the saloon and keep
him going until he got matches; and from
the proceeds of his first fight in ’Frisco he
returned every penny thfey had contributed,
being that sort of man.
Dawson was unbeaten in the U.S.A., but
at 26 he gave up thoughts of the lightweight
championship to take a job as boxing instruc-
tor at the Chicago Athletic Club, wealthy men
running that institution having made it worth
his while. They did more than that. Liking
him for his manly bearing and fine character,
they invested his savings for him to good
purpose, letting him in on the ground floor
of the Wrigley and other enterprises. In the
result he retired very comfortably off.
Marrying well, Dawson settled in California,
where he had a fine house and grounds in
Altadena. He gave his son and daughter the
best education that money could buy; the
son went to the Harvard Law School and
became a Professor of International Law.
Their father had little schooling, but he was
endowed with the instincts and manners of a
gentleman; he never smoke or drank and
was never known to speak ill of anyone.
One accomplishment he brought from school
was a unique mastery of penmanship, now
neglected. It has been the present writer’s lot
in the course of 47 years to read many thou-
sands of letters and manuscripts. He never
saw a “fist” so beautiful as that of the old
fighting man. .
George Dawson died in California last month,
leaving only Mick Dunn and Jack Fuller as
surviving Sydney contemporaries of the great
age of Australian boxing who fought i a
America.
WHAT A GAME!
“Senator Brewster, of Maine, alleges that U.S. war
contractors, seeking favors from highly-placed Army
and Navy officers, have allowed the latter to win
huge sums from them at ‘fixed’ poker games.”
• —New York cable.
There are more ways, I can hear someone
mutter,
Recalling what a well-worn proverb says,
To kill a dog than choking him with butter,
Which stands to reason, quite a lot more
ways.
And, similarly, should you seek a favor,
Tact and expedience may well prescribe
Means which avoid the disagreeable flavor
Of a straight, outright bribe.
’Tis useful to remember, in your dealings
With those from whom you want a quid pro
quo.
The risk that you may hurt their finer feelings
By slapping down a*thumping wad of dough.
The inference that they’re prepared for knocking
Down for hard cash the prizes that we deem
Are merit’s due alone might be a shocking
Blow to their self-esteem.
But there are devious methods just as handy
For greasing palms of which you may have
heard.
And here’s the latest modus operandi
Which certainly, I think, deserves a word.
A poker game will furnish the solution
Of how, without being misunderstood,
To plant a monetary contribution
Where it will do most good.
You start a bout at cards, with your potential
Quarry—or two, it may be —sitting in,
And nothing indicating it’s essential
For you to lose and he —or they—to win.
You curse your luck with “pishes” or with
“tushes”
And all the self-possession it demands
To throw away your threes and straights and
flushes,
And bet on worthless hands.
And when the other chaps have done collecting
What you may hold a decent quantum stiff.
For any favors you may be expecting
You nonchalantly hint you’ve had enough.
There’s nothing for the casual scrutiniser
Of anything that’s happened to condemn.
In short, there’s nobody a whit the wiser
Excepting you—and them.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Lord Leonard” - : Penpusher was new
to the town, and when he mentioned his
intention of seeing a doctor about his
chronic headaches, Shorty warned him,
“Don’t go to old Dr. Hackslash, or he’ll
want to yank out your appendix.” Pen-
pusher was inclined to scoff, but a week
later he admitted that he had been
advised to have an immediate appen-
dectomy, “Told you so,” said Shorty.
“I’m a wake-up to him now. I’d never
listen to what people said till I went
to him about six months ago. ‘You’d
better have that appendix out,’ he told
me. ‘Break it down, doc,’ I said. ‘l’ve
had me bloomin’ appendix out,’ ‘Ah, no,’
he said. ‘lf any doctor told you he
took it out, I’m afraid he was nothing
but a crook.’ ‘You may be right, doc,’
I said, gettin’ me hat. ‘You were the one
that did the operation.’ ”
* * * *
“Clooter”: The man, woman or boy
who told me this story must be nameless,
the principals also. Nor can I vouch
for its accuracy, though I damwell be-
lieve it. By devious means a complaint
about the dirty interior of a tram reached
the Minister in charge of trams (this in
itself is unusual, but it so happened that
a lady whose dress had been spoiled by
the dirt was related to somebody else
who knew the Minister) and he sought an
explanation. The chief of the division
concerned reported that the boss of
the particular tramshed had been far
from co-operative in the matter, having,
in fact, descended to “language.” The
Minister had that boss brought before
him and demanded to know the why and
wherefore. Whereupon the boss fixed the
Minister with a cold eye and said, “I know
the man who is responsible. After several
rows with him over slumming his clean-
ing work I sacked him. He went to the
union and the union sent him to you
and you had him reinstated,”
♦ * * *
“Bungle”: At the school playnight the
last play of the evening centred in
the hiding of Bonny Chairlie by a few
faithful followers. There was a hit-or-
miss air about the tartans that made it
quite obvious couponing had sadly cur-
tailed the costuming, but the youngsters
were putting their heart and soul into
the business of hiding Charlie, and I was
enjoying the show until an old Scot near
me threw me off my balance. He was.
practically writhing in anguish, and
finally he clutched my arm. “Mon,” he
hissed, “d’you ken the tartans?” “Cou-
pons!” I hissed back. “They’ve got to
make do.” He seared me with one
withering glance and stalked out. But
he was waiting for me when the show
finished. It seems that Chairlie had gone
to earth wearing the tartan of the
Buchanans. “Well,” I said testily, “I told
you they had to make do —coupons, you
know.” “Make do! ” he howled. “Mon,
they had a Royal Stewart tartan an’ they
dressed the bluidy Campbell in it!”
« * * *
“Minnie Mince”; The housekeeper of
a large institution was always at logger-
heads with the butcher. One day she
ordered sausages, but phoned a cancella-
tion, saying she was giving the order to
the rival shop. Down went butcher No. 1
next day to “tell off” the lady. She beat
him in the verbal exchanges, but as he re-
treated he burst out, “Well, I hope you
liked Bill Sirloin’s finger in the sausages.”
The victor took no notice of the remark
till later in the day when she passed
Sirloin in the street. His hand was
swathed in bandages.
* * * *
“Xenexer”; “Loc’s” examples of
quaint Englisli (B. 23J1J’4T) have a defi-
nite meaning. But what does this one
mean: “Drive only through the quarrel
to make Hachamisha regarding the
chicken disease”? I read it on a notice-
board in Palestine between the com-
munal farms of Ma’Aleh Mahamisah
and Kiryat Anarvim, near Jerusalem.
The solution may have been in the
“Now, now—one at a time! Which lady
phoned first?”
Hebrew written above or perhaps in the
quarry not far from the notice-board.
* * * *
“£.s.d.”: Conscience money! A
woman entered the Motor Registration
Department saying she wished to pay the
difference between a producer licence and
the usual motor licence. A clerk looked
up the needed particulars and found the
full fee had already been paid for the
current licence? He told the woman all
was well, but she insisted that she wanted
to pay all the money owing. Then it was
found her conscience was troubling her.
Her vehicle had been registered for years
under a producer licence, but the farm
had been sold seven years ago, the privi-
leged licence not being cancelled. She in-
sisted on paying, so the registrar, ap-
pealed to, ruled “If she wants to pay the
money, take it.” Twenty-five quid was
collected and out she went, to return say-
ing she wanted to reward the clerk for
his courtesy and assistance. The reward?
A religious tract.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Sydney papers the other day
reported the case of an old lady of 79
who went missing. Just when search
parties of police were being organised and
appeals for information were about to be
broadcast the police discovered her in a
cell at Long Bay jail, to which place she’d
been taken on a charge of theft. I suppose
the police had to do their duty, but it
seems strange that none of them realised
that the woman was so old as to be un-
aware of either her identity or what she
was doing. My interest was stirred
through memory of the old N.E.S. days
when, patrolling as Heffron wardens
through the blackout on a bitter winter’s
night, two of us found a frail old thing
suffering from hallucinations and loss of
“ Blimey! You again!”
memory. One of us took her home while
the other rang the police. They arrived,
with a fierce westerly howling down
from the mountains, and took her away
in an open sidecar attached to a motor-
bike. We never heard whether she sur-
vived or not.
I Jjc * * *
“Bluebell”: Of all the horrors that
came out of Japan, I nominate as the
maddest Sgt. Sano, who misguided the
destinies of prisoners working on the
shrine on the Mcßitchie reservoir in
Singapore. When 800 men were reported
too sick to work Sano ordered them to
parade for a check-over.
The camp 5.m.0., a Mel-
bourne physician, objected
strongly to his medical
judgment being ques-
tioned by a layman. Sano
replied that his brother was
a chemist in Tokyo. The in-
spec t i o n began. Sano
divided the men into three
groups; those with obvious
ailments such as bad sores
were sent back, to hospital;
‘those with anything wrong
between the waist and knee,
such as piles, dysentery,
boils or the common Changi
rash, were allowed one or
two days off; the rest, suf-
fering from acute malaria,
beriberi or other equally
serious diseases, were
ordered to work on the fol-
lowing day. Non-workers
were debarred from the
■ canteen. Two days later
Sano handed the camp ad-
jutant a piece of paper. He
had visited the canteen that
morning and told every
man present to write down
his name. The adjutant
must check the list, and re-
port whether any non-
workers were included.
The names ranged. from Hitler and
Mussolini, through a list of screen cele-
brities such as Mae West down to Little
Bo Peep, with a fair sprinkling of un-
printable aliases, the adjutant was able
to report with a clear conscience that
none of his sick-bay men was on the
list.
♦ * * *
“K. Ley”: On my 47th birthday I sat
in the sun idly reviewing a more or less
active life in which I’ve worked fairly
hard ever since I was 14. The fingers of
one hand enountered thrippence in one
pocket and I pulled it forth and recalled
that well within my memory it would
have bought 12 cigarettes, a pint of beer,
a pound of chops, a seat in a picture
theatre, three postage stamps or three
newspapers. There were other things it
would have bought, but that’s enough to
show the change in values in 33 brief
years. Today the trey is merely a sort
of supernumerary fraction for coins of
greater value, used as a figure of speech
to illustrate the cheapness of anything,
such as “Aw, radio serials are a trey a
dozen,” and not seriously regarded by
anybody except the citizens of Sydney,
who have to fork out a trey for a one-
section tram ride. When I was a boy
a trey was a handsome week’s pocket
money which would buy 12 milk poles,
a bag of apples or six ice-creams. No
kid could get far on a trey today. Once
a coin of fair value, about the only pur-
pose it served in my State was as a tax
on a State lottery ticket, and since the
Government has had'to increase the prize-
money in order to compete with other
State gambling shows it has even been
deprived of that dubious distinction.
* * * *
“McGlum”: Discussion on “genea-
logical unorthodoxy” reminds me of a
lawsuit in which a neighbor brought my
friend Ben into court on a slander
charge, Ben having applied the offending
word to him. Ben had to pay up, but
actually scored the major victory with
his homely defence. Ben said that when
he called the plaintiff a blankard he
didn’t mean that he had been born one,
but that he’d grown into one,
* * * ♦
“Flip”: One of the many parables
attributed by the Yanks to Abraham
Lincoln brings certain local “Labor”
politicians to my mind. Lincoln is
alleged to have gathered his War Depart-
ment heads to discuss a General, a com-
plete misfit wherever he was placed.
After listening to a reading of the war-
rior’s deplorable record, Abe remarked:
General X reminds me of a piece of iron
I once found. I thought it would make a
good axe-head and took it to the black-
smith. He heated it red-hot and pounded
it on his anvil, but at last gave up and
declared, “No, it won’t make an axe, but
it should make a good pick-head!” So he
heated it up some .more and hit it some
more but it still defied him. He tried to
make it into a plough-share, an adze and
a boot-scraper. Then he gave up and
said to me, “No, it won’t even make a
and, holding the red-hot iron
over his water-bucket, he continued, “but
it ought to make a damn’ good fizzle.”
He dropped it into the tub, and it did.
So, gentlemen, will General X.
No. On second thoughts, I don’t think
some of our “Labor” heads could even
splutter.
* * * *
“Bo”; Twirling thfe, radio knob, I
came upon one of those “Labor”
apologists who was trying to “explain”
the glorious benefits of socialism. The
burden of his theme seemed to be that
Nature intended man to loaf rather than
to work, but, having under the crool
capitalistic system to earn his living, the
doing of a minimum of effort for the
maximum emolument was the next best
thing to that happy state where we are
all pushed around by bureaucrats. As
an instance of the “bad old days” of a
few years ago he took the shoe trade.
Naturally he didn’t touch on the delight
mothers now experience in paying about
30s. for a pair of schoolboy’s shoes—
that is when they are able after much
searching to buy them —which fall to
pieces after being half-soled once. But
the speaker did dwell on one concrete
benefit from the partial emancipation of
boot-trade operatives. “The old type
shoe is not to be compared with tte
modern, scientifically-devised article,” he
said. “Why, in the old days everyone had
corns! ” I swung the knob again, search-
ing the ether, to hear a suave voice say-
ing—“and one of the prices men and
women pay for living in our civilised age
is that they cannot escape getting corns
and bunions. We are all sufferers, but
we needn’t be. You can rid yourself
of these agonising, tortures by using
Soakem’s Corn Cure—‘lt works while
you sleep’!”
« * * *
“C.Q.”: A Victorian centenarian has
shattered all the conventions governing
reasons why people live to such a great
age. Asked by a reporter how she had
done it, she said: “Well, you see, young
man, when the beer shortage started 1
took to making home-brew like my
parents.” The reporter still isn’t sure
whether she was joking.
* * * *
“Vaucy Bill”: The elderly gentleman
delivering census papers struggled up the
last of a long flight of steps to the big
stone house, collapsed on the verandah
seat, painfully recovered and rang the
bell. To the silver-haired woman who
answered he handed the census-forim
“Madam, your census-paper. Could I
have a drink of water? Why on earth
you people build your houses the
tops of mountains is beyond me.” The
old lady brought him some water. After
downing it he contemplated the descent
of the steps and began to mutter. “Good
heavens, you men make me sick,” ex-
ploded the lady. “I’m 68 and 1 go up and
down those steps twice and four times a
day, carrying home meat and vegetables
and things. You come up then, once in
a blue moon and look at you!” Where-
upon the census-taker got to his feet,
looked gloomily down the height, and
began his descent.
v * * *
“A.L.A.” (Fiji): Most “tags” will
bring some episode to mind, and when
I hear “There is no accounting for
taste” I’m reminded of the Japanese who
paid a peaceful visit in search of drink-
ing water to Rotuma, in the Fiji group,
in 1930. Their sailing vessel was well
out to sea, and the crew came ashore in
a dinghy minus utensil of any kind. They
asked the natives for the use of some
buckets in which to carry some water to
thd dinghy, and when these were sup-
plied the Rotumans watched while their
valued buckets were filled by the Japs
from the tank and then carried to the
shore to be emptied into the waiting
dinghy. After several journeys to and
fro, and when they were satisfied that
they had enough water, the Japs re-
turned the buckets, jumped into the
dinghy with their feet in the drinking
water and rowed off.
A NEW WORD.
“Commenting on the word ‘spiv,’ recently used in
the House of Commons as a term of mild opprobrium,
‘Sydney Homing Herald’ tells us that it means a
man who gets a good living by his wits, without
working and (if possible) without crime.’ ”
It sounds like an expressive term
Holding reproach, or something more,
And one, I readily affirm,
That never came my way before.
Though not un-Parliamentary yet,
• It seems a bit provocative —
The sort of pungent epithet
That might engender stoush —a spiv.
Like many another slab- of slang
We hold no clue that I can see
To indicate from where it sprang
Or hint its etymology.
Was it in Limehouse mire and mist
Or where the Thames-side bargemen live
Some rugged controversialist
Labelled some other bloke a spiv?
Gran’s definition seems to shirk
The clearness such a point demands,
Since with his wits a man may work
As long and hard as with his hands,
And hit on, every bit as well,
The way to be acquisitive,
Eschewing crime (if possible).
But does he then become a spiv?
A spiv! The word so sharp and short,
Pronounced with biting emphasis,
Seems *to suggest an angry snort
Or else a contumelious hiss.
Still, I admit I’ve yet to reach
Full knowledge of what weight to give
This latest adjunct to our speech,
This new-coined epithet—a spiv.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


RECRUITS
WANTED
for
12 YEARS SERVICE
in the
ROYAL
AUSTRALIAN
NAVY
Good Pay. Free Medical and Dental Treat-
ment. Opportunities for Promotion, Travel,
Sport and improvement of education.
AGE GROUPS
{Tradesmen will be required to pass a trade test before entry)
ALL CANDIDATES will be required to comply with
the Educational and Medical Standards prescribed
for the Branch they desire to enter and produce
Birth Certificate and a Certificate or Statement from
the Headmaster of their last school, showing the
highest Educational Standard attained.
CANDIDATES UNDER AGE OF 21 must have
parent’s consent.
EX R.A.N. AND RESERVE RATINGS
are invited to RE-ENTER for 2, 5 or 12 years, or the
period additional to previous service to complete 12 years.
For full details apply to:
The Naval Recruiting Officer, Beach Road, Edgecliff.
F.M. 5001, Extension 1.
II
...J
t
USE
oeBAB£
in woven-striped, water-
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
a
mm
raps sg| mfKKS
Over proof
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848 (fri)
THE SERVICE MAN
Canberra and Collaborators.
“Ek Dum”: The developments in the
Indonesian dispute continue to be curious.
Having agreed to arbitration by the
United States, the Indonesians suddenly
began to change their ground. Complain-
ing loudly and unconvincingly that the
Dutch were breaking the terms of the
armistice in “hundreds” of cases, they
demanded the right to appear at meet-
ings of the Security Council. After the
U.S. Vice-Consul had visited Jogjakarta,
they issued a hurried rescript to the
effect that “all foreigners, including
Chinese, in Republican territories” were
“under the protection of Republican laws
without racial discrimination.” Planta-
tions belonging to foreigners which had
been destroyed—they were wantonly
destroyed—would be restored, though not
those belonging to the Dutch.
Nothing was said about the restora-
tion of the lives of the hundreds of
Europeans and Chinese who have been
slaughtered by “our Indernesian com-
rades,” or about compensation for their
relatives. And nothing was said of the
scorched-earth policy jn relation to the
laws of war when it affects civilians.
There is scarcely a provision of the
Geneva Conventions which the Indone-
sians have not broken.
The Security Council in its original
actions was governed closely by Article II
of the U.N.O. Charter, and it was care-
ful not to go beyond its powers under
“These bottles aren't hot enough to keep us warm. Kindly send the
proprietress in !”
that article. It called for an armistice,
which was agreed to. It called for settle-
ment by arbitration or other peaceful
means, and it specified that it should be
kept informed of what was being done,
It had to go very carefully, because it
knew that if it became involved too
deeply it might find itself either blocked
by another Russian veto or committed to
action which would rend the Security
Council to bits.
In press and radio reports one import-
ant point has been obscured. Develop-
ments to meet Indonesian changes ot
front have had their sources in concerted
actions by Russia and the India of
Nehru the Nehru who has snatched the
friendly concessions of the British with
angry snarls, and who has been shouting
that no foreign armies must be allowed
in Asia. This at a moment when he was
faced with the alternative ot having his
own army commanded by the British or
having no army at all, since many of hr?
own troops would not be prepared to
serve under the kind of officers he can
provide from his following.
F ~ a t 1 ttccd a*
On August 1, the U-S.S.R. was -
hvered of a proposal that the Indonesians
should have direct access to the Security
Council on a basis under which the
Pn‘ te i “? n ) S ,r
[edged heir status as a ■ coumry,
with all the right of nationality. This
met with sufficient opposition to defeat
it. So did another Russian proposal that
both sides shohld be ordered to withdraw
to the positions they occupied before the
fighting. A week ago India revived the
first proposal. It was, of course, adopted
by Russia and its satellites, and by “Aus-
tralia.”
When the thing came in concrete
form, as a Polish resolution, before the
Security Council, “Australia” was there
to vote that Indonesians should be
allowed to appear at the Council table
and thus have their national status recog-
nised- Britain, France, Belgium, the
Netherlands and other countries were
firmly against this intrigue, but it was
carried by the Russian bloc, with the sup-
port of the U.S. delegates, who had a
reason other than that which influenced
the Russians and “Australia.”
Encouraged by the Security Council’s
weakness the Indonesians then hesitated
about the U.S. offer of mediation until
the State Department issued an ultimatum.
They then rejected the friendly offer, no
doubt on Russian advice, and repeated
their demand that an international com-
mission should visit Java. They obviously
are playing for time.
On the Side of Collaborators
Meanwhile Mr. Chiflfey was eating
humble pie along with the A.C.T.U.
unions which had placed a ban on Dutch
transport and trade. Mr. Chifley begged
the unions, in the interests of Australian
trade with India and Britain, to limit
their ban to transport and trade with
Indonesia. No doubt considering the
effect on votes and Communist control,
they agreed to remove the boycott from
all Dutch shipping to and from Europe,
and from transport which did not involve
the carrying of munitions or materials
of war, or the loading of munitions or
materials of war for the Dutch by
Netherlands forces,
The Prime Minister had no comment
to offer on the A.C.T.U.’s reiteration of
its declaration that what is taking place
i n the Dutch East Indies is “a Dutch war
0 f aggression.”
The position now is that the Security
Q>uncil, partly on “Australian” initiative,
bas declared that the traitor, Japanese-
formed “Government” of Jogjakarta is
a * de facto Government. “Australia”
therefore has advocated and condoned
recognition of a “Government” whose
rnembers collaborated with the enemy
and prepared to resist an Australian
f orce Mien it was proposed to land one
throw out the Japanese from a position
f rom which invasion of the Common-
weahh was possible; also from which —
w jth the approval of Soekarno and his
followers-—Australian territory had been
bombed? and Australians slaughtered at
Darwin in a most savage manner.
.Timesnow no Rightist journal,
~ ’ t “ nn ; te
proclaimed last week that iti; quite
impracticable to allow the Indonesians
t occupy country which they have
Dut ch, even while arbitra-
; procee dings are in progress, because
, -Merely extend the area
f . already terrorised by lawless bands and
de facto J , the barbarity 0 f savage
5 • F
*1 ' whlrb
In other words the Government which
Australia has voted to recogn
cannot control the area w ici
“governs or—what appeals to e
fact from its past record—con one
abets massacre and reprisal,
The “Australian” position is one which
should make every elector bow his head


Missing Friends.
SLATER, Elwy (otherwise Elsie) Galbraith, a
daughter of William Pete Slater and Catherine Kelly,
was last heard of by her relations in Melbourne
about 1912. Will she or any person who can give
information of her whereabouts
ceased, please communicate with PUBLIC TKUbiLHi,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ?
MYNTMEIER, Oscar Paul, born in St. Arnaud dis-
trict Victoria, in 1887. Would this person or anyone
knowing of his death or whereabouts please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, regarding the estate of Albert Peter
Myntmeier 7
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE KEITH FRANKS late of Wal-
larobba.—TAKE NOTICE that ANGELA FRANKS
has filed a petition for divorce No. 5230 of 1946
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance before the
28th day of October 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition charge from Messrs. BRAVE GRAGG
COHEN & CHAPMAN Solicitors Bolton Street New-
castle or their Agents Messrs. BRAVE & MALOOM-
SON Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO THOMAS FOWLER late of Tamworth.— I TAKE
NOTICE that MARCIA SARAH FOWLER has filed
a petition for divorce No. 1926 of 1947 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance before the 28th day
of October 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from Messrs. BRAVE CRAGG COHEN
& CHAPMAN Solicitors Bolton Street Newcastle or
their Agents Messrs. BRAVE & MALCOMSON Solici-
tors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO SYDNEY NEWMAN McDOUGALL late of Five
Dock New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
ELIZABETH AMELIA McDOUGALL has filed a
petition No. 764 of 1947 for divorce on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before the sth
Spntember 1947 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from ROBILLIARD & ROBILLIARD
Solicitors 21 George Street Parramatta. (1.5.)
C. K. BODV, Registrar in Divorce.
irouds
OF SYDNEY
Presen* a Selection from their
vast range of Wrist Watches.
m m
RELIABLE and TESTED
WATCHES
from the MASTERS OF TIME.
X. Water and dust resistant, 15-jewel lever
wrist watch. Stainless steel imported case,
chrome bracelet. £9-7-6.
2. 15-jewel lever watch in imported chrome
case with stainless steel back. Chrome
band. £5-15-0.
3. Exceptional value. 15-jewel lever watch
in chrome case with stainless steel back.
Leather strap. £4-2-6.
4. Attractive chrome watch with stainless
steel back. 15-jewel lever movement.
Leather strap. £5-0-0.
5. Distinctive 9-ct. gold wrist watch with
matching gold-filled bracelet. 15-jewcl
lever movement. £l2-2-6.
6. A fine 15-jewel lever movement in an
attractive chrome case with stainless steel
back. Chrome bracelet. £4-17-6.
P. 169.
© m
CORNER PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY. 'PHONE; BW 2721.
M.
\ '
m
:sg|p£
v»
w
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
HAVE A CITY KITCHEN
The AGA Cooker brings all the comforts and conven-
iences of city cooking to country homes. Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean" baked enamel
finish: special insulation—keeps kitchens cool delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
the convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are less than cost of wood —even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
1. It is guaranteed not to burn more than an amazingly
small specified quantity of fuel per annum.
2 It Is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue—showing the complete range of
models.
AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St.'. Sydney.
432 Bourke St.,. Melbourne.
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
Sts., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G.
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd.. Perth.
rtSe
1/
in shame for the country’s apostasy to
a kindred, friendly and allied race.
The very fact that Mr. Chifley made a
“request” to the union leaders is an
official acknowledgment by the Govern-
ment of the right of militant unions and
the Communist Central committee to
prescribe foreign and domestic policy—
to dictate what ships shall come to this
country and what the national policy
shall be in matters of peace and war.
The people who have dictated the
policy in this case are not pacific
persons bent upon an impartial war on
war They are Communist partisans,
their actions directed by a foreign Power
hostile to the British Commonwealth,
and aimed at the disruption of British
systems of government in the interest of
Russian imperialism ; Communist parti-
sans and deliberate enemies of a white
race; combatants, as truly as if they
were shouldering rifles to shoot down the
Dutch.
They are on the side—again to use a
phrase used by the “Times” —of “in-
competence and tyranny.” Their allies
were collaborators with the Japanese and
are murderers of English, Indians,
Chinese and Dutch, including many
womfen and children.
Their unions do not take the attitude
taken in England—which is being grossly
misrepresented here —that arms and
munitions of war will not be loaded for
either side.
Minorities and Massacre
The Communists, and the politicians
and union “moderates” who take orders
from them —are great on “the rights
of minorities,” as is their tutor
State, the U.S.S.R. But they do not object
to the idea that a Dutch “minority,”
which has existed in the islands for 300
years, should be subject to massacre,
pillage, scorched-earth tactics and con-
fiscation of property, even though they
are civilians. They have no word of
detestation for the massacre of the
Chinese, a friendly minority, reported by
the Chinese representative last week.
The unfortunate Eurasians, of whom
there are 200,000 in Java alone, appealed
for protection without moving either
the Canberra “Government” or the
sullen Communist leaders of the unions
to a word of sympathy or pity.
The Eurasian Society sent a request
to the Security Council to “consider the
actual situation in the territories at
present ruled by the [lndonesian] Re-
public” and the “robbing and murdering
by Republicans,” pleading with the
Security Council “to help the Dutch
bring security and order to the country.”
The test of the “militant” unions’ atti-
tude is that they gave open aid to the
Indonesians last year, and are still ready
to do it. If an Indonesian ship arrived
in Australia to load arms —even cane-
knives —to* chop up Europeans, as one
party was chopped up last year, maritime
union leaders would order the loading.
The so-called Government at Canberra
even allowed into the Commonwealth,
as an Indonesian agent, without proper
papers, a woman notorious for her
“sessions” over Japanese radio stations.
This woman, permitted entry appar-
ently on a passport issued by the Com-
munist party and its Waterside Workers’
Federation bosses, whose will Mr. Chifley
does not dare to resist, is now touring the
country speaking on Communist plat-
forms in the Indonesian cause. Mean-
time “Labor” withholds from publication
the official report (Judge Kirby’s) on the
foul murder by “our Indernesian com-
rades” of two Australian R.A.A.F.
officers and an A.I.F. officer.
Some Questions for Canberra
Parliament should be in session to deal
with the disgrace which has fallen on
the country. The Opposition would, of
course, be powerless, since the Govern-
ment has a majority which is afraid to
move a finger in the face of union and
Communist instructions. But the Opposi-
tion would have an opportunity to let
the electors know who has espoused the
cause of Japanese collaborators those
ruffians who so recently proposed to help
oppose the landing of Australian troops
in Java —and who has not.
The “Government” will no doubt
prefer to cherish what Mr. Menzies aptly
calls its “mad, bad record” of “unques-
tioned partisanship against the Dutch,’
with, whom he says it has “been virtually
at war for two years except for the shoot-
ing.”
The “Government” in fact has become
a pawn in the world-wide Communist
game inspired from Moscow, organised
from Moscow and played in only one
white country —Australia —and in a
dozen colored ones, where Communist
organisersjiave gained a grip.
And that conspiracy is aimed ultimately
against the white races in the Asian zone
• —that part of the world to which Dr.
Evatt has attached Australia.
The Seeds of War.
“Ek Dum”: straight speaking of
Herschel Johnson, the United States dele-
gate at the Security Council meeting on
the Greek situation, came as a breath of
cold wind to the Moscow bloc.
On August 1 Greece charged Yugo-
slavia, Albania and Bulgaria with aggres-
sion in connection with attacks across the
border—attacks which were still con-
tinuing cheekily close to the Turkish
border last week.
Mr. Johnson said that Greece was in
grave peril, and that the time for appease-
ment to avoid a Soviet veto was past. He
quoted Section 51 of the Charter:
Nothing shall impair the inherent right
of individual or collective self-defence it
an armed attack occurs against a member
of the United Nations, until the Security
Council has taken the measures necessary
to maintain international peace and security.
Measures taken by members in the exercise
of this right of self-defence shall be imme-
diately reported to the Security Council
and shall not in any way affect the authority
and responsibility of the Security Council
under the present charter to take at any
time such action as it deems necessary
in order to maintain or restore international
peace and security.
A hint was plainly given that if the
Greeks found it necessary to resist in-
vasion, even to the point of war, they
could expect United States help, and it
was further made clear that the United
States might in any case bypass the
Security Council and take the matter
direct to the Assembly, in which there
is no veto. This might break up the
United Nations, but its destruction in any
case would have little effect save to
deprive the Countries of the world of an
expensive meeting ground on which to
quarrel.
Gromyko’s response to the threat was,
as usual, bullying and offensive, and Dr.
Evatt’s delegates, who, also as usual,
were trying to run the world, were in-
cluded in his strictures.
The sending of military equipment, the
presence of a considerable U.S. naval and
air force in the Mediterranean, the par-
ticular direction of the Royal Navy s
summer cruise and the emergence of the
Italian fleet in liaison with the U.S,
squadron, along with Uncle Sam’s assist-
ance to Turkey in fitting up its army, all
have an ominous significance. So have
the stabilising measures in Italy, which
has been forgiven a £312,000,000 debt
by the United States Treasury.
War in Europe at the moment would
be very awkward for Britain and France,
and the U.S.S.R. and its satellites know
it. All the tendency of the British Gov-
ernment is to yield to its Left Wing and
reduce forces. But the fact that when
the stabilised reductions have been made
next March there will still be 1,007,000
British men under arms —Army, 550,000 ;
R.N., 178,000; and R.A.F., 279,000
shows what the Government thinks of
the prospects.
“Australia,” which is meddling in the
Balkans business, and which is therefore
accepting a moral obligation to defend
the side supported by U.N.0., will, by
March next year, have about 15 fightable
men in its land forces, outside those in
Japan, at the present rate of progress.


ASK FOR
~tcr
PERSONAL ITEMS
Viscount Addison, who will lead the
British delegation at the Canberra Peace
Treaty talks, is Secretary of State for
Commonwealth Relations —till six weeks
ago the office was Dominion Affairs. He
was a medical man of considerable repu-
tation —professor of anatomy at Cam-
bridge, London and Sheffield Universities
—when he entered the Commons as
Liberal member for Hoxton in 1910.
Under Lloyd George he fought for
National Insurance, and when L.G.
formed his Coalition Government he be-
came Minister for Munitions. In 1917 he
took over the portfolio of Reconstruction
and a few years later became Britain’s
first Health Minister. The dropping of
his proposed housing scheme brought
about a break with Lloyd George, and he
turned Labor. He was raised to the peer-
age as a baron in 1937, received a vis-
countcy in 1945, and was created a
Knight of the Garter last year. He is 78.
Signalising the new status of his
country. Sir Ragunath Paranjpye raised
the flag of the Dominion of India in
Canberra last Friday, the day which
marked the end of the Indian Empire and
the birth of two Dominions, India and
Pakistan. Sir Ragunath, who has been in
Australia since 1944, is one of his
country’s outstanding scholars, and has
taken a leading part in social and edu-
cational reform work. For 25 years he
was Principal and Professor of Mathe-
matics at Fergusson College, POona, and
just before his appointment to Canberra
he was Vice-Chancellor of Lucknow
University. A Cambridge senior wrang-
ler—he went to England in 1897 as a
Government of India scholar —he also
studied at Paris and Gottingen. From
1927 to 1932 he was in London as a
member of the Indian Council. For the
present the interests of Pakistan in Aus-
tralia will be attended to by A. D. Azhar,
former Indian Trade Commissioner.
Colin Clark, director of the Queens-
land Bureau of Industry and Under-
secretary of the Department of Labor, is
off at the end of the month on a tour
which will take him to U.S.A., Britain,
France, Holland and Eire, with a look-in
at India on the way back. In Washington
he will attend the World Statistical con-
gress convened by the U.S. Government.
Clark was born in London, but his father
was a Townsville man. He gained his
M.A. degree at Oxford, and put in a
couple of years as Assistant-Secretary of
the British Government Economic Ad-
visory Council. From 1931 to 1938 he
was lecturer in Statistics at Cambridge.
From there he came to Brisbane as Gov-
ernment Statistician and Financial Ad-
visor to the Queensland Treasury.
It is rather ironical that the man whose
energetic interest in the Blair Athol coal-
field promises to make Queensland not
only independent of N.S.W. coal, but
also a source of supply for the southern
States, is not a Queenslander or an Aus-
tralian but an Englishman, born in
China. T. J. Hirst was a London archi-
tect before joining the Electric Supply
Corporation. During the war when the
expansion of the R.A.F. and the arrival
in Britain of thousands of American air-
craft called for a huge programme of air-
field construction, he superintended much
of E.S.C.’s part of the job. Last year,
hearing Blair Athol mentioned in a
8.8. C. talk he became interested and
found out all he could about it, got other
people interested in it and came out to
Australia a few months ago with authority
to negotiate a lease of the coalfield on
behalf of his Corporation.
“Macnell”; No one can tell me
Colonel Murray, Administrator of New
Guinea, doesn’t believe in seeing things
for himself. Our ship recently took him
to Bougainville to check up on reports
of starvation and disease. I accom-
panied him on all his inspections, which
weren’t confined to easily-acces&ible
coastal villages. In one district south
of Kieta tuberculosis had been reported
among the hill tribes. The Administra-
tor, his A.D.C., the Director of Public
Health, Dr. Gunther, and myself
staggered and clawed our way up a
4000-foot mountain through great weep- :
ing rain-forests. Finally, at the cloud- i
top village, the Administrator, wet
through and muddied, put on his sod-
den coat, pulled his trousers from his
socks and marched in as though he’d
come from across the road. We found
one case of t.b. in the entire area, and
this lad and a sickly baby were carried
back to the ship for treatment in one
of the half-dozen native hospitals on the
island. A man Murray’s age who’d under-
take that pull to inspect a native village
commands my respect. When we left him
at Torokina he was off on a four-day
trek inland. Asking if I could quote him
on the natives’ condition—tfyey were as
well-fed as I —he answered “No. I
haven’t seen all the inland tribes yet.”
Cardinal Spellman, Archbishop of
New York-, who will visit Melbourne
next May for a centenary commemora-
tion, was born in 1889 in Massachusetts,
and was ordained to the priesthood in
Rome in 1916, He edited the Boston
diocesan newspaper “Pilot” for some
years and was seven years in the Papal
Secretariat of State. He went rrom the
bishopric of Boston to the archbishopric
in 1939 and.received the red cap in 1946.
He was a military vicar during the war.
The Cardinal is a qualified air pilot, and
in 1931 after a Papal encyclical condemn-
ing some aspects of Mussolini’s policy
had been confiscated in Rome he flew a
copy to Paris. It was a hundred years last
month since Bishop Goold, the first
Catholic Bishop of Melbourne, was
elected, and there have been only two
occupants of the seat since. Dr. Mannix
celebrated the silver jubilee of his conse-
cration in 1937. He has been archbishop
for 30 years.
During the late nineteen-thirties two
Sydney men, Stephen Stack and William
Wood, Diggers familiar through years
of Legacy work with the tragic lot
of old soldiers disabled or broken in
health, conceived the idea of establishing
a home which would be an object lesson
to Governments’ and public alike in
what really could be done to make life
worth living for these men. Gathering
a few enthusiastic helpers around them,
they set to work to raise money and
kindle interest in their scheme. Out of
this grew the War Veterans’ Home at
Narrabeen, which recently impressed Vis-
count Montgomery so much that he ex-
pressed his intention of seeing that the
idea was taken up in Britain. Set amid
trees alongside Narrabeen Lakes, the
home, sponsored jointly by the R.S.L.
and Legacy, is not an institution but a
real home for the 134 men of two wars
who live there. To the original plan
have been added Linton, a convalescent
home at Yass, and Bare Island, La
VETERANS’ HOME.
Perouse. Stephen Stack, sketched here
by Dubois, ran an importing business be-
fore he decided to give his full time to
war-veteran welfare. An artilleryman of
Fourth Div. in tile First A.1.F., he was
connected during the second war with
the production of two fine documentary
films—“ Sons of the Anzacs” and “We
of the A.1.F.”
Deputy Chief of the Air Staff,
R.A.A.F.,, Air-Commodore F. R, W.
Scherger, D. 5.0., A.EjC., has a distin-
guished record. A Duntroon man, he
joined the R.A.A.F. in 1925 from a
lieutenancy in the Staff Corps and
specialised as an instructor. His A.F.C.
was gained for his fine record as a test
pilot. He spent 2360 flying hours' on
AIR STAFF.
that job, part of them in trying out the
first Wirraways. His D.S.O. came while
in command of No. 10 Ops. Group irt
New Guinea. Appointed Task Force
Commander of the Allied Air Forces in
the landing at Aitape, he established his
H.Q. four hours after the assault troops
had gained a footing; planes were
operating from Aitape airstrip 48 hours
later. His group was also the spearhead
of the attack on Noemfoor Island. The
citation reads that in both landings “he
was himself in the forefront of the land-
ing of the ground troops and by his out-
standing courage and leadership proved
an inspiration to all personnel under his
command.” Despite his gift for organ-
isation, Scherger is essentially a pilot and
a fighter, and while Mcßeath was re-
minding him how he used to thrill the
youngsters with his aerobatics he looked
out of his administrative window at a
plan© flying over and said “I’d like to be
up there.” He was brought to earth by
the telephone ringing.
When the Stratheden berths at South-
ampton after her present Australian visit
two intellectually distinguished Queens-
land brothers will meet for the first time
in 11 years, and then only for the ship’s
turn-round time. Ronald Bennett, of
Warwick, Rhodes Scholar for 1930, spent
three years at Balliol College, Oxford,
married a Melbourne girl in England
and did valuable scientific war work
in later years. John Bennett, an engineer-
ing graduate of Queensland University,
is going to the Cavendish Laboratory in
Cambridge for special research work on
electronic computing machines and later
qualification as a doctor of philosophy.
Ronald, with his wife and three children,
will return to Australia on the Strath-
eden for a six-month visit.
John Glickman, the 16-year-old violinist
who made a profound impression on The
Bulletin critic when he gave an astonish-
ingly mature performance at his first con-
cert at the Assembly Hall in Melbourne,
shows indications of becoming another
Menuhin, to whom he bears a strong
resemblance. Son of a Brunswick baker
who has spared nothing to further his
musical education, he had lessons from
Spivakovsky, who kept him at his prac-
tice for 10 hours daily. He has since got
the endorsement of Bernard Heinze and
Boyd Neel —the latter has expressed
hopes of seeing him one day in London.
The day shouldn’t be far off, as Bruns-
wick Council has taken an interest in
the lad, and he will probably leave for
England shortly. He was a choir boy at
Scotch College before he took to the
fiddle.
“Puyyaka”: Surgical practice in N.Q.
has its strenuous aspects at times. An
urgent wireless call for aid to the wife of
the lightkeeper on Pine Islet, some 70
miles S.-W. of Mackay, was picked up at
Cape Capricorn and relayed to Mackay
A few hours later, Dr. Whitehead left
Mackay in a 75ft. launch, met a heavy
south-easter, and had to shelter under
Digby Island for the night. Reachins
Pine Islet at 8.30 next morning, the doctor
an ambulance-bearer climbed the
200 ft. track up to the lightkeeper’s cottage
to find Mrs. Bradley delirious and in
imminent danger of death from an acute
internal abscess. Instruments were steri-
lised in the kitchen, an anaesthetic ad-
ministered by the ambulance attendant
and a major operation was performed
while the patient lay on her verandah bed
too ill for removal even to the kitchen
table. Penicillin was given, an analgesic
to relieve the pain of movement, and the
patient was carried down the cliff to the
landing stage. After a 70-mile return
trip through moderate seas she was ad-
mitted to the Mackay Hospital at 7 p m
out of danger. ’’
S.A. gets a good “director of meteoro-
logical services” in G. W. Mackey, at 41
Perth-born, he graduated at Melbourne
Um. and joined the Commonwealth
service 20 years back, since when he has
worked in Darwin, Hobart and Svdnev
and with the R.A.A.F. in Malaya
Bromley, his predecessor in Adelaide,
has had 37 years of weather-forecasting
there.
“L.C.8.”; Members of the Sydney
Bar are mourning the death, as the result
of an accident, of Walter Reid, hon.
secretary of the Bar Association of
N.S.W. He was guide, philosopher and
friend to innumerable juniors making a
start in their profession or seeking to re-
habilitate themselves on their return from
active service. He was well read, and
had travelled widely ; a valued member of
the profession, a lovable friend and a
companion of infinite charm and variety.
Two of Brisbane’s best-known medicoes
died recently within a few hours of each
other, Graham Patrick Dixon, at 74, and
Sydney Fancourt McDonald, at 61. Their
interests met at several points. Both were
consultants at Brisbane Children’s
Hospital and both were associated with
Repatriation hospitals, McDonald as
visiting physician at Rosemount and
Dixon as chief surgeon at Rosemount
and Greenslopes. In the First World
War McDonald served in France with the
R.A.M.C.; Dixon sailed with the 3rd
Field Ambulance, served on Gallipoli, in
Egypt and Palestine and finished up as
A.D.M.S Australian Mounted Division.
In the last war McDonald was a
R.A.A.F. group-captain; Dixon carried
on as surgeon at Greenslopes till 18
months ago, when he retired from the
active list, but continued as consultant.
He was a foundation Fellow of the Royal
Aust. College of Surgeons and a past
president of Queensland B.M.A.
Into the Silence:
At 69, in Melbourne, Douglas Stuart Murray,
former senior partner of Sanderson and Co.,
and one of the best-known shipping men in
Australia. When he joined the firm it was
agent for more sailing ships than steamers.
In Sydney, at 54, Dave Yaffa, proprietor of
Yaffa Syndicate, which distributes overseas
photographs, comic strips, stories and features
to Australian newspapers. He founded the
business 26 years ago in a small way and
built it up into the biggest concern of its kind
in Australia.
In Sydney Harold Sweetapple, orthopaedic
surgeon. After graduating at Sydney Uni. he
served on the staff of Royal Prince Alfred and
Coast Hospitals, went to England in 1932
and gained his M.Ch.Orth. at Liverpool. Re-
turning to Sydney, he practised in Macquarie-
street and served in the Army until 1945, when
ill-health caused his discharge.
In . Brisbane, at 74, Monsignor Francis
Leonard Burton, parish priest at Wilston for
27 years and first native of Brisbane to be
ordained at St. Patrick’s College, Manly
(N.S.W.). A member of the diocesan council
and secretary of the archdiocese of Brisbane,
he was made a domestic prelate in 1944.
At Townsville, at 72, Colin Hassall Ross, a
veteran of the South African War and of World
War I (1914-18), and for many years an out-
standing figure in Queensland pastoral affairs.
After a leg injury prevented him from con-
tinuing active bushlife some 20 years ago he
became the Townsville representative of exten-
sive pastoral interests.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 76, J. F. Downey,
one-time Inspector of Mines. Born at UUadulla
(N.S.W.), he gained his mining experience at
Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill and Chillagoe before
crossing the Tasman in 1913. His textbook
on mining was published in England.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
At the morning reception given at the
Town Hall by the Lord Mayor, Cr. Ray
Connelly, and the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Heinze, to Lord and Lady
Nathan, the latter made an imposing
figure in her loosely-fitting black jacket
over a black skirt and long-waisted
chartreuse crepe blouse, and black felt
hat with wide upswept brim, finished
at one side with a chou of black satin
ribbon. Mrs. Heinze wore a black-and-
red ensemble with a small off-the-face
pixie cap. Mrs. Armstrong, wife of
Commodore J. G. Armstrong, covered
her slate-grey suit with a silver fox cape
which was worn with a small black hat.
With Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, wearing a
black suit and silver fox furs, was Mrs.
S Aarons, whose brown ermine coat was
worn with a small flower hat. Mrs.
Isobel Green, sister of R. G. Menzies,
was smart in black and a small flower-
trimmed hat. Mrs. A. E. Coates had
black ostrich feathers trimming the small
black hat she wore with her black suit.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside was in brown with
heavy gold ornaments making an attrac-
tive color contrast. Mrs. Margaret
Saker’s royal-blue ensemble had cocoa-
brown fur trimming the sleeves of the
coat.
After a six-months run at the Comedy
the Kiwis have put on a new show,
“Tripoli,” and judging by the reception
it had from the first-night audience, it
will prove to be as popular as the first.
It moves with speed, and the men
entrusted with the “female” roles wear
costumes a prima donna would envy. In-
cluded in the audience was Lady Gepp,
who was with Mr. and Mrs. Sam Wells,
the latter wearing a smart black velvet
evening coat over her black dinner gown.
Mrs. Victor Cornaga chose a dinner gown
of grey chiffon, the wide bishop sleeves
caught into a narrow wrist band, the
skirt cut on flowing lines. Mrs. Alan
Walters wore a short black dinner frock
under her black fur-trimmed coat. Mrs.
Grace MacDonald, who was wrapped
in a brown beaver coat, was with Mrs.
Mary Hewison, who chose a black en-
semble.
Margaret Coles, eldest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. G. J. Coles, Toorak, who is
travelling abroad with her father, has
become engaged to Irwin A. Bright, of
Lawrence Hill, Bristol, England. He is
chairman of the Young Conservatives’
party in Bristol and served with the
R.A.S.C. during the war. Margaret, who
is doing secretarial work for her father,
is an old St. Catherine’s girl and was a
member of the A.W.A.S. during the war.
Another engagement of interest is that of
Roberta Best, twin daughter of Lady
Best, of Glenferrie, and the late Sir
Robert Best, and Bernard Lionel Hud-
son, younger son of Mr. and Mrs. Henry
H. Hudson, of Malvern, who served in
the A.I.F. and was a p.-o-w. in Germany
for four years. The ballet and painting are
Roberta’s chief interests. • She studied
dancing with Jennie Brennan and Boro-
vansky and has appeared in his company
for a few of the Melbourne seasons. The
late Rupert Bunny and John Munro
taught her painting. An heirloom in the
Hudson family, a lovely pearl set in a
square of diamonds with diamond
shoulders, is being worn by Roberta as
an engagement ring.
The- Girls’ Friendly Society of Mel-
bourne Diocese held its annual ball at
the St. Kilda Town Hall, where Lady
Dugan received 50 debutantes, all dressed
in frocks of fine white net over taffetas,
with a blue G.F.S. member’s badge at
the neckline. They also wore blue mit-
tens and carried posies of blue and white
flowers. Among the debutantes was
Harley Bright Parker, daughter of the
organiser of the G.F.S. in Melbourne,
Mrs. K. Bright Parker. Lady Dugan
wore a taffeta coat in rich cyclamen,
featuring large puff sleeves and a very
full skirt quilted all round, about 12in.
above the hemline. She was attended by
Penelope Nettlefold and Major G. C.
Maxwell. Upon arrival at the Town Hall
the official party passed through a guard
of honor formed by last year’s debu-
tantes. Lady Dugan was received by the
president of the G.F.S. in Melbourne,
Mrs. J. J. Booth, wife of Archbishop
Bopth. Her ice-blue crepe frock was
trimmed with silver beading at the neck-
line and at each .side of the waist.
Tommy Harrison’s Spring Hat Show,
which he put on at his Collins-street
salon, was a huge success, and the Queen
Victoria Hospital Funds will benefit.
President of the Q.V., the Brookes lady,
was at the opening, snug in her silver
fox cape. Organiser • Kitty Harrison
looked attractive in a periwinkle V-blue
wool ensemble. Organiser of the Hat
Show, Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, wore a
London Tan tailored coat and matching
felt hat, its ribbon trimming matching
the sage-green frock worn under the coat.
With frocks showing the new length and
the rounded silhouette, a bold or subtle
hat is the thing. In the past hats have
been left at* home or else carried in the
hand, but every woman will want to wear
a hat that is as frail as thistledown or
as dashing as a pirate’s. The hats were
worn by well-known girls and young
matrons.
A nice note in these new fashions is the
brightness of the flowers and tulle, massed
together on a black hat. The side slant
has a new allure when allied to the off-
the-face brim, and large hats flare into an
ellipse and small ones turn back sharply.
Ribbons tie, swathe or are massed —rich
dark reds, greens and light navies.
Angela Cass modelled a black upturned
affair with two large lime-toned roses
sewn one on the crown and the other
just touching the shoulder. A curvette
of white straw was highlighted with
purple velvet pansies. Wide-meshed veiling
was seen on quite a few of the hats.
Draped down the back or falling on each
side of the hat, flowers were sewn at in-
tervals down the veiling. A white panama
hat had white ostrich feathers curling
about its wide brim. Paisley silk was
used with excellent effect to trim a
cartwheel panama, and red cherries nest-
ling in a halo of black velvet bows was
very suitable for the ioung thing.
Joan Denyer, pictured here by Broo-
thorn, is the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Denyer, of East St. Kilda.
Joan was educated at St. Margaret’s and
during the war did her share of patriotic
jobs, among which was one at Stonning-
ton Red Cross Home. Joan, who has
appeared in many of Brett Randall pro-
ductions at the Little Theatre —she was
Edith in “The Women”—is engaged to
Jack Morris, son of Mr. Louis Morris,
of Melbourne. They will be married in
December at Melbourne, and will make
their home in Sydney.
At a welcome-home party at the Aus-
tralia, given by Mrs. David Ely, Mrs.
Sammy Lee, just back from America, had
much to tell of her trip. Fashion pointers,
she said, are high hats, black, navy-blue,
bottle-green and dark-grey nylon stock-
ings for daytime wear, and pale-blue and
pink nylons for after-dark wear. Fuschia
and forest-green are the most popular
colors for frocks and suits, and lizard-
skin bags match shoes, which are made,
with 7in. high heels. The lizard skin is
dyed pink, cyclamen and Kelly-green.
Mrs. Lee wore an ensemble in beige with
a matching high-crowned hat, worn well
off the face and surmounted with a
bunch of feathers from which fell long
matching ribbon streamers. A pink
bunchy lizard-skin bag matched her shoes
'and her massive gold costume jewellery
was studded with small rubies and dia-
mond chips. Mrs. Lee said that today
American women wear heavy pancake
make-up, with rouge and heavy eye-
shadow and frosted nail varnish which
matches every lipstick.
Petite brownette Nancy Bryan, known
in America as “adviser to the Stars,” was
guest of honor at a cocktail party given in
the Marina-room of the Australia. Nancy
is a university graduate who during her
course took psychology and who has
now applied her knowledge to cosmetics.
She is quite certain that a person’s whole
approach to life can be changed with
clothes and a newborn confidence in the
.face they present to the outside world.
To further this belief, she opened a
bea(ity clinic in St. Louis and during the
war helped the hundreds of girls who
donned uniform to acquire the poise and
personality necessary to making efficient
officers. As “adviser to the Stars” Nancy
taught her methods of make-up to top-
ranking screen and stage personalities of
America and now, having joined a staff
of a well-known cosmetic firm, she is here
foi three months on a business tour.
From Sydney
The Governor, Lieut.-General North-
cott, Mrs. Northcott and daughters
Marjorie and Elizabeth were among the
applauders at the Sydney Symphony
concert on Thursday when Eugene
Goossens took his first bow as permanent
conductor of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. Violinist Isaac Stern was the
soloist.
There is no one in our midst who calls
for such generous and kindly thought on
the part of the rest of thp community
as the sightless. It was therefore good to
hear at the annual meeting of Royal
Sydney Industrial Blind Institution that
a fund had been established to arrange
for holidays for any blind person in need
of them. This is a fund that should never
lack support. It came into being because,
up to the present, the efforts of the
Society to secure a property suitable for
a rest home have not been successful.
The courage of the sightless is inspiring.
Listeners to the report, read at the meet-
ing, learned that of 40 blinded ex-service-
men 34 were carrying on their normal
professions. The facilities offered at the
Institution for the learning of Braille and
typewriting had been made full use of
51 had qualified in the first and 38 in the
latter. A letter from president Justice
Maxwell, now in England, was read at
the meeting by acting-president knight
Benjamin Fuller. Good news also was
the announcement by Minister for Hous-
ing Clive Evatt that materials would be
made available immediately for the build-
ing of a new Haven for blinded women at
Woollahra. The Governor, Lieut-General
Northcott, opened the meeting.
Of great interest was the announce-
ments that the famed Helen Keller will
be paying a visit to Australia next
year.
Violinist Leo Cherniavsky, of the fine
head, and his small wife, her rose-red
hat with its delicate feather trimming in
the same shade a bright spot in the almost
sombre-clad audience, were front seaters
and appreciative listeners at the Isaac
Stern recital last week. Not only did this
great artist pay the young man the
courtesy of coming to hear him play, but
beginning artists, with hope in their
hearts and their violin cases in their
hands, came racing up the steps of the
Town Hall at the last minute, evidently
straight from their lesson, to listen to
and absorb the music of this young artist,
surely more American than Russian.
(He was taken by his parents from the
land of his’birth at the age of one.) In
the crowded house another hat of dis-
tinction was worn by Mrs. E. H. Salenger.
This is a Suzi model, and at first sight
looks as though it were covered with
feather fronds, but these are velvet fronds
of jacaranda-blue.
In the interval Leo was heard telling
friends about his own first concert tour
in .Sydney, when he was less than 16, and
of The Bulletin caricature and write-up,
which he seems to remember word for
word.
Sydney lost its chance of hearing Herta
Glaz, good-looking contralto of the
Metropolitan Opera House, New York.
Herta, who came here under the direction
of the A.8.C., had a bad throw from her
horse when riding near Narrandera, when
she was the guest of the D. R. Mc-
Caugheys, of Coonong. She carried out
her Melbourne engagement, and she
will sing in Canberra with the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra directed by
Eugene Goossens.
No matter what your age, you are go-
ing to enjoy Barbara Knox’s exhibition
of Early Victorian Juvenile plays, now
at the Macquarie Galleries. This was
opened by Mrs. T. H. Kelly yesterday,
and the rooms were crowded with eager
and excited young from school age up-
wards. Sydney has seen and admired dur-
ing the past year exhibitions of theatrical
design and decor in its most modern
expression. But the Juvenile theatre it has
taken to its heart. Miss Knox camp upon
“the find” in a secondhand bookshop, and
at Loudon Sainthill’s encouragement de-
cided to show her treasure.
There are 12 complete plays (1840-60).
These include two pantomimes, “Dick
Whittington” • and “Jack and the Bean-
stalk.” There are melodramas, almost all
of these ending with “Red fire to burn.”
But the gem of the lot, according to the
small boy, is “The Battle of Waterloo.”
This has a big cast, 32 name characters
in addition to Wellington and Napoleon.
Each play has about 20 loose sheets of
characters, scenes and stage designs for
cutting out and sticking on cardboard
and setting up in the toy theatre. The
fun of the thing is that the figures are
pushed'about the stage (which is com-
plete with backcloth and wings) on wires.
In Victorian times, the most expensive
play cost 2s. lOd.; the separate sheets
were Id. plain and 2d. colored. Loudon
Sainthill is helping Miss Knox with the
arranging of the exhibition. Mrs, Alleyne
Zander sent the theatres from London.
One of these is of cardboard, the other
of imitation wood. Food for Britain
benefits.
The Victoria League throughout Aus-
tralia is inviting every member of the
League to contribute a shilling for a
wedding present for Her Royal Highness,
Princess Elizabeth. Members in New
South Wales are asked to send their shil-
lings to the office, 19 Bligh-street, Sydney.
Late-afternoon party, 5 to 8, on the
25th to American dancer Ted Shawn. Jean
Garling, who has sent out the invitations,
promises a very gay and informal “do” at
the Women’s Pioneer Qub rooms. Ted
Shawn will be accompanied by Mrs. Ida
Beeby, founder of the well-known Patch
Theatre, Perth.
Ted Shawn, who will give two recitals
in Sydney Conservatorium —August 27
and 30 —is very important in the ballet
world of America. Mr. Shawn, who came
to Australia under management of
the Patch Theatre Guild and School of
Perth, has spent some months lec-
turing, teaching and giving recitals. While
here he hopes to collect material to pub-
lish the inevitable book. If his writing
style is as simple, direct and telling as his
speech the book should be more than
worth while. And a word about this
Patch Theatre. It was started by en-
thusiasts during the war (Mrs. Ida Beeby
is its director), and it now owns the
largest amateur theatre, it is said, in Aus-
tralia,
Radio and stage actors and ballet
dancers made up a great part of the
company at the Ballet and Theatre
Club’s opening. The club, which was
formed three years ago, like everyone
else has suffered from the housing short-
age and naturally members are now
jubilant over finding a home. Knight
Ben Fuller, of theatre renown, declared
it open —and who had more right than
he, whose firm, in conjunction with the
British Council, is bringing the Rambert
Ballet to Australia?
The new rooms at 305 a Pitt-street were
gay with flowers and had against the
side wall a striking panel of red satin,
against which background Balanese
dancers moved in graceful rhythm. Fur-
ther along was a Chinese dancer’s mask,
of delicate silver filigree, its motif the
dragon of good fortune. These are the
property of Althea Glashy, Little Theatre
personality, who is one of thfe club’s
members.
Mrs. Vera Lacey, who represents the
British Ballet Organisation, is president;
she wore in the lapel of her mist-blue
suit the figure of a silver .ballerina.
Aubrey Halioran was one of the day’s
speakers; so were W. J. a Bradley, K.C.,
and actor John Newton Hayward, who
leaves shortly with a company of players
for Japan. Among the notables who
moved about and waited on themselves
were radio and stage actress Nellie Lam-
port, Mina Shelley, of the School of the
Theatre, and her husband, Madame Scott*
Mrs. Ardill, Mrs. Price Jones, Jean Garl-
ing, and the club’s former secretary.
Mavis Patop.
Accompanying John Salvana to his
show at the Royal Art Society’s rooms
was his niece Maureen Frizell, of Bris-
bane. Maureen, who looks like a school-
girl, is a fully qualified nurse, and is tak-
ing an extra course in obstetrics at .the
Royal Hospital for Women, Paddington.
The exhibition was opened by the
Society’s president, Erik Langker, on Fri-
day afternoon, but before the opening
more than half the pictures were sold.
Some of John’s typical Australian scenes
are now on their way to New Zealand.
Mrs. Langker pinned daffodils in the lapel
of her spring-green suit.
Don’t forget the R.S.L. Victory Ball
tomorrow night at the Trocadero. Food
for Britain benefits. On Tuesday the
N.S.W. Junior Orchestra and Choir (con-
ducted by Carl Sauer) will give a concert
at the Town Hall in aid of Legacy War
Orphans Fund.


UNION
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
offers a comprehensive service
covering every phase of Estate Manage-
ment , Executorship and Trusteeship ,
and providing for the efficient control
and administration of all related matters 9
or your personal affairs.
The expert knowledge gained through
sixty years of Union Trustee experience
in these matters simplifies the handling
of all details.
This efficient service is available at
moderate cost.
*6T «
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS s
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A, Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.e.c. ; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD;
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e. ; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager; C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street —A. F. Taanock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
—Protect your Property insure with —
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Thone: BWBI3I (3 Lines) Q. R. CORNWELL, Manager
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurable Co.
Added Capital
to Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 56,121 9’ p.c. = 36,000'
Provident furid, £2OOO 13,121 695,970
Written off premises, £soooj
1940.. 58,345 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £2OOO 15,345 711,315
Written off premises, £5OOO
1941.. 61,454 9 p.c. = 36,000 •
Provident fund, £5OOO 15,454 726,769
Written off premises, £5OOO
1942.. 63,111 9 p.c. = 36,000’
Provident fund, £7OOO 15,111 741,880
Written off premises, £5OOO
1943.. 65,666 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 18,666 760,546
Written off premises, £5OOO I ■
1944.. 64,558 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 17,558 778,104
Written off premises, £5OOO
1945.. 67,855 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 20,855 798,959
Written off premises, £5OOO
1946.. 69,640 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 17,640 816,599
Written off premises, £lO,OOO
1947.. 66,079 10 p.c. = 40,000 \
Provident fund, £6OOO .. .j
Despite a contraction of £3561 in net
earnings, the board of this soundly-
established 69-year-old fire, marine and
accident office, with Sydney headquarters
and strong connections throughout the
Commonwealth, considered the position
good enough to lift the div. from 9 p.c. to
10 p.c. This fitted in with market antici-
pations. The pound shares paid to 16s.
were undervalued at the official ceiling
of 365. at end 1946, even on the basis of
a 9 p.c. distribution. The figure shot up
to 425. in January, reached 445. in April,
rose to 455. 6d. in the following month
and then remained fairly steady around
the higher level. Allowing for the final
div. a share), the return at 455. 6d.
is 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Nfet
tangible cover is 335. 5d., and assets are
worth more than their book value.
The £66,079 of profit (it includes pro-
vision for'unexpired risks) was 16.5 p.c.
on capital as against 17.4, 16.9, 16.1,
16.4, 15.8, 15.4 and 14.6 p.c. back to
1940. The shrinkage in the profit figure
was due to a contraction of £3963 in the
underwriting surplus (£40,454, equal to
10 p.c. on capital). There was little
change in the net return from interest,
rents, etc. (£25,625, up £402) at 6.4 p.c,
on capital. It all gives the 10 p.c. a com-
fortable appearance, subject to the possi-
bility of violent fluctuation in underwrit-
ing results. Certainly underwriting runs
into bad patches at times, but overall the
law of averages works well.
The revival of trade, growth of in-
ventories, high level of values and employ-
ment, steady increase in erection of new
buildings and expansion in the number of
motor vehicles in use all contributed to
a marked growth of £137,580 in gross
premium receipts (£874,634). Reinsur-
ances (£431,219) were £73,057 heavier,
leaving the gain in net premium income
at £64,523:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Bate. Rate.
£ £ £
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 p.c. 43.5 p.c.
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 ~ 51.3 ~
1939.. 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.6 ~ 45.1 „
1940.. 806,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 „ 44.7 „
1941.. 315,104 131,798 146,685 41.8 „ 46.5 „
1942.. 322,944 124,645 160,200 38.5 „ 49.6 „
1943.. 335,412 122,985 166,738 36.4 „ 49.7 „
1944.. 355,367 160,963 f 159,689 45.3 „ 43.0 „
1945.. 349,731 153,486 152,808 43.9 „ 43.7 „
1946.. 378,891 158,588 175,886 41.8 „ 46.4 „
1947.. 443,414 205,995 196,965 46.4 ~ 44.4 „
t Includes fire brigade charges, previously treated as
# exes.
The pleasing feature last term was that
the larger business was gathered at £2 p.c.
less cost, a creditable performance con-
sidering the lift in wage rates, reabsorp-
tion of staff from the services and in-
creased cost of everything. The growth
of £4 12s. p.c. in the loss rate reflects
the unsatisfactory nature of workers’
compensation and motor-vehicle insur-
ance. The Prices Commissioner recently
granted an increase in premium rates on
the last-mentioned class of business.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are well protected:
1939. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 215,000 255,721 383,388 450,753
Tax reserve . . 18,000' 35,000 60,000 66,225
Freeholds, etc. 485,384 480,300 459,402 454,249
Mortgages . . 14,745 21,661 17,169 24,689
Govt, securities,
etc. . . 364,149 441,859 717,360 791,521
Book debts . . 68,212 76,323 59,975 75,728
Cash, etc. . . 23,479 42,457 40,081 66,242
The year’s growth of £73,365 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors was
mainly in respect of provision for claims
and reinsurances (£390,528, up £62,066).
Government securities, etc. (up £74,161)
includes a new item, shares in other cos.,
£24,161. The growth of £15,753 in book
debts, mainly agents’ balances, reflects the
expansion of business.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £> & £,
1937.. 57,569 9 p.c. = 45,000 12,569 324,806
1938.. 59,437 11 „ „ 55,000 4,437 329,243
1939.. 62,640 11 „ „ 55,000 7,640 336,883
1940.. 65,420 11 „ „ 55,000 10,420 347,303
1941.. 62,168 11 „ „ 55,000 7,168 354,471
1942.. 63,162 11 „ „ 55,000 8,162 362,633*
1943.. 60,144 11 „ „ 55,000 5,144 367,777
1944.. 61,964 11 „ „ 55,000 6,964 374,741
1945.. 72,562 11 „ „ 55,000 17,562 392,303
1946.. 56,184 11 „ „ 55,000 1,184 393,487
1947.. .23,584 11 „ „ 55,000 362,071
Widespread drought throughout Queens-
land’s sugar bblt restricted cane crush-
ings and mill output of raws last season.
And this before the industry had re-
covered from the cramping effects of war-
time shortages of manpower, fertiliser,
tractors and other essentials. The drop
in production raised unit costs, and so
did a 35.-a-week cost-of-living lift in the
basic wage, which was further increased
by the Arbitration Court’s award of 7s.
a week from Dec. 23 last. The rise in
the average price of raws exported took
a little of the sting out of the blow. The
figure rose from around £A7 a ton pre-
war to £AJ6 17s. 9d. for 1945 and to
£AI9 10s. last season.
After allowing an unspecified amount
for taxation and £16,694 (down £27) for
depreciation, there was a sharp contrac-
tion of £32,600 in the net result (£23,584),
which was 4.7 p.c. on capital as against
11.2, 14.5, 12.3, 12, 12.6, 12.4 and 13 p.c.
back to 1940. Excepting a loss (£6627) in
1933, due to drought, it was the poorest
showing since the co. took over the busi-
ness in 1911 from the Q.N. Bank —inci-
dentally, the bank has since disposed of
nearly all its holding. Still, the board
considered the co.’s position, and the out-
look, good enough to repeat the 11 p.c.
to shareholders (4 p.c. of it is labelled
bonus) for the tenth year in succession.
And, with one eye on the co.’s strength,
financial and otherwise, the market thinks
with the board. The price of the f.-p.
pound ords. rose from the official ceiling
of 50s. 6d. at end 1946 to 525. 6d. in
January last, and has since strengthened
to 535. 3d. and remained steady around
that figure. The return at 535. 3d. is
4.1 p.c. on an 11 p.c, div. basis. Visibly
the covet is 345. 6d. in net tangibles.
Milling, both on its own and growers’
account, is the backbone of the co.’s earn-
ings, which are stiffened by returns from
a fine v/ad of investments outside the
business, and by moderate pickings from
refining the small portion of the crop
not treated by C.S.R. The investments,
which total £64,429 more than paid
capital, consist of Government securities
(in at £499,102, or £B9B less than face
value), shares in the Bundaberg Distillery
(valued in the books at £64,951, or 60 p.c.
of face value, and worth a lot more than
par), and a handful of shares in other
cos. (£376). The board’s laconic comment
on the distillery was that it had “a satis-
factory year.”
As for the outlook, total crushings of
cane in the Bundaberg district are ex-
pected to reach 450,000 tons this year as
against 262,000 tons last season, thanks
to good rains early in 1947. A dry spell
since has retarded growth, and rain is
needed to give the 1948 crop a good start.
However, the export price of raws has
continued to rise, and is expected to
average about £A2S a ton for the current
season. On the other hand, wage, trans-
port, milling, refining and other costs
continue on the up-grade. How long the
present high export-price for raws will
continue remains to bfe seen. Production
in the West Indies is being stepped up,
the Philippines is on the road to recovery,
but Java is still out of the market, and
it may be some time before mills there
-are in full production again. Meanwhile,
the world economic position promises to
remain fluid; much will depend upon
what happens in connection with costs in
Australia.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1939. 1943. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital. . £500,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Creditors* . . 104,617 177,876 236,629 218,041
Freeholds, re- •
finery, etc. 329,360 326,963 307,165 301,901
Plantation, etc. 58,181 35,541 35,643 39,365
Railways, etc. 32,542 34,920 36,477 33,914
Stocks . . 89,143 125,018 137,530 131,559
Book debts . . 10,085 44,007 21,331 12,962
Investments . . 396,562 481,917 564,447 564,429
Cash .. . . 63,127 34,787 65,023 33,483
* Including taxation.
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded the amount coming to
outsiders by £524,392, down £27,301.
The drop is due to earnings falling short
of div. payments.
Whitefield, Ltd. (Sydney)
r - j Dividends
Ist 2nd R e .
March, Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.C. p.C. p.C. £ £,"
1939 .. 13,883 6 6.2 5 11,581 11711
1940 .. 14,051 6 6.2 5 12,021 J.3’741
1941 .. 12,227 6 6.2 5 12,155 13,813
1942 . . 14,478 6 6.2 5 12,161 16,130
1943 .. 12,480 6 6.2 5 12,160 16,450
19 4 4 .. 12,58 0 6 6.2 6 12,160 16,870
1945 .. 12,405 6* 6.2 5 11,669 17,606
1946 . . 11,877 6.2 5 10,960 18,523
1947 .. 11,557 —6.2 J 8,862 21,218
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (£800),
t For 6 months only. First prefs. repaid in Oct.j
1944 ; second prefs. in Nov., 1946.
When this co. was formed in 1923,
proposed source of revenue was to be
interest and discounts from mortgage
investments. Except that the portfolio
now mainly comprises first instead of
second mortgages, co. has persisted in
the original policy, although a very dif-
ferent climate now prevails for mort-
gagees.
Ordinary divs, averaged nearly 18 p.c.
until the 1930 slump. Then came the
Moratorium Act, the Interest-Reduction
(by 22\ p.c.) Act, and the special tax on
property income. Co.’s reserves being
quite meagre, the well dried up altogether,
so far as ord. shareholders were con-
cerned, for nine years to 1939. During
the war came bans on the discounting
of new mortgages and severe control of
mortgage interest-rates (present maxi-
mum is 4\ p.c.). As money became
plentiful in war-time, co.’s old mortgage
loans were being repaid at a rapidly in-
creasing rate, whilst the only new outlet
available to take their place was Gov-
ernment loans returning about 3 p.c.
Since 1939, therefore, directors have used
their liquid funds to retire about half of
the preference capital, balance of which
has been converted to 4 p.c. debentures;
a 1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £220,000 £200,000 £200,000 £120,000
Debentures .. 10,000 10,000 64,000
Creditors and
tax prov’s’n 84,763 36,038 27,288 30,365
Freeholds .. 13,094 12,779 12,559 12,643
Shares in sub-
sidiary .. 45 2 45 2 462 452
Shares in other s
cos. . . 167 2,550 4,200 21,582
Mortgages .. 261,451 221,908 193,203 173,084
Debtors .. 110 3,998 4,622 2,786
Cash .. 27,110 47,799 18,127
Effect has been an enhanced actual rate
of earning on ord. capital. In the intro-
ductory table, profits since 1944 are
shown after the payment of debenture
interest. Before such deduction, last
year’s net earnings would have been
about £12,700.
But last year’s profit was swollen by
an item which should be regarded as non-
recurring. “Substantial” arrears of in-
terest were picked up when the co. sold
48 properties of which it had “taken
possession” back in the depression. There
are 182 more of these to be disposed of
when the directorate chooses, but for
the current term the chairman expects “a
decline in sales of possessed properties.”
On the other hand, last year’s profit
doesn’t include divs. from the subsidiary
—an estate-agency business named Homes
Agency Pty. Ltd., whose profit rose last
year though the amount isn’t disclosed.
Further, the parent’s 1947 profit was not
helped by divs. from its new holdings of
co. shares, whereas this term the benefit
will be felt.
Mortgage investments have fallen by
one-third since 1939, and dropped by
£20,119 during last term, when co. shares
rose by £17,382. This isn’t indica-
tive of a changed policy of the directors,
but rather of the lack of available new
mortgage investments. About £35,000
was actually re-invested in new first
mortgages last year—insufficient to offset
the old ones being discharged.
Last year’s profit represented 7.2 p.c.
on mean capital, and the 5 p.c. div.
doesn’t seem to be in danger at the
moment. But when all interest arrears
have been recouped by sales of possessed
properties, co.’s present sphere of activity
would seem to offer only restricted
opportunities for profit. Investors value
the £1 ords. at par, yielding 5 p.c. on
present div. Net tangible asset backing
is 245. each.
Central Victoria Dredging Co., N.L.
Fofraed by Gold Mines of Aus., Ltd.,
and Gold Exploration and Finance Co. of
Aust., Ltd., this Central Co. has been
registered in Melbourne to take over and
work three dredging areas in Victoria-
one, Amphitheatre, is on the Avoca River,
near Avoca, and the other two, Jim Crow
and Guildford, are adjacent to grouno
now being worked by Victoria Gold


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
AREYOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER ?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
iliii
Filter
Cylinder
F I
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■:
JACKSOTS
OSUUJVAV. /
\ PTY.m> <, yV
TRADE mark
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 24A) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
BRANDAUERS
\vt
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER * CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
PENS
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you tit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3 1- & 1/3.
iPD
Q
V
YIO
gsss
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
S&BREKS TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
Dredging Co. on the Loddon River, near
Newstead. . 1A
Nominal capital is £500,000 in 10s.
shares, of which 249,500, including 39,000
paids for the Amphitheatre area, have
been taken by G.M.A., 395,500 by
G.E.F. and 125,000 paids by V.G.D. for
its dredge and certain other assets. 1 his
Central Co. will thus kick off with an
issued capital of £385,000, leaving 230,000
unissued shares in reserve. On Aug. 5
G M.A. offered those on its own register
(except G.E.F.) 157,250 of the new co/s
shares, one-for-one at par. G.E.F. s
allotment includes 260,500 shares to
which it is entitled as a shareholder m
G.M.A. t
It is estimated that £385,000 will be
required to bring the properties to pro-
duction, including installation of two
dredges, etc. Of this amount £303,000
will be provided from proceeds of con-
trib. shares and £82,000 will be satisfied
by issue of fully-paids. A further
£129,700 of anticipated capital outlay is
to be met from revenue later on, making
total capital expenditure £514,700.
Subject to ratification of the deal with
V.G.D. by its own shareholders, that co.’s
175,000-c.y .-a-month electric dredge will,
on completion of its present task, be dis-
mantled and transferred to the Amphi-
theatre area, where it is expected to set
in about 18 months hence. A second
machine of similar type and capacity is
on order. It is to dig first the Jim Crow
and then the Guildford area.
The three areas consist of river flats
and terraces which, for the most part,
are clear of standing timber. They have
been examined and bored by J. H. W.
McGeorge, superintendent of V.G.D. and
field engineer to G.M.A., with the fol-
lowing results:
Yardage Bore, Est., Av.
Proved, c.y., c.y., Depth,
c.y. grs. grs. feet.
Amphitheatre .. 20,000,000 2.40 2.04 35-5
Jim Crow .. 10,500,000 2.50 2.12 23.6
Guildford .. 6,000,000 2.25 1.91 22.0
36,500,000 2.40 2.04
Estimated grade is the actual average
bore value, less an allowance of 15 p.c.
for probable error in valuation and
dredging losses. The gold, 96.5 p.c. fine,
amalgamates readily and occurs in coarse
shotty grains throughout the wash ; over-
burden varies from 12ft. to 18ft., which
is sufficient for resoiling purposes; and
only in the Jim Crow sector was sunken
timber met with. In the Amphitheatre
area the wash contains sandy clay, but
tests suggest that recovery will not be
impeded, given an adequate supply of
water. In each area river diversion will
be necessary, arid additional water can
be obtained from old shafts and by sink-
ing shallow sub-artesian bores. Dredg-
ing rights over the Guildford sector have
not yet been granted, but negotiations
with various interests involved are well
advanced.
With each dredge turning over
2,000,000 c.y. p.a., the life of the areas
will be approx. 10 years Amphitheatre,
5-f years Jim Crow and three years Guild-
ford. Estimated net recoverable values
and total costs per c.y., together with
aggregate profit over the life of the pro-
perties, are as follows:
Recoverable Total
Value.t Cost,
c.y. c.y. Profit.*
Amphitheatre .. 9.85 d. 4.68 d. £431,000
Jim Crow .. .. 10.34 d. 4.59 d. 252,000
Guildford .. .. 80,000
t Gold at £lO/15/3 an ounce, less gold tax, 17/7*.
* Total for estimated life of area.
On the basis of those figures, and allow-
ing for estimated capital expenditure out
of revenue, shareholders can see suffi-
cient profit to return their capital, plus
6.6 p.c. p.a. over a period of 10 years,
with the prospect of further boring dis-
closing additional pay dirt.
After extensive sampling and costeen-
ing. Western Queen Gold, which hasn’t
had any luck to date, has aban-
doned its option on the Lady Gladys at
Mulline, North Coolgardie field. Many
mining men had long regarded this show
as worthless. Another property is now
under consideration.
« * * ♦
Westralian Mining Corp. has pegged
several areas adjoining the old Burbanks
Gold Group, Coolgardie (W.A.), on which
it holds an option. Burbanks was one
of Coolgardie’s principal producers in the
’nineties of last century, but values at
depth were not good enough, at the then
price of gold, to carry on. The .Corp. s
experts now give these areas a chance.
* * * *
Blue Asbestos, Ltd., Colonial Sugar’s
Westralian subsidiary, has made “certain
requests” to the Federal and State Gov-
ernments relating to the prospects of its
Hammersley Ranges holding, inland from
Roebourne. Minister for Mines Parkei
recently inspected the co.’s deposits, on
which several hundred thousand pounds
have been spent, and was “impressed
with what he saw.
*** * *
Westralian goldmining dividends
totalled £341,329 for the first half of this
year. Aggregate for the first six months
of 1946 was £208,204. Higher payments
by some of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
producers are chiefly responsible for the
rise. Still, unless they treat a slightly
higher grade of ore it is doubtful whether
present distributions can be maintained,
because of rising costs.
y * jjc #
South Kalgurli Consolidated (W.A.)
will pay in sterling a div. of Is. 3d. a
share, less U.K. tax, on August 27. Aus-
tralian shareholders will get £A4 ss. Bd.
per 100 shares. Profit in sight in the
co.’s South Kalgurli-Hainault blocks on
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile shows little
alteration compared with a year ago, when
scrip holders were in a comfortable posi-
tion.


Everybpdys
snappinq it
now!
The yachtsman’s snapping it!
The farmer’s snapping it! All of us men are
snapping that big block of Small’s Club
Chocolate.
Small’s Club Chocolate is "not so v
sweet” —made especially for men,
And remember- this —the better
the quality of the chocolate the
louder the'’SNAP”. And Small’s
Club Chocolate breaks with
good loud "SNAP”
everytime
4p
■
/
1
-
mm
m
mm
*
i
Smalls make great Chocolate
f
tfl
Who says Small’s Club Chocolate
is a man’s chocolate? We girls
like it too. Any time you have
some don’t forget to "SNAP” it
with us! It’s not so sweet.
Missing Friend.
ALBERT WALTER FLIEGNER, sometimes known ■“
George Johnston and Albert Walker, son of Matua
Marie Fliegner, late of 110 Gore Street, Fitzroy, 1
the State of Victoria, Widow, deceased. The above-
named Albert Walter Fliegner, or anybody known®
anything of or concerning him, is requested w
communicate immediately with H. L. YUhCKE> «
YUNOKEN, Solicitors, of 443 Little Collins streei,
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT.
Joseffy’s remark that Liszt’s Sonata in
B Minor “lay so beautifully for the hand
that it played itself” is superfluous when
an executant like Simon Barere tackles
the work. Certainly it is free fantasia
writing rather than a sonata in the ac-
cepted form, yet the gloomy power, the
chordal massiveness, the peculiar mix-
ture of pomposity and devotional utter-
ance which go to make up the work call
for profound musical insight as well as
a well-equipped technique. Barere’s
rendition of the sonata at his second
Sydney concert was beautifully crisp
and informed with all the flexible
range of feeling and mood with which
the composer invested it. The trills and
cadences of the voluptuous music which
is sandwiched between the devotion of
the chorale and the dramatic switch to
the key of B major were persuasive and
poignant, and the prestissimo finale was
bold and splendid.
* * * *
Melbourne’s music-makers continue to
pour out distinguished sounds without
more than a night or so interval between
concerts. The first of Professor Bernard
Heinze’s youth series of concerts at the
Town Hall augured well for the future
of these functions. A full house of ardent
under-twentyfives listened with their ears
back to a first-class rendering of the
London Overture of John Ireland, with
its tone picture of that city’s sprawling
confusion. Then followed an entirely
different picture in Ibert’s Suite Sym-
phonique of Paris street scenes. The
orchestral masterpiece of the evening
was the lovely “New World” sym-
phony of Dvorak and the solo highlight
was the glorious clarinet playing of Tim
White in the Mozart Concerto in A
Major. White is in the world class.
* * * *
Miklos Gafni, the young Hungarian
tenor, continued to demonstrate the
power, volume and beauty of tone of his
voice as an incipient Caruso, according
to A.B.C. announcements. He also left
the impression that the pressure groups
of music may have pushed him into the
limelight a trifle too early for his own
advantage. He showed lack of experience
with the classics. He was a tired young
man at his final concert, but he got the
usual tremendous reception.
* * *
In his farewell recital at Melbourne
Town Hall, Dallas Haslam, the second
pianist from Melbourne to win the
scholarship of the Juilliard Institute in
New York, displayed great promise in a
programme that would have taxed a
mature performer. It included the Pre-
lude and Fugue in B Flat Major of Bach,
Haydn’s Sonata No. 1 in E Flat and
Beethoven’s tender “Les Adieux” Sonata
and some Brahms and Chopin. Having
paid his respects to the giants, the young
man, who spent four years with the
A.I.F. in New Guinea, turned to the
moderns and reeled off Albeniz’s “As-
turias,” with its curious staccato drum-
beat, like a minor master. There were cer-
tainty in two preludes by Rachmaninoff,
intelligence and understanding in his
attack on a toccata by Khachaturian, and
sensitiveness above average throughout
the evening.
» * » *
American Ted Shawn, who has been
dancing to and been danced to by abos.
at Darwin, is now dancing to more
sophisticated audiences at the Union
Theatre and Town Hall, Melbourne. He
does not belong to the orthodox Rus-
sian tradition. He is an eclectic with an
individual sense of drama and humor,
and he seems to have been going around
the world getting inspiration from
Cubans, Cretans, Dervishes and sugar-
cane-cutters and translating them into his
own language. He speaks that language
with a curiously racy accent and, in
physical terms, his performance is as
remarkable as Barere’s on the piano.
When the curtain goes up on his
Dervish item Mr. Shawn is discovered
already twirling,* and he continues to
twirl for at least five minutes with his
skirts flying out in a precise and invari-
able pattern and in perfect tempo, while
his hands and the upper portion of his
body tell a complicated story as though
they were completely detached from
the rotating section. To follow this up
with a dozen more dances and half a
dozen encores is something of an achieve-
ment for any man.
* * * *
Niall Brennan’s endeavor to present a
play based on an actual event —the tragedy
which occurred on the Staircase Spur of
Mount Bogong (Vic.) some years ago—
fell short in the production by Newman
College at Melbourne Uni.’s Union
Theatre. It purports to be, not a drama-
tisation in the strict sense, but a “philo-
sophic stylisation,” but, unfortunately,
there was nothing abstract in the
spectacle of the three tourist skiers
struggling through two acts and 14 scenes
from a bivouac on the mountain to a hut
that has been buried in a blizzard.
Getting weaker and weaker, but never
too weak to vouchsafe a spate of elocu-
tion in blank verse at each pause for
rest, the party battled upwards, produc-
ing frequent titters from an audience
which found it impossible to appreciate
the exalted symbolism intended by the
writer. The play was well produced by
Norman Wister, with an excellent
arrangement of music by Murray Parker.
The scene painting of K. V. McGuinness
■■ was effective, but the infrequency of
snowflakes gave the impression that the
Mountain’s battle with the tourists was
being severely hampered by the Snow
Rationing Commission.
* * *
The female torso is the chief theme of
Sydney Tiv.’s latest show, and the varia-
tions played on it are limited to (1)
showing the lovelies in the bare minimum
of opaque raiment and (2) decking them
out in the most glittersome and exotic.
The first variation .is the most popular,
with approximately eight square inches
comprising both the maximum and the
irreducible minimum of clothing. The
show isn’t well balanced. There are too
much parading and not enough specialty
turns, although what there are of these
are uncommonly good. Elimar is a
superb balancer and juggler, and the
Dawn Brothers put on a whistling act
that would make a pair of caged rollers
want to take up crooning.
* * * *
To have written dialogue over 50 years
ago, particularly in a comedy, which can
remain witty and not date” is an achieve-
ment, and Wilde’s “The Importance of
Being Earnest’’ seems as good today as
it must have been in 1895 The nlntl
negligible and the whole pieJ i cmied
along by the brilliance of the diaE
which was fully exploited in the Brisbane
Repertory production. Patricia Sampey
(Cecily Cardew) was outstanding and
Graham Webster, as John Worthing a
good second. Canon Chasuble, "by
Harold Cox, ran to vaudeville, and
Marjorie Mauls Lady Bracknell was
too elaborately haughty. Mervyn Eadie
Algernon) Gwen Wheeler (Gwendoline
Fairfax) and Elsie Brooks (Miss Prism)
were the other principals, while Franklyn
Evans and David Castle played the
essential servants. Decor was good, and
producer Alex. Foster achieved excellent
grouping on the stage, particularly in the
last act.
* * * *
“The Doctor’s Dilemma”: Shaw is
never easy to stage, as Brisbane’s 12th
Night Theatre found with his satire on
the fashionable” Doctor with the added
revelation that specialists are human
“Miss Australia of 1946” (Rhondda
Kelly) proved she has histrionic ability,
but the main honors went to James
Stevens for his smooth and consistent
characterisation of Sir Colenso Ridgeon.
* * * *
Brisbane Amateur Theatres resurrected
“We Moderns” by Israel Zangwill. It
would have been more effective as a
comedy had it been left in its original
setting—the thinly-veiled attempt to bring
it up to date by using modern vernacular
was too obvious. Pam Harper gave an
excellent performance, but except for
support by Brian Tail and Cecel Knopke,
the remainder of the cast could not infuse
life into the production. The sets, though
insecurely moored at times, were effective.
Artbursts.
“F.S.”: The first thing that strikes the
observer on entering Janies Minogue’s
exhibition at Kozminsky’s Galleries, Mel-
bourne, is the scintillating color. Whether
he is painting rusty steamers mirrored in
the "¥ arra, the tin shanties of Fishermen’s
Bend or “Shadows in a Valley,” the
color seems to sing. This is a rare enough
quality these days to excite comment.
Plenty of artists use color, but few can
make it sing. In opening the show,
Brian Fitzpatrick explained it by saying
that the artist had been a pupil of Max
Meldrum and used his scale in measur-
ing the relationships of color, tone and
form as an impressionist. Later he be-
came a pupil of Justus Jorgensen and
used his scale. The effect upon his paint-
ing was that it lost its blackness and
opaqueness and became sparkling, alive
with light and more transparent. This
may be so. If Mr. Minogue uses a scale
as a means it isn’t obvious in the result.
The observer, contemplating “Willows,
Heyington,” a study of a boat drenched
in foliage on the Yarra, or “Sunlight and
Smoke, Victoria Dock,” isn’t conscious
of the method the artist used to describe
his experience, but is brought into the
presence of the experience itself, which
is as it should be.
» * 9 •
The Contemporary British show, sent
from a “Wakefield collection” by a new
“British Council,” for exhibition in the
Dominions, is working its way eastward
across Australia and has now reached
Adelaide National Gallery. It is, per-
haps, on the less eccentric side, quite as
representative a modern show (of water-
colors, etchings and engravings) as could
be got together. Naturally one looks for
the better-known and older names—
Augustus John, Sickert, D. Y. Cameron,
Blampied, Bone, Clausen, Roger Fry,
Eric Gill, Shannon, Rushbury, Wilson
Steer, Ethel Walker and others —but the
R.A. or otherwise distinguished are rare.
The whole show is an education in
judging the younger people, and especi-
ally the modern work done in England
in etching, drypoint and wood-engraving.
The most striking thing is a self-portrait
by John —“farouche” he calls it and wild.
but lifelike, it is.
* * * *
There is a nostalgic air about Mrs. J
M. Muntz-Adams’s show of oils and
watercolors at Kozminsky’s upper gallery,
Melbourne. They belong to a perioo
when most Australian artists thought of
Paris as their Mecca, even if they never
got there, and to a tradition that was
blown up on the one hand by the im-
pressionists and on the other by the mad
moderns. There are sedateness and
dignity about them.
* * * *
Cedric Flower has a whimsical collec-
tion of oils, watercolors and drawings at
the Macquarie Galleries, • Sydney. The
drawings are a little scribbly.


NOW A VAlt ABU W AUSTRALIA
fßiOGt*
CA*
A GOOD GUN deserves a GOOD CARTRIDGE.
<‘ICIL SPECIAL” Cartridges long famous
for their fine shooting qualities are now avail-
able featuring the new STAR CRIMP.
PERFECT PATTERNS — REGULAR PER-
FORMANCE-WATERPROOF. Keep in touch
with your Ammunition dealer for supplies.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
There’s many a would-be snob who d like
to be able to trace his (or her) pedigree as far
back and as honorably as those of most
thoroughbred racehorses can be traced. Some-
where round 1686 a Duke of Lorraine was
waging successful stoush against the Turks. In
the duke’s company was a Captain Byerley
who acquired, by way of loot, a Turkish stal-
lion which he took back to England, where
the Byerley Turk was destined to found what
is now known as the Herod Line. And here,
some three or four centuries later, Lackaboy
and Puffham, two descendants of the line, fight
out the finish of a race at Canterbury Park,
Sydney.
Both of them by imported Lackham, a son
of Roi Herode, they had the race—the six-
furlongs Frederick CUssold Handicap—really to
themselves all the way, with Lackaboy (V.
Faggotter) setting the pace and Puffham (E.
Fordyce) striving gamely to run down his more
lightly-weighted relative, after starting with the
initial disadvantage of being drawn on the
extreme’ outside at the barrier. Stride by stride
over the final furlong Puffham drew inches
closer, to be within half a length at the post.
Good efforts on the part of both horses, whom
the handicapper had very closely summed up
at a difference of 131 b.
With by far the best field of the day engaged,
the Clissold was an open betting race, with
Puffham, Victory Lad and Prince Consprt
sharing favoritism at fours. Victory Lad gets
too far out of his ground early to be considered
reliable on a small track like Canterbury, but
his effort in finishing fourth with a brilliant
dash from the tail of the field augured well
for his chances at Rosehill or Randwick in
the near future. Le Fusil had his first outing
for some months, the distance, of course, being
too short, but he looked to be in great fettle.
The Canterbury Park Handicap, run over a
comparatively short course of nine furlongs,
went to Laudus, a winner by eight lengths at
his previous start at Moorefield. Though the
margin was only two lengths at Canterbury, he
won just as easily, ridden a perfect race by
J. Thompson to down Air Flare and Yukon.
Laudus has struck a purple patch, not only
winning very easily but running good time.
At Moorefield, on a slightly greasy track, he
did the 10 furlongs in 2.6 L the course record
being Cavedweller’s 2.6, which has stood since
1930. For the Canterbury nine-furlongs Laudus
clocked 1.54, which was 2} seconds better than
recorded by either Coalition (J. Thompson) or
Neinby (W. Briscoe), who won the divisions
of a Mixed Stakes over the distance.
A six-year-old entire, Laudus is notably well
bred, being by Midstream from Applause, a
daughter of Constant Son and the Heroic mare
Vivere. Another £350-odd was added to the
impressive total of stakes won by progeny of
Midstream when Legato (W. Cook) downed
Regal Step and Regal Light in another Mixed
over 11 furlongs.
In the first division of the Welter the New-
castle galloper Golden Warrah (E, Fordyce)
downed Oriental and Lucky Escape, an effort
worth noting since Golden Warrah equalled
Lackaboy’s time of 1.131 for the six and was
carrying a stone and a half more weight. To
account for The Cheat and Recka Oka in
the second division, Balmore clocked 1.15,
and made it a treble for Thompson. The
Three-year-old went to the Nizami colt Out-
break (F. Williams), making amends for several
costly failures.
Saturday’s card at Mentone ran to eight races
and the majority of. results favored the books,
which fact can scarcely be placed in the
category of news. A heavy track may have
had something to do with form being all to
pot, as it was in the Ascot Thousand of 10-j-
-furlongs. The winner from start to finish was
Warrah Nymph (W. Beresford), troubled only
over the last little bit by Millais. On past
form neither of them had shown any ability
to go beyond a mile. Conceding a good deal
of weight, Millais was beaten a half-neck, with
Drama third. Warrah Nymph carried the club
colors, which don’t have much success.
The Solar Bear gelding Sun Eagle (K. Den-
ham) returned a good performance to justify
favoritism for the Hurdle. He carried equal
topweight of 10.12, and though four others
preceded him over the last hurdle he raced
past them smartly to down Sir William by a
couple of lengths; Benarca third. Backers or
Blue Money did their money about the blue
coldest way known:' horse withdrawn by order
of the stewards after it had been in the starter s
hands.
Dhoti supplied another successful favorite in
his four-year-old son Assam (R. Heather), who
beat ’em pointless aver the six furlongs- of the
Chesterfield Handicap. A fair way back, but
finishing in good style, Noble Prince was second,
followed by Vaninka.
A camera-tower stands completed at Mentone
awaiting only the installation of the camera,
which the judge would have appreciated at the
conclusion of the 13-furlongs Inverness Handi-
cap. The 12-to-l chance Roydon, trying to
steal the race, led into the straight with a good
margin in hand. He was overhauled on the
post, however, by Field Fox (J. Gilmore), who
then had to survive a protest.
Handicapped on the minimum 7st. mark, as
his past performances suggested he should have
“ Understand , Parkins—you only come in if I miss.”
been, the New Zealand-bred Fresh Boy (B.
Fames) won the second division of the Effing-
ham Handicap for three-year-olds by six lengths,
Saxonian and Cyclades filling the places. Fresh
Boy is by Revelation, a fair performer in
England and a son of Derby-winner Manna.
In the first division the Portofino colt Sweet
Magne, also on the 7st. mark, was in front
before they’d travelled far and held the posi-
tion comfortably, Cape Helles and Kindling
finishing next best.
Chief Command (R. Hutchinson) went too
fast too far for other four-year-olds over
the mile of the Anglesey Handicap, the favorite,
Tudor Prince, rattling home into third place
behind Nurelee in a fashion suggesting that a
longer trip would have better suited him. Over
the same journey the Queensborough Handicap
saw Phillip (another for Hutchinson) defeat
Apropos and Clatterbag.
Hi * * *
Producing a good race and the tightest of
finishes, the King’s Cup, run in Brisbane, was
awarded to Falcon Knight a hotly-disputed
decision. Everyone but the judge views the
finish at Eagle Farm from a bad angle, but F. W.
Hughes, owner of runner-up Hiraji, was among
the dissatisfied. Hughes is not given to com-
plaining when his horses are beaten, notably
differing in that respect from a number
of owners, and actually known as one who
never enters a protest. At all events, Hiraji
takes die bun as the unluckiest horse of the
year, with his third in the Doomben Ten
Thousand, second in the Doomben Cup, second
in the King’s Cup, and a bunch of other minor
placings. Good Idea, whd finished behind
Hiraji in the Doomben Cup, did likewise in
the King’s, and owner Browning was again
reported to have chucked it away by the bucket-
ful. He will get it all back from mugs who
bet -on Melbourne races on courses legalised
for different purposes.
Brisbane grass tracks must be in wondertui
condition after their enforced war-time idleness.
Falcon Knight’s 2.29 for the 12 furlongs was
yet another course record.
It seems likely that the present crop of three-
year-olds will prove a particularly good bunch.
In Sydney, Karachi and Valiant Crown proved
themselves against all ages within a few days
after their birthday, and, apart from Temeraire,
there are several others who, on two-year-old
form, appear in the same class as Karachi and
Valiant Crown. Also, at Eagle Farm on
King’s Cup day, the Seven Fifty colt Sefiona
won the Paddington Handicap of seven fur-
longs, beating, among others, the very speedy
Maa Leesh. Sefiona will be sent to Sydney
after the Queensland Guineas and Derby.
He * * *
Not surprisingly for a State which leads Aus-
tralia in so many other respects, S.A. stages
the first two-year-old event of the new season,
the Fulham Park Plate, and the first minor
classic for three-year-olds, the Adelaide Guineas.
Both were run at Victoria Park on Saturday,
and full-brothers took the double. In the
Guineas, run over a mile, Comedy Prince,
at 7 to 2 on, led all the way; Beau Gem
did well to get within little worse than a length
of the outstanding colt, the others being eight
lengths further back. It brought Comedy
Prince’s record to 10 wins from a dozen starts,
and he’s bagged nearly £4OOO in stakes. Mesabi
was fancied for the two-year-old sprint, but,
swinging round at barrier rise, was never in
the race. Winner was Comedy Court, who, like
Comedy Prince, is by Powerscourt from Witty
Maid.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Three-year-old: Karachi, 1; Deep Sea, 2;
Battle Abbey, 3. Mixed Stakes (7f.): Karachi,
1; Stormy, 2; Lucky. Escape, 3. Mixed Stakes
(12f.): Lacomar, 1; Regal Step, 2; Neinby, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Air Flare, 1; Laudus, 2;
Questing, 3. Flying Handicap: Prince Con-
sort, 1; Valiant Grown, 2; Lackaboy, 3.
Welter: Loyal March, 1; Decorate, 2; Courier,
3.
* * * *
Still with a rough chance of making the
final V.F.L. “four,” improved Geelong,
before a record Geelong crowd of 18,500,
made the Richmond Tigers look like
pussy cats, downing them 16.19-13.9.
None of the “four” was bothered.
Carlton had a practice run against St.
Kilda, 14.19-3 J 2 ; Essendon galloped to
an unbeatable lead in the second quarter
to defeat North Melbourne, 19.12-12.14;
Collingwood had as easy a win over the
disappointing Footscray, 17.10-12.12;
Fitzroy was somewhat troubled in the
last quarter against “Sowth,” but held
its place in the “four” by 12.10-10.11.
In the other game at M.C.G. Melbourne,
after trailing Hawthorn half-way, won
13.21-14.9. ‘
* * * *
East held Manly 11-all in the Rugby
Union match-of-the-day at Sydney Show-
ground. The game brought hooker Alby
Stone’s tally for first-grade premiership
appearances level with Bill Cerutti’s re-
cord. Another durable East forward,
Perce Newton, played a sterling game.
For Manly new hooker R. McCouatt
did well, Gwynne played his usual good
game, and among the backs Clarrie Davis
was outstanding. Gordon beat Drum-
moyne 23-12, in a game remarkable for
the wrong kind of pugnacity. St. George
beat Parramatta 8-6, despite the good
work of Boland and the advantage Par-
ramatta’s captain. Marker, gave his team
by consistently good hooking; Rand-
wick, with a flash of the old teamwork,
beat West 23-3, and North beat Uni-
versity 27-16, the backs, particularly Fitz-
simons, playing havoc with the University
backs’ defence.
* * * *
In what was probably the first true
inter-State golf match —thfc teams being
selected on merit rather than availability
—Victoria won the honors at Royal
Adelaide. The surprise defeat of A. N.
Waterson (N.S.W.), State and Australian
amateur champion, by Ackland-Horman
(S.A.), and the downing of Pendergast
(N.S.W.) by Christie (S.A.) and Enderby
(N.S.W.) by Shephard (S.A.), left Victoria
winning four matches and 27 games
against N. S. Wales’s and South Aus.’s
four matches and 23 games each.
* * * *
For the Davis Cup the Czechs had an
unbalanced team, with Dr bony far above
Cernik —a combination which seldom
wins in any sport. Bromwich beat Cernik
with the loss of three games. Drobny,
however, playing grand tennis, defeated
Pails 6.3, 6.4, 4.6, 6.4. Bromwich and
Long teamed for the doubles, winning
6.2, 6.2, 6.2 by concentrating on the be-
wildered Cernik. Bromwich then clinched
the rubber by producing something like
his best to down Drobny 6.2, 7.5, 6.4.
With the match decided and the tension
relaxed, Cernik improved out of sight,
taking Pails to five sets in the final singles,
Pails winning 6.3, 4.6, 3.6, 6.2, 6.3.
♦ * * *
At 39 Bill Bowes has decided to
call it a day in first-class cricket. In the
second Test at Melbourne in December,
1932, he clean-bowled Bradman for a
“duck”; in the fourth Test at Leeds
(Eng.) in July, 1934, he again bowled
Bradman (also Woodfull, Brown, Mc-
Cabe and Len Darling); in the fifth Test
at The Oval that year he once more
bowled Bradman and also Chipperfield
and Woodfull (twice); and in the fourth
Test at Leeds in 1938 he once again got
Bradman. The tall Yorkshireman bagged
30 wickets, av. 24.80, in Tests v. Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
When they’re good, Filipinos are as
brisk little two-handed scrappers as any-
one could wish to watch, and one of the
kind might be “Little” Paras (8.7|), who
in his first Australian encounter had it all
over Mickey Carr (8.7 i) at Melbourne
Stadium. Carr was on the canvas for
“eight” in the second round and down
again a couple of times in the third, but
he battled along pluckily, though losing
on points by a wide margin.
* * * *
Featherweights Bernie Grant (8.13)
and Ray Coleman (8.13) turned on
another grand scrap in their second meet-
ing at Leichhardt. In their previous en-
counter Grant appeared to outpoint
Coleman rather easily, but ref. Maw-
son’s decision was a draw. Show-
ing much-improved form, Coleman
scored slightly better than Grant in the
return engagement, but Mawson evened
matters by declaring another draw.


The Queensland National Bank Limited
BALANCE SHEET as at close of business on 30th June, 1947.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-400,000 Shares at £5 per Share £2,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-350,000 Shares at £5 per Share
fully paid .. .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
Paid Up Capital 1,750,00’0 0 0
Reserve Funds (used in the business
of the Bank) .. .. . . 860,000 0 0
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 48,866 5 1
Total Shareholders’ Funds , . £2,658,366 5 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit
Stock * 3,005,718 13 4
Deposits, Bills Payable and other
Liabilities including Provisions
for Contingencies . . . . 21,334,728 17 6
Balances Due to other Banks . . 14,927 6 5
Notk. —All assets and liabilities are
expressed in Australian currency.
£27,013,741 2 4
Contingent Liabilities (Under
letters of credit, guarantees, etc.) £510,916 7 2
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers .. .. .. . . £1,109,654 8 5
Cheques and Bills of other Banks
Balances with and due from other
Banks
Money at Short Call —
(i) London
(ii) Elsewhere
Public Securities (excluding Trea-
sury Bills) —
Australian Government Securi-
ties (Under cost or face
value) . . ■ . .. 3,179,001 9 7
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia .. 10,123,000 0 0
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit 1,145,107 5 1
£16.848,096 9 6
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (After deducting pro-
vision for debts considered bad
or doubtful) .. .. .. 9,523,788 16 5
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Sites (At cost less amounts
written off) 565,520 2 0
All other Assets (floating—under
cost or market value) .. .. 76,335 14 5
£27,013,741 2 4
345,783 7 7
619,191 11 7
326,358 7 8
Contingent Assets (as per contra) £510,916 7 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
in respect of the year ended 30th June, 1947.
To Expenses. Head Office, Branches
and Agencies (including Di-
rectors’ Fees £2937/16/6) .. £329,355 13 11
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes 55,493 9 0
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down .. 92,184 16 7
£477,033 19 6
To Amounts written off Bank
Premises and Furniture .. 3,000 0 0
~ Dividends—
Interim Paid. . £35,000 0 0
Partial Paid .. 30,625 0 0 .
65,625 0 0
„ Balance Carried Forward .. 48,366 5 1
£116,991 5 1
Note.—All amounts are expressed in Australian
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions and
other income after deducting
interest paid and accrued on de-
posits, rebate on bills current at
balance date and appropriations
to the credit of Contingencies
Accounts (out of which Accounts
provision for all bad and doubt-
ful debts has been made) ~ £477,033 19 6
£477,033 19 6
By Net Balance brought forward.. £24,806 8 6
~ Net Profit for the year . . 92,184 16 7
£116,991 5 1
currency.
We report that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the information
and explanations given to us, and as shown by the books on the 30th June, 1947.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Bank is required
to keep by the Companies Acts 1931 to 1942, or by its Articles of Association, have
been properly kept.
F. E.
LOXTON,
LANCE A. JONES. F.F.I.A.
E. D. SUMMERSON, F.C.A.
Chairman of Directors.
(Aust.) } Audi, ° r '-
Wm. A. JOLLY, Director.
D. S. FORBES, General Manager.
31st July, 1947.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862,
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER ST REE TS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS *
E. E. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUOKLANI), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. P. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Socialism Through Banking
Dangerous Ben McGrew Chifley
apparently bit his pipe-stem in two last
week upon hearing the verdict of the
High Court that declared void his order
to State and local-Government bodies to
pay their money only into the Common-
wealth Bank ; and Ben, spitting out the
pieces, reached for his old six-shooter,
“Nationalisation.” Then, “back of the
bar,” with the bloke that’s known as
Bert, it was decided that Ben should give
the trading banks “the works,” any ques-
tions asked afterwards to be taken to the
Privy Council, if necessary.
To shift the allusion from the Yukon to
nearer home, the policy of the “Labor”
party most in evidence today might easily
have been conceived in a back room be-
hind the bar of Murphy’s pub. The
“boys” of the “Labor” party are being
looked after ; n the best party spirit, and
the country can go hang. Vested interests
of “Labor” politics are paramount, and
the “boys” strut their stuff on nearly
every stage. The Government has just
handed back to shipowners their
coastal vessels after piling up losses
at the rate of over £2 million a
year; but it is still out to “do
for” the private airlines, having been
refused an aerial monopoly by the High
Court. It has fouled every business enter-
prise it has controlled, and left a legacy
of high costs and inefficiency behind,
especially where it has had large numbers
of its own adherents to “control” ; but
it seems always to take the view that it
will do better with the next experiment.
A recklessly foolish and vain policy, often
applauded offstage by sinister characters-
And so to the banks. It has been
bluntly announced that the banks are to
be nationalised by legislation that is to be
prepared “for submission to the Federal
Parliamentary Labor party.” Thus, dis-
regarding all the evidence of Labor Gov-
ernment failure in the productive and
financial field in the past, the Chifley
Ministry proposes to turn into a huge
Government bureaucracy all the major
banking services of the country. No other
country claiming to have responsible
democratic Government has ever taken
such a reckless step. But Mr. Chifley, the
engine-driver who has read books (or a
book) on economics, has decided to put
the saost petted of his pet theories into
practice, all the others having failed to (a)
increase production, ( b ) raise living
standards, (c) help our democratic rela-
tives or neighbors, {d) reduce appreciably
our colossal taxation load, or (e) accel-
erate the development of the country so
obviously necessary as a means of look-
ing after desirable European migrants, in-
creasing our own birthrate and adding to
the defence potential of Australia as a
whole.
The claim by a “ ‘Labor’ Minister”
that the nationalisation proposals arise
from a Government desire to meet an
“approaching economic crisis” is typical
of the vain foolishness of the Govern-
ment. Results likely to accrue from a
Government right to meddle and muddle
further in banking affairs is best judged
by results arising from its meddling and
muddling in other spheres under other
powers during the past five years. The
sectionally selfish, unprincipled and in-
dustrially lawless have been given free
rein, and the scope for their outrages
against the community would only be
extended hy Government “control” of
trading banks.
Apart altogether from the matter of
just compensation of shareholders —the
High Court will see that they are not
swindled —the real seriousness of the Gov-
ernment’s action lies in its influence
upon the banking services available to
the community, its effect on healthy pri-
vate enterprise and the liberty of the
subject. Competitive banking in Aus-
tralia has brought splendid economi-
cal service to Australians, stability and
service being best appreciated by those
who have had experience of banking
systems in other countries. The whole
community has had the opportunity of
availing itself of a Commonwealth bank-
ing institution for many years past, yet
the general banking business of the cen-
tral bank amounts to less than a tenth
of that on the books of the private bank-
ing system. And this notwithstanding
the many privileges conferred by statute
and custom upon the Commonwealth
Bank.
The whole matter will have' to be
tested at law, and it remains to be seen
whether Dangerous Ben McGrew Chifley
has not bitten off more pipe-stem than
he can chew. But if the ill-natured
party-political proposition does in fact
come into existence, then it is likely that
the banking system, like the Depart-
ment of External Affairs, the Concilia-
tion Commission, etc. etc., will become
a place of repose for elderly supporters
of the Labor party, and the whole bank-
ing system used as a coercive weapon to
overthrow democratic Government in
Australia and impose instead that type
of Government conceived by Dr. Evatt
and Messrs. Curtin, Chifley, Ward and
the rest and illustrated by the terms of
the 1944 referendum, which was flatly
rejected by the people.
The people should have no doubt
about it: through confiscatory taxation
and dictatorial control of banking this
“Labor” Government can come pretty
close to imposing that regimentation
upon the individual which it has for so
long obviously desired. In fact, it quite
openly admits that last week’s High
Court decision blocked its “plans.” Its
plans at this stage require detailed re-
definition.
Dollars, Coal and Manpower
Sales of Government securities at fall-
ing prices and withdrawals of London
funds by overseas countries were some
of last week’s consequences of the dan-
gerous position seen in Britain’s economy
and confessed to by Prime Minister
Attlee. The critical food, production and
external-trade position of Britain has had
its reactions all over the world, and the
United States must be deeply concerned
by what is happening. Even before the
Attlee announcement the New York
financial world wks giving considerable
attention to the European scene as a
whole and, of course, the Marshall plan
seemed to anticipate trouble of the kind
that is now occurring in Britain.
The National City Bank of New York,
in a commentary on the out-of-balance
external trade being developed by the
United States, said:
A generally favorable reception of Sec-
retary Marshall’s view at home may be
due to the fact that he has given expression
to thoughts that were latent in many Ameri-
can minds. We can understand that Europe
needs help; we have not wished to be,
and have not been, ungenerous; but we
have been apprehensive lest our resources
be squandered and our aid unproductive.
Only the Europeans can make it produc-
tive.
That is a perfectly rational and sensible
view to take. If Britain be included in
“Europe,” Britain cannot cavil at the
view. Committed to a policy of social-
istic folly, that policy might even appear
successful to British voters if subsidised
heavily enough by American supplies of
essentials. To be thus misled further
would be dangerous to the British electo-
rate and trade-union world; a return to
a realistic frame of mind is one of the
most essential things needed by the rank
and file in Britain today. The average
Briton has not yet started to grapple
mehtally with the problems that beset his
country, and many trade-union leaders
are still propagating the class-war as their
chief task in life. They are not preach-
ing that production and living standards
either rise or fall together, and they are
doing nothing whatever to teach the
wage-earner that Britain’s existence de-
pends to an extraordinary extent upon its
industrial efficiency and the volume of its
exports.
This trade-union attitude is the only ex-
cuse for the Attlee Government’s desper-
ate manpower-direction law. Already
young men may elect to avoid military
training by working in coalmines ; under
the new law it is likely that still more
wage-earners will be directed to the
mines. A false monetary prosperity aris-
ing from war-time inflation has made
many British wage-earners too “choosey”
about their jobs, and essential industry
has suffered. Hence this objectionable
manpower law. It is tipped to operate
from October 1, when the U.S. dollar loan
is expected to be exhausted.
Whilst Britain has been struggling to
re-establish her export trade at some-
thing above pre-war levels, her imports
costs have been growing at a far greater
rate, and, lacking her pre-war investment
income, the strain on overseas funds
and unspent credits has been critical.
Meantime the United States has built un
its volume of exports to an unprecedented
figure, while imports have not by any
means kept step, even in examples of
commodities where the U.S.A. is a ready
purchaser. In some cases U.S. business-
men are holding off from buying raw
materials in the_ belief that there will be
a fall in commodity-price levels before
long.
The present buoyant export income
coming to the U.S.A. has its political
significance, even if it is being paid for
out of Government loans or taxes to a
very substantial extent. The National
City Bank has commented on this posi-
tion as follows:
Observers abroad, from a study of the
unexpected magnitude of the exports, have
drawn the conclusion that foreign dollars
and dollar credits are being used up so
rapidly that a “dollar crisis” lies in the
offing unless our loan programme is ex-
panded promptly. On this side of the
Atlantic there is a feeling, shared by some
businessmen, that the loan programme must
be kept going to keep our exports booming
and our manufacturing capacity and labor
forces fully employed.
These viewpoints, expressed with goodwill
and sincerity, nevertheless carry implica-
tions that cannot lightly be dismissed. For
either Europeans or Americans to ask for
/■ a continuous flow of foreign aid, with no
visible end in sight and no slackening in
rate, comes close to confessing to the
futility of the whole enterprise. If Europe
is not already developing a basis of self-
support, with our substantial aid, a dollar
crisis is only postponed to a day when
America wearies of the load.
To look at the jobs “created” in pro-
ducing for export, and to consider that
giving away vast amounts of goods is essen-
tial to our prosperity is to see only one
side of the picture. Money collected
through taxes and used to pay for the ex-
ports could have supported just as many
jobs if the taxpayer, instead of having to
pay the tax, had his own free choice in
disposing of his income. When the aid is
not covered by tax it involves that much
pure inflation.
At least two things are evident from
that expression of opinion. One is that
some U.S. authorities are aware that help
to the Continent and Britain will do its
best job only where it is used to its best
reproductive advantage, and the other
is that some sections of American in-
dustry are finding “aid to Europe” help-
ful to themselves, even if the U.S. tax-
payer has to foot the bill. And this
latter apart altogether from the fact that
it is believed in many parts of the world
that the United States, as a war-time re-
sponsibility, is still morally obliged to
give Britain the greatest possible economic
aid when Britain sets its house in order.
In spite of its industrial disputes and
inflating price level the United States cer-
tainly has got back into production in a
big way. Coal mined is now far in ex-
cess of pre-war figures, the output aver-
aging about 50 million metric tons a
month, compared with 34 million in 1939.
By contrast, Britain’s coal out-turn
has fallen from an average of 20 mil-
lion metric tons a month over 1937-39
to 16 million in 1946, and the position
appears to be getting worse. On the
Continent, France and Poland are the
only countries of importance to have
stepped up coal output; what they have
put on to their figures has been more
than offset by the slump in Germany’s
total. The problem of rehabilitating the
Ruhr has already occupied too much
precious time; and while it drags on
Germany will continue to be a drain on
the British taxpayer and his living
standard.
The British wage-earner needs better
feeding and a mental awakening to the
real problems besetting his country. In
many cases it is probably not wrong to
say that his industrial attitude is pre-war
—that he is not yet awake to the essen-
tial changes that have taken place in his
prospects apart from the obvious destruc-
tion of war, and that somehow he still
thinks he can wring “prosperity” out of
other sections of his own community, at
the same time escaping full responsibility
to contribute his share of production.
The Attlee Government up to now has
encouraged him in this attitude. It
appears That he can only be shocked into
a more realistic frame of mind. Tie
realities of the present situation are grim
enough for anything. Coal output has to
be greatly increased in order to make
Britain prosperous, and, with “national-
ised” coal, this job rests entirely in the
hands of the British Labor Government
and the trade-unionists, When solution
of the coal problem is in sight Britain
will be on the road to reaping the reward
its war effort and sacrifices have en-
titled it.


1797
1947
The City of Greater
NEWCASTLE
jlO mark an event of historical interest, and to
draw public attention to its outstanding record of
development and achievement, Newcastle District
is about to celebrate its
150th ANNIVERSARY
The carnival will be on a national scale, as befits
both the occasion and the importance of the area,
and will be held from
SEPTEMBER 5 to SEPTEMBER 20
Spectacular events will include—
fa The landing of Lieutenant Shortland in 1797
will be re-enacted on September 9.
fa Great Industrial Exhibition, Newcastle Show-
ground, September 6 to 13.
fa Australasian Band Championship Contests.
Prizes, £2,000.
fa N.S.W. Championship Eisteddfod. Prizes,
£l,OOO.
fa Anniversary Racing Carnival, September 6 and
9. Prizes, £lO,OOO.
fa Championship Sporting Events—Golf, Bowls,
Athletics, etc.
fa Stirring Pageants, Fireworks Displays,
fa Shows, Fairs and Rodeos in Hunter Valley
T owns.
Intending competitors and visitors should apply for
information and particulars of accommodation to the
Organiser.
An impressive record of Newcastle’s history
and progress, profusely illustrated, is contained
in the official publication, "NEWCASTLE —
150 YEARS.” 10/6 per copy, plus 1/3 for
packing and postage. (Please add exchange.)
COME TO NEWCASTLE
IN SEPTEMBER
brates
Special Trains will be provided.
Telephone: Organiser: G. D. MITCHELL,
Newcastle: B 1315 City Hall, Newcastle.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM,”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2 2 posted from Bulletin Office, 252
George Street, Sydney.
Across the WorU horn Sydney
BRITAIN
days
CANADA
days
land
Plane
5 days
days
EGYPT
days
U.S. A.
5% days
Boat
Flying
m
m
WEST AFRICA
m
m
m
hours
SOUTH AFRICA
days
I I I * J| **
BOAC
Every year 8.0.A.C.
carries 150,000
passengers on the
72,000 miles of
routes shown on this map. No less than 52 of
our pilots have over a million miles’ flying
experience behind them —and behind those pilots
is the 28 years’ flying experience of 8.0.A.C. itself.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
Shell House, Carrington Street, Sydney .
General Agents: QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD., Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin, Port
Moresby, Lae, Rabaul. Booking agents in all cities.
Speed bird Routes across the World
Linking AUSTRALIA with:
BRITAIN • NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • INDIA • MIDDLE
EAST • SOUTH, EAST AND WEST AFRICA • CANADA • U.S.A.
Q.E.A. operate the Flying-boat service between Australia and
Singapore hnd the Lancastrian service between Australia
and Karachi. T.E.A. operate the service from Australia to
New Zealand.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS
EMPIRE AIRWAYS, SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS
SS/AU
During 1946-47 the Australian people
as a whole began to live on their savings
to an extent not previously seen for at
least six years. Between July, 1946, and
May, 1947, savings-bank deposits dropped
from £666 million to £650 million. This
in spite of wage-rate increases; which is
an indication of how much the cost of
living offsets wage rises that are not based
upon increased production per man.
There has been a great deal of flagrant
humbug about the “prosperity” the
country is supposed to have been enjoying
during the Labor Government’s period of
acquiescence to militant trade-unionism,
but you can’t have prosperity without
bountiful production —and adequate pro-
duction is one thing the militants and
the Corns, have been determined the
country shall not have, making their atti-
tude perfectly plain in the case of coal.
Inadequate production is a curse through-
out this country, and it is blocking our
giving adequate assistance to Britain in
its present extremities. Britain, too, has
been befuddled with the same socialistic
nonsense and Communist mischief that
have obviously betrayed the Australian
trade-unionist; in Britain’s case the
day of reckoning has arrived much more
speedily than herfe.
* * * *
Britain’s economic fortunes are bound
to influence those of the rest of the
world, and none perhaps so much as
those of western Europe and the widely-
scattered Dominions. The United States,
of course, is also vitally, but perhaps
not really so vulnerably, interested. Each
section of the world mentioned is con-
cerned in a different way. In the case of
western Europe the dependence upon
Britain is often extreme —the Danish
butter contract, for instance, is of the
utmost importance in Denmark’s
economy, especially as it pays for essen-
tial coal. The Dominions are more self-
sufficient, but British economic break-
down would inevitably bring frustration
to many of our expanding industries de-
pending on imported machinery, at the
same time restricting the chief market
for our land-product exports. The
United States, because of the all-im-
portant dollar, however, is likely to feel
the first impact of Britain’s trading diffi-
culties. It is in the dollar area that
Britain is striking so much difficulty. For
that reason there is a greater likelihood
of transatlantic trade “folding up”
than there is of inter-Empire trade, and
loss of the British export market would
give the U.S. economy a serious upset.
But whichever way one looks at it, if
Britain is forced to restrict its buying
and selling in the dollar area it is going
to mean retarded recovery for the U.K.
and the British Commonwealth, since
the United States is much better equipped
to supply a large proportion of Britain’s
material needs than is any other part of
the world. Big decisions will soon have
to be made in the face of socialistic op-
position in the Attlee Government and
middle-west prejudice in Washington.
* * - * *
From August 19 the increased inter-
state coastal freight rates include ss.
a ton extra on coal, 10s. on wheat, 14s.
on steel, 19s, on timber and (to or from
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and n.-w.
Tasmanian ports) 20s. 4d. a ton on
general cargo. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will provide subsidies in the case
of ton lots (or more) of coal, coke, bacon
and cheese, dried fruits, cattle, hides,
honey, chilled and frozen meat, sugar,
timber and a number of other items.
* * * *
United States exporters, especially the
film industry, are not taking kindly to
the British proposal to cut transatlantic
remittances by various means. Holly-
wood has feared restrictions on U.S.
films for months past, and has objected,
naturally enough; but, as in the case of
many American sectional interests, its
objections have hardly been in full sym-
pathy with the desperate British eco-
nomic position, Hollywood feels that re-
strictions on its products really aim at
building up the British film industry;
but the heavy tax placed on cigarettes
and tobacco by the last Dalton Budget
should convince even Hollywood that
Britain is determined to save dollars re-
gardless of what industries suffer or bene-
fit. It is difficult indeed for the average
U.S. businessman to understand the great
problems confronting the United King-
dom or to appreciate the necessity for
measures designed to overcome them. It
is a long time since Americans in the
mass have had to experience any hard-
ships comparable to what Britain is suf-
fering.
* * * •
Metal industries in Maoriland are in
a bad way thropgh the fall in supplies of
steel from Australia to a mere dribble.
N.Z. needs 80,000 tons of imported steel
annually to keep industry moving norm-
ally, but over the last two or three years
it has had to manage on half ; the balance
has been drawn from surplus war stock.
Coke and pigiron are scarce, too, again
because the flow from Australia has
ebbed. Shipping is the chief trouble, but
Australian strikes and production lags
haven’t helped.
* * * *
British Phosphate Commission plans to
organise and ship over a million tons of
phosphates from supply bases to Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and other countries this
year, according to chairman S. Irwin
Crookes, of N.Z. Farmers Fertiliser Co.
He added: “The Commission did a won-
derful job in the war, and is doing a won-
derful job now.”
* * ■* *
“O.B.”; The Westralian Liberal-
Country party Government is by no
means so keen as Labor on State enter-
prises. It has been worried about the
magnitude of its predecessor’s plan for
establishing a State-owned charcoal iron
industry, on which hundreds of thousands
of pounds have already been spent, and
has arranged with a Sydney consulting
engineer to report on the project.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Steve”: The most fantastic, fraudulent
and misleading river is the Todd in
Central Australia. For 362 days of the
year it is part of the arid landscape, and
to find a drop of water one would need
to be a dowser. Majestic gum-trees grow
in its bed, lending charm to “The Alice,”
which spreads along its western bank.
It is a favorite corroboree ground with
the abos, its sandy bed being soft and
easy on the feet of the dancers in their
long and exhausting rituals. Then one
day the cry goes up “The Todd’s Com-
ing!” Reptiles scurry up the sides to
safety. Parrots screech with excitement.
The children of the town race to its
banks, and from a safe distance watch
the yearly phenomenon. Bursting through
gaps in the ranges it comes racing across
the desert along its dry bed with a roar
like a mighty wind. It sweeps round the
bend near the town, a foaming, roaring
torrent, carrying stumps, branches, every-
thing—except thfc solid gums—before it.
For three days this turbulent riotous out-
law of the desert runs a banker, freely,
with no bridges or modem harnessing to
check its flow. As swiftly as it comes
it passes on, to die of thirst in Simpson’s
Desert. And reptiles crawl down its
already dry banks, parrots bathe on
its damp bed, and children settle
back to wait another year for the dis-
play.
• * ♦ •
“Ex-Mister”: “Naturala” (B. 30/7/’47)
is correct in crediting giant squids with a
formidable armament of claws, but off
his course in doubting a connection be-
tween the scars on sperm whales and the
squids’ suckers. As a matter of fact the
sucker-discs, measuring up to a foot or
more in diameter, are fringed with sharp
curved claws to ensure a firm grip on
any smooth-skinned prey. It is by these
that the circular scars are caused. Sperm
whalers knew all about them for genera-
tions before the Prince of Monaco was
born. Moreover, no “smallish immature
whale” ever tackles a squid. Sperms are
gregarious and usually travel in gams
of from 10 up to 50 or more. The
females are devoted mothers and stick by
their youngsters even when mortally
wounded. Until they attain maturity—a
matter of only a few years despite their
bulk —the young ’uns feed on fish and
any odd bits of bigger stuff that may be
left over or lost by their elders.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Am not surprised that
“Zake” (B. 30/7/’47) fopnd some bright
names on pubs in the Old Country, for
I spent some time with a British Boni-
face who was whiling away the war years
as adjutant in one of those Empire
squadrons. He owned three pubs,
and although it was in the Arakan in the
enervating pre-monsoon heat and he lived
in a native skirt and a sweat bath, he
was planning to acquire a fourth. At that
time the 14th Army was rolling the Nip
down the Irrawaddy in fine style, and as
our chaps flew supplies to them the adj.
used to make business trips for the benefit
of the mess —his best effort was swapping
a bag of old clothes for a milking cow
and flying her back. It was while on these
forays that he thought of a beautiful
name for his new hostelry, The Six
Skulls, and promptly set about collect-
ing the necessary trimmings for his sign-
board. Then somebody coughed and
muttered a few vague remarks about
Geneva conventions or something, and
the collecting waned just when it was
becoming interesting. That’s one of the
traits of the Britisher; v no matter how
remote or barbaric the setting, somebody
always seems to remember that sort of
thing.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: That par. about forecasts
of rain (B. 23/7/’47) reminds me of the
night I went over to have a yarn with
old Tom Turner, grape-grower, of Mil-
dura (Vic.). We were sitting on his veran-
dah when the staccato song of a tree-frog
rattled out from a post in the darkness.
“Skipper says you can have his cabin. NOW, will you come aboard!”
Tom broke off his yarn, cocked an ear
and waited. When it came the second
time he arose, went to the edge of the
verandah, peered at the stars, tested the
wind, sniffed the atmosphere and came
back to his chair. “No cloud,” he mut-
tered, doubtfully. “Hardly any wind, no
taste or smell on it, and yet”—“What’s
up?” I asked. “Aw, old Ben there. When
he sings like that it generally means rain,
an’ I got half a rack of currants not dry
yet.” I was sceptical about the tree-frog
as a weather prophet, but it sang once
more and old Tom got his hurricane lamp
and we went down and sheeted the racks
over. After that and a cup of tea, I went
home. Next morning, no rain having
fallen, I saw old Tom unsheeting his
racks and strolled across. He was a trifle
shamefaced. “Ought t’ get me ears
cleaned out,” he said. “That wasn’t old
Ben at all. Found him locked in the
meat-safe this morning. Must’ve been
some strange frog wanderin’ round in the
night.” It was no use discussing the point
as to why Ben should be the only tree-
frog capable of forecasting weather, but
it shows how some chaps can get set
about an authority.
♦ * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: At a Warburton
(Vic.) sawmill, breaking-down saws were
stripped when they struck metal in a log.
A horseshoe deeply embedded in the
wood was the cause, and a ring count
showed that it had been there for 50 or
60 years. Probably it had been used to
support a tent-pole when the tree was
young.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: This month of August is
the season of song, dance and general
jollification for lyrebird husbands. With
their missuses busy at urgent domestic
affairs centred in a stone-colored egg
laid early in July and what comes out of
it some five weeks later, hubbies are hav-
ing the time of their lives. After first
hunger at daylight is assuaged, each con-
tinues breakfast with intermittent songs
between helpings, finally bursting into
full, amazing volume of melody and
mimicry. No other bird in the world can
rival them in either respect for range and
fidelity of note. The lilting of a thrush
or the muffled buzz and shriek of a dis-
tant sawmill are equally easy to those
masters. Then, after a pause, come
regular clicks which mean that the artist
is about to spread his splendid tail and
march to his own musical accompaniment
around the playground. The music fades
away, there is a faint rattle of quills, and
with tail furled the maestro walks offstage
for another few bites of tucker.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We were in a store
buying a few things up at Forbes
(N.S.W.) one day and neither of us took
much notice of the woman who came in
leading a toy terrier. Then she moved
down the counter towards us and next
moment I saw Mat glance down and
quickly lash out with one foot. The toy
terrier, kiyiking at the top of its voice,
landed about Bft. away. The woman was
very indignant with Mat. “Fancy kick-
ing a poor little darling like that,” she
stormed. “The sweet little thing wouldn’t
dream of biting you.” Mat took his
time about replying and then said, “Well,
missus, I didn’t reckon it was tryin’ t’
bite me, but be the way it lifted its hind-
leg I reckoned it was goin’ t’ kick me.”
The woman, who had by this time
gathered her precious pet into her arms,
looked blandly at Mat and then com-
prehension slowly dawned. With height-
ened color and her nose in the air she
snapped, “She doesn’t kick, either.” And
sailed from the shop. The shopman was
so entertained that he insisted upon in-
troducing us to the nearest innkeeper at
once.
♦ * * ♦
“Old Camp”: It’s all right skiting about
the deep sinking of various tree roots (B.
16/7/’47), but beat this one. In the
early days of Kanowna (W.A.) one of the
main sources of auriferous wealth was a
deep lead beneath which lay a bed of
tough pug or clay. On the surface some
70ft. overhead grew the usual goldfields
forest of sturdy salmon gums. Deep in
the pug tiny rootlets from these trees
were to be found—and there was no dif-
ficulty in identifying them, since in
numerous cases they had been trans-
formed into gold. The explanation:
much of the underground water that
seeped along the ancient river-bed carried
a tiny percentage of chloride of gold,
owing to the action of rainwater, first on
the sulphur in the surface soil, then on
the salt, thus forming Aqua regia, which
finally dissolved out the mustard gold
diffused abundantly through most of the
Kanowna soil. Flowing along the bed
of pug this gold solution contacted the
tiny roots, which, of course, were of a
form of carbon. Carbon under such
circumstances has the property of preci-
pitating gold from solution —hence the
golden rootlets 70ft. underground.
* * # ♦
“8.G.5.”: “Wippegong’s” par. (B.
23/7/’47) on the killing of a snake by a
coucal —swamp pheasant—in India con-
firms tales of the same thing current in
the scrub country of the N.S.W. north
coast. I never saw “swampie” tackle any-
thing more dangerous than an egg, at
finding and getting away with which he
can give points to any crow. Alone in the
cuckoo family, the coucal brings up its
own young in its own nest—if a few
scratches in the grass or under a low
bush can be called such. Reason for this
break from the cuckoo tradition is pos-
sibly that the young chicks are such
hideous little beggars that any other bird
would shy off the job of raising them.
The call—heard only during the nesting
season—is reminiscent of the gurgling
sound made by pouring water (or beer)
from a narrow-necked vessel. Though
musical it can be distinctly provocative
on a hot day.
*,* * *
“Aperist”: One sometimes wonders
why Nature created so many foul things
as well as things of beauty. For in-
stance, the moth miliar, which preys on
the beehive. Let the moth get into a
comb and it will not only devour it,
whilst leaving its own foulness behind,
but will also turn it black. The grub,
which is the actual culprit, when fully
fed turns into a cocoon-weaving chrysalis.
Often in a well-constructed hive there will
be insufficient room between the frames,
etc., for the cocoon to be formed. The
grub will gnaw away the wood, scooping
out grooves, often |in. in depth, in which
it may sleep in comfort.
“Pink Teeth”; “Salmon Gums” (B.
23/7/’47) should examine the hive during
a honey-flow. The cells are built at a
slightly upward angle, and as the nectar
is deposited the capping, begun at the
lower edge of the cell, is raised gradu-
ally until the cell is filled and the capping
completed. “S.G.’s” theories would make
a drone laugh.
« « * «
“Bo”: Coombes, a small apathetic
man who had a perpetually harassed look
and a wife with a tongue and severe
views on the Demon Drink, had never
been seen in the township pub. On the
many occasions when his hand, unsack-
able old Bob, came home on a Saturday
with a skinful, Coombes would look
at Bob with a glimmer of understanding.
At times, when his wife would be
in the township for the day, Coombes
would even get quite mellow; al-
most, as Bob said, “as if he had
a glow up,” though how he could
get that way only on tea was a puzzle.
Then one day the small haystack in the
eastern paddock caught alight. Bob saw
it first, and rushed to tell Coombes, who
on hearing the news turned white and
then rushed to the stack, which by then
was well ablaze. A sudden change had
come upon Coombes. No mother with
the crackle of flames about her child
fought harder than did he. With fine
disregard for danger he tore at it, and it
wasn’t until he had parted with most of
his hair and eyebrows that Bob dragged
him away, almost weeping. Even Mrs.
Coombes was touched by her “lord’s”
concern for their property. It was next
day, when Bob was poking around
among the ashes, that he came on three
cracked whisky bottles, and the aroma
of the whisky-soaked ground was still
strong. “The cunnin’ old blankard,”
said Bob admiringly. “Gripes, if I’d only
’a’ known I’d have give him a hand last
night!”
* * * *
“C.E.”; It is always a wonder to me
that there is not more use made of wind-
power. Rarely does one hear of its be-
ing used for recharging batteries and
storing power for lighting homes, driving
sawing plants, cutting chaff or any other
uses about a farm. Though only an in-
terested novice, it seems to me that wind-
power holds many possibilities in avenues
not yet exploited. Living on a hill-
top, in a region where it blows a gale
sometimes for months on end, a bloke
wouldn’t feel so bad about. it if there
was some practical way he could harness
the abominable stuff.
* * * *
“Girrawheen”: When investigating an
odor in a hole near the Bumbank cheese
factory, Mt. Schank (near Mt. Gambier,
S.A.), the manager struck a match,
igniting a gas which gave a flame 18in.
high and 9in. in diameter, clear and
without smoke. It has to be seen at
night to realise its full effect, but during
the daylight heat waves can be seen
shimmering above. At first it was
thought to have some connection with
the extinct volcano of Mt. Gambier, but
at the Kalangadoo factory a similar gas
was discovered about seven years
ago. The origin was attributed to
whey or something contained m
whey, as it was usually run down
a paddock into a hole. This flame
was used extensively for heating soldering
irons, being lit by a match and extin-
guished by placing a wet bag over the
hole. After six years the Kalangadoo gas
disappeared after very heavy rains in
1946. The hole at the Burnbank factory
is similar to several that lead deep under-
ground as natural drainage pits. It is
now believed the gas is caused by the
seepage from these pits.
THE BUNYIP SWAMP.
The yellow bonfires of the wattle burn
Winter to ashes on their yearly pyre;
With newer conflagrations at each turn,
At every bend another bush on fire.
The creamy lightwood scent is honey-hot,
On gully and paddock spring has set her
stamp.
Her rich transcriptions everywhere, but not
Not by the levels of the Bunyip Swamp.
The Bunyip Swamp breaks none of its dark
rules
For all the urgencies of early spring;
Pale wisps of weed still streak its scummy pools,
And withered reeds are always whispering;
A snake may rustle somewhere out of sight,
A bush rat scuttle where the grasses cramp;
Squat toadstools paint in colors overbright
The flowerless edges of the Bunyip Swamp.
The cattle dogs come quietly to heel
And never hunt for rabbits when we pass
That stony outcrop, running like a weal
Bandaged with moss, across the dead morass,
Where one dead tree a blanched white skeleton
bares,
And there at night the cattle never camp.
My horse treads softly, twitching anxious ears,
Around the outskirts of the Bunyip Swamp.
Is it a legend, that the dark folk told
The early settlers, leaves this desolate
Mirage above it, or that other old
Tale of a drunken spree and murdered mate?
I only know I heard a bittern boom
Once suddenly there, beneath an old moon’s
lamp,
And shook with horror in the haunted gloom;
Hurrying homeward past the Bunyip Swamp.
I only know that when I turned my eyes
Last week away from what I saw, beneath
The sweet blue heaven, a cloud of carrion flies,
Some poor bogged beast that bloated lay in
death,
It did not need the karking of the crows,
A circling eagle-hawk, to make the damp
Break out on hands and forehead. Though,
heaven knows,
There’s nothing really in the Bunyip Swamp.
I think no dark hobgoblin ever filled
These hills with bellowings, even when earth
was new.
And yet, and yet some horror must have spilled
Into its pools and left a residue
Of gloom for ever about the ghostly bend
Where, tall in shallows no beast or man will
tramp,
The clumps of reeds are waiting, world-without-
end.
The return of Something to the Bunyip
Swamp.
VICTORIA,
K. DALZIEL.


“Mug”: When Paddy arrived in town
it was the weekly half-holiday, and,
writhing with toothache in his lower jaw,
he was wetting the tooth with whisky
when Maurie, the dentist, strolled
in “Have one?” invited Paddy
eagerly, “Got a jaw ache, that’s what I
got. ’Nother?” Maurie was thirsty. He
returned the drinks several times; then
they settled down to a solid session. A
couple of hours later Paddy remembered
the cause of his sorrows. “Shposh y’
wouldn’ pull a fang f’r a man t’day?” he
asked. “Yairsh. Coursh. C’mon.” The
pair made the long journey across the
street to the surgery. “Awri’,” mumbled
Maurie, eventually finding a pair of for-
ceps. “Whish one? Thish ’n!” Paddy
nodded in dreamy indifference, as Maurie
gripped the first tombstone he spotted,
heaved mightily, and landed back against
the wall. “H-hey, how many wash it y’
wan’ed?” he roused himself to inquire
10 minutes later. “One? Cripesh, I’ve
p-pulled too manysh. Tha’sh awri?
Good. Won’ charge.” Alone, the patient
weaved his way back to the pub and
sought the stable for a sleep. It wasn’t
so much the hangover or the nagging
tooth that worried Paddy next morning;
it was what had happened to his
artificial upper set.
* * * *
“Flip”: The greatest liar in Bombina
is Mac, the barber, his soaped and help-
less customers providing a ready outlet
for his talent. Lately Mac’s stories, a
bit taller than usual, concern his newly-
acquired dog, and the masterpiece was
delivered when Harry Barr was in the
chair. “He’s nearly human, Harry,”
started Mac, indicating the hound, asleep
in the sun by the door. “One morning
a couple of days after I got him I woke
up and me chin felt perculiar. I looked
in me mirror and there wasn’t a sign of
a bristle. This had me worried, and I
expected me hair to start falling out,
but towards evening I noticed the old
stubble coming back, so I put it down
to something I’d et and went to bed.
Next morning it was the same ; not a
damn’ whisker. I decided that some goat
had been playing a trick on me ’cause I
sleep so sound. So next night I goes to
“How do you like your eggs boiled, Joe ?”
sleep with one eye open. Sure enough,
about midnight I hears a noise and some-
thing hops up on to me bed. It’s the
dawg. He grabs a cake of soap off the
washstand, dips his tail in the jug, rubs
it on the soap and works up a lather.
I still kid I’m asleep, and he comes up
and runs his rudder all over my dial.
Then he grabs me razor off the stand
and, with the handle in his mouth, very
painstaking, he starts to shave me. He
did a good job, and if he could hold a
pair of scissors I’d get him to cut me
hair. Now, what do you think of that,
Mr. Barr?” Harry Barr opened his
mouth, but as his reply had to filter
through the foam of a well-planted shav-
ing brush we never did hear what he
said.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Tom Sankey fossicked
along the dry creek-bed for an occa-
sional ’weight of alluvial gold. One
afternoon he was returning along the
road to his humpy when an idea struck
him to try some of the wash that’d been
used to gravel the road. The first dish
panned off a few rough colors; the
second was even better. For half a mile
Tom got gold, one piece alone nearly
idwt. He assayed the road at about 2oz.
a chain. Investigation where the gravel
had come from showed the patch to have
been cleaned up pretty thoroughly, so
Tom set about switching gravel, bag for
bag, from the road to the creek, using a
home-made wheelbarrow and keeping a
close look-out for traffic and prying eyes.
Tom Sankey got about a dozen ounces
from the venture ; he’d have got a lot
more if a stickybeak trapper hadn’t
caught him in the act and broadcast his
doings. The township turned out in
force, and a week later there wasn’t a
pebble left op the road.
* * * *
“Zake”; “But why have y’ got such a
deny on swaggies, Tom?” asked Bill
Lewis. “I’ll tell y’ why,” said Tom. “Y’
see how careful I got to walk on this left
foot o’ mine? I did it last week. Things
was crook at home, I had neuralgia, I
didn’t know how I’d be able to meet all
the bills an’ I’d been moppin’ it up in
the pub. I gets thinkin’ an’ it come to
me like a flash —sooeecide. I goes down
to the river, takes me clobber off and
I’m just about to plunge in when I sees
a swaggie pickin’ over the duds I’d
left on the bank. He took off his old
rag of a coat and was puttin’ on the
sports coat I’d paid four quid for. I
wasn’t standin’ for that, so I ups and
after him, and in tearin’ up the bank I
trod on a gibber an’ went over, sprain-
in’ me ankle.” “But he saved y’r life,
didn’t he?” asked Bill. “What the hell
was that to do with it?” demanded Tom.
“The cow caused me busted ankle, didn’t
he?”
# * * »
“B. A. Ker”: Rambling through
Taronga Park Zoo, musing on the
paradox that Sydneysiders skite persis-
tently on the beauties of their harbor
(which, after all, was beautiful before
Sydney existed), while they remain silent
about their zoo —which is a credit to
them —I stopped to look at the lions.
Stretched out in a picturesque grotto
Leo slumbered ; near by his spouse tore
at a bone. Presently the lioness grew
tired of her occupation; she looked
around, yawned, and padded away. A
minute later there was a movement in a
crevicfe of rock. Warily a rat emerged,
sniffed suspiciously, then began to creep
towards a scrap of
bone left by the big
feline. Leo’s eyes
remained closed ; but
suddenly his tail
twitched —once. It
was enough. The
rodent was gope,
with a hurry that
scratched the rock
around the hideout.
A long pause; then
a pair' of beady eyes
peered out from the
rock crevice;
stealthily the rat
glided out and
moved furtively to-
wards the bone, a
cautious eye on the
sleeping beast. Not
until the little
scavenger was almost
within reach of the
titbit did Leo give
any sign that he was
not sound asleep;
then the tail rose,
twitched ominously,
and fell. There was
a longer pause
before the sharp
nose protruded once
more from the funk-
hole. And the ner-
vousness was even
more apparent as
again the stealthy
journey was begun.
The little thief was almost at his goal
when the long tail swished viciously—
left, right, left. Bolting for his life, the
rat suddenly changed his mind, whirled
round, snatched the treasure, and was
back in his haven in a flash. Walt Disney
couldn’t have improved on the little
comedy—unless he had made Leo look
up and wink!
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Whenever I read in some
Amurrican magazine of how an evil char-
acter, at vast trouble and expense, secures
a black-widow spider for the purpose of
scaring the daylights out of someone or
of committing homicide, I experience an
upsurge of racial superiority. For in
these parts a man works, eats, sleeps and
brings up his kids practically festooned
with the equally dangerous red-backed
spider. The brutes lurk in all corners
of camps, sheds and houses ; they are
present in boxes of books and papers;
they hang over one’s bed at night. And
they are killers:
where another spider
will hasten to get
rid of any unwel-
come animal in her
web, the red-back
kills the visitor, dis-
regarding size. For
that rfeason one sees
webs hung with regu-
lar zoos, everything
from other spiders to
the great brown cen-
tipede. And for that
reason I was not sur-
prised, when poking
around in a deserted
house, to find what
lookfed like a young
brown snakfe —actu-
ally it was a small
and handsome mem-
ber of the genus
Denisonia hanging
by the head from a
typically stiff red-
back web that
stretched across the
passage. Half of its
nearly 11-inch length
was above the floor-
ing and it looked
dead. However, as it
moved when touched,
I made sure of the
little beast, break-
ing its back a few
inches behind the
head. Although
there were red-backs
by thfe score in that
passage the snakeling
may not have been
bitten, as muscular movement continued
for two hours after I collected it; but its
head and neck scales were hopelessly
enmeshed.
* * ♦ *
“Metax”: The annual report of the
N.S.W. Water Conservation and Irriga-
tion Commission isn’t cheering for the
dowser. Of 1832 “divined” sites reported,
269 contained no water. Of 1806 bores
sunk without being “divined” only 133
were failures.
* * * *
“Saucy Varlet”; It seems remarkable
that Australia has suffered no further
visits from the “kidney hawk,” whose
first and only appearance, so far as can
be traced, was along the “Hungry Mile,”
north of Port Augusta, in the summer of
1904, and left a trail of terror in the
deep red dust. A bird similar to the
albatross in form, but about half its
size, reddish-brown in color, it was sup-
posed to have migrated from Russia with
the sandpipers, those merry little chaps
that bring a splash of gaiety to our
southern beaches every spring. There
was nothing gay about the “kidney
hawk.” Armed with a powerful beak,
razor-sharp, its practice was to swoop
on to lambs and sheep, rip the flank
wide in its flight, and wheel and tear out
the kidney before the animal’s quivering
bqdy had time to collapse. The raids
were carried out only during heavy dust
storms, with a speed and daring so great
in the poor visibility that shooting them
was impossible. An effort was made to
track down their nesting place, and start
the work of destruction from there, but,
like the albatross again, they seemed to
have none, for nobody has ever suc-
ceeded in finding it. The birds disap-
peared as mysteriously as they came.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”; As a kid I toiled a few
weeks in a foundry which stood next to
a pub, a brick wall dividing the proper-
ties. In one corner of the foundry floor
stood the coremakers’ alcove, shrouded
by a partition from the main works, and
in a corner of this alcove, fastened to
the brick wall, was the first-aid cupboard.
Making his afternoon rounds, the bene-
volent owner-boss was often puzzled by
the aroma of beer and the obvious eleva-
tion of some of the old hands, hard-
doers all. But, of course, they might
have got a skinful during lunch-hour, so
it was nobody’s business. Then, one cast-
ing day, I got in the way of a splash of
molten iron. The old boss was first to
the medical box, and was fumbling for
the lint and the carron oil when he found
a foaming pewter thrust into his hands,
while a husky voice inquired “Who is
it?” following with the admonition:
“And don’t forget some of you so-and-
so’s are running me up a few bob, and I
want the right name so’s I can have it
marked up for pay-day.” Investigation
(by the boss) revealed that a couple of
bricks had been removed giving access
to the pub taproom. Although innocent,
I nevertheless was held to be the cause of
the disaster, was compelled thereupon to
“run the rabbit” out the back way, was
caught the second day—and sacked.
% * * *
“Blime”: Woollie turned scowlingly
from the store and ran into Bob. “Hear
y’re doin’ some improvements out your
joint,” remarked Bob, affably. “Was,”
came the snort. “Had t’ put me men orf
yes’t’y.” “Cripes,” Bob .exclaimed. “With
“All mail and telegrams to Kosciusko! ”
y’r shed half pulled down, an’ y’r stable
only started!” “Well, what else can a
man do if he runs out of money?” the
other growled disgustedly. “I got me
income-tax!” Bob offered sympathy and
his candid opinion of the tax. “Yair,”
mourned Woollie. “Don’t want it to get
around, but between ourselves, Bob, two
hundred quid. Two flamin’ hundred.”
He gestured helplessly, and passed on to
the pub. Ten minutes later he was in-
forming several cronies in the bar. “Two
hundred, mind y’,” he confided. “But
don’t sling it around, will y’?” Before he
left town Woollie slipped the informa-
tion, in strict confidence, to Harry and
Dick Thompson, a couple of blokes in
the post office, the blacksmith, the trans-
port driver, Billy Watson, Sandy and old
Dad Martin. Next day, riding down the
road, he met Robbie. “Hear y’ got
stung two hundred quid tax,” Robbie re-
marked. “Bloke in town was sayin’.”
“He was, eh?” Woollie’s eyes narrowed.
“Damn’ stickybeak. Gripes, it beats me
how a man’s private bizness alwus seems
t’ get around!”
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A curious accident experi-
enced by a Quamby (n.-w. Q.) lad illus-
trates once more the danger of careless-
ness in handling explosives of any kind.
While riding along a road he noticed an
unexploded rifle cartridge lying on the
roadway, picked it up, and rode on.
Examining it, he found that the cap had
been indented by the firing-pin of a rifle
and scratched it with a finger-nail. The
cartridge exploded and the bullet lodged
in his right foot, luckily without causing
serious injury.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Sandy arrived on Sunday
night for the proposed game of crib, and
with a great show of importance and
preparation Seventyfiver shoved along
the dingo traps, piled axle-grease and
fox-baits on top of the damper and
stacked the dishes in the corner behind
Blue to make room on the table. “Gripes,
we used t’ play a lot in the shearin
camps,” he chuckled, taking up the cards
to deal. “How many d’ y’ have, now?
Four or five?” “Bet y’ ain’t played
more’n me,” answered Sandy. “Six, I
think; or seven. An’ y’ turn one up.
Right. Now, what y’ got?” he gurgled,
looking at his hand. “Hearts,” called
Seventyfiver. “Your lead. No, wait on,
we ain’t put none out.” “Well, I ain’t
breakin’ me straight,” snapped Sandy.
“Take a few orf the pack.” I buried my
nose in the newspaper. “Nine,” I heard
a bit later. “Yair, an’ eight’s sixteen.”
“An’ another nine makes ’er twenty-
seven. That’s a euchre, ain’t it?” An
hour later Sandy rose and looked round
for his hat. “Well, she was a great game,
awright,” he sighed. “I’ll come again
next Sunday.” “Yair, righto,” invited
the old bloke heartily. “Y’ can’t beat a
good game o’ crib when she’s played
prop’ly,”
A FIELD OF GRASS.
I think a thousand men lie buried here,
A thousand little poets, dead and rotten.
Who nursed their gods, and drowned themselves
in beer, , , ,
Unloved, unloving, man-scorned and for-
gotten.
They knew, deep in the desperate heart they
knew, , ~ , , .
Truth unexpressed; and, shackled to this pain.
They pined and died. In after years there grew
This grass, deep-rooted in each rebel brain.
Then dreams Itook meaning, God’s own gentle
blast
Of breath set grassy oceans murmuring;
Green lips articulate at last, at last.
For little poets who could never sing.
VICTORIA,
LOUIS H. CLARK.


team up to «n.
i i:J e^ : J 2: '**^ & *• todle ■ bettel iot
A6.22.1f
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND. 1 863)
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACCA, MOREE. HENTY„ AND HAYf
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
fig*
!*■ V
iip
if!
iii I
ill
11l
lit
! ilflf
mu
in
Modem high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Yl
J
PH
DESTROY THESE PESTS
OnogaS
with
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills 4 the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL RANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“DONT WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
The Good Shearer.
“R.N.”; A good, fast shearer at work
is fascinating to watch. His timing and the
rhythm of his movements as hands,
arms, legs and body synchronise in pass-
ing the hand-piece over the sheep make
a suggestion of flowing movement sel-
dom surpassed in any other human toil.
The good shearer is to be encouraged—
he can exercise an influence over his fel-
lows that will in the long run be felt
when the wool comes out on the city sale
floor.
The “gun” seldom knocks his sheep
about, his fleeces are always easy to pick
up and he does not make second cuts.
Thus, although he may be shearing half
as many sheep again in a day as the
slower men, he is not costing the owner
nearly so much money. The worst fault
of shearing being second cuts, for w|jich
the fast and skilful man has no time, a
shearer making a lot of them can run
the costs bill up immensely.
Slow men trying to chase or pace the
“gun” are usually bad offenders in
second cuts. You see the evidence all
round their feet in the snowfall of short
ridges and curls and clips of wool and
often on the sheep in scarlet lines.
Generally the second-cut maker hasn’t
properly learned to handle his machine.
He fails to fill the comb all across its
length or he takes too wide a blow and
leaves a ridge of wool which he has to
“hit” again. Often, too, he hasn’t
learned to follow the shape of the sheqp.
Compare the number of sweeps the
“gun” takes when on the long blow with
those taken by the second cutter on the
same part—or watch the “gun” go
across the rump and ribs before turning
his sheep for the long blow.
What is needed is a boss of the board
who can spot the faults of the shearer
and show him where he is wrong—but in
these days of sensitive unionists, when
men because a boss uses a naughty
word, perhaps it would be better to let
the muckers alone and concentrate on
encouraging the good men. Even that
isn’t “good” union practice these days.
Wool v. Dingoes.
“Notaden”: The dingo pest has
reached such proportions in western
Queensland that large pastoral areas are
being forced out of sheepfarming and
obliged to restock with cattle.
As an example, on Galway station,
some 250 miles from Charleville, the
flock has been reduced from 50,000 to
33,000 in three years, although per-
manently-employed trappers in the dis-
trict were killing an average of 60 dogs
a year. On some other holdings flocks
have been reduced by 50 p.c. in the same
period. Instead of the usual two or three,
packs numbering from a dozen to 20
are being reported. The, Government
scheme for dropping baits of fat from a
plane is unlikely to get any of the cun-
ning older dogs, who can always find
plenty of fresh mutton, but will do serious
damage by killing birds which keep down
the blowfly pest.
Experienced graziers consider that the
Queensland wool-producing industry will
be in danger unless the Government
raises the 15s. scalp-bonus to at least
£2. Some sheepowners are supple-
menting the bonus by anything up to £5
a scalp for known killers, some of them
known to have done £4OO or more worth
of damage before being caught, baited
or shot. In addition, the Government
scheme for building 300 miles of dingo
fencing should be implemented without
further delay. It will cost £135 per mile,
but the saving in sheep losses would pay
for it in a year.
Kikuyu for Cows.
“Bungle” : For many years paspalum
and buffalo have been considered the only
grasses for the dairying districts of the
N.S.W. North Coast, now kikuyu is
“ Cripes , we need rain bad.”
slowly but surely coming into favor,
Tests-have proved that the herd gives a
better cream return when pastured on it,
and cows seldom touch either paspalum
0 r buffalo if kikuyu is handy. Other
points that recommend it to the diehard
paspalum-advocates is the fact that its
vigorous growth will gradually oust two
curses, which were apparently here to
stay—bracken and compressum. Kikuyu
has proved it’s the last) to go under and
the first to recover from either frost or
dry weather. “It’ll ruin every cultiva-
tion paddock on the farm,” used to be a
great cry, but a few of the canniest old
hands locally have switched cultivation
acres into kikuyu, stoutly maintaining it
does away with the need for winter crops
as fodder.
Pigs thrive on it, and the feeding and
rooting only seem to stimulate growth.
This season, for the first time as far as
we know, the grass has seeded in the
north of N.S.W. The effect in the
patches of grass is that of someone hav-
ing scattered single threads of down
lightly over it.
Cull and Feed.
“Myrrhee”: Rigidly cull early
moulters. Late moulters will be laying
again just as soon as the early moulters,
and over a full year will lay for two or
three months longer. Cull before the
birds start to lose their feathers or the
price will suffer. Hens about to moult
are easily spotted—combs begin to fade
and wither, pelvic bones close and the
whole abdomen tightens and loses the
characteristic softness of the laying hen.
Hadlington,' the N.S.W. poultry expert,
recommends sowing the two best green-
feed crops, Berseem clover and lucerne, in
N.S.W. poultry-farming areas in Febru-
ary-March for the clover and March-
April for lucerne. Cultivate to a fine tilth
and sow in drills, which simplifies culti-
vation and manuring. Berseem clover
will grow profusely during winter when
lucerne is almost dormant, and can be
cut until October or November. If Ber-
seem seed is hard to get red clover will
do. Though it won’t grow as luxuriantly
during winter it will last for two or three
years sompared with one season for Ber-
seem.
Barley and rape are good winter green
crops for fowls. Broadcast the seed in
autumn—even as late as May on the
N.S.W. coast.
—
Sorghum in Queensland.
“Agric”: The huge quantity of grain
sorghum unsold on the Darling Downs,
owing to the Federal Government’s ban
on export, is delaying the preparation
of .the soil for this year’s planting, as
farmers don’t wish to have two crops
on their hands, but tests with two
varieties of grain sorghum imported
from America indicate a good future for
fjj® crop when unnecessary controls are
lifted. G. R. Porter, of Pittsworth, who
experimented with l|oz. of the Plains-
man variety of milo, obtained eight bags
off the second crop, which was allowed
to ratoon, and he got about the same
yield from the ratoon crop. In the
Layelle district H. C. M. Sharp after
initial experiments with Hoz. ’of a
variety known as Martin’s, planted 401 b
in a six-acre plot, and after 154 days
above the ground the yield was 49 bags
of an excellent quality grain, although
midge infestation reduced the harvest by
50 p.c.
Graziers in a position to buy some of
the present sorghum at the low price now
ruling are unable to obtain raw material
for galvanised-iron storage tanks, and
without these or concrete bins it would
be impossible to control the weevil.
Queensland Premier Hanlon is now in-
vestigating the possibilities of market-
ing the surplus now wasting on the
Downs, and growers are hopeful. Grain
sorghum appears to be an excellent crop
for Queensland conditions, and it would
be a calamity if a senseless export ban
caused farmers to lose heart after suc-
cessfully overcoming their experimental
difficulties.
Minerals for Dairy Cattle.
"Bill C.”: A Government analyst, R.
H. Mathams, in the Queensland “Agri-
cultural Journal,” emphasises the need for
supplying ample minerals to milking
cattle, explaining that mineral deficiency
leads to defective bone development,
sexual discord and general wasting.
Cattle not receiving sufficient minerals
will chew any rubbish.
Minerals may be provided by adding
suitable mineral substances to the feed,
by putting out mineral licks, or by top-
dressing the pastures with suitable fer-
tilisers, thereby increasing the mineral
content of the grass. In most coastal
dairying districts of Queensland, dairy
cattle can do with a mixture of equal
parts of sterilised bonemeal and salt in
the proportion of l-21b. per 1001 b. of
fodder. Ground limestone or oyster-
shell may be used as a lick to supply
calcium. Molasses would serve as an
encouragement to stock to eat such a
lick.
To make a lick containing trace ele-
ments to be given sparingly to stock suf-
fering from bush sickness, the analyst
advises common salt 1001 b., red iron
oxide 251 b., powdered copper sulphate
lib. and cobalt sulphate loz. Twenty
pounds of this would last 50 cattle for
a month.
Sunflowers for Profit.
“K.W.R.”: With ceiling price fixed at
£3O per ton ungraded or £32 per ton
graded, sunflowers are proving profitable
for Darling Downs (Q.) farmers. At
present prices they compare favorably
with maize as an economical proposition,
returning approximately the same figure
per acre and thriving under similar soil
conditions. In addition, the crop resists
dry weather better than maize, responds
more readily after rain and continues
growth even after receiving a check by
drought.
Most of the Queensland crop is ab-
sorbed by southern markets, which use


For Sale.
CLJMiUJSIG TO MAI O, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.: has 20ft. runners loaded with large
led tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant, ben-
cation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con- .
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
gdf
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN POTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
r-
r
<ta
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONEY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOBS NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Vo not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissblvenators (Qland),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Austialia: R. P. Mclnerney k Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlnx. Crosby k Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
and pave the way for
a Prosperous Future
Write Now!
BOX 17, P. 0.,
CHATSWOOD. N.S.W.
THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
%
THE
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
Ifin. Ring Surcingle, Uin, best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone: FA 5013.
Power and Stamina
for the
11
m
mrnmm
m ■
%
MUGGED COMSTRUCTIOK
It takes International power and stamina
to do the tough jobs all the time—on time,
and at low operating costs. Internationals
give outstanding economical performance
in quarries, sand pits and building excava-
tions, on highway construction and other
heavy haulage jobs. Every Internationa
is all-truck built. Choose an International
for your next truck investment. The full
range of the new “KB” Internationals
covers all haulage requirements— capaci-
ties up to ten tons.
msd
• m
H
Full information
regarding deliv-
eries is avail-
able at our
branch house
showrooms or
from any of our
metropolitan dis-
tributors or
country dealers.
IN tfrNATIONAL. HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (iNC. I
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES - FACTORY: GEELONG
VIC.>
IT 1 53—1 2
international
m
i
7
You can it’s
A "MAXIMUM" PROPERTY!
. WELL WATERED m
Parched land gives poor profits. You can grow splendid crops
and get good returns for far less effort with Maximum, the
modern spray irrigation system.
You'll have water where and when you want it.
No other system can be erected and moved
with such ease and speed. "Maximum has the
famous flexible coupling. You change pipe
positions quickly without stopping pump ° r ,
motor Gives good coverage and cost per acre i- •
Agent's: Smith & Gluyas Pty Ltd Mh Sane. J
Waugh & Josephsori PiljLM _ wS.dville. South Australia. M 7127.
Pascoe & kwO., .“"s, ‘ i« iu
Welling & Crossley Pty. Ltd.. 143-149
Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. MX4889.
gdf
MANUFACTURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY
MA 7858
s Mail this coupon to Maximum Spray j
| Irrigation Co., or to any of the agents .
5 listed. Learn more about Maximum !
... how it can help you!
Nam*—
Address-
the seed as a basis for birdseod mix
tures. Overseas it is grown for the ex-
traction of edible oils which rival the
finest olive oils in food value lack o
taste, color and keeping qualities. It has
the advantage also of remaining hqui
at a lower temperature than olive oil.
Sunflower seeds yield from 32 to P
cent, oil, which is widely used commer
cially, particularly in the manufacture of
paints, soaps, cosmetics and wool pro-
, cessing. Superior to linseed oil for fine
paints, it will dry in 26 hours as against
the 34 hours required for linseed oil.
Sunflower-seed cake made befoie the
oil has been extracted contains about
39 per cfent. crude protein, 12.6 per cent,
crude fat and 11.8 per cent, crude fibre,
and is a valuable supplementary fodder
for stock. Residue, after oil has been ex-
tracted, compares favorably with linseed
and cotton-seed cake. Due to lack or
mineral content, sunflowers are not hard
on the soil, providing stalk and husk are
put back by burning, discing in with a
plough, or returning as a compost.
Winter Spraying.
“Mr”: A thorough spraying with tar
distillate one in 35 or D.N.C. one in 40
during the dormant period will kill eggs
of the green peach aphis, but the spraying
must be done before mid-July in Vic-
toria or the buds may sufffcr. For black
cherry aphis, increase the strength or
tar distillate solution to one in 50, ana
apply before the end of the first week in
July.
The black peach aphis is a differ en
proposition. Winter sprays arfe not ettec-
tive, as it lives on the roots of the trees
and ascends the trunk during the late
winter. Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture experts advocate a sticky tanglefoot
substance placed around the trunk to pre-
vent the insects , from getting at the
foliage. The goo is made by heating to-
gether four parts of castor oil and nine
parts of resin. Smear this on to brown-
paper and tie round the trunk. On insects
which succeed in reaching the foliage use
a spray of nicotine sulphate one fluid oz.
(two tablespoons), soap 2oz. and water
4gal.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Orange-trees affected by
mottle disease will speedily recover it
sprayed in the spring with a mixture made
from 31b. of zinc sulphate, Itlb- or
hydrated lime and lOOgal. of water, use
every year until the trees are healtny
again. When making up the spray dis-
solve the sulphate of zinc in halt the
water, the lime in the other half and
pour the solution together.
“Homo”: Eggs for setting should be
fresh, moderately-sized, clean and care -
fully-handled so that yolks are not dis-
turbed or broken. Small eggs give poor
results, and so do abnormally large ones.
Stout-shelled, clean eggs of moderate size
culled from the nests of the best layers
should be chosen. Nothing damp or un-
savory should be placed near them.
“Halo”: Curly-toe or rickets in
chickens is caused by lack of sunlight and
by vitamin deficiency in the feed. It is
often seen where chicks are confined to
a small and shady area. On free range
fowls eat grass, oily seeds, worms and
insects, besides getting sunlight, fresh air
and exercise. Confined chicks should
have a carefully-balanced ration, patent
foods being suitable if so described. To
cure the disease give an increased supply
of dried skim milk, chopped lucerne,
shallots, milk thistle, liver-meal or meat-
meal according to deficiency.
“W. Court”: Sometimes after plough-
ing old ratoons out canegrowers find
many stools in the paddocks. They may
be carted off, but they can just as feasily
be bprned and potash will be returned to
the soil. Drag a number of dry logs into
the paddock, pile small wood against
them, fire them in the middle, and mass
the stools around. It doesn’t matter it
the stools are thick with soil as long as
the soil is dry. The object is to keep the
fire so blanketed with stools that no flame
can emerge. ’ If this is done, most of the
stools will be reduced to ash. The same
method works well when dry, but non-
inflammable trees have to be burned out.
“C.A.A.”: C.S.I.R. tests showed that
rotational grazing can only be expected
to give increases in yield under certain
conditions and pasture management would
be simplified if lucerne were grown as a
separate crop for hay or grazing. A
pasture mixture of Phalaris tuberosa,
sub. clover and cocksfoot was grazed by
Merino wethers for four years following
three systems of grazing—continuous,
four-week rotation and eight-week rota-
tion. The methods had no effect on the
yield of Phalaris or sub. clover, but
lucerne had almost disappeared after four
years under continuous grazing. The yield
of lucerne was limited under the iour-
week rotation but a productive stand was
maintained under the eight-week rotation.
“Calos”: Light sandy soil is best for
peanuts and they may be sown any time
when frosts are not likely to occur.
Cultivation is similar to that required for
sweet potatoes. The nuts should be
shelled and planted in rows. The young
plants should be hilled and the soil kept
friable so that pods may be covered
when the stems bend over. As the nuts
do not mature all at once the larger ones
may be removed and the small ones left
in the soil to grow.
“Gip”: If the car or truck stops in
a position where it can’t be started again
(mine was in a river crossing with water
over the distributor), put it in top gear
and turn the starting handle. The car
will then move forward. The method is
slow, but it will get you out.
“Bill C.”: If growing vegetables com-
mercially consider your customers.
Middle- and lower-class incomes won’t
thank you for producing the choicest of
the choice, since they’ll be beyond their
means. Aim at good quality always, but
keep off the super grade unless you have
a special market waiting for it. Shops
welcome uniform medium-sized toma-
toes or spuds more than giant speci-
mens. Small hard-hearted cabbages and
lettuces sell better in small townships
than the mammoth types.


c\ma\ Aom vwrw !
FOR
MEN
WHO
STUDY
PERSONAL
APPEARANCE
| N Mrs. Cook’s Sweet Shoppe the half-
* pence were received with interest,
12 of them. Mrs. Cook went to the
’phone and had a very short conver-
sation. In fact she just said, “Cook’s!”
and rang off.
Mr. Trescott, the baker, slapped them
all on the back and said what polite lads
they were, but he insisted on following
them up the street, jingling the money
in his hand. Further along Miss Black
was talking to Mr. Reed, a barrister and
solicitor who had a soft spot for Robert.
And then three hearts gave three pain-
ful lurches, for striding out of Mr. Reed’s
office came Mr. Ganner, the headmaster.
“Come over here, boys,” he called in
a terrible voice. The boys stood still.
Mr. Reed came to. meet them.
“Well, what have you three been up
to?”
“Nothing, sir,” answered Robert with
all the confidence of a hero and none of
the diffidence of a culprit.
“I have been to each of your homes,
so don’t invent excuses,” said the head-
master. “This money, now tell the truth,
Robert, you are the oldest. Where did
you get it? To whom does it belong?”
“It belongs to the Leppard’s Corn,”
burst out Jamesie. “Tibby ate him, a little
man, all bare. He lived in a treacle tin.
We saw him jump out and we saw Tibby
eat him.”
“Well! Well! Fancy that!” said Mr.
Reed.
“It’s good money, isn’t it?” asked
Robert. “We thought as Tui’s grand-
mother, you know Old Kate Rorke that
died, gave the Leppard’s Corn to Tui,
and as Tibby ate him, at least that’s what
they say, anyway he wasn’t in the tin,
we thought the money would go to Tui.”
“The halfpennies, Robert?”
“Yes. There were 40 of them.”
“Listen, boys, these are not halfpennies.
Once upon a time, a long, long time ago,
when the world was young and bright
and beautiful, before aeroplanes and
atom bombs, these coins were worth
20s. each. They are now worth much
more. These are sovereigns, golden
sovereigns.”
“Crumbs!” said Robert, who could
never quite make out Mr. Reed’s manner
of speaking.
Then the headmaster took them into
Mr. Reed’s office. “I want to hear the
whole story, why you played hookey—
not some fairy tale about leopards and
little men eaten by cats.”
It took some time to tell about
Jamesie’s lost belt, Tibby and the Lepre-
chaun, the finding and spending of the
money and the patchwork quilt that
moved. The headmaster gave them a
lecture and Mr. Reed did a lot of ringing
up in another room. Presently they all
went their separate ways. As Jamesie
turned into his own gate, Robert, who
lived further down the road, called out,
“So long, Stewy!”
TUI had a very cold reception from
his mother. “You bad boy, I’ve
heard all about it, so don’t start explain-
ing. Go to your room and stay there.
Going to your poor Granny’s house and
she hardly cold in her grave and leaving
a mess in the kitchen and the window up
for Tibby to get in and have her kittens
on the bed!”
“What? You mean to say it was
kittens? She didn’t swallow the Lepre-
chaun? The little old man Gran gave
me that was in the tin? Was it kittens
on the bed? Only kittens?”
“Your Gran was superstitious, and
sometimes, perhaps, she said things that
were not true, just for fun. There are no
such things as Leprechauns. Now go to
your room and stay there!”
Tui sat down on his bed, sorry his
mother was so cross, but angry with Old
Kate Rorke.
“Kittens! No Leprechaun. She just
made it up. What a dirty big lie! ”
Jamesie’s mother did not scold him.
Mr. Reed had explained about the belt.
She smiled as he burst out with his
story. He was very anxious to come to
a certain point and dwell on it. “Now,
Mumsie, I’m not Jamesie any more —or
Laddie. I’m James. And listen. He,
Robert, calls me Stewy, so there! ”
“I think,” she said to her husband, “I
will ring up Robert’s mother and thank
her for the way he looked after our little
James. But, mind you, there is some-
thing funny about our stolid little
Jamesie losing first his belt and then his
pants.”
Robert, who had entered his home
quietly, bringing unasked a bucket of coal,
was met by his mother with “Don’t say
one word. Just get out of my sight.
You are breaking my heart. Just wait
until your father comes home.”
(‘AH, well! If you don’t want to
hear about us finding the Hidden
Treasure!” and Robert flounced out of
the room, his head in the air. In his
own room he made himself very com-
fortable. He had a good half-hour left
before his father came home, and, in
the back of the wardrobe were three
new comics and a bag containing three
pieces of candy. But before he settled
down he took out his notebook and
amended his Extra Holidays.
Grandmother died on a Friday, buried on
Sunday .... equals NO HOLS. Stonkered!
From the window he could see little
Evelyn playing with her dog and had a
generous impulse to throw her one of
the candies, but at that moment Margaret
hissed through the keyhole, “You’re not
only a dirty big liar, you’re a dirty big
thief as well! You stole Old Kate Rorke’s
money.”
He popped the last bit of candy in his
mouth, pulled a pillow from his bed
and nestled his head on it. Deep in the
Adventures of Knabcrack and His Mates,
he only vaguely heard the telephone
ringing.


The world's playground
m
%
m
•v-
WISITORS who have long been familiar with Egypt’s rich store
* of historical records return, again and again, to luxuriate in
a climate that is as invigorating as it is delightful. Restful days
may be spent in comfortable social surroundings, or devoted to
sport of almost every kind. In Cairo, alone, there is a full
programme of entertainment which includes opera and music
comparable with the best that Is offered in any European
capital, and a night-life of exceptional brilliance.
Travellers to Europe are afforded an opportunity of
breaking their journey in Egypt if they apply for the Special
Tourist Visas.* Egypt, ever appreciative of her visitors,
offers a friendly welcome. Her luxury hotels are world-
famous, and there is no lack of first-class pensions. Travel
facilities are up-to-date and inexpensive. Many clubs
admit temporary members.
•fc Special Tourist Visas obtainable In the British Commonwealth and Empire
Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
For Colds and Flu
WOLFE'S
O&i umdtlc
SCHNAPPS
cold, have a Wolfe’s Scl
hot with lemon just before going to bed.
It is a warming, heartening drink, and a
stimulant of special value in helping to
ward off winter ills. For over 100 years,
Wolfe’s Schnapps has been known and
appreciated by both men and women as
unique and distinctive in character from
any other liquor.
At the first sign of a
HOT WITI
LEMON
BEDTIME
WOLFES
AROMATIC
WB.f9S.fS
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
wjm -y- V
“She declared that Dorothy had arrived at
her house very drunk, with a brick in her
hand.”— Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
Evidently she had had one on the
house.
•5* 4* 4* . 4*
“Don’t try to copy your big sister’s clothes,
— Woman’s paper.
Just put on the originals.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lost, one lady’s shoe.” — Suburban paper.
This would make her hopping mad.
“Deer jumped on car.”
Sydney “Sun” heading.
Hoping to be taken to a stag party, no
doubt.
“A siren should be installed in taxicabs.”
—“New Idea.
To make picking-up easier?
•P 4* 4* 4* M
“New florin rings oddly.”— Sydney “D.T.”
According to the clergy, however, when
they drop into the plate they sound like
a carillon of bells.
4* ■i*
“Race broadcasts while you eat.”
—Sporting note.
Punters will probably bolt their food
if their fancy dawdles.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Labor Governments prefer brood bees to
babies,” declares Fadden.
After all, they’ve got to have swarms
of drones for Government departments.
“Father Elliott said that 23 students of his
school had sold their blood to a clinic for 10
dollars a pint.”— Sydney “Sun.”
Good on them —their blood’s worth
bottling.
More Than Meets the Eye.
“Why do men go to hotels— dnnx or to
see the barmaids?” — Sydney “D.T.”
It surely isn’t fair to men
To think they’re out to make a pass
At dimpled buxom barmaids, when
The latter fill the glass.
And furthermore it were absurd
That men should have to look away
When barmaids pass them up a third
Or fourth at close of day,
So look the barmaid in the face
You casuals and verier
Habitues, it’s no disgrace —
The more you see the merrier!
BERT.
Practical Organic Chemistry.
Woman.
Atomic Weight 120 lb.
Symbol—Q.T.
Occurrences
Found wherever man is found.
Physical Properties
1. —Generally rounded in form.
2. —Boils at nothing and may freeze
at any moment.
3. —Melts when treated properly.
Chemical Properties
1. —Very active;
2. —Violent reactions when left alone.
3. —Turns green when placed beside a
better-looking specimen.
Elec. Properties *
1. —Unpredictable resistance.
2. —Requires large inducement for
work output.
Uses
1. —Highly ornamental.
2. —Useful as a tonic in acceleration of
low spirits.
3. —Equalises the distribution of
wealth.
4. —ls probably most powerful income-
reducing agent known.
Caution
Highly Explosive in Inexperienced
Hands.
R. D. M.
Going One Better.
“Big grey owl is Bathurst ‘ghost.’ ”
—Sydney ' Sun .
It screams till people’s nerves are
wracked,
And they could give that owl the boot.
It doesn’t even care —in fact,
It simply doesn’t give a hoot.
YAIR.
Definition.
“In a British appeal ease uie use of the word
‘oomph’ in advertisements was sanctioned.”
“And what exactly,” inquired Chief
Justice Applecart, “is this —ah
‘oomph’?”
“It was my impression,” Mr. Justice
Barrow commented, “that ‘oomph’ was
an exclamation of pain and consternation,
used for example when one sat on a non-
existent chair.” (Laughter.)
“In my opinion,” said Mr. Justice
Lemon, “the alleged ‘oomph’ is equally
non-existent.” (More laughter.)
“On the contrary, Yeronner,” inter-
posed Mr. Carrot, K.C. (for the Com-
pany), “ ‘oomph’ is a definite quality
appertaining to women of personality.”
“One might then say,” Mr. Justice
Barrow commented, “that my wife is
endowed with ‘oomph.’ She is a woman
of personality—strong personality,” he
added reflectively.
“Ah, no, Yeronner,” Mr. Carrot de-
clared. “ITiis quality is attributed more
to young and beautiful women who”
“It will not be necessary to labor that
point, Mr. Carrot,” . interrupted Mr.
Justice Barrow.
“Possibly counsel could give us an ex-
ample of the attribute in question,” sug-
gested Mr. Justice Applecart.
Mr. Carrot cast his eyes over the body
of the Court. Some disturbance was
visible among the female members of the
public.
“Certainly, Yeronner,” said Mr. Carrot.
“I should say the young lady in the
fourth row, fifth —no, sixth —from the
right, was well endowed with ‘oomph’.”
The Court adjourned for the day to
enable the ensuing agitation to be
brought under control.
PLUM.
An Overdue Need.
“A Granville (N.S.W.) rector puts 20 ques-
tions to every couple whom he is about to
marry.”— Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
It was the custom of my Uncle Claude,
who in the old days married couples in
the registry office of which he was in
charge, to put to the prospective bride-
groom, only one question—quite a
simple, straightforward one. Then one
day, happening to be slightly sober, he
hit on the idea of preparing a whole set
of questions designed to assist the future
meal- and clothing-ticket to make up his
mind before taking the final plunge
Needless to say Uncle drew on his own
vast marital experience in preparing his
interrogatories for the first bewildered-
looking man who was elbow-steered into
the registry office by a triumphant-look-
ing female. The quiz read:
1. —Have you taken a good screw at
your prospective bride’s mother and
paused to reflect that her daughter will
in about 25 years have a figure and —
worse —a face like that?
2. —Before I go ahead with the cere-
mony I will ask about payment of the
fee, thus giving you an opportunity to
note that your bride will develop a tem-
“ Orright , orright — don't snap!"
porary paralysis of the hand holding her
bag while she graciously allows you to
fork out. Do you as yet realise that this
will merely be the preliminary to
approximately 40 years of the same
monotonous practice?
3. —Do you comprehend fully that the
step you are taking will mean that, should
you live to the average age as calculated
by the life-assurance companies, you will
during that time and under a strict labor
directive have mown approximately 107
square miles of lawn, wiped up 128,000
assorted pieces of crockery, cutlery and
kitchen utensils, put 14,000 cats and milk-
pots out and moved the bedroom, dining-
room and lounge-room furniture around
on an average of three times a year?
4. —lf you have an ear that isn’t so
efficient as the other ear —most people are
that way—have you worked it out that
it is judicious to sleep, or try to get to
sleep, with the good ear against the
pillow, so that the nocturnal yapping to
which you will inevitably be subjected
will be less likely to be absorbed?
5. —Has it dawned upon you that in
due course you will be instructed to make
a garden on a Saturday afternoon instead
of watching the football or cricket, and
that such ideas as you would like to in-
corporate in the laying out of it will be
swept aside in the flood of instructions
you will get from the head of the house?
And, further, that shortly after you have
it completed you will be told that the way
you have the beds laid out and the flower-
ing shrubs arranged is silly, and that Mr.
Whosthis opposite has his set out much
better, and that thereafter you will know
no peace until you’ve rearranged it all
to make it look like Mr. Whosthis’s?
6. —Are you prepared to face the peri-
odical accusation, when you can’t account
for the one and sixpence short in your
pay-envelope, that you are keeping a
blonde in a luxury flat somewhere,
clothed in lame frocks and silver-fox
furs, while your poor wife is compelled
by your niggardliness to turn last year’s
dressmaker suit, and is expected to get
around in a four-and-eleven end-of-the-
season throw-out from one of the cheap
hat shops?
7.—Are you prepared
to stand near the counter
of a department store for
an hour or two on num-
erous occasions while
your wife matches some
wool, tries on about 40
pairs of shoes or gets
fitted for new corsets,
while you have a 321 b.
baby jigging up and
down on your nearly-
breaking arm, culminat-
ing in the infant heav-
ing up about half a pint
of sour, partly-digested
milk all over your vest?
8. —Do you feel yourself capable of
doing your son’s homework when he an-
nounces that he is going to the pictures
and he wants the algebra and geometry
done by the morning?
9. —Has it occurred to you that from
now on you’ll not only be up for your
wife’s , birthday and wedding anni-
versary presents, but also those for the
birthdays of a herd of newly-acquired
relations, and that the time taken in
visiting them and having them visit or
stay with you will represent over two
years of and off your life?
* * ♦ »
Unfortunately the prospective ’groom
to whom he first gave the set of questions
was silly enough to consult his future
bride about them. When Uncle Claude
was spared the sight of his better eye,
the infuriated woman’s umbrella ferrule
having just grazed it, he went back to
the old, single simple question, orally put
to the ’groom in confidence: “Do you
realise what a goat you’re making of
yourself?”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2}d. per line.
Free Education
One of the hardy annuals at A.L.P.
conferences is free university education
—some Labor politicians never tire of
harping on the subject. One recently
waxed eloquent over the air on the dis-
parity between rich men’s and poor men’s
sons—“ One studies in marble halls while
the other slaves in a dingy factory” was
his burden.
Anyone associated with adult education
will have his qualms. The W.E.A. in
Adelaide teaches a wide Variety of sub-
jects, but vacant chairs are conspicuous
in every classroom. The fee of 10s. is
only what the average man spends at an
evening’s entertainment. But even this
need not debar a student’s attendance.
The other evening, on the way home
after a lecture, I met an acquaintance.
He had intended spending the evening at
the pictures, but because of a packed
house he, with 200 others, had been
turned away.
What with numerous scholarships, etc.,
any student with initiative can obtain all
the education he wants. But this much is
certain; the masses want it not. Sitting
in a cosy theatre watching the glamor
girls of Hollywood has more appeal than
swotting “Measure for Measure.” —A. D.
(S.A.).
Not So Bad
When I came to Sydney some months
ago I had all the bushman’s prejudice
against it, and when forced to remain I
was not happy about the prospect. Every
day I read in the papers about ’the city’s
bad points—the rudeness of the people,
the delays and inefficiency in public and
Government departments, and so on.
After I set out to establish a business
my first “official” call was at the County
Council offices. With courtesy and effi-
ciency, clerks completed my electricity
business in a surprisingly short time.
Then on to the Australian Gas Company
—just as courteous, if a little slower.
My next job was to register a motor-
truck. I had to wait a while for my turn
at the Department of Road Transport,
but on the whole I couldn’t complain. And
the suburban garage where the truck is
serviced provides the cheapest and best
mechanical attention I’ve found anywhere
between here and Cloncurry.
I’ve no complaints about the conduct
of tram- and bus-drivers and conductors.
In fact, I’ve a great admiration for the
men who struggle along the dangerous
footboards on wet days and I sometimes
wonder why they bother to collect fares
at all.
At our suburban shops, although we
are newcomers, we get our share of goods
in short supply.
A ’phone was a necessity to my busi-
ness. At the P.M.G.’s Department I
was asked to produce bona fides, and I
had a visit from an inspector to check
my application again. He was satisfied
and I got the ’phone in just over three
weeks. Fair enough.
Summing up, I’d say that Sydney
people are much the same as people any-
where else in Australia. They may not
have the bush’s friendliness but neither
have they that deep suspicion of strangers
that you find in Woop Woop.—C. R.
(N.S.W.).
R.S.L.
Old Diggers have no wish to “monopo-
lise” R.S.L. affairs (B. 30/7/’47). In our
sub-branch the president, vice-president
and a number of the committee are cer-
tainly Old Diggers, but the positions were
thrust upon them by lack of enthusiasm
in the younger men. If many have left
the League because of old-fashioned stan-
dards it indicates only that enthusiasm
for the League is waning among 1939-45
Diggers. If they demonstrated some of
the interest showed by the men who
formed the R.S.L. they could eliminate
those “old - fashioned standards.”
T. P. M. (N.S.W.).
R.A.A.F.
It has at last been announced that the
new R.A.A.F. is to be based on a much
larger permanent service than the 3500
officers and men of pre-war days. That
is so much to the good. But what about
the Citizen Air Force? The new C.A.F.
is to comprise the magnificent total of
200 officers and men. In the pre-war
days there were C.A.F. squadrons in Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Perth and one was
scheduled for Brisbane. The four would
have consisted of about 600 men.
I notice also that a “reserve” is to be
constituted and ex-members of the
R.A.A.F. are to be asked to join it.
Wouldn’t it? Since the end of the war
200,000 officers and men have moved into
Civvy-street, and only a few selected
individuals were asked to go on the
reserve if and when it was. constituted.
If Air Board thinks the men who were
shoved out are going to rush cap in hand
to join a nebulous reserve it has another
think coming. Yet it would have been
so simple to transfer all medically-fit
people to the reserve on discharge and
save the cost of recruiting a new reserve.
—Recco (N.S.W.).
A Vanishing Market
At the end of 1945 those countries
which had been devastated or exhausted
by the war turned to the more fortun-
ate countries for food and other desper-
ately-needed goods.
Many of the have-nots, particularly
the Indies, China, Malaya and some
Pacific islands, turned to Australia.
In the two years which have passed
since we have slipped from a nation
in full production to become a land of
industrial unrest, strikes, hold-ups, de-
lays and shut-downs. Innumerable re-
quests from overseas buyers, particularly
from Asia, have had to be knocked back
because of the shortage of power for
furnaces, of steel, of raw materials and
countless other things. Is it any wonder
that these prospective traders have taken
their orders to other countries where they
have some assurance of obtaining their
goods in reasonable time?
It is in the coal, metal and transport
industries that there is most unrest, not
“When I said we'd go whacks I meant with
the purse, fathead !”
because those workers are more dissatis-
fied but because Communist agitators
know only too well that stoppages in
these industries paralyse the whole of the
country’s industrial organisation. And it
is out of the resulting chaosi that Com-
munism hopes to take control.
Our chances of overseas trade have not
gone completely, but the opportunity to
put “Made in Australia” • on world mar-
kets will not long remain. —Liber (Vic.).
Budgets—Not Chifley’s
Before the war I earned £7 10s. a
week, and the three of us —No. 3 is a
small boy—lived on it fairly comfort-
ably, When I returned to Sydney after
the war my pay envelope was fattened
to £9 10s. The extra two quid looked so
good that we had a slap-up dinner and
a night out to celebrate.
The awakening came when my wife
got our pre-war housekeeping accounts
and examined them against our present
budgets. Here is the comparison:—-
1939. 1947. Increase.
£ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
Rent .... 117 6 2 5 0 0 7 6
Grocer ..0 15 0 0 17 6 026
Butcher ..0 10 0 0 15 0 050
Greengrocer .0 5 0 0100 050
Milkman ..082 089 007
Baker .... 0 1 9 019
Medical ..050 076 026
Clothing ..0 10 0 100 010 0
Light and gas 040 050 010
Fares to work 050 060 010
Wife’s fares 018 02 0 004
Insurance ..0 7 6 0 7 6 •
Tobacco ..040 067 0 2 7
Pin money ~0 5 0 0 5 0
Papers .. ..009 010 003
Lunches ..0 3 9 0 3 9
Entertainment 076 0126 050
Taxation ..050 012 3 073
Totals .. £6 16 7 £9 7 1 £2 10 6
I know rents are “fixed,” but the flat
we’re lucky enough to have now is not
even as good as the one we had before
the war, although it costs another
7s. 6d. a week. Groceries have increased
less than most things, but meat is 50
per cent, dearer, and fruit and vegetables
are double. Bread is still the same, but
milk is up £d. a quart.
“Clothing” on our list includes house-
hold linen, shoe repairs, dry-cleaning, etc.
Before the war I could buy a suit for
£7 to £8; the same quality, or in-
ferior, now costs £l2 to £l4. I used to
buy white shirts for 10s. 6d. each ; one
I bought the other day cost me 21s. 6d.
Shoes are up to blazes, and some dress
materials are four times their pre-war
price. Clothes for the boy now cost
almost as much as mine.
Our light and gas cost more (and with
dearer coal and higher freight-rates will
cost more still), partly because we go out
less and have more meals at home. My
wife still restricts herself to five bob a
week for warpaint and other odds and
ends ; one visit a week to her mother and
one to town used to cost Is. Bd. in fares—
now it’s two bob. My lunches and in-
surance are still the same, but four
ounces of tobacco and papers cost
another 2s. 7d. a week and my daily
paper another 3d.
“Entertainment” includes birthday and
Christmas presents, Sunday papers, an
odd magazine, the library and an occa-
sional book. Before the war we used to
have cheap and pleasant outings at the
Zoo: fares, a shilling; 2s. 6d. at the
gate and a bob or so for an ice-cream
for the kid and a cup of tea for ourselves.
Now, with admission prices up to five
bob for the three of us and an increase
in fares, we’re lucky to get out of it for
10s. More often than not a good deal
of the “allowance” goes on some other
household necessity.
“Medical expenses” include doctor,
dentist and chemist; toilet and shaving
soap, hair oil, talc, toothpaste, cough
mixtures, razor blades and the like. Five
shillings covered it before the war; now
we have to allow 7s. 6d.
and pray to the Almighty
that none of us gets sick.
As for the increase in
taxation —well, we try to
console ourselves that
we’re paying for the war,
but we have more than a
suspicion that wfe’re pay-
ing for increased salaries
for politicians, for a horde
of superfluous civil ser-
vants, for the illusory
benefits of socialism and
for an endless list of poli-
tical and Governmental
extravagances that we see
and read about every day
of the week.
We’re not starving and
we’ve enough clothes to
keep us warm, but after
we’ve met the week’s ex-
penses we have 2s. lid.
left with which to save for
a home and pay for holi-
days, postage, the boy’s
fares to school, school
collections, an odd parcel
to some less - fortunate family in
Britain, haircuts', seeds for the garden and
a dozen other minor household expenses.
We can’t do it, of course—the extras are
met from the “entertainment” allowance,
from the wife’s pin money, or by
“mortgaging” other items on our
“budget,” or by drawing on our dwin-
dling bank account. My wife can’t afford
to lunch in town when she goes shop-
ping any more than I can afford an oc-
casional beer. We can’t afford to visit
because we can’t afford to entertain.
The undebatable issue is that the in-
crease in the cost of living under socialist
Governments has not only eaten up my
£2 a week rise but another 10s. 6d. as
well. I’d like the author of those “Save
for Security” ads. to meet my wife —we
bought a block of land with my deferred
pay and had hoped to build on it. And
I’d love Mr. Calwell to drop in some-
time and tell my wife to “populate or
perish.” We can’t populate, but we’re
doing a genteel perish.— Oliver Filter
(N.S.W.).
Cost of a Home
Mr. Chifley should set an example on
saving when he frames his next Budget
by eliminating the appropriation for that
extensive and expensive advertising which
exhorts people to save. Those inclined
to save don’t need it; those disinclined
don’t heed it. Family men don’t require
poker-machine illustrations and “Beware
of One-armed Bandit” tocsins to remind
them that the comfort, happiness and
security of their family depend on them.
Advertising which urges everybody to
“build up .your purchasing power for the
future” is ludicrous today. Thousands
of Australians of the right type are
jammed in the gap between yesterday
and the future, and the hardest squeezed
are those who are homemaking. There
is no escape for them, unless they are pre-
pared to go homeless. Week after week
their savings and their current income
buy less —and will buy even less when
the full impact is felt of the slowing down
of man and machine production.
There is little prospect of homemakers
getting better value by postponing their
plans. Instead of wasting money on
fatuous advertising the Government
should be employing competent men to
see that people do obtain value for their
money. A start could be made on
materials for home-building and furnish-
ings. In my State the cost a square for
a three-bedroomed timber dwelling was
£6O in 1939. Commonwealth Works and
Housing tables show that it is £ 117 today.
Furnishing is equally costly, while work-
manship and finish are generally far
below 1939 standards —solid dovetail
finish has gone in favor of light pegging
and glufe.
To give my lad a start in 1939 I
bought him four rooms of furniture,
which cost me £lOO. Today, from the
same firm, for furniture of similar timber
and fabrics, but of inferior finish, my
neighbor was asked £lB5 cash for four
rooms.
Price was not the only difference. When
I bought in 1939, extras thrown in were
a 12ft. by 10ft. square of excellent British-
made linoleum, a coir door mat, a window
blind and a 40-piece utility set, consist-
ing of five aluminium saucepans, a kettle,
two jugs, wash-up dish, millet broom,
baking-dish, colander, threefold grater,
six egg cups, set of canisters, teapot,
frying-pan, bucket, scrub brush and dust-
pan and brush.
There were throw-ins for the other
three rooms, too ; those for the bedroom
including linoleum, a wire mattress, top
mattress, bedside mat, pillows, window
curtains, rods and blinds. Those fur-
nishing today know only too well what
these extras cost and what a hole they
make in their savings.—C. D. C. (Q.).
Socialism
I can’t see that the advocates of social-
ism in this or any other country have
anything to show in its favor. It is sup-
posed to be a social and economic level-
ler, yet we are far removed from any-
thing of the kind tpday. There is some
truth in the statement that “the gap be-
tween rich and poor is getting wider in-
stead of narrower” —in fact, we create
at least three new capitalists every week
in N. S. Wales per medium of the State
lottery.
The high cost of social services is
squeezing us dry, and we are reduced to
the doubtful method of gambling in all
its forms to obtain a little untaxed spend-
ing money. Some homes may be receiv-
ing £2O a week income as compared with
less than half that amount before the
war, but most of those people are not a
scrap better off in the way of amenities
or ordinary comfort. They are carried
away with the idea of handling more
money, but they are living in shabby
homes, riding in derelict trams, nailing
up shattered fences and wearing older
clothes.
Reduction of working hours will only
intensify this sorry state of affairs
M. T. R. (N.S.W.).
Still Waiting
Last February my wife and I and a
two-year-old were lucky enough to find
a good-sized house in Brisbane. We
were doubly grateful because another
baby was expected in two months. As I
am a shift-worker a telephone was a
necessity, particularly as my employers
. wanted me to keep in contact when away
from the office.
Armed with a letter from the boss and
a certificate from the doctor, I applied
to the P.M.G. I was pleased to learn
that mine was a high priority, although
it might be “some time” before the ser-
vice began. I waited. Twice I called to
ask about progress —an impertinence on
my part which seemed to be resented by
the gentleman at the counter.
I was at home on D-Day, fortunately,
and interrupted a neighbor’s dinner
party to ring for the ambulance. About
six weeks later a letter arrived from the
P.M.G. asking that the phone rent be
paid so that the service could be con-
nected. I cheerfully handed out £3 ss.
for the first six months’ rent. After a
couple more weeks had passed I wrote
asking when the service would com-
mence. Later the P.M.G. replied that
he was “unable to say.” Since then
two men raised my hopes by looking over
the place, but that was three or four
weeks ago, and I haven’t seen them again.
We are still waiting and I am thinking
of breeding carrier-pigeons.
Incidentally, the P.M.G.’s department
held its “Annual Ball” recently. The
social gossipper described a novel feature
—all the alcoves were connected by tele-
phone, —R. G. L. (Q.).


Hume Weir and Murray Valley
Tallangatta (Vic.) is not impressed by
the “snap decisions” which, according
to Mr. Calwell, are the custom in Aus-
tralia. This fine little town is the outlet
and rail and market centre for the pros-
perous Mitta ancl other valleys, but its
development is seriously hampered by
the lack of decision on the raising of
the Hume Weir. The present Tallan-
gatta will drown when the dam is raised,
but while a decision is pending no move
can be made to rebuild the town on a
new and permanent site.
Representations have met with buck-
passing and indifference, and the position
is much the same as it has been since
the Hume dam was built. Now and
then fresh discussion arises, but the ques-
tion of a decision is soon lost in a maze
of negotiations among the three States
and Canberra.
No matter how far ahead the actual
raising of the weir may be, a formal
decision now is vital to Tallangatta’s in-
terests. The present insecurity precludes
development or any influx of business
people. There is also the danger that
Tallangatta may find itself bypassed for
Wodonga and Albury.
Of course, the decision about raising
the weir lies with the parties to the
Murray Agreement Act —the three State
and Commonwealth Governments. The
Commonwealth is agreeable to assisting
financially, but its price will probably be
the thumbscrews of socialistic controls on
the Murray irrigation areas. That means
that growers may be ordered or harassed
into growing crops they are not interested
in, and subjected to the usual* bureau-
cratic inflictions such as acreage restric-
tions and marketing controls.
The Murray Valley will eventually sup-
port more than a million people. It will
be a State in its own right—with its own
particular problems of development.
They can be handled most competently
by a single authority drawn from along
the Murray. I’ve knocked about along'
the river and know the Murraysiders—
I’ve yet to meet a more friendly and
hospitable people—and I’d hate to see the
fierce competition and jealousies that will
inevitably rise if the Murray con-
tinues to be governed from three camps.
There’s a clear and simple case for a
Murray Valley State, with full authority
over Murray works and irrigation. The
irrigation settlements on both sides of
the border are closely bound by the life-
line of the Murray, their problems are
the same and they aren’t likely to prosper
under three separate and varying authori-
ties in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
—Esk D. (Vic.).
The Bradfield Water Scheme
The great difficulty in trying to ex-
plain it is that so few Australians
know anything about their own vast
country. It should Mso be realised that
the big water scheme is more of a policy
than any cut-and-dried plan. Here, how-
ever, are the three main points of the
idea.
In 1945 we allowed 275 inches of rain
to run to waste without conserving a
single bucketful of it. Some of that
water could be diverted into the Thomp-
son. Not, perhaps, as much as Dr. Brad-
field thought, but engineer L. B. S. Reid,
M.I.M. and C.E., of London, has shown
us how he can deliver 800,000,000 gal-
lons of water every 24 hours for five
years into the Diamantina just west of
Winton (620 ft. above sea level) from the
western side of the Great Dividing
Range.
The second point is the nature of the
rivers. Those three large central Queens-
land rivers cannot be dammed so much
as weired. They are sprawling and slug-
gish streams, are not confined to well-
defined channels, but are rather a series of
waterholes and great black-soil plains.
It is not a matter of filling dry rivers but
of supplementing them in the droughts.
Those rivers all contain enormous water-
holes at Lake Nash, Carandotta, Cal-
lidgewarra, Cork, Diamantina Gates,
Nappa Merrie and a score of other places
which could support local schemes of
irrigation. This is already being done
at Malvern cattle station 150 miles west
of Rockhampton.
Thirdly, we must change from a
pastoral country to a mainly agricultural
country. Anybody who really knows in-
land Australia knows that, with water,
it will grow anything.
The scheme is so vast that the average
confused Australian who has been fed
on “Dead Heart” dope cannot grasp
what it really means. Look at Camoo-
weal on the map. Draw a line 1000
miles due south to Marree (S.A.), 500
miles east to Bourke (N.S.W.), another
1000 miles back to Charters Towers and
then another 500 miles west back to
Camooweal. There you have 500,000
square miles of country that could be
made one of the greatest food-producing
areas in the world.
I’m an old drover. I started in 1900
as a drover’s boy for Kidman. I know
Australia, and I’ve just returned from a
2500-mile investigation of the big scheme.
Australia has the water and the country
but very few men with the necessary
courage and vision.— Michael Sawtell
(N.S.W.).
Australians, 1945
Bulletin No. 63 of the Commonwealth
Bureau of Census and Statistics marks the
resumption of an information service
valuable to all students of Australian
demography. Some revision will be re-
quired when figures are available from the
1947 census, but the quasi-census pro-
vided by civilian registration cards in
1943 will preclude any substantial dif-
ference in population estimates or other
main details. '
One feature stands out. Marriage
booms, high birthrates and low deathrates
notwithstanding, Australia’s present popu-
lation of around 7,500,000 will never rise
beyond about nine millions without vastly
increased immigration. The unassailable
reason for this is the ratio of sex-distri-
bution in the three principal age-groups.
At ages over 45 females were in excess
of males by approximately 60,000 for the
whole group of over two millions. From
45 to 64 they exceed males still at
earning ages by more than 118,000.
During the reproductive ages from 15 to
44, males were in excess by some 62,000,
indicating a shortage of at least 30,000
potential wives. No prospect of future
improvement was forthcoming from ages
below 15, males again preponderating by
over 23,000. For 1946, births were still
higher and deaths yet lower, but these do
not affect the future situation. Unless
the present deficiency in potential wives
is made up from outside, Australia’s
population will cease to increase not long
after 1970.
As usual, the Northern Territory showed
the greatest masculinity rate (340.13),
with Westralia next (107.14) and the
A.C.T. (96.05) the lowest. Density of
population per square mile was highest
in Victoria • (22.99), with the A.C.T.
(15.77) next and Westralia (0.50) lowest
among the States. In births per 1000 of
population the A.C.T. led with 27.66, the
all-Australian average being 21.77. Can-
berra’s marked superiority in this respect
is due to the very features which are lack-
ing in Australia generally—a high pro-
portion of females, particularly at the
fertile ages, together with assured employ-
ment and financial security.— Puyyaka
(Q-).
The Census
This belly-aching about the collec-
tion of the census (B. 30/7/ ’47)
amuses me. There was no occasion for
the aspirants to the job to “suspect”
anything about it. The instructions were
there, as clear and concise a little official
booklet as ever I’ve seen ; and plenty of
hints how to get over the snags which
might arise.
Anyone who took the job on
without knowing his district wanted
his head read, as the . secret of the whole
turn-out was getting the co-operation of
the inhabitants. Certainly the job was a
lot easier in the country than in city
areas, but personally I enjoyed every
minute of it, and the exercise, including
going down dales and climbing up hills,
was a tonic. And I’m an “elderly chap,”
too.
As for helping people to fill in the
forms, at least 90 per cent, of my bunch
were just about perfect—and why not?
The form was clear enough, and there
was quite a good sample to follow. Many
people were out when I called to col-
lect the forms, but they had left them
with neighbors or else parke4 them in
some prearranged spot to save a second
call.
And what was wrong with the sys-
tem of “personal slips”? I had a big
hospital in my area, but a spot of co-
operation with the secretary fixed that
without any difficulty. My next-area col-
league had three pubs, and he also had
no trouble.
The clerical work entailed in mak-
ing up the record and compila-
tion books was “jam” to anyone used to
the most elementary bookwork. Finally,
I remember with gratitude the very many
morning- and afternoon-tea offers which
I had to knock back through sheer lack
of capacity.—A. O. (N.S.W.).
“Working for Chifley”
“Forty-fiver” (B. 30/7/’47) lists a
number of jibs in secondary industries
and advises us to find further examples
for ourselves. I took his advice and
interviewed a typical farmer. Did
“Working for Chifley” apply to working
on the land?
“Too right it does,” he said. “That’s
why I’m having a bit of a spell in town.
I'could have put in another 50 acres!
That would have meant ploughing, seed-
ing, harrowing, reaping, bagging and cart-
ing for Chif. I’d be wearing out my
machines and myself so that his public
servants could draw good money while
I can’t buy fencing wire. Taxes don’t
come out of a farmer’s pay envelope.
They come out of his bones and muscles.”
“But,” I said, “you still get up with
the roosters and work round the clock.”
“Not on your life! That’s last year’s.
We’ve got to do a fair thing to balance
our books, but all the farmers I know
are taking it a lot easier than they used
to. It’s not a matter of politics. It’s
simply a question of whether a man’s
a mug or not.”
If land and industry both jib, Chifley
will need a long whip for the hard pull
on the other side of the depression. —
Shatter (S.A.).
Rice-growing
If “Wun Bung Lung” (B. 30/7/’47)
had cared to call up the Rice Association
on one of the three phones he mentions
so acrimoniously he would have found
that anyone can try to grow rice any-
where. However, it’s not a matter of
just planting rice but of growing it suc-
cessfully. Rice will always fail unless
it gets water —and it needs a lot of that
somewhat scarce commodity. The
authorities who conserve the communi-
ties’ water supplies are the people who
have the last word on the matter.
The Irrigation Commission in N. S.
Wales is doing a good job. It is increas-
ing the area under rice as fast as it can
safely do so. The new Tullakool Irriga-
tion district .has just been proclaimed,
providing 13 new rice-farms with essen-
tial water; by the end of next year it is
hoped there will be 24 farms producing
rice in this area alohe. Rice-farming is.
regarded as a successful way of rehabili-
tating returned soldiers, although prefer-
ence must be given to those who have
had experience in rice-growing.—D.
Taylor (Sec. Rice Assoc, of Aust,
N.S.W.).
Culture
The elimination of trashy literature
and “pitchers,” comic strips, punk radio
music and ungrammatical English is far
from being a “negative” approach to
education. Every gardener knows it is
impossible to grow anything worth while
in ground that is choked with weeds.
There are parents and teachers doing
their best to direct children in reading and
other forms of culture, but they cannot
compete with the organised distribution
of literary and musical weeds. It is im-
possible to prevent children or adults
from listening to sub-standard broad-
casts. Daily newspapers cannot be kept
out of the home and cheap literature is
too easy to obtain.
Modern education devotes far less time
to the study of English than in former
years, in many schools only five hours a
week.
Obviously our lack of culture is largely
due to present-day speed of living and
lack of home life. C.E.M.A. has made
good progress in the advancement of
music through concerted effort. Some-
thing along the same lines might
be accomplished with reading and litera-
ture.—C. E. T. (N.S.W.).
“All right, then; GO home to your mother !”
Root of the Matter
A country bank clerk after the last
war, I can remember many misfits
who obtained land while experienced,
practical young men with capital, plant
and parents willing to assist had to go
without. The points system (B.
23 /7 / ’47) would be a good idea. The
qualifications of each applicant should
include experience in the particular
locality, knowledge of wheat, wool or
fruitgrowing, capital available, plant
available and, if married, his wife’s
qualifications to assist with cows, fowls,
pigs and vegetable-growing. Results
would be better than those obtained from
the present system of ballots. —C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
Many farmers will not allow trappers
on their properties—they prefer to re-
serve the bunnies for winter, when they
and their sons make good money from
them. But the man who allows his place
to become overrun with rabbits is a
menace to his neighbors. Why not issue a
“Trapper’s Right,” similar to a “Miner’s
Right,” giving recognised trappers
authority to enter private property to trap
rabbits?—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Why not an Industrial Peace Prize?
Some patriotic and wealthy citizen might
be induced to set up an annual award
for the most important contribution to
peace in industry, A couple would be
better —one for employers and one for
union leaders. It could be judged as they
judge the Brownlow Medal award for
the best and fairest player in Victorian
football. There is a close analogy be-
tween that game and present industrial
conditions. — West Riding (Vic.).
In other days, Australians, like
Britons, could leave their own country
without having to apply for a passport.
This should be the case today. There is
no excuse for a passport system in time
of peace in a free society. So long as it
is retained, however, the right to a pass-
port should be as fundamental as
habeas corpus and trial by jury.— Sam
(N.S.W.).
Why will Judges and magistrates refer
to prisoners as “clever safeblowers” or
“clever pickpockets”? It encourages them
to further depredations when they are
released. Two pickpockets were caught
out on a racecourse by two school-
boys who reported them to the
police. The Judge, in sentencing them, re-
ferred to them as “clever.” It would have
been more fitting had he termed them a
couple of scoundrels, so unskilful that
their operations were obvious to two
youngsters untrained in crime detection.
—Kangikiwi (M.L.).
These days it seems possible for any-
one who has swung a shovel on a build-
ing job to enter into a contract with a
homeless person, collect a deposit and
start building a house. Should he fall
down on the job, as many have done, the
only person with any right of action is
the unlucky second party —except for
employees who may not have received
their pay. As the builder is usually broke
the aggrieved parties have their own and
Buckley’s chance of obtaining any satis-
faction.' ’ The solution is registration of
builders.— Jindivick (N.S.W.).
A truck-driver friend was told by his
boss to report to a garage for “Authorised
Inspection.” Without leaving his chair
the garageman wrote out the certificate
and collected his 3s. 6d. My father-in-
law had a somewhat similar experience.
The garageman asked him to switch on
the lights, blow the horn and see whether
the brakes held. Father-in-law reported
all correct. A fortnight later he took the
same car to another garage for greasing,
and while it was up on the hoist found
that a pin holding the hand-brake rod to
its arm had sleeved off. The car had been
driven barely two miles from date of in-
spection to date of greasing.—Wire-
buster (N.S.W.).


fours /or the
ash'up / //Vs-
■ I ii
m
fm
m
• i
} } • ! I
if ii
i J!
5
£ 5
//
\ I
>, J ; J I •
tnni
t
\
&
> • * * . v r i • i’ . *
• £ ;///■■/
: > ? ; ' ;• I
\
V
Of
m
//£
Sfs
Kin.
m
:■ -ii
S^s
.71
'• , I l|T : #s5$
■ •• I
wn
\'\>
■>llt
i’/<
"««n«
/.» ?' I I 1 \V - 'll ■!<(.
■ \-’
i'/„!
#/.
tU'l
f/.’.i.
iy: t
i r ,W
" 'i Mi
f'r
1
*
&
mi
mi
d !S
m
mi
*«
m
i
m
Kn
®5
>1.
■'. ■'
H
SS
m
i:
Mb
r.ul
+ , :
H | ||| | || 11 i
SEALED
TO BE SURE
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated I ii Great Britain)
