

The House of Seppelt...producers of
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3525
Wednesday, September 3, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE BLACK ABBEY OF ADARE IS A MUNSTER RELIC OF 1279
QEVERAL remains of religious houses are among the rich
archaeological treasures of the province of Munster, Ireland.
Some of these ancient buildings stand within the beautiful park
of the Earl of Dunraven, and an outstanding example of these is
the Black Abbey, better known as Adare Abbey, of which the
above is an illustration. This house was built by John, the “first
earl of Kildare,” in 1279. A descendant of his, Edwin, the third
earl of Dunraven, was a remarkable man ; archaeologist, astronomer
and author. He restored many of Munster’s relics, appropriating
one to the protestant service and another —the Adare Abbey to
the roman catholic service. Features of the building are its nave
and choir and its embattled tower.


w
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAII
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
8.8. ut ....AGE
NEW NOVELS
CORNERSTONE
By Dorothy M. Catts. An absorbing
romance from the drama-packed pages
of Australia’s history 8/8
HIGH RIVER
By Nourma Handford. You’ll live the
Joys, sorrows, hardships and triumphs
at High River Farm 8/6
DADDY SOWED A WIND!
By Cynthia Reed. An analysis of the
inner secrets of a woman’s mind, 8/6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty. Ltd.
Central House, Little Regent St., Sydney
The Red Page
DICKENS IN A TALKIE.
The film of “Great Expectations,”
showing at Sydney Esquire, arouses,
naturally, great expectations. And these,
in the opening scenes, are more than
satisfied.
Here is Pip—rather too well-spoken
for a boy from a village smithy; but
that is a detail —a pleasant, sensitive, in-
telligent and very scared young Pip
visiting his mother’s grave amongst
storm and mist on the marshes ; and the
convict Magwitch, looming up from be-
hind a tombstone with a suddenness that
makes the audience gasp, seizing Pip by
the throat dnd promising to cut his liver
out, and demanding a file and “wittles.”
Then Pip is home again, and his
shrewish sister is at him with the
“tickler.” There is only brutality in
this,' not the grim comedy Dickens
manages to extract from that queen of
shrews ; and Joe Gargery, who is sup-
posed to be a chunky, sandy-haired sort
of chawbacon, turns out rather surpris-
ingly to be a lean, dark, cadaverous
loon. But Pip, after dreaming of Mag-
witch and the ferocious young man who
eats livers, is quickly stealing his pie,
and a bottle of brandy, and running back
to the marshes.
Something has to be cut in a film, or
at least rearranged, so it does not matter
that Pip meets Magwitch in the church-
yard again instead of on the marshes.
Magwitch (Finlay Currie) is perfect
again, and Pip comes home for the
dinner with Pumblechook and Wopsle.
Here the great expectations begin to
be sadly disappointed. Neither here nor
hereafter is there anything of Dickens’s
Wopsle—that uproarious ham actor of
the village, Wopsle has about one. line
to say, and thereafter disappears alto-
gether from the film. He has been shown
for this brief moment only so that his
name may be included in the cast. And
Pip, instead of pouring brandy into a
flask and filling up the bottle with tar-
. water, has taken Magwitch a whole
bottle of brandy, so that the comedy of
Pumblechook’s drinking tar-water is
omitted. Pumblechook, instead of being
a masterpiece of pomposity and hypoc-
risy, is little more than a mumble lost
among period whiskers and a period
costume. He, too, is no more than a
name in the cast.
Swift slashes at the novel bring Pip
in one leap to Miss Havisham’s, and here
again there are compensations. Estella
(Jean Simmons) is’ beautifully cold and
spiteful. The cobwebs, the long pas-
sages, the gloom and decay of the house
are beautifully created. Miss Havisham
is not quite so ruinous, mad and vil-
lainous as one would expect from the
novel, or from Norman Lindsay’s excel-
lent conception of her in the Shepherd
Press edition, but still Martita Hunt gives
a justifiable interpretation, impressive
when she lets the underlying madness
show through her restraint and apparent
kindliness, Pip’s fight with the other
small boy is another faithful piece of
Dickens.
And that —these few opening scenes' —
is about all that is really good in the
film; and all that is Dickens. Faced
with a long, rich, leisurely novel,
crowded with marvellous minor charac-
ters and with scene after scene of comedy,
the whole thing too vast and complex to
fit anywhere near into the normal time
for an ordinary talkie, the producers
have taken a drastic decision: to cut the
film to one central line—the love story
of Pip and Estella, with as' much of the
concurrent plot of their life stories as
can be worked in.
It was a hopelessly wrong decision.
Shorn of its trimmings, the bare plot of
Great Expectations is all melodrama and
improbable coincidences, and Pip,
though exceptionally well drawn for a
first-person character—a snob and a
weakling—is essentially just a peg to hang
the story on.
Nor is the decision, having been taken,
faithfully carried out. John Mills’s reso-
lute, manly Pip is nothing like
Dickens’s ; Valerie Hobson (taking over
from Jean Simmons) has too much charm
and not enough haughty viciousness to be
Dickens’s grown-up Estella; and, of
course, there ig a happy ending. Here
there is a double falsification. Dickens
originally intended to leave Pip “a soli-
tary man” ; then, to oblige friends, be
added a happy ending in which Pip
marries Estella. But the film’s happy
ending, though inevitably it concludes
with a close-up of Pip kissing Estella, is
different altogether from Dickens’s. So
the talkie ig not merely Dickens shorn
of his trimmings but Dickens distorted.
But the trimmings, as everyone knows,
are everything in a Dickens novel; the
comedy, the profusion of minor charac-
ters, the wealth of detail. To list what
is missing from the film, both of comedy
and drama, would fill a book. Orlick is
right out, and the downfall of Mrs.
Gargery ; one is never told why Compey-
son and Magwitch hate each other; the
great scene where daggers says to Molly
“Let them see your wrists” is out;
Molly, like Pumblechook and Wopsle, is
nothing; except for one brief glimpse
of the Aged Parent there is not a single
laugh in Wemmick ; there is not even an
outside view of Wemmick’s castle, a
glimpse of the drawbridge ; there is noth-
ing of the marvellous Pocket family.
From the producer’s point of view
these cuts —even though they involved
the destruction of the whole substance
and value of the great novel—are under-
standable. Everything had to be slashed
to the bare essentials of the (distorted)
plot.
But what remains utterly incompre-
hensible is the- poor characterisation even
within the limits of the film; not only
of Pip, Estella, Joe Gargery and (feeble
in his brief appearances) Bentley
Drummle, but of the immortal daggers.
Francis Sullivan, a plump gentleman,
plays an admirable daggers for the film’s
purposes, comic, kindly and polished—
a performance which has only the dim-
mest relation to Dickens’s daggers, that
burly, ruthless, bullying lawyer who bites
the side of his forefinger then “throws”
it at his victims, a cross-examiner in
court and out of it.
There is a playfulness, an archness in
Sullivan’s daggers, as if he is too much
aware all the time that he has a kind
heart, and so the film loses not only the
comic surprise that comes when the ruth-
less man is discovered to have moments
of humanity but also the essence of the
character: Dickens’s daggers is not so
much a kind man as domineering, tough
and cunning, “deep” as Wemmick calls
him. Pleasant enough to watch, Sulli-
van’s daggers is nevertheless the greatest
disappointment of the film—far more out
of character than was W. C. Fields’s
Micawber in the Hollywood “David
Copperfield.”
Regarded simply as something’ to
while away a night, the film may be well
enough. There are pretty girls and pretty
dresses, a great many scenes of coaches
dashing to and fro with stirring glimpses
of the horses’ hooves, there is a linger-
ing kiss at the end, and, though it is
hardly made clear that Magwitch drowns
Compeyson, the melodramatic scenes are
well done, particularly the burning of
Miss Havisham. For all that, the film is
Dickens murdered.
Perhaps the murder was inevitable. It
would be very difficult for any talkie to
do full justice to a novel so long, so
crowded, so complicated. Yet it .seems
a pity to surrender to the notion that a
film must inevitably be thin or shoddy
as a work of art; that the whole length
of the talkie should be infinitely less, en-
tertaining than one chapter of the book.
Instead of desperately trying to make an
ordinary talkie a producer might well set
out, with a book as important as this —
one of the fundamental works of Eng-
lish literature —to make an extraordinary
talkie.
A film serial of Great Expectations
(which, after all, was written in that
form) could recreate nearly the full flavor
of the novel; or, if that is too ambitious, a
film in two parts, to be shown on suc-
ceeding nights could do much ; or even,
if that is still too much, a full three-
hour performance would be worth while.
Yet another plan, if a desperate timidity
prevents any experimenting with the box-
office (except for a “Gone with the
Wind”), the film, instead of being cut to
the central line, could present the oppo-
site; “Scenes from Great Expectations,"
frankly announced as such, showing the
superb “minor” incidents and characters.
And at the very least, the film should
faithfully follow the novelist’s charac-
terisation.
In England, as in Australia, the talkie
industry seems, from an artistic (and per-
haps in the long run from a box-office)
point of view, fundamentally unsound.
Though Hollywood sometimes turns out
a good thing, and “David Copperfield”
and “Romeo and Juliet” were much
better than “Great Expectations” and
“Henry the Fifth,” the Hollywood tra-
dition is one of cheap pandering to its
own cheap taste, and this is the model
that is being followed.
The French tradition would make a
far better model, for it is based on
respect for literature and respect for
character. Though it purported to be
only light comedy, Sacha Guitry’s “The
Nine Bachelors,” recently revived at
Sydney Savoy, was much more
Dickensian, in the real sense of that noble
adjective, than is “Great Expectations.”
Just as Dickens used to do, the French
producer lingered with delight over the
oddities of human personality, and so
produced not only a work of art but—
in its light way —a richly satisfying en-
tertainment, something to last. “Great
Expectations,” in spite of its patches of
merit, is like a coach-load of glamor
and melodrama madly galloping no-
where. * '
What's Wrong with
Gum-trees?
Clive Turnbull’s Art Here (Hawthorn
Press ; Melbourne) is in many respects an
excellent little book. It has an attractive
paper cover, reproductions of paintings
by McCubbin, Counihan, Bunny, Thake,
Hugh Ramsay, Grahame King and
Sydney Nolan at the back, and concerns
Australian art: with, perhaps, an unfair
emphasis on gum-trees.
But the substance of the book is art
criticism. First, a statement of the critic’s
personal beliefs and values. Then, once
that perennially tricky metaphysical busi-
ness is cleared up, an outline of Aus-
tralian art. The author specifically ex-
cuses himself of an attempt to write a
history of Australian artists —“William
Moore wrote that, and wrote it very well.”
The book, then, is a comment: “an
attempt to trace very briefly the trends
which have taken us from Buvelot to
the contemporary painters, to assess the
measure of achievement of our artists as
interpreters of eternal truth in the terms
of their time.”
That there is matter to quarrel with in
this interpretation goes almost without
saying. It would be hard to write a book
concerning contemporary artists without
offending some particular type of ortho-
doxy. But with Buvelot, and later
Roberts and Slreeton, the author is on
fairly safe ground: Mr. Turnbull shares
the common (and correct) belief that
Streeton should not have gone to Eng-
land :
Streeton, in 1898, went to London. He
learned nothing of any value there. As
the years passed his work lost its arcadian
freshness. It is not recorded that he ever
said with the poet, “The things which I
have seen I now can see no more,” but
the fact remains that he was to see more
often with the eyes of the successful painter,
with a whole box of technical tricks at his
command, than with those of the young
visionary who painted “Box Hill” and
“Golden Summer.” Only Streeton could
have painted these early works, but half a
dozen painters could have produced hjs
European pictures. He introduced, un-
happily, that shade of laundry blue which
'leaps from many of his later works and
which has been used assiduously by his
imitators.
Among the imitations of the Heidel-
berg School were gum-trees. Mr. Turn-
bull writes of them with feeling:
As a professional visitor to art shows
I have sometimes seen a$ many as three
exhibitions in one week all devoted to the
literal representation of gum-trees. All the
pictures might well have come from the
same hand. These gum-tree paintings vary
from the highly-expensive variety turned out
by the fashionable, who will never want
material as long as a single eucalypt is
left standing in the more accessible country-
side, down to the atrocities exhibited in the
windows of fifth-rate shops.
Put like that, it sounds pretty awful.
No one would wish to defend atrocities,
or work which “might well have come
from the same hand.” And there seems
a good deal in Mr. Turnbull’s argument
when he says (on the next page):
The blue hill and gum-tree school turns
its back on the real Australia, for the real
Australia is not trees and land but trees
and land in relation to human beings.
And that, after all, is fair enough. But
the critic keeps it up. And one suspects,
after a while, that Mr. Turnbull has a
terrible down on gum-trees. And when,
on page 29, it comes out that Mr. Turn-
bull admires the work of Russell Drys-
dale (“as no other, painter has done, he
has delved into the life of the back
country, of those straggling country
streets lined by moribund pubs”)
one feels bound to say something on be-
half of the maligned gum-tree.
What, after all, is wrong with gum-
trees? Roberts painted them, Streeton
painted them, and Mr. Turnbull concedes
their right to do so. Gruner painted
them, but Mr. Turnbull makes no men-
tion of Gruner (a strange omission); nor
is Heysen mentioned. And, in direct con-
tradiction of the theory painters of
eucalypts are dreary copyists, there is
the work of Lance Solomon, which is
vital, fresh and powerful.
Lance Solomon is not mentioned, al-
though the more publicised contemporary
N.S.W. painters get a good hearing. Of
the Sydney group, Mr. Turnbull plumps
for Dobell and Drysdale.
Dobell is an academic painter. Within that
limit he is an eclectic—one of those who
have “selected such doctrines as pleased
them in every school.” He has a debt to
Rembrandt which he acknowledges, and
plenty of people have been quick to point
out derivations from Daumier (in a num-
ber of the earlier works), Gainsborough
and others. The fact remains that Dobell
is probably the best draughtsman and the
best painter (as a technician) of the younger
Australian artists. His command of the
mechanics of the craft is beyond question.
Discussions of the degree of distortion in
his portraits (length of neck of women
painted by Gainsborough and Rossetti as
parallels) are merely foolish. These are
questions of internal form. The point is
not, of course, whether Dobell’s portraits
of joshua Smith and of Brian Penton
anthrometrically correspond to photographs
of Mr. Smith and Mr. Penton, but whether
these portraits are good pictures. By all
acceptable standards they are good pictures.
Likewise the “Red Lady” and “The Dead
Landlord” are tours-de-force. But it may
not be too much to say that of all Dobell’s
pictures the best is still “Irish Youth,” that
brilliant and moving study of a young man
in the “hungry thirties.” This has all
Dobell’s painterly qualities and more—those
qualities of insight are part of the “life
movement of the spirit,” that appeal to
“the innumerable facts of our past
emotional experience,” those qualities by
which, more than by any technical device,
one would like to see Dobell allied to
Rembrandt, greatest of the Romantics....
It is time that he tried seriously to re-
attain the peak of “Irish Youth.” Portraits
of Governors and owners of eating-houses
can be left to hacks (unless there is urgent
need for bread and butter), bits of social
satire to less gifted artists. It will be tragic
indeed if Dobell’s memories of his own
hard times and of the attempt to wrest the
Archibald Prize from him pervert his great
talent to a preoccupation with exposure of
the ignoble qualities of mankind, the end
of which is the ultimate futility of Row-
landson’s drawings of bestialised human
heads by the heads of animals.
The criticism of Drysdale is significant,
and less acute. There is a measure of
truth in it, particularly in the comment
on Drysdale’s later work:
The gaunt stick figures of his earlier
stylised work are becoming clothed in
flesh
But, on the whole, Drysdale is over-
valued. It remains to be stated that his
characters, even when clothed, are carica-
tures, scarecrows. That if, in a limited
way, he has captured something of the
arid, desiccated quality of the bush he
has missed altogether the underlying
vitality, which makes that very quality
which Drysdale stresses dramatic. As
a cattle-dog, drowsing in the shade of a
pub verandah, is yet full of latent fight,
and as the grass seeds lie under the dust.
The total effect of Drysdale’s work to
date is grotesque and sentimental, and
irresistibly reminds one of Paterson’s
celebrated reproof to Lawson:
So you’re back from up the country, Mr.
Lawson, where you went
And you’re cursing ail the business in a
bitter discontent....
And, if one must go up country, one
can hardly escape the gum-tree. And if
artists can paint it well enough, there
seems no valid reason for scolding them.
Is an English artist scolded if he dares
to paint a birch-tree?
For the rest, Mr. Turnbull admires the
East Sydney Technical College School.
Thinks the artistic air of Sydney is freer
than that of Melbourne. But:
Of the minor Sydney painters (and of
some who would not be flattered by this
description) one might say that rather too
often their work tends to become shallow
and effeminate. How many able young
men are there turning out “sophisticated”
confections, delicate line and color?—but,
in the words of Mr. Roy Campbell, where’s
the bloody horse?
Melbourne, Mr. Turnbull says, lacks
these amiable escapists. “Yorkshire pud-
ding, rather than souffle, is the common
fare.” Elsewhere Mr. Turnbull breaks a
lance with the Meldrumites, testifies to
his admiration for Bunny, and has some
interesting and valuable comments on
Lambert, Hugh Ramsay, McCubbin and
Withers. And, throughout, there is plenty
of artistic meat, and no dullness.
J. F.
Thomas Bracken.
I have been asked by the son of the
poet Thomas Bracken to edit a selection
of his father’s writings and to supply a
biographical introduction. I should be
grateful for assistance from any Bulletin
readers who may have letters or other
papers that would help in my researches.
The Librarian of Alexander Turnbull
Library, Bowen-street, Wellington, New
Zealand, has consented to receive material
on my behalf. It will be returned after
I have consulted it. Information and
assistance will be gratefully acknow-
ledged.
Robert Solway (4 Nfewcombe-street,
Naenae, Lower Hutt, N.Z.).


KORDLESS
Electric Iron
Thermostatic control prevents
overheating and saves on
current consumption.
When iron is removed from
stand an Auto Snap Action
Switch immediately switches off
current. When iron is replaced,
current is automatically
switched on.
Get the most out of your iron with the least amount of
work ! You can—with “Kcad” the Kordless Iron! To
realise,how far civilization has advanced in the improvement
of labour-saving devices, is to compare the “Kcad” with
other types of hand irons. The “Kead” out-performs other
irons. Compare the ironing output. Compare the case
and simplicity of manipulation. Compare styling and work-
manship . . . then compare your Electricity Bill and see
the difference ! With its Cream Porcelain Enamel Finish,
the “Kead” is priced at £7/10/- and is guaranteed for
12 months .
MAIL YOUR ORDER to-day for your choice of
the items you see on this page. Your order will
receive every care and attention, and delivery is
prompt.
“SUPREME” Hand Hair Dryer. After
washing the hair, dry it quickly, easily
and thoroughly with the aid of the
“Supreme” Hair Dryer. Hot and Cold air
switches at vantage points enables •
instant operation and easy manipulation. Available
in a Black Bakelite Case, it is suitable for home or Hairdressing
Salon. Guaranteed 12 months. Price, £5/5/-
“BREVILLE” Drink Mixer. For warm, stimulating drinks in winter and cool,
refreshing drinks in summer, you’ll need a “Brcville” Drink Mixer. Buy yours now,
as supplies will naturally be short in summer . . . high speed beating . . .
automatic switch . . . nickel plated . . . ball-bearing motor . . . 240-Volt, A.C.
or D.C. Guaranteed 12 months. One polished aluminium container supplied with
each mixer. Price £lB/1/6
BREVILLE “EMPIRE” RADIO, 5-yalvc vibrator, mantel table model, ideal for
country use, housed in a sturdy table cabinet of polished selected Veneer . . . large
dial, straight line type. Supplied complete with 6-volt accumulator. £39/15/-
Console, price £49/15/-
m
m
'4
\\>
A
\
f i
f i
(Not Illustrated),
Electric Stovettes
We have a large range of Electric Stovettes and Table
Grillcrs now available. Mail your order now for the
Stovette you want, at the price you want.
Rapid Heat, £3/17/-; Utility, £6/10/-;
Bridge, £9/2/6; Rand, £l5/19/6
DANDEE. You can put the whole of your laundry
through the Dandee Table Model Portable Ironing
Machine, It comes out perfectly ironed! Simple
to operate, weighs only 23 lbs., automatically
adjusts itself to varying material thicknesses.
Operating switch permits convenient
heat control. Fully guaranteed.
240- Volt. A.C. only. £39/15/-
1
i\le" EMPIRE
M
t.v'r-[tr^gx#
rDANDiI
v.
/
■wm
6.
A
'«*a
ŵ
See these goods at
our new ultra modern
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 27x2c, G.P.0., SYDNEY
EUREKA VACUUM CLEANER. World
famous for its powerful suction. It has a ball-
bearing motor which is constructed to give long
and valuable service. Cream Baked Enamel
Finish, 240-Volt, A.C. or D.C. Available on
convenient terms in the Metropolitan Area.
Price £24/10/-


To Holders of
Australian Consolidated
Bonds and Stock
Maturing September 15, 1947
An Opportunity to
CONVERT YOUR HOLDINGS
. • • and renew a first-class investment
NEW ISSUES of Commonwealth Bonds
and Inscribed Stock are being made available,
maturing September 15, 1959, and paying interest
at the rate of 3i% per annum. This is an
excellent return, having regard to the absolute
security of the investment and ready negotiability.
It will be difficult to find an avenue for re-
investment that will be as satisfactory.
Furthermore, conversion, and the maintenance
of your present investment, is a transaction which
is at once patriotic and to your personal advan-
tage. In the present situation, all additional
spending increases the pressure on prices and
supplies, and contributes to an inflationary ten-
dency. It is wise, therefore, to defer all but
essential spending, until • better values are
obtainable.
Conversion of your maturing holdings into new
issue Commonwealth Bonds and Stock is easily
arranged, by application at any Bank, Savings
Bank, Inscribed Stock Registry, Money Order
Post Office, or through any member of a recog-
nised Stock Exchange. Renew your investment
immediately.
Conversion gives
these benefits
1. For absolute security, no investment
is better than Commonwealth Bonds
or Stock.
2. Commonwealth Bonds and Stock
are always in demand. This ready
negotiability at market value is an
important feature.
3. The interest rate of 3\% is
generous. No other investment will
give this return with comparable
security and negotiability.
4. You help Australia, and help your-
self, when you convert. Conversion
combats inflationary tendencies,
assists in the recovery of industry.
You renew a sound investment.
IFASHVCEIT
%wn ■ Elm I #
your holdings of Australian
CONSOLIDATED BONDS AND STOCK
MATURING SEPTEMBER 15, 1947
CL1.113J7
BRANDAUERrS
IS*
Every point
guaranteed—•
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER A CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. EN(i
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
and pave the way for
a Prosperous Future
Write Now!
BOX 17, P. 0.,
CHATSWOOD, N.S.W.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy, copy of The Climate of Australia. —
4086.
To buy volumes of the “Oxford” Thackeray,
edited by George Saintsbury; Henry Esmond,
Vanity Fair, The Virginians, The Newcomes,
The Adventures of Philip and the Yellowplush
Papers. —4085.
Information Sought.
Although not overthin for his age, my child,
eight years, is inclined to be ancemic. Our
doctor advises chemical food —is anything else
necessary? He is lethargic and somewhat non-
observant in his manner. ,
As the requirement of iron is met with
chemical food as a tonic, the growing child
requires little more in a medicinal way.
Occasional laxatives should be given with the
tonic and supplemented with fruit and green
vegetables daily. Porridge with fresh milk
should be part of the first meal, but meat
and vegetables daily are essential if the anaemic
tendency is to be eliminated. Look to the
matter of outdoor exercise and give some in-
terest in a hobby if impossible to take the child
for a change.
* 5fs *
Were there any service casualties bn Sydney
Harbor as a result of enemy action during
World War II ?
On the night of May 31, 1942, Japanese
midget submarines carried out a raid in Syd-
ney Harbor. At 0030 hours June 1, two tor-
pedoes were fired at U.S.S. Chicago from
the direction of Bradley’s Head. One torpedo
passed under the Netherlands Submarine K.9
and H.M.A.S. Kuttabul (a former Sydney ferry
in commission as a depot accommodation ship),
and exploded underneath Kuttabul, which was
sunk. The naval casualties were 20 killed.
one missing (believed killed) and 10 wounded.
The second torpedo ran aground on rocks
covered with a heap of old rope and failed
to explode.
* * ♦
Where could I obtain biographical details
concerning George and Philip Wirth, of Wirth's
Circus ?
In a book called Round the World with a
Circus by George Wirth, published by Troedel
and Cooper, Melbourne, in 1925. If you will
forward full name and address we will post
you a copy.
* * * *
(1) What particulars does a N.S.W. mar-
riage certificate carry ? Does it include previous
issue of both parties and is a divorcee so
described ?
In the form of marriage certificate used in
New South Wales are the name, social con-
dition, age, place of birth, rank or profession
and place of residence of each party, also the
names of the parents and the father’s rank
or profession. In the case of a party who
has been divorced, the social condition should
appear as “divorced” or “divorced petitioner.”
Any issue of the parties is not required to
be disclosed.
* * • * *
Is a “Dakota” plane the same machine as
a “Douglas” ? If not, what is the difference ?
Both machines are “Douglases.” The mili-
tary version of the “Douglas” was classed as
a Douglas C 47 Dakota type aircraft, and was
used for troop-carrying, supplies and parachute
work. . It was known by this name in every
country of the world. The civilian version
is known as a Douglas DC3 type or Douglas
Skyliner. There is a vast difference in both
types. The C 47 Dakota is stripped of interior
linings, seats, etc., and for troop-carrying work
has benches running the full length on each
side of the fuselage. The doorways were of
the freight type, being two or three tiiryss the
size of the normal doorway, to permit loading
of heavy equipment. The DC3 or Skyliner
type for civilian use is sound-proof lined and
normally fitted with 21 individual seats, and
carries a buffet, bar and toilet facilities. The
doorway is of the normal size for passenger
use. Many Dakotas were purchased from
Disposals in Australia after the war. The
conversion of these to civilian use entailed con-
siderable work. When fully converted they
conformed to the requirements of the Douglas
DC3 type and thus lost their identity as
Dakotas and became Douglas DC3’s or Douglas
Skyliners.
* * * *
Some plants suitable for permanent rockeries ?
Any hints on making the rockery?
Suitable plants are perennials including
gazania, heuchera, polyanthus, saxifraga, lotus
(in warm places); various kinds of rock roses
and cacti; alyssum and mesembryanthemum
for borders; dwarf pomegranate and small
shrubs. When making a rockery care should
be exercised to place the stones firmly so that
runways are not left through which water will
escape; leave the stones with a slight curve
inwards; if possible the soil should be at least
12in. deep and made rich with plenty of
verised cow manure; throw lime about freely
on the outside of the stones to keep vermin,
snails and slugs in check. If you have plenty
of time annuals make a vivid showing, and in
this class are pansies, violas, dianthus, asters,
primula, mignonette, balsams, eschscholtzia and
torenia; broadcast the seed and there will be a
riot of color.
» * * *
Cause of a coated tongue, cracking of the
skin at the corners of the mouth, and redness
of the eyelids?
Stomach upset with acidity could account for
coated tongue—you omit age and particulars
of health. Cracking at the corners of the mouth
and redness of the eyelids are symptoms to be
anticipated. There is usually a rheumatic or
uric-acid tendency. For furred or coated
tongue look to elimination—take aperient salines
and use a mouthwash of glycerin thymol com-
pound in warm water (1 in 4) after meals.
Treat cracked lip with friar’s balsam at night;
smear over with lanoline after the morning
wash. See your doctor with regard to red
eyelids. With local treatment a vitamin extra
should benefit.
* * * »
What are the symptoms and cause of
Meniere’s disease and its cure ? Is special diet
advised ?
It is due to a middle-ear tension or
haemorrhage, which irritates and destroys the
nerve terminals in the labyrinth of the ear. The
true lesion is a symptom-complex in which
paroxysmal attacks of giddiness, head noises
and more or less persistent deafness are present.
The term is usually restricted to those cases
where the triple symptoms are unassociated with
local discharge. Symptoms must be treated as
they occur—there is no exact cure. As the
deafness progresses and becomes complete the
giddiness tends to disappear, but the head noises
invariably remain. The cause of increased
tension demands first attention; unless other-
wise indicated the patient should abstain from
tea, coffee, tobacco, highly-seasoned foods and
alcohol. Medical supervision is required.
Brief Answers.
W.8.T.: Neither the New South Wales nor
the Commonwealth Government is represented
at Vila, New Hebrides. The New Hebrides
Group of Islands are administered by a British-
French Condominium Government. Seat of
administration is at Port Vila, where a British
High Commissioner and a French High
Commissioner are located T.L.: A Rugby
football should be oval in shape and the Fol-
lowing dimensions: length in line, llin. to
1 Hin.; circumference (end on), 30in. to 31 in.;
circumference (width), 24in. to 25)in.; weight,
13ioz. to 15oz. (2) A cricket ball should be
not less than s£oz. nor more than s£oz. in
weight; not less than 8 3-16 in. nor more than
9in. in circumference J.O’N.; Money-order
service with U.S.A. has hitherto been available,
limit being £5 Australian in any one month to
be sent. Restricted to (1) payment of sustenance,
(2) making donation or gift, (3) payment of sub-
scription for accredited periodicals and maga-
zines, (4) payment for services, (5) securing of
birth, marriage or death certificates, (6) pay-
ment of fees, rents and taxes. But watch papers
for particulars of dollar cuts G.H.G.: Have
piano repolished by an expert. If you prefer
home treatment get some paint or varnish re-
mover from any oil or color shop and apply
according to instructions. Wipe off all traces
of paint and polish, then polish with raw linseed
oil and soft pads. French polishing is a job
for experts D.F.: Turn the bag inside out
and rub it carefully all over with a block of
paraffin wax or beeswax, then iron with a
warm iron. This should make the fabric
feather- and down-proof G.N.: Lists of
books supplied to the National Library, Can-
berra, under the provisions of the Copyright
Act, are issued regularly by the National
Library to interested persons F.H.A.: Study
the Hay recommendations and apply to your
case. In normal health a full mixed diet is
best; definite acids and foods that upset are
seldom tolerated in debility. Digestion from
mouth to the intestines follows in sequence.
The acid of a lemon is converted, but work
of gastric ferments must not be overtaxed.
Keep to the simple,, mixed diet that is known
to agree A.G.C.: On the information avail-
able unable to state whether the widow would
be eligible for any increase in the present rate
of her war pension. Suggest that you submit
full particulars to the Deputy Commissioner,
Repatriation Department, Brisbane
Write The Authors and Writers’ Who’s Who,
6 Carmelite-street, London, E.C.4 H.L.M.:
Use as a stain raven oil, obtainable at most
shoe-shops. To polish, boil white wax
in 1 cup water, add pinch of carbonate of
potash, stir till lukewarm, then add H cup
turpentine and stir till creamy. Put into a pot.
Apply with rag and polish with brush—
R.A.: It is neither customary nor correct to
use the letters after the name T.G.8.:
Suggest that you write to the Mitchell Library,
Macquarie-street, Sydney N.M.8.; Write
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, or
Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 281 George-street —both
Sydney M.C.: Write Cement and Concrete
Assoc, of Australia, 14 Spring-street, Sydney.
C.C.R.: Write Deputy Rent Controller,
Rent Control Division, Dept, of Works and
Housing, 84 Pitt-street, Sydney.


Missing Friend.
IN the Supreme Court of Victoria 1947 No. 571 be-
tween ALAN LEWIS MANSFIELD Plaintiff and
FRANZ FREDERICK KURT GERSON Defendant.—
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed Plaintiff has
commenced an action against you in the Supreme
Court of Victoria claiming dissolution of the
partnership known as A. L. Mansfield and Gerson
carried on at 26 Market Street Melbourne in the
State ”of Victoria and further claiming accounts
and enquiries the appointment of a Receiver and
Manager and a sale of the partnership assets and
such further and other relief as to the court seems
meet AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that by order
of His Honour Mr. Justice Gavan Duffy dated Thir-
teenth day of August 1947 the Plaintiff has been
given leave to serve the writ upon you by advertise-
ment and that you are required to enter an appear-
ance in the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court of Victoria on or before the Twenty-second
day of September 1947 failing which you will be
liable to have judgment given against you in your
absence. —LLOYD P. GOODE, Solicitor for the Plain-
tiff, 475 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in the State of
Victoria.
TO FRANZ FREDERICK KURT GERSON, the above-
named Defendant.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcom
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel *'up and up." Harmless,
gentle, yet amazin# in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/■ & 1/3.
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
The Lessons of which are specially compiled
for HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BKYEN HOAKE,
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
0 Cl 0
SAVE wight
0
§
USE
shtwhcht
Finished In woven-striped, wafer*
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
Is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
ẃ
ill
I'lll
.’('•I
Ill'll]
i.m'.'i 1
m
m
n
©
a
£3
a
COCKTAIL
The few moments before dinner
when guests arrive become smooth, gay,
infornlal over cocktails.
Here’s one with a
twinkle in its eye.
m
wspoonf- 1 Gtena dine
teasp°° n u , tnint
sprigs of «;£ tinoOt h
| glass _- tn itvt° co
,SVv^ e
e\h
s u» l °
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS DIN
RECIPE BOOK
Recipes of fifty popular, appetising and easy-to-
mix cocktails have been brought together in
this invaluable FREE book. A copy will *bc
forwarded to you with pleasure if you write to
the United Distillers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box G,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
mßsumsooH,
rs cm
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
(C/919A
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
LJ.F.: There’s a track winding back
M.J.W.: Hopeless P.8.C.: Unreal charac-
ters and artificial atmosphere H.D.: Try us
with something more in our line W. 8.:
Heavy-handed humor G.S.: “Kodak” jvrote
a story for the old Lone Hand along much
the same lines... iP.A.: Slickly told, but far
removed from life... .A.J.C.: Well, lots of
other songs have worse words, but poetically it
is not a masterpiece R.L.W.: With the bless-
ing of the Religious Editor:
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
Not interested in what the dingo had for after-
noon tea A.T.S.: You can’t unload A
Load of Pumpkins” on us... .J.R.E.: Unreal
people floundering through incredible episodes.
JH.R.: You didn’t draw that shearers
cook from life... .8.G.: Anaemic lovers swap-
ping hackneyed vows R.W.W.: Read penny
dreadfuls if you must, but don’t try to write
them B.B.: Overloaded with gory adjectives
and unsavory characters... .E.J.: Waste of time
asking what any paper wants read the paper.
PF • Propaganda and fiction don t mix
as a rule S.M.G.: Note your intention ‘to
write an occasional yarn for The Bulletin,
but you’ll have to write better ones than the
samples forwarded P.W.: Yarn has been
told before and told better... .A. 8.; Cost us
fivepence in deficient postage; we regret that
fivepence... .5.8.: Earnest but du11... .E.V..
Feeble.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.L.: Looks as if you had stamped on the
ink bottle and then trampled on the bristol
board E.H.: Folded in the original creases
and sent back W.S.; Caused no rejoicing at
252 George-street J.A. The more lines you
draw the worse the effect S.G.: Try a few
in i n k L.W.W.: Your South Sea natives
look as if they came from Greenland
W R.: A fumbler with the pen and a bungler
with the brush M.F.: Looks more like a
cornsack than a fur coat G.P.: Congratu-
lations on the border but not on what it en-
closes F.T.F.: Only teaching will curb those
wayward lines... .P. 8.: You’d make a first-
class stove-pipe designer T.S.L.: Send it to
an undertakers’ trade journal J.L.M.: Have
another look at her right arm A.A.: Obvi-
ously you’ve never harnessed a horse or milked
a cow M.H.J.: Better stick to ring-barking.
....R.McG.: That family couch has been sat
on too often G.R.: We want something
stronger than that... .J.8.M.: What have you
tried to depict—an earthquake? G.S.A.:
Dispatched to the Old Jokes Home....
8.W.: Suggest that you take a few lessons....
P.R.: Once upon a time we printed a picture
of a drunk gazing at a hair-brush and saying
'“Gripes, I want a shave.” Since then same
drawing and gag have been offered as original
hundreds of times A.H.P.: Caricature bears
no likeness to the subject W.M.: Promising;
keep on trying D.T.: Blobs floating in a
mist A.P.: Finished among the rejects
D.W.: That wheeze has seen far better days.
T.F.O’S.: Look us up when you have
learnt to draw A.J.H.: “Chifley’s Golden
Age” didn’t stand up to the acid test L. 8.:
No comic strips! C.A.C.; Jaunty line, but
you’re no jester D.J.: Sending those crocks
home in an ambulance T.C.M.: Nothing to
get excited about S.M.: Rough as it is it
shows promise K.G.: Only want caricatures
of persons in the public eye T.J.W.: An im-
provement on the last batch submitted....
N.M.L.: No punch in your boxers.
Do not the thing that you’d not do at home.
Say not the word you’d hate mother to hear.
Try to help others wherever you roam.
Remember our loved ones are constantly near.
w
TRAVELS IN A WAGON-8.
ẁ


Bayonet Man
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
THE three Maoris, Big Mati, James
Maguire and the little fellow wnose
name Percy could never remember,
were over near the Main Gates,
facing the Commandantur: their backs
pressed against the warmth of the soiled
yellow stone of what had been the officers’
quarters. It still housed Yugoslav officers,
a great many of them ; two generals, too,
Percy remembered. Someone had told
him at Coffee Parade.
Which reminded him; coffee —Ersatz
coffee—wasn’t much to face a chill Yugo-
slav day on. He was hungry. And cold.
“Bit of a nip in the air, Mati,” Percy
said, rubbing his hands together.
“Good here,” Mati said, sliding his
bulk along the wall by way of invitation.
Percy and Young BiU Harris joined the
wall. It was good—sheltered from the
wind. And in fits and starts the whim-
sical sun gave them warmth.
THE Maoris had been talking together,
in Maori, but fell silent when the
Australians arrived. Now, heads turned,'
they stared at them. Intently, expectantly,
and yet amiably. As though. Young
Bill Harris thought quickly, we might
stand on our heads any tick of the clock,
and entertain ’em. Well, Percy might, at
that, give him a bit of encouragement. A
real character, old Percy, but a grouse
bloke.
“How are you, James,” Young Bill
said gravely. “Very well, thank you
Bill; and you?” James Maguire
answered, smiling. James Maguire was
usually smiling, and Young Bill didn’t
quite know how to take him. James
Maguire was a full-blooded Maori, lithe,
dark, educated, and a little flash.
What was the name of the other
Maori, the little one? Young Bill wished
he could remember it. Maoris puzzled
him; colored people and yet, somehow,
not. In the absence of a clear under-
standing Young Bill wished to be polite.
Hard to be polite, though, when you
don’t know a fellow’s name. Well,
“you” would have to do:
“You were in our truck, coming up,
weren’t you?” Young Bill had a bluff,
direct manner of speech, which gave him,
at times, the air of a gruff and impertin-
ent puppy. Some trip that, he thought
to himself ; remembering, with a sense of
suffocation and a slight sickness of the
stomach, the dark, crowded cattle truck.
The dry waterbottles. The filth under-
foot and the red-haired Tommy moaning
feebly in the comer. His own thought,
half-asleep, whenever his boots pushed
into something soft in the blackness, “I
hope it isn’t the Tommy,”
Funny, these day dreams. Like the
“black - outs,”
the spinning
spasms of un-
consciousness,
they came
sudden and
unawares.
Young Bill re-
turned to the
present to find
himself staring
straight at the
little Maori,
the Maori’s
eyes, big,
black, impenetrable, staring, straight back.
He wondered if the Maori had answered
him—certainly he had nodded—wondered
if the Maori could speak at all. He had
never heard him. A man will have to
watch himself, Young Bill was thinking,
he’ll look a bit of a galah if he goes on
like this. Like the dopey school-teacher
who had taught Bill at primary school,
who was always spouting poetry and
going into trances and coming out of
them with a start, and with some such
outlandish saying as “stone walls do not
a prison make ...” Wish he was here.
Young Bill expanded his solid chest,
sucking in the cold air. He pushed his
stubby fingers in under the thick leather
belt with the highly polished Italian and
British Army badges, pressing against the
flat wall of his abdomen. That way he
felt better.
<‘COME trip that,” Percy said, echoing
his late thoughts. Rubbing his
bony hands together in the brisk, peculiar
Percy manner, and chuckling as though
that nightmare trip had been the pleasant-
est of adventures.
“Do you know,” Percy said affably,
leaning his bony chin towards the small
Maori, “I’ve still dysentery? Had it
ever since we hit Nish.”
The little Maori nodded, his black
eyes saying nothing. “Go on,” said
James Maguire.
“Trouble with you, Percy, no whisky,”
Mati said, with a splendid flash of teeth,
laughing, his curious little soft crow of
a laugh. “You always t’ boy for t’ whisky,
eh? You have whisky, you orright, eh?
No whisky then you like calf wit’ no
milk. All belly-ache, eh?”
“By jove, Mati, a bit of Scotch would
be all right now. Warm the cockles of
the heart.”
For some curious reason they beamed
at each other. Percy, full of life in an
instant,* as though he had indeed just
swallowed a potion of spirits, the bony
ridges of his cheekbones flushed with
streaky color.
Poor old Percy, Young Bill thought,
he’s changed. Grey flakes smothering
the hollow temples, veins blue against a
waxy white skin, moustache drooping,
the little bright eyes sunk deeper than
ever, and heavily shadowed. The long,
upward-tilting nose red at the tip, as it
always had been, and the long bony face
splitting into a thousand wrinkles when
he smiled. But paler, bonier, than it bad
been after the most prodigal parties in
Sydney, or Tel Aviv, Alex, or Athens.
Young Bill admired Percy immensely,
and felt heavily responsible for him.
“Stand t’ reason,” Mati continued: he
and Percy were old friends. “If I feed
anyt’ing—pig, cow, anyt’ing—t’ same food
always then it get used to it, eh, change it
it get crook. You drink whisky, whisky,
then no whisky, bang, then you are
crook. Then you have belly-ache.”
Mati rubbed his own belly, by way of
emphasis.
“We all get belly-ache.” Young Bill
looked Mati up and down, hooked his
thumbs in his ornamental belt.
“Except Mati, the fat cow,” Percy said,
chuckling in high good humor.
Mati, too, smiled down at them
amiably, and in the face of such general
good humor Young Bill modified his
bellicose stance; unhooking his stubby
thumbs and biting them; then, aware of
the childish gesture and of James
Maguire’s cool brown eye, snatching them
away as though scalded, and directing a
suitable stream of saliva at the great
battered hub of a wheel that came scrap-
ing and lurching by. The bread wagon,
piled high with the coarse brown loaves,
and drawn by a team of straining, grey-
uniformed
Serbs, with a
couple more
pushing from
behind and es-
corted by the
quartermaster,
an erect and
limping old
warrior of glit-
tering epau-
lettes, with the
glinting cross
of some Sla-
vonic saint
dangling from a ribbon round his neck,
a staff in his hand, and himself like some
old and noble piece of timber; tough,
but slightly warped.
#
THE old warrior limped sternly, wav-
ing a hand, now and then, with airy
menace, shooing away hovering grey
clouds of soldiery; stopping, to talk to a
rigid young narednik. Then, amazed,
angry, shouting hoarsely, the black and
white moustache trembling above the out-
landish Slavonic words. The patriarchal
staff waved and the young n.c.o. hunted,
to head off the bowed grey oxen, who
are going the wrong way ; which he does,
cleverly, like a good cattle dog, but the
cross of the military order joggles
crazily in the old warrior’s anxious
But all is well, the bread wagon has
reached the Cookhouse, and there is no
need for the old warrior to stump after
it and wave his stick. From the wall
they can see it greeted by a company of
cooks and a German under-officer, a
stocky Saxon with a red, coarse, peasant’s
face. They are backing it now, among
the empty Kubels, the old warrior is there,
all moustache and stick and epaulettes
from that distance, talking to the
under-officer and a superior cook,
very like any other army cook in soiled
white apron, with a tall grey forage cap.
The old .warrior
points, pulls his mous-
tache cruelly, stabs the
ground with his stick.
The legs apart
and fists on hips, thrusts
his stupid Saxon head
forward, has a good
Teutonic roar. The
officer points, the Ger-
man stamps.
The officer shrugs,
leans on his stick, seems
to withdraw into him-
self,- an aloof and
crooked old eagle. The
German touches the
neat black revolver hol-
ster. Drops his hand,
and shouts. /
The superior cook, arms folded over
jutting apron, is impassive ; secure. In
a changing world it is good to be a cook.
There is a gleam in the little Maori’s
eyes, a hot glow in the one good eye of
Mati, Young Bill touches his cracked lips
with the tip of his tongue, James Maguire
looks thoughtfully at his wristlet watch.
But it is no good. The Serb officer
is incorruptible. Better think of some-
thing else. Of Mati, for instance.
Percy shut his eyes to the bread,
opened them and looked at Mati. Big
Mati, with his soft voice and his mighty
shoulders, and his face like a moon, A
full shinfng brown moon, with a hint of
yellow, and a black patch, a shadow, as
it were, in one corner: the eyeshade a
Serb doctor improvised when they came
to Nish, to decently cover the empty
socket Mati discovered, to his great sur-
prise, at the smoking end of the last
bayonet gharge, back at Crete.
“That Jerry over at the cookhouse is
a bit of a swine, don’t y’ reckon, Percy?”
Young Bill said. But Percy wasn’t listen-
ing ; he was thinking about Maoris.
Great bayonet fighters, the Maoris.
Well, he, Percy, would believe that; he
had seen them. It was the more primitive
peoples, the Maoris, and Scotch, who
excelled at that sort of thing, they said.
Percy’s straggling moustache twitched;
he enjoyed his private* jokes.
MATI, though, had been remarkable
in a remarkable battalion. As great
swordsmen, in the days when swordsmen
were great, were said to be born with
hands made for the sword handle so,
surely, Mati’s hands had been designed
for the bayonet. The right hand for
gripping the smooth polished, neck of
wood, the left for holding the place, the
right place, in front of the foresight of
the rifle. Steady as a rock, there, or
sliding light and quick.
And the eye, Mati’s soft brown eye,
which could yet spark quick and black,
hot with strength and cold with the calcu-
lation that was automatic, to beat down
a guard, or slip inside it, or swing the
great body round behind the butt, if need
be, using the club instead of the rapier.
And the bayonet itself, so stolid look-
ing, so much a part of general army
equipment; boss and scabbard and little
hook, dark, ordinary metal, nothing of
the rapier or the scimitar or the broad-
sword about it.
A handy thing for making toast with,
or bashing into obstinate tins. But deadly.
Mati blew his nose, in the customary
prisoner-of-war manner. Percy smiled.
Those hands, big, but so padded that
their size was disguised, didn’t look a
duellist’s hands. Big, heavy, brown, with
white fingernails like coarse shells;
shells with black edges.
For the second time that day Percy
wondered how Mati had been fitted out
with such a huge battle tunic; despite his
size the sleeves, ragged, like everyone’s
sleeves, hung half way over the big brown
hands.
Still, had Mati lived in the glittering
duelling days, he might have been a
European figure. Only, of course, he
wasn’t a European, and would have been
a naked cannibal. Naked—wasn’t New
Zealand cold?—well, a cannibal, anyway.
And damn hypothetical abstractions.
Or in the Middle Ages, or the Renaiss-
ance ; or he might have been one of those
Moslem heroes story-tellers tell jewelled
and interminable tales about in every
market place in Islam. Ali the Swords-
man; Instead he was—what was he?
<<\l/HAT do you do in Civvy-street,
VV Mati?” Percy asked. They were
sitting down now, watching a working
party marching out, the pale, spindly
German they called the Runt leading the
party. One stripe on his arm, no service
ribbons, a couple of non - combative
badges, marksmanship, drill and the like.
A little bastard, so someone had said.
“What you do in civvy life?” Percy
repeated.
Mati lifted his long upper lip, flashed
a smile up. “Got farm, Percy. Father,
my brother an’ me . . Mati went on,
talking of farming, sheep, pigs. Percy
was bored. That life was
not his.
Young Bill, dozing
with his head on his
knees, sat up with a jerk.
He, too, was a farmer,
from the North Coast of
N.S.W. A farmer’s son,
anyway, and a great
authority on milk fever,
farrowing, maize . . .
Young Bill, Percy
thought, was absurdly
young. Wonder they let
him in at all. Still,
tough and sensible
enough, his clear grey
eyes sunken a bit, as was
natural, and with a dif-
ferent look about them.
Lines, too. But still, despite everything,
with the brown and pink of a healthy
Australian schoolboy. A good kid, Percy
thought.
Young Bill fished in his pocket, found
a crumpled Yugoslav cigarette, divided
it scrupulously and handed the ragged
half to Percy. “Jove, this is good,” Percy
said. His bony face lit up, he sat up on
his heels, he rubbed his hands. “Just
what 1 like —a nice sit down in the sun,
a smoke, and things going by. The
passing stream of life.”
“The sun’s getting at this comer
properly now,” James Maguire said,
half-shutting his eyes, lazily drinking in
the warmth.
“A passing drip,” Young Bill said.
Something about his voice made them
look at him. His lips were tight, nostrils
dilated, “That’s the Bayonet Man,” he
said.
“Who, him?" They stared at the weedy
German, halted, now, at the gates, at
the head of his party. He was arguing
with the sentry on duty, protesting it
seemed, waving his hands.
“Is he the bloke who copped the
Tommy?” Percy said.
“Yair. You blokes were on a working
party, weren’t you? This Tommy—a
K.R.R., don’t know if y’ knew him,
Rogers was his name —was cooking
something. Bending over a jampot fire,
didn’t even see this bloke cornin’. He’d
kicked over a couple of other fires, but
he just sneaked on Rogers. Levelled his
rifle, didn’t sing out. Someone yelled
out, but Rogers didn’t hear him. Any-
way, he bayoneted him. The bastard.”
Baffled, the Bayonet Man was coming
back from the gate. They had a good
look at him; a pimply youth, straw-
colored hair poking under the peak of
an alpine cap, rifle slung and thin body
curved hke a bow under it, one gaiter
trailing a little.
“Hell,” Percy said. “So that’s him.
“Bayonet man, eh,” Mali said softly
and grunted.
ti A CHTUNG! ” The Bayonet Man
/v had a surprising pair of lungs m
his frail body. “Achtung!” he shouted
again, stiffening to attention himself. The
great gates swung open, and the Com-
mandant, and his staff, rode in.
They stood at attention, half-ashamed
to be doing it, getting a kind of twisted
satisfaction from not standing fully erect,
lounging a little, talking furiously to
themselves.
Two of them anyway; Percy glanced
at Young Bill, saw his lips moving
slightly. What the Maoris were think-
ing he could not guess. But he kept
saying to himself, Well, anyway, Ive
never saluted them properly, not with
my hand ... A pitiful sophistry he told
himself ;he felt weary disgust; with him-
self, with the Maoris, with Young Bin
even.


St
m
FOR
MEN
WHO
STUDY
PERSONAL
APPEARANCE
With Pride and Pleasure
we present another AKUBRA
achievement * • . the first
post-war, fully silk lined,
pure fur felt hat.
. . • Softer, smoother and
beautifully finished
available with cut edge,
double edge or silk bound
brim. Leather of real calf —<
hat band of pure silk;*
m
■ ■■■ '/’v-
mm m
mmmmm
. . mmsk
m
mmmm
m
mm
m- a ■
ihrm AKUBRA
THE BEST HAT IN THE WORLD TO-DAY
PRICE
<th
A man might be better dead; or dead
drunk One or the other, and both of
them impossible. Unless, of course, the
bayonet-bearing little Teuton across the
road took a dislike to his moustache.
And that would be a fine thing, too.
Nice for Edith to read about, and for
Brian, who would be going for his Inter-
mediate this year, to grow up with.
Daddy went mad and they shot him.
Or bayoneted him. Which was what
they would do if he yielded to what
seemed the irresistibly funny impulse of
rushing forward as the fine bay horse
came opposite, and waving his arms and
shouting “Boo,” just to see if the stiffly
upright figure in well-cut field grey would
fall off or not.
The Commandant looked a horseman,
but, then, it was easy to look a horseman
on a walking horse. And he, for one,
distrusted the rigid seat, the too perfectly
poised gloved hand, reins just so.
So that was the Commandant. Young ;
young and hard. When W.O. Saunders,
the senior British soldier, had gone to
him with Rogers’s body—two men carry-
ing Rogers, he could imagine it clearly;
old Saunders walking beside the corpse
—he had listened to everything, smiled his
thin smile, and shrugged.
These things happened. Men should
not light fires. Saunders had talked of
International Conventions, The Com-
mandant had smiled. “You are in Ger-
many now.”
The charger drew level, snorted. Queer,
to smell the ammoniac sweat of horse, to
hear the chink of stirrup irons, and no
to be part of it. The Commandant
turned, hard young face looking down,
cold grey eyes like field-glasses. in
gloved hand shot up in a smart salute,
a flicker of a smile.
Percy half opened his mouth, gave a
little twitch,
as though he
would, after
all, jump out
But instead of
“Boo,” he
would yell
“Whacko the
Gestapo.”
Only the
Commandant
had already
passed. Next
came an under-
officer, dark
and prim and wasted-looking, like a de-
cayed gentlewoman. No fun in unseat-
ing him. Or the fat rolling fellow that
followed.
An end to emptiness anyway. But the
time had passed. His time, too, had
passed. If he had wanted to die, he could
have decently died before. He wondered,
vaguely, what Edith would say—Edith,
who always said he drank too much. But
he gave up the effort; too difficult, trying
to imagine another world.
\< O LACK - OUT, Percy?” It was
D Young Bill, with a sympathetic
paw on his shoulder, “I’m 0.k.. Bill.
Just feel a bit crook. I’ll sit down a
minute.”
The Commandant could ride, after all.
A piece of paper set the bay horse danc-
ing, and he was steady as a. rock. Well,
Bill said, muttering angrily, he could ride
for a squarehead. If that meant anything.
The Bayonet
Man had
formed his
party up again,
a mixed gang,
British and
Serbs. He
counted them,
loudly, “Ein,
Swei . . . ”
“Have you
ever noticed,”
James Maguire
said, his grave
cultured voice
loud in the silence they had fallen into,
“that no German can count?”
But they were counted at last, shuffling
off, the little Bayonet Man trotting
backwards and forwards, from the front
rank to the last, like a restless weasel,
A pair of tall German guards passed,
going off duty. “Hullo, Hans . . So
Hans was his name. He halted, looked
back. “Ja?” A few words, in a sing-
song voice, interrupted by a burst of
laughter. Hans reddened, turned away.
“I’d like to kick his guts in,” Young
Bill said viciously.
“A runt . . It was the little Maori.
Percy looked at him in surprise. So he
could speak whatever-his-name-was.
Mali’s shadow, really, a liquid-eyed little
shadow in a battered and jaunty Kiwi hat.
Something humiliating, too, in being
killed by a creature like Hans, the
Bayonet Man,*
‘ ‘ I ’VE still got a few dinars from my
1 watch,” Percy said suddenly. “Here,
Young Bill, take some of them. I’m
going to the market, see what I can get.
You stick here.”
They sat, watching him walk away.
Saw a German officer stop him. They
stood for a minute, the German and
Percy. Then, very slowly, Percy straight-
ened up, saluted. So that was that.
He had been walking towards the
easterly stables, the barracks, behind which
was a market, fed by the city. But then
he veered, making for the Cookhouse.
And then, for the first time, Bill saw a
grey, slight figure, bayonet fixed and rifle
slung, following Percy. The Bayonet
Man. His working party, whatever it
was, couldn’t have lasted long.
Percy, with his back to that ridiculous
killer. And Percy, apparently, was in an
extravagant mood. He passed a number
of German officers, saluting with spirit.
Then, he deliberately walked down to-
wards the German officers’ quarters,
walked with both hands up, in a comic,
perpetual salute.
The little slouching figure with the
rifle altered direction, too.
They hurried over. Young Bill and
((Continued on page 32.)


Sores caused by
dialing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointmpnt. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic . Cuticura cannot
harm baby's tender skin.
One of the famous trio —
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum I’owder. c
mmmmm
The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
“MARS’* Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. All essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - all gear teeth are generated.
w
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Ply. Ltd.
ŵ
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agent':: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading; Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —•
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Ed.
BOMBAY PROVINCE —R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
I
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Qld. op
“Meehanite”
Metals
SMOKERS
Direct from Manufacturer to Yoif
Special money-saving offer of high-
class toasted pipe tobaccos blended
with the best imported tobaccos.
RICH DARK MEDIUM PIPE
MIXTURE, 15/- per lb. Posted.
MEDIUM HIGH-CEASS PIPE
MIXTURE, 13/6 per lb. Posted.
HIGH-CIiASS TOASTED READY-
RUBBED FINE CUT TOBACCO,
17/- per lb. Posted.
Make your post box your nearest store.
Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
UNICABLED
ADDITIONS
AS U.S. SEES BRITAIN.
While all sympathy is, of course, with
Britain in its hard battle against the odds,
some points of American criticism are
worth noting, particularly since the
name-calling across the Atlantic, which
did great damage to British-American
friendship after the. other war, has been
started again, London “Economist” join-
ing in on August 22 with a “bitter attack.”
As cabled, the. “Economist,” comment-
ing on “Britain’s plight,” held the fault
to be “far more America’s than
Britain’s.” It also repeated, with the
sort of half-reservations usually adopted
by those wanting the effrontery or cour-
age to make such an accusation them-,
selves, the Communist thesis that “it is
the deliberate aim of American policy to
ruin Britain.”
The “Economist’s” resort to this sort
of name-calling will raise loud laughter
in America, where the feeling is that that
country, so .far from trying to “ruin
Britain,” has already been over-generous
to Britain and others, and where com-
ments on Britain’s plight take a very dif-
ferent line from the “Economist’s” rather
easy way out.
V In general, they take the line of Mr.
Churchill’s criticism: “There will be no
recovery from our present misfortunes
until the guilty men whose fears and per-
sonal incompetence have brought us
down have been driven from power by
the vote of the nation.” That is, most
American criticism holds the British
Labor Government very largely respon-
sible.
The Government Gambled
N.Y. “Times” —all through, most sym-
pathetic towards Britain—has stated the
present British position and the causes
in a conveniently brief summary:
Britain’s lands produce only about half the
food its people eat. The rest is imported and
must be paid for out of the profits Britain
makes as the fabricator of raw materials into
finished products.
Before the war Britain was the world’s greatest
trader. In 1938 from her great ports merchant-
men—principally British-owned —stood out to
sea with exports valued at £470 million. The
ships brought back wool from Australia, beef
and cattle from the Americas, dairy products,
raw materials for manufacture and other imports
valued at £919 million. The deficit between the
cost of imports and the returns from exports
was made up by the earnings of centuries
of investment overseas.
During the second World War Britain lost —
perhaps irrevocably—her position as the world’s
greatest trader. The emphasis was on victory,
not commerce. American factories supplanted
Britain’s as the world’s suppliers. American
ships took over the job of transporting the
world’s freight. Britain’s plants and homes
were destroyed by Nazi bombs. Britain’s
foreign investments were cut by one-half.
With the end of the war a new Labor Govern-
ment set about the enormous task of revitalising
Britain’s economy and, simultaneously, at be-
ginning the transition from capitalism to social-
ism.
The Government continued most of the war-
time restrictions under which people had lived
for six years. Britain negotiated a $3.75 billion
American loan to retool and rebuild her in-
dustries, and to buy essential materials for
home consumption. The hope was that by
1950 Britain’s export trade would be adequate
to pay for her imports and Britain would again
be a going concern.
However, “the plans of the British Gov-
ernment went awry,” there having been a
number of “economic miscalculations,”
with the following as important factors:
Britain’s industry failed to revive as rapidly
as the Government had hoped.
Britain’s tired people—particularly the 600,000
coalminers whose production is the basis of
Britain’s industrial position—proved unable or
unwilling to work at the rate necessary to
achieve the industrial goals.
Rising prices in the United States cut the
value of the American loan. At prevailing
prices Britain can buy only 40 per cent, of
amounts she hoped to get.
America’s huge export volume (at the rate
of $19.6 billion a year compared with imports
of only $7.6 billion) has caused a world-wide
dollar shortage.
Britain’s heavy overseas commitments —in-
cluding the maintenance of 500,000 men at
foreign stations and the expenditure of
$300,000,000 annually for German occupation
alone —have placed still greater strains on the
economy.
N.Y. “Times” makes the criticism that
the British Labor Government “at first
took chances, gambling* that Britain
would somehow get through.” Then, of
course, came last winter’s freeze, causing
the coalmines and factories to be shut
down and setting back the export plans,
since when only “piecemeal steps” have
been taken, till the eleventh hour came
last month, or, as some called it, the
twelfth hour.
“Chronic Deadlineitis”
A severe American criticism is that such
waiting till the last inescapable minute
has been a habit with
the Attlee Govern-
ment. As reported by
N.Y. “Times” Wash-
ington correspondent
Arthur Krock, high
U.S. officials and
members of Con-
gress see that Gov-
ernment as appearing
“to suffer from a
chronic case of dead-
lineitis.” A previous
example was the de-
cision to withdraw
from Greece and no
longer support Tur-
key. That, Krock
stated, “was an-
nounced so suddenly
to Washington that
Secretary of State
Marshall had only a
few hours to devise a
policy with which to
meet the situation”
before he had to hurry
away to the Moscow
conference.
“The idea of so im-
mediate a deadline,”
Krock added, “was
widely resented,” and
h e reported other
causes of resentment;
The British, it is also
felt by persons in
authority and by un-
official experts, have been
dwelling too much on
their weaknesses and
scarcities and not enough
on their reserves and
their strengths, fiscally
Montreal "Star.”
“ENGLAND EXPECTS...."
and otherwise. Very little was said in official
London about the gold reserve and the easy
hours on the production line in Britain until
the Government there was sharply reminded of
these things by visitors from Washington. And
it was necessary to tell the British pointedly on
several occasions that socialisation of industry
at home and in the Ruhr had best wait on the
immediate necessities of production.
Krock further stated that when all the
correspondence and records of negotia-
tions between Britain and America on
these matters was made public it would
be found that the U.S. Administration
and State Department had kept up a de-
cidedly “admonitory” attitude towards the
Attlee experimenters. That attitude —re-
garding “deadlineitis,” of which official
U.S. has had enough, and particularly the
socialist “planning,” held largely respon-
sible for the mess J. Bull is in—would
have all-round American backing, the
general run of American criticism being
fairly represented by these comments of
a “Wall-street Journal” Washington cor-
respondent :
The British crisis—which is at bottom simply
a failure of their own planning—is merely the
last in a series of schemes gone bust. The world
has never seen such a rash of world “master
plans” as were launched at the end of the latest
world war. To date, none has worked 0ut....
The cure [proposed] for this planning muddle,
of course, is more planning. Mr. Attlee has
another plan—including more help from the
U.S.—to replace thb-first plan that didn’t work.
The European self-help conference is working
up another plan to get the Continent back
on its feet, which also will include more aid
from the U.S. It is foolhardy to suggest a
little less planning; the best hope seems to be
that maybe the new ones will be better than
the old.
A hope the correspondent and the
great bulk of other American commen-
tators look upon as mighty thin.
No More Direct Aid
Another Washington representative of
the same publication has reported that
U.S. Government officials, from Presi-
dent Truman down, want to know “Can
Great Britain ever again become self-
supporting?” and what the present
British Labor Government thinks can be
done in that direction. “Until they get
an answer to this question, the U.S.
Administration has definitely decided not
to give Britain any further direct finan-
cial aid outside the comprehensive Mar-
shall plan for all Europe.” The corres-
pondent added: —
This attitude of officials here [Washington]
springs from the fact that they are not convinced
that the present British Government is doing
everything the situation calls for at home.
In the same vein, “Wall-street Journal”
has commented editorially that additional
advances would not see Britain through,
“until those who are unable to organise
British production turn the job over to
those who can.”
“The United States,” N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” has commented, “would look
upon Britain’s plight a good deal more
sympathetically if the Labor Govern-
ment would subordinate its party pro-
gramme for the moment to the needs of
production. Nationalisation of industry,
however sincerely the British people
desire it, is worth nothing if the nation
must die while it is being nationalised.”
Col. McCormick’s Comments
Chicago “Tribune” has long been
notorious for an anti-British attitude, but
on this particular subject its owner-
editor, Colonel McCormick, has expressed
what amounts to a summary of the great
bulk of current American comment.
Col. McCormick was invited by
London Daily Herald” to give his views
on Britain’s present troubles; he cabled
them across,, then the “Daily Herald”
found that “severe reduction in news-
print quotas” forced it to “abandon the
project.” Thereupon the “Tribune” pub-
lished the comments, from which extracts
are here given:
You are no longer teaching constitutional
government to Europe; you are adjusting your
goyernmental forms in more or less candid imi-
tation of the dictatorships on the Continent All
this began before your socialist regime came to
power, but your socialists have speeded the pro-
cess, probably in the belief that socialism can’t
be made to work in England if Englishmen
are to remain as free as their fathers were or
thought they were. At any rate, you are losing
your liberties and you are not getting even a
mess of pottage in return because your produc-
tion is lagging.
You are abandoning the system of private
enterprise that everybody Knows will produce
goods because it always has done so; and you
are experimenting wjfh a system that isn’t work-
ing, that nobody can be sure will ever work,
and everybody ought to know by this time in-
vites the most dreadful abuses. To make this
change at this time, when you and everyone
else in the world are short of goods, strikes
us as lunatic, but only a little more lunatic
than the programme of your Tories, who oSer
no real alternative.
Your question about Britain’s present standing
and moral influence among the nations suggests
a dangerous illusion. England’s place in the
political world is a function of her productive
capacity. A busted country can have no im-
portant influence in international affairs because
it has nothing worthy of imitation and nothing
with which to command a following.
The war is now two years behind us.
Europe’s recovery, including yours, has been
needlessly slow. We have done better because
we forced an end of rationing and price con-
trols, with the result, very disturbing to social-
ists, that our production increased and prices
did not go through the roof as many timid
souls predicted they would. Within a few
weeks, a desperate shortage of meat, soap,
butter, fats and scores of other articles was
ended. We haven’t seen a queue here except in
the theatres in many months. If you would
follow us in this matter you would see some-
thing like that happen. You would get the
commodities your people want and need because
it would pay your merchants and manufacturers
to find supplies, and your workmen would
have some incentive to increase their efforts.
Britain has lost many of her foreign invest-
ments, but she still has a reserve of technical
skill and there must be many thousands of firms
in your country with names which can command
credits in America and elsewhere for the pur-
chase of raw materials and machines. Our Gov-
ernment has abetted yours in borrowing money
from our treasury that hasn’t done anything for
you except put your whole nation on the dole.
It would have been far better if there had
been no Government credits, but an extension
of private loans where merited. You might
have received less money, but it would have
done you far more good. Of course, private
credits are out of the question until your Gov-
ernment takes all the steps needed to assure
lenders here [U.S.] that they can have their
money back when payments are due. Unfor-
tunately for you and for us your Government
was much too preoccupied with its programme
of nationalisation to undertake anything so easy
as this.
Born in politics and in economics, your Gov-
ernment is following Russia rather than us,
though the speeches of your officials sometimes
invite the opposite conclusion. The choice,
of course, is yours to make, even if it means
needless deprivations and tyrannies for English-
men and a further loss of Britain’s prestige and
influence in the world.
The most hopeful line of American
comment can be summarised in a “United
States News” sentence; “Britain’s assets
and her spirit of self-help make her stili
a good business risk, from the standpoint
of her biggest creditor, the United
States.” Unless the “Economist” brand
of name-calling gets out of hand, there
will probably be sufficient American back-
ing of that view to ensure the greatest
possible U.S. aid to help Britain weather
the hard going until more substantial
assistance can be advanced under the
Marshall plan.
CALWELL’S RECRUITING.
Highly optimistic cables concerning
Mr. Cal well’s immigration recruiting in
the U.S. were certainly not inspired by
Chicago “Tribune” comment. Stating
that Mr. Calwell had arrived with an an-
nouncement that “Australia seeks to re-
cruit one million American immigrants
and is willing to pay $l6O apiece for


A large percentage of economic waste Is
caused by tbe destruction of property by FIRE,
and while such waste cannot be eliminated, the
individual can avoid financial devastation by
making adequate use of the valuable and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstruc-
tion to commence immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
realise that the support of Australian indus-
tries by every Individual is helping the country
generally to right its difficulties, but continued
patronage is necessary in order to reduce our
country’s “total indebtedness” and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR 68 Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Angus & Robertson’s Book Selection
OF DEATH BUT ONCE, by Roy Bulcock. .
The most powerful, sincere and human account yet given of Australian and
Allied prisoners of war who were captured in Java. 10/6 (post. 4d.)
9/6 (post. 4d.)
9/6 (post. 4d.)
SIR HENRY! A biographical sketch of Sir Henry Parkes.
By M. D. McLaurin.
WASHDIRT. A novel of Old Bendigo, by James Devaney.
THE REMEMBERED VALLEY AND OTHER POEMS.
By Nellie A. Evans.
GLiIDERS OF THE GUM TREE. By David Fleay.
The most beautiful and enchanting Australian Marsupials, known customarily
as Flying Squirrels or Plying Possums; photographic illustrations.
10/6 (post. • 4d.)
7/6 (post. 4d.)
CROSSING THE DEAD HEART. By C. T. Madigan.
Photographic illustrations.
WAUTZING MATILDA. A background to Australia.
By Arnold L. Haskell, with 35 illustrations. New supply.
12/6 (post. 4d.)
16/- (post. 6d.)
NEW GUINEA HEADHUNT. By Caroline Mytinger.
Exciting and highly entertaining adventures of two American women on a
bloodless headhunt. Illustrated. 25 /" (post. Bd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
39 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
such of them as are war veterans, the
“Tribune” added:
Mr Calwell said the Dominion wants to build
up her population from the present Ik million
to 20 million in order to be able to deal with
“another Japanese aggression” which he expects
in from 25 to 50 years.
This may be just some more backhanded
Empire propaganda in support of the familiar
Australian-British complaint that General Mac-
Arthur is being too easy on the Japanese; at
any rate, it is unlikely that Mr. Calwell will
get anywhere in the United States with his
proselytising. No real American is willing to
trade himself back under the British flag, while
those of our Anglophiles who might be tempted
to do so think only of England and wouldn’t
fancy association with Australians, whom they
consider not a whit better than Americans.
Mr. Calwell has had fair luck in Europe,
where he has rounded up 12,000 displaced per-
sons and hopes to bring out 36,000 Englishmen
in the next three years. Four hundred thousand
want to get out of England, he said, but ship-
ping is the bottleneck. Whether any considerable
proportion of these Britons would care to trade
British socialism for Australian socialism is
debatable. Primarily, they want to escape
socialism.
The “Tribune” reckons that Mr. Cal-
well’s best chance is with the “displaced
persons” in Europe, and the evidence of
Calwell results so far seems to support
it. Other U.S. comment agrees that Mr.
Calwell hasn’t Buckley’s chance of get-
ting anything like a million American
immigrants. They talk, instead, in hun-
dreds ; the highest figure noted was 1000.
EUROPE’S GREAT NEED.
After two years in Europe, Joseph E.
Evans, of “Wall-street Journal,” sums up
in a thoughtful article from which the
following is condensed:
There is an unshakable dream-like quality
about living in Germany. Not, of course,
dream-like in a pleasant sense; in the sense,
rather, of being unrelated to reality.
An American in Germany does not and can-
not enter into anything like community life.
His world is special, exclusive and restricted;
and it is the antithesis of the life around him.
Even when he does mingle with what the Army,
in one of its more fantastic excesses of diction,
calls “indigenous personnel”—as, for example,
when he goes to the opera—it is in a special
category, with the better seats and the deference
due a conqueror.
This is part of the dream, but there are
many other things which serve to intensify the
impression of unreality. The sight qf Germany
alone is something which not even two years
can make wholly credible. And there are little
things: The business of leaving two cigarettes
beside one’s plate as a tip for the German
waiter becomes automatic but it does not be-
come real. Then there is the strange feeling
which comes from living under what is in
effect martial law : the übiquity of the military
police with their silly hats and their unsmiling
faces eventually makes a liberty-loving American
wonder if he has not been plunged into some
vast infernal prison.
Now, after only a couple of weeks in
America, I am wondering if perhaps it is not
a good idea to forget Germany, forget the
whole monstrous, incomprehensible confusion
of Europe. I am not sure that anything we
can do, or anything that Europe with our help
can do, can save Europe, it seems fb me the
process of disintegration is already too far
gone, too many opportunities lost, too many
stupid, wilful blunders made. After all, Europe
could have done better, could have worked out
a system of federation or co-ordination to
lessen the possibility of wars recurring with
clock-like regularity.
What infuriates me most is the incorrigible
blindness of Europeans. Even now, after the
years of terror followed by the years of horror,
after the sickening loss of life and the means
of livelihood, of homes and irreplaceable archi-
tectural beauty, now, in the whole vast misery
of the Continent, they hate each other’s guts
and they refuse to see even the most obvious
advantages in mastering that hatred and work-
ing together. Germany made anti-Semitism a
matter of official policy, but anti-Semitism
seethes now in Poland and elsewhere. Every-
body hates the Germans, more or less, but the
Czechs hate the Poles (and vice-versa) and the
Hungarians hate the Czechs (and vice-versa)
and the ‘ Belgians hate the French, and so on
ad infinitum ad nauseam.
Do we really suppose the Marshall plan or
whatever form U.S. aid takes will change these
people? I do not even think the fundamental
problems are economic at all; I think they
are moral. If that is right, the cure will not
be found in extending credits.
The cure, if such be possible, will be found
to reside in the moral rehabilitation of the
individual, in the re-discovery,, on an individual
level, of the integrative principles which alone
can give human life a meaning and a dignity.
And it is precisely here that I must reverse
myself and argue against abandoning Europe.
For the moral rehabilitation of which I speak
is as much needed in America as in Europe.
I found it disturbing that the British and
German miners could not be induced to mine
enough coal to move the industry of Europe,
even though the economy of Europe was col-
lapsing as a result; that the French peasant
was goofing off, though thousands were near
starvation; that the carpenter in London "‘was
frittering away the hours for which he was
being paid, though his work was urgently re-
quired to repair bomb-damaged buildings.
Stating, however, that he fails to see
any difference between that “disinterest
in working” and the examples he has
seen of it in America, the writer notes
these further resemblances in his own
country:
I have condemned the mutual hatreds of
Europe, but I find Anglophobia in the Mid-
West, anti-Semitism everywhere, and a Negro
problem which the passage of years has not
made less explosive.
His antidote for the combined mal-
adies : —•
The thing to do would seem to be to get
to the heart of the matter —the moral regenera-
tion of the individual —and try to rebuild our
not yet quite shattered civilisation on that basis,
which is the only possible basis.
FRANCO.
N.Y. “Times” Madrid correspondent
has reported that, while Franco and
his regime are ostracised abroad, in-
ternally Franco's grip has never been
stronger.
The July referendum sweepingly
confirming Franco’s lifetime tenure as
N.Y. "Journal-American.”
ATTLEE CROSSING THE ICE.
dictator and his right to pick the King
of Spain—was largely a result of Spanish
resentment at U.N.O. interference. An
effect of the vote noted by the cor-
respondent has been to raise hopes of
better external relations. “Most Spaniards,
whether they are for or against him,
think the vote will put Franco in a
stronger position” in that respect;
They believe that, even if he does not really
convince other Governments, these Governments
will be pleased at least to have a plausible
reason for approving him, partly because he
is anti-Communist and most countries fear the
Russians and partly because they want to sell
their goods to him in the post-war scramble
for world markets.
Added to the resentment against
U.N.O, interference, other causes are
holding Franco secure, among them di-
vision among the Monarchists and fear
of another civil war:
The monarchy was the only regime the
Army might have accepted as an alternative
to Franco. The Monarchists, however, have
been so split up by their bickering about the
Succession Law, whether it should be accepted,
and which of their various royal candidates
should become Franco’s successor, that today
none of the groups that might have backed
them has any confidence in them.
It is impossible for any group except the
Army to overthrow the present regime in Spain
without another tragic and terrible civil war.
There are many thousands of Spaniards bitterly
dissatisfied with the Franco rule who say flatly
that, no matter how bad it is, they will support
it rather than risk another civil war.
The correspondent also noted that the
Spanish press “leaped eagerly upon an
article in the French paper T’Aurore’ re-
cently which said Spain should not have
been excluded from the European Eco-
nomic Conference and that the recon-
struction of Europe was impossible with-
out Spanish products.” That could be
the sort of straw that drowning men
grasp at; it could also be the sort that
shows which way the wind’s blowing.
“SEPARATE PEACE.”
Comment in “Christian Science Moni-
tor” that “Talk of the United States initi-
ating a move for separate peace with
Germany and Japan is totally mislead-
ing” seems to mark a distinction with-
out much difference.
In regard to Germany, the move is to
go ahead strengthening that country
economically to make it self-sufficient as
soon as possible. All Germany outside
the Russian zone, especially the British-
held Ruhr, is billed to play a major part
under the Marshall plan. And in time, if
Russia continued to stand pat, some
peace would certainly have to be made
there.
The plan for Germany originated
from former U.S. President Hoover, as
did also the proposal that the U.S. should
“summon at once a peace conference with
Japan and make peace with her, by as
many nations as wish to adhere.”
“Ex-President Hoover,” N.Y. “Daily
News” has commented, “is a Quaker, and
the Quakers are an extremely patient set
of people. His patience has at last given
out on this subject, though, and his ad-
vice to his countrymen, and to the
British and French, is to stop waiting ■
around on Russia’s good pleasure and
take decisive peace action of their own.
That action would be an immediate peace
conference for Japan and a separate
peace conference for Western Germany
soon after the expected failure of the
Big Four London parley in November,”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
S African Ex-soldiers. —A point or two on
now South Africa looked after its soldiers on
their way back to civvies, quoted by a “Chris-
• , ence Monitor” .correspondent frofn an
official report: “When the war began the
Government promised to look after the ex-
soldier until he was re-absorbed into the civilian
economy. Accordingly, no volunteer was dis-
charged from the Union defence force until
employment had been found for him. In some
cases discharged soldiers who had lost their
employment through no fault of their own
were taken back with full pay and allowances
until they again could find employment. The
Union was unique in making such provision.”
* * * *
Comparative Values. —ln case anyone in Aus-
tralia, particularly on the cultural side, happens
to be feeling inflated, a “World Report” com-
parison in dealing with a present big boom
in American business and investment ventures
in all parts of the world might effect a cure.
Those ventures, says “World Report,” are in
a variety of enterprises ranging in size from
the multi-milliqn-dollar development of the oil-
fields in Arabia to establishment of a book-
store in Australia.”
* * * *
Eire Favors British. —lt is hardly news that,
as Demaree Bess reports in the “Saturday Even-
ing Post,” Eire in any contest with Soviet
Russia would be on the U.S.-British side. Apart
from other considerations, the Russian black-
balling of Eire as a member of U.N.O. —for
the second time a few weeks back —would have
had that sort of effect; according to the
S. E- Post” writer it has convinced Eire’s
leaders that there can be no future neutrality.
Ihe same writer, however, notes something
more remarkable —an “Irish trend toward
Britain and away from the United States.”
Though this present policy “has solidified only
quite recently,” it developed during the war,
“when the British proved more tolerant of Irish
neutrality than Americans were.” The “trend
has been accelerated today, since even the most
rabid Irish nationalists are confronted with
proof that Ireland’s fate is intimately linked
with the fate of Britain.” Striking evidence
of the “neighborliness” is “the cordial wel-
come which the Irish are giving to British
tourists.” Last year Eire had 1,500,000 visitors
—equal to half its total population—the majority
of them from Britain,
♦ * * *
No Rush for Paradise. Though believing
that “Americans have not gone as far as have
the French and British in facilitating the efforts
of the Soviet secret police to track down
opponents of the Communist terror” who had
taken refuge in displaced-persons’ camps in
the occupation areas, “Saturday Evening Post”
doubts the frequent assurances that “no dis-
placed person has been repatriated by force
or urged through misleading propaganda to
return to a country where he would be per-
secuted for his political views.” It refers to
Soviet secret police rounding up the wanted in
French areas, and records this example against
tfye British: “The Refugees’ Defence Com-
mittee reports an effort to repatriate Russians
from a British D.P. camp in Italy which re-
sulted in two suicides and the shooting of
several who tried to escape. Presumably to
guard against resistance, the Russians in this
camp had been told previously, according to
their statement, that they were on their way
to Argentina!”
* * * *
Costly Gold-brick. —Another .instalment of
Chicago “Tribune’s” ruthless ripping of the
Roosevelt reputation: “Roosevelt told his
countrymen that the Yalta conference was not
concerned in the slightest with the Pacific war.
When he made this statement, he had already
pledged Stalin possession of the Kurile Islands
on America’s North Pacific flank. He had
agreed to recognise Outer Mongolia as a Soviet
dependency. He had given away China’s
property by promising Stalin the right to take
over the cities of Dairen and Port Arthur as
naval bases. He had granted Russia the
Japanese half of Sakhalin Island. He had given
Russia control of the two principal Manchurian
railroads. In return for all of this, he got
Russian participation in the war against Japan
only in the last four days, after Japan had
already signified its intention to surrender. It
was the greatest price ever paid for a gold-
brick.”
* * * *
Film Cuts Applauded. —ln at least One U.S.
quarter there has been hearty approval of
Britain’s cutting down on film imports, Chicago
“Tribune” commenting: “The waste of the
American loan on film royalties when it should
have been used to rehabilitate broken-down
British industry was one of the most uncon-
scionable acts of Britain’s grasshopper Gov-
ernment. It should have been cut off long
ago.” Mentioning, without vouching for, the
assertion that U.S. royalties on the average
American film “just about pay production costs
and foreign royalties are required to provide
the profit,” the “Tribune” sees a possible
benefit: “The British film industry, which pro-
duced little but box-office dogs for many years,
has recently brought out seme excellent pictures.
Motion-picture producers in Britain have been
severely restricted in the amount of money they
can spend on production. Lacking money,
they have had to use brains. A similar sub-
stitution in Hollywood would be wholesome.”


' r'l
S J
§M
THE
HALLMARK
WM
m
M
* -> *
* s
‘ N
«>
A
I J
m
* >
:
ti;
fil
s k
il
'
: ;< %
mm
i
l i
I
x
* *
%X\ I
P % *
■-'.-■■, r VV^*A,?«v :
-: S*' • ■ ■44 “>%: '. ~; :4 . 4 ,
■
, !, 4 :
:. ;? y.. ■ .f \m, *4. : '%>. :■ .•■ . :..4; : 44. :r ■ ;. .
V ‘ '•* \
■ yV-f..; %: >f%;. .
y -%4-4 : 4 •;. :
4:-- x 'V S , '
..: M
V\->4 4.,: ;- ;:S ■4j , < 4:>. * / 4*£4?*4 .?•; :
'g| ' ' J r*> |' ' '”<* J , ■
- ■
I'M ti- -
£ T * ,
. w'k
-4. ,V'
-.' < v./ '■ ....' : : :y.: , : 4., ,V* '' S . :
'. y %
,4 ,■■ > : ,• :.:a
.■■v- ■ ■
■ ' ' - •• ‘ i 4 4..4 4-,
■
V ;4£'f V i- "VX"
■ . ■> 4. ' y V'
.v -'•* * '*>
v B - - **
> ' * . x ' x 4 v >'- ?' '^, * 'V'
V'4,' X ' 1 "'4 4’' ' iiy .4.4 '4. , 4 ?444 ' '44
, », ■ •.< * .'■■ - *. ::•><.
■ '
,V- .4 44 .
• ■4 4 4 ' ~,
4: V 44 <■ * . , 4;.4 : - /*. -4:
•AV--- •■-■.. .
; ~
= . m V ,3f 44,,,- ,4:. ~-4:,
; '
S. *. -4 -4", 4x4 4,i44 ,4 ; x* V
V % * '■<. ■.. ~ 4
, 4:- 4.4 4 '4 4 4...,,. , :4. «,
■4 1 ' 4;- s >'
\ '-i, -4, :-: ¥ .,,4 T y
' / ' / vx ;,4 4- ;f ,
'4 - 4. 4' \
<;.4 j
' ** \ X ' v'
- '' '4 V - X ■'.<*
: \ :> ' % .4 . * «> .4 4 .
V' x <' ft ' /
4 < : 4 *' '< %' , ' N ..^
' - • 4 ' V.‘j' '
i
V*
* *;
* *
'it
:\
■- j
x. % s i. 4
\ \ A ** S
\ '*■ I
% %
f '
„/-> \'V /{^/f
y A 4xr 4 , ■: . 4 : . . ,'W V
; , ''
•4 ■4,4;4\ •;■•<•/'.*
. ft
f,k
r
yM
* T .<
■ .-•■• X.' ■■■■ ••■ • y-. . .-:;■•••• ;■ :
•, v * x / v'
4; :% 4 4,
. / - - »• V *' V
■;;v ■ ->.i
v \ ■
'r. y:
‘
* '
X</\
>4; : 4s
i
;x- ’!•
‘I:
V"- 44 ••>
* i.
cMadt in
%
Lid
: v- "*•■. : v /
v: % A ’
... : .••/
1 .¥-3-■/,


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3525
Wednesday, September 3, 1947
THE ANGEL OF SANDAKAN.
“We believe the Japanese are children of God capable of responding to forgiveness.... We share the common sin which brought war upon us... We hold that the Christian
method of dealing with an enemy is by transforming him into a friend. This demands the exclusion of any hint of revenge and any war-guilt clause in the [peace] settlement."
—Manifesto of the World Council of Churches, Australian section.
“Now, brother, you’re a veritable angel.”
“Yes—me wing-commander.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
PEACE WITH JAPAN.
In an atmosphere which suggested a
William le Queux thriller, there being so
many “guards” about and such a general
air of tiptoe watchfulness, delegates
to Dr. Evatt’s British Commonwealth
Conference met at Canberra on August
26. The conference was the first of its
kiijd held there; and,' naturally, the first
attended by representatives of the new
Indian Dominions and Burma. All the
delegates were heartily welcome to Aus-
tralians, but their deliberations might
have been more useful if the purposes
which brought the gathering together had
been less vague and less personal, and if
there had been any chance of effective
decisions.
The constant insistence in Govern-
ment publicity on this country’s deter-
mination to assert itself as a “party prin-
cipal” and the incessant boasting about
its war effort are foreign to the real
Australian spirit and repugnant to other
countries whose war efforts were in no
way inferior, to say the least. Beyond
Australia there has been qo tendency to
draw odious comparisons or measure in-
dividual exertions in the common cause,
or to weigh the war in terms of
hemispheres instead of as a whole. The
“party principal” and “second-only-to-
the-United States” stuff must be trying
to countries like Canada, which pulled
its full weight in battle and industry—
which, after losing a brigade in the very’
first encounter with the Japanese, did its
fighting, by agreement, in the Atlantic
and European zones, thus releasing in-
dustrial output, large bodies of troops
and powerful air, naval and mercantile-
marine forces for the needs of its partners
in the Pacific. As well, Canada made
magnificent gifts to all its allies and
associates, from Russia to Australia.
The tendency beyond Australia is to
look to the peace settlement with Japan
in practical terms of the future. To
Canada, in particular, a major issue is
settling the degree of participation in the
future strategy of defence and what can
be done to ensure that dangers of con-
flagration will be kept well under control
by a group of nations' which is not likely
to burst asunder. All firmness and all
compromise will be decided by those
countries within easiest reach of Japan
and Russia on that basis.
It is quite obvious that the Canadians
will resist anything calculated to separate
their policies in relation to Japan from
those of the United States. The prob-
lem of the defence of Canada is integral’
with that of the United States when ag-
gression from the Asian zone is con-
sidered. The two cannot be separated.
Canada alone could not take care of a
sudden onslaught. The United States
cannot allow separation of defence
policies, because a foothold established
in Canada would provide an easy step-
ping-stone into its own territory. There-
fore, it cannot have been much of a sur-
prise to Dr. Evatt to discover from Mr.
Claxton’s opening address —he was the
one Defence Minister at the conference
—that the northern Dominion welcomed
the American initiative in calling the all-
nations conference, which would have
met by this time if it had not been neces-
sary to delay it while Dr. Evatt turned
on his Molonglo show.
It was made quite clear by the
Canadian delegate that his Dominion
would not commit itself on peace-confer-
ence issues until the views of all other
nations with interests in the Pacific had
been heard, nor would Canada agree at
Canberra to anything which might be
interpreted in the United States as the
formation of a British Commonwealth
bloc. With Mr. Fraser stating, for New
Zealand, that the conference would not
line up against any nation, and Mr.
Lawrence, for South Africa, that his
Union held merely a watching brief, the
position of three Dominions with a total
white population of 16 millions was made
clear.
So, for that matter, was the attitude of
the United Kingdom, which it has been
the fashion in Canberra to picture as
having virtually withdrawn from the
Pacific, leaving Dr. Evatt as the heir to
its greatness, and its own affairs in Japan
and neighboring regions in the hands of
the doctor and his Mr. Macmahon Ball,
now to be succeeded by a Mr. Shaw.
Newspapers which take their lead from
the External Affairs Department were
amazed to discover that the British dele-
gation had come to Canberra “thoroughly
briefed” and attended by experts, and
that “the lessening of influence
and interest” appeared to be a myth.
Said Lord Addison: “We are here be-
cause we have close and great interests
in the Far East, old- and long-established
and penetrating the whole of this great
area”; and that these interests Britain
sought to maintain and preserve.
Of this, except in one quarter, there
was never any doubt. It was with no
thought of scuttling that Britain, heavily
engaged as it was in Europe, sent more
men to the front lines of Japanese cam-
paign areas than Australia sent —660,000
men and a large fleet, any one battle-
ship in which was equal in tonnage and
gun-power to the whole cruiser and de-
stroyer fleet of the R.A.N. Some of Dr.
Evatt’s delusions about the United King-
dom’s loosening of its hold upon the
Orient have doubtless arisen from the
fact that the command of British token
occupation forces was handed to Aus-
tralia, together with British representa-
tion on the moribund Advisory Council
—partly a brain-child of Dr. Evatt,
though mainly an instrument of Soviet
diplomacy, such as it is. But it is never
mentioned that there is in Japan a British
ambassador, who ranks above Dr.
Evatt’s “ ‘Labor’ theorists,” and probably
carries more weight with General Mac-
Arthur than the whole Advisory Council
put together.
It is a matter of vital interest not only
to the British but also to the Ameri-
cans, the Indians, the Dutch, the
French and, above all, to the Chinese
that Britain should maintain its land and
naval strength in the Far East and its
position in south-east Asia, there to
thwart the Communism which seeks to
breed insurrection as part of a plan to
break up the British Commonwealth and
place the small peoples of the Pacific, and
Japan as well, at the disposal of Moscow.
On the evidence of official statements
issued from Canberra, the conference
was able to do no more than reaffirm
measures and principles adopted at thB
Washington meeting of 1945. Yet it
should at least have served a good,
though unintended, purpose in illuminat-
ing for Australia the errors of its Ex-
ternal Affairs Department, particularly
the Boss’s dream of turning the south-
east Asian zone into a specific political
area stabilised round his influence and
policies.
While Britain, the United States and
Canada are moving towards one great
end, the South-East Asian zone is rent
with strife. Pakistan and Nehru’s India,
for their part, are already exhibiting
division and instability. When they were
about to come into existence their leaders
were notified by Prime Minister Smuts
that he would not accept their in-
terference or that of U.N.O. in internal
South African policies affecting the Indian
community. Pakistan and India, in which
collaborators with the Japanese have been
raised to positions of power, have been
unable to stop awful massacres of their
own peoples along a mutual border on
which they have failed to agree.
At the peace conference the Dutch,
now almost certain to secure control of
the Indonesian area, and bitterly resentful
of the indignities and injuries to which
they have been subjected in and from this
country, with “Government” connivance,
will tag along with Britain, Canada and
the U.S.A. This means, among other
things, that they will throw all their in-
fluence against the plan for setting up
in Japan a trade-union organisation on
the A.C.T.U. model, so dear to Dr.
Evatt’s heart and Moscow’s substitute for
that organ.
There is much more in the problem
of peace in the Pacific than the establish-
ment of economic duress over the Japan-
ese and even the imposition of terms
which will keep alive in the Japanese
mind the world’s stern disapproval of its
excesses and cruelties. It involves a
settlement of the Korean question in such
a way that Korea will not become a
Russian or Communist colony dominat-
ing the Japanese islands for Moscow. It
involves the maintenance of a stable and
uncommunised China. For if the Iron
Curtain were to fall over China, as over
the Balkans and the Baltic, the Japanese
situation would soon be out of the hands
of the Allies who did the fighting against
Japan ; all Asia, indeed, would be on the
way to becoming a Russian colony.
Settlement involves, also, the acquiescence
of the Japanese in whatever may be done,
for, without actual military occupation, it
will be impossible to maintain permanent
discipline over a desperate nation with
nearly twice the population of Britain,
especially if a gigantic neighbor is pre-
pared to aid and abet rebellion.
It is obvious from Russia’s surly re-
ception of the U.S. proposal for a pre-
liminary conference, with no veto, that
Stalin has no more intention of being co-
operative over Japan than he has been
over Germany, the Balkans, the Baltic
and Italy., His object and that of his
agents in Australia —as shown in Com-
munist propaganda and trade-union reso-
lutions —is to divide Britain and its
Dominions from the United States and
the Dominions from both. The food
which his policies in the East and West
will find most nourishing are quarrels and
differences bred of national or individual
vanity and attempts to gain prestige or
advertisement at the expense of unity
among the English-speaking peoples and
their friends, who fought the war in close
comradeship and without any major argu-
ments. It is to be hoped, though scarcely
to be expected, that the sorry “Govern-
ment” at Canberra will keep these facts
in mind.
Failure of a V.I.P.
When last June the Federal Parliament
was adjourned one of the temporary
migrants in the wrong direction was the
Hon. Arthur Augustus Calwell, Commis-
sar for Propaganda and Population. The
Commissar had announced that Australia
wanted 70,000 immigrants a year and
millions during the next 20 years. All
his lavish overseas publicity staff could
not make clear to his satisfaction why,
with the flowery socialisation of a
Golden Age embellishing the attrac-
tions of this land of sunshine and suc-
cess, the immigration movement could
not get under wei£h and ships could not
be chartered for the purpose.
Avowing that he would buy ships, if
necessary, and anyway would stir up
some results or know the reason why,
Mr. Calwell gave himself a departure
permit as a V.I.P. and flew to London.
“V.1.P.” was the signal, for once in
Britain no priority of travel by ordinary
services was sufficient. An aircraft of
No. 24 Commonwealth Squadron, estab-
lished lately at Bassingbourn in Cam-
bridgeshire in order to “foster closfer co-
operation between Dominion air forces”
(and incidentally “for the use of military
and civilian travellers of importance”),
was placed at the disposal of its very
first “V.1.P.” customer. Mr. Calwell said
afterwards that but for this aid his ‘tour
“could not have been so comprehensive.”
But before these Continental travels
began—Bremen, Oslo, Stockholm, Paris,
The Hague, Berlin, Geneva was the
itinerary—Mr. Calwell in London con-
fessed himself “mystified”—and irate. He
was angry at his failure to “make the
British Commonwealth a damn sight
stronger” (as the “Daily Herald” quoted
him) through his plan to draw off 15
million British people and “spread them
around the Dominions.” He even said
that “the loss of Australia” —if Britons
didn’t listen to him —“would be the most
disastrous blow Britain could suffer.”
For the British people, suffering hard-
ships and privations, and with worse in
store, it was conveyecf to him that avail-
able ships were desperately needed for
shorter and more urgent voyages. It
may have been added, not for publica-
tion, that these ships were plying between
ports where they are not repeatedly de-
clared “black” under Communist
sabotage-strikes, as in Australia.
Mr. Calwell turned on his publicity
bureau to try to move a singularly un-
impressed socialist Government in
London. He held press conferences
galore, and had night-and-day service
from his own press-agents to acquaint
him with every smallest criticism of his
activities, at home or abroad. He gave
out that 400,000 men, women and
children were besieging Australia House
for passages to the land luxuriating in
“a depression in reverse” (the Chief had
barred references to his Golden Age),
where “47,000 jobs” were “available” and
“200,000 migrants” could be “absorbed”
—though not housed. Result —only more
mystification, together with a wrathful re-
tort to a Churchill speech, and a childish
allegation that Mr. Churchill cared
nothing about the Empire. The Empire’s
war-leader had remarked, as the soldier-
Governor of Queensland had done, to Mr.
Calwell’s fury, that Britain had great need
of its own people, adding, for his part,
that they should not quit their country
in its emergency.
In the upshot, as he left England by
the Queen Elizabeth for New York, all
that Arthur Augustus could produce for
his efforts was what his agents had
already told him —that he could have an
aircraft-carrier for transport if he would
provide a naval crew to man it (no hope);
that he could get the Asturias for a trip
with 1300 passengers; that 2000 Polish
soldiers had been booked for Tasmania,
and that 116 British building tradesmen
had been recruited for Canberra to re-
place the 250 or so who have cleared out
from the place. Under an arrangement of
his own, made without reference to Par-
liament, “displaced persons” from Inter-
national Relief Organisation camps in
Europe were to be sent to Australia at the
rate of 1000 a month for the next 16
months (and mdre thereafter) in con-
verted cargo-ships which Mr. Calwell,
but nobody else, seems to think should
be good enough for British immigrants
also. Mr. Calwell did not have to leave
Australia to discover that Jews can get
ships (of a sort) when other people
cannot. The murder-advocate Ben Hecht
and his associates see to that.
Arrived in America, the V.I.P. found
that news of strikes and go-slow in Aus-
tralian ports —though not broadcast by
his department —reaches that country,
too, and that again no ships for Aus-
tralia were available. For all his con-
victions about Government control, Mr.
Calwell aimed at by-passing the Wash-
ington Maritime Commission and charter-
ing vessels privately direct from the
detestable, profit-seeking shipping com-
panies. He was quickly, and no doubt
tartly, informed that even if he made
such a deal he would have to get a permit,
issued only after examination of “the
effect on the American merchant marine
as a whole.” It was a bitter thing for so
ardent a permit-lover to be confronted
with such an obstacle, but other bitter
things were to come.
To the American public at large the
tourist announced his Willingness to pay
160 dollars towards the fare of every
American serviceman migrating to Aus-
tralia. He said he wanted a million of
them; and then it occurred to him to
mention a shortage of what his own
propaganda had placed among the attrac-
tions ; “five-dollar-a-week homes.” There
is a shortage of dollars, too, as Ameri-
can servicemen rising to the bait will
soon learn. The promise of passage-
money was discriminatory. Mr. Calwell
expects the British Government, out of
its exhausted resources, to pay the pas-
sages of British servicemen and -women
emigrating to Australia, and his Govern-
ment denies them any form of preference
when they arrive.
Mr. Calwell’s American visit was a
flop. He had said two things in London
which caused indignant questioning as
soon as he landed in the world’s leading
Jewish city. One was that his Govern-
ment would not approve of the Russian
Dr. Steinberg’s persistent request for a
Jewish colony in the Kimberley country.
The other was that in any British immi-
grant ship the quota of Jewish passengers
should in no case exceed 25 per cent, of
the accommodation. From the volume
and bitterness of resultant protests thrown
at him in America it may be expected
that when Irgun Zvai Leumi or Haganah
or the Stern gang comes to pass
judgment, Calwell-street, Tel Aviv, will
cease to be the name of anybody’s
address.
But not only the Jews in Ben Hecht’s
city were incensed. Negro servicemen
joined the rush to book in for 160 dollars
and a migrant’s bunk to Australia. Of
the aura that had invested the V.I.P
a month earlier, not a shred was left when
the traveller addressed himself to this
development. What he said has not been
reported by his faithful publicity depart-
ment, but the Communist “Daily
Worker” had him asserting that for Aus-
tralians negroes are “too foreign to be
assimilated” and Jews are “too patriotic
to be absorbed.”
Within a few hours Arthur Augustus
was in holts with the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored
People, which drove him into an unhappy
argument as to Australian immigration
laws. The Communist rag was moved to
wrath. It declared that “the Australian
Government, through Mr. Calwell, has
slapped American negroes in the face.”
Negro and Jewish organisations and
trade - unions are expected to make
more protests against the Australian Gov-
ernment’s “white Gentile” policy
The Australian Government is a Labor-
party Government, although of a Right-
Wing character, and it cannot easily ignore
Labor protests if they reach sufficient
volume.
It will certainly have to say something
to its Communist associates, of whom it
stands in such awe, if they take up “the
protests” of “the negro and Jewish organ-
isations and trade-unions against the
‘white Gentile’ policy.”
The reasons for Mr. Calwell’s failure
are not hard to discern. There is no real
immigration plan, because there is no
preparation here for reception of a stream
of immigrants —not even roofs to shelter
them. If the Government to which Mr.
Calwell belongs were set on chartering
ships for the traffic it would leave nothing
undone —and it has great, though un-
exercised, powers—to get overseas ships
turned round more quickly in Australian
ports. It takes twice as long to do that
today as it did before the war, even with-
out strikes. Lastly Mr. Calwell made
it too evident that he was seeking new
people less for their own sakes than for
future defence of Australia against a
resurgent Japan. It looked very like
trying to tie America to that job when
he advertised as one of the terms to sub-
sidised American settlers in this country
that they would “not be ’asked to give
up their American citizenship.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Banks and Brayers.
It i'« imt on two years since the second
reading of the Bank of England Bill
was passed in the House of Com-
mons. That measure empowered the
Treasury to “take over the existing capi-
tal stock of the bank—£l4,soo,ooo, pay-
ing an average dividend of 12 per cent.—
and issue in exchange to stockholders
£58,000,000 worth of Government stock
at 3 per cent.” It provided also for
Government appointing ‘ the Governor,
his Deputy Shd the C<purt of Directors
and issuing such directions to the Bank
as might be necessary in the public in-
terest,” and under the new regime the
Bank was to have “power to request
information from and issue directions to
the joint stock banks.”
A “companion-piece,” the Investment
(Control and Guarantees) Bill, arrived in
February, 1946. It was designed to con-
trol “the allocation of labor and
materials” by controlling “the flow and
direction of new money.”
This information is taken from a
“Penguin” book, Labor’s First Year, by
J, E. D. Hall, a sympathetic Gallery re-
porter ; and Mr. Hall quotes remarks of
the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr.
Dalton, recommending the Bank of Eng-
land Bill —“We plan for full employment
and full production, for an expansive
economy, for an increasing trade both at
home and abroad.”
With the American loan of
£937,500,000 sterling added to the fruits
of “Labor’s” banking legislation and its
“cheap-money” policy, Britain has had
“full employment” without “full produc-
tion.” All the “Labor” expedients have
not prevented it from getting into
a devil of a mess and dragging kindred
countries into the mess with it.
The Americans naturally wonder how
British “Labor” got through in a twelve-
month a loan intended to last at least
three years—no interest was to be paid
for six years —and recommended by
Lord Keynes as “an act of unprece-
dented liberality.”
Mr. Dalton, a characteristic “Labor”
financier, grossly ignorant of affairs but
with the cockstireness of the breed, is one
of the explanations. His first (October,
1945) Budget drew the comment that he
had “no respect for economy; we have
an inflated Budget, an inflated currency
and an inflated Chancellor; the most
prodigal Chancellor in history.” An-
other of the explanations is Sir Stafford
Cripps; and here Colm Brogan, author
of a book called Our New Masters,
comes in:
He abolished the Liverpool cotton market,
and when the price of cotton made a
world’s record leap of 40 per cent, in a
single day he claimed that this proved his
case. He engaged to buy all the Malayan
rubber crop, a move which enabled us to
sell large quantities to America for con-
siderably less than we paid.
And there is Mr. Strachey, now the
Food Controller, who wrote in the “Daily
Worker” that “it is Communism alone
which can bring national liberation to
the peoples of the world.” Mr. Strachey
has been a whale on “bulk purchases,”
which means buying in the dearest mar-
ket. He introduced bread rationing, and
bacon, cheese and tea rations of 2oz.
a week, and his fresh-meat ration is now
tenpence worth a week.
And there is Mr, Shinwell, who
laughed at the idea of a coal crisis aris-
ing last winter —as it did—and whose
Coal Board, in addition to announcing
strikes and a harrowing fall in production,
under “nationalisation,” with the five-day
week, has put 4S. a ton on the price of
coal, to come into force when railway
freight-rates (the railways have also been
“nationalised”) go up on October 1. And
there is Mr. Aneurin Bevan, who under-
took to build half a million houses and
saw 24,000 constructed in 12 months.
Our Australian “Labor” Ministers
should be learning something from the
follies of their opposite numbers in
Britain. Blinded by a more favorable
situation and by their own conceit, they
are venturing where the zanies of
British “Labor” have thus far feared to
tread.
Spring Prose-Pome.
September has come in. All along the
hills and out on the plains and by the
coasts the birds are singing and working
at their nests ; the wildflowers are open-
ing, the crops going to the head,
the shorn sheep making into the back
paddocks where the new grass is. All
the good earth of our country is astir
with new life, and animal and bird,
reptile and insect feel the impulse.
At this time of year it is a grand thing
to be an Australian and to go out on
some hilltop—or climb up on the back
fence if you can’t find a hilltop—and look
around and reflect on this splendid land
and remember that you belong to a free
and enlightened democracy, wherein you
may do as you please so long as you
don’t try to do any of the following:
Grow wheat, grow rice, catch and sell
fish; work at your job more than 40 hours
in one week; buy bricks or timber or tiles
or land or a car or a house —or a drink
after 6 p.m.; sell eggs or cream; go away
and work at Guam or any other place over-
seas; give anyone a lift in your car, run a
truck for hire or carry freight by air.
All this and much, much more you
cannot do, unless you have “permission.”
This “permission” will be issued, upon
application and payment of prescribed
fees', at the sole will and discretion of
officials, against whose decisions there is
no appeal.
Still, standing up there on the back
fence, with the mild September sun shin-
ing—possibly by “permission” of some
celestial firemen’s union, seeing that it’s
Sunday—you can still throw out your
chest and remember that all this is for
the general good of the community. You
have frequently been assured of this by
the arbiters of your fate, who own every
bushel of wheat that grows and every
fish that swims and every egg that drops
and every brick that smokes, and who
have only just been prevented from
owning every ’plane that flies and now
intend to own every bank that banks.
Of course, if you are old enough you
may reflect that 20 years ago there was
nothing of this ; that in 1927 you could
do all the things which now you cannot
do without “permission.” It may strike
you that life was a fairly uncomplicated
business then when a man could
express his ambition or his laziness and
spend his money pretty much as he liked.
WITH MOSCOW’S COMPLIMENTS.
“If the R.A.A.F. is refusing to service Dutch carrier planes in Brisbane, surely the people
who are paying for the upkeep of that arm of the defence forces are entitled to know why.
At least they should be told if the Government has sold out to the A.C.T.U.” — Fadden.
“Use it for a gag, Comrade Drakeford, if you feel you must have one. And
would you like to be a Hero of the Soviet, Third Class?"
But if you’ve reached that stage it’s time
you got down off the fence and came in-
side and saw to the hurricane-lamp and
backyard fire in case “they” cut off the
electric light and the gas before the wife
returns from her vain search for soap
and sugar.
Customs Censors.
“F.S.” has at them:
Dr. Luka, a Viennese solicitor, resident in
Melbourne, had a library of lawbooks sent to
him from London. When the parcel arrived
the Customs asked him to declare it. Being
ignorant of its contents, some of which proved
to b'e various objects which had apparently
been thrown into the box to protect them from
the blitz, he assessed the value at £lOO, although
they were hardly worth that, since he does not
practice in this country and his legal literature is
in German. Ransacking the consignment the
Customs clerks were horrified to find a German
edition of five incidents in the life of Casanova,
with illustrations, and a work by a Dr. Fuchs,
used as a textbook in Europe.
The books were seized, and Dr. Luka was
charged with importing obscene literature. He
was convicted and fined £lO, and the offending
works were confiscated. He appealed and, after
evidence, the Judge expressed himself as
astonished at the proceedings and conviction,
which he quashed. His Honor remarked that
he had no power to compel the Customs to
disgorge its booty but hoped that it would re-
spect the Court’s judgment.
The Customs case throws fresh light on the
standards and methods of the censorship. Dr.
Fuchs’s work is available at the Public Library
in Melbourne and is studied and freely quoted
by students of sociology, though a Customs
clerk could hardly be expected to k now that.
Casanova’s memoirs are purchasable in
Australian bookshops, and the National Gallery
has Rembrandt etchings which deal with the
same subjects as the Casanova illustrations. If
these are obscene and dangerous, then Rem-
brandt’s “The French Bed” .and his “Monk in
the Cornfield” are much more so; yet they may
be seen at the Public Library, as well as Dr.
Fuchs’s work.
Meanwhile, the country is flooded with cheap
pornographic literature, with no more preten-
sions to being artistic than a small boy’s lava-
tory drawings, and newspapers which sell hun-
dreds of thousands of copies weekly or daily
rarely have an issue without one or more
aphrodisiac illustrations. '
Nasty Reminders.
It was distinctly unpleasant to read news-
paper reports of the financial reviews and
forecasts presented at the Premiers’ Con-
ference, and to compare them with depres-
sion data preserved in Commonwealth
Year-Books.
Melbourne “Age,” always highly re-
garded by “Labor,” published a dolorous
account of expectations for 1947-48, now
two months gone —“a probable Federal
deficit of £30,000,000” and “a probable
total deficit by State Governments of
another £20,000,000.” Depression deficits,
as recorded in the Commonwealth Year-
Book, were £25,370,000 in 1930-31,
£19,490,000 in 1931-32 and £5,064,000 in
1932-33.
. Two features of the depression were a
world fall in commodity prices and a
collapse of the building trades. 'Hiere has
been no world fall in commodity prices
this time, though it has to be provided
against, and there need be no collapse in
the building trades. On the contrary the
demand for building materials and labor
was never greater and there should be no
lack of finance. A swift and effective
solution of the housing problem would
be of very great service this year in every
respect, and the problem is certainly not
beyond solution, but it has been injuri-
ously prolonged in N. S. Wales by the in-
troduction of the statutory 40-hour week
and, in the confusion of Ministers, com-
missions and committees, by failure to
secure united action and hard work.
And the Premiers’ Conference, marked as
it was by bickering, with Mr. McGirr and
Mr. C. Evatt on one side, and Mr.
Lemmon on the other, failed to help.
Overtaxation has been another crip-
pling factor in the domain of building
and in other fields. On a tax-revenue not
so great in proportion as that of Aus-
tralia nor so heavy on small and middle
incomes, the United States Govern-
ment closed its financial year on
June 30 with a cash surplus of
$750,000,000 which is to be applied to a
reduction of debt, and of taxation if
things go right. The Premiers’ Confer-
ence closed with a dismal notification to
the people that they could expect no tax-
reduction of any sort. But they may
fairly ask for a reduction of unnecessary
Commonwealth and State expenditure,
which, with salary grabs for Common-
wealth and N.S.W. politicians, pensions
for the latter, dollar-consuming trips and
upkeep of superfluous departments, has be-
come outrageous and a source of danger.*
There is no reason to believe that the
salary grabs and Assemblymen’s pensions
will be scrapped. But with a deficit of
£50,000,000 looming up, and with
Britain in need of Australian assistance
on a generous scale, the country cannot
afford to let politicians get away with
their plunder. Neither can it afford the
costly overseas jaunting or the mainten-
ance of luxury departments like Post-
War Reconstruction, which hasn’t done
a darned thing, or Information, in which
a vast number of people are wastefully
employed. For Post-War Reconstruction
£660,000 was budgeted in 1946-47, and
for Information £337,000; and, with
£200,000 added for the A.B.C. broadcast-
ing service, Information will spend a
great deal more this year. “Free
medicine,” for which £500,000 was set
down in the last Budget, though £500,000
is only a trifle of what the thing will cost
if inflicted on an overburdened public, is
another extravagance due for the axe,
and so are the latest referendum project
and a shoal of other superfluities.
Indeed a £20,000,000 cut in Common-
wealth expenditure alone has become a
necessity. On a much smaller revenue
Commonwealth and State, expenditure
was reduced £21,400,000 in 1931-32
compared with 1929-30. One resource
available during the depression, a p.c.
reduction in interest on internal debts, is
now out of the question, nor can there
be any increase of taxation, as there was
then. Like Dr. Dalton in England Mr.
Chifley pinned his faith to “cheap
money” and to “full employment,” re-
gardless of quality and quantity of out-
put, as well as to taxing everyone and
everything in sight. These measures have
failed to save Britain from a crisis, and
without full production, honest work in
essential trades and services, now given
over to Communist-caused disorder, and
careful handling of public finance they
may prove delusions and snares here.
Extremist to "Moderate."
A letter Mr. Ward might have written
to Mr. Chifley;
Look here, Ben, this is a dirty trick you’ve
put over me. Here’s me been ribbing it into
the bloodsucking bankers for years while you’ve
been sitting back and getting all the kudos for
keeping me and Arthur Calwell from kicking
over the traces. And we turn our back for a
mopient, going abroad to cement Empire rela-
tions, and what happens? You pinch our
thunder and leave us standing like two big stiffs.
Here’s me in Canada, doing the grand on
C.P.R. trains —nice service that; I’ve been
telling Mackenzie King he ought to nationalise
it, but the dope won’t listen —and someone says
to me “I see your Government is taking over
the banks.” “No, mate; you’ve got it wrong,”
I gives him. “Not while Ben’s in charge.
When I’m P.M. it’ll be different. I’ll show
the bloodsuckers where they get off. But not
Ben.” He shows me his paper and there it is.
Your own words, Ben. Forty-two of ’em. You
can imagine what a dill I felt. It’s not fair,
Ben. I wouldn’t have believed it of you.
And after the way I cracked you up to Dev.
when I met him in Dublin, too! How
am I going to face the boys in Paddo and Dario
when I get back? Nice mug I’ll look. “G’day,
Eddie,” they’ll say. “See what old Chif.’s been
and gone and done while you’ve been away?
Grabbed the banks. Now there’ll be dough for
everyone. Thought you said we’d have to wait
till you was boss, Eddie?” What’ll I tell ’em?
It ain’t fair, Ben.
It’s ungrateful of you, Ben, that’s what it is.
Here’s my Dario boys been slinging “Pig-iron
Bob” talk at Menzies for years and breaking
up his meetings and all that, and me jollying
them along and. telling ’em everything’ll be all
right if they’re only patient, and now you go
rushing ahead while me back’s turned, and me
away on me country’s business. I can see Doc.
Evatt’s hand in this. That’s what I can see. A
couple of weeks ago I woke up one night and
the corn on my big toe was throbbing some-
thing awful, and I said to Stan Amour —it was
just before Stan left me and went to San Fran-
cisco to give his famous impersonation of an
Australian Senator upholding the dignity of his
office. I said to Stan, “Bert Evatt’s cooking
up something for us. That corn of mine always
tweaks when someone’s going to tread on it.
You mark my word, Stan,” I said, “Bert’s
cooking something up.” Stan said “Yair.’
But I didn’t think you’d be in it, Ben, and
I don’t mind telling you I’m real hurt about it.
You oughtn’t have done it, Ben. It’s not fair and
I won’t stand for it. You needn’t count on my
support in opposing you any more. You can
get some other stooge. In future I’m a moderate.
The Wisdom of the Dead.
In the early nineteen-twenties Stephen
Leacock, economist and humorist, set
down these thoughts on his native coun-
try, revisiting it after many years:
England, like most of the other countries
in the world, is suffering from the over-
exertion of Government and the decline of
individual self-help. For six generations
industry flourished on individual effort
called out by the prospect of individual
gain. Every man acquired from his boy-
hood the idea that he must look after him-
self. Morally, physically and financially,
that was the recognised way of getting on.
Under the stimulus of this the wheels
of industry hummed... .National produc-
tion grew to a colossal size As a system
it was far from perfect. It contained in itself
all kinds of gross injustices but it worked.
Not so the new system:
It has become a dead weight upon us.
Wherever it touches industry it cripples.
It runs railways and makes a heavy deficit;
it builds ships and loses money on them;
it operates the ships and loses more money;
it piles up taxes to fill the vacuum and
when it has killed employment opens a
bureau of unemployment and issues a re-
port on the depression.
Leacock completed his diagnosis and
offered a prescription:
By taxation, by legislation, by popular
sentiment all over the world, there has been
a disparagement of the capitalist. And all
over the world capital is frightened. It
goes and hides As to the profiteer, bring
him back We need him need the
eager, selfish but reliant spirit of the man
who looks after himself and doesn’t want
to have a spoon-fed education and a Gov-
ernment job alternating with a Government
dole, and a set of morals framed for him
by the censors Then the capital will
begin to flow in; it will come from all
kinds of places where the Government
could never coax it and where the tax-
gatherer would never find it... .Incidentally,
when the profiteer has finished his work,
we can always put him back into jail if we
like. But we need him.
Nowadays “capitalists” are ready and
willing to produce the goods. But half-
baked theorists have gummed up the
works even worse than in Leacock’s time.


V■ ¥ K
««»
4f
6744
GRAVEN#
: - r
—for yonr
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Four of the nine banks threatened by
Chifley operate in N.Z., where the ’Wales,
the Union, the A’sia and the Commercial
of Australia have 197 branches. When
the Chifley threat reached N.Z. it was sug-
gested that the Fraser Government might
“take oyer” the 197 branches and merge
them with the Bank of N.Z., “leaving the
London-domiciled National Bank of
N.Z. the only private bank operating in
Australia or N.Z.” To the confusion of
the Chifleys .and Evatts, Finance Minister
Nash has announced that “nationalisa-
tion” is off, as far; as he is concerned.
Going right over to Bob, “S.M-
Herald” began an article with the words
“Mr. Mfenzies summoned all his un-
rivalled oratorical and critical powers to
a searching analysis of and a devastating
attack upon the Chifley Government’s
bank nationalisation plan.” Possibly
the unrivalled orator and critic spent
the rest of the day going over the
“Herald” files, “from 1941 to 1943,”
when, according to Granny’s managing-
director and “final” arbiter of her
“editorial policy,” We “were person-
ally thanked” by Curtin and Chifley and
“many others of the Cabinet” for “the
extent of our support.”
During their sojourn at Canberra the
Premiers learned from Pollard that the
“wheat stabilisation fund” now held
about £11,000,000 and that if Australia got
100,000,000 bushels of export wheat from
the coming harvest the sum would jump
to £20,000,000 or so. Pollard hinted at
a dividend on 1945-46 wheat, adding that
his “Government” thought £15,000,000
,was enough to have in the fund at one
itime. Which ought to have reminded
Pollard, but didn’t, that growers objected
to 1945-46 wheat being included in the
“stabilisation plan.” In the Chifley-
Pollard view a man has no more right to
net proceeds of the wheat he grows than
to choose his own bank.
Reported from Canada that Ward, in
the course of a study of nilway methods,
spent 16 consecutive night in trains. It’s
a safe bet that half those nights were
spent on the privately-owned trains of
C.P.R. It’s an even safer bet that when
Ward gets home again and sees the fleet
of 1947 Buicks, made by private enter-
prise and bought at public expense to
replace or augment the fleet of stream-
lined Chryslers made by private enter-
prise and bought at public expense, it
will take the combined efforts of the
A.R.U. and the East Sydney electoral
committee to induce him to spend 16 con-
secutive minutes on a N.S.W. train.
On November 14, 1946, the Common-
wealth Government gave notice of com-
pulsory acquisition of the new Man-
chester Unity Oddfellows building,
opposite Phar Lap’s stable, the National
Museum, in Swanston-street, Melbourne.
During the war the building was used by
the Army, and it now houses T.-A.A.,
£lOO,OOO having been spent on “improve-
ments.” The company objects to losing
its property largely for sentimental
reasons—it is on the site of the original
home of Victorian Oddfellows and their
first Grand Master, Dr. Greeves, a Mayor
of Melbourne, lived there, It has a
memorial to 700 members who died in
the 1914-18 war, and over 6000 of the
present members fought in the late war.
The building was valued at £236,000, but
replacement would cost the Oddfellows
much more than twice that sum.
Because of two more of those “de-
marcation” disputes between unions
which Chifley lately “deplored,” the
handling of many ships on the Sydney
waterfront was stopped for a fortnight,
and all work in the Sydney dockyards
was similarly laid idle —by painters. The
painters finally agreed to abide by a
coming conciliation award, but the fore-
men stevedores, who insisted on the
supervisors of the Macquarie Steve-
doring Co. joining ’their union, sup-
ported (of course) by the Commo.-
run wharfies, remained “out.” They
treated with contempt the Concilia-
tion Commissioner’s finding that their
demand was not reasonable —this is the
new streamlined system that Dr. Evatt is
so proud of—and when the Chief In-
dustrial Judge ordered a compulsory con-
ference, Ashley stepped in. “Acting on
suggestions” by Healy, the Communist
boss of the wharfies, Ashley ordered the
Stevedoring Industry Commission to have
the ships worked by companies other than
the Macquarie concern. The way is now
clear for the Commos to concentrate on
tying ships all up again through an ex-
tension of the tugboatmen’s strike in Mel-
bourne. Any pretext is good enough to
lay shipping idle at a time of Britain’s
distress.
Bell, of the Melbourne Tramways, im-
plored 48 former conductresses to come
back to their old jobs, 120 men having
left in a month because they didn’t like
shift work. At the same time Holloway
was asking housewives to take, part-time
jobs “to increase production,” and 22 tug-
boat men were holding up the port of
Melbourne. Strikes and workshyness
(though not on the part of house-
wives) have brought the country back
to the position it was in when it was
threatened with a Japanese blockade.
In drizzling rain a reluctant policeman
evicted a young mother and her four
children, with their furniture, at Mernda,
17 miles from Melbourne. The poor
creature was found by neighbors warm-
ing milk for a four-months baby over a
fire she had lit in the open and was given
shelter. Her husband had taken a job
Out of the district, and she knew few
people in it. She was unable to appear at
the hearing of the case at the Whittlesea
Court, and as she was only a sub-tenant
an order was made for her eviction. This
barbarity occurred in a “Labor” State,
part of a “Labor” Commonwealth in
which “Labor” politicians have been pro-
fuse of promises to house everyone,
Melbourne thought it was acquainted
with every known variety of strike and
hold-up,' but it got a new one on Friday
when railmen concerned with special
signals had a “stop-work” for two hours.
Traffic was thrown into chaos, thousands
of suburbanites were left stranded and
Flinders-street station was packed with
milling crowds while the signalmen dis-
cussed the Arbitration Court award of
“insufficient increases.” Premier Cain
was heard impotently proclaiming the
strike to be stupid and senseless, and
A.R.U. delegates told the Trades Hall
Council disputes committee that the men
had stopped work without authority.
They had done the same thing on pre-.
vious occasions.
The biggest “overflow house” Mel-
bourne’s old Princess Theatre has ever
had or is ever likely to have listened to
Menzies denouncing the “nationalisa-
tion” of the banks. A couple of thousand
got inside the playhouse and another
2000 listened outside. There seemed to
be something appropriate about a poster
which decorated the front of the theatre
—“Dangerous Corner.”
Queenslanders got a shock when the
new Transport Commission granted
licences for passenger and goods services
over the 74-mile road between Gladstone
and Biloela, constructed as a defence
measure during the war, and for buses to
serve Yeppoon, Emu Park and Rock-
hampton. What has happened to the
Hanlons?
The Mighty Soviet has had another
Great Victory in Hungary, where, with
forgery and uttering of ballot-papers
added to “liquidation” of the Small-
holders’ party by every means short of a
general massacre, a Communist party in-
significant in numbers has declared itself
elected. But there has been a bit of re-
verse in Turkey, where “a Soviet military
aircraft carrying a general and two
colonels” has been shot down at Smyrna,
600 miles from the Russian border.
Previously two “diplomats” from Mos-
cow, caught in “a vital defence area with
cameras and sketching materials,” were
arrested by Swedes. There followed a
fierce attack by Moscow Radio and news
agencies on Sweden for accepting an in-
vitation to the Paris Conference and a
warning that Sweden’s defence expendi-
ture is “a threat to the security of Soviet
Russia.”
Written by an observer of the Can-
berra proceedings:
Having made a scapegoat of his Macmahon
Ball, Dr. Evatt hauled his foreign policy back
on to a less theatrical course in Tokyo, though
it may be reasonably assumed that London and
Washington had both conveyed to Chifley that
the U.S.A. was to be authorised to shoulder
its obligations in East Asia in its own way.
The tone for the Bert-and-Doug talks having
thus been set, our local champion of human free-
doms came home to do his stuff as leader at the
Canberra meeting to settle British Common-
wealth policy on the treaty. The representatives
of India and Pakistan naturally enjoyed their
first attendance in equality and status with the
rest of the Empire family. Two British
Ministers also had a historic event to celebrate,
“the first conference of this kind in the capital
city of another member of the British Common-
wealth.” But the really significant utterance
came from the Canadian Minister of Defence,
Brooke Claxton, who made it clear that he was
there to withstand any effort to create an Em-
pire bloc against the United States.
The really important preliminary to the com-
ing Tokyo meeting is to make sure of side-
stepping Russian moves to get the Jap treaty
referred to the Foreign Ministers’ Council, where
the veto works.
Sydney’s Lud Mayor Bartley, who,
unlike his opposite number in Mel-
bourne, has done nothing in particular
since he became Lud Mayor, has come
out as a champion of McKell’s racing
joint, which, in characteristically callous
and cheeky contempt of the situation in
the U.K. and Australia, demands a re-
turn to mid-week racing and wants part
of the Eastlakes-Lakes area for a race-
course. That would mean grabbing a
water reserve, a wild-life sanctuary, an
industrial district and space for many
hoipes. But his Ludship makes light of
these objections:
The Sydney Turf Club caters for up to
200.000 people. It has to develop, and the
Lakes area is an ideal site for a racecourse.
The club could provide space there for
25.000 cars if a racecourse were built. I am
definitely behind it.
This ought to align ratepayers “definitely
behind” Bartley, so they may propel him
into the obscurity which he is so emi-
nently fitted to adorn.
A straw in the wind is the Anglo-
American settlement of a long-standing
difference about the future of the Ruhr.
It rounds off an agreement for a merg-
ing of political and economic adminis-
trations in the British and American
zones, the Attlee Government having
abandoned its stand that the Ruhr indus-
tries should be “nationalised.” So,
although the British iron and steel in-
dustries are to suffer “nationalisation” the
Germans are to be free to work for
their recovery without that handicap.
Wherever they have gone in their
occupied territories, from Austria to
Korea, Russian Communists have made
themselves hated by a large part of the
population, and wandering Australian
Communists are not only hated but
despised. According to a very sarcastic
Singapore paper, the “Sunday Times,”
two of these fellows, Roach of the Water-
siders’ Federation and Healy (formerly
McCracken) of the Queensland Labor
Council, “spent a few hours in Singa-
pore” and there and then decided on
getting the A.C.T.U. to pass a resolution
condemning Malaya policy towards
trade-unions. And the probabilities are
that the A.C.T.U. will. The Communists
on the A.C.T.U. have only to overcome a
parcel of “moderates,” who have shown
repeatedly that they have no sand.
Hanlon must have been a trifle stag-
gered at Canberra when Lemmon in-
yited him to prevent illegal “squatting”
in defence establishments in Queensland.
Any “Tory” might have replied “What’s
Dedman or Drakeford doing about it?”
Hanlon, fast forgetting that he was a
socialist, contrived to remember that he
is “Labor.” So, with a show of politeness
he said he would “examine the position.”
Gledson, Queensland’s latest lay Attor-
ney-General, said in Parliament that his
Government would not refer the Opposi-
tion allegations of election “irregularities”
to an election tribunal because the time
for so doing had expired. Whereupon
Pie (Q.P.P.) asked Hanlon for a judicial
inquiry. Said Hanlon, “Mr- Pie’s party
received a well-deserved defeat at the
elections and it’s about time it ceased
whining about its misfortunes.” Accusa-
tions of “irregularities” seem to worry
Hanlon no more than that his crowd is
the elect of a minority and on demo-
cratic (as distinguished from “Labor”)
principles has no moral right to be in
office.
“Labor” voters blindly supporting the
“nationalisation” of the banks are enter-
taining the cheerful, but perhaps errone-
ous, notion that under “nationalisation”
they could always get an advance of a
few hundred after a bad day at the races.
George Alfred Stockwell, sleeper-
cutter and A.W.U. organiser, stood as
“Labor” candidate for Wide Bay (Q.)
and >was defeated. To the astonishment
of the Teachers’ Union, at first dazed and
then vocal, the defeated axeman-organiser
was given a job as a Government school-
teacher. When he regained his voice the
Teachers’ Union secretary described the
appointment as “an insult and an out-
rage, plumbing the depths of political in-
decency.” Education Minister Bruce re-
plied that Stockwell had had “a good
junior pass.”
The U.S. State Department comes in
for a lot of criticism at home and abroad,
but in the affair of Japan it has been
manoeuvring very shrewdly. To Moscow
contentions that the treaty should first be
examined by the Foreign Ministers’ Coun-
cil, the U.S. Government quoted Moscow
Conference decisions of 1945 which
agreed that the Far Eastern Commis-
sion of 11 Powers (one of them Russia),
should formulate the settlement:
The other nine Powers all approved the
idea, suggested by the United States, of an
11-Power meeting, and the U.S. con-
veyed the Soviet Government’s views to
all of them. If they all decide again in
favor of the suggested conference it is the
hope of the U.S. Government that the
Soviet Government will also indicate its
willingness to attend.
From which it may be safely assumed
that this peace treaty will not be exposed
to Russian sabotage.
“Bluenose” on fish:
Last December, when a gas strike stopped
fish-an’-chip joints, there was a glut of fish in
Sydney. Owners of trawlers asked the Prices
Commissioner to reduce the fixed price of mor-
wong and nannygai by 2d. a pound. The cut
was granted—in April. In May a penny was
put back on morwong. In August the trawler
men demanded another 2d. a pound all round.
The Prices Commission, after its “fish expert - ’
had come to Sydney from Canberra, where the
only fish cried are stinking, thought it was far
too much but “granted” increases of 2d., and
Id., according to variety. Thereupon “negotia-
tions broke down” and the expert returned to
Canberra to “confer” with his chief. Meantime,
Deputy Premier Baddeley, who by virtue of a
regulation “controls” all fish in N. S. Wales—
a control accompanied by the usual black-
market, hordes of inspectors, night raids on
fishermen and on road trucks, blasts from Mr.
Baddeley and so forth—is put out. From N.Z.
there arrived 8200 cases of frozen fish. Mr.
Baddeley had it seized “on legal advice.” For
Mr. Baddeley says he “won’t be bluffed” and
won’t have “monopolies,” and he’s going to
cretfte a commission or a council or something
to “control the industry.” In the background
is Mr. McGirr’s 40-hour week, which has put
trawler costs up; there is a 10 p.c. Govern-
ment commission on fish sales, and there is a
packing charge of Is. 6d. a box —3s. on race-
days. The whole thing gets plenty of space
in the daily papers, possibly because a racing
man who owns trawlers and fish shops and bets
in thousands is among those affected. Others
affected are the people of Sydney, who can I
get fish unless they catch it themselves—but
nobody worries about them.


ALOFT—AND ALOW!
“Two Melbourne pole-sitters picked the coldest week of a severe winter to try to stay up top for seven days. For Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt it was the second week of frozen
silence on their plans for ‘nationalising’ the banks."


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Findy”; My suburban picture theatre
was showing an opus, a long way after
Dumas, in which a grandnephew of
Monte Cristo, railroaded to Devil’s Island,
escaped and returned to France to avenge
himself on his enemies in the manner of
his namesake. Scene was Marseilles in
the time of Napoleon 111 and one of The
villains of the piece was a private banker.
Young Dantes starts a whispering cam-
paign which leads to a run on the bank.
A newspaper banner headline is flashed
on the screen —Marseilles papers of 1869
had apparently anticipated the technique
of modern dailies: “Government Takes
Over Bank.” The audience was whisked
for a moment back to 1947 as a bloke
somewhere behind me chipped in on the
film dialogue with “Strewth, was Chif.
alive then?”
* * * *
“W.O. Two”: Our C.O. was a hard-
boiled World War I veteran with a strong
distaste for Army forms; his system-
crazy adjutant, an ex-militiaman and one-
time business-college teacher, was familiar
with every official form and book in use
in the AJ.F. Strolling into the orderly-
room one day the skipper asked the
adjutant whether he had fixed up a new
subaltern who had just marched in. “All
his documents in order?” growled the
Old Man. “All except his W.F.5 ; it’s
missing,” replied the adjutant. “His
what?” barked the C.O. “His W.F.5,”
repeated the other. * “And what in the
hades is a W.F.5?” roared the boss. “His
paybook, sir.” “Paybook!” thundered
the C.O. “Well why not call it a blanky
paybook, Mr. Kfoops, instead of jabber-
ing some blanky telephone number?”
* * * ♦
“Yair”; Psychology’s an amazing thing.
I picked up threepence in a crowded tram
and cunningly held the coin concealed
until the other passengers had shaken their
heads to my casual “Anyone drop a coin?”
No, I wasn’t running any risk of being
cheated out of it. Hand it up to the
Tramways Department? Not on your
life. Yet, when a woman dropped her
newspaper as she alighted, I risked my
neck to lean out and hand it down to
her, thinking all the time how I hated to
see anyone lose their property, no matter
how insignificant it might be.*
* * * *
“Looby”; It’s some time since I sat out
a full-length film, newsreels being more
to my taste. But sampling them again
recently I found they haven’t changed at
all. The two immortal lines are still to
be heard. They are: “But you don’t
understand” and “You can’t do this to
me!”
* * * ♦
“Clooter”; I dare swear nothing will
hit the general mass of Australians harder
than the cuts of American film imports
threatened by the “dollar crisis,” particu-
larly if it means reducing theatres to
three or four nights a week. Out in my
suburb there are people who not only
see every change of programme, but go
to the same picture two and three nights
running, and an astonishing number will
spend a public holiday, no matter how
bright the sun or enticing the sea, at an
afternoon picture show. I suppose it’s a
form of drug-taking, like the day-long
listening to radio serial after radio serial,
but it’s no wonder these Governments
and bureaucrats of ours can get away
with any assault on our liberties and
pockets. Just now Australians are well
fed, well clothed and handle lots of money
every week. Given that and the dope
of “entertainment,” either by the screen
or the radio, and nobody could hope to
stir them to an appreciation of their true
condition. Chif. should be careful about
these film cuts and if he’s thinking of
cutting American radio records he should
think again. Thousands who never think,
thrown back on themselves by a silence
from the radio and a blackness in the
picture shows, might find their brains
stirring after a long sleep and discover
what’s been happening. That would never
do!
• ♦ * *
“Avro’T That Army term “bodies” (B.
13/8/ ’47), in the shortened form “bods,”
became absorbed in Air Force “slangu-
age.” A party of men were invariably
designated as so many “bods,” and the
singular “bod” supplanted the colloquial
“bloke” in everyday usage. A “spare
bod” referred to a substitute member in
a bomber crew, the regular member be-
ing unavailable owing to sickness or some
other cause. There arose a strange super-
stition over flying as a “spare bod.”
Maybe it is coincidence, but I can recall
a disproportionately large number of my
“And see if you can KEEP it threaded this time!”
mates who bought it while doing “spare
bod” trips*
* * •* it
“C.A.L.”: Thanks to Heth’s clever
cartoon of the Indonesian dispute (B.
30/7/’47), our mine foreman now has a
new nickname to contend with. The
shovellers and truckers have dubbed him
“The Old Dutch Cleanser.” They main-
tain that his perpetual cry is that his
tonnages are short, and therefore he’s
“always chasing dirt.”'
* * * *
“X.S.”; A Lang Lang (Vic.) man found
two large copperheads and four small ones
in the bush and kept them, because the
swamps were drying out and they would
probably have died. After three months
about the house, being fed by the
children, they became quite docile,
though they occasionally surprised a
visitor by joining in a cup of tea. Then
the farmer put them in a Gladstone-bag
and took them to the city, stopping at
Flinders-street station to milk the poison
glands of the oldsters into a washbowl.
He then repaired to the office of a soli-
citor with whom he had had dealings
over a land sale. When he emptied the
reptiles on to the floor of the steno-
grapher’s office he seemed surprised to
find she didn’t like it. He was further
surprised when he found himself charged
with causing or effecting a public mis-
chief by releasing live snakes in a city
office, when all he wanted to do was to
draw attention in traditional bush fashion
to his dissatisfaction over the land deal.
Not guilty; discharged.
* * * *
“Flathead”: Considering the air of
hopelessness in their surroundings the
flowers in the box on the tobacco-kiosk
counter were thriving, though there were
no signs of any water -supply anywhere
near. Yesterday I found out the secret.
When I pleaded with the kiosk girl for
“just one small packet,” she asked me to
take the window-box and place it in the
gutter, and “she’d see what she could find
for me.” I did so, and just managed to
jump back from the kerb as one of the
city’s water trucks sped past, spraying
the shoes of unwary citizens and giving
the flowers a thorough soaking. They
and their owner beamed at me as I took
them back to the kiosk, to be rewarded
with some gaspers. “It comes every
morning at 10.15,” the wbed-seller told
me. So do I from now onwards,
* sic * ♦
“Fleet-street”; Scotland Yard recently
opened its doors to members of the press
and showed them the works. Sights in-
cluded the Yard’s “Colored Crime Map.”
On it, every offence, big or smdll, is
marked in a special classifying color.
Detectives peruse this map, see at a glance
the moving waves of different types of
crime, and increase their constabulary at
the fringes. Applying their color code
to the map of the world, I find that the
British Empire, shown in red, would be
inhabited entirely by burglars; Asia, in
yellow, would be the lair of footpads and
America, in green, of murderers. Russia,
in pink? Bag-snatchers.
* * Ap ♦
“Zake”; The heavily-laden lorry tore
up Hunter-street to beat the imminence
of the George-strfeet traffic cop’s upraised
mitt and bounced around the 45deg. turn
on tyres that must have been carrying
about 351 b. pressure. As it slewed three
heavy solid steel discs, each weighing- the
best part of a hundredweight, shot off
the lorry. Two crashed to the roadway,
biting into the blocks; the third hit the
other two and ricocheted on to the foot-
path. A girl screamed and leaped aside,
her nimbleness alone saving Tier legs be-
ing snapped like carrots. The driver
pulled up, backed into the gutter and
proceeded under the cop’s benevolent eye
to retrieve the two discs on the roadway.
Then he went for the one on the foot-
path. As he heaved it on to its edge prior
to skulldragging it to the lorry he re-
marked cheerfully to an old gent look-
ing on: “Gripes, y’ never know what
these things’il do. One that come off the
other day bounced like a two-up penny,
and another I had to chase for nearly a
hundred yards.” Did someone mention
about tying dangerous things like that
on? Don’t be silly—that would be too
much trouble.
* * * sfc
“Brier”: Methodist Church authorities
in Victoria have been set a nice problem.
Their rules provide that aspirants to the
ministry “must submit themselves for
examination” in certain specified sub-
jects, one of which is history. At the last
examination one candidate handed in a
sheet entirely blank except for the state-
ment that he lacked the knowledge
necessary to answer any of the questions.
Plucked, he appealed on the ground that
the laws of the church did not stipulate
that a pass was necessary ; he had “sub-
mitted to an examination in history” and
had therefore complied fully with the
regulations. He was admitted. On
appeal the president-general of the Aus-
tralian Conference ruled that handing in
a blank sheet does not constitute “sub-
mitting to examination,” but decided that
the wording of the law should be changed
forthwith.
/** * *
“Ceg”: The bankers’ clearing houses
will pass out of existence if Chif.'s
nationalisation proposals become law.
With only one bank the need for ex-
changes will disappear, and the long-
familiar sight of the exchange clerks in
the cities hurrying to and from the clear-
ing house or meeting at the appointed
bank in the country towns will be no
more. Nowadays these exchange clerks
are often trim-looking girls; 40 years
ago the job was done by dignified gentle-
men in frock coats and top hats. Clearing
houses are Voluntary systems operated
by their members and managed by an
inspector, whose duty it is to see that
the rules are observed. Thus, definite
times are fixed for clearing and the
inspector, strictly at those times, closes
the doors until the exchange has been
completed. Woe betide the clerk who is
mte he is locked out until the next
exchange. In Melbourne the inspector
or the clearing house sits on a sort of
bench, something like a police magis-
trate, where the activities of the whole
room are under his notice. The pro-
ceedings are interesting and somewhat
noisy with the different calls such as “Take
it away, Union.” Each bank has its own
compartment. Vast sums are involved,
the average weekly value of cheques
cleared through the seven Australian
clearing houses being over £9O millions.
Take it away” now has another signifi-
cance.
* * * *
Domino ’; My barber was in an
expansive mood ; on the previous Satur-
day the neddies had run even more than
usual against the punters. After watching
his son tot up a column of figures three
times for three different results Old
Clippers proceeded to give me the low-
down on the s.p. business, beginning with
methods of dodging the cops. His
final remark as we parted left me
floundering. “I know the s.p. game
from A to Z,” he confided, proudly,
“and what I don’t know Bill knows—and
I taught ’im.”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: “Jasby” (B.
13/8/’47) is only too blanky right about
the “decline and decay of words through
misuse and bad associations.” Take
“probe,” a little blunt-ended instrument
used by surgeons for poking about in
wounds. And “bottleneck,” something
that should need no explanation to any
Australian concerning its only fit and
proper use and association. Yet my
morning rag has a favorite headline:
“Probe on Bottlenecks,” enough to spoil
one’s breakfast by its horrid suggestion
of some poor blighter shot full of them
by a bomb landing on his favorite pub
and a surgeon doing the grim job of
locating each one.
* * *' *
“Ike Hollar”; That Sydney Judge’s
comments about a gift bottle of whisky
given by a businessman to a public ser-
vant suggest that in yet another way
this world is liable to become a drabber
place if socialisation comes to stay. In
private business an exchange of several
courtesies usually relieves the stern busi-
ness ; and firms normally provide “execu-
tives” with special expense accounts so
that they can keep up thqir end in the
social exchanges. The firms do not expect
bribery, and they don’t develop dark sug-
gestions that an “executive” is betraying
their trust because he is shouted to front
seats at a fight by the representative of
another firm what time his wife is en-
tertained at a theatre party. Apparently
no such gestures could be extended to a
public servant without stirring the direst
suspicions of wrongdoing. In defence of
his reputation the public servant would
have to refuse dourly even the offer of
a drink at the corner pub with any per-
son having dealings with his department.
* * * *
“J.K.”: Curious names for children
(B. 13/8/’47)? In a business where full
Christian names are requested many
strange names and associations come to
light. One lady owned up to the name
of Floriferous, explaining that just prior
to her birth her dad, strolling through
the Botanic Gardens, saw the name on a
stick and liked it.
* * * *
“K.G-.C”: Mention of Deeming (B.
13/8/’47) and the fact that the tenancy
of the house in which the Box Hill (Vic.)
murder was perpetrated was eagerly
sought reminds me that the house in
which Deeming lived is still standing in
Windsor and is occupied. Mr/. Deem-
ing’s grave in the Melbourne Cemetery
carries a peculiar epitaph which reads:
To those who hereafter come reflecting
Upon the text of her sad ending,
To warn her sex of their intending,
For marrying in haste is depending
On such a fate too late for amending.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The reason
treasure-trove is found in queer hiding
places is usually that the repository has
been forgotten by the people who stowed
it there. Years ago a writing friend of
mine woke up with a hazy recollection of
the night before, but with one definite
idea in the murky clouds of memory ; his
last act before tumbling into bed had
been to hide six sovereigns. He turned
his den upside down without recovering
them. He had a wrathful suspicion that
his wife had discovered his hoard, but he
dared not open up the subject. Months
passed and he had almost forgotten his
loss when one night, looking for a book,
he knocked a candlestick from a shelf.
The candlestick, being metal, was un-
damaged ; but the fall knocked the half-
burnt candle from the socket and coins
clinked on to the floor —six of them. His
boozed idea that under the base of the
candle would be the best hiding place for
his coins had justified itself. But for an
accident it could have continued to
baffle evfen himself.
PIPES AND GLASSES.
How thankful must cartoonists feel, with reason,
When any public man, beside his phiz,
Has got some attribute that they can seize on
To indicate exactly who it is,
Things that afford both adequate and ample
Scope for their artistry to grip and gripe,
Like Doctor Evatt’s giglamps, for example.
Like Chifley’s quite inevitable pipe.
The collars Gladstone wore were reckoned
famous
For making him identifiable;
And as for Reid, the veriest ignoramus
Could always spot him by his monocle.
Churchill would seem an unfamiliar figure
Unless a fat cigar his mouth bedecks;
And now our local craftsmen fall with vigor
On Chifley’s brier pipe and Evatt’s specs.
How ceaselessly on Ben’s and Bert’s opinions
Artists in black-and-white their views dis-
burse !
You’d think that no one else in these dominions
Mattered a solitary tinker’s curse.
Pictorially at least their fame outclasses
That of all others of their rank and type,
Evatt surveying life through horn-rimmed glasses
And Chifley sucking his eternal pipe.
I cannot tell, although I’m not defective
’ In loyalty to King and Crown, I hope,
What Bill McKell looks like in close perspective.
I wouldn’t know him from a bar of soap.
Yet I must gaze until my optics tire,
Since hackneyed repetition tends to vex,
On Chifley biting on that homely brier
And Evatt peering through those massive
specs. •
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: The home-going, peak-hour
crowd in our Sydney suburban train were
swaying around on their straps and
snatching glimpses of headlines of the
papers of the lucky few seated when the
driver, playfully trying out a new set of
brake shoes, played billiards with *the
carriage occupants as he screeched to a
stop. One big fellow reeled into an-
other passenger, who cannoned off the
cush, heaving back on to the big fellow’s'
shin. “Sorry,” he barked. The big fel-
low, whose expression was simply made
for “So you should be!” came surpris-
ingly back with a growled “It’s orright
—my fault.” This example of chivalry
put the other bloke on his mettle. “No,
it was mine—l should have grabbed this
stanchion.” The big fellow’s chin stuck
out. “I said it was my fault, see?” he
rasped. The other bridled. “Well, I
say it was mine!” Two vertical lines
appeared between the big fellow’s eyes.
“Are you calling me a liar?” he de-
manded. “No,” responded his fellow-
traveller, “but it wouldn’t be an over-
statement.” There was no brawl —the big
fellow was carried by the surging mob
on to the platform and as it was his
home station, anyway, he evidently didn’t
dfeem it worth while to be late for tea
just to settle whose fault it was. Still, it
does, I think, tend to confound those
critics who are always saying that you
can never get politeness in Sydney,
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Tell “Derwent” (B.
20/8/’47) that my objection to compul-
sory and universal finger-printing was that
it is only a fresh example of the modern
workhwide craze for centralisation and
regimentation. If I had my fingers tabbed
by a Government department I should be
able to rest reasonably assured that I
shall never be hanged in mistake for some
other person, but one thing always leads
to another in these matters and the next
step will no doubt be universal blood
”Listen— YOU’RE the little pig that's going to get none!”
tests to save me getting mixed up with
another baby in the cradle. The Nazis
pushed the principle to its logical con-
ction in their endeavor to produce
what they called a “pure” race, though
there is no pure race and never has been
one. If they had become victors their
ideas would have triumphed. University
professors would have tabulated the ideal
characteristics for the nation, eugenists
would have euthanised all those who
didn’t measure up to the requirements
and, having eliminated all the Shelleys,
Byrons, Heines and Goethes, they would
have produced a blonde-haired, blue-eyed
giant with a pinhead.
“1.A.5.”: “F.S.” (B. 11/6/ ’47) said
Turner “implored Ruskin not to write on
Art as he knew nothing about it.” I
implore “F.S.” not to write nonsense for
which there is no authority—and I have
turned up all the available evidence.
As to Ruskin’s standing as art
critic, his appointment as Professor of
Art at Oxford and the testimony of
Holman Hunt, Rossetti, Prout, Burne-
Jones and Morris is answer enough.
The best proof of his genius is in his
works. “F.S.” should re-read Modern
Painters, particularly the first volume.
* * * *
“Melbn”: I see that the Victorian
Railways Commissioners propose to spend
£2,000,000 on extensions to the Flinders-
street station over the Yarra. There
are other expensive projects afoot for
beautifying the upper reaches of that
river, no doubt to make it look as much
as possible like the parts that have been
beautified already. The stretch of the
Yarra that flows through the city used to
be a lovely stream with many bends, little
estuaries and harbors, as can be seen in
the early paintings. The lakes and ponds
in the Botanic Gardens were once a
charming, tree-lined billabong, and should
have been left so. What the authorities
have done is to make the beautified part
of the river look like a main drain. But
Melburnians are strangely ignorant of
their river and don’t know what a heri-
tage has been filched from them.
* * * *
“Sligo”: I’ve had Mike Gaffney, “the
rising young Irish tenor.” A.B.C. had to
cancel the last Sydney concert arranged
for the fellow, and very expensively
advertised, because he had been punched
by a man more than twice his age; and
he didn’t return the punch, as any
Gaffney would. Before he boarded the
plane that took him away from this top-
hospitable land, happy-hunting-ground for
the second-rate in art and for bounders
of all descriptions (his “shanty” imper-
fectly concealed by dark glasses), he gave
his name as Weinstock. I suspected as
much.
* * * *
“Minto”: Arresting crooks is not
always a violent business. A notorious
but genteel pickpocket was caught in the
act at Beaudesert (Q.) races. “Just like a
lottery,” he philosophised to the detec-
tive as the police car sped along. “You
never know what you’ll find in a pocket.
Might bh a roll of tenners ; might only
be a few shillings. Might even be this” —
he grinned, and handed the demon’s note-
book back to him,
* * * *
“Anni-Boly”: The only Brisbane re-
tailer sticking to the war-time practice
of closing for lunch has given it up at
last, someone evidently having pierced
his ear-drums with the news that the war
is over. The notice that graced his door
should be sent to the war historian:
“For the convenience of our customers we
are closing daily from 11.30 to 12.30.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Sydney must be due for
another bout of hysteria any time now.
During the last one I dropped in to a
hash-house for a snack, and while waiting
patiently for someone to recognise my
existence I examined again my purchase,
a spring-bow a shiny drawing instru-
ment similar to miniature compasses,
Chancing to glance up, I noticed the girl
sitting opposite regarding me with an
expression of horror. Suddenly she
pushed her chair back, snatched up her
parcels and hurried to a table near the
other end of the room. Mystified, I began
reading the evening paper. There I found
the obvious solution. Two girls were
alleged to have been the victims of a
maniac with a hypodermic syringe, and
girls were warned to beware of the un-
known assailant. My innocent little
instrument could easily have been mis-
taken for a dope needle.
“WILL you close that door?”
“John Dee”; During the long march
from Bonn, across the Rhine and north
to Siegburg, I became pally with a major
of the U.S. Army Air Force. He had
had to bale out of a blazing Thunder-
bolt ; his face was burned, his eyes were
black and sundry cuts and swells made
the picture of marred beauty complete.
Having marched many kilometres
throughout the day, he got gingerly to
his feet after a tantalisingly short spell
and said to me: “Say, Jack, this shore
is the life —plenty of fresh air and exer-
cise, no gorgin’ ourselves with food, no
booze or chasin’ around after women!
But hell, boy! Wait till I hit that Lon-
don town again!”
* * * *
“Viz”: Of the many illusions held dear
by readers and writers of “whodunits,”
one of the most cherished is the belief
that quicklime possesses the magical
ability of making dead bodies vanish.
Actually it is, if anything, a preservative.
More than one murderer has gone to
the gallows through using it, and Frank
Harris wrote that the body of Oscar
Wilde was found in a good state of preser-
vation when exhumed after two years in
quicklime. When Wilde himself wanted
to dispose of a body quickly, as in his
The Picture of Dorian Gray, he wisely
omitted the details and had the unfortun-
ate corpse poured down the sink, off-
stage, with the aid of “chemicals.”
* * * *
“Sheckle”; Japan’s economics are be-
coming even grimmer. This can be
judged from the recent outcry there on
the proposed design for a new banknote.
Although the Nip Government declared
“the note will glorify peaceful Japan”
(it holds a picture of the Peace Dove
with its wings uplifted in the “contact”
position) financial heads objected on the
ground that “it might suggest soaring in-
flation to the people and start a spending
orgy.” Also showing signs of an im-
minent financial perish are the priests
of Japan’s 110,000 Shinto shrines. Be-
fore losing the war, the Government
found salaries and maintenance. The
MacArthur regime stopped these sub-
sidies and the temples are ■ already a
million yen in the red. To help out, one
shrine is selling “sacred sickles” to give
the flock some pull with the harvest gods,
while from Kyoto comes news that the
priests are selling “sacred lollies” to the
children.
* * * ♦
“K.”: The decency shown by the jail-
breakers in the Kelly country (B. 6/8/’47)
is in direct contrast with the Kellys’ treat-
ment of the three policemen they mur-
dered at Stringy Bark Crfeek. They
robbed the dead bodies and left them
staring to the. sun with their pockets
turned inside out. It was not until much
later that Ned “worked” Kennedy’s gold
watch back to his widow, and one of the
gang had a gold ring belonging to one
of the troopers on his finger when his
body was recovered from the pub in
which they made their last stand.
* * * *
“Vaiicy Bill”: The kids acquired a
white kitten with a pink eye and a blue
eye. The thing gambolled happily about
the place, being confined to the back-
yard until it was about half-grown, when
it began to venture to the front. One
morning the milkman failed to deliver.
The missus agitatedly telephoned and got
the reason. The man was coming up the
path when he sighted the pink-eyed kitten.
“Y* don’t get me near one o’ them
things,” he said. “They’re certain bad
luck.” Anyone advise me on how to
persuade the missus that it’s all bunkum?
I ought to state that since the milkman
delivered his warning one kid has had
whooping cough, the missus has sprained
her wrist, her sister up in Mullumbimby
has been fined for having an unregistered
dog and Mr. Chifley has threatened to
“take over” my bank.
* * * *
“Col M.”: Doormats in Britain are
being hacked to pieces by Englishmen
woefully short of gaspers, since someone
discovered that coir gives “body” to the
herb-tobacco now finding ready sale in
the Old Dart. Herbalists report boom
times, though one of them recently
lamented; “If smokers were to use our
herb tobaccos as we sell them, nicotine
smoking would disappear. However,
they cheat and mix ordinary tobacco and
other things with it, and thus lose the
health-giving properties our product con-
tains.” Since reading about the coir I’ve
been careful to pull my doormat inside
at night.
* * * *
“Plop”: My friend has an atrocious
memory, and although he does his best to
improve it I am afraid that his case is
hopeless. I recently asked him for the
loan of a road map and was amazed to
see him go into action. He scribbled
down “map” on three sheets of paper,
depositing them in his hip, inside-coat
and change pockets respectively. A week
went by, and as he had not produced the
map I paid him a visit. At his desk my
friend was writing himself some notes
about some other matter. Leaning against
the inkwell was a foot-square piece of
cardboard bearing in four-inch scarlet
letters “MAP”! He was “terribly
sorry but ...”
♦ * * *
“Morehead”: It happened in the ward-
room of H.M.S. Swiftsure when that K.N.
cruiser was in. Australian waters. Present
were The Bulletin’s Ted Scorfield and
fellow Tynesider Johnny Ross, of Shell
Oil. An argument arose as to the respec-
tive merits of the 3-4-1 and 3-2-3 scrum
in Rugby Union. Ted, who played for
England in 1911, was called upon to stage
a demonstration and give a decision.
Selecting eight officers he arranged them
in one of the two scrum formations
against the bulkhead. As they pushed a
sportive lieut. - commander grabbed
Johnny’s bowler-hat from a table and
tossed it, football fashion, beneath the
first row of the pack. It emerged a few
seconds later in a very crumpled state.
Picking it up, dusting it and punching out
the dents, Johnny, in his fruity South
Shields dialect, solemnly presented his
bowler to the cruiser. It hangs today,
whether in a glass-case or mounted on a
plaque I cannot say, in the wardroom of
the Swiftsure with an appropriate dedi-
catory label.
« * » *
“Skyrider”: He was sitting next to my
table in the coffee shop; he talked while
I waited for my coffee and he went on
while I drank it. The man sitting opposite
to him looked stunned. Twice he leant
forward, but the talker merely raised his
voice a little and the other sank back. At
last Gasbag prepared for the final blow.
“I know- Ben Chifley,” he went on in
that dreadful monotone, “an’ I know
you’ve got the wrong outlook. The
trouble with you”—he paused dramati-
cally—“the trouble with you, and
Menzies and blokes like you, is you talk
too much.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Although they may have
used it, “Indonesia” was not a Japanese
invention. It was the invention of a
German professor who coined it as an
ethnological expression to cover the
dwellings of the Malay race, including
Madagascar and Formosa. The Dutch
never used it, preferring their own “In-
sulinda.” Javanese nationalists took up
“Indonesia” long before the Japs came,
and by removing it from the ethnological
to the political field they made confusion
more confounded. It meant lumping
Malays, Papuans, Polynesians, Negritos
and tree-dwelling aborigines of the outer
islands and others all under one glorious
generalisation, an even more fantastic
mess than the Nazis’ Nordic notion.
NATURAL-HISTORY ITEM.
“Bulldog ants, the most primitive of their kind,
are to be found only in Australia, and could not be
transported to other countries by air until a method
was recently discovered by Miss Ellen Clarke, our
only woman myrmecologist.” — “S.M. Herald.
A myrmecologist! It sounds a mouthful,
Though what it means, I candidly avow,
Despite some slight acquaintance with the
Grecian ... , ,
Language before my schooldays reached com-
pletion,
I never knew till now.
’Twould knit a lot of brows, I shouldn’t wonder,
When quiz competitors are in the lists,
And, like as not, occasion some compunction
If one were asked to specify the function
Of myrmecologists.
But here’s the point. How pleasant the
reflection
That ’mong the primitive inhabitants
Of this fair land ringed by the southern seas,
Along with other aborigines.
Are good old bulldog ants.
The ’roo, the platypus, the kookaburra
Are not the only products to describe
As articles in which we hold exclusive
Right. We’ve exhibits equally obtrusive
Among the insect tribe.
We’ve native bears and other prized possessions
On which the skilled zoologist descants.
Now you can add to birds and to mammalia,.
And trees and flowers peculiar to Australia,
Pugnacious bulldog ants.
Some scientists abroad, it seems, require them,
Though what it is that they propose to do
Now that it’s proved aerial locomotion
Can safely tote such goods across the ocean
I cannot tell. Can you?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


i
smBmBsm9
ii
■
j
ssssa s&msb
m
s m
B : <
. v»
m
*
2 !
Photograph by Davis Boulton
il)s
• and lovely Valerie
Hobson wears the
Dickensian ensemble with fine demureness for her part as Estella
in “Great Expectations”. But, once ‘shooting’ is over, out
come the modern clothes and new Clarks shoes \*hich trans-
form Estella into a very twentieth - century Miss Hobson.
Made by C. & J. CLARK, Ltd.
(Wholesale only). Street, Somerset, England,
London Office : Mitre House, 177, Regent Street ,
London, W.l
SHOES
"K
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
(These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
tbe Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND ,
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE SERVICE MAN
Carnage in India.
“Ek Dum”: When “freedom for
India” was first mentioned seriously be-
fore the Cripps conference during the
war, newspaper and radio oracles were
inclined to gloat over the impending re-
moval of Britain’s greedy clutch from
the poor oppressed freedom-loving
Indians.
The delusion which afflicted these ex-
perts was contained in a picture—put
into their minds mostly by the Communist
party—of a sturdy turbanned race of
about 400,000,000 Indians turning from
their brutally supervised tasks of laboring
for the buck-toothed English to shout
fiercely in unison their determination to
be free.
The real picture of India was of a
land, little more than half the size of
Australia, sliding doyvn through the
rhododendrons of the Himalayan slopes
into a large flat grey plain intersected
by great turgid rivers, and then confining
itself in lush plateaux, as it squeezed part
of its crowded form into the peninsula
of the south. The people, in color rang-
ing from Balkan brown to pitch-black,
and in type from almost European to
Australian Dravidian, were not evenly
“We got any orange paint. Sir? I'd like to
give her a coat o' suntan !”
distributed over the face of their land.
The nearly 400,000,000 of them were
mostly crowded in old, dirty, ant-warren
cities along the banks of the brqwn rivers,
living one family to a room in part, and
in almost as great part out under the
mango tree by a well on a charpoy.
Millions of them seemed to live on the
roads, day and night, their mouths always
open and their tongues working like
steam-hammers. In the far north some
might be observed working in the grey
fields, ploughing earnestly with the kind
of plough that Moses used, towed by any-
thing from a little white bullock to a
large indignant camel. These ploughmen,
seeing you approach, were apt to drop
the plough handle and walk across the
field and put their foreheads on the
ground. - The brutal English have been
trying to break them of this time-wasting
habit for a century or so, but it is their
idea of being matey with the great and,
like a lot of Communist union secretaries,
they love to be noticed by their betters.
The Unobtrusive English
The “brutal” English even in their
heyday were not very much in evidence.
Since the First World War they have
numbered merely a couple of hundred
thousand or so, concentrated mainly in
their own haunts. It was possible, as the
writer found, to travel all the way from
the Persian border to Delhi without deal-
ing officially with more than two or three.
For a generation Indians have been
Executive Councillors, municipal coun-
cillors, Judges, magistrates, professors,
teachers, doctors, civil servants, engineers,
politicians and what-not on such a scale
that in some districts the inhabitants
under 35 have rarely seen a European
in action. But the mark of the British
hand is evident everywhere—in the great,
grey Grand Trunk Road, which snakes
2000 miles across country raised to a
height above the plain and the floods; in
the immense railway bridges ; in the huge
dams of Attock and elsewhere, whence
more land is put under irrigation each
year than the entire extent of irrigated
land in Egypt, and that country has more
irrigated land than any other in the world,
India excepted. The great Montgomery
Canal, straight as a rule, runs 300 miles
across the Punjab from Lahore; 80ft.
wide with a one-way road and tree-
planted borders which pay for its up-
keep from their timbers. This artificial
river—it can be called nothing else—and
others of the kind have been the means
of settling 10,000,000 people in parts of
the Punjab which a generation or so ago
wfere sandy desert.
“Freedom—Free to Slay Itself”
On August 15 all India became
“free” according to the urgings of the
peahen press and of the radio uncles. Its
3000-odd tribes speaking 3000-odd
languages achieved this “freedom.” Its
depressed classes, in many cases oddly
proud of their depressed callings, were
“freed” from class distinc-
tion, of which they had been
little conscious. And India
was let loose in the jungle
of the world, politically a
great, formless thing which
had no national tradition,
since it had never been a
nation, but only a seeth-
ing mass of Rajs, and
Nawaubates, polygars, killa-
dars and gentlemen like the
Naik of Chingleput, before
the British reduced it to
something like form by a
benign and friendly rule
from which they had little
gain.
The only binding tradi-
tions were religious ones,
and these were directed
vaguely along the lines
which were most uncom-
fortable for infidels. In
northern - central India,
round the Punjab and be-
yond, this outlook had been
crystallised by the fact that
it was a poor country,
peopled by hardy out-
backers, and that infidels
were assembled along the
rich rivers where the food
and spoils were. Religious
observances in the border-
lands were, therefore, of a
somewhat exciting nature.
The natural inhabitants
of the outback plains of the
Kipling country, . where
c o J 7 \
white milestones spring up of a night like
the ghosts of Ortheris and Mulvaney—
Umballa, Lhudiana, Amritsar, Lahore —
were very hardy men. Sikhs, not a
numerous race, a mere six million—but
every inch men and all men, with their
black beards and Singh (lion) in the name
of every one of them —and tough
marauder races from the lost tribes and
Alexander’s remnants ; just as tough hill-
men from the Himalayan fringes in-
habiting near-by country. To,these were
added under British rule a new element
in profusion: Hurree Chunder Mucker-
jee, the babu Bengalee, with his flow of
words and his huddled white clothing
which, before he became Europeanised,
made him look like a bundle done up for
the wash. His volubility, his flair for
bureaucracy, his religion and his softness
were from the first an offence to the
locals, even the local Hindus, and for
many of them freedom could mean that
any babu would be fair game.
Religious Fanaticism
August with its new-found liberties fell
in a month in which there are a lot of
satisfying religious festivals in India’s
several calendars, present or adjacent. So
Freedom Day found millions of Indians
either getting over these festivals or
getting ready for them, with their anti-
pathies sharpened and their hates and
religious zeal full blast.
Very few of them understood that they
had become part of a great democratic
nation, but what they did know was that
British rule had ended. And as British
rule was the only rule they knew, they
naturally believed that all authority had
disappeared, since a good many of them
could not bring themselves to believe


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS WILLIAM LANE late of Albert Road
Finsbury Park London. —TAKE NOTICE that NORMA
LYLE LANE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 463
of 1947 pursuant to Part II Of the Matrimonial Causes
Act (Federal) 1945 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse during three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may. enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th January 1948 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
JONATHAN WINGROVE JOYCE, Solicitor, of St.
James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales. — (L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce..
TO STANLEY JOSEPH MONTGOMERY.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET AMELIA MONTGOMERY
has filed her Petition for a Divorce No. 2725 of 1947
fin the ground of habitual drunkenness and cruelty
during 3 years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 11th day
of November 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. BARKELL AND
PEACOCK, Solicitors, of 11c Qastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY. Registrar in Divorce.
DEPENDABLE
Mill'
u
i
■
r i l
%•<
M
, '
v '■;■
-it’s always time for a
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
in the smart MM packs
Capstan’s!
own blend
CAPSTAN Cigarettes are dependable , . .
their special quality is unvarying.
CAPSTAN’S OWN BLEND of forty
kinds of fine Virginia leaf has set a
standard that is rigidly maintained and
cannot be duplicated.
with
vfort
com.
s
“KANGAROO” SERVICE—
SYDNEY TO LONDON
TRAVEL in the Modern Manner —by AIR
to London. The “Kangaroo” Service
offers.speed and comfort with the dual operation
of Lancastrian and Hythe aircraft.
You may fly right through in 2\ days or
leisurely enjoy the fascinating cities of the
Orient in a journey taking little more than a
week . . . with first class steward service always
at your hand.
Three services weekly from Sydney by Hythe
Flying Boat and three by Lancastrian Mail
Plane.
fl*£*A and
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS IN ASSOCIATION WlTtf
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORBQRATIQN
that they were actually supposed to treat
as superiors and the authors of law the
bleating pundits and vakils of New Delhi
and elsewhere.
Any natural feelings which some ot
them did have were intensified by the
sudden realisation that they had been
divided like slaves across an arbitrary
border- between two sets of heretics. It
was singularly unfortunate that this
should happen to the proud Sikhs and
some of the more martial Hindu tribes of
the dry centre.
In the circumstances, parts of the
Punjab area became somewhat like what
Belfast would have been in 1916 if the
Catholic minority had received simul-
taneously the news that the Orangemen
were “up” and that the Royal Irish Con-
stabulary had resigned in a body.
Massacre
All the natural religious instincts and
pent-up indignations of centuries found
vent in a trice. The landscape was full
of horrible scenes. Proud .Lahore, a
city the size of Brisbane, was gutted.
Amritsar, the sacred city of the Sikhs,
began to be cleared of heathen, who were
wiped out with a terrible ferocity. There
was, in a few hours, a three-cornered
massacre spreading like an infection
throughout the great former British irri-
gation area. Mobs of Mohammedans
murdered Hindus and Sikhs; mobs of
Sikhs murdered Hindus and Moham-
medans. Trains were stopped, and re-
sumed their journeys with blood stream-
ing under carriage doors. In a few days
the bloodshed has been greater than that
of the Indian Mutiny.
The babus of New Delhi, whose wordy
leader Pandit Nehru, only a few days
before had issued the decree that no
European army must exist on the soil of
Asia, found on his doorstep a carnage
which had reached the stage of one of
the bloodiest civil wars in modern times
and which was spreading like the plague,
as the screams and shrieks of one street
or huddled village sent the people of the
next into an Oriental fury, and as the
fires of one town proved a signal for
the lighting of a new bonfire in the next.
The New Delhi pundits had, of course,
an “army” and police. But the integrity
and discipline of these had never been
susceptible to control by their own people.
Mohammedan paratroopers and other
units thrown into the area ceased to
be soldiers and became Mohammedans
at the sight of the first bloody turban
in the dust. They set about massacring
Sikhs and Hindus with gusto as great as
that of the civilians they had been sent to
tame and with better weapons and greater
efficiency.
Out of Control
At the week-end the affair was com-
pletely out of control. Only when
minorities were exterminated did there
seem a chance that the carnage could be
stopped. From the Afghan border to
the Punjab, India is in a state of pogrom,
and as the news spread so will the murder
unless something drastic is done quickly.
It will be hard to do. Only the small
frontier force under the tiny General
Rees and the steadfastness of Gurkha
troops, the only ones who still have
British company officers, saved the whole
business from getting out of hand days
earlier and spreading right through
central India wherever there was a
minority to kill.
Even if native Indian troops could be
effectively used their use is so dangerous
as to be almost impossible on a large
scale, and for religious reasons must
sooner or later produce a state which
would turn massacre into civil war be-
tween the two Indias.
The shade of General Dyer, who was
vilified to the ends of the earth by an
ignorant press when he took his future
in his hands and unwillingly fired a few
shots which stopped a similar outbreak
a quarter of a century ago at Amritsar,
must sometimes rise up among familiar
scenes and look sadly on the carnage.
All old Indians, white or otherwise,
were pretty clear as to what would hap-
pen when India became freed. It is
years since Pertab Singh—himself a
Gujerat Rajput—uttered his famous say-
ing that the day the British left India
there would not be left a rupee or a
virgin or an uncut throat south of the
Ganges.
Yet Britain’s “Labor” Government
hurriedly proceeded with its plans against
all advice, backed by the self-accusing
press which has been so eager to assist
in the “freeing” of colonial peoples from
“British imperialism.” How many lives
that Moscow-sponsored policy has cost
in China, in India, in Burma and in In-
donesia already no man knows, but any
man who knows these countries and
their peoples can give an awful guess.
More Moves in Indonesia.
“Ek Dum”: On August 26 the mud-
dling Security Council of U.N.O. issued
nnothej cease-fire call to the Dutch and
Indonesians, having come to vague deci-
sions about “arbitration” and inquiry.
The initiative was taken by a Moscow
satellite, Poland. Ten out of 11 nations
represented voted for the move. Britain
abstained. Meantime the Indonesians
had accepted—as they accept everything
without any intention of honoring
their agreements —the Council’s previous
arrangement to call for consuls’ reports on
the implementation of the cease-fire order
of August 1. The Council rejected a
proposal that the International Court
should be asked to decide whether U.N.O.
was entitled to interfere. This, put for-
ward by Belgium, was supported by
America, Britain and France. The Soviet
satellites voted against it and Australia
sat on the fence.
One champion of “our Indemesian
comrades” has been very silent on the
question during the last few days —
Pandit Nehru, presumably because he
received a petition from the Indian com-
munity in Sumatra asking his Govern-
ment to send a commission to Sumatra to
study the miserable plight of the Indians
in Indonesia. It described local condi-
tions :
Robber bands, all of them having their
Gestapo section, were organised by the
Republicans along Fascist lines. They kid-
napped Chinese and Indians and law-abid-
ing Indonesians. They set fire to their
victims’ houses and tortured them. Well-
to-do Indians left the country, but the poor
had to stay, and life was made hell for
them by gangs whose bestiality knew no
limits Attempts by the Republican
army to control these fanatics were use-
less After the houses of Chinese and
Indians had been looted the occupants were
forced to return indoors and whole rows
of houses were set on fire.
For two years the Soekarno Government
did not interest itself in the atrocities com-
mitted against Indians... .It is not our in-
tention to take sides with the Dutch but
we must admit that the Dutch have been
very moderate and have left no stone un-
turned to reach agreement with the Re-
public.
Van Mook on Japs
The Dutch, after seeking, in the in-
terests of negotiation, to avoid telling the
whole story of Japanese participation in
the organisation of Indonesia, changed
their tune. Dr. Van Mook gave the
facts in a broadcast. He said that when
defeat became certain the Japanese
determined that, as they could not keep
the Indies, they would leave them so dis-
organised that decent reconstruction
would become almost impossible. They
proceeded to misuse the Indonesian
nationalist movement, handing over the
bulk of their armaments to violent and
irresponsible groups of Jap-trained
auxiliaries and youth organisations. In
the result murder, kidnapping and pillage
became worse than during the war. Arms
now remained chiefly in the hands of
groups led by war lords who were not
interested in an orderly settlement of the
country.
A London “Times” leader of August 22
confirmed Dr. Van Mook’s statement that
the cease-fire order was interpreted by
the Indonesians as a military defeat of
the Dutch and led them to believe that
they need fear no further Dutch military
action and could carry on their own
operations with impunity.
The Dutch Worm Turns
It is a business which Australia would
be well out of, more particularly as the
Dutch people are gradually losing
patience with the transport and trade
boycotts. R.A.A.F. participation in the
boycott brings “Government” policy
specifically into line with that of Com-
munist unions and courts reprisals. In-
deed, reprisals were threatened last week
by sections of the Dutch press in the
Netherlands and in Java, which pointed
out that Australian aircraft on the Singa-
pore run fuel at Soerabaya.
The position in which Australia finds
itself because of its Government’s pander-
ing to Communist unions is a disgrace
which it will take long to wipe out. Con-
currently with the opening of the
A.C.T.U. conference in Melbourne, the
“Indemesian comrades” talked of ask-
ing Australia to be their representative at
the U.N.O, “arbitration.”


ASK FOR
1847
~tjOr
MAKERS OF GOOD WINE FOR 100 YEARS
PERSONAL ITEMS
Newcastle, now in the throes of cele-
brating its 150th birthday, was only half
that age when Matthew Charlton, oldest
veteran of public life residing in the dis-
trict, first went there from Linton (Vic.),
where he was bom 81 years' ago. Lamlr-
ton Colliery, where young Charlton later
worked, had not long been established,
and the big Maitland fields were still
awaiting survey by Professor David.
Charlton went to work in the mines at
12 as a trapper, and was on the coal face
at 18. His father had been first a Dur-
ham coalminer, a digger on the Victorian
goldfields and then a Newcastle coal-
miner. The son followed the same pat-
tern, joining the W.A. goldfields rush in
the ’nineties and returning to Newcastle
after a few years. In the west he was a
foundation member of the Amalgamated
Miners’ Association, and after his re-
turn to the coalfields he took an active
interest in politics and entered the N.S.W.
as member for Waratah at a
by-election in 1903. Next year he was
returned for Northumberland, and held
the seat until 1910, when he resigned to
enter Federal politics as M.H.R. for
Hunter. He represented Hunter for 18
years, and from 1922 to 1928 was Leader
of the Opposition, In 1924 he was Aus-
tralian delegate to the League of Nations
Assembly in Geneva.
When a Bulletin man on a visit to
Britain got back to his hotel one even-
ing k couple of months ago he found a
cryptic note awaiting him: “Mr. Back, of
New South Wales, phoned. Dinner for
Professor Hydes cancelled.” Years of
practice in deciphering Aboriginalities
pars, stood him in good stead, and he
correctly interpreted that the two
mysterious parties mentioned in the
message were the Bank of N.S.W. and
Professor Hytten, economic adviser to the
’Wales since 1935. Norwegian-born
Hytten came out to these parts in 1910,
graduated M.A. at Hobart with honors
in economics, put in a few years in
journalism in Hobart and Adelaide, and
was appointed Professor of Economics
at the University of Tasmania in 1929.
During the depression years he was
economic adviser to the Tasmanian
Government. The reason for the cancel-
ling of the London function was not
panic induced by pre-knowledgft of Chif.’s
bank grab, but a slight indisposition on
the part of the prof., which will probably
make him swear off Rangoon water dur-
ing his return flight later this month.
Death has deprived Queensland of one
of its notabilities, Edward Douglas.
A son of that John Douglas who was an
M.L.A. in N.S.W. before Queensland be-
came a “colony” and afterwards Premier
of Queensland, Commissioner for New
Guinea and Government Resident at
Thursday Island, Edward was born in
Brisbane in 1878. At 13 he went
with his three brothers to St. Benedict’s
College (Scotland), studied there for four
years, returned and took up law as
associate to Samuel Griffith, then Chief
Justice. After 25 years in law, and
specialising in company law and taxation,
he was made a Judge in 1929. Justice
Robert Douglas is a brother.
Dr, A, E. V. Richardson, prominent
in Australian agricultural affairs for
nearly 40 years, presided over the 26th
meeting of the Australian and New
Zealand Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, held last month in Perth.
Since 1937 he has been with the C.S.I.R.
•—he is the Council’s chief executive
officer. Earlier he had charge in turn of
the Agricultural Departments of S.A-, and
Victoria and of the Waite Research
Institute in Adelaide. The Victorian
Government sent him to Canada and
U.S.A. in 1918 to study agricultural
education and research and he has twice
been abroad on Commonwealth missions
—to the Empire Agricultural Research
conference in 1927 and to Ottawa in
1932.
After World War I had sealed the death
warrant of the old-time sailing ships a
Finnish sea captain from Mariehamn in
the Aland Islands brought them a reprieve.
During the 1920’s Gustav Eriksen bought
up most of the windjammers still capable
of putting to sea —in many cases the ship-
breakers were the only other bidders —re-
fitted them, manned them with old shell-
backs and youngsters in search of adven-
ture and scoured the world for cargoes
to keep them going. One of the last trades
open to the sailers was the Australia-td-
Europe wheat run and most of the Eriksen
fleet —more than 40 vessels flew his house-
flag—at some stage of their career loaded
wheat at one or other of the South Aus-
tralian outports and competed in the
annual Grain Race to Europe. Hitler’s
war almost completed the work of the
first one. Few of the old windbags are
still in commission and a fortnight ago
Eriksen himself sailed into the sunset.
He was 74.
Artist Oswald Birley, the Maorilander,
recently painted Clement Attlee to the
latter’s satisfaction. Birley spent two
week-ends at The Chequers and remarked
Attlee never fidgeted. Some six months
ago the Auckland-born artist did a por-
trait of the Duke of Beaufort for Queen
Mary as a reward for the duke’s hospi-
tality to her during the war. Other sub-
jects of his brush were King George V
and Queen Mary, Lord Birkenhead and
four Viceroys of India.
Retired as director of W.A. Govern-
ment Laboratories H. Bowley, who
joined the Government service 49 years
ago as a cadet in the Geological Survey.
He was senior mineralogist and chemist
in that branch when it was merged with
the Government Analyst’s Laboratory in
1923, and later succeeded Dr. E. S. Simp-
son as head of the combined departments.
He is an authority on W.A, coal, and
when the Fuel Technology Bureau was
established a short time ago he became
its director.
At 42, Judge R. C. Kirby goes from
the N.S.W. District Court to the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court; when the
Stevedoring Industry Act comes into
operation he is to be chairman of the
Commission. With Justices Webb and
Mansfield Kirby sat on the War Crimes
Commission which investigated Japanese
atrocities, and he also inquired on behalf
of the Commonwealth into the killing by
Indonesians of three Australian officers.
More recently the N.S.W. Government
appointed him Royal Commissioner on
the Keogh case.
At 78, Arnold Wall climbed The Bul-
letin stairs with ease after flying over
from New Zealand. Which was not sur-
prising, for he has also climbed the Matter-
horn and the Dent du Midi and, photo-
graphing rare primulas, 19,000 feet up
the Himalayas. This year he climbed
7000 feet in the Craigieburn , Range,
Canterbury. His poefry, appropriately,
stands on the summit of contemporary
,New Zealand writing; a collected edition
POET .
is long overdue. Besides writing verse
for The Bulletin for the last 40 years,
Wall has had a distinguished professorial
career, has discovered several species of
alpine plants, some of which are named
after him, and .has published several
botanical books, including The Flora of
Mt. Cook. He was born in Ceylon and
educated in England. His eldest living
sister is the Dowager Duchess of Somer-
set ; his son, another Arnold, is a group-
captain in the R.A.F.; his daughter Edith
is a well-known Sydney black-and-white
artist and another—Hilary—is married
to Norman Richmond, Professor of
Economic History at Canberra Univer-
sity.
Whether there is something in the
atmosphere of a telegraph office that sets
men pondering on matters spiritual or
whether the incessant clack-clack of the
Morse key impels them to seek the
cloistered calm of cathedrals, there must
ARCHBISHOP.
be some influence at work that has
nothing to do with postal regulations.
Sydney’s Cardinal Gilroy was once a
telegraphist and so was Matthew Beovich,
since 1939 R.C. Archbishop of Adelaide.
The Archbishop was born at Carlton
(Vic.) 51 years ago, and, after deciding
that service with the P.M.G. was not his
real vocation, studied for the priesthood
at the Urban University in Rome. Or-
dained in 1922, he returned to Melbourne
as assistant priest at North Fitzroy. He
is a Doctor of Philosophy as well as of
Divinity, and before his elevation to the
Adelaide Archdiocese he. was director of
Catholic education in Victoria.
Another man who started off on the
P.M.G. payroll, then sought other fields,
is Patrick Shaw, successor to W.~ Mac-
mahon Ball as head of the Australian
Mission in Japan. He has been with the
Department of External Affairs for eight
years and was a member of the Legation
staff in Tokyo when the Pacific war broke
out. After his return to Australia he was
sent to New Zealand as secretary to the
High Commissioner’s office. More re-
cently he has been in Nanking. Thirty-
four this month, Shaw speaks Japanese
and Chinese and holds an Arts degree and
a diploma in Public Administration.
Frank Macfarlane Burnet, of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute at Royal
Melbourne Hospital, was in Adelaide
last week to deliver the Stirling Memorial
lectures —subjects allergic disease and
t.b. Burnet holds degrees of M.D. (Melb.)
and Ph.D. (London), and in 1926-27 was
Beit Fellow of the Lister Institute.
Another of Adelaide Uni.’s science
graduates, John M. Cowley, goes to the
States with a C.S.I.R. studentship to do
research work at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of' Technology. A son of the
manse, he began work on the electron
diffraction camera while at Adelaide Uni.,
and has since pioneered the electron
microscope in Australia. Since gradu-
ating, Cowley has produced an improved
design which is now used at the C.S.I.R.
plant at Fishermen’s Bend.
In Melbourne looking for democracy
in action in order to tell Frenchmen all
about it is M. Emmanuel Blanc, journalist,
barrister and writer, who enjoys the
unique distinction of being correspondent
for the paper he founded under the noses
of the Nazis when there was a price on
his head. He helped to edit the under-
ground newspaper “Resistance,” which be-
came “Ce Matin” when it came to the
surface after the debacle of Hitler. He
will write a book about Australia.
The name of Frederick W. Goudy,
dead in New York at 82, means nothing
to most people, but to anyone connected
with the printing industry it recalls a man
who designed more than 100 type faces.
Till his mid-thirties Goudy was a clerk,
usually hard-up, often out of a job; his
hobby was studying types and printing.
He founded the Village Press, books from
which, handset by his wife from his own
type designs, won medals and awards and
are now collectors’ items. The chief
characteristics of a Goudy type-face are
simplicity and clearness ; he led the break-
away from the ornate, difficult-to-read
types of last century.
There must be some affinity between
black-and-white artists and deep-sea
yachting. Jack Earle, of Sydney, in
Kathleen is somewhere in tropic seas
on a world cruise, and E. W. Player,
a Melbourne commercial artist, plans
another. Player, who has had a long
acquaintance with blue water, and once
sailed the 40ft. yawl Tassy to Fiji and
back, has an option on the 80ft.
auxiliary ketch Taipan, a one-time island
trader, requisitioned by the R.A.N. during
the war and now lying at Fremantle. He
has signed on a merchant marine officer
as navigator, a Collins-street doctor, a
dentist, engineer, radio mechanic, scientist,
artist, geologist, writer and photographer
and wants six more men who are ready
to contribute £350 apiece. Renamed the
Shangri-la, the vessel will weigh anchor
on Christmas Day, and sail round Tas-
mania, along the east coast of Australia
and up through the islands to China and
Japan, thence to London by way of Singa-
pore and Sbez, with a look in at Greece
and Benghazi—most of the crew are ex-
servicemen. From Europe she’ll cross the
Atlantic, nose into Hudson’s Bay, down
the U.S. coast and so to South America
and into the Pacific through the Straits of
Magellan. The voyage will occupy four
years and cover 60,000 miles. Player is
an ex-Melabourne Grammar boy, and
served with, the R.A.A.F. and the 1st
Australian Paratroop Battalion in N.G.
Appointed American Consul in
Adelaide, Elvin Siebert moves over from
Wellington (M.L.), where he has held a
similar post for the past two years. Born
in Indiana, he was at Puerto Plata prior
to his appointment as American Consul
in Southampton in 1932, and at Shanghai
in ’35, Later he served in Hongkong,
Bangkok and Rio de Janeiro.
Dead in Sydney at 72, Adam McCay
had been a figure in Sydney journalism
since 1912, when he came from Mel-
bourne “Argus” to the “Sun.” He edited
the “Sun” fnom 1916 to 1919, when he be-
came first literary editor of “Smith’s
Weekly.” Later he edited the “Sunday
Times” and the “Daily Guardian,” was
on the staff of other papers and wrote
specials and book reviews almost to the
end. Over the years he was a frequent
contributor of prose and verse to The
Bulletin. His topical verse was of first-
rate quality. Thirty-three years ago this
month he published in The Bulletin
some verses entitled “The Gasometer,”
based on an incident of the retreat from
Mons ; requests for copies of the verses
are still received.
Into the Silence; —
At Sydney, as a result of an accident, T. W.
Beckett, organist of St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Saw service in World War I, and was organist
at St. Helen’s, Lancashire, when Archbishop
Wright, in 1928, invited him to St. Andrew’s.
He was a composer of note, and for a number
of years an examiner of Sydney Conservatorium.
In Hobart, at 84, Edwin- Herbert Webster,
pioneer of wool-selling in the Speck and founder
of Webster’s shipping agency. A life member
of the Royal Yacht Club of Tasmania, he built,
raced and sold yachts of all types, and founded
the Derwent D-class yachts.
In Melbourne, Mrs. A. M. Gahan, who for
20 years sold newspapers on Flinders-street
station. It was one of the largest newspaper
businesses in the city. All her four sons are
news vendors, one of them in Sydney,
In Hobart, A. H. Lucas, of National Bank.
S.A.-born, he managed branches in four States
and was for many years at the London branch.
At Griffith (N.&.W.) Donald Grant, at 101,
resident nearly 80 years in the Riverina, some-
time manager of Ilhlawa station, Hay. For the
last 35 years he grew rice, which his family
pioneered as a commercial proposition in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
There is always a reason for Victoria
League parties. League Club chairman
Miss Mary Chomley recently entertained
royally to welcome overseas wives and
new and visiting members.
With the chairwoman, Mrs. Rupert
Greene, and her helpers, Mrs. Guy Bake-
well and Miss Leila Armytage, Miss
Chomley had her work cut out to see that
everyone met everyone else. Visitors
included Lady Crocker, wife of the
C.-in-C. Middle East Forces, who is in
Melbourne visiting her daughter, Mrs. J.
K. W. Bingham, whose husband is on
General Hayden’s staff. Mrs. Hayden
was at the party keeping an eye on her
daughter, who had an appointment with
the dentist, and so was Mrs. R. A.
Staughton, who had just recovered from
her painful visit to a dentist. Also at
the party were Mrs. de Burgh Ker and
her daughter Patricia, the latter most
attractive in a brown suit and sage-green
hat. They are on a visit from their home
north of Townsville. Mrs. A. R. M.
Bridge, wife of Admiral Bridge, was there
with Miss Jean Hamilton, sister of
Admiral Sir Louis Hamilton. Mrs.
Matthew Robinson, of Sydney, was with
her daughter Kathleen, who is now
appearing in “Dangerous Corners” at
the Princess. Penelope Nettlefold took
her turn at carrying round the tea cups
and came with Mrs. Haselden from G.H.
Miss Myra Roper, out from England to
be warden of the University Women’s
College, was busy getting acquainted with
fellow-members of the League, and other
guests included Mrs. A. P. Rowe, wife
of the Scientific Adviser to the Common-
wealth Government, and Mesdames J. J.
Dutton and P.; S. Gee, both wives of
R.A.F. officers.
One of the last parties for Margaret
Crisp before her wedding, was given by
two of her cousins, Mrs. G. Lamond and
Mrs. James Farrow, at the Australia.
Mrs. Lamond banded her small black hat
in red, white and blue ribbon and wore
it with a black suit and white blouse ;
Mrs. Farrow wore a myrtle-green bonnet
with a matching suit. Among the guests
was Marion Mitchell, who will marry
George Brown at Scotch College Chapel
on September 23. The guest of honor
wore black with a small hat of pink and
green feathers. Pat Dearden banded her
hair with a wide blue ribbon and wore
a black frock. Natalie Lane’s grey suit
was teamed with a white frilly blouse.
China’s Consul, Martin Wang, and his
wife arranged a special Chinese dinner
at the Golden Dragon as a birthday sur-
prise for Mrs. W. K, Burnside. Mrs.
Wang wore a soft rose-toned wool
Oriental gown, with blue satin binding
the high neckline and cuffs. The guest
of honor chose a brown frock, gold-
studded. Mrs. David Worrall’s black
frock had touches of azure, the blue
yoke being silver-studded ; her small hat
was trimmed with black ostrich feathers.
Among other guests were the A. G.
Warners, Miss E. McLellan and Capt.
Frank Ayre, and Mr. and Mrs, Roy
Sellars.
One of the largest and gayest parties
held in aid of the Y.W.C.A. Silver Drive
was given by Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald on
behalf of the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Heinze. Venue was the recep-
tion room at the Town Hall, which was
a mass of pink blossom, green hydrangeas
and autumn leaves. Mrs. Fitzgerald,
wearing a scarlet wool suit and matching
small hat, received the guests, among
whom were Mrs. Burns Campbell, Mrs.
Reg Baillieu, Mrs. Harold Wootton and
Mrs. O. J. Neilsen. Up in the hills, at
lovely Olinda, Mrs. A. Isaacson had a
small party, and Mesdames Rose Green-
wood and Mrs. J. Stinson did their share
for the Y.W.C.A. at Broadford.
Other parties were given at the
Russell-street headquarters of Y.W. Presi-
dent Mrs. T. C. Rentoul hostessed one,
which took the form of a musical pro-
gramme, arranged by commercial radio
stations. Another was arranged by the
Y.W. mothers’ clubs. At another party
Evie Hayes, star of “Annie Get Your
Gun,” gave a one-woman mannequin
show, as she displayed a few of the de-
lightful hats which will be on sale at the
Fair, next Friday at Melbourne Town
Hall.
Bowls of lovely early-spring flowers
were set at the chancel of St. John’s
Church of England, Toorak, for the wed-
ding of Margaret Crisp to Captain Bruce
Cornish. The bride, who was given away
by her uncle, Mr. A. E. Hotchkiss, is
the only daughter of Mrs. Crisp, St.
Kilda-road, and the late Mr. T. E. Crisp,
formerly of Royal Park. The bridegroom
is the youngest son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. A. W. Cornish, formerly of Murrum-
beena. A trailer of white hyacinths was
a delightful part of the wedding ensemble
and the gown, with its design of true-
lovers’ knots and pansies heavily en-
crusted with crystals and pearls, was of
ivory brocaded satin. The bodice was
softly folded and the yoke of transparent
silk net was outlined with the same lovely
bead trimmings. The skirt featured a
very long train, over, which fell in soft
folds, layers of tulle and an historic
Brussels lace veil lent by Mrs. D. Kir-
wan. Mrs. John Harrison was matron-
of-honor and the bridesmaid was Helen
Cornish, niece of the bridegroom. Both
wore gowns of ivory chiffon, the skirts
shirred on to the draped bodices. Lieut.
Peter Taylor was best-man and James
Farrow and George Lamond were ushers.
As befitted a military wedding, the cake
was cut by the bride with her husband’s
sword. Reception was one of the happiest
and gayest Menzies has known. Mrs.
Crisp wore a smart beaded black gown
with a small flower hat and Mrs. Hotch-
kiss had tiny white arum lilies set in
green ribbon on the black hat she wore
with her black dinner gown. Mrs. Wil-
mot, another aunt of the bride, was also
in black and silver fox furs. Trix.
Fairey had gold jewelled embroidery out-
lining the deep neckline of her lime-green
dinner gown, and her sister, Mrs. D.
Kirwan, chose a pink gold-patterned
taffeta gown. With Dr. J. Lewis was
his wife, her pastel-pink chiffon gown
worn with a hat fashioned of pink
ostrich feathers. Gloria Ladd wore a
bustle gown of black velvet and Merle
Tompkins had a beige lace top to her
black evening skirt. Loris Nettleburg
was an attractive poppet in aqua-blue
lame and Mrs. Ken Hooper was almost
bride-like in her blue lace gown, which
she wore under a white ermine coat and
over her head a white, silver-embroidered
sari. Group-Captain Muster was with
Mrs. Muster, she in a gown patterned in
blue on a white ground. With her black
lace Mrs. Tim Jones wore a white fox
cape-stole and her daughter Betty, in blue
and silver lame, wore a white fox jacket.
Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss is one of the city’s
most energetic workers in good causes.
Married to an American, she worked
through the war years in the American
Red Cross Canteen. A member of the
American Women’s Auxiliary of the
Children’s Hospital, her sartorial elegance
is as notable as her organising ability.
Later in the year Mrs. Hotchkiss will
gather many willing friends around her
to help in the function she is arranging
for the Children’s Hospital, which
will be held at Ripponlea, the home of
Mrs. Tim Jones.
Melbourne folk are going to town “first
nights.” Lovely clothes and luxurious
furs are donned and wives seem to be
having no difficulty in getting their hus-
bands into dinner jackets or tails. The
premiere of “Dangerous Corners” brought
Melburnians flocking into the foyer and
that inveterate first-nighter Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell brought a party. She chose a
gown of white crepe, over it a three-
quarter length jacket of white, patterned
in pink and gold sequins. Included in the
party was Nancy Woodrow in a black-
and-silver gown with a flared black lame
three-quarter length coat. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll had pale blue ostrich feathers in
her Edwardian coiffure to match her
blue frock, which was worn under a dyed
ermine coat. In her party were her
nephew, Fred Gibson, over from Sydney
for the school holidays, and Senator
Dorothy Tangney, who relieved her black
dinner gown with diamente clips. With
Mrs. Colin Mackay, smart in a soft green
dinner gown, was her daughter Robin
wearing a Hartnell model coat, featuring
the new cape sleeves and heavily beaded
at the waistline. Others included Mrs.
Olive Thring, in brown and gold lame;
Betty Branbrook, in grey taffeta with a
watermole coat; Mary Ward, in a white
jersey frock, patterned in black and
royal-blue flowers and wearing silver
foxes; and Mrs. Youlden and her
daughter Mrs- Des. Connors.
From Sydney
Shannon’s graceful and glittering
hooves (even though he was beaten to
the post by Victory Lad) were the magnet
that drew the multitude to Randwick last
Saturday afternoon. Ted Shawns
amazing footwork, his grace and his
elastic-like muscles with equally strong
pull lured hundreds and hundreds to the
Conservatorium. Music-lovers, leaders
of every school of dancing, artists, actors
and even a sprinkling of playwriters
came sprinting up to the Macquarie-
street fastness from about two onwards.
The show opened at 2.30, so there was a
sort of informal sun party beforehand on
the terrace. It was one of those audiences
where everybody knows his neighbors
even though he may not love them.
Leon Kellaway came along with ap-
plause, so did Indian dancer Shivaram.
Mrs. A. E. Grace and Mrs. Eve Wunder-
lich, who never miss a ballet performance
or a great dancer, were early arrivals.
Sumner Locke-Elliott, who goes off to
U.S. next year with a collection of his
plays, Noreen Dangar and Wal Taylor
were other enthusiasts. To his aesthetics
Ted Shawn weds a nice sense of fun.
His “Turkey in the Straw” and “Cuban
in Gala Mood” are both gay and comic.
Mrs. Ida Beeby, who arranged the tour, is
also the American dancer’s accompanist.
Mrs. Harold Dew, wife of the Dean of
the Faculty of Medicine at Sydney Uni-
versity, is president of the Medical
Society’s ball, to be held at the Troca-
dero on September 23. Mrs. Ralph
Hdntley is in charge of the decorations.
This year the huge ballroom will bloom
with hundreds of silver and red balloons.
Mrs. Tom Bateman, Mrs. Malcolm
Earlam and Mrs. Noad are other active
members of the committee. This
photograph of Mrs. Dew is from the
Clarice Boyce studio.
Spring came back to Randwick last
Saturday for the A.J.C. Warwick Farm
meeting. Most women sported a new
hat for the occasion, but even the wide-
brimmed ones have that pushed-back
look, and in spite of sunny days around
the corner Sydney girls like the hat that
leaves the face bare to sun and breeze.
Most striking hats on Saturday were those
combining two or more colors.
Hollywood, especially around Sunset
Boulevarde, is a pleasant place to loiter
for a few days prior to crossing America
from the Pacific, and The Bulletin’s
David Adams was hospitably entertained
by the principal studios. On the
Columbia lot Lucille Ball talked of a
book she had read about the Australian
lyre-bird, and the story that the male led
a solitary life if his mate died obviously
impressed her. Shirley Ann Richards
went along with other Australians to see
a preview of Ron Randell’s first Holly-
wood picture; afterwards there was a
detour to the dress-designing and dress-
making rooms, in which a model of Rita
Hayworth stood prominently. Furs and
frocks worn by Rita in “Gilda” were
kept locked in a strongroom ; these things
are not tossed away at the completion
of a picture like a bridal bouquet. It
was regarded as a high privilege to let
visitors see artists’ designs for costumes
for the coming pictures. At Paramount,
Ray Milland was finishing a picture prior
to going to Denham, in England, to make
another. He was met again—Sistei
Kenny, too —crossing in the Queen Eliza-
beth. M.G.M. at Culver City and
Warner Bros, at Burbank opened their
studios to The Bulletin. Around Holly-
wood there is enough English and Aus-
tralian talent to keep cricket alive. C.
Aubrey Smith is the G.0.M.; it is 60
years since he played in Sydney.
Last afternoon before she flew off by
clipper to America with daughter
Catharine was spent by the wife of U.S.
Ambassador Robert Butler with the
Roland Fosters at their Darling Point
home. Roland has been Catharine’s
teacher at the Con., and his singing
studio has weekly echoed to the high,
sweet notes of her Deanna Durbin-like
voice. Mrs. Roland went off to Mascot
to wave farewell to Mrs. Butler and her
daughter, who goes back to college in
U.S. In the clear, cold moonlight of the
early spring morning the take-off had
impressive beauty. Mrs. Eugene Goossens
was also down to wave farewell to the
popular mother and daughter.
“Flynn of the Inland” will make open-
ing speech at the Sydney Shead orchid
show on September 17. This display of
exotic beauties will be held at Cowell’s
White House, and will remain open till
September 19. Prizemoney of about
£250 can be won by successful exhibitors.
The Flying Doctor Service benefits.
American dancer Ted Shawn, whose
season of two performances opened and
closed last week to hurricane applause,
was guest-of-honor at a sherry party in
the Women’s Pioneer Club. Jean Garling
was the chief instigator of this round-up
of the city’s lovers of the arts. She
had got together about 100 leaders of
drama, writing, painting and dancing, and
she saw to it that every guest had a
chance to meet Ted. Mrs. Ida Beeby, of
the Patch Theatre, who is responsible for
the American dancer’s visit to Australia,
came with her daughter, Mrs. John
Thompson. Mrs. Beeby was the one
woman speaker of the afternoon. Malfc
voices were raised by America’s Vice-
Consul, Alexander Johnpoll, Ted Shawn
and Aubrey Halloran. In the moving
groups were seen the Chips Rafferty
couple, Indian dancer Shivaram and
Edouard Borovansky. Newton Goodsell,
M.L. tenor, now on his way to England
for further Study, was the vocalist.
If there had been a traffic policeman
outside the Savoy last Wednesday morn-
ing, he would probably have given all
his signals with the graceful movements
of the classic ballet. Ballet was in the
air that cold still morning, though one did
not go so far as the woman who said
she saw the “Spirit of the Rose” spring
up the steps of the Union Club. Over
at the Savoy there was a first presenta-
tion of a picture whose whole theme was
ballet. It was based on the story of
the tragic and graceful Nijinsky, of whose
first great opening in Russian ballet in
Paris it was said:
He seemed to belong to another world,
he seemed to soar like some strange bird;
The classical purity of his dancing, pro-
duced strictly in the style of Louis XV,
was something that had never been seen
in Paris.
The title of the picture is “Spectre of
the Rose.” The leading part of the
brilliant and emotionally overwrought
Sanine is taken by Ivan Kirov. Aus-
tralian actress Judith Anderson also stars
as “La Belle Sylph”—head of a ballet
school.
Anthony Horderns’ Patio Party intro-
duced fashion’s latest foibles to Sydney
women last week. In the display a com-
pany of slim girls paraded day and even-
ing frocks, the sort of nighties a girl folds
into her trousseau or collects at great ex-
pense when she is going into hospital (and
then mostly finds it’s too darn cold to
wear the flimsies anyway), bathing suits,
topcoats, snuggest of all to gaze at on a
day when the August winds snapped like
a maddened terrier at the torso.
Everything that Paris, New York and
London decree was at the Brickfield Hill
party. Here were the flared and pleated
skirts, the skirt that swung out with an
almost bell-like effect. With your summer
frock it will be smart to wear the almost
three-quarter length swagger coat of light
woollen. With your printed silks you
will wear a sisal-straw hat, the brim wide,
but not too wide, banded in satin or
velvet ribbons. Veiling is back, but not
so wholesale as to have that nationalised
look.
Dress honors at the Society of Artists’
afternoon party last week were divided
between Mrs. Douglas Dundas and the
Conservatorium’s! new director Eugene
Goossens. Mrs. Dundas wore with her
black afternoon frock a small black hat,
its mitre-like fa9ade worn off the fore-
head and its coque plume curving above
the wearer’s left ear. Mr. Goossens was
enwrapped throughout the party in
his new camel-hair coat, beige m
tone and of the new calf-length.
Of course, strong men from colder
climes (even from Melbourne) shiver in
our bleak, unwarmed interiors, compared
with which an Eskimo igloo must
seem centrally heated. Mrs Goossenss
soft woollen coat was full length, its
cherry red brightened still further with
gold buttons. Professor I. Burke, another
guest of honor, had to hurry off tb lec-
ture at the University. S.O.A. s presi-
dent Sydney Ure Smith presided over all
with his usual geniality.
Many happy returns of last weeks
birthday to pretty Wendy Playfair. Con-
gratulations were brought to the Strain
Playfair Woollahra home by a great
company of guests at a party.


'l\V"
"YES, AND IT TAKES
skill in Blending
a TO GET WHISKY LIKE
TAKES SKILL IN • 01 ack SL WMITP 1 "
blending TO get " BLACK & WHITE
COLOURS LIKE THAT"
J "X I r C /7 r y
*3-
rVi
r * ,'v V-,.
-•* ’ 'iU
i
i
WlmM
mmssm
By Appolnfmenf
To H.M. King George VI.
ẅ
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
James Buchanan and Co. Ltd.
BLACK
&
WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
t Dividends— x
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5J p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
jj? £ £, £/ £,
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140,199
1939.. 69,792 10,957 65,856 2,979 143,178
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,846 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,093 165,122
7 p.c.
1944. .114,809 10,958 78,320 30,531 195,653
1-945. .121,063 10,958 73,320 36,785 282,438
1946. .115,868 10,958 73,320 31,590 264,028
1947. ,12('812 10,958 73,320 30,534 300,562
As the eye sweeps down the profits
column it needs to be remembered that
over the eight years to close of accounts
in 1940 shareholders put up £947,815 of
fresh capital at par, raising the figure to
£1,246,666 in 199,234 5? p.c. prefs. and
1,047,432 ords. Over the same period
£1,242,078 net was added to the book
value of fixed assets, including hotels —
there is no price-cutting in the trade ; com-
petition takes the form of buying hotel
properties, thus widening and anchoring
turnover.
The other factor mainly responsible for
stimulating growth in earnings was de-
mand from our own and Allied services
in the s.-w. Pacific area. This demand
tapered sharply in 1946, and fearnings
eased. Then, following demobilisation,
sales got a lift again, and they have been
sustained since by temporary boom con-
ditions —employment has been at the full
at high and rising wage rates, and there
has been a ready market at high prices
for all we could produce and export.
Although shortage of raw materials
(barley and hops) stood in the way of
increased output a year or so ago, when
beer rationing ceased, the position eased
as the thirsty summer months arrived.
The spring in net earnings last term
was £4944 ; that was after allowing what-
ever was considered necessary for con-
tingencies, including £17,916 (up £2920)
for deprfeciation. The £120,812 of profit.
second-best in the co.’s history, covered
pref. requirements (£10,985) and 10.5 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 10, 10.5,
9, 7.9, 6, 7 and 6.5 p.c. back to 1940.
Since money will be needed in the busi-
ness, the board kept the div. at 7 p.c.,
leaving £36,534 to strengthen the prop
for capital (now £300,561).
In the years ahead it will be the relative
levels of turnover and costs that will
determine brewery profits. The selling
price of beer, fixed by officialdom, seems
unlikely to be lifted, there is little pros-
pect of any substantial relief from the
burden of co. taxation, wage rates are
still on the up-grade, the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court’s decision on the 40-hour week
is awaited, and there is no sign of any
early recession in the price of barley,
hops, sugar and other brewing ingredi-
ents. The Government grabs by far the
biggest whack of takings; excise (4s. 7d.
a gallon) alone makes off with about
73 p.c. of the brewer’s gross receipts for
bulk beer. The other 27 p.c., approxi-
mately ss. sd. in the £, has to cover pro-
duction, distribution and other costs (in-
cluding co. tax) as well as profit.
At the moment our national income is
in danger of suffering a contraction, while
costs continue to go steadily up. How
long this dangerous pincers movement
will continue it is impossible to say at the
moment; much will depend upon what
happens overseas, and upon how long
organised labor continues, or is allowed
to continue, its present policy of economic
exploitation. In the past the trade has
held well in relatively lean yfears, and the
comfortable margin between last year’s
earnings and distribution suggests that
the 7 p.c. div. is in no immediate danger.
The year’s brisker trading is further
rfeflected in a growth of £13,158 in book
debts and of £15,458 in stocks:
Paid 1937. 1942. 1946. 1947.
capital £747,700 £1,246,666 £1,246,666 £1,246,666
Liabilities 514,478 540,435 450,443 431,826
Fixed
assets 1,181,013 1,670,789 1,726,367 1,715,667
Stocks . . 104,567 143,960 140,260 155,718
Book debts 132,175 126,611 94,861 100,019
Investments 7,672 28,672 41,788 41,788
The amount coming to outsiders (down
£18,617) includes £211,182 of secured
creditors. When the books closed liabili-
ties exceeded more or less liquids by
£126,301, an improvement of £47,533
over the twelvemonth. The recondition-
ing of plant and licensed premises will
call for considerable outlay when the
time arrives.
The ords., which shot up from the old
official ceiling of 31s. at end 1946 to
395. 6d. in June, have eased to 38s. The
return at 38s. is 3.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div
basis. The prefs. at 275. 9d. yield 3.6 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £7 15s. 3d. prefs. and
255. 9d. ords.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
, .Dividends \ Nominal
Pref. Ke-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves)
£ £ £ £
1937 .. 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
1938 .. 40,019 1980 8 „ „ 36,338 153,074
1939 .. 35,802 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,?06
1940 .. 35,080 1980. 7 „ „ 32,690 154,616
1941 .. 37,497 1980 7i „ ~35,025 155,108
1942 . . 37,008 1980 7} „ „ 35,025 155,111
1943 . . 49,852 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 165,623
1944 .. 59,635 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 185,918
1945 . . 62,360 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 208,938
1946 .. 54,441 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 224,039
1947 . . 33,545 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 222,914
t Subject to goodwill, £25,000, and excluding de-
preciation reserve (£120,000 as at June 80, 1947).
The sharp drop of £20,896 (38 p.c.) in
last term’s net earnings, owing to a con>
bination of mounting costs and reduced
takings, was more pronounced than the
market expected. Before allowing for
taxation (£15,000, down £22,500) the
drop in earnings was £43,396 (47 p.c.).
The usual £lO,OOO was allowed for de-
preciation. The £33,545 of profit covered
the pref. div. and 6.7 p.c. on the £467,003
of ord. capital, compared with 11.3, 12.9,
12.4, 10.2, 7.5, 7.6, 7 and 1.2 p.c. back
to 1939. A point was chiselled off the
div., reducing it to 7 p.c., which called
for £1125 more than the profit claimed
In addition to the £222,914 of reserves
shown in the table, there is £120,000
earmarked for depreciation, the lot be-
ing subject to goodwill, which has a book
value of £25,000.
In the market the price of the f.-p.
pound ords. rose from 3 Is. to 325. fol-
lowing the lifting of share-price controls
at end 1946. The figure eased to 31s.
4d. in June, and has since dropped to
295. The return at 295. is 4.8 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis, which suggests that the
market is doubtful about the future.
The well-protected prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change. Including the depreciation
reserve (ss. 2d. per ord. share), net tan-
gible backing is £25 10s. sd. prefs. and
345. Bd. ords.
What the future level of net earn-
ings of large and fashionable hotels, like
the Australia, will be it is difficult to
say at the moment. The last eight years
cannot be taken as a reliable guide, owing
to the influence of war-time conditions,
and a very different set of circumstances
are at hand from those prevailing pre-
war. Practically every avenue of hotel
earnings is now subject to restrictive con-
trols and influences of one kind and an-
other, and seems likely to remain so, for
some time at any rate. Guest occupancy
has been satisfactory, despite restricted
travel facilities. The trouble is that while
tariff rates and other charges are held
down by official edict, catering and ser-
vice costs have climbed rapidly, owing
to wage lifts, the rise in the price of
foodstuffs and, since the close of accounts,
introduction of the 40-hour week.
Combined with staff and other difficul-
ties, it has all tended to limit the high
standard of comfort and service the co.
used to provide for its patrons. And such
a standard is much more essential to
attraction of overseas and other visitors
than suave speeches by Labor politicians
or distribution of “information” by over-
staffed Government tourist agencies.
Since Australia and the rest of the world
appears to be in for a quieter time than
has been experienced lately, and since,
according to published figures, last term’s
ord. div. was not quite earned, it is
doubtful whether the 7 p.c. can be main-
tained.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Stock . . £8,499 £5,122 £6,182 £5,798
Book debts, etc. 6,399 6,799 6,655 7,217
Cash, etc. .. 22,663 100,405 86,368 81,850
Liquid assets £37,561 £112,326 £99,205 £94,865
Mortgage .. 275,000 200,000 150,000 150,000
Creditors* .. 28,534 71,231 83,010 69,796
Excess
liabilities .. £265,973 £158,905 £133,805 £124,931
Property and
equipment.. 962,517 962,517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital.. 500,003 500,003 500,003 500,003
* Including tax provision.
Last term the excess of outside liabilities
over more or less liquids was reduced by
£8874. As soon as circumstances (chiefly
labor and materials) permit, the board
will be faced with considerable outlay
on deferred renovations and renewals.
Brooke’s Lemos, Ltd. (Melb.)
r- —Dividends To Re- De-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, flcit.*
£ p.c. p.e. £ £ £
1987 . . 11,932 8 10 7,418 4,514 5,285
1938 .. 12,235 8 10 8,309 3,926 1,359
Reserves.*
1939 .. 12,923 8 10 8,309 4,614 3,255
1940 . . 11,301 8 10 8,309 2,992 6,247
1941 .. 6,394 8 7 6,344 50 6,297
1942 .. 10,345 8 8 6,999 3,346 9,643
1943 . . 12,675 8 8 6,999 6,676 15,319
1944 . . 10,025 8 8 6,999 3,026 18,345
Premiums from new issue, £13,000 .. 31,345
1945 . . 18,939 8 10f 12,682 6,257 37,602
1946 . . 16,556 8 8 11,197 5,359 42,961
* After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £13,090) from
published reserves, f Includes 2 p.c. Victory bonus.
fruit juice cordials and syrups,
Brooke’s Lemos turns out canned fruits
and vegetables, jams, sauces and tomato
products. Plans to extend the r&nge
further, and to resume a promising export
trade interrupted by the war, have in-
volved heavy outlays on plant in recent
years, besides the erection of a second
factory costing nearly £lOO,OOO. But the
increased capacity hasn’t yet had a chance
to justify itself. Shortage of tinplate has
stopped production of some canned lines
altogether, and restricted the others;
bottles are also scarce owing to lack of
coal for their manufacture ; co. is deficient
jn staff, especially female, and a recent
jpackers’ award prohibits incentive wages;
finally, exports have been blocked by
shipping difficulties, and by the water-
siders (co. had to forgo large orders
placed by N.E.1.).
After four years mainly devoted to
needs of the Services, last term saw an
absolute return to civilian trade. Results
were higher prices, but a steep rise in sell-
ing and advertising costs. Inability to
engage in full-swing production raised
overhead charges, too. General expenses
went up from 41 p.c. of gross in 1945 to
55 p.c. last year ; and the fall in taxable
profit (down £11,283, or 21 p.c.) was
worse than the final figures suggest*
£9OOO being knocked off tax provision:
1939. 1945. 1946.
Gross profit .. .. £56,942 £116,461 £126,909
Less —
Gen. expenses . . 32,553 47,936’ 69,808
Depreciation . . 5,071 15,586 15,545
Tax 6,395 34,000 25,000
Net profit .. . . 18,939 16,656
The net £16,656 represented 12.5 p.c. on
ord. capital after paying the pref. divi-
dend ; compared with 14.5 p.c, in 1945,
and (on smaller capital) 12.6, 16.7 and
13 p.c. back to 1942.
A contraction of 44 p.c. (£28,403) in
book dtbts reflects the “substantial de-
cline in production” acknowledged by the
chairman. Taken in conjunction with
the stock position, it also hints at limita-
tions in the local market:
1939. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £87,481 £87,481 £139,970 £139,970
Mortgage . . 58,725 56,700 53,500
Creditors .. 14,354 127,240 75,638 63,664
Tax provision .. 9,106 3 6,26 4 52,114 59,272
Freeholds .. 17,747 17,477 16,389 15,600
Leaseholds .. 504 97,214 96,799 93,159
Plant .. • ■ 16,705 54,133 53,871 48,869
Stocks .. . . 33,920 91,588 97,872 104,646
Debtors. . . . 17,790 66,587 65,673 37,270
Investments .. 500 5,500 5,500' 7,500
Cash, etc. . . 34,550 1,676 37,724 62,542
No doubt the actual rise in stocks (£6774)
is monetary rather than physical; and it
may partly represent a pile-up of pro-
ducts waiting for suitable containers,
though the chairman doesn’t say so.
Paid capital is in 21,970 8 p.c. prefs. and
118,000 ords., all of £1 each. Freehold
property is the original factory at South
Melbourne ; whilst leasehold is the second
one, erected on Crown land at Port Mel-
bourne in 1943, against which the mort-
gage is chargeable. Since 1943 also a
Capital Redemption Assurance Fund has
operated, to accumulate £30,000 by 1968 ,
payments, at the rate of £BOO p.a., now
amount to £3200, which is part of the
“cash” figure in above table; “Invest-
ments” include £5OO in a subsidiary (Aus-
tralian Preserves Pty. Ltd.) which hasn’t
traded for several years.
The Brookes business has been capably
directed during its 15 yfears as a public
co. —and the situation will continue to
call for skill at the helm. Competition
is keener than pre-war, present capacity
of Australian fruit-canners, in the absence
of frictions, being perhaps threfe times
as great as the home demand. Overseas
markets have assumed great importance,
and so has the question of Imperial pref-
erence.
The'drawn-out N.E.I. dispute, break-
down of Vic. industry early this year and
continuing shortage of labor and con-
tainers make an improvement on the
8 p.c. div. unlikely for this term. But
investors, noting the comfortable margin
of undistributed profit in recfent years,


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
» * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
“THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary DupU*
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
. SYDNEY AND BRISBANE , ' ~
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Butlt entirely In Australia by
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Beign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
w
)
OUJ.
Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ŵ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
vSvef water! and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY. N.S.W,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LID.
ANNUAL MEETING
Service to Community
AT the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited on Tuesday, 19th August,
the Chairman, Mr. E. R. Knox, made the following points in
his speech:
Your Directors have received with amazement the announcement
o£ the Government’s intention to nationalise the Banks. This Bank
has functioned for 113 years; it has pioneered districts and assisted the
establishment and development of industries. Competition has ensured
a very high degree of service, and it is inconceivable that one Govern-
ment organisation would serve the public better; on the contrary, the
inherent weaknesses of a monopoly would surely manifest themselves to
the great disadvantage of the public, who require sympathetic and
friendly service and whose major safeguard has always been competition
between Banks.
Indeed, the Government’s action in forecasting legislation 'for
nationalisation is surely an admission of the inability of the Common-
wealth Bank to attract business, and this, although it has a full and
complete knowledge of all Trading Bank constitutions and resources,
controls the terms upon which they do business, and does not pay
taxation. The Commonwealth Bank has also been using its powers and
privileges to secure temporary premises to house new branches, but in
spite of these incomparable advantages over its competitors it has so
far failed to take any great volume of business away from the Trading
Banks.
The Government’s announcement of its intention to nationalise bank-
ing is a major step towards complete socialisation. In no British
community—indeed in no Anglo-Saxon community—has a Government
taken such action—the invariable forerunner of a Dictatorship and one
fraught with very grave implications for the people of this country, who
are at least entitled to express their wishes on a clear statement of
the issues involved.
Throughout the Bank’s history, its Directors have conceived their first
duty to be protection of their depositors and have followed the practice
of prudent men in building up the Bank’s financial strength to enable
it to withstand any possible crisis. In consequence, its resources are
greater than the market price would indicate. Your Directors advise
shareholders not to part with their shares precipitately, but to await
developments and rely on their constitutional right to just terms
should the Government succeed in expropriating any of their property.
Shareholders’ funds are practically unchanged at Deposits
Bills Payable and other Liabilities, which stood at £95,047,000 last year
now appear at £98,952,000, an increase of £3,905,000.
Our liquid assets total £71,356,000 and represent 71.76%, or, say,
14/4d. in the £, of our liabilities to the public
It would appear that the position in Great Britain has a portent for
Australia. A decline in the British living standard would seriously
affect our export trade, with inevitable repercussions on our domestic
economy. Our own living standard is for many reasons in some danger
and both it and the five-day week of forty hours may well be beyond
our resources unless production shows a substantial upward movement
in man-hour output.
Our Staff continue to give the careful and friendly service, which is
a feature of our Institution, and I am sure the Shareholders will join
the Board in expressing appreciation of the year s work, and sincere
regret at the anxiety under which the Staff are now labouring consequent
on the Prime Minister’s announcement of the Governments intention
to nationalise the Banks.
It is impossible at this juncture to fully appreciate the position on
the meagre information available, but you can be sure that we wil o
all in our power to counter the proposed measure and, if the decision
should go against us, to protect the interests of our Shareholders, our
Staff and our Customers.
don’t expect a fall, either ; they value
the £1 ords at 355. each, yielding 4.6 p.c.
from current div, Prefs. are priced
around 335., yielding 4.8 p.c. Net tan-
gible asset backing is £8 15s. for each
pref, and 295. for the ords.
Shareholders of Victoria Gold Dredg-
ing have approved the sale of. the co. s
175,000-c.-y.-a-raonth dredge to Central
Victoria Gold Dredging for 125,000 f.-p.
10s. shares in the last-mentioned co. (B.
20/8/’47). The cost of dismantling and
re-erecting it with modifications on the
Amphitheatre apa, where it is expected
to start digging about 18 months hence,
is estimated at £BO,OOO. The Central co.
has also ordered a second machine of
similar type and capacity to dig first the
Jim Crow and then the Guildford areas.
The new co., which has an issued capital
of £385,000, has about 10 years’ work
ahead in these three areas, which are
expected to yield a combined aggregate
profit of £763,000 on a conservative esti-
mate. That is sufficient to cover a return
of capital, plus 9.8 p.c. p.a. for the 10
years. Rights to scrip in the new co. have
sold at from ss. to 7s. a sjiare.
“Khills”: At the present Australian
fixed price for tin (£A426 average), com-
pared with overseas price (£A546 55.),
the producer of one ton of tin oxide (70
p.c. metal) contributes £B4 towards main-
taining the local economic structure, and
also Is liable for income tax on £266,
Sydney value of same at the fixed unit
price of 765. Apart from being exempt
from income tax, gold producers are
free of gold tax on the first 25 ounces
gold each year, or, on fine ounces, of a
value of £269. Even the tin scratcher
(often a pensioner) with perhaps three
or four cwt. tin oxide yearly is mulcted
this £4 4s. per cwt. Controls, when neces-
sary, should be equitable,
* * * *
Western Mining Corp., of whose capital
(£324,833 in 10s. shares) Gold Exploration
and Finance of Australia holds 97 p.c.,
netted £85,546 for the year to end March
last, mainly divs. from Central Norse-
man, and paid Is. a share (£32,483),
making total distributions to date £149,900,
or 6s. a share. The co. acts as g.m. and
consultant to Central Norseman, Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie and Triton. War
out of the way, the management lost no
time in renewal of the hunt for fresh
prospects. Gold Exploration and Finance
agreed to advance up to £lOO,OOO (stg.)
at 6 p.c. p.a. for the purpose, and £95,000
(Aus.) of it had been drawn when the
books closed. The Corp. has exercised its
option over the Barbara leases, Hampton
Plains (W.A.), where a small amount of
development disclosed two ore shoots,
carrying values of from 13dwt. to 24dwt.
over widths of 40in. and 32in. respec-
tively, at No. 1 level. Winzes indicate
continuance of high-grade ore underfoot,
and another shoot has been discovered.
Insufficient work had been done to deter-
mine' quantity and average value of ore
available. In the same locality options
are held over five leases known a>s Baker’s
Surprise Group and four leases from
Hampton Gold Mining Areas, Ltd. Work
is in progress on the Surprise area, where
encouraging results have been disclosed
to a depth of 300 ft. In the Southern
Cross district 63 leases have been pegged
or are held under option extending for
about 26 miles along the railway line
to the Copperhead options, where geo-
logical examination has disclosed two
beds, one of which, the Dolomite lode,
appears to carry a large tonnage of
apparently low-grade ore. Later on a
large auriferous belt of salt-lake country,
over which the co. holds rights, between
Coolgardie and Norseman is to be ex-
amined «by geophysical survey and drilling.
No work has been done on the Callion
mine, and a number of near-by leases
were examined and abandoned. The
Yilgangie leases are to be let on tribute..
* * * *
Central Norseman Gold Corp., operat-
ing on the Phcenix-Mararoa and Princess
Royal leases at Norseman (W.A.), has
got into its stride again. Paid capital is
£400,000 in f.-p. ss. shares, of which
Western Mining Corp. holds 1,300,000
and acts as technical managing director.
More labor became available early last
term, and the 8900-ton-a-month treatment
plant operated to capacity. An extra
34,208 tons of slightly richer ore was
treated for £29,975 more profit, as the
following table shows:
Yield Per Ton. Working
Year, Treated, Costs, Net
March, Tons. Gold. Silver. Per Ton. Profit.
1942.. 115,398 B.7dwt. s.9dwt.' 32/3 £222,274
1943.. 82,150 9.4 „ 6.0 „ 36/9 169,506
1944.. 73,848 7.3 „ 5.2 „ 37/5 79,804
1945.. 75,548 7.7 „ 4.9 „ 38/1 93,781
1946.. 75,716 6.6 „ 5.9 „ 40/1 55,571
1947.. 109,924 7.0 „ 4.8 „ 36/lli 85,546
The yield was 38,3420 z. (up 13,3310 z.)
gold and 26,3 3 Boz. silver. Head value
of the ore was 7.25dwt. gold, the recovery
being a satisfactory 96 p.c. Despite in-
creases in the basic wage aggregating 7s.
lid, a week, the bigger tonnage handled
enabled mining and operating costs (ex-
cluding development) to be reduced by
3s. 2d., leaving the figure at 365. lid. a
ton —mining 28s. 6d. (down Is. Id.) and
operating Bs. sd. (down 2s. Id.) a ton.
The £85,546 of profit was equal to Is.
4.4 d. a share, and a Is. 6d. div.
( = £120,000) was paid as against 6d. for
the previous term, making total distribu-
tions to date ss. 3d. a share. At end
March ore reserves (proved and prob-
able) were estimated at 229,000 tons
(down 12,800 tons), averaging 7 dwt. This
includes reserves at the Lady Miller,
where a new shaft is being sunk, but ex-
cludes ore from the new zone now being
developed below No. 22 level. Develop-
ment work totalled 7742 ft., of which
20.2 p.c. in the Mararoa and 6.2 p.c. in
the Princess Royal was in payable ore.
Four new leases have been pegged to
cover the deeps of the Mararoa vein, and
options over the Lady Mary mine and
Tomich’s leases have been abandoned.
When the books closed the mine, etc.,
including development, stood at £420,707,
plant, etc., £324,325, ore stocks £34,601,
stores, debtors’ balances, etc., £56,278,
and bullion and cash £93,434. There was
£18,646 coming to outsiders.


iiiii
'JT /&&***
m
H
1 *■
■
feecTytm^^
pt>V START
// your car fcas given you faithful
service, it is more important than ever to guard against unnecessary wear.
Don’t let “dry start” rob you of many more valuable miles—always specify Atlantic
Motor Oil. Atlantic’s high Viscosity Index ensures that it is quickly on the job
in those first vital minutes after starting. Its tough, fast protection is your safeguard
against costly “dry start,” as well as against wear at high operating temperatures.
Give your car a chance to do its job—always lubricate
WITH
An ANTIC MOTOR OIL
• (.PURE PARAFFIN BASEJ ‘
(jlways on its Meta l
Listen to ttie ATLANTIC SHOW, starring 808 DYER, every SATURDAY, 8 p.m. • 2UW • 3DB/LK • 4BC • and country stations
Atlantic Flash perfect running
mate for Atlantic Motor Oil.
M04.4T
SUNDRY SHOWS
LANCE SOLOMON'S
PAINTINGS.
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries are show-
ing 28 of Lance Solomon’s oil paintings,
among which are an impressive number
of major works of art. Lance Solomon
has yet to widen the range of his palette
and to attempt landscape on the grand
scale, yet he has already done enough to
suggest that —later on —his work may
stand with that of Gruner and Streeton ;
and without imitation and without any
obvious influence.
His special contribution, so far, to
the Australian tradition is the observa-
tion of the bush from the inside, as it
were ; the finding of form and signifi-
cance not in broad, open vistas but in
odd patches of bush that might previously
have seemed unpaintable.
His best pictures have shown a pro-
foundly original vision at work, quietly
and steadily exploring the mysteries of
smoke, mist and sunlight among the trees
and recording, with the inspired fidelity
of a genuine lover of the bush, the under-
growth, the fallen sticks and leaves and
the patches of bare red earth that give
the Australian scene its distinctive, charm.
Works of this kind have been quickly
snapped up by connoisseurs. A typical
example on loan at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries is the picture that won last year’s
Wynne Prize—by no means the most
important of his paintings, but a work
only Lance Solomon could have done.
Later pictures on exhibition show a
development into the use of figures.
“Stock Route” has sheep, a mob of them
drifting up a lane, tailed by a horseman
and a dog. The total effect —the red
sweep of the road, the falling shadows,
the sheep trailing into them —makes it a
memorable and distinctive painting.
“Pleasant Day” is more than pleasant,
and here Solomon has introduced human
figures—a woman and a child. Light is
more concentrated, dramatically playing
on the figures, and the bush, again, is up
to Solomon standards, with a fine white
patch of tent. “Sea-piece,” though
harder than a superb piece of foaming
water Solomon exhibited at the Royal
Art some time ago, is a dramatic com-
position with a fine burst of foam and a
better merging of sea and horizon.
Some of the smaller paintings—bits
and pieces—lack the subtlety of light and
sky and the beautiful precision of draw-
ing that make Percy Lindsay a master
in this field. Still, there is hardly a single
painting that has not both beauty and the
stamp of originality ; and many, includ-
ing two lovely nocturnes, are wholly
successful.
* * * *
There is much sound work in John
Farmer’s show of landscapes and still
life at George’s Gallery, Melbourne.
Most of the landscapes have been painted
round Olinda and give back a lot of the
freshness of light and color in those
sylvan glades, the blue distances and the
mystery of the near-by bush tracks.
Though painted indoors, there is ‘ a
similar quality in his peonies and hydran-
geas.
* * * *
The Studio of Realist Art has an ex-
hibition of paintings and drawings at
David Jones’s, Sydney, offering an assort-
ment of slums, hillbillies, photographi-
cally portrayed humans and humor. Hal
Missingham contributes the humor with
a lively oil of the back-view of a blonde
art student, and it shines in the gallery
like a jest at a political meeting. There
is the usual absence of light. Lionel Jago
has a “Nude; Fireside Glow,” whose
glow has gone wrong; Douglas Camp-
bell had a fierce black stallion (draught)
which, in a sketchy way, is effective, and
James Cant has some queer zoological
specimens. Hedstrom, Herman, Mc-
Clintock and Beck are the principal dis-
ciples of gloom.
* * * *
Every possible material seems to be
represented in the all-sculpture exhibition
of the Victorian Artists’ Society. Modern
sculptors, however, seem to believe that
their job is to bring out the character of
the material they happen to be using rather
than the character of the subject. The
principle has been carried to its furthest
extension by Stanley J. Hammond in his
head of the bronze statue of the Hon.
A. G. Ogilvie, K.C., for Parliament
Square, Hobart. Real spectacles, though
without glasses, have been mounted on
the distinguished nose of the politician,
and it is a wonder the sculptor didn’t
surmount his effort with a real wig.
Among exhibitors who have succeeded
to a greater or less degree in transcending
their material and bringing the observer
into the presence of their subject matter
are William G. Hill, who has a lively
head of a factory boy; Lorraine Frazer,
whose “Getting Dry, Jean,” is just emerg-
ing from the wood ; Neville Bunning with
his head of a girl called Eileen; Victor
Greenhalgh in his rugged portrait head
of J. C. Goodhart, and George H. Allen
in “Rodney,” which is distinctly fleshy,
* * * *
The show of the Independent Group of
Artists has become an annual event at
the Melbourne Athenaeum. The Inde-
pendents represent a breakaway from
something now forgotten, so their show
can be judged on its merits irrespective
of art movements. Lina Bryans’s land-
scapes are the liveliest exhibit. “The
Yarra at Abbotsford” with the white and
red walls of buildings in the background
has sparkle in it, but the eye has to pass
a lot of pictures to Charles Bush's
“Williamstown Docks” before it gets
fresh stimulation. The girl in James
Quinn’s painting is an attractive sub-
ject, but the treatment savors of maga-
zine-cover illustration.
"No, No, Nanette."
The J.C.W. programme for “No, No,
Nanette” promises Brisbane will be
shown “Annie Get Your Gun,” so the
city may yet see a recently-written musi-
cal comedy.
Despite a young and charming Nanette
in Pat Keating, “No, No, Nanette”
creaked in its ancient jokes and songs
that used to be catchy. It’s a pleasure,
though, to see and hear a leading lady
who measured less than 40 everywhere.
Charles Norman and Fred Murray en-
livened the show with topical gags—
Norman’s timing is 1 as excellent as
Murray’s dancing. The show would be
lost with less competent performers.
Some of the chorus appeared to have
been engaged for the performance while
the overture was being played, but
-frocking, particularly of the principals,
was very good. Letty Craydon was de-
lightful as the cook and Miriam Lester
made brief but effective appearances. The
show could have been shorter —three and
a quarter hours of antiquity, though
brightly patched, is too long. »
"The Late George Apley."
During the recent heatwave 8.8. C.
announced with deep regret that a man,
with his coat on his arm and crimson
braces blazing on his chest, walked
down Threadneedle-street and past the
Bank of Englapd! George Apley, in the
form of Ronald Colman and now on
view at Sydney’s Century, encountered a
similar apparition while making the
rounds of his native Boston. It shocked
him, too, but while deploring the sight
to a long-suffering servant who thought
it “was quite hot enough for shirt-
sleeves,” he went further than 8.8. C.;
“in Boston it is never hot enough for
shirt-sleeves.”
If Boston had been governed as Mr.
Apley would wish it, its citizens would
even sleep in “tails.” Although a deadly
ear-basher and profound snob, Apley
possesses such abundance of charm that
he can be forgiven. The action of his
daughter in gradually rubbing some of
the heavy gilt away and bringing to light
the human being makes an interesting
and clever film with some nice touches
of humor.
Reviewed Briefly.
A nicely-balanced programme, which
included Handel’s Suite in D Major, the
Minuet and Trio from Haydn’s “Sur-
prise” Symphony, Schubert’s Rosamunde
Overture and Military March and
Chopin’s Mazurka in B Flat allowed the
N.S.W. Junior Orchestra under the con-
ductorship of Professor Carl Sauer to
show some very considerable talent at its
Sydney Town Hall concert. In addi-
tion, the Junior Choir sang spiritedly,
and with admirable integration for such
young choristers, Professor Sauer’s own
arrangements of Handel’s “Largo,” the
Spinning Song from “The Flying Dutch-
man,” Brandi’s “Old Refrain” and
Martini’s “Gentle Night,” the last un-
accompanied, Shirley Bushell sang the
Habanera from “Carmen” with plenty
of fire and a voice of considerable
promise. Marie Nunney gave Sauer’s
“The Lord Is My Light” (Psalm 27) with
true devotional feeling.
» * * *
An unusual musical occasion was a
Welsh concert at the Assembly Hall in
Melbourne. The songs were Welsh—or
some of them were —the audience was
almost all Welsh and the singer was
Hubert Evans, the Welsh baritone. The
Welsh language is soft, liquid and per-
suasive and Mr. Evans probably sang as
he did at the Assembly Hall when he was
in his cradle, though now much art has
been added to him. He sang Handel
with deep expression, but in the same
soft manner.
* * * *
Somebody must have picked the title of
the Melbourne Tiv.’s latest confection,
“Night and the Laughter,” out of a hat.
The show is remarkable for some bril-
liant dancing by Cabot and Dresden, an
excessive amount of glamor from Lillian
Roth, the Shipway Twins—two crisp
Australian performers on the horizontal
bar —and a cheerful gent, who throws
balls over the footlights with great force
and gets them back without doing any
damage except to the nerves of stallites.
But there is nothing that could be called
nightish in the evening and not a great
deal of laughter, owing to the absence
of a comedian of any weight. A
scene dedicated to the work of
Chopin, in which that*composer makes
an exotic appearance and Margaret Fitz-
gibbon, Betty Linke and Stan Rogers
sing some of his deathless numbers,
isn’t too highbrow for Tiv. consumption
* * * *
“Ivy” (Sydney State): Both Hollywood
and English studios are currently dispens-
ing a considerable amount of anti-
marriage propaganda in the form ot
homicidal wives. Latest addition to the
outbreak is this Sydney State opus, with
Joan Fontaine figuring as a dissatisfied
young woman who tries to rid herself of
a husband and a lover by framing one
with the murder of the other in order
to clear the field for marriage to a well-
lined business tycoon. Miss Fontaine
looks pathetic and lost rather than
sinister, while Richard Ney, Patric
Knowles and Herbert Marshall move to
their appointed ends with weary boredom.
* * *
“Song of Love” (Sydney Liberty):
Rubinstein won his greatest triumph to
date in this sad, sad film. Despite the
deplorably boring spans between his
sessions at the keyboard, his music makes
the show enjoyable.


fmmM
(jJhsJISWSLk
you q 0...
ẃ
OST of us are human enough to snap up a bargain,
take a little gamble or spend too freely when we
have cash in our pockets. Regrets come later
when we are short of money for real needs or worthwhile
things we desire.
Putting every possible shilling into a Commonwealth
Savings Bank account is the way to future satisfactions.
Your money is safe and earns interest while you save and
plan.
Wherever you go Commonwealth Savings Bank
accounts can make money available to you for your
personal requirements. This convenience lessens the risk
of loss, saves you carrying more money than is necessary
for immediate needs. Better still, it prevents the money
from "burning a hole in your pocket."
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
There's a Branch or Agency in your district.
ms?
a
CSB2D-82
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
At Randwick there were some hundred-
odd horses and, if one is to judge from
the totalisator transactions on the Hobartvuie
Stakes, a much greater number of twp-leggea
goats. With the brilliant Temeraire (W. C° ok; l
opposed by three maiden performers of no
class, the Hobartville was simply nipt a betting
race, though some bookies did nominally quote
Temeraire at 50 to 1 on. Nevertheless £3136
15s. went through the tote, which issued 11 >4°o
tickets on the winner and 1061 on the other
three runners. By the time the A.J.C., the tote
company and the Government had taken their
cuts those who had backed the winner received
back 4s. 9d. of their five bob. Very scientific
punting when if you win you lose and if you
lose you lose more.
Temeraire was a length in front almost it
seemed as the barrier went up and from that
point to the finish, though under restraint, went
further and further ahead. At the judge it was
eight lengths to Nomothetis, six more to Gene
Wil and any distance to Colonel Blimp,, on
whom Mulley had a fine view of the “race.
It is always an unhappy experience to see a
really good horse beaten —particularly for
punters who have accepted the books’ offers
to “take 3 to 1.” In the wi.a. Warwick Stakes
of seven furlongs Shannon was fairly and
squarely beaten by Victory Lad’s superior con-
dition. Shannon was having his first run for
more than 10 months, while Victory Lad (W.
Briscoe), with recent good runs under his belt,
was just prime for the win. Fresh as he was,
Shannon took up a prominent position in the
field right from the start —-most unusual for
him. Trying to pace it with the exceptionally
fast Prince Consort contributed to his un-
doing, and he didn’t improve his chances by
attempting to savage the Prince in the straight.
Coming strongly from the tail of the field, Vic-
tory Lad won by a length and Shannon had a
slight advantage over Prince Consort. Just be-
hind the placegetters Sweet Chime and Vigaro
promised well for their spring campaign.
Old Puffham (E. Fordyce) ran his usual honest
race and showed them a clean pair of heels
all the way in the six-furlongs Cahrpbelltown
Handicap, in which the best effort noted was
that of Columnist, finishing strongly into
second place ahead of Warspite. Columnist
looks ripe for his next outing at a more suitable
distance. Silent also finished well.
A feature of Saturday’s racing was the num-
ber and the success of lady owners. Roughly
one-fifth of the acceptors were owned or part-
owned by women, and they provided four
of the seven winners. Moreover, they took the
pick of the programme, with Victory Lad, Puff-
ham and, in the Warwick Farm Spring Handi-
cap, Cape Neddick (G. Podmore). The distance
being 12 furlongs, Cape Neddick’s win brought
him support for the Metropolitan, but he beat
nothing of much account, Rimfire and Cisco
filling the places. At this time of the year
winners of nearly any races swell the flow of
sucker-money pouring into the bags of the
bookies who operate on the rich spring double.
Yet another for the ladies was Mrs. E. J.
Johnson’s Paktong (J. Thompson), a stable-
mate of Puffham. Paktong downed Questing
and King Midas in the first division of the Glen-
lee Handicap. In the second division Johnny
Zero (F. Walker) defeated Tilston and Lord
Rex, running much the fastest mile of the day.
The finish of the Three-year-old must have
given the handicapper a glow of satisfaction.
Inside the final furlong any of about 20 horses
spread across the track could have won. Sove-
reign (E. Briscoe) did so, accounting for Con-
ductor and Owen Roe.
* * * *
The Epsom Brush Steeplechase at Mentone on
Saturday was the first event of the kind that
course had seen for many years; it produced
more than a fair share of thrills and spills, with
five of the 15 runners coming to grief. The old
Gilt Edge gelding Securities (A. Moon) led
most of the trip to win from Benarca and
Elliot.
The Hellespont colt Chanak hasn’t quite the
outstanding brilliance of Temeraire, but he
looks the part of a solid stayer. The handic-
apper gave him a stiff task in the mile Man-
umbar Handicap with a plaster of 9.10. In
addition he carried rather more flesh than would
suggest peak condition. He made light of the
job, leading throughout the last half-mile. Be-
cause Breasley took things too easy at the finish
Leonatus got to within three-parts of a length
of the odds-on favorite. In a second division
of the Manumbar Saxonian and Bold John
dead-heated for first ahead of Derfla.
R. Heather came in for some general abuse
when his well-supported mount Carey failed in
the 10-furlongs’ Epsom Cup. At the half-mile
Carey was last of the 19 runners. However, he
came home fast, failing by only a half-length
to overhaul the Windbag gelding Clatterbag,
who had led throughout. Fungi was third and
some pretty fair gallopers among the unplaced.
Along with Denhoti, Carey was bought
recently by O. R. Porter. Between the pair of
them Porter had a costly afternoon. Denhoti
was sent out favorite for the Mordialloc Stakes
and had the sprint won until Greensborough (J.
Purtell) flashed on the scene for a narrow win.
Somers beat the rest of them.
The Cheltenham Handicap of 13 furlongs was
an open affair, with Chilperic favorite at fives.
He did the right thing, giving jockey H. Mc-
Cloud a bit of a change of luck. Royal Guard
and Keep Smiling were in the places. Chilperic,
a Parenthesis four-year-old, is trained by former
jockey S. Ferguson, who won the Rosny Plate,
Toorak Handicap and other good races with a
horse of the same name in the early 1930’5.
Yet another of Porter’s, and fairly well
backed, Morbell was never in the hunt in the
first Parkdale Welter. New Zealand-bred
Rahiri (K. Smith) comfortably defeated the
100-to-l chance Beau Juste and Carngham.
The second division went to Canny Scot (W.
Williamson), with Prince Nigri and Greek Myth
next best.
* * * *
Ajax is to follow Bernborough to America,
having been spld to the wealthy owner-breeder
Charles Howard, who has a stud in California.
Some may regret seeing another fine Australian
thoroughbred sold out of the country, but
actually the sale shows pretty good judgment
on the part of all concerned. Ajax’s first crop
fetched high prices and, since it included the
dual-Derby winner Magnificent, buyers at sub-
sequent, yearling sales fell over themselves in
the scramble to acquire another such. None
succeeded, and on the whole the Ajaxes sold at
auction have not justified the fancy prices paid
for them. All, however, have _ shown one
thing in common —speed; and it is that which
should make Ajax a success in America, where
the emphasis is on speed rather than stamina.
At the conclusion of a racing career during
which he earned £40,725 in stakes, Ajax was
“ Don't DARE hurt him-we're just going on our honeymoon!"
sold for 10,000 guineas. W. J. Smith secured
him a few months back for 13,000 guineas and
now having sold him to Howard tor a pnc
reported at around 30,000 guineas has pretty
largely financed the 26,000 guineas he recently
paid for Shannon. And Smith still has
Magnificent for his St. Aubins stud.
* * * *
Randwick tests should, and even may, finally
silence those who question the accuracy of the
photo-finish gear. Three widely-spaced wheels
revolving on an axle fixed along the finishing
line were used in place of horses and marks on
the wheels, adjustable to give different finishes,
represented the horses’ nos*. In one test the
camera picked a winning margin of one-eighth
of an inch and otherwise it was thoroughly
demonstrated that the camera does not favor the
outside or any other horse.
JF * * *
“Bohemian”; This recent MX happening
merits a place in turf history. When the officials
looked for the rider of a horse that was second
favorite on the tote for a hack race, wanting
him to draw his number, they could find no
sign of rider, horse or owner. The tote manager
was ordered to take no more tickets on the
horse, and the race was run, an outsider win-
ning Badkei sof the absent animal got their
money bank. Backers of the winner roared
with indignation over their reduced divvy.
Investigation revealed that the owner had writ-
ten to the secretary, withdrawing his horse.
He had also written to the secretary of another
club expressing his views on the muddy state
of the saddling paddock when he had last
raced there. He just put them in the wrong
envelopes.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances);
Mixed Stakes (6f.): Penmore, 1; Prince
Midas, 2; Lucky Escape, 3. Liverpool Mixed
Stakes: Young Andrew, 1; Nomothetis, 2;
The Gaffer, 3. Mixed Stakes (Ilf.): Rifle, 1,
Grahamstown, 2; Conductor, 3. Canterbury
Park Handicap: Decorate, 1; Loyal March, 2,
Buzz Off, 3. Canterbury Stakes: Shannon, 1;
Prince Consort, 2; Sweet Chime, 3. Canterbury
Guineas: Temeraire, 1; Cherson, 2; Karachi,
3. Welter: Silent, 1; Johnny Zero, 2; Quest-
ing, 3,
* * * *
The VT.L, final “four” are Carlton,
Essendoa, Fitzroy and Richmond and the
last two will play the first sfemi-final at
M.C.G. oa Saturday. It came about when
Essendon downed Collingwood in the
final stages of a fast game by 16.12-
14.17 and Richmond beat South Mel-
bourne, 1*6.17-11.13 ; but Geelong’s de-
feat of Carlton by two points—l 7.7-16.11
—brought it home to the Pivot that, given
one more game, it would have been Gee-
long, not Richmond, to play in the finals.
Geelong, after a poor start, built into
a grand team; it beat the V.F.L. leaders
with stamina and pace. In other games,
Fitzroy walloped Footscray, 20.18-10 14 ;
North Melbourne beat Hawthorn
narrowly, 10.14-10.10; at St. Kilda the
crowd, wearily watching Melbourne down
the locals by 27.9 to 10.18, was stirred to
see Fanning (M.) kick 18 goals from 19
shots. Possibly a record, it brings Fan-
ning’s tally this season to 97 goals.
» * * *
Randwick struck form in the Rugby
Union, downing St. George 39-11 at
Sydney Showground. Eleven all at half-
time, Randwick put up a grand perform-
ance in the second half, Furness winning
the ball, Randwick backs fending off
tackles, and the green jerseys combining
well. Paterson, a Gordon goaler from
Randwick, was in poor f °rm a g ams
Western Suburbs; Gordon were
bustled by West’s forwards, and Gordon
was lucky to win, 11-9. Northern Suburbs
made a grand rally late in the gam
Snst Parramatta, but Parramatta won
17-13 University beat Eastwood 24 1
and Manly defeated Drummoyne com-
fortably, 34-10.
* * * *
The 30 in the Australian Rugby Union
team in England run to a varied lot of
callings. There are lb clerks, five
students, three doctors, two businessmen
and a dentist, schoolmaster, bank officer,
company director, teacher, traveller, en-
gineer, secretary and policeman.
When Australia defeated U.S.A. in the
1939 Davis Cup Challenge round it was
after losing the first two singles. At
Forest Hills last week-end our lads started
off on the same wrong leg. Kramer had an
effortless straight-sets win over Pails, 6-2,
6-1, 6-2. Bromwich at times looked like
beating Schroeder, but went down 6-4,
5-7, 6-3, 6-4. Bucking up then in the
doubles and taking good care to keep
the ball away from Kramer, Bromwich
and Long cleaned up the American pair
6-4, 2-6, 6-2, 6-4.
* * * *
Back in the ’nineties Billy
Carton, playing for Newport Alma
(Vic.), square-cut a ball that gave a fields-
man a 50-yards chase. By the time he
had run six, the ball was lost in a patch
of high grass near where we boys sat.
Lost ball was called, and the stroke thus
yielded 12. The same thing happened
next ball; another 12—but, except for
overthrows, the rule was altered limiting
runs to six, almost at once. What brought
it about was 17 scored off a ball hit into
a creek in N.S.W. As the ball could be
seen the umpire said lost ball did not
-apply. The same thing applies to marine
insurance—nothing is lost if you know
where it is, the bottom of the sfea ex-
cepted.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Boxing show-
man Jimmy Sharman reckons the lads
of the timbered outback the best) of all
material for the making of future glove
champions. In a recent tour of N.Q. he
saw at least six bush-bred young ’uns all
capable of becoming champions at their
respective weights if properly taught and
trained, as have so many others of their
kind in his long experience. Jimmy sug-
gests that the Stadiums people should
send scouts out to locate the most
promising lads, then find them fair-pay
city jobs and put them under good
coaches for six months at least before
the first match to enable them to gain
confidence and get the feel of the ring.
Without that they would be, as Jimmy
puts it, like a brumby introduced to its
first electric train.
* * * *
Eric Macready (9.1|) was too classy,
also too big, for Joe Crisafi (8.10) at
Leichhardt. Soon after they shaped up,
Macready’s right to the chin floored
Crisafi, but the ex-amateur champion was
back fighting before a count could .be
started. Crisafi afterwards displayed
plenty of pluck, but ran into such severe
punishment in the seventh round that he
was in no shape to come out for more.
* * * *
Filipino Johnny Cinto made
his record since arrival two fights for two
wallopings when he encountered Norm
Gent (lOst.) at Melbourne Stadium. Gent
looked as if he could have won it blind-
folded.


'M
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Destruction of a Will
does not
revive an earlier one
|\ /TANY people imagine that by destroying a
iVI Will they automatically revive an earlier
one ; that is not so.
To make the earlier Will effective it is
necessary either to re-execute it or to make
a Codicil thereto, expressing the intention of
reviving it.
This illustrates the necessity for consulting a
Solicitor in all matters relating to the making
of your Will.
It is just as important to provide for a
competent Executor and Trustee to safeguard
the interests of your dependents. The carrying
out of the terms of your Will calls for attention
to highly technical matters.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has
specialised in this work for 60 years. Although
it handles a great volume of business there is
nothing impersonal or mechanical in its service.
The instructions of the Testator are faithfully
and efficiently carried out while the Company’s
service is personal, friendly and courteous.
Call or writ's for a copy of the helpful, informative
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It describes
the Company’s service and what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY’
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,667,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamwijrth.
Western District Representative: J. U. McElroy, 140 Eords Place, Orange
c lhe
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England )
Sound methods
and a century op experience
have reiuited in an organisation
providing every modern
banking service.
of
4?
-
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Changes in Our Economy
An analysis of the position shows that
Australians, though still “fully employed,”
are not doing nearly as well for them-
selves as they could easily manage if they
were well led politically and were not so
driven by mischief-makers to preoccupa-
tion with a “class struggle” that should
not exist in this land. No country so well
endowed has so foolishly created prob-
lems for itself.
The country is too tied up bureau-
cratically to function with vigor and en-
terprise and taxation is dulling incentive.
Also dulling incentive are wrongly-
designed “social-security” plans.
“Labor”-unionism, too, has got largely
into the hands of political racketeers, and
is badly in need of both discipline and
hope. Inadequate production, partly the
result of industrial indiscipline, is frustrat-
ing possibilities of wage-earners getting
decent homes together at a reasonable
cost and living the life they would like.
In Australia at the present time em-
ployment is at, or near, a record level,
but, in spite of increases in the basic
wage and a reduction in working hours
per week in many cases, average wages
are not as high as they were in 1943.
Meantime living costs continue to rise,
fares and freights mounting as well as
food and clothing prices, and one result
has been a decline in savings-bank de-
posits over the past 12 months. This fall
in savings has been out of keeping with
almost every other country in the world
except South Africa.
Production of many things has im-
proved in the Commonwealth, but some
basic commodities are slow to get mov-
ing, mainly because of the labor situa-
tion. Coal output is higher than before
the war, but below the level established
in 1942-43, and certainly very inadequate
in the light of present requirements. Pig-
iron and steel are also below the average
output for the past five years, and spelter
is also down. The > unsatisfactory supply
of many raw materials, particularly coal
and steel, is a great hindrance to internal
production of other things, quite apart
from the export aspect of the matter.
B.H.P.’s chairman’s remarks on this posi-
tion are illuminating.
Brick output is improving slowly, but
is still below pre-war levels. Strangely,
the production of terracotta roofing tiles
has recovered far more rapidly in tempo
than the output of bricks, but in N. S.
Wales it is tiles that are proving the
snag in many housing projects. Tile
manufacture in the Commonwealth as a
whole is almost back to pre-war level
now. But the truth of the situation is
that the demand for housing is so despe-
rate that supplies of bricks and tiles
could be increased to double pre-war
figures and there would still be no surplus
for years to come. A far greater pro-
portion of home-building today is tak-
ing the shape of fibro cottages ; output of
cement sheets is practically treble the
1936-39 average. Very often these cot-
tages have tiled roofs, the same as brick
dwellings.
Foodstuffs, with the exception of flour
and cheese, are not in the supply one
would expect considering the big require-
ments at home and the urgent demand in
Europe. Butter and meat make the
worst showing.
There has been a fall in railway load-
ings and revenues since the end of the
“ Would you mind if I leave a minute or two
earlier this evening, sir—I'm going to be
married at five-fifteen !”
war, while costs have been increasing. In
other words, State Governments are no
longer in a position to expect a subsidy
from the Commonwealth war-expenses
account, and in N. S. Wales freights and
fares have already been lifted. Appar-
ently New Zealand has found itself in
a similar position. There has been a
fall, also, in Inter-State shipping cargoes
handled. Very often this has been the
result of wharf hold-ups and stoppages
involving “Labor principles,” better
summed up as Communist obstructionism.
The Commonwealth, after running up
losses of over £2 million a year on inter-
state shipping, has handed control of the
vessels back to private owners. Freight
rates were increased on August 18, while
the Commonwealth continues, to subsi-
dise some classes of freight.
“War” expenditure, including £25 mil-
lion granted to Britain, was £232 million
net in 1946-47, compared with £378 mil-
lion in the preceding year and £562 mil-
lion in 1942-43. But taxation revenue
was £374 million last year, compared with
£257 million in 1942-43. Not only is the
Government exacting a far greater
amount of taxation at the present time
than at any period during the war; it is
also cashing-up a lot of its war-time
assets and deducting the proceeds from
current expenditure.
The main differences in our present
Budgetary set-up compared with war-time
are that personal tax rates' are lower but
are bringing in a higher total revenue,
borrowing to finance “defence” deficits
was reduced from £403 million in 1942-43
to £37 million last year, and the civil
vote has grown from £lOB million to over
£lBO million, including reimbursements
of State taxes. Much of the expansion
in the civil vote has been in respect of
“social security,” but departmental costs
have also inflated. Large civil expendi-
ture is also covered up under the head-
ing of “defence and post-
war (1939-45) charges.”
Subsidies totalling over £3O
million go in there. So, last
year, did shipping losses
and numerous other items
that no longer bear any real
relationship to war.
There have been borrow-
ings, Commonwealth and
State, for “works,” but it
has been difficult to get the
manpower necessary to
carry out Government pro-
jects, and the increase in
the national debt has slowed
down. This year threatens
yet another deficit for the
Commonwealth—a striking
commentary on Govern-
ment expenditure consider-
ing the enormous tax
revenue being levied.
Exports of Australian
products rose by £B9 mil-
lion sterling in 1946-47,
reaching £246 million ster-
ling. Imports, on the other
hand, rose by only £2B mil-
lion, to £lB4 million ster-
ling. The favorable com-
modity balance of £62 million sterling
was remarkably high, and added further
to our London funds. Britain remained
our largest customer, but the United
States was much more prominent than
usual as a buyer of our wool. An in-
crease in our imports from America
absorbed nearly all the dollars which our
exports earned.
World demand for wool, particularly
in the U.S.A., remains high, and the price
seems to have elements of stability in it.
The war-time surplus is proving less em-
barrassing than once appeared likely.
Keeping Faith in Banking
In the world as it stands today only
a fool would deny the service rendered to
mankind by the banking system. Living
standards depend to a really great extent
upon production and trade, and these
things rely largely upon finance. Because
of banking systems established in all
civilised parts of the world, it is possible
for different people in different countries
to deal in trade without any knowledge
of each other’s financial standing so long
as each is known to a reputable bank
in his own country. Thus the wool-
grower back of Bourke is able to con-
centrate upon woolgrowing without
worrying about the marketing of his pro-
duct abroad, the many other services
which help him to do this relying in the
end upon the banking system.
In the eyes of a bank each man in busi-
ness has a certain credit, and, provided
he trades within his credit, it is to a
bank’s advantage to supply him with
adequate financial accommodation. But
the credit of everyone will shrink and
trade will suffer if financial accommoda-
tion is made available excessively to the
wrong enterprises or doled out parsimoni-
ously to the right ones.
It is a good thing that banking should
be competitive, and that there should be
a number of banks, with a spread of
management. This is particularly desir-
able in a country like Australia, where,
say, Perth is 3000 miles removed from
Canberra. A Government monopoly
established by “nationalisation” would
centralise control in Canberra or Sydney,
and the flexibility of the banking system,
both as to credit policy and service ren-
dered, would inevitably be reduced.
With the power to tax and inflate the
note issue behind a Government bank-
ing monopoly it is unlikely that we would
see a general banking policy any more
beneficial or encouraging to the com-
munity than that which is now apparent
in Commonwealth finances —a Budget
still unbalanced in spite of enormous
tax revenues, credit expansion and “full
employment.”
A good banker knows that, in times of
inflation, you must curb credit-expansion
in order to save the price and costs
structure and the value of money. Un-
ending inflation spells disaster, especially
inflation that does not bring increased
production of goods and services.
A great trust rests in the hands of
those who are responsible for looking
after the people’s financial affairs. Aus-
tralian trading banks, with the Common-
wealth-owned central bank, are charged
with portion of that trust. The Federal
Government, through its control of the
put>lic purse, is also in an extremely
responsible position, and one of vast
financial influence even without owner-
ship of the trading banks.
But the people themselves have a great
responsibility. If they are interested in
being fairly dealt with themselves, they
must see that others, including the banks,
are handed a fair deal—that private
competitive enterprise is not to be oblite-
rated by bureaucracy and the vested in-
terests x of trade-union rackets. The
banking system for many years has had
to keep faith with the people, even if, in
the ultimate, it was good self-interest to
do so. Now the -people are called upon
in no uncertain terms to keep faith with
the banking system—and their own self-
interest is even more deeply involved.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
risuiwvAif
A W l "® *
7 *
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
. BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
'carton MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WE SHALL FIGHT
for those who have trusted us
and ,
for the rights of free people
We shall fight the threat of nationalization.
We shall fight if on behalf of our deposi-
tors, of those who borrow from us, of our
shareholders, of our staff, and of the
Australian people.
Nationalization of banking would end the
liberty of the people. It is aimed at every
Australian,
We therefore rely on the co-operation of
every responsible citizen in defending the
rights of free people against the power-
hungry politicians.
A statement of the facts of the case and
of the ways in which our customers and
shareholders can help will be sent to
them shortly. Copies will also be avail-
able for all interested.
Meanwhile, make the fight your own
write to your Federal Member (c/o
Parliament House, Canberra) today and
protest against the proposal.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporated tn New South Wales with limited liability
V/2
Maoriland’s Budget
New Zealand’s Labor Government is
giving taxpayers no relief this financial
year beyond a cutting-out of the super-
tax on property income where total in-
come does not exceed £2OO a year, with
a tapering-off of this concession up to in-
comes of £4OO a year. Total tax revenue
for 1947-48 is put at £89.7 million, com-
pared with £90.7 million for the year
which closed on March 31 last. Interest
(£5.5 million), profits from trading under-
takings (£2.1 million) and departmental
receipts (£11.5 million) are expected to
bring total Budget income to £lOB.B mil-
lion. Total expenditure (apart from loan
outlay and some social-security charges)
is put at £105.5 million ; but the ap-
parent surplus of £3.3 million is ear-
marked for probable rises in costs re-
sulting from higher wages, etc.
“Social security” will cost the taxpayer
£4O million during the current year
£23.7 million in specific taxes and £l6
million from the general revenue already
mentioned. Of the £4O million, £19.4
million is to be distributed in “monetary
other than family benefits,” £13.2 million
in family benefits, £6.5 million in medical
benefits, £775,000 in administration costs
and £208,000 in emergency benefits.
From October 1 old-age, widows’, in-
valids’, miners’, sickness and unemploy-
ment pensions are to be raised by ss. a
week, making them £2 ss. a week. This
rise is partly in anticipation of cost-of-
living increases likely to follow the
cutting-out of a number of price subsidies
and from increases in wage costs.
Subsidies are to be discontinued in the
case of railway fares (operating costs
have risen by 45 p.c. since 1938), and
fares, other than suburban, are to be
lifted by 15 p.c. and freight-rates by
20 p.c. Other subsidies to go are those
on shipping freights, fresh fruits, meat
and bacon, oatmeal, sugar and imported
tobacco-leaf. But bread, butter and milk
will continue to be subsidised at a cost
of £3.6 million this year. If subsidies
Were not pared down it is estimated that
their cost would have risen from £14.5
million last year to £19.6 million. As it
is, the present Budget sets aside £13.5
million for “stabilisation,”
The war expenses account (£13.6 mil-
lion) is to be balanced this year by last
year’s revenue surplus of £4.6 million,
disposals revenue £5.8 million and mis-
cellaneous receipts £3.2 million. There
will be no borrowing for war purposes.
Revenue is to be charged -with a £ 10-
million annual vote for the “armed ser-
vices.” It is proposed to spend £26.9
million (against £15.6 million) on
“national development,” including the
nationalisation of the Dominion’s coal
industry (cost £2,500,000), mostly to be
financed out of loans. Housing is oown
for £7.5 million in the public-works
programme, and, besides being the largest
item, it is given the highest priority.
Housing is still extremely scarce in the
Dominion in spite of the Government’s
housing programme that pre-dates the
recent war.
It appears that the United States is
prepared to reduce the tariff on wool by
25 p.c. in return for Empire concessions.
The present duty is 34 cents a pound on
greasy wool. Both sides of the bargain
will need to be studied closely, especi-
ally as the success of the 1.T.0. talks
will depend upon the United States
paring-down its tariff wall a great deal
more than other countries. Already since
the end of the war the balance of pay-
ments in favor of the U.S.A. has grown
to a phenomenal figure, and far in excess
of Commerce Department estimates. If,
as it appears, it has fallen to Australia
to make the first stand for rational world
trade, then Canberra’s decision on this
matter should be regarded as an exem-
plary pne and worthy of the most far-
sighted consideration.
* * * *
Maoriland’s Court of Arbitration has
come to the conclusion that the country’s
economy is menaced by two possibilities:
“the first, that the present price for our
exports will not be maintained, and the
second, the possibility of what is euphe-
mistically called a recession in the
United States.” And so “a cautious wage
policy such as is envisaged by the Stabi-
lisation Regulations will undoubtedly
assist us in meeting the difficulties that
would result in the event of either or
both of the above happenings.”
New Zealand’s' sterling balances at the
end of June had risen to £lO5 million.
Finance Minister Nash, however, ex-
plained to Parliament that this accumu-
lation was mainly the result of the
Dominion’s inability to import essential
goods. Import licences at present out-
standing amount to £123 million, and
about £l5O mihion will be required to
replace and add to the capital goods of
the country as soon as machinery, etc.,
is available from overseas. Britain has
suggested that ]Maoriland restrict her
current sterling imports to the value of
current exports in order to allow British
goods to earn a bigger dollar income;
and the M.L. Government is falling in
line with this plan “as far as possible.”
* * * *
Output of steel ingots by B.H.P. last
year was 803,344 tons, compared with
702,780 tons in the preceding (strike)
year, and 845,515 tons in 1940. But how
far production has fallen below the level
established in 1941 and 1942 (war years)
may be seen from this table:
Tons. Tons
1940 .. 845,515 1944 .. 891,708
1941 .. 1,022,933 1945 .. 832,990
1942 .. 1,013,187 1946 .. 702,780
1943 .. 940,007 1947 .. 803,344
The fall in 1943 and 1944 was mainly
owing to Jap submarines sinking ore-
carriers bound from Whyalla (S.A.) to
Newcastle. But since then a recovery in
output has been defeated by inadequate
coal supplies and labor difficulties. The
plant of Australian Iron and Steel, Port
Kembla, is not making up the difference.
In the Mandated Territory of New
-Guinea recovery is being hampered still
by incredibly stupid regulations. Con-
sidering that the northern coastline is
largely a devastated area, and that its
normal production is in great Empire
demand, the futility of Canberra control
—Eddie Ward’s —is amazing. Labor re-
cruiting is limited to 12-month inden-
tures ; ships of over 25 tons may not be
run except by the Government. Result
is that transport is so unreliable that a
planter may waste most of 12 months in
bringing “boys” from outlying areas and
sending them back. (Period of their in-
denture dates from door to door, so to
speak.) To those trying to do a job in
New Guinea and not possessing their own
aferial transport the position often is hope-
less. One thing is obvious: shipping
should go back at once to private enter-
prise, and after that the recruiting situa-
tion should be reconsidered. Trade-union
“militants” and Corns, have been
prowling round the territory, too. They
may have had little success up to date in
leading the native up the garden path,
but they are not likely to help the area
get on its feet again.
* * * *
Premier Playford, of S.A., who has
cause to resent the idea of further cen-
tralisation of financial controls, disap-
proves of the bank-nationalisation plan.
He yet has power to thwart Canberra
“Labor” so far as the Bank of Adelaide
is concerned.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Bill was furiously
chopping at a great grey box log when
we rode up and he lifted an indignant
face. “Snake be blowed!” he panted.
“Think I’d bother choppin’ out a snake?
No, it’s a blasted frill-neck an’ I’ll get
him if I got t’ blast the stick with jelly.”
Little Curl asked, “What you goin’ t’
do with him? Teach him tricks?” Bill
leaned on his axe. “Tricks! Gripes, he
don’t need no teachin’. I’m sittin’ there,
earin’ me sandwiches, and I takes a bite
at one an’ then rests me hand on the log
while I reach for me billy. Feels a tug
an’ looks up an’ strike me if there ain’t
a half-grown frilly hangin’ on t’ me
sandwich. I’m so staggered I lets go an’
he scuttles along the log an’ dives inter
that there pipe y’ see. You ever hear of
a frilly doin’ a thing like that? No!
An’ I’m always decent to frillies —never
sool the dawgs on ’em or chuck sticks at
’em like some blokes ; an’ here he comes
an’ nabs me sandwich.” Bill spat on his
hands and lifted the axe. “But what’s
the good o’ knockin’ y’rself out cuttin’
him out?” demanded Little Curl. “He’ll
have your sandwich et be this.” “It
ain’t the sandwich,” Bill snorted.
“I’d ’a’ given him that. It’s the principle o’
the thing, sneakin’ up an’ pinchin’ it like
that.” We rode off as the axe fell and
chips began to fly.
* * « «
“Alpine Willie”: “No matter how
honest a bloke might be, he’s liable t’ git
a bad name f’r pinchin’ stock if he’s a
successful cattleman,” observed Bogong
Ben. “I run a few cattle on bush leases
an’ the high plains, an’ there’s always
some nark pesterin’ me with insinuations
when he can’t find some of his cows. If
they were all careful like me with their
brandin’ they’d have little cause t’
grumble. I’ll admit t’ one or two
honest mistakes when freshenin’ up
brands an’ earmarks not quite as distinct
as I like ’em. But it’s me habit t’ see
t’ havin’ me brands real clear an’ no
mistakin’ ’em, an’ with distinctive marks
like mine I’m not likely t’ have me cattle
lifted. That’s where I showed real judg-
ment in choosin’ me brand an’ earmarks.”
“Why, what do y’ use?” inquired a
listener, “A large fryin’-pan brand on the
rump an’ both ears lopped orf at the
butts!” Ben said,
» * * *
“Flathead”: A film now going the
rounds has a “£50,000 all-star cast,”
showing many championship hounds,
and giving enlightening discourse on
the breeds they represent. There is
mention too of wolves and hyenas, and
of the fact that all dogs were originally
bred to combat that pair of villains.
However, when the announcer’s ‘cultured
English tones claimed that “the Australian
dingo multiplied from some dogs let
loose here by Captain Cook,” I began
to wonder at some of his other state-
ments. Wherever the dingoes did come
from, they were certainly on hand to
snarl at Cook when he arrived. The
theory of scientific blokes is even harder
to believe than the film compere’s, for
they claim that the dingo was originally
the Pekinese of China, making his extra-
long walkabout when our continent was
part of Asia, and developing physically
to a far tougher specimen,
* * ♦ ♦
“Bo”: Larsen, it was generally agreed
in the township, was a bit queer, for he
never discussed his affairs with anyone.
Not that he was a recluse —he would have
a few drinks with his fellow-cockies
whenever he met them in at the pub; but
the final seal on his eccentricity was the
fact that he’d never said a word to any-
one about it since the day, about 10 years
back, when his wife had run off with a
fine-looking fettling ganger. Larsen had
just gone on cultivating his citrus-trees
and growing crops of peas and beans in
season between the wide rows of trfees,
and had adroitly side-stepped the subject
whenever the rudely curious had broached
it. Credit, however, was given him for
an abiding affection for his erring spouse
and a hope that she would one day
return, for it was noted by the keen-eyed
that every Friday morning around 10
o’clock Larsen would go out to his road
gate and with his old field glasses scan
the road leading to the township. Nor
did it escape them that it was on a Friday
morning that his wife had left him. It
was Brady, an incurable sentimentalist,
who, coming upon him one Friday morn-
ing as Larsen was scrutinising the dis-
tant view, opened up the old subject.
“Ah, I’m afraid it is only another disap-
pointment for you, Olaf,” he said gently.
The big Swede jmt down his glasses.
“Dis’pointment pe tammed, Chimmy,” he
said. “The parrels off peer arrife in the
goots yart, soeffer. I make certain ef’ry
Choostay I not go to town on the wild
goose’s chase, no?”
♦ * * *
“E. 2”: What is our most useful native
tree? From what I’ve seen I’d plump
for stringybark. In the country where
it grows the timber will last 30 or 40
years as fencing-posts, slabs or roof
shingles, the bark, tough and iron-hard
when cured, being another roofing
material capable of lasting upwards of a
dozen years.- Stringy is excellent fire-
“What's it like in, Quacker?"
wood, the teased bark unbeatable for
kindling, and its charcoal makes a clean
welding heat in the forge. The timber
is in a class of its own for working with
maul and wedges, true and free in the
grain. Many a shack in our Victorian
district’s early days was hfewn from
stringy, from the polished, wide floor-
boards to the weathertight bark roof. The
stringybark doesn’t bear fruit in the ordin-
ary sense, but every couple of years it
comes out in a froth of creamy blossom,
and a rich harvest is gathered by the
bees. Anyone from stringy country
wouldn’t look at other honey.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: When Lieut. George
Grey discovered those aboriginal picture
caves in 1838 he was exploring the
Glenelg River (W.A.) region. There is
good indirect evidence to support “Juru-
mudi’s” suggestion (B, 6/ 8 / ’47) that the
Arab-like costumes may have been
derived from some crew of Malays blown
too far south. In 1865 a futile land settle-
ment expedition that originated in Mel-
bourne came to the Glenelg. Richard
Sholl was Resident. A fleet of seven
proas sailed into Camden Harbor. Sholl
boarded the commodore’s vessel to
seek an explanation, but difficulties
of language prevented any satisfactory
answer. The local blacks, however,
seemed to know all about the
visitors; the sight of the proas sent them
all on the run for the back country. After
a few days the Malays departed. The
next news was of an attempted landing
in force on the large Augustus Is., some
miles to the north. Here the natives put
up a stiff resistance; and the Malays
sailed on. Shell's guess was that they were
slave raiders, seeking divers for the pearl-
shell banks of Torres Strait and thfc Gulf
of Carpentaria. Beyond doubt they had
been visiting the n.-w. coast for centuries:
which would explain the Moslem-like
costumes on the figures in Grey’s caves.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The smartly-dressed
young fellow outside the Cootamundra
post office,looked at us, then again at
Mat and became excited. “Seen you
before, I bet,” he announced. “Y’ might
have,” Mat admitted, “1 bin in some funny
places.” The young fellow laughed.
“No, fair the dink,” he pleaded. “Wasn’t
you stayin’ at a boarding-house in Albury
when they was building the big dam?”
Mat became slightly interested. “Yair,
I was. Did I run inter y’ there?” The
young fellow guffawed. “Run inter me!
Run inter me! ” he echoed, with vast
amusement. “That’s good, that is. Why,
I’m the bloke that went with y’ the night
we took them two good little sorts out t’
the dance at Howlong.” He started to
laugh again but caught Mat’s eye and
stopped. Mat glared at him. “Ah, h’m,”
he said, “now I come t’ look at y’ I don’t
reckon y’re the same bloke. Well, I
better be goin’.” We got our mail and
made for the Albion. In the bar I said
gently, “H’m, good sorts at Howlong,
eh?” It was then I learned that you
really see stars when someone clouts you
between the eyes.
*. * ♦
“Nolly”: None of us ever knew why
Mac had such an aversion to tan boots,
but it was a fact that he never gave a
job to anyone wearing such monstro-
sities. But labor was scarce when one
day a stranger, his feet encased in golden
canoes, landed in. Mac hated to admit
the evil-clad one into our midst without
a struggle, so, taking the stranger down
to the yard, he introduced him to our
ŵ
rough range country jarred its failing
wheels to a standstill and it was left for
the abos to salvage all the iron work for
munition manufacture. It had not only
withstood rough travel but also the blister-
ing heat of northern summers and the
flailing rains of the wet seasons.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Tell “Charles Henry”
(B, 6/8/’47) that his centipede would
neither eject from the mouth nor digest
those gelatinous eggs —they would pass
through the digestive tract. This is pos-
sible since the centipede possesses only a
very elementary interior and only
the one ventral opening. Curiously, this
trick of swallowing its eggs when alarmed
led early observers to the belief that it
was viviparous. This was due to the
fact that on occasion the eggs were well
developed on being swallowed, and since
their passage through the hundred-footer’s
digestive tract took appreciable time
the infants hatched out before the end
of the journey and so emerged from the
parental shelter alive.
* * * ♦
“Jock”: Ligatures or no ligatures, any
A.A.M.C. corporal who can draw blood
with the needle not in the vein (B.
30/7/’47) will do me as an offsider if
there is ever another mobilisation. There
is only one safe method of removing
snake venom from a limb. First a
ligature is placed just above the puncture
and drawn tight enough to swell the
veins under the skin. The puncture site
is then incised freely and blood will
escape, carrying some venom with it. A
second ligature is placed above the first
and tightened until the pulse at the wrist
or ankle (just behind the bony bump
inside the ankle) disappears. Insertion
of a needle in a superficial vein between
the puncture and the first ligature is the
next step. If the second ligature is now
released for about a minute, the artery
will pump blood through the limb via
the capillaries into the veins and some
will emerge through the needle and bring
some venom with it. This procedure
may be repeated as often as necessary,
limited only by the amount of blood re-
moved from the patient.
* W * *
“T.P.M.*: Old Dent had never gained
a reputation for extravagance where bag-
men were concerned, but one Kelly
found ways and means. He took a fenc-
ing contract, received his tools and a
supply of rations, and set out for the
scene of action. A few days later the
station-owner came on a sheet of paper
nailed on a stump. It read:
Tools in the stump.
Food’s in my belly;
I’m now on the track —
And don’t forget Kelly.
* * * •
“Columba”: How is this for super-
instinct? The secretary of the Gympie
(Q.) Pigeon Fanciers’ Club bought a hen
bird in Sydney which he was never able
to fly because she injured a wing. When
one of her offspring was taken for its
first flight to a place near Maryborough,
about 50 miles north, it didn’t return to
Gympie, but homed to its mother’s
original address in Sydney.
» * * *
“Plankton”: The word “narangy,” used
by Tom Collins in Such Is Life and re-
garded by Miles Franklin as being
synonymous with jackeroo, and “prob-
ably a blackfellow’s word,” is much
more likely to derive from “naranja,”
which is Spanish for orange, introduced
into Spain during the Moorish occupa-
tion and itself derived from the Arabic
“naranj.” Appropriate to the sour
standoffishness of the “gentlemen ap-
prentices” it may have been thus applied
by someone with a knowledge of Spanish,
perhaps an ex-sailor.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: “Kandoo” (B.
13/8/’47) has a very different story re-
garding the abo. legend of the origin of
Mudjimba (now locally known as Old
Woman Island, without the possessive)
from the one that Tom Petrie told me
long ago he had got from both the
Maroochy and Caloundra tribes. It be-
gan with two young gins fishing from
the beach near Caloundra Head. They
caught a big, round, white fish of a kind
that they had never seen before, but
after they had got it ashore it rolled
away to a tall tree, climbed it and
soared off into the sky. That was the
beginning of the moon. One of them
had left her baby asleep under a bush
and found it dead. They wandered dis-
consolately along the shore until they
came to a huge fallen tree whose
branches rested on Mudjimba, Walking
along the trunk, they. camped on the
island. A gale sprang up and washed
the tree out to sea, leaving them
marooned there for life. The smoke of
their camp fires can still be seen on
misty mornings—faint white wraiths ris-
ing from the rocky hill at the island’s
easterly end.
OUR KELPIE.
We sit by a winter hearth
Made warm by a red log’s heat,
Safe sanctuaried from a wind-whipped rain
That pleads for entry at door and pane,
With a kelpie at our feet.
Moist muzzle poised upon-velvet paws,
Plumed 'tail outstretched he lies,
With ears intent on the rout without
And keenly watchful eyes.
Russet as leaves by the autumn hued
Is his smooth and lustrous coat,
Save when he hears in the gloom outside
Some strange disturbing note.
What evil thing is abroad tonight
That will not let him rest?
What secret foe can it be he scents
With eyes and ears aquest?
Does he take the trail to far jungle days
Ere the building of walls began
When, at the call of a hunted child,
The first dog burst from the howling wild
To safeguard and service man?
We sit by a red log fire
And dream in its genial heat
Of drovers camped in the lone outback
With never a friend on route or track
Save the kelpies at their feet.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“C.E.”: Was considering the long gully
behind the house, with a view to putting
in a dam, when Ted rode up. “Adam?”
he answered me. “Yair, there’s the
very place. Down at the foot o’ the
gully, see? Y’ll get all the water y’ want,
puttin’ it there. The gully’ll catch from
them slopes, an’ drain the lot down inter
the dam.” Ted had scarcely disappeared,
when Charlie Banks pulled up. “Gripes,
y’re not going to build a dam there, are
you?” he pretested. “You wouldn’t get
any water. Right up in the head of the
gully, that’s the place for it. You
see, once the run-off strikes the gully
she’ll slow up and sink away in the silt.
Catch it up at the head, that’s the only
place.” Was still pondering the advan-
tages of Charlie’s proposal when Dad
Taylor added his voice. “If y’re sinkin’ a
dam, old man,” he informed me weightily,
“you take my advice and keep right out
o’ the gullies. They bin built up with
wash orf them hills f’r years, an’ me ’n’
Bill sunk five feet in one, then come on
the top of a sawn-orf stump. Drain y’
water in a deep furrer round the top an’
sides there, an’ build y’r dam out on the
side o’ the slope, where she’ll hold in the
solid clay. It’s the only place f’r a
decent dam.” Before I start this job, has
anyone further ideas on the subject?
* * * *
“Zake”: Add to the multiplicity of
uses quoted for the fast-disappearing
four-sided kero.-tin (B. 28/8/ ? 47) that of
a handy standard of measure. It holds
exactly 281 b. of spuds and corn, 301 b.
of wheat or peas, 251 b. of barley, 201 b. of
oats and 101 b. of bran. Small citrus-
growers are aware that it holds just
half a bushel of oranges, for its content
is 1073 cubic inches, a full bushel en-
casing 2150 cubic inches. Also, allowing
for the handle fitted to it, it was brought
back from the (old-time) pub holding
slightly under four gallons of beer, ex-
cluding the collar.
“Sou’-west”; Lately I came upon that
old bush friend the kero.-tin put to use
as a plugless shower bath. First, my
bushie punched the top of his tin full of
small nail holes. Then through the centre,
from side to side, he fixed, through ac-
curately punched holes, a suitable length
of broomhandle. Thus the empty tin
could be turned readily on this axis top
to bottom at will. A long stirrup of
fencing-wire, with a loop at each end to
take a pole of the spindle, served as a
support, the whole apparatus being sus-
pended from a suitable gallows. Method
was to first stand the “shower” on its
legitimate bottom, unscrew the top plug
and half fill with water. Next to hoist
it to a convenient height. Then the bather,
by means of a cord attached to the handle
at the top, reversed the tin and contents.
It took a fair pull to overcome the dead
weight but once the tin was reversed it
remained so until the last drop poured
from the cluster of nail holes.
# * * *
“C.E.”: Pete’s domicile was perched
on top of a bald, exposed knob, and as
he staggered home with the gale he kept
one eye on Rover, Presently he reached
the door, picked up a drag chain and
fastened the dog securely to the trunk of
a giant greybox. “Lorst good animals
before t’day,” he told the mong.,
solemnly, “but I bet that chain’ll hold y’
awright, an’ that tree’s stood a good
many gales as bad as this’n in its time.”
He patted Rover and made back to
the hut. Next morning Barney came on
him madly cussing the wind and calling
on the Almighty to witness its criminal
activities. As his remarks on the subject
were even more lurid than usual, Barney
stopped to learn the cause. “It’s Rover,”
bawled old Pete. “Nuthin’ ain’t got no
chance ’gainst that blasted wind. No, he
ain’t blowed away, but look at the pore
cow, will y’? Jus’ look at him —blowed
out straight on the end o’ the chain with
his flamin’ neck broke!”
* * ♦ *
“Wattle Y’av”: To see the longest,
largest and best cattle trough in Aus-
tralia drop into Mayall’s Bore, near
Derby (n.-w. W.A.). Built of concrete —
not reinforced —it is 400 feet long, three
feet across top-inside measurement and
18 inches deep. Contractor Joe Griffiths
did the job over 30 years ago, since when
it has watered close on to half a million
cattle travelling to Derby for shipment,
“There she blows , Skipper ”
besides many thousands of bush cattle
which are permanent boarders. Kept full
by the running bore and unprotected by
railings of any kind, it is as solid as the
day it was completed, excepting for odd
small patches where the cement facing
has chipped away and been refaced.
* * * »
“Whizzbang”: Near Cape York we
were loading oil drums on to a truck; a
few boongs were lending a hand. “Count
those drums as you load, Jacky,” said
the boss. Starting shakily, but gaining
confidence as he went on, Jacky’s voice
could be heard: “One drum, two drum,
free drum, anudder drum, anudder
drum, anudder drum”
* sp * *
“C.A.L.”: All this talk on the correct
way to use and handle explosives when
blasting rock and tree-stumps would
bring grins from Westralian mining-
district kids, who cut their teeth on a
plug of “jelly” and after a few years fight
feuds with primitive bombs made of the
same stuff. So versatile are the uses to
which the explosive is put that one gold-
fields dentist resorted to it when he found
a molar so firmly embedded in an old
prospector’s gums that he couldn’t shift
it with his implements. He bored a hole
into the root of the tooth, filled it with
75 per cent, dynamite and for a
detonator used fulminate of mercury
from which protruded two fine wiresl
which he rubbed over the points of a
torch battery. That fixed —or, rather,
unfixed —the stubborn tombstone.
* * * *
“Mickey”: I agree that a stockwhip
is necessary for mustering (B. 23/7/ ’47),
for it is then that a beast should be
convinced, by the use of the lash, that
its proper place is in the mob and that
the stockman is in control. Once on the
camp, however, whips should be put
away and the camp horse left in charge.
If he is worth his tucker it doesn’t take
him lohg to shoulder an unruly beast
into submission, horns or no horns, if
his rider co-operates fully.
“The beauty of this model is the roof-door —you
don’t have to stoop to enter."
“Betcha”: I admit that Strawb. is
guilty of all those cantankerous turns,
“Zake” (B. 23/7/’47), but even so she’s a
paragon compared to a jumbuck. Ever
tried, singlehanded, to yard a big mob
of crossbred ewes with young lambs?
Without a dog, the surest way is to sneak
on them, grab and carry them to the
yard one at a time. With a dog, one
doesn’t get close before they spot the
canine and give chase. Across the
paddock they go, collecting more pur-
suers every few yards, while you grow
hoarse trying vainly to make your
useless orders heard above the din. Nor
does a team of three or four mongs
solve the problem, for they all retreat in
different directions, each followed by a
stream of indignant ewes which lose
track of their lambs in the excitement. As
for gratitude, as soon as one tries to
assist a sheep in trouble, the contrary
brute becomes possessed of a diabolic
determination to commit suicide. I’ve
humped a sick wether in front of the
saddle for miles because, apparently, the
thing couldn’t walk, only to have it jump
up at the first opportunity, and passing
a dam of good water, streak for the
freshly-charged dip and drink itself to
death. Another patient crawled beneath
the door of the shed, found the one post-
hole in the far corner of a 300-acre
paddock and, spilling both front legs
down v the hole, dropped h§r neck on the
edge and suffocated.
* * * •
“Laetitia”: In the periodical matches
between headhunters of the Torres Strait
islands and the Papuan mainland both
sides adhered strictly to an inflexible
though unwritten article of war. The posi-
tion of head of the Straits was decided
yearly by teams sailing long war canoes
of identical make the construction of
which was a trade prerogative of the
Upper Fly shipwrights. Indeed, but for
the willingness of the latter to supply the
craft to the islanders no regular yearly
event could have been held. In the be-
tween-season period the Torres Strait
sportsmen made friendly trading visits up
the Fly to buy the canoes, which the
vendors well knew would return on mis-
sions of mayhem. In accord with the
gentlemen’s agreement the islander never
attempted to master the secret of the con-
struction of the canoes, whilst the Fly
River men never thought of withholding
the vessels from their competitors.
♦ * * *
“B. A. Ker”: A second before the
loco, whistled a half-grown cattle dog
boarded the train. Instantly a round-
faced, happy-looking young fellow left
his seat, hurried to
the door, and tried
unsuccessfully t o
coax the pup towards
him. Alarmed at the
landscape flitting
past the open door,
the dog withdrew
along the corridor.
Suddenly the young
chap grabbed at the
leather collar, suc-
ceeded in touching
it and promptly
drew back his hand
as the teeth snapped
shut a quarter of
an inch away. Now
thoroughly fright-
ened, the pup slunk
between two seats.
Amid squealings,
two pairs of silk-clad
legs were smartly
tucked under their
owners on the seat,
but the pursuer still
pursued. This time
the dog didn’t miss ;
but neither did the
sturdy young man.
With blood trickling down his hand
he dragged the stiff-legged pup to
the doorway. “What, did he follow you
on to the train?” asked a bushy-bearded
traveller. “Oh, no; I’ve never seen
him before,” replied the dog-lover;
“I just hate to see a dog become a stray ;
he’s bound to find his way home if I
put him off at the next station.” Putting
him off was one thing, keeping him off
another —the dog immediately shot in
again; but his protector was quicker.
Thwarted, the dog took the second-last
trick —on the cuff of his benefactor’s
trousers. The last trick was taken by an
acid-faced woman who had just boarded
the train. “You inhuman brute,” she
flared, “if you don’t want the dog why
don’t you have it destroyed instead of
throwing it out to become a stray?”
* * * *
“Mug”: With three hours’ work in.
Dad came down from the yards to meet
his day-wages man as the latter alighted
from his car. “See you finished the
roof yesterd’y,” Dad approved. “That
means there’s only that fireplace left t’
do.” “That’s it, boss,” nodded the work-
man. “I’ll finish her t’day or t’morrer.”
“Good. I’ll inspect it in the mornin’,”
informed Dad. “Then y’ can come in
for y’r cheque.” Catching his hack, Dad
rode over the hill to Tom Connor’s hold-
ing, where he started work on a span of
partly-built fence. All day he worked,
and it was dark when he presented him-
self at the Connors’ farmhouse. “Well,
she’s finished, Tom,” he informed,
wearily. “Dropped in for a settlin’.”
Connor produced his cheque book.
“Suppose y’ wouldn’t consider another
couple of weeks. Dad?” he suggested
tentatively. “Cripes, no, Tom; this last
fortnight’s put me all behind with me
own work,” Dad hastened to explain,
“an’ I wouldn’t ’a’ done it, only I never
was no good at buildin’.” He folded the
cheque carefully. “Y’ know how me
place has needed fixin’ for a long time,”
he went on, “an’ with this here fortnight
screw I’ll be able t’ pay the buildin’
bloke that I put on for a few days this
week/’
* * * *
“E. 2”: Long Bob was always invent-
ing something that didn’t work, and he
was thinking how handy it would be to
irrigate his maize crop from the lagoon.
He had a small pump but no -engine.
“Reckon I’ll knock up a waterwheel,”
he said to Fred Morrow. “Y’ know
them overshot wheels that work by the
water pourin’ into the buckets t’ keep
’em turnin’. Well, I’ll make a double
one, with a set of cups in reverse t’ lift
up the water an’ spill it in the others.
It’d keep goin’ indefinitely.” “But even
if that’d work y’d git nowhere,” replied
Fred, “Cripes, y’ oughter have figgered
y’d on’y be givin’ the water a ride round
the wheel. That wouldn’t irrygate y’r
com.” Bob bent on him a look of scorn.
“Come orf it,” he said. “That ain’t the
way it’d work. I’d jist set her up the
way I said an’ then, when she got spinnin’
properly under her own power, I’d jist
run the belt on t’ me pump an’ have it
goin’ day an’ night. On’y cost’d be
a bit of oil f’r the bearin’s twice a day.”
Later Fred got to wondering how he’d
stop the machine short of running out
of water, but he supposed Bob had it
worked out.
*** * /
“Notaden”; Fossil remains of a
plesiosaurus discovered in the Necairn
Ranges, some 50 miles eastward from
Biackall (central Q.), have led to the
organisation of a scientific expedition to
seek for further specimens in the neigh-
borhood. The finders were A- C.
Towner, of Purtora station, a noted
authority on Australian exploration, and
V. Finter, who, on the surface of a hill-
side washout, came across a jawbone of f
the huge marine reptile from the Meso-
zoic Age, which ended 80,000,000 years
ago. The Royal Geographical Society,
the Adelaide and Queensland Museums
and other scientific organisations will be
represented in the party of 20 which is
bound for the Carnarvon Ranges.
* * * *
“Solitude”: In a corner of the home
paddock the rabbits had broken all mul-
tiplication records, and Seventyfiver de-
cided to dig them out. Hearing of it
Sandy dropped in with a rabbit dog, and
offered him to the old chap for a week
or two. The weather was hot, and after
digging away for an hour or so Seventy-
fiver looked round to find the mong.
sprawled in the shade, watching him
lazily. “Can’t you find nothin’ to do?”
he growled at the dog. “Look for some-
thin’, then. G’on.” A couple of hours
later he was wiping off the sweat when
his eye again lit on Ginger watching
from the shadow of a bush. He swore,
picked up his mattock once .more, but
ten minutes later swung round suddenly
and ordered the mong. to the far side
of the bush. The sun dropped lower, and
as the shadows crept in so did the dog,
watching intently as Seventyfiver pulled
out the bunnies. Two more scorching
days the old bloke put in; then he re-
turned, bringing the borrowed rabbiter.
“You passin’ Sandy’s camp this
mornin’?” he asked. “Well, take that
mong. back; I ain’t standin’ him another
day. Cripes, Sol,” he went on resent-
fully, “I’m easy enough as a rule, but
that flamin’ thing just sits there an’
watches me do nothin’ from mornin’ till
night.”
IN MARTIN PLACE.
The poppies gay are blooming .
On stall's in Martin Place —
St. Martin’s Lane, men named it
When the years were full of grace
And gardens lined the footpaths
And bees were everywhere.
Today amid the traffic
They still are busy there.
They heed not tram or taxi,
They know not time or change;
Wherever flowers are blooming
Is where the brown bees range—
Where once grew cottage gardens
Spacious and green and fair,
And sounds of hooves and hansoms
Fell softly on the air.
Street cries might sometimes echo „
Along St. Martin’s Lane ;
And in the dusk the lovers
Told that old tale again,
When Sydney was a village
And the years were full of grace ... :
Only the bees remember !
Today in Martin Place.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


mm
r
Safe in his hands
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique ol tha A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged. that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid com
fidently at A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
Australian, Mercantile, Land & F
mane©
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1865.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree. Henty and Hay.
WHEN BELOW PAR
Try Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills
Even those folk who usually enjoy good health do not
always feel right up to the mark. At times they have
their bouts of perhaps Biliousness, Constipation or
Rheumatism. When these attacks do occur, a course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found helpful.
They stir the liver, aid the Digestion, and regulate
the bowels, thus helping the system back to normal.
DR. MORSE'S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
They Make You Fed Brighter
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
. Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and A CERTAIN
KIEEER
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
r
/mm
y/mm
imv>
*»
as
<
z
o
s »RURAI SANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS * #
ai2t
V
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
In and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL RANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
, t c
SQ33H IVNOSaad JlOd A3NOW SON3I MNVB IVHnS**
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing Farm Wool.
“Maton”: As far as farm clips are
concerned the word classing can be re-
garded as a misnomer because many
growers of small clips believe that wool-
classing is a science, and therefore beyond
them. As a matter of fact it refers only
to'grading, and all farmers know quite
well that primary products must be graded
for successful marketing; they also know
that grading consists of separating in-
ferior from superior, and when these
general principles are applied to wool
they can’t go far wrong.
Wool, like other products, must be
graded on well-defined principles to obtain
uniformity. The basis of wool value is
its manufacturing worth, and it must be
graded to meet the requirements of the
manufacturing trade, and into lines that
are even in value. Thus the principles
that must be employed in grading wool
are length, soundness, quality and to a
lesser extent condition and color.
Put into everyday practice this means
that long and short wools must not be
mixed, or sound and unsound, or coarse
and fine, and extra heavy discolored
fleeces must be rejected from the main
lines. Star lots must, be avoided. There-
fore when classing a small clip only two
main lines can be made, to consist of
A.A. and A. or first and second. How-
ever, a few bad-type fleeces must always
be expected in any small clip, and if they
are put with even the seconds they spoil
the line. Therefore these fleeces, which
will consist of extra long or short, or
extra coarse, extra heavy and dingy,
should be placed together in a bale and
sent to a bulk-classing store.
Fleece treatment is important in the get-
up of any small clip. This consists of
skirting off the inferior portions and
removing any inferior back wool.
Farmers often are very uncertain about
skirting ; they need not be if they only
look at the job from a commonsense
aspect, which is that it simply consists
of removing the inferior portions from
the superior.
Worms in Calves.
“Mr.”: When pastures are eaten down
and the ground heavily contaminated, as
both will be when too many cattle are
put in the one paddock, it’s easy for
the animals to pick up worm eggs. Rotate
the grazing to give the pastures a chance
to recover and the wormy paddocks to
become decontaminated. Feed the stock
well and -water them away from swampy
areas.
D. M. Flynn, B.V.Sc., in the Vic.
“Agricultural Journal,” recommends the
following routine treatment for young
cattle, even though they may not be
showing symptoms of infestation. Dose
with phenothiazine at six months (|oz.);
again at nine months (ioz.), and at 12
months (|oz.). Weigh, don’t measure
these quantities. If calves are known to
be worm-infested, repeat the dose in 10
days. In bad cases repeat at 10-day in-
tervals until improvement is noticed,
although care will be needed when dosing
weak calves. Keep them under shade for
24 hours following treatment. In severe
cases handfeed crushed grain (preferably
oats) and give skim milk to drink.
Pig Breeders’ Opportunity.
“Archaps”: F. Bostock, Queensland
Government pig expert, is urging farmers
to take advantage of the greater supplies
of grain now available to lift the in-
dustry to production records. Far too
many pigs are dying before reaching
marketing age, he complains, and attri-
butes this primarily to faulty feeding,
bad management and poor housing con-
ditions.
When a young pig is tossed out of a
pen a farmer is throwing away portion
“Now you've spilt me tea!"
of the feed its mother has eaten, in addi-
tion to the loss of the profit from the
pig. When a sow loses all except two or
three of her suckers it is impossible to
produce profitable pork.
To avoid introducing disease among
healthy stock, Bostock urges farmers to
isolate newly-purchased stores for at
least three weeks before running them
with other pigs. Pigs enclosed in small
yards in low-lying conditions, with little
protection from the weather and few or
no facilities for exercise or grazing, are
wide open to attack by disease. The
modern pig is too often regarded as a
machine for the conversion of so many
pounds of food into so many pounds of
meat for human consumption, but success
is achieved only by careful feeding and
capable management. A common fault
is ,to place piggeries in a low-lying situ-
ation because of the closeness of the
dairy. Proximity to the separator-room
is an important consideration, but it
should not be allowed to outweigh the
necessity for a piggery site to be well
drained. Bostock lists the following as
principal causes of deaths among young
pigs in Queensland: stillborns, overlaying,
scours, runts, insufficient milk production
of sows, pneumonia, colds and parasitic
infestation.
— %
Lantana.
“Tilga”: A gully running through a
banana plantation on the N.S.W. N.
Coast was given over to lantana. Every
year the brush-hook was used to keep
the pest within bounds, and each season
the task became more difficult, partly be-
cause of the vigorous growth induced by
regular pruning, partly because of the
dead stumps left from previous years.
Firing destroyed the debris, but the roots
sprung up again into strong plants.
Finally, a new principle was adopted.
As each plant was brushed down the butt
was mattocked out. After burning the
number of plants springing again was less
than one-tenth of those growing before.
The third season* found 10 or a dozen
plants awaiting removal. Today, after
the fourth treatment, no sign of lantana
is seen.
And—this is a fact which will surprise
many who are inclined to scoff at the
waste of time entailed in grubbing—the
total time spent in the four seasons on
total eradication was approximately one-
third of that which would have been
taken up in brushing alone. In the one
case a few moments will be needed to
remove an odd seedling next season. In
the other brushing would still be a long
and awkward job that has to be done.
Chick Sexing.
“North 5 West”: Many poultry-
farmers during September and October
will be employing sexers of vary-
ing degrees of skill, and many will
find themselves lamenting when their
pullets develop combs and other male
attributes. Farmers can protect them-
selves to a great extent by immediately
examining the rejected cockerels post-
mortem. If more than, say, 2 p.c. or
3 p.c. of the “cockerels” prove to be
females the sexer should be fired.
The method is easy, and the examina-
tion should not take more than about
ten seconds per bird. Kill the chick by
a knock on the head, hold it belly up in
left hand with head to the left, pinch
skin of abdomen just below short ribs,
open skin towards right and with thumb
turn entrails back till spinal flesh is ex-
posed. In cockerels the testes will then
be plainly visible as two yellowish organs
about one-eighth inch long by, say, one-
sixteenth inch wide. Poor sexers are a
menace, as it may be reckoned that for
each cockerel, subsequently discovered
among the pullets at least two and prob-
ably more pullets were sacrificed with
the rejects. One neighbor of mine
found 15 pullets among 35 supposed
cockerels which he saved for the pot.
Speed is necessary. If too slow the
organs are masked by blood.
Air Baits for Dingoes.
“Sarina”; I’m sceptical regarding the
ultimate success of the air-poisoning
scheme (B. 13 /8 / ’47), because during the
war and since baits supplied to cattle-
men in the St. Lawrence and Nebo dis-
tricts by Queensland Lands Department
failed to kill the dogs. Having been
made sick by the inefficient baits, the
dogs became too cunning to touch others,
and at present most of them go only for
beef or mutton on the hoof. It used to
be fairly easy to get dingoes with a
poisoned carcass, but things' have
changed.
The only form of strychnine for poison
baits available to the public (and, pre-
sumably, the Lands Department) during
the war and after was strychnine brucine,
stuff far less toxic than pure strychnine.
I failed to get any noticeable results with
this poison against the wallaby pest in
my canefields, whereas with powdered,
pure strychnine I had a 100 p.c. kill. If
the baits are no more toxic than they
were during and just after the war
heaven help us. They won’t kill many
dogs ; they’ll simply educate ’em to leave
all baits alone.
Weed Sprays.
“Prof”; The shortage of men in the
war years brought to a head research on
the economic control of weeds in agri-
cultural crops. Solutions of copper or
iron sulphates and later dilute sulphuric
acid have been used for some yfcars to
control weeds in onions. Commercial
power-kerosene has proved of value in
controlling weeds in young carrots. The
crop is sprayed when one to four fern-
leaves have formed, using between 40
and 80 gallons per acre.
A later find was a chemical weedicide
first tried in California (U.S.A.), known
as sodium dinitro-ortho cresylate, sold
commercially in Australia as dinoc. This
chemical can be sprayed on any of the
following without affecting them: Rax,
wheat, oats, barley, peas, onions and cer-
tain grasses. Such smothering weeds
as cape-weed, thistles and the cruci-
ferous weeds, which include the wild
mustards, radishes and turnips, shepherd’s
purse and pepper cress, all quickly suc-
cumb to this chemical. Owing to their
susceptibility lucerne, clovers and various
garden plants and vegetables cannot be
so treated.
Recent successful tests with the hor-
mone type of sprays 2, 4-D and meth-
oxone indicate that they have a wide


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20tt. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO.. Box 4109, 0.P.0., Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listh
won’t eat or
out of sorts—he '«.s » A
may be suffering IJ
from digestive la W
disorders. Start Ira m T|
him on a course JP W 1
of BARKO Con- r "* a mi—wii ll iih ~*tih
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOC SOAP ~/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
THE ARMIDAIE SCHOOL.
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
School resumes on 16th September.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONW BEEF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements ., Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
THE
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
l|in. Ring Surcingle, Him best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australias Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone: FA 5013.
%
'V
SJ
V
t 'H e
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
IRIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against
difficulties and loss which might arise should your Executor die or
become incapacitated. By means of such a codicil you can name Burns
Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint Executor with your present appointee or,
if you wish, as sole Executor. In this way you gain positive assurance
of continuous and sound administration and are relieved of a serious
anxiety. The Company will willingly forward full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Bwen Boston - Eric Priestley Bee.
Manager—B. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. • Box 543 G - p -°-> Sydney.
RUM
OVERPROOF
FESQ, CASSON & CO PTY. LTD. ESI 1848 Cfbi]
’OUTSTANDING SUCCESS-
AGAINST
WHITE SCOURS
«
ms
White scours controlled in a
few hours at a cost of only
a few shillings per head.
This new SULPHA DRUG which has
revolutionised the treatment of white
scours is not only quick and effective
but surprisingly economical—a jar of
75 grammes priced at 17/8 will treat,
on an average, five young calves.
OfxcAolaA {Product
SuLPHA-Zs
I TRADE MARK
Also for COCCIDIOSIS in
CALVES, enteritis, dysentery
of pigs, horses, dogs and
COCCIDIOSIS in POULTRY.
•SULPHA-G’ is sold in jars containing 7S grammes
at 17/8 or 400 grammes at 82/6. Average amount
necessary for treatment of white scours is from 10
to 15 grammes. Further information on,'SUPH A- G
its full uses and dosages are contained in ‘SULPHA-
G’ brochure obtainable through your retailer or
post f ree from Nicholas Pty. Ltd. (Branch offices
in all States).
m
Ask for Sulpha-G at
your nearest chemist or
at one authorised to sell
such preparation.
TUcho/ai »t»iciiTMmfiWMMW nnism
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1 /2| posted from Bulletin Office, 252
George Street, Sydney.
range of selectivity. While grasses (ex-
cept the lawn-grass bent), rushes and
certain bulbous plants are unaffected, al-
most all broad-leaved plants arfc suscep-
tible. Notable exceptions are bracken,
paddymelon and wild onion.
Contour Furrows.
“Don Drone”: In constructing contour
furrows, three or four lines at a time are
easily marked out with a series of colored
pegs, using either a dumpy level and
staff or the A-frame. The rooter plough
is the most effective implement under
varying soil conditions. The sod cut out
should be turned downhill and the ends
of the furrows turned slightly up to- pre-
vent any outflow, as this is the surest way
to start a gully. The furrows must be
made large enough to hold the maximum
quantity of water that they are likely
to receive; if too small the water will
overtop and probably break down the
bank, with disastrous results.
Check-dams in the furrows, although
recommended by N.S.W. authorities, do
not seem to be general in Victoria. Al-
ways take the furrow uphill around
obstacles such as trees, stumps, etc,, situ-
ated on the contour line. A little clover
seed scattered in the furrows and on the
banks will help to stabilise the loose
soil. Care is the essence of success in
this type of work; haphazardly-con-
structed furrows can produce worse
damage in a much shorter time than un-
treated land.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Falling egg production and
losses of poultry are frequently caused
by avitaminosis, a nutritional disease
brought about by a deficiency in green
feed. If green feed in regular quantities
is unavailable, fish oil will prove an
adequate substitute. This will necessitate
feeding the daily mash in wet form. One
to two pints of oil sh6uld be added to
each 1001 b. of mash, first mixing the oil
with a little bran.
“Sundowner”: Danger of fires around
the farm may be minimised by the follow-
ing precautions: Clean all spoutings ;
don’t heap up inflammable rubbish in the
backyard—bum it as it accumulates, pre-
ferably in an old drum and don’t leave
it unattended; plan and make firebreaks
now, as grass can be ploughed and scrub
chipped from around fences and out-
buildings.
“C.A.A.”; Bordeaux mixture is effec-
tive against both peach-leaf curl and
apricot scab. Strength recommended is
6:4:40. Two sprays are required, one at
the leaf fall and another at the pink-bud
stage.
“Turo”: Strong chickens cannot be ex-
pected if roosters have lost vitality
through lack of food, by fighting, etc.
Pen them separately if pugilistic, and feed
them separately if they are so gallant as
to refrain from eating until the hens have
finished. Breeding birds should be kept
in the pink of condition.
“Malo”: If young citrus-trees do not
seem to be making headway try giving
them a ration of potash soot, or even
wood ashes. Do not cultivate the soil
about them, but add more soil when
necessary. For scale and black-leaf
troubles spray once or twice with white
spraying oil mixed with water in the
proportion of one to 40, or one gill of
oil to five quarts of water for small spray.
Early summer is a suitable time for
spraying,
“W. Court”: Termites are always
causing damage to wooden dwellings in
bush areas. At one time we were kept
busy putting down arsenic, and results
were never decisive. Then we started
rearing chicks, and soon dug up nearly
every antbed on the farm to satisfy the
chicks’ white-ant appetite. The ants were
thinned out and disappeared almost
completely when we drove the crowbar
into all the remaining nests and burned
them out, They haven’t troubled us
since.
“Gip”: Try making pulley wheels
from three-ply. Cut out a number of
pieces of three-ply the same size as the
wheel, the number of pieces depending
on the width. Glue the pieces together
and keep under pressure until dry. Bore
a hole through the centre corresponding
with the size of the shaft, and cut a key-
way so as to fit a wedge, preventing the
wheel turning on the shaft. The face
of the pulley can be smoothed with sand-
paper, and the three-ply either varnished
or treated with oil to make waterproof.
These pulleys give very satisfactory ser-
vice.
“Bill C.”: Though thorns won’t readily
penetrate them, the so-called “thorn-
proof” cycle tyres are apt to crack. To
make a back tyre absolutely resistant to
prickles, take a well-worn tyre (possess-
ing little or no tread), cut away the wire
from the rims and cut completely through
the tyre. The now pliable tyre is tucked
inside the outer cover, which is then
replaced on the wheel. The bicycle will
be slightly harder to push, but the double
tyre will give amazingly long service.
“Mr.”: The Vic. Department of Agri-
culture announces its intention to award
five scholarships for Victorian students
tenable at Dookie and Longerenong
Agricultural Colleges, in January, 1948.
The scholarships, which will cover a three-
year period, will entitle holders to free
board, lodging and tuition. Applicants
must be not less than 15 on March 1,
1948, and possess educational qualifica-
tions of proficiency standard or better.
The Superintendent of Agricultural Edu-
cation, 605 Flinders-street, Melbourne,
will supply particulars,
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
I have a cattledog who had ticks. He now,
bites his toes, legs and back badly, and scratches
his stomach. Have tried condition powders and
a 2 p.c. germicidal soap wash without effect.
What else can I do?
Skin eczema in dogs accounts for scratching
and- biting of parts affected. Apart from after-
effects of tick fever, it is possible that treat-
ment with 2 p.c. mercurial soap accounts for
much of the irritation. For the same reason
dusting powders containing D.D.T. should be
avoided for elimination of insect pests. For
the present give a wash every other day with
a full soap lather and warm water; rinse well
off and smear with peanut or maize oil when
dry. Irritable parts should be dusted freely
with cornflour or starch powder over the oil
application. Avoid over-stimulating foods and
completely change the diet. Raw meat may
do good, but include chopped-up green vege-
tables. Give a little Epsom salts (approx, i
teaspoon) dissolved jn water occasionally.


developed the
BALLOON
TYRE
Goodyear’s development of balloon tyres brought a
tremendous measure of comfort to car driving. Balloon
tyres increased motoring pleasure and reduced repair
costs. They had better traction, preventing skids on
curves and wet surfaces. They ran cooler. The larger
cross-sections and lower air pressure distributed the
cord flex over a bigger area and greatly increased
mileage, Goodyear’s contribution to the balloon tyre
is a typical pioneering effort in a long line of “firsts”.
In 1906 it was the straight-side tyre . . . 1908 saw the
introduction of the Goodyear tyre-building machine ..,
the multiple-ply-cord tyre
in 1913 and in 1917 pneu-
matic truck tyres. To-day
more people, the world
over, ride on Goodyear
tyres than any other make.
every year
far 82
years
GOODYEAR
—you dor? t stay FIRST unless you re best
Cl 0/227
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities. Price 2/-.
Public Notice.
WOULD anyone knowing the present whereabouts or
last addresses of MISS CLARICE STEWART
WARNER or her father, MR. HENRY EDWARD
WARNER, who previously resided in Kurapuni
Street, Masterton, New Zealand, about 1914, kindly
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Hastings, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce,
TO CHARLES FRANCIS CLEMENT TAYLOR late
of Strathfleld. —TAKE NOTICE that EDNA MARY
TAYLOR has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3099
of 1947 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse during three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 28th November 1947 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from JONATHAN
WINGROVE JOYCE, Solicitor, of St. James Build-
ings, 109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO BERTRAM VERB DAWSON late of Rosebery.—
TAKE NOTICE that MURIEL CHRISTINE DAWSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2088 of 1947
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 4th November 1947 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from JONATHAN WIN-
GROVE JOYCE, of St. James Buildings, 109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
1797
ẁ
1947
The City of Greater
NEWCASTLE
150
TH
ANNIVERSARY ROOK
To give permanence to the commemoration of the
150th anniversary of the discovery" of the Hunter
River, on which Newcastle stands, an illustrated
book, "NEWCASTLE 150 YEARS,” will be
available in September.
Printed on 80 pages of art paper, in three colours,
"NEWCASTLE—ISO YEARS” gives a vivid impres-
sion of the industrial and commercial greatness of
Newcastle, its tourist attractions, and of the extent
and varied resources of the Hunter Valley.
"NEWCASTLE —l5O YEARS”
includes
Fifty pages of illustrations,
'fa The story of the beginnings and development
of Newcastle.
Informative chapters on mining, steel and
other industries, the port and the commerce
of this great Australian city.
Descriptions of the towns and products of the
Hunter Valley.
“NEWCASTLE—ISO YEARS” is a valuable con-
tribution to the story of Australia’s development as
a nation, and it should have a place in every library.
The price is 10/6; postage and packing
within the British Empire, 1/3 .
USE THIS COUPON
The Town Clerk, NEWCASTLE. Please send a
cop*y of "NEWCASTLE—ISO YEARS.” Enclosed
is remittance for 11/5 (cost of book, packing
and postage).
Name :
Address
Cheques to be crossed and made payable to Greater
Newcastle Council. Please add exchange.
Telephone; Organiser; G. D. MITCHELL,
Newcastle; B 1315 City Hall, Newcastle.
Mati and James Maguire and the anony-
mous Maori, running, and shouting, but
it was too late. All they could see were
the small figures, one khaki, one greenish-
grey, with the gap between them shorten-
ing. The Bayonet Man was running
now, rifle level, and, like a shadow play
on an unreal screen they saw him stab,
saw Percy fall, face down.
They stood back a little, facing the
Bayonet Man, Young Bill and James
Maguire and the little Maori. Young
Bill, blind with rage, wou d have rushed
h.m but a brown hand held each arm
Arm y s tead y ," James Maguire said
Hed kill you easy. Percy s dead. X
can see from here.
THE Bayonet Man had slung his rifle,
stood looking at them coolly.
A narrow face, sandy eyebrows,
indeterminate colored, narrow eyes.
Wrinkled, low forehead under the sandy
hair, narrow, cleft chin. The rifle in his
hands, bayonet, dark and short, pointing
at them. He laughed, showing snaggy,
yellowish teeth. He took a step forward.
James Maguire and the small Maori,
dragging Young Bill between them, took
two steps back. Then back again. And
again. Back towards the Cookhouse and
the empty Kiibels, continuing the absurd
game with the Bayonet Man walking
faster, pointing his rifle, seeming about
to shoot, then lowering it.
His indeterminate eyes, which had been
shifting, scuttling, now focusing, becom-
ing almost black in their concentration.
His movements had a quick rhythm
noW) his pale cheeks had spots of color,
he licked his lips, a fleeting, darting move-
mentj hke that of a lizard’s tongue.
Back back Cookhouse, where
, he red : faced German under-offlcer stood
staring> the old Serb offlccr leant
on his
patriarchal staff, remote as fate, and
where the cooks, too, stood their ground
for a moment, then scattered.
A quick glance behind the Bayonet
Man, and Bill saw that Percy had been
attended to. Dead, or alive, they were
carrying him away. The Maoris no
longer held his arms, he was backing
of his own accord now.
Back, past the first Kiibel, some
common instinct holding them together,
in a straight line. The Bayonet Man
crouched, the bayonet was level, his thin
legs trembled, the eyes twitched. He was
going to charge—charging.
Then, from behind the great Kiibel a
bear-like khaki form blundered into him,
seemed to fall on him. Holding the
Bayonet Man by the scruff of the neck,
Mati shook him, a terrific, silent, shaking.
Mati held him, Jhalf-kneeling. Picked up
the rifle, looked at it. “B’ayonet, eh?”
A mighty heave and the rifle was high
in the air, turning slowly, right over, and
down.
The Bayonet Man was on his feet,
held up, for his legs were trailing.
“Bayonet, eh,” Mati said, his moon
face glistening, his one eye fierce. He
said something softly, in Maori, slapped
the Bayonet Man, not too hard, with the
open hand. Slapped him again, and
again, taking care that he wasn’t knocked
unconscious, while the Bayonet Man
made pitiful moaning noises.
MATI stopped once, to stare at the
crowd. At the red-faced German
under-officer, who had his revolver in his
hand, but didn’t seem anxious to use it.
Staring, instead, at the face of the
Bayonet Man, red and swollen.
Then the Bayonet Man began to cry,
great sobbing gasps and shudders, like a
child that has worked its emotion to the
limit. His body went limp, and Mati
dragged him across the parade ground.
Past the stables, and past the sentry at
the corner, down the roadway and along
the little path to the Commandantur, the
Bayonet Man’s jack boots making queer
rattling and scraping noises on the stones.
A heave of Mati’s great shoulder, and
he was past the sentry. Into the corridor,
through rooms and then, panting, sweat-
ing, raging and careless, in the Com-
mandant’s office. He lifted the Bayonet
Man a little, showed his white and red,
terrified face to the man sitting behind
the desk. Then dropped him, heavily.
“T Bayonet Man, eh,” Mati said,
glaring down with his one good eye.
“Bayonets people, eh? Here he is.”
The Commandant looked up, cold
features expressionless, grey eyes cold.
Two sharp words in German, and an
under-officer snapped to attention. A jerk
of the head, and the Bayonet Man was
lifted to his feet, pushed out the door.
“You may go,” said the Commandant,
in a cool, dry voice.


w
RICHARD TAUBER
Fascination and
At Dawning ;.<•••••* AR.393
IVOR MORETON AND DAVE KAYE
Holiday For Strings and
Boogie Woogie Bash A.VoOi
JACK SIMPSON AND HIS SEXTET
El Relicario and
On Another Track A. 7603
, GENE KRUPA AND HIS CHICAGOANS
Last Round Up and
Jazz Me Blues (Hot Jazz Classic) A. 7604
, DOROTHY SQUIRES
Three Beautiful Words Of Love and
My Man Didn’t Come Back A. 7601
, JOE DANIELS AND HIS HOTSHOTS
Canzonetta and
Jazz Me Blues A. 7599
ASK YOUR NEAREST MUSIC DEALER FOR
THE LATEST RECORD SUPPLEMENT
Tbrhpkone
RECORDS
The Parlophone Company Ltd. (Inc. in England), Tiomebujh. N.S.W,
BY AIR
PHONE NOW—
Book for
Early Departure
SIMPLY ring and say how soon you
would like to fly to New Zealand and
Tasman will make arrangements to suit
your convenience. Seven services a week.
Reservations may be made at any office of
Qantas Empire Airways; The Union Steam
Ship Company and leading Travel Agents
in Sydney and Melbourne.
TASMAN
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
MECHANIC’S BAY. AUCKLAND, N.Z.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Two hundred years ago gentlemen carried
swords, because of the danger in unpoliced
streets.” —Sydney “Telegraph.’’
In this way many a villain was foiled.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Everything was quiet. Suspense reined.
The editor bridled when he saw this.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“George gulped. His eyes popped. T —l
—what?’ he cried.” —Short story.
“Yes,” repeated the tobacconist, im-
passively, “I’ve got plenty of cigarettes.
How piany packets do you want?”
•I* •£»
“Probably the strangest items ever to find
their way into a lost property office were the
skeletons of two elephants.”
— “World's News.’
Strangely enough, they didn’t forget
their trunks.
“Every smart woman wears a hood these
days.”— Fashion note.
Hoping, of course, she’ll meet The Big
Bad Wolf.
“One-third of the audience at boxing bouts
consists of women.” —Weekly paper.
The ring has such an irresistible attrac-
tion for them.
ẃ
“On reflection, dearie, it's me who's going to be troubled by a big man,
not you!"
The Unknown Quantity.
“Road Safety Council tests have shown that
Sydney women drivers are slower in their re-
actions than men of the same age.”
Well, the facts brook no retraction,
But it ought to be allowed
That the so-called weaker fraction
Of humanity’s endowed
With a handicap, deriving
From experience confined
To a year or two of driving
Solely from the seat behind.
And although the basic data
Of the test were doubtless sound,
There could be some slight errata
On a less specific ground —
Someone must have blundered direly
In attempting truth to gauge
From an inference entirely
Based upon a woman’s age.
P. M. LUSK.
A Cold Reception.
“Colds in the nose were caused by "unhappy
marriages, troubles with the butcher or other
kinds of'emotional stress, a group of psychi-
atrists reported.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.’’
You husbands who frequent the pub
Or sup with cobbers at the club,
And, stumbling in at midnight’s hour,
Do everything within your power
To wreck your better-half’s devotion
With weary waiting and emotion.
Will surely be the last to query
At least one aspect of this theory:
The glibly furnished alibi
That you had hoped would get you by
In case your breath gave off a whiff
Is greeted with a wifely sniff.
D. H. E.
A Spanking Good Spouse.
BERT.
ŵ
Slight Oversight.
The Minister for Backing and Filling
had just returned from his sixth three-
months trip abroad.
His wife, of course, had gone with him
in an advisory capacity—she advised
which were the most expensive hotels and
which theatres to take the family to at
the taxpayers’ expense. His daughter had
self-sacrificingly and patriotically given
up her job as a milliner to become his
private secretary, for which she was bril-
liantly qualified except that she couldn't
type or take shorthand and her spelling
was awful. His niece also joined the
retinue as assistant-secretary ; her know-
ledge of make-up, it was thought, would
be an invaluable aid to the Minister
should he decide to investigate the cos-
metics industry abroad. And his nephew
was co-opted to the cavalcade as purse-
holder and assistant-penwiper.
A group of departmental deadheads had
had to be included to give the show an
air of authenticity in view of the impos-
sibility of making the trip appear neces-
sary.
Purely as a matter of form, for
Ministerial joyrides were spared the
dollar-tightqning which industry and
private citizens had to bear, the Prime
Minister was going over a few aspects oi
his tour with his subordinate.
“Let’s see, now— your trip cost 46,000
dollars” —
“Yes, Chief,” put in the Minister. “I’m
sorry about that, but I was crook for
nearly a fortnight down at Florida and.
couldn’t get about much. I know it makes
it hard for the next bloke—it sets a bad
precedent keeping the exes, so low, but
it just couldn’t be helped. I suppose I
could have tipped a bit more liberally, if
I’d thought of it.”
“I see you had a week at Loch Ness.
I didn’t think there was a conference up
in Scotland this tour.”
“There wasn’t. But, you see, I had to
go to St. Moritz—l thought it would be a
good opportunity to contact the Swiss
Minister for Trade to discuss the possi-
bilities of importing some Swiss wool to
relieve the shortage here —and as I was
so close I thought I’d slip across to
Scotland to investigate the latest develop-
ments regarding the prevention of evap-
oration in lakes. It was quite by accident
I discovered when we got therfe that
Loch Ness was the place where the
monster was seen somfe years ago. The
family was quite disappointed when it
failed to appear.”
“I see you spent a •fortnight on the
Norwegian fiords,” put in the Prime
Minister. “You must have lived frugally
—only two thousand dollars for the fort-
night.”
“Yes, Ben. I felt it my duty to see for
myself the venue of one of our Navy’s
most gallant actions in the last war —
they did fight somewhere up there, didn't
they? Anyway, I investigated the fishing
industry while I was there, and I made
a most important discovery—Norway is
far behind us in democratic practices.
Why, the Norse fishermen are allowed not
only to catch fish wherever they like with-
out filling in forms, but they can sell
where they like! And they had never
even heard of a Fish Marketing Board!
The natural evil result was that
housewives had to buy fish cheap and
without queueing up, and moreover the
Government didn’t seem alive to the pos-
sibilities of taking anything out of it.”
“You don’t say so. Comrade!”
“I do, Ben. The whole thing was a dis-
grace compared with our planned
economy. They were so ignorant that
when I told them of the chronic shortages
and high prices we enjoy and suggested
they adopt our methods they wouldn’t
hear of it. I tell you, Chief, these Scan-
dinavians are hopelessly behind us in
matters of government,”
“I see you also put in some business at
Niagara Falls.”
“That’s right, Ben. I worked it out
that a study at first hand of the problems
of big hydro-electric schemes like Niagara
would be of untold value should we at
some time go ahead harnessing for
power purposes a mass of water such as
that of the Bridal Veil Fall in the N.S.W.
Blue Mountains. I found out quite a lot
—for instance, that it’s possible to get
a heap of power from a big volume
of moving water. By a great stroke of
luck there happened to be a great carnival
when we were there. My wife and family
were delighted. She suggested we have
more carnivals at home. I going to
put the proposition to Cabinet.”
“I don’t remember any conference
scheduled for Monte Carlo—you*stopped
there a week.”
“Oh, that. You know, Ben, it was
with great reluctance that I went to
‘Monte’. I simply forced myself to go,
because I thought I should, so as to in-
vestigate the latest methods of glass-
blowing and canning rabbits. I was
amazed when I got there to find that these
industries no longer existed. One official
told me they had never had them there,
but I could scarcely believe that. I must
take that up with our Ministry of In-
formation, which gave me the data.”
“And, I see you called in at Hollywood,
too.”
“Now, that was a place I thought wild
horses could never drag me to. But it
struck me one night in New York. I was
at a nightclub with a State Department
man, and was telling him Eddie’s rail-
unification scheme would make their
T.V.A, and Boulder Dam projects seem
like a bucket-shop operation, when the
floor show gave me the idea of rousing
Hollywood’s interest in a film epic of the
early struggles of Our Party. They didn’t
seem to think it would be a box-office
winner— said it had no sex-appeal. It s
amazing how these film fellows hold
down their jobs.”
“And you had a week at Waikiki?”
“Oh, yes, I was offloaded from the ship
there. It seems the captain was furious
about some person who got blithered and
gave him a black eye. He took it out on
me because he was a Fascist and objected
to my broad democratic views.”
“Quite so. Well, when will you be able
to let me have your report on the Inter-
national Conference on Penguin Preserva-
tion that you went specially for?”
“Sorry, Chief. The day it was on I had
a splitting headache —I think I must have
eaten something that disagreed with me
at the banquet to delegates the night be-
fore —and I had to miss it.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; ail others 2*d. per line.
Ward’s Wards
“Ex-R.S.M.” (B. 30/7/’47) is correct.
I was employed by the Department of
Native Labor and was 0.1. C. of the
biggest native labor compound in
Papua-New Guinea. The natives were
ruined by the troops. Mr. Ward’s policy
is helping to keep them ruined.
My boss codk boy told me “Before
war-time ’e much more better taubada.
Boy now ’e no savvy white man’s
fashion,” He went on to explain that be-
fore the war the natives learned what was
required of them and knew where they
stood. The result was contentment. To-
day, under the Ward Administration, they
do not know where they stand and are
bewildered.
The idea of “educating natives up to
our standard” and “paying them a decent
wage” has produced more discontent and
arrogance than they knew before. There
is nothing wrong with educating the
native to the white man’s standard, but
the process is a long and slow one. “A
little learning is a dangerous thing” for
natives as well as Europeans.
My head clerk one day demanded to
be paid more money under threat of
“striking.” He was already getting £8 a
month and rations. I asked him a few
simple questions about his job. He was
ignorant of the answers. I reasoned with
him that I knew as much as I did only
because the white people have taken over
2000 years to learn all they know. Did
he think that the Papuan was so brilliant
that he could learn, in a few months, all
that it took us 2000 years to learn?
He went back to work satisfied, know-
ing his own limitations. Perhaps a trade-
unionist would have paid him higher
wages, and thus sown the seeds of more
discontent in his mind. He would have
been back with the same threat again in
a few months’ time.
The higher the wages the more unem-
ployment there is in the Territory. The
native goes to work with the idea of earn-
ing a fixed sum. When he has done that
he knocks off and returns to his village.
With higher wages he will only knock off
much sooner.
1 have seen a “boy’s” money increased
because he has threatened to leave, and
within a few more months he has come
and said “Me want to finish, taubada.”
Questioned as to his happiness, he agrees
that he is happy, has a good job, but he
has saved all he set out to save and now ,
he wants to go back and rest. When he
returns to work at a later period, he has
forgotten most of the little he has learnt
and so has to start all over again at the
bottom of the ladder.
Mr. Ward has been sadly ill-advised
on the question of “indentured labor.”
It is not slavery and doesn’t even
approximate to it. Asa matter of fact, a
large number of Sepiks a few months ago
refused to come and work for the Gov-
ernment because they could not now be
indentured ! — Momokan (Q.),
Planning?
Many purchasers of building blocks
in different parts of Sydney, particularly
in the Bankstown district and Erming-
ton-Rydalmere, have found when they
have presented plans for homes to their
local councils that the areas concerned
are “restricted” — i.e., the Cumberland
County Council has declared the areas
non-residential or just “undetermined.”
As these blocks are of no use to any-
one for building they have lost their valpe
and the unfortunate owners cannot sell
them. True, where building blocks are in
an area declared to be “industrial” the
owners will be compensated on a de-
valued basis, but that does not offset the
loss of time, money and energy that have
gone into preparations for home build-
ing.
Those unfortunate are the owners of
land in an “undetermined” area. They
are in the unhappy position of not know-
ing what will happen to them, and they
have little chance of finding out because
the powers-that-be don’t seem to know
either. The land cannot be sold because
no one is prepared to buy a “pig in a
poke,”* 1 even in these dumb days, and
nothing can be built on it. — Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
This Progress
Victoria, like the other “colonies,” once
got all its services and requirements by
horse and bullock. Then came the rail-
ways and the horse-drawn vehicle prac-
tically went out of existence. Then the
ẃ
“Excuse me. Would you care to have this one with me?”
courted majorities, crushed minorities
and eliminated opponents.
Striding onwards, they controlled the
banks, corrupted the courts, smothered
the press and fettered freedom of
thought and speech to impose their own
will and achieve their own boundless am-
bition. Beginning by pretending to liber-
ate the workers from toil, they ended by
driving even the children and the mothers
of children into the factories with threats
df starvation. And all their deeds - were
done in the name of socialism, pro-
nounced according to the language of
their country.
There are many dictators now in the
making. By their works and footprints
we know them, for they all act alike. —
Black Tracker (S.A.).
Onder the Nazis
With Australia’s transport marked
down for even more rigid control it is
interesting to study what happened to
transport under the Nazis.
German railways were owned by the
State. Road-transport systems were forced
into associations controlled by a Minister,
with short-distance and long-distance
carrying divided into two classes. Almost
immediately, the long-distance transport
had to be specially licensed before it
could continue operating.
It was later found that even this
wouldn’t work without controlling short-
distance transport equally rigidly, and so
this part of the system was licensed, too,
because the State found the competition
irritating. An extraordinarily intricate
plan of charges was drawn up. Need-
less to say, an army of bureaucrats
was steadily mounting; from a few
police to examine licences 18 regional
transport commissioners were appointed
—with staffs, of course. These weren’t
enough to grapple with the rising tide
of red tape, so 80 district road transport
officers were established. This brought
the total staff to more than 7000.
The resultant maze of regulations, re-
strictions, permits, priorities, licences and
whatnot almost defies description. “Traffic
expediters” were appointed in addition to
the existing enormous staff. In the City
of Berlin, no lorry was allowed to move
more than two miles without first tele-
phoning a traffic expediter if the vehicle
were anything less than 75 per cent, fully
loaded, in volume or weight—elaborate
tables had been worked out for all this,
of course. Some carriers filled their
trucks with empty cases so that they
could move around.
Long queues formed at the various
offices, waiting for permits, licences, etc.,
and the general time-wasting was almost
incredible. It took anything up to a
month to get permission to have the
smallest repair effected.
The lesson to be learned from this is
that even the Germans couldn’t do it,
and no one has ever accused them of
being poor organisers.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Road and Rail
“R.H.G.” (B. 6/ 8 / ’47) holds the
common belief that railways will
eventually be replaced by road trans-
port. He forgets that the tough steel
rail and steel tyre together provide the
simplest, most durable and economical
means yet evolved for the movement of
material over the earth’s surface.
Coalmining began in northern England
before Tudor times. Colliers provided
easy water transport to southern markets.
but the few miles from pithead to wharf
were a problem. Roads were costly and
a lost art. Necessity developed the tram
road —oaken rails laid on cross sleepers
and spaced apart to suit the width of
the coal wagons. An inner raised tram-
mel was provided to keep the wagons on
the rails. Cheap coal brought cheap iron
and by the early eighteenth century the
wooden rails had an iron plate surface
with an inner, edge turned up as trammel.
Abundant iron brought the cast-
iron rail and the iron wheel with flange.
The rolled iron rail followed and led to
the tough steel rail of today.
About the time of the cast-iron rail the
locomotive was invented to run on them
and, from an obscure transport dodge
in the uncouth North, the rail became
visible fact to every man. But it was
the locomotive that impressed him; so
much so that the basic factor in all rail-
ways—the incomparable utility, cheap-
ness and durability of the steel rail and
tyre—was lost sight of.
Perhaps railways could be abolished
and goods sent by road. Present-day
roads would prove inadequate and special
roads would need to be built, leaving the
old roads for general traffic. The special
roads and the trucks that used them
would evolve as they did in Britain cen-
turies ago. Road surface would be
limited to tyre width, trammels would be
needed and the steel rail and tyre would
once again assert itself. Power trucks
would draw sets of trailers to lower work-
ing costs. Then would come timetables,
signal systems and working regulations.
The ensuing transport system might differ
in many ways from our present railways
but it would, inevitably, depend upon the
same basic factor —steel rail and steel
tyre.
Railways become inefficient if the steel-
rail-tyre principle is abused or unwisely
applied. No progress has been made in
the use of this principle since Stephen-
son’s day. Instead, there has been retro-
gression. The light, speedy trains of the
sixties have become lumbering giants.
There is too much iron and timber per
passenger and the engine’s vast power is
Used mainly to drag unwanted junk.
The Melbourne Express of 13 coaches
weighs about 1000 tons and the engine
250. A thousand average persons would
weigh about 50 tons —1250 tons to carry
50! On the same ratio a five-seater sedan
would weigh six and a quarter tons.
America is evolving light-alloy, spot-
welded passenger trains and applying the
same principle to freight cars. When they
have developed a new rail transport
method we shall probably copy them at
our leisure. —S. McC. (N.S.W.).
Slaughter on the Roads
Coming from Gosford (N.S.W.) to
Sydney recently, I passed a taxi whose
driver hadn’t realised that his braking
distance was more than the range of his
headlights. He had rammed a broken-
down trailer lorry, and the result wasn’t
pretty.
I read that there were 12,996 road
accidents in N. S. Wales during the year
to June 30, with 8752 persons injured and
508 killed. Surely it is time the motorist
woke up to the ordinary physical impli-
cations of speed itself. Most modem
cars are “safe” at speeds of 60 m.p.h.
and over—it’s when they come to slow
down, or are stopped by some external
influences that the trouble is on.
How many drivers know the distance
needed to bring a car to rest on a
bitumen or gravelled road at high speed?
Here are a few figures from official
sources: —
Speed. On Bitumen. On Gravel.
40 m.p.h 220 ft. 270 ft.
50 „ .. .. 320 ft. 390 ft.
60 „ .. .. 440 ft. 490 ft.
Those are minimum distances, assum-
ing that brakes and general mechanical
condition of the car are all they should
be, and assuming that the driver’s re-
action-time is normal. If motorists were
compelled to study a few such facts be-
fore being given their licences the shock-
ing road toll might show some improve-
ment. — Jaques (N.S.W.)
“Greater Brisbane”
The “14-city plan” for Sydney will not
benefit anybody except the aldermen,
who will establish themselves as little
politicians and, following the Brisbane
example, help themselves to a tenner
a week for a part-time job.
“Greater Brisbane” was wished on its
inhabitants by a “Labor” Government 26
years ago. Proof of its utter failure
can be found in the city’s backwardness.
Visitors to Brisbane are astonished to
find that, while it has a million-pound
City Hall, the sewerage system covers
only about one-third of the built-up city
and suburban area —and that in the sub-
tropics, and with the municipal debt a
staggerer.
Roads and footpaths are in a disgrace-
ful condition. The lack of civic pride
is proof that suburban councils are the
only sensible method of municipal control.
Healthy rivalry between neighboring
councils produces better roads, parks,
playing fields, and all other suburban
amenities which ratepayers have a right
to expect.
It was recently announced that of the
Is, 3d. in the pound (the highest rating
of any capital city) only about 2d. is
left for developmental works after interest
on loans and fixed commitments are
met. — Brisbaneite (Q.).


The Cleric’s Lot
A Tasmanian rector who came from
England a year or two ago has returned,
after throwing the spotlight on what the
country parson has to put up with. He
found that on a salary of £350 he had to
buy his own car for country travelling,
run and service it at a cost of £lOO a year,
meet household expenses (he has a wife
and family), find insurance premiums,
pay interest on car loan, provide the
usual parish hospitality and try to buy
a scrap or two of clothing and a few
necessary books.
Even with borrowed money the rector
couldn’t balance the budget, so he de-
cided to cut his losses, sell his posses-
sions and catch the next boat home.
Others have pointed out that his is a
normal experience and that in these days
of increased costs a man who hasn’t pri-
vate means has to face the spectre of an
overdraft and the distress of not know-
ing where to turn next to keep things
going.
The killing thing with most is the
difficulty of providing and maintaining a
motor-car —a necessity if duties are to
be regularly performed.
Tasmania is not the only diocese which
is finding the problem a serious one.
Queensland and New South Wales work
their big scattered parishes with un-
married clergy who are grouped on a
brotherhood system, serving for five
years and sharing on a communal basis.
This gives them some freedom from
financial worry.
The Bush Brotherhoods (which are
based on early Celtic church ideas) have
produced some outstanding clergy.
Perth’s new archbishop was one.—
Columba (Tas.).
Whites in the Tropics
“Frank Mauri” (B. 13/8/ ’47) errs in
crediting Raphael Cilento with having
“created a storm when he said that white
men could work and thrive as well in
the middle latitudes as elsewhere.” Nor
did he provide any “startling statistics”
on the subject. Cilento has done much
valuable and able work on matters of
tropical medicine, but the entire statistical
and medical aspects of the white popula-
tion of tropical Australia had been fully
worked out and stated before he came
into the picture at all Here is the correct
story.
In 1911, the Australasian Medical
Congress held in Sydney recommended
that the principal subject for discussion
by congress at the meeting to be held in
Brisbane in 1917 should be the possibility
of the permanent occupation of tropical
Australia by a healthy indigenous white
race, and the conditions conducive or
essential to such occupation. A special
sub-committee on tropical Australia was
appointed in 1914 to conduct preliminary
investigations and inquiries. The 1917
congress was prevented by the 1914-18
War, and the investigations were con-
tinued for a further three years. All prin-
cipal findings by the sub-committee and
investigators working with it were pub-
lished as they became available, and the
subject received constant scientific atten-
tion from the Australian Institute of
Tropical Medicine, then at Townsville
and under the directorship of the late
Anton Breinl, whom Cilento succeeded in
1921.
The findings and conclusions of the
sub-committee were adopted by the 1920
congress, held in Brisbane, after full and
complete discussion. These emphasised
and illustrated that there were no in-
superable obstacles in the way of per-
manent occupation of tropical Australia
by a healthy indigenous white race. The
whole matter received world-wide scien-
tific attention, and was hailed as the first
really effective demonstration of the
healthfulness of a tropical climate for
white people.
Among the many interesting specific
details elicited by the inquiry was a state-
ment by the Chief Actuary of the A.M.P.
regarding nearly 5000 policies issued to
adults between 1910 and 1919 from the
society’s Townsville and Cairns offices.
The actual deaths for the period reviewed
were 68. The number of deaths expected
from A.M.P. experience, if all policies
had been whole-life assurance, was 88 ;
if endowment, 81. v The Chief Actuary
reported: “I have no hesitation in saying
that as far as we know at present there
is no need for life-assurance officers to
treat proponents who live in North
Queensland differently from proponents
who live in other parts of Australia.”
Investigation showed no practical dif-
ference in health and mental ability be-
tween children in tropical and non-
tropical Queensland. A tendency to
pallor amongst northern youngsters was
proved by Breinl and Priestley to be a
surface appearance only. The red cor-
puscles arid haemoglobin contents of the
blood did not differ from those of tem-
perate climates.
The late Dr. E. Humphry, of Towns-
ville, a skilled observer with 33 years of
N.Q. experience, summed up his report
to the 1920 sub-committee thus: “Any-
body who says the race will not thrive
in tropical Australia, to my mind, is talk-
ing rot.” With that terse conclusion any-
one who has really studied the subject
will agree heartily.— Puyyaka (O.).
Wheatgrowers and Taxation
The average wheat-farm in the Wes-
tralian wheatbelt is about 2000 acres'.
Allowing for unarable or undeveloped
land, grassland to feed sheep and fallow
“ Don't be so glum. Bill —that bank nationalising
business might never get through !”
for next season’s crop, 600 or 700 acres
could be cropped on each farm every
year for an average return of 12 to 15
bushels per acre. That should give a
good financial return —to Mr. Chifiey’s
Taxation Commissioners. .
The farmer is much better off if he
concentrates on cropping 300 acres. He
halves the labor required and saves wear
and tear on expensive machinery. Re-
cently to work our average-sized wheat-
farm we had to spend over £630 for a
tractor and £l5O for a sunderseeder. A
new harvester costs £250 and a new truck
for wheat carting £9OO. These are all
necessary.
The more acres sown and the more
bushels produced and carted the faster
such equipment wears out. Present high
taxation means that most of the profit
from farming is going to the Govern-
ment and not into the farmer’s banking
account as a reserve against a future
.depression.
Wheatgrowers cannot be blamed for
going slow. They don’t wish to deplete
their soil fertility and wear out expensive
machinery merely to pay larger taxa-
tion. The last time they were asked to
grow more wheat they grew it and re-
ceived much less than the cost of pro-
duction. — Olive Walley (W.A.).
Regional Planner
Apropos of “The New Daniel” (B.
13/ 8/’47), I, not Dr. Evatt, am the
originator of the Greater Australasian
(S.E. Asia and W. Pacific) Regional Plan.
As conceived by me it was, and is, a very
different thing from that which it has be-
come since appropriated by Dr. Evatt.
In the first place, it was based not upon
any concept of equalitarianism, but upon
Australian paramountcy, inspired by a
conviction of latent national greatness
and of Imperial destiny in this part of
the world. Secondly, it was based upon
the conviction that no worth-while or
enduring world structure can be built
upon the basis of the nation State, owing
to the vast differences in size, wealth,
power, population and living standards—
for example, the U.S.A. and Guatemala,
Britain and Siam, Russia and Norway,
India and Paraguay—but that only upon
Regional Federations of Nations could a
World Federation eventually be created.
Greater Australasia was, and is, en-
visaged by me as one of nine Regional
Federations, the others being N. America,
S. America, Europe, W. Asia, India,
China (both as regions and not as single
nations), N.-E. Asia and ultimately (after
colonisation and development) Africa.
No one believes more strongly than I
do in the White Australia policy and in
the superior leadership of the white race.
For that reason I support Dutch (local
Dutch as distinct from the Dutch State)
rule in Indonesia. Indeed, I would wil-
lingly and gladly accept the White Indo-
nesians (with New Zealanders) as partners
in Greater Australasia.
The nucleus of a Greater Australasian
Regional Commonwealth already exists
in the British Dominions of Australia,
New Zealand and Malaya. All U.K.,
Australian and New Zealand pos-
sessions in the S. ’ Pacific should be
erected into a fourth Dominion of
Oceania, with an Australian as Governor-
General. I believe that the* other States
of the Region would all come in, sooner
or later, realising the advantages.
It should be a cardinal principle of
Australian foreign policy never to permit
the emergence of a unified Indonesian
State, but to insist upon, at the most.
Federalism in the Indies.
When I first publicly propagated this
plan. I realised the danger of its being
taken up and corrupted by Leftists (whom
I loathe) and made haste to try to in-
terest the parties of the Right. Unfor-
tunately, I did not succeed, and what I
feared has come to pass. Dr. Evatt was
clever enough to appropriate that which
Messrs. Menzies and Co. were not willing
to accept as a gift.— Edwin Arnold (Q.).
Farm Pests
I recently visited several S.A. wheat-
farms, every one of which was financially
sound. The thing which most impressed
me, however, was the loss incurred on
every farm through the ravages of mice,
sparrows and rabbits on growing crops,
grass, hay and other fodder. One
farmer estimated that over about three
years these pests destroy the equivalent
of enough fodder for one drought year.
The man on the land is steadily becom-
ing more alive to this problem, but he is
generally a conservative fellow, slow
to adopt new methods. He needs a little
shoving and a vigorous education from
State Agricultural Departments in the
destruction of and preventive measures
against pests. Incidentally, what about
some research to discover the reason for
recurring mice plagues? —C.B. M.
(N.S.W.).
Unions
Compulsory unionism certainly comes
down hard on some Queenslanders (B.
6/8/’47). A man entering a sugarmill,
of taking a cane-cut for three to five
months during the sugar season, is
forced to buy a full union ticket (at £1
7s. 6d.) for what is merely a temporary
job. For most of the year he may be un-
employed—such men frequently are. The
union knows this, but still insists on
those who can ill afford it paying full
fare for a very short ride.
Then there is the case of new unionists.
A new man entering a sugarmill in July
is forced to buy a full union ticket, which
expires in September. Then he has to
buy another. And the spirit of free-
dom and of democracy is so rampant in
Queensland unions that the average
member doesn’t dare utter a word of pro-
test.—W. C. (Q.).
The New Tyrants
In this Age of Enlightenment we are
subject to the whims and fancies of more
tyrants than the Middle Ages ever heard
about. In these days democracy means
“thou shall not.”
Do you own a home? Do you want
to live in it? Well, the law says you
can’t unless the fellow living in it now is
agreeable to get out and let you in—
and it’s a million to one he’ll find it
more profitable to sell the key to some-
one you’ve never heard about. Do you
want to build a house? That’s 0.K.,
too, provided you are prepared to live
in a dog box and forget about entertain-
ing relatives and friends or rearing a
large family.
Do you want to build a factory?
Sorry, the Minister appointed to “control”
building materials has rubbed out the
idea —the only means he can devise to
make more materials available for hous-
ing is to restrict their use for all other
purposes. Overhauling the system to
provide sufficient for all purposes appa-
rently hasn’t occurred to him.
Since you can’t build a house on that
land you own, what about selling it to
someone who can? Yes, but the selling
price is pegged incidentally to the value
the property is supposed to have had
when the Japs were so close to our
shores that people were giving their
places away and racing out to the bush
for safety. Of course, if you disagree
with the pegged price you can always
produce to the tyrant a list of comparable
sales to establish your opinion. The
fact that during the years that count
there were no sales (people were not per-
mitted to buy property unless they sub-
scribed liberally to war loans, and who
was able to do both?) carries no weight.
The man on the land is in as bad
straits under our enlightened system. His
produce—no matter what it may be —can
only be marketed through one of a
dozen or so boards or “acquisition”
schemes. Should he need new machinery
or a new car he has, to kow-tow, take a
dozen steps back and prostrate himself
before some dispenser of red tape and
official forms. After that the rest is
easy—all he need do is await the pleasure
of the mogul.
As a citizen of our democratic nation
you should have a say in our foreign
policy we pursue, or in the economic
policy that directs our domestic way of
life. Well, ask the union bosses who
tell our elected leaders what to do, and
when to do it!
If you want to test the “freedom” you
enjoy, try going to fhe Domain and
spouting a few words against the workshy
agitators who are upsetting our economic
balance and our relations with our neigh-
bors and see how long you last. Try
getting a job in industry without first
taking out a licence —sorry, a union
ticket. ‘Try bucking the crowd or the
coterie doing all the talk at the next
union meeting you attend. You’ll be
outlawed as far as the union is concerned
and your family can starve.
Freedom! Just try it for one day.—
Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Government and Banks
I listened to Dr. Evatt broadcasting on
the wonderful work General MacArthur
was dctng to bring to Japan the blessing
of democracy. Yet on the previous day
the good doctor had voted to “nation-
alise” the trading banks. In other words
he had agreed to administer a quick dose
of poison to Australian democracy.
If the Government’s latest action suc-
ceeds we will crash to our knees, and the
main sufferers will be the workers who
vote “Labor.”—D. F. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
It is legal for a minor to buy lottery
tickets, but if he wins a big prize he
cannot draw the money until he is
21. A youth of 18 years can make a bet
with a bookmaker, but not on the totali-
sator. Children can attend live-hare
coursing, but not tin-hare meetings. You
can bet on horses or dogs, but not on
yachts. You can play housie-housie, but
not two-up. There may be reasons for it
all, but I’m hanged if I can make sense
out of it.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
I’m not so much concerned about the
work I did collecting cehsus returns (B.
30/7/’47) as about the pay. Although
it’s six weeks since I handed in all my*
returns I’m still waiting. My area was a
farming community embracing river-
bank, back country and swamps. I
worked on the job for ten days’, with my
wife acting as driver while I did the
fence-hopping. I haven’t been paid yet
and, according to departmental proce-
dure, I have already signed for the
money. — Collector (N.S.W.).
Why not a uniform price for motor- ,
spirit throughout Australia? At present,
even 40 miles from the city the price in-
creases by twopence or threepence a
gallon. The outback struggler gets it in
the neck all the time. — Huon (Tas.).
Under the Maoriland medical schema
(B. 9/7/’47) doctors don’t go looking
for business, but patients, on the principle
of “something for nothing,” queue
up at surgery doors. Doctors are
rushed off their feet giving consul-
tations for trivial complaints. The
cure is to make people pay a fee for the
first consultation. — Cyex (N.Z.),
Wouldn’t it be better to pull down the
slums so that air-travellers from Mascot
aerodrome wouldn’t be able to see Syd-
ney at its dirtiest from any direction?
The money needed to take the top layer
of filth off Sydney would probably be
less than that for a “finely constructed
highway to serve the aerodrome.”— Eve
Merritt (N.S.W.).


-Us
/Is .
«S«J
j
JL
ft
'Sfers
Lrr^t
mn
i
ii"»
si
■
At Sea , On Land,
And In Ike Air
Incorporated in 1913, A.W.A. laid the foundations of the
wireless industry in Australia. It rapidly expanded and set
up the manufacture of Wireless Telegraph and Telephone
Equipment, Broadcast Transmitters and “Radiola” Receivers.
The achievements of A.W.A. have been of a very high order,
and to-day the industry in Australia is comparable in manu-
facturing and technical efficiency with the extensive wireless
organisations of Great Britain and America.
The policy of developing every phase of wireless in Australia
and the Pacific largely accounts for the goodwill and prestige
A.W.A. to-day enjoys.
Designers and Manufacturers
of
Broadcasting Transmitting Stations
Wireless Telegraph and Telephone Stations
Marine Wireless Telegraph Equipment
Aeronautical Radio Equipment
Public Address and Sound Amplifying Systems
“Radiola” Broadcast Receivers
Broadcast Station 2CH
Marconi School v 1 Wireless
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’SIA) LIP.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
