

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
fd
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
me Bulletin,” Vol. SB —No. 3536
Wednesday, November 19, 1947
Psriae 6d.
fd
Seppelts
STILL IMPOSING. BOYLE ABBEY ATTESTS THE SKILL OF ITS BUILDERS
IRELAND possesses many ruins of great interest, and one of the
most outstanding of these is ancient Boyle Abbey, in County
Roscommon. This Cistercian house was built on the banks of the
Boyne by O’Connor, King of Connaught, in 1257, and it stood
undamaged until early in the sixteenth century. Within its aisles
many bishops and local chieftains found their last resting-place,
yvhile in the near-by cemetery of Kilronan is buried Carolan, the
last of a line of ancient Irish bards. Architecturally Boyle Abbey
represents the “Irish Transitional” style, but its south arcade
possesses such striking resemblance to English-Norman architecture
that it is thought that English workmen may have constructed this
part of the abbey. Prior to the existence of this house its site was
occupied by a smaller abbey established by St. Coman, whose
name is perpetuated in the county name Roscommon,


Learn - •>
I
fit HOWTF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovl obligation , your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit L
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin/ * ‘
My Name
tly Address
S-B. 217 A OK.'.
GIFT BOOKS FOR GIRLS
PIONEER SHACK. A new children’s novel
by Dora Birtles, celebrated authoress of
the famous Australian novel “The Over-
landers.” A story, rich in incident and
humour. Price 7/6.
LESLIE WINS THROUGH. A dramatic
school story by Anne Chesney. Price 6/6..
FOUR WINDS AND A FAMILY. This
book captures the imaginative world of
• children where everyday things have an
aspect grown-ups have forgotten. Price 7/6
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Shakespeare Head Press
PTY., LTD.,
Central House, Little Regent St., Sydney
The Red Page
FICTION AND FORMULA.
Although Kathleen E. Graves’s Exile
(William Earl, Ltd.) is a novel dealing
with early Australian history and con-
tains well-bred young men from Eng-
land in search of lands and fortune, con-
victs, blacks, and so on, it does not con-
form to the general formula of Aus-
tralian historical romances. The fact is
odd enough to be significant.
Formulae, of course, exist in all ages
Vincent O’Sullivan satirically outlined
formula for the type of fiction belovec
to circulating libraries of the last cen
tury, in the history of a hypothetica
Miss Perfect, an orphan who comes
live in a village and is “taken-up” b
the squire’s lady and admired by th
squire’s son:
Then the clouds must, gather; and a
villain lord comes on the scene to bombard
her virtue with clumsy artillery. Finding
after months that her virtue dwells in an
impregnable citadel, he turns to and jibes
and goads the young squire to the, fighting
point. And, presto! there they arc, hard
at it with bare steel ? on the Norman beach,
of a drizzling morning; and the squire who
is just pressing hot upon my lord, when
—it’s hey! for the old love and ho! for
the new —out rushes Miss Perfect to our
great amazement, and falls between the
swords down on the stinging sands in the
sight of the toiling sea.
After that, one might think, even cir
culating libraries would circulate thi
particular type of fiction less enthusi
astically. But formulae are long-lived
Like matter, they may change—slightly
—but they do not entirely disappear. I:
Mr. O’Sullivan, by some metaphysica
freak,*were obliged to read the mass o
books turned out by Australian pub-
lishers he would discover that —apart
from the agonies of the Left and reprints
of overseas best-sellers —a disproportion-
ately high percentage of them deal with
Australian history; and of these the
majority deal with symbols rather than
people, grouped together in a formula,
as cast-iron, in its way, as that which
O’Sullivan satirised.
The danger of this kindness to costume
novels is not simply the obvious one that
better work is being kept off the market
but that the whole valuable field of Aus-
tralian history may, to a degree, be dis-
credited. There are swarms of books
by writers whom it would be unkind to
mention, but whose names might well
be interchangeable. There is the trip
from England ; conversation among pas-
sengers and ship’s officers, carefully re-
vealing nothing of character but much
of dates, ship’s supplies and particulars
of feminine dress. And if an historical
personage or two can be squeezed in,
then, obviously, so much the better.
For color there is a glimpse of the
convicts —“poor wretches”—in their un-
savory quarters. Then Botany Bay, with
a description—often inaccurate—of the
settlement’s layout. Romance glides in,
in the shape of a shapeless young lady
of impeccable pedigree; or, from the
opposite angle, a keen-eyed young man
who sees, here, a Land of the Future.
Then follows the usual chronicle of con-
victs, blacks, bushrangers, fossickers and
an unbelievable stream of historical
personages.
To an extent Exile follows the general
pattern. Richard Thursby, son of an
English squireen, walks the deck of the
Andromeda (700 tons) on page one, on
his way to Tasmania, on the morning of
January the 29th, 1826.
A convict is ducked, another convict,
on the arrival of the ship, is shot attempt-
ing to escape. Some historical informa-
tion carefully comes out at the breakfast
table in conversation with a major. But
a breath of realism makes it superior to
the general run of such writing.
> The only person so far, with any de-
cided character, or, indeed, character-
istics, is the Governor, who rushes to
inspect the ship:
The sick bay came next. He was inside,
a quick glance round, then out again, while
the others hung back outside. At a heavily
barred door he paused.
“What’s in here?”
“The insane prisoner, Your Excellency.”
“Unbar it, please.”
“But the man’s dangerous, Your Ex-
cellency.”
“Unbar it.”
And he was inside with the door pushed
to behind him. Then he was out again,
and climbing the ladder to the deck.
In a few minutes he was gone, his cortege
after him, bobbing away across the water
to the naval officers’ steps. The orderly
held the head of the mettlesome bay and
he was up and away, the others bunched
after him in the dust.
Richard interviews the Governor, anc
is given his grant, conditionally. He
meets his new neighbors, Hardwick
Browne, a wealthy man, and a Scotsman
called Carstairs. Then, for the first
time, the novel really warms up. Car-
stairs, particularly, promises to be in-
teresting—an individual rather than
type. Well born, etc., but living under
a social cloud, with a small son and a
thoughtful mind and a sardonic turn oi
humor. Hardwick Browne is, at first
simply a matter for satire; he and his
wife are obsessed with the desire to live
file “County Life” in their new surround-
ings, The struggles of colonising, details
of life and fleeting studies of assigned
servants are, however, genuinely interest-
ing.
Then Richard meets the daughter of
an impoverished major out from India
and marries. Clair, his wife, is conven-
tionally lacking in character until she
meets Carstairs and falls in love with
him. About this time Richard departs
from his role of the average young-man-
from-England and is seen more clearly
as an incompletely mature person, well-
meaning but self-satisfied and full of
blundering maleness ; Carstairs and Clair
are subjected to some intensive psycho-
analysis, and although the development
o£ Clair is realistic and moving, Car-
stairs becomes that most unsatisfying of
literary creations a man of lofty moral
calibre who is misunderstood.
In the total effect Carstairs fades into
a convention. He also disappears from
the novel—and from the world—after an
exploring trip on the mainland. But
first he is engaged in a trip into the in-
terior of Tasmania with Robinson, his-
torical pacifier of the natives, for the
purpose, apparently, of introducing that
famous character and the Oyster Bay
natives.
The minor characters, on the whole, are
well done. There are an engaging priest;
Robinson ; a shre.wd and successful ticket-
of-leave man ; a very vital lady of mixed
blood who gallops about attended by two
huge dogs and a manservant, having in-
discreet love affairs and setting the colony
by the ears; and the Hardwick Brownes,
although their original purpose seems to
have been mislaid, since they turn out to
be quite decent people, really, although
dishonest and snobs, are well-balancec
creations.
A lack of sustained purpose is the
novel’s major disadvantage. And, al-
though the author must be declared guilt-
less (comparatively speaking) of subscrib-
ing to the popular convention for Aus-
tralian historical fiction, there is more
than a suspicion that she has, if not dis-
torted, at least played up her material a
little. The episode of Robinson and the
blacks, interesting and colorful as it is, is
a case in point; as is the general tenor
of her description of Tasmanian wolves
and devils—surely not such fearsome ani-
mals as a non-Australian reader from
reading Exile might imagine.
Still, with all faults admitted —includ-
ing the major one that in her psycho-
logical, semi-mystical analysis of Car-
stairs the author has attempted to fuse
two conflicting conventions —Exile is
streets ahead of the “early-Australian”
fiction currently churned out, and indi-
cates that the author, with more mastery
of form and a greater emphasis of
character —treating environment, histori-
cal or otherwise, as a necessary but in-
cidental background—may produce work
with more title to literary power. Con-
sidering the abundance of “historical
novels” on the Australian market it is,
perhaps, significant that Exile was pub-
lished in England.
To ugh Dutchman,
Captain Jean Victor de Bruijn, Bronze
Cross and Cross of Merit, the hero of
Lloyd Rhys’s Jungle Pimpernel (Hodder
and Stoughton ; Angus and Robertson), is
a Doctor of Literature and a> Doctor of
Philosophy; he is also a very tough
gentleman, a direct racial descendant of
those Dutch traders and adventurers who
pioneered various fertile spots in Asia ;
and, indeed, of that other Dutch gentle-
man who is reported to have hoisted a
broom to his mast as an intimation that
the English had retired, for the time be-
ing, from presiding over the waves be-
tween Europe and Dover.
De Bruijn did his pioneering in Dutch
New Guinea, as a district officer, and be-
fore war broke out had already done
some valuable exploring work. But dur-
ing another temporary setback to the
power of Britain —and of Holland —when
the Japs were sweeping down towards
Australia, he made a gesture as gallant,
in its way, as any in the colorful history
of Dutch feats of arms, refusing to be
evacuated and carrying on a one-man
war of annoyance and espionage against
the Japs. In the process promoting him-
self from lieutenant to major, to the sub-
sequent confusion of the enemy.
Besides the actual tale of his exploits
there is much in Lloyd Rhys’s careful,
clear, balanced, but somewhat dull
account which is of geographical and
anthropological interest But these
matters, after all, chiefly interest geo-
graphers and anthropologists. About all
such works, however valuable, there is
usually a pattern, a repetition. Details of
customs and language differ, but the
white man is usually confronted with the
same basic conditions. There is—usually
—a bad native, who dislikes him. There
is also—invariably—a good old chief
who befriends him. In these particulars
Jungle Pimpernel is no exception to the
rule.
Some, at least, of the weakness lies in
the telling. It is interesting—and a fur-
ther proof of De Bruijn’s boldness —that
he cultivated the friendship of pigs, and
named them after his women friends.
But the full flavor of humor, of close
observation, in this and similar incidents
is lost. Although European Doctors’
Degrees are not exact parallels of similar
academic distinctions in the British
Empire, there is ample evidence that De
Bruijn, besides formidable qualities of
toughness, has a well-stocked and disci-
plined mind. It is surprising then, and a
pity, that he didn’t write the book him-
self.
Among a number of good photographs,
there are spme startling ones of a native
being done to death for adultery. De
Bruijn having failed to save the man’s
life-—the tribal code was strict, and en-
thusiastically implemented—calmly took
photographic records of him losing it.
Japan's Future.
Since the future of Japan is of obvious
importance to Australia—and to Pacific
people generally—any authoritative ac-
count of her history must be of interest
Dr. Edwin O. Reischauer’s Japan, Past
and Present (Duckworth), is an excelleni
introduction to the subject.
Dr. Reischauer is Associate Professor
of Far Eastern Languages at Harvard,
and Japan, Past and Present, in 192 pages
of running narrative, gives a clear, shoit
history of the nation. The little book has
received high praise from that leading
English authority Sir George Sansom,
who writes an introduction. The author’s
debt to Sansom’s own accomplished
Japan—a Short Cultural History, which
no Western student can afford to neglect,
is both apparent and frankly acknow-
ledged ; but for full appreciation of San-
som’s work and that, in more detailed
studies, of Professor Sadler, of Sydney
University, the newcomer must acquire
some familiarity with the elements of
Japanese history. Dr. Reischauer’s book
supplies this. It is a most useful primary
textbook.
His 12 chapters fall easily into three
divisions, the first four of which cover
the early story of Japan, up to about the
tenth century A.D., mythological “dope”
severely discounted. They describe the
influence of China, so persistent as to
induce in the Japanese that inferiority
complex which has notoriously been re-
flected in Japanese efforts to establish a
reputation as a master race among
Asiatics. It was invasion from Korea,
reinforced and continued by immigration,
which introduced into Japan the Mon-
gols’ use of bronze and iron and the
Mongol clan system ; the invasion from
China (sixth to ninth centuries) brought
with it the influence of the arts, theology,
philosophy, calligraphy, including the
syllabary of kana as the form of writing.
No student of English history can fail
to seize upon the resemblance in these
events to the Norman invasion of an
England already changed through armed
occupation by Danes and Anglo-Saxons.
The parallel is completed by the later
return invasions of Korea on the part of
an invigorated Japanese Power, much
like the recoil of the later Norman kings
(the Plantagenets) upon France. In due
course fin the year 1281), when eventually
the eastern mainland mustered its strength
again to attack Japan with an overwhelm-
ing armada of Mongol and Chinese ships,
a typhoon—the “Divine wind” —de-
stroyed them, and the rejoicings of the
Japanese people were precisely those of
Elizabethan Englishmen on their deliver-
ance from the Spanish armada in 1588.
The early Korean clans established the
feudal system in Japan. The author’s
next four chapters describe the flowering
of this and then its decline, the rise
of the great families, the power
of the Shoguns (generalissimos), the
Minamotos, Ashikagas and Tokugawas
in succession, the subjugation of the Em-
peror in everything but the use of his
name and majesty as authority for each
Shogun decree. The period covers the
famous two centuries and more of com-
plete isolation —from 1636 till 1854
which “left an indelible mark upon the
Japanese people.” This was the great
age of the Tokugawa rule, one of almost
unruffled peace, strict regimentation and
notable commercial prosperity at home.
The bellicose, adventurous Japanese of
the 16th century became by the 19th centuiy
a docile people looking meekly to their
rulers for all leadership, and following with-
out question all orders from above. They
grew accustomed to firmly-established pat-
terns of conduct. A thousand rules of
etiquette, supplementing instructions from
their rulers, governed all their actions.
How then explain Japanese brutality in
modern war? Dr, answers
that the decorum thus inculcated among
all classes —“nowhere in the "world is
physical violence less in evidence”—ac-
companies a dependence upon orders
from above.
The Japanese, when thrown on their
own judgment away from their normal
environment, seem to be more at a loss
than peoples accustomed to greater free-
dom of action at home. They are as
emotionally excitable as any people, and
when they meet a situation in which their
accustomed patterns of conduct no longer
apply, they are likely to react more violently
than other people.
The final third of the book deals witi
the creation of the modern State afte
the reopening of Japan to foreign inter
course, and concludes with a com
mentary upon the effects upon Japan o
its first and disastrous defeat as an or
ganised Power in war. The grea
Japanese merchant houses during the pre
sent century were not created from the re
newed contact a few decades before with
the outside world and the great trading
nations; those houses were already
flourishing under the Tokugawas, Nor
is the seed-bed of liberal democracy
which General MacArthur is now zea
lously tending in Tokyo something intro
duced since he took over the administra
tion of Japan. “The Restoration” o'
1868, with the freeing of the Empero
and a new constitution founded on
European models, stimulated with
astonishing rapidity the growth of politi
cal itfeas, to which the First World War
“gave a tremendous impetus.” From the
victory in that conflict “it seemed obvious
that democracy made stronger States and
was therefore superior to autocracy
There was an upsurge of enthusiasm for
real democracy, and the businessmen of
Japan, riding a wave of economic pros-
perity and responding to a popular de-
mand for democratic government, be-
came the dominant group in politics.”
If those enlightened merchant princes
had only stood to their guns and refused
to be intimidated by the militarists in the
late ’twenties and early ’thirties Japan
might have withstood the Army’s bid for
power which led her into defiance of the
League of Nations and alliance with
Hitler. ,
Yet it is not quite as simple as that.
The world-wide depression of 1929 and
the raising of protective tariffs as its
consequence had this effect on Japan:
The businessman’s programme of con-
tinued economic expansion and prosperity
through a growing export trade was sud-
denly revealed to be no more than a vain
dream. Huge political units like Russia,
the United Slates, and the British Empire
could ride the storm of world depression,
for they had their own sources of supply
of most raw materials and their own con-
suming markets. But a smaller unit like
Japan, which depended on other lands for
much of its raw materials.... was entirely
at the mercy of the tariff policies of other
nations.
And the Army, urging that a return to
the policy of colonial expansion was the
answer, gained the day.
One omission in this outline history,
and an important one, is the ignoring of
the story of the influence of the English
navigator Will Adams on the great
Shogun Tokugawa leyasu. Adams arrived
in Japan in 1600 as navigator of a Dutch
ship, he stayed there, took a Japanese wife
and settled at leyasu’s court. He won
official favor for English traders against
Spanish and Portuguese competitors and
taught the Japanese something of English
ship architecture of that age. Any his-
torical analysis of the respect for each
other of British and Japanese sailors can-
not omit the story of Will Adams.
F. M. C.
The Ladies Came Undressed, by Gilbert
Anstruther (Peter Huston). Thorn Smith
and water.
* * * *
Flowers and Their Families, by Lady
Elphinstone (Hollis and Carter, Ltd.)_: A
description of flowers, in their families,
told in narrative form for children. Clear,
informative and pleasant. ~


m
l ‘" A 0/ th
the Dye v
for m * Q *S.
res P°*si hle
,-ijy
INDIA
oi/L
**es£:
,tbe
■ nq coil
iJSSS «-°‘*
h
2. A general view of loom sheds with partly finished mats
in foreground.
This is how the romance of India is woven into the beautiful Coir Rugs and
Matting which enhance the beauty of our homes. The finest
Coir Mats come from the Province of Traven Core in Southern India
and it is there that coconuts are gathered and soaked in
soapy water; after this process, they are brought out and the fibre pulled
from the husks by natives. The fibre is then put back into the soapy
water and soaked. Next, the fibre is brought out and beaten
by the natives, then spun on spinning wheels. The fibre is woven and beaten
by the men and spun by the women. After it is spun, the
fibre is dyed and woven into rugs or matting. When the fibre is spun,
some of the yarn is sent to England and some to Brussels. But for
this small quantity, all is woven in India. The reason why Coir Mats are
made in this Province of Traven Core is because the waters surrounding
this Province are the only waters suitable for soaking the fibre.
Fancy Coir Matting and Rugs are available in the following sizes
and prices:—
27in. Fancy Coir Matting
36in. Fancy Coir Matting
45in. Fancy Coir Matting
Special!
36in. Fancy Coir Matting
S/8 per yard
10/7 per yard
13/3 per yard
8/11 per yard
0^
u r.
m
8S&
3
<yx-y<
W.
v-<■
:■:■ : ' I
P"
8
\r -
f
\s
■
*a
r >\
SSSS
'iS
I
m
I
cm
Fancy Coir Rugs
4ft. x 2ft 9/11 each
6ft. x 3ft. . . 19/11 each
Bft. x sft 54/- each
9ft. x 6ft 74/9 each
10ft. x Bft 107/6* each
Good Quality Indian Coir Door Mats
24in. x 14in 15/2 each 33in. x 20in 29/8 each
27in. x 16in 19/6 each 36in. x 22in 35/8 each
30in. x 1 Sin 24/4 each 39in. x 24in 42/2 each
• COIR MATTING—FOURTH FLOOR
Extra Heavy Quality Fancy
Coir Matting
36in 15/3 yard
45in 19/- Y ard
54i n 22/11 yard
f
'PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
m
l/ffm
7
Airway Case*, ill
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
Made by FORD SHBRINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
I &
mm
A
'""m
%
}jt
\
'S
\
A familiar sight today is the dis-
trict children’s playground, where
boundless energy finds outlet
among swings, slippery dips,
bars, see-saws and round-
abouts. Steel Tubes, which
frame or form entirely this
equipment, are ideal for the
purpose. They are clean and
hygienic, and even the most
strenuous efforts of vigorous youth
are powerless to break or bend them.
Steel Tubes are safe! Steel Tubes con-
stantly serve humanity. . They help to mine
coal, to bring water and gas into the home,
and to generate the electricity for heat and light.
In innumerable ways there are everyday needs
for the miles of Steel Tube produced by the efficient
Tube-making processes at Stewarts and Lloyds.
t (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD
(ED
Newcastle and Sydney, New
South Wales*: Melbourne, Vic-
toria: Brisbane and Rock-
hampton, Queensland: Perth
and Fremantle, Western Aus-
tralia: Hobart and Launceston,
Tasmania: Stewarts and Lloyds
(South Australia) Ltd., Kil-
burn, South Australia.
SL37
df
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BAKKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. 'Give him BAKKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts Wash your dog always witn
BAKKO lodine Dog Sbap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Peter Wilkins or The Flying
Dutchman. —4142.
To buy set of gear selectors for 1918 Pullman
car.—4143.
To buy, urgently, 1000 wheatsacks, clean and
in good condition. —4144.
Information Sought.
(1) How to stencil on material with crayons
for permanent results? (2) Suitable crayons
and fabrics?
(1) Outline the stencil pattern with a fine
point of the crayon in the color selected and
then carefully fill in each part. Make a smooth,
even coloration and then carefully remove any
chips of crayon from the work. When finished,
press on the wrong side with a fairly hot iron.
Do not slide the iron over the whole fabric
as this will result in a blur of the colors. Touch
the point of the iron on each piece of the design
and then pick straight up. This will render the
colors sufficiently permanent to wash with
careful handling. (2) Best-quality wax crayons.
Georgette, voile, silk and silk voiles will take
such designs.
* * * *
Who was the first Englishman to land in
Australia ?
William Dampier, who as a member of a
crew of mixed nationalities in the Cygnet, a
privateer from the West Indies, in 1688 reached
the western shores of the continent. Dampier
found opportunity to spend some time ashore,
and published an account of his voyage
in which he described the natives and the
coastal regions. As a result he was able to
induce the British Government to send him
out in command of the Roebuck to make a
survey of the coastline and further examine
the country. His survey extended only to the
western and northern coasts, however, as adverse
winds and other difficulties deterred him from
continuing down the eastern coast.
* * * *
What is the driest part of AustraliaJ
The driest known part is in the Lake Lyre
district in South Aust., the only part of the
continent below sea-level, where the annual
average is only sin., and where the fall rarely
exceeds lOin. for the 12 months. Inland
districts of West Aust. were at one time re-
garded as the driest part of Australia, but
authentic observations in recent years show that
they get more rain than Lake Eyre.
« * * *
Where did the King’s School commence?
Residents of Macquarie Fields say it commenced
there.
The King’s School was established in a brick
house in George Street, Parramatta, in Feb-
ruary, 1832, and moved to its present site in
the ’sixties. However, in 1866 the then head-
master, the Rev. Frederick Armytage, resigned
while on a visit to England, and it being found
impossible to arrange for a suitable successor,
the school was closed. This interregnum lasted
until January, 1869, when the Rev. George
F. Macarthur (himself an old King’s School
boy), who for some 12 years previously had
been copducting a school at Macquarie Fields,
was appointed headmaster, and the school was
re-opened with his pupils as a nucleus. He
is regarded as the “Second Founder” of the
school, and had a tremendous influence on its
development.
* * * *
(1) General information on nasal polypi?
(2) Must they be treated surgically? (3) Are
they likely to recur? Are they the cause of
catarrh or is catarrh the cause of polypi?
(1) The term polypus is applied to a pen-
dulous growth projecting into any natural space
in the body. In structure it may be either a
mass of granulation tissue or a definite tumor;
the soft or mucous polypi are difficult to
classify, some observers regarding them as
granulation tissue, others as gelatinous growths.
(2) For removal, surgical treatment, with or
without cauterisation, is usually advised. (3)
Exact cause is important. Persistent mucous
catarrh with post-nasal sepsis, etc., predisposes
to a recurrence. With suppuration affecting a
mucous membrane, granulation tissue akin to
proud flesh is formed. This, lying in the midst
of watery catarrh secretion, becomes sodden
and swollen to form a pendulent projection.
Its attachment lengthens and a polypus results.
* * * *
Information about the boxer Sam Langford?
Langford was born at Weymouth, Nova
Scotia, on March 4, 1886, and is still living
in New York, although almost totally blind.
Langford began boxing in 1902, and kayoed
Jim Flynn (third round) in his last contest at
Mexico City on April 19, 1923. Johnson out-
pointed Langford (15 rounds) at Chelsea, Mass.,
in 1906. Langford won heavyweight champion-
ship of Spain when he outpointed Andrea
Balsas (15 rounds) at Mexico City on April 7,
1923.
Brief Answers.
F.M.: Books by Philip Guedalla include
Palmerston (1926), The Duke (1931), The Hun-
dred Days (1934), The Hundred Years (1936),
Churchill (1941)—all biography—and Men of
Affairs (1927), Men of Letters (1927), Men of
War (1927)—a1l essays... .R. 8.: Wm. Coffins,
Sons and Cos., Ltd., 48 Pall Mall, London,
S.W.I; Jonathan Cape, Ltd., 30 Bedford-square,
London, W.C.I; and George G. Harrap and
Cos., Ltd., 182 High Holborn, London, W.C.L
. ...S.P.: The Victorians and After, 1830-1914,
by Edith Batho and Bonamy Dobree, The
Present Age from 1918 by Edwin Muir, Twen-
tieth Century Literature, 1901-40, by A. C.
Ward, The Georgian Literary Scene by Frank
Swinnerton, Modern English Fiction by Gerald
Bullett, The Modern Novel by Elizabeth Drew,
and The Modern Short Story by H. E. Bates.
....M.C.: The lines are from T. S. Eliot’s
“The Hollow Men” J.M.C.: The yellow
roseila lays a clutch of four or five eggs;
white, and rounded-oval in form; shell close-
grained, smooth and slightly lustrous. Breed-
ing season is from September to December or
January N.H.: Esprit d’escalier is French
for “a tardy wit,” i.e., one who thinks of a
smart retort or witticism too late A.A.:
Hooligan, meaning a member of a gang of street
roughs, is derived, according to Ernest Weekley
in Romance of Words, from the Hooligans,
“a spirited Irish family of that name whose
proceedings enlivened the drab monotony of
life in Southwark [London] .towards the end
of the 19th century” W.W.: Write Chapman
and Sherack, Clara-street, Erskineville (N.S.W.);
Dangar, Gedye and Malloch, Ltd., 10-14 Young-
street, Sydney; Blaxland Rae Pty., Ltd., 156
Layton-street, Camperdown (N.S.W;) N.S.:
Get in touch with Qantas Empire Airways,
Margaret-street; A.N.A., Martin-place; T.A.A.,
119 Phillip-street; Ansett Airways, 58 Margaret-
street; and British Commonwealth Pacific Air-
lines, Ltd., 44 Martin-place all Sydney
G. : Write R. G. Allingham, Registrar,
N.S.W. State Conservatorium of Music, Mac-
qiiarie-street, Sydney W.L.R.: The Roc was
a mythical bird of Eastern legend, imagined as
being of enormous size and strength. In the
Arabian Nights story of Sinbad the Sailor,
the Roc carries Sinbad out of the valley of
diamonds 5.0’8.; The “Yellow Book” was
an illustrated quarterly which appeared in Eng-
land from 1894 to 1897. Many distinguished
writers and artists contributed to it, notably
Aubrey Beardsley, Max Beerbohm, Henry
James, Edmund Gosse and Walter Sickert
TJ - “Dp, Guards, and at them!” was reputed
to be the Duke of Wellington’s order which
opened the last stage of the battle of Waterloo.


Missing Friend.
WOULD' any person knowing the whereabouts of
HUGH ROYSTON LUCAS (husband of Margaret
Jane Lucas), formerly a member of the Military
Forces and formerly of Nowra In the State of New
South Wales, or any person who has seen or heard
of the said Hugh Royston Lucas at any time since
the year 1945, communicate with STEPHENS &
TOZER, Solicitors, 236 George Street, Brisbane?
END your RUPTURE
WDRRiES
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do bard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and 11, days’ f ree
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(I>ept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY!
r
lilii
Angus & Robertson’s Book Selection
THIS IS AUSTRALIA. The story of Australia in text and picture, illustrated
with thousands of photographs in full colour. Over 400 pages. An excellent
gift for your friends at home or abroad. 37/6.
THE STORY OF MANKIND, by Hendrick Van Loon. Illustrated, new edition.
16/9 (post 6d.).
THE JUDGE’S STORY. A new novel by Charles Morgan. 10/- (post. 4d.).
TRY AND STOP MB. A collection of anecdotes and stories mostly humorous, by
Bennet Cerf. 10/6 (post 4d.).
THE BED, OR THE CLINOPHILE’S VADE MECUM, by Cecil and Margery Gray.
A history of the rise and fall of THE BED, from the earliest up to modern
times. 15/3 (post 6d.).
THE CAPTAIN’S LADY. A new novel by D. K. Broster. 9/9 (post 4d.).
A NEW SELECTION OF BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS ON DISPLAY.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
mm
m
ur
f I
RUM
OVERPROOF
FESQ, CASSON & CO PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848 [fri]
PIYMOV)*^
DOD<^
»
m
't BH{ BB B Bi HH
Irrespective of the price you pay for a
motor vehicle, the basic satisfaction
factor is value. Thus if you gain the
highest class refinements in the medium
price field —as you do when you select
a car from the Chrysler, Dodge, Dc
Soto range—-you are gaining value
that cannot be surpassed.
The styling, finish, and interior
trim of Chrysler, Dodge, De
Soto and Plymouth bodies con-
form to highest international
standards, and are pre-eminent
in the field of Australian Body
production. When body work
of this quality is fitted to a superbly
engineered chassis, the final product is
a car which inspires pride of ownership,
and challenges competition in any price field.
You can pay more without gaining a single
pound's worth of genuine value. You can pay
less, but no such saving will compensate for the
refinements which you lose.
For style, comfort and performance—COMPAßE—
and you will choose Chrysler, Dodge, De Soto or Plymouth
' « li; j
Jti!Jjf/j•'
Sii-.lfrtis.
l.'ii
7» Vfa.'ih'tlf'i
r n't--if^'^’A
~&# J!
iir
m<^o'
mm
wiswe®
fjffxjli
mw
mmm
m
f)
&
gfe
35
sr
C hryshr Tbodge
DISTRIBUTORS LIMITED
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: York Motors Pty. Ltd.. Buckle Motors (Trading Company) Pty. Limited, Harden and Johnston Ltd.
• MELBOURNE: Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Automobiles Pty. Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty, Limited.
• ADELAIDE: Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd., Flinders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: Winterbottom Motor Co. Ltd., Wentworth Motors Ltd.
• HOBART: Co-Operative Motors Limited, H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd., Metro Motors Pty. Ltd*.
CD 127
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken rt contributions
submittedand no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to 'the Editor. ■
J.C.S.: A story for small boys... .W. 8.:
Haven’t you ever heard of Enoch Arden; also
Philip Ray and Annie Lee? ... .H.M.C.: And
you, we presume, have never heard of Cinder-
ella, who was so cruelly used by her step-
mother and two step-sisters W.8.M.; We ve
been moved to tears too often by such lovable
old eccentrics... .P.N.: Don’t any of your
characters ever stop bending the e1b0w?....
A.R.D.: Almost every circus story received
ends up in the sudden death of a tob-ardent
lover G.P.: Greasing a stout rope in readi-
ness for the next visit of the hangman whose
wife was unaware of his profession... .8.L.:
Most hackneyed of the “Death Before Dis-
honor” plots R.J.G.: Return-to-scenes-of-
youth tale returned to youthful author... .F. 8.:
The lucky gold strike at the end knocked it
out J.W.A.: The trouble is that you’ve
mistaken the mistaken-identity story for a
story H.L.L.; Filled the henpecked husband
with overproof rum and sent him back to his
dreadful missus... .L.J.: “Love Conquers All”
didn’t conquer our stony-hearted fiction editor.
P.M.H.; Neither did your 20th-century
Scrooge and his modern Bob Cratchit... .T.V.:
N0....5.F.: Our detestation for the poor-girl
and rich-man plot is only equalled by our
dislike for the poor-man and rich-girl plot
Anon: Bondi will be jealous, but here goes:—
Beautiful Village of Manly
With thy glamorous ocean beach,
Fringed by those stately old pine trees
Striving the blue heavens to reach.
Once they were tiny wee seedlings,
Needing human help every day,
But now they defy fierce tempests
And smile at Old Sol’s scorching ray.
....D.L.G.: We, too, at times feel like re-
treating to a desert island, even if only to
escape from first efforts about desert islands.
E.M.: Good old practical man versus
theorist story with the practical man, as usual,
winning hands down... .N. 8.: The office boy
wagered the Religious Editor that the iceman’s
horse in your yarn would finish ahead on the
last page and won a. hymn book C.D.S.:
Off our beat E.F.S.: Dad and Dave grew
wise to that confidence trick nearly half a
century ago G.C.; No wedding present for
the sunburnt stockman and his dusky bride.
W.A.: Don’t tell us, William, that you’ve
lost your punch:
I’ve found I’m slowly turning
Into a domestic clod.
’Gainst my will my feet seem burning
In rutted ways to slowly plod.
My restlessness ha 5 left me
And my spirit seems so tame.
I’ve even lost the wish to be
Back in the droving game.
W.E.R.: Don’t give up hope; you’re young
and show promise H.D.: Heaven knows
where you picked up those fantastic notions
about the private life of an actress J.J.M.:
You’ve been reading H. G. Wells’s The Invisible
Man.... C.H.N.: Merely a modern version of
the old stage play “Madame X” M.0’8.:
Can’t imagine the police chasing an escapee
from a two-up raid half across Australia in
a plane K.E.: Poison-duel story is a poison-
ous piece of fiction D.G.P.: At least Mary
had the courage to run away with the bloke
next door. Most of them dither about for 10
pages, then stay with hubby M.F.: Your
obsession for funerals suggests that you’re in
the undertaking business... .C.R.: That cam-
paign was covered by “Ek Dum” in the “Ser-
vice Man’s” pages L.T.C.: Macquarie’s
architect has been resurrected too often....
J.M.: All three fell by the wayside... .K.H.T.:
The cat is on his way home M.J.S.H.: “The
White Pigeon” is also homeward bound
M.D.P.; Your suburban siren failed to tempt
us J.O’C.: Enter, and pay your respects to
a fellow-bard:
Hail, Bellerive!
Don’t grieve
If academic works
Contain the quirks
And ancient saws
Eructed from the maws
Of those of lesser worth;
Your facile pen
Will pierce again
The glittering cloaks
These “blokes
Have swathed about
Their philosophic doubt,
Exposing to our gaze
The specious phrase—
Evoking in our hearts
Much well-bred mirth.
. ...G.M.G.: We found the drunk a tedious
fellow G.H.H.: Why send us the sixth
carbon copy? ... .C.H.: It fizzled out early in
the piece.. . .P.C.: The salesman wasn’t even
faintly amusing... .F.L.: We ask nothing more
of “Ask Nothing More” except that we don’t
want to see it again.., .R.W.: “The Lamp
Post” is very wooden 0.C.: “Would you
mind returning it?” Not at all J.J.A.:
Couldn’t find anything in its favor M.J.W.:
Try it on a woman’s paper F.H.; May we
also, wish Mr. Thorp good luck V.M.: The
decision was against it P.J.A.: We want
more than an incident—we want a story
H.T.: Why doesn’t the young man try a
matrimonial advt.? M.S.: It’s now on its
return journey D.1.H.: Bright, but below
our standard.... J.H.McP.: Interesting, but
more suitable for a daily than for us C G :
Neither is likely to find a market W.N.:
A dreary tale I.O.B.: Nothing original
about the climax Usual run of
circus story S.M.G.: Both are mediocre.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.S.: More like a geometrical problem than
a humorous drawing... .N.M.A.: You’re more
adept with the eraser than the pen J.L.:
B. E. Minns used that idea 50 years ag0....
J. : Sixpence wasted in stamps, not to men-
tion the paper and ink... .E.F.R.: So that
old ’un is still doing the rounds K.D.: That
lubra will have to perform her antics elsewhere.
B.S.: This week’s scratchiest P.A.J.:
Didn’t feel disposed to legrope the cow that
gives rum and milk... .C.H.R.: Give us pic-
tures with some action in them M.AJ.: The
figures are carefully disguised under a maze
of cross-hatching A. 8.; You’ve made a fair
effort of the lobster, but the drunk and his girl-
friend never, existed... .C.G.: Long study at
an art school might help y0u....T.L.: The cat
is now grinning at us from the w.p.b H. 8.:
We thought it funny when we first saw it in
London “Punch”... .N.8.D.: The Art Editor
went out for a stiff noggin after one 100 k....
K. : Album sketches, nothing more
M.8.H.: Summer wouldn’t seem the same
without a dozen or so variants of that time-
worn wheeze S.R.: You should do better.
L.H.: You’ve been visiting too many wax-
works... .8.C.: Why must you draw hands
that look like meat-hooks? ... .A.A.L.: Misfits,
every one of them... .H.A.M.: Well composed
and decorative, but hardly funny C.S.R.:
Thinking of offering a prize for a solution of
the meaning of that cartoon... .H.T.: What is
little Johnny doing floating around the top of
the wardrobe? K.G.: They look like the
work of a pavement artist after a week’s rain.


ms
•vsl
MORE
AHA
COOKERS
are arriving from England
Your patient wait for the luxury of
AGA cooking is over. After a severe
wartime shortage, plentiful supplies
of these famous Cookers are now
arriving. Write now for illustrated bfochure with full details
showing how an AGA Cooker will transform, your kitchen, your
cooking and YOU! You’ll be thrilled also to learn of the
amazing fuel economy of AGA, the World's most economical
cooker. Write today.
N m Z V
AGA The Cooker
with the GUARAN-
TEED MAXIMUM
fuel consumption.
i
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852. (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney; 432 Bourke
Street, Melbourne; Currie Street,'
Adelaide; Cnr. Margaret and Albert
Street, Brisbane; Tasmanian Agents:
A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart;
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
SPEED ....
Jockeys often beat their mounts to the
winning post at the Ancient Olympic
Games, but it was in order! In a |
race called the “kalpe” the jockeys
rode naked and The rider
leapt to the ground at a given point
and completed the race on foot, hold-
ing his horse by the bridle.
K
or.
u
Yi
/>-
A
A
r Us
r /k
/A
YOU MUST HAVE Pfieed TO BE
AN OLYMPIC GAMES CHAMPION!
is essential also for modern automotive
transport...and Olympic tyres have the strength
and endurance to withstand every strain.
Olympic
TYRES
700% AUSTRALIAN
a. - CHAMPIONS
OF THE RO ADI
A product of the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Ltd.
NO DUDS
IN 3A
By BRIAN JAMES.
THE 3A Class at Wellington-street
High School was a very remarkable
one even for that famous school,
i There were 35 boys in it, and in the
pedagogic parlance there was not one
“dud” in it.
“A “dud” is a cheerful, aimless, witless,
feckless, brainless fellow, who is not “up
to it.” And there are duds and duds, or
perhaps better to say complete duds and
partial duds.
The complete article can learn nothing
at all, is generally a quite wholesome,
useful, willing boy, ready to do anything
—but work. He knows that he can’t do
Latin, French is beyond him, that
Algebra must always remain a mystery,
And so for the rest of the subjects. As
often as not when he leaves school he
is very successful, and develops all sorts
of qualities and resources that no one
had ever suspected. In 10 years or so
he probably earns three times as much
as any teacher who ever tried to teach
him, and, what is more, counts more
highly in the community.
The partial dud, however, is one with
inability in certain subjects. Sometimes
it is a matter of antipathy or estrange-
ment, more often sheer incapacity. In
the other subjects he is good, even bril-
liant. He generally does well on leaving
school.
But there are all kinds of qualifications
and complications to this simple classify-
ing: The dud—complete or partial—may
be vicious. Or is said to be. He may be
stubborn, or rebellious, or again he may
excel in sport, and then he is blessed and
forgiven for being a dud.
T"* HERE was no dud in 3A at Wei-
I lington-street. It was a great class for
an ambitious teacher to have, that is, if
he could manage and control it. For 3A
was decidedly difficult. It had a corporate
spirit. Every member was strongly in-
dividualised, and yet there
was a very definite group
entity. It could and did act
and think unanimously on
many occasions. It was proud
of itself as a class, jealous
of its corporate character,
sensitive to slight and hurt,
resentful of any unworthy
authority foisted upon it,
quick in the process of ap-
praising and summing up the
new teacher. It could be
generous and forbearing of
mere blundering human weakness on the
part of the staff; and vindictive and
malicious when injury came from bump-
tious arrogance or conceit.
It was a difficult class. Such classes
occur occasionally. Not so often. They
are hard to account for. These boys weie
mostly quite unknown to each other a
few years before. They came from a
wide variety of homes and conditions.
The social standing of their parents dif-
fered greatly. Some of them came from
“posh” suburbs, and others from parts
where the aspiring dare not dwell. A
few came from the country. But by
some mysterious process they had welded
themselves into a self-respecting republic
or brotherhood.
| ACK STRONG was the captain. It
was a signal honor to be elected
captain of 3A. Perhaps Jack did not
fully realise that at the time. He would
now. Jack was elected unanimously—
that was something inevitable. And he
had a committee to assist him. It
numbered 34—the rest of the class in fact.
No one in the class ever disputed his
authority as captain—not that he made
much of his authority. The position
did not swell his head in any way. Only
people with very small heads to start
with ever experience such swelling.
The class was proud of Jack —he looked
the part, a handsome dark-haired fellow
of 14, fine brown eyes with a touch of
devil in them; well-built, a first-rate
cricketer and footballer, no mean boxer.
And withal a large share of mischievous
humor. Not a whit self-conscious, and
very polite—often too much so ; for he
could rile any teacher with his “Yes,
Sir!” “No, Sir!” or “Shall I hold the
class at 3.30, Sir?” And the rest said all
these things—politely—with their eyes.
The teacher concerned generally felt that
he was “being got at” in the subtlest way,
and greatly desired to “take it out of
that mob” —if he only knew how to.
This time Mr. Sullivan was the teacher
concerned.
<‘\l/HAT did I say, Smythe?”
W “When, Sir?”
Since this was after a 15-minute out-
burst, it was quite probable that Mr.
Sullivan (known, of course, as “Gilbert”)
didn’t know himself all that he had said.
Smythe was aware of this.
“You are impertinent, Smythe.”
“I have no wish to be so, Sir.”
“What did I say, then?”
“I am sorry. Sir, but I must ask again
—when?”
Mr. Sullivan gasped, “Just now,
Smythe?”
“You said a great deal. Sir, and re-
peated yourself at times.”
“What!” , *
“I have no wish to be rude, Sir, but
shall I give a paraphrase, or a verbatim
account?” *
Mr. Sullivan’s pleasant face became
horrible with suppressed rage.
“Strong! ”
“Yes, Sir.” Strong stood up to atten-
tion. „ ,
“Strong, you are to collect five pages ot
imposition tomorrow morning from
Smythe.”
“Yes, Sir!”
“What shall I write. Sir?” asked
Smythe.
“Ten pages, Smythe!”
“But of what, Sir?”
“Fifteen pages, Smythe!”
“But I wished to know, Sir”
“Twenty pages, Smythe.”
Mr,, Sullivan, in this mood of vindictive
arithmetic,, ran up the score to 150 before
he was forced to stipulate the subject of
the imposition. His natural impulse was
to knock Smythe over, but he wasn’t a
fool. In any case, he generally managed
to get along pretty well with 3A.
This day he was out of sorts, livery.
Now, he felt worse that he half-realised
he had made a fool of himself. He
hadn’t come out of the business well
at all. There a slow rage within him
on that account, and a desire to get even
with Smythe, too. Still, he would like to
get out of it without loss of face. One
hundred and fifty pages! The punish-
ment was absurd, fantastic. It simply
couldn’t be done. Of course, it would be
consoling to have Smythe do —say, 30
pages, and say that was the most he
could do. Well . . .
MR. SULLIVAN went to the staff-
room and sought consolation. He
lit his pipe first of all. Then he ambled
over to Mr. Dare (he was known as
“Phyllis,” a name that long contended
with “Devil,” but “Phyllis” won).
Mr. Dare was a young man, big, tall
and confident. A good-looking man and
not altogether unaware of it. But with
all his virtues, he found no favor in the
sight of 3A.
“I say, Dare, how do you find that
fellow Smythe?”
“Of 3A, Sully?”
“Yes.”
“Him! I reckon he’s a lout.”
Mr. Dare stroked back his glossy black
hair from his forehead. “He’s just a lout,


O t/ s - on
:
> \ *
r
mm
r
A
/
A
A
/'
h
-r
r4+f
i
' A
/■
V
n\
y'/
- &
The excitement that accompanies a successful day at the races is smoothly
rounded off with a glass of mellow Tintara Gold Label Port. So afterwards,
at home, celebrate your gains with this favourite of public taste. And
after meals Gold Label Port is the perfect aid to natural digestion . . .
before retiring it acts as an inducer of sound sleep. MEET THE
CHAMPIONS: Adelaide Wine Show —Champion Prizes—Florfino Sherry;
Old Castle Riesling; Fine Old Liqueur Port; Sydney Royal Show: Cham-
pion Prize—Old Brandy. First Prizes—Vintage Port; Export Port;
Export Muscatel; Fine Old Liqueur Port. Melbourne Wine Show: Cham-
pion Prizes—Fine Old Liqueur Port; Old Castle Riesling.
"I often wonder what the vintners buy
One half so precious as the goods they sell"
—OMAR KHAYYAM.
MADE BY THOMAS HARDY AND SONS, LIMITED, ADELAIDE, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
TH77
if you ask me. About the worst of that
mob.” , . , , ,
“Ah! I’ve just had a bit of a brush
with him.” .
Mr. Sullivan gave an account of the
brush. He himself did not appear so
badly in it, and Smythe very badly.
“Well, they’re a tough lot, Sully. They
want a good tuning up. Of course, the
boss won’t do anything.” Mr. Dare made
a hopeless little shrug of his shoulders
to indicate that, with a decent sort of
Head, 3A wouldn’t last 10 minutes. It
is a great consolation —being able to
blame the Head. Besides being an almost
universal occupation, it helps in preserv-
ing self-esteem.
Someone else chimed in : “I reckon
Strong is the real trouble in 3A. The
old man ought to kick him right out of
the place. The rest would knuckle down
then.”
T HIS was Mr. McCoy, who found 3A
I a thorn in his flesh. A bright,
youngish'man was Mr. McCoy, crispy in
speech and appearance, and with a hint
of strutting about him. The boys called
him “Chook.”
“But that’s the trouble, Mac, Getting
something on him, I mean.”
“I don’t believe it. Sully. Old. Brim-
stone would have fixed him the very first
day.”
Brimstone was a certain Mr. Ridgeway,
who apparently ruled his school like a
czar in his more terrible moods. A whole
set of traditions and stories were woven
round Brimstone’s name to prove that
he possessed supernatural powers. But
Brimstone was no more. At least he
had retired long since.
“You don’t .find,” said many a one,
“his like now. They are not in the game
any more.”
Mr. McCoy had once been on his staff,
and was never done telling how Brim-
stone had fixed all the tough ones. At
the time, however. Brimstone had fixed
Mr. McCoy, too, but Mr. McCoy
was inclined to forget that part
of the story. He now went on: “But
Strong and Smythe are not the only ones.
What about Cook and that sallow streak
Galway? Or Mills? Or Stubbs?”
Mr. Dare stretched out a long and
shapely leg—there was a very nice shoe
on the end of it. “Do you know, Mac,
I reckon Lane is as bad as any of them.”
“His father’s a parson, I believe —at
Longworth.”
“Parson, ugh!”
Mr. Dare stretched out the other leg.
It also was well-shaped and had a nice
shoe on the end of it. He pulled back
the first one.
“Then there’s that awful fellow Braith-
waite. He’s as bad as any of them. Or
worse. Always has a smooth sort of leer
on his dial. Or did, I mean. I’ve re-
moved it. I made him sit up, I can tell
you.”
“How?”
“Simple. Just clout him when he’s not
expecting it.”
“Risky? Don’t you think?”
“Not a bit of it. And what else can
you do? I’m damned if I’m going to
have that mob, or any mob, walk over
me.”
Mr, McCoy concurred. “You’ve just
got to do it if the boss won’t back you
up. Now, under Old Brimstone ...”
Others joined in, and in the end it
appeared that there were in all 35 fellows
in 3A who badly needed fixing up.
THE bell went for recess. Cups rattled
in the bustle of morning-tea. There
came a loud firm knock on the door,
“Come in!” someone yelled above the
buzz and confusion of tea and talk.
Strong was framed in the doorway.
“Well, what is it?”
“I wished to see Mr. Sullivan, Sir. If
he is free a moment?”
Mr. Sullivan went out to the corridor.
Strong and Smythe were standing at
respectful attention.
“Yes, Strong?”
“It’s about that imposition, Sir.”
“What about it?”
“I’ve brought Smythe along, Sir.”
“So I see. But what about the imposi-
tion?”
“Smythe wishes to apologise. Sir. For
anything that he said to annoy you. He
assures me that he had no intention of
being rude.”
“Do you believe that. Strong?”
“Certainly, Sir.”
Mr. Sullivan was secretly pleased.
Here was a possible way out: “And you,
Smythe?”
“I am really very sorry, Sir. I can see
your point of view. And I was indiscreet.
But I most assuredly didn’t mean to be
offensive.”
This was victory without wounds, Mr.
Sullivan expanded a little. “Smythe,
you’ve done the decent thing. Very
gladly do I remit the imposition. We’ll
consider the matter closed.”
The boys said “Thank you, Sir,” and
marched off. Mr. Sullivan returned to
Mr. Dare, and told him about it.
JMr. Pare was disgusted and said so.
“They’re putting it over. You should
have knocked Smythe down. That’s all
those fellows really understand.”
As a noted baseballer, Mr. Dare con-
sidered muscular applications to be of
final merit. Although he played inter-
state, he was not given the full credit by
the boys that should have been his. Least
of all from 3A. They considered there
were too many other features to prevent
the hero-worship so usually accorded a
famous exponent of any sport.
“Oh, I don’t know. Dare,” mused Mr.
Sullivan. “I like to assume a thing is
genuine until it is proved otherwise. I’ll
lose nothing by accepting Smythe’s word.
If he’s lying, he’ll be the loser.”
“Bah!” said Mr. Dare.
“In Old Brimstone’s day ...” said
Mr. McCoy.
But the bell rang, and the staff had to
hurry off to classes,
“I’m taking that mob this afternoon,”
called out Mr. Dare, “and they’ll put
nothing like that over me.”
THAT afternoon Mr. Dare took
3A.
It eyed Mr. Dare warily and politely.
“Sit up!” ordered Mr. Dare,
The class made no move. It was
already sitting up. Mr. Dare looked
round to catch someone and fasten on
him. There wasn’t anyone. So he took
the whole class to task. “You are not
dealing with Mr. Sullivan now. Three
A.”
Tactically that was a stupid thing to
say. And very offensive, too. The class
had a good deal of time for “old Gil-
bert,” and the Smythe incident of the
morning was counted to his credit. And
here was this arrogant “Phyllis” attack-
ing both them and Mr. Sullivan. In a
mean way, too. There was the slightest
stir of resentment. Mr. Dare was watch-
ing for it.
“You heard me, Braithwaite.”
“I heard you. Sir.”
/ “If you answer me like that, Braith-
waite, I’ll knock your head off,”
“And you, Smythe?”
‘4Yes, Sir.”
“Lane?”
“Certainly, Sir.”
“Certainly what?”
“I heard you, Sir.”
“Well, say so.”
“Yes, Sir!”
“Now get to work. I want twenty of
those quadratics done by bell-time.”
It was a big assignment—meant to |?e.
Mr. Dare added: “If you do not finish
the twenty you can do the balance after
three-thirty,”
MR. DARE noted a degree of un-
willingness to knuckle under. It
satisfied something within him. The class
got to work, however. Armed with a
weighty Baker and Bourne, Mr. Dare
paraded up and down between the single
desks. There was no real need to carry
Baker and Bourne at the moment, but
Mr. Dare liked to carry a heavy book —
Barnard and Childe’s Geometry or
Carslaw’s Trigonometry or Baker and
Bourne’s Algebra. Not infrequently he
found the book handy for clouting pur-
poses.
Perhaps he held that a smart smack
over the ear with such a volume assisted
the more orthodox methods of learning
the subject. Also, it was a relief to one’s
own feelings.
Certainly, too, if the lesson was
“Trig.” it was Carslaw who bashed your
ear. And if it were Algebra—then Baker
and Bourne made a joint and unfair
attack upon you.
He paused in his striding and stood
over Smythe. Smythe was working well,
but he made a slight error —not an error
really, but the inclusion of a step not
strictly necessary. It was an opening.
Smack! went Baker and Bourne. A
loud and jarring smack. “You dunder-
head, Smythe!” Smythe said nothing.
But he understood only too well. There
was a murmur somewhere behind Mr,
Dare.
“Did you speak, Lane?”
“Yes, Sir.”
(Continued on page 32.)


/»
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticora Soap. It
keeps his tender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trio-Cutlcura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
fd
f
What a Trustee should know.
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions; ,
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them’ to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Faviell
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
——— PT.4A.6
HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ALAS, POOR UNO!
Heartrending cry of Maorilander Carl
Berendsen, as chairman speaking at the
end for the day of a U.N.O. Trusteeship
Committee meeting: “Yesterday when
we adjourned we had five more speakers.
Today we have nine more speakers.
Gentlemen, we are losing ground.”
Another sidelight on this Greatest
Show on Earth: greetings between two
members of its original Balkans Commis-
sion. First member: “Gqod morning ;
how are you?” Second member, sus-
piciously; “Why do you ask?”
Yet another; Two colleagues, serving
on different U.N.O. committees, meeting
in the bar of the delegates’ lounge at
Lake Success, after not seeing each other
for several days: “What’s your com-
mittee been doing?” “Same old thing.
What’s yours been doing?” “Same old
thing.”
A quietly dry remark attributed to
Belgian Premier Spaak, heading for home
after about a month of the current
Assembly session, cast another ray of
light into U.N.O.’s murky arena.
Acknowledging, with a smile, that his
departure was a special case, M. Spaak
said it was obvious that leading states-
men could not continue to attend the
Assembly if its sessions dragged on for
two or three months. 0.K., apparently,
for other than leading statesmen.
For any of them one essential would
appear to be of paramount importance:
that is, a Hiraji physique. “The life of
a delegate to the U.N. General
Assembly,” N.Y. “Times” has reported,
“is feverish. From 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. there
are staff conferences. From 11 until 6 or
7 there are committee meetings at Lake
Success. At 7 the social whirl begins.”
And what a whirl! Of one merely
typical week of it, N.Y. “Times” reported
that “a delegate’s calendar might have
included these functions: Mrs. Roose-
velt’s picnic at Hyde Park; Senator
Warren R. Austin’s evening party for
Europeans ; the Chinese, Russian, Greek
and Jewish-Agency receptions.”
The word for that lot is typical : it’s
on all the time. The quoted newspaper
has even classified the U.N.O, parties in
their main categories;
“Bloc parties” : The Saudi Arabians were
believed to have started this custom. They
held three separate buffet suppers, one for the
Western European bloc (including the United
States), one- for the Latin-American bloc, and
one for the Eastern European bloc. For reasons
of floor space as well as political tact, a num-
ber of other delegations have started bloc
parties.
Mass shindigs: These are “obligation” affairs.
Each of the 57 delegations has one; all other
delegations are expected to attend.
Propaganda parties: Most of the U.N. dele-
gations make a point of wining and dining
the press.
Business parties : These are “must” affairs —
small luncheons and teas with a social air and
* business purpose.
“The only time I. can catch some sleep,”
commented one weary delegate, “is during an
occasional dull committee meeting.”
Call the Coroner !
Viewing these giddy doings, or do’s,
N.Y. “Daily News” heads a leader “The
U.N.’s Abundant Life.” “Whatever else
you may say about the United Nations,”
it asserts, “you have to admit that its
staff of some 3400 souls have not been
skimping on the good things of life.”
Glancing at “detailed criticism of U.N.
expenses” made public by “the super-
own budgetary committee,” the
“News” directs attention to other things
besides “shindigs” :
Secretary-General Trygve Lie wants almost
$40,000,000 for the U.N. to spend in 1948.
His budgetary committee urges a veto on that
request, and says it ought to be cut by more
than 10 p.c.—that Trygve’s financial ambitions,
to be exact, are $4,108,098 too ambitious.
Almost every item of Lie’s proposed budget,
says this report, is overstuffed. U.N. officials
are accused of spending too much for travel.
They are charged with a “tendency to translate
all new work into requirements for extra staff”
—which in plain English means keelhauling
their sisters, their cousins and their aunts on
to the U.N. payroll.
Also on the Lie budget is a little item of
$3,427,760 for printing expenses next year, and
too. bad about the paper shortage.
Lie wants almost $73,000 next year for hos-
pitality. His budgeteers say he should get
not more than $40,000 —and we must say
$40,000 will buy quite a few good parties, even
in these times.
Reminding its (very) assorted member-
ship that U.N.O. “is still in peril of -its
life, and has yet to show any real results,”
the “News” counsels: “Better slow down,
boys and gals, or your bankrollers—
meaning U.S. taxpayers, chiefly—may
get tired of it all and close you down.”
Not gifted with the good-humored out-
look and humor of the “News,” Chicago
“Tribune” puts on its mourning rigout
and demands a funeral. “There is a
coroner’s case at Lake Success,” it de-
clares, giving the “phony prodigy” (de-
ceased) a free In Memoriam: “It was
the child of vain imaginings, of war-
time hypocrisies, of unrealistic vaporings
of the mind, of brutal designs, of trans-
parent bad faith, and of conflicts which
even the blind mind could have under-
stood if willing to accept self-evident
facts.”
Of U.N.O.’s admirers and their hopes,
“Vima," Athens.
U.N.O. FIGHT TO A FINISH—OF WHAT?
the “Tribune” adds in the same mournful
vein: “The enraptured have had their
rhapsodies, and are now silent. The One
World has dissolved into its component
parts of intrigue, force, greed and con-
flict.” And, with a certain application
elsewhere: “Our Foreign Policy is
capable of enough follies without any
tie-up with a coroner’s case.”
While U.N.O. Talks
While delegates “were quarrelling bit-
terly over U.N.O. procedure” inside the
assembly hall at Flushing, a Scripps-
Howard representative met outside in the
lobby one of the most notable represen-
tatives from Europe, who held forth with
much feeling. “It’s tragic,” he said. “I
wonder what they would say if I got up
and told them I come fresh from Europe,
and that over there not one person in a
hundred gives a damn about the U.N.
The-big question over there is: When
do we eat?” The representative added:
Europeans and most of the world are not
looking to the U.N. for aid in their time of
need. They are looking to the United States.
What they are counting on—whether wisely or
unwisely, only Congress can tell —is American
aid.
The common man has lost faith in the U.N-
All we do is talk, or, more accurately, quarrel.
While we are wasting time the fate of the
world is being settled over in Europe, and in
Asia and in Washington. Most certainly it
is not being settled here.
Three things sway mankind: Food, shelter,
clothing. And yet we go on quarrelling. When
we finally make a little progress and decide,
almost unanimously, to take a certain line
of action Russia says no. If we do it she’ll
quit. So we bog down again. And keep on
talking.
And, the Scripps-Howard man com-
mented, the vast majority of U.N.O. dele-
gates agree with that: “They privately
admit the U.N. has lost and continues
to lose prestige. But unless and until the
middle-sized and little nations which hold
most of the seats really rise in revolt
against the nullification of their votes by
a single big nation, the U.N.’s death by
creeping paralysis eventually will be com-
plete” :
The optimists here —and most of these give
the impression of whistling past a graveyard —
insist that the U.N. is merely suffering grow-
ing pains. For, they add, it is still young.
The fact is the U.N. is not an infant. Most
of the men who died in World War II were
born after the U.N. It is 38 years old. It
was born back in 1919 at Versailles, under the
name of the League of Nations. Its member-
ship is much the same. Its name was changed
after a few alterations, mostly facade, much
as a theatre sometimes changes its name to
get rid of a jinx.
Realists here admit the U.N. isn’t function-
ing because Russia won’t play unless all the
others give in and let her have her way. The
trouble is as simple as that.
“Stalin’s Stooge”
Chicago “Tribune,” in one of its many
editorial fits of anger over U.N.0., be-
'comes decidedly personal, referring to
Secretary-General Trygve Lie (pro-
nounced Lee) as “Stalin’s stooge,” and,
among other comments based on an
article in “Plain Talk” by one Sheppard
Marley, alleges:
The evidence is overwhelming that Lie is not
only an errand boy for Stalin now, but that
he has been most sympathetic to Russia for
25 years.
Lie first made the pilgrimage to Moscow in
1921 as an official of the Norwegian Labor
party. The party broke with the Kremlin in
1923, but, says Marley, “Lie managed to re-
• main in the good graces of those who ruled
Russia and international Communism.”
In the ’3o’s Lie had become Norway’s
Minister of Justice. Leon Trotsky, whom Stalin
had beaten out in the scramble to fill Lenin’s
shoes, gravitated to Norway in 1935, six years
after being banished from the Workers’ Paradise.
In the Moscow purge trial of Zinoviev,
Kamenev and 14 other old Bolsheviks in 1936,
the prosecutor, Andrei Vishinsky, now Deputy
Soviet Foreign Minister, represented the de-
fendants as tools of the exiled Trotsky in a
plot to sell Russia into the hands of the Nazis,
Fascists and Japanese.
When the purge trial was announced, Lie
immediately got into action. Trotsky was sub-
jected to police harassment and a newspaper
campaign accusing him of intriguing against
Russia. Lie’s emissaries demanded that he
stop writing on current events and submit his
mail for censorship. There was no legal means
of enforcing such restrictions, so Lie then tried
to get Trotsky to submit voluntarily to censor-
ship. Trotsky refused, whereupon his room was
broken into. He was then taken to Oslo,
ostensibly to testify against the interlopers, but
was instead brought beford' Lie, who demanded
that he accept police control of his mail and
visitors.
When Trotsky again refused to submit, Lie
arrested him, three days later obtaining a
retroactive degree giving himself the power to
intern undesirable aliens. He then expelled
Trotsky’s two secretaries. Trotsky smuggled a
letter out of Norway, printed in the “Nation”
in New York, charging that Lie was violating
the right of asylum and arranging “a trap
to allow free passage to the executioners and
slanderers of the G.P.U.”
Lie persisted in his plans, however, arranging
Trotsky’s expulsion and secret journey to
Mexico City, where Trotsky was murdered in
1940 by one of Stalin’s assassins. Trotsky, who
had been one of the founders of the Com-
munist International, wrote in 1937 that Lie
“not so long ago had been a member” of that
agency for world revolution.
Recalling that “Russia, on threat of
vetoing any other candidate, installed Lie
as Secretary-General of U.N.0.” (with
an annual salary of $20,000 and $20,000
expenses, tax free), the “Tribune” roundly
accuses the Secretary-General:
In his conduct of U.N. affairs, Lie has un-
failingly played the Kremlin’s game. He made
an unsolicited recommendation that no con-
sideration be given Russia’s failure to withdraw
troops from Iran. He pressed the Russian
scheme to quarantine Franco Spain. He loaded
the U.N. Balkan investigating committee with
avowed Communists, one of whom deserted to
join the Communist guerrillas while the in-
quiry was on. Recently he informed the United
States that it had a moral duty to give a
billion and a quarter dollars to six “war-
devastated” States of the Russian bloc, which
were devastated when overrun by the Red Army.
At the same time, he has soft-pedalled every
Communist threat to peace—the Soviet-spon-
sored incursions into Greece, the faked elec-
tions in the Balkan puppet States, the depor-
tations of non-Communist Poles, Lithuanians,
and Estonians to Russian slave-labor camps,
the shooting down, of American flyers by
Tito’s Communists, and the China civil war
fomented by Communists with Moscow’s sup-
port.
The “Tribune” proceeds to dub U.N.O.
“the focus of Red fifth-columnism in the
United States”: if anyone should hold
that to be a remarkable achievement
for a corpse, the Chicagoan Thunderer
would no doubt point to the body of
Lenin serving a like purpose in the Krem-
lin. U.N.O.’S New York headquarters,
it insists, “are a sounding-board for
Communist propaganda and a centre of
Soviet espionage. This outfit ought to be
thrown out of the country before it does
us more damage.” Nothing if not whole-
hearted, the “Tribune” rounds that off
with: “Lie is an added reason for doing
so.”
Soviet Permanent Minority
Nobody will question one of the
“Tribune’s” assertions —that U.N.O. has
served as a sounding-board for Com-
munist propaganda. And as used for the
purpose by Mr. Vishinsky, what a
sounder! Such “undiplomatic” lan-
gwidge and abuse —even the “Tribune”
might have picked up a pointer or two
from the Assembly session now ending ;
certainly most productive of vituperation,
if nothing else!
N.Y. “Times” has given the probably
exactly right explanation of those re-
peated outbursts of Kremlin billingsgate,
one of which provoked Australian dele-
gate Hodgson to exclaim to Gromyko:
“Please get on with the veto, and don’t
punish us by making us listen to all that
stuff all over again.” The N.Y. “Times”
explanation of it: “The realisation of
their position as a ‘permanent minority’
has led the Russian delegates, many
believe, to resort to violent language out
of a kind of frustration.”
The “permanent-minority” position, as
reported by a U.N.O. correspondent of
that newspaper, is that “in the Security
Council the anti-Soviet majority of nine
to two is now standard operating pro-
cedure,” while in the Assembly “the
Soviet bloc of six stands virtually alone
among the 57 member nations.” But this
is a case where the tail wags the dog, or
at any rate stops the dog from doing any
wagging; as a N.Y. “World-Telegram”
U.N.O. correspondent sums it up:
First, the U.N. cannot possibly function
effectively as long as any one of the Big Three


Obtainable at
all
Leading Stores
,i*:c
I
I-Vv-V
I *
Mi
V -
as*
■MI
■>si«w w ■
HI
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
MADE EXCLUSIVELY FROM MONTSERRAT LIME JUICE
refuses to abide by its clear obligations under
the charter as interpreted by the overwhelming
majority. , ,
Second, the Soviet Union has now made clear
that she will ignore the U.N.’s findings, unless
these findings coincide with her own wishes.
After paralysing the Security Council by her
use of the veto, Russia .has announced her in-
tention to boycott any General Assembly,
activity which does not meet with her approval.
Specimens of Futility
A typical example of how the boycott-
ing works is provided by one of the few
“achievements” chalked up to the
Assembly for its recent months of talk
and endless meetings. The “achievement’
was the appointing of U.N.O.’s new
Balkans Comniission —by a plenary
Assembly vote of 40 to six (in U.N.O. if
you haven’t the courage to vote you can
always “abstain”). By now the new com-
mission should be setting up in Salonika,
Greece. The members of the nine-nations
outfit —plus secretariat personnel and
clerks —were to take with them “tons of
equipment, including sheepskin-lined
clothing, cooking stoves and maps of the
Balkans.” And, because of the boycott
by Soviet and satellites, making the whole
thing, and U.N.O. with it, a futility of
futilities, all the commission will ever see
of the Balkans will be what the maps
show and what it can view from Greece!
The same applies to the Korea
“achievement.” In this, by a vote of 46
to nil (Soviet bloc “abstaining”), a special
U.N.O. commission of nine nations (Aus-
tralia among them) was appointed to
supervise national elections —the super-
vision essential to ensure free voting and
the setting up of an independent Govern-
ment truly representative of the Koreans’
wishes in that line. This, of course, was
anathema to Kremlin ideas of voting —
rigged elections and murder to dispose of
any opposition. Hence probable Soviet
boycott of the commission, in which case,
since the top half of Korea is under
Soviet occupation,J;he commission might
as well stay at home.
Much the same air of futility hangs
around the U.N.O. moves for Palestine,
including the apparently extraordinarily
obliging Soviet proposal about which
a great deal of fuss was made in cables.
Like the earlier U.S. proposal, the
Soviet plan was based on a cheerful
assumption—that all the very specific
Arab threats to start shooting if parti-
tion is U.N.O.’s decision are just so much
hot air. t “All indications,” Scripps-
Howard foreign editor has commented,
“are that partition will be the beginning
of greater woe rather than the end of
trouble in the Holy Land.” Not mere
cynicism, but all the actual record, sug-
gests that that is exactly what is behind
the eager Soviet backing of partition.
And if the Arabs do show fight—they
have openly, and repeatedly, threatened
war against the Jews—just what can
U.N.O. do about it? Actually, U.N.O.
has a police force, of sorts: specially-
trained, blue-uniformed, briefed to spot
potential disturbers—an azure force 100
strong, occupied in maintaining order at
Lake Success and Flushing Meadow.
MANY INDIAS.
Making a general study of India’s past
history under British control, and looking
at its present and future under partition,
P. J. Griffiths suggests in a London “Nine
teenth Century and After” article that
what can happen might be a shattering
fragmentation of the teeming country into
many Indias. Some of the possible steps
towards that:
British India is already divided into
two. Pakistan consists of two detached
areas of territory, separated by nearly
1000 miles, inhabited by people who
differ wholly in race and language, and
with 'no common tie except that ofs
religion. The formative influence of Islam
is strong, and if it were helped in the
presenj; case by economic interdependence
'between the two areas, there might be
some hope that it would weld them to-
gether. But East and West Pakistan are
in no sense complementary to each other.
Each is primarily an agricultural area,
more or less self-sufficient as regards
food, but woefully behind in * industrial
development. It is difficult to believe that
there will be any effective link between
the two territories, and we ought perhaps
to think not of Pakistan, but of two
separate Pakistans.
Already then it looks as though there
were to be three instead of two British
Indias —but the process of fragmentation
is not likely to end here. Baulked of its
wish to bring the North-West Frontier
into a united India, the Congress party
has bent its energies to the stirring up
of an agitation for the separation of the
North-West Frontier Province from the
other areas of the Western Pakistan block,
and for the formation of a Pathanistan,
in addition to Hindustan and Pakistan.
This agitation is unlikely to produce any
early result, except perhaps to excite the
hopes of the Afghans, who are
beginning to dream, of an expanded
Afghanistan, The real danger of
the agitation, however, arises from the
emphasis that it puts upon the divergence
of interests between the Palhan and the
Punjabi. It is by no means unlikely that
separatist agitation may grow in the
years to come, and lead to the establish-
ment of that Pathanistan which the in-
scrutable Mr. Gandhi seems to desire.
'Nor would it be safe to assume that
Hindustan will necessarily be more
stable than Pakistan. South India has
always had a consciousness of
existence, and many competent observers
Chicago “Tribune.”
THE TWAIN IN ADVERSITY.
believe that Madras will ultimately secede
into virtual independence. There is no
such positive separatist force at work in
Bombay, but it is doubtful whether the
factors common to that Presidency and
the United Provinces and Bengal will
provide a strong enough cohesive force
to’hold together the somewhat amorphous
State of Hindustan.
The ultimate pattern of India is likely
to consist of three of four countries in
place of British India, together with a
Federation of South Indian States. This
will be, approximately speaking, a return
to the pattern of sixteenth-century India,
though the boundaries of the various
States will be largely different from what
they were then. _
J. BULL v. TIME.
Looking into what Britain is trying to
achieve, and considering the time limit,
“World Report” concludes that “the
overwhelming evidence is that it can’t be
done”: —
As things stand, the people of Great Britain
have less than a year in which to get into
position to pay their own way in the world.
Current balances with other nations now are
running against Britain at the rate of nearly
two and one half billion dollars a year. About
$5OO million of that, however, is a temporary
cost; so the over-all deficit to figure on for
the next 12 months is around two billion
dollars. , _. . .
Import cuts are relied on by the British
Government as a sure way to reduce expenses
abroad. By slashing her purchases, Britain
expects to reduce the external deficit by half.
That would leave it at one billion dolla s.
Speed-up in expqrts is the logical next step.
In theory, Britain' could wipe out the deficit
by selling more goods abroad. But even if
British exporters should reach the official goal
set for next June, the balance still would run
against her. An export volume 40 per cent.
i. higher than before the war, if reached, might
pare another $250 million off the deficit. That
leaves $750 million to take care of.
In desperation the Labor Cabinet could dip
into the nation’s reserves of gold and other assets.
Altogether, these amount to $2,400,000,000.
Financial experts in London, however, question
whether the reserves should ever go below
two billion dollars. That much is needed, it is
thought, to keep world confidence in the
pound sterling. The sum of $4OO million,
nevertheless, could be applied to the current
deficit.
As a last resort, Britain could reduce her
political stake abroad by spending less on
troops and supplies in Europe, the Middle East
and the Far East. The catch is that Britain
cannot reduce her political expenses overseas
without political loss. If the curtailments go
too far, Britain ceases to be a world Power.
Only hope, therefore, is to wipe out the
deficit by buying less and selling more abroad.
Even by optimistic calculations, Britain can’t
shrink her purchases and expand her sales in
time to strike a. balance during the next 12
months. Thus her only hope is for help from
others, especially the U.S., in a hurry.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Prophet Stalin. —Statement by Stalin at a
conference dinner, quoted by James F. Byrnes
in Speaking Frankly: “It is not so difficult to
keep unity in time of war since there is a joint
aim to defeat the common enemy, which is clear
to everyone. The difficult task will come after
the war when diverse interests tend to divide
the Allies. It is our duty to see that our
relations in peace-time are as strong as they have
been in war.” On which Byrnes comments:
“I can testify to the accuracy of his prophecy,
and I share his views as to our duty.”
• * * ♦
Balkans Used to’ It. —“Four times in this
century,” a Washington “Post” writer points
out, “the farmers and shepherds and traders
of the Balkans have heard the tramping feet
of foreign overlords and the shots of foreign
firing squads. First it was the Turks who
oppressed them, then the Germans of Kaiser
Wilhelm who conquered them, then the Nazis
of Adolf Hitler who enslaved them, and now
the commissars trained in the iron-fisted school
of Josef Stalin.” In all their sordid history it
Has hardly ever been otherwise; when other
countries were not roughing it over them they
were trying to rough it over one another. “They
can boast of this tragic distinction: that no
other nations have suffered so much in this
century from recurrent wars and tyrannies. No
others have been so criss-crossed by invasions,
so ravaged by civil wars, so weakened by
.slaughter! and destruction in such a short span
of years.”
4! * * ¥
One-World Fantasy. —“ Thoughtful and res-
ponsible Western Europeans,” Washington
“Post” writer Andre Visson comments, “have
never been able to understand the American
conception of One World. The idea of a
World Government has appeared to them as a
kind of American fantasy. They si»ply do not
understand how such an idea can even be
discussed while no more than 20 or 25 per
cent, of the people of the world live under
democratic regimes.” The utmost looked for-
ward to is a possible United States of Western
Europe, with the Marshall Plan seeming to
bring this long-cherished idea within reach.
* * * *
Rebels on the Left. —If Communist Russia
has had amazing success in building up traitor
fifth-columns in other countries such as Hitler
never had, its actions since the war have also
succeeded in repelling former admirers every-
where, as, for instance, anyone can see by
looking into Australian dailies that only yes-
terday’ were voluble fawners on the Russia-
always-right theme. Himself a strong convert
against what Russia has become, Edgar Ansel
Mowrer, in N. Y. “Post,” instances another as
typical: “One after another Socialist
party leaders are rebelling against Moscow’s
inhumanity and interference. A recent rebel
is Norway’s greatest poet and left-wing socialist,
Arnulf Overland. Reputed the ‘soul of the
Norwegian resistance movement against Hitler,’
he has informed his hitherto somewhat
‘Wallacite’ comrades in Norway that ‘the
Soviet State can be compared to no other State
or community except Hitler Germany.’ Refer-
ring to the liquidation of all opposition and
to the reinstitution of ‘slavery and serfdom’
in Russia, Overland concluded; ‘lf this is
Socialism, then I am no Socialist.’ ”
* * * *
Ruhr Socialising. —U.S.-British haggling over
whether German coal and other main industry
should be socialised, as the Attlee Govern-
ment tried to insist, has ended, states “World
Report,” in an arrangement whereby German
management shall take over the operating re-
sponsibility for the Ruhr’s 150 coalmines, “under
U.S.-B'ritish supervision at the top.” Whether
the mines are to return ultimately to private
owners, including the Krupps, or are to end
up in public hands, is to be settled later, perhaps
five years from now. Meanwhile, military
governors, representing the U.S. and British
Governments, will hold title.
* * * »
Russia’s Fatal Weakness. —Granting Soviet
Russia’s strength in natural resources and man-
power, N.Y. “Journal-American” writer M. S.
Rukeyser weighs them against some of the
Soviet weaknesses: “The additional material
and human resources acquired since the war
add to the massive totals, but, on the human
side at least, they are somewhat unnatural and
may heighten the possibility of revolt. On the
liability side, the Bolsheviks have had nearly
30 years to emulate Western techniques of mass
production, but are still fumbling. Out of
their tightly-controlled situation they have
brought extremely meagre living standards for
their people. Instead of results they produce
fairy tales, and have created a Russian equi-
valent to the Spanish mahana, namely, another
five year plan. Russia’s fatal weakness stems
from practising slavery instead of individual
freedom and initiative.”
* * * *
Republicans in Spain. —Stating that, as a
result of the referendum in Spain a few months
back, the Franco side holds that it is now
more solidly installed than ever, the N. Y.
“Times” Madrid correspondent adds: “There
is much Republican sentiment still in Spain and
anybody who denies that is fooling himself or
trying to fool somebody else. But there is no
Republican political strength at present. They
are split into too many factions, ranging from
mild Liberal Republican, through Socialist to
extreme forms of anarchist and Communist, and
they cannot work effectively.”
* * # »
“Neglected Generation." —Viewing Europe’s
young folk, a N. Y. “World-Telegram” corre-
spondent holds them to be the Continent’s
“biggest problem for tomorrow: it hits you
in the eye wherever you go.” As he sees it,
“the generation of European youngsters now
in their early teens has come to regard black-
markets, occupations, hunger, political strife,
broken homes and all of the other troubles
of war and its aftermath as a sort of normal
existence. It is about all they have ever known.
While their parents have been making war they
have become a neglected generation.”
# * * ♦
Jap Delusions of Grandeur. —In an editorial,
“Christian Science Monitor” has recorded a
“Japanese elder statesman” as suggesting that
reparations should be based on “a fair cal-
culation of damages on the side both of Japan
and the Allied Powers” and that if “unreason-
able” reparations should be asked of Japan
“she should refuse to pay them.” The report
added that “though extreme, this proposal is
typical of a widespread trend in Japan based
on the assumption that the country is now
strategically necessary to the United States as
a base against Russia and is therefore in a
position to bargain for favors.” The editorial
assumption, “An early peace treaty would have
thg advantage of nipping in the bud any such
delusions of grandeur among the Japanese,”
would seem to depend on the kind of treaty.


■
W/mmmgA
m
m.
I
fILIIS'CHfILMERI
(iff a drufa'iu t/ P r (
J 847 144-7
N " 1% M.
■ Vv v\vv
is
Si
•w
X
X
rs
1^
? N
x\
x \
X
rv
r&
Sill
rh
2&m
m
ISt
§
- R H rs -
Wll.LlAm*>
0&
X
PF
m
SF
a
K
/:
The Yukon, the Kimberley! The history of mining is the story of civilisation. As
man discovered metals and ores and learned to use them ... as he invented new tools and
developed new mining methods, his way of life improved accordingly.
Surface mining, practised to some extent for thousands of years, has been greatly expanded in the . past two decades by
the introduction of powerful crawler tractors, scrapers, bulldozers and other earth-moving machinery.
Allis-Chalmers 2-cycle Diesel Tractors play an important part in every type of mining. In Australia, by providing power
for surface stripping, by building and maintaining hauling roads, they have contributed greatly to*he increasing coal yields
from opencut mines. Tractor trains —carrying supplies and equipment—are a common sight in many parts of the world.
No matter where located or what type, mining is still a bold venture. It belongs to men who are willing to challenge
isolation, hardship, disappointment . . . willing to risk their entire capital on a chance. It is fortunate there are such men
... for our daily well-being depends on the products of the mines.
AC
• 2-CYCLE DIESEL TRACTORS • ROAD MACHINERY • ENGINES
• FARM AND INDUSTRIAL WHEEL TRACTORS • FARM EQUIPMENT
Industrial Distributors for New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia:
TUTT-BRYANT PTY. LTD. Tasmania: A. G. WEBSTER & &NS LTD., Hobart and
I ‘\ 1 •
Launceston. Western Australia: WESTRALIAN TUTT-BRYANT PTY. LTD., Perth.
Agricultural Distributors for Western Australia: WESTRALIAN FARMERS CO-
OPERATIVE LTD. South Australia: JOHN SHEARER & SONS PTY. LTD. Victoria:
MITCHELL & CO. PTY. LTD. N.S.W.: MITCHELL SHEARER FARM MACHINERY
PTY. LTD. Queensland: ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. (AUST.) LTD. Tasmania:
A. G. WEBSTER &' SONS LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—So. 3536
Wednesday, November 19, 1947
ALEXANDRIA VICTORIA TO ELIZABETH ALEXANDRA MARY.
“May your marriage be as happy and as peaceful for our people as mine!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
CAIN AND "FRIENDS."
Mr. Cain and those of his Ministers who
lost their seats proved themselves good
losers. Deputy-Premier Field, Attorney-
General Slater and Mines Minister Mc-
Kenzie all agreed that the bank-expro-
priation issue had brought about the
downfall of their Government and party,
and the relegation of themselves to private
life after many years in Parliament (30
years in Mr. Slater’s case); but they did
not squeal. They did not even point
out that the fatal issue had been forced
on them and their associates, without
consultation, by the Federal “Labor”
mob, or that the leader of the Federal
“Labor” mob left them in the lurch, re-
fusing to make a single platform appear-
ance, though he was in Melbourne for
the Cup. All the squealing, with odious
humbug added in some cases, from
their Canberra friends, the architects of
their ruin.
The election was held under an Elec-
toral District Act, introduced towards the
end of 1944 by a Country-party Govern-
ment which, when wholly a Country-
party Government (in 1944 there were
a couple of Liberals in it), “Labor” had
kept in office for eight years. The bill
provided for the transfer ©f six seats
from the country to the city, and for
the appointment of Commissioners (Chief
Electoral Officer, former Chief Electoral
Officer and Secretary of Lands) to deter-
mine the boundaries of 32 metropolitan
districts, three urban districts (Ballarat,
Bendigo and Geelong) and 30 country dis-
tricts, with quotas of 25,000, 19,500 and
13,800. “Labor” made a show of oppos-
ing the measure and of going in for equal
electorates, with proportional represen-
tation as an alternative, but was secretly
glad to get another six seats for the city.
. It knew that equal electorates or pro-
portional representation, implying in each
case the conversion of Victoria, still in
the main living on the country, into a
predominantly city State would be a sen-
tence of political death to country
“Labor.”
As it happened, the redistribution
proved anything but unfavorable to
“Labor,” so much of whose support was,
and is, concentrated in the city. At the
1945 election 359,338 votes gave “Labor”
24 seats, seven more being uncontested,
and another 10,986 added Mr. Mutton
(Ind. Labor) to the strength, 32. On the
other hand, 402,822 Liberal-C.P. votes
(170,026 Liberal, 61,836 Ind. Lib., 155,360
C.P. and 15,600 Ind. C.P.) elected 28
members, three more having been re-
turned unopposed. Support from two
city Independents, who polled 21,808
votes, with preferences, enabled Mr.
Cain to take office. Among his Ministers
were three country members—three out
of nine—and during the ensuing two
years he never strove for or even hinted
at another redistribution.
These facts did not prevent Mr. Cal-
well, one of the Ministers who contri-
buted to the rout of the Cain Administra-
tion by speaking for it, from asserting
that it had been beaten by “gerrymander-
ing.” This when the friendly “Age” (not
so friendly now) had given the state of
the poll as 475,678 votes for the Ministry
and 597,337 for the Opposition, with three
Opposition members (one city, two
country) and no “Labor”' member re-
turned unopposed. Accusations of
“gerrymandering” came also from Federal
members representing parts of States,
Queensland and Westralia, in which
“Labor” erected “gerrymandering” into
a system.
Mr. Conelan (Griffith, Q.) added ignor-
ance to impudence. Raving about
gerrymandering,” he committed himself
to this nonsense:
In Victoria they have 42 country seats
w u hen > ° n an honest distribution, there
should be only 32. [There are 30.] And
?? y AT Clty seats when there should be
33. [There are 32.]
Arguing from this rubbish and supplying
ms own patent arithmetic, the gentleman
troni Queensland worked it out that if
Labor” had contested another 13 divi-
sions and scored in them an average of
9000 (an impossibility), it would have
polled a 49 per cent. vote. In any
case its achievement was “magnificent.”
At this the Cains must have smiled wanly.
The party which “endorses” Mr.
Conelan has had control of the Queens-
land State electoral machinery and has
been in office for 30 of the last 32 years.
The arrangement of electorates has been
so decidedly in its favor that it has again
and again won a majority of seats with a
minority of votes. At the election of
April, 1944, 11 of its city members were
returned with a total of 93,766 votes (an-
other 4557 put in a man who had fallen
out with the party, though he has never
ceased to vote for it), whereas 99,092
votes elected only eight Opposition
(Q.P.P.) members. In the Central district
“Labor” landed eight of the nine seats
(the ninth '“Labor” member had no
opponent), with 33,022 votes, only
10,095 more than were polled by the
Opposition parties (C.P. 15,688, Q.P.P.
8239), which were left without representa-
tion. Did these figures, and others almost
as glaring, move the virtuous Conelan to
suggest a fair redistribution or the
“ ‘Labor’ Government” to undertake one?
The answer is in the negative.
By May this year the electoral position
had become so putrid in every way that
only a miracle could have torn “Labor”
from the Treasury benches, and in these
matters miracles never happen. So
“Labor” came back with 35 of the 62
seats and the Opposition with 23, this
when 270,213 persons, the quick and
the dead, had marked ballot papers for
“Labor” and 284,043 for the Opposition.
A poll of 167,783 secured a mere nine
seats for the Q.P.P.
When the new Parliament met, Opposi-
tion-leader Nicklin gave a list of 22
electorates in which there had been flat
violation of the Electoral Districts Act,
which states expressly that no division
shall have more than 13,497 electors nor
fewer than 8999:
Above the statutory maximum: Logan
18,874, Wynnum 16,986, Oxley 15,353, Mur-
rumba 15,235, Nundah 15,188, Enoggera
15,126, Sandgate 14,688, B'ulimb'a 14,044,
Ithaca 13,897, Kelvin Grove 13,632, Too-
woomba 13,508. Logan, Oxley, Murrumba,
Nundah, Enoggera and Sandgate are
Opposition.
Below the statutory minimum; Carpen-
taria 6588, Charters Towers 6929, Gregory
6936, Barcoo 7136, Warrego 7297, Gympie
8115, Isis 8270, Maranoa 8485, Normanby
8485, Tableland 8601, Cook 8996. Ten
of the eleven are “Labor.”
Mr. Wanstall (Q.P.P.) came in with a
demand for an inquiry into voting
“irregularities” in Ithaca, Baroona,
Kennedy and Kurilpa and an offer of
names. The inquiry was refused, the
reply to the Nicklin indictment being that
it had been found impossible to alter the
cockeyed electorates “because of the war.”
Mr. Beazley (“Labor,” Fremantle) was
as positive as Mr. Conelan, though as
“father of a self-appointed Brains Trust”
(Mr. Menzies) he expressed himself less
clumsily, that the Cains were innocent
victims of “a rotten electoral system.”
Mr. Beazley became a pledge-and-Caucus
candidate when Westralian “Labor” had
profited by “a rotten electoral system”
for years and years and years. And
Westralian “Labor” did not choose to
alter it. Instead, it went to the March
Assembly election with the cards so
stacked in its favor that 15 members for
“Labor” pocket boroughs were returned
unopposed. The enrolment for four
northern seats, one of them the property
of “Labor” Premier Wise, totalled 3093,
and an average of 2000 in eastern gold-
fields electorates assured the party of
another six seats. By contrast nearly
18,000 actual votes elected two city
Liberals, Mr. Keenan in Nedlands and
Mr. Yates in Canning. Retention of 11
seats, in addition to the 15 uncontested,
would have enabled “Labor” to prolong
its 14 years’ lease of office. And yet it
went down.
In his adversity Mr. Cain must have a
warm feeling for the fellow who said
“Save me from my friends”!
New "Labor" Doctrine.
Mr. Chifiey’s speech closing the second-
reading debate on the Bank Grab Bill
raises questions of the gravest import-
ance for a people which still supposes
itself to be a self-governing democracy.
He had intimated earlier in the day that
the Victorian election results would not
influence him either to submit the legisla-
tion to a referendum or to postpone it
until the judgment of a general election.
He ignored completely the duty placed
upon him not simply to defend the bill
itself but his obstinate refusal to recog-
nise the depth and range of the public
outcry against it.
The Prime Minister does more than re-
fuse the electors a voice. He is so in-
different about their views that he will
persist in his course even though he
realises that it may bring his party to
disaster in the constituencies. His atti-
tude is that even if this measure results
in the fall of his party, at least he will
have the satisfaction of having done an
irreparable thing. Though the heavens
fall, the minority will have had its way.
Australians may herein observe how far
political “Labor” has travelled towards
Communist doctrine. That trade-union
administration has become degraded
under the iron-fisted rule of a minority has
long been evident. The thing has now
gripped political “Labor” as well.
Opinion on Mr. Chifley’s speech may
vary as to whether his pose is that of a
second Messiah or that of a dictator: a
little Stalin or a Perdn. One thing certain
is that it is not that of the leader of a
democratic party. With sobs in his voice
he composed a tirade against the “croco-
dile tears” of everybody except the
“Labor” party during depression.
There was a moment when he seemed
about to weep while proffering a theory
that the “Labor” party is the only organ-
ism that responds to any humanitarian
sentiment.
Mr. Chifley made it clear not
only that he will not hold a referendum
on the Bank Grab Bill —although he
foreshadows one on control of prices and
rent —but that he does not care what
verdict the people may give on the mat-
ter. “Political success is not everything
to us,” he said ; “we have suffered many
political vicissitudes.” Several Caucus
members during the debate—especially
some who do not expect to retain their
seats next time, anyway—followed the
same line of sentiment: “We may go
down to defeat as a result of this, but it
will be after we have laid the banks out.”
This is not Parliamentary government.
This is, like the strikes under Communist
direction, a form of domestic war. There
is malice in it, despite Mr. Chifley’s de-
claration that there is nothing of the
sort. It is malice when a man in tem-
porary possession of a power of attorney
sets out to commit an act which he knows
his authorisation does not cover —an act,
moreover, of which he has such good
notice that the grantors of the power do
not approve that he will not even refer
to them for permission, and an act doing
an injury where restitution is impossible.
Indeed, that the destruction of the trad-
ing banks is irrevocable is the prime
motive in the “Labor” drive behind the
bill. This aspect of the matter aggra-
vates Mr. Chifley’s defiance of the cur-
rent protests in the electorates. It is a
flagrant abuse of Parliamentary tradi-
tion and of Ministerial trust; something
which this democracy dare not tolerate
if it is to survive as anything but a
slave community.
There have been many pointers to
this tendency in the “Labor” party, and
the unrest stirring the Australian people
in every State can be traced to a whole
series of suspicions and grievances under
the perpetuation of a war-time enthroned
bureaucracy. The vote in Victoria re-
flected them. The disgruntled “Labor”
crowd in power at Canberra denounces
the successful Victorian campaign against
socialisation as “propaganda,” the
demonstration of public opinion there as
“distorted,” the state of the voters’ mind
as “confused” and “misled.”
The truth is that never was an electo-
rate more eager to express itself or so
convinced of what it did not want. It'
had had enough of the mountebankeries
of a political party masquerading as the
upholders of democracy ; of a “Labor”
party that has thrown overboard in
Canberra and everywhere else all pretence
of serving any interests but those of a
section ; of a “Government” whose arro-
gance in despising the electors’ voice is
equalled only by its cowardice in the
face of every union which chooses to
make a joke of Ministerial authority.
The Victorian electors, no less fed up
than Australian electors everywhere, had
had enough of everlasting boards and
regulations, the agencies by which Gov-
ernment control of everything imported,
exported, manufactured or farm-pro-
duced, sugar-coated with the assurance
of “temporary extension” during “a tran-
sition period” (transition to what?), ■ is
running industrial and commercial enter-
prise to a standstill.-
They have seen farmers’ wheat taken
over by these cranks and blunderers and
sold for years ahead to New Zealand at
ss. 9d. when the export parity was 16s. —
it is now a pound. They have seen
strike after strike of unions, most of them
ostensibly controlled by the A.C.T.U
under the presidency of one of the Cain
“Labor” Ministers, holding up Victorian
transport and services—strikes at the coal-
mines, strikes on the wharves, strikes by
“key” unions. Strikes have been the one
element in our lives that these “con-
trollers” cannot control. Deaf as are
“Labor” Ministers to the voice of the
“sovereign people,” whenever the mili-
tant unions give tongue they hasten to
comply.
The climax was the Bank Grab Bill.
Public anger seized upon that because of
its own direct menace to free enterprise
and because it is the clear forerunner of
a general programme of industrial
socialisation." Even the Prime Minister
himself now abandons the defence that
there was anything like a mandate for
socialisation at the 1946 election. Were
the Bank Grab Bill even as innocuous as
Mr. Chifley pretends, the outrage of his
forcing on the people a national policy
which he refuses to submit for their
approval because he knows they would
not approve it is unforgivable in a
British democracy. What Victoria said
10 days ago all Australia would say to-
morrow if a vote were taken.
Mr. Chifley is wrecking the “Labor”
party. He pronounced his own and his
party’s doom when he pleaded, at the
introduction of this Bank Grab Bill, that
there had been no need to tell the Aus-
tralian people at last year’s elections that
“Labor” would proceed to, socialise banks
because that had been for a generation
at the head of the party’s platform. That
sort of chicanery is all right for dictators,
who hold that the popular vote does not
matter anyway; but it has not yet gone
down in this country. What the Chifley
Ministry thinks of the popular vote is
plain enough. Its efforts in 1944 and
again in 1946 to carry referendum appeals
for transfer to the Commonwealth of the
States’ powers over industry were de-
feated, as the same move had been de-
feated several times before. Mr. Chifley
now proposes to sidestep that vote and
gain his ends by socialising the trading
banks. With a complete Commonwealth
banking monopoly he would have full
power over “industry, production and
distribution” as well as “exchange.”
Whose Australia is it, anyway? Where
did Mr. Chifley derive any right to stop
the Work of free enterprise in the name
of “controlling” it? How does a con-
stitutional power to “control” anything
get construed as a right to abolish that
thing? Actually such power as the
Federal Parliament possesses is to make
laws “for peace, order and good govern-
ment” with respect to that subject or any
other in the permitted list. What the
Prime Minister is now setting about is
legislation for division, disorder, anarchy ;
and —to repeat—his offence, over and
above the obnoxious bill itself, is his per-
sistence with it in defiance of popular
protests.
This man has no mandate. He won’t
seek a mandate because he knows he
would not get it. Nevertheless, he
means to go ahead in complete contempt
of any need for a mandate. That is the
rupture of the democratic way of life
with which this “Labor.” leader has con-
fronted the Australian people. They will
minimise or ignore the issue only at their
peril.
"Labor" and the P.-O.-W.
A week after one of his Parliamentary
followers, the wretched Mulcahy from
Lang (N.S.W.), had accused the member
for the Northern Territory of having
shown his gold pass to the Japanese to
secure special treatment as a p.-0.-w., Mr.
Chifley admitted that he had “made some
examination of the matter referred to,”
had “discussed it with one or two parties”
and had a “strong dislike for exchanges
which sometimes take place in the House.”
Mr. Chifley’s “dislike for exchanges” is
based not on any rooted objection to such
proceedings so much as on their effects
when they recoil. As a member of the
War Council he must have known what
Mr. Plain’s record was, but he showed no
disposition to interfere or to clear Mr.
Mulcahy’s victim until it had become
plain that the Mulcahy mullock, follow-
ing, as it did, the Barry attack on another
p.-0.-w., Colonel Kent Hughes, had had
and would continue to have repercussions
detrimental to Our Party.
Mr. Chifley showed no disapproval
when a liar as base as the slanderer of
Sergeant Blain falsely accused an oppo-
nent of the Communist party, whose only
son had recently been killed on the
Kokoda Trail, of being a partner m a
house of assignation, which had no» exist-
ence at the address given. Indeed, when
an indignant electorate expelled the fel-
low, Mr. Chifley’s Government created a
special C.S.I.R. job for him—regardless
of returned-soldier preference and the
fact that the ruffian had no qualification
whatever for the office, unless it was an
abiding love for the Soviet Union.
Any decent party would have recoiled
from the Mulcahy, attack on Mr. Blain,
expressed its disapproval publicly and
compelled the offender to make a grovel-
ling apology or be drummed out of
public life. But as Mr. Blain himself
remarked, some of Mulcahy’s colleagues
“appeared to regard the matter as a joke.”
It will be of no consequence whether
Mr. Chifley and the Speaker give Mr.
Blain an opportunity to clear himself of a
foul and baseless charge of which the
Government, and particularly the miser-
able Army Minister, who foully attacked
the New Guinea settlers, could have
absolved him at any moment. The Blain
incident is only one manifestation, one
of many, of the “Labor” attitude to re-
turned servicemen.
The men who fought the Japanese arid
who starved as p.-0.-w. in tropical jungles,
doing coolie work for a savage enemy
that sometimes beat and tortured them
to death, were denied by “Labor,” alike
survivors and the dependants of the dead,
the miserable sustenance allowance of
3s a day for which their organisations
put in a diffident claim, Mr. Chambers


referred to them as “these men these
men for whom much has already been
done.”
Mr. Chambers went so far as to assert
that it was a crime to surrender:
Army regulations lay down that to be
made prisoner-of-war is a court-martial
offence. I am not reflecting on any rnen
who surrendered at Singapore or on the
Malay Peninsula before the capitulation.
The plain fact is that military authorities
say being taken prisoner is a court-martial
offence.
Yet the Minister who made this abom-
inable and untruthful interpretation saw
no crime in desertion. While war widows
had pensions trimmed to the bone, and
while gift tax was imposed on parents
who gave their sons a start in life on their
return from the war, men who went a.w.l.
for long periods, loathly characters most
of them, anathema in all decent society
where bravery, sacrifice and mateship are
still virtues, were invited to come in and
collect deferred pay, and no questions
asked. Deferred pay could not be paid
to the dependants of those who died while
the white-livered fellows whom Mr.
Chambers pardoned without even a mild
reproof, and rewarded with a large money
donation, were concealing their yellow
hides.
No apology, explanation or evasion can
atone for the Government’s attitude to
returned soldiers, and particularly to
p.-0.-w., any more than there can be any
acceptable explanation of its preference
for Communists and shirkers.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Bent on Trouble.
In preparation for the Foreign Minis-
ters’ meeting in London on the post-
poned question of the peace settlement
for Germany, the deputies of the four
Ministers began work on November 7.
The representatives of the three Western
democracies, it is declared, will go to the
conference ready to proceed with their
own course of action in common if
Russia again refuses to co-operate.
That Russia will so refuse seems to be
foreshadowed by the Communist riots
and strikes in France, and the “full-scale
battles” conducted by the same violent
minority in Italy. In both countries the
Communists, directly linked with Moscow
through the Cominform, are deliberately
staging revolt. The purpose intended for
the arms and grenades found by French
police and troops in a Russian repatria-
tion camp outside Paris is indicated by
the attacks of armed Communist bands in
many Italian cities, organised “as a de-
monstration that the Government cannot
save the country from civil war.”
Civil war is Moscow’s answer to the
failure of its foreign minions in the West
“by constitutional means,” and to the
determination of Western European
nations to accept the American plan for
restoring their economy. Vyshinsky’s
fulminations against American, British
and French leaders in this combined effort
now take on a more menacing appear-
ance. During the week in which the
French and Italian Communists moved
toward civil war, Vyshinsky denounced
the mild and magnanimous man in the
White House a? a warmonger.
Revelation by Radio.
Until recently Canberra was a remote
place, occasionally visited by tourists.
Confiding Australians thought of it as a
spot where the “heads” of the Common-
wealth public service and the “statesmen”
gave sober thought and discussion to the
business of the nation.
Then began the broadcasting of Par-
liamentary debates. It might not have
been so suddenly and shockingly reveal-
ing had not the bank grab stirred the
nation. Not many listened to the early
broadcasts. They came over the A.B.C.
system and a very large proportion of
the people preferred commercial-radio
programmes. The few who did tune-in
to Parliament, as to something rich and
strange, quickly tired of it, since the
average person isn’t greatly interested in
everyday politics. When the novelty
wore off only the politically interested
bothered to tune-in.'
But the bank grab set almost every
adult Australian ear listening to the
debates. To the astonishment of most of
them they found themselves listening to
an astounding mixture of bad English,
shouted abuse, balderdash at which they
had laughed on the Yarra Bank or in
Sydney Domain and explosions of vitu-
peration and nonsense. They heard
legislators using the language of the bar-
room. Heard coarse gibes, flouts and
sneers. Heard a veteran of two wars, a
captive for three years in the second,
assailed at the point of his honor as a
soldier by a “deep thinker,” a “Labor”
publican. Heard the High Court Bench
accused of senility and political bias by
an exponent of mob hate who happens
to be the Speaker.
It has been a tremendous revelation,
especially to those who were deluded into
thinking that their future was safe in the
hands of these people. The radio has
been condemned for many things, but in
this at least it has served the nation well.
Nothing the press could say % nothing the
crowd at Canberra could do, would be
more likely to bring Australia to its senses
than the broadcasting of its Parliament.
Storms over the Speck.
Hobart “Mercury’s” Saturday
“columnist” had it recently that “the
three Tasmanian political medicoes con-
tinue to be the problem children of Tas-
manian politics”:
Dr. Gaba is not happy in Canberra, and
if he could return to State politics he would
lose no time.
Former Deputy-leader of the Opposition
Dr. Tom Atkins appears unhappy at the
present set-up of the Opposition, and there
are reports that he will retire.
Dr. Turnbull is not content with his role
as a [“Labor”] back-bencher. He wants
to be doing things, and if he sees that he
has to pay for his sins of outspokenness
he may do things that would be unpleasant.
There followed a confusion of events
and the appearance of at least another
problem child. Perhaps with his mind
on Guy Fawkes’ Day, Premier Cosgrove
PASSING IT ON.
“The Mulcahy attack on Blain, M.H.R., is regarded by the Eighth Division as an attack
on all prisoners-of-war.”
“Take over from Japanese Army, Honorable Mulcahy, and put in
honorable boot!”
discovered a bankers’ plot to blow up the
homes of Dr. Gaha and Senator Me-
Kenna (Mr. Chifley’s understudy) “when
the banking legislation was passed.”
Then Mines Minister McDonald died,
and for his seat in the Upper House
(Gordon) the party nominated the Hon.
Thomas George de Largie D’Alton, some-
time Minister of Forests and Common-
wealth representative at Wellington
(N.Z.). As a result of the Kirby report
on forestry administration the Hon.
Thomas was charged with having cor-
ruptly received a gift of timber. The
parties satisfied the jury that payment had
been made in the public street, out of
“a dogracing bank” kept in the Minister’s
office, D’Alton said.
The Ministerial vacancy went to a
Caucus election and Dr. Turnbull was
defeated by Mr Bramich (Darwm) : That
same day the doctor expressed his dis-
pleasure at backdoor Government
methods of bringing about the nationalisa-
tion of road transport.” The Legis-
lative Council had been at those
“methods” with horse, foot and artillery,
ending with a refusal to vote £367,200
for capital expenditure on “Government
transport undertakings.” It had pre-
viously transmitted to the Assembly a
“recommendation” that the bank-expro-
priation business should be “deferred”
until endorsed at a referendum. In the
Assembly the recommendation was de-
feated by 11 votes to 10.
While thfc transport discussions were
proceeding Opposition-leader Neil Camp-
bell read to the Assembly a grave accusa-
tion against the Premier, made by “a
road operator,” in these terms: —
During the past three to four years I,
together with three other operators of road
SfS r ,5 r rftS ST oTAMhSI
total of £5400. These sums were paid in
cash by me to Mr. Cosgrove in person.
S’Mrb“causfWe fear
we had of being put of! the roads. We
were assured by Mr. Cosgrove on many
occasions that we would not be put of! the
roads, and that we could go ahead and
purchase new vehicles.
Mr. Campbell concluded by asking that
the charge be referred to a Royal Com-
mission. To this the Premier straightway
agreed, saying “No funds have been paid
to me and no protection given to these
Organisations or promises of protection.
I will welcome an inquiry into my finan-
cial standing and my control of my duties
as Premier.”
* It is quite popular now for anyone,
whether an interested party or not, to make
allegations. An inquiry will give this gentle-
man a chance to substantiate his allegations
or to have them proved wrong. Then, I
hope, some action can be taken to prevent
this gentleman and others like him making
such statements.
The Commission has been offered to
and accepted by Justice Reed, of the
South Australian Supreme Court, and
proceedings will begin at Hobart on
Dec. 2.
Queensland Coal.
The unique spectacle of a “Labor”
Premier standing firm —momentarily, at
least —against the united threats of a
“Labor” Prime Minister, of Communists
and their union ser|s continues to absorb
the attention of all Queensland. Mr. Han-
lon won’t have a Joint Coal Board running
his State’s coalmines unless Queensland
has majority representation on it. Mr.
Chifley and the Communists won’t agree
to that. So Mr. Hanlon has announced
that he will set up a Coal Bohrd of his
own and Canberra and the Corns —they
run the N.S.W. coalfields —can go hang.
Needless to say, every Communist boss
is yelling his head off about it and the
Communist-run Miners’ Federation has
ordered a strike in Queensland on
“grounds” thus stated by its Queensland
agent:
The strike is being undertaken because
development of the Blair Athol and Callide
Valley coalfields by British companies would
deprive many underground miners of their
livelihood A Joint Coal Board would
give security to them.
Balderdash, of course, since opencut
mining on the vast fields would call for
thousands of men. What this Communist
and his comrades are scared of is the
A.W.U., which won’t have Communists
at any price. A.W.U. men would work
the opencut mines, as they do at Leigh
Creek in Playford’s State. Communists
tried to horn in on Leigh Creek, but
Playford brushed them aside.
Williams and Millar and the rest of
them know full well that Queensland has
enough easily-got coal to supply all Aus-
tralian needs if the occasion arises and
thus to break the power the Communists
hold through their control of the N.S.W.
coalies. Premier Hanlon has the back-
ing of all Queensland in this, and all
Queensland now awaits his response to
the strike threat.
Fighting Against Time.
Perhaps aware at long last that all over
the world the tide is turning against
Socialism, whether of the red, dusty-pink
or white-livered variety, “Labor” every-
where seems to be in a panic-stricken
hurry to rush through its crazy pro-
gramme before the avalanche comes.
In Britain the Attlees are seeking to
lop the power of the House of Lords lest
that Chamber should save for sanity
some of the industries threatened with
expropriation. In Canberra Federal
“Labor,” in its eagerness to rush ahead
with its Bank Grab, is using gag and
guillotine, permitting senior members
to malign the integrity of High Court
Judges, refusing alike amendments and
appeals to commonsense and behaving in
every way as if it believes, like Mac-
beth, that if an evil deed is to be done
“’t were well if were done quickly.”
The same impression of young-and-
old-men-in-a-hurry is given by the
temporary masters of the Macquarie-
street echoing gallery, where the McGirr
Government is striving to rush into being
its contribution to the pattern of Social-
ism-in-our-time, the unwanted and un-
asked-for measure which is to wipe
out 50 local-government bodies in the
County of Cumberland. In their case
the hurry is so marked as to be almost a
stampede. Local-government elections
are due on December 6, and the Bill
that slaughters more than three-
quarters of the municipalities provides
for a postponement of the polling until
next March, when it will be conducted
on a compulsory, universal-suffrage basis,
“Labor” claiming that if people won’t
take an interest in municipal affairs
voluntarily they must be forced to do so.
By use of the gag, which the McGirr
Government had boasted it had never
employed, the Bill got through the
Assembly on time, though in an effort
to appease some of its opponents
“Labor” increased the number of muni-
cipalities from eight to 14 and then to
16. It is now before the Legislative
Council, In that Chamber the McGirrs
have sometimes been able to command
a majority, at other times not. The
“good-as-‘Labor’ ” Parry, of Sydney land-
sales notoriety, is away touring in
foreign parts with dollars—yes, dollars
—at his disposal as well as pass-
ports, and with him has disappeared
“Labor’s” majority. The Leader of
the Opposition in the Council has
moved that the measure be referred to a
select committee. If this motion is
carried there will be no hope of the Bill
becoming law before December 6.
At the week-end there was talk of
further increasing the number of re-
prieved municipalities in the hope of
winning over a wavering vote or so in
the Council. It wasn’t a very hopeful
hope and a queer sound was echoing
around the Talkingshop like a ghost of
an old-time villain of melodrama mur-
muring “Foiled! Foiled!”
Harvest Theme.
All attempts by city newspapers to de-
stroy the big Australian wheat crop have
failed and the harvest is on. The press
first of all hurled waves of grasshoppers
at it. The ’hoppers darkened the skies, bit-
ing at everything but the green reporters
that went in search of them. Then came
rain. Except in very early districts it was
just what was needed to help the crops fill
out, but the papers had it knocking the
wheat down or washing it out or drowning
it or something. And then they discovered
rust —“Rust Threatens Wheat” ; “Big
Rust Losses Feared.” Somehow the wheat
survived, though the papers proceeded to
knock it down with wind and menace it
with fire.
The real danger is not to the standing
crops but to the harvested grain, and it
comes, not from nature, but from smug
and blundering officialdom. For, though
the Commonwealth Government “con-
trols” wheat and the transport and storage
of the crop depend upon Government
chaps, they’ve fallen down on the job.
There is great talk about bags being avail-
able in February ; yes, February ! And
a Mr. Perrett of the Wheat Board has
been cheerily telling the growers to shovel
the grain into heaps in the paddocks and
mount shotgun guards on it to keep
off sparrows, mice, shoveller ducks, emus,
centipedes and meat-ants. These Govern-
ment birds had better keep clear of the
shotguns!
These things, coming on top of the
official blundering on the transport and
storage of wheat, have brought from urban
people all sorts of suggestions, a few
sensible, many fantastic because of igno-
rance of country conditions, but all dis-
playing an earnest sympathy with the
hungry people abroad and a desire to
help. About all officialdom seems cap-
able of are vague promises, irritable
answers to criticism and silly statements.
Meantime the farmers, short of machines
and parts for them, unable to pass the
buck or call for reports, are doing their
best. It’ll be no fault of theirs if anybody
goes short of a loaf because the grain
to make it was wasted,


mm ■
m
m
mm
"% .
A
m
CRAVEN'A
wnnv lan n
You’ll appreciate their
?--r
, V'- ‘
Obiainalita In 10% As 20*$
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
When Chifley became Treasurer in
October, 1941, he had “Labor” Premiers
from N.S.W., Queensland, Westralia and
Tasmania to sit with him at the Loan
Council, and two years ago there arrived
another from Victoria—five to one. This
year’s elections have brought changes so
radical that it is now three to three. It
will be two to four if the “Labor” situa-
tion in the Speck goes from bad to worse.
Rosevear stepped down from the Chair
last week to accuse the High Court Jus-
tices of being doddering and biased and
Opposition members of being in the pay
of the banks. Ward followed with a
general endorsement of the Rosevear in-
dictment and with the threat that the
Communists would be free to coerce the
nation if it resisted the pretensions of
“Labor.” Chifley came in with a “You
can’t take it” jibe. These worthies mis-
take the pith and temper of the Aus-
tralian people if they think that the Aus-
tralian people can be scared into a
cowardly abandonment of the liberties
won for them by their British ancestors
and guaranteed in the Commonwealth
Constitution, out of which liberties and
which instrument of government came
the A.1.F., the R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F.
Canberra’s friend D’Alton, of the
chequered career, is in circulation again
as a “Labor” candidate in Tasmania, this
time for. the Leg. Council district of
Gordon. Gordon was easy for the late
Minister McDonald. It won’t be easy
for D’Alton, who has two opponents.
Chifley’s “love of humanity,” with
which he, made such melodramatic play
in his Bank Grab Bill speech, is, like
beauty, only skin-deep. Admittedly, his
Immigration Minister loves European
Jews, but for 14 Malayan seamen—
British subjects, resident in Australia
while doing war jobs, married to Aus-
tralian wives, and fathers of Australian
children —for these and their Australian
families “Labor” knows no humanity
whatever. They are* to be deported, and
their wives must either be separated per-
manently from them—on the latest Rus-
sian model —or condemned to live in
Malaya under conditions abhorrent to
any white woman. Calvell has certainly
debunked Chifley’s “light on the hill”
stuff.
For arrogating to themselves power
such as an elected person named Chifley
claims, the English people beheaded one
King chased another out of the
country. Possessed of servile majorities
in both Houses Chifley is asserting
“divine right” in a new form. But he
has still to reckon with the Governments
of at least three States, with the resources
of an outraged people and with the
Courts.
According to a London correspondent
(Adelaide “Advertiser”) the cookery ex-
perts of Mr. Strachey’s Food Ministry
give this advice for the British Christ-
mas pudding:
Grated raw carrot and potatoes must
replace the missing eggs. But the potato
in the pudding is deprecated in view of the
difficult potato situation and it is not
essential to use it. However, carrots have
always been good for plum puddings
To give the right color, suggestive of rich-
ness, austerity cake ingredients should be
mixed with cold tea instead of milk.
In other times this would have been
regarded as the work of some humorous
writer, but it is all deadly serious now.
When Chifley sent no reply to a letter
from the trading banks requesting an
assurance that they would not be deprived
of due notice, to be issued under the
Bank Grab Bill, of the Government’s
procedure to acquire shares, the banks
regarded their suspicion as well founded
and issued a writ out of the High Court
by way of restraining him from such
conduct. The suspicion was that Chifley
would have the bill rushed through the
Senate, sent to\ receive McKell’s assent in
the dead of night, and, with Government
Gazettes (containing notices) all ready
waiting for the signal, have the fell deed
done before anyone else could be aware
of it. For a Government which pro-
fesses that right is on its side in this
legislation, it shows a remarkable dislike
of the daylight.
One of the surprise results in Victoria
was the defeat of young Drakeford in
Essendon, upsetting a 1945 majority of
just on 6000 in a poll of 22,000. Drake-
ford is a son of the Hot-air Minister at
Canberra who is threatening all sorts of
things to Ansett Airways because it
objects to raising fares 20 p.c.; and Essen-
don is part of pa’s electorate. Though
opposition to the bank-expropriation
business was the main cause of the son’s
discomfiture, feeling aroused by the
family propensity for tripping had some-
thing to do with it and it is not likely
to disappear before pa has himself to
face the music.
Melbourne “Age” gave Chifley unde-
served credit for declining Mrs. Jessie
Street’s offer to go abroad again—to
Geneva this time—as a privileged tripper.
Actually he was mindful of the un-
pleasant consequences of the jaunts to
Geneva, and also of the storm certain to
beat up if another Russia-is-always-Right
person were added to that noxious crea-
ture Lewis as “a representative of Aus-
tralia.” Anyway, the P.M. may fairly
hold that he has satisfied Mrs. Street’s
claims on the party—which, to him,
always means the nation. She was only a
twice-defeated “Labor” candidate, wasn’t
she?
An “Age” correspondent placed it on
record that “Premier Playford began his
tenth year of office by helping the Vic-
torian Liberal party to wind up its elec-
tion campaign.” The aid was given at
Hamilton, and it was effective. Over the
previous 30 years Hamilton had nearly
always given Attorney-General Slater a
commanding lead in Dundas. On Nov.
8 it was almost level pegging, and the
Casterton, Coleraine and Natimuk boxes
wrote finis to the political career of the
man who was Minister to Moscow.
At a welcome-home function in the
Bankstown Town Hall, attended, accord-
ing to a “Daily Telegraph” reporter, by
31 men and nine women. Senator Amour
told of his travels, skating lightly over
the San Francisco chapter. His mention
of television in Britain and America led
his Worship the Mayor to remark that it
was a pity the San Francisco incident had
not been televised, as “then we all could
have seen what happened.” If a film
had been made of it the Senator could
have found out what actually happened,
too.
“The Government is the only banker,
and hence controls agriculture, industry
and commerce ; every aspect of produc-
tion and distribution. It nationalised com-
munications and is to nationalise the
medical profession. It purchases agricul-
tural products in bulk for re-sale at Gov-
ernment-established prices.” - And its
Minister for the Interior has issued a
warning to newspapers that foment dis-
cord, already subject to “restriction of
paper allotments” —“these newspapers
will inevitably force Government action
if they continue to deceive the people.” A
short history and preview of “Labor” pro-
ceedings at Canberra for end-of-the-year
publication? No ; a study of the Peron
regime in Argentina from the “American
Mercury.” Whatever these dictatorial
regimes call themselves. Communist,
Fascist or “Labor,” they think and act
alike.
For “love of humanity.” That, in his
own words, is Chifley’s reason for going
on with bank expropriation. Mrs.
Vasey, gallantly leading her sister war-
widows in heartbreaking efforts to drag
a few more shillings a week from the
Treasury so that the widows might feed
and clothe themselves and their children,
could find another word for it.
The foul Mulcahy attack on Blain re-
calls that Chifley himself has not
completely clean hands in the matter
of prisoners-of-war. In discussing
their case last March, he volunteered
the observation that “some p.-0.-w.
suffered great hardship, but in other
cases for instance, camps in the
Austrian Tyrol—the treatment was good.”
It is, of course, possible that Chifley
was confusing the Austrian Tyrol with
the Australian suburbs in which hulking
Communists threw their weight about
during the wars; but if he really meant
the Austrian Tyrol it showed how little
he understood the anguish of capture,
the brutal questioning, the humiliation of
parade in bondage, before jeering crowds,
the taunts of a hated enemy and all the
other incidentals to capture suffered by
men who have had to do under orders
what any man with an ounce of pride or
spirit sheds tears on doing—put up his
hands.
Guinea Airways have ceased to oper-
ate the Adelaide-Darwin service they
pioneered, it having been “taken over”
by the Commonwealth Government show
about whose losses and costs no infor-
mation can be obtained. Guinea Air-
ways chairman said an “amicable
arrangement” had been reached and
mentioned £20,000 as the amount of
compensation. “Amicable” or not, the
Guinea Airways service, perforce aban-
doned, is another loss in the crooked
game in which Socialism loads the dice
against Free Enterprise.
Recovering their breath after the rout
in Victoria, Pollard and Johnson got
off something about progress being impos-
sible withput sacrifices. A sentiment
worthy of Pecksniff, since the sacrifices
were made not by the Pollard-Johnson
crowd but by the Cains, and particularly
by Field, McKenzie and Slater. A day
or two later the Chifleys were busy blam-
ing the Cains for the wreck, alleging that
Cain had “discouraged” Federal “Labor”
participation in the election campaign.
No word of sympathy for Cain came
from Chifley or any of his cohorts.
It has come out that houses in Queens-
land seaside resorts are under “control” by
the Public Curator, who collects 5 p.c. of
the rent. The Real Estate Institute asserts
that granting of building permits was
made conditional on payment of the 5 p.c.,
whether the owner employed an agent or
not. The Public Curator’s version is that
“control” is designed to stop seaside
houses being used as week-enders while
other people are without permanent
homes, and that the 5 p.c. is charged “for
periodic inspections” of tenancy and rent
agreements. Five pound four a year on a
£2-a-week house for that.
Called on again to defend the indefen-
sible, that deal in N.Z. wheat, Pollard
passionately declared “with absolute
certainty” that “not one wheatgrower has
suffered any loss through the N.Z. agree-
ment.” Wheatgrowers are taxpayers.
Pollard’s crowd sold 18,000,000 bushels
to its N.Z. friends at ss. 9d., deliveries
to be spread over five years. The export
price of wheat is now round £1 a bushel,
and for this year alone the Australian
taxpayers will have to cough up at least
£3,000,000 so that N.Z. “Labor” may
give New Zealanders a cheap loaf.
A picturesque story going the rounds
concerns a Very Important Australian
who visited Japan. While he was there
one of his admirers cabled to the “Satur-
day Evening Post” suggesting that it ask
him for an article on the world situation.
The reply was “He shoots his mouth out
too much. Not interested.”
Dalton’s resignation as Chancellor of
the Exchequer was received without re-
gret in many quarters. The country has
not forgiven him for his miscalculation
over the operation of the American loan
machinery or for his failure to produce
months ago a clear plan for (as Chifley
would say) “gearing the country” to
meet the emergency. The cause of his
resignation—revelation in advance of
Budget taxation proposals —recalls the
similar indiscretion and fate of Jimmy
Thomas in 1936. Jimmy went down and
never got up.
Conelan, of Griffith (Q.), pulled the
prize boner of the bank-grab debate.
After quoting some unbelievably inac-
curate Victorian - election figures he
blithered that bank nationalisation had
first been suggested in the Commons
1732 years ago. With a gale of laughter
sweeping the House, Conelan was saved
from further error by the Speaker’s
“Honorable member’s time has expired.”
In 1946, when Queensland was the
victim of meat-coal-wharf strikes, Gov-
ernment railwaymen were ordered by
their union not to handle “black” goods.
When some of them were fined for it the
punishment proved salutary and there was
no more trouble. But these union bosses
never forget. Because the Hanlons have
so far refused to deprive the Commis-
sioner of his power to fine, there was a
one-day strike in North Queensland -on
September 30 and a State-wide one was
booked for yesterday.
Treatt, leader of the N.S.W. Liberals,
must have astonished many of them when
he came out in support of the McGirr tax
on commercial aircraft —a tax put on,
not to pay for any service which the Mc-
Girr Government gives to flying, but
merely to bolster falling Government rail-
way revenue. Said Treatt:
It would be an extraordinary thing to
deprive the Government of the right to im-
pose appropriate fees in appropriate cir-
cumstances.
If Treatt can see anything “appropriate”
in a State Government taxing a private
business merely because that business
competes with a Government enterprise
which would lose money without the com-
petition, and when the private business is
already up for thumping fees 'to the
Federal authority, he has a very peculiar
notion of Liberalism —too peculiar, in
fact.
An American correspondent, back
from Tokyo, asserts that the Supreme
Commander has been so much exposed
to Dr. Evatt and other people from these
parts that he has acquired “a slight Aus-
tralian accent.” More credible is the
report that MacArthur will go after the
Republican nomination for President
with bells on in March or April. His age
is against him ; he will be 68 then. No
American of those years has ever been
elected President, though Andrew Jack-
son was elected at 62 and re-elected at 66,
remaining in the White House until he
was 70. And Zachary Taylor took office
at 65. Taylor died 15 months afterwards
—of “typhus, aggravated by worry, ex-
posure to the heat and injudicious eating.”
Another from “Yarrasider”:
Comrade Gibson, “president” of the Vic-
torian Communist party, abandoned cloistered
intellectuality for the rough life of a fighter
under the Sickle and Hammer. When I first
saw him on the Yarra Bank a few years before
the war he was a pale young man with a high
voice and a drooping figure. I lost sight of
him during the war, although often in the
calm beauty of the Libyan desert I remembered
thankfully that he was still in Melbourne,
battling doughtily in the liberation-war for
myself and fellow-slaves.
This year at the May Day gathering on the
Yarra Bank I saw him again, and scarcely
recognised him. The warrior’s life had filled out
his frame; years of unceasing denunciation of
the workers’ enemies had given him a thick
neck and a mighty voice; there was command
in his gestures, fire in his eye. Immaculate
in the white shirt and trousers of Eureka Youth,
he promised the assemblage that the Communist
party intended to smash Fascism wherever it
showed its head in Australia; and he defined
Fascism for us. Briefly it was the Liberal
party, and Menzies was its Fiihrer.
I thought of this when I read of Comrade
Gibson’s effort as the Communist candidate
for Port Melbourne, where waterfront workers
abound. In 1945 he polled one-fourth of the
Port’s votes. In 1947 he failed to score one-
seventeenth.
A return to his books and meditations seems
to be the best idea for Comrade Gibson.


MOONSHINE MAN.
“Radar contact with the moon has been achieved in America and Australia.”
“The only echo I could make out was ‘Blast the banks’!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Zake”: The real unsung hero of city
life is the fellow who ventures into a
raging herd of stocking-hungry women in
the line-up for a dribbled issue of fancy-
priced hosiery. The embarrassment is
such that by the time he has insinuated
his way to the counter —he has no hope
of competing with the skilfully-used
elbows of the “gentle” sex —he is in grave
danger of forgetting that which he has
been mentally repeating since he joined
the queue; “Nine and a half inches,
Lotus Blossom.” And if Lotus Blossom
shade is unavailable he crawls dispiritedly
away, mourning a wasted hour. Passing
the stocking counter of a department-
store on a recent day I heard the girl
assistant giggle and say “She takes twenty-
two inches! Gee, what does she wear —
violin-cases?” I stopped idly to finger
a pair of things that wives complain
wrinkle around their ankles and to
witness a fellow-male’s mortification. She
got it out of him at last—he was going
to surprise his wife on her birthday and
he had a vague idea they were sold on an
inch basis and not, as are men’s sox, by
foot-size. He had measured around the
tops! Four counter-girls were clinging
to each other as I left.
* ♦ ‘ ♦ *
“Youanmi”: There are probably by-
laws or regulations which could be
directed against those portable-radio en-
thusiasts who shatter the peace of glade
and glen with their sets (B. 5/11/’47).
Section 9 (iii) of the N. S. Wales Police
Offences Act might also have a bear-
ing on the subject. It states that:
Whosoever in any street or public place
blows any horn (unless he be a guard or
postman in His Majesty’s Post Office in
the performance of his duty) or uses any
other noisy instrument for the purpose of
announcing any show or entertainment, or
for the purpose of hawking, selling, dis-
tributing or collecting any article what-
soever, or of obtaining money or alms
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding
two pounds.
The Act is an old one (1901) and was
thus framed long before the days of radio-
receivers, but surely that “hawking and
selling” could be aimed at the advertising
with which commercial stations clutter
the ether. And I’d certainly like to see
the long-haired'surfer who annoyed half
the beach last Sunday with his portable
tuned-in to a raucous “jive” session fined
two-quid for advertising liver pills and
other things which were strung through
the broadcast.
“R.N.8.”: I heard it at a well-known
Queensland resort. The loudspeaker on
the beach sandwiched advts. for local
business firms in between the crooners
and hot swing. This one rocked me. “I
now wish to tell you about Mr. Plantem’s
comfortable corpse - containers. The
wood is of the highest quality and of
excellent appearance. But let this old
gentleman tell you about it himself.”
Then came a sepulchral voice, apparently
from the grave: “I never felt so comfort-
able in all my life as Ido in this box; I
feel so happy.”
* * * *
“Binnatang”: Some people may be able
to get rid of troublesome files by posting
them off to the police-officer at Nairobi
or the Dalai Lama in Tibet (B.
1 /10/’47), but others are not so for-
tunately placed; they have to suffer the
official foolery. A friend of mine was
Matron-in-Charge of an Army hospital
during the 1914-18 war; one of the first
documents forwarded to her when she
took up the post was a query about £l-
- of stamps which her predecessor
had failed to account for seven years pre-
viously. She returned the file with the
comment that she knew nothing about
it; she kept on doing it for the next
5| years, and her successor found the
same query about those stamps waiting
for her. For all that my friend knows,
that file may be still on the go.
* * * *
“Bo”: There should be some Literary
Consorting Act in operation which would
save fine old English words from being
exposed to contact with near-criminal
elements and consequent degradation.
For instance, here’s the beginning of the
third stanza of Masefield’s epithalamium
to Princess Elizabeth:
To those young lands, the countries of our
kin.
The friends in need, the comrades in
despair...
“Comrades” was once a perfectly respect-
able noun, but since it was adopted by
those whose avowed intention is the sel-
ling-out of their country in the interests
of a barbarous Oriental despotism—well,
who could read the stanza without con-
juring up the feelings of the Commos
everywhere outside the Iron Curtain as
the Red epidemic so manifestly spends
itself?
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: The pigeon-post
to operate from Pelsart Island, in the
Abrolhos, to Perth is nothing new
in , the way of island telegraph
services. Until 12 years ago the
only connecting link with civilisation
“He doesn't seem to like that blood-and-bone mixture!"
from the lighthouse on Maatsuyker—a
1200 ft. rugged mountain-top island stick-
ing out of the drink to the southward of
Tassie—was a homing-loft and a dozen
pigeons. But an SOS written on a scrap
of paper and tied to the leg of a released
bird proved an unreliable and uncertain
message, as the senders never knew
whether the homer had got through. At
Maatsuyker hawks played havoc with
carriers, and heavy gales at times blew
them out to sea. Just 40 years ago six
survivors from the Swedish barque
Alphild, wrecked near Port Davey, made
Maatsuyker after a miraculous voyage
in a prospector’s punt. As the rest of the
crew were still on the wreck starving
and in dire straits, the lightkeepers
panicked and sent off the whole pigeon-
loft for help. The three-monthly service-
steamer Koonakarra arrived unex-
pectedly two days later, a fortnight ahead
of time, but not one of the pigeons got
through to Hobart, less than 100 miles
away.
* * * *
“Findy”: The sergeant who called his
own name and didn’t recognise it (B.
12/11/ ’47) had a twin soul in “Charger,”
one of our signallers who picked up a
’phone in the Command Post and, ignor-
ing all sig. procedure, shouted, “Hullo.
Hullo. Who’s that? Eh? Hullo.
Shake your ’phone! Hullo. Hoozat?
Hoozat? Hoo —Strewth, it’s me.”
* * * *
“T.P.”: Part of my Victorian-election
love-job was to canvass some streets, in-
veigle helpers, and personally word the
boss. The problem was “Who wears the
trousers?” Once a massive, muscle-
bulging mother opened the door. I did
my stuff. “He must be a fine man,” said
she. “I’ll get the boss/’ and went with a
bundle of my literature under her arm for
special distribution. Appeared a wizened,
anemic little chap with cigarette dangling
from his lip, who snapped “No time for
that bunch. We all vote the other way!”
Two doors on a gardening giant advised
me to “see the missus.” A bustling little
dumpling of a wifie asked for a job, took
the discarded bundle, and more, and
chuckled “Count on four votes here.
I’ll see to that!” And I’d lay odds she
did.
* * * *
“Jasby”; I stood in Melbourne’s
Museum not so long ago with my five-
year-old son and “gazed at the stuffed
cadaver of Phar Lap” (B. 12/11/’47). I
gave him a thumbnail biography of the
wonder horse and he was duly impressed.
We then passed on to the excellent ex-
hibits of Australian animals in the sur-
rounding gallery. These fine examples of
taxidermy he treated with perfunctory
respect, but four times dragged me back
to the shrine with the plea, “I want to
see the dead horse again.” The fourth
time he was overheard by a sporty-
looking gent, who was gazing with rever-
ence at the Red Terror. He looked at
my offspring solemnly and said, “Son,
if you never back a deader horse than
Phar Lap you’ll be doing all right.”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”; I want seriously to sug-
gest to the gentleman in charge of
Sydney tramways that he place hostesses
on the trams. During the wait at one
place while trams come from the City
and shunt in ahead of ours, it \yould break
the tedium to have a pretty girl bring a
cup of tea, and again at the, tram depot,
where we wait while the one crew knocks
off and somebody hunts up another, per-
haps a song or a brief description of
the surrounding scenery would soothe the
manifest irritability. Then there is the
long crawl over the last half-mile. Tram
passengers, instead of enviously swearing
at their luckier friends and neighbors
whizzing by in cars, or on foot, could
be diverted by a round of drinks. Mr.
O’Sullivan in his Ministerial car has
probably never had to risk senility
catching up with him on a si-mile
journey in 35 minutes; still, he should
spare a thought for us now and then.
If ever we decide to save the hour a day
we. spend on his trams and have our-
selves driven in by faster means, such as
a horse and sulky, he’ll be out of a job.
Rather than that he could go the whole
hog and hitch a sleeping-car to his trams.
* * * *
“Flip”: On the matter of Blues versus
Greens they were holding an election.
Although sparks flew from every platform,
phrases like “Shut up” or “You’re a mon-
grel” were conspicuously absent, for these
Blues and Greens were schoolboys, still
owned manners, and venerated their
party-leaders for their colossal age of
15 years apiece. Then a Green, thinking
that a manoeuvre which had succeeded in
swaying an adult audience should be a
sitter for his, unearthed a bewhiskered
chestnut; “Will my opponent be good
enough to make it clear just what he
was doing at Bathurst on the night of
the seventeenth?” He sat back and
watched for the symptoms of suspicion
on the faces of the floating vote. Instead,
the accused candidate leaped to his feet:
“Certainly I will explain. I was visiting
my grandmother.” The Green, who had
been prepared for hostile denials and
subsequent confusion, suffered the latter
sensation himself, politically collapsed,
and the Blue won the seat with a land-
slide.
* * * *
“Baldy”: “Short round the back and
sides, please.” “Right,” said the barber.
“You know, I thought you might have
been one of those Cornel Wilde boys.”
I glared at him in the mirror ; I’m tired
of being chipped about my baldness.
He grinned back and began the old story:
“You know, I was so bald myself once
that I’d have made a billiard-ball look
like a rolled-up porcupine. Look at me
now —like a damn’ poet. And do you
know what did it? ‘Magnifico,’ deener a
bottle.” “No, thank you,” I replied.
“All right. I’ll tell you something even
better —our special dry-shampoo-vacuum-
hydroelectric-vibrator with direct cur-
rent.” Again he earned the headshake.
He was quiet now, and I knew that I
had won. He finished his brief clipping,
stung me one-and-nine, and was brushing
me down before he spoke again. “Well,
if you really want to know how I got
my thatch —no? —well, good-bye.” As
I left I doffed my lid in recognition of
the grand fight he’d put up. He answered
by raising his toupee.
# * * *
“Spokeshave”: Probably not one
reader in 10,000 spotted a printer’s
error which crept into Melbourne “Sun-
Pic.” on after-Cup day. The case of a
man who was robbed simultaneously
fore and aft was reported, the fiver he
was waving towards a bookie at Flem-
ington being snatched from him at the
moment that the rest of hisi 80 quid was
being removed from his sternsheets. The
item concluded: “Three doctors playing
on the greens attended him but failed to
revive him.” What looked like a facetious
comment was actually in grim earnest in
its proper context. It had somehow or
other got detached from an item on
another page about a man who had col-
lapsed and died on a bowling green.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: There were some funny
routine orders in the 1914-18 war, too
(B. 29/10/’47). When the Portuguese,
after standing a drenching with gas-shells
for three days, decided to give up a front
which the A.I.F. reckoned it could hold
with one division against all the German
armies, the “Pork and Beans” fell into
very bad odor with the other troops.
Shortly came the order threatening
condign punishment to any soldiers
who referred to, or addressed, “our noble
Allies” in opprobrious terms ; the use of
the term “noble Allies” nine times in as
few short lines made the order sound, in
itself, like a fine bit of sarcasm. In
England another routine order was issued
to save the face of the same noble Allies.
The Pork and Beans were given a special
camp at Grantham to train them to con-
form with British Army drill; Tommies
and Aussies from near-by camps reckoned
watching the turning-out of the Portu-
guese guard was one of the amusements
of the district. The special order an-
nounced that any soldier caught laughing
at, or deriding, the. guard of our “noble
Allies” would be subject to penalties that,
in effect, would make him laugh on the
other side of his face.
♦ $ Jj: %
“C.A.L.”; Guy Fawkes’ Day may be
forgotten in the Eastern States, but West-
ralian mine managers breathed a sigh of
relief when November 5 passed. With
fireworks practically unobtainable, miners
had been taking home to their children
bundles of fuse-lighters as substitutes for
Roman candles, as these burn for a con-
siderable time with a bright blue flame.
So heavy was the unauthorised demand
for them that stocks on the mines were
sadly depleted, and in some instances
petered out altogether. The miners were
then forced to resort to the old method
of lighting their charges—a spit of burn-
ing gelignite stuck on the end of a stick.
* * * *
“Ramac”: Bill and his mate Dave,
knowing that cigarettes were the best
Haisho prison-camp currency, hoarded
all the gaspers acquired through trade,
theft and issue. When starvation days
arrived they were able to cash-in, and
some of the privately-owned rice hoards
diminished for a drag on the precious
but luxurious weed. With the Allies
blockading Hainan the Jap stocks ran
low, and cigarettes became almost unpro-
curable. Market prices rocketed to a
fabulous high ; guards stooped low enough
to roll their own from native weed and
toilet paper. In the Chinese markets Jap
soldiers fought over a few packets of
the cheapest and worst gaspers ever
made coming through on the Black.
Bill and Dave went into action. Throw-
ing caution to the winds and breaking
every rule, they left their work-party one
day and, with a few cartons of the best
brands, squatted in the sand under the
thatched roof of the Hokari market.
Within a stone’s throw of Jap H.Q.,
amidst a bedlam of chooks, Chinese and
children, they offered their goods at ten
yen a packet. Inside a few minutes they
had sold out to the wondering Warrior
Gods of Nippon, who were still wonder-
ing when the Aussies were back at work
hardly believing their luck. They re-
peated the performance at intervals until
by Haisho standards they were million-
aires.
THE FRIENDS OF HUMANITY.
“Mr. Chifley said that the bank-nationalisation
bill had been introduced by the Labor party because
of its love of humanity.” —Canberra item.
From various walks of life they come,
Some comrades rough-as-bags, while some
Would shake their heads at any term
Suggestive of profanity.
But one emotion all must share
(Or else, you see, they wouldn't be there):
Solicitude intense and firm
For suffering humanity.
From Evatt down to Eddie Ward,
On this they’re all in full accord;
For this they’d shrink from ho crusade
Within the bounds of sanity.
From grabbing banks to raising screws
(Their own, that is) just when they choose,
Once they’re assured that it will aid
The uplift of humanity.
Admittedly they don’t disdain
Their little whack of private gain
Or reprobate a pile of pelf
As just a snare and vanity.
Yet not a man of all tbe clan
But aims to do the best he can
Not—Heav’n forbid!—for just himself
But purely for humanity.
They merit censure now and then,
Of course, the same as other men.
The gammon that they never d's
Would be a sheer inanity.
But whatso’er they do or try
Be sure they’re always guided by
An ardent love, a deep and true
Affection for humanity.
n.s.w.
MIDFORD.


“Clooter”: Whatever else it may have
revealed, the final speech of our Prime
Minister on the Second Reading of his
Bank Grab Bill brought forth a dis-
covery that will intrigue schoolteachers,
their pupils and parents, child-psycholo-
gists, vocational-guidance experts and edu-
cationists of all kinds, sizes, creeds and
colors;
I know of one case [declared, the P.M.]
in which a boy whose father was a
laborer, and who passed the Leaving Cer-
tificate twice, was an applicant for a job.
He did not get the job.
The job was in “a bank,” and the great
architect of the Golden Age went on to
say that it went to a lesser-qualified youth
whose dad was a member of a bowling
club or something. Now, any youth with
the hardihood to win a L.C. twice is some-
thing beside which all former infant or
juvenile prodigies fade into insignificance,
and no bank could afford to employ him
without taking the risk that he’d become
g.m. of the show within a year or two.
Wherever he is now and whatever he is
doing, Dr. Evatt should be told about
him and thus given the chance to add
another shining one to the galaxy of
“diplomatic” stars he is supposed to
be creating. But perhaps even the com-
placent Evatt wouldn’t, risk taking on a
youth who won the L.C. twice.
* * * *
“Plop”: Trams were running along
George-street, clanging their bells in exul-
tation at a glorious spring day. I alighted
from one and was making the kerb when
a raucous “Hey, you!” beat the traffic
noises down into the category of
a murmur. The gentleman responsible
was beckoning me, so I waited. He
panted up and bellowed, “Where’s ya
ticket?” Luckily it was still clutched in
my right hand. “All right,” he said. “I
saw you playing with something in your
other hand and thought you hadn’t paid.”
I showed him the threepence change in
my left dook. He snorted, leaped back
on to the tram and set himself down to
look like a normal passenger again. If
I’d obeyed the N.S.W.G.T. instructions
printed on the ticket; “Please destroy on
alighting,” I wouldn’t have had a leg to
stand on.
* * * *
“Reims”: In one test to which
aspirants to the Miss Westralia title were
submitted, a lass was asked to name
some ways in which whales affected her
life. While scent from ambergris-based
perfume wafted gently from a shapely
body that would one day, perhaps, be
encased in whalebone-assisted corsets, she
considered the question. “You don’t
mean wolves?” she asked.
* H* *
“Cauboy”: I sympathise with the
Mayor of Footscray in his campaign to
have the stigma removed from
his suburb (B. 5/11/ ’47), but I can’t see
how he is going to do it. The name has
been surrounded with risible associations
by generations of Australian comedians,
and even visiting funnybones from over-
seas are quickly primed up about it.
Toorak and South Yarra have quite dif-
ferent associations, yet I suppose there
are more slums in those expensive suburbs
than there are in Footscray, which still
has a few open spaces, some fine parks, a
river, which, since councils haven’t yet
started to beautify it, looks less like a
main drain than the Yarra, and one of the
most distinguished views in Australia
—it overlooks the temple of this
country’s most sacred religious cult, the
horse, on which the attention of the entire
nation was recently concentrated. You
can still own your house in Footscray,
whereas for the privilege of having an
address in Toorak you have to pay five
guineas a week for a flat you couldn’t
swing a cat in.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: That rare thing a supply
of fish, apparently fresh and certainly
cheap, was offered by a wandering
barrowman in one of my city’s back
streets, which at peak hours is an artery
carrying the homing
toilers to a tram, train
and bus centre. Near
the barrowman stood a
newsboy doing his best
to sell two evening
papers and several mid-
week journals; finding
the going tough the boy
howled the headlines,
ranging from horse-rac-
ing to Russia’s alleged
possession of atom
bombs. Twas vain.
The passing crowd
didn’t want news or
tips; it wanted fish.
But the fishman had
seriously underestimated
his supply of wrappings,
and your suburbanite,
though capable of pretty
well anything these days,
hasn’t yet accustomed
himself to lugging home
a raw and unwrapped
fish. People stood
round the barrow with
money to buy: the
barrowman stood non-
plussed.' Then the news-
boy raised his voice:
“Heeyar!' Sumpin’ t’
wrap ’em in! Get y’r
‘Orb’ an ‘Looking-
glass’—Wimmen’s Joy,’
‘Sportin’ Dope’! Sumpin’ t’ wrap ’em
in!” In 15 minutes barrow was empty,
news-stand nearly so; and fishmonger
and newsmonger withdrew to wrap them-
selves round a beer or two.
* * * *
“H.H,” (London): British film workers
are less happy than they were about
Dalton’s tax on American films. Their
first reaction was one of pleasant antici-
pation —less of Hollywood, more of Den-
ham, Elstree and Shepherd’s Bush. But
they are now finding that it won’t work
out like that. It seems that most of the
Rank-organisation revenue comes from
profits earned by picture theatres: from
the showing of American as well as
British films, so that, if Hollywood stops
sending films to Britain, there won’t be
enough left to go round. Many cinemas
will have to close down, and there will
be less money, not only for salaries, but
also to meet the high production costs of
new films. This would lead to unemploy-
ment and cheaper and shoddier films.
The industry now clings to the hope that
J. Arthur Rank may still have something
“in the bag” which will save the situation.
* * * *
“Columba”: Down from the country,
I was browsing in a Brisbane second-hand
bookshop, and when the pleasant man
with the proprietorial air approached
“Just this one, Harry; then we'll go and join the ladies !”
I realised guiltily my nearly-finished
cigarette. “Don’t worry, old chap, ’he
said cheerily. “Throw your bumper on
the floor and light up again. I’ve never
known a bookshop to burn. I smoke all
day and my girl here smokes like a
chimney.”
* * * *
“’Any Garto”: How’s this for good
foresight—and bombsights? Hirohito s
hang-out in the centre of Tokyo is sur-
rounded by buildings any city would be
proud to own. The centre of the metro-
polis is spacious, beautiful and unb'ombed.
Outside a two-mile radius it is just
rubble. The Yank commanders, knowing
they were going to occupy the Son of
Heaven’s haven, saved all the buildings
that would be of any use to them. The
German and “Itie” embassies collected a
fair enough packet to pulverise them com-
pletely, while the Diet building over the
road wasn’t marred. But General Mac
“I saw you and that blonde just now. If you don't
give me sixpence I’LL be the teller when you
see Sis tonight!”
must really feel proud when he leaves his
marble Dia Ichi H.Q. and drives home
for the night. Out of the city, ’midst
rubble and ruin for miles around, tower-
ing over the swiftly-springing shanties,
stands the American Embassy untouched,
a monument to perfect marksmanship.
s|« Hv *
“H.A.L.”: Eurelia (B. 29/10/’47) isn’t
the only S.A. town with mispronunciation
troubles; there is Nuriootpa, now
establishing what is beyond doubt the
finest community centre in Australia. On
the post-office stamp, in the telephone-
book, the directory, the railway-station,
road signs, maps and everywhere else, it
is spelled as above, but only strangers
pronounce it thus. Locals, when they
don’t abbreviate it to “Noory,” always
transpose the “t” and “p,” making it
Nurioopta, and half the people who in-
clude it in the address on letterheads
misspell it the same way.
* * * *
“Reims”; German guards marched
some Aussie prisoners down the line to
watch a team of Russians at work and
learn how the job should be done. The
task was packing ballast, and the picks
swung in unison to the call of the guards’
“Ein, Swi, Ein, Swi.” As a eurythmic
exercise it was nice to watch —not a man
out of time. A guard explained the
necessity for the ever} packing of the
ballast, a result achieved only by the
uniform swing; then they returned to
their section and tried to emulate the
Tartars. The guards said their “Ein, Swi,”
in the monotonous sing-song so successful
with the Russians, they bellowed it in the
manner to which their own S.S.-ridden
troops responded, and they screamed it.
Then they explained the operation again.
But those Australians were too dumb.
All along the line there were not two
picks rising or falling together, and a
hoarse guard unanimously characterised
all Australians as “foul arbiters”
(workers). The Russkis, “preema arbi-
ters,” completed the job while the Aussies
were relegated to more harmless tasks.
* * * *
“X. Hop”: Good luck to the cop who
rocked the Bench of local Beaks by his
lenient treatment of a juvenile (B.
B'/10/’47). It’s usually the Beak that
rocks the constabulary! My best re-
corded case of misplaced leniency was a
little darling of 15 summers (male) who
was hauled before a typical specimen of
the amateur judiciary for ( a ) bashing a
seven-year-old girl and taking seven-bob
message-money from her; ( b ) indecent
language, too, and assaulting [to wit, kick-
ing the shins of] a passer-by who tried to
stop him; (c) assault on constable and
damage to uniform, and ( d) damage to
Government property (occasioned whilst
shying a glass inkwell at the sergeant-in-
charge at the station, when charged). The
Beak’s decision was “Charges proved, but
dismissed for triviality.”
* * * *
“T. McN.”; My American mail in-
forms me that a lady bookmaker got
mixed up in one of those incidents that
enliven American society, and an “angry
business associate” drew his “rod” and
let her have it at point-blank range. She
remained erect, somewhat annoyed but
otherwise unhurt, and it was found that
“the bullet penetrated her coat, dress and
slip and dropped harmlessly inside her
brassiere.” Police assumed the cartridge
to have been defective. * Maybe so, but
I can’t help wondering what the cats will
be saying around Long Island and its pur-
lieus, where the thing occurred, since
it is known that American ladies are
not averse to enhancing their physical
contours with aids known to the irreve-
rent as “falsies.” These appurtenances of
Venus, made of rubber and other solid
materials, appear to be quite capable of
stopping a bullet, and, American adver-
tisers being what they are, I expect any
day to come across a magazine advt.
claiming for them, in addition to their
more glamorous purposes, the attribute of
being able to protect the fair wearer
against the artillery of disappointed
swains as well as “angry business associ-
ates.”
* * * *
“Linco”: Tell “Yair” (B. 5/11/’47) to
go to Tewkesbury, on the Severn in
Worcestershire, and he will there see a
large hotel, in my fime the best in the
town, called:
SHIP HOTEL. INN AND TAVERN.
* * * *
“Dong”: When an American Judge
recently learned that he was to hear a
case involving a fortune bequeathed to
an attorney’s dog he did his best to look
serious and called for the defence. The
hound’s lawyer read the will, in which
the deceased claimed that the dog could
talk, that he enjoyed Micky Mouse, had
well-defined tastes in literature and en-
joyed singing duets. The Judge retained
his gravity and called “Bring forward the
claimant.” The hound was brought up,
sniffed at the corner of the dais and
committed contempt of court. He lost
his case.
* * * *
“Bybren”: Fashion reports tell us that
men will soon be carrying handbags.
This will allow pockets to be eliminated
and preserve the “line” of the suit, until
now desecrated by the bulge of tobacco-
pouches. Whether the fashion will be
acceptable to men is debatable, but it
may have been this further attempt at
equality of the sexes that prompted a
radio-announcer on a 40-station hook-up
to appeal: “Ladies and gentlemen, how
would you like to take a long,holiday
from shaving?” •
* * * *
“Boatman’s Mate”: The brig, had de-
cided to visit an outlying detachment
some distance away. No map being avail-
able, we relied on verbal directions which
brought us to a crossroads. There was a
farmhouse on one corner —a woman in
the yard and a small, dejected-looking
calf tethered to the fence. The aide spoke
to the woman. Armed with directions
we set off again, but by three o’clock we
were back at the same crossroads. The
brig, said nothing. He believed in letting
his staff work things out for themselves.
The calf was still there—the woman no-
where to be seen. Following some
troubled consultations conducted out of
earshot of the “old man,” we set off again
and acquired a fresh set of directions
from an old chap riding behind a mob of
sheep. We followed the directions im-
plicitly, but our hope of reaching our
objective grew fainter as the afternoon
wore on. About five o’clock the sur-
roundings began to have a certain famili-
arity, and soon the car rolled to a stop at
the same old crossroads. The calf was still
tethered to the fence. The brig, sat for-
ward, surveyed the now-familiar scene
and spoke for the first time. “That bloody
calf’s grown,” he said savagely. Then
he relapsed into chuckles, which the
tension as we ducked back to H.Q., where
no one is ever lost.
MOONLIGHT FLITS.
“Flights to moon within 15 years predicted by
British scientists.” — “S, M. Herald” cable.
Flights to the moon! From constant contem-
plation .
For many a year of scientific pars,
I reckoned that celestial navigation
Was scheduled to begin with certain stars
As promising a likelier location
Fpr pioneers, particularly Mars,
Where features, glimpsed through telescopes,
display
Some evidence that life exists or may.
The moon! A wilderness of busted craters
And sterile steppes suggesting frozen hells,
As seen by astronomic commentators,
What shudders and what shivers it compels,
Intensified by fanciful narrators
As vivid in their art as H. G. Wells!
Though even he in settings such as these
Hints at auriferous possibilities.
The moon! Devised to lighten shades nocturnal
A lot more softly than the sun by day,
The globe whose progress, nightly Or diurnal,
No man but Joshua could ever stay!
The moon whom wild-eyed poets greet with
vernal
Lyrics, and dogs disconsolately bay!
Will science soon annihilate the space
That yawns between her and the human race.
Few years, we’re told, may pass before the
word’ll
Come for the “All Aboard” when aircraft go
Moonwards. And seeing man has put a girdle
Around the earth within a week, you know,
Maybe there’s no insuperable hurdle
In these mere quarter-million miles or so,
The traversing of which, you must admit,
Would beat all records for a “moonlight flit.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


mmf
*
m
vCHtwOl*t
i
I i
A
mmm
y /\
s mmmm}
f
\
/
W
ill
■
■
m
''/ <r
m
m
s
w
v>
'
r
- ; rW-
S„:
m
m
INSULATION
...Keep that evenness in
Temperature in your Home
with Modern Insulation . . .
Australia is fast realising that in this country
we must insulate our homes to enjoy our
extremes of climate.
If you re building —or even if you’ve
already completed your home —do some-
thing now about this most important modem
home comfort— B.l. Slccgwool Insulation.
HEAD OFFICE: 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins St., Melbourne; Shell House, Nth. Terrace Adelaide
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street. Christchurch’
T e c seA'5 e A', a T n jt- A, A PILGRIM. Shell House. North Terrace, Adelaide!
T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray Street, Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand AgZf:WUSIONE
LTD., Auckland. Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch Dunedin
■ ; ' 81.82.1
PTY.
LTD.
Commonwealth
d
of Australia
Legal Service Bureaux
For the purpose of giving legal advice and
service to present and former members of
the Forces and their dependants, the Legal
Service Bureau was established in 1942, as
part of the Commonwealth Attorney-General’s
Department. This Bureau is available to
assist both men and women. Addresses
throughout-the Commonwealth are: —
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852 ,
Saxon House
450 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Ep worth Building
FIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and G. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST., TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6633
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
DARWIN
Under Part II of the Re-establishment and Employment Act
1945, members and ex-members of the Forces are entitled to
preference in certain circumstances in engagement for
employment. They also have other special rights—for
example, in relation to housing and tenancy, and moratorium
and re-establishment benefits.
Ihe Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Legal Service Bureau
advises, without charge, on all legal matters affecting service-
men or their dependants. Any member or ex-member of the
Forces who believes he has not been given the treatment to
which he is entitled, under the Re-establishment and Employ-
ment Act or otherwise, is invited to place the facts of his
case before the Legal Service Bureau, either by letter or
by personal call.
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General of the
Commonwealth.
THE SERVICE MAN
India's Troubles Grow,
“Ek Dum”; While increasing numbers
of Indian troops have been poured into
Kashmir, and while the Moslem tribes-
men from Pakistan have apparently dis-
appeared into thin air wherever they
have been attacked, it seems certain that
relationships between Pakistan and India
have improved very little.
When one flame dies down another
springs up. During the week, for in-
stance, the two Dominions were strugg-
ling over Junagadh, a State in the
Kathiawar Peninsula, like dogs over a
bone. Indian troops with tanks entered
Jupagadh, allegedly at the request of
the Premier. Pakistan refuses even to dis-
cuss the status of Junagadh until the
troops are withdrawn.
Meanwhile, though the Indian com-
muniques suggested that all was quiet in
Junagadh, a new burst of dissension de-
veloped in Tripura, which lies on the
opposite eastern side of the peninsula,
not far from the borders of Burma.
Troops in Tripura
Tripura is a State of engaging pro-
clivities, consisting of about as much
heavy jungle as would fit into one of the
smaller stations of the Northern Terri-
tory. It is inhabited by about 400,000
hardy souls, who all look as if they had
been born in trees, and whose greatest
“We're losing height, Madam—would you mind jettisoning yourself?”
pride is a 600-year-long military tradition
which till recently used to impel them
to haul out weapons at every dispute,
from a difference about a box of matches
to the succession to the throne. The suc-
cession was nearly always the subject of
a magnificent Donnybrook, in which the
neighboring Kukis joined as allies of
whichever side asked them first.
This paradise is governed by a hardy
ruler, Maharaja Manikya Bir Bikram
Kishore Deb Barman Bahadur, who has
had a quiet time compared with that of
some of his predecessors ; but his bore-
dom appears likely to be mitigated by
the reluctance of the Moslem portion of
his electorate to joining ' India. India
has sent troops to Tripura, and the
Tripurans who disagree with them can be
depended on to give them a hearty wel-
come.
F.-M. Auchinleck’s Withdrawal
Meanwhile differences between India
and Pakistan in general have reached a
grave stage, as indicated by the fact that
the British Government has felt com-
pelled to withdraw Field - Marshal
Auchinleck and his forces, which were
engaged in the task of dividing the old
Indian Army between Pakistan and
India and regularising the joint defence
of the two Dominions.
This is a premature withdrawal, and,
coming at the present moment, indicates
a grave state in mutual relationships be-
tween India and Pakistan, which cannot
agree in their statement of the reasons
which have prompted* the removal of
one of the most vital agencies engaged in
keeping the two new countries away
from each other’s throats.
Field-Marshal Auchinleck was supreme
commander of the joint forces. With
his departure the supreme joint com-
mand also is removed, leaving India and
Pakistan .completely separate military
entities. Some correspondents declare,
obviously with truth, that the withdrawal
was due to the inability of the command
to obtain joint co-operation between
Pakistan and India.
It is not yet clear whether British
officers commanding the separate Paki-
stan and Indian Armies will also be with-
drawn with their staffs.
If they are, Indian troubles will be
added to by inexperienced military as
well as political leadership. The top-
ranking Indian levels of the two Indian
Armies were represented when the British
handed over the Government by a baker’s
dozen of Indian brigadiers, most of them
inexperienced. British command at the
present time seems to be the only thing
which prevents the two armies becoming
a rabble.
Re-equipping the Army.
“Ex-R.S.M While modern armies
are improving in equipment—and F.-M.
Montgomery has already put his finger
on some of the black spots—there re-
mains a great deal to be done in the re-
equipment of the P. 8.1. in the light of
our experience in the Pacific War.
The first step should be to scrap almost
every item of the infantryman’s equip-
ment and to make a fresh start. It is
both absurd and unnecessary to load a
human being as if he were a pack ani-
mal ; in fact, the human is often the
worse-treated of the two. In campaigns
such as Wingate’s long'-range penetration
behind the Jap lines in Burma, the men
carried far more in proportion to their
own weight than did the pack mules.
A kit isn’t lightened by doing away
with one or two items.
Mountaineers, ski-ing enthusiasts and
bushwalkers show the way. They go
over every item of their gear to eliminate
pounds of useless deadweight. Aircraft
alloy replaces brass in buckles, a plastic
waterbottle takes the place of a metal
one, aluminium is used for spoons, forks
and mess-tins. In place of webbing
rubberised leather or plastic is employed.
Woven nylon takes the place of canvas.
The greatest boon of all would be to do
what the Americans did towards the close
of the war —abolish the old type of pack
and replace it with a modern rucksack,
carried on a frame which weighs but a
pound if made of steel tubing and a third
less if made of aircraft alloy. The N.S.W.
Federation of Bushwalking Clubs, which
have been designing and using lightweight
gear for over 25 years, could teach the
Army a lot in some of these matters.
Our rifle was designed at the time of
th Boer War and should have been
scrapped years ago. It weighs nine
pounds, is far too heavy around the
muzzle for snap shooting and its ammu-
nition is also too heavy.. The little
American carbine, which should take its
place, was designed by a firm famous for
its sporting rifles and it emerged with


LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LIMITED.
Dividend No. 61.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Board of Directors
has decided to recommend at the Annual Meeting
of the Company, to he held on the 11th December,
1947, payment of a Final Dividend of 35 p.c. (Is.
4.8 d. per share) in respect of the year ended 30th
June, 1947, less United Kingdom Income Tax at
9s. in the £ (7.5 Cd. per share), the net amount of
dividend being 9.24 d. per share sterling. This divi-
dend makes a total distribution of 47i per cent,
for the year ended 30th June, 1947, subject to con-
firmation by the shareholders. The dividend will
be payable on 12th December, 1947, to all persons
registered as holders of shares on the Australian
Register on 22nd November, 1947. The transfer
books will be closed from 24th to 2Gth November
(both days inclusive). For Lake View and Star,
Limited, R. D. MORRISON, Local Secretary.
Missing Friend.
BRADY.—WILL FREDERICK BRADY,
son of Joseph James Brady, deceased, and last heard
of in the 1914-18 World War, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with BEL-
BRIDGE HAGUE & CO., Solicitors, Albury, N.S.W.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF ' NEW
WALES—In Divorce.
TO CHARLES ROBERT DRURY.—TAKE NOTICE
that ELSIE ISABELLA DRURY has filed a petition
for Divorce No. 3210 of 1947 on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may-
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 19th December 1947
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MR. WILLIAM RUTHERFORD THOMSON, at
14 Martin place, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —lx Divorce.
TO JOAN MARGARET KING.—TAKE NOTICE
that Robert Edward King has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3466 of 1947 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwafcs If you wish to defend you may enter-*
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st day of
December 1947 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MR. W. A. BAXTER,
Solicitoi-, Central Chambers, Conadilly Street,
Gunnedah, or from his Svdney Agents, MESSRS.
A. J. McLACHLAN, HOARE & CO., Solicitors, 6
Wynyard Street, Sydney.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
m
MW
.. . ...
m
i
'_— jS^-~
ill
, s /> . f^: v ' ' '
sft. long x Ift. 6ins. wide x 3ft. high.
THE PERFECT KITCHEN UNIT
The attractiveness, cleanliness and advantages of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks will be readily recognised when you in-
spect them in our Showrooms.
The all-metal, lustrous cabinet appeals too, because of its
modernity and hygienic qualities.
As rapidly as material supplies come forward, Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks, with or without cabinet, will be available.
Visit our Showrooms, or ’phone MX 2411 or write G.P.O.
Box 474, Sydney. *
fd
Kitchen unit
SINK • DRAINED • CABINET
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY. BRANCHES AT
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.; BRISBANE. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. LAUNCESTON,
HOBART. PERTH: H. L. BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LTD.
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
i ;
H
V
tA
" E ’ s w T
You, too, can look your best if you
“top off” your appearance with an
AKUBRA.
Having chosen the shape and
colour to suit you, you’ll always
look your best.
Every AKUBRA will give you
remarkably long service and keep
its shape and good appearance.
AKUBRA
HATS OF
aUALITY
flying colors from the acid test of combat
use.
It weighs about five pounds, has the
balance of a sporting rifle and, being
semi-automatic* is almost as good as a
sub-machine gun. Its ammunition is
also light.
The only things which should be added
to the kit would be a machete for each
alternate man and some form of digging
implement for the other one. The latter
implement should not weigh more than a
pound and a half, yet be capable of sink-
ing a hole in anything short of rock.
Anyone who says this cannot be done
has never seen a tool made of tungsten
steel.
It is usually easy to deal with men
above the ground, but once they dig in
they can take an awful lot of shifting.
One reason Why the Jap was so hard to
dislodge was the fact that he would dig
in with a speed which an echidna might
envy.
No Army designed to defend Australia
could be considered to be trained for the
job without tropical experience; it is
here that the case for drastic improve-
ments is strongest.
The failure to make preparations for
a tropical campaign—the only type of
campaign an Australian army could ex-
pect to fight—and lack of proper anti-
malaria precautions cost Australia heavily
in 1942-43.
The real victory over malaria was
won by suppressive drugs plus the thing
which proved so effective when the
Panama Canal was dug 40 years ago —
eradication of the mosquito. This job
is far easier today, thanks to D.D.T.
Forcing men to rug up in heavy clothing
in the tropics had a very doubtful influ-
ence on the incidence of malaria, but it
did leave a terrible legacy in the form
of numerous cases of chronic dermatitis.
Tropic clothing should be designed to
permit air to circulate over the skin of
the wearer, and this can be done only
by eliminating the belt, hanging the
trousers from the shoulders after the style
of bib-and-brace overalls, and wearing a
short shirt outside the trousers. I saw
such an outfit made up and tested ; it
was wonderfully comfortable when com-
pared with the usual rigout. The only
objection to it was the comment “It looks
awful.” But that is of small account
when it is a question of dodging the irri-
tation of prickly heat or that acme of
misery dermatitis.
Then, men gaining tropical experi-
ence should not be dumped in one spot
and then forgotten for a year or so.
They should be left there long enough
to get to know the surrounding terrain
by carrying out training exercises over
it, and then be shifted. It’s the monotony
that kills.
Finally, in addition to the things laid
down in the little pamphlets and manuals,
teach them something about the bush—
which can be learned only by practical
experience. No matter what new and
deadly weapons are devised, warfare
always comes down to land battles be-
tween troops, and the deadliest fighter of
all is a good bushman with a modern
weapon in his hands.
Moscow's Real Bomb.
“Ek Dum”: One of the silliest pieces
of propaganda to be taken seriously by
the daily press is the story of Russia’s
atom bomb.
News of this remarkable weapon
leaked out from Moscow, via Prague, to
the Paris “L’lntransigeant.” A corres-
pondent discovered that the bomb had
been detonated near Irkutsk, distant about
7000 miles, with a bang that was heard
about 20 miles away.
Ordinary shellfire was heard 60 miles
away and more across the Channel in
World War I, and the Halifax explosion
of 4000 tons of T.N.T. on a French
steamer was felt nearly 150 miles away,
so that Moscow’s mighty weapon is a
squib, even upon the highly-unreliable re-
port of the nature of its impact.
One fact, however, makes a complete
fool of the press hocussed by the yarn,
viz., that the bomb weighed 13—or was
it 15? —pounds. It is impossible to have
an atom bomb weighing 131 b. or 151 b
One reason is that the process by which
an explosion is produced is the bringing
together of two sets of material which,
when joined, reach a certain critical weight
that is far greater than 131 b. or 151 b.
The second is that the greater part of the
bomb consists of heavy and complicated
machinery which weighs tons, not pounds.
The atom bombs detonated in the Pacific
were so large that only one aircraft had
a bomb-bay big enough to carry one.
And that was a specially-adapted Super-
Fortress.
There is little secret about either the
basic material or the process by which
atom bombs are made to go off. The real
difficulty lies in organising the immense
industrial plant necessary for turning out
the material from the raw and properly
harnessing the forces which are unleashed.
If Russia has the technical equipment, it
certainly has been provided not by the
Russians themselves, but by captive
German scientists who were associated,
with atom-bomb development in Ger-
many. But it is doubtful whether these
have yet reached the stage of producing
a bomb.
Soviet Ambitions
There is little doubt that if the Kremlin
believed that it could succeed in a war
on Western Europe it would make war
on the instant and would roll its infantry
across Germany and France, where its
emissaries are doing their best to produce
civil war, to the Channel and Mediter-
ranean. The bitter attacks on British and
U.S. “warmongers” are merely tributes to
the prescience of those who know what
Stalin and his staffs are capable of. A
“warmonger,” in the argot of Moscow, is
one who urges his own country to be
cautious and build up its defence against
specific menace. It is exactly in the
idiom of the talk of Hitler in the years
before 1939, and for the same purpose.
There is no need to go outside the
immediate circle of the Kremlin to find
evidence of what the ambitions of Stalin
and his commissars are. Stalin himself
is a good witness.
When Britain and France were plunged
in war with Germany in November, 1939,
Stalin made a speech, a copy of which
was published in the Australian “Com-
munist Review” three weeks after it was
delivered, which means, in view of the
condition of communications at the time,
that it must have been sent at express
speed.
In this the Leader made a few remarks
which are worth recording for the obser-
vation of warmongers:
The October Revolution has opened up
a new epoch, an epoch of proletarian
revolutions in the countries of imperialism
.... by sowing the seeds of revolution,
both in the centres of imperialism in the
“mother countries” and undermining its
domination in the colonies, the October
[Russian] revolution has jeopardised the
existence of world capitalism as a whole.
This stuff, from the mouth of a man who,
18 months later, was screaming (success-
fully) for the imperialist mother countries
and their colonies to rush to the aid of
the U.S.S.R. in the name of a common
democracy, led up to the promise that
Communism had “created a powerful and
open ceptre of the world revolutionary
movement, which it never possessed be-
fore and around which it now can rally
and organise a united revolutionary front
of the proletarians of the oppressed
nations against imperialism.”
Stalin proclaimed that “just as Paris
was once a refuge and a school for the
revolutionary representatives of the ris-
ing bourgeoisie, so now Moscow is the
place of refuge and school for the revolu-
tionary representatives of the rising pro-
letariat,” and took as a matter of course
Moscow’s support of “civil war between
the proletariat and the bourgeoisie” in
“capitalist” countries, i.e„ Britain, U.S.
and France.
The Red-ant and the mobs of infantry
who can be killed outright without com-
plete exhaustion of their numbers form
Moscow’s real bomb.


f
'\\\\
STILL KEEPS COINS WHEN
d
exide
BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD., 44 BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Thomas Tuke Hollway is one of the
youngest Premiers in Australian history.
Born at Ballarat in 1906 he was dux of
the Ballarat C. of E. Grammar School
and qualified in law at the University of
Melbourne. Elected for Ballarat in
1932, his calm but forceful manner
pushed him to the front of the Liberal
party in 1940. During the war Hollway
was an aircraftsman in the R.A.A.F., but
remained official leader of his party, and
as such was the political superior of
least one brigadier and a colonel. He
has a quick wit. On one occasion, when
the transport strike was being debated,
he spotted Comrade Brown, of the A.R.U.,
in the gallery, and he improvised an
interview between Transport Minister
Stoneham and his real boss after the
manner of the ventriloquist and his
dummy. It convulsed the House >and
embarrassed the Transport Minister.
One result of the Victorian-election
landslide will be that Lud Mayor
Connelly will end his reign with
a title. All Melbourne’s civic heads who
last out the statutory three years are
knighted, and as it has become almost
a matter of common politeness to re-elect
the same Mayor twice over the string of
handles in the golden roll at the Town
Hall remains unbroken for the past 20
years.
Hector Hercules Bell, chairman
of the Tramways Board since 1936
and consistent antagonist of buses,
is almost certain to be succeeded by Alec
Fraser, who likes buses. Fraser gave up
the general-managership of the Great
Southern Co-operative Co. to become
chairman of the Transport Board. As he
had had a public and hot dispute with
Federal “Labor” during the war as Emer-
gency Director of Land Transport, his
disappearance from the scene was‘fore-
ordained when Victorian “Labor” came
into office. The Libs and C.P. then
nominated him for the Senate to succeed
Keane, but he was defeated in 1946. He
has been secretary of the Victorian
Country party since November, and is a
man of experience and determination.
Chairman Bell is 71 and due for retire-
ment.
In pre-war days Chief-Officer Richard
Stannard was well-known to passengers
on Orient liners; he is in Australian
waters again, for the first time since the
war, as chief of the Ormonde and wear-
ing the ribbon of the V.C. he was
awarded for a valorous exploit in
Namsos Harbor during the brief Nor-
wegian campaign. Stannard was in
charge of the trawler Arab when Nazi
bombers set fire to an ammunition dump
on Namsos wharf. He ran his vessel
nose-on to the pier and played the ship’s
hoses on the fire for two hours. Namsos
was under continual air attacks, so he
put Arab under shelter of a cliff and,
with his own crew and those of two other
trawlers, set up an armed camp on shore
from which they fired on enemy aircraft
and kept anti-submarine look-out. When
the position became untenable he took
Arab out of the fiord, was ordered by a
German bomber to stop and replied by
bringing down the aircraft. His citation
sums up:
Throughout a period of five days Arab
was subjected to 31 bombing attacks and
the camp and the Lewis-gun position were
repeatedly machine-gunned and bombed;
yet the defensive position was so well
planned that only one man was wounded.
He ultimately brought his damaged ship
back to an English port.
Back in Perth after eight months in
Britain, Europe and America, Norman
Brearley, foundation director of W.A.
Airways. In Britain Brearley found aero-
nautical development abreast of anything
in the world on the technical side, but the
actual production suffering from the touch
of bureaucratic fingers. He considers the
main cause of Britain’s present troubles is
the lack of management ability and leader-
ship on the part of the Government and
civil servants. Brearley served five years
with the Royal Flying Corps in World
War I, collected a D. 5.0., M.C., A.F.C., a
mention in dispatches, was wounded and
returned to Australia in 1919 to pioneer
the air-mail service in the nor’-west of
his State.
Baroness Orczy is dead in London.
She was born in Hungary, and the name
under which she wrote was her family
cognomen. Her first stories were detec-
tive yarns written for the “Royal Maga-
zine,” but in 1905 she struck a winner in
The Scarlet Pimpernel and she continued
turning out romantic novels of a similar
type at' the rate of one or two a year
right down to the time of her death.
Sydney’s Tank Stream has been im-
prisoned underground these many years,
so Major R. Raven-Hart, the subject of
this sketch by Heth, was unable to canoe
DOWN STREAM.
along it from Brickfield Hill to The
Bulletin backsteps ; he came instead per
boot. Which is a pity, as his folding
canoe of canvas and vulcanised-rubber
has floated down 10,000 miles of the
world’s rivers—in it and its predecessors
the major has covered twice that distance
on the waters of five continents. Raven-
Hart is an Englishman who retired from
his profession of communications-engineer
20-odd years ago, took on canoeing for
pleasure and has been paddling down
rivers and writing books about it ever
since. He has covered the Rhine, the
Danube and “all the rivers of Europe—
civilised Europe that is, I don’t count
Russia” —the Nile from the Soudan to
the Delta, the Mississippi, the Irra-
waddy and streams of lesser note. His
first book, Canoe Errant, told of his
European meanderings, and was followed
by Canoe Errant on the Nile. Others
have dealt with his travels in America and
India, and one now on the stocks will
recount his Australian experiences. Early
this year he paddled from Gundagai to
Morgan, spent some time on the Gipps-
land Lakes and floated down the Warra-
gamba-Nepean-Hawkesbury river system.
There he struck some of the best scenery
in the world from a canoeist’s viewpoint—
“not enough though.” Heth is an em-
bryo canoeist, and by the time he had
finished drawing Raven-Hart he was
planning a trip up the Orinoco or down
the Zambesi or something. Possibly he
will get the Water Board’s permission to
start on the Tank Stream. s
Adelaide-born John Douglas Lloyd
Hood, .who succeeds Colonel W. R.
Hodgson as counsellor to the Australian
delegation to the United Nations,
represented Australia on the U.N. com-
mittee on Palestine. Educated in Hobart,
he was Tassie’s Rhodes Scholar for 1926,
gained first-class honors in philosophy
and economics at Oxford, and joined
the editorial staff of the “Times,” London,
in 1929. Hood became assistant Aus-
tralian Affairs Officer, London, in 1936,
and head of the political section and
first secretary, Department of External
Affairs, Canberra, three years later. He
was Charge d’Affaires at The Hague last
year and political adviser to the Austra-
lian Military Mission in Germany. He’s
43.
Clicked a shutter for the last time, Dr.
Julian Smith, surgeon and photographer
and eminent in both arts. He was senior
surgeon at St. Vincent’s and a founda-
tion fellow of the Royal Australasian
College of Surgeons. His pump for the
acceleration of blood-transfusion opera-
tions W £is largely used by the A.A.M.C.,
out he was best-known to the public as
an amateur photographer; his portrait
studies were sought after almost as much
as a painter’s portraits. W. B. Mclnnes
won the Archibald Prize with a portrait
ot his distinguished-looking beard and
moustaches.
Dead in Texas, U.S.A., at 54, Tim
Healy was an Australian who settled in
the U.S.A. shortly after World War I,
tried his luck in the oil business for a
while, then broke into radio while that
field of entertainment was still in short
pants. At one time he had four radio
shows running simultaneously in New
York, and his “Stamp Club” claimed
3,000,000 members and 50,000 letters a
week. In 1944 he published More Lives
than One, an action-filled story of the
A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in France. One
of his sons is Professor of Foreign
Languages at Fordham University.
Peter Isaacson, whose war-time ex-
ploits with Bomber Command Path-
finders earned him the D.F.C. and
A.F.M., and whose flight to Australia in
the Lancaster Queenie earned him an
A.F.C., now owns six free Melbourne
suburban papers. He covers the suburbs
of Caulfield, Carnegie, Elsternwick,
Gardenvale, Glenhuntly and has just
added to the chain the Brighton
“Southern Cross,” Melbourne’s oldest
suburban news-sheet. After leaving the
R.A.A.F. Isaacson spent some time in
the advertising department of the “Age,”
and later was on the literary staff of the
“Argus” as aviation correspondent.
During his operational career Isaacson
flew in Wellingtons, Halifaxes and Lan-
castrians and was the first captain of
an all-Australian crew in the R.A.F. His
first bombing mission was with the first
1000-bomber raid, and when he left in
Queenie for Australia he had completed
44 operations on heavy bombers.
Man and dog:
Commander Karl Erik Oom’s large shaggy
dog greeted a Bulletin visitor at Kirribilli
House, Sydney, with one half-hearted bark
and then gravely shook hands. Commander
Oom said it was probably a cross between a
cattle-dog and an Irish setter and liked to lick
people’s faces, at which the dog appeared grati-
fied, and licked the interviewer. Cvmmander
Oom produced a book of Byrd’s to point out
on the map the places for which the Australian
National Antarctic Research Expedition is to
sail from Hobart in December—first to Com-
monwealth Bay in Adelie Land, then on to
Macßobertson Land to find a site for the per-
manent base to be established later. There was
no map: at which the dog seemed immensely
pleased, and shook hands. When he could be
seen and heard for dog, the Commander, who
is 43, and who will sail in the Wyatt Earp
with 27 R.A.N. men, two R.A.A.F. men, three
scientists and a civilian doctor, revealed himself
as short, compact, light-haired and blue-eyed,
with something very pleasantly buoyant about
him, like a determined cork. His interest is
in marine surveying, which has been the basis
of his distinguished naval career, and he dis-
claims any desire to sit on a block of ice
and meditate through an Antarctic winter. He
grew enthusiastic about Shackleton’s boat voyage
DOWN SOUTH.
to South Georgia, then told how the Wyatt
Earp had originally been built in Norway for
a Portuguese sealing concern and, after Hubert
Wilkins sold her to the Australian Government,
had been practically rebuilt in Adelaide; a
bigger ship would be needed for future work
in the Antarctic. At this stage the dog, which
had endured the digressions with mounting im-
patience, shook hands four times and turned
the conversation to the only subject it thought
really important—itself.
Captain David Hugh Harries, who will
leave for Britain shortly to attend the
Imperial Defence College, was with the
Home Fleet when the war broke
out, and he spent the first year of the
scrap in command of a flotilla of mine-
sweepers. After that he was sent to
Washington as Australian Naval Attache.
He put in two years at that job, then
came back to Australia to take com-
mand of Shropshire. He saw plenty of
action in northern waters, was promoted
captain and was made Deputy-Chief of
Naval Staff. After the surrender he was
sent to Britain to bring back H.M.A.S.
Australia, which had gone there to repair
damage sustained in the Battle of Lin-
gayen Gulf.
An old boy of Otago Uni. (M.L.), who
was awarded an 0.8. E. in 1942 for his
work at Oxford, is now Professor of
Neurology and Director of the Neurology
Research Unit at Harvard (U.S.A.). Dr.
Derek Denny-Brown studied at Oxford
on a Beit Fellowship, won a Rockefeller
travelling scholarship, and came to anchor
in the States. His war job for Britain was
organising special hospitals for head in-
juries ; that accomplished, he went to the
Burma-lndia front.
“R.W.”: Australia is to get a bishop
from South Africa—Wilfred Bernard
Belcher, vicar of , St. Thomas’, Durban.
As a student at Keble College, Oxford,
at the beginning of World War I, he
enlisted and was awarded the M.C. He
returned to Oxford after the war, gradu-
ated B.A. in 1920, proceeded to Cheshunt
Theological College and was ordained in
1921. His first appointment was to St.
Mathew’s, Bethhal Green, London, the
same district in which his predecessor in
North Queensland served his first curacy.
Belcher came to North Queensland in
1924 and joined the Brotherhood of St.
Barnabas, returned to England in 1929
and left again in 1945 to take up
duties in Durban. He is assured of a
warm welcome from the clergy of his
diocese, who remember his work among
them as a Parish Brother.
Frank Medworth, dead by his own
hand in Mexico City, where he was
attending a conference of U.N.E.S.C.O.
as one of the Australian delegation, suc-
ceeded Rayner Hoff as head of the Art
department of East Sydney Tech, in 1939.
He was a Londoner and taught art in
London from shortly after his demobilisa-
tion from World War I until 1934, when
he was appointed head of the Drawing
and Painting School at the Hull College
of Arts and Crafts. Cables from Mexico
City report that Medworth had been in
a depressed and distressed state of mind.
That is not surprising. The man received
a severe head wound in France, and had
worn a silver plate in his head for 30
years. The effect of a rarefied atmosphere
—Mexico’s capital is 7500 ft. above sea-
level —on such a disability would be dis-
turbing, to say the least.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 28, Beresford Maitland
Ogilvie, member of the Stock Exchange and
secretary of the South Yarra Tennis Club.
During the war he was a captain of the A.I.F.
In Sydney, at 56, Jozef Nemecek, Consul-
General for Czechoslovakia. A doctor of law,
he was prominent in the underground movement
in Prague during the war and came to Aus-
tralia about 18 months ago.
In Melbourne W. S. Paul, octogenarian bar-
rister of Selborne Chambers. Author of several
standard law books, he became associate to
Justice Starke at an age when most other
legal men are thinking of retiring.
At Dunedin (M.L.), at 70, Herbert Harraway,
prominent in the Scotch city’s business circles.
He went with the Seventh Contingent to South
Africa to take a crack at Oom Paul. Once a
successful cricketer, 11 he later toned down to
bowls.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 86, George Edward
Mannering, a founder of N.Z.’s Alpine Club
and a honorary member of the Alpine Club,
London. His With Ice Axe and Rope in the
Alps of New Zealand was widely read, and
Mount Mannering, a 8704 ft. peak, perpetuates
his feats.
In England, at 83, Lady Louisa Wilson,
well-known to Diggers of World War I as
commandant of the De Walden Court Hos-
pital at Eastbourne. She carried on an enor-
mous correspondence with ex-patients right up
to the time of her death.
in Brisbane, at 69, Professor R. W. H.
Hawken, Dean of the Faculty of Engineering
at the University of Queensland. Before going
to Brisbane he was a lecturer at Ballarat School
of Mines, a practising engineer in Malaya, a
N.S.W. shire engineer and a lecturer at Sydney
University. He held high degrees and had pub-
lished several works on engineering theory and
practice. •


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Sydney Symphony Orchestra last
Saturday night poured out the strains of
Parry’s Bridal March (finale from “The
Birds” of Aristophanes) and Walton’s
Crown Imperial March —Princess Eliza-
beth’s wedding music. Listening, one
could picture the slim Elizabeth in her
ivory satin wedding gown inspired by a
Botticelli painting. On the satin appliqued
stars and roses glitter with pearl and
crystal stitchery. In the rows of roses
circling the full skirt are embroidered
ears of corn and wheat. Over the long
train that hangs from the shoulder
shimmers a mist of tulle veil. And could
there be more glorious setting for a
Royal wedding than Westminster "Abbey!
Surely no Princess in previous history
has received such a variety of wedding
presents as Elizabeth: rubies from
Burma, gold cups from Greece, hand-
woven silk in an oaken chest from Italy,
cut-glass from Czechoslovakia, a silver
urn from Portugal, hand-made lace
dinner mats from Tortola in the Virgin
Islands, silver fruit dishes and salvers
from Australia, and blankets and sweets
for the children of England. Up in Scot-
land the other day they even gave her
a sewing machine. The gift of the Aga
Khan is a racehorse, bred in Ireland.
Probably none of her gifts will bring
the Princess more joy than the pale-blue
evening cloak from Australia. It was
designed and woven by ex-servicemen and
-women or their dependants training
under the Commonwealth Reconstruction
Scheme. Into the weaving of this went
only the finest Merino wool, the gift of
the Australian Wool Board. Three war
widows wove the thread into the sheer
woollen. Technical College student Rae
Nixon designed the cloak, the waratah
motif on the blue satin lining, and the
silver buttons with their aborigine design.
Story of the week among men of Law.
Last Friday morning as their Honors
Justices Owen Dixon and George Rich
were crossing the grounds leading to the
High Court in Taylor-square they saw a
group of workmen busily making ex-
cavations (they were putting down
water-pipes). Peering i-.to the deeps
Owen Dixon remarked: “What are
they doing here?” “Oh,” replied His
Honor George Rich, “they are digging
the graves for the senile Judges.” Then
he chuckled. “So that they’ll always be
here in spirit.”
Attractive Linda Parker, who was the
soloist of Saturday night’s orchestral con-
cert, is another sweet singer this country
has sent out to delight overseas audiences.
Linda, who has been chief soprano with
the Sadler’s Wells Opera Company for
some years, has sung almost every
soprano operatic role. She’s a Gippsland
girl, hails from Korumburra, and has
been touring Australia under A.B.C.
direction. She leaves Australia by the
Stratheden, flying down to Melbourne to
catch the ship after her concert on Satur-
day.
There’s a “Come Haste to the Wed-
ding” feeling in the air. There promises
to be such a popping of corks, such a
lifting of glasses to the Princess and her
sailor Prince, as never was known in the
memory of living man. Sydney will
vibrate with wedding feasts on Thursday
afternoon and night. And since happi-
ness is a .great softener of the heart
workers in good causes have seized the
opportunity to link this historic occasion
with an appeal for the object of their
fond endeavors. To help the Sydney Day
Nurseries and Nursery Schools Associa-
tion, honorary organiser Mrs. Sam Jones
is bidding one and all to a cocktail party
in the Pickwick Club. Six o’clock is the
hour, 12s. 6d. the price. The cards are
very festive —champagne-glass and royal
crowns and a dash of purple on a blue
background. Inside the rim of the
champagne-glass are the words: An
Evening to Remember!
The Royal Empire Society will fore-
gather in strength at its Bligh-street
fastness on the night of the 20th —
Princess Elizabeth’s wedding day. At
eight o’clock there will be an address by
A. G. Heath, C.M.G., on “Six Months
Abroad.” At eight-forty the film “Heir
to the Throne” will be an up-to-the-
minute prologue to the broadcast of the
royal wedding at nine o’clock.
Mrs. Marie Higgins, president of Quota
International, who has been visiting estab-
lished Quota clubs here and presenting
charters to new ones, was the guest at a
morning reception held by the Lady
Mayoress last Thursday. Mrs. Higgins’s
draped frock of black crepe gleamed on
one side with a design in opalescent
sequins, and her chief jewel was the
emblem of her office—a Q in platinum
and diamonds. The members of Quota
are women in executive business positions
or professional life. Every year they
undertake, in addition to many small
ones, a particular welfare work. In
America this year it is aiumg the deaf in
every way. Australian Quota has made
Food for Britain its objective.
Australia’s babies and her fruits fill this
American visitor with admiration. No-
where had she seen more healthy babes,
nor such varieties of fruits —the pawpaw
came in for special mention. About 100
representatives of women’s organisations
held conversation with the traveller in the
Lady Mayoress’s rooms. In the evening
Mrs. Higgins was farewelled at a party at
the Blue Door in Bligh-street. Mrs.
Higgins returns to Youngstown, Ohio,
after a non-stop six weeks’ tour.
A Sydney woman who was studying
music in London during World War I
has a memory of Broadlands (the Mount-
batten home), where the Princess and her
bridegroom will spend part of their honey-
moon. It was in the park around Broad-
lands that the first Australian Diggers to
arrive in England in the 1914-18 scrap
were camped. Colonel Tunbridge and his
officers had part of the house as head-
quarters. The place is not far from
Southampton, and the Sydney singer and
a company of Australian artists had been
sent down by Australia House to give a
concert for the men in the Pier Theatre.
The whole of Southampton and the Pier
Theatre rocked with
cooees that night.
Following the show
there was a dance —
300 Australian
soldiers and 12 Aus-
tralian girls! The
next morning the
artists were enter-
tai n e d by the
colonel and
at Broadlands, that
mellow old manor-
house, the grounds
of which were car-
peted with daffodils
and bluebells.
A. J. Chambers,
MfB.E., who has just
resigned from the
presidency of the
T.B. Sailors, Soldiers
and Airmen’s Asso-
ciation of N.S.W.,
had been connected
with the committee
for the past 25 years;
and for the past 18
years has been both
State and Federal
President. Mr.
Chambers only re-
tired because his
new position as Chief
Inspector of Arbitra-
tion and Concilia-
tion means a move
to Melbourne. How-
ever, he will continue
as Federal President
of the association. Last week the execu-
tive committee and staff farewelled him
over cocktails in the rooms of the social
committee in Martin-place. There were
also presentations on behalf of the staff
and the committee,
Everybody knows of the T.B. Sailors,
Soldiers and Airmen’s Association and
everybody knows Willie Fennell, the
radio man who sets the most amusing
patter to the accompaniment of a tired,
dragging voice. These two well-knowns
are getting together when Willie gives his
Kiddies’ Christmas Show. This is the
right sort of Christmas “do.” It goes
on for two days, so if you miss out on
the afternoon of Friday, December 5,
mother or auntie can take you along on
Saturday morning, December 6. Federa-
tion Hall, 166 Phillip-street, will glitter
with radio stars led by Willie; with
magicians, acrobats, Christmas stories,
junior ballets and mannequin parades.
Attractive Muriel Steinbeck will com-
pere the shows. The T.B. Sailors,
Soldiets and Airmen will benefit.
Large crowds of lookers-on around
St. Mary’s Cathedral one evening last
week to see Dr. Brian Dunn and his bride.
The doctor is famed as an all-round
athlete and is co-holder of Australia’s
100 yards’ sprinting record. The bride is
the only daughter of the A. J. Booths, of
Maroubra, and was dressed in silver
lame, misted over with yards of tulle.
Her flowers were lily-of-the-valley and
water-lily. Her attendants wore pale-
blue marquisette mingled with blue
Chantilly lace. They carried bouquets
of pale-yellow roses. The wedding re-
ception was at Amory.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite is in-
terested in Minister Clive Evatt’s asser-
tion that all singing teachers should be
equipped with diplomas. By all meahs,
and let the long-suffering multitudes go
further and insist that all politicians be
equipped with diplomas for public speak-
ing.
From Melbourne
Lady Dugan, smart in black-wool jacket
suit, was the gracious hostess at a party
she gave at Government House to Mel-
bourne’s presswomen. In attendance were
Penelope Nettlefold, Mrs. A. A. Lord
and Capt. John Blood, A.D.C. Special
guests at the party were Mrs. Grace Mc-
Donald, doyen of the city’s presswomen,
and Mrs. Gladys .Hain. Greba Jameson,
on behalf of the guests, presented the
Governor’s lady with two illustrated
books on Australia. In a short speech
Lady Dugan thanked presswomen for the
unfailing publicity given to Red Cross
and other good causes when she had
asked for it. The feeling is unanimous
among press representatives that no
Governor’s wife has treated them with
greater courtesy, consideration and
friendliness.
The summery frocks, hats and acces-
sories which had been confined to ward-
robes on Melbourne Cup Day came out
in all their glory for the Williamstown
Cup meeting, held at Flemington.
Flowered-silk frocks worn with light-
weight coats were dotted all over the
course, and most of the white shoes re-
vealed peep toes and wedge soles. A
lightweight woollen coat of Linden green,
a shade which Princess Elizabeth has in-
cluded in her trousseau, was worn by
Mrs. Watts ; the coat was fitting to the
waist, the skirt being very full and flared.
With a floral dress Penelope Rous wore
a big white straw hat with a cluster of
flowers set under the brim. Mrs. W. P.
H.R.H. ELIZABETH, PRINCESS OF ENGLAND.
Mein, wife of the chairman of the
W.R.C., chose a frock of blue romaine,
the yoke and bow of palest hyacinth blue,
the tops of the sleeves of the matching
bolero finely braided ; her small off-the-
face hat of coarse straw had lighter blue
trimmings and a fine veil. Her daughter,
Mrs. Maurice Nicholas, wore a pale-blue
frock with a large cream hat tied with
blue-and-cream-striped ribbon finishing
in a bow at the side.
Lady Dunwich’s primrose frock was
boldly patterned in flowers of green,
white, mauve and cyclamen, and was
worn with an off-the-face hat of brown
crinoline straw. Mrs. G. R. Nicholas was
in white, the bodice featuring short sleeves
and the skirt gathered in the front; her
white coarse straw hat had a high up-
turned brim and was trimmed with rib-
bon. Mrs. A. L. Walters was in white
linen, her white straw hat turned sharply
off the face.
Shirley Watts covered her “junior navy”
and white polka-dotted crepe frock with
a navy coat, the skirt cut into a wide
flare. Her navy hat was trimmed to
match her frock. Her mother, Mrs.
Frank Watts, also wore a navy-and-white-
spotted frock ; her white straw hat was
looped with blue tulle and trimmed with
gardenias. Mrs. Norman Spry’s white
frock was tightly fitted to the hips, the
skirt sunray-pleated ; her large black hat
was of tulle. Mrs. Jim Buchanan’s del-
phinium suit was worn with a small white
hat with clustered white flowers across
the front. Mrs. Alan Tate favored a
black linen suit and black hat. Nan
Walsh allied a black coolie hat with her
canary-yellow frock, patterned in black
leaves. Mrs. Ken Hooper set off her
beige ensemble with a large black hat
edged with tulle. Mrs. D. Faulkiner’s
flowered-silk frock, with its grey back-
ground patterned in petunia and blue,
featured the trend towards draped skirts ;
her black baku hat, turned up at one
side, was trimmed with black feathers.
Mrs. Bowen Allen’s white hailspot muslin
frock had the square neckline; white
daisies wreathed her pale-green wide-
brimmed hat. Mrs. Richard Watney’s
powder-blue linen suit was saddle-stitched
in black; a Dutch bonnet of white linen
afforded contrast. Mrs. Max Ham’s
white silk frock was polka-dotted in red.
St. John’s, Toorak, was made beautiful
with white lilies, gladioli and rhododen-
drons for the marriage of Moya Louise,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. A.
Winwood, of Camberwell, and Peter
Gauld McKenzie, younger son of Mrs.
A. M. McKenzie and the late R. L. Mc-
Kenzie, of Canterbury. Moya’s classical
gown of white slipper satin featured a
heavily-beaded marquisette yoke from
which fell a berthe of opalescent beads
and seed pearls ; the bodice was beaded
in a similar design. Her flowing tulle
veil was held in place with hand-made tulle
flowers, and she carried a spray of
orchids. Three pretty girls, Margaret
Wark, Faye Smith and Joan Pullman,
attended the bride. Their frocks of white
moire taffeta had hooped skirts and
touches of blue at the neckline and on
the skirt. They carried period posies of
white flowers. -
The reception at the Gloucester Room
of the Australia brought 250 guests. Mrs.
Winwood, who, with her husband, and
Mrs. McKenzie, received the guests, wore
a misty-blhe ensemble and a small hat
trimmed with tulle, cut to resemble
feathers. Mrs. McKenzie was in black ;
scarlet roses in her hat gave color relief.
With her husband was Mrs. Bertie Hotch-
kiss, her small wreath of white arum
lilies and green ribbon worn with a black
dinner gown and blue-fox coat. Mrs.
Gordon Coulter was in a draped grey
crepe dinner gown. Mrs. Frank Fox
contrasted her black gown with a small
flowered hat. There were many smart
gowns ; one of white crepe was liberally
trimmed with emerald-green sequins and
for added color two emerald-green ostrich
feathers were worn in the hair. Mrs, F.
C. Irvine_ laced her white crepe gown
up the front with dull silver cord and
wore a summer ermine coat. A Sydney
visitor, Mrs. F. Radford, wore a gown’
of deep mulberry satin trimmed with
gold sequins ; her wrap was of summer
ermine.
Most original of the articles on sale
at the Home Front Fair, which was held
in the Lower Town Hall, were the old
bottles and jars covered with shells of
varying sizes to make flower vases and
lamp bases. These were the spare-time
handiwork of Mrs. Cecil McKay, and
they found a ready sale. The Fair, which
was convened by Mrs. Walter Carnegie
and Mrs. E. C. Piggin, and sponsored by
the A.I F. Women’s Association, raised
funds for the Holiday House at Seaford
and for the Food for Britain Appeal.
Mrs. Cl S. Steele was in charge of the
curio stall, and Mesdames Len Roach,
Mrs. George Pitt and helpers did a great
business with the flower stall. Lady
Herring and Mrs. Carnegie received the
Lord Mayor, Cr. R. Connelly, who
opened the Fair.
The Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
opened the Brahms Festival, Which is
being sponsored by the University of
Melbourne, with a concert in St. Paul’s
Cathedral. Only one of the audience
thought he was somewhere else—a
foreign gentleman walked up the aisle
with his hat on. The concerts are being
held with the permission of the Arch-
bishop, Dean and Chapter. The late Sid-
ney Myer provided funds for the con-
certs, which are free. In the audience
for the first concert were the Archbishop,
who was accompanied by Mrs. Booth ;
Mrs. Bernard Heinze, wife of the
orchestra’s conductor; Mrs. Sidney
Myer and her son Kenneth, who was
accompanied by his wife ; Mesdames Guy
Bakewell, M. Sallmann, M. Sloman and
Dr. Arthur Joyce, who was with his
daughter Pamela Mary, and Penelope
Nettlefold.
Margaret Coles had no sooner arrived
back from her trip abroad as her father’s
secretary than she was married at St.
John’s, Toorak, to Arthur Irwin Bright,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Bright,
of Bristol, England. Margaret, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. G. J. Coles, of Toorak,
chose an American-model frock of white
faille with a close-fitting bodice, long
sleeves and the heart-shaped neckline
finished with pleated folds of fine net.
The bridal emsemble was finished with a
long net veil held in place with a coronet
of orange blossom ; the bouquet was of
roses. Judy Coles, sister of the bride,
vtfas chief bridesmaid, her frock of Uly-
of-the-valley chiffon matched by the posy
and the flower repeated in her hair. The
bride’s youngest sister, Jan, and her
friend, Rosemary Norman, were the other
bridesmaids. They wore pale-pink
sprigged organdie frocks and carried pink
roses to match their halo hats. Best man
was the bride’s brother, Jim. Archbishop
Booth performed the ceremony.


J
m3M
m
EXPERIENCE
In the administration of
Pastoral A Farm
Properties
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. Ltd.,
Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has a wide
association with the administration of rural
properties; It provides;
• Efficient management.
• Safeguards the interests of dependants.
• Provides ample security for performance of
trusts.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,559.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.;
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb.,
F.R.C.S., Eng.; G. D. Young.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Harold J.
Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie Morshcad,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878 .
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
F!RE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves, t
1939.. 115,433 10 p.c. = 99,834 15,699 320,'00S
Share premiums, £1826 .. .. 321,834
1940. . 117,975 10 p.c. = 100,000 17,975 339,809
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
1941.. 153,875 10 p.c. = 100,000 53,875 432,939
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 427,939
1942.. 122,922 10 p.c. = 100,000 22,922 450,861
To staff fund, £5OOO 445,861
1943.. 126,287 8J p.c. = 87,500 38,787 484,648
To staff fund, £5OOO .. . .. 479,648
1944.. 111,289 9i p.c. = 95,000 16,289 495,937
To staff fund, £5OOO 490,937
Plant-replacement reserve, £21,000 .. 469,937
1945.. 111,450 p.c. = 95,000 16,450 486,387
Plant-replacement reserve, £lO,OOO .. 476,387
To outside interests, £lB .. .. 476,369
1946.. 97,524 9 p.c. = 90,000 7,524 483,893
To staff fund, £4OOO 479,893
Amenities reserve, £20,000 .. .. 499,893
1947.. 156,373 124 p.c. = 125,000 31,373 531,266
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 521,266
* After eliminating outside interests,
t Excluding replacement reserve, now £192,854.
This is the largest and one of the most
efficient wool and worsted yarn-spinning
and manufacturing organisations in the
Commonwealth. At the parent’s own
mill, Abbotsford (Vic.), part of the plant
is still idle, owing to shortage of skilled
operatives. To help solve this problem a
spinning and weaving factory has been
set up at Dandenong (Vic.), and has just
come into production. And there are
two subsidiaries —Globe Worsted Mills
Pty., Marrickville (N.S.W.), whose plant
is comparable in nature and size with
that of the parent; and Byfas Pty.,
Abbotsford (Vic.), which turns out silk,
silk-and-wool and all-wool dress goods.
Not only has the group set a standard in
production that has long reaped its own
reward in competition with imported
goods, but it has been able to win ex-
ternal markets in Maoriland, Canada and
the U.S., and so contribute to the pool
of now-scarce “hard” currencies.
In both home and export markets de-
mand last term ran ahead of the mills,
whose output increased a little, despite
difficulties associated with labor and
fuel. It was the export of tops and some
high-grade cloth that put most of the
spring into the record net earnings (up
£58,849), which were even better than
the figures in the table suggest. Prices
obtained in external markets yielded a
considerably higher rate of profit than
could be obtained for similar lines
locally. The Federal Government pays
Australian manufacturers of woollen
goods which are sold locally a subsidy to
cover the difference between the cost
price of wool and the official figure at
which the manufacturer is allowed to in-
clude this wool in his selling price for
the finished article. Operation of the
regulations has, the board says, worked
satisfactorily.
The improvement in turnover
(£2,408,003) was £566,190. The £156,373
of profit shown was arrived at after
allowing £29,950 (up £73) for deprecia-
tion, sending £64,305 (up £32,120) to
plant-replacement reserve, £20,000 to a
new amenities reserve and setting aside
£312,800 (up £241,842) for the tax-
gatherer. Some or all of the replace-
ment reserve (now £192,854) might be
genuine profit, and the allowance for
taxation includes a “substantial” amount
for war-time (co.) tax, now abolished and
not chargeable against 1946-47 earnings.
It is plain, therefore, that actual net earn-
ings considerably exceed £156,373, which
is 15.6 p.c. on the million of paid capital,
compared with 9.7, 11.1, 11.1, 12.6, 12.2
and 15.3 p.c. back to 1941. A point was
added to the div., lifting it to 10 p.c.,
which was further sweetened with a 6d.
bonus, making p.c. in all.
As for the current term, the co, can
sell, all it produces, and increases in
selling prices have been granted to cover,
or partly cover, advancing costs, which
threaten to win the race; In industries
like this one, where production depends
very largely upon mechanical processes,
the 40-hour week will not only reduce
output but will also have an effect simi-
lar to a 10 p.c. lift in hourly wage rates.
And, since the i'ise in price of greasy
wool has outstripped the rise in the price
of tops abroad, the export section of the
business is expected to be less profitable.
Overall the picture is one of expansion,
to meet which additional plant, and also
workmen, are being brought from
Britain. A disappointing feature is Gov-
ernment restriction of the co.’s export
quota, especially for cloth. Australia is
thus losing the opportunity of establish-
ing a permanent export trade in textiles
which would yield much-needed dollars
immediately, and, in the long run, ab-
sorb future production surplus to local
needs.
The financial structure was further
strengthened:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital .. £998,342 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests*.. 1,092 1,141
Overdraft .. .. 14,275
Sundry creditors! .. 212,275 387,062 568,778
Staff funds .. .. 5,000 28,300 38,300
Freeholds . . , . 369,031 422,957 461,512
Plant, etc 420,447 286,875 290,013
Stocks .. . . 591,936 978,746 915,002
Debtors .. .. 170,327 167,568 370,752
Shares . . .. 60,174 36,707 37,569
Cash, etc 26,841 178,071 322,491
* Including proportion reserves. t Including tax
provision.
The growth in amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc, (up £181,716), and cash,
etc. (£144,420), mainly reflects additional
allowance for taxation. The year’s larger
trading shows up in the growth of
£203,184 in debtors’ balances. On fixed
assets £41,693 more was spent than was
written off, mainly on account of the
Dandenong factory. Improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£1,038,736)
was £93,006.
In the market the price of the ords.
shot up from 535. about three months
ago to 60s. 3d. following publication of
accounts. At the higher figure the return
is 4.1 p.c. on a 12} p.c. div. basis. Cover
is 30s. sd. in net tangibles, excluding
3s. lOd. in the replacement revenue
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
( Dividends A
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. , Ordinary. serves, serves.
'3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.=.159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 .. .. 396,185
’39 238,025 60,000 10.1 p.c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
’4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 „ „ 172,000 41,925 454,185
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4 „ „ 208,000 428,240
’42 243,554 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 21,554 449,794
Special reserve disappears, £25,000 .. 424,794
’43 254,069 60,000 7.5 p.e.=165,000 28,569 453,363
Patent rights reduced, £1,027 .. 454,390
’44 257,487 60,000 7.3 p.c.=162,000 35,487 489,877
’45 258,775 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 36,775 520,652
’46 227,312 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 5,812 531,964
Debenture exes., £28,510 .. .. 503,454
’47 209,889 60,000 7.3 p.c.=162,000 47,889 551,343
Contingencies res. disclosed, £140,000.. 691,343
Less new patents, £11,346 .. .. 679,997
World shortage of pulp, delay in de-
livery of new machinery, scarcity of labor,
the coal problem and industrial disturb-
ances stood in the way of this co. meet-
ing the fuff requirements of an expand-
ing market for kraft- and paper-board
last term. Half a dozen new paper- and
board-machines, four turbo-alternators
and five steam boilers are on order, and
have been for some time, while construc-
tion of a new mill at Brisbane is also held
up by the materials and labor problem.
However, output from the five operat-
ing mills was 12,000 tons better at
124,495 tons —peak figure was 130,966
tons in 1942. The year’s improvement
was due to a better run of the machines,
following a more even supply of fuel.
To overcome the shortage of black coal
from N. S. Wales an interest was bought
in a brown-coal deposit at Bacchus Marsh
a year or so ago and mechanical altera-
tions were made to boilers, etc. The
pulp mill at Maryvale (Vic.) turned out
a record 38,965 (up 295) tons.
Alter allowing £342,198 (up £1014) for
depreciation the spring in gross earnings
(£884,069) was £167,042, of which
£138,467 came from trading (£817,535)
and £28,575 from interest, divs., etc.
(£66,534). Including debenture interest
(£86,553, up £24,116) and provision for
taxation (£231,259, up £40,527), exes.
(£614,180) took £124,465 of the gain.
That left the net result £42,577 stronger
at £269,889, which covered the pref. div.
and 9.5 p.c. on the £2,200,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 7.6, 9, 8.9, 8.8 and
8.3 p.c. back to 1942. The div. remained
at 7.3 p.c., or enough to enable the hold-
ing cos. to pay their pref. divs. and show
6.4 p.c. on their combined ord. capitals.
A contingency reserve of T 140,000, previ-
ously lumped with provision for taxation
in the published accounts, was disclosed,
and £11,346 was added to the book value
of patent rights, not treated as an asset
herein. Altogether it was a heartening
performance considering a lot of the
£2,250,000 of 3} p.c. debenture money
gathered over the last couple of years has
not yet been put to work in the business.
Australasian Paper and Pulp and
Cumberland Paper Board Mills, the two
holding cos. which own 78 p.c. and 22 p.c.
of A.P.M.’s ord. capital respectively,
maintained their ord. divs. at 6 p.c.
A big programme of expansion lies
ahead. Chief obstacle to net earnings is,
and will be, the steepness of the costs
gradient. The 40-hour week in N. S.
Wales has already reduced output at the
Botany mills, and a similar experience in
other States can be expected from the be-
ginning of 1948, This is inevitable in an
industry where output is governed in the
main by machine-hours worked. And
under price-control there is a time lag in
obtaining authority to lift selling prices.
On the other hand increased output
should follow additions to plant to the
benefit of costs, and abolition of the War-
time (Co.) Tax and of primage duty on
imported pulp (which cost the co. over
£51,000 last term) will help to ease out-
goings.
The last £204,350 of debenture money
came in during the year, but the co. was
still holding £2,071,973 in cash, etc., when
the books closed:
1938. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital—- £ £ £' £
Pref. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Ord. . . 1,600,000 2,200,000 2,200,000 2,200,000
Debentur e s 2,045,650 2,250,000
Mortgages 13,574 13,979 32,468
Loans, etcT 33,937 50,325 109,348 203,056
Other cr’tors 119,199 200,459 266,944 384,813
Tax reserve,
etc. . . 113,197 342,500 334,000 240,951
Freehold and
plant . . 1,708,127 2,194,918 2,133,148 2,315,864
cos. !. 23,242 30,234 30,234 115,344
Stock . . 990,950 1,163,744 1,741,632 1,615,380
Book debts 368,314 634,994 673,071 1,022,789
Cash, etc... 302,302 530,820 2,095,956 2,071,978
The widening of trade connections shows
up in a growth of £349,718 in book debts.
On fixed assets £182,716 more was spent
than was written off. The improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,714,198) was £85,726.
The expansion programme will call for
a lot more money than the co. holds at
the moment, and ord. shareholders (the
two holding cos.) are expected to be asked
to assist as and when required. Nominal
capital has been increased to £10,000,000
by the creation of 5,400,000 new £1 ords.
Present £3,200,000 of paid capital is in
1.000. £l6 p.c. cum. prefs., 600,000
£1 ords. and 2,000,000 ords. of 16s. each.
So there are 6,800,000 unissued ords. on
the books.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1938.. 64,701 15 p.c. = 35,057 19,644 246,060
1939.. 56,136 15 „ „ 35,222 20,914 266,974
1940.. 59,527 15 „ „ 35,387 24,140 291,114
1941.. 63,375 20 „ „ 47,182 16,193 307,307
1942.. ,61,194 17$ ~ „ 41,285 19,909 327,216
Excess tax reserve disclosed, £75,000 .. 402,216
1943.. 63,421 18} p.c. = 44,233 19,188 421,404
1944.. 69,551 18} „ „ 44,233 25,318 446,722
1945.. 67,878 18} „ „ 44,233 23,645 470,367
1946.. 69,713 22$ „ „ 53,082 16,631 486,998
Reserves capitalised, £23,592 .. 463,406
Prom tax provision, £50,000 .. .. 513,406
1947.. 77,972 22$ p.c. i= 56,620 21,352 634,758
The extraordinary success of this stoutly-
ribbed manufacturer of cardboard boxes,
cartoons and corrugated-fibre containers
is due mainly to the imagination and
enterprise of James Fielding, founder and
chairman until his death early in 1944.
His son, L. T. Fielding, who grew up in
the business, has sat at the head of the
board table since, thus ensuring con-
tinuity of the policy that proved so suc-
cessful in the past.
It was in 1905 that James Fielding
bought the Sydney Cardboard Co.’s busi-
ness for £1650. The public became in-
terested in 1911, and paid capital became
£lB,OOO. Then World War I gave the
co. the protection that politicians had
failed to provide, and the business went
ahead by leaps and bounds. World War
II accelerated the co.’s growth. The
policy was, and still is, to keep plant
abreast of every improvement and de-
velopment, and to find new uses for the
co.’s products. At the same time sub-
stantial allowances have been made for
depreciation and obsolescence, enabling
much equipment to be paid for out of
earnings and then from the same source
severely written down.
In the long-run such a policy greatly
enhances the return on share capital.
Only once in the last 20 years has the
co. paid less than 15 p.c.; that was in
1931, when 10 p.c. was handed out.
Average rate of div. over this period is
17.1 p.c. Furthermore, over half the
paid capital is bonus scrip; the last gift,
one for 10 ( = £23,592), was made shortly
before close of the latest accounts. And
those on the register can still see the
whole of the capital, or thereabouts, in-
vested outside the business in well-selected
shareholdings, including the Melbourne
subsidiary, and in a number of well-let
Sydney freeholds, many of which were
snapped up at attractive figures in the
early 1930’5.
Last term turnover increased substan-
tially ; local supplies of board had to be
supplemented by imports. After allowing
for taxation and other contingencies, de-
clared net earnings (up £8259) reached


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.-
Attorneys,
Australian
-Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia f
jACKSOiy 4
OSUbWVAV
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES?
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” WINDOW FACE
ENVELOPES
-“national” BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
“NATIONAL” FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
“national” WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And Yen’ll Jump on!
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn 1
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con.
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and wears
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes tllose
rood old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working ana
make you feel “up and up.” # Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping V°u tit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pilln
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/- & 1/3.
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
LOOK!
Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The
"WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
!/
Immediate
Delivery.
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
_ detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
cluding saw and planer
blades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning lathe outfit.
breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
•pis/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
liin cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
wArk of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
” AU air freight free all States.
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
MINING PLANT —FOR CASH SALE.
Emmaville District.
Complete hydraulic sluicing plant in good
order, comprising: Two 16-h.p., one _O-n.p.
portable boilers. One gravel pump, two nozzle
Dumps. Large quantity excellent piping.
Apply A. TURNER, 54 Macquarie-street,
Glen Innes, N-S.W.
NZAN O
CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CIhVZANO
71
ry
Some want them Sweet, and some want
them Dry, but everyone wants Cinzano as
the basis of good cocktails. Cinzano sweet
or dry. the world's best Yermouthsl
iTR MOUTHS
£lnce /&/ 6
DrS
CINZANO $
'WtOUtH
VKttMSgU
a record £77,972. That was a juicy 31.4
p.c. on mean capital as against 29.5, 28.7,
29.4, 26.8, 25.9, 26.8 and 25.2 p.c. back
to 1940. The div. was kept at p.c.,
sweetened with the bonus-scrip issue
already mentioned. Also £50,000, being
portion of provision made in previous
years for income-tax but not now re-
quired for the purpose, was tossed into
general reserves.
Here is as much of the financial struc-
ture as the published figures disclose:
1939. 1914. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £235,913 £235,918 £235,913 £259,512
Creditors* •• 53,648 169,762 158,211 164,^92
Freeholds .. 153,639 158,496 199,667 336,885
Plant, etc. .. 25,532 22,375 20,809 20,914
Stocks . . 33,575 34,294 37,615 61,611
Book debts, cash
and investm’ts 352,635 654,924 649,546 568,846
* Including provision for taxation.
The board is tightlipped about the year’s
addition of £137,218 to the book value
of freeholds. No harm would be done
if the items in the omnibus entry (down
£80,700) were shaken out. The shrinkage
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£404,054) was only £87,281, despite the
outlay on fixed assets.
At £7 (955. 3d. at end 1946), the £1
shares return 3.2 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis. Visible cover is 61s. 2d. in net
tangibles.
The big gold dredge of Harrietville
(Tronoh), Ltd., operating in the Ovens
Valley (Vic.), which closed down at the
end of 1942, began digging again in May,
1946, and didn’t reach bedrock (115 ft.)
until about nine months later. For the
year to June 30 last it handled 1,961,300
c.y. for a recovery of 3043.290 z. fine gold,
an average of 0.7 gr., worth 4.01 d. Since
average mine costs per c.y. were 7.36 d., a
loss of £28,436 net showed up. Although
the machine gave good service, the sand-
stone wash caused severe abrasion of dig-
ging and treatment plant, and spares
were difficult to get. No trouble was ex-
perienced in settling slimes, and the con-
dition of the water paddock is reported
excellent. The all-electric dredge, largest
of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere,
is equipped with 20 c.-f. buckets, and can
dig to 130 ft. below water level. The area
to be treated was estimated originally to
contain 96,000,000 c.y. (about 22 years’
work), averaging 1.92 gr. gold. Ground
to be handled during the next half-dozen
years is expected to average about 3.2 gr.
gold. This means a profit of about
a yard on the basis of last term’s costs
and with the yellow metal at £lO lss. 3d.
an ounce —gold tax has been abolished.
Check-boring ahead of the dredge sug-
gests that it was operating in shallow,
low-grade ground between two branches
of the lead last term. This is supported
by recent improvement in recovery—
-163.150z. gold, average 1.7 gr., from
44,700 c.y. for the week to Nov. 1 last.
False bottoms occur at 40-50 ft, 60ft. and
109 ft. On the east side of the dredge pad-
dock, which is being worked on a face
of 450 ft., the wash below 109 ft. contains
only a trace of gold, and is not being
dredged. When the books closed current
assets totalled £21,770, and there was
£235,945 coming to outsiders —loans
£221,750 and sundry creditors £14,195.
Paid capital is £375,000 in f.-p. ss. shares.
* * * *
Yankee-controlled Big Bell (W.A.) is
batting on a difficult golden wicket.
Operating costs last year rose to 265. 4d.
on ore averaging a wink under 3dwt. a
ton. It thus takes about eight tons of
material, with a recovery of 84 p.c., to
produce an ounce of gold worth
£lO 15s. 3d., leaving a margin of only
7s. 3d. a ton on the basis of last year’s
costs. Looking for a second string, the
Bell has taken an option over a low-
grade auriferous deposit near Peak Hill,
north of the Murchison field. The co.
recently tested and abandoned a group
of mines at Meekatharra.
* * * *
Preliminary figures show net profit of
South Kalgurli, Ltd., for year to end
March last was £16,727, a drop of £11,781.
Taxation took ■ £7400 and dividends
£8594 Ellerton Binns, chairman of
Wiluna and Gt. Boulder, and C. T. Ley,
chairman of North Kalgurli, are both on
a visit to the West.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas, N.L., pro-
poses to try its luck with the old White
Hope mine, Hampton Plains (W.A.),
again. Surface plant is being recondi-
tioned and the mine dewatered prepara-
tory to opening up the 550 ft. level. The
co. worked the upper levels of the White
Hope and another near-by show in the
1930’s without success, and then floated
Blue Spec on the far-away Pilbara field,
but didn’t meet with any luck there either.
It still holds 60,000 Blue Spec shares,
having sold 31,200 at 2s. 3d. each in
April last. The chairman says develop-
ments at Blue Spec’s 450 ft. level “justify
anticipation of an increase in head values
to 17-18dwt. per ton with a possibility
of treating 1500 tons a month.” At June
30 last Consolidated owed the Westralian
Government £23,000 and held £2969 in
cash and bonds. Paid capital is £6250 in
ss. shares paid to 3d. each, which are
presently to be listed on the principal
Australian Stock Exchanges.
BROKEN HILL SOUTH LIMITED
OUTLOOK FOR BASE METALS
World demand for lead appeared likely to exceed available .upply for some
time. This statement was made by the chairman of Broken Hill South Ltd. (Sir
Alexander Stewart) at the annual meeting on 30 st October m reviewing e
company’s activities.
Gentlemen—l have pleasure in pre-
senting on behalf of the board and man-
agement the report and accounts for the
year ended June 30, 1947. These
have already been forwarded to share-
holders, and with your concurrence I
propose to take them as read.
FINANCIAL.
The net profit for the year as dis-
closed by the published accounts was
£650,180, of which £500,907 was attribu-
table to the mine and £149,273 to invest-
ments. . .
The price realised for metals during
the year showed a considerable advance,
lead averaging £65 15s'. A.C. per ton,
compared with £37 16s. Bd. A.C, last
year, and silver ss. Id. A.C. per ounce, as
against 4s. Id. A.C. per ounce for the
preceding period. The revenue
zinc concentrate was also appreciably
higher. Factors which had an adverse
effect on profits were considerably higher
mining costs at Broken Hill and increased
smelting and refining costs at Port Pine.
Expenditure incurred in the search tor
new mining properties amounted to
£17,569, compared with a total of tzbil
for’the previous year. fl4Qrn
Profit from investments at £14^,2/:>
showed an improvement of £39,810 when
compared with the previous year, and
reflects a general increase in the re-
turn from our shareholdings in other
companies. . , .. „ ,
Dividends paid during the year totalled
£320,000. Of this sum £200,000 came
from the profits of the year ended June
30, 1946, and £120,000 from the profits of
the year ended June 30, 1947.
The foregoing is a brief survey of me
accounts included in the annual report
issued to shareholders. Since the accounts
were completed, however, a bill has been
introduced to repeal as from the begin-
ning of the year under review the war-
time (company) tax. This bill has not
yet become law. . ....
I have pleasure in announcing that me
directors have declared a dividend of
2s. 6d. per share, payable on December
24 1947. Shareholders are further in-
formed that the amount of £419,000 was
set aside out of profits of the year as a
provision for War-time (Company) Tax.
When the proposed legislation is passed
the directors will distribute an amount
of 2s. per share as a special bonus. The
share register will be closed for the pur-
poses of the dividend on November 11,
1947, at 5 p.m., and if it is possible to
declare a bonus in time, the same closing
date will be applied for the bonus.
The share capital in this 1 company is
widely held, the average holding of the
7448 shareholders being 429 shares.
THE MINE.
A high rate of development work was
maintained, and the expenditure m this
connection totalled £208,311 compared
with £141,311 for the previous yean
Much of the work was performed in me
Block 10 and Central leases, and it is now
apparent that a larger tonnage of ore
will be won from these old mines than
was originally expected. trac .
Working costs, ue., cost of ore extrac
tion, mine development ° re , , tr t_
ment for the year totalled 79s 6d pe
ton of crude ore, as against 595. sd. lor
the previous period. Most of this in-
crease is attributable to the higher lead
bonus paid tb employees. During the
year a total of £809,743 was' paid in
wages, lead bonus, etc., and was equal
to an average yearly remuneration of
£BlB per man for full-time employment.
Last year the comparable earnings
amounted to £645 per man. From this it
will be seen that employees have shared
generously with shareholders in the pros-
perity arising from the present. high
metal prices.
LEAD BONUS PAID TO
EMPLOYEES.
The price of lead (on which the bonus
payable under the industrial agreement
with our employees at Broken Hill is
based) has reached an abnormally high
figure, and our workers are enjoying a
period of prosperity which is without
precedent in the long history of Broken
Hill. During the year the bonus payments
per week ranged front a minimum of
£3 5sJ. to a maximum of £8 155., averag-
ing £5 13s. per week, and employees at
times were receiving more by way of
bonus than from the straightout wage of
their calling. An employee who worked
full-time throughout the past year re-
ceived a total lead bonus of approxi-
mately £290, which is equal to the
amount of dividends received in the same
period by a shareholder with 2900 - shares.
This month the weekly bonus' amounts to
£8 7s. 6d, per full week worked.
ORE RESERVE.
I propose at this stage to say some-
thing regarding a matter of considerable
interest to shareholders, and one concern-
ing which inquiries are received from
time to time. I refer to the prospective
life of the mine. Forecasts relating to
this subject have been made at intervals
in the past at our annual meetings, but
subsequent development and discoveries
have ha'd the effect of adding to the ore
reserves and consequently to the esti-
mated life of the mine.
As indicated in the directors report,
the mine superintendent estimates the ore
reserves at June 30, 1947, at 1,915,00
tons The estimate is conservative and
does not take in any ore disclosed by
diamond drilling only, or by limited de-
velopment. This is 25,000 tons higher
than the figure given a year ago, despite
the fact that 281,000 tons of ore were
mined during the year under review. This
favorable position can be attributed to a
great extent to the satisfactory progress
of our mine development work, and also
to the disclosure of some ore remnants
found in Central and Block 10 mines.
Taking the foregoing into considera-
tion and having regard to the decreasing
length of the ore body on the lower
levels, the mine superintendent now
agrees that the total ore reserves con-
tained in our leases at this date will pro-
bably be sufficient to enable production
to be maintained for a further nine ( )
vears This assumes a continued output
at the average rate of the past two or
three years. Development of known ore
bodies and their extensions, and explora-
tion for new ore zones within our Broken
Hill leases, will be energetically pursued
and may result in adding further life to
the mine. •


a.
%
r i
fi
\
kN 1
%
14
it
r
m
0*
S
M
Streamlining- and styling go a long way
... but they don't go ALL the way
m
M P P>
The shrewd buyer knows that porcelain enamel can hide a multitude of sins . . .
mainly sins of omission. He (or she) knows that the omission of reliable sheet
steel and the substitution of steel that is merely “good enough” can create circumstances
for which no styling or streamlining can ever compensate. The manufacturer who uses
Comrol Sheet Steel is always proud to say so; therefore every buyer will be wise to ask the
question, because the word “Comrol” is, in itself, a guarantee of lasting quality.
3
$
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
Commonwealth Rolling Mills Pty. Ltd., Head Office and Works, Port Kembla, N.S.W.
ARMCO (AUST.) PTY. LTD., GENERAL SALES AGENTS—SYDNEY: Kembla Building. BRISBANE: Commercial House. MELBOURNE;
Temple Court. ADELAIDE: C.M.L. Building. PERTH: John Lysaght (Ausf.) Pty. Ltd. WELLINGTON, N.Z.; John Lysaght Limited.
SUNDRY SHOWS
TOM ROBERTS.
The Tom Roberts Exhibition at the
N.S.W. National Art Gallery includes
“Bailed Up,” “The Breakaway,” “Shear-
ing the Rams” and “The Golden Fleece”
—a feast in themselves. Of these Lionel
Lindsay observes in an excellent article
in the catalogue: —
“Shearing the Rams” and “The Golden
Fleece” erttailed much work, innumerable
figure studies and close observation of
shearers at work: for Roberts, who was
above everything conscientious, never set
about a big composition till he had mas-
tered all its details. He spent six weeks on
the roads with travelling sheep to get the
elements of his masterpiece “The Break-
away” Sharing the daily toil of the
drover Roberts lived this picture into the
absolute of art, for it is no casual gift of •
chance, but saturated, with experience. The
dry hillside bleaching in the sun, the dusty
road, the dogs rolled over, and the drover’s
vain attempt to stem the rush of sheep to
the waterhole: all unite naturally in this
great impressionist picture, which is the
equivalent of a great poem. Truth to Aus-
tralian light exactitude of character, a
new rhythm, and action caught in the focus
of drama....
Like pains were taken with “Bailed
Up,” painted near Inverell, the original
coachman acting as technical adviser and
station hands posing.
These four pictures demonstrate
Roberts’s power, his bulk, his ability to
build finely-observed detail into drama
and—in “The Breakaway” and “Bailed
Up”—Australian light, which was his
great bequest to Australian painting.
Both “Bailed Up” and “The Golden
Fleece” —the better of the two shearing-
shed paintings—are the property of the
N.S.W. Gallery. “The Breakaway,” from
the S.A. Gallery, is familiar in reproduc-
tion, but the real blue blaze of sky, the
shimmer of dust and “the dry hillside
bleaching in the sun” are only properly
observed in the painting itself.
What remain are pictures which
demonstrate Roberts’s versatility.
Roberts, as Lionel Lindsay recalls in his
introduction, painted portraits for a liv-
ing all his life, and, while he never be-
came the equal of Lambert in this de-
partment—as he never fully equalled
Streeton and Gruner in landscape—his
eye for character, his vitality and, above
all, his refusal to be bound by static con-
ventions raised his portraits to a high
level.
Among other paintings there are the
well-known portrait of Streeton and a
self-portrait. But Roberts’s women,
astonishingly fresh and graceful after the
heat and dust of his more famous paint-
ings, are the most interesting. “Madame
Pfund,” a large portrait, is a fine piece of
work; a dignified study of age with
something of the kindly delicacy of the
Dutch masters in the face, and a robust
use of light. Two small women’s heads
are most typical of Roberts’s style. One
is all light and freshness, dark glowing
eyes and fair complexion, while the other,
“Penelope,” is centred on the lilt of high-
piled hair and, completing the curve, the
shadow of hair on an arched marbled
neck.
There are also an aboriginal head, the
property of the Dixson Gallery (Public
Library of N.S.W.), one of the best of
this type of portrait ever painted in
Australia, and a rich flower-piece, from
the N.S.W. Gallery, with roses that seem
ready to crumble at a touch.
Stage and Concert.
Last week Eugene Goossens piloted
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra through
two “popular” concerts —and there need
be no apologies for the adjective. Both
were well-chosen, and if some lightning
changes were wrought, with the audience
whisked from the eighteenth century to
the twentieth, and back again, within 20
minutes, who cared so that most of the
pieces themselves were interesting?
Cheek by jowl with “Afternoon of a
Faun,” Debussy’s bloodless piece of misty
impressionism—the programme’s weakest
offering—were the stately grace of the
last two sections of Mozart’s “Eine Kleine
Nachtmusik” and the enormous brassy
vitality of the Prelude to the Third Act of
“Lohengrin.” Karoly Szenassy was the
soloist in the D Major Concerto of
Paganini. The young Hungarian violinist
brought into play a> strong technical
equipment to master with calm confidence
the maze of bowing pitfalls which stud
this showpiece. Weinberger’s “Under the
Spreading Chestnut Tree,” Sibelius’s
“Swan of Tuonela” and Gardiner’s
“Shepherd Fennel’s Dance” demonstrated
clearly the still-improving integration by
the orchestra. Ravel’s “Bolero,” under
the ceaseless, marching rhythm which has
in it the inexorability of death, worked
to a terrific climax.
Less diversified, but no less interesting,
the second concert followed up that
fascinating morsel the overture to Wolf-
Ferrari’s “Secret of Susanna” with
Rimsky-Korsakoff’s “Scheherazade.” All
the sensuousness and exoticism, all the
wonderful richness of the orchestral color-
ing, were brought out in a reading which
was an admirable mixture of subtlety and
virility. Only in the final movement did
the orchestra reveal a weakness—here
the upper strings' were swamped where
they should have been dominant.
Sir Hubert Parry’s bridal march from
“The Birds” of Aristophanes, which will
be played at Princess Elizabeth’s wedding
tomorrow, has a pleasing melody and
quite a lilt to it, with no little majesty
in its final phases. Warlock’s “Capriol”
suite, a dance from De Falla’s “Three-
Cornered Hat” ballet, and Goossens’s own
“Cadet Rousselle”—a playful oddity with
a ring of “Pop Goes the Weasel” about
it—and the same composer’s “Three
Ceremonial Fanfares” were stimulating
fare. Linda Parker raised a soprano of
particular purity, if of restricted carrying
power, and with admirable diction, in
Micaela’s air from “Carmen” and the
“Depuis le jour” from Charpentier’s
“Louise.”
* * * *
“Death and the Maiden,” to an an-
dante cantabile of Schubert, and “Mer-
maid” were two items added to the
ballet procession at the Princess, Mel-
bourne, last week. Other new ballets
await arrival of the music from Lon-
don. Schubert’s solemn music had a
stark interpretation. Before a moving
background of black-shrouded batlike
figures Brenda Hamlyn mimed the dying
maiden while Death, in the shape of
Frank Staff in a cloud of inky garments,
alternately warned her and consoled her.
It was one of the simplest and expres-
sive things the Ramberts have presented.
“Mermaid” had that touch of the
ludicrous about it which occurs in ballet
when it tries to symbolise anything but
the great abstractions. The enterprise
was saved from complete bathos by the
telling dancing of Sally Gilmour, who
invariably displays intelligence above the
average.
* * * *
Priestley’s “People at Sea” was given
a successful airing in Brisbane by the
Australian Theatre Guild, under the
direction of Peter Buchanan. It is by no
means a good play, but it does eschew the
“star” system and gives excellent oppor-
tunities for everyone in the cast. There
were some interesting performances, par-
ticularly that of Bill Neilson as Boyne ;
his reading was excellent —convincing and
sustained. Morton Smith’s study of the
pathetic and hopeless Carlo was a very
sincere one, Franklyn Evans’s steward,
Ripton, was played for every point and
John Francis’s Professor Pawlet was one
of his best performances yet—unobtru-
sive, well-timed and free of those spas-
modic and distracting hand movements.
Tony Dick showed a marked improve-
ment in this production—his development
should be worth watching. Edna Fen-
ner’s Mrs. Westmorland was played with
charm and humor, and Coila Mc-
Cracken’s Diana with thoughtful intelli-
gence. Vivienne Campbell’s Miriam was
capable, in its way, but it seemed
that the actress was withholding a great
deal in a role not meant for underplaying
—such an impossible character must be
painted with the big brush, Rae Cox
pranced through her part with ease,
though she should give, a little more atten-
tion to deportment.
At the Films.
A left rip to the body—there is noth-
ing more deadly than the elbow of a
middle-aged female excited by a stoush
opus like “Body and Soul” at Sydney’s
St. James—a right, another left and this
scribe was sagging. Then, happily,
the barrage ceased, the matron hav-
ing fallen back in her seat, utterly
punchy. Her conduct was forgivable,
for the camera had somehow caught all
the tension of the stadium, and although
John Garfield trained on whisky instead
of milk, his performance in the ring was
very real. Aimed at the rotten growths
which have crept into the fight game
since Queensberry’s time, the film was a
classic in its line.
* * * *
“Nobody Lives for Ever” has John
Garfield as a racketeer who sets out to
sell 100,000 dollars’ worth of shares in
a fictional concern to a wealthy widow.
The w.w. turns out to be such a charming
young matron that Mr,- Garfield’s inten-
tions are sidetracked and finally aban-
doned altogether when he has to rescue
her from a few of his less sentimental
fellow-criminals. Some lesser characters,
including George Coulouris and Walter
Brennan, give more interesting perform-
ances than the principals. F.a.q. enter-
tainment at Sydney Plaza.
“Temptation” (Sydney Victory): Merle
Oberon is the wicked, wicked woman who
abandons her wilful ways for the respec-
tability of marriage with Egyptologist
George Brent. In her wickedly wilful
way, however, she strays once more into
an affair with an even more wilfully
wicked Charles Corvin, and the pair of
them set about murdering the unsuspect-
ing husband by slow poison and pinning
the blame on to a mysterious and malig-
nant curse which descends on anyone
who prises open a pyramid in search of
mummies. At the last moment Miss
Oberon suffers a surprising attack of
virtue, wilfully murders the wicked Mr.
Corvin and then pulls a pyramid down
on herself.


No. 21 of Series
Waterglass ...
as. te ,n Junu»r»
a
ft
WHEN we put eggs in “waterglass” we prevent
a chemical reaction taking place. Eggshells
are mainly composed of calcium carbonate but are
full of tiny holes which enable the egg to breathe.
Bacteria can enter an eggshell through these holes
and set up chemical changes which make the egg
inside go bad. One way of keeping eggs is to
freeze them because these bacteria are not active
at low temperatures. Another way is to stop up
the holes in the eggs by immersing them in ‘ water-
glass”—solution of sodium silicate. This substance,
which is made from sodium carbonate and sand,
differs from ordinary glass in that it is of simpler
chemical composition and is soluble in hot water,
whence its popular name. The manufacture of
“waterglass” and of the sodium carbonate or soda
ash used in its production is one of
the most important activities of the
alkali brand of the British chemical
industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates IL-35-16
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
Giving one of the finest performances of
his career Columnist (H. Badger) rounded olt
a very successful Melbourne visit with a slasn-
ing win in Saturday’s Williamstown Cup at
Flemington. He beat nothing of much account,
but he conceded them the proverbial ton all
round and was not extended in running course-
record time of 2.42 for the 13 furlongs.
Though not exactly leniently treated,
Columnist was fairly handicapped at 9.7, which
in any case ought to be the maximum weight
for every important handicap. Next to him m
the weights were Fine Fettle and Clatterb'ag
with 7.12, the others ranging down to the
minimum 6.7. Fine Fettle (carrying 21b. over)
finished on reasonably well in second place
ahead of Red Fury. Fine Fettle’s rider, R.
Heather, if nobody else, considered him a good
thing beaten after striking trouble at the turn.
On this trip to Melbourne Columnist has
had six starts for five wins and a third; has
bagged £11,400 in stakes and a brace of Cups.
All told he has won a dozen races and a
shade under £19,000. A five-year-old chestnut
horse of beautiful appearance, Columnist has
a pedigree fairly bristling with the names ot
good stayers. His sire, the French-bred Gene-
tout, is a son of Vatout, who sired the English
Derby winner Bois Roussel. Genetout won
races in France and Belgium, and in Australia
carried topweight of 9.5 to win the A.J.C.
Summer Cup. Pen Name, the dam ot
Columnist, is by that very successful sire of
stayers Marconigram, while her dam was Nom-
de-Plume, a daughter of Melbourne Cup winner
Comedy King.
Conditions at Flemington were perfect, good
time being recorded for every race. In fact,
a fair number of Melbourne Cups in bygone
days have been won in slower time than the
3.34 i recorded by Latani (R. Hall) in beating
Transit and Cheery Boy in the two-miles Cup
Hurdle. A warm favorite, Latani gave a fault-
less exhibition out in front all the way to win
by 15 lengths. Naturally he was easing up at
the finish, but even so went within a half-
second of the course record set a decade back
by Bridge of Mar.
Very few riders had to watch from the
dressing-room the running of the Strand Handi-
cap; there were 32 starters. It is a popular
belief that horses drawn wide out are as good
as lost in these scrambles up the straight six.
It is surprising how many of them are lost
through riders making the rails rather than
the winning post their first objective. Drawn
number 27, the Law Maker gelding Lord
Campbell (G. Bougoure) stuck to the Grand-
stand side, and, making a beeline for the finish,
was in front pretty well all the way; he
downed Gilwell and the favorite,' Sir Charles,
in 1.1 \\.
Under the special-weight conditions of the
five-furlongs Rawdon Stakes for two-year-olds
the St. Magnus colt Scotwyn (A. Breasley) was
penalised to carry.B.l2; other colts had Bst.
and the fillies 7.9. There was some support
for the John James colt Mile End, but Scotwyn
was odds-on favorite and gave them a gallop-
ing lesson to win by six lengths in 59|sec.
Scotwyn’s dam, Scottish Maid (he’s her first
foal), also won the Rawdon in her year.
Gay Invader started favorite for the Novem-
ber Steeple, but again showed that his speed
on the flat does not compensate for his aversion
to jumping. Going along with the favorite
throughout, David Star (G. Godfrey) displayed
almost equal speed on the flat and superior
jumping earned him the race; a couple of
lengths to Gay Invader and several more to
Gold Rein. David Star’s 3.5 1 i was only the
fraction outside the course record for the
trip over jumps.
J. Purtell rode another of his well-judged
races on Gayness, defeating Star Act and
Propontis over the 10 furlongs of the Captain
Robinson Handicap. The Australian record
for 10 furlongs is 2.1|; Gayness clocked only
a second worse.
* * *
At Randwick Warspite, early fancy for the
Villiers, had an impressive win in the six-
furlongs Horsley Handicap. Tamaroa (3 to 1)
was preferred in the betting, Warspite being
at 9 to 2. With Puffham, Lady Ajax and
Tahmoor making the pace a cracker, Cook
nursed Warspite along in a handy position and
got up to win by a length with a well-timed
finishing burst. Gay King, a stablemate of
the winner, showed form in filling third place
behind Tamaroa.
In the light of some of the front-running ex-
hibitions he’d been giving in middle-distance
events of late it was inevitable that Cisco should
strike the day when they didn’t catch him.
Starting at 20 to 1 in. the 10-furlongs Milperra
Handicap, he saw the trip out to a
comfortable win from Crusader and Courier.
With an allowance for apprentice R. Mclntosh,
Cisco, a six-year-old Marconigram gelding,
carried only 6.9 and ran the 10 furlongs smartly
enough in 2.4\. Blue Legend was well fancied,
but produced no sign of the finish which won
him two Doncasters and an Epsom.
A bad draw at the barrier nearly settled
odds-on favorite Simpkin in the Junior
Stakes. Sellwood bounced the McCarten-
trained colt out ahead of the others, but
he couldn’t muster sufficient early speed to
gain the rails. Cadet, from number three
post-position, took up the running, with the
favorite well back in the field. However,
Simpkin showed great gameness in making up
his ground to win by half a length; Cadet
second and Partando next. Simpkin is a beau-
tifully developed chestnut colt by Dhoti-
Chapani. His run over five furlongs suggested
that a little further , will be to his liking.
Impressive enough in her Rosehill win the
previous week, the Hua filly Huarette (G.
Moore) turned in an even better effort in
taking the Kindergarten Stakes for two-year-old
fillies. Decisively beating Midwise and Revenir,
Huarette ran the five in 59|sec.; Simpkin took
1.1, which is smart enough. Some excuses were
in order for Midwise, who, in addition to a
bad draw at the barrier, was carrying 9.5,
including a 141 b. penalty for winning the Gim-
crack Stakes. Huarette and a couple of otheis
had 8.12 and the rest 8.5.
Some horses and their connections certainly
have to battle for a win. Prior to Saturday
the maiden performer Menelik had lost four
photo.-finishes; on another occasion, when
strongly fancied for a restricted race, he had
fallen over. In the 12-furlongs Novice at
Randwick he figured in another photo.-finish,
but received the verdict, winning by a long
head from Gold Symbol, with Arabian Prince
a nose further back. As the cheers of the
mob rent the air (Menelik was favorite) the
protest flag went up. Protest, after lengthy
deliberation, dismissed.
In the Three-year-old Handicap of a mile
Coronation Lad (G. Moore), very partial to
“Look! Who said I was groggy?”
Randwick, did a commendable job in lumping
topweight of 9.4 to beat Jack Craw and Lord
Desmond. Over the same journey Hava Chat
(E. Fordyce) accounted for Nepean River and
I Believe in the Leumeah Handicap.
sfc % sk
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Maltine Stakes: So Sweet, 1; Huarette, 2;
Grey Nurse, 3. Hoxton Park Juvenile: Phalanx
or Simpkin, 1; Bernbrook, 2; Hippocrene, 3.
Farm Encourage Handicap; Arabian Prince, 1;
Gold Symbol, 2; Menelik, 3. Kirkham Stakes;
Phalanx or Simpkin, 1; Midwise, 2; Grey
Nurse, 3. Camden Handicap; Tamaroa, 1;
Warspite, 2; Tahmoor, 3. Warwick November
Handicap: Courier, 1; Silent, 2; Cisco, 3.
Welter; Edinburgh, 1; Johnny Zero, 2;
Thrums, 3.
H= * H= *
Trainer W. Kelso was completely cleared by
an A.J.C. inquiry into the running of Neinby,
winner of a Welter at Rosehill some time
back. In fact, Kelso was not carpeted at all;,
it was an inquiry held as a result of a letter
written to the A.J.C. by M. J. Skinner, one
of Neinby’s part-owners. The committee re-
ported -that it was satisfied “that there was
no justification for any suggestion that trainer
W. Kelso had been guilty of malpractice,” and
went on to say “The evidence disclosed some
irregularity in respect to the ownership and
control of the horse, Neinby, and this is being
dealt with.”
* * * *
Bradman’s Hundredth;
Biggest sporting event practically anywhere
on Saturday was the old reliable Don Bradman s
hundredth hundred. It even convinced some
of the sporting writers that Bradman isn’t a
back number. The fact is he never was. One
Sydney scribe wrote of his innings on Saturday
as showing “not the slightest trace of the wear
and tear of time so noticeable in his batting
last year.” In the Sydney Test last year Brad-
man scored 234 in 6i hours; Barnes made the
same score in 10J- hours. In three Tests Brad-
man’s tally was 549, av. 137.25; Barnes (next
best) averaged 85.5. And Bradman finished up
topping the Test averages with 680 av.
97.1. So much for what was noticeable in his
batting last year.
Against the Australian XI at S.C.G., India,
as in earlier matches, started badly, losing one
wicket for 11 (Mankad 3), but left-hander Gul
Mahomed (85) with Sarwate (32) added 70
for the second wicket, and with Hazare (38)
raised the tally to 161 for the third wicket.
Nine were out for 229, but a fine tenth-wicket
partnership by Kishenchand (75 not out) and
Irani (43) raised the tally to 326. Nibbling at
off-theory—which gave Saggers three catches—
and two run-outs were the Indians’ chief errors.
Half a dozen bowlers had a turn, Loxton (3
for 70) doing best.
The Australian side also began badly, with
one for 11 (Brown 8) and two for 31 (Rogers
16), but Bradman (172) and Miller (86) pounded
the attack and added 252 for the third wicket
in 154 min. Bradman’s splendid innings made
him the first Australian to score 100 centuries
in first-class play; next are Warren Bardsley
(53), Woodfull (49) and Macartney (48). Brad-
man was never at fault throughout the
innings, and towards the end hit mightily, in-
cluding a sixer into the clouds which fell
in the grandstand. He was out on another
sky-reacher, caught Arnamath off Hazare.
Although dwarfed by comparison, Miller played
a grand innings, and at stumps on Saturday
the total was 342 for four wickets. #
In the Sheffield Shield South Aus. put up
a fine performance tb down Victoria (holders)
by nine wickets at Adelaide. S.A. had five
down for 266 (Victoria scored 440 in the first
innings), but lesser lights lifted the total
to 536 (Ridings 151). Victoria went to shreds
in their second innings; all out for 182. James
(42 not. out), Hamence (27) and Ridings (17
not out) got the needed 87 runs in 63min.
At Brisbane Hassett (204) scored nearly half
Victoria’s total of 436 v. Queensland. The
effort of making 202 on the.first day —he was
out l.b.w. for two more on the second day*—
hasn’t been seen in first-class cricket for a
long time. Johnson, in a strenuous job
37 overs, took six for 114. Queensland finished
Saturday’s play 3 down for 154.^
Westralia justified its place in Sheffield Shield
by piling up 444 v. S.A. at Perth. K. Carmody
(198) and Robinson (90) put on 159 for the
second wicket, and eight of the side got double
figures. S.A. made a poor response with 109
against the bowling of O’Dwyer (5 for 47),
Puckett (3 for 47) and Watt (2 for 2), and
had to follow on.
* * * *
The Wallabies were lucky to win
against Oxford, the Oxford forwards, led
by Sydney Rhodes Scholar Travers, play-
ing all over them. But the Wallabies
beat LeiceStershire-East Midlands 17-11,
Windon, captain and breakaway, scoring
three fine tries. Broad, Dawson, Winning,
Shehadie and Davis also played well and
the team, on the day, looked capable
of anything. Broad, who hasn’t put a
foot wrong on the tour and played well
in Australia, should be given a chance
as a Test five-eighth. Shehadie, too,
should shine in the Tests, having weight
and toughness.
Travers, captain of Oxford, and a
breakaway, and Windon, Australia’s star
breakaway and temporary captain, both
served in the Sixth Division. Travers’s
Rhodes Scholarship, awarded in 1939,
was held over for the duration.
The L.T.A. has done a sensible thing in
arranging an Australian tour for two
promising young American players, Brink
and Moyian, who will give local players,
particularly the younger ones, some
much-needed experience of the sort of
play at present standard in the U.S.A.
The Americans make their first appear-
ance in the N.S.W. championships at
White City, early matches of which start
today (Wednesday).
* * * *
There were two nasty features about
the Pails business squealing and
contract-breaking. Arrived in America
to turn pro., Pails repeated his squeals —
he’ll need to change or they’ll be dubbing
him the Squealer from Down Under;
Bromwich, on the contrary, has been a
model of restraint that others in the game
—and in other Australian sport —might
well copy.
*** * '
A dozen boxers and wrestlers have been
chosen for the Olympic Games, those
picked winning their Australian titles in
Adelaide last week. Boxers: R. Gower,
flyweight (Tas.), O. Higham, middle-
weight (Q.), J. Carruthers, bantam
(N.S.W.), L. Birks, feather (Q.), W.
Barber, lightweight (N.S.W.), W. Boyce,
welter (N.S.W.). Wrestlers: R. Gerrard,
welter (Vic.), E. Purcell, feather (Vic.), B.
Harris, flyweight (N.S.W.), R. B. Arthur,
middleweight (Vic.), J. Armstrong, heavy-
weight (N.S.W.), F. Huxtable, light-
heavyweight (S.A.). There may be some
argument over Armstrong, who repre-
sented Australia against the English
Rugby League team last year. It’s con-
tended that he played as an amateur.
* * * *
Beating Ray Coleman (8.10 f) to the
punch for six rounds at Leichhardt, Ken
Hatcher (8.9) looked a sure winner, but a
couple of clinking rights straight to the
chin had Hatcher open for a right upper-
cut that floored him for “eight” in the
seventh round, Hatcher hadn’t recovered
from that punch when they came up for
the next round, and when he’d been twice
down, ref. Mawson made it Coleman,
t.k.o.
’** * *
Alfie and George, both welters of the
well-known fistic firm of Sands Un-
limited, gave Melbourne Stadium cus-
tomers plenty for their money, Alfie
(10.7) losing narrowly on points to Jack
Bridges (10.1) and George (10.6) con-
quering Bill Burns (10.7) per t.k.o. in the
ninth round. In both scraps there was
more slog than science, but it was thump-
ing good slog.


df
Enjoy a cooler, more com-
fortable home ... by in-
stalling VENTILATING
RIDGE CAPPING. Simple
and easilyfitted.it enables
hot air to escape freely
from the highest point of
the roof, and allows cool
air to circulate continuously
throughout your home.
Proved by laboratory tests,
VENTILATING RIDGE
CAPPING should be
specified in every country
home building contract.
Ask your plumber or builder
DIAGRAM above shows the
normal non-vcntilated roof
with ‘blanket’ of hot air
unable to escape.
o
A
Th
New VENTILATING
RIDGE CAPPING which
permits hot air to escape
freely, thus inducing con-
tinuous circulation of cool air.
r
There Is a
YSAGHT
sled sheet for every building need
/
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.
LI77A-5970
WEIGHT
APPROX.
d
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY*
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.)» Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. lAS.
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chownnghee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q'LAND OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“Full Employment”
The Chifley Government has wedded
itself to a policy of “full employment.”
“Labor’s” general economic behavior
makes one wonder whether it has the
faintest idea of the implications of the
policy, and, if it has, whether it hasn’t
undoubtedly committed the country to a
programme of full socialisation.
Any investigation of a full-employment
policy based on Government spending
will reveal that it leads to inflation
quickly if uncontrolled ; and, if the obvi-
ous controls are employed, then we must
look forward to perpetual price-control
and subsidies, perpetual control of foreign
trade and growing State control of pri-
vate investment, location of industries and
direction of labor. In the “controlled”
system taxation becomes a major instru-
ment also ; even so, there is no guarantee
that wild inflation will not in the end
emerge from it all for the reason that
money may have been created vastly in
excess of the amount of goods produced
by the “fully employed,” or that national-
isation of all industry will not be de-
manded.
Canberra “Labor” has shown that it
intends to give private enterprise very
little help towards restoring its position
as the chief medium of employment.
The Government itself wants, directly or
indirectly, the privilege of job-finding and
directing—or misdirecting—labor. The
number of civil servants employed
by the Commonwealth authority has
more than trebled since war began,
and the growth in State Govern-
ment employees has been very large
also. But, far greater than this, Canberra
“Labor” has for years been striving to
form the shape of private employment.
It may be that Mr. Chifley and his
colleagues have no other idea beyond tliat
of giving a job and creating money to
do so every time a man is unemployed,
and hang the ultimate economic conse-
quences. Or it may be that someone in
the Ministry, or an adviser to the Minis-
try, has peered into the doctrine of the
late Lord Keynes, who contended that
unemployment rose from deficiency of
demand produced by the uninvested sav-
ings of the people.
The Keynes argument was in opposition
to that put forward as the “classical
theory” of the nineteenth century,
which was that supply creates its
own demand, and that, though one
man’s income depended upon an-
other man’s spending, what people
didn’t spend but saved would also pass
into spending-power by reason of busi-
nessmen’s borrowings and capital outlay.
The Keynes contention was that some
people may wish to save, with no one
willing to use the resources left unspent
by them —that decisions to save were not
automatically linked with decisions to
borrow and invest, and that a “deficiency
of demand” therefore arose, causing
overproduction and unemployment.
Studies prepared at the Oxford Uni-
versity Institute of Statistics acknowledge
the Keynes theory of unemployment and
suggest Budget-deficit spending and re-
distribution of incomes from the higher
to the lower income classes as a means
of achieving “permanent maintenance of
the state of full employment.”
M. Kalecki, one of the Oxford Uni-
versity statistical staff, offers the opinion :
Government expenditure on public invest-
ment and subsidies to mass consumption, either
in the shape of “deficit-spending” or financed
by an increase in income tax, is always capable
of securing full employment. The expenditure
must be larger in the latter case because of
the pressure upon the consumption of income-
tax-payers. In practice Income-tax-financed ex-
penditure—which has the advantage not only
of securing more employment but also of re-
ducing the inequality in the distribution of
incomes (after taxation)—should be pushed as
far as politically possible, and, if this is not
enough to secure full employment, expenditure
should be expanded as much as is necessary
by means of borrowing. Cutting profit-margins
—either in the form of price-reduction of con-
sumption goods or wage-increases with constant
prices—undertaken within the framework of
price-control will also increase effective demand
and thus make the task of Government expen-
diture to secure full employment easier.
Private investment must be pushed up to the
level sufficient to expand the productive capa-
city of capital equipment pari passu with the
increase in population and the productivity of
labor. This may be done by making part of
income tax subject to a modification which
eliminates its adverse influence upon net prpflt-
abiiity (or by replacing a part of the income
tax by a capital tax). Moreover, it may be
advantageous or even necessary for the Govern-
ment to take a hand in investment in the private
sector (e.g., slum-clearance).
Government expenditure on public investment
and subsidies to mass consumption (financed by
income tax or borrowing) must be such as to
create full employment in combination with this
level of private investment. The division of
Government spending between public invest-
ment and subsidising consumption should be
based on the principle of social priorities.
Accept Mr. Kalecki’s plan for full em-
ployment and we embark-upon a scheme
of indefinite price-control, differential
taxation, “social priorities” (the arbitrary
setting of one class of enterprise above
another), the direction of labor, the
licensing of private enterprise to a certain
extent and the “euthanasia of the rentier”
—the rentier being the investor. And a
colleague of Mr. Kalecki, Mr. E. F.
Schumacher, says that inflationary ten-
dencies evident in the Budget-deficit
method of financing full employment
“must be counteracted by heavy pro-
gressive taxation or even more direct
methods—rationing and direct control of
materials. Such measures will then be
justified by the emergency which has pro-
duced the necessity for them. They need
not be contemplated in the economics of
stable full employment.”
All engaged in preparation of the
Oxford studies, however, are aware of
the danger of sectional trade-union de-
mands under a condition of full employ-
ment. Mr. Chifley should be doubly
aware of it. But the dismissal of G. D.
N. Worswick (Oxford) of the problem
with the comment that “wage-bargaining
in full employment is, in fact, a political
problem, and will be settled on the
political plane” is to sidestep one of
the fundamental snags in all unemploy-
ment panaceas.
Mr. Schumacher continues:
The New Economics demonstrates that it is
within the power of any Government of a well-
organised modern society to ensure a full utilisa-
tion of resources. This power rests upon two
traditional prerogatives of Government: first,
to commandeer part of the income of citizens
and to spend the proceeds of taxation, and,
second, to print IOUs of whatever kind the
citizens may desire to hold as a vehicle of their
savings. This second prerogative derives its
importance from the fact that one kind of
governmental lOU, namely currency notes, are
legal tender in law and generally accepted
“money” in custom.
But, says Mr. Schumacher, though a
mixture of both policies can be applied
so as to lead to full employment, it is
not likely to be satisfactory unless “the
underlying problem is solved: the
problem out of which most of the other
difficulties arise—the gross distribution of
incomes.”
And on this point he says “Any re-
distribution of incomes towards a smaller
inequality is bound to reduce private
saving and may thus contribute to the
solution of the unemployment problem.
... .Taxation, therefore, appears here in
a function which is somewhat different
from the function normally attributed to
it: its object is ‘redistribution’ rather than
merely the raising of cash for the State.”
In a summing-up of the six different
Oxford studies on aspects of full em-
ployment the comment is made: “The
deficiency of demand, which lies at the
root of unemployment, can always be
made good, either by income redistribu-
tion from the savers to the spenders or
by deficit-spending of the Government.
This is not, indeed, the full solution.
Those who advocate increased spending
alone as the panacea of our economic
troubles ignore the consequences of such
a programme.... Making even the most
optimistic assumptions about future
developments it is obvious that full em-
ployment will require a greater degree of
Government control in economic affairs
than has been the rule in the past. And
it is this extension of the power of the
State which causes apprehension. But
the alternative to the controls which full
employment brings is not some ideal state
of full employment without control, but
unemployment and trade fluctuations.”
Is Mr. Chifley indeed a disciple of the
“New Economics,” or does he simply
agree that “a policy which attempts to
achieve full employment in an industrial
country exclusively by stimulating private
investment cannot be regarded as satis-
factory,” and so turns to pet ideas of his
own, plus his party’s policy of nationalis-
ing the means of production, distribution
and exchange?
The powers asked for at the 1944
referendum were held out by “Labor” to
be necessary to a programme of “full
employment” in the Commonwealth ; the
present aim to nationalise the trading
banks is alleged by “Labor” to have
maintenance of full employment behind
it; and a referendum is to be submitted
to the people by “Labor” in order to
allow it to exercise price-controls for all
time if it thinks fit. Such price-control is
considered essential in a full-employment
policy by the Oxford writers quoted.
Neither the Oxford plan nor what we
have seen of Mr. Chifley’s full-employ-
ment-ewm-socialisation policy has great,
appeal for enterprising and industrious
Australians. An objective of maximum
employment based on freedom of* enter-
prise, efficient production and consider-
ate credit policy, whilst undoubtedly
vulnerable to some extent in times of
world depression, is likely to be more
successful in the long run than an ever-
lasting system of “controls” and restric-
tions that is hardly distinguishable from
the socialised State. And any kind of
State in which the stimulus to produce
and to save is removed seems bound to
become demoralised and overwhelmed by
economic confusion in the end.
Though Dr. Hugh Dalton’s name has
been known in economic circles for
almost a generation, his resignation, fol-
lowing a “grave indiscretion” over
Budget secrets, as Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer will be regretted by few. With a
socialist background, his doctrinaire atti-
tude towards economic problems Brought
Britain little good, and his own cocksnre-
ness did not infuse the average Briton
with an equal amount of confidence.
* * * *
Gordon Griffiths, D.P.A., writing in
the monthly journal of the Chartered In-
stitute of Accountants, has drawn atten-
tion to the fact that succeeding N. S.
Wales Governments between 1902 and
1939 spent £77 million without prior
appropriation by Parliament. Protests
against this practice by public accounts
committees have been of no avail. Mr.
Griffiths suggests that a Budget bureau
or secretariat should be set up, along the
lines of U.S. practice. “The bureau
should be empowered to scrutinise and
revise the departmental estimates and sub-
mit to Parliament a report on the Budget
proposals. Parliament would thus obtain
a detached view of the financial plans of
the Government.” All this, of course,
goes double for the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, which is even more offhand in
its Budgeting.
* * * *
During the last three pre-war years
the average production of all meats in
Australia—beef, mutton, lamb, pork,
bacon and ham —was about 80,000 tons
a month. Though it rose to a higher total
durinjg the • period of the U.S. Army’s
stay in the Commonwealth it has since
fallen away—to a monthly average of
67,108 tons in 1945-46 and 74,497 tons
in 1946-47. Beef is down most heavily
—33,337 tons a month in 1945-46 com-
pared with 49,733 tons averaged in 1937-
38. There was some recovery in 1946-47 ;
40,260 tons a month was averaged. The
current year will find demand still greatly
in excess of supply. Britain can take all
we can produce, and the same applies to
butter, the most depressed, in terms of
production, of all our land products.
* * * *
With the issue of Nov. 15. the “Satur-
day Evening Post,” published in Phila-
delphia, U.S.A., raised its price from 10
cents to 15 cents. Before April, 1942,
the price was five cents. A steep rise in
publishing costs has forced the “Post’s”
action. A black-and-white page of adver-
tising in the “Post” costs $10,500 (£3300)
and upwards. Its circulation is in the
vicinity of 5,000,000 copies weekly.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Department of Local
Government has approved single-story
houses of Dampney concrete-slab con-
struction for suburban dwellings. Gerald
Dampney is still working towards his
objective of setting up a nation-wide
home-building organisation intended to
reduce costs greatly.
* * * *
Though the co. has its full share of
manufacturing troubles, including coal
shortage and a partial dependence on
overseas raw materials, Australian Paper
Manufacturers has interesting prospects,
and its holding cos., Australasian Paper
and Pulp and Cumberland Paper, de-
serve sharemarket attention.


A TRAIN TO NEW ZEALAND
—AND BACK
♦
iH
Mi
mk
mm
n
■
*
ill
a
a
If all the light railways provided by the mill owners to take the
farmers’ sugar cane to the mills were joined end to end, they would
reach as far as New Zealand and back.
sr—• *9
■
W?:
mmmi
W :
31,000 trucks carry the cane on these light railways to the mills
where the juice is crushed from the cane and made into raw (crude)
sugar. In addition, the ordinary railways, motor trucks and punts
are used for cane transport. 7 of the 35 mills are owned by the
C.S.R. Company. The raw sugar is shipped to the refineries to be
made into a pure foodstuff.
m
FOURPENCE HA'PENNY A POUND! The strictest
economy and the closest attention to scientific efficiency
has helped offset rising costs of producing sugar.
The recently approved rise of |d. a pound in the price
of sugar i» the first rise since 1922.
Fourteen years ago the price was reduced from
to 4d. a pound as a depression measure. Since then
the price of all other foods has risen by 45%. If
sugar had risen by that percentage the price would
be s|d,
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
mm
MlitWw
Oft
11
11]
ill
11
1 11
11] 1 1
111
1*
1] v
iV 1
n
ill
ojj\j seJvW*'
®li
You’ll really appreciate thv. wonders of flight when you
fly the Pacific with B.C.P.A. Every minute is filled
with content as experienced flying crews speed you
securely and charming hostesses dispense comfort. For
added pleasure, you enjoy 27 unforgettable hours in the
gay, tropic paradise of Honolulu. Fly the way ot
B.C.P.A. and make your business-trip a pleasure!
SVDNE/ - FIJI - CANTON ISLAND
HONOLULU - SAN FRANCISCO - VANCOUVER
Thrice Fortnightly from Sydney • Fortnightly from Auckland
Services operated temporarily by A.N.A. under contract.
See your local travel agent or write to
I
BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC
AIRLINES
44 Martin Place, Sydney
Traders and other bank borrowers in
New Zealand have felt the pinch of
tightening-up in credit-control as M.L.’s
Reserve Bank puts the pressure on.
Loans under almost complete ban are:
(1) For speculation ; (2) for investment;
(3) for purchases of property; (4) for
capital expenditure, such as construc-
tion and extension of industrial and com-
mercial premises and plant; (5) for re-
payment of mortgages; (6) to finance
hire-purchase and other credit sales ; and
(7) for luxury buying. It isn’t the Re-
serve Bank’s aim to dry up credit for
these purposes, but to force borrowers to
draw on existing money and credit —in
short, to put the brake on credit-expan-
sion. High on the list of those entitled
to new bank advances are merchants, im-
porters and retailers who want to finance
wholesale and retail stocking-up as im-
ports flow in on a scale not seen since
M.L. nearly went externally broke
at the end of 1938. There’s no lack of
funds to bring in goods as full ship-
ments follow each other in a con-
tinubus line, with high prices swelling
demands for temporary capital. Millions
have been taken out of Reserve Bank
exchange funds in London and handed to
trading banks to meet customers’ de-
mands, and as the goods come through
advances in Maoriland are soaring. After
the New Year they will come down again
as the goods are turned into cash and
advances are repaid, for the import-
licensing barrier will be up again after
a few months’ merry respite.
* * * *
Australian firms endeavoring to buy
intricate made-to-order machinery from
overseas today face great difficulty
and uncertainty even where no dollars
are involved. It is almost impossible to
get a firm quote from a British concern
for a job entailing a year or so’s future
work without the addition of an “esca-
lator” clause providing for rises or falls
in cost. Under the Attlee socialisation
plan costs, especially fuel and wages,
have been rising disturbingly, and the
Commonwealth pound is pegged at
£AI2S to £lOO sterling, with the result
that there is little chance of the Aus-
tralian manufacturer being covered
against a rise in plant costs by a harden-
ing of ithe exchange rate, and little hope
of his getting adequate consideration
from the Canberra Prices Branch. Plant
ordered on an initial quote of £lOO,OOO
sterling might eventually cost £150,000
sterling when completed in a couple of
years’ time. This uncertain prospect de-
ters many manufacturers from taking a
gamble on new plant acquisitions, especi-
ally when there is so little latitude
allowed in recouping capital costs in con-
trolled Australian retail prices.
* * * *
The B.H.P. shipyard at Whyalla (S.A.)
launched its first job—a 682-ton naval-
patrol vessel, H.M.A.S. Whyalla—on May
12, 1941. Since then three more such
naval vessels have been built, besides
two 4812-ton ore-carriers, five 5000-ton
River-class freighters, three 2350-ton D-
class freighters and one 4000-ton B-class
freighter. In addition, on September 1
the yards launched their biggest vessel,
the 12,500-ton ore-carrier Iron Yampi.
It is the largest ship ever constructed in
Australia, and will carry 11,400 tons of
iron ore from Yampi Sound (W.A.) to
Newcastle—a 2985-mile haul —in 10 days.
* * * *
Tableland Tin, Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), has
repaid its bank overdraft, discharged
arrears on the 80,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
and has declared a first (8 p.c.) div. on the
240,000 £1 ords., with Is. 7d. a share on
the 120,000 shilling deferreds. In the year
to June 30, 755 tons of tin concentrate
was produced (up 22 tons), and rtet profit,
allowing £13,000 (against £12,534) for
taxes, was £66,938, up £35,878. Mining
figures compare as follows;
1945-46. 1946-47.
Hours worked 5,713 7,237
C.y. treated 3,224,000 4,246,000
Acres dredged 45.3 67.1
Recoveries, tons 633.6 755.6
Assay, tin 72.8 p.c. 72.4 p.c.
Yield t.o. per yd. .. ,437 Ib. ,401 b.
Working costs, per
yard 6.5 d,. 5.48 d.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
been receiving more for its tin concen-
trates. It is 10 years since Malcolm New-
man floated the co. Capital outlay very
early ran ahead of estimates, and this
and other miscalculations —war held up
equipment of the mine plant—delayed
dividends to ord. holders. The undertak-
ing represents the biggest tinmining show
in the Commonwealth. Original estimates
of dredgable ground were about
80,000,000 cubic yards.
* * * *
In its latest grab for financial mono-
poly Maoriland’s socialistic Government
has seized employers’-liability insurance
and given a jolt to insurance companies.
This is another case, like that of the Re-
serve Bank, the Bank of New Zealand
and other enterprises taken over by the
State, where nothing has been or could
be said against private enterprise. The
companies haven’t a black mark against
them. There is no service the State can
provide that they couldn’t have arranged
as well. But Labor isn’t concerned with
standard of service ; it is out for mono-
poly, red-tape, bureaucratic control, pry-
ing into business and power. Workers
and employers are thrown into its hands.
These are the benefits alleged; Maximum
weekly compensation £5 10s. (against
£4 10s. in the past); maximum aggregate
payments £l5OO (against £1000); compen-
sation for* death, 250 times a worker’s
weekly earnings, or £750, whichever is
the greater (against 208 times weekly earn-
ings) ; payments during total incapacity,
75 per cent, of weekly earnings (against
66| per cent.). Increases of this order
were possible without monopoly, but the
Government wanted the business, and,
like a Socialist Government, has grabbed
it.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The starling found a
loose tile at a corner of the pub roof
and proceeded to establish its nest there-
under. Presently there were young, and
the mother foraged busily in the neigh-
borhood, carrying the food home and
entering and leaving by a genuflexion
through the galvanised-iron gutter. One
night there was rain, and the gutter, being
blocked, half-filled with water so that
the bird had to take a bath each time it
entered or left the nest. The next night
there was more rain, practically filling
the gutter. All the succeeding day the
bird tried in vain to enter the nest. It
would get its head into the water, some-
times its shoulders, but was always
beaten. By afternoon the pub staff, guests,
travellers and drinkers were gathered
at windows overlooking the spouting and
watching the performance. Money
changed hands as the bird tried again
and again to reach the nest, what time
the shrilling of the hungry young came
from beneath the tile. Towards evening
the water level fell a little and the price
about her making good shortened. Then,
with the sun low and other birds getting
ready for night, she nerved herself,
plunged into the water, struggled a
moment and vanished. When she emerged
again, wet and bedraggled and shook
herself vigorously before taking off, the
cheer she got from the audience startled
her into flight, and the crowd surged
downstairs to the bar.
* * ♦ #
“Gravelsnatcher”: “H.L.,” who ques-
tions my spelling of “pohon” pine (B.
22/10/’47), is probably correct. There
are two types of Malay—bazaar Malay
and high-class Malay—and it was the
bazaar talk with which pearlers were
familiar. The pine came down from
Malaya as boards for pearl-shell cases,
and “puan,” as I spelt it, was the way we
pronounced the word. Equipped with a
working knowledge of bazaar Malay, a
traveller could cover a lot of ground and
fair stretches of ocean, from Malaya to
the East Indies, and make himself under-
stood. But a few phrases of high-class
Malay came in handy sometimes, par-
ticularly in conversation with Dutch
officials, who objected to being addressed
in what they appeared to regard as gutter
language. One of the pegs on which our
Inderaesian comrades found it conveni-
ent to hang a grievance was the fact that
the Dutch addressed the natives in the
bazaar lingo, but insisted on a reply in
tonier talk.
* * * *
“Kelms”; “Barwon,” who classes the
greyhound as “useless” and “futile” (B.
8/10/’47), obviously hasn’t seen that
animal in action against Toos. I’ve em-
ployed most types of dogs in the bush,
and for speed, gameness and intelligence
I’d back the greyhound. Crossed with
the staghound he produces the dog that
became known as the kangaroo dog, but
the pure breed, properly trained, will
beat the cross. Many an early Westralian
family depended for their meat ration
on a handful of bone and muscle that
would overhaul a Too, throw him, and
crush his skull while bigger and more
powerful dogs would stand off and bay.
Presumably “Barwon” knows the grey-
ed only as an accessory to an act of
robbery But why condemn the dog
simply because he’s fallen on hard times
and into bad company?
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; While wattle-
birds are good eating I don’t agree with
Moyhu that the flesh is a “gourmet’s
delight’ (B. 29/10/’47). As boys in
Westernport Bay we leamt to shoot on
these birds, and I can name a score of
meis ahead of them on the menu.
Wheelwright, the old fowler who shot
game for the Melbourne market in the
’fifties, and who left his impressions in
that literary gem Bush Wanderings of a
Naturalist (published 1861), does' not even
place the honeyeaters in his “game fist,”
which, by the way, includes turkey, the
ducks, pigeons, geese, swan, snipe, quail
and rail Of wattle-birds he says that
while “not strictly game” they often
fetch ss. a dozen in Melbourne for the
reason they are thickest just after the
quail have left. For quail he got that
price a pair very often, and never less
than 2s. 6d., and that was in the days
when the market and public taste was
unrestricted even with game laws.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: After years of pros-
pecting just clear of the breadline, the
long bloke at last struck it rich in the
tin area at Greenbushes (W.A.), and sold
out at a figure that enabled him to satisfy
a long-held ambition to visit London.
Nobody, including Bill himself, under-
stood the reason for his yearning, but
this top priority had become an accepted
fact. Everyone who knew him was at the
station to see him off on the first leg, and
as Bill waved a woozy farewell from the
carriage window they started to specu-
late on what sort of a splash he’d make
iri the Old Dart. He was still being men-
tioned in casual conversation six months
later when he rolled off the train, too
drunk to realise that the last of his for-
tune had vanished. He sobered up in
time, and returned to the prospecting, but
he was always a bit hazy about that six
“Hey, go easy with that ramrod !”
months. He’d reached London all right,
but —“Aw, it was all right,” he’d say, if
you asked him. “Bit like Bunbury, I
think—plenty o’ lights.”
V * * 9 I
“Esk D.”: The shades of evening are
falling on Bungoanna homestead and the
daughter of the house is taking her ease
plucking a cockerel on the side verandah
when the caller, a slick, dapper young
man, presents himself importantly,
“Hiya, Toots. Is your Pop home?” he
bleats. “Fawther is in the far paddock
inspecting the nesting ewes,” replies the
girl, shifting from the breast to a wing
and making the feathers fly. “Well, is
Joe here?” asks the visitor. “At evening
devotions with the cows,” the girl says.
“What about Andy?” further inquires the
caller, staring popeyed. “Andrew is pre-
paring to capture a few samples of sub-
terranean mutton,” she says. The young
man shifts his weight uneasily from one
foot to another, whereupon the girl blasts
him with a toothy smile. “Better nick orf
now, Gutsache,” she says, gently. “There
ain’t a dog’s chance of gettin’ an instal-
ment on the tractor till next month.”
* * * *
“Ashton”: At the risk of incurring
the ire of gum-lovers I stoutly maintain
that for sheer beauty a tree that grows
profusely on the Ip River, in New Britain,
takes the plum. It has a satin-smooth
trunk up to 40 feet, topped with delicate
foliage, with a bole reminiscent of those
wine-bottles covered with colored sealing-
wax which still grace an occasional
mantelpiece. My taste may be lurid, but I
confess admiration for the vivid red,
green, blue and yellow slashes that stood
out even in the already highly-colored
background. The younger trees gave an
appearance of spongy paw-paw-like
make-up, but my machete bounced off
when I tested one. The mature trees
were used by our engineers to make
bridges, and stood up to the job well.
The “boys” called them Quela, but as I
have never since heard the name, and
have no reason to doubt the boys’ good
faith, I may have got it wrong. Any
others?
* * * *
“Blime”: Old Dick doesn’t do much
nowadays, but when McKinnon offered
him 12-bob a day to trap out a few
rabbits that had got in his creek paddock
the old chap decided he’d take the job.
There turned out to be more bunnies than
the owner thought; they trapped well, and
after a couple of weeks of it Dick sought
the skin-buyer. “I ain’t got no skins t’
sell,” he told him, '‘because Mac
keeps ’em. But what I want t’ know is,
what are they worth?” “About six shil-
lings a pound,” came the answer, “Gripes,
a deener each,” mused Dick, “and I bin
catchin’ about 20 or so a day. That’s a
qpid or more, an’ I’m gettin’ paid 12-bob.
Don’ seem right, eh?” He leaned on a
verandah-post to think it over. “ ’Course
I got t’ be fair t’ everybody,” he an-
nounced after a bit. “I agreed t’ do ’em
f’r that, didn’t I? Yair, that’s right. All
the same, nobody’s goin’ to put a thing
like that over me.” He turned homeward,
and the buyer saw no more of him until
a fortnight later, “Skins still the same
price?” Dick asked him then. “Let’s
know if they go up or down, will y’, so’s
I c’n work it. Me’n Mac ’s breakin’
square now, but cripes, I had t’ pull up
a lot o’ me traps so I wouldn’t catch
more ’n the 12-bobs’ worth.”
* / * if! *
“Kendon”: The fastest animal I know
on land is the racehorse goanna, and as
his top speed can’t be much over 60
m.p.h., he can’t compete with the fastest
of the feathered tribe. What bird that is
can be argued indefinitely. I’ve heard
ducks credited with speeds of over 200
m.p.h., and, having watched them com-
ing down-wind in fright, I’ll believe it. A
hawk diving on its prey may exceed this
figure. But, to obtain an impression of
incredible speed, go diving; from a
standing start the little fish that remain
poised, staring intently at the diver’s
goggles, can flick themselves out of sight
faster than the eye can follow. This is
not sustained speed. But come up top
again and view the chase as a deep-sea
mackerel follows its prey to the surface.
Someone with a mathematical turn of
mind may estimate the speed necessary to
catapult a 6ft. fish over 20ft. —lugger-
mast high—out of the water and into an
element in which its powers of propulsion
are negligible.
* * * *
“Narrin”: The question before the
Council is: Do rabbits kill snakes? The
other day I found a sizable brown lying
dead on a rabbit-warren, Kelly had
started on the corpse, and it was difficult
to see if the reptile had received any
injury. However, to the best of my
knowledge no man was responsible for
the demise. The only real piece of evi-
dence was the fact that the ophidian’s
mouth was full of rabbit-fur. I hacked
out the windpipe and opened it, but
there was no hair in the air-passages.
There was fur, thickly matted, over the
glottis, but that matting could easily have
occurred after death. Had there been
a rabbit-snake duel in which perhaps
both contestants came off second-best?
If so, how had the rodent extinguished
such a formidable opponent? A com-
paratively insignificant blow over the
heart region, or forward of the heart,
will stop a snake’s machinery in short
order. But whether a rabbit could fluke
a hard enough punch with his hind
scrapers is anybody’s guess.
* * * *
“Propalong”: The tourist bird is a
curious bird. Here in S.A. he spends his
cash on a week’s trip to the Flinders
Ranges. On part of this trip the tourist
bus in which he perches snakes around
for miles under a piagnificent mountain
wall, wriggles through a bit of scrub and
delivers him at the opening of a great
gorge where majestic red scarps climb to
the sky above greenery, running water and
a tangled forest of crowded gunjs. He
walks into Wilpena Pound through this
gorge. He enjoys scenery that has few
peers; he is in a natural zoo inhabited
by everything from euros and rock walla-
bies through blazing parrots and sym-
phonic butcher-birds to the universe of
water life in the sparkling runs and dark
pools of the creek. A month would be
too short a time to appreciate the Pound.
The tourist, having an hour or so, puts
in the time for which he has paid hard
cash in carving his name on gum-trees
that will still be young when his children’s
children are dead. A psychologist
would say that the tourist bird is so over-
whelmed by the grandeur and the glory
that, subconsciously, he tries to perpetu-
ate his ephemeral self by leaving what
he fondly hopes will be a permanent
record of his passing. The ordinary man
who loves wild places would like to
reach for a shotgun and a handful of
saltpetre.
* / * * #
“Mat’s Mate”; “Reckon you blokes’ll
be surgin’ up the Mallee for the wheat,”
remarked Phizgig, a casual acquaintance
we struck while having a spell in Mel-
bourne. “Aw, I dunno,” Mat murmured,
peering into his glass like a crystal-gazer.
“This wheat business is gettin’ played
out.” “Played out? Don’t be silly.
There's big crops an’ big money up there
this year.” Silence from Mat. I drained
my glass and looked round for the bar-
man. Phizgig tried again. “They tell me
the cockies round Horsham an’ right
through to Murrayville is prayin’ f’r
men.” The barman appeared and per-
formed his rites and wheat seemed far,
far away. Phizgig put his empty glass
down and began: “I see be the papers
there’s eight-bag crops on the Hopetoun
line” “Look here!” Mat howled.
“For seven years me an’ the mate have
chased round from Parkes t’ Patche-
wollock in the summer drivin’ headers
an’ sewin’ bags an’ lumpin’ ’em an’
arguin’ with cockies an’ dodgin’ their
daughters an’ sweatin’ in the dust an’
talkin’, thinkin’ an’ flamin’ well eatin’
wheat. Yair, for seven years we done
that an’ every seven years we have a holi-
day from wheat, see, an’ this is it. Now,
if y’ know of a nice, quiet, summer-time
job like sleeper-cuttin’ or spawl-breakin’
put us on to it. But don’t talk wheat!”
Phizgig’s mouth slowly closed, he swal-
lowed and then said “Hey, barman!”
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: The general facts
against the dingo having originated on the
Australian continent are: With the ex-
ception of man and dog, and a few insig-
nificant rodents, all the native fauna are
marsupial mammals. Between the mar-
supial mammal and the placental
mammal—man and the dog in this case
• —there exists an evolutionary gap of
millions of years. Therefore it is diffi-
cult to imagine Ijow, among a multitude
of marsupial forms, only one placental
form evolved. It just couldn’t happen.
Animal forms did not evolve fortuitously
but actually in response to their environ-
ment: thus the environment that devel-
oped marsupials did not develop pla-
centals. Probably when Australia devel-
oped its marsupials it was a part of the
great southern continent, the geologist’s
Ganwanaland, which linked with South
America, and also at times with Asia.
Which explains how it finally became
cut off from the rest of the world, a
land of living fossils. Further, Australia
was never a land of teeming competitive
life, such as tended to produce new and
advanced forms. Proof? No other con-
tinent is so poor in large fossils —only
exhibits are the diprotodon, merely an
O.S. wombat, and a few O.S. kangaroos.
And for a land mass Australia has been
quite extensively dug over.
* * * *
“W.J.W.”: I’ve just returned from
searching for a couple of week-end bush-
men who got themselves lost when they
strayed a few hundred yards from the
macadam. If we hadn’t found them
they’d have starved. As it was, their
panic-stricken wanderings provided a
couple of columns in the flapper press
and drew comments—serious, I think —
on the danger of leaving the beaten track.
I could have added to the warnings.
Thirty to 40 years ago that country was
comparatively wild —so wild that my
brother and I could vanish into it after
school on Friday afternoons in full con-
fidence of being able to live off the land
until the following Sunday night, when
we would return home. If game were
scarce or bush food failed, it was only a
10-mile step to the coast, where, at low
tide, the rocks yielded a feast of mutton-
fish to a pair of 13-year-old veterans.
Near where the two lost youths were
found, limestone caves used to provide
us with shelter. Once we came across
a hut in which a couple of Englishmen
lived in luxury—proper beds and a table
and chairs. We accepted their hospi-
tality, including a taste —our first —of
whisky. We were speculating on
their source of income when an explor-
atory trip into one of the caves revealed
their still. After that, that section of the
bush really was dangerous.
"THE GOODS.”
With headlight brightly glaring
And red eye set and staring
Like dragon in the dark;
Up screaming by the cutting,
And out the tunnel butting
And spitting smoke and spark;
With bursts of fire and snorting,
Its fiery sparks cavorting
Like stars against the skies;
Now coughing deep and wheezing
And blowing hard and sneezing,
Then panting up the rise;
Across the shaking bridges,
By plains and distant ridges,
Past lights on flat and hill;
Through sleeping town unheeding,
Past creek and river speeding
And cattle bunched and still;
By marshland soft and soaking,
Past bullfrogs: chorused crbaking,
And past the dark lagoon;
■ With distant whistle blowing.
And all the cocks acrowing—
“The Goods’ll be in soon!”
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Reltub”: As I passed our Victorian
country school at lunch-time the children
were all crowded around a modern cara-
van listening to the peripatetic evangelist.
The well-nourished plucker of burning
brands, waving an admonishing finger
and pointing an allegorical moral,
asked, “Come now —how do you bring the
cows home?” Then came the shrill
chorus: “Sling gibbers at ’em! ”
* * * *
“Zake”: Night was just drawing in,
and the weary horseman dismounted at
the little shanty pub tucked away at the
edge of the bluebush on the bend of the
road. Being informed he could be put
up for the night he took his horse into the
yard. In a detached old bough shed there
was straw, and into this he put his steed
after watering and feeding it. Back in
the bar he yarned to Bung, had a feed
of galah and pumpkin, and another yarn
and a few beers. About eight o’clock
Bung left the bar. Five minutes later, as
he came in holding a couple of grey
blankets, his “guest” stretched and
thought he’d turn in. The shantykeeper
tossed him the blankets. “You’ll have a
nice warm possie if you push the horse
over,” he said. “I went in to make up
y’r bed an’ neally walked on him. But
don’t get the blankets too near him, will
y’? It gives ’em a horsey smell.”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: “Bogaduck’s” explana-
tion of why the coconut failed to secure
a footing on Australian soil (B.
22/10/’47) throws a curious light on the
mentality of the primitive abo. Tribes
of the W.A. south-west, for instance, had
an unwritten law that no tree or useful
plant should be "wantonly deprived of
existence. Thus, if bark in a sheet was
removed from a tree the trunk was never
completely “rung”; a life-continuing
“Just give Strawb. a spruce up for the show , Sister!”
strip was left. With yams, wild parsnips,
?tc., a few were always left to throw
seed’ for the following season. Nor would
a seed-bearing plant be plucked, though
a portion of the ripe seed might be
taken. The one exception was the Xan-
thorrlioea, a few of which were sacrificed,
the head being chopped off for the sake
of the nutty-flavored mass, not unlike
coconut, which lay inside the. crown. The
decapitated grass-tree, as it decayed, then
provided a breeding-place for large suc-
culent bardies. The Xanthorrhcea is
botanically a palm-lily; possibly the
northern abos detected a relationship in
the coconut and so ate it. Anyway,
they would naturally show it no respect;
the primitive abo. everywhere has a
peculiar dislike for introduced flora —in-
stances were numerous in the early days
of abandoned holdings, or even those
temporarily vacated, being denuded of
every planted flower, vegetable and tree.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Add these to the “Binghi
cabbage” mentioned by “Gravelsnatcher”
as a cure for Barcpo rot (B. 29/10/’47).
Place ordinary blue boiling peas between
bagging which is kept damp for a few
days. They are ready as soon as the tiny
sprouts appear; cook in the ordinary
way. You can treat wheat in the same
manner and boil up for breakfast porridge.
In a small seed-box plant mustard and
cress, lettuce, parsley or even clover-seed
and keep the soil damp. Pinch off some
of the green tips every day and eat in
a sandwich. If water is very scarce,
sprinkle the seed on a bit of bagging,
wind it around the outside of a bottle,
with the seed next to the glass, fill the
bottle with water and hang a few bits of
string over the edge to act as wicks to
keep the bagging moist. The green
growth comes through the bagging. If
“pig-face” weed grows near by and is in
flower, wait till the flowers die and the
stem beneath swells and turns banana-
yellow. When cut open, the inside is some-
what like a sweet fig, with the same tiny
seeds. If the Australian bluebell is grow-
ing, eat the petals. Or go to a rocky hill-
side, roll over the flat boulders and collect
the eggs of the ants. They look and taste
like grains of rice. It’s amazing the
number of outback men who are willing
to put up with the wretched complaint
rather than go to the trouble of getting
the simple things which prevent it.
% %
“ Prop ”: Does “ Wippegong ” (B.
29/10/*47) number among his small-bird
acquaintances a little yellowish-grey chap
with the general appearance of a thorn-
bill and an orangy-yellow rudder with a
fringe of brown? A party of these,
one of the smallest Australian birds I
have seen, met me in stunted black-oak
scrub on a rocky hillside. When I stood
still, one after another flew straight to-
wards me, hovered in the air at eye-
level and about five or six feet distant
and then made way for the next scrutin-
eer. No, I didn’t have the heart to
collect one.
* * * *
“Flip”: When a citizen of Bombina
complains that the mathematics needed
to fill in the latest Government form are
a bit too much for him, he is advised to
consult Alf Barnett. And to explain the
ensuing “Oh, yair?” one must go back to
the last church fete. Alf had collared an
armful of hoopla prizes and gone in.
search of bigger game. He came finally
to a stall offering “a sterling cigarette-
case if you can count the peas in the
bottle—easy as failin’ off a log.” Alf
paused and pushed sixpence across the
counter with the estimate “nine hundred
and fifty-two and a half.” Later in the
afternoon the vicar called the gathering
together, announced that the pea-count
had totalled 952|, that Mr. Barnett had
guessed it absolutely correctly, and would
he tell everyone how he achieved such
astounding accuracy. “Certainly,” re-
plied Alf. “I merely worked out the
volume of the jar, then that of an in-
dividual average pea, and divided —simple
to one with a trained eye.” “Well, get
your trained eye off that cigarette-case!”
—this was Mrs. Barnett, one of the most
conscientious church-workers, who came
panting up from the afternoon-tea
marquee. “I thought you took a long
while when I got you to fill that bottle,
you fraud! ”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: At this season reptilian
matrons are beginning to think of the
reptilian equivalent of little garments.
This is especially noticeable among those
lizards which, scorning the newfangled
business of retaining eggs until they
“NOW I can see where the oil leak is!”
hatch, lay their eggs in the good old
way. Among the rocks, under the bindi-
eye, in cracked clay and under the
gibbers on the open plain one sees lizards
basking or hiding or scurrying to shelter,
their little bodies swollen with their
parcels of germ-plasm and yolk. The
babies, at hatching-time, must be
developed sufficiently to look after them-
selves —they receive none of the pam-
pered post-natal care that is fashionable
in the bird world —and to provide
enough food for that development the
lizard’s egg is relatively enormous. The
hard-shelled white egg of the little gecko
Peropus is about as big as its mother’s
head. This sometimes means a restric-
tion in numbers laid. But not always;
one little earless dragon, four and a half
inches of red camouflage, that I examined
recently contained eight sizable eggs.
However, the proudest mother I’ve seen
in a long time was a little stone gecko
with only two. Perhaps her pride
was not in numbers but in the eggs them-
selves. For after all the reptiles evolved
the first vertebrate egg that was capable
of living out of water. And that first
egg made it possible for the first time
for backboned animals to spread out and
conquer land far from pools and streams,
a process which the descendants of the
reptiles have extended all over the world,
and which they now talk about extending
to other worlds.
* * * *
“Bo”: Ted Hawkins lives three
miles out on the ridge side of the town-
ship. Steve Irvine’s place is five
miles out the opposite way in the valley.
Ted and Steve met in the store one Friday
afternoon. “Hear y’re thinking of selling
that Jersey heifer »of yours,” said Steve.
“The missus was reckoning we could do
with another. She wants to know if
you’ll sell her,” “Aw, I dunno,” replied
Ted. “I’ll ask my missus, anyway, an’
let you know* next week.” The next
Friday he met Steve. “Missus says y’
can have her fer fifteen quid,” he said.
“I’ll see what the wife thinks of it and
I’ll let you know,” replied Steve. A
week later Steve conveyed to Ted his
missus’ opinion that 15 was a bit high,
but that she’d go up to 12. “I doubt
whether the wife’ll come at that,” said
Ted. “I’ll let y’ know, anyway.” After
a further six weeks of bargaining by
proxy they settled for £l3 10s., and the
next Friday Steve handed the cheque to
Ted, who, after looking at it, handed it
back. “It’s made out to me, Steve,” he
said. “Would y’ mind makin’ it out to
the missus instead? I leave the handlin’
of the business part o’ things to her.”
Steve took it. “Y’ know, Ted, it’s a bit
of a nuisance you not doin’ things off
y’r own bat,” he said in mild reproof.
“I’m put to the trouble now of takin’
this back and gettin’ the missus to make
out a new cheque!”
* * * *
“Eatem”: A drover of Maitland
(N.S.W.) recently set out on a two-days
journey, and, finding he’d left the neddy’s
tuckerbag behind, decided to do the right
thing and emptied out his straw bedding
before the hungry nag. To his amaze-
ment it was packed with dead mice. The
plague has been over since June.
* * * *
“Canine”: With a bone between his
paws, even a Pekinese shows dinosaur-
ish instincts, baring his teeth in an
alarming manner should anyone attempt
to pat him or tamper with his fodder.
He thinks he’s a lion polishing off the
remains of his last victim, and after scrap-
ing the morsel to his satisfaction he plants
it, promptly forgets where, and will
tolerate human advances again. By most
breeds these manoeuvres are performed
in deadly seriousness. The bulldog alone
brings in a touch of humor, and seems to
sigh, when handed the offering, “I wish
to blazes you wouldn’t give me these
things.” By breeding, his bone-scrapers
have been reduced to a row of useless
little beads, counteracted by massive
gripping fangs further back. He makes
a few tentative attacks on the bone, be-
comes exasperated, and concentrates on
the second phase of the operation. Again
he is handicapped, and to get his mouth
down far enough to deposit the bone, he
must make a major excavation. Then,
exhausted and with dirt in his ears, he
stumps indoors, wipes them on the carpet
and curses you.
H* H*
“Plum”: speaking,
“F.L.’s” friend Joe (B. 5/11/ ’47) scox-es
about 50 p.c. in his custom of leaving a
knife out to rust and so harden, refusing
to use a crosscut saw until the chill is
off it, and leaving an axe driven into a
tree to take the rashness out of the
temper. Rusting of a knife neither
hardens nor softens the steel, as the iron
portion merely corrodes slightly, leaving
the hardness, which depends on the con-
stituents of the steel, unchanged. Joe
might notice, however, that a knife so
rusted had a better edge afterwards, as
the minute particles of carbon and iron
carbide, dissolved and crystallised in the
steel, .would be left behind on the surface
when the iron corroded away, giving the,
knife a microscopic saw edge. Joe was
dead right about the saw. At sub-zero
temperatures steel does become brittle,
and although the degree of embrittlement
would be very small at just under freez-
ing point, the sudden heating caused by
use would set up uneven stresses in the
metal and the saw would be much more
liable to lose a tooth or two. The axe
idea was pure superstition. The temper
of an axe might change slightly in use,
but the only way to make any real differ-
ence would be by complete retempering.
* * $ *
“Ell”: After several years of research,
Dan thinks he may have stumbled on
the origin qf that rich dark-brown taste
that lingers round the mouth after a heavy
night. The poker-game in his hut had
brought in a school of six; there was
plenty to drink, and the place was so
thick with smoke that most of us were
sitting on swingers on the off-chance that
we might be buying to three of a kind.
As the evening wore (Sn, Dan’s upper
teeth began to hurt, and he was
graciously conceded permission to re-
move them to a more comfortable loca-
tion alongside his glass. Feeling pleasantly
drowsy after a satisfying evening, he
shuffled them back into place again just
before hitting the hay. Early next morn-
ing, he was awakened by the nasty rasp-
ing sound caused by his tongue running
over his lips, and sought the water-tank.
A drink only livened up the taste a bit,
and an inspection of his tongue caused
him to put the mirror down with a
shudder. Thinking that a spring-clean of
his dentures with Joe’s pink tooth-paste
couldn’t make matters worse, he re-
moved his top plate. It took Dan some
time to identify the leached, pallid object
sticking to the inside as a cigarette butt.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: “Bo’s” cow-cocky
who grieved over the demise of Strawb
(B. 8 /10/’47) wasn’t the first to salt down
a bovine cadaver that had been reduced
to such a state by what might be termed
“an act of God.” In a letter from the
Swan River settlement, George Fletcher
Moore gives a short history of the illness
of his only cow, which for the last few
days of its life lived “only on glauber
salts and aloes.” Then the melancholy
note “The cow is dead.” But though dead
it was not forgotten —for a while, at any
rate. “Cut up and salted my poor de-
ceased companion and ifxade candles of
the tallow. Dined sumptuously on one
of her marrow-bones —and now she’s
gone, marrow-bones and all.” In that
year, 1831, a quantity of salt meat, beef
and pork, condemned in the Government
Stores as being unfit for human consump-
tion—and it had to be pretty ripe before
that happened —was buried, but was dis-
interred by the populace and eaten.
OLD STEAM TRAMS.
There are ghosts of women and shades of men
In Sydney Town maybe,
But I’ve seen the wraiths of the old steam trams
—And that was a sight to see —
Pelting along Elizabeth-street,
Banging their eerie bells,
All in a cloud of graveyard light
And steam and ghostly smells.
The street was narrower then than now
And packed with shops and inns
Where men bought wine and lobsters, too,
And genuine fish with fins.
Then sat in the steam trams in the smoke
Trying to read the news
By the pallid light of the ghastly lamps
They used in the ’92’s.
They were the. fastest things on wheels
That ran on tracks well-railed —
From Randwick Heights to Phillip-street,
Their phantom whistles wailed;
And on the curve where winebars stood
And the cops now have their home
In Hunter-street their hot steam cried,
“Look out, there, here we come!”
And round they came—they mostly did —■
Twas a marvellous sight to me,
All in a cloud of lurid lights
And the funnels grand to see,
Shooting their plumes of smoke inside
The windows high that gaped.
While the guards’ bell-punches clipped the fares
And never a man escaped.
“Ho, all aboard!” and “Right away!”
The ghostly guards gave tongue,
While on the step of the rear-end car
The last late-comer hung,
Pelting along Elizabeth-street,
Heading for Randwick Heights—
I reckon the shades of the old steam trams
Are Sydney’s greatest sights.
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


IT'S EXPERIENCE THAT COUNTS !
We are proud of our 84 YEARS OF DISTINGUISHED SERVICE TO THE
MAN ON THE LAND. These years of extensive activities in the sale of wool;
produce; fat, store or stud stock; or property —in the purchase of station and
other requirements—in the rendering of personal services—have built up an
organisation thoroughly versed in the varied needs of the pastoralist.
Team up with A.M.L.&F. and let their experts help you with all your problems,
speedily and efficiently. Get in touch with A.M.L.&F. today!
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Ine. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree. Henty and Hay.
KILL INSTANTLY w ith
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
v-'"
it
'j'H
1,1.% )
LYSAQHTTS
.4 '
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting. '
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
-.y/vyxo ~ C-~ TV.' V ■■• V.'W;
, - ~
JT
• ■ *
m t
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants , Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Future of Shearing.
“Murrawong”: Early this season
Queensland and N.S.W. had plenty of
shearing labor ; from September on there
was an acute shortage. The position in
Victoria has been chaotic ; shearing will
extend into 1948, and the same applies
to Tasmania. Higher pay and better
accommodation in N.S.W. were respon-
sible for more settled conditions. There
was practically no industrial trouble. But
with the advent of wheat-harvesting and
fruit-picking the pool of seasonal labor
has run dry, and it seems many sheep
may have to go unshorn.
Provisions for training new shearers
have been totally inadequate for years.
Some employers have observed the one-
learner-in-every-six-shearers rule, but it has
been completely ignored by others. There
is no lack of young men anxious to learn
—they simply cannot get the opportunity.
The big stations have been responsible
for training shearers, and the small
properties have been consistent gainers.
Subdivision of large estates during the
past 30 years has produced many two-,
three-, four- and five-stand sheds, and
the learner has little chance of a pen in
them. On 1941 statistics, 94 p.c. of the
N.S.W. flocks alone were of fewer than
5000 sheep. Which means that out of a
total of 34,100 flocks only 1800 could be
expected to have shearing sheds carrying
five or more stands. The number actually
engaging six shearers would probably be
not much more than 1000. That means
that 1000 sheepowners are responsible for
the training of future shearers, and 33,000
sheepowners are not contributing. In
Victoria the proportion of small holdings
to large is even greater.
If the proportion of learners were in-
creased to one in every four stands it
would improve the position in N.S.W.
alone by about 2000 learners per annum.
If something like this were done it would
have to be thoroughly policed, as many
employers aim to keep shearing costs
down at any price. They could be evaded
by the replacement of a learner with a
slow shearer, irrespective of the number
of years he has been shearing.
It is not enough to hand a newchum a
machine and leave him to teach himself.
The only way to make a shearer is to
teach him how to hold his sheep and
handle his machine right from the start.
The number of men competent to do that
is getting less every day, and there are
certainly not enough to staff the sheds
where the duties of the overseer include
experting, classing and shedhand work.
Shearing schools aren’t popular, chiefly
because owners object to having their
sheep subjected to the rough handling and
chopping about that are associated with
learners. Nevertheless, there should be
some primary ihstruction at central points
where the learner could be taught how to
look after his machine and how to hold
his sheep. When he has grasped those
elementary points speed will come with
experience.
Beef Fattening.
“Archaps”; Beef-cattle grazing on
green oats in the Jackson district of
Western Queensland had produced weight
gains comparable with those obtained in
American feedlots on grain, Len Mc-
Lennan told a meeting of graziers at
Miles. McLennan was influenced to go
in for crop-fattening when he noticed
fatteners from the Darling Downs attend-
ing cattle sales at Miles and paying much
“Y' don't 'um while y'r playin' , Steve — remember , this is Bee-thoven!"
higher prices for stores than grass-fat-
teners could afford to pay. Inquiries dis-
closed that they were getting their cattle
off younger and getting better weights
than grass-fatteners, and fat-stock buyers
were showing a preference for their cattle
over those grass-fattened on the western
Jine.
In his locality, said McLennan, the
best fattening grazing was box, myall
and sandalwood country. He was fatten-
ing on belah and brigalow country, which
was practically worthless for fattening in
its natural state and not high-class fatten-
ing with normal improvement. Compar-
ing the Jackson district wjth the Downs,
McLennan stated that the heavy soil and
higher rainfall on the Downs produced
a greater bulk of green feed than could
be obtained farther west, but compensa-
tion for the smaller quantity was found
in higher quality, less dust, land was
cheaper, and timber provided shade and
windbreaks. The western country was
also better holding. He had turned cattle
off every month of the year; this year
oats had made the job simpler,
Feedlots are America’s answers to sea-
sonal interference with supplies, and as
Queensland has a summer rain the logical
procedure is to take full advantage of it.
In the west sorghum, could be planted
in November-December and held till
June and July, or even August, during
which period it could be used with oats
for balancing the ration. McLennan,
however, goes for oats.
Oats could be sown in February, and
with a reasonable season would carry
through till November. Oats could stand
more grazing than other cereals, and
under Jackson conditions came close to
being the ideal feed. Oats would fatten
into really good beef any cattle over 12
months of age; everything going off his
property (Cypress Downs) this season
would be g.a.q., including a couple of
Jersey steers.
McLennan pointed out that the reason
why Australia, by 1939, had to take a
lower price on the London market was
the age at which Australian cattle were
marketed. Argentine rarely sold anything
over three years, while the U.S.A.
rarely sold cattle over two years; there
v/as very little demand for the three-
year-old beast, which was too heavy for
trade requirements. On oats in the Dalby
district in 1946 McLennan steers put on
about 101 b. per week, which was equiva-
lent to weight gains under grain-feeding
in U.S.A. feedlots. This encouraged him
to put 600 acres under oats this year.
The Shed* Layout.
“Atlanta”: “Jock’s” dogmatic asser-
tion that association of shed and dip is
a bad idea (B. 22/10/’47) is open to
doubt. Where the spray-dip is an adjunct
tc the shed the shearing engine can be
used to drive the pump, while the ex-
pense and trouble of building additional
yards and forcing pens are eliminated.
Clean water for the dip can be con-
veniently stored in tanks filled by roof
run-off.
If shed and yards have been care-
fully planned—and that “Vic. Journal of
Agriculture” layout (B. 6/ 8 / ’47) is a
good guide—there need be little difficulty
in penning sheep. Walls of pens should
be built so that sheep are not baulked
by activity inside the shed. Where a
plunge dip is attached to the shed, the
man in the forcing-pen should regulate
the flow of sheep to the dip. Sheer care-
lessness causes 95 p.c. of drownings there.
Potato Sprouts.
“Hortus”; Look out for blackening
and dying of seed-potato sprout tips.
This holds back the plant development
very seriously and causes the growth of
lateral branches half-way down. Ex-
periments show that blackening never
occurs in tubers sprouted under good
light conditions. The majority that
sprouted while still in bags were black-
ened. Cause was that the sprouts were
so easily bruised in the bags and slight
bruising resulted in ruined sprout-tips.
Slight bruising of tips, when grown in
bright light, showed no after effect of
blackening.
Therefore don’t keep seed potatoes too
long in bags in the dark. Spread them
out in trays, so that the maximum of
light falls on them. It is suggested that
about one cwt. of seed should be set out
in four trays each measuring about lift
by 2ift. Change position of trays every
now and then, so that each receives a
uniform amount of the bright light.
If you can avoid this blackening of
tips, the result in 99 cases out of 100
will be earlier-maturing, firmer and better-
tasting potatoes.
Falling Stock Numbers.
“Mr.”: Their seriousness is revealed by
the Commonwealth Statistician. At
March 31, 1947, sheep numbers were
95,723,000, the lowest figure since 1924
(93,154,000 sheep). Since 1942 there has
been a steep decline, amounting to 29.5
million sheep, or 23.6 p.c. Of this loss,
13.6 million were recorded for New
South Wales, four million for Victoria,
9.2 million for Queensland, 2.2 million
for South Australia and 0.5 million for
Tasmania.
Cattle numbers declined by 451,000.
Queensland lost 596,000, N.S.W. 134,000,
W.A. 22,000 ; Victoria gained 233,000 and
S.A. 50,000. Victorian gains were prob-
ably due to a campaign begun in 1945
by the State Department of Agriculture
and the Soldier Settlement Commission,
urging Victorian farmers to rear more
heifers.
Pigs reached their peak numbers in
1944, when there were 1,747,000. Evacua-
tion of American troops, coupled with
increasing production costs and feed
scarcity, brought about a steep decline to


n
*' n
"«n
X
PROTECT
youA/ famttyd LeaiiJp J
Protect your children from typhoid,
dysentery, hookworm and other in-
testinal diseases by installing a Hygeia
Dissolvenator, the completely self-
contained sanitary system with attrac-
tive and sturdily built pedestal.
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil. NO WATER
SUPPLY IS REQUIRED. Unwhole-
some odours . . . emptying . . .
disease germs . . . flies are all
eliminated. In use in hospitals,
offices and homes throughout Aus-
tralia.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. Pty. Etd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 20 years .
DISTRIBUTORS :
JV.S.W'’. Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
Woolworth’s Buildings, Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co.
Ltd., 578 Little Flinders St., Melb.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.
(S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P, Mclnerney &
Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
B. r. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR '
TH^rri I dr g R a S lff?es°p r ay S abl?r?h : e University of Sydney, the cost of residence
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the
discretion of the Trustees,
OR
HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
providing all fees and text books not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the
Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient
to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the
requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or of Lntiance to
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be. ,
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than
January? 1948, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, and not later than the 9th February, 1948, in the case of
those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars may be
obtained from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock .
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders . . .
fa-
ced-
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne —758 K —712 F 588 Perth.
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
Wm
m
m
m
m
m
i
Sf
.
ii
m
i ■
THE OWL IS PROVERBIALLY A WISE BIRD, SO BE SURE
YOU FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE! TILLEY LAMPS ARE
SO SUCCESSFUL THAT COPIES OF THEM ARE BEING
MARKETED. TILLEY LAMPS ARE MADE ONLY IN ENGLAND
THE TILLEY LAMP CO. LTD., of ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
MELBOURNE : T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, C.l,
] 273,000. Pre-war horse numbers, in
soite of war-time fuel shortages, have de-
creased. The 1939 figure—l,724,ooo—had
dropped to 1,195,000 by March of this
year, a decrease of 53 p.c. from the 19 lo
peak of 2,527,000
Pineapple Disease.
“J RD”: Pineapple plantations in
Queensland and N.S.W. Northern Rivers
are threatened by a disease generally
known as wilt. Effects are first seen as
a yellowing of the leaves at the tip. This
extends to the base until the whole plant
dies out. Growth of the fruit is affected,
and on diseased plants it begins to color
before reaching half the normal size.
Some varieties are more susceptible
than others, but so far no fully-resistant
type has been found. First-year crops
are seldom affected ; it is only after the
second crop that the disease becomes
apparent. It looks as if the life of any
plantation will not exceed three yeais
until some means of stopping the trouble
has been found.
Apparently due to bacteria which
attack the roots it is not due to poor
or exhausted soil. Application of fer-
tilisers, organic or inorganic, has no effect.
Unless it’s stopped the pineapple industry
is threatened with a blow as severe as
that which the banana industry suffered
20-odd years ago from bunchy top.
Hints for the Farm,
“Mr.”: When conserving pasture
growth don’t mow the same paddock too
often. A pasture regularly shut up for
cutting each year will become dominated
by tall-growing grasses. The clovers will
be replaced by weeds and there will be
a marked diminution in carrying capacity
and fodder value. On light country top-
dress the field with farmyard manure in
autumn and winter. This will help the
soil to withstand removal of large quanti-
ties of plant food and will stimulate an
early growth of highly nutritive leafy
material.
“Murrum”: When “Pat O’Day” (B.
5/11/ ’47) mentions joining B. Leicester
“ewe lambs” to Southdowns I hope he
will hold these lambs over till December
(when they will be 18 months old). Cross-
bred ewes are fairly safe to join at 18
months, but very few merino-breeders
will hear of this early age for joining.
“Bill C.”: To avoid the rank taste
when smoking a new pipe first fill the
bowl of the pipe with water. Leave for
a few minutes, then empty out the water,
fill the damp pipe with tobacco and
smoke. The pipe will soon be like your
old one.
“Gip”: If lettuce are not grown
quickly they go to seed instead of heart-
ing, or if they heart will be tough and
rank. To get the best results grow them
in rich, well-drained soil that has been
thoroughly cultivated and brought to a
fine tilth. Growing time is saved and the
plants have no setback if the seeds are
planted in rows where it is intended the
plants will be grown. When the plants
are about an inch high thin them out to
about six inches apart. Water thoroughly
each evening, never in the heat of the
day. Just before the plants start to heart
a light application of sulphate of am-
monia is beneficial.
“Bogaduck”; Even when there’s a
swivel in the rope an animal tethered to
eat down a patch of feed is liable to
tangle rope and stake until it ends up
half strangled. Get an old wheel and
bore a hole through the middle of a
block of wood. Drive the stake in,
slip the block of wood down it and then
put the wheel on the stake, making sure
that it can turn freely on the block with
the stake as an axle. Now tie the tether
rope—which must have a swivel in it
—to the rim of the wheel. No matter
how the animal walk§ around that stake
the wheel will turn and keep the rope
from tangling.
“Ben Acre”: A boring machine can
be fitted to a shearing plant. Take a dis-
carded handpiece and cut the front away,
leaving the barrel intact and the crank ex-
posed, then weld a brace chuck on to
the end of the spindle in place of the
crank. The chuck must be set straight
or the wobble of the bit would make it
hard and tiring to use. It is necessary
to cut the screw on the point of the bit
to one-third its length so that the draw
will not be too fast. Perhaps a high-
speed wood-drill would be better. The
attachment is driven from the shearing
machine, but, if possible, at about half
speed.
“W. Court”: Very handy drinking
holes that are replenished with water
during every shower can be opened out
with explosions and digging tools in rocky
country. The best place is at the foot
of a ridge of exposed rock, such as
occurs where a flat plain gives way to
hillocks. The rain falling on the bare
rock flows down and fills the trough at
the bottom. Eroded holes are often
found in the beds of streams descending
rocky slopes; if these have porous bot-
toms that let the water soak into the
ground quickly, a coat of cement to join
the stones together is well worth while.
When the concrete is dry scatter sand or
small stones to end the risk of stock slip-
ping.


w-XvXviXvfr:
mmmm
m
**:■
#.:?#
s • \ N
\ \ i
>* >'■ y/g 7 <
fir
.-x 1 ./X Brey / ■ • y
X- ■• / /
x /. / J
Wmwm
-■•-■•
~-••• ~-'
..V--
M
v-''
m-
MS
S'
m
m
IN A WELL PAID CAREER
The Army provides many opportunities for the competent, keen man, who
wants a worth-while career and security for his county and himself.
THE ARMY OFFERS YOU
SECURITY
GOOD PAY AND GENEROUS ALLOWANCES
GOOD PROSPECTS OF PROMOTION
GRATUITY
MEDICAL AND DENTAL SERVICE
ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES
OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN A TRADE
RECREATIONAL LEAVE EACH YEAR
OUTDOOR LIFE AND SPORT OF ALL KINQS
JOIN THE
AustrauanßiguiarArmy
See your Area Officer or the Commonwealth Employment Service RIGHT AWAY!
PFV.3-113/97
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Suilt entirely In Australia by
THIS
DUPLICATOR
all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
their cost The “National" Rotary DuplK
color will reproduce Typing* Writing -
Plans. Music, etc
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd. 1
,i SYDNEY AND BRISBANE • •.TiSTnir; -■gj
“What did you say?”
“I spoke to Braithwaite, Sir.”
“Answer me —what did you say?”
“I said ‘Shame! ’ ”
“Oh, did you? I’ll see you shortly,”
BAKER AND BOURNE were in
great free-swinging mood this day.
They nearly had the class in mutiny.
Strong was assaulted on the left ear,
and Cook, just over the way, on the right
ear. Gray caught out on the back of
the head and Lane, parson’s son or not,
was biffed on both ears. “And that’s a
shame, isn’t it. Lane?” Tears of rage
came into Lane’s eyes.
And then Braithwaite. He was Lane’s
cobber —particularly offensive on that
account. He was given what is called a
“sneezer,” and then another to keep it
company. And Mr. Dare passed on. He
hadn’t quite reached the back of the
room when the silence was broken by a
low, clear cry—in a tone of horror and
tragedy—“Braithwaite’s dead! ”
Just that, and nothing more. Low,
clear, but insistent and convincing. Mr.
Dare turned, and the picture was stamped
on his brain for ever. Braithwaite was
slumped over his desk, head partly on
his left arm, right arm hanging limply,
fingers just touching the floor. Lane,
white of face, was staring in a horror of
fascination upon Death. Thirty-three
other boys stared in similar fascination.
No move, no sound. Not for a whole
eternity. Then babel broke out, and a
crowding round the lifeless body. It
was true. And yet it couldn’t be. An
absurd dream —one that would linger
long after waking. But just a dream . . .
MR. DARE went white. There was
a terrible tug in his chest, a help-
less sinking in the stomach. But it
couldn’t be true! Things like that don’t
happen! Still —there was the dreadful
picture before him . . . He even noted
how Braithwaite’s long straw-colored
hair went over the edge of the desk —
like a thatched eave. That there was a
small neat patch in his coat —so well
done as to be hardly discernible. That —
oh hell! But it wasn’t true! Couldn’t
be true!
Less than seconds Mr. Dare stood,
transfixed —brain translating the impres-
sions, ordering his limbs, unfixing the
tongue cleaving to roof of mouth, de-
manding action. Ah, that was better —
his legs moved and his tongue loosened.
The dream was vanishing, the illusion
was dissolving.
“Stand back, boys!”—it wasn’t Mr.
Dare’s voice at all —it came from a long
way off and sounded hollow in his own
ears. But it was good, too, to hear it.
He went forward —and the boys fell back,
avoiding him. Unmistakable action —
avoiding the touch of a murderer. Mr.
Dare was aware of it —even in this wild
rush of thoughts.
“He’s all right”—voice a little nearer
now, but not confident. The heart tell-
ing a lie to the brain. “He’s all right.
He’s all right. He’s . . . Just a faint!
Just a . . .”
He put his hand on the fallen head. It
moved a little —not of itself but from
the weight of the hand. There was a
murmur from the rest.* Not of anger, but
of inevitable condemnation. And a wail
from Lane: “He’s dead!”
STRONG brought back the utter
realities and necessities; “Shall I get
the headmaster. Sir?”
“No, no —no. Strong! He’s only
fainted. Right in a minute. Hot day.
Some water!”
Mr. Dare made closer examination.
There was a feeble pulse. But was there?
Was it only a wish? There was faint
breathing. But was there? Was it only
a hope? i
“Water —I said. You and you!”
The two indicated went off. The use-
lessness of water plainly showing in their
gait.
It was Smythe’s voice—yes, it was
Smythe talking. “We should get a doc-
tor” And Cook replied:
“Useless! What can a doctor do?”
Other voices: “Police . . . Must notify
. . , Inquest . . . All have to give evidence
.. . Trial. . . Won’t hang him ... Labor
Government ...”
And then that tempering of justice with
mercy. “He didn’t know about Braithy’s
heart . . . How was he to know? ... In
the family . . . Father died of it . . .
Suddenly ... Not murder, really . . .
He didn’t know . . . Hardly life . . . Per-
haps ten years . .
Water came in a bucket. “Help me.
Gray! Yes, like that! Hold his head! ”
Mr. Dare sprinkled water over the
dead, pasty face. No result. Gray moved
round to avoid the splashing. “Look
out, Gray, you’ll kick the bucket.” TThis
quite unmeant euphemism brought a
wail from Lanej “Braithy! Braithy!
My old mate, Braithy!”
It would have sounded melodramatic
in any other circumstance.
The splashing, sprinkling continued.
No result.
Strong—a lot of practical common-
sense in Strong—asked “Don’t you think,
Sir, we should stretch him out on the
floor—straight, I mean, you see, Sir, be-
fore he stiffens?”
A heartrending howl from Lane.
Splashing continued. Another useless
bucketful brought in. Mr. Dare had been
in hell for all eternity already. Yet —it
was only a faint. And a dream, too . . .
And the low voices went on: “His
grandfather, too . . , Sudden . . . Heredi-
tary ...”
<‘ A H! ” A long-drawn ah! from Mr.
A Dare. “His eyes flicker Only
a faint Only a More water!”
There was a flicker of the eyelids.
Unmistakable. Yes —and an intake of
breath. A sigh . . .
“Thank God —he’s coming to! My
old mate Braithy! Thank God!” Being
a parson’s son, Lane always said the
right thing.
The dead boy’s eyes actually opened
—unseeing!y. Then closed again. But
he wasn’t dead after all. Not dead! A
brief shudder ran through the limp form.
The eyes opened again. The mouth
twitched —meaninglessly. Twitched again.
More shuddering, more eye-opening . .
Then —then those lips formed rather
than uttered the word “Phyllis!” It was
music to Mr. Dare. A long interval and
more sprinkling. “Phyllis —is a
bounder.”
“Lovely,” said Mr. Dare. “He’s coming
round at last.”
“Phyllis Dare—is —a—bastard. Phyllis
—is a —swine —of a man!”
Then more silence. The eyes opened
again and some of the limpness vanished,
“Phyllis—just plain bastard —cur—con-
ceited —rotten teacher.” And with a
great effort; “Skunk!”
But it was great music all the same.
Then consciousness returned. Braith-
waite sat up, unsteadily, but in his right
mind. He was soaked through. His yel-
low hair hung in sodden streaks over his
forehead. He looked straght into Mr.
Dare’s eyes: “What has happened. Sir?”
He looked at the ring of faces,
puzzled. Then at the jroom, growing
familiar again.
“All right, Braithwaite. You are all
right. You gave us quite a shock. Fainted,
you know.”
Braithwaite rubbed one ear, then the
other. The action was tell-tale. Mr.
Dare understood. But he said: “Hot
day—you just went out to it.”
The period bell rang. It was the end
of the day.
“You’ll be all right, Braithwaite, won’t
you? You’ll go home with him. Lane?
And Smythe? Don’t say too much to
his mother. Don’t alarm her.”
/
THE class vanished, taking the
miraculously recalled Braithwaite
with them. Mr. Dare sank into the chair
by the table. He was like to faint him-
self. But' glad, too. A weight as heavy
as Everest lifted from his soul. But what
an experience! Wouldn’t go through it
again for all the He echoed Lane’s
pious ejaculation “Thank God!” Even
at that he hoped no one on the staff ever
found out.
Down the street and around the
corner the Three A took Braithwaite. It
was Strong who summed up. “Braithy,
that was a perfect bit of acting.” Every-
one agreed.
But Braithwaite said with true
modesty “Not a bit better than the rest
of you.”
The class moved down to the shop for a
moderate celebration. It seemed proper
to celebrate.


&& rzczrrte'J- 40- -tc^/^—'^n&tztn'
nee&f&■ ?<&&&(z4f S
j
**&d
rto-
Prices; 30/-, 37/6, and 44/9
Obtainable from Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
255 A George Street, Sydney
CHEFS EVERYWHERE USE LEA*• PERRINS
JteV ij 9WI tfmdt
MA
%
~[Uc Sauce with u Secret
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“An oyster never stops eating. It has a very
efficient digestive system.”— “World’s News.”
It’s never short of food, though it’s
always on the rocks.
-I- 4* 4* 4*
“Wages of all hospital staffs increased.”
—News item.
There will now be fewer nursing
grievances.
4 4*
The problem of the too-thin woman is
difficult.” —“New Idea.”
Still, if she’s a film star she’ll get a
satisfactory build-up.
4- *1* 4* 4*
“Beauty is something that must be worked
for.” —“New Idea.”
And the hours are long over 40.
Solved.
“7 can’t afford to clothe a bride,”
The poet moaned, and so he wooed
An artists’ model who defied
Convention and preferred the nude.
Brian Bureau.
•F *F *F *F
“Can a man be prosecuted for stealing his
neighbor’s thunder?” — Sydney “Sunday Sun."
He may even be clapped into jail.
»!♦ *F *F -F
“Girl, 16-118 years, wanted for tea-packing.
Good conditions.” — “S. M. Herald.’*
Tea will revive her!
•F *F *F *F
“He picked up three raw eggs and hit her
in the face with them.” — Sydney “D.T.”
No doubt he hung on to the third till
he could see the whites in her eyes.
"I'll have to get bi-focals —I can't read those low notes.”
Compensation.
“A householder who is suing paperhangers
claims that they papered his living-room but
forgot to remove the pictures first.”
It happened when I grew acquainted
With certain characters who painted,
And soon the place was overgrown
With samples of the movements known
As cubist, post-impressionist,
Pre-Raphadite and vorticist.
Till, walled with that conglomeration ,
The room was ripe for renovation.
Now, noting with admiring glances
The somewhat blank protuberances
That deck the wall my friends appear
To hail me as the pioneer
Of what they term the “vacant
movement” ...
Well, anyway, it’s an improvement .
P. M. Lusk.
►F *l* *F *l*
“Main prize-winners were: Best rose in show,
W. Beattie’s Mrs. T. Roosevelt. Best amateur
rose, Dr. A. S. Thomas’s Rupture.”
“The first fine careless one,” as the
judge described it.
« *F *F »F *F
“A mind of her own is what a woman neeas
when she goes shopping for a hat.”—'
She’ll have something silly put over her
just the same.
*F »F *F *F
‘There should be no such thing as a plain
woman.” —Weekly paper.
They’ve been glamorised by so many
newspapers.
•F *F 4* *F
“Flat or cottage urgently needed by couple
expecting addition.” —Sydney suburban paper.
Multiplication will not solve their
problem, landlords being what they are.
Just Idle Gossip!
Where the curlews do their curling,
Where the kookaburras kook,
That’s where billabongs are billing
With an ardent, liquid look.
Where the campfires now are camping,
And the blowflies fly and blow,
Though the magpies keep on magging.
Lowing cattle are not low.
EVE MERRITT.
May the Best Man Win!
“According to an official of the International
Olympic Federation Russia will not participate
in the Games to be held in Britain next year.
Instead, it is planning a Russian Olympiad
whose competitors will be restricted to those
countries within the Soviet influence.”
The first Soviet Anti-Imperial Olym-
piad was in full swing—so had been the
42 Soviet competitors who, on the open-
ing day, had automatically made them-
selves guilty of high treason by being
beaten by competitors from other Soviet-
bloc countries.
After the bodies had been cut down
and the deceaseds’ relatives informed that
they would each have to pay 8000 roubles
liquidation fee and burial expenses, Joe,
the entire Politburo and the Sports Com-
missar held a hurried conference.
On the second day, dotted around the
arena of the great St. Stalin Sports
Ground, were seven bullet-proof en-
closures, behind each of which was one
of Joe’s doubles so as to confuse such
of the Fiihrer’s loving subjects who
might feel impelled to demonstrate their
affection. Joe himself was in a secret,
grenade-proof shelter under the main
pavilion, and to him progress results were
brought proudly from time to time by
the Sports Commissar.
It proved a day of great athletic
triumphs for the U.S.S.R. and indicated
clearly the great superiority over those
athletes of the satellite countries, just
as they must have prevailed over those
of the decadent Western plutocracies if
they had fallen into the trap of being
inveigled to England to be murdered by
the jealous British and Americans.
The 100-metres track sprint had been
particularly, meritorious for the hammer-
and-sickle wearers.
As the Esthonian champion, who had,
in what used to be his own country,
broken was pulling on his shoes
near the starting line the Soviet starter
came up to him.
“Comrade,’* he said, “you have de-
veloped a bad limp.”
The Esthonian looked up. “Not me,
comrade,” he said in surprise. “I’m in
perfect condition.”
The starter looked at him steadily.
“Comrade,” he repeated, “you have a bad
limp.” He took a handful of cartridges
from his pocket, filled the magazine of
the gun fie held and tapped it signifi-
cantly. “It would be a great pity, com-
rade,” he went on, “if you were to leap
out and tear a muscle. I might get so
great a shock I might accidentally pull
me trigger twice. You understand, com-
rade?”
“Perfectly, comrade,” replied the
Esthonian. “Now I come to remember,
I have got a nasty limp. I’m sure I’ll
never get beyond eighty metres with it.”
By a remarkable coincidence, the only
other non-Soviet competitor in this race,
the Yugoslav champion, whose time was
known by the N.K.V.D. to be only |sec.
slower than the Esthonian’s, had a few
minutes before the start of the race been
arrested on “Marshal” Tito’s orders on
suspicion of complicity in a plot to over-
throw his democratic regime. The Soviet
winner of the race clocked the brilliantly
fast time of Ilf sec.
An unfortunate series of accidents had
resulted in a somewhat restricted repre-
sentation in the 200 yd. hurdles.
The badly-battered body of the Bul-
garian champion had been found that
morning at the base of a 100 ft. tower at
the sports ground, and it was surmised
that the unfortunate man had gone to
the top of the tower to get a better view
of the 300 ft.-square picture of Stalin on
the other side of the ground, and had
overbalanced.
According to Moscow Radio, the
Rumanian champion, Yellforescu, had
been singularly unlucky. On his way to
the track he had slipped on some glue
and trodden on his pelvis, resulting in
a broken back.
The only other non-Soviet competitor,
the Albanian titleholder, had been found
drowned in a pothole in the famous
Mudski Prospekt. It was thought he had
tried to leap across it to avoid an on-
coming army bullock-wagon, mistimed
the distance, hit his head on the edge
and fallen in.
Soviet hurdlers had brilliantly filled the
first three places. All the other Soviet
starters in the race started for Siberia
next day for disgracing the U.S.S.R. by
failing to get a place.
In the hop, step and jump, the Hun-
garian rep,, considered the only one likely
to trouble the Russians, was just going
back to take his run when an N.K.y.D.
man handed him a pair of old British
army-issue boots and a greatcoat.
“Wear these, comrade,” said the secret-
police agent gravely. “There might be
broken glass on your track, and you don’t
want to risk pneumonia in that singlet.”
“But the Soviet competitors”
“The overcoat and boots, comrade,”
repeated the other grimly.
The Hungarian immediately broke out
into a sweat. “Yes, it is cold, comrade.
In fact, I think I’d like another greatcoat
to wear on top of this one just to make
sure.”
In the 100 yd. swimming championship
the famous Polish sprinter Pryxmckswy-
cznzck executed a beautiful long shallow
dive and would undoubtedly have made
a good showing if he hadn’t broken eight
fingers on the huge block of ice that had
by some accident been floating in his
lane six feet from the starting board.
As the Sports Commissar was giving
Jo'S the latest details of the magnificent
feats of Soviet sportsmanship, the Fiihrer
interrupted to ask jvhat the shooting he
had heard had been for.
“That, Fiihrer,” replied the Commissar,
“was to discourage further complaints
from non-Soviet competitors. A Latvian
in the obstacle race said one hole wasn’t
big enough for a rat to get through!”
The world’s most celebrated Rat leaped
up, a challenging light in his eye. He
began peeling off his jacket. Then sud-
denly realisation came to him.
“No,” he squeaked, “it would be too
dangerous. Still,” he concluded proudly,
“I bet I could get through it!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; all others 2 Id. per line.
Join the Army
The current propaganda, “Assure your
future in a well-paid career, Join the
Australian Regular Army,” is poor
psychology and is in wretched taste. In
the last war Australians in every walk of
life hazarded their future on low rates of
pay (“five-bob-a-day murderers” Corns
called them). Many would have received
in the first 12 months less than the in-
come tax they paid on their previous
year’s income. Unionists who struck
for better conditions for themselves and
sabotaged war production were never
heard to agitate for better pay and con-
ditions for the fighting men. Your
volunteer did not have his eye fixed on
stink pay, danger pay, smoke-ohs, ap-
pearance money or overtime.
But now there is to be a peace-time
“loading” for the armed forces. An army
is an instrument which must be forged
and tempered for war; in its composi-
tion there should be no alloy of any
careerist elements. How opposed is this
propaganda to the concept of General
de Gaulle’s “Army of the Future” —a
band of men dedicated to their country’s
service?
“Join the Army to Fight” is the only
realistic slogan. This country has been
at war for 10 years of the last 33 years,
and it will be at war again. Let nobody
be lured into the Army in the belief that
the future is secure,, for he may be sadly
disillusioned. He may be thrown into
another Ambon or Timor.
If men join the Regular Army expect-
ing to be lotus-eaters and find themselves
live targets how will they uphold the fine
Australian military tradition?
But if the patriot’s pulses sleep
How vain the watch that hirelings keep
The idle flag that waves—
When conquest with its iron heel
Treads down the standards and the steel
That held the soul of slaves.
—Miles Gregarius (Q.).
“Permanently in Power”?
Increasing the number of Ms.P. by
dividing industrial electorates so that two
roses may bloom where but one blooms
at present isn’t likely to work out that
way (B. 29/10/’47). The industrial seats
are not going to be cakewalks much
longer. I am a worker and unionist, and
I know that there is a rising tide of re-
sentment against politicians for raising
their own salaries to lordly amounts, for
taking world tours at the country’s ex-
pense and providing themselves with life
pensions. Many of them are company
directors, lawyers, publicans, etc., and in
the prime of life. An old-age pensioner
must try to eke out an existence on
375. 6d. a week —not available till the
age of 65.
The rising cost of living, high taxation,
personal restrictions, etc., all build up a
strong case against the workers’
“saviors.” The rumblings which are
growing in intensity indicate that we can-
not be fooled all the time. It is an in-
exorable fact that all shams die, and the
New Capitalists and industrial overlords
who are riding on the backs of the
workers are due for a fall. — Anti-Hum-
bug (N.S.W.).
As a Queenslander I have seen what
can be done when “Labor” gets into
power. Take, for example, the last
Queensland elections, when it was ex-
pected that Labor would be well and truly
beaten. Beaten it was not. It regained
power on a minority vote because the
boundaries and methods were heavily in
its favor. This has happened several times
since 1915. —S. M. (Q.).
Higher Education
With the end of the school year
approaching and final examinations be-
ginning in high schools, I begin to
wonder, as I do every year, if we are
really gaining much with all our higher
education. It’s a grand thing. I’ll admit,
that our- children, no matter how poor,
have the opportunity for free education
through infant, primary and super-
primary departments and can then go on
to gain a university degree without cost.
Hundreds of poor children who would
have no chance whatever of secondary
and tertiary schooling are on an equal
footing with those from more fortunate
families.
But they are the smarter pupils whose
ambition and thirst for knowledge drive
them ahead from class to class with little
effort needed on the teachers’ part. They
are a pleasure to teach and we know
they will make a success of professional
careers.
But for every one of these we have
eight or nine who first haven’t the brains
to take on the study a university course
demands. Their parents, however, partly
from a desire to do their best for their
family and partly to gain some reflected
glory for themselves, insist that their sons
and daughters sit for “the leaving.” The
child probably does not do well in class,
so the teachers are asked to coach him
after hours. We do our best, but if the
power to absorb is not there, it’s no use.
The parents then complain about the
teachers’ skill, the poor child is driven
harder than ever, possibly passes “the
leaving” at the second attempt and is
borne off by a proud mamma to begin
university lectures. His next few years will
probably be a hell on earth as he tries
to cope with examinations and the “posts”
which he will inevitably need. But why
worry? He’s at the university and no-
thing else matters.
Only yesterday a woman whose son is
in second year asked me to “give George
a little help after school. We want him
to be a doctor, you know, and he doesn’t
seem to be doing very well.” Poor
George! He has as much chance of
becoming a doctor as a hen has of
swimming. With an intelligence quotient
well below average, he’ll be lucky if he
gets his intermediate, let alone a medical
degree. Yet his parents fail to see they
are asking the impossible of him. He
is one of the keenest junior farmers in
the club. But no ; he must have a job
with some “tone” in it.
We meet dozens of examples every
year—boys such as this lad, who are
wearing out themselves and their teachers
in a vain attempt to become “important”
when they would be much happier and
healthier working with a builder, a farmer
or a shopkeeper.
Then there are the girls, whose people
want them to become teachers, research
workers or psychologists, when they
would be much better employed selling
lace or fancy goods, or writing out
accounts in local offices. Week-end
tennis and a dance or two will bring
them much more happiness and better
chances of marriage than they can hope
to find in the months and years of study
that will be their lot if they are forced
into a professional career.
If outsiders could see the strained,
worried young faces, the nervous gestures,
the heavy eyes, the irritability and even
the tears that I have seen in these last
few weeks of last-minute “cramming,”
they would realise that there is more in
this “carefree-childhood” business than
meets the eye.— Shirley (N.S.W.).
Road-Making
The idea that imported colored labor
would be cheap still persists in odd
corners (B. 10/9/’47). Compared with
American earth - and stone- moving
machinery it would be dear. What is
really dear is paying white men high
wages to do coolie labor.
I watched a gang of 255.-per-day
laborers making a road in a Perth suburb.
Possibly the laying of foundation rocks
by hand was unavoidable. Later, how-
ever, crushed stone was brought along in
trucks and dumped in heaps half a chain
apart. It was spread by shovellers, each
man taking up a not overful dip and
then walking perhaps right across the
road to spread it. Then back with the
empty shovel. Cost? Mountainous.
Other methods the same. No wonder
American servicemen smiled. Such
monotonous deadening work is galling,
too, to the men who do it.
There must be efficient road-making
machinery somewhere in the world.
Perhaps, on their next dollar-squandering
jaunts, some of our “Labor” tourists
might be induced to bring back a report
on what they saw in, say, the U.S.A. in
the way of road-making. With the 40-
hour week in operation long-suffering
taxpayers should be relieved of road-
making methods practised when the
Pyramids were built. — Bughouse (W.A.).
Cables and Wireless
A notice from the Overseas Telecom-
munications Commission states that as
from November 1, 1947, delivery of all
international cable- and radiograms will
be effected by thePPostmaste r General’s
Department. Thus business houses using
wireless and cable facilities have received
an inkling of the benefits of nationalisa-
tion.
Previously, under private enterprise, a
specially-picked band of messengers em-
ployed by the cable and wireless com-
panies gave an excellent service. Not only
did they deliver messages promptly, they
also called and collected cables and radio-
grams for transmission, a service much
appreciated. Now, however, the O.T.C.
states that, with the discontinuance of the
delivery service, business houses will have
to send their messages to the O.T.C. by
their own staff.
Apart from this abrupt termination of
a long-enjoyed, service, there is another
disturbing feature of this move by the
O.T.C. Cables and wireless are nor-
mally used where time is of great import-
ance to sender and receiver. Under the
new arrangement it looks as though all
overseas messages will firstly be collected
by the P.M.G. and then prepared for de-
livery. This can hardly result in a saving
of time. By the same token, all business
houses have had experience of the inor-
dinate time telegrams take betweeh dis-
patch frbm the G.P.O. and delivery to
the addressee. — Hut 60 (Vic.).
Economics
In the welter of words emanating from
Canberra two vital financial points seem
to have been overlooked, although Mr.
Menzies touched on them lightly.
The high price we now receive for all
our exportable goods, especially food-
stuffs, is the reason for the full employ-
ment and apparent prosperity of today,
and not the policy of “Labor,” as is
claimed by its supporters. Low world
parity for wheat, wool, dried fruits, etc.,
was the reason of the depression of 1930
in Australia. While Governments may
bolster up prices in some measure by
equalisation funds and use of credit their
“Golden Age” can neither arrive nor en-
dure when overseas prices fall—as they
inevitably will. Should “Labor” be in
office when that occurs many of their
members will receive the shock of their
lives.
The second point is that in comparisons
of recent banking figures and those of
1930 or thereabouts the fact seems to be
ignored that prices have increased 100
per cent., and in many instances more ;
thus relative figures of bank advances,
deposits, etc., for the two periods are on
a widely different plane.
It is “Labor’s” good fortune to be in
office in the present favorable cir-
cumstances, but these days will pass,
when other conditions will prevail.—
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
“Brilliant” Administrators
Dailies in several States are concerned
at the inadequate salaries paid to what
they call our “top-flight” of civil servants.
They fear that unless their pay is in-
creased they may be lost to the service.
As a businessman I find it hard to
understand why these wondermen can-
not manage with smaller staffs. If their
departments were taken from the security
of the Government payroll and thrown
into the hard cold world of competitive
enterprise they would go bung in «no
time. Yet the papers feed us with rub-
bish about this and that civil servant
being a “brilliant administrator.”
Before these men are paid like tycoons
they ‘should be made to manage as
tycoons do. —M. G. W. (Q.).
Hearing Aids
I was discharged from the Army in
Perth medically unfit, having lost 75 p.c.
of my hearing through war causes.
Repat. gave me an order on a private firm
“ That’s right! Advertise it by being found with a lighted match on us.”
for the purchase of a hearing aid, and
whenever new batteries were needed I
applied to the department and received
an order covering the necessary amount.
This I presented to the private firm,,
where I was given prompt and courteous
attention. The co-operation between
myself, Repat. and the firm was good,
and the arrangement was wholly satisfac-
tory and efficient.
A few months ago Repat. notified me
that in future I was to draw all batteries
direct from the Commonwealth Acoustic
Laboratory in Perth. Subsequently I
called at C.A.L. and drew batteries worth
about 30s. The clerk told me that there
was no need for me to sign for them and,
furthermore, if at any time I needed bat-
teries and was unable to attend person-
ally, I could send in an agent who would
merely be required to mention my name
and receive the batteries. This was an
even more simple arrangement —no forms,
no signatures and, taken all round, a very
convenient set-up.
But the point is this. How does the
Commonwealth Government keep a check
on the C.A.L. and the number of bat-
teries actually issued? — Torch (W.A.).
Alcohol Issdlfk
The R.A.A.F. Matron-in-Chief may
have “insisted successfully on the estab-
lishment of separate messes for her
nurses and the exclusion of liquor there-
from” (B. 22/10/’47), but I was never
on an R.A.A.F. unit in the Common-
wealth where this was applied. I was
only on three such southern units, but
on each one the nursing sisters messed
with u§ and enjoyed and used the same
privileges as the W.A.A.A.F. officers.
They enjoyed their pre-dinner “spot” and
conducted themselves asi' “officers and
‘gentlemen’.”
Comparisons are odious and useless
when drawn between such different ser-
vices as the W.A.A.A.F. and the N.S.
There was no need for the N.S. to “ape
the male by adopting high-sounding
titles,” as they had their own professional
titles. There was need to give
W.A.A.A.F. officers some titles in order
to grade them —what better than the
feminine form of their male equivalents?
—Repatriate (Q.).
Booze (B. 24/9/ ’47), eh? In Darwin,
before any hotels were re-issued with
licences after the war ended, the Adminis-
tration made a regular issue of beer to all
Government employees, and one could
see girls leaving their offices on beer-
issue afternoons each with two naked
bottles nursed in their arms.—Terri-
torian (N.T.).
Free Education
“A.D.” (B. 20/ 8 / ’47) is caustic but
correct. Education, for the teacher,
means “drawing out”; for the pupil,
“giving out.” Culture cannot be given
away, acquired without effort or restricted
to a 40-hour week.
Education “from the kindergarten to
the university, free or otherwise,
demands the co-operation of the parents
with the children. Hours of study must
be regulated. The radio must be silenced
for homework, visitors and visiting cut to
a minimum. The children must be pro-
tected from frivolous distractions and
coaxed or compelled to concentrate on
books, music, elocution, languages, art,
mathematics, etc., according to their par-
ticular aim or ambition. Even princes
and princesses must scorn delights and
“put in” like commoners. There is no
royal road to learning.
In the case of wage-earners, fun must
often be sacrificed for philosophy, and the
long week-ends put to better purpose
than surfing and sun-worshipping. As
the pupil advances he must read classics
and text-books instead of thrillers, and
suffer long sentences of solitary confine-
ment when he itches to be out with the
mob. His exam, hurdles are higher each
year, whether his subject is music or
mechanics. Only a few are tempera-
mentally fitted for the studious life and
for these few there are already many
opportunities for advancement.
It is noteworthy that the people who
yell loudest for free education are those
who spend their cash and leisure in “cul-
tural pursuits” as far removed as pos-
sible from reference libraries and lecture-
rooms. — Swot (S.A.).


Houses
As a trading-bank manager I’ve had
some experience of home-building (B.
22/10/’47). A young man approached me
about a year ago for accommodation to
build a brick cottage for which he had
obtained a contract price from a reput-
able builder. The overdraft was arranged
and the work proceeded without super-
vision from outside sources. Many diffi-
culties were encountered, from the obtain-
ing of steel for the foundations to the
bricks, timber, plumbing requirements
and roofing tiles, but the job is now com-
pleted and the people are in occupation.
My point is that had I pressed for the
services of an architect, tus fees would
have added to outgoings. Further, the
total cost would have been increased, as
he would have insisted on the work being
carried out according to specifications.
We met each difficulty as it arose, sub-
stituting where at all practicable, Th£
important feature is that my client has a
pleasing brick cottage completed at a
reasonable cost by today’s standards, and
it will be standing a century hence
unless struck by a bomb. I’m not alto-
gether decrying qualified supervision, but
in home-building in present circum-
stances very satisfactory results can be
obtained and the home-builder saved a
substantial sum if overseeing is relaxed
to a considerable extent.
A competent builder of good standing
is vital to home-building, and reports
from your banker will usually look after
this. Once that is settled, let the con-
tractor do the job and interfere as little
as possible; you will thus get a home
quicker and probably better than the
average. The Government particularly
must realise that too rigid supervision
hampers building, that heavy taxation
prevents builders from erecting for specu-
lative purposes and that high costs,
coupled with shortages, have deterred
many genuine home-seekers from tackling
the job.
There are three classes in this country
—those who own homes, those who wish
to own them and those who wish to rent
them. The home-owner knows that apart
from security of tenure there is little to
be gained by owning a home, after pay-
ing rates, insurance, general repairs and
improvements. The good owner is al-
ways spending money On his property
and often pays more than rent. Those
who wish to own homes envy the owner
and rent receiver, little understanding that
in existing circumstances the average
landlord is lucky if he can obtain a
slightly better net return than Govern-
ment bond interest.
People anxious to own their home, and
wishing to buy on extended terms over
20-25 years, little realise how small are
the reductions in the principal amount
over the commencing 9-10 years. Any
equity they may have can disappear over-
night with a slight fall in values. There
will be some sorry potential home-owners
in the years to come-—prices are too high
effectively to handle many of the proposi-
tions. How can a man on £B-£9 a week
tackle a £2OOO-houst debt? In most cases
the knowledge of finance is so limited
that the obligation involved is not fully
appreciated. A 20 per cent, fall in house
values in the next five years would reveal
a sad state of affairs.
Owning a home is a rosy prospect for
the person who has the cash, but to those
repaying on a rental basis the programme
can easily become too irksome. I own
mine, but only for security of residence;
otherwise it hardly pays when analysed
from the financial angle.—C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
I know a widow who, when her two
sons returned from the war, applied for
a permit to build an additional bedroom
to her small cottage. She is still waiting.
Yet- her neighbor has secured a permit
and the necessary material and built a
garage. —Spinebasher (N.S.W.).
Roaming around an outer suburb last
week-end I was struck by the number of
building tradesmen bricklayers, car-
penters, painters, tilers and others—work-
ing on houses. I was struck also by the
pace at which they worked as compared
with the pace of similar tradesmen on
the five working days of the week.
I have a cottage under construction by
a builder who is rather proud of the out-
put of his team —he’ll complete the job in
about four months if nothing goes wrong
and, he can obtain all his materials with-
out delay. In pre-war days, of course,
the same cottage .would have been ready
for occupation in six weeks. A consider-
ate Premier forestalled a Court and gave
his people a 40-hour week —there was no
need, he said, for a man to work longer
these days when machines are doing so
much of the work. The net result in the
building trade is that men loaf along at
the same old pace during the week to keep
fresh for the week-end when they get paid
by results for their own private contract-
ing—a source of income which conveni-
ently adds to their “bank” without reflect-
mg too severely on their income-tax
assessment
This blackmarket labor is having a
most disturbing effect on housebuilding
because men know that they can earn
almost as much on each day of the week-
end as they get for their week’s regular
work. Consequently they do not give “the
boss” —or their mates, whose homes they
are erecting—anything like a fair go. A
logical corollary to the 40-hour week
should have been prohibition of all
work outside regular working hours.
Aren’t the unions supposed to stand for
“one man, one job”?—Xindivick
(N.S.W.).
» ✓ /
The Banks
Introducing ,his bank-grab bill, Mr.
Qhifley again accused the trading banks
of not affording all possible help to the
country during the depression. Yet he
knows full well that one way and another
they supplied enough funds to be holding
over £100,000,000 in Government paper
promises before the end of the depres-
sion. And that included £20,000,000 in
gold and about the same in London
funds, handed over to keep Australia’s
good name sweet overseas.
Nor did Mr. Chifley express any thanks
for the great help the banks afforded the
country during the war. He conveniently
forgot their voluntary offer of war-time
controls made to the then Treasurer, Mr.
Fadden, and later embodied in war-time
regulations by Mr. Curtin. Not a word
about splendid co-operation or the money
they collected from subscribers to war
loans or the free services made available
to bondholders.
Mr. Chifley’s reasons for creating a
Government monopoly of banking are
puerile. For instance, he claims that the
trading banks are controlled by boards,
responsible only to the shareholders.
Even if that were true, it is far from
monopoly. But the truth is that the trad-
ing banks’ policy is determined, since
1945, by the Commonwealth Bank. Also,
no bank can do things which would
offend depositors or borrowers. Just try
to lever bank-borrowers into the private-
loan market and you will learn how they
stick.
Mr. Chifley employed some well-wom
cliches, such as “to ensure control of
banking in the public interest.” But his-
tory abounds in examples of govern-
mental mismanagement of finance here
and elsewhere. —R. H. S. (Q.),
“Workers”
Ten or twelve years ago I, and a
crowd of good workmates, earned a crust
in factories and goldmines in Westralia.
We worked hard and sweated for
our pay and were not unhappy; we
had a good idea of what was a fair day’s
work and we generally kept up to it; we
had a normal respect for the foreman
and those over him, and they had a
similar respect for us. There was some-
thing good and healthy and honest about
that set-up ; a man took a pride in his
strength and skill and that in turn gave
him a certain pride and interest in his
job, however simple it was.
A few weeks ago I took a job in a
Sydney factory. There are a dozen of us,
including the foreman, on the shift; the
work requires neither physical nor mental
effort or skill; the pay is £7 a week.
When we first started the foreman took
us along easily, told us to take our time
and get to know the job before we speeded
up to normal output. Nobody could have
been easier-or more tolerant.
We’re “fully experienced” now and it’s
no effort to turn out a normal quota,
yet from the wingeing and complaining
and loafing that go on you’d think that
most of the shift were being driven with
whip and boots. Two or three of the
chaps are willing workers, but the others
seem to be imbued with the notion that
earning a living consists of doing as little
work as possible, and doing it indiffer-
ently.
I’ve tried to fathom the mentality be-
hind this attitude, but can’t. It’s useless
to argue that work willingly done is
easier, that loafing makes the loafer
wearier, or that there is, satisfaction in
work well done. It’s no good maintaining
that bludging behind the foreman’s back
results in mutual mistrust and necessitates
harder work while he’s watching. And it’s
hopeless trying to convince anyone that
a keen, early start on-the job means a
comfortable early finish. Few of the
shift believe or want to believe those
simple truths which any old workman
knows only too well, and the result is a
steady and vicious degeneration of re-
lationships between worker and boss until
what is really an easy, well-paid job be-
comes something to be endured for eight
hours.
The latest development is that odd
members of the shift have started taking
an occasional night off. They don’t give
a damn if it means that the whole shift
has to be rearranged, that men have to
be transferred to jobs to which they are
not accustomed, that it means harder work
for those on the job and a drop in pro-
duction by as much as 50 p.c. Yet,
when the foreman gave one of them
his ticket the other night, he thought he
was hardly done by. Not that he was
unduly worried —“Plenty of jobs around,”
he said.
I don’t know what this proves, or what
the answer is. I only know that the fore-
man, who’s a decent reasonable fellow,
has to race around like a madman to keep
his shift up to the mark and that they
regard him as a “standover soandso.” I
don’t know whether the times have
changed, or whether it’s different in Wes-
tralia, but the Sydney factory worker,
“ Where's your woodheap?”
of my acquaintance, is as big a black-
marketeer with his labor as his counter-
part who deals in liquor, Cigarettes and
other things.—Oliver Filter (N.S.W.)
Railways
We opened up Australia by pushing
railways into unpopulated areas, trusting
that the influence of cheap and depend-
able transport would bring development,
as it usually did. Such lines, unlike their
modern competitors, were built as cheaply
as possible, as their cost was a standing
charge against the jailways administra-
tion, but the last thing we ever expected
was an operating profit from any “de-
velopmental” line. That idea is essentially
modern. We did, however, expect the
system as a whole to show a balanced
budget, and to that end we allowed the
railways to organise a rating system In
which passenger fares and any freight
which could bear the burden carried a
surcharge. That system worked well for
years but we’ve now wrecked it.
We laid down thousands of miles of
expensive roads, not radiating from and
feeding the railways, but parallel to and
in competition with them. We spent
millions on “facilities” and subsidies for
uneconomic and unproductive airways
That may have been necessary in one
way or another, but from the point of
view of opening up more country for
settlement, for reducing costs, for doing
anything which would increase the
national prosperity, it certainly was not.
It did mean a tremendous rise in the
national transport bill, a phenomenal-in-
crease in taxation and an automatic and
inevitable emergence of heavy railway
“losses.”
In place of the cheap, dawdling rail-
way with its low capital costs, and with
its losses on some forms of traffic
balanced by profits on others, we now
have three major agencies, two of them
expensive importations * and the whole lot
is paid for by the taxpayer. It’s unfor-
tunate that it was the unfashionable but
cheap and domestic railway which was
allowed to fall into decay, but that’s
what happened, and it’s no good blaming
Governments.
But that state of decay cost us countless
millions in the recent war and could have
cost us our very existence had it not
been for the Americans. Now, when the
future of the Kalgoorlie area may depend
on a single matter like the freighting
of coal from Collie, a job in which
speed, convenience and fashion are at a
discount and cheapness and efficiency all-
important, we find that the railways can’t
tackle the job. But it’s a bit late to go
looking for a scapegoat.— Tidapa (Singa-
pore).
The Kendall Monument
On a recent trip to Sydney we de-
cided to pull up for a few minutes at the
monument erected to the memory of
Henry Kendall which stands just off the
main highway near the foot of Penang
Mountain, Gosford, The monument is
a pointer to “Kendall’s Rock” in the bush
near by.
Having lived efut on the Mangrove
Mountain road for some time, many
years ago, I knew the place well. It was
one of the beauty spots of the district,
although only a handful of people knew
of its existence. A pair of lyrebirds
nested near by and were often seen;
also a pair of the beautiful golden regent
birds. Rock wallabies were common
about the rock and were quite tame.
In those days we travelled up the rough
mountain road in an old coach and four
which, if not a genuine Cobb and Co.,
was a very good copy. The mailman who
drove it might have just stepped out of
Dickens. With the coming of modern
motorised transport the quiet old road
gave way to the modern top-gear high-
way of today. With it came a new type
of citizen. The hustle-and-bustle citizen
of the motor caravan, and the city family
rushing up north for holidays.
The monument was erected near the
site of Kendall’s rock, in place of the
tall Christmas bush, brush box and other
brush timber which had been crushed
and uprooted to make room for the new
road. The stanza carved on the monu-
ment bears some of Kendall’s thoughts of
this quiet beauty spot:
There was a rock pool in a glen
Beyond Narara’s sands;
# The mountains shut it in from men
In flowerful fairylands:
We walked over to the edge of the
clearing intending to go down the bush
track to the rock. At the top of the built-
up bank we stopped and gazed in silence
at a mass of rubbish, bottles, papers and
junk of all kinds strewn over the one-
time “flowerful fairyland.” Disgusted,
we turned away and walked back to the
monument. The last four lines of the
stanza read;
But once we found its dwelling place—
The lovely and the lone —
And, in a dream, I stopped to trace
Our names upon a stone.
How true were those words. The place
had been found all right, and every per-
son who had been there seemed to have
traced his name on the face of the
stone slab bearing Kendall’s lines. Names
and addresses, silly remarks and dis-
figuration of the letters were all plastered
over the slab in this all-too-common
Australian manner.
I do not know who is responsible for
the care of the monument, but surely we
could have this place kept in such a state
that travellers can stop there and see it
at least a little like Kendall knew it
A. F. D. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
Sympathy for the little fellow is an
Australian trait, but, helped along by Com-
munists, it is becoming dangerous. Any
individual in conflict with a business firm
is assumed to be in the right, whatever
the circumstances. Lately several large
retailers have launched prosecutions
against shoplifters. Even after the
accused have been proved guilty and
sentenced public sympathy favors the
shoplifter. The extraordinary view seems
to prevail that stealing from the big fellow
is excusable because he can afford it. —
Minto (Q.).
Eve Merritt (B. 5/11/ ’47) obviously
hasn’t taught a class or observed kids in
a playground on a sizzling day. The
temperature doesn’t affect even tiny tots,
who, if we didn’t line them up for a little
discipline, would tear to their places with
all guns blazing. “E.M.’s” idea is not new
to experimental schools, where dispensing
with lines has been tried and passed up.
Kids just seem to like marching into
school. At “lines” they get the necessary
“feel” of their teacher, a most important
thing to a youngster. Our infant school
was without a teacher for a long time,
and we mothers learned well then how
little we or our kids cared about that
“sense of independence.”— Ex-teacher
(N.S.W.).


■; g9H
•• '
••••■ '
'4
m.
i
<<?-y
m.
mmm
m
■ ■: ■
m
m
WM
'■ •« :
m
Wf,
m
m
m
m
mgmmmmm®, psi
mmmmmSk'r ' 7
jfZiMfi rt
f " ' x -7. v , - -
m
m
A-.. i
***
8 Rift 8 fl» & i -'l
When the climb is very severe
f
df
With petrol restrictions so much eased, it’s five years
since your engine was tested under conditions of such
prolonged hot weather running as will be planned for this
year’s touring.
Safeguard your engine beforehand by draining out the
old oil and refilling with Shell Drag-Free Motor Oil For
Extra Protection.
The extra oiliness, and freedom from drdg, of Shell
Motor Oil keep every bearing and friction surface 100%
lubricated no matter how hot the weather or how severe
the running conditions.
MOTOR OIL
d
BEFORE TOURING, LET YOUR
GARAGE OR SERVICE STATION
DRAIN, FLUSH AND REFILL YOUR
ENGINE WITH SHELL MOTOR OIL.
/
/
/
/
/
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain.)
LO
