

The House of Seppelt...producers of
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
The Bulletin
II b Bulletin,” VoL 68-No. 3524
Wednesday, August 27, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
A PLYMOUTH PANORAMA FROM EDGCUMBE'S FAMOUS HEIGHT
AT the mouth of the Plym River in Devonshire lies Plymouth,
one of rhe most famous ports in the world. This was the
first town in England to be incorporated by Act of Parliament,
the incorporation having taken place on November 12, 1439. Sir
Francis Drake was mayor here during 1585 when Plymouth con-
structed England’s first municipal waterworks. Plymouth was called
Tamarworth by the Saxons, and the Domesday Chroniclers called
it Sutton, by which name it continued to be known until it became
Plymouth during the reign of the .sixth Henry. It was from
Plymouth that the Black Prince sailed for France and the victory
at Crecy and, in 1620, the Mayflower left Plymouth upon its
voyage to the New World. Drake, Hawkins and Captain Cook all
departed upon their celebrated voyages from Plymouth. Sir Henry
Newbolt’s famous lines memorably remind us of Drake’s historic
association with this southern English port :
Drake he’s in his hammock till the Great Armadas come,
(Capen, art tha steepin’ there below?)
Slung atween the round shot, listenin’ for the drum,
An’ dreamin’ arl the time o’ Plymouth Hoe.
• Call him on the deep sea, call him up the Sound,
Call him when ye sail to meet the foe
Where the old trade’s plying an’ the old flag vlyin’
They shall find him ware and wakin’, as they found him long ago.


Learn
Story Writing
v 3 lAJI VJ Of HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit at
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
SB, 247 AGE
JUVENILE AND ADVENTURE
TREACHERY AT 40 KNOTS
By P. G. Griggs. A sea story , for boys
that will capture everyone’s imagination, 7/6
FOUR WINDS AND A FAMILY
By D. Cusack and F. James. Little girls
will love this book about themselves . . ■
charmingly illustrated by Nan Knowles, 7/6
PERILOUS JOURNEY
By Marea Wolkowsky. Set in the days
of Good Queen Bess, every page is brimful
of swashbuckling adventure 7/6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty.Ltd.
Central House, Little Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
DISSECTIONS OF TYRANNY.
Why do Russians, when charged with
counter - revolutionary activity, abase
themselves in public confessions?
Godfrey Blunden, in A Room on the
Route (Australasian Publishing Co.;
Angus and Robertson), offers one con-
ceivably acceptable explanation: —
“Well,” Rachel said, “it was like this.
This little group of Old Bolsheviks knew
they were about to die. They knew that
if they protested or made scenes nothing
would ever be heard of them again. They
would disappear and there would be no
record. They had one chance of conveying
a message to the world. They would stand
trial and they would confess.
“They understood the Khozirt's weak-
ness for confessions, his desire publicly to
humiliate those who opposed him, and his
need to justify himself in the eyes of
history. They planned to take advantage
of this. They agreed to confess that their
political programme was no different from
that of the Khozirt, but that their crime
was a struggle for power within the party.
The friends of Lenin would not think
of a contest for personal power. No Bol-
shevik thought of such a thing. They
thought only of the party For the friends
of Lenin to confess that they had taken
part in a struggle for power was to say
that they were the victims of a struggle
for personal power and that all that fol-
lowed would be the outcome of this struggle
for personal power. That was the message
they wanted to deliver to history. And
did deliver.”
Blunden, an Australian journalist and
the author of No More Reality, has been
in Russia and, very likely, this is the
sort of thing people are saying about
the trials. Yet the writer seems content
to be the journalist here rather than the
novelist, detachedly reporting what was
said to him instead of examining the
character and motives of the speaker.
A more extensive if not necessarily
contradictory explanation of the confes-
sions is given by Arthur Koestler in
Darkness at Noon, lately added to the
Penguin novels. This book is a masterly
study of the methods by which a man
accused of monstrous crimes against the
Soviet and believing himself innocent is
persuaded not merely to sign a confes-
sion but to think, in the end, that he
really may be guilty of nearly all that is
alleged against him.
Rubashov, the central figure of Dark-
ness at Noon, is an Old Bolshevik; but
not, as Blunden’s Rachel would have
him, of stainless steel. To save his own
skin he has allowed his mistress to be
shot as a traitor; he has sacrificed inno-
cent men in the Party’s interest; and
when he is arrested he is already half-
convinced that he must “pay”; disil-
lusioned, cynical, remorseful, apathetic
towards the regime, vaguely disaffected.
Day and night for a week Rubashov is
cross-questioned; occasionally allowed
an hour for sleep, then brought back
again to the glaring electric light, the
ceaseless examination, the subtle and
ruthless argument of the “Neander-
thaler” Gletkin: —
After forty weight hours Rubashov had
lost the sense of day and night....
At his first hearing by Gletkin, when he
had signed his deposition, he had thought
• the whole thing was over. At the second
hearing it became clear to him that it
was only the beginning of it. The accu-
sation consisted of seven points, and he
had as yet confessed to only one. He
had believed that he had drunk the cup
of humiliation to the dregs. Now he was
to find that powerlessness had as many
grades as power; that defeat could become
as vertiginous as victory, and that its
depths were bottomless. And, step by step,
Gletkin forced him down the ladder.
Tt is a picture of a man reduced almost
to nothingness; to a mere voice, weak
and stammering, a voice saying what
Gletkin wants it to say. And the strange
and monstrous thing is that what Gletkin
forces the voice to say is, from a certain
inhuman viewpoint, the truth. Long
ago, Rubashov has to admit, he did have
a conversation with an old friend in
which something was said about how
much happier Russia might be if “No. 1”
was dead; and his friend’s son, who has
admitted complicity in a plot to kill “No.
1,” was present that evening and might
—conceivably might—have been in-
fluenced: so Rubashov is guilty of con-
spiring to assassinate Stalin, Similarly,
he has to admit that years ago he did
have a conversation at a dinner in Lon-
don with an unimportant German diplo-
mat and, after a dialogue about the
breeding of prize guinea-pigs, there was
a brief and guarded mention of the re-
mote possibility of German interven-
tion agaipst Stalin’s regime: and so he
is guilty 1- of conspiring with a foreign
Power. Even if it was “all talk,” if he
might never really have joined in a plot
against the regime when it came to the
point, if both conversations were trivial
and meaningless and long forgotten,
Rubashov, worn out under the glaring
lamp, does feel that in a way he may be
guilty. He has confessed the truth; or
part of the truth; or the truth without
any of those human qualifications that
make civilised life possible.
Rubashov is, in any case, reconciled
to the idea of punishment, for the deaths
of the woman and the men he has be-
trayed lie heavy on his conscience. He
is weary of the Revolution and its con-
sequences. In his mind he longs for
death ; physically he must have sleep.
Having brought him to this stage Glet-
kin finds it comparatively easy to per-
suade him to repeat his confession at the
public trial, blackening himself still
further, so that as a final act of atone-
ment or of cynicism he may justify the
regime to the masses:
“Your task is to make the opposition
contemptible; to make the masses under-
stand that opposition is a crime and that
the leaders of the opposition are criminals.
That is the simple language which the
masses understand. Comrade Rubashov,
I hope that you have understood the task
which the Party has set you.”
It was the first time since their acquain-
tance that Gletkin had called Rubashov
, “Comrade.” Rubashov raised his head
quickly. He felt a hot wave rising in him,
against which he was helpless. His chin
shook slightly while he was putting on
his pince-nez.
“I understand.”
Rubashov is cynical, and he is deep.
Koestler does not show him at close
quarters during the public trial, and it is
possible that, when he has recovered
from the effects of the nightmare cross-
examination, his confession is, as the
theory in Blunden’s novel would suggest,
a last act of revenge. But whether he
acts from revenge, weariness Or contri-
tion there is more to be said about the
Russian habit of confession; something
hinted at in Darkness at Noon but not
fully developed, because Koestler is more
concerned with exposing the Communist
tactics than with analysing the men who
employ them or are destroyed by them.
Gletkin is good as a character, but he
talks too well for complete probability;
he is an embodiment of the Communist
doctrine, as Rubashov, more abstract
still as a personality, is an embodiment
of the Intellectual Opposition.
There is nothing particularly Russian
about Rubashov; he might just as well
be a German intellectual resisting and
then accepting the tyranny of Hitler. His
confession, according to Gletkin, “is all
a matter of constitution. Lack of sleep
and physical exhaustion.”
But if Conrad’s Under Western Eyes
is accepted as authoritative Rubashov
would have confessed not only out of
revenge, not only out of contrition, but
because Russians like to confess —a
theory perhaps implicit in Koestler’s
recognition of the fact that Rubashov,
even when he is fighting for his life,
feels that he must “atone” for other
crimes than those with which he is
charged.
Conrad was a Pole. He knew the
Russians. Uneasy in method and
sometimes inflated in style, Under Wes-
tern Eyes is far from the best of his
novels ; but it is probably the best under-
standing of the Russian mentality that
has ever been set down by anyone not a
Russian. And the whole drama of it is
built upon what Conrad believes to be a
peculiarly Russian characteristic, a pas-
sion for confession. The book reads all
the more impressively for having been
published in 1911, before the Revolu-
tion, long before the specific public
trials mentioned in Blunden’s and
Koestler’s novels.
Razumov, the central figure, a young
man who has unwillingly harbored for
a few hours a political assassin and
whose whole life is thereby ruined, is as
convincingly and distinctively Russian as
one of the tormented souls in Dostoevski,
or one of those peasants in Tolstoi’s
plays who—incredibly to a Western
reader —invariably spend the last act in
an orgy of confession,
Razumov is sent by the assassin to an
inn to arrange for his escape; he can
only just refrain from blurting out his
mission to the assembled drunkards. He
decides to betray the assassin to the
police, and can hardly restrain himself
from telling of his visit to the inn, which
would at once implicate him in the
crime. He goes back to the assassin to
await the arrival of the police and, for
the third time in one evening, experi-
ences an almost uncontrollable impulse
to confess:
He heard Haldin sigh profoundly, then
ask in a tired voice, “Well, and what have
you arranged?”
The emotion was so great that Razumov
was glad to put his hands against the wall.
A diabolical impulse to say, “I have given
you up to the police” frightened him ex-
ceedingly.
In the end Razumov is unable to re-
strain himself. After Haldin’s execution
he is sent as a police spy to Geneva,
where are Haldin’s mother and sister
and a group of terrorists. Razumov is a
hero to the terrorists, supposed to have
been Haldin’s friend and to have taken
an active part in the assassination. He
succumbs first to the “atrocious tempta-
tion” to confess to Miss Haldin, then
goes off and confesses to- the terrorists,
who, accepting this action as mystical,
Russian, sacred and not at all unusual,
spare his life; merely, by way of re-
proof, bursting his ear-drums.
The mention of the confessions is
merely incidental in Blunden’s novel;
yet, at once interesting and fragmentary,
it is typical of the value of the book, and
its limitations. A Room on the Route
is a political novel, an exposure of
tyranny, obviously sincere and, from this
aspect, quite as interesting as either
Darkness at Noon or Under Western
Eyes; in fact, being more up-to-date, of
greater topical interest.
The place is Moscow; the time 1942
and 1943. On the first page a comic
aspect of the tyranny is discussed;
Mitka was very proud of his English.
“You have many Russian words in your
English,” he said. “I have heard them in
your speech with the other capitalists. You
say trollybus, tanka, machina. Just now
you say telephona and airrport. They are
Russian words.”
“Russian inventions,” I said, “like the
Metro.”
“True,” Mitka said. “It is monumental.”
Mitka, “proudest of his ability to
swear in English,” is an amusing
character, showing in his brief appear-
ances something of the rough vigor of
the Russian soldiers and peasants in
Sholokhov’s novels; but what is estab-
lished on this page is not meant ulti-
mately to be comic: a mind drilled and
limited by propaganda.
Unlike Conrad, who was fascinated
rather than shocked by the difference be-
tween Russian and Western European
mentality, Blunden seems to write from
the viewpoint of a sensitive intellectual
who had expected to find something like
a Western democracy in the Soviet. His
narrator, Ferguson, at any rate, seems
hardly aware of the long history of
tyranny in Russia, nor of that racial
“yearning for autocracy” which Conrad
prophetically wrote into the character of
Razumov. From a viewpoint which in-
volves, by a necessary converse, a dream
of the immediate perfectibility of man-
kind, Ferguson is driven to weariness,
cynicism and despair by what he finds
in Russia —retaining, at the end, an in-
distinct hope in the native vitality of
Mitka.
The book will be widely read—as it
deserves to be—for its political dis-
closures. There is, for instance, Fergu-
son’s conversation with an American
diplomat, relating to a matter recently
discussed in “S. M. Herald’s” corre-
spondence: columns:
“Do you know, Jimmy, there are about
sixty British and American diplomatic and
military personnel who’ve married Russian
women and not one of them will ever get
his'wife out of this country.”
“I know,” I said, “I knew it was hope-
less.”
“I tell you they’re afraid of their people
going out. They’re afraid they’ll tell the
world how this country is run.”
There are scores of similar items:
women working 11 hours a day for 600
roubles a month—butter selling at 2000
roubles a kilogram, potatoes at over 100
roubles a kilo ; a woman afraid to write
to her brother in America; children
playing “the document game” ; the beat-
ing and torture of political prisoners ;
cannibalism at Leningrad; the millions
killed in the blood purges or allowed to
starve to death after the collectivisation
of the farm-lands; the continual execu-
tions of “counter-revolutionaries,” guilty
and innocent; children of accused per-
sons left to beg in the streets for their
food; the universal dread of the secret
police; and, above all, the feeling of
frustration and hopelessness, the fear
that the Revolution has failed and that
all the sacrifices and terrors and brutali-
ties have been endured for nothing:
All day, as they labored, clearing the
river bank for lumber loading in the spring,
Karl had thought of those six frozen
prisoners. Until then he had tried to put
humanism out of his mind: to think
humanistically was illogical and in Russia
led to weakness and inertia; it was neces-
sary to think only of the goal. He had
always thought as a Communist. But now,
caged in like an animal, condemned to
labor, without trial, without appeal, he
reached the conclusion that to have a goal
was the fundamental error of the thesis.
For what was the goal? When was it to
be reached? Now, a quarter of a century
after the Revolution, were they any closer
to it? Was the classless society a dream?
Was the theory of the diminution of g ov .
eminent a Machiavellian invention? And
if these objectives were some day to be
reached, what species of sub-man would
have survived to enjoy them?
That was how he had suddenly seen St-
and from this basis his thought had taken
another sweep forward. There was no
goal, because all was change: whatever
end you reached could not be the end,
could only be a point of departure. The
goal was an illusion. Therefore, it was
necessary to fashion a political philosophy
which would care for the living, for the
present as for the future, for the future was
in the present. Thus simply had he reached
this conclusion.
The facts about life in Moscow, as
Blunden presents them, have the unmis-
takable ring of truth ; his meditations on
the facts are clear, finely expressed and
profound: and, falling for a moment
into his own dream of the perfectibility
of mankind, one cannot but be staggered
at the incredible folly of the “idealists”
who would destroy Westerh democracy
to replace it with a tyranny like this.
However, men do not act by reason but
by the necessities of their character; and
perhaps a mind as ironic as Conrad’s
would have seen Karl —who at the end
of,the novel dies futilely in an attempt
to assassinate “the Boss”—as merely one
more in the long procession of conspira-
tors and assassins thrown up by a people
half-civilised, loving words much for
their own sake and more as a cloak for
ferocity, “terribly childish” to Western
eyes.
It may be that Blunden takes a similar
view of Karl’s character. Though Mitka
gives the novel a “happy ending,” a
Room on the Route is essentially a pic-
ture of futility ; as, when Rubashov dies
doubting, like Karl, whether the Revo-
lution will ever reach its “goal,” is
Darkness at Noon; and as, in the por-
trayal of Razumov, is Under Western
Eyes. It may be that both Koestler and
Blunden would agree with Conrad when
he says that, searching for a “keyword”
for his analysis of “the moral conditions
ruling over a large portion of the earth’s
surface,” he can find only one word that
expresses all he wishes to convey:
“cynicism.”
Whether Karl dies “cynically” as well
as futilely—or despairingly, or even, as
Razumov might have done, in an ecstasy
of atonement —is uncertain: we are not
shown enough of his life, and the scene
of his death is brief. A Room on the
Route is less successful as a novel, as a
study and dramatisation of character,
than as a political exposure. In one
respect, the portrait of a girl named
Vitalia, it exceeds both Darkness at
Noon and Under Western Eyes, for Con-
rad’s Miss Haldin is a little tod facilely
conceived as. an idealist, and the woman
whom Rubashov has betrayed is shown
dimly through the grey haze of her be-
trayer’s reminiscences in prison. Vitalia
—vulgar, amorous, treacherous, a spy
and at last the victim of the secret police
—is very much alive. .
But Ferguson is not interesting as a
character, and, being attached to the
British Embassy, is only casually rather
than dramatically linked to the group of
innocents and conspirators who hap-
hazardly develop the plot of the novel,
There is no dominating central figure like
Conrad’s marvellous Razumov—weak,
frightened, voluble, arrogant, abusive,
lonely, thrown to-and-fro in hopeless
confusion between the tyranny of the
Czar and the tyranny of the Revolution
and longing to confess and escape. Nor
is there the unity of construction which,
established in the first sentence —“The
cell door slammed behind Rubashov”
—is the great merit of Darkness at
Noon.
Instead, after some inferior mono-
logues of reminiscence (in a monotonous
participial style borrowed from Heming-
way or Dreiser, who picked it up from
some of the madder moments of Walt
Whitman) A Room on the Route de-
velops in a series of jumps and flashes.
John dos Passos is obviously
influence —and a harmful one. Some of
these flashes are, in themselves, bril-
liant : notably the descriptions of war-
fare. But the total effect is like a jumble
of city lights, some cold, some gay, some
lurid, and in the mass patchy and con-
fusing. It is as if Blunden, while dissect-
ing the Soviet tyranny, had also dissected
his novel —and omitted to reassemble it.


B
■eziff
I 1
c.
mmmp
■
■
m 1 i m
■»i. 8 : y s S I
IiJL ■'•#'ll
1 1 1 >j s
-ilk •!•>. , ,
M
I l I
.li'i 1 !
: ' • •;
:
■ i
■
.; I:
1 1! 1
i. ’ i i *
: v
m
' U J
I, ■ I,
:
9 .■': .-■■
ii
Hi
•V-'l
■■
mmm m
m
■I
: m
mm
m
m
iii
f
sdf
:
:
William and Mary
• PERIOD DIMIMO SUITE
Twenty-four years ago, Dame Edith Walker commissioned one of our leading
furniture craftsmen to build this very handsome Dining Suite for
her home at Yaralla Park.
A.W the best features of the William and Mary period have been translated in finest
quality Queensland Maple. Without sacrificing those subtleties of form and
proportion which characterise the work of the master designer, modern
craftsmanship has simplified and adapted to the needs of our time, all the
grace and charm of more spacious days.
In our opinion, nothing finer has been produced in Australia. Skilfully selected
material, sound construction, unusually fine carving and surface finish, ail combine
in creating an air of luxury with restraint, a quality with an everlasting appeal to people
of taste and discrimination.
A\\ interior fittings are of solid cedar and an additional feature to this suite is the
two-compartment wine chest of matching design.
Oining Table, closed 7ft. 2in. x 4ft: 9-in. Eight leaves provide for extension to
18ft. 6in. The 9ft. sideboard has ample drawer and cupboard space.
Height 3ft. bin—back pediment of 18 inches. Shaped to 36 inches at the centre.
Twenty high-backed chairs (two have arms), upholstered in Brown Hide, finely carved.
Two side tables, 2ft. 6in. high, both fitted with drawers, and measuring
sft. 11 in. x 2ft. 6in. and 4ft. x 2ft. 6in. respectively.
You can acquire this lovely suite for £1,875, delivered in Sydney
Furniture —Third Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Eiiws(laiii©in\
BY ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
You are invited to inspect our New and Enlarged
Secondhand Book Department.
This department comprises many thousands of
secondhand volumes of Travel, Biography, Theology,
Art, Australiana, etc. Also a special selection of
Novels offered at 2/6 per volume.
If unable to call write for our special novel list and
a copy will be posted to you free of charge.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
o
QtfUlXtC/
m
Airway Cases, In
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
. . all the way/
Like the winner of a breath-taking motor race,
Tintara Amontillado Sherry is a champion in its
class. After an afternoon spent among the thrills,
dust and fumes that accompany these dirt-track
speed-demons, or after any sport, a glass of
Amontillado Sherry is the ideal restorer of energy
and reviver of jaded nerves and appetite.
MEET THE CHAMPIONS: Adelaide Wine Show
—Champion Prizes, Florfino Sherry; Old
Castle Riesling; Fine Old Liqueur Port.
Sydney Royal Show—Champion
Prize—Old Liqueur Port, Ist
and 2nd Prize—Old Brandy.
Ist Prizes—Vintage Port;
Export Port; Export Musca-
tel; Fine Old Liqueur Port.
“1 often -wonder what the vintners buy
One hail so precious as the goods they selL”
OMAR KHAYYAM.
X
\
TH47
MADE BY THOMAS HARDY AND SONS LIMITED, ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump
of Bed in the Morning Full of Van.
’ The liver should give out two pound*
Of liquid bile daily or your food down )
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon
stipated, Your whole system is P
and you feel irritable, tired and
and the world looks blue. „
Laxatives are only makeshifts,
must get at the cause.. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working.
make you feel “up and up. Harmiws.
gentle, yet amazing in keeping V
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver P"a
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/- & 1/3.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants. \
Whereabouts of ex-Sig. Laurie W. Channon
(NX99753), one time of 3 Aust. Op. Sec.
attached to Movement Control, Rabaul. —4084.
To buy copy of Barkers and Biters by R.
Kaleski.—4oBl.
To buy thermos or vacuum jug.—4oB2.
To buy copy of From Kosciusko to the Sea
by P. J. Hurley.—4oB3.
Information Sought.
Can I compel the owner of an adjoining
N.S.W. property to contribute half the cost of
having a dividing fence renewed ?
The question is whether there is “no sufficient
dividing fence.” . If a dispute or difference as
to the necessity or sufficiency of any dividing
fence arises between adjoining owners it must
be determined by arbitration. If there is no
dispute as to that matter, one adjoining owner
may require the other, in writing, to assist in
equal proportions to make or repair the fence.
If that is not done, or if no sufficient or
reasonable excuse be given within six months
of the notice, the owner who has completed
his half of the fence may complete the other
half and recover the cost from his neighbor.
* * * *
Some native plants suitable for a Sydney
suburban area?
Depends on area space and growing heights
desired. The tall kinds include wattle, waratah,
Geraldton wax, bottlebrush and Christmas
bush; smaller kinds are flannel flower, boroma,
eriostemon, heather, Sturt’s desert pea, Christ-
mas bells, grevillea, native fuchsia, heath and
banksia. Soil should be sandy loam, hot stable
manures and fertilisers should be avoided, and
waterings given sparsely. Most Sydney plant
merchants keep stocks and will advise on the
culture of native flora, while the Director,
Botanical Gardens, Sydney, is always willing
to help.
* * * *
When should timekeepers add "time” on
during play under Australian Rules football?
Here are the chief reasons: Undue delay
in getting the ball back when it is out of play;
player wilfully wasting time; when player goes
over an opponent’s mark and refuses or neglects
to go back; when more than one opponent
stands on the mark of a player who is kicking
for goal; when a player who has been given
a free kick plays or kicks the ball without
going back to the spot where the free kick is
given; when play is stopped for the purpose
of counting players on the field; when a player
who has placed the ball for a free kick elects
to replace it; when a player, in kicking from
behind the goal line, hits one of the posts and
is given another kick. There are other reasons
which can be allowed at the umpire’s discretion.
* * * «
Where can I obtain spare parts for a "Case”
tractor ?
Gemmell Tractor Co., 92 Cleveland-street,
Chippendale, N.S.W., carries a fairly compre-
hensive stock of spare parts for the “Case”
tractors, particularly those models manufactured
in 1930 and after. A small stock of parts is
still available for the early-type cross engine
“Case” tractors, commonly known as the model
“A” or 12/20 and model “K” or 18/32. These
models went out of production in 1929. Sug-
gest that you write to this firm giving the model
of the tractor and its serial number.
* * * *
Treatment for canker in rose-trees?
Remove the soil and cut off the knotty pieces
from the roots, then apply a dressing of
Bordeaux mixture, Stockholm tar or strong
permanganate of potash. Where roses are badly
affected it is preferable to dig them out and
burn the disease. Before putting in further
stock the soil should be heavily treated with
lime and allow to fallow for at least a couple
of months.
Brief Answers.
R.G.S.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Syd-
ney, for pamphlet, “The Milch Goat”—J.A.:
Supplies of Pinnacle seed wheat can be obtained
from the Principal, Longerenong Agricultural
College, Dooen (Vic.), for 245. a bag f.o.r.
Dooen W. 8.: Cotinus (Smoke Plant),
feathery flowers, leaves in autumn turn yellow;
height 6ft. Vernicifera (Lacquer Tree), leaves
turn to bright crimson; height 10ft. Succedanea,
leaves change to gold, brown and red; height
12ft C.G.: No-balls and wides are not
counted. Notes to umpires also state (rule 13)
that a ball shall not count as one of an over
nor shall any runs be scored if both bails have
been blown off the striker’s wicket before he
plays his stroke or if the bowler in running up
to deliver the ball allows it to slip from his
hand before delivery P.J.F.: Write “The
Century,” 90 Pitt-street, Sydney P.K.: Write
Chief Inspector of Fisheries and Game,
Department of Harbors and Marine# Edward-
street, Brisbane A.W.: Supreme Court and
State Industrial Arbitration Judges, £2600.
District Court and Workers’ Compensation
Judges, £JSOO. Supreme and District Court
Judges’ salaries were fixed back in the
’Bo’s and haven’t been altered since....
E.D.V.: The property known as “Spring
Hills Farm” is owned by Baron F. Von
comprises about 500 acres, and is
situated IJj- miles from a village called The Oaks
and about six miles from the town of Camden
(N.S.W.) Inquirer: (1) Sandalbox (Eremo-
phila mitchelli ), Mallee roots (Eucalyptus
species), Weeping Myall (A. pendulm), River
Red Gum (E. rostrata). (2) In l|in. squares
they should air dry in approximately six months,
but larger sizes will take considerably longer.
(3) Try H. R. Walthers Pty., Ltd., of Five Dock
(N.S.W.), for de-waxed shellac.. . .G.R.: (1)
Searching for information. (2) Write Common-
wealth Treasurer, Canberra, and the various
State Treasurers W.G.J.: Eden (N.S.W.) is
on Twofold Bay and on Prince’s Highway, 321
miles from Sydney, and 37 miles north of the
Victorian border. It can also be reached by
rail to Bombala or Nimmitabel. Population is
about 700. Chief local products are bacon,
butter, livestock, timber, maize and wattle-
bark M.L.: You omit age. The average
weight for height (woman) of sft. is 7 stone
71b., with increase of 51b. for each inch above
this height. To reduce weight, avoid liquids
with meals, curtail fats, sugar and starchy
foods; add a mild saline to the morning glass
of hot water. Skim-milk is permissible with
tea or coffee R.G.; Salsify (Tragopojon
porrifolius) is tap-rooted, resembling parsnips,
and needs deep soils well enriched with old
stable refuse. Set roots 6in. apart from August
to November, and keep well watered. Roots
are ready to cook in about six months. Except
keeping weeds in check no other attention is
necessary... .R.McM.: (1) Yes, but it is advis-
able to inform both of the action taken. (-1
The latter story was probably a reprint. (3)
Depends upon the rights the author assiped
on the acceptance of his story—M.B.P.: Total
sales including sales tax collected should be
included in gross sales, item 32,, and particulars
of sales tax paid in respect of these gross sales
claimed under item 70 of the return form tor
the year ended June 30, 1947... .M.S.: (1I B
would be advisable for a fresh lot of certineo
Katahdin seed, obtainable from a Tableland
district, to be planted for the early-sprmg crop.
The small seed from this crop may be used tor
planting the following autumn crop, after whicn
fresh seed should be obtained. (2) Have posted
a leaflet called “Bush or Berry Fruit Culture
which will furnish the information required.


Persona! and Missing Friends.
SLATER, Elwy (otherwise Elsie) Galbraith, * a
daughter of William Pete Slater and Catherine Kelly,
was last heard of by her relations in Melbourne
about 1912. Will she or any person who can give
information of her whereabouts or her death, if de-
ceased, please communicate with PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne?
JOHN O’DONNELL, now aged (if alive) about 97
years, who left Berkeley, near Wollongong, New
South Wales, about 1904, communicate with under-
mentioned —news to his advantage. Anyone knowing
his movements since then or his present whereabouts
or any other information concerning him, please
advise D’APICE & D’APICE, Solicitors, Wollongong.
HAIMS
Circular Charts i« ail types oi
Recording instruments tor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
v OU£EN STREET J»TV. LTD* BRISBANE, o*l®.
St/,
■■ t'.
s mmm.
Ifiil
mmmt.
need hardly remind you 9
Gentlemen 9 that in times of scarcity
the best is always hardest to obtain
Not least among the reasons for the present
shortage of WHITE HORSE WHISKY is the
fact that its 'quality was "never finer than now.
s
&
m
%
i a . • I i . • r,r- T I
/ 1 1 1' 1 1 1 jjV ' — o
/ »' *.' / > / f /,' ?i 1 1 1.. .1 11 n 11 wuuwfflWWW^
df
* •
8008
s
CODES
Imagine, if you can, a metal surface so smooth that
irregularities can only be measured in millionths of
an inch . . . defying discovery by all but the most
powerful compound microscopes! Superfinish—
this revolutionary new metal finishing process, in-
troduced by Chrysler engineers in 1940—permits
closer tolerances, reduces initial wear, shortens the
running-in period and keeps performance quiet
and smooth for many thousands of miles. And
Superfinish is standard practice is every car of the
Chrysler Dodge line—Chrysler, Dodge, De Soto and
Plymouth, and in Dodge and Fargo trucks and
utilities too.
°OO GE
SOTO
iy MQijjn
c ° c e TRUCKS
%*.hifsler
(AUSTRALIA) PTY.LTD,
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: York Motors Pty. Ltd., Buckle Motors (Trading Company) Pty. Limited, Harden and Johnston Limited ,
• MELBOURNE: Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Automobiles Pty. Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
• ADELAIDE: Waymouth Motor Company Limited, Flinders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: Winterbottom Motor Company Limited, Wentworth Motors Limited.
• HOBART: Co-Operative Motors Limited, H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd., Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
J.J.H.: Glad Gladys had a happy birth-
day K.C.: Don’t care for your kangaroo
shooters F. 8.: Spent a restless night after
reading your horror yarn... .F.M.: Only a
miracle would land you in print... .8.W.:
Badly put together... .M.H.: Just an average
yarn A.D.: Looked like a winner for the
first three pages then petered 0ut....G.K.:
Nothing impressive about the shearer’s cook.
I.L.: You might do something if you can
break away from the stereotyped... .C.H.:
Your recipe appears to be to take a small
portion of idea and smother with words....
8.L.; Not without an idea, but doesn’t quite
make the weight... .E.F.: Well, you write
about all the best-used topics, anyway....
T.C.; Avoid long and involved sentences and
inaccurate use of words... .A.F.: Reads as if
it was deliberately written for the basket
R.L.A.: No room in our wardrobe for “The
Purple Shawl”.... C.M.: N 0... .Bellerive:
Charge on:
[Prepared to follow a route leading to the district
of Maryborough on the morrow, where the chief
hoped to arrive in time to mail a money-order to his
wife and children in Melbourne. We were up at sun-
rise.]
S.T.: As much as we admired Mr. Pyler’s
motives he struck us as being a most un-
convincing character... .F.G.V.: Not bad, re-
garded as an exercise, in journalism; keep on
trying L.E.W.: Our ears were still ringing
days after meeting your long-winded flapper.
D.L.R.: “The Old Couple” are just an
ordinary pair L.S.: Not home to the War-
ricks and their guest I.O.B.: “China Love”
a little too cloying for our liking S.D.: A
slight incident not very humorously treated....
A.W.R.: Good atmosphere, but there’s nothing
in the story H.L.: Refused the invitation to
“His Sister’s Wedding” A.F.V.: Adrian is
the type of romantic young man who exists only
in the mind of immature yam-spinners ....
R.G.: Twin-brothers substitution plot dates
back to the cave-dwellers... .G.M.P.; Con-
densed it might see print in a woman’s paper.
R.I.: Although amusing in a vulgar way
the situation has been exploited before... .A.L.:
Have passed your story on to the Woman’s
Mirror G.F.S.: Neither the yarn about the
Rugby player nor the tale about the bachelor
friends hit the mark A.A.S.: Impossible
from beginning to end D.R.W.: We have
met uncouth old stockmen with hearts of gold
like that before R.C.: Given its return
ticket... .A.S.M.: Too, too sentimental....
R.L.T.: Andy and Joe are comforting each
other on the homeward trip P.T,: We’ve
read enough spy stories during the past few
years to last us a lifetime K.S.: Nothing
new in the idea that a woman improves the
tone of a place... .R.H.McL.: Why didn’t you
make him a pickpocket? R.G.8.: Dry as
dust K.E.G.: One bite of “Forbidden Fruit”
was more than enough J.E.: About one-
fourth of the stories received end in some
hard-up cove discovering gold in the final
paragraph M. 8.: “Quiz Programme” has
not much reader interest... .C. 8.: Try the
magazine pages of a daily V.R.: Missed by
several miles E.M.: Both too slight
K.M.S.: Jane’s wedding didn’t merit the 1500
words you devoted to it J.F. (Elwood, Vic.):
Take away your television story G.L.: Cut
down, it might make an abo. paragraph
H.E.H.: A tame variation of an often-used
p10t... .H. 8.: “This-Year, Next-Year, Some-
time?” Never, so far as we are concerned
J.C.S.: You had no luck with “Chinaman’s
Luck”.,. .E.M.A.: Didn’t like the melo-
dramatic climax U.E.: Slapstick.... J.L.T.:
“Grampa Travels Light”— too light for us
A.H.: “Leaf Fall” fluttered gently to the
basket L.H.C.: Buying nothing from that
salesman... .D.S.: Not quite up to your
first effort C.R.C.: It will not enliven the
pages of our Christmas number... .L.M.N.:
Try a woman’s paper D.8.H.: An old
Bulletin paragraph spun out to story length.
E.M.H.: Brisk enough, but not the class
of story we’re seeking H.S.T.: Mr. Pate
would stand a better chance of getting into
print if he was brought more into the picture.
. ...R.M.H.: A corpse to every page'is carry-
ing things a bit too far W.G.: Absent-
minded professors are a drug on the market;
so are henpecked husbands who become he-
men overnight W.L.L.: “This is my first
effort.” There w’as no need to tell us P.F.;
What’s wrong with Victorian beer nowadays?
Your reformed drunkard is the third we’ve
met from your part of the world in the past
few weeks... .M.R.: Still another equine out-
law mastered by a jackeroo on his first day
on the station C.K.W.: That old salt might
have walked out of a story by W. W. Jacobs.
... .E.J.: You paved the way to the w.p.b.
with the first few sentences T.A.: “Although
it may be unsuitable, it might give you some
pleasure to read it.” The only ones that give
us any pleasure are those that are suitable,
"■ ~
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.P.: That’s not the first time we’ve seen
a parachutist dangling over a nudist colony.
H.S.C.: Haven’t you ever seen a cow-bail?
S.D.: It amazes us that the barber could
continue all these years slicing off ears without
being run in F.J.: Why are all your charac-
ters at least nine feet high?... .M.P.: Race-
course urger ordered off the premises K.N-:
You can’t draw a curate; you can’t even draw
a bath bun A.D.: Didn’t fancy “A Globe-
trotter’s Impressions”..R.K.: Away with
those niggling, faint scratches K.McD.:
Scratchy and untidy M.G.: In our time
we’ve met several thousand office boys who
have put up the same excuse for wanting to
see a football match W.J.; Careless
M.McC. : It might have been chopped out of
ironbark with a blunt axe M.C.: You, too,
have a penchant for drawing people about
twice the average height E.H.M.: Best-
drawn item in your cartoon on the international
situation is Uncle Joe’s moustache 5.8. J.:
Not rushing to buy your illustrated “Quiz
Questions for Kiddies’” K.S.: Picture of
do S scratching for fleas and saying ‘*Gee I’m
itchy declined in record time C.F.: Gag
first saw the light about the time of the Boer
war F.W.H.: Why must you always draw
barmaids? Why not draw a milk-bar girl
for a change?... .A.M.: Looks like a geo-
metrical exercise... .F.G.: The blasphemous
parrot and the shocked clergyman have been
introduced to us before D.J.: This week’s
worst A.A.: A most unattractive batch.
TRAVELS IN A WAGON.
2 —Charged by a Bull.
Charged by a bull
With fierce bowed head.
For a solitary tree
In terror I sped.
When aloft among
The branches high,
I realised I was
Too young to die.
I watched the bull
Make off in rage—■
Foiled like a villain
Upon the stage.


SUSAN GETS THE SPARE ROOM READY
By
JAMES HACKSTON
IN the little room next to the back
verandah there was much industry
and movement going on as Susan
shoved and moved things about while
Jules stood limply by.
There was the heavy grating and scrap-
ing of old lumber being jostled and, with
the knocking and rapping of all kinds of
odd articles, the steady slump, slump of
Susan’s heavy boots as she moved about
industriously over the wooden floor.
All Jules was doing was to nod and
smile weakly and resignedly; and by
the look of his nods and smiles you could
see that he was not in agreement with
what Susan was so busily doing and
saying.
With a lull in the volcanic moving of
things came a busy, virile scraping and
thumping of the broom; prodding into
corners with short, determined jabs,
reaching up on wal|s and, after a series
of wide, enveloping movements, coming
down with straight harvesting sweeps,
bringing with it a mesh or network of
tangled, twisted, old grey cobwebs, with
a host of daddy longlegs all angling off
to safety and big black sinful old spiders
and other hoary denizens of the room’s
dark places disappearing between the
crevices and into the cracks, where they
had once had their gory caverns and
caves of loaded dusty web.
And, with Jules also moving away from
the disturbance, the thick masses of dust,
grime, dead moths, loose chaff, bran,
pollard and fluff rolled out in cumulus
clouds, the small particles swirling and
twisting, glinting and glittering in a mael-
strom of movement as they sailed, floated,
glided, sank, rose and swam in the warm
slanting rays of the morning sun.
JULES, now leaning against the
farthest-away verandah post, asked
Susan if she thought “she” would like it
all right, and Susan’s decisive reply was
that the “she” would have to like it or
lump it.
Jules shifted shoulders on the verandah
post and, after swallowing, most unwill-
ingly, a mouthful of pollard, or bran, or
chaff, or dead moths, retreated further
away from the dust, grime, fluff, bran,
pollard, dead .moths —and maybe germs,
as he said —and nodded a sage nod ; but
not sanguinely, but as if in his mind
dwelt the thought that things were some-
how going to be a bit funny in a way
and not just as they might be with “her”
living with them.
Putting the broom aside Susan brushed
from off herself those cobwebs which had
stuck to her instead of to the broom, and
also those spiders who had missed their
cracks and crevices and were busily en-
gaged trying to run up her legs, and, as a
bit of a respite from the more heavy
work, dragged the old chest of drawers
out into the middle of the room. The
chest had been used by Susan before she
was married, and her mother had let her
have it —in spite of her sister Aggie’s
protests —when she married.
The three drawers had no handles to
them, the knobs having been chopped off
by her young brother Gordon —Gordon
was a champion with the axe when he
grew up.
Looking at the three handleless drawers
again Susan thought of Gordon again.
She hardly ever saw Gordon now; and
he was living not so far away, either;
only down by Cauliflower Creek; not
that she wanted him to come nosing
round in his superior way just because
he’d won the big chopping contest once
at the city show.
Last time he came he was very high
and mighty, walking about the place
telling Jules what he ought to do and
ought not to do, as if Jules hadn’t a mind
of his own; she wasn’t sorry when he’d
gone.
Susan then went into the kitchen and
fossicked about for her old worn-down
kitchen knife which she always used to
do the vegetables with and, returning to
the back room, shoved the knife in at
the top of the first drawer and after some
manoeuvring managed to prise and edge
the drawer out far enough to get her
' fingers in.
The next job was to pull the drawer
out and, knowing its old impregnability,
she gave it her old familiar wallop with
her fist and before the effect of that
loosening-up could disappear or wear off
pulled lustily on it.
The drawer came out three or four
inches only. There was nothing for it
but to push it back again, but not right
back, and have another go at it. She
did, and the drawer came out a bit more
this time and then fammed on the left
side.
Susan breathed out; then, within the
minute, slammed it back again, but not
right back, and went at it with a more
vigorous tug. The drawer came out
about the same number of inches and
again jammed, but this time on the right
side.
She got down on her knees now, pushed
her hair back from her eyes and had
another go, pulling evenly, straight and
fiercely until the drawer with many
grindings and groanings and gratings
came out and she, exasperated, jerked it
right out and set it down on the floor
beside her. She pushed her hair back
again ; anyway, she’d never liked Gordon
very much.
Having got the top drawer out Susan
now attacked the second drawer from the
inside, and as it was worse than the first
one, she walloped it harder, pulled it
more impatiently, shook it, shoved it, and,
thinking how she could have pulled it
out easily had it had its proper knobs
on it to take hold of, she thought about
Gordon again ; not that he’d care what
she’d be thinking; he’d never liked her,
anyway; Aggie was always his favorite
sister.
Sighing a little crossly Susan, in the
end, pulled this one out, too, and, her
thoughts returning to Gordon again, she
wondered if his high and mighty wife
still looked as stuck-up as ever.
Attacking the third and last drawer,
Susan gave it her usual first bang or
wallop with her fist and heaved on it,
too, and this one slid out with an effort-
less grace and a fierce rush on top of
her. Susan on the floor and the drawer
clattering over her and on to the floor
beside her. Susan was now cross with
Gordon, although the missing knob on
this drawer had nothing to do with its
flying out.
Gordon, she thought with a savage
sneer, with a wife who kept a fancy bed-
room suite she never used ; a toffy bed
she only kept for show and never slept in.
JULES, who had been studying closely
the action of the morning breeze in
the gum tops to determine, for his own
cultural satisfaction, which way the
breeze was lying, and having made up his
mind that it was coming from the north-
east, but,maybe a little more to the north
than the east, and not hearing any more
sounds coming from the room, and hope-
fully wondering if Susan had pretty well
finished, poked his nose inside the door
and saw that Susan was going through
the contents of the chest of drawers.
And now Jules walked right into the
room and stood behind Susan ; standing
very still, both hands pressed deep into
his front trouser-pockets and smiling
quizzically, half-humorously and yet a
little sadly as if with a philosophic aware-
ness that was fully prepared for anything
that might crop up ; and this brought
about to a degree by Susan’s hasty, jerky
movements, which indicated, in no uncer-
tain manner, that her temper had been
kindled and might flame up.
Susan, as is usual with her sex when
“going through things,” rummaged
wildly, things flying out of the drawers
like leaves before a gale.
She grabbed with quick, jerky, tense
movements and tossed stuff from her.
Scrummaging roughly and ruthlessly she
held up high, as if in outraged pro-
test, an untidy parcel the 17 long-
forgotten and very much moth-eaten
possum skins which belonged to Jules —
and, after poising them in mid-air accus-
ingly, tossed them from her, and, the
parcel coming to pieces, 17 flat-looking
possums landed mostly on Jules s head,
one of them clinging to his whiskers.
Then Susan came across that letter
Aggie had written to her asking for “the
bracelet back Mum meant for me,”
Susan spread the old crinkled and long-
forgotten letter out, and while Jules stood
motionless and expressionless behind her,
began to read the letter right through to
the bitter end ; reading it slowly, deliber-
ately and painstakingly with her lips moy-
ing as she read, as if Jules were not pre-
sent, as if he were not standing behind
her and as if she had never read the letter
before and was now suddenly shocked
and outraged to think that Aggie, her
own sister, could write such a letter.
Indignation welled up within her; the
hunch of her shoulders spoke volumes ;
her breathing was fast; the rising of her
bosom turgid. She folded the letter care-
fully—very carefully—and put it way in
one of her safe pockets ; Aggie would
hear about it—again!
At this point Jules must have had a
feeling that the breeze was not now lying
north-east with a little more to the north
than to the east, but had changed and
might now be lying more to the east than
to the north, so he again studied the tree-
tops and, not being satisfied evidently
with the evidence of trees within range,
gazed into the far and spreading dis-
tances.
Susan produced a very old and also
very dinted boxer hat of a vintage long
forgotten. With a most expressive shrug
of shrugs find without looking towards or
even inclining her head towards her hus-
band she cast it over her shoulder.
The old hat, as if feeling its rim again,
went wheeling round the room as ex-
uberantly as it had spun on the day
twenty-nine years back when Jules,
journeying in the train between Marble
Top and Cat’s Gully, had put n his head
out of the carriage window to look at
Cat’s Gully and it had jumped off his
head. Being rescued two years later by
a drover called Jack Crockett.
Jules picked it up reverently. He had
worn it when courting Susan.
Susan next discovered the 46 copies
of the “Land and the Man” which
contained all “those” most progressive
articles on progressive farming and
“those” valuable notes on how to make
poor land pay. She tossed these with an
even more expressive shrug.
SUSAN had now developed the tech-
nique of shrugging to a fine degree,
and, at the same time, was getting a lot
of novelty into her tosses. They were
developing. She was getting a wealth
of feeling, and even description, into the
way, or the art, with which discarded
things left her disdainful hands. As she
tossed you could read her mind, gauge
her opinions, feel whether she was dis-
dainful, indifferent or just cold and unin-
terested.
Sometimes a thing would fly over her
left shoulder with the perfect grace of
contemptuous abandon; another time
some article or long-forgotten thing
would go over her right shoulder; and
when things went over her right shoulder
there appeared to be more finality about
the toss; more virility or forcefulness.
When her toss sent them straight up
overhead the toss could be taken as mean-
ing to hell with it and never let her clap
eyes on it again or it would go in the
fire on the instant.
Then there was the technique of the
motion or speed which accompanied the
toss. Sometimes the speed would be low,
other times one of swiftness as if denot-
ing that the thrower or tosser hated the
sight of the thing and the sooner it was
out of her sight the better. There was
high speed, low speed, and movements
that were slower wherein some items
were sent skidding over the floor with a
sinuous, slithering suggestion which
seemed to represent the disdainful ex-
clamation “pooh.”
Here Susan changed her style and in-
stead of using the disdainful toss or throw
returned to the personal touch again—
still treacherous in suggestion and which
relied on the hunch of the shoulder to
show disdain or contempt—and fished
out from the lumber an old, faded-
looking, much-nibbled, mouldy, mil-
dewed photograph which, although dusty
and dirty and with most of the top part
of the photograph missing, and within
the missing portion part of the head
containing the left eye of the person in
the photograph, but which, even with
what was left of it and only the one
eye showing, still proclaimed that it was
the picture of a gentleman.
It was Uncle Bob, who used to be
“Good old Uncle Bob” up to the time
when he gave away his large gold watch
which he had always promised Jules
was to be his. Everybody knew about
Uncle Bob’s watch ; it was nearly as bi£
as a saucer and had been in the family
for years, having once belonged to an
old sea captain who was connected with
their family in some way or another.
Instead of keeping his word to Jules
Uncle Bob had given the massive gold
watch to Myrtle Tregowthan, a flighty
piece of goods who worked at the Red
Gum hotel at Cauliflower Creek.
Susan went over all this again in the
way she handed the photograph to Jules
with that personal-touch technique which
said plainly that she was more than
delighted to see that the' old rotter had •
lost his left eye since she had last seen
him and that Jules, if he still wanted to
keep the picture of the miserable old
goat, could put it back in the cowshed
where he had kept it before.
Looking at Susan’s hackled back, Jules
now read, in that mysterious way in
which a husband can read a wife’s back
and tell which way the wind is lying with
them, that Susan was again repeating
to herself that Uncle Bob, with his long,
drooping, mousey-looking moustache had
given the watch to a low little faggot of
a hotel kitchenmaid —if she was as good
as that.
TULES now broke away from his
kJ solitary, silent stand and, with the
hat under his left arm, his 17 moth-
eaten ’possum skins pressed under his
right arm, his 46 copies of the
“Land and the Man” held in his
hands and the picture of the Wicked
Uncle Bob resting on top, merged
towards the door, oozed out and,
once outside, stood looking vacantly at
the gums for a moment as if wondering
if he could put the things there; then
looked up to the sky. Then, still looking
bewildered and like a man who had been
turned out from hearth and home, or a
cat shifting her kittens, he gradually
moved towards the copper at the end or
the verandah, where he very quietly and
delicately put his possessions.
Suddenly relieved, Jules was still stand-
ing there when, what appeared to be a
vivid streak of lightning flashed, as one
of Jules’s trace-chains zigzagged through
the air and fell to earth with an electee
report; to be immediately followed
by a dark cloud coming over as the old
buggy seat passed over into the yard, ana
which was followed by a sudden deluge
of driving hail in the shape of mice dirt
{Continued on page 32.)
The Professor.
Blackboard background merging with a midnight
Gown that eclipses all his body except
Two pallid hands—live stars illuminating
Speech with gesture, aesthetically adept —
And, rising from the academic gloom,
Prominently quaint, a Roman face,
Like an elliptic moon reflecting light
Of knowledge, wrinkled with a cultured grace.
Heart of a poet, mind of a man immured
In visions of his pedestailed arts that form
A monumental wall dividing his days
From slander of prejudiced sneer or critic
storm,
He commands a world at touch of the patient
cover
Of his classical dictionary dated the year
Seventeen eighty-eight, with title page
finely scrolled and politely verbose through a
tear .
He offers the spirit of centuries to stir
An untaught darkness and speaks old masters’
wise
Unchanging words, impelling student-pens
To whispers with the intensity of his eyes.
Hard to imagine him as soldier, yet.
They say, he fought at Ypres. Hard to
believe
A wound in that covered arm habitually
Sweeping aside the gown’s obtrusive sleeve.
\
Years full of scholars —pageant of nakedness
In need of dress —have petrified that frown.
He has labored with books and words to satisfy
A dream; to turn them out with a love and
a gown.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID H. ROWBOTHAM.


n
m*mm
7*
m
x \ «
IS
til
sS*
=s^
uj
SS
t
sr-
i
■ ::
03 S
ht^‘s%
hJ «
I
?5
Ml
%
JM
I
£
p»i
%
mf
mm.
WJ£&
m
SO
3SSS
SSS
»
W
NssJ)
»
-'SftSSfeSaK
>?
»
s?ji
BAS
li'S
site® % '
Sag;
lilil??
W m^mm
BS
Kl
BfUS
s
\
* ' \
I\>
e
BP 1
:•«
->
\M
"\
m
¥
m
The ioo year history of Allis-Chalmers has been a “Century of Service to
Good Living.” Beginning with the manufacture of mill stones in 1847 . . .
and continuing on to the 1600 different products produced today . . . the effects of
Allis-Chalmers activities extend throughout the world.
When Allis-Chalmers introduced the first rubher-tyred tractor they revolutionised
tractor design. From a heavy, costly machine for only the largest farms, the modern
tractor emerged as a fast, light versatile aid within the reach of even the small farmer.
Yet the tractor of today is a different, vastly more -efficient machine than the prototype
of earlier years. It has been simplified. Comforts and conveniences, unheard of then,
have been added. It is faster, safer, more flexible, better designed and better built. It
is more economical to operate and maintain at maximum efficiency. It has made
practical new methods of tillage and harvesting—increasing crop yields, yet decreasing
man hours in the field —giving the man on the land the extra leisure he so
richly deserves.
In factories and on farms, in mines and on highways, wherever power and machinery
are used, you’ll find Allis-Chalmers doing its full share toward making the good
things of life more plentiful for more people.
aOJM<3X™B2
AC
/+AUI&
Agricultural Distributors for Western
Australia: WESTRALIAN FARMERS
CO-OPERATIVE LTD. South Australia:
JOHN SHEARER & SONS PTY., LTD.
Victoria: MITCHELL & CO. PTY. LTD.
N.S.W.: MITCHELL SHEARER FARM
MACHINERY PTY. LTD. Queensland:
ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. AUST.
LTD. Tasmania: A. Q. WEBSTER &
SONS LTD.
Industrial Distributors for New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South
Australia: TUTT-BRYANT PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: A. G. WEBSTER & SONS
LTD., Hobart and Launceston. Western
Australia: WESTRALIAN TUTT-
BRYANT PTY. LTD., Perth.
• Agricultural Tractors
• Road Building Machinery
• Industrial Tractors
7i r
>•1 rl
mm
l IU/nii
*»■*)»•%
toi>'
> 7 /
If I
i'in
w
>«u%w
ii)J
*
m\K
n.
r»n
--0
IHW
■mid
2rrr>nN
ALL-CROP HARVESTER
Another example of Allis-Chalmers pioneer-
ing, this machine is in use on tens of
thousands of farms overseas. Its ingenious
design enables it to successfully handle 106
different crops... grains, beans, seeds,
sorghums.. .under actual farm conditions.
Simple adjustment permits one operator to
do the whole job—cutting, feeding, shelling,
separating and cleaning.


SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
What a Trustee should know...
sd
fs
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
00~,, C - o + mpar F ? T° ur Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS :
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Paviell
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
SMOKERS
Direct from Manufacturer to You
Special money-saving offer of high-
class toasted pipe tobaccos blended
with the best imported tobaccos.
RICH DARK MEDIUM PIPE
MIXTURE, 15/- per lb. Posted.
MEDIUM HIGH-CEASS PIPE
MIXTURE, 13/6 per lb. Posted.
HIGH-CEASS TOASTED READY-
RUBBED FINE CUT TOBACCO,
17/- per lb. Posted.
Make your post box your nearest store.
Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FANTASTIC NEGOTIATIONS.
Moves this month in the Security
Council, reaching a new height of out-
spokenness on August 12, have been the
most direct, and towards being the most
forceful, thus far taken to end the crip-
pling Soviet control of U.N.O. per the
veto.
The issue was the Soviet - directed
puppets’ aggressions against Greece ; U.S.
delegate Johnson stating, as cabled:
“Greece is in grave peril. The time for
appeasement to avoid a Soviet veto has
passed.” He made it plain that taking
Greece over would mean fighting the
U.S.
On a study of the record, the only
wonder about the U.S., for one, getting
at last fed-up is that it didn’t happen
long ago. It is a fantastic record, almost
beyond belief.
The Russian Mentality
,J n a ““Harper’s” (August) article,
Negotiating With the Russians,” James
B. Reston quotes the comment of one of
the diplomats who have tried that “nego-
tiating”: “You can’t define their men-
tality ; you can only report ’ specific
illustrations of how it works, and let the
reader judge.” On that basis, specimen
illustrations of the delay-and-destruction
tactics are here given from Reston and
other sources;
The European Advisory Commission,
established long before the end of the war
to co-ordinate the post-war policies of
the “Big Three,” has met over 500 times.
It has accomplished virtually nothing.
The policies of the “Big Three” were
never less co-ordinated. The Russian
stand on practically every issue has been
complete willingness to agree—on Russian
terms.
The Council of Foreign Ministers,
established at Potsdam in 1945, held 122
meetings over 15 months before it reached
the basis for agreement on the minor
European peace treaties—for Italy, Ru-
mania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Finland —
and some of the most important aspects
of these, such as the future of the Italian
colonies and the governorship of Trieste,
had to be set aside and are still unsettled.
Regarding Trieste, the U.S., Britain and
France felt that this predominantly
Italian city should remain under Italian
government; the Soviet argued that it
should go to Yugoslavia. Despite their
three to one majority, the others proposed
the compromise of internationalising the
city. Reston (one of N.Y. “Times’s” able
staff of diplomatic correspondents) com-
ments on the outcome of that piece of
expediency; —•
The Soviet Union accepted the compromise.
As soon as it was accepted we operated on
the principle of compromise; we gave up try-
ips to get the city for Italy, but the Russians
denned the compromise not as an end but as
a means to their original end. For additional
months thereafter, they sought to twist the
rules of the compromise in such a way that
Yugoslavia would have the control of the city,
if not the actual sovereignty over it. First they
tried to stipulate that Yugoslavia should run
its foreign affairs; then they proposed a customs
union between the city and Yugoslavia; then a
series of railroad arrangements;* then an
autonomous area in the port for Yugoslavia;
and finally, a loose constitution open, like the
old Danzig constitution, to endless manipula-
tion. None of these succeeded, but the cam-
paign continues.
Another Reston illustration of the
working of the Russian mentality on com-
promise and interpretation of agreements;
In the U.N. Commission on Conventional
Armaments, the United States put forward a
proposal on the procedure to be followed in
the discussions. Andrei Gromyko, the Soviet
delegate, countered with a different plan of
procedure. After studying his suggestions, the
United States delegation thought it saw a way
in which the two proposals could be co-
ordinated, so our representative later introduced
a compromise, combining the two plans. Mr.
Gromyko’s reaction to this was not that we
were trying to meet him half-way in the in-
terest of understanding. He remarked that our
compromise merely proved that we must not
have had much confidence in our original
proposal, and therefore, he concluded, since
the Soviet delegation did have confidence in
theirs, why shouldn’t it be accepted?
Sundry Somersaults
The Russian negotiators—so called—
were willing to break up the first meeting
of the Council of Foreign Ministers in
London on the legal technicality that the
Potsdam Declaration did not state that
France should be represented in the
council. A few months later, when the
second meeting of the council was held
in Paris and the Soviet wanted to impress
the French electorate with their friendli-
ness to France, the Russians insisted that
France should participate in the discus-
sions !
Similarly the U.S. trusteeship over the
Pacific Islands. The Russians opposed
any discussion of the question for months,
arguing that it ’should be left over until
the Japanese peace conference. Then,
— “Neo,” Athens.
“TAKE YOUR SEATS, GENTLEMEN!”
just before the Foreign Ministers’ con-
ference on Germany and Austria started
last March in Moscow—where the Rus-
sians wanted to argue that those who had
contributed most to the military victory
should get special concessions in the peace
treaties —they switched completely over-
night and led the advocacy for U.S. get-
ting the islands on its own terms!
The Russians took an active interest in
the negotiations over the constitution of
the International Refugee Organisation.
To meet the Soviet objections, the other
Powers weakened the constitution con-
siderably ; then, in the end, the Soviet did
not join. There is now in operation, con-
sequently, an organisation that not only
does not have the membership of the
Soviet but is much weaker than it should
have been but for Moscow’s amendments.
The Broken Agreements
Among broken agreements is the
specific one made by Stalin and Chur-
chill that Greece was to be left in the
British sphere of influence: “Not only
did the Soviet Union concentrate the full
weight of its propaganda against the
British there after the agreement, hut
US. official information shows a direct
chain of command from Moscow to
Yugoslavia to the direction, by a Yugo-
slav general, of the guerrilla bands in
Greece.”
The most notorious case of violated
agreements is that of the Pots'dam clause:
“Germany shall be treated as an econo-
mic unit.” The Russians have treated
that simply as if such an agreement had
never been made. As “Christian Science
Monitor” reports it:
Hammer and sickle have closed like a vice
on the Russian zone of Germany. Will the
vice ever again open? Reports to this news-
paper from its chief central European corre-
spondent say that many Germans never expect
to see it.
So the challenge to democracy in Germany
grows.
Even when, and if, the Big Four agree on
methods for unifying Germany, this will re-
main : a vast area of Germany in which
economics and politics are thoroughly Soviet-
ised—a base from which the Communist way
of doing things will try to exert its influence
throughout German life.
In the statutes of the Allied Control
Commission in Hungary it was agreed
that the United States and Britain should
have the right “to receive copies of all
communications, reports and other docu-
ments which may interest the Govern-
ments of the United States and the United
Kingdom.” The Soviet ' authorities
arrested Bela Kovacs, a Parliamentary
deputy of the majority Smallholders
party, denied his Parliamentary im-
munity, “elicited” a report from him
which was used as a pretext for over-
throwing the majority Government, and
denied the U.S. and Britain the right
to see this and other documents on which
the charges were made. U.S. and Britain
both asked for the documents and were
told in effect that it was none of their
business. Since then it has been given
out by the Soviet that Kovacs has “died.”
On his return to America from Austria,
where he had been head of the U.S.
occupation, General Mark Clark reported
in a broadcast:—■
It was agreed that the armies of occupation
[m Austria] were not to subsist off the land.
Also, our mission was to establish a Govern-
ment of the Austrians’ own choosing through
democratic processes of free and democratic
elections... .Despite my personal repeated pro-
test to the Soviet High Commissioner, the
Soviet occupation forces contrary to their
pledge —• seized Austrian farm products and
livestock and other Austrian resources, and
even exported surpluses above their own needs.
As a result the Austrian people have existed
on a starvation diet.
Industrial properties taken over by the Ger-
mans during the war—and the Germans took
over most everything—have been seized illegally
by the Soviets. The Soviets not only have
taken over Austrian industries and foodstuffs,
but also the very lifeline of the nation —the
Danube River, with its shipping facilities —
because it lies in Soviet-supervised territory.
My protest to the Soviet commander on this
matter and other seizures all were answered
with the reply, “It’s according to the Potsdam
Agreement.” I tell you definitely that it is
not in accordance with our agreements at
Potsdam.
As far as the attitude of the Austrian people
is concerned, free elections held throughout the
nation resulted in an overwhelming vote against
Soviet influence....
I can sum up: The Soviets in Austria have
not co-operated with the other occupying Powers
m accordance with the solemn pledges all of
us made.
Veto Blocks
The Soviet use of the veto in U.N.O.
14 times to August 18, reducing that
body to the status of a costly hoax—
has set many asking the question posed
by N.Y. “Daily News” after the eleventh
veto: “Our reaction to this business is:
Can the U.N. ever succeed?” The far-
cical story of the veto is here condensed
from N.Y. “Sun” of July 31:
Delegates left the San Francisco Conference
with an idea that use of the veto would be
sparing.”
On February 16, 1946, in London at the
Security Council’s first session, Vishinsky used
the veto against a United States proposal that
would have had the effect of dismissing Soviet
charges against Britain and France for keeping
troops in Syria and Lebanon. Britain and
France agreed to remove the troops in any
event.
In May, 1946, the Security Council agreed
to take up the matter of Soviet troops in Iran.
Although not marked on his veto record,
Gromyko walked out of the session and later
boycotted the Council while Iran was on the
agenda.
On June 18, 1946, Gromyko vetoed recom-
mendations brought in by a special committee
investigating the Spanish question. June 26,
1946, was a “three-veto day.” Gromyko
vetoed a resolution by Britain and Australia
to keep the Spanish question on the agenda.
He vetoed a contention that the aforementioned
resolution was procedural. And he voted
down a reintroduction of the original British-
Australian motion.
On August 29, 1946, Gromyko employed
three vetoes to block U.N. membership for
i rans-Jordan, Ireland and Portugal. [That same
day the United States and Great Britain voted
against the admission of Albania and Outer
Mongolia. These last two votes are not con-
sidered vetoes by several delegations, which
contend that a resolution not receiving a
majority of seven votes would not be carried
anyway.]
On September 20, 1946, Gromyko used his
veto to kill a United States resolution calling
tor an investigation of border incidents along
Greece's entire northern frontier. A commission
was later established, with Russia abstaining,
and dispatched to Greece.
The veto was used again March 25, 1947,
by Russia to kill a British resolution charging
that Albania was responsible for the damaging
of two destroyers and the death of 44 British
sailors by mines, allegedly planted by Albania
in Corfu Channel.
On July 29, 1947, Russia again brandished
her veto, this time on an American resolution
calling for a semi-permanent watch on Balkan
borders. The Balkan investigating commission
had submitted a report blaming Yugoslavia,
Bulgaria and Albania, satellites of Russia, for
fomenting guerrilla warfare along Greece’s
northern frontier. Greece reported fresh incur-
sions while the Council debated the report. The
United States pressed its plan for a two-year
commission. Great Britain’s delegate said that
if action were not taken the delegates “might
as well pack up and go home.” Many obser-
vers saw the United Nations’ future at stake.
By that date, N.Y. “Timfes” reported
(August 3), the Security Council had held
more than 30 separate sessions—since last
December—on the Greek question. The
US. proposal for a Balkans border
watchdog commission had been debated
for four weeks. Then came the Gromyko
veto, with the three vetoes against Trans-
jordan, Eire and Portugal repeated this
month (August 18).
The Atom Deadlock
Of the numerous other illustrations
that could be given of the whole farcical
business of negotiating with the Russians,
the most outstanding is, of course, the
attempts to reach agreement on control
of atomic energy. On this, N.Y. “Times”
commented on June 6:
The deadlock has persisted because the Rus-
sian Government has failed thus far to accept
two safeguards which the great majority of the
other nations regard as indispensable. These
safeguards are: (1) a world monopoly of the
production and distribution of atomic energy,
under a United Nations Authority, and (2)
abolition of the power of the individual
veto, insofar as it relates to the operations of
this agency and to the detection and punish-
merit of violations of an international atomic
code. Both proposals are bold. Both involve
(for all nations) some surrender of national
sovereignty. But both are essential to any
plan for real security—and are, in fact, the very
essence of such a plan.
On the same date, “Christian Science
Monitor” quoted Frederick H. Osborn,
deputy U.S. representative on the U.N.O.


m
■
*
.--■ , ’...-jimitiira'““"'-”nH.’.:.l:;h 1 .....
H
i - v
H
HI
m I
li
p
HH
n
m
ws
mm
life
S«
H
GOOD WHISKY
deserves FRESH SODA*
*.. The serving of
Schweppes Table
Waters exclusively
is a sure sign of
the standing of any
hotel or restaurant.
df
Atomic Energy Commission, as declaring
that the alternative contfol programme
nut forward by the Russians would be a
“fraud.” In N.Y. “Times” of August 3
Osborn himself stated:
The almost complete deadlock which still
exists with the Russians in the matter of the
control of atomic energy is
a dark cloud hanging over
all our hopes for a better
world. On Dec. 30, 1946,
after the most prolonged
discussion, 10 nations voted
for the report of the Atomic
Energy Commission which
set up the general principles
which they agreed were
necessary to provide the
world with security from the
horrors of a sudden atomic
war, and to make possible
at the same time the de-
velopment of use of atomic
energy for peaceful purposes.
Two nations, Russia and
Poland, abstained from vot-
ing. For a while there were
indications that there might
be some points of agreement
and that starting with these
an acceptable treaty might
be arrived at.
Then on March 7 of this
year Mr. Gromyko, in the
meeting of the Security
Council, blasted these hopes.
He made it clear that every
aspect of the Commission’s
report was unacceptable to
the Soviet Union. He offered
again as his alternative the
Russian proposal; the United
States should destroy its
bombs and bomb-assembly
plants, and make public all
its information on a gentle-
men’s agreement that no
one would engage in an
atomic war; thereafter all
nations could start on an
even basis to discuss a treaty
or convention which would define the way
in which the gentlemen’s agreement could be
made effective and binding.
“Gentlemen’s agreement” may seem
somewhat overrich in this context, but
it’s‘all part of the monstrous farce.
Fed-up< At Last
Endless further examples could be
given from the record, under such heads
as General Disarmament, World Peace
Force, U.N.R.R.A., etc., etc. Naturally
—since even patience akin to imbecility
can be worn out—there has been mount-
ing reaction against all this hopeless
negotiating. A broad reaction —shutting
Russia out —has been noted editorially by
N.Y. “Times”:
There is no good reason why the Western
Powers should continue to permit Russia to
paralyse their own policies and actions to suit
Russian ends. Indeed, their latest actions in-
dicate that the Russian veto is losing its efficacy
through overuse and that the West is beginning
to emancipate itself from the Russian no. The
decision to go ahead with thd Marshall Plan
despite the Russian objections is one sign of
this. The impetus toward a separate peace
treaty with Western Germany should Russia
continue to block progress at the Foreign
Ministers Council [in November] is another.
Both moves should provide ample preparation
for a decision to go ahead with the Japanese
peace treaty without Russia, if necessary.
There is also, of course, the reaction
questioning the efficacy of U.N.O. On
the eleventh Soviet use of the veto, the
already quoted N.Y. “Sun” article com-
mented : “The effect of this clear-cut
overriding of the views held by the
majority was to cause intense speculation
over whether the U.N. could survive the
veto.” It was held certain by many that
requests for abolition of the veto will be
brought before the U.N.O. General
Assembly, which, by a two-thirds vote,
could recommend the necessary altera-
tion of the U.N.O. Charter. Such a
move could have the result of forcing
Russia out of the organisation. A further
illustration of the strong reaction on this
point can be-given from an article in
the August “American” by a leading
Congressman, Representative Charles A.
Eaton, chairman of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee:
As long as Russia remains in the United
Nations, and her aggressive, imperialistic actions
go on unchallenged by her fellow-members,
her every move, no matter how hostile to the
interests of world peace, takes on the color
of legality. Ejected, she will become an out-
cast and an outlaw in the eyes of the world.
I doubt whether any nation can long endure
such ostracism and moral isolation. Each overt
act then wilL become, not a matter for discus-
sion, but for^chastisement.
Once kicked out of decent society, Russia
must either seek to regain good standing or be
disciplined by the military action of the union
of decent nations. I am sure Russian leaders
have learned from Germany’s two unhappy
experiments in world conquest that it is not an
easy job to lick the world. They were not able
to defeat Germany without our aid. I think
we can still Mock Russia with psychology;
if we don’t, we must defeat her by force of
arms. It is time we told her so.
The most serious reaction of all has
been noted by Reston in his “Harper’s”
article: “the growing sense in Washington
that even if all these questions [atomic
control, Germany, Austria, etc.] were
wiped off the agenda tomorrow on our
terms, the agreements would mean very
little.” That, it will be recalled, was the
final trouble with Hitler: his word was
worthless.
WHAT ATOM BOMB DID.
Stating that the “effect of the atomic
bomb on civilian populations is being
greatly exaggerated” in “sensational
stories” about the bombs, “United States
News” has given fresh, official informa-
— N.Y. “Sun.”
EMPTY JAR.
tion derived from expert U.S. study in
Hiroshima and Nagasaki and from the
Bikini tests. As described, what the
bombs actually did will be found bad
enough:
Contrary to one persistent story,
sterility of permanent character was not
caused among men or women who sur-
vived the blasts in Hiroshima and Naga-
saki. Birthrate among survivors now is
not far different from that among others
in Japan. Children born to these sur-
vivors have not been abnormal. No
foundation exists for stories of a high
proportion of monstrosities among
children of the area.
After-effects of the blasts did not prove
fatal in most cases. Radiation sickness
passed after a few weeks. Heat burns on
human beings and animals resulted in
blisters and widespread ulcers that healed
slowly but were cured in a period of
months. Disfiguring scar tissue formed
in many cases, these growths being the
only result of the blasts still apparent on
survivors in Japan. Induced cancer,
which was feared for victims of the ex-
plosions, has not materialised.
Secondary injuries, those reported to
have been received by persons who came
into the blasted areas of Japan after the
explosions, did not occur in sizable num-
bers. Effect of induced radiation on
rescue workers coming into an air-blasted
city was negligible. At Bikini, too, an
animal unharmed by the heat blast of
the first test, and later found swimming
in the central blast area of the lagoon,
was unharmed by any induced radiation.
Deaths, both in Japan and at Bikini,
occurred largely within a radius of 1000
yards from the centre of the atomic blast
in the air. Virtually none died outside
an area of 3.1 square miles. In this area,
many lives were (saved by protecting
sheets of steel, lead or concrete.
At Hiroshima the bomb killed 80,000
persons. Of these, 10,000 died of radia-
tion, others died of blast effects, and
large numbers were destroyed by result-
ing fires and by drowning. Several times
80,000 were injured, of whom only 552
remain in hospitals now.
About half of the persons in the 3.1-
square-mile blast area survived. Virtually
all of these people have recovered
from effects of the blast, except some in-
dividuals over 50 years of age who still
suffer from diarrhoea and general fatigue.
Women who were near the centre of this
area reported evidence of barrenness,
largely during the second and third
months after the blast, but most have re-
covered from this effect. From a third to
half of the male victims showed evidence
of temporary sterility. Babies born from
the time of the attack to the present have
been normal and healthy.
Plants and trees growing in the Hiro-
shima blast area # have, in some cases,
grown white or partially-white leaves due
to radioactivity. New plants grown near
the centre of the area this year from seed
'brought from other areas have shown
some evidence of abnormal growth and
partially-white leaves.
Falling hair, one of the symptoms of
radiation sickness, was temporary. In all
cases, new hair has grown somewhat
thicker than the original. Only apparent
effects remaining with large numbers of
survivors of Hiroshima now are scar-
tissue growths over the bodies of those
who suffered heat burns from direct ex-
posure to the blast.
At Bikini similar results were observed
on 4900 animals exposed on target ships
in the two atomic tests. Pressure of the
first explosion, the air burst, killed about
10 per cent, of the animals used. Another
10 per cent, died from radioactivity of
this bomb. In the second, underwater,
explosion, 62 per cent, of the animals
used were killed, largely by radiation.
Many of these died from lack of prompt
treatment.
Surviving animals were restless, aggres-
sive and hyper-irritable for one or two
weeks following the tests, later appeared
generally listless. Leukemia was the most
common injury. Proportionately, three
times as many animals were injured or
killed in the underwater test as in the
air blast. Clothing that had been placed
on some of the animals showed that syn-
thetic materials are least resistant to
atomic effects, and light colors are more
resistant than dark. The test proved that
no fully protective clothing is feasible
now. From studies of animals, an effec-
tive treatment for radiation sickness has
been developed.
That is the picture of the effects of
atomic explosions based on unvarnished
facts now available. These are the facts
furnished to the U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission as it begins developing the
U.S. plan for future use of atomic energy.
They provide a realistic basis, instead of
exaggerated reports, for an understanding
of the atomic bomb’s total power.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Directions from Moscow. —During the Greek
border investigation last spring, James B. Rest on
records in “Harper’s Magazine,” Mark Ethridge,
the U.S. delegate on the U.N.O. commission,
asked Soviet delegate A. A. Lavrischev to look
over a U.S. proposal. The Russian read it
and said it looked all right to him, but added
that, of course, he would have to send it to
Moscow. Forty-eight hours later he came back
to Ethridge and said: “I oppose every word of
this. In fact I oppose it twice as violently as
I ever thought I could.”
<■ * * *
Rebuilding Germany. The war with Ger-
many and all that happened in it are too
recent for the moves to rebuild that country
not to be a thorny business. In N.Y, “Sun”
George E. Sokolsky states that the U.S. Gov-
ernment still doesn’t dare face the problem
candidly “for obvious domestic reasons. Too
many Americans fear a reconstructed Ger-
many.” In Sokolsky’s view, the Russians
understand this and are out to cash in on
it: “They use every means to force the U.S.
into a position of frank support of a recon-
structed Germany. They rec6gnise Britain’s
embarrassment and dilemma and they are
foiling the British into frankness. Then the
Russians will tell all the nations that suffered
at the hands of the Nazi, that lived within the
shadow of Nazi brutality, that they have been
abandoned by the United States and Britain,
who are rebuilding Germany to crush them
again. In this role Soviet Russia becomes the
great liberator.”
b * * * *
Russian Isolation. —Looking for gleams of
light amid the encircling gloom, “Wall-street
Journal” suggests that the key to Russia s
opposition to the Marshall plan for aiding
Europe is, apart from imagined political impli-
cations in the plan, Moscow’s fear of economic
isolation. “It is domination, not isolation, that
Russia wants. If it is demonstrated that she
cannot have the former she will hardly choose
the latter.”
jf; sfe Sfe
Wheat for Pigs, Maize for People. One
thing certain to be aimed at through the
Marshall plan for helping a Europe that can
help itself will be starting the supplies actually
available in the various countries moving to
the hungry who now are not getting them.
As an example, peasants in France have been
feeding good wheat to pigs while Pans has been
eating bread made from imported American
maize. Reason: the Government’s fixed price
hasn’t allowed the peasants to market their
grain at sufficient profit. And, reports William
A. Kirstein in N.Y. “Herald Tribune, after
spending seven months in Europe studying
economic conditions, “Wheat is not the only
thing normally abundant in France which the
price-control policy has made scarce. Wine
and meat are rare items in the diet of the
common Frenchman today. Producers refuse
to sell at prices which in many instances are
below the cost of production; they hoard or
they sell on the blackmarket. Although there
are now more cattle in France than there were
in 1939, the French Government has been
spending its precious dollar foreign exchange
to import meat. Rather than change a policy
shown by events to be unsound and totally
foreign to French psychology, it has attempted
to break the resistance of the French producer
by foreign imports.”
* * * *
Cheques Begin to Bounce. —An odd sign that
the war-boom days are passing has been noted
by “Wall-street Journal”: more cheques are
“bouncing”! In the past flush years credit
men, the “Journal” says, would trust almost
anyone; now they find “they’ve got to be more
hard-boiled.” The paper quotes one of them:
“Cheques coming to me with ‘not sufficient
funds’ stamps have increased fifty per cent.’
Thosd in trouble are dealers who had hoped
to sell supplies quickly, but had come up
against “a slow-buying public”: _ “Credit-
collection agencies are doing a booming busi-
ness—a sure sign of an increase in ‘deadbeats.’
These concerns usually take over only after
the company to which a bill is owing has tried
to collect and failed. Their business is up a
thumping 200 per cent, since December.”
*** . *
Nuremberg Candidates. One thing about
Colonel McCormick’s Chicago “Tribune,”
when it sees a head it doesn’t hesitate on the
draw. Fire away, Colonel: “There is no
reason why Stalin or Marshall, on their
records, should trust each other. Stalin
is a war criminal under the Nuremberg
definition that he initiated aggressive war m
defiance of treaties. He attacked Finland on
Nov. 30, 1939, in violation of a Russo-Finmsh
non-aggression pact which was to run until
Dec 31, 1945. He broke at least three treaties
when he invaded Poland, Sept. 17, 1939, with
the consent of ■ Hitler. One of these treaties
was the Russo-Polish non-aggression pact,
which also was to run until Dec. 31, 1945.
Stalin could apply the same characterisation
of war criminal to Marshall, knowing that the
general, as Mr. Roosevelt’s Chief of Staff, was
very busy, long before the United States was
officially at war, endeavoring to make the United
States a belligerent. It was Marshall who,
through his general staff representatives, secretly
pledged America to fight in defence of the
British and Dutch colonial empires more
than seven months before Pearl Harbor. Again,
it was Marshall who, in the summer of 1941,
wrote Roosevelt a memorandum: ‘Britain
is reaching the limit of usable manpower. We
must supplement her forces Germany can-
not be defeated by supplying munitions to
friendly Powers and [by] air and naval
operations alone. Large ground forces will
be required.’ Roosevelt and Marshall were,
to all intents and purposes, already in the war
in those days of supposed peace. All they were
waiting for was a suitable occasion to plunge
into the fray. Both Marshall and Stalin have
had a direct agency, therefore, in initiating,
preparing and undertaking aggressive war.’


PARTNER OF MODERN INDUSTRY
GUARANTEES
• Maximum use of Storage Space
. : :: "
mm
&m£&
m*
OPEN STORAGE N
Faster handling of goods
• Greater production facilities
BIN
STORAGE
Steelbilt Standard Shelving
is adjustable . . adaptable to all
methods of storage
Unique features are:—
t
• Shelving adjustments up or down on two
inch spacings.
• Standardised on the unit principle.
• Packs flat for convenient transport.
• Can he easily assembled in position by
unskilled labour.
• Can be added to or altered if required.
Steelbilt experts will make a check-up in the
storage or handling of goods and materials in
factory, plant, warehouse, store or office with-
out obligation.
fi nnj
rnnXO.
n n H i
i-i n n
Rn n n
n nin n
n n n n
n n n n
rn- i i
□ nTR
□ nFi
no
TRAY
STORAGE
BOX
STORAGE
LIMITED
(A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY)
Sydney and Melbourne.
Represented elsewhere in Australia and New Zealand bjj
Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.
sdf
sd
fs
LOCKERS, CABINETS, STORAGE BINS, FILING CABINETS AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3524
Wednesday, August 27, 1947
NO SALE.
“Australia is entering a Golden Age. "-Prime Minister, at Melbourne, July 28, 1946.
“Twenty-six thousand guineas for a six-year-old by Midstream—ldle Words, and yet I can’t get a bid for this beautifully-bred untried two-year-old by
Blarney out of Bilge! Why, you’re driving the breeder out of the game!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE ENIGMA OF TOKYO.
Listening to Dr. Evatt enunciating his
policies is apt to produce a feeling that
he has ceased to be one entity and be-
come antagonistic twins. The views
which he expresses today are rarely those
of yesterday; and because of this two
members of his band of improvised
diplomats have ceased to follow his for-
tunes.
The Minister’s faith in the Security
Council as an instrument for settling the
unsettleable in Indonesia is a recent de-
velopment. In November he said “The
Security Council is in this appalling posi-
tion, that nothing can be done about a
dispute that has come before the organi-
sation ; from the beginning you know
that nothing can be done about it.”
Similarly, his eagerness to have the
Soekarno-Sjahrir mobs recognised as a
nation with the right to appear before the
Security Council contrasts with his atti-
tude last year. Then, seeing no prospect
of a nation emerging from peoples
who speak 60 languages, he invited the
Netherlands alone to join his South Seas
Commission. »
It is, however, in his regular dragon
hunts that Dr. Evatt’s dual personality is
at its strangest. The dragons he slays
usually have been dead for a long time,
and are already hanging stuffed over the
mantelpiece when Dr. Evatt seizes his
trusty forty-five bore. Sometimes, as in
Japan, he follows the example of the
Iron Duke and picks off a beater.
When General MacArthur took control
of Japan the principles upon which he
would administer it, both in relation to
present events and to preparation for
the peace treaty, were well understood.
Indeed, after considerable sham-fighting
at Canberra, the objectives and methods
to be adopted were put down in black
and white at a conference held in Wash-
ington in Octobcr-December, 1945.
The agreement there arrived at was de-
signed “to ensure the fulfilment of
Japan’s obligations to the Allied Powers,”
to bring about “economic reform” and to
mete out “stern justice to war criminals.”
Also it was decided to help the Japanese,
within “the framework of a democratic
society,” to “develop the means to bring
them into permanently peaceful relation-
ship with all other nations.”
“The means” were set out in detail.
They included the restriction of Japanese
sovereignty to the main islands “and
such minor islands as may be deter-
mined.” It was agreed that the people
should be “completely disarmed and de-
militarised” and “encouraged to develop
a desire for personal liberties and funda-
mental human rights, particularly the
freedoms of religion, assembly, associa-
tion and freedom of speech.”
The parties to this arrangement were
Australia, Canada, China, France, India,
the Netherlands, New Zealand, the
Philippines, the United Kingdom and the
United States. It was implied that all
these nations should have a hand in the
treaty-making, and the proceedings in the
Allied Control Council showed that there
was no tendency to stifle criticism of
General MacArthur’s performance of the
job assigned to him. Australia’s presi-
dency of the Washington conference
seemed a guarantee for this country of
what Dr. Evatt has repeatedly demanded
since, participation in the making of the
treaty “on the highest level,” as a reward
for “our all-out effort.”
All this was accepted by everybody
until May last, when Dr. Evatt apparently
became a prey to doubts. This develop-
ment was accompanied by the generation
in Canberra of distrust as to whether the
“Government’s” objectives could be
assured without the conference of British
Commonwealth nations now taking place
on the Molonglo, and by strident objec-
tions to Japanese whaling and phos-
phates projects, sanctioned by General
MacArthur. Taking pot shots at General
MacArthur became a pastime of Dr.
Evatt’s press friends. The P.M. felt it
necessary to intervene with the declara-
tion that whaling and phosphates were
minor matters, and that Australia would
never, never desert General MacArthur.
Proceedings then began to follow a
familiar pattern, the pattern of events in
1946. In that year, with a show of stem
fighting, but with remarkable ease, Mr.
Chifley and Dr. Evatt forced on the British
principles of imperial defence which they
had accepted for years but which the
Chifleys and Evatts had opposed. Dr.
Evatt went off to Tokyo trumpeting his
intention to obtain for Australia the
adoption of those views which had
already been embodied in the Washington
agreement. He was next seen arm in
arm with General MacArthur; indeed
his visit was marked by an absence of
combat which astounded and delighted
the American press.
The only Tokyo character who retired
hurt was Mr. Macmahon Ball. In blithe
ignorance of the mood in which his
Minister was coming to Japan, and em-
boldened by the favor with which his bait-
ing of General MacArthur and Mr. Atche-
son had been received, Mr. Macmahon
Ball delivered a “sharp attack” on General
MacArthur a day or two before Dr. Evatt
arrived. Associating himself with the
standpoint of the Russian General Derev-
yanko, and not for the first time, Mr.
Macmahonßall objected to Mr. Atcheson’s
comparisons between agrarian reform in
Japan and Russia, adding, for good mea-
sure, “If I seem critical it is not that the
Supreme Allied Command does so little
but that it claims to do so much,” He
had made equally or more invidious re-
marks in this strain without incurring
censure from his Minister, and no
wonder he was staggered, to the point of
resigning in a huff, by the cruel lack of
appreciation of his effort by the patron
who, in the words of the Chicago “Tri-
bune,” had raised him, “an obscure
Labor-party theorist,” to an “interna-
tional figure,”
Friends of Mr. Macmahon Ball in
Japan must have been equally bewildered,
if not so indignant, especially when they
took into account some of Dr. Evatt’s
activities in Japan and elsewhere.
One was the demand in Canberra (and
Moscow) that Hirohito should be tried
as a war criminal. Remembering this.
Dr. Evatt dissociated himself from the
practice of visiting British and American
diplomats by refusing to call on the
Emperor, while announcing that he had
been shown “irrefutable proof” by a
“very high officer” that the Emperor
shared responsibility for the war and
should be compelled to prove his inno-
cence.
Also remembered was the insistence
of Moscow and Canberra on the
building up in Japan of a “strong,
great, free trade-union movement” —•
Dr, Evatt’s own words. The Russians
are naturally eager for this de-
velopment. They are fully aware that
Communism is the be-all and end-all of
whatever trade-union movement exists,
and that the development of trade-
unionism would most certainly provide
the U.S.S.R. with a means of ruling
Japan from the inside.
According to Reuter, Dr. Evatt went
out of'his way to make himself pleasant
to the Japanese press. On arrival in
Tokyo he expressed himself as “particu-
larly anxious to meet leading trade-
unionists, as he believed that the hope of
democratic progress in Japan depends
equally on the development of healthy
unionism and education.” After seeing
General MacArthur he made appoint-
ments with Katsumi Kikumami, presi-
dent of the Council of Industrial
Organisations, and with the Prime
Minister, Tetsu Katayama. Two
months ago the “S. M. Herald”
correspondent described Mr. Kata-
yama, then about to take office, as
“an admirer of the Nazis,” but Dr. Evatt
discovered in his “social-democratic”
leadership evidence of the manner in
which the Japanese are reaching out to-
wards Australian ideals of democracy.
For some reason the meeting with one
of these “democrats” was cancelled
immediately after Dr. Evatt had seen
General MacArthur, but the wandering
Minister had a hearty session with Mr.
Katayama, and spent “more than an
hour” with Mr, Matsuoka, speaker of the
Upper House and “leader of the trade-
union movement.” With Mr. Matsuoka
the visitor discussed “the history of the
trade-union movement throughout the
world, its present development in Japan
and plans for the future.”
Like the abandoned Mr. Macmahon
Ball, who is returning with a chip on his
shoulder, there are many who are
mystified at the sudden evaporation of
Dr. Evatt’s fighting mood after he
reached Tokyo. Some American corres-
pondents, according to Reuter, were con-
tent to believe that he had come “on a
backslapping expedition” to reassure the
U.S. Government. Others explained “his
so-called blast” before he met General
MacArthur as being “really directed
against Britain,” claiming to have got the
explanation from “an Australian”:
With India and Egypt lost, Britain is
inclined to forget everything except the
Atlantic seaboard. The object of Dr.
Evatt’s statement undoubtedly was to re-
call to mind the fact that Australia is still
a Dominion. There has been considerable
reaction in Whitehall.
It may be that thfere will be consider-
ably more “reaction,” not only in White-
hall but in other quarters, before the
present Canberra conference and the
succeeding Washington and other peace
conferences are things of the past. Those
who make foreign policy their business
or main preoccupation can scarcely fail to
note the parallel courses which the
thoughts of Canberra and Moscow are
taking with regard to the Japanese
monarchy and the institution of a pre-
dominant trade-unionism or —in respect
of the Indonesian business in particular—
to mark the extent to which the A.C.T.U.
is subservient to Moscow policies and
Dr. Evatt’s policies to the A.C.T.U.
"Labor" and Freedom.
What happened was that Mr. Chifley lost
his temper, and in his angry mood he
ripped off the veil of “moderation.” His
publicity boys have tried since to per-
suade ihe public that his scheme to
“nationalise” the trading banks had long
SToSS?’
from the High Court bench on Section 48
planned against that emergency
planned against that emergency.
But that soap will not wash. It was
on May 7 that the P-M. announced
August 1 as the date after which, in
accordance with the proclamation in
February of the prohibitory sections of
the Act, State Governments and local
bodies would be forbidden to bank with
private banks. Caucus, of course, had
its meeting to O.K. the decision, and it
‘ overwhelmingly rejected a motion by
Senator Lamp that the Commonwealth
Bank should buy out and take over one
of the principal trading banks.” The
Lamp proposal was that, by way of this
first step, the Commonwealth should
progressively absorb the trading banks in
pursuance of the party s policy of nation-
alisation of banking.” (Melbourne “Age
report; and the friendly Age is noted
for its accurate information of what goes
on in Caucus.)
Senator Lamp’s principal opponent at
the meeting was Mr. Chifley ; and the
“Age” reported his remarks in the third
person;
The Banking Act was a noteworthy
achievement of fundamental Labor policy.
It was being implemented on the sound
principles as approved by Parliament that
the people’s own bank should... .prove its
worth in fair, open competition. No reason-
able man would question the justice and
equity of the clause which empowered the
Commonwealth Bank to direct Govern-
mental and semi-governmental bodies to
transact their business in public money
with the Government bank. Private citizens,
companies and corporations retained the
untrammelled right to place their accounts
with the bank which served them best.
That expression of Mr. Chifley’s views
was widely read and never contradicted,
It filled out the picture of a high-minded
moderate attitude which he wished to put
over. His legal advisers, with Dr. Evatt
at the head, must have assured him that
the High- Court would never upset Section
48. It was quite safe. The policy of
gradualness would anaesthetise the public ;
National Socialism would be introduced
by small and sneaking doses. Aus-
tralians would wake up one day and
find the thing done without realising
how. Little by little was the plan. And
here was Senator Lamp blurting out the
whole horrible truth in one mouthful!
But the idea that “no reasonable man
would question” the justice and “equity”
of coercion was an Evatt-Chifley
illusion. Two State Governments
and many municipal councillors and
aldermen very promptly questioned
Section 48 and in no uncertain fashion,
The High Court, by five to one, not only
knocked flat the reputed views of Mr.
Chifley’s “reasonable man,” but, in the
words of the Chief Justice, likened the
arbitrary direction under Section 48
to the proscription of “all persons pro-
fessing a particular religion or belonging
to a particular political party, or fol-
lowing a particular Occupation.”
And it is pretended that Mr. Chifley
“foresaw” this, even with Dr. Evatt giv-
ing him the all-clear signal! He might,
perhaps, have felt qualms when, on
A 110 „ct 1 thf* Chipf Tnstice granted an
August 1, me Lmier Justice granteo a
injunction against operation or the Gov-
ernment’s proclamation, but there was no
earlier sign of doubt. His reaction to
the High Court’s judgment betrayed him
It was “All right—to, the devil with
gradualness!” Dutiful apologists within
his immediate circle have been heard de-
daring that the stupidity of the trading
banks in resisting a first instalment of
dictatorship has brought down the heavier
trouble on their heads. The truth is, of
course, that the free-enterprise heavens
have not fallen yet, and a lot will happen
before they do. Should Mr. Chifley per-
sist in his own stupid course and compel
the banks to go as far as the Privy
Council in resistance, this power-drunk
“Government” may find the people, after
all, having a say in their destiny—at the
general election.
Meanwhile the electors may assess more
clearly the purpose of the Federal
“Labor” mob and the national disservice
the “Government” is doing to Australia
and to Britain in an hour of dire emer-
gency. Mr. Fadden has observed that
“We spent millions and lost thousands
of lives to smash the very kind of dic-
tatorship which the Chifley Government
has now decided to impose on us” ; and
that is true. Already union bosses are
crying out for nationalisation of all in-
dustries and Mr. Chifley, acceding to
their demands, as now he must, is head-
ing towards the goal that “Ministers shall
become absolute masters,” as Mr. Chur-
chill has said of the similar path upon
which the Attlee Government has entered
in Britain.
During the coming months in public
debate there will be ample ventilation of
the argument (proved over and over
again during the past two decades in
Russia, Germany and Italy) that nation-
alisation of radio and communication
services and of the banks are the
first moves in the general enslave-
ment under minority dictatorship of
a people which submits to them. It is
idle for “Labor” to protest that nation-
alisation has always been on its plat-
form ; it has always been on the local
Communist party’s platform, too. The
answer is that the people are entitled to
pronounce upon the implementation of
this policy—much more so than is a
minority section to impose it on the
whole nation by stealth and in the distrac-
tion of a crisis. And in the fulness of
time —no thanks to Mr. Chifley—the
people will.
But what is more immediately before
the people for judgment is Mr. Chifley’s
wanton injury to Australia in face of a
crisis which he admits is lowering and
imminent. The spectacle of socialist
Governments in Britain and Australia
relying for assistance upon free-enterprise
America, while they proceed in studied
fashion to antagonise American economic
sentiment, is bad enough. Infinitely
worse is Mr. Chifley deliberately steering
Australia into the same morass which
has bogged down Britain’s recovery.
The further charge against the Chifley
crowd is that they are cynically demoral-
ising every incentive in the Australian
people to pull themselves out of the mess
left by the war. Mr. Chifley has implored
employers, employees and public to
work their hardest to lift material out-
put ; he now throws into their midst this
bone of calculated and ever-widening
contention. He has appealed for con-
fidence in his “Government’s” aims and
programme ; and before the echoes die he
blasts confidence. He represents his “Gov-
ernment” as concentrating upon averting
a “recession” (meaning a slump); and
forthwith he proceeds to do something
which can only dismay and outrage the
working of that system of free enter-
prise which, as he admitted only a fort-
night ago, must be relied upon to provide
80 per cent, of the nation’s employment.
“Labor” Australia, as well as “Labor”
Britain, is looking to America for finan-
cial accommodation and assistance in
other forms, if not to the same extent.
Nobody more eagerly than Mr. Chifley
has been fishing for American (as well as
British) industrial investment. In Par-
liament only three months ago he said:
Never before have there been so many
inquiries from overseas firms wishing to
set up business in Australia They recog-
nise that the economic position of Aus-
tralia is sounder than that of any other
country they know.
And, having lured on these advance-
guards of free enterprise from abroad, he
now tells them he has started on the ex-
propriation of local free enterprise, “with
full compensation to investors.” This is
more than silly; it is downright bad
faith. ,
Like Mr. Chifley, Mr. Attlee is appeal-
ing to his people for a “united effort to
regain our freedom” while sandbagging
economic freedom. These political fan-
atics are blind to any point of view but
thfeir own. The “Times” Washington
correspondent recently cabled a warning
message to his countrymen in which this
appeared:—
For the typical American there are two
systems —his own, which ideally is a co-
operative institution with people as part-
ners, and its dialectical opposite, of which
he thinks as a corrective institution, with
people as inmates. The number of people
in this country who wish Britain well
under a Labor Government is probably
small In no country on earth would the
late T. R. Glover’s saying, “the sense of
an alternative is freedom,” have been so
loudly applauded as in this country.
That is the crux of the quarrel in which
the common cause of Australia is now
ranged against “Labor.” Without an
alternative, under the nationalisation ox
everything, there can be no freedom.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dollar Deadheads.
“The dollar position,” Mr, Chifley said
to the Premiers gathered at Canberra,
“has become more acute every day,
ticularly during the last few weeks”:
The position of Britain and, to a lesser
degree, the position of Canada in regard
to the dollar position has deteriorated
very considerably.
So has the position of Australia, and
the deterioration has been going on for
a long time, as Mr. Chifley well knows.
But this knowledge did not prevent his
agreeing to the provision of stacks of
dollars for overseas trips amounting to
deadheadism of the most blatantly im-
pudent description ; and these apparently
were among the “commitments” for
which “Australia drew dollars from the
Empire pool.”
On April 16 the P.M. announced that
“Australia” was to be “represented” at
the 1.L.0. Conference at Geneva in June
by “two Government delegates and two
advisers (one appointed by the Minister
of Labor and the other by the Minister
of External Affairs), one delegate and
one adviser from employees and one
delegate and one adviser from em-
ployers.”
About the same time a young “Labor”
M.H.R. named Daly went overseas on
other “business” connected with the
1.L.0. racket. When Mr. Daly had been
away three months his constituents be-
gan wondering what had happened to
him. A gentleman of the same name
won a golf championship and a report
went around the electorate, Martin, that
the winner was Martin’s Daly. The re-
port was not confirmed, but the wonder
grew when the politician Daly failed to
return, though fears for his safety were
allayed when it was given out that he
was coming back by way of the Panama
Canal. The one certain fact is that he
has been drawing royally on the diminish-
ing dollar pool.
One of the two “Government dele-
gates” sent to Geneva was Senator
Amour; the other was Minister Ward.
Both have been squandering dollars on
tours since the Geneva business ended.
They parted company in North America,
and Senator Amour was expected to re-
turn ahead of his companion. Mr.
Lang’s “Century,” always very friendly
to Senator Amour, who was one of the
A group of Senate candidates with whom
Mr. Lang brought off the unforgotten
alphabetical coup in 1937, comes in
here:
Stan Amour is expected to have more
than Frequency Modulation to worry about
when the House meets. He was due in at
Mascot on Monday. A Commonwealth
car went out to meet him, but he didn’t
arrive. It isn’t a case of when he arrived
at San Francisco from Vancouver, but how
he arrived. Breaks of journey are not
allowed on the airways, so someone will
have to part up an extra £2OO.
“Somebody” is, of course, the Aus-
tralian taxpayer.
“Columnists” pounced on the incident,
delicately suggesting that the Senator’s
exit at San Francisco from the Skymaster
which was to have carried him to Syd-
ney, and which he boarded at Van-
couver, was—er —involuntary on his
part. In fact, a juicy story circulated,
and a broad hint of it was given to the
No. 1 alphabetical Senator when he cast
up in his native place three days later.
His reply was “I got off at San Fran-
cisco, and I please myself what I do
about it.” Informed that the Opposition
would be sure to ask awkward questions
in Parliament, the gentleman said “Very
good— let them ask them ; I will say
what I want to say in the' right and
proper place.”
The Amour affair ought to be the end
of the 1.L.0. racket, especially as there
are to be “drastic cuts in imports to save
dollars.” But dragging a vulture from
its prey is nothing to dragging a
“Labor” deadhead from a trip.
This U.N.O. Sham.
The No-Security Council of U.N.O. has
once more exhibited the impotence ex-
pected both from the circumstances and
from its own record. The “Indernesian
comrades” have gone out by thfc same
door as in they went after much utterly
ineffectual and most insincere argument
about it and about. They more or less said
they would not accept the United States
offer of its “good offices” in their dispute
with the Dutch unless they dictated the
terms. The American delegate promptly
—-and with relief —withdrew his country’s
offer.
The Russians demanded a Council
order to both sides to cease fire and
return to the positions from which they
began their respective recent moves —
forward by the Dutch to protect life and
property (for the most part, their own)
and by the Indonesian rabble backward
into the hills. The same Russians used
the veto to reject a resolution in precisely
similar lines to correct the Alba-Yugo-
Bulgar Communists’ invasion of Greek
border districts. The only consequences
from all this futile talk before the dry-
rotting international body at Lake Suc-
cess (!) are (1) to expose the absurdity of
listening to the Russian delegation on any
matter whatever, (2) to expedite the
American-Russian showdown in the
Balkans and (3) to leave the Dutch in the
same position of holding the front against
Communism in Java as that in which the
United States finds itself in Greece.
Canberra pretences that there is a case
in either quarter proper for judgment by
such an organisation as the No-Security
Council are now gone with the wind.
Dr. Evatt’s External Affairs Department
may as well now give over its puerile
play-acting over Java, and cease taking
seriously any proposition that U.N.O.
(as now constituted) should sift grievances
or discuss ways and means of keeping the
peace anywhere. By all the signs that
outfit will never serve any useful pur-
pose, or function as anything but an inter-
national irritant, so long as the States that
really believe in the Atlantic Charter
tolerate the Russians sitting among them.
That Queensland Election.
A very good case was presented by the
Queensland Opposition in support of its
contention that the “Labor” Administra-
tion, because it had failed of a majority
of votes in the constituencies, and be-
cause there had been “illegal practices,”
was not entitled to govern.
Opposition-leader Nicklin said that
ARCH ANTI-IMPERIALIST DENOUNCED.
“Obviously Mr. Churchill is not interested in the future of the British Commonwealth. The
people who want to go to Australia from Britain will go there and no one will stop them.”
— Mr. Calwell in a New York broadcast.
“When he said he hadn’t become the King’s first Minister to preside over the
dissolution of the Empire he had his cigar in his cheek.”
the polls in 22 electorates were taken in
violation of the numerical limits
prescribed in the Electoral Districts Act.
The enrolment being 697,405, that mea-
sure required that no division should
have more than 13,497 electors nor
fewer than 8999. Yet 11 electorates
were above the maximum and 11 below
the minimum.
Above: Logan 18,874, Wynnum 16,986,
Oxley 15,353, Murrumba 15,235, Nundah
15,188, Enoggera 15,126, Sandgate 14,688,
Bulimba 14,044, Ithaca 13,897, Kelvin
Grove, 13,632, Toowoomba 13,508.
Below: Carpentaria 6588, Charters •
Towers 6929, Gregory 6936, Barcoo 7136,
Warrego 7297, Gympie 8115, Isis 8270,
Maranoa 8485, Normanby 8485, Tableland
8601, Cook 8996.
Nine of the overcrowded electorates'
are metropolitan. The 11 below the
minimum are in the country and 10 re-
turned “Labor” members. Mr. Nicklin
declared that in all the 62 constituencies
“Labor” got a mere 43.8 p.c. of the
effective votes and wanted to know by
what right it was carrying on. Then Mr.
Wanstall (Q.P.P.) challenged it to hold a
full inquiry into a list of alleged voting
“irregularities,” offering to give names,
in Ithaca, Baroona, Kennedy and
Kurilpa,
When the storm died down Acting
Premier Gair (his leader was in Can-
berra) blamed the war for his crowd’s
failure to redistribute electorates. He
said the Opposition move was “a
for grave regret,” and accused Mr. Wan-
stall of neglect of duty in not having
made his charges before Parliament met.
And Attorney-General Gledson produced
some figures:
Effective votes, 624,330; for Labor,
272,103; for Q.P.P., 164,045; C.P., 119,145;
Q.P.P.-C.P., 4047; others, 64,990.
Though this meant 272,103 for and
352,227 against “Labor” (287,237 against
“Labor” being direct Opposition votes),
Mr. Gledson somehow worked it out
that “Labor” got 51.95 p.c. of the total.
There followed some counter-charges
from the “Labor” members for Kelvin
Grove and Kennedy, and the elect of
a minority in the constituencies had a
thumping majority when the division was
taken.
But the Opposition case remains to be
disproved.
Law the Right Medicine.
Trade-union bosses and mobs learned
from Mr. Chifley early in his career as
P.M. that they had nothing to fear from
him, whatever industrial outrages they
might contemplate or perpetrate (“I will
not crucify the workers”), and they hold
themselves free to disregard his recent
warnings, issued in many ways, that
there was never a worse time to strike.
There have been two strikes on the
Sydney waterfront since his period of
perturbation set in. In one case “mem-
bers of the Foremen Stevedores’ Associa-
tion stopped work in support of a de-
mand that 12 supervisors employed by
the Macquarie Stevedoring Co. join the
union,” and “ignored a direction that
they return to work.” The “direction”
was issued by one of those Common-
wealth Conciliation Commissioners who
were going to settle everything in jig-
time. After eight days, a sugar famine
was in prospect*, with all that a sugar
famine means to fruit-growers and -can-
ners, jam manufacturers, brewers, wage-
earners and housewives, and besides
8000 tons of sugar, 65,000 tons of general
cargo and 1500 tons of salt were held up.
Simultaneously “2300 men engaged
in repair and maintenance of 50
vessels in Sydney naval and civil dock-
yards” had been “idle for eight days”
because of a jurisdictional or demarcation
dispute between ship painters and opera-
tive painters. In each case there
were threats that the strike would be
extended to other Australian ports.
Meantime tugboat men in Melbourne
were planning to “tie up all ships in port
and prevent others from entering the
port,” the Victorian secretary of the Sea-
men’s Union saying to the Conciliation
Commissioner concerned (the same who
issued the “direction” to the Foremen
Stevedores) “We are going to tie up the
docks till we get what we want.” And
“coal supplies from Newcastle to inter-
state ports” had been “cut off by a strike
of tally clerks.”
In the U.S.A. under the new Labor-
Management Act such proceedings, if
entered upon, would involve the guilty
parties in heavy penalties such as were
imposed on Lewis and his coalminers’
union. The measure deprives “foremen
and supervisors” of the power to throw
spanners into the works. It “outlaws the
closed shop in which an employee must
be a union member to get a job.” It
outlaws also “jurisdictional disputes,
secondary boycotts and strikes in which
the authority of the National Labor Re-
lations Board is defied.” It authorises
the N.L.R.B. to obtain injunctions against
jurisdictional strikes and secondary boy-
cotts, and admits of employers and other
injured parties suing for damages from
unions guilty of strikes and boycotts—
in Federal Courts, as well as in Courts in
two-thirds of the States.
There are many other provisions, all
salutary. The N.L.R.B. may rule out
initiation fees which it considers “exces-
sive or discriminatory,” and the extortion
from employers of money for services
which are not performed. Moreover:
The N.L.R.B. is not allowed to act on
any union petition unless the union has
previously filed with the Department of
Labor all relevant information concerning
names, titles, compensation and allowances
of its three principal officers } the manner
in which the officers were elected; initiation
fees for new members and dues for regular
members; detailed statements regarding the
constitution and by-laws; the calling of
meetings, the imposition of fines, the dis-
bursement of funds, audit of financial trans-
actions, expulsion of members and grounds
for expulsion.
Nor is the N.L.R.B. permitted to in-
vestigate any union complaint unless
there is on file an affidavit by each union
official stating that he is not a member
of the Communist party or affiliated
therewith, and does not support any
organisation that believes in or teaches
the overthrow of the United States Gov-
ernment by force or by any illegal or un-
constitutional methods.
An equivalent of the Taft-Hartley Act
is sorely needed in Australia and the
non-Labor parties should make it part
of their programme. Law, faithfully
administered, is the only thing that can
give honest individual unionists and
groups of unionists, wage-payers and the
community, protection against the out-
rages of Communist and other dema-
gogues and mobs. “Labor” appeasement
these wreckers laugh at. Law they would
fear. The only cure for larrikinism in
any form —and the new larrikinism, is not
only brutal but dangerous—is justice,
swift, certain and severe,
£2 Fine, £lOO Costs.
That is what a Queenslander has had to
pay for a minor traffic breach which, in
countries without insolvent Government
railways, wouldn’t be a traffic breach.
He was charged with having used a
truck for the carriage of goods without
a licence or permit. Actually, he had
hired a carrier to deliver a load of re-
frigerators. His solicitor raised the point
that the complaint shduld have been that
he “permitted” or “allowed” the use of
the truck ; and, the magistrate, upholding
the point, dismissed the charge. The
police appealed to the Full Court, which
set the judgment aside and remitted the
case to the magistrate. That functionary
thereupon imposed the fine and, as
directed by the Full Court, ordered the
defendant to pay the appeal costs.
It all arose out of Queensland
“Labor’s” transport-strangulation policy,
which demands that anybody carrying
goods by road, whether he does it him-
self or gets someonfe else to do it, must
obtain a permit and pay a mileage tax.
This is done in a futile endeavor to make
people use the Government railways.
There was a time in Queensland, as in
the rest of Australia, when a man want-
ing something taken from one place to
another could do it with his own or a
hired vehicle without reference to any
Government department. As it is,
one more Queenslander is smarting
under a sense of injustice, all the keener
because he can obtain no redress.
N.S.W. Coal-freight Slug.
Reporting to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment on the coal industry, N.S.W.
Justice Davidson acidly reviewed the per-
formances of various* “nationalised” en-
terprises and drew attention to “exor-
bitant charges made by the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment railways.” There followed a
table showing that, whereas the South
Maitland Co. hauled large coal fit 7.26 d.
a ton for nine miles and 15.33 d. for 24
miles, the State Railways charged 24d.
to 37d.
The difference is striking, and yet is not
more noticeable than the charge of lOd. a
ton made by the State railways for loading
coal cargoes in skips by outmoded cranes
at the Dyke at Newcastle. It could be
reduced to 2d. a ton by means of a modern
conveyor-belt system and still provide a
handsome profit
This month the McGirr' railways an-
nounced that coal freight-rates were up
40 p.c. A disingenuous understatement, as
country and inter-State buyers have
already discovered to their chagrin. The
increases are 70 p.c. to 125 p.c. in some
cases. For instance, the rate from East
Greta to the ship-loading dyke at Hex-
ham goes from 2s. lOd. a ton for ship-
ment coal to 3s. lid., “plus 40 p.c., less
10 p.c.” Coal for shipment to inter-
state ports really goes up about 73 p.c.
From Muswellbrook the rate under the
special shipment rate, now abolished,
was 7s. a ton ; it has been altered to
15s. 9d. The Maitland-Albury increase
is reckoned at 12s. a ton. The longer the
rail haul the greater the increase.
The effect on manufacturing industries,
on suppliers of fuel and light and power,
on housing and on State railways beyond
the N.S.W. borders will be severe. No
wonder Mr. McGirr put up a smoke-
screen about housing almost as soon as
coal was mentioned at the Premiers’
Conference.


€
6559
For greater smoking
enjoyment —give me
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
■
POLITICAL POINTS
The central fact of the position in
Britain, and of the position in Australia
also, is that Labor-socialism poisons the
body of a nation and rots its soul. The
tragedy is that Labor-socialists, quacks
and chumps alike, can think of nothing
but ramming their poison down the
patient’s throat in larger doses.
The sky was the limit for McGirr
when he cast up at his first Premiers’
Conference. He asked for a grant of
about half the equivalent of his annual
revenue to take care of (1) Parliamentary
pensions, (2) the Parliamentary salary
grab, (3) losses on Government railways,
trams, and buses and (4) material for his
90,000 houses to be built by 1950. His
pupil, C. Evatt, tried to improve the
shining hour by sneering at “the dollar
fetish.” McGirr came away with a flea
in his ear and with the dismal prospect
of another deficit which will make the
1946-47 one look like a triumph of
finance.
Calwell has been careering about the
U.S.A. inviting Americans to throng to
Australia and offering ex-servicemen and
ex-servicewomen—including Jews but
excluding negroes—“sl4o towards the
cost of the passage,” Like Ward, he will
return to Australia empty-handed. The
dollar blight fell simultaneously on Cal-
well’s immigration and Ward’s rail-gauge
unification schemes,
A dreadful example of the blight of
sullen, unreasoning Leftism which has
fallen on the British press in the last
decade*was the “Economist’s” allegation
that the U.S.A. was responsible for the
pass to which Britain has been brought
by the reckless folly of its “Labor”
Ministers. The academic socialists Dal-
ton and Cripps and the rampant Left-
Wingers Shinwell, Strachey and Aneurin
Bevan are the Guilty Men; but the
“Economist” blamed Uncle Sam:
Not many, British people believe the
Communist thesis that it is the deliberate
aim of American policy to ruin Britain, but
the evidence can certainly be read that way.
So might a small-town editor declare
that the leaders of the opposition party
stood accused of forgery, uttering, arson,
burglary, champerty and murder; but,
for his part, he hesitated to believe it.
It was J. M. Keynes, the greatest
British economist of the last generation,
who negotiated the American loan, and,
in the expectation of death, recommended
it to his countrymen. Dying, he extolled
it as “an act of unprecedented liberality
—has any country ever treated another
country like this, in time of peace, for
the purpose of rebuilding the other’s
strength and restoring its competitive
position?”
There’s an idea for McGirr in the
arrival in Westralia of 1800 bike tyres ;
the first new tyres it has seen for years.
Schoolboys, wage-earners and others
have had to leave their tyreless machines
at home and get along as best they could.
McGirr, who proposes to tax commercial
aeroplanes that compete with his insol-
vent railways and to set up his own “air-
line service,” may be moved to consider
a ban on bikes. They also compete with
his insolvent railways, trams and buses.
The Melbourne housewife is presently
to pay more for milk and butter as well
as for being carried in Government
trains. Within the space of a few
weeks she has had to meet rises in the
price of potatoes, pork, bacon, onions,
cocoa, flour, the four-pound loaf and
gas. About the only thing the price-
controllers don’t control is Parliamentary
pay.
Senator Annabelle Rankin spoke in
Sydney the other day and failed to im-
press “columnists,” one of whom ob-
jected to her “cliches.” It would tax any
“columnist” to beat the Queensland
lady’s description of the Chifley era as
it concerns housewives and bachelor
girls—“the string-bag era.”
The simple natives of New Guinea,
like the simple natives of East Sydney,
were at first pleased with the “Govaman
fellers” who increased their pay from
ss, to 15s. a month. But a lap-lap that
cost 2s. now costs 65., and the price of
everything else has jumped up in pro-
portion, so they are now sighing for the
B.W. (Before Ward) days. “Govaman
beionga gammon” is their judgment on
the Ward regime. And that is what we
have in Australia—“Govaman beionga
gammon.”
Barry, the Victorian Minister for No-
housing, has “explained” the issue of a
permit to the Regent Theatre people for
extensive reconstruction so as to be ready
for the Christmas trade. The cinema, one
of the most superfluously ornate of all
Melbourne’s theatres, was gutted by fire
and has presented a shuttered front to
the crowds hurrying to the city’s other
luxurious theatres. Permission, it seems,
was given partly because fibro-plaster
work could be done at overtime rates
during week-ends and partly because the
Taxation Department was being deprived
of entertainment tax. Another reason
might have been that the houseless multi-
tude requires some solace for the lack
of the homes Barry can’t give them.
Though Blackburn, V.C., is the only
returned serviceman among the new Con-
ciliation Commissioners, there are two
among the seven reappointed men—E. H,
Rowlands, who is to be Chief Concilia-
tion Commissioner, and J. H. Portus,
Like the V.C., both are from Adelaide.
Rowlands was an infantryman in the first
A.1.F.; and Portus was in the R.A.A.F.
in the late struggle, coming out with the
D.F.C.
That cocksure carpet-bag politician
R. W. G. Mackay has an admirer in one
of those “columnists,” who asserts that
his hero “left us because Australian poli-
tics lacked vigor.” Mackay doesn’t lack
“vigor” of a sort. Going to England
without declaring his side in Australia,
he contested a couple of elections as a
“Labor” candidate and then twisted to
Ackland’s Common Wealth party. Twist-
ing from Common Wealth, he got in
finally as a Labor M.P., and the columnist
certifies that he has become “a million-
aire housing contractor.” And, though it
seems incongruous, perhaps he has. There
are some very queer birds in British
“Labor” politics.
Warwick Fairfax, Managing Director
of John Fairfax and Sons since 1930
(“final responsibility for the ‘Herald’s’
editorial policy has since been mine”), has
been delivered of another Great Decision.
After a certain miscarriage which made
“that fellow Menzies” turn nasty, the first
of the litter arrived on March 21, 1942,
being presented in proud paternal
terms:
For us there are no more parties. Mr,
Curtin is our leader. He is calm, judicial,
determined; Australia could not choose a
better leader.
It took a war to produce that infant
(Fantasy’s child, as it were), and it has
taken another war—the one on the banks
—to bring about another birth of freedom
or whatever it is. Dad Fairfax muses
wistfully on the past:
No one who remembers the attitude of
the “Herald” from 1941 to 1943 can seri-
ously accuse it of being biased against
“Labor.” We have been personally thanked
by both Prime Ministers and by many others
of the Cabinet for the extent of our sup-
port.
But the jig is up:
We part from Labor.
Bureaucracy staged a prize exhibit when
a Melbourne suburban chemist, under in-
structions from a factory inspector, re-
fused to supply dressings for the victim
of a Saturday-afternoon accident. He
solaced his outraged humanity by writing
to a daily about it. A cplleague in the
pills-and-potions business volunteered the
information that he had been warned by
an inspector that he would be prosecuted
if he broke the law but would continue
to obey the dictates of his conscience.
Victorian railway freight-rates and
fares are in for the inevitable increase,
proposals before the Cains providing
for an average rise of 10 p.c., with a 20
p.c. jump in suburban charges. This is
expected to provide an extra £1,400,000,
£200,000 less than last year’s deficit, with
working costs incessantly rising. Tram-
ways Board Chairman Bell has been
heard announcing that no tram or bus
fare increases are contemplated by him,
which means that the subbubs service
will have to face another source of com-
petition.
One excuse given for the new Vic-
torian railways imposts is that Chifley
offered the States “only” another
£4,000,000 in tax reimbursements. But
the Victorian railways have been chronic
losers, and they now have to face the
competition of air services, one “national-
ised.” In a recent week more passengers
were carried by air between Sydney and
Melbourne than were carried by the
Spirit of Progress, the ornate, stream-
lined, air-conditioned express that Clapp
brought in to offset road competition.
At the sale of a racehorse in Sydney
last week it was a question whether a
bookmaker, a boot manufacturer, a glass
manufacturer or Romano would get the
animal; and the glass manufacturer got
him for 26,000 guineas. Romano was
“prepared to offer 25,000 guineas,” and
was consoled for his disappointment by
the reflection that “I have a two-year-old
brother” to the 26,000-guinea steed “of
whom I have great expectations.” What-
ever the feelings of sick and broke ser-
vicemen from the horror - camps.
“Labor’s” war was a, wonderful war for
Romano and innumerable other “sports.”
Curiosity as to the underlying reason
for Bundaberg’s repeated re-election of
Frank Barnes, M.L.A., impelled a Bris-
bane pressman to conduct a private
Gallup poll amongst Bundabergians
attending the Brisbane Show. The
general consensus of opinion was that it
was the only really effective method of
keeping “The Bombshell” away from
Bundaberg.
With dollars so scarce it is farcical that
so many millions of them should be
diverted to the show called the United
Nations. The secretary-general of that
misnamed outfit has presented his esti-
mates for the current year. Upkeep will
cost 39,403,792 dollars for 1947-48 com-
pared with 27,740,000 dollars for the
year lately past. Additional obligations
in the Balkans and Palestine and an in-
crease of 5,600,000 dollars in salaries and
promotions for U.N.O. bureaucracy ac-
count for most of the increased cost.
Ignoring protests from growers in all
four wheat States and an adverse poll in
S.A., Federal wheat control has been ex-
tended to the 1952-53 crop, with a penny
increase on the bushel-price. Cornsacks,
when obtainable, are dearer than ever;
so are other essentials and labor. In July
Argentina sold 750,000 bushels to Bel-
gium at the equivalent of 225. Bd. a
bushel, yet Canberra expects the Aus-
tralian grower to be satisfied with ss. 3d.,
plus 50 p.c.' of the difference between
that and average export prices. The
Canberra view is that the wheat belongs
to the Government.
A.C.T.U. “modification” of the ban on
all forms of Dutch transport has not
prevented Dutch Dakotas engaged on a
courier service between Brisbane and
Batavia being perforce grounded at
Archerfield. The Australian “Govern-
ment,” still trying to make a show at
Lake Success (!) of being above the
Dutch-Indonesian battle, is a party to
this attack on its white neighbor and its
Drakeford is directly concerned; “the
R.A.A.F. has refused loading facilities.”
This is not characteristic of the R.A.A.F.,
but it is characteristic of Drakeford.
Some day a R.A.A.F. man —Bostock, or
perhaps Caldwell —will write a full and
particular account of Drakeford’s war
effort, beginning from the time of the
infamous recommendation that Australia
should absent itself from the shooting
part of the German war but make money
out of it > and then sparks will fly. Mean-
while Drakeford and his family can look
back on sojourns in pleasant foreign
places, everything paid.
Some Queensland local - government
people who were considering setting up
community hotels have been knocked
back by the State Solicitor-General, who
ruled that councils have no power to
build or fun pubs. Rockhampton City
Council runs three on lease and Towns-
ville one. The leading pub at Winton
was burned down and, if the council
can’t build another, it will stay burned
down.
N.S.W. municipalities continue to get
a bit of their own back. The Full High
Court dismissed an appeal by the Rural
Bank against a Full Court decision that
Bland Shire Council was entitled to levy
rates on land held by the bank as mort-
gagee in possession. The bank, a State
concern, held that the land was, in effect,
Crown land and therefore unrateable.
The decision was 4-to-l against it. Chief
Justice Latham dissenting.
An s.-p. bookie escaped jury service in
Sydney by pleading that he was engaged
in an illegal business and could not con-
scientiously return a verdict of guilty.
Only in “Labor” Australia could such a
thing happen without the confessed law-
breaker and objector to a civic duty
being taken into custody—and that didn’t
happen. The charge was robbery under
arms.
Whoever else goes short of cars, parts
and petrol, this “Labor” mob won’t.
Week-end speculation on its “drastic
cuts” was interrupted by this communi-
cation from Canberra:
The Commonwealth Government will pay
£940 each for the 30 new Buick cars it has
ordered. American chassis will be fitted to
Australian bodies. The Minister for the
Interior, Mr. Johnson, said that the cars
were not luxury models. They had been
imported under last year’s quota, and had
not involved the Government in expendi-
ture of dollars.
But in what currency did it pay for the
American part of this massive addition
to its fleet of fluid-drive Chyslers, so
many of which have been .seen in
Queensland this winter? Johnson
shouldn’t imagine that his jaunt to Timor
in a naval craft as Minister of the In-
terior —yes. Interior —gives him the
right to address the public as if he were
an old salt telling it to the marines.
Just when the McGirrs were about to
inthrojuice a bill to compel butchers and
bakers to deliver within a certain distance
of their shops, the Chifleys cut the petrol
ration. It’s crool hard trying to please
everybody.
A storm blew up in Queensland Par-
liament when Opposition-leader Nicklin
moved an amendment to the Address-in-
Reply to the effect that “Labor” had not
gained a majority of votes and that there
had been illegal election practices. He
held that “Labor” had got only 43.8 p.c.
of the votes. Gledson made it 51.95 p.c.,
refuting himself with his own figures—
Labor 272,103, Q.P.P. 164,045, C.P.
119,145, joint Q.P.P.-C.P. 4047, others
64,990. Wanstall, of Toowong, gave a
list of alleged poll “irregularities,” and
Nicklin said 11 electorates had enrol-
ments above the maximum allowed by
the Electoral Districts Act and 11 below
the specified minimum. After the uproar
the amendment was outed on a party
vote; 34-20. While all this was cooking
Hanlon was frying other fish at Can-
berra.


FOLLOWING THE GLEAM.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Clooter”: I see by the papers that
there’s a bit of a barney on down in the
Victorian Strathbogie country because a
film company proposes to do yet another
Kelly Gang film. A petition to the
Premier is talked of, and there are threats
that if Cain ignores it the film company
will “still have the Kellys to reckon with.”
The usual newspaper reporter got among
the disgruntled and reports one of them
as saying:
Why should we, descendants of a man
who was a bushranger, be crucified just
because a film company wants to make
another crime picture?
I like that “descendants.” Ned Kelly was
never married.
* * # *
“McOatcake”: I see that the old
“Fiery Cross” ceremony has been
“modernised.” Sight of the flaming birch-
wood being carried by runners through
their villages once meant promise of
stoush to the clansmen and sent them
gleefully scurrying for dirks. And now it
has been used as advertising ballyhoo!
“Fiery Crosses” have been sent by plane
to different parts of the Empire to an-
nounce the Scottish Exhibition of Indus-
trial Design, opening on August 25 in
Edinburgh. Before being taken aboard
the planes the crosses have to be extin-
guished in goats’ blood, lighted again at
the other end and doused again, also in
goats’ blood. In Sydney this part of the
programme had to be altered, for —mar-
vellous as it may seem to “Woolcott
Forbes” and bookmakers catering for
goats , who bet on Melbourne races —
goats’ blood couldn’t be got.
* * * *
“Dong”: His signals tensed and jerky,
the traffic cop was obviously worried,
and every few minutes he glanced appre-
hensively over his shoulder towards the
footpath. The beads of perspiration on
his forehead apparently came from the
commonplace sight of a newsreel theatre,
with its loudspeaker giving citizens a
free and deafening audition of the sound-
track of the films. The law’s agitation
was explained a little later when the
loudspeaker began to vibrate with scores
of pistol shots, yelps and shuddering
sighs ; scanning of the theatre’s billboard
showed the current animated cartoon to
be “The Shooting of Dan McGoo.” As
I went my way, the tormented cop was
mopping Bis brow, preparing himself for
another nerve-shredding hour’s wait,
*! * * *
“Findy”; “Cedi Mac” (B. 20/8/’47)
can look down his nose at ac-
quaintances who hiccough and look
down their noses at him for hic-
cupping, but a schoolboy friend of
mine who subsequently won fame as a
Test cricketer would probably look down
his nose at both schools of thought. At
one period he was a chronic sufferer
from that “audible catching of the breath
which comes from a spasmodic contrac-
tion of the diaphragm and glottis.” His
plea to the teacher when an attack de-
yeloped during class was along these
lines; “Please, Miss, hie, may I, hup,
leave the room, hip. I’ve, hup, got the
ear-coughs.”
“Plbp”; Away with your hiccups and
hiccoughs! “Hoic!” is the word, with
one or more exclamation marks to denote
the severity of the attack. The best col-
lection of diaphragmic acrobatics I ever
heard came from an Italian prisoner in
an A.G.H. who had lost his appendix
only a couple of days before. Tony’s
window-rattling “holes” were very painful,
being to the fourth power of exclam.
Diggers in the ward grinned at first, but
when Tony was still going strong an hour
later they murmured pity. Towards even-
ing doctors were called in. They tried vari-
ous scientific tricks to stop the attack,
and when these had no effect, they
talked of operating. Tony was saved by
a nurse who tried the old remedy of
making him sip water from the wrong
side of a glass. The eruptions stopped
like magic, and although it was not cer-
tain whether her cure had done it or
whether the “hoics” had run out of their
own accord, there was a superior glow on
that nurse’s face for days.
♦ * * &
“Gilgai”: I posted Bulletins with
“The Breaker” pars, to Reg Lackey, son
of a former owner of Nelungaloo station,
where Morant once worked as a jackeroo.
Will Ogilvie, jackerooing on Nelun-
galoo, asked Lackey, Sen., to give
“Here's a hobby-pin , Judge."
Morant a job, saying by way of recom-
mendation that he was a Bulletin man.
Lackey thought he said a bullocking man
and set “The Breaker” to drive a team
of bullocks. Morant said later that the
only qualification he seemed to have was
the language and the blighters didn’t
seem to understand that. Reg Lackey
sent me some verses in Morant’s hand-
writing, scribbled on the notepaper of
Tattersall’s Hotel, Parkes, in 1897, and
the following story:
Billy Lowing, Jim Small and a couple of
others besides Morant and myself were in the
Exchange Hotel somewhere round about mid-
night—Jim Small was Mine Host at the time.
An argument arose between Lowing and
Morant over the capabilities of jumpers;
Morant said he had a horse in the Commercial
stables that would jump the fence at the back
of the stable yard of the Exchange. Morant
and I went down to the Commercial stables
and got out a long-legged creamy gelding that
Johnny Strickland, of Parkes, bred. He was
by a trotting horse called King Harold, owned
by Nick Read, of Forbes. “The Breaker” backed
himself to jump the creamy over the fence
bareback —the stake, drinks all round. The
fence was a solid four-railed about 4ft. Sin.
high; on the landing side there was the foot-
path about 6ft. wide and the gutter. I held
up the clothes-lines so Morant would not get
pulled off. He not only jumped the horse
out of the yard but turned him round and
jumped back again; the horse didn’t touch the
fence on either occasion. It was a wonderful
performance; the night was slightly moonlight
but far from being full. Needless to say, “The
Breaker” didn’t have to shout.
• * * *
“Melbn”: The heaviest snowfalls and
the worst blizzards for years in Victoria
produced the usual crop of near-
tragedies among tourists. One lost his
way when within 30 yards of a chalet,
visibility being about ten feet, and
wandered seven miles before he was
found 24 hours later, having kept him-
self alive by continual exercises. Years
ago a postal official who had never been
on skis went out with a university pro-
fessor, an experienced skier, to ascend
Hotham. He lost his friend in a blizzard
and stumbled on a hut. There was no food
or fuel in it, and he was faced with the
prospect of being slowly frozen to death.
Then he noticed a telephone on the wall.
He gave the handle a turn and, to his
amazement, heard his friend answer. The
prof, had reached another hut which was
plentifully supplied with everything a be-
nighted traveller could wish for. He
warned his ex-companion that if he
allowed himself to fall asleep it would
probably be for the last time, and
promised to ring him up at frequent in-
tervals during the night. At quarter-
hour periods; the phone bell rang and
the beleaguered postal official was re-
galed with a ball-to-ball description,
adorned with quotations from the
classics, of the grateful warmth of the
fire before which his friend was sitting,
the hot soup he was drinking, the dish
of steaming pork and beans he was open-
ing and the endless cups of scalding tea
he was consuming. Postie was rescued
ten hours later little the worse for his pri-
vations ; his furious rage at his friend’s
voluptuous descriptions had kept him
at a white heat of indignation.
* * * ♦
“Jasby”: Army games (B. 20/8/’47)?
Coming back on the troopship from New
Guinea Wally fell under the spell of
“Ins and Outs.” One night when his
turn came for the dice he put up his
money and announced he was “throwing
for Ins.” Ins it was. He threw again
with like result. A third time the Ins
came up, then Wally wavered; he
couldn’t believe his luck would hold. It
is a rule of the game that once the
thrower announces his choice he must
stick to it until he throws himself out.
He may pull out of the game, but he
cannot change his throw. But there is
no rule to force him to back himself.
“Throwing for Ins,” said Wally, and he
pushed his winnings across on to the
Outs. Like sheep, all the bettors who
had been following his luck switched over,
too. Wally threw Ins. He threw them
again and again—eight more times, by
which time he was broke, the school was
broke, the promoters had the lot and the
game folded up for the night.
* * * «
“Ad Rem”: That radio-serial-phone-
conversation mix-up (B. 13/8/’47) had
something of a parallel at one of our
Army church parades. St. Mary’s, Gee-
long (Vic.), had just installed an amplify-
ing system, and the reverend gentleman
had paused in a rather stimulating ser-
mon only to have his place taken by a
full-blooded chorus singing “When Your
Hair Has Turned to Silver,” then an ad-
vertisement for one of the local stores.
The church was close to the station mast
and someone had forgotten a wavetrap.
* * * *
“Philip Street”: Sorry, “Cedi Mac”
(B. 16/7/’47), but I still maintain that
the present Duke of Beaufort is descended
in the male line in unbroken succession
from Henry 11, six generations of kings,
19 generations in the House of Lords and
one in the House of Commons. Cer-
tainly there were two illegitimacies, the
first cured by Act of Parliament, but for
purposes of male descent, if paternity is
acknowledged, illegitimacy is immaterial.
The link overlooked by “Cedi Mac” was
Sir Charles Somerset, natural son of
Henry, the third Duke of Somerset. The
late Oswald Barron, one of the foremost
English genealogists, points out “that
through these Beauforts the line of our
ancient kings survives to this day.
Although doubly bastards, the Somersets,
dukes of Beaufort, are probably the only
house which may claim a clear descent
in the m#le line from those fierce
Angevins who gave us 14 of our kings.”
Their arms are those of the royal Plan-
tagenet line, Quarterly France and Eng-
land within a bordure for difference, and
through Henry IPs mother they descend
not only from the Conqueror but also
from King Alfred and the earliest Kings
of Wessex back to Cerdic, whose pedi-
gree is deduced in the Anglo-Saxon
Chronicle from Odin himself. As to
Eleanor of Castile, my memory let me
down; I intended to refer to Constance
of Castile, John of Gaunt’s second wife,
in whose right he claimed the kingdom
of Castile. I stand properly corrected.
* * * #
“Tasma Jun.”: Brought out to Tas-
mania 37 years ago, the first Garratt
articulated locomotive ever made is
going back again (by special request) to
its birthplace in Manchester, where its
makers will set it up as a “museum
piece.” A plaque, made from Tas-
manian wood in the form of a map, will
be attached to the quaint-looking
arrangement with its tall chimney and
high cab, giving details of its perform-
ance. Known familiarly as “Old K, No.
1,” the loco, weighs 33 tons, and did
a good job hauling trucks on the two-
feet gauge between Zeehan and Dundas,
pulling a 70-ton load round stiff curves
and along grades of one in 25. Costing
nearly £3500, it earned its money over
82,000 miles of running. The historic
old engine, with its eight wheels, is a
striking contrast to the latest Tas. Rail-
ways Garratt, which distributes its 119
tons over 28 wheels.
* * * *
“L.P.”: The Victorian Forests Com-
mission billed a bushwhacker for out-
standing royalty—one penny. After a
dozen letters had passed between head
office and district office the defaulter
came across with his brown —and
laughed, I chuckled, too, when a clerk
on the Closer Settlement Board scrubbed
my mate from an itemised account just
because his name happened to be Beer.
An attached memo, explained that the
Board made no provision for refresh-
ments. Then there was that job we had
erecting a camp for the Forests Commis-
sion. In went the foreman’s progress re-
port: “10 men on huts, 7 days; 3 men
on tents, 2 days; 1 man on lavatories, 1
day.” And the smart clerk in querying
the last item wanted to know why that
man wasn’t stood down for the day. I
know that’s dinkum, because I was the
mug told off to erect those lavatories,
and I worked hard —all day, too.
* * * *
“Carlyle”: “Zake’s” comment (B.
11/6/’47) that the great pictorial standby
the half-nude beach brat was mercifully
out of season was premature. Grimly
determined, my daily rag tracked her to
her winter lair: a hotel bedroom. There
she was “surprised” trying on a swim
suit; one of no more extensive propor-
tions than those we have recently learned
to expect. Not even wintry blasts can
save us from these photogenic females!
* * * *
“S.E.T.”: Accommodation is very
short even in our Tasmanian country
town. One young teacher, having only a
temporary room, announced to her
pupils that unless she could find some-
where to sleep she would have to go
away. If anyone in the class knew of
any place where she could sleep would
he put up his hand. One small hand
shot up. “My Grandma died three
weeks ago, and since then Grandpa has
slept by himself, and I heard him say
he’s very lonely.”
* * * *
“John Dee”; Bold front on the Ruhr!
While being marched through Dusseldorf
under a heavy Fritz guard complete with
automatics, fixed bayonets and Alsatian
wolfhounds, I could hardly contain my-
self at the sight of two Tommies uncon-
cernedly pushing a handcart in the
opposite direction. They passed a sly
wink as they headed west, and I silently
directed good wishes at them. A few
miles further on, a Yank, in full G.I.
outfit, nonchalantly wheeled a bicycle
through the bomb-pitted street. I
imagined him scorching the earth when
he hit the open road, and I wished a
great wish.
* * * *
“Scribe”: Patients at Greenslopes
Repat. Hospital (Brisbane) thought they’d
like their own paper to cater for the 500
people stationed there. They found the
needed voluntary staff with fingers itching
to write. The next trouble was finance
money to buy paper, pay for printing
and distribution. They quailed at the
returns in triplicate which they had to
sign, the barriers which authority put be-
fore them. Those fellows had fought at
Gallipoli, in France, El Alamein and
through the jungles of the islands. Iney
had gamely faced anything the enemy
could put up against them; they were
stonkered by swivel-chair bureaucrats.
They appealed to the “Courier-Mail, a
“capitalist” paper prompted by the pr°
motive.” They got their reply: Senau.
your stuff. We’ll print 700 copies, proviae
paper and deliver free.” So, while re
tape was still pondering the matter i
“Diggers’ Digest” came into an appre
tive life.
A DISCLAIMER.
“People regard me as an oddity, and expect me to
look queer and to have no interest in hats, clothes
or make-up, and no ability for ordinary household
tasks. As a matter of fact, I’m proud of my cook-
ing.”—Senator Annabelle Rankin (Q.).
How different the picture here projected
From that which careless fancy often draws
Of ladies whom constituents have selected
To aid their fellow-men in making laws.
Merely because she’s managed an intrusion
Into the ring where politicians mill,
How utterly fantastic the illusion
She’s not a woman still!
An oddity? Out on the base suggestion!
A novelty? Originally, yes.
But one whose newness, nobody will question,
With every passing year grows less and less.
No matter what may be her party tenet
Upwards she climbs the Parliament’ry steps,
Till now we see a couple in the Senate,
Two more among the Reps.
She may denounce with earnestness and passion
The policies ’gainst which she controverts;
It doesn’t mean she scorns the latest fashion
In women’s hats and frocks and coats and
skirts.
It doesn’t follow she’s among the snarlers
Who look on lipstick with disdainful doubt
Or definitely reckon beauty parlors
Joints we should do without.
Ever you see them now, with no mistrustings,
Reckless of how it shocks old-fashioned souls,
Full of enthusiasm mount the hustings
And, every now and then, surmount the polls.
How far we’ve travelled, altered how extremely,
Since those dim days, this salient fact denotes,
When good Queen Vic. regarded it unseemly
Even to give them votes.
How reassuring then to be reminded
When once the halls so long forbid they’re in
That still they do whatever womankind did
Before, remaining purely feminine.
They still retain ’mid fierce and hot debating
Their sex’s keen concern for clothes and looks,
And feel they’re none the worse for legislating
In being first-class cooks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Vaucy Bill”; Notoriously slow before
the rise in fares —it used to take 30 to
35 minutes for five miles —the trams to
and from our Sydney suburb have be-
come even slower since, the five-mile trip
occupying 40 minutes more often than
not. This fact, together with finding the
tram packed with passengers, annoyed the
big man with the red face who joined it
the other afternoon, and he opened out
in a loud voice, complaining of the ser-
vice, the impossibility of getting a seat
and so forth, winding up with “Then
they put the fares up and the thing’s a
darned sight worse. We oughtn’t to
stand for it! They’re just putting it over
us, that’s what they’re doing! ” Then the
conductress managed to squeeze through
to him and demanded his fare. Under
the cold stares of the rest, he produced
a free pass and a thoughtful silence fell.
♦ * * *
“Lord Leonard”: How new is new
slang? “That’s a slashing new hat! ” and
“Who’s the slashing boy-friend?” were
two remarks that set a group of us specu-
lating on the origin of the word “slash-
ing.” I thought it was American slang.
Others credited the Air Force with it.
Hence my surprise when I came across
the expression in Dickens’s Hard Times.
Tom Gradgrind remarked that there was
no likelihood of his having affairs of the
heart “unless some fair creature with a
slashing fortune at her disposal would
take a fancy to me.”
♦ * * $
“Zake”: It needs only an incident re-
motely connected with the Hope
Diamond for the old bunk about its pos-
session bringing death or disaster to the
holder to be trotted out again. The latest
demise with which the bauble has been
saddled is that of a man in Colorado,
who during a rainstorm was knocked
down by a speeding car (it was doing 45
“The trouble is We've been seeing too much of each other."
mph in a 30 mp.h. zone) driven by
the nephew and heir of the late
owner of the diamond. About quarter
of a million people each year meet
similarly violent deaths in the U.S.A.,
and it could also as logically be
claimed that they met their end through
the evil influence of the vulgarly large
gem. After all mustn’t every one of
them, or someone connected with every
one of them, read about the Hope
Diamond? In any case, disaster in the
latest case befell not the diamond’s new
owner, but the poor devil he skittled. I’ll
chew my chest if the motorist who owns
the sparkler comes to grief over the mere
killing of a pedestrian while doing ex-
cessive speed. •
* * * *
“O’Yen”: “Hamer’s” observations on
the King’s shilling (B. 30/7 / ’47) remind
me that I proffered an English “bob” at
a newsreel box office, only to have it re-
jected by the pert blonde behind the
grille. “I can’t accept any of those foreign
coins,” she said primly.
* * * *
“J.H.McP.”: The war-time Volunteer
Air Observers Corps tower still stands in
our town park. Citizens have complained
to the council that it ought to be taken
away, or the stairs and landing locked up
so our kids won’t climb it at the risk of
breaking their necks. Nothing was done
of course. At last, one desperate parent
cut away the bottom few feet of the stairs.
It was by far the simplest and most effec-
tive cure anyone had thought of, but it
made the councillors cross. At their
next meeting they reckoned that to have
taken safety measures would have been
to admit that a danger existed! In sup-
port of this magnificent reasoning they
said the railway-line also constituted
a danger, and that the town hall walls
might be weak. Follow-up was to
prosecute the offending father. Appar-
ently the magistrate also had a few kids.
He dismissed the case and charged the
council £4 4s. costs.
* * * *
“Percy”: “Pater’s” atomic mousetrap
fuses the lights (B. 13 /8 / ’47) because he
omits to leave a set of miniature rubber
boots near the contraption. With this
addition the mouse dons the boots, has a
feed of cheese without so much as a
tingle, spots Tabitha a split-atom too
late and, handicapped by his boots, just
fails to make his hole before puss starts
a prolonged game of soccer with him
preparatory to supper.
* * * *
“Stardrift”: I don’t know about track
gallops after Port Adelaide trains (B.
6/8/’47), but what we saw from a city-
bound -Glenelg bus recently will take
some beating. At ten to nine and two
miles to go a bike shot out of a gate,
skidded round the back of the bus, gained
speed and drew abreast. The pedal
jockey in shirt sleeves and braces kept
up a steady 25 as he balanced his coat
on the handles, put on a collar one-
handed and with a couple more skids
and a stall turn climbed into the coat.
Then, with a final flourish as the city
loomed up he set the old bike down the
centre of the road, yanked a bit of toast
out of his pocket and let the wind ram
the crumbs down his neck. Maybe he’s
a brother of the bloke who used to
catch the Burnside tram with me, and
who regularly left his coffee-cup on the
pillar-box at the tram stop.
* * * *
“Khasi Rokok”: Outback Js.P. (B.
13/8/ ’47) ? Years ago, in a murder in-
quest, I took the depositions for the
“Crowner” in a very small town. It was
a C. 1.8. job, and one after the other each
expert entered the box, gave his evidence
at exact typewriter speed, every word of
it to the point, and stepped down. The
Coroner, who had never been known to
keep silent before, began to fidget,
Holding up the swearing of the fourth
witness he leant over to me and said in a
subdued voice that only half the Court
would have heard, “What about it, Khasi?
Shouldn’t I be asking some questions or
saying something?” With an eye on
the clock I said, “No, Bill, she’s jake—
these blokes know their job. I’ll give
you the office when to start up.” The
police finished. The doctor produced his
gruesome exhibits, and during the prose-
cutor’s final word I scribbled out the
essential phraseology for the finding. But
tire Coroner was not to be done out of
“Sorry, Romeo, but I've changed my mind!"
his big moment. “I thank the police,”
he said, “for bringing these savage and
feronious [sic] murderers to a successful
trial; I thank the doctor for his valuable
time ; I thank Mr. Rokok for working
the typing, and I thank you one and all,
ladies and gentlemen of the Court. That’s
all now.” In the end we managed to get
a more or less legal finding out of him
and a committal for trial.
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: “The Beggar’s Opera” (B.
6/8/’47) was first staged in Sydney on
March 30, 1846, at the old Victoria
Theatre, Pitt-street. Mrs. Guerin, later
Mrs. Stewart and mother of Nellie
Stewart, was Polly Peachum, and Mrs.
Wallace was Lucy Lockit; Frank How-
son was Filch* and his brother John
Captain Macheafh. Others in the cast
were J. Lazar, Hambleton and Mesdames
Carandini, Torning and Gibbs. It was
played in conjunction with “Richard III”
and other plays to April 18, proved a
great draw and was repeatedly revived.
Last notable revival was by the Firm at
the Palace Theatre on August 4, 1923,
under the musical direction of Andrew
MacCunn.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: A gift parcel addressed to
“Dinah, the Flower Girl, opposite Aus-
tralia House, London,” recently went
from South Caulfield, Melbourne. Dinah
has been an identity in that spot for over
40 years. The parcel was delivered.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Della Chiesa’s
salutary rebuke to a jabbering couple at
an Adelaide concert, when she stopped
in the middle of a number and asked them
to desist, recalls Bernard Heinze’s bout
with a less substantial interrupter in the
Town Hall, Melbourne. He had just
started the orchestra off on a Paganini
opus when the familiar, high-keyed drone
arose from the organ. Nobody has yet
discovered what produces this strange
obbligato—some say that it is a current
from the air-conditioning plant getting
into the tubes and starting the reeds
vibrating, but it usually begins and stops
at the most inconvenient moment. The
Ormond professor of music threw down
his baton, turned round, folded his arms
and glared balefully into the ether. The
drone promptly stopped—-possibly it was
the ghost of Paganini objecting to the way
the conductor was taking the first move-
ment.
* * * *
“L.G.P.”: Those recollections of Tor-
zillo (B. 13 /8 / ’47). Torzi was one of
a small group of 14-15-year-old school-
boys who on the way to Rush-
cutter’s Bay came across a harp and
vacant stool outside a pub; the harpist
was inside collecting. Torzi sat down
and started playing an item from “Mari-
tana” when an extremely annoyed and
threatening Italian dashed out, paused,
listened, then beamed with delight, rushed
to Torzi and kissed him on both cheeks.
Bert Torzillo will always be remembered
by his old school friends. I was one of
them.
♦ ♦ * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’m not conviriced that
a boy bearing the name of some convicted
murderer would necessarily be persecuted
at school (B. 13/8/’47). In fact that
portion of the dear old tear-jerker The
Silver King in which the tormented
schoolboy cried “They say my father
killed a man” always struck me as being
the work of a man who had no know-
ledge of the workings of the juvenile
mind. What I can remember of my
blameful past indicates that a youngster
whose father had killed a man would be
treated with the awed respect usually re-
served for the boy who throws an ink-
well at a teacher. I recall one new kid
with the surname of a recently-hanged
murderer. The rumor got around that
he was the son of the late unlamented,
and, though it was probably quite un-
founded, only one lad was game enough
to “pick on” him. When the boy dis-
played a violent temper and won the
brief fight by not being the first to howl
his reputation was firmly established, his
admirers agreeing with delicious awe: “I
bet he’d even murder you, even.”
'* * * *
“Loc”: Lillian Heilman’s play “The
Watch on the Rhine” was given an out-
ing in Lily’s loved Moscow. The Soviet
producer unearthed luxury props from
some pre-Revolution museum and worked
very hard in general to give the play’s
American scenes the right atmosphere. To
test the authenticity of his details he in-
vited Yank pressmen to attend the
premiere. One eagle-eyed scribe described
it as “nearly perfect,” but found one little
fault. He protested that a wealthy
Washington dowager would not be read-
ing the “Daily Worker.”
* * * *
“Peter Vincent”: Launceston, the
Speck’s second city, has secured an-
other first in the Civic Progress Stakes.
Its buses and trams no longer leave street
level at bumps only ; they are now per-
manently airborne. At least, that’s the
impression an A.B.C. announcer gave
me when he announced that, as a result
of a strike, the vehicles have been
grounded till further notice.
* * * *
“Col M.”: When an American land-
lord brought an eviction suit against a
tenant whose high-powered snores dis-
turbed other flat-dwellers, I mused on the
passing of that old-world courtesy com-
mon to houseowners when homes were
many and clients few. Then came some
cheering news from Buenos Aires. There,
a landlord had a tenant who had under-
taken to pay him 400 pesos a month, and
500 pesos after the first half-year. Just be-
fore the six months were up, a “rent-
freezing” law came into being, and
although the honest tenant demanded
that he commence paying 500 pesos as
agreed, the landlord wouldn’t hear of
it. Thus commenced a unique court
case wherein the plaintiff and defendant
were both anxious to lose money. When
the magistrate upheld the law, the tenant
begged that he be allowed to pay the
costs “in view of the chivalrous behavior
of his landlord.” Permission granted.
*** . *
“Hep-2-3-4”: Ex-Diggers imbibing at
the pub walked outside at the rattle
of kettle-drums, to see a pint-size
O.C. and two platoons of school-cadets.
The kids swung past struggling with
“Short Lee Enfields,” no shorter and no
lighter than those the audience once bore.
Awed by the presence of the veterans, the
smallest of the martial miniatures acci-
dentally dropped his rifle. * There fol-
lowed a stinging reprimand which
brought a reminiscent shudder to the old-
timers on the pub step. Then, as the
audience listened to the stern voice of
admonition, the wag among them called
to the 0.C.: “Hey, mate. They went
that way.” “What?” came the query.
“Your teeth.” It was an old gag, but
new to the 0.C., and with a snort he
marched his parade away.
CHIFLEY’S RIFLES.
“The Prime Minister asked the Premiers’ Con-
ference to facilitate the sale of 68,000 rifles which
the Army did not want. If they were dumped into
the sea the Government would be criticised.”
Who feels a yearning to acquire a rifle,
A first-class implement, as firearms go?
The cost is represented as a trifle,
Merely a matter of three quid or so,
A bargain price for what, you may deduce,
Our Army hasn’t any further use.
To beat them into ploughshares, one supposes,
As in Isaiah’s often-quoted plan
For swords and spears when war’s grim chapter
closes,
Would baffle any modern artisan.
Looking on such a formidable stack
Of arms he’d probably declare ’em black.
Gangsters and thugs will find scant lure attach-
ing
To Chifley’s offer. They’d be loath to change
Their immemorial methods of dispatching
Victims at very much a closer range.
Rifles for them would be poor substitutes
For automatics, bludgeons, knives and boots.
Chaps on the land might find the weapon handy,
It’s reckoned, for abating many a pest,
For knocking foxes, ’roos and emus bandy
Or sending dingoes to their last, long rest.
Still it appears a devil a lot
For them to say whether they need or not.
What offers for a bit of war’s creation
For peace-time use, a lethal armory,
Which, if there’s insufficient application
From bidders, must be dumped into the sea?
A prospect Chifley views with some distaste
As wild extravagance and wanton waste.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Commonwealth
of Australia
Legal Service Bureaux
For the purpose of giving legal advice ancl
service to present and former members of
the Forces and their dependants, the Legal
Service Bureau was established in 1942, as
part of the Commonwealth Attorney-General’s
Department. This Bureau is available to
assist both men and women. Addresses
throughout the Commonwealth are: —
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852 j
Saxon House l
450 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
FIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and G. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST., TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
DARWIN
Under Part II of the Re-establishment and Employment Act
1945, members and ex-members of the Forces are entitled to
preference in certain circumstances in engagement for
employment. They also have other special rights—for
example, in relation to housing and tenancy, and moratorium
and re-establishment benefits.
The Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Legal Service Bureau
advises, without charge, on all legal matters affecting service-
men or their dependants. Any member or ex-member of the
Forces who believes he has not been given the treatment to
which he is entitled, under the Re-establishment and Employ-
ment Act ot otherwise, is invited to place the facts of his
case before the Legal Service Bureau, either by letter or
by personal call.
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General of the
Commonwealth.
A
WHY BE SAD?
or why be ill?
With good health a long life fill.
Why have colds or coughs or ’flu?
I will whisper words to you.
Take the best known thing —the sure,
Certain Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Of life’s nectar take your fill,
Dissipate that passing ill.
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure*
For Coughs and Colds, never fails.
Treasures of Antiquity
a
.
AT least once in a life-time Egypt’s awe-inspiring records of
an earlier civilization should enchant the eye and dazzle
the imagination. But Egypt calls equally to the pleasure-seeker,
for here visitors may enjoy all the luxuries of today while
exploring the grandeur of the past. The bright, exhilarating
climate affords ample opportunity for every form of sport, and
the fashionable round of gaiety provides music, dancing, and a
night-life of sparkling variety.
By breaking their journey to or from Europe this season,
travellers are afforded a splendid opportunity of enjoying
the friendly welcome that awaits them in Egypt. Here
they will find luxury hotels whose comfort is unsurpassed
in the capitals of the world, as well as plenty of first-class
pensions. Up-to-date travel facilities. Many clubs admit
temporary members.
Special Tourist Visas obtainable in the British Common-
wealth and Empire. Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
m
n '-
m
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
THE SERVICE MAN
Soldiering as a Calling.
Recruiting for the new Army is now
in train, and recruits are coming in, if
not in battalions, at least in fair num-
bers, considering the industrial position
and the demand for civilian labor.
The Army provides a good life for
young men, especially since its more wide-
spread peace-time operations give a chance
to recruits to travel further than they
could have hoped to do in days gone by.
Pay has considerably improved, and
conditions for the first time offer real
inducement to an ambitious man.
Recruits are called for between the
ages of 18 and 25 ; if under 21 they
must produce the consent of a parent or
legal guardian. They must have two
character references and must be classed
fit “Al.” For the Permanent Army they
must be not less than sft. 6in. high and
have a chest measurement of not less
than 34in. expanded; for the Interim
Army the minimum height is sft., and
chest, expanded, 32in. They must be
educated to the standard at which they
have Obtained a “merit certificate” or its
equivalent second - year high - school
standard or eighth class in the country
schools of N. S. Wales.
And they must be prepared to attest
for service at home or abroad. An ap-
plicant may enlist, if qualified, for a
“Why, if it aint Bluey of the old Commandos !”
specialist department, in which case he
will need to have at hand proper proof
of his qualifications.
Period of Service
Recruits sign on for six years, with the
option of a further six years, in the
P.M.F. and for two years—with a
chance, if qualified, to transfer to the
P.M.F. —in the Interim Army.
On enlistment they get a complete free
issue of clothing and kit. They will have
free dental and medical attention and a
clothing allowance of a shilling a day
for maintenance. In addition to weekly
rest-days t|iey are to have leave at the
rate of six days for every four months
of service. Sporting facilities are, of
course, provided ; it is the policy in these
days to consider sport as a valuable ad-
dition to training and to encourage it.
When the recruit is taken into the
Army he is sent first to the training
brigade, where, if he has not seen pre-
vious service, he has his first experience
of drill, duties, discipline and the use of
arms. There, too, he learns to the full
his opportunities and is given a chance
to nominate to leam a trade if he is
fitted by previous experience or by native
ability. This is not a matter of privilege.
The modern army is a technicians’ army,
and the more tradesmen it owns and the
better they are, the better the Army likes it.
Furthermore, as a matter of policy the
aim is not merely to make an efficient
soldier but to send into the civilian
world, at the end of his term of service,
a man who can stand on his own feet
and be a living proof that his service has
been of advantage to him as well as to
the country.
Men selected for tradesmen service
are transferred from the Recruit Train-
ing Brigade to the Services Training
Centre or to a signals or engineer train-
ing depot. These centres and depots are
fully fitted with all machinery and tools
of trade, some of them often in advance
of the plant in civilian use. And there
skilled instructors give group and indi-
vidual instruction in courses which last
up to seven moriths and which are fol-
lowed by trade tests and the transfer of
the trained man to a unit where he gains
in pay by his expertness.
Pay
If the recruit is married, or when he
marries, he receives an allowance on
that account. The standard of pay has
improved to a point at which the aver-
age soldier is as well off as the civilian,
all things being equal.
Weekly rates of pay for (a) single
soldiers in quarters with rations pro-
vided, ( b ) single soldiers living at home,
(c) married soldiers at home or in camp
and ( d ) married soldiers required to live
away from home but not in camp are
as follow:
Private, under 21, less than six months’
service: (a) £3 6s. 6d., ( b ) £4 18s., (c)
£5 15s. 6d., ( d) £7 7s.
Private, over 21, less than six months’
service: (a) £3 175., ( b ) £5 Bs. 6d., (c)
£6 65., ( d) £7 17s. 6d.
Private with more than six months’
service: (a) £4 4s. to £5 125., ( b )
£5 15s. 6d. to £7 3s. 6d,, (c) £6 13s. to
£8 Is., ( d) £8 4s. 6d. to £9 12s. 6d.
Lance-Corporal: (a) £4 7s. 6d. to
£5 195., ( b ) £5 19s. to £7 10s. 6d., (c)
£5 16s. 6d. to £8 Bs., ( d) £8 Bs. to
£9 19s. 6d.
Corporal: (a) £4 18s. to £6 65., ( b )
£6 9s. 6d. to £7 17s. 6d., (c) £7 7s. to
£8 155., ( d) £8 18s. 6d. to £lO 6s. 6d.
And so the increases go on with acces-
sion of rank,
A sergeant on Army rations and in
Army quarters has a minimum of
£6 135.; married and living at home or
in camp, £9 2s. to £9 12s. 6d, Living
away from home, but not in camp, he is
entitled to up to £ll 7s. 6d.
A warrant-officer, class I, prescribed
corps, rates at £9 9s. minimum if single,
and £ll Bs. living at home or in camp.
There are extras —6d. per day for pri-
vates and corporals with five and ten
years’ service; a similar allowance for
sergeants and warrant-officers after from
two to four years’ service, and, of course,
there is specialist pay.
When the soldier retires he receives a
gratuity of £2O for every year of ser-
vice, so that a man going out after 12
years takes with him a sum of £240,
Promotion
There is no reason why a well-
educated man with the will to work
and study need stay in the ranks.
Though Duntroon is the normal channel
for the training of staff officers, the cap-
able ranker with ambition has just as
much chance as any other of promotion
if he has the right qualities of intelli-
gence, earnestness and energy. This is
more particularly true if he is a techni-
cal specialist. On the pew pay rates the
Army has become a reasonably remuner-
ative profession of which the new
salaries work out as follow:
Single. Married.
Max.
£ £
Lieutenant .. .. 419-474 620
Captain 529-638 784
Major 711-857 1003
Lieut.-Colonel .. 912-1095 1241
Colonel 1168-1350 1496
There are 70 openings for Duntroon
cadets, ages 16 to 20 —60 for Australia
and 10 for N.Z. —applications closing
on September 30. These opportunities
should provide more than the usual com-
petition this year in view' of the improved
pay and conditions, which should also
encourage men in the ranks to work for
promotion.


n
%
a*
m
a
: 1
'/M
♦
&
£3
♦
For Power and Light in every room of
the house ask your contractor to supply
Olympic
WIRES • CABLES * FLEXIBLES (w£
PRODUCTS OF OLYMPIC CABLES LIMITED \gjmSy
SOLD BY ALL ELECTRICAL WHOLESALERS
uiLm'*
PROG R E S S OE LIGHTING
a
M
mm
The torch, or flambeau, variously
made from resinous woods or tow
soaked in oil, was a principal source
of illumination in mediaeval times.
In the chilly atmosphere of high
baronial halls, torches fulfilled the
double purpose of light and heat.
One Osram Electric Lamp gives
many times the light of numerous
torches. We are, indeed, lucky in
this age of electric lighting to have
Osram Lamps, backed by over 50
years of specialised research.
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Made in Australia for The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England.
Smmi'Eieetuc Cc.sfy.jsd:
(Sole Australian Representatives of The General Electric Co. Ltd. of
England )
SYDNEY . NEWCASTLE . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . BRISBANE
PERTH . HOBART . LAUNCESTON
11
8G.02
The Indonesian Business.
Already tired of Indonesian shilly-
shallying, Uncle Sam brought the Jogja-
karta “Government” up with a round
turn when he discovered that the Soe-
karno party’s ostensible acceptance of his
good offices was, in fact, a refusal. The
Indonesians, rendered increasingly cheeky
by the attitude of “Australia” and Mos-
cow, which achieved the recognition of
their ramshackle “Administration” as
having national status, will accept nothing
but “arbitration,” and by that they
mean “settlement” of their dispute by a
group of people on their side.
On August 21 Dr. Sjarifoedin urged
Indonesians to “continue the struggle.”
It is an omen of death to many poor
people still in their .power, not only
natives, but Chinese, Eurasians and
Indians, who have appealed for protec-
tion to Pandit Nehru.
As matters stand it seems that settle-
ment will continue to be between the
Dutch and the Soekarnos. And, while
Communist-controlled unions in Australia
(with the consent of the Australian “Gov-
ernment”) continue to boycott the Dutch
the Netherlands: Labor party, by an over-
whelming majority, declared that the
Netherlands Government was upholding
the principles of the Linggadjati agree-
ment and declined to support arbitration
on the question of sovereignty over In-
donesia during the transition period.
Something About War Costs.
While Parliament was in session, Mr.
Archie Cameron placed a question on
the notice paper about payments made
by the United Kingdom on behalf of
the Commonwealth in respect of war
costs and services in Britain and the
Middle East; also, payments made by
the Commonwealth for the United
Kingdom for war services in the same
or other areas. Australia had much the
better of the bargain.
Oil fuel for the R.A.N. had, of course,
to be imported. The organisation to
make it available instantly was there
and working when the time came, hav-
ing been prepared by British enterprise.
All the oil used by Australian ships of
the R.A.N., whether in the Mediter-
ranean or elsewhere, was “drawn from
Royal Naval sources and installations,
and from bulk sources forwarded to Aus-
tralia by the United Kingdom.” Aus-
tralia was charged cost for the supply;
if the Government had had to go to
foreign sources the country would have
had to provide a pretty substantial
profit in addition.
Australia having no ships available, all
Australian troops carried to and from
“the United Kingdom, Middle East,
Malaya and other places” were trans-
ferred back and forth in United King-
dom vessels at appropriate per capita
rates for the respective journeys. Pay-
ments made to the U.K. to date for these
services approximate £14,000,000. If it
had not been for the U.K. we should
have had to confine ourselves to these
shores virtually for the whole of the
war; a cut-off continent, since Britain
not only was using her own shipping
but had the world’s shipping industry
and Norwegian tankers tied up.
The A.1.F., in places abroad under
U.K. command, was maintained by
the United Kingdom’s ready facilities.
The Australian commissariat forces for
expeditionary purposes were non est, are
still non est and must continue non est
till we can command our own sea trans-
port. Britain charged again per capita
actual cost. Payments made to the U.K.
total a modest £33,000,000 and “a further
£1,500,000 is now owing and will be
paid at an early date.”
The forces serving overseas were
equipped at Australian expense —but not
by Australia, which until almost the end
of the war could not have equipped a
battalion of guerrillas for overseas opera-
tion. Pay and allowances of troops were
borne by Australia.
The Empire Air Training Scheme
The cost of advanced training
R.A.A.F. personnel in Canada —Aus-
tralia having no facilities to train her
own men and not a single modern air-
craft when war broke out and for long
after —was charged to us on an agreed
basis. But at the termination of the
scheme “an amount of £7,900,000 owing
by the Commonwealth to Canada was
waived under the mutual-aid agreement.”
And certain aircraft, airframes, engines
and maintenance equipment were pro-
vided by the U.K. for the purpose of
training Empire air trainees in Australia,
Initial stocks of maintenance spares
and all engine and other replacements
were made available by the United King-
dom at its own cost. Australian per-
sonnel when they graduated were
absorbed into the R.A.F. Under the
scheme, Australia spent £139,000,000 on
preliminary training—much of this on
training men for actual operations in
Australia and the Pacific. Putting the
men through their advanced courses in
Canada cost net —allowing for Canada’s
gift of £7,900,000 at the end— about
£18,000,000. The Canadian gift was fol-
lowed by another:
In July, 1943, the United Kingdom
agreed to forgo certain claims on Aus-
tralia in respect of supplies shipped to
Australia from the U.K. contracts m
Canada. The total value of the claims
waived was equivalent to approximately
£7,000,000 Australian.
The greedy mob at Canberra grabbed
it with both hands.
This set of accounts introduces a
familiar feature —somebody giving some-
thing to somebody else, with Australia
always on the receiving end. One searches
in vain for any generous gesture by
“Labor” to allies who bore the brunt of
the burden of the war.
Three Australian R.A.A.F. squadrons
served with the R.A.F. They were
equipped from bootlaces to aircraft by
the United Kingdom, their own country
having nothing to equip them with. Aus-
tralia paid the expense. The U.K.
charged their maintenance to this coun-
try at the rate of £935,000 per annum.
Spitfires for Australia
The United Kingdom placed at the
disposal of the Commonwealth three
R.A.F. Spitfire Squadrons and two R.A.F.
(Empire Air Training) squadrons. All
these squadrons were fully manned and
equipped on arrival in Australia, at a
time when we needed them badly—how
badly few people save those around
Darwin realise, any more than they realise
how ill at that time they could be spared.
Additional aircraft were provided, suf-
ficient to equip two more R.A.A.F. Spit-
fire squadrons.
All maintenance costs df the three
R.A.F. squadrons were paid by
The two E.A.T.S. squadrons, not as to
original cost, but as to pay, allowances
and maintenance, were accepted as an
Australian responsibility.
Mr. Chifley says he cannot assess the
value of the U.K.’s contribution of air-
craft, engines, spares and parts pro-
vided initially, as “all such supplies were
indented from the United Kingdom on a
free issue basis.” The value of replace-
ment supplies alone provided was ap-
proximately £17,500,000.
After the disbandment of the R.A.F.
Spitfire Squadrons in Australia this coun-
try was given 367 Spitfires.
In the Navy
The “ ‘Labor’ Government” has taken
great credit for its provision of naval
bases in this Commonwealth —it will be
remembered that Mr. Beasley and Senator
Collings, both boisterous opponents of
the plan to build the Sydney Naval Dock,
which was well under way, against their
wishes, before they took office, attended
the opening ceremony in the guise of
constructive statesmen and modestly
accepted credit for the whole thing.
It now appears that “at the request of
the United Kingdom,” a sum of
£6,000,000 was spent on the establish-
ment of fleet bases at Sydney and Fre-
mantle for the Royal Navy —under whose
integral command the R.A.N. was, of
course, serving. Of the total cost, the
United Kingdom contributed £4,000,000.
AH barracks accommodation, store-hous-
ing works and other facilities were pro-
vided by Australia, but towards the cost
the R.N. provided a “lump sum” —what
lump sum or proportion is not stated.
The R.N. was left to make the best
bargain it could with suppliers and con-
tractors for supplies and services.
Many minesweeping vessels and large
numbers of small craft were bought under
Admiralty orders in Australia, most, of
course, for use in Australian waters.
About £6,000,000 out of the £7,500,000
which these cost was met by the U.K.
“to datq,” The Admiralty also paid
£2,436,000 for the storage of Royal Navy
goods handled through the R.A.N. The
U.K. made Australia a present of
H.M.A.S. Shropshire, an eight-inch-gun
cruiser which cost £2,000,000 to build
in 1928-29, and which would cost more
than double the money today, to replace
Canberra, which was lost defending Aus-
tralian shores in the battle of Savo.
Apart from these matters, “certain
equipment ordered from the U.K.” in the
early years of the war was supplied to
Australia from U.K. current contracts
in the United States value about
£20,000,000. Payments amounting to
£14,000,000 have been made for these
goods and claims for the balance have
now been received and are in course of
examination.
Expenditure by Australia on the main-
tenance of prisoners-of-war sent out from
the U.K. when invasion threatened have
been charged to London on an agreed
per capita basis, but earnings from these
prisoners in rural industries and profits
from the sale of their vegetables have
been paid to the British Treasury.
The whole of the proceedings seems to
tarnish the halo which Mr. Chifley
assumed when he gave the British Gov-
ernment £25,000,000 under pressure.


tx t*e
,////
x X*«’ 1 t ' / ,
\ ' ca - . / ,
■
THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
WHEN IT’S AN EXIDE YOU START!
EXIDE
BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD., 44 BRIDGE ST..
SYDNEY
X 4.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
Hector McNeil, who with Viscount
Addison represents Britain in the Can-
berra peace talks, is one of the younger
men of Attlee’s Cabinet, but as Minister
of State he holds an important post and
is the most likely contender for the
Foreign Affairs job if Bevin steps down
—or up. McNeil is a Glasgow man who
first made his mark as a member of the
British Universities debating team which
toured Canada and U.S.A. in 1931. He
turned to journalism, first in Glasgow,
then as a Beaverbrook man in London,
became a Glasgow alderman and magis-
trate and made two false starts to West-
minster —the first time he was defeated by
Walter Elliott and the second by Mal-
colm Mac Donald —before being returned
for Greenock in 1941. During the war
he was Parliamentary Private Secretary
to Noel-Baker and when Labor came to
office he became Under-Secretary for
Foreign Affairs.
There is one man in Melbourne who
has a grandfatherly interest in Canberra’s
bank nationalisation proposals. That is
King O’Malley, now over 90 and still
mentally and physically active—it is not
long since he met another nonagenarian
politician at the Melbourne City Baths,
where he takes a plunge on occasions.
As the prime instigator of the Common-
wealth Bank, as a member of the 1910-13
Labor Ministry, he expected his infant to
grow into a lusty adult, but he never im-
agined or wished in his wildest dreams
to see it grow into a gigantosaurus—the
original members of that species eventu-
ally grew so big that they ate each other
off the earth. King lives in simple retire-
ment, but not seclusion, in a Melbourne
suburb.
Of a dozen B.H.P. men at present pick-
ing up experience in other parts of the
world four were trained at Whyalla, R.
T. Kleeman, superintendent of works at
Whyalla, has been there since 1923. He’s
a B.E. of Adelaide ’Varsity and had a
lot to do with the phenomenal growth
of his adopted town. At present he is
studying mining in Canada and U.S.A.
along with K. A. Rowell, who started as
a cadet at Iron Knob in 1933, graduated
in Civil Engineering in Adelaide and is
now a mines and quarries expert in the
Melbourne office. Also in America, his
business coalmining, is J. J. Grierson,
another Adelaide engineering graduate ;
he began as a technical cadet at Whyalla
10 years ago and recently gained his
colliery manager’s certificate. A, G.
Macandie, a geologist, is on a visit to
Malaya. He put in two years at Whyalla
and Middleback Ranges and since then
has looked at rocks and suchlike for
B.H.P. all over Australia.
The Australian civil service generally
must have got a rude shock when it heard
that Brigadier H. H. Hammer, C.8.E.,
D.S.O. with bar, E.D., was throwing
in his job as Repatriation Commissioner
in Melbourne to take over a grocery store
at Bright, a remote snowline township in
the Alps, 46 miles east of Wangaratta,
where snow-covered Mounts Hotham and
Feathertop are the principal features of
the landscape. But “Tackhammer” is like
that. He is not the man'who would feel
calm and contented in an office bounded
by four walls with a couple of telephones
on the table. Born at Southern Cross
(W.A.), he was educated at the Ballarat
School of Mines, and travelled Victoria
as a salesman for shirts and other soft-
goods, a nice free open occupation. In
the war he fought his way through
Greece, Syria, the Western Desert and
from Salamaua to Sio in New Guinea.
At Alamein, where he was wounded, he
commanded the 2/48 Battalion, which, ac-
cording to Montgomery, held the most
important position of the whole Eighth
Army—on the right flank. As Rehabili-
tation Commissioner he fought another
battle for the returning soldier through
all the training camps and hospitals in
the country. Happening to be at Bright
on holidays in March, he heard that the
local store, plus a 10-ton truck, three
horses and two carts, was for sale and
promptly bought it. He is 42 and has
a wife and two children.
First Canadian Minister to visit Aus-
tralia since the war, Brooke Claxton, the
Dominion’s Defence Minister, here for
the Canberra Conference, got his back-
ground of national defence the hard way
—in the ranks of the Canadian Expedi-
tionary Force in World War I. Enlist-
ing at 17, he was a Battery-Sergeant-
Major at 18 and collected a D.C.M. at
19. Refusing a commission, he saw the
war out as a W.O. and afterwards gradu-
ated B.C.L. at McGill University, joined
CONFERENCES.
his father’s legal firm and lectured in
Commercial Law at McGill. He took
silk in 1939 and was elected to Ottawa
the following year. Cabinet rank came
in 1944 —the portfolio of National Health
and Welfare—and he took over Defence
last December. Even before he entered
Parliament Claxton represented his coun-
try at important conferences—British
Commonwealth Relations at Toronto in
1933 and Canadian-U.S, Relations in
New York in 1939, and during the last
few years' conferences have become
almost a habit with him-—Pacific Rela-
tions, U.N.R.R.A., 1.L.0., Foreign Trade,
are a few on his record, and he was one
of the Canadian delegation at the Paris
peace talks.
Adelaide-born Walter Leslie Dendy,
for 22 years general manager and secre-
tary of the Port Jackson and Manly
S.S. Co. and recently appointed manag-
ing director of the company, is one of
Sydney’s test-known waterfront person-
alities. A keen yachtsman, he owned
among many other boats Sea Rover,
which he raced with Sydney Amateur
Sailing and Royal Prince Alfred Yacht
Clubs. The company he controls began
in 1877 as the Port Jackson Steamboat
Co., and in 1896 absorbed a competitor,
the Manly Co-operative Co. It has a
fleet of seven vessels running between
Circular Quay and Manly, operates a
ferry service at Palm Beach and Church
Point, owns an iceworks at Narrabeen,
the Currawong Estate at Little Mackerel
Beach, the Free Wonder Pool at Manly
and shops at Palm Beach and Newport.
Claude Cameron, previously manager of
the company, becomes general manager
in succession to Dendy.
To those from the Prime Minister
downwards who regard all private bankers
as bogey men, Leslie James McConnan,
chairman of the Associated Banks, prob-
ably ranks as a kind of super Bogey-in-
Chief. Actually there is very little of the
spectre about him, and no mystery. Son
of a Benalla (Vic.) parson, he joined the
National Bank in 1904, served it in vari-
ous branches throughout Victoria, N.S.W.
and S.A., with a term in London, before
being appointed Assistant Chief Manager
in Melbourne in 1934. The assistant was
lopped off bis title a year later and he
has been chairman of the Associated
Banks most years since 1938.
Ray Connelly, the big, bluff, hearty
Lud Mayor who stands for a
Brighter Melbourne, is due for the
statutory third year of office and is certain
to get it—and a title when the Cains have
to quit. Connelly is one of the few civic
heads the city has had who can be in-
formal without losing dignity, whether it
is with a field-marshal or a newsboy. He
wants a third term to see his pet scheme
for the consolidation of the Lord Mayor’s
camps for country children consolidated
at Portsea. Being an incurable optimist,
he also hopes to see a Brighter Melbourne.
“Nagheer”; A notable and picturesque
figure in the Tully (N.Q.) show ring for
the “Gentleman Rider Over 55” event
was Alex. J. de St. Hilaire. With an
80th birthday due, he was still the
perfect horseman and added to his
extensive collection of blue ribbons. Of
French descent, born in Mackay (Q.), he
has lived in tropical Australia all his
life, and in its Far North for 68 years.
For the last 49 of them he has been
actively engaged in horse dealing, mainly
with Clydesdales and other heavy draught
stock for use on farms.
“Weff”: Some September Australian
literary anniversaries:
Twenty-five years ago, on September 2, Henry
Lawson died at Abbotsford (N.S.W.). Sep-
tember 2 also saw the death of Archibald Strong
(1930), and the births of John Le Gay Brereton
(1871) and Will Lawson (1876)- On the fourth
Francis Adams died by his own hand in 1893 —
he was born in 1862 on the 27th —and E. J.
Banfield (1862), of Dunk Island fame, and his-
torian Arthur Jose (1863) were born. Victor
Daley was born in Ireland in 1858 on the fifth,
and died in Sydney on the 29th in 1905. The
Bulletin’s John Bede Dailey was drowned at
Avalon (N.S.W.) 12 years ago on the sixth, and
in 1876 on the seventh C. J. Dennis first saw
the world in Adelaide. J. F. Archibald, one
of The Bulletin’s two founders, died in 1919
on the 10th, and novelist Gilbert Turnbull was
bom in 1890 on the 11th. Now 73, essayist
Walter Murdoch was born on the 17th, lon L.
Idriess (age 57) on the 20th, novelist and play-
wright Dymphna Cusack and Francis Kenna
(1865) on the 21st, and clergyman-poet James
Hebblethwaite (1857) on the 22nd. Alan Villiers
(age 44) was ushered in on the 23rd. September
24 marks the birth of Ted Sorenson (1869) and
the death of Louis Stone (1935). A hundred and
one years ago Mary Hannay Foott (“Where the
Pelican Builds Her Nest”) was born on the 26th.
Poet F. T. Macartney was born in 1887 on the
27th, Tom Inglis Moore in 1901 on the 28th,
and Eris O’Brien in 1895 on the 29th. Fred
Cutlack celebrates his 61st birthday on the 30th.
When Mcßeath dropped in to sketch
Sir Frederick Bain, deputy-chairman of
Imperial Chemicals, he half expected the
air to be thick with alkali dust; he found
it reeking of heather and haggis. Bain
is the complete antithesis of the Leftist
conception of a big monopolist. He is
not fat; he laughs a lot and reads a lot;
he preaches and practises co-operation
between workers and management and
he has had experience on both sides, as
he is one of the legion of Scots who,
without pull or influence, have worked
their way to the top through sheer grit
and industry. Born at Banff, away up
beyond Aberdeen, Bain, at 17, joined a
fertiliser concern, ’listed in the Territorials
—4th Gordons —and went to France in
CHEMICALS.
1914. Two years later, minus an arm
and plus a Military Cross, he was
Deputy-Director Chemical Warfare Sup-
ply at the Ministry of Munitions. After
the Armistice he joined United Alkali in
Liverpool, moved to London on the for-
mation of 1.C.1. and rose steadily to his
present post. During the last war he was
chairman of the Chemical Control Board
and the Chemical Planning Committee.
An Australian of whom most of
his countrymen have never heard
figured in the American Radio News
when he consecrated the first negro
bishop in Jamaica. The wanderer
is the Most Reverend William George
Hardie, Anglican Archbishop of the
West Indies. He was born in Sydney
and was once assistant secretary of the
Church of England’s Men’s Society. In
England, after leaving Cambridge Uni-
versity he held a number of first-class
incumbencies, going to Jamaica as assist-
ant-bishop in 1928. In youth and young
manhood he was a capable exponent of
muscular Christianity on Rugby Union
and cricket fields.
Victoria is in for an influx of Siamese
students in consequence of a war-time
accident which marooned Luen Sarab-
haya in Australia. He was the only
Siamese broadcaster on the Australian
shortwave propaganda service to Asia,
and when he returned to his homeland
he was elected M.H.R. He has since been
preaching to Siamese official and wealthy
circles the virtues of the Victorian edu-
cation system, and as a result Kashem
Kashemsri, a great-grandson of King
Shulalonghorn, has been accepted as a
pupil at Geelong Grammar. Khong-
chang Hogthisathira, son of an A.D.C.
to the King, is booked for the Melbourne
Technical College, and several Bangkok
girls are expected at the Emily McPher-
son College of Domestic Economy.
Another lad, Kartharvut Indarathut, is
already here learning agriculture.
Dean of the Medical School at Otago
University (M.L.) since 1937, Sir Charles
HercuS has devoted much research to
the study of goitre. A native of Dunedin,
he was educated at Christchurch Boys’
High and served, with the medical corps
in Gallipoli and Palestine, collecting a
D.S.O. and 0.8. E. Before returning to
M.L. he studied bacteriology and public
health, and later joined the Otago Uni.
staff. The Medical Research Council, the
Dental Council, the Council of Physical
Education and the Town Planning Board
are bodies in which Hercus finds an out-
let for his superabundant activities.
Group-Captain G. A. Cooper, D.F.C.,
in charge of Air Fighting at the Director-
ate of Training, joined the R.A.A.F. in
1934, secured his commission in June,
1939, resigned a couple of months later,
but got back in again in July, 1940. He
commanded 80 Squadron Kittyhawks in
the New Guinea area and personally led
many of its daring raids; it was nick-
named “Cooper’s Circus.” At Mafflin
Bay his squadron showed the utmost
determination in smashing by dive bomb-
ing and strafing a strong enemy counter
attack against Allied ground positions
This brought him his D.F.C. When the
R.A.A.F. sent up its share of the Jap
Occupation Force he commanded the
81st Wing H.Q.
Retired from the Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Stock, J. L.
Hodge, wool and sheep adviser to the de-
partment for the past 18 years. Bora in
Adelaide, Hodge went to Queensland 45
years ago, going to Glenearn for Elder
Smiths. Later he founded Tarilla station,
stocked near-by Belah for Alex Gilmore
and selected his own property on Glen-
eam. After taking the Government
appointment he was associated for years
with the Farmers’ Wool Scheme.
Into the silence;
At Burnie (Tas.) at 58, Wes Atkinson, the
third generation of his family to hold the posi-
tion of council clerk. A prince of good fel-
lows and one of the most competent council
clerks in the State, he was attending a council
meeting when he collapsed.
In Perth, at 80, Charles James Locke, furni-
ture warehouseman and a former president of
W.A. Chamber of Manufactures. A Londoner,
he came to Australia in 1881.
In Sydney, at 56, George Goddard, former
editor of the “Evening News” and, for the past
eight years, of “Smith’s Weekly.” He was a
Digger of World War One, and acted as Com-
monwealth Press Representative during the
Prince of Wales’s Australian tour.
In Sydney, at 55, Detective Inspector H. W.
Latrobe, of the C. 1.8. He took a prominent
part in the conviction of Agostini for the
Pyjama Girl killing.
In Brisbane, Dr. L. St. Vincent Welch, of the
Bush Children’s Health Scheme. Head of the
Wilston Ophthalmic Hostel for Children, he was
acting City Medical Officer and was on the
council of the Flying Doctor Service.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY RICHARD' YOPP (late QX21542, Dvr.
YOPP, R. R.).—TAKE NOTICE that, DEBORA YOPP
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2547 of 1947 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Sydney New South Wales
by 10th November 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from P. W. GRAHAM
STARLING, Solicitor, Hardy’s Chambers, rear of 5
Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales. — (1.5.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE" SUPREME COURT OP ' NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY EILEEN CLARISSA RUDD late of 94
City Road Sydney. TO ARTHUR VELLA late of
Smith Street Balmain. —TAKE NOTICE that ALAN
GORDON RUDD has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
5774 of 1946 from MARY EILEEN CLARISSA RUDD
on the ground of her adultery with ARTHUR VELLA
If you or either of you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the. 4th November 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
D. K. DONALD, Solicitor, 17 Martin Place, Sydney.
—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Women's letters
From Sydney
Interesting arrivals on Saturday were
Dominion Secretary Viscount Addison
and Minister of State Hector McNeil and
his wife. They came by 8.0.A.C. flying-
boat for the Pacific Peace Conference in
Canberra, and were welcomed at Rose
Bay by U.K.’s High Commissioner
Williams, his wife and daughter andl
flowers from Lord and Lady Nathan.
The Society of Artists' had a big gun
to fire the opening salvo of its annual
exhibition last Saturday. He is Pro-
fessor J. Burke, 0.8. E., M.A., at one
time on the staff of London’s Victoria
and Albert Museum, also one-time pri-
vate secretary to England’s Prime
Minister Clem Attlee, and now Professor
of Fine Arts at Melbourne University.
The professor is good-looking, slim and
altogether an attractive lad blessed with
enough wit to make his art sound more
of an aperitif than a culture.
The Education Galleries were crowded
to the rafters for the speeches —lots of
artists, too, in contrast to Friday’s pri-
vate view, when the picture-makers
seemed to be suffering from an attack
of absenteeism. Douglas Dundas made
introductory speech because Sydney Ure
Smith, president of the society, after
working all week like a beaver, was down
with ’flu. Daphne Mayo was one of the
many on the dais, which had for a back-
ground a woodland fresco complete with
nymphs.
You may not have liked the some-
what pathological sculpture in the
smaller room, but if you turned your
back on this you faced the gracious and
pastoral note of ‘the Sydney Ure
Smith panel and the Paul Jones
fragile flower - pieces. If you were
people-conscious you noted Mrs. Roy
Buckland, a woman who combines
smartness and smiles. She was busy buy-
ing a bowl of red roses by Jean Apple-
ton. Peg Lord, of interior-decorating
fame, wore a sleek coat of pony skin
fitting to the waist and thence some-
what flared. Mrs. Hall Best and the Lane
Mullins sisters and Mrs. George Beiers
were among the sleekly plumaged. Hats
worn by Mrs. Alan Potter, Mrs. Claude
Plowman, Mrs. Derek Burnell, Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland and Mrs. Dundas
Allen rated a second glance. Mrs. Tom
Bateman’s suit was of hand-woven grey
woollen, her mood reflective as she stood
before Nora Heysen’s cream roses.
On Monday afternoon from five-thirty
onwards the S.O.A. held reception right
among the art. Guests of honor were
in order of precedence on the invitation
card: Professor Burke, and Mr. and Mrs.
Eugene Goossens.
When it’s a case of needing a helping
hand, call on the Returned Soldiers. At
the R.S.L. Victory Ball, the Governor,
Lt.-General Northcott, received from
R.S.L. State President K. Bolton a
cheque for £13,598 collected by the
League’s sub-branches. This is for Food
■for Britain.
There were no prunes and prisms in
the drama beloved by the children of
100 or more years ago. They liked their
plays full-blooded and high-spirited. This
is proved by the display of Early Vic-
torian Drama which had a short season
at the Macquarie Galleries last week.
Here were the Corsican Brothers, The
Miller and His Men, Dick Whittington,
The Battle of Waterloo, The Maid and
the Magpie—all displayed graphically in
bright colors, the blues very blue and
the greens very green. Signs of the times
■could be read in the backcloth. In the
street scenes displayed, for instance, in
Dick Whittington there was a poster in
one window advertising the goldfields of
Australia. A forerunner, too —or maybe
stressing Hood’s poem—was an admoni-
tion “Hints to Ladies —Charity begins at
home,” and the picture showed women
bent over their needles, and the caption
read pathetically, “Sewing from morning
to night.”
The whole show, arranged by Loudon
Sainthill, was a delight, from the frieze
around the wall showing the Grand
Procession at the Coronation of Queen
Victoria. Royalties, then in abundance,
rode in gay carriages drawn by superb
horses, and dukes and duchesses behind
their spanking steeds were not ashamed
of taking a peep out of their carriage
windows as they passed. Food for
Britain will benefit.
Miss Marjorie Cobham, a trainer —
and this has nothing to do with the
A.J.C., although her first introduction to
her Sydney public was held a few doors
down from the Jockey Club’s head-
quarters—is in fact from Girl Guides
Headquarters in London. She is tall,
slender and straight as a dart, is a blonde
and has a pink and white English com-
plexion. State Chief Commissioner, the
George Julius lady, members of the
N.S.W. Council, Tasmania’s State
Commissioner, Mrs. Mclntyre, and many
press women gathered at the Pickwick
Club to welcome the visitor.
The Girl Guide Movement in Eng-
land is flourishing even more since
the war. There are almost too
many applications for membership,
as there is a shortage of guiders. The
Homecraft Centre at Pax Hill, the former
home of the Baden Powells, is continu-
ously filled with members seeking train-
ing in running a home the correct way.
The Girl Guide’s life is not one long
woodlands picnic, starred here and there
by jamborees. Miss Cobham has much
to say about the movement in the stricken
countries of Europe, and the hope of its
re-establishment in Germany. Miss Cob-
ham is visiting all the States, including
Tasmania, testing and examining guiders,
and wherever she goes her delightful
personality will be a stimulus to the move-
ment of whidh she is so devoted a stal-
wart.
It is doubtful if the merchant in the
S.U.D.S. production of “Hassan” would
ever have reached the Golden Road to
Samarkand if it hadn’t been for Elizabeth
King, manager and publicity woman of
this very successful production just con-
cluded at the Conservatorium. Elizabeth,
who is a granddaughter of one-time
Prime Minister Joseph Cook, is now on
her way to England on the Stratheden.
Before leaving Sydney she did a job of
Air publicity for the A.8.C., and she had
written some script features for the Com-
mission. She hopes to do somfe broad-
casting and film work in England. John
Lee photo. *
Next Sunday afternoon Phillip Park
will resound to the music of Shakspearian
pastoral. “As You Like It” will be
presented by the Metropolitan Players in
aid of the Journalists’ Ball Fund.
The Committee of the White Ball has
chosen October 7, a date in race week,
for this year’s function in aid of Sydney
Industrial Blind Institution. A feature
of the night will be a parade of dancers
wearing white frocks, though the wearing
of white will not be compulsory. A
model hat will be the prize for the frock
chosen by the judges as being the most
beautiful, and this year the judges will
all be men. There will be spot dances
and many prizes will go to the winners.
The design of the decorations is, so far,
a closely-guarded secret, but they will be
all-white. A whirl of parties to help
defray expenses has already been set in
motion, a series of 5 to 7 wine-tastings
among them. Mrs. Roy Buckland is
again the president, and her committee is
numerous, sparkling, and very social.
The wife of Professor Charles Lambie
(a vice-president of the Scottish Society)
has had a stirring week —so for that
matter have all the Scots in Sydney. The
arrival of the Fiery Cross from Edin-
burgh has awakened many memories of
“old, unhappy, far-off things” when the
Cross, then made of the hard yew, was
sent flaming from clan to clan
summoning them to gather in the
general need. Now, the Cross has
been sent out to advertise the Scottish
Exhibition of Industrial Design running
in Edinburgh and Scots the world
over will rally’ (in this, their country’s
need) and look cannily for the slogan
“Made in Scotland” before exchanging
their braw bawbees for imported goods.
The Scots have a grand flair for the
dramatic. The Cross was carried by
runners from Edinburgh to London, then
by Qantas Lancastrian to Mascot. On
Saturday morning it was carried by
runners —young Scots brave in kilts —to
the Town Hall steps. Here there were
more pipes skirling, members of the
Scottish and Burns Society, the Highland
Society, Sydney’s Lord Mayor. After
due ritual and colorful ceremony the
Cross was sped on its way back to the
Lord Provost of Edinburgh, Sir John
Falconer.
From Melbourne
The ball organised by the Australian
Air Force Women’s Association, which
was held at the Storklub, netted £320 for
the association. This was joyfully re-
vealed at a cocktail party given by the
ball committee at the St. Kilda-road
flat of its president, Mrs. A. L. Walters.
The money will go to the scholarship
fund for children of deceased R.A.A.F.
personnel. Mrs. Dal Charlton’s flower-
crowned head and posy of matching
flowers provided high relief for her natty
jacket suit of black crepe. Wife of
Group-Captain John Black helped her
six co-hostesses wearing a short black
dinner skirt with an evening sweater of
hyacinth-blue wool trimmed with black
sequins. Surprise of the evening was the
announcement of the engagement of
Maureen Wilton, a member of the ball
committee, to Dick Doyle, Maureen is
the elder daughter of Mrs. Kathleen Wil-
ton, of Toorak, and the late Colonel Eric
Wilton, Dick is the eldest son of Mrs.
Frank Doyle, of South Yarra, and the
late Mr. Doyle. Maureen’s powder-blue
jacket suit was worn with a matching
snood. Jean Darragh had little silver
“doves of peace” scattered over the
bodice of her beige dress. Betty Hanlon
chose black with a little black bonnet
draped with dark-green coq feathers.
Peggy Mollard’s crepe frock was scarlet.
Margaret Crisp is trying to cope with
the multiplicity of pre-wedding parties.
Margaret will marry Captain Bruce
Cornish, A.I.F. (ret.), at St. John’s,
Toorak, next Saturday. At a cocktail-
buffet dinner party which her aunt, Mrs.
Bert Hotchkiss (who is also her god-
mother), gave her at Menzies opportunity
was taken also to welcome home Mrs. Bill
Cook, who has just returned from
America, and to farewell the Earl Minerts,
who, after 12 years’ residence here, have
been recalled to America, and the S. Mc-
Kays, who are going to America for a
short trip. With her black frock and
silver-fox furs the hostess, who was
assisted by her husband in receiving the
guests, wore a smart little cream feather
chapeau. Mrs. George Mendes had one
large crimson rose decorating her un-
usual black hat, which was worn with a
black frock. Mrs, Bill Cook was' very
“Vogueish” in a luxurious mink coat
and large hat in which aigrettes sprouted
up one side and down the other. Ameri-
can Jim Poore was with his wife, her
black suit worn with mink furs. Mrs.
E. Shiiladay’s brown feather hat was
worn with a brown ermine coat. Mrs.
Tim Jones contrasted her black frock
with a plum-toned velvet hat.
Broothorn took this charming picture
of Mrl. Garnet Carroll, whose husband
plans to bring notable theatrical stars,
including Laurence Olivier and Vivien
Leigh, to his Princess Theatre early next
year. Mrs. Carroll, who was a musical-
comedy star before she married, and often
entertains friends with music and song,
is a smart dresser and has a flair for
interior decoration, as their South Yarra
home bears evidence. Their only son,
John, is a boarder at Melbourne Gram-
mar School.
Flowers from Brisbane, visitors from
Canberra, a cable from England and a
two-tiered cake from their son and
daughter were part of the 50th wedding
anniversary celebrations of Mr. and Mrs.
C. Rowe. Mrs. Con Daley, daughter of
the guests of honor, wore a myrtle-green
crepe frock which was gold-studded on
yoke and sleeves, and a small cyclamen
feather hat. Jessie Brownlee, sister of
well-known singer John, was in black
crepe; hyacinth-blue trimmed her hat
and the necklirijp of her frock. Pat Pap-
padakas wore a black Persian-lamb-
trimmed coat over her dove-grey crepe
frock ; her small periwinkle-blue felt hat
was trimmed with matching veiling. Mrs.
Rowe’s sister, Mrs. Whincup, of Bris-
bane, was in black crepe with black
sequins trimming the fine net yoke.
Margaret Daley, granddaughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Rowe, wore an aqua-blue crepe
frock; her sister Patricia was in green.
Among other guests were Mr. and Mrs.
J. Forsyth, Eric Robinson, Fred Asmus-
sen and Roy Blaine.
Back home after five months abroad
in England, the U.S.A. and the Continent
is Flelen MacDonald, executive of a large
city emporium. In the confusion of
plane changing when the plane she was
travelling on was forced down, Helen
lost her luggage for three days' and was
appalled to find she had booked in at a
hotel which charged 12 dollars a day.
Eventually the receptionist, an ex-ser-
viceman who recalled he had had a swell
time in Australia, let her have the same
apartment for six dollars a day. That’s
returning hospitality! In England her
hostess was paying 7s. 6d. a pound for
beans' and 4s. 6d. for half a cucumber.
From a vicar Helen obtained the
names and addresses of 50 of his poorest
parishioners. Now a parcel each month
goes from her firm to those families.
Paris came to Melbourne, thanks to
the enthusiastic and generous co-opera-
tion of the Chambre Syndicate ; and all
the great houses of the Haute Couture
were represented at the exciting display
of wearable fashions in the Myer Mural
Hall. Melbourne women responded to
the French mannequins by dressing in
their best for the premiere. Lady Dugan
graced the official party, which included
the Minister for France, M. Pierre Auge,
and French Consul, M. Roger Loubere.
Lady Dugan’s gown was of soft green
crepe embroidered in sparkling sequins.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, who accompanied Lord Mayor
Connelly, chose a black velvet gown.
Mrs. Sydney Baillieu Myer wore a bustle
gown of ruby-red taffetas ; Mrs. Norman
Myer was in copper-toned satin with
matching bead trimming. The Robinson
lady wore a draped white crepe gown
and grey squirrel coat. Mrs. H. A. Cres-
wick, president of the Kindergarten
Union of Victoria, chose a gown with
short matching jacket of turquoise crepe ;
the front of the gown sewn with silver
sequins,
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, whose Younger
Set acted as ushers and who gave the
French mannequins plenty of competi-
tion, was in black. In her party were
Mr. and Mrs. Ref. Smith, the latter in
black with a white ermine stole and muff ;
Capt. Alice Adcock, wearing a stunning
hyacinth taffeta gown with bunches of
cherries highlighting the draped neckline,
and the hostess’s daughter and son-in-
law Mr. and Mrs. Dudley Gordon. Sir
Norman and Lady Brookes; Sir Rupert
and Lady Clarke; the Hal .Watts and
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Woods were also in
the gathering. Taking in the Fashion
Show, just before leaving for Surfers’
Paradise, were Mrs. C. Curtain, wearing
a gown of silver lame and a white fox
cape, and Maida Voight, who will accom-
pany her. Mrs. Rupert Downes’s gown
of sea-green satin was worn under a long,
flowing cape of the same shimmering
satin. Proceeds of the premiere go to
the Kindergarten Union and French
charities.
Many of the guests came straight from
the Moonee Valley races to the late-
afternoon party given by Mrs. Ken
Hooper at her St. Kilda-road flat. The
hostess, who was assisted by her son,
Max, received her guests wearing a slim-
fitting black crepe frock ; knotted fringe
formed the cape sleeves, the fringe
flowing down over the arms. Dr. J. E.
Shilliday brought his wife. Dr. and Mrs.
Lewis were there, her rose-toned crepe
frock highlighted by deeper rose sequin
trimming. Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Fairey,
Mr. and Mrs. J. Turner and the Frank
Watts couple, Captain Bruce Cornish and
his fiancee, Margaret Crisp, Lieuts. Peter
Taylor, John Hooker and Stan Blackburn,
Mrs. S. Crisp, her black frock em-
bellished by the jet bead trimming
the front of the bodice and neck-
line, Mrs. E. Wilmot, also in black with
a silver fox cape, and Edith Trebilcock,
whose dinner gown was of petunia-toned
crepe, were among the merrymakers.


Last Year’s Will
may not meet to-day 9 $
conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desir-
able that you consult your Solicitor and
have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages
of appointing The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited as your Executor.
Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a
fixed and moderate charge, the services of
a Company with more than 68 years’ prac-
tical experience in # the administration of
Estates.
An explanatory booklet Is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY, and
I 401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488..
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.8., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
*
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morsbead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Bussell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
RUM
OVERPROOF
FESQ CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848 [mi]
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Nationalisation of the Banks
Piqued by the High Court’s decision
that section 48 of the Banking Act of
1945 was void, the Chifley Government
has decided to uproot the privately-
owned trading banks, some over 100
years old, and replant them in heavily
fertilised socialist soil in the Treasury
garden alongside the Commonwealth
Bank. The cry of “socialisation” has
long been standard equipment for cer*-
tain apostles of monetary reform,
especially when their own brand of gospel
really takes hold of them. Neither they
nor stiff-lipped conservatives opposed to
all change are likely to be right. The
danger, and it is a vfery real one, is not
that outright socialisation will fail to
make the machine go, but that it will
make it go backwards —an ominous risk
that prudence forbids, especially at the
moment.
Like other human institutions, banking
needs draughts of new ideas and changes
in practice and method. There has been
no failure in this direction. First war
and the totalitarian controls that fol-
lowed in its wake, and then new legisla-
tion, have brought revolutionary changes
in the banking structure and banking
practice. Moreover, the 1945 legislation
gives the Treasury a tight hold upon the
entire monetary machine by making the
private banks little more than hand-
maidens to the Commonwealth Bank,
which is the chief instrument for carry-
ing out Government policy on the
monetary side.
What then has moved the Govern-
ment to take over the trading banks?
Not only wounded vanity resulting from
the High Court’s decision, and certainly
not any delinquency on the part of the
banks, or failure to carry out their
national or commercial duty, nor any
selfish, stubborn opposition to the Gov-
ernment’s war- and peace-time policy.
The argument that actual ownership of
the trading banks is a necessary pre-
requisite to meet an impending economic
crisis is political sophistry and eyewash,
intended to divert public attention from
the real object or purpose in view. Under
existing legislation the Government has
all the powers necessary to enable it to
control the volume, nature and direction
of credit granted by the trading banks.
It can freeze for its own temporary use
so much of their deposits as it thinks fit.
It also controls the volume and nature
of their investments, the rates of interest
they can pay for deposits and charge for
advances, and the level of their earnings
and profits.
Truth is that the Government has been
quick, or cunning, enough to take advan-
tage of fortuituous circumstance as
means to an end that formed no part of
its programme of promised legislation at
the last elections. The end is suppression
of democratic capitalism—our present
way of life. If the pattern of history
repeats itself, and it has a habit of doing
so, then after that we are to be tied to
the wheel of national socialism to
be whirled onward at a pace and along
paths to new ends not yet envisaged by
many. Here is what G. D. H. Cole, the
British socialist and economist, said as
far back as 1932:
It is in the machinery of banking and
finance that the power to keep the eco-
nomic system working or to bring about
its dislocation at any moment resides.
Just as it would be fatal to leave this
machinery in capitalist hands while attempt-
ing the institution of a measure of socialism
elsewhere, ,it would be indispensable to
have it in socialist hands as the means of
influencing in a socialistic direction every
branch of the economic system from the
very outset of the socialistic regime.
The blunt Mr. Chifley has not yet seen
fit to be so blunt as that.
So there are obvious and sound foun-
dations for chairman E. R. Knox’s
declaration at the annual meeting of the
Commercial of Sydney last week that:
The Government’s announcement of its
intention to nationalise banking is a major
step toward complete socialisation. In no
British community—indeed in no Anglo-
Saxon community—has a Government taken
such action —the inevitable forerunner of
a dictatorship and one fraught with very
grave implications for the people of this
country, who are at least entitled to express
their wishes on a clear statement of the
issues involved.
After the Government’s intentions be-
come legislation—it has the numbers in
both houses—their constitutional validity
is certain to be tested as far as the Privy
Council, Should they prove legally valid
and come into force, it can be said with
assurance that the whole economy will
become the plaything of politics, and,
worse still, political jobbery will become
rife throughout banking and finance and
trade and industry.
The terms and conditions on which
shareholders atffe to be bought out have
not been announced, nor are they likely
to be until the bill authorising the deal
has been brought down during next
session of Parliament. Meanwhile the
Government has arranged with the Com-
monwealth Bank to buy trading-bank
scrip offered on the market at prices
ruling on August 15, the day before
nationalisation proposals were announced,
thus protecting nervous shareholders who
are inclined to sacrifice their scrip at
bargain prices. Selling pressure, owing
to anxiety concerning the amount and
nature of compensation, had forced
prices down early last week. In all cases
the real value of total bank assets is
worth a lot more than their book value,
which in some cases exceeds market value.
There are substantial inner reserves in
freeholds alone, some of which were*
bought nearly a century ago.
Shareholders have a strong case for
payment on an independent valuation
basis. Compulsory acquisition at either
book value or market value would
amount to partial confiscation of assets.
There is also much to support a claim
for payment for goodwill. Despite its
powers and privileges over its competi-
tors, the Commonwealth Bank has failed
to take any great volume of business
away from the trading banks. Share-
holders are well advised not to part with
their shares precipitately, but to aWait
developments and rely upon their con-
stitutional right to “just terms,” should
the Government succeed in expropriating
their assets.
The following table shows paid capital,
reserves and shareholders’ funds for each
of the nine trading banks at their last
balancing dates, together with the market
value of each undertaking as at August
Paid Shareholders’ Market
Capital. Reserves. Funds. Value.
■££ £ £
Adelaide 1,250,000 1,052,547 2,302,547 1,812,500
’Asia . . 4,500,000 2,759,500 7,259,560 10,057,500
Wales . . 8,780,000 6,498,721 15,278,721 15,913,750
Gom’cial
of Aus. 4,117,350 2,373,796 6,491,146 6,645,751
Com’cial
of Syd. 4,739,013 4,446,781 9,185,794 9,186,816
E., S.&A. 3,000,000 2,112,620 5,112,620 7,725,000
National 5,000,000 3,460,957 8,460,957 6,087,500
Qld. Nat. 1,750,000 908,366 2,658,366 2,800,000
Union .. 4,000,000 5,025,086 9,025,086 7,420,000
Total 37,136,363 28,638,434 65,774,979 67,598,817
In the case of the Anglo-Austraiian
banks —’Asia, E., S. and A. and Union—
shareholders’ funds are in sterling, and
the market value in Australian currency.
The merger recently agreed to between
the ’Asia and Union will, presumably,
not be proceeded with until the nation-
alisation issue is settled. Absorption of
the Q.N. by the National has been agreed
to by shareholders of the first-mentioned
bank, but the issue of Natiqnal scrip in
settlement of the deal has not yet taken
place. Each bank is, therefore, shown
separately in the table, the market Value
of the Q.N.’s shares being the price
agreed upon for purposes of the merger.
The next table shows profits, dividends,
market price at August 15 and yields, etc.,
for each bank:
t —Profit ■ —Shares s.
Amt. p.e. p.c. Dividend--, Paid .Mkt. Yld.
Cap.Fds. Amt. p.c. to Price, p.c.
& £
Adel. 69,585 5.5 3.0 62,500 5 100/-145/-3.5
’Asia 223,014 4.9 3.1 211,376 8$ 100/- 223/6 3.8
Wales 569,385 6.5 3.7 537,775 6i 400/- 735/- 3.8
2ss ’ m e -® 4 * {saaa i *si s£
Corn’d
of Syd. 393,293 8.3 4.3 355,426 71 250/- 482/- 3.9
E., S.
& A... 155,826 5.2 3.0 161,250 9.1 60/- 154/6 3.6
Nat’al 354,563 7.1 4.2 800,000 6 20/~ 31/3 3.9
Q. Nat. 92,185 5.2 3.1 65,625 5J 100/- 160/-3.4
Union 191,591 4.8 2.1 187,000 g| 100/- 230/- 3.7
£2,332,115 6.3 3.5 £2,029,951 5.5 ~ H~ ~
Profits and dividends of the Anglo-
Australian cos. are in sterling. The
amount of dividend is that which re-
mained after English income tax of 9s. in
the £ has been deducted at the source,
but the rate of dividend is the declared
rate before deducting this tax. The
market price is in Australian currency,
and the yield at that price allows for
both English tax and exchange at the
current rate. Until the terms of com-
pensation become known it is not possible
to say what shareholders in the various
cos. will receive.
Some idea of the magnitude of the
business the Government proposes to
take over can be had from the fact that,
at June 30 last, the public had entrusted
the nine trading banks with £648,343,000
of its money in the form of deposits.
The banks’ aggregate assets amounted to
£720,214,000. Comparable figures for
the General Banking Division of the
Commonwealth Bank were £58,572,000
and £64,777,000 respectively.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends, Written To Re- Re-
June, Profitt 10 p.c. Off, Etc. serves, serves.
1937 .. 27,021 20,000 5,000 2,021 264,282
1938 .. 28,400 20,000 5,000 3,400 267,682
1939 . . 31,419 20,000 5,000 6,419 274,101
1940 .. 29,125 20,000 4,000 5,125 279,226
1941 .. 26,818 20,000 2,500 4,318 283,544
1942 .. 24,141 20,000 2,500 1,641 285,185
1943 . . 25,940 20,000 2,500 3,440 288,625
1944 .. 26,612 20,000 2,500 4,112 292,737
1945 . . 24,304 20,000 2,500 1,804 294,541
121 P-c.
1946 . . 29,192 25,000 2,500 1,692 296,233
1947 . . 27,895 25,000 1,250 1,645 297,878
Net earnings of the trustee cos., of which
the Perpetual is Australia’s largest, have
failed to exhibit the buoyancy visible in
the figures of retail and other traders.
Their business has kept on expanding,
and can be expected to continue to do
so. The rapid growth of Government
controls and maze of official complica-
tions that have followed in the wake of
socialistic legislation have driven an in-
creasing volume of business into the ex-
pert care of the cos., which are now called
upon to give vastly more service than
ever before. The trouble is that costs
are advancing at a relatively faster rate
than earnings. That is because the co.’s
moderate corpus and other commission
charges remain anchored by legislation,
as they always have been, while taxation,
wages and other costs have climbed
rapidly, and continue to do so. At the
same time controls have depressed pro-
perty values, retarded realisation of
estates, forced down interest rates and
kept rents low.
For the four years to the close of
accounts in 1940, the Perpetual’s gross
earnings expanded at the average rate of
£9485 p.a. For the next four years they
contracted at the rate of £2979 p.a. Over
the eight years costs increased by £3 10s.
per £lOO of income. With war out of
the way and partial relaxation of controls
and restrictions, income has gone up by
average annual steps of £20,243 over the
last three years. The improvement last
term was £32,253:
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1936 ..£49,843,142 £150,994 £125,983 83.4
1939 .. 57,144,759 178,385 152,299 85.3
1940 . . 57,081,014 188,937 163,500 86.5
1941 . . 59,362,240 186,528 161,917 86.8
1942 .. 60,345,430 182,681 160,013 87.6
1943 .. 61,594,366 173,749 150,769 86.7
1944 . . 62,803,975 177,749 154,614 86.9
1945 . . 64,698,395 180,039 156,806 87.9
1946 . . 66,299,103 206,226 178,195 86.4
1947 .. 66,667,159 238,479 211,634 88.7
Exes, (up £33,439) made off with an extra
£2 6s. of each £lOO of income, mainly
because of salary increase, reabsorption
of staff from the, services and advancing
prices for stationery and everything else.
Including a net addition of £lO5O to com-
mission reserved account (£143,362 —the
unearned portion of corpus commissions),
the net result from all sources (£27,895)
was £1297 lighter at 13.9 p.c. on capital,
compared with 14.5, 12.1, 13.3, 12.9, 12,
13.4 and 14.5 p.c. back to 1940. A special
2\ p.c. bonus was again added to the
10 p.c. div., making \l\ p.c. for the year.
Whether the 12£ p.c. can be main-
tained depends upon whether the growth
in costs continues to outstrip the growth
in income. It is doubtful whether costs
have yet reached their peak. The heart-
ening feature is that there is £297,878 pf
reserves to support and assist the £200,000
of paid capital. So the two combined
need turn in only 3.6 p.c. net to show 9
p.c. on capital alone, which suggests that
therb is very little profit in the trustee
section of the business these days.
When the books closed freeholds, etc.
figured at £116,047 (and is worth a lot
more). Government securities £258,282,
mortgages £118,454, debtors £2205 and
cash £92,261. The amount coming to
outsiders was £74,372, including provi-
sion for taxation.
The market prices the £lO shares paid
to £2 —the other £8 includes a reserve
liability of £5 callable only in the event
of liquidation—at £5 10s., at which figure
the return is 4.5 p.c. on a \l\ p.c. dis-
tribution. The cover is £4 19s. 7d. in
net tangibles.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIS 4
OSUU4VAIV
mm * .
«»S BR'?
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” WINDOW FACE
ENVELOPES
. NATIONAL blueplex envelopes
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
NATIONAL WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
FINE-CUT
TOBACCO
DIRECT TO YOU
★ READY RUBBED *
Send M. 0., P.N. or Cheque and enjoy
Economy Smoking.
• ROGERS No. 3 (Fine-Cut)
Velvet-smooth, satisfying, rolls 00/
easily, keeps moist. Per lb. “
• ROGERS No. 1 (Pipe)
This tobacco made from selected blend
of mellow leaves. Cool and o A / A
satisfying per lb. **
Metropolitan Prices List, less Bd.
ROGERS TOBACCO CO.,
4 Hays water Kd., Darlingimrst, N.B.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
Kind of Tobacco required
S.B. 27-8-’47.
282
Ik
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
_ skin and com-
pi exion! UseCuticura
' Soap regularly Its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
sd
&
m
: ** tu
CWZW9
1
The best
you con buy
You don't have to acquire
a taste for Ciniano Ver-
mouth, you appreciate it
first time. .. , You relish im-
mediately the edge it gives
to appetite, the refinement
of flavour and delicate aroma
it adds to Cocktails ... at all
good hotels and licensed stores.
TRY A "TROPICAL"
For each person, crush a slice of orange
and a slice of pineapple in Cocktail
Shaker. Add ice, then I measure Dry
Gin. I measure Ciniano Sweet Vermouth,
)i measure Ciniano Dry Vermouth.
Moisten edge of glass with orange and
dip in crushed sugar. Shake well, strain
and pour gently . . . Delicious)
m
9Sf/'9O"fS
SHinpwjM
'THAT
the
BELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject
to accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and
uninterrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of
paramount importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing
this Company your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present
appointee. An interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on
request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P, T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Fee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. B. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE > AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
ess 3
(Xj j
Mwrvouß
Worries/
HIT
Mark® loeaHan
of YOU W RUPTUHI.
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance Free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defi-
nitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed
no matter where you
live. Call or send stamp for details. Bell-
measurement form, t es f’ mon ' a^s days
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO,.
(Dept. 27) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con- ,
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO _ Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
fs
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN POTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
Nechi Consolidated Dredging, Ltd-’
most recent addition to the Placer De-
velopment group, promises to be a sub-
stantial contributor to the pool when it
gets going. Paid capital is $5,000,000, of
which Placer holds $2,500,000-Nechi owns
124.000 acres of auriferous gravels on the
Nechi River, Colombia (S. America),
downstream from the area now being
worked by its prosperous stablemate,
Pato Consolidated. At end 1946
255.823.000 c.y. had been measured up,
of which 144,390,000 c.y. had been close-
bored to average 16.7 cents and
111.433.000 c.y. scout-bored for an aver-
age of 14.8 cents. Further drilling has
since substantially increased the fully-
developed yardage. The area is in two
sectors: (1) Exploradora, covering eight
mines adjoining Pato, and (2) Nechi
Valley, containing 84 mines covering the
balance of property. To ensure freedom
of location and movement of dredges the
co. has bought the royalty (5 p.c. of gross
proceeds of gold won) applying to Ex-
ploradora sector for $248,571. As soon
as they can be built, two dredges, which
will together handle 12,000,000 c.y. p.a.,
are to be installed on the property.
* * * *
Mt. Coolon (Q.), paid capital £300,000
in 10s. shares, had surplus funds total-
ling £6353 at end 1946. That was after
allowing for a 6d. div. paid on Jan. 10.
In addition the co. held 102,100 f.-p. 4s.
shares in Morning Star (Vic.) and 90,000
3s. shares paid to 9d. each in Atlas Gold
(Q.) Altogether the co. has paid
£450,000, equal to 15s. a share, in divi-
dends. Mining ceased in Feb., 1939, the
ore-body having failed to live below
450 ft. The co. holds on in the hope of
a worth-while prospect turning up. Sellers
ask 4s, or thereabouts for the scrip.
« * * *
“G.M.”: Old mining men will regret the
passing of the Mt. Bischoff mine at
Waratah (Tas.). In its heyday one of the
richest tin mines in the world, Bischoff
was closed down recently by order of
Prime Minister Chifley, whose Govern-
ment had been running the mine, in con-
junction with the State authorities, at
an approximate loss of £5OO a week for
several years. The Bischoff co, was
originally formed by mostly Launceston
businessmen in 1873 to work the tin
deposits discovered by James (“Philo-
sopher”) Smith. The mine paid dividends
totalling £2,250,000 in 74 years ; tin pro-
duction over that period has been esti-
mated at £6,000,000. Waratah has been
going steadily downhill over the last 15
years, and like its neighbor down the
coast, Zeehan, is but a shadow of its
former self. However, a steadily growing
timber industry, which is feeding a north-
west coast paper-mill, may save Waratah
from becoming a ghost town.
m » ♦ •
Sons of Gwalia’s chairman, A. H.
Moreing, says the least satisfactory fea-
ture of Westralian goldmining operations
today is the labor position. Much of the
labor drafted from the goldfields to other
work during the war has not returned to
outback mines like the Gwalia, which is
now being operated below capacity, with
underground efficiency not what it
used to be. It has been a great mine
from which millions of pounds’ worth
of gold has been extracted, and latest
estimate of ore reserves shows that a lot
more wealth is in sight. Gwalia was one
of the few Westralian gold ventures in
which, at the time of flotation, the public
was not allowed in on the ground floor.
The £1 shares were jumped to £2 before
being put on the market by the pro-
moters,
* * * *
After some developmental worries,
First Hit, one of Westralia’s small gold
producers at Menzies, recently exposed
four short makes of ore on No, 6 level.
It is too early yet to say what prospects
these contacts hold out. Ore reserves are
put at 1600 tons of a little over half-
oz. Value. Recent crushing of 183 tons
yielded bullion worth £ll6O.
* * * *
Meekatharra Sands Treatment Co.,
which is to handle auriferous dumps on
the old Ingliston Consols and Fenian
mines on the Murchison field (W.A.), ex-
pects the Oliver filter to be shipped from
Melbourne early next month. Other
plant and equipment have been installed
at a cost in line with estimates.
# * * ♦
Yankee and Canadian controllers of Big
Bell, one of Westralia’s outstanding low-
grade gold producers, recently acquired
some old shows at Paddy’s Flat, Meeka-
tharra, in the same State. Anglo-Wes-
tralian Pty., Ltd., nominal capital
£500,000 in £1 shares, has been registered
in Perth to work these shows. In the
past Paddy’s Flat mines have yielded a
lot of gold, and local belief is that a lot
still remains to be extracted.
* * * *
Referring to the world-wide under-
supply of non-ferrous metals W.
Gardiner, chairman of the Amalgamated
Metal Corp., recently said that the out-
standing feature of the situation was
that the U.S.A. had become an importer
of metals. Ready to pay high prices in
order to satisfy her domestic demands,
she was making other countries, which
had not the same financial resources
available, experience great difficulties in
satisfying their minimum needs.
*•* * *
“Bullionist”: Canadian Government
is, for the time being, winking at Mc-
Intyre Gold Mines’ hoarding of the metal
in anticipation of a price rise. Under the
Bank of Canada Act the Finance Minister
has the right to compel all gold and bul-
lion to be turned over to the bank, but
does not want to use the power unless the
need is urgent. Use of the Act would in-
volve “too drastic” a penalty in the present
circumstances, and would mean that the
Mclntyre co. would only be allowed
20.67 dollars an oz. against the U.S.
present price of 35 dollars. The Gov-
ernment hopes there will be no extension
of gold storage.


S5B 30-8.46
/
oSovaox
\4«
_ —— —v> SV*
3)|OWS
V
Pm* 4
A beautiful forehand vofley ends an
exciting rally and the game is won—
now you can relax and enjoy a smoke
with Champion Tobacco.
Champion Ready Rubbed in the 2oz.
"Pouchpak" for cigarette smokers, or
Flake Cut for the pipe. Whichever
you prefer, you'll agree it's a
Champion smoke.
CHAMPION
df
%6aaco
Also in Bright and Dark Flake Cut for the Pipe.
Personal and Missing Friends.
HENERY, William. —Next-of-kin of William Henery,
late of Redfern, who died, aged 84 years, at Lid-
combe State Hospital and Home, on 26th March,
1942, or any persons knowing of their whereabouts
or deaths, kindly communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
WOULD any person knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM DAVID ALEXANDER, formerly of the
Royal Australian Navy, whose number was PM2165
and whose address on discharge was South Ecklin,
via Terang, Victoria, please communicate with WIL-
LIAM LANDER, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney ? /
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
sdf
sd
fsd
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS”
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless runnisg of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Ply. Ltd.
fs
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The W T estern Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
I
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN OF
MEEHANITE
METALS
SUNDRY SHOWS
CANDLES IN THE STORM.
The total effect of the Society of
Artists’ Exhibition at the N. S. Wales
Education Department Gallery is of an
immense and shattering turgidity.
Of thousands of paintings ; of pots and
gallons and tubs and tanks of paint; of
tremendous, earnest endeavors, tradi-
tional painters striving to be black to be
in the fashion, fashionable painters
laboring after form to be in the tradition ;
of a gigantic melting-pot; of an orchestra
groaning at midnight, in which every
player is sawing the double-bass or
thumping the big bass drum.
This impression is necessarily unfair
to the individual painters. And, indeed,
memory preserves something out of the
murk: a recollection of Russell Drys-
dale’s*“Rabbiters,” looking strangely like
an inside view of the abdominal cavity
and, as a picture of the Centre, to be con-
trasted with a little Hans Heysen on
loan, not an important picture, but spark-
ling with light ... of a Roland Wakelin
painting bought by the N. S, Wales
Gallery, a solid piece of work, but lurid
... of an Eric Wilson on loan, greener
than even the Liffey could possibly be,
yet with grace and movement . , , of D.
Orban’s pastel “Road to Camden,” light-
less, but a pleasant composition ... of
some lively children in an otherwise
academic slum by Geoff Smart ... of a
gay, chunky bowl of flowers by Freda
Robertshaw, bought by the Launceston
Gallery ... of Roy 'Thibou’s amusing
little sketch, varnish-like in texture, of a
clarinet-player ... of S. Herman’s “House
at Pyrmont,” which looks more alive than
his usual slum houses and might be
attractive if only he had painted light
upon and around it and sky beyond it
... of a charming back view of elephants
by Francis Lymburner and, among the
sculptures, a disconcertingly sharp back
view of a lady by Lyndon Dadsweil . . .
mixed impressions, not enough to lift the
murk.
There are two painters whose works
shine like good deeds in a naughty world,
Arthur Murch and Frank McNamara. It
is time McNamara showed he can paint
fine weather as well as wet, other colors
than cold silver and inky blue, yet there
are freshness and life in his work, a feel-
ing of genuine ease and power. Murch
is still experimenting with glowing reds
and golds and (along with a flaky nude
and a bushfire whose appeal is little off-
set by the woolwork technique familiar
in his landscapes) offers a burnished kettle
on a fire and, best of the lot, a couple of
bareback riders in a circus. Here there
are grace and light, a touch of lyricism
and comedy without the tendency to
mere frivolity that mars most of the other
works that try to lighten the general
guttural gloom.
Melbourne Music.
“Ein Heldenleben,” Richard Strauss’s
autobiography in music, occupied Bernard
Heinze and his orchestral cohorts for a
full 40 minutes at the fifth “celebrity”
concert of the season at the Melbourne
Town Hall. Expressed in the form of an
enormous rondo, Strauss’s testament or
apologia paints a sound picture of the
composer as a hero opposing a sea of
tfoubles, principal among them being the
critics. The flute makes some observa-
tions on their spite and venom and the
tubas make rude comments on their dull-
ness, The heroine, entering on the wings
of the solo violin, is somewhat coy and
skittish, but the hero subjugates her and
the episode ends with a love duet, with
the critics providing an obbligato in the
distance.
The hero then marches on to the field
of battle with a fanfare of trumpets that
would have made the rafters of the Town
Hall tremble if it had them. There is
terrific slaughter, and the hero enters on
his deeds of peace which largely com-
prise quotations from his own works.
After delivering a final kick in the pants
to the critics he flies from the mundane
world to a world of peace and contem-
plation—the Cor Anglais was lovely in
this section. As music the opus could
stand on its own feet without these pro-
grammatic interpretations and Heinze ex-
celled himself with the baton, while
Bertha Jorgensen weaved her fiddle in
and out of the proceedings with a
subtlety that left no nuance unexploited.
Herta Glaz sang “When I am Laid in
Earth,” by Purcell, and “O Don Fatale”
from Verdi’s “O Don Fatale.” Hers was
one of the purest voices Melbourne has
heard for a long time, A sensitive render-
ing of the “Eroica” concluded the per-
formance.
Stern and Goossens.
At his opening Sydney recital the young
Russo-American violinist Isaac Stern re-
vealed his powers as a virtuoso in
Vitalii’s lovely Ciaconna and Brahms’s
Sonata No. 3 in D Minor. His attack is
full-blooded and sure, his bowing facile,
his G-string tones broad, deep and mel-
low. Particularly in such devices as the
sahando and the spiccato, as well as the
usual trills and mordents, does the artist
exhibit a polished finish. In the rondo of
the Brahms work he brought out fine
power and a dramatic approach. The
Romance from Wieniawski’s Concerto
was an example of beautiful lyricism well
sustained. The Prokofiev Sonata Op. 94
suffered badly by comparison with the
other major works. However, Stern and
his accompanist, Alexander Zakin, com-
bined well enough in this exposition of
dynamics and sonorities.
His second recital featured Mozart’s
Sonata in E Minor, K 304, a beautiful
little work, lucid, sane, redolent of grace;
the Cesar Franck Sonata, with its strong
religious exaltation and its mystic form
and the alternate dialogue between solo
instrument and piano ; and the Bach un-
accompanied Chaconne, the enormous
technical difficulties of which Stern
makes light of. Bartok’s .First Rhapsody
proved less of a rhapsody than a terp-
sichorean exercise which might have been
specially written for St. Vitus.
With the orchestra under Eugene
Goossens Stern played the Prokofiev
Concerto in D. This work puts a great
strain on the soloist and orchestra, but
it is nothing to the strain it puts on the
audience. As if this wasn’t enough to
raise shudders, Mr. Goossens had to put
on the same programme “Iberia.” De-
bussy was a vastly overrated composer
who on the rare occasions when he
abandoned “musical” effeminacies and
tried to compete with the classical masters
of orchestration lost himself in a maze
of meaningless form and in atmospheric
fog. Strauss’s “Rosenkavalier” was beauti-
fully played, the strong melody carried
along with lilting, infectious gaiety. The
night’s best work was Haydn’s Sym-
phony No. 97, a model of clear writing
and lucid interpretation.
The Hurlstone Park Choral Society was
in excellent voice in Faure’s Requiem at
last week’s concert. The orchestra was
in fine trim, too, producing a captivat-
ingly tranquil accompaniment to the
choir and soloists, Elsie Findlay and
Noel Melvin, who sang well. The
orchestra gave further proof of the rapid
improvement it is making under Mr.
Goossens’s baton with a splendid reading
of Sibelius’s Fifth Symphony. Schu-
mann’s Manfred Overture was strong in
its portrayal of passion and agony and
the final redemption of Byron’s character.
"The Hucksters."
This Sydney St. James offering pours
some corrosive acid on the advertising
game and compensates for the Holly-
wood dilution of the book by excellent
acting. The ladies were overjoyed to
find that Clark Gable has not sagged at
the knees after carting Scarlett O’Hara
about, but Sydney Greenstreet gains the
belt for acting with his performance of
Mr. Evans, the cat’s pyjamas of big busi-
ness who amuses himself by applying
his mighty thumb to his employees and
watching their perpetual terror turn to
panic.
Adolphe Menjou, as the most fear-
ridden of the slaves, provides one of the
film’s best scenes by greeting his dinner
guests while clad in immaculate “fish-
and-chips” and a large pair of white and
woolly slippers. Gable, who does not
favor the push-button life, jibs at the
treatment and finally cools the panting
Greenstreet with a jug of water, using
one of the mogul’s own illustrated
cliches: “You’re all wet, see what I
meap! ”
Despite Hollywood ballyhoo that her
name must be pronounced “Karr to
rhyme with star,” Deborah Kerr gives
her usual first-rate performance, and
Edward Arnold is in tiptop form.
Reviewed Briefly.
“Beware of Pity” (Sydney Embassy):
The crippled daughter (Lilli Palmer) of
an Austrian nobleman mistakes the com-
passion of a young lieutenant (Albert
Lieven) for love. The situation is played
for every angle it offers with a good deal
of feeling, though it often veers close to
melodrama. The solution is—well, that’s
what you pay to see. Cedric Hardwicke
demonstrates his usual practical artistry
as a country doctor.
* * * *
“The Perils of Pauline” (Sydney Prince
Edward): Betty Hutton as Pearl White,
“the queen of the serials.” Although it
seems in the first half of the film that
nothing but a 10-ton pile-driver could
suppress the raucous Miss Hutton, she is
finally somewhat subdued by the senti-
mental working out of the story. Worth
seeing for the clowning of Billy de Wolfe
and, particularly, for the Hutton’s ex-
plosive rendering of “A Sewing
Machine.”
* * * *
“Memory’s Harvest” (Sydney Savoy):
This Russian film (English dialogue,
spoken by Australian actors, has been
dubbed in) is notable only for the majestic
tenor of Sergei Lemeshev, who uses his
vocal equipment to good purpose on airs
from five operas. With the aid of an old
maestro, Sergei rises rapidly from an
improvident taxi-driver in one of Lenin-
grad’s nationalised garages to operatic
stardom at the Bolshoi Theatre. More
bumpy, however, is the course of his
romance, which occupies the rest of his
and the film’s time.
* * * *
“Down to Earth”: Poor old Terpsi-
chore ain’t what she used to be, judged
by this Sydney State offering. Rita Hay-
worth, as the Muse, is probably the
prettiest myth seen here, but while her
looks are worthy of a laurel from old
Zeus she deserves a thunderbolt for her
acting.
* * * ♦
Brisbane saw an excellent play with
excellent acting throughout in Ross
Buchanan’s production of “Murder With-
out Crime,” by J. Lee-Thompson. A
thriller, with a good story, and the play
has cleverly-drawn character studies of
sadism, an estranged wife, a nightclub
hostess and of a guilty conscience. Ross
Buchanan, as actor and producer, was
very good, while Coila McCracken and
Betty Ross gave smooth and polished per-
formances. A shade more credit goes
to Rex Hodel as Stephen until
Buchanan’s production, Hodel had shown
none of the ability he revealed in
“Murder Without Crime.” In a long and
exacting role he created an excellent char-
acterisation and sustained it throughout.


No. 15 of Series
Baking a Cake...
r's
O
o
z
z
St
rooeKS
Q
NIGH
OW
PLACING a cake in the oven starts two chemical
processes. The cake is made of flour mixed with
other ingredients including bicarbonate of soda
(baking soda) and an acid phosphate substance
(the raising ingredient). The raising ingredient
used in practically all self-raising flours and baking
powders in Australia is “Aerophos phosphate. In
the case of self-raising flours,these extra ingredients
are all ready mixed with the flour, but with plain
flour it is necessary to add them in the form ot
baking powder. When wetted and heated the
mixture liberates carbon dioxide, and bubbles of this
gas, trapped in the dough, make the cake rise and
give it its light spongy texture. The heat of the oven
also converts the starch in the flour into a yellowish
brown substance called dextrin, changing the white
sticky dough into a golden brown cake. Ihe British
chemical industry produces large quan-
tities of “baking soda’’ with a high
standard of purity as well as a variety
of the acid phosphates used in baking
powders and self-raising flour.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates IL-29-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Towards providing as many °PP° r^ nitl ® s
possible for apprentice riders before
rarine casts them aside for a while, b.I.L. naa
the 10-furlongs Rosehill Handicap on Saturday
restricted to lads who had ridden less than fiv
winners. The barrier for that distance is m a
chute running back into the saddling paddock
and some idiot in the crowd yelled Go,
in imitation of a fellow-nitwit who did the
same thing in Melbourne recently. Under-
standably anxious, most of the lads jumped
their mounts straight into the barrier; a
couple were dislodged, the rider of Air Flare
being severely burned round the face, and the
field raced about a furlong before an official,
stationed for such emergency, flagged them back.
When finally run some 10 minutes late the
Handicap was won by Buonarotti Boy, very wefl
ridden by R. Kerrigan, to down Parramatoo and
Air Flare.
Young Kerrigan also won a seven-furlongs
Mixed Stakes on Penmore. By Pentheus from
Mortine, Penmore looks the makings of a fairly
good ’un —his record so far is two starts for
two wins. Other Mixed Stakes at seven fur-
longs were won by Lord Rex (F. Walker) and
Hava Chat (E. Fordyce), while one at 12 fur-
longs saw Binnia Lassie (E. Doon) at last suc-
cessful.
Lackaboy was bumped up 51b. for his Canter-
bury win, but, with a 31b. allowance for capable
apprentice V. Faggotter, carried only 7.12, and
again made hacks of the sprinters m the six-
furlongs Flying, Prince Consort and Clipper
filling the places. Lackaboy resembles his
relative Puffham in having the uninspiring sort
of name that punters are apt to pass over too
lightly. Despite having won twice from his
three previous starts, he went out at 10 to 1.
Karachi rather disappointed by finishing only
second to Marine Victory (W. Cook) in the
Three-year-old. He plugged on gamely at the
finish, but lacked the dash he had previously
displayed. However, he had much the worst of
the draw at the barrier, carried topweight of
9.3, conceding the winner half a stone, and did
beat the others as clearly as he was himself
beaten.
Winding up a rather cheerless afternoon,
drizzling rain having made things unpleasant,
Decorate (F. Williams) accounted for Cape
Neddick and Rotten Row in the Welter.
* * * *
Three divisions of the Morang Maiden Plate
expanded the card at Moonee Valley to eight
races, four of them for three-year-olds. Those
to cancel their maiden certificates were Cape
Helles (A. Breasley), defeating Sun Lyric and
Angiya; Gallant Scout (J. Gilmore), who
downed Derfla and Mexican Dawn; and, pos-
sibly the best of the trio, Cronides (J. Purtell),
who finished ahead of Euphony and the heavily-
backed New Zealander Equator.
If the Dhoti four-year-old Hindu Prince re-
mains sound he could easily take a solid hand
in some of the rich spring handicaps. After
he had shown great promise as a two-year-old
a leg injury forced him into retirement for 12
months —a thing which can sometimes be the
making of a horse. Since resuming recently,
he’s won three in a row, the latest being Satur-
day’s Tullamarine Handicap, in which he led all
the way to down Apropos and Sunrocks by
lengths.
On a very heavy track Hindu Prince (V- Hart-
ney) ran the mile in 1.42£, a second-and-a-half
better than recorded by Star Port (S. Ralph) in
defeating Cyclades, Chanak and other three-year-
olds. An indication of the state of the track
was the effort of the 50-to-l chance Red Fury
(P. Simmonds) who, in the Ngarveno Handicap
of 13 furlongs, beat Stenelaus and King’s Walk
by 12 lengths in nearly as many seconds worse
time than the record.
Given a fly over the fences in the Broad-
meadows Steeple, First Aid returned punters
some of the rent-money done in on his
numerous expensive hurdling failures. Don
Gypsy, favorite by a shade of the odds, was
beaten a dozen lengths, with Securities third.
A more costly failure was that of Assam, going
out at evens for the Macedon Welter, only to be
just headed by Davalomarne, who was at 15
to 1 despite having Purtell aboard.
* * * ♦
For the second time in his career Shannon
entered Inglis’s sale-ring at Randwick last Wed-
nesday to be sold at auction. On the first
occasion he was an undistinguished yearling and
went to the late Peter Riddle for 350 guineas.
On Wednesday several thousand people, con-
tributing two bob a nob to Food for Britain,
were crammed into the little ring to witness
the almost unique one-horse sale. They were
jammed into the stands, seated a dozen deep
on the ground round the ring, and also fes-
tooned the old fig-tree which dominates the
scene. Of this crowd exactly four participated
in the bidding; others, including “Lucky”
Porter, who was reported to have declared that
the sky would be the limit for him, found the
going a bit too fast and furious. Auctioneer
Inglis called for a bid and had ten thousand
guineas, twenty thousand, twenty-five thousand,
fired at him in less time than it takes to read.
A slight pause, then “twenty-six thousand
guineas.” Sold! to W. J. Smith. Since fetch-
ing 350 guineas as a yearling Shannon had
contested 21 races and won 12 of them and
£16,444. Riddle’s estate cut up for £40,000.
* * * *
Beau Pere, who died in the U.S. last week,
was one of the real bargain buys of the Turf.
Originally purchased at the Newmarket (Eng.)
sales by a New Zealand breeder for less than
150 guineas, he proved a most successful sire.
With his outstanding sons Beau Vite, Beaulivre
and others, he was leading N.Z. sire in 1939
and 1940 and headed the Australian list in
1940-’4l-’42. W. J. Smith brought him to Aus-
tralia and had him standing at St. Aubins Stud
for several seasons before selling him to Louis
B. Mayer. In America Beau Pere proved just
as successful, among his get being the top-
notch filly Honeymoon. When Mayer sold out
lock, stock and barrel last April, Beau Pere
went to the Spendthrift Farm Stud at Lexing-
ton, Kentucky, for 100,000 dollars, and there he
died, aged 20.
* * * *
A glance through the records, where there is
abundant evidence that nearly all good horses
have had good names, should provide a lesson
for the owner seeking a name f°r his latest
acquisition, yet some insist on saddling t
“noblest of animals” with names more suitable
for greyhounds or performing fleas. About tne
worst noted over the past year was an animal
which turned up at Rosehill one day with the
pathetic monicker Williegobung. Some time
back the A.J.C. took exception to the name
Shyster, carried by a promising two-year-old,
and requested a change. The owner, showing
a touch of subtle humor, renamed the horse
Boycott. Now the A.J.C. has taken similar
“Guess who ?”
action with the Ajax-Belle Models colt Sausa-
jacks, a name which should have been ruled
out anyway, apart from its running close to
the rule against advertising trade names.
Sausajacks, whom the bookies were openly
calling Sausages, is part-owned by A. W.
Anderson, who deals in such goods.
* * * *
The A.J.C. has ruled that bets made on the
result of a photo-finish after the horses have
passed the post shall be decided by the hoisting
of the numbers, not / the weight flag. This
circumvents arguments arising when a success-
ful protest follows a camera finish. The ruling
is technically correct, but it might have been
a better notion to wipe out altogether betting
on photo.-finishes. As it is, punters are not
betting on the result of a horserace; they are
betting on which of (usually) two numbers will
be chosen by a mechanical device. The differ-
ence between that and a quiet game of swy
is something that this writer cannot detect.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Three-year-old; Karachi, 1; Marine Victory,
2; Deep Sea, 3. Hobartville Stakes: Temeraire,
1; Prince Mohican, 2; The Groom, 3. War-
wick Stakes (in the absence of Shannon): Vic-
tory Lad, 1; Columnist, 2; Sweet Chime, 3.
Campbelltown Handicap: Warspite, 1; Puff-
ham, 2; Prince Consort, 3. Warwick Farm
Spring Handicap: Silver Link, 1; Rimfire, 2;
Buonarotti Boy, 3. Glenlee Handicap; Pak-
tong, 1; The Cheat, 2; Questing, 3-.
* * * *
Richmond “Tigers” got within two
points of the V.F.L. “four” by downing
Collingwood with the thumping score of
20.14- Dyer, the wily old Richmond
captain, used three rovers in quick
changes, hit the “Magpies” with a win-
ning ruck and centre, clapped on the
pace and left the Magpies with hardly a
feather. The game was a sort of pre-
liminary semi-final, like the one at Fitz-
roy, where the locals met a lethargic
Essendon side in the mud and popped on
18.22 to 8.14, Fitzroy centre-forward E.
Hart kicking nine goals. Collingwood
and Essendon meet next Saturday, and
defeat for ’Wood, provided Richmond
beats South Melbourne, would put Rich-
mond in the “four.” South had an easy
19.14- win against Hawthorn;
Geelong trailed St. Kilda half-way qnd
then ran all over the opposition to win
15.17-10.13; Melbourne settled Foots-
cray 24.11-11.14, and Carlton was un-
troubled to beat North Melbourne,
14.13-10.12.
* * * *
Despite a reported descent to ear-biting
(non-financial) in the Northern Suburbs-
Gordon Rugby Union reserve-grade clash
at North Sydney, the League still holds
all rights to that sort of gruesomeness.
What happened was that a North’s centra
flung himself on the ball being toed along
by three Gordon forwards in a dribbling
rush and had his ear split by a boot.
In the first-grade encounter Bruce Pater-
son scored a try and landed four goals
towards Gordon’s 16-13 win. Manly
stayed at the fop of the competition by
easily downing University, 25-12. East,
next on the list, beat West 11-8; St.
George accounted for Eastwood, 17-11,
and Parramatta had an 8-3 win over
Drummoyne.
* * * *
St. Joseph’s (“Joey’s”) G.P.S. rugger
premiership (B. 6/7/’47) was the school’s
17th win since Bro. Henry took over the
coaching 26 seasons ago. Even more re-
markable is the record of the school s
second XV, losing only five matches in
the period 1928-47 inclusive, and un-
beaten 1934-43 inclusive. An extraordin-
ary record in coaching.
* * * *
Harry Hattersley (N.S.W.) is Australian
amateur golf champion for the second
time. He beat F. W. Gluth (Vic.) at
Royal Adelaide on Saturday in a high
wind and showers, the match going to
the last green where Hattersley was one
up after Gluth missed a six foot putt.
Denied military service, on which he was
keen, Hattersley abandoned his golfing
career for the whole period of the war.
* * * *
S’Africa in England:
In easily the best match of the series S’Africa
put up a great effort at The Oval to make the
final Test a draw. England hit up 427, chiefly
Hutton (80), Yardley (59), Compton (53), and
Gladwin (51). Mann, an accurate slow bowler,
sent down 64 overs for 28 maidens, 93 runs,
4 wickets. The S’Africahs made 302, mostly
Bruce Mitchell (120) and Dawson (55). Copson
(3 for 46) and Howorth (3 for 64), replacing
Edrich and Young, justified their trial in Test
cricket
England closed the second innings at 325
for 6 wickets; Compton 113, Howorth 45.
It was Compton’s fourth century in the series,
equalling like efforts by Bradman, Hammond
and Sutcliffe and also Headley (West Indies).
The S’Africans scored 423 for seven wickets—
only 28 short of a win. Mitchell hit an ex-
cellent 189 not out, batting through the innings.
In the five Tests England scored 3063 for
66 wickets, av. 46.40, and S’Africa 2968 for
88, av. 33.72, England winning three matches,
with two drawn.
England tried a bunch of new bowlers, but
“regulars” Wright (19 for 484) and Edrich
(16 for 370) did best. Also, a total of 21
batsmen were called on, but again it was
seasoned players who headed the list: Comp-
ton (753, av. 94.12), Edrich (552, av. 110.4).
* * * *
Cyril Washbrook will pocket the
“gate” when Lancashire plays Australia
at Old Trafford next year. As he showed
here last year, a good opening bat and
slashing cover field, Washbrook has
done well in the Tests against S.Africa. A
“benefit” of £lO,OOO is also on the way
for Frank Chester, the umpire who lately
banned fast bowlers because he held that
the bad light made them dangerous.
Chester lost an arm in the Kaiser’s war.
* * * *
Handicapped in height and reach,
Jimmy Hogg (8.0) was declared loser on
points to Melbourne flyweight “Spider”
Tymms (8.1) at Leichhardt. Hogg,
though almost always retreating, often
landed three or four punches to Tymms’s
one, and easily took the first three
rounds. Tymms then attacked with a
vengeance, and his long straight lefts
scored a margin of points in most of the
subsequent rounds.
* * * *
Archie Kemp (9.9) had his first trounc-
ing since he turned pro, when Les Fuller
(9 7*) comfortably outpointed him over
12 rounds at Melbourne Stadium. The
former amateur champ, was possibly in
need of the fight, but he was certainly
well beaten.
« * * *
Noel Beckett (10.7 i), mentioned here
some time back as a very promising
Tweed River (N.S.W.) welter who had
run through all local and visiting opposi-
tion and was looking for city fights,
started out in Brisbane by knocking Kev
Turner (10.6) in the 11th round. It was
in the main support bout to the scrap in
which Rex Murphy (10.7 i) outed Merv
Smith Murphy is a 20-year-old
brother of “Tommy Bums” and is close
on 6ft., so his days as a welter are prob-
ably limited.


\]T\ \ ' 'I
smmmm
fai ml tai ml
ai tnl eai jb/i
'■ V
! U
Have you looked over
Your Will lately?
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
IF you have not revised your Will to meet
to-day’s conditions, the consequences may
be serious for someone who depends on you.
Your responsibility to that someone is too
important to justify delaying until some "to-
morrow” that may never come.
Why not have a confidential talk with one
of our Senior Officers on the subject of the
appointment of the Company as Executor of
your Will? He will help you to provide for
the efficient and economical settlement of your
Estate, also for its management thereafter. The
final step, having your Solicitor draw your Will,
should then be a simple matter.
Shall we send you a copy of our booklet, “Your
Executor and Trustee”? It explains the Company’s
service and what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 MJNTEU STREET, SYDNEY'
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,667,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING UESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Riverina Representative; D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamwortli,
Western District Representative: J. F. McElroy, 110 Fords Place, Orange.
wm
m
¥SS>
1
N
<BM.-NDIS
XIOW SI NOU93£Bd SU
■PRODUCTS which reach a high state
of perfection in manufacture and per-
formance demand a finish in keeping
with their quality. And since perfection
in all things is a policy which finds
expression in Ronaldson-Tippett Engines,
it is only to be expected that exacting
standards determine their finish.
Each Ronaldson-Tippett Engine is primed
and filled and then rubbed down and
heavily coated with enamel of the most
enduring quality. The fine appearance of
every unit reflects the goodness within —■
the through-and-through perfection in
all points of manufacture which means
everything to the purchaser.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT
PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT,, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros, and Tippett
Pty., Ltd, Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street.
SYDNEY. Queensland Distributors; Ronaldson
Tippett (QTand) Pty., Ltd., Parbury House,
127 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
/%0 :
m
m
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Trade-union Control of Banks
The dangers inherent in Government
control of the banking system, and especi-
ally Labor-Government control, have
been emphasised in The Bulletin a hun-
dred times; but they are not for that
reason any less dangerous now that the
zero hour has arrived. In fact, consider-
ing the deterioration that has taken place
in industrial discipline, in the principles
and practice of Government finance, and
in the growing official disregard for the
rights of citizens, the current banking pro-
posals represent the widening of a bureau-
cratic salient already thrust deep into the
defences of Australian democracy, streng-
thening the vested interests of selfish and
militant unionism and encouraging vicious
flank attacks by Communists and others
of their kind.
The banking set-up in Australia at the
present time allows for a central bank—•
the Commonwealth Bank, with a governor
in charge—that in a general way influ-
ences the credit policy of all the trad-
ing banks, and the governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank is in the ultimate sub-
ject to the directions of the Treasurer
himself. If, under the Government’s pro-
posed nationalisation legislation, the
trading banks are converted into branches
of the Commonwealth Bank, then all
banking will be subject to Treasury direc-
tion in every matter of policy. Since
Labor-party Treasurers bow to the deci-
sions of Caucus, and Caucus takes notice
even of the bark of trade-unionists’ dogs,
the danger of trade-union control of the
Australian banking system is quite obvi-
ous.
We have had plenty of opportunity to
study the effect of trade-union dictator-
ship in the industrial field. The more
privileges unions have received from
Labor Governments during the past five
years, the more has their rate of produc-
tion and service declined, the more irre-
sponsible has their behavior become. The
standard of living of all has been gravely
affected, especially as regards housing.
Yet the pressure of the unions on Can-
berra Labor is allowed to continue. Im-
agine what the situation would be like if,
through a production depression brought
on by militant unionism sabotaging out-
put, militant unionism was still allowed
to dictate the credit policy of the entire
Australian banking system! Yet it was
militant unionism which, during the 1930
depression, was trying to force a policy of
inflationary finance upon the Govern-
ment and the banking system. Credit-
expansion during a depression may be a
desirable thing provided you are prepared
to curtail the expansion during times of
full employment. We have full employ-
ment in Australia now, but the union-
dictated Government policy is still an in-
flationary one. You can’t have inflation
all the time without eventual ruin.
The Australian people are confronted
with the prospect of trade-union control
of their bank accounts and their money,
official bureaucracy carrying out the job.
Trade-unionism, which has made people
walk to work, cook in the backyard, go
short of housing and coal; which has held
up transport by land and on sea for
lengthy periods and which has reduced the
national standard of living to far below
that prevailing pre-war, at the same time
causing costs to rise alarmingly, is
destined to become the dominating force
behind banking policy if the present Gov-
ernment’s banking proposals come into
force.
The danger of trade-union control of
banking will no doubt be pooh-poohed
by its present advocates as a theoretical
bogy. But we have found that, over the
years, extremists in Labor politics have
forced their policy on the people wher-
ever the legal machinery has existed to
allow it; and it cannot be denied that
the present Labor banking plan will open
the door to every militant union dema-
gogue who has the forces behind him to
dominate Caucus. With a change in eco-
nomic weather fast approaching us, we
urgently need responsible, impartial and
experienced minds directing our financial
affairs. Trade-unionism on the whole in
Australia has the devil in it, and it is
motivated by arrogant sectional selfish-
ness where it is not dominated by Com-
munist treachery. Its control of our
national finances would be ominous.
That is a fair statement of the position
as it stands. In theory there may be
something to be said for the nationalisa-
tion of banking. But political control
of the banks could only succeed where a
national-minded and economically expert
Government was always in charge of the
Treasury. The present Government is
inspired by sectional selfishness, preju-
dice and foolish experimentalism. Its
administrative record —take shipping as
only one example—has been calamitous.
Sterling and Dollars
The United States having approved the
necessary breach of the dollar-loan agree-
ment, Britain has refused to convert
sterling debts owed to foreign countries
into debts payable by Britain in dollars.
An exception is obligations owed to the
United States. About $4OO million re-
mains of the $3750 million loan ; there
has been a rapid depletion of the credit
since July 15, especially since Britain
was forced to tell the world of the
economic and political difficulties con-
fronting it. Foreign countries with bal-
ances in London started a “run” on the
dollar, and it became obvious that it
would soon be exhausted if no restrictive
action was taken. Restriction could not
be enforced without the approval of the
United States, but the approval only
came after much of the dollar credit had
disappeared not entirely as a result of
food purchases from the U.S.A. by
hungry Britain, but partly by foreign in-
terests converting sterling into dollars.
Even Britain may not now tap the re-
maining $4OO million without the
approval of U.S. Treasury. No further
loan from the United States appears yet
to be in sight.
Britain’s action in “going off the dollar
standard” has raised several problems.
The most obvious will be the curtailment
of purchases within the dollar area by all
Empire and Empire-trading countries.
The next is the possibility that countries
until recently sellixig goods for sterling
that could be converted into dollars will
not be willing to sell to Britain for cur-
rency that remains sterling. There
may be no better market to be
found, however. Unless Britain can
stimulate the demand for sterling by
increasing its exports there is likely to
be a further accumulation of sterling
credits in London.
The trouble at present is that Britain
cannot provide goods in sufficient
quantities to meet overseas demands or
pay for its own imports, and there is a
great demand for which will
readily buy American goods. America
has a tremendous export income at the
moment, making dollars sought after.
Although the shortage of dollars within
the Empire opens the way for a growth in
Empire trade, the result as a whole is
likely to be restrictive, especially as there
is “full employment” throughout the
British Commonwealth, and trade-
unionism in the mass is exploiting the
situation. It is even probable that trade-,
unionists would do a fair thing more
readily if they were in a position to buy,
say, American cars freely ; the present
dollar situation does not encourage hopes
of such buying freedom. It therefore
remains for trade-unionists both in Aus-
tralia and the rest of the British Com-
monwealth to take the initiative in break-
ing the vicious circle of inadequate pro-
duction that is making the British people
as a body so dependent upon additional
credits by the United States. When that
initiative has been taken, however, United
States aid to Britain is clearly owing as
part of America’s war-time debt to the
country that made the first challenge
against Axis domination of the world.
Apart from the further assistance
morally due from the United States,
the crux of the Empire problem to-
day is inadequate production of
many essential commodities, primarily
coal, and the high prices Britain is forced
to pay for food and raw materials. The
world wants British and Empire goods
just as much as it wants dollars or dollar
goods. Australia’s output of many things
is now far below the war-time level, when
a large proportion of our manpower was
in the forces. Coal, steel, meat and butter
are all now being produced in quantities
below war-time levels, and sometimes —
butter and beef particularly—below pre-
war levels. Yet if the British wage-earner
were put on to an adequate diet for as
short a time as two months it might
work a miracle in his industrial attitude.
Australia could at least do a great deal
more than at present to help improve the
food-ration in Britain, which is depress-
ingly inadequate.
Bank-share Prices
Holders of scrip in most, if not all, of
the trading banks would be foolish in-
deed to sacrifice their shares at prices
round the level offered in the uncertain
period following the Government’s an-
nouncement of intended nationalisation.
There seems little doubt that the Govern-
ment intends to pay a reasonable price
for the scrip, possibly one reason being
that it would like to avoid delay in the
High Court on the question of compen-
sation. Delays are politically dangerous
to the Government in this matter.
Another reason is the number of share-
holders (voters) affected.
The Constitution lays it down that the
present owners of the banks are entitled
to a just price for their assets, and it is
likely that there will be little quibbling
over the figure finally to be offered by
Canberra for the shares. The terms on
which the telecommunications assets of
Amalgamated Wireless were bought
caused the market for A.WA. shares to
rise to a record price, and there is noth-
ing to suggest that bank shareholders
will be treated less satisfactorily, even
though goodwill may not be regarded as
a large item in the assessment of com-
pensation. The Bank of New South
Wales owns up to having assets equal to
£34 16s. per £2O share. It is possible
that it has inner reserves equal to its dis-
closed reserves — i.e., £l4 or thereabouts
per share. If such a possibility were
substantiated before the High Court a
price of over £45 per Bank of N. S.
Wales share would be a reasonable ex-
pectation, provided the low earning-
powbr of the assets was not successfully
argued as a factor that offset Valuer-
General’s and other values to some extent.
However, there should be enough
evidence in front of Bank of N. S. Wales
shareholders to take the cue that they
will be very foolish indeed to sacrifice
their scrip at under £4O a share; and
holders of scrip in other banks can make
their own assessment of disclosed re-
serves and undisclosed strength. This is
not written to justify in any way the
Government’s proposed banking mono-
poly but to save unfortunate shareholders
in the trading banks from making their
position any more unfortunate by ill-
advised and precipitate selling of their
scrip. What the Government is tempo-
rarily offering for bank shares in order to
steady the market appears tp be in all
cases a good deal below what one might
call the “High Court” value, and certainly
much below liquidation value.
The great evil inherent in the Govern-
ment nationalisation scheme is not what
shareholders or bankers stand to lose, but
what the community as a whole is bound
to suffer.


YOUR BANK
The first bank in Australia, the Bank of New
South Wales is part of your Australian heri-
tage. You, as an Australian, can be proud
of the important part it has played in each
successive phase in the country's economic
expansion.
Vet, despite its age and size, the "Wales"
remains a living, friendly institution. Those
who use its many services appreciate the
Bank's understanding of their needs and
Value its cordial, quick and efficient service.
You, too, have your financial problems.
Why not talk them over with the manager
of your local branch of the "Wales" and
find out whether there is any way in which
the Bank can help to solve them?,
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
XIO4D
7* ***
3M>
w
*
*
£
m.
m
£5
1.. .-i = J 555555
MOTOR SPIRIT
a quality product of the
NEPTUNE OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN N.S. W. )
‘X’A
USTRfIUA
Marketers of Quality Petroleum Products throughout Australia since 1909
NW-3-24
Wages and Prices
Canberra observers are noting with
special interest the efforts of industrial
“Labor” to fasten upon the Chifley Gov-
ernment a policy of permanent cpntrol
of prices, with yet another referendum
for that purpose. The A.C.T.U. and
many Caucus members seem to have be-
come convinced that wages can be in-
creased indefinitely without any cor-
responding rise in prices; “Labor” argu-
ments before the Arbitration Court dur-
ing the 40-hour-week hearing suggested
that the employers “can work the miracle
somehow,” if they like to try.
The Prices Commission has been
approving certain price increases as
proper for the meeting of rising produc-
tion costs, but “Labor’s” one-eyed
philosophy is only the more convinced
that what is necessary now is to “control”
the Prices Commissioner.
What the unions are trying to move
the Chifleys to do —all on the road to
socialisation —is to ignore the original
establishment of price control (during the
war) as part of the regulation by Labor
in the national economy, and to maintain
the thing as a system for control of profits
with a party-political slant.
It seems to be part of the programme
of socialisation (as is seen in Britain,
too) that it shall be introduced not openly
for the merits claimed for it by the
theorists and the racketeers, but in under-
hand fashion while the electors’ attention
is attracted away from the sleight-of-
hand, It is a fair bet now that by
the end of the year the High Court would
be disposed to declare this and much
other “emergency” legislation null and
void. After all, the “transition period”
cannot last indefinitely,
Chifley’s huge tax revenue is becoming
embarrassing; State Premiers are now
flocking round the honey-pot and ask-
ing for more —a lot more. “Con-
cessions” notwithstanding, the Chifley
Government raked in £2lB million
of income tax last year (including
the social-services contribution), an in-
crease of over £3 million during the
period, and £l6 million above Budget
estimates. The States were handed £39.4
million (up £6 million), but obviously
that was no trouble at all to the Com-
monwealth Treasury. Customs revenue
was huge at £46 million, exceeding esti-
mates by £9 million. After spending £ll
million more on “defence” than expected,
the Government charged £2l million less
to loans (£37 million) than forecast at the
beginning of the period. If it could
restrain its vote-catching and other extra-
vagances it is obvious that a balanced
Budget could be achieved by the Com-
monwealth and taxes reduced at the same
time; but, far from looking at the picture
in that light, it appears that Chifley is
clapping on sail as his method of meeting
a “recession.” The Budget, due next
month, should be particularly interesting
in view of the action just taken to
nationalise the banks. This move rather
discourages the idea that private
enterprise is about to escape from the
mesh of heavy, restrictive taxation.
* * * *
A £7,000,000 State paper mill has
been conceived by Maoriland’s in-
dustrially ambitious Government in the
pine-forest areas near Kaingaroa, 40
miles from Rotorua. The mill’s main out-
put will be newsprint, made from heavily-
timbered Pinus radiata plantations. It
was from this locality that timber was
sent to Tasmania and turned into news-
print of good quality. Oyer 300,000 acres
of pine forests, the largest in MX., are
quickly approaching the milling stage.
It is necessary to catch the trees at*
maturity, before they age and become
worthless for paper. There is a tough
five-year programme ahead to erect and
equip the mill, build a dam, equip a
power station, plant a town in the forest
wilderness and lay a 50-mile railway
over steep and broken country. A big
labor force will be wanted, and before
the mill gets into production there will
be a staff of experts 4o be recruited.
There’s plenty of laboratory work ahead,
too.
* * * *
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., has come
to light with a £3,500,000 development
programme to turn out 42 million feet of
timber annually from a huge mill at
Maraetai, in the heart of M.L.’s North
Island, and to make 15 million multi-
wall paper bags and containers a year.
Chairman David Henry forecasts full
operation in about three years, claiming
that the mill will be the biggest in Aus-
tralia or New Zealand, with the first sec-
tion working in 12 months. Two of the
company’s representatives are abroad
arranging for machinery purchases for
the pulp mill. Most of the pines for
pulping will be around 25 years old.
Wallboard is another branch where the
company plans to expand output, especi-
ally to serve the export trade. The com-
pany has vast reserves of softwood com-
ing along in its forests; in fact, on last
balance-sheet figures it possessed a great
deal more timber than money.
* * * *
More than six months ago it was noted
here that Mr. Chifley seemed about to
abandon a previous policy of disguising
the inflation that was taking place in our
living costs every time wage-increases
added to costs by granting additional
subsidies; and his new attitude was not
objected to. Price subsidies were origin-
ally introduced to check inflation, but,
wrongly applied, they can encourage in-
flation as well as adding to the tax burden
that is obstructing full production.
Chifley declined to allow the “prosperity”
loading to the basic wage to be cloaked
by subsidies, and since then he has per-
mitted shipping freights to rise to some-
where near the level set by increased
costs, while it is now announced that milk
subsidies are to be reviewed as from
October 1. A subsidy on jute bags was
withdrawn in May. Nevertheless, sub-
sidies cost the Commonwealth £3O mil-
lion during 1946-47 against a Budget
estimate of £23 million, and that was in
addition to losses on coastal shipping
amounting to more than £2 million a
year. Subsidies reached their peak in
1945-46, when they touched £32.7 million.
Subsidies still being paid cover potatoes,
tea, whole-milk, imported clothing, basic-
wage adjustments up to a certain date,
wool for home consumption, butter,
apples and pears, superphosphate and
stock food. In addition, nearly £l9 mil-
lion derived from primary production
was used last year to “stabilise,” “assist”
or “promote” primary industries. A
gradual reduction in cost-of-living sub-
sidies would be a good thing, revealing,
as it will, the effect of rising wages upon
living costs, and reducing the back-door
grab of heavy taxation.
if: * * *
In June £10.9 million of interest was
added to Australian savings-bank de-
posits. Otherwise total deposits (£660.6
million at June 30) would have fallen by
£512,000 during the month. Peak in
savings-bank deposits was reached in
August, 1946, when the total was £666.8
million. Since then withdrawals have ex-
ceeded deposits every month.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Carnie”: Bolar the cattle buyer made
an offer to Robencrown for 10 fats, but
as Sunday was the only day Bill Heeler,
the drover, could come for them and a
few others Bolaf had bought around the
district, old R. demurred. He said he
would consider and pray and he would
know what to do when the drover passed
on the Sunday. Early Sunday when Bill
Heeler approached Robencrown’s no one
was in sight, and even the house blinds
were lowered as for a funeral, but there
was a notice tacked to the road gate. It
read; “Dear Mr. Heeler, —The Lord has
given me permission to leave the ten head
of cattle in the stockyard for you. The
Devil will help you along the road. —R.
Robencrown.” “And he did, too,” said
Bill Heeler, “Just as I let the mob into
Bolar’s paddock late that evening a big
prime-looking cow of Rbbencrown’s
keeled over in the gateway dead.”
* # * *
“Esk D.”: The latest motorist to strike
trouble on the greasy road past Joe
Sudds’s will most likely pay a bit more
attention to detail next time. He landed
mud-spattered at the house and informed
Joe that his old sedan had crashed
through the fence and was thoroughly
bogged in the middle of the 60-acre oat
paddock. “What next?” Joseph growled.
“Here’s me bin pullin’ ’em out o’
the road with me horses f’r six weeks,
an’ now you try a shortcut through me
cultivation paddick. What sort of a mess
do y’ think me crop’ll be in by the time
we drag that blasted car out?” The other
scratched his thatch, “Dunno how it
happened exackly,” he pondered. “I had
the engine goin’ an’ in gear, an’ the
wheels were spinnin’ in the mud. So I
hopped out alongside an’ started pushin’,
like I’ve seen other coves do.” “Did y’
have ’er revvin’ slowly in second gear?”
Joe asked. “Well, no,” Parkins said, “I
had ’er in top gear with the throttle right
out. By cripes, when the wheels gripped
she took orf like a bird, skidded side-on,
tore through the fence an’ ploughed a
track through the cultivation till she
bogged in the heavy goin’. But gittin’ ’er
out ain’t the main worry at the moment
—y’ see, the missus is in the car an’ I
haven’t bin game t’ go near it yet!”
* * * *
“Zake”: Snakes, I know, have a dis-
tinct liking for milk —in fact, the pre-
dilection has lured many a reptile to its
death —but inside a can of cream sent in
to the butter factory by a N.S.W. North
Coast cocky was found a 3ft. black snake.
Anyway, would Joe get dyspepsia or a
bilious attack on so rich a diet?
* * * »
“D.R.H.”: Fifteen or 16 years ago I
came down through this S.A. district with
a mob of cattle, and I dubbed the place
a most desolate hole. Now I find it an
absorbing puzzle. Just back of the house
runs a long line of sandstone rocks, the
fossil backbone of a long-dead range.
Poking around, I found in a cranny of
one of the rocks a shaped quartzite blade.
This led to further investigation and pre-
sently the missus found, under the lee
of one of the rocks, a whole pile of stone
flakes and several stone implements,
notably adze stones of milky chert that,
according to the experts, was traded down
from the Lake Eyre region. There was
also a similar adze of glassy-smooth red
stone from the north-west. One patch
a yard square yielded a satchel full of
flakes and tools, as well as the evidences
of three fire hearths. Three hundred
yards further on we discovered a cave,
silted to the roof with wind-blown dust.
Digging out the deposit we found the
charcoal of old fires and many fragments
of bone. Now, there is permanent water
four miles to the north and another
spring a dozen or so miles to the south.
Five miles to the east, over a saddle in
the range, is another spring. Why, then,
did Brer Boong sit down and chip stones
here, where the only water lies in eva-
nescent potholes after rain? The answer
seems to lie in the geography of the dis-
trict —in the patches of feed and Shade
for the ’roos, in the natural, clay-flat
highways that thread the rocky terrain
from water to water, and in the gaps in
the ridges through which the Toos still
travel from the scrub under the range
to feed on the flats.
* * » ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”: While setting
a few rabbit traps at Mount Martha
(Vic.) the other day I came on a rival
trapper carrying a suitcase. Before mak-
ing a set this modernist opened the bat-
tered case, extracted a setter and a
trap from among lumps of hessian, and
then tore off a trap paper arranged like
trammies’ tickets inside the lid. The
reason for this disguised haulage of traps
is that Mt. Martha these days has be-
come a fashionable resort and it just isn’t
done to be seen rabbiting. Hoodlums in
dilapidated contraptions descend on the
place and set anywHbre, trapping every-
thing down to the family ( cat. Four city
blokes I saw ferretting there, however,
knew their job. By means of iron stakes
and camouflage netting they fenced off a
warren, and inside this enclosure they
released five ferrets and a whippet. With-
out coverings over the openings the
cottontails bolted like wallabies and the
“ I think We should fit him with carpet slippers .”
dog, when not himself caught up, saw to
it that the rodents got well meshed in
the fence. If a ferret stuck up these
blokes simply cut their loss and left it
behind—they’re not worth as much as
half a dozen rabbits. The trouble is at
Mt. Martha these left-behind longtails
sometimes find fowlyards, and one dis-
covered a sleeping resident which lie bit
on the big toe and hung on.
“Shamuseen”: Any gull who “blew in”
on the colony on Dynevor Lakes, s.-w.
Queensland, would find his invitation to
splice the mainbrace go unheeded, and his
stock of deep-sea expletives entirely un-
intelligible to the locals, for the Dynevor
seagulls have never been closer than 600
miles to the seaboard, though their pro-
genitors may have once scavenged on
the shores of Australia’s much-debated
inland sea. Other avian displaced minori-
ties in the neighborhood are the swans,
who strew their eggs carelessly along the
foreshores of the lakes. Lorry drivers,
carting wool at the Dynevor Downs
shearing, used to fill petrol cases with the
giant eggs, one of which will cover the
bottom of an ordinary frypan. Once, be-
fore boarding the Brisbane mail at the
Cunnamulla railhead, I breakfasted on
swan egg and o.p. rum early one' crisp
June morning. It tasted all right, but
it was three days before the city quack
pronounced me out of danger.
* * * *
“8.A.”; “A couple o’ munce ago,” said
old Australorp, “I sends a pair o’ me
Rhode Island Reds to a bloke in the city,
advisin’ him at the same time be post-
card. About a week later comes word
that the fowls hadn’t turned up, so I gets
young Ted t’ write claimin’ ten bob com-
pensation. The bloke demands proof o’
deliv’ry, as he can’t find no trace o’ them
birds, so, not carin’ f part with me receipt,
I gets Ted t’ take a snap of it with his
camera an’ sends it down, repeatin’ me
claim. After a bit more delay I gets a
reply sayin’ it had bin found that the
birds wus dead w’en they arrived, cause
o’ death bein’ suffocatin’ through the
receptacle they were dispatched in bein’
too small an’ pjactic’lly without ventila-
tion, an’ stone th’ flamin’ crows if he
didn’t bite me f’r three bob, cost o’ dis-
posin’ o’ the carcasses. Then I plays me
jokfer, sayin’ that I ain’t surprised to hear
that the birds was dead, seein’ I’d killed,
plucked an’ drawed ’em before packin’;
an’ that, if I didn’t get me ten bob
p.d.q., I’d hand th’ correspondence to the
editor o’ the local paper for publication.
I got me ten bob all right.”
* * * *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: Coming into the
little township post office we found Miss
Switchboard in a state bordering on col-
lapse. ' Mrs. New Subscriber, just con-
nected on one of the district’s party lines,
had just booked her first call. She*
wanted “Three nothing and nothing after
the nothing.”
* * * #
“Gryllus”; “Tub’s” astonished wail (B.
6/8/’47) over my denial of the existence
of any such bird as his alleged “frog-
mouth owl” classes him amongst the more
imaginative variety of bush “naturalist.”
His “eerie and maddening” booming by
vast flocks of frogmouths “holding session
from dry trees” is sheer nonsense to any-
one who knows the creatures. Frog-
mouths are of purely nocturnal habit and,
except during the mating season, spend
their entire nights on the wing hunting
their insect tucker. Even at that interest-
ing period they never go beyond a soft,
low “oom, oom” except for an occasional
chuckle. Nor do they go about in flocks.
* * * *
“Naturala”: I hurt some people by sug-
gesting that the native Australian ant was
likely to go down before the advance of
settlement and the invasion of imported
ants such as the Argentine or the Singa-
pore. Everyone knows how difficult it is
to destroy a nest of those exotics. One
may bury it under a couple of feet of soil,
yet its busy and unkillable inhabitants will
reconstruct it. Now, for many years I
admired a large ant hill in a public re-
serve on the banks of the Swan, Popula-
tion, soldiers, must have run into
millions ; hostility at a constant red heat.
But the other day a bulldozer busy at
levelling pushed a bare foot of earth over
that ant hill. Up to date there’s been
no comeback—those natives just couldn’t
take it: being buried by act of man was
something that had never happened before
in the million-year experience of the
species,
* ' * * *
“Mat’s Mate” ; Mat put down the
newspaper and ruminated. “This Gandhi
peanut, with his vows an’ things,” he
said, “puts me in mind of a boss I was
toilin’ for up in the Gumbowie hills in
South Oss. Believed in payin’ himself
out for wrong things he done. F’rin-
stance, if he kicked a horse he’d vow not
t’ smoke f’r two days ; if he swore at his
missus he’d vow t’ be silent f’r a week —
things like that. Cripbs, he was a funny
man. One day he come home drunk an’
knocked the gate-post over with his car.
What does he do but swear off tea-
drinkin’ for a fortnight. Worst times, o’
course, was when he took vows o’ silence.
Go days an’ nights without a word, he
would. That’s how I left him. He’d
cany a slate an’ write what he wanted on
it, an’ one day we’re in the chaff-shed an’
a brown snake bobs up. I grab the slate
an’ dong the snake, which smashes the
slate an’ he roars. ‘Y’ silly blanker, look
what y’ done!’ an’ then he wakes up that
he’s broke his vow an’ goes crook a
million. So I snatched me time,”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: The screaming woman owl
that has been “haunting” Bathurst
(N.S.W.) reminds me of the time Digby,
fresh from London, came to Tapalin on
the Murray. He was on the river with
Bert in the boat when the awful shriek
arose. “Coo,” he shuddered, “what’s
that?” “Owl,” said Bert, briefly. “I
know it’s a blinkin’ ’owl,” said Digby.
“But what’s a-doin’ of it?”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Compared with the free
and easy style of Queensland’s Iron
Cavalry, “Gravelsnatcher’s” Westralian
trains (B. 30/7/’47) stick monotonously
to a hidebound schedule. In some W.Q.
areas during the plain-turkey season the
crew will abandon train to stalk with
their shotguns. The game is cooked on
the buffet car en route, thus pacifying
impatient passengers. On one occasion
I saw the Mail halt miles from any siding
in response to a hail from a solitary horse-
man. A lone passenger disembarked,
spoke a few moments with the horse-
man and then walked along the train to
converse with the fireman and driver, who
dismounted and hailed the guard, all
adjourning to a spot on the claypan.
After a few minutes’ further conclave the
passenger and horseman rolled up their
sleeves and commenced a ding-dong
set-to, the guard acting as ref. and
the driver and fireman each seconding
a man. Honor was satisfied with
the collapse of the horseman after
a few minutes, the combatants and the
train crew shook hands all round and
the accommodating Iron Horse puffed on.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: The paternity of Sausage,
a half-grown pup which had set out to be
a greyhound but had encountered
heredity half-way and now seemed to be
branching in seven different directions,
was a matter for frequent speculation
among the hands. Little Curl had
theories about a stray gun-dog, Pocket-
knife was firm for the retriever influence
and Flash Jack thought there was a kelpie
somewhere in Sausage’s ancestry. The
boss pointed out that Sausage never
barked, and argued in favor of a silent-
heeler. Meantime Sausage, except for
an occasional pause and a rather
abstracted expression which accompanied
it, bumbled joyously about, falling over
his legs, dragging defunct rabbits into the
kitchen and scruffing the cat. One day
he followed the mob to town. The town
dogs greeted him with unbounded en-
thusiasm, chased him four times round
the pub, twice through a P.P. Board
meeting and into the Syrian draper’s
shop. Twenty minutes later the
police force was discovered leading
Sausage a\fray on a string. The hands
were considering bailing him out when
they learned that the Syrian was waiting
to claim a tenner damages from any-
body who would accept responsibility,
whereupon the hands withdrew and drank
solemnly to Sausage’s memory. First to
poke a bleary head out of the hut on
Sunday morning was Little Curl and there
was Sausage, all smiles.- “It’s settled,”
howled L.C., hauling Sausage into the
hut, “his old man must ha’ bin one o’
them homin’ pigeons.” And from their
bunks the hard, unemotional, cynical
and profane bushwhackers smiled at the
squirming mong. as at a returned friend.
“Loc”: My new puppy has the sad
expression of the spaniel class, which
he changes to one of rage when
he feels that he is being ignored. His
indignation is highest after Lights Out.
He growls, snorts, and tears up paper
until someone finally yields, braves the
icy air and pets him for a while, so
that the others may sleep. I had recently
stroked him into oblivion, and began
creeping away hopefully to bed. The
hound showed his thanks by leaping to
life again, chasing me, and tearing off
one of my slippers. Exasperated I
watched him rip the insole out and joy-
fully start on the welt. Then a remark-
able change came over him. He slowly
rolled over on to his back, pointed his
paws to the stars and began his tiny
snores ; utterly unconscious. I have not
yet decided whether to be incensed or
happy at my chance discovery of the
ideal dog-sedative,
* * • *
“Sou’-west”: “Bray Rock” (B.
23/7/’47) appeals to ponderous ichthyo-
logical authority to support his conten-
tion that the estuarine catfish of W.A.
do not secrete a venom. Let me take
“8.R.” a few miles out on the Indian
Ocean. With ordinary luck we should
hook a red gurnet. But let not “Bray”
or his professors be over-hasty in grasp-
ing the prize, for the r.g. will erect an
armament of ivory spines, a prick from
which will bring results every bit as
agonising as one from a “cobbler.” Yet
no one can accuse a gurnet, lifted from
perhaps 100 feet of current-swept sea,
of dwelling in muddy haunts. Closer
inshore, on a clear sandy bottom we
should hoist a few sand flathead.
But be careful of these also, for each is
possessed of two spines, one on each side
of the head, a jab from which would
keep “Bray” breathing hard for a keen
half-hour. Landing on a weed-grown
reef close inshore we might, with desper-
ate bad luck, tread on a stonefish, similar
to that one which, on the Earner
Reef, brought death to a professor, sting-
ing him even through a rubber sandshoe.
But why continue? Every practical fisher-
man knows that these creatures secrete
a venom, contained in the skin sheath
which conceals the ivory spine when the
creature is at rest.
BRIBIE.
Who was Bribie?
No one knows.
I’ll ask the crows —
Who was Bribie?
Cau-ark! Cau-ark!
Left in the dark!
No one knows.
Not even the crows,
Who was Bribie.
His father’s name
Was lost in shame.
To Moreton Bay
In Logan’s day
This convict came.
He caught fishes
For officers’ dishes,
With fish-traps made
In the fir-trees’ shade.
What matters fame
And a father’s name
When the fetters fall
And you hear the call
Of an island life
With a dusky wife?
Bribie —Bribie —
No one knows,
Not even the crows,
Who was Bribie!
QUEENSLAND.
KATHLEEN MCAUTHUR.


“Bo”: The pride of McCutcheon was
his enormous fireplace, which was an ex-
tension of the end of his living room.
Built to take a tremendous log, which
as it burned through from the centre was
pushed together until it burned right out,
the fireplace had a door at each side.
Thus, when a new log was required to
be put in, all McCutcheon had to do
was open both doors, get the horse to
pull the log up opposite one of them,
detach the horse, take it around opposite
the other door, hook the chain straight
through the opening and the horse would
then pull the log into place. One day,
busy in the harness shed, McCutcheon
instructed his new hand to get a log in.
He pointed out a thick log which had
one short branch sticking out. “Don’t
forget to take off that sprout before you
pull the log through,” he warned. About
20 minutes later there was a crash as the
chimney collapsed. McCutcheon came
up. “You idiot!” he roared. “I told y’
to take the sprout off, didn’t I?” The
new hand looked aggrieved, then pointed
up to the roof. “I didn’t see any sense
in taking the sprout off —the log wouldn’t
’a’ touched it,” he said. “I took the
downpipe off instead, but it didn’t make
no difference —the log still caught as it
went through!”
• • • •
“Flip”: “Laid in 1907 by Bertram
Harrison, Mayor,” the cornerstone of
Bombina’s post office is a local show
piece. According to old-timers who line
that postal wall like sunflowers, it was a
very impressive ceremony when “Bert did
the cementin’ ” 40 years ago. Post offices
were rare then, and, peeved because
Bombina had scored one while they had
not, neighboring town-councillors turned
up snorting to watch Bert wield the
trowel. A few minutes before starting
time the stonemason arrived with the
tidings that his horse had jibbed at the
bridge approach, and if they wanted the
cornerstone they would have to dredge
the riverbed. The mayor had a bad
moment until he spotted the other slab
of rock which had stuck to the dray
during the horse’s acrobatics, and he
learned that it was consigned to Alf
Jubb. Alf was beckoned from the
audience, and there followed a bit of
talk aside between him and the mayor.
“Your skyscrapers are pretty big, but what do you think of our
silent cops?”
One of the old-timers on the post-office
corner takes over here, “ ’cause he heard
the words first hand”: “ ‘What more
fittin’ place, Mr. Jubb,’ says the mayor,
‘than a monument for her here? The
public will always have the shockin’ cir-
cumstances of her death before their
eyes.’ Alf says ‘All right.’ ” The old chap
here takes you around the corner and
shows the legend on the other face of the
stone—“and there’s Alf’s monument.”
The legend? “In loving memory of
Melba, District Champion Hereford —
poisoned by some treacherous hand,”
♦ * * *
“Old Camp”: The bats that “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 23/ 7/’47) handled may have
been blind, but having caught a few my-
self I can testify that they possess eyes,
though small. If the bat is blind, how
does it realise the difference between day
and night? It invariably issues forth at
dusk. Certainly it can be blinded,
temporarily, by an excess of light, since
its eyes are so constructed as to gather
in the maximum of light rays, which are
abundantly present even in what to human
eyes is intense darkness. Possibly to a
bat there is no such thing as a dark
room, for light will penetrate stone walls,
and even 50 feet underground.
* * * *
“Momokan”: Can mourn the loss of
the four-sided kerosine-tin with “Bull-
ant Bill” (B. 6/ 8 / ’47). In Papua, when
after heavy rain the wood was too green
and wet to burn, we were always sure
of the best of grills by using the tin with
one side removed and half a dozen
holes punched low down near the oppo-
site side in the ends. The tin was left
flat on the ground, the opened side being
the top. Two sheets of ordinary news-
paper made the only fuel required. The
steak was placed on a griller and sat on
top of the tin. Before the paper could
all bum away the flames had produced
further fuel in the form of dripping fat
which kept the fire burning long enough
to finish the grill. Next time the gas-
works are on strike don’t worry—just get
yourself a four-sided kero.-tin and a copy
of the Yellow Press. You’ll dine well.
« * * *
“H.H.”: A sight that defies descrip-
tion is to see a flock of Mountain Lowry
parrots flash through the timber. In
Victoria each year, as the first snow ap-
pears on the highlands, the scarlet-
breasted birds vacate the ranges for the
open-timbered lands and approach as
near to Melbourne as Diamond Creek,
16 miles away, to feed on hawthorn and
peppermint berries. Melbourne suburbs
and his answering-the-call habit are this
fine parrot’s downfall, for by means of
a call-bird' youths still trap the winter
visitors for keeping in cages—a cruel
practice to inflict on a grown bird. What
beats me is that almost all parrots have
a preponderance of green in their make-
up to blend with the coloring of the
forest, so why the brilliant red plu-
mage of the Lowry?
* * * ♦
“Wippegong”: When harvest time
came round at Naylor’s place there were
squeals of glee from the small fry, who
for months had played on the header in
the shed and had had to supply all the
mechanical noises themselves, except for
occasional support from hens announcing
that they had laid eggs somewhere in
the machine’s bowels. To some parents
the prospect of having to guard a swarm
of eager brats from entanglement in
trace-chains, swingletrees, elevators, cogs
and knives would be a nightmare; it
didn’t worry old Tom. The horses were
used to the infants crawling over and
under them, and “shoeing” them, so har-
nessing up was a family effort; then once
the team was ready Tom would lift the
lid of the hopper, call “Up y’ come!”
deposit his offspring one by one in the
bin and drop the lid. Away they’d go.
and the Riverina sun would soon flash
from sweating flanks and turn the drift-
ing dust to soft gold; but of the young
Naylors there would be devil a sign until
Tom pulled out to empty the hopper. It
was then that, if a stranger were about,
his eyes were likely to drag their anchors
a bit at the sudden apparition as Tom
lifted the lid; for, sitting on top of the
loose wheat were three or four heads,
covered in fine dust except for sparkling
eyes. As the bags were filled the heads
slowly acquired bodies, which finally
emerged for a short scamper, a pull at
the waterbag, then dashed back to scuffle
for the select spot where the grain poured
straight on to the winning crown. The
largest of the bunch had to double up
slightly, but the toddler stood full stretch
“Of COURSE she's faster than us, 'cos she's streamlined.”
to keep his nose clear as the wheat neared
the top. He’ll probably survive—his dad
has kept his head atyove water through
some tough times.
♦ * * *
“Mug”: Head down, the old fellow
battled against the wind till he reached
the yards, where Dave was trying to draft
a mob of sheep. Eyes full of dust, he
grabbed at his hat, tripped over a woolly
and swore, “Blasted country!” he
bellowed, stepping out of the path of an
oncoming kerosene-tin. “No tellin’ where
things’ll end, if they keep on at this rate.
Where’s the hammer, Dave?” he yelled
into the dust cloud —“this flappin’ roof’ll
go soon, if they don’t let up.” He
banged home a few nails on the roof,
retrieved his lid once more, and turned
to help Dave. “Never had wind bad as
this in the old days, Dave,” he grumbled.
“Jus’ shows what the country’s cornin’
to”; and he glared into the gale.
“ ’Course, we’re stiff livin’ on the windy
side,” he continued, as another gust of air
lifted his hat.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: It is true that well-fed
horses will often chew wood or bark (B.
13/8/’47). Ignorance of the fact led a
Sydney daily to publish a photo, of
the chewed mangers inside a pound in
an outer suburb, and to waste crocodile
tears and headlines on the “starved”
equine prisoners. A neighbor of mine is
the most generous feeder I’ve seen, but
the box-trees in his horse paddock are
completely ringbarked. Nevertheless,
bark chewed can be injurious. One of
the poignant memories of my boyhood
was the death of a big white draught.
Vet.’s verdict: “Ball of ti-tree bark in
his intestines.”
* * * *
“Blime”: I agree with “Salmon
Gums” (B. 23/7/’47). On the high tops
one time, many miles from home, clad in
thin shirt and strides, I was overtaken by
a real ding-dong blizzard. It is an experi-
ence one never forgets. Abandoning the
hopeless task of dragging a quaking hack,
I plodded, stiff-legged, for the lower
slopes, every step an agony. The numb-
ness of hands and feet crept upward, but
always there remained the torture
of having to breathe. With shirt
collar over nose and mouth, handkerchief
knotted on top, and frequent stops to
break ice and snow from the protective
covering, I was still, seemingly, breathing
in living flame.
* * ♦ *
“Goldie”: We had suffered the new-
chum learning to play the guitar in four
weeks, tapdancing, with toe and heel-
plates free, and casting envious eyes on
Charlie Pike’s large, knobby feet when
he had a trial sample of somebody’s corn-
and bunion-remover. Painkillers, tonics
and cure-everythings littered the shelves
of the hut in bottles and jars of every
known size and shape. At a pinch the
newchum could be the life of the party
with an assortment of magic tricks, and
his excursions into the noble art by postal
tuition lasted till he came sparring around
Burgess, who kicked him hard on the
shins. We knew the signs when the new-
chum, after studying a page of the maga-
zine intently, sat staring into space. “I
think I’ll join up with this ski club here,”
he announced at last. “An’ where’s that
goin’ t’ land y’?” Charlie asked. “Y*
haven’t even seen snow yet.” “Aw, they
send y’ a lot o’ litrachure an’ all the latest
information,” the newchum said. “It’d be
handy t’ know if a bloke took the game
on. ’Magine it whistlin’ over the snow,
the air bitin’ at y’ an’ the icicles an’
mist floatin’ about y’ in a spray. It’s
worth kefepin’ in mind.” Burgess woke
from his fireside doze. “Yairs,” he said
wearily. “Keep it in mind nex’ Saturdee
when y’re down at Regan’s, an’ bring
back that overcoat o’ mine y’ left there.
It’ll kefep me warm while we’re experi-
encin’ y’r antics in the snow f’r the nex’
few weeks. You would be the sort o’
blanky fool t’ pick this hobby f’r the
winter !”
* * * *
“Quareef”: There were three ( of us
in the utility, travelling between Broken
Hill and Menindie. Wal and I sat in the
cabin. Bill, the abo., on his swag behind.
As we neared a roadside dam a mob
of emus, obviously disturbed when drink-
ing, appeared suddenly on the bank above
us. I had throttled down to 15 m.p.h.,
as the leader sped down the bank and
across the road a little ahead of us. With
outstretched necks and pounding feet the
others followed in single file, each cross-
ing the road in the exact spot chosen
by the leader. Although I had slowed
down to a crawl the tail feathers of the
last bird almost brushed the dust off my
radiator. Then a late drinker charged
straight down the path made by the others.
He hit the bonnet with his wishbone, and,
cushioned on his crop, with legs thresh-
ing wildly at the sky, he turned a sugar-
doodle over the engine, striking the far-
side mudguard with his rump and tak-
ing a glorious nose-dive into the hard
claypan. Expecting “dead meat” I
stopped; but the emu disentangled
the knots in his neck, arose shakily,
vomited a stream of water and grass-
seed, and staggered off after his mates.
I heard the abo. jump to the ground,
“Budgery emu steak!” he shouted and
drew close enough to grab the tail-
feathers in both hands. Quickly finding
his feet, the bird cracked on the pace,
bounding into the air at every third or
fourth stride. Even this ruse failed to
shake Bill’s tenacious hold. I tooted the
horn while the bird was displaying on£
of these kangaroo hops. It added a
vicious pig-root in mid-air that shifted
Bill—and the tail-feathers, too. The bird
then stretched out, and in a twinkling
was a vanishing blur among distant salt-
bushes.
» * * #
“Aperist”: I presume that “S. Gums”
(B. 23/7/’47) has seen the experiment of
a dry needle floating on a dishful of
still water. Which is an illustration of
the surface tension of liquids, “S.G.”
notes that the honey bee builds its cell
with a slight dip from the horizontal.
This, naturally, gives to the contained
honey at all periods of its progressive
storage a slightly oblique perpendicular
surface, or, if you will, a slight lip at
the lower edge. This lip provides just
sufficient surface tension to prevent the
honey running, much as tar or treacle or
any viscid substance will hesitate when
being poured out over the edge of a
perfectly dry container. So the bee fills
its cell until the receptacle is ready for
capping. This operation it carries out
in a perfectly commonsense manner. Be-
fore the cell is brimful it starts to build
its waxy dam across the mouth, beginning
from the bottom upwards. At the top
it leaves a tiny-opening through which
the final charge of honey is injected. At
the top edge is still a little space, as can
be understood; into this the last drop is
injected, the final plug of wax rammed
home —and there is the cell, filled, all air
excluded and the honey ready to flow
out at the slightest prick of the surface.
BALLY CATTLE.
Bally cattle in muster — _ .
Through the forest timber ringing,
To the cattle pads they’re swinging;
Calves go bucking down the hollow,
Bawling mothers, anxious, follow;
To the stockyards we are bringing
Bally cattle in the muster.
Bally cattle in the muster
To the dinner camp are nearing,
Spreading out on to the clearing,
Boxed with other mobs we’re meetmg,
Bulls their challenges repeating,
Quartpots round the fire appearing—
Bally cattle in the muster.
Bally cattle in the muster—
Back to mob’ the rogues are wheeling,
Silent cattle dogs are heeling;
In the yards we’ll soon be landing
Curly red hides for the branding.
Dusk is through the bushland stealing—•
Bally cattle in the muster.
Bally cattle in the muster
In the stockyard wings are guarded
Through the sliprails, safe and yarded.
Kookaburra’s final rally
Westward rolls across the valley
And our day is well rewarded—
Bally cattle in the muster.
QUEENSLAND.
SCOT.


THE
TOP
PRICE
warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F.
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
ustralian. Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Ino. in England, 186 S)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henfy and Hay.
A 7.22.17
(Eegd.)
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
fr j j
yfy y Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
XjS u ae a p roV e n Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
htFs
LYS
pRoor,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
Supiraj
SJ.HOVSAI
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable**from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney
sd
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle at Brisbane.
“C. Punch”: The beeves at Queens-
land Royal National Show could have
been more numerous, seeing that Queens-
land is the beef State, and that N.S.W.
breeders supported the show fairly well.
Not much can be said about quality, ex-
cept that it was of high standard for A tis-
tralia, where it costs far too much riioney
to breed good cattle and the breeder
doesn’t get the rewards he should for
good stuff. And it is a cutting com-
mentary on our national and political
habit of centralisation that the breeder
of good stuff, if he is to draw attention
to his stock, must cart them long dis-
tances to capital cities to show them to
his fellows, who must, in turn, travel long
distances to see them.
Despite drought, taxation and other
handicaps the exhibitors of the six breeds
of beef cattle turned out some fine
animals, most of the classes notable for
a lack of tail. Herefords made the
strongest section and the Hays Bros.’
Bexley stud, of Narrabri (N.S.W.),
cleaned up with the bull championship
for Bexley Demonstrator (1946 champion)
and won junior bull and heifer ribbons
with the first progeny of Sugwas Dandy
(imp.), their new sire. The champion’s
build and style marked him out, though
Atomic, from the Mcllrath Windsor stud
(N.S.W.), ran him close. The youngsters
were a nice lot and amongst them Wilson
and McDouall, from Calliope, E, E. D.
White of Woodlands, Fairymead Sugar
Co. and Mrs. N. P. Wright’s Blandford
cattle stood out. The females were not
up to standards set in other years, though
it’s doubtful if there ever was a better
heifer than Fenwick Bros.’ champion,
Myall Carissima 15th.
Polled Herefords brought a new Rich-
mond into the field in E. W. McCamley,
from Central Queensland, who not only
beat the Rockhampton and
champions with Eulogie Commissioner,
but won nine first prizes with seven head
of cattle. The champion, lined up with
Calliope Regent, gave the judge some
thought, and he probably got it on his
rear development and his youth. After
McCamley was finished, the Calliope stud,
H. J. Doyle Estates (which showed the
progeny of their American bull. Alfalfa
Battle V 16th), Merawah and Cudgeena
did pretty well. The females, as a con-
trast with their horned sisters, were of
high quality.
Devons were limited to one exhibitor,
R. A. Howell, of Devon Court, Killaraey
South. Good cattle, it seems strange that,
like the Red Polls, they make little appeal
to Australian cattle-raisers.
In Shorthorns Queensland met and beat
N.S.W. studs for top honors, the Turan-
ville stud at Cambooya and the Mace
stud at Thuraggie, St. George, getting
away with most of the championships
and reserves. McCaughey’s Coonong
and Fairbairn’s Woomargama sent up
some beautiful cattle and Coonong’s
Coonong Officer Commanding was cham-
pion bull, a deep red, meaty, strongly-
built fellow. Queensland topped the lists
among the younger bulls, the junior
champ, coming from a class which had
six Turanville bulls and one other, by
R. F. Briggs, of Elmhurst, of the Turan-
ville blood. Generally the Shorthorn
exhibits were pleasing, the females parti-
cularly so.
Polled Shorthorns were strong in
numbers and quality. Jim Scrymgeour’s
Netherby stock was turned out with its
usual dash, but he had to give way in the
championship to D. H. Robertson’s
Albinia Rob Roy, a beautiful roan, low-
set and meat to the hocks. Gundibri
Prince 20th won the reserve. Scrymgeour
"I'd like to know who rang that firebell !”
had his reward when Netherby Match-
less Miss won the female blue ribbon,
and he had the best heifer group and best
breeders’ group. A. Langmore, a Downs
breeder, came in with junior arid reserve
champions in bulls and heifers. His
yearling. Prospect Baritone, a splendid
little bull, just got ahead of Prospect
Commander. Wendouree and Gunna-
warra collected ribbons for attractive
cattle.
The Aberdeen-Angus section was not
as good as it might have been, and when
he returned after eight years with a team
from Bald Blair, H. F. White had the
championships “sewn up” with Wallah
Ottawa and Bald Blair Bent. Ottawa’s
quality can be judged from the fact that
he beat H. G. Munro’s Booroomooka
Occasion —you don’t beat the Booroo-
mookas with anything under par. As
for the cow, she was probably one of the
best ever seen in Brisbane. The Booroo-
mookas, of course, were strong and hard
to beat; so were the Abingtbns. The
Queenslanders Sarum, Bingegang and
Fairlands met the older studs and beat
them in the youngfcr classes.
Dairy Breeds.
“A.1.G.D.”; The Queensland dairy
country has just come through bad
drought, is suffering labor and material
shortages and political ineptitude, all of
which were reflected in the dairy line-ups
at the show. Numbers were not up to
standard and, except for the established
studs, the quality of the cattle was want-
ing. Jerseys had the most entries, A.I.S.
next, then Ayrshires and a few Guernseys
and .even fewer Friesians.
A dairy cow’s job is to produce milk ;
a dairy bull’s job is to get cows that will
produce Jieifers that will produce milk.
The final test is in the bucket, and I dare
swear there are old cows lumbering about
on the farms who have never sfeen a show
ring but, on a bucket test over 273 days,
could lick the most beribboned cow at
Brisbane, All the same, there were cattle
at Brisbane I wouldn’t mind having in
my yard, particularly W. A. Cooke’s
champion Guernsey, Laureldale Butter-
maid, a golden beauty with the capacity
to give milk and good daughters.
Champions: Ayrshire, bull, M. J. Brown-
lie’s Myola Master 2nd., cow, N. J. Mann’s
Crescent Farm Isobel 3rd; A. 1.5., bull,
Klein Bros.’ Sunny View Evelyn’s Master-
piece, cow, E. J. Jackson’s Ennismore Bud
2nd; Jersey, bull, A. Semgreen’s Glenview
Royal Chief, cow, T. A. Petherick’s Tre-
came Dairymaid 4th; Guernsey, bull, W. A.
Cooke’s Laureldale Prospect, cow, L. But-
termaid; Friesians, bull, J. P. Larsen’s
Anama Transvaal Stamp, cow, Young Bros.’
Inavale Novice 7th,
Beef Cattle Sales.
“Norther”: The old agricultural axiom
that good stock will always bring good
money held good at Brisbane beef cattle
sales. Last year there were 187 bulls and
12 heifers on offer; they made a total of
18,289gn5., averaging 92gns. This year
there was one more beast (182 and 18)
and the total was 28,965gn5. for an aver-
age rif 144gns. There was keen interest in
the youngsters by Hays Bros.’ imported
Sugwas Dandy, the seven bulls making
4345gn5. at an average of 621gns. The
Wrights, of Armidale (N.S.W.), paid
ISOOgns. for Bexley Dandy Cup, the
record Queensland price for a Hereford
bull. Bexley Famous brought lOOOgns.
from E. R. Reynolds.
Best Aberdeen-Angus price was 260gns.
by Terrica Station for Abington F.
Menelaus, the market being firm for the
small number of black polls on offer.
Menelaus was reserve champion at the
show. Polled Herefords were few and
the market steady, Merawah Battle Cry, a
first calf by the Doyle people’s new
“Rufus Rawhide” (S. Africa); I
have a sure way to exterminate
rabbits throughout the continent of
Australia. 1 wrote your Prime
Minister on 12/12/’46, and have a
reply dated 12/2/’47 to the effect
that he would bring it to the notice
of the various authorities concerned.
Nothing further has been received
by me, so I am writing to make this
public.
American bull, Alfalfa Battle V 16th,
topping the sales at 300gns. There was
a couple of sales at 200gns., one at
150gns., two or three at lOOgns.* Short-
horns had the best market for years, W.
Gunn paying 340gns. for Turanville
Kismet. The 27 bulls and a heifer made
4410gn5., averaging Polled
Shorthorns numbered 20, made 2665gn5.
and averaged 133igns. The 11 Devons
averaged 44gns.
Footrot.
“Prof”: It was once very prevalent
here, but by treating every animal show-
ing signs of it arid spelling infected pad-
docks we have effectively eradicated it.
Main thing i§ to pare away all diseased
hoof without being afraid of drawing a
bit of blood. After this treatment we
ran the sheep through a footbath con-
taining a dilution of one in 80 of a com-
mercial weedkiller described as being a
“concentrated solution of soluble
arsenic, 30 p.c. as.” Spelling infected
paddocks for seven days is sufficient to
clear the infection out.
A similar, but non-infectious, disease
known as foot abscess is sometimes
found in old sheep and rams. Usually
only one claw is affected, unlike footrot,
which affects both claws simultaneously;
also the characteristic putrid smell asso-
ciated with footrot is absent. The paring
and footbath treatment is of value in
curing abscessed sheep.
In our experience lameness in lambs is
almost invariably attributable to com-
plications involving the coronet, asso-
ciated with scabby mouth. This is a
virus disease which yearly runs its course
through the young lambs and older
sheep that have not become immune to
it. The only thing that can be done is
to prevent secondary infection of the
erupted areas. Remove all scabs and
paint around the top of the affected
hooves and around the mouth arid nose
with a weak antiseptic solution.
Grain Sorghum.
“Kalo”; Sorghum crops are subject to
diseases and several pests may cause
damage, especially in moist, warm areas.
Seed should always be bought from a
reliable agent. Failure of grain develop-
ment is caused by a small fly, or midge,
which lays its eggs on the plants. When
the larvae are hatched they destroy the


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
and pave the way for
a Prosperous Future
Write Now!
BOX 17. P. 0.,
CHATSWOOD, N.S.W.
CyToicL
FHCIHG fl PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . • • the absence or
noise and hustle. . . • Ihe
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely round the cornet
from the centre of the city. Ihe
rooms are all you would wish
the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd..
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
Ca^.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a, bone product without admixture
Of any other substance. IJ contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form off PORTABLE LIGHTING
SPARE PARTS FOR TILLEY LAMPS AND RADIATORS
WE REALISE FULLY THE IMPORTANCE TO
THE USER OF TILLEY PRODUCTIONS OF
ADEQUATE SUPPLIES OF SPARE PARTS.
EQUALLY. WE ARE AWARE OF THE NECESSITY
FOR MAINTAINING OUR HIGH STANDARD
OF WORKMANSHIP.
GENUINE SPARES FOR TILLEY LAMPS AND
RADIATORS ARE MADE ONLY AT HENDON
AND CRICKLEWOOD, ENGLAND.
DO NOT BE PERSUADED THAT SUBSTITUTES
ARE “JUST AS GOOD.’’
BRENT WORKS,
HENDON, N.W.4
NEW BRENT WORKS,
CRICKLEWOOD, N.W.2.
TILLEY LAMP CO. LTD., of ENGLAND
London Offices and Showroom
33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd., 123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
vital parts of the flowers and no see
forms. As there is no remedy the crop
should not be allowed to ripen, but
should be used for fodder. Other pests
include cutworms and aphids. Rust n< “
fiagblight occur in humid weather, but
are not regarded as serious, as they de-
velop late in the season.
Root and stem rot is more serious, as
it affects young plants and prevents seed
development. Old stalks and leaves
should be burnt and a different crop
sown, as the disease remains in the soil
if untreated. Dusting the seed with
copper carbonate (loz. to a kero.-tin of
seed) will prevent kernel smut, but the
kind of smut which turns the whole head
into a black mass is uncontrollable a,nd
rotation of corps is indicated. Seedling
blight and rotting of sown seed are
caused by early planting in cold soil.
Dusting the seed with copper carbonate
is a preventive.
Four or five months free from frost
are essential for success with grain sor-
ghum and 15in. of rain or thereabouts
are required during the six months’ grow-
ing period. A rainfall of 20in. to 25m.
is suitable, the summer rainfall being
especially necessary. It grows well in
tropical and sub-tropical areas, but is
subject to mould, root-rot and rust in
wet seasons.
The class of soil does not seem to be
important although sandy loam grows
finer crops than heavy soils in dry
seasons. The soil should be prepared
early and harrowed after rain to conserve
the moisture and destroy weeds. Seed
should be sown while soil is moist and
a wheat drill or broadcaster may be used,
but sowing in 4in. furrows is preferable
and the seed should be covered by about
2in. of soil. Crops intended for feeding
off should be planted in summer, those
meant for harvesting in October or
November.
Camphor Laurels.
“Tilga”; One Arbor Day long ago a
number of camphor laurels were planted
in the school ground at Tintenbar, be-
tween Ballina and Bangalow (N.S.W.).
Some years ago these trees went on the
rampage and are now regarded as the
most serious vegetable pe&t in the
locality. Already one fine paddock ad-
jacent to the school has been abandoned
—all efforts to stay the onward march of
the trees having proved futile.
All known methods, spraying, poison-
ing, grubbing, etc., have been tried with-
out avail. The trees not only sucker ex-
tensively but for some unknown reason
every seed appears to germinate,
whereas in other districts seedlings are
not common. From 50 to 100 seedlings
are frequently found under one tree,
while beneath the electric power line
seeds dropped by perching birds have
sprung up into a dense hedge which is
rapidly extending.
Poisoning a tree merely induces the
emergence of vigorous suckers at the ex-
tremity of each long root. Spraying
kills the foliage, but new growth quickly
follows. Where the trees are plentiful
grubbing out every vestige of the roots
would cost more than the land is worth,
and seedlings would spring up wherever
the surface of the soil had been dis-
turbed. Unless some successful method
of dealing with this new pest is quickly
discovered a considerable area of some
of the finest dairying land in the Com-
monwealth will be rendered useless.
Hints for the Farm. '
“Sarina”: Don’t attempt to topdress
with artificial fertilisers when a strong
wind is blowing, or a lot of fertiliser will
be blown away and some blown on to
the leaves of the plants, which may be
badly scorched. Wear your oldest
clothes when on the job, and take a good
bath when finished. Certain fertilisers
when allowed to remain on the human
skin cause violent headaches.
“Gambol”: “J.R.D.” (B. 13/8/ ’47)
says scabby mouth is transmissible to
human beings. Is it transmissible to
cattle? I’ve seen a cow lose the skin off
four teats when her calf had a small
patch of scabby mouth. It didn’t affect
the calf much, but it made it impossible
for us to milk the cow.
“Will C”: A very effective drawing
plaster that may be used on man or beast
is simply Venice turpentine, obtainable
in small tins from most chemists. Spread
the thick turps generously on clean lint
and hold it against the affected parts
with a bandage if possible. It will draw
out a deeply-embedded splinter without
causing an abscess to form.
“W. Court”: For temporarily fire-
proofing bagging and other inflammable
material, an alum solution is effective.
Make a fairly strong mixture —lib. alum
per gallon of water, or stronger and
soak the stuff in it. The fireproofing
must be repeated from time to time to
ensure safety.
“C.A.A.”: Ploughing is the only way
to stop the cockchafer grub. Ploughed
paddocks have been rendered immune
for four years. Where severe infestation
occurs ploughing and cropping before
sowing back to pasture are effective.
“Mr.”: Peach-leaf curl (the fungous
condition) and apricot scab can be con-
trolled by spraying at the pink-bud stage
with a Bordeaux mixture, 6:4:40. If
spraying is deferred until more than 10
p.c. of blossoms are out it will be too
late.
“Girrawheen”: A good whitewash:
Obtain large pieces of fresh lump-lime
and place them in a suitable container
and into this pour hot water to hasten
slaking. The lime will then start to boil
and break up. Be sure to have at least
■|in. water over the top of the lime or it
will curdle. As the lime boils fiercely
add tallow or common fat, Ijlb. to every
71b. of lime. This acts as a binder and
prevents the whitewash from rubbing off.
Red or yellow ochre can be added if a
color is desired.


—1917 with
PNEUMATIC
TRUCK TYRES
MORE TONS ARE HAULED AND
MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR
TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE
TO DEMONSTRATE PNEUMATIC TYRES for trucks in the
face of public scepticism, Goodyear operated the Wing-
foot Express over a 750-mile route. As defects were
ironed out, the time for the return trip was reduced
from 24 days to 5£ days. People were having their
eyes opened. Goodyear pneumatic truck tyres greatly
increased the speed and usefulness of trucks and buses.
Now, for 32 consecu-
live years, it has been
true that more tons
are hauled, and
more people ride on
Goodyear tyres than
any other make.
every year
for 32
years
GOODYEAR
—you dorit stay FIRST unless you’ re best
C9/227
THE WISDOM OF THE PAST' IS A LESSON FOR TODAY
X (i
m
B H ffl
W‘,v,v.
IllgSi
t
ill/
.^O5
‘Our experience to-day is the hey to to-morrow.
A. happy truism from the otherwise
vitriolic pen of the greatest of French
philosophers . . . categorically proved
in the design rooms of Babcock &
Wilcox.
From a legacy of priceless experi-
ence we have developed the modern
high temperature and pressure boiler
-apparently the ultimate in effici-
ency and operating economy. Yet
our research staff, in workshop and
laboratory, and a world-wide net-
work of Babcock engineers, are con-
tinually advancing the suggestions
and ideas which will be incorporated
in the Babcock boiler of to-morrow.
Here then is the reason why Bab-
cock engineers are always interested
in the problems presented by steam
BABCOCK & WILCOX
UHIIW
STEAM ENGINEERS INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS—REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
users in every industry. We have
the experience and technical re-
sources to solve these problems and
an alert designing staff who appreci-
ate the significance of problems
and solutions. There is a Babcock
engineer in eacb State at your con-
stant service.
Booking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . •
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost,
fsd
as Susan banged the bottoms of the empty
drawers and shook them out the door.
When Jules had picked up the trace-
chain and the buggy cushion and put
them in the shed, where he thought he’d
put them before, Susan, with an ex-
aggerated carefulness, as though the box
contained some priceless treasure, handed
him the box of birds’ eggs he had kept
all the years of his life. The collection
was locally complete save for a firetail’s
egg, Jules having fallen and broken two
ribs the day he tried to get at a nest set
in the highest tip of a tall sapling.
Jules stood looking at the eggs. Pretty
they were ; browns and pinks and blues ;
spots and dots and speckles; blue
speckles and brown speckles; all sizes;
all colors; and while he stood looking
at them Susan began to stuff rags and
rubbish under the copper to heat
some water to scrub the room out and
the smoke began to belch forth in rolling,
black, grey folds.
Caught in the smoky billows Jules
looked up just as Susan, thinking, evi-
dently, that he had put “The Land and
the Man” on top of the copper to be
burnt, was thrusting the whole bundle
of them into the fire. High rolled the
cloud of black volleying smoke and as
it climbed the stairway of the air and
blew to the sides in sudden gushes and
rushes the Jules home began to look
like a battleship coming up the bay,
With Susan on her knees, next scrub-
bing the hard old flooring boards, Jules
went over and stood beside the fire under
the copper to warm his hindquarters and,
standing there, caught sight of the photo,
of Uncle Bob which Susan’s devouring
eye and clutching hand had passed over
and which still lay on the top of the
copper.
Jules picked it up and looked at Uncle
Bob’s remaining eye. Yes, it had a glint
in it all right! And hadn’t the old dodger
been proud of his affair with Myrtle
Tregowthan! Used to drive along the
road with a sunflower in his hat and his
chest puffed out like a sack of straw,
winking at every young chap who passed
him on the road.
Oh well, it was no use keeping a
damaged photo, of Uncle Bob, even if he
was his uncle. Might as well get rid of
it. And so, as Uncle Bob lay in the fire,
Jules watched the flames licking greedily
at him and then consuming him, and as
Uncle Bob disappeared into the red
inferno about him Jules thought that he
saw Uncle Bob’s one dark eye, before
finally disappearing into its own little red
hell, wink at him.
OUS AN seemed much brighter now,
smiling at him over the ashes of
Uncle Bob. And Jules, encouraged be-
yond all bounds, clapped his old “bocker”
jauntily on the side
of his head, grabbed
the shovel which was
leaning against the
verandah and in-
formed Susan that
even if she did have
someone in her
family who had been
on the stage, still, it
was nothing to skite
about why, he
could have gone on
the stage himself.
Suiting his actions
to these words he
slung the shovel up
into position as if
it were a banjo and, while strumming
imaginary strings, sang to Susan as she
stood at the door of the little room:
Oh, I once knew a fellow
And his name was Bert,
And he hadn’t got a collar,
And he hadn’t got a shirt;
And he waited three times
At the stage door.
Susan, standing there, and looking at
Jules with a look in her eyes that was
far away and without the hint of a
smile in it, said, “I’ll give her the spare
blanket off our bed —we’ll be all right
without it.” And suiting her actions to
her words she walked past Jules, who
was standing with the “bocker” still
sitting rakishly on his head and the
shovel held in banjoish position.
Jules leaned the shovel back gently
against the verandah and very slowly
and gently hung the “bocker” up on a
nail.
After Susan had put the blanket on
“her” bed she came and stood by the
door again and again looked at Jules,
and with this additional opportunity be-
fore him to prove that he was not going
to be beaten, or give in easily, Jules took
down an old rag that was hanging up
on a nail and holding it to his waist like
a skirt danced a couple of playful, light,
girlish steps and, looking coyly at Susan,
sang:
Oh, she kissed big boys at seven,
And grown-up men at eleven;
And at twenty-one
She said, “What fun;
Oh, isn’t life just heaven!”
Susan stood still without sign or move-
ment ; stood by the door and again
looked at Jules, paying no attention to him
though, or even smiling. But there was
a difference this time. There was a
brighter look in her eyes which Jules
hoped had been put there by his merry
little effort.
“And 111 give her that strip of rug we
have beside our bed, to put her feet on
when she gets up in the morning,” said
Susan. “Instead of having to put her
feet on the cold boards.”
Jules, very quietly, put the old rag
back on the nail.
“She’s been used to comfort, our Millie
has,” said Susan and, without another
word, she again stepped briskly past Jules
and went in to get the rug, which, when
she came out, she placed beside Millie’s
bed.
NOW she gave the bed a few slaps
and pats to smooth it and, stepping
back to survey the general impression of
the changed room, called Jules to come
in and have a look at the room now.
Jules went into the room.
“Of course, it’s not up to what she’s
been used to,” said Susan. “But it’s
clean and wholesome, anyway.”
Then she stepped to the door and gave
the big clump of gums close by a critical
look over, “She said in her letter that she
is simply dying to smell the scent of the
dear old gums.”
Jules made no remark as he also stood
as though looking at the same clump of
gums ; byt he was not looking at the
gums but over them and away and away;
to Cape York, perhaps, or farther. He
was holding counsel with himself. He
never said anything though; for he is a
wise man who can keep his own counsel.


LOOK FOR THIS TRADEMARK
ON YOLK NEW RADIO
Let it be your guide to the best radio that money
can buy. Remember, “His Master’s Voice” is
backed by 50 years’ research in the field of sound
reproduction, perfected by the skill of the best
radio engineers in the industry, and proved by
years of reliable service in Australian homes.
HERE IS THE WEAL RADIO FOR COUNTRY
HOMES WITHOUT ELECTRIC SUPPLY
1
MODEL 847
4 Valve—Dual Wave—vibrator-operated Table Radio.
Available on easy and confidential terms of payment .
DEPOSIT
£7 17 0
No. of Monthly Amount of Monthly
Payments Payments
f 12 *2 17 5
4 15 £2 7 2
[ 18 £2 O 2
Ask your nearest accredited “ H.M.V
retailer to demonstrate Model 847.
★
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LT».. (Incorporated in England), HOMEBTJSH, N.S.W.
RB/47
\\ •
o
i
t
$[
v
///
/
r
1
3
'v *O/t?ur/... S& ca*Cts&*u£
■uouSt.StroiotA j/vCuAotit/"
Avoid the embarrassment of afternoon stubble with
Gem. Give yourself a professional skin level shave
once a day with Gem and you’ll be clean and neat all
day and evening. Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID g
5 O’CLOCK SHADOW 7
SHAVE WITH
DOUBLE LIFE
BLADES,
f
sdf
SMIKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS REMY MARTIN BRADY
4* 4* 4* .4-
“The Japan Sportswomen s League, just
formed, will exclude men from any association
with it.”— Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
They’ll give any Harry curry!
❖ 4* 4* .4*
“When Graham Dale, artist, looks at a
person’s face, he sees an egg —just an egg.”
- —“New Idea.”
But can he distinguish the softies from
the hard-boiled and the merely fresh
from the real bad eggs?
•£• »I* 4* *l*
“The fire of love bums fast after 50—first
thing the victim knows he’s a cinder!”
—Sydney “Sun.
Especially if an ash-blonde gets him!
4* q* 4* 4* ,
“A ton of snuff worth £2OOO _ was imported
for the snuff takers of Australia in the financial
year that ended last month.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.
Who said snuff-takers are feeling the
pinch?
V T T .
“Modem girls are being castigated by people
who call themselves ‘Victorians’ for clumsiness
in curtsying at Royal receptions.”
—Sydney “Sun.’’’
They don’t get down to the job pro-
perly.
“Stop at the corner house —they get two pints!”
“Blondes are no rest-cure."
*—Sydney “Daily Telegraph."
They’re too wide-awake.
•!- -h ►!-
“Dazed man found at Railway.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
The train he’d been confident of catch-
ing had left on time.
4* 4* 4*’ 4>
“150 m.p.h. on water.” — Sydney Sun.
Executives of the major petrol com-
panies have called an emergency confer-
ence to discuss this latest threat.
“To let, half-furnished house, all conveni-
ences, suit middle-aged people and one grown-
up.”—Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Life begins at 40.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Why wear a sweater if you haven’t a sweater
figure?” —“New Idea.’ 1 ’
You are only pulling the wool over
your own eyes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Why laundry is closing down.”
—Sydney Sun.
Now it will all come out in the wash.
Age-old Problem.
“It is a tradition to give distinguished visitors
a bottle of wine from the same year as their
birth.” —Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.
Ah! What a dire predicament
For ladies when the years are stealing
The bloom of youth, and this revealing
Of age would bare a secret meant
To be preserved till life is spent;
For can deliberate concealing
Of some few years offset the feeling
Of youthj in old wines immanent ?
Yet surely once in every while
Some guest, with Eve’s eternal guile,
Will prove entirely adequate
To dodge a compromising date,
And murmur painted lips between :
“I’ll have a glass of sweet ’16!”
D.H.E.
Pinpricking.
“Russian officials in North Korea keep cut-
ting off the electric light in U.S.-occupied South
Korea because the Americans do not pay their
electricity bills.”—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.’'’
It was during a minor revolution in
one of the Balkan States that my party
was severely inconvenienced by the other
side’s interference with the utilities.
The counter-revolutionaries had occu-
pied the power-station and very unfairly
cut off our electricity at the outbreak of
hostilities. This was not as awkward,
however, as their habit of suddenly turn-
ing it on again at odd moments, such as
when our colonel was having a bath in
one of the transformers.
After a council of war we retaliated
by putting into practice one of the
maxims of the Roman strategist Copius
Mucus; hostes aqua intercludere —•
which, freely translated, means “cut the
enemy’s water off.” Being unable to
locate the valve, we had to sever the
main with a demolition charge, and the
opposition’s ironical cheers as we were
inexorably flooded out were galling in
the extreme.
Another cause of friction was the
enemy’s failure to maintain the garbage
collection. Our offers to allow a daily
armistice were offensively refused, and
the collection of bully-beef tins, lemon-
ade bottles and fruit peelings in the street
outside our H.Q. brought several sum-
monses from the health authorities.
It was just as we were turning it over
in our minds with complacency that the
gas supply at least originated in a neutral
zone that the revolution came to an un-
timely end.
Some saboteur told the gas-workers
about our 22-hour fighting week.
PLUM.
Lacquer Courtesy.
“A woman driver, putting out her hand, tied
up traffic for three blocks, eventually explaining
to a constable: “Oh, I’m not going to turn;
I’m just drying my nail polish.”
To the rules of the road though she paid
little heed
And failed with her driving the law to
impress.
Even critical males would be bound to
• concede
That her drying technique was a signal
success.
B.
Vision Splendid.
It was the first anniversary of the
establishment of the National-Socialist
Bank. Staffs were drawn up before huge
pictures of the Chief of State and made
to give the clenched-fist salute, after
which they sang the bank’s theme song:
Our Leader, heil ! Heil, Fiihrer Ben !
Of bureaucrat and “brains”-trust
planner
And “moderates” and Moscow men
Who into works throw sand and
spanner,
Unquestioned Chief! From you a snarl
Conjures up barbed wire and Gestapo.
A veritable Marx —not Karl,
You understand, but Harpo.
The bank had finished up the financial
year in great heart. The loss had, by
dint of severe economies, including the
limiting to £8 a day of the travelling and
entertainment expenses of the 1800 dis-
trict gauleiters, all ex-Left Wing union
officials and defeated “Labor” politicians,
been kept down to £7,000,000.
The editor of a paper which had criti-
cised the Bank Commissar’s ukase that
mortgage interest rates to non-union bor-
rowers be raised from 10 to 20 p.c. and
had suggested that a few thousand dead-
heads on fancy salaries could be dis-
pensed with was awaiting trial before a
Peoples’ Court for treason. His paper
had, of course, been refused foreign ex-
change for the purchase of newsprint.
Recently the Caucus Banking Sub-
Committee, consisting of a former bril-
liant wharflaborer, an ex-s.p. bookie and
an erstwhile slaughterman, had instructed
the Bank to issue loans to any amount
without collateral security to “selected”
applicants whose political views were
satisfactory. It was in pursuance of this
that the Deputy Loans Commissar was
now examining the application in front
of him. Suddenly he looked up.
“Your name is Henry James Brown?”
he asked,
“That’s me.”
“You are applying for a loan of six
thousand pounds?”
“My oath! And you’d better fix it
quick, or else. An’ no more’n one per
cent, int’rest, neither.”
But the D.L.C. was too absorbed in
the closely-typed blue paper pinned to the
application form to hear what the other
was saying. A deep frown developed
as he read on. Then he looked severely
at the applicant.
“According to this dossier compiled by
the political police,” he rasped, “you
once handed out election dodgers on be-
half of a non-Labor candidate. Also
your son-in-law in a talk over the fence
to his next-door neighbor on January
twenty-nine last made a remark deroga-
tory to a shop-steward in the factory at
which he works!”
“Listen —this is all b”
“Silence! Also on the afternoon of
April fourteen your wife, during a tele-
phone conversation with a Mrs. Yapper
on XQ3821, complained that she had to
do her washing without soap and
criticised the Government —I quote her
exact words —‘for not having the inside
to stop the strikes.’ That is a treason-
able utterance if ever there was one,”
“But I tell you, I’m”
“Shut up! There is further evidence
here of your unfitness for a loan. You
were heard in a hotel bar on Saturday,
May third, to remark that every able-
bodied man should have to fight for his
country. That’s treason. Moreover’
“Ar, y’re batty! I tell y’”
“If you’re not quiet while I’m speaking
you are likely to end up in a concen-
tration camp. I say, moreover,” the
D.L.C. thundered, “your dossier reveals
that six years ago you wrote to a Tory
newspaper protesting against non-strikers
being bashed by loyal unionists who had
declared the place black until they were
granted £2 a week increase and a three-
day week. On that alone your applica-
tion is refused.”
“Now, look here, you mug”—the other
at last leaped up and shouted at the
Deputy Loans Commissar —“y’ve got an-
other bloke mixed up with me. I’m a
James Henry Brown, all right, and as
sekketry o’ the Logrollers’ an’ Jerry-
manders’ Union I put in a application for
a six thousand quid loan to instal on the
Union’s premises a marble swimmin’
pool, cocktail bar an’ billiard-rooms an’
to import fruit machines”
At mention of that magic name, one of
the most militant of the Comrao-led
unions, a remarkable change came oyer
the Deputy Commissar’s face. Washing
his hands liberally in air, he bowed
deeply and said in an ingratiating voice:
“My dear Mr. Brown, I am sorry.
Why didn’t you interrupt me to say who
you really were? Of course you may
have your loan —but are you sure it will
be enough? You can have ten, twenty,
thousand if you want it!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
The Navy Was There!
The statement that “the whole west and
north-west of Australia was under the
protection of the Royal Navy from the
end of 1943” (B. 30/7/’47) is timely and
correct. While flapper rags were
demanding to know what England was
doing to help Australia, a mighty dis-
ciplined force was steaming silently and
with dreadful purpose across the sea to
Exmouth Gulf.
All the fighting-wise veterans were there
—Valiant, Elizabeth, Renown, Richelieu,
screening Illustrious of Malta and the
American Saratoga. Six British cruisers
and the Dutchman Tromp flanked the
heavies, the whole spearheaded by 15
British destroyers, many of them with six
submarine kills in the Atlantic before the
Bombardment of Sydney.
The landfall was perfect. We steamed
into the wide gulf and the 12 waiting
tankers eased alongside almost before
the battlers’ cables roared. Did Aus-
tralia provide the fuel? - The tankers and
escort were sailed from Trincomalee
seven days before the Fleet. Outside, the
destroyer pack nosed up and down like
hungry otters in a pool of fish.
That same afternoon the Fleet formed
up in battle formation and steamed un-
seen up our western coast. A few days
later 100 bombers hit.Sabang like a bolt
from the blue, the British Fleet having
reached its objective without the slightest
knowledge of its movements reaching the
enemy. Three days later it was back in
Trincomalee, refuelled, ready for the
counter-attack that never came, and ready
at a couple of hours’ notice to return
to those, coasts of which, both potentially
and actually, it had for years been such
a powerful protector. Macnell
(R.A.N.).
The British in Burma
Clashes between British troops* and
Dacoits in Burma have been given front-
page space in our newspapers. Before
our students start marching again, and
before the waterside workers decide an-
other issue of our foreign policy for us,
I’d like to say that these are non-political
clashes.
Dacoit is the Burmese name for
bandit, and Dacoits have been function-
ing professionally in Burma for a couple
of hundred years. The main difference is
that they are now armed with British,
American and Japanese weapons obtained
during the war. They are not a political
party being suppressed s by the might of
Britain’s Imperialistic Army, and the
Tommies fighting them are nice kids who
want to go home.
At the end of' the war, the youth of
Burma, led by the late Aung San and his
anti-Fascist league, started agitating for
their independence. British and Indian
engineers worked 24 hours a day rebuild-
ing their roads, bridges and railways;
the R.A.F, organised supply drops for
the famished villages in the hills and
transported thousands of tons of rice.
People were starving, so our pilots flew
through monsoonal weather many
crashed and died. If the Burmese “lib-
erators” were grateful, they failed to
show it. While I was there, I saw no
letter of thanks to the British troops from
the Burmese Government for helping to
rebuild their country.
Then the Dacoits started to raid
villages. The Burmese Army and police
were too inefficient to control them, so the
Burmese Government asked our “intrud-
ing” army to do it. British, Indian and
Gurkha troops started to fight again.
Infantry companies were given over a
hundred square miles to police. My
company chased one band of 60 for three
weeks. Their armament consisted of six
L.M.Gs., four of which were Brens and
two light mortars, grenades and rifles.
They lived by robbing villages and hijack-
ing trucks. If a village reported their
movements, the Dacoits returned and
killed the headman.
We did not have enough troops in
Burma to clean out thfe Dacoits, but we
did suppress their activities while the
Burmese yelled for their independence
and for the white man to leave their
country. They yelled no thanks to us
for protecting them. — Ex-Officer, 19th
Indian (Dagger) Division (Q.).
“Men At Work”
One reason for our present unsatis-
factory production can be seen any
morning at any capital city railway
station or tram-stop. Too many young
men are going to shops and offices
to do jobs that could be done just as well
by their sisters and girl friends.
An undeveloped country such as this
needs its men on productive work.
Women, now that they are an accepted
unit of our industrial and economic set-
up, should do at least 90 p.c. of the
recording and something over half of
the retail distribution. Half a million
men were recently detached from in-
dustry to help Australia in another direc-
tion, and in their absence many of their
jobs were capably performed by women.
It does not require an adult male to
sell men’s wear in a retail store, or to be
a city traveller for ladies’ underwear. If
the theory is that most of these men will
be merchant princes by the time they
are 50, there is sufficient evidence to
prove that practically all will be in
routine jobs until they exchange the pay
envelope for the pension card. The same
holds good for most of their pen-pushing
mates.
The average white-collar job is not
well paid unless you can get out of the
rut. Young women are inclined to put
a certain value on their future social
position as the wife of a clerk or sales-
man who may, if he gets the necessary
breaks, collect the requisite salary. Girls
could have better jobs while wage-
earners and better chances of marrying
and having their own home if their boy
Auciioneer (who has taken Holy Orders): “Going, going, gone!”
friends were out producing such of the
national wealth as is beyond the physi-
cal capacity of women.— Noonamah
(N.S.W.).
Contrasts
The difference between Government
ownership and private enterprise has
never been more clearly shown than by
the news that a British company is pro-
posing to mine Blair Athol (Q.) coal on
a gigantic scale.
On the one hand we have a Govern-
ment scheme to spend £230,000,000
on railways which are constantly handi-
capped by lack of coal and which are
worse than useless without an assured
supply of fuel. On the other we have a
private plan to produce coal, for which
there is an urgent and ever-growing
demand.
The Government plan will mean a vast
expenditure of money, manpower and
steel without regard to cost or profit or
shortage of motive power. The private
plan puts first things first. Steel rails
cannot be forged without coal any more
than the iron horse can be fed without
it. Railways, from dog-spikes to steam,
are bred from coal out of iron ore. Rail
transport is still in the carboniferous age.
These truths are trite and obvious.
They cannot be ignored except by men
whose income depends more on popu-
larity than production. They are acted
upon by businessmen whose prosperity
depends on their ability to supply goods
for which there is a demand and a prac-
tical use. The vote motive and the profit
motive are both selfish in their origin,
but they differ vastly in their results. One
expends money and materials to produce
Work ; the other works to produce money
and materials. There can be no greater
contrast in the whole science of
economics.— Signal (S.A.).
Having just returned after two years
of university work in U.S.A., I was imme-
diately impressed by the difference in
attitude belween Australian and Ameri-
can Labor leaders.
The aim of American Labor is, first
and foremost, a higher standard of living
for the working man, provided by in-
creased purchasing power and the main-
tenance or increase of the productive
power of the country. Certainly the U.S.
has had nasty strikes, but they were
almost wholly for the purpose of increas-
ing purchasing power, and not for shorter
working hours.
Production is recognised, by labor as
well as management, as the key to
national progress. The average person
in America, in my experience, works at
least 25 per cent, longer and harder than
his counterpart in Australia, and with
more interest in his work. Bans on
overtime and the like are almost un-
heard of. The current shortage of goods
is being overcome far more rapidly in
U.S.A. than in Australia. Even univer-
sity professors are usually at their work
soon after 8 a.m. Full day Saturday
work at universities and research stations
is quite common, although not compul-
sory.
The outcry in Australia from union
leaders for shorter hours is a tremendous
contrast to the American scene.
Australia’s reputation as a country of
high living standards will not last long
. under such a short-sighted policy.—
F. R. M. (Vic.).
Strikes and Strikers
So “Y.J.” (B. 6/8/’47) thinks that full
publicity should be given to “industrial
troubles” only after they have been
settled. Scorfield’s cartoon of Queen of
Hearts Chifley (in the same issue) ade-
quately answers that part of his par.
“Y.J.” seems to think that one “cheer-
chasing agitator” can cause hundreds,
sometimes thousands, of men to down
tools, and subject their wives and families
to the hardships which go with every
strike, simply because the “newspapers
publish every inflammatory statement
made.”
Strikes are not picnics for the strikers.
I know because I’ve been in them. And
—with some notable exceptions—unions
and unionists consider the matter pretty
serious before they strike. Homes and
families, payments on the furniture, in-
surance premiums and the many other
responsibilities of a family man are
mighty big arguments against striking,
however serious the matter in dispute.
It is of little use “Y. 1.,” or anyone else,
condemning the “cheer-chasing agitator.”
The agitator gets a hearing from the
worker only when the worker cannot get
a hearing from his employer, “Y.J.”
must know that the human being must
have something in which to believe.
Lacking faith in the honesty of his em-
ployer, it is his nature to turn elsewhere
for a—call it a creed if you like. That’s
when the agitator has his chance, and
only then.
Strikes are often caused by little things.
But little things occurring often enough
and over a long enough period are big
things in the aggregate. Nothing is said
when employers apply for a rise in the
prices of their products. But when em-
ployees apply for a rise in pay or for
better conditions they are howled down
for a mob of Commos.
When employees take the matter into
their own hands they are not trying to
destroy democracy. They are merely
a share of its blessings to take
home and share with their wives and
kids. — Cadaagi (Q.).
I am with “Y.J.” The worst example
of gratifying the vanity of “cheer-chasing
agitators” occurred during the Victorian
railway strike some months ago. Every
day the press was full of statements made
by a Mr. J. J. Brown, State secretary of
the A.R.U. The name J. J. Brown was
sprawled in headlines, we became familiar
with the Brown dial- through front-page
photographs, and “pen portraits” ap-
peared* Finally Mr. Brown’s vanity be-
came so puffed up that he started issuing
“permits” to bus operators. At the time
I held the theory that if Mr. Brown had
been relegated to anonymity, his daily
communiques attributed to “a union
official,” the strike would have collapsed
within a week.— Dutigalla (Vic.).
Science and Religion
“Credo” (B. 6/8/’47) gives a brilliant
display of dialectics but does not disprove
the main contentions of “Jock” that
Nature is merciless, whether a hero perish
or a sparrow fall, and that the law of
evolution is universal.
The cosmos is one and indivisible, and
is progressing through constant change
towards some far and unknown event.
To say that some parts are devolving
rather than evolving towards that end is
to make a distinction without a differ-
ence. An omelette is evolved from eggs
and heat in one harmonious process. To
argue that the fuel devolves while the
albumen evolves does not affect the con-
sistency or the flavor. “The end is one.”
The earth has been slowly cooked by
the sun, evolving from a scrambled mass
“without form and void” into an ordered
planet.* It has absorbed, stored, and
changed sunlight into coal, diamonds,
petrol, uranium, color, grain and living
tissues. We actually eat the sun, which
is literally incarnated through an evolu-
tionary process. The sun may be dis-
integrating within its own circumference-;
it is being re-integrated within the orbit
of its influence. In the vast celestial
cooking range not an atom or a cosmic
ray is wasted.
“Credo” has chosen an unfortunate
pen-name. There are many outworn creeds
being mumbled. The private, modified
beliefs of a few enlightened astronomers
are neither creeds nor religions. It is im-
possible for any sane individual of our
species to believe both Jeans and Genesis.
—Six Days (S.A.).
Man Off the Land
For 11 years before I enlisted in 1939
I knew of no other life than the bush-
man’s, I had learnt about the land in
the hard way, working on dairy farms
and stations, and on my own account as
a horsebreaker and ’roo shooter. When
war broke out I was the proud possessor
of a small but useful droving plant. My
ambition in those days was to get a “bit
of dirt” of my own and slave at improve-
ments until I built up a decent property.
Money didn’t seem to matter so much.
When I was discharged nearly six years
later I had about £2OOO in cash, and was
not quite so good physically as I was in
my bush days. I’d also acquired a city-
bred wife who, though not averse to bush
life, not unreasonably demanded a cer-
tain amount of comfort as far as living
conditions were concerned.
I inspected several properties which I
might have been able to take over with
my limited capital. But they were all
neglected, and would have needed years
of work and a good deal of cash for im-
provements before they would have been
sound propositions. In the end I took
the advice of the manager of a firm
of stock and station agents. “Give up the
idea of the land,” he said. “You can’t
finance a worth-while property on that
capital, and you’ll wait for years before
you’ll get anywhere with any Government
scheme. Why not buy into a small busi-
ness? You’ll have a decent living, in-
terest on your money, and you won’t be
busting yourself as you’d have to do in
the bush.”
I bought a business in a country town,
worked up the turnover and sold out at
a profit. Then, after a holiday I bought
another business in the city. I’ve found
that there is a good deal of work and
not a little worry, but you can make a fair
income. You live rent-free in comfortable
conditions. Most of the takings are cash,
and you don’t have to wait months for
wool cheques with values that can only
be guessed at. Nor is the business a
bottomless sink which calls insistently for
most of your surplus cash for improve-
ments. Nor are you affected by seasonal
conditions.
Yet every now and then, particularly
after hearing a country broadcast stress-
ing, as so many do these days, the need
for increased production and the stopping
of the drift to the cities, I get a feeling
that my place is out in the bush where I d
be doing something useful. Sometimes
I think that I’d still like to get my “bit
of dirt” and hang the money. But so
far saner thinking—and the knowledge
that, unless the place were equipped with
all mod. cons., and did not demand non-
union working hours, I’d be rustling my
own tucker —is keeping me in the city.
However, if the country wants me
back on the land I’ll consider any proposi-
tion requiring £2OOO cash which will give
me a comfortable furnished home and a
net return of £lO a week with proper
management and average seasons. It
must be properly equipped with necessary
farm machinery and improvements, and
must not require more than 48-hours-a-
-week toil. —C. R. (N.S.W.),


“Free” Service and Medicine
“A.M.C.” (B. 6/ 7/ ’47) is mistaken if
he thinks that most of the adverse criti-
cism of these “Labor” schemes c?? 16 ?
from older doctors in well-established
practices and specialists in the big
money.” I know a few younger men who
served with the forces and who aie
opposed to them, too. They fear further
regimentation, of which they had their
fill during war years.
I also stay occasionally with a doctor
friend in a “well-established practice.’
Not one night when I stayed with him did
he have a complete night’s rest. Every
night he was called out of his bed on
at least one Sometimes even
three calls were answered. No 40-hour
week for him, and taxation left him with
little.
He hadn’t had a holiday for four
years, and was plainly insulting to the
various cranks who enjoyed their illness.
He told many of them the truth. That
didn’t stop his source of income.
If you “cut out the profit motive from
medical practice” you’ll also cut out men
of ability. Socialisation is not the
answer. The one Australian territory
where medicine is nationalised is Papua,
and heaven help us in Australia if
Papua’s medical services are adopted in
this country. —Repatriate (Q.).
Has anyone considered the man who
will be called on to make “free medicine”
work—the apothecary whose shop will
be the distributing centre for this half-
baked socialistic scheme? At present all
dispensing charges are fixed by the Prices
Commissioner, but under the scheme
these are to be by-passed and a smaller
remuneration offered. And that in the
days when “workers” are being given
higher wages. And will the 40-hour
week apply to the chemist?
As an apothecary, I would like to
know what section of the community is
clamoring for such a scheme. Why pick
on medicine as an experiment for social-
isation? The man with a large family
or the one on a low income is catered
tor by the friendly society system. Why
not give “free” boots and shoes or
butter or bread? Everyone needs those
items, and the average person spends
more on them per year than he does on
medicines.
For some time I worked in a friendly
society’s dispensary, and the number of
hypochondriacs on the books was
legion. I recall one family—father,
mother and two children —who were the
“star” customers. Their lodge-book
showed that together they had had the
equivalent of 152 prescriptions in 12
months. I was talking to one of the
employees and was told that many of
the “regulars” were still coming in for
their medicine. One woman gets two
quart bottles of her “acid mixture” regu-
larly as she has for the last 15 years.
There must be many more like her,
and under the Government scheme the
number will grow. The Metropolitan
Hospitals Contribution Fund was started
for those who were prepared to pay a
few pence a week to help pay hospital
bills if necessary. The thrifty took ad-
vantage of this, and, provided they paid
regularly, they could have free hospitalis-
ation.—R. W. (N.S.W.).
No, I do not believe “that efficient
medical attention can be given through
a glorified but discredited slot-machine”
(B. 13/8/’47). Far from admitting that
the Maoriland scheme had failed, I
pointed out that the only major fault
that could be found was the existence of
mercenary doctors within it.
Communists have brought some of our
Australian industries almost to ruin, but
I refuse to condone their burglary and
say that industry has failed. Eliminate
the rot and the plan will flourish.
Over the past three years I have re-
ceived free medicine through the Re-
patriation Department and I have no
complaints. My doctors are sympathetic
confidants who make my problems their
problems. They have known the riches
of private practice but have, after tak-
ing part in a war, thrown their lot in
with a worthy cause. Younger men are
following in their footsteps.
My faith in human nature is not iso-
lated. The Chancellor of the University
of Melbourne (a Supreme Court Justice
who has anything but socialistic ten-
dencies) at a recent conferring ceremony
told the young doctors that soon they
would be called upon to make an im-
portant decision. He hoped that they
would put their country before selfish
interests. The B.M.A. remained silent
about that, — Ad Rem (Vic.).
Firewood
In normal times the home fires of
Adelaide burn mallee roots, delivered by
the hundredweight or ton, and with
courtesy and promptitude. Nowadays
the fuel must be ordered weeks ahead
and sometimes is even then unobtainable.
After shivering for a month I ’phoned
my wood merchant and was curtly told
that I could have a few roots if I
wheeled them home under my own power.
A handcart would be provided without
extra charge.
At the yard I found a queue waiting
for the privilege of the new cash-and-
carry system. A procession of rough
boxes, mounted on small wheels, and
with palings for shafts, was being filled
for well-dressed customers. I had to wait
until one of the crude vehicles was re-
turned empty by a lady, who explained
that she had swallowed her pride for the
sake of a sick patient.
There is a theory that nobody feels
poverty if everyone else is poor. We are
certainly on our to test it. Next
winter we may have to burn our floors
or gather our roots from the paddocks.
Meanwhile we should give priority to
the production of handcarts —if we can
find the timber and the wheels. —
Equality (S.A.).
Another One for U.N.O.
A colored gentleman writing from
Alabama has drawn my attention to the
plight of negros in the southern States of
the U.S.A., where, he says, they are
treated as dirt by the whites and seem to
have no rights at all. At times, when
the law does operate in their favor, forces
such as the K.K.K. get busy to defeat
it. Altogether, they have a miserable
existence and are looking longingly to
the two negro republics of Haiti and
Liberia, where all are equal.
Because of official obstruction they
have found it impossible to approach
Colonel Hodgson, and my correspondent
asks whether the waterside workers of
Australia will take up their case for a
Negro republic in southern U.S.A. He
“Ease up, George—you can coast down this hill!”
feels sure that if the waterside workers
demand it the U.N.O. must take action. —
B, R. (N.S.W.).
Industrial Banditry
So the 1.C.1. strike has been “settled”
at last —or has it been?
The almost-forgotten cause of the strike
was that a clerk drove a lorry containing
some urgently required supplies while a
stop-work meeting was on. Each
“basis of conciliation” was no sooner
arranged than fresh demands were made
to wreck it. For some considerable time
the position has been that, with a few
exceptions, the employees were in other
jobs and were therefore unconcerned
whether the strike ended or not. The
exceptions comprised a handful of men
who drew £7 a week each as pickets.
Imperial Chemical Industries built their
million-pound factory at Botany early in
the war. A large chlorine plant manu-
factures things essential to our daily
economy, and the cessation of supplies
•has affected the manufacture of soap, the
purification of water in city and country
water supplies and the supply of caustic
soda, which in turn has affected the
manufacture of Phenyl and has practi-
cally held up production of plastics in
Australia. Those people who are finding
it difficult to get new telephones can
blame the handful of agitators who
caused and carried on the strike. Tele-
phone sets are one of the thousands of
items affected.
The man on the land has also been
seriously affected by the hold-up. 1.C.1.’s
Botany factory is the sole source of supply
of carbon tetrachloride and phenothia-
zine, two products which are now almost
solely used for drenching stock in Aus-
tralia. Owners of sheep, cattle, pigs and
poultry have been clamoring for these
drenches for months and in their absence
internal parasites in stock have increased
considerably, so that it is impossible to
fatten them to export standard.
Full evidence of the shortage has not
yet been felt. If young stock are not kept
free from internal parasites in the grow-
ing stage they never reach full size, but
remain stunted for life. Their ability
to grow wool or to reach slaughtering
standards is permanently affected.
Prolongation of the strike was lately
blamed on an inter-union squabble be-
tween. the ironworkers and the A.W.U.,
and all attempts at mediation through
the usual channels failed. In the
11 months that the strike has lasted
Government revenue has suffered very
considerably through lack of production,
which will, of course, affect 1.C.1.’s re-
turns from other branches of industry.
The Government’s appeasement policy
has also resulted in the granting of im-
port licences amounting to hundreds of
thousands of dollars to importers to
bring in from U.S.A. supplies of carbon
tetrachloride, phenothiazine, etc., in a
belated effort to fill the gap. Unfortu-
nately the shipping position has held up
the supplies very considerably and prac-
tically no relief has been obtained yet.
Of all the many instances exhibited by
our weak-kneed Government in its hand-
ling of industrial banditry, this is the
most flagrant. It indicates very clearly
how a small well-organised group can
hold to ransom the entire primary and
secondary industries of Australia. —
J. R. D. (N.S.W.).
The 40-hour Week
Two benefits look like emerging from
the five-day, or 40-hour, week —a revival
of hand craftsmanship, and a chance of
getting those odd jobs about the house
done.
The unskilled worker and the machinist,
working with heavy factory plant, may
devote the extra day off to pleasure,
though a good many of them will be
putting in more time in the garden or at
mum’s chores. But the journeyman
tradesman with his own kit of tools is
going to use his long weekends to earn
money that the Income Tax Corn-
missioner will never hear about. Already
I have had an offer, from a carpenter-
joiner, to build me a set of bedroom
furniture, and it will be better than any
of the mass-produced three-ply stuff I
can buy in the shops today.
And a builder, on whom I lean for
repairs and maintenance of the home,
assures me that, if I don’t mind men
about the place on Saturdays and Sun-
days, he can now get a spot of brick-
laying, plastering, roof-repairing or paint-
ing done within a week or two. — Hist
(N.S.W.).
Do It Here!
This year has been notable for the
number of appeals made on behalf of
sick persons for the means to save their
lives —in America! It is a serious reflec-
tion on the Government of this country
that such charity should be necessary.
It should be a first charge on the
Social Services contributions to finance
the supply and maintenance in Australia
of the equipment and the skill to per-
form any operation that is known to
medical science. Australian scientists,
doctors, engineers and others have
proved their skill in all the important
centres of the world, and it should not
be too much to expect of our “Govern-
ment” that it keep some of that skill in
our own land.
It should not be necessary to have to
inform our people that their loved ones
would have a chance of living if strep-
tomycin were available in this country,
or if radio-active phosphorus could be
obtained, or if they could be taken to
the U.S.A. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Neglected Territory
The trouble over sending fish from the
Far South Coast (N.S.W.) to Nimmitabel
emphasises the need for better transport
facilities for this area. Most other parts
of the State have railways, but the South
Coast line ends at Nowra. A rail exten-
sion from Nowra through to Eden is
badly needed—indeed it would be even
better if the line at Nowra were linked up
with the Victorian line at Orbost, thus
giving the State another route between
Sydney and Melbourne, through some of
the finest scenery in the Commonwealth.
Between Nowra and the Victorian
border is some of the richest dairying
country in Australia, but production is re-
stricted. If farmers had quick and regular
transport facilities at their door, they could
not only produce butter and cheese for
the metropolitan and overseas markets,
but also large quantities of vegetables,
maize, pigs, etc. There would also be
great development in such industries as
fresh fish, fish-canning, timber, mining,
paper-pulp, wattle-bark, poultry and even
ship-building.
Twenty-five years ago the South Coast
had a far better shipping service than it
has today. In those days there was a
regular steamer service for both freight
and passengers, such coastal steamers as
the Merimbula, Bega, Bermagui, Eden
and others carrying both passengers and
goods to and from Bateman’s Bay, Ber-
magui, Tathra, Merimbula and Eden.
Today there is an inadequate freight
service along the coast, but no passenger
service.
Twofold Bay is deep, sheltered
and large enough to accommodate a fleet.
It is surrounded by hundreds of miles of
splendid country, either undeveloped or
not producing to anything like full
capacity. There is enough timber handy
to Twofold Bay to keep a paper-pulp
mill going for 100 years. In the early
days Ben Boyd saw the possibilities of
Twofold Bay and made it his head-
quarters. There seems no reason why we
could not start again where he left off.
Twofold might once again become the
headquarters of a great Australian whal-
ing industry, fishing and fish-canning,
timber and paper-pulp. A few miles in-
land there is mining country which has
never been properly exploited. Fifty
years ago there were goldmines at
Wolumla and Pambula, and bismuth and
molybdenite mines at Whipstick, all
places within 20 miles or so of Twofold.
Wyndham, about the same distance away,
once had a rabbit-canning factory, a
eucalyptus distillery and a plant for ex-
tracting tannin from wattle-bark. These
enterprises could be revived.
But none of these things is possible
without adequate transport facilities. —
W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
I’m against this proposal to license
motor mechanics. Owner of a car for
many years, I have always received the
best and cheapest service from the one-
man garage proprietor. He may not
have the qualifications for a “licence,”
but he knows his job from the best
teacher —experience.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
The missus has been paying 3s. 6d. a
pair for slippers for our 10-months-old
baby. She went after a pair of hard-soled
shoes for him—he’s about to start walk-
ing—and nearly collapsed when she was
asked 9s. 6d. for sizes 3-6. Our niece,
aged seven, costs her mother 19s. 6d.
when she gets a pair of shoes suitable for
wearing to school. Never mind the short-
ages—what about the prices?— Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
After all our efforts to harmonise all
sections, of the human race, be they black,
white or brown, we’re badly rocked by
the flare-up about half-caste children in
public schools. Thirty years ago I saw
abo. children from the Bellinger River
reserve (N.S.W.) attending the Bellingen
public school. They won prizes in the
school section at the agricultural show,
competing with the white children of the
district. I have worked with three-quarter
castes in survey camps and shearing
sheds, and associated with half-castes in
the Army. In every case, they showed
themselves in no way inferior to the
whites, in intelligence, workmanship or
comradeship.—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
“Non-juror’s” remarks (B. 13/8/’47)
on jurors are only part of the story. As
apothecaries, it would be awkward, to
say the least, for ray colleagues or myself
to attend Court for an indefinite number
of days. For a pharmacy to remain
open, a registered pharmacist must always
be in charge, and as many pharmacies are
one-man businesses they would have to
close down for the duration of the case.
The same goes for doctors. —R. W. (Q.).
The lyrical account (B. 11/6/ ’47) of
how a Tasmanian cocky was able to fly
a handful of cattle to the mainland did
not impress me. Can anyone tell me the
dollar expenditure involved in supplying
the fuel, lubricants and rubber, and in the
depreciation of the planes and trucks
used? And the cost to the taxpayer of
the capital charges, maintenance and de-
preciation of the airfields and roads?
How did the profit and loss account of
T.-A.A. stand at the end of the operation?
—Transporticus (Singapore).


Bf CARE FOl Of
ON-COMING TRAFFIC
AFTER Tiff ROAD if AVIS
THE FIAT.."
Published in the interests of Safer Motoring by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
HEED ALL ROAD SIGHS—
MAKE TRAFFIC WAYS SAFER FOR YOURSELF AND OTHERS
always ask for
tefejpfc#!
|l. \y British Petrol j||
THlRi'i no better quality
W/tf
r-#
NARROW
■BRIDGE!
