

The House of Seppelt... pof
GREAT WESTERN Sp arkling
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3518
Wednesday, July 16, 1947
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
.
Seppelts
IMPOSING ST. CANICE'S IS KILKENNY’S HISTORIC CATHEDRAL
KILKENNY, the county town of County Kilkenny in the
province of Leinster, possesses, with the exception of St.
Patrick’s of Dublin, the largest cathedral in Ireland. This, the
cathedral of St. Canice, derives its name from Canice, or Canicus,
a holy man who is traditionally believed to have built a cel! near
this spot at the time of the introduction of Christianity into Ireland.
According to an Irish historian St. Canice’s Cathedral was founded
in 1180 by a Bishop O’Dullany and completed two centuries later.
Measuring 226 feet in length and 123 feet in breadth, the building
is constructed of black marble in the Early English style Tfie
cathedral was marked during the seventeenth-century troubles, but
was subsequently restored and is still one of Ireland’s most
attractive churches. The tall chimney-like structure seen to the
right of the building is one of Ireland’s famous Round Towers,
measures 40 feet in circumference, 108 feet in height: was
— y ri “•«***? f‘* «* saf 7 his,oric
relics with which the cathedral is endowed.


StorvWrltmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, withovt obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin." '
My Name
M t, Addretn
8-B. 247 AGE
The Red Page
IN SEARCH OF A VILLAIN.
The extravagances of both D. B.
Wyndham Lewis’s The Hooded Hawk
and C. E. Vulliamy’s Ursa Major —the
two books about the Dr. Johnson group
recently reviewed on the Red Page-
might be explained, in part, simply by
the literary necessity for a villain. If you
have a hero —Johnson—then it is very
convenient, for the purposes of bio-
graphical drama, to have a villain.
The villain of The Hooded Hawk is
that excellent fellow Jack Wilkes; Vul-
liamy’s villain is Mrs. Thrale ; and both
the authors, when these two victims fall
short of the full requirements of villainy,
turn joyously to join Macaulay in attack-
ing Boswell. From a literary point of
view one may sympathise with the bio-
graphers: even at the risk of absurdity
they had to have a villain. But, if they
had had the wit to see it, there was a
villain at hand who dwarfs all other pre-
tensions to that role—and that is Johnson
himself.
» Johnson is, indeed, a self-appointed
and self-confessed villain. The evidence
of his bad conscience is written at large
in Boswell’s ruthless analysis of his life.
Johnson’s obsession over a conviction of
sin is merely the transposed consciousness
of a wasted life and a corrupted faculty
of mind.
Most of all is Johnson’s bad conscience
exposed in his attacks on all that was fine
in literature, and his affirmation of all
that was worthless. For Fielding, the
biggest figure of his time, he had a
furious hatred, that could only attack in
fatuous terms of abuse: “He is a block-
head. What I mean by a blockhead is
that he is a barren rascal. Sir, there is
more knowledge of the heart in one
letter of Richardson’s than in all of Tom
Jones.”
Boswell records that, whenever Swift
was mentioned, Johnson attacked him:
“Swift has a higher reputation than he
deserves. I doubt if The Tale of a Tub
is his. His Conduct of. the Allies has
very little ability. Why, Tom Davies
could have written it.”
Sterne, Johnson dismissed with con-
tempt: “Nothing odd will do long. His
Tristram Shandy did not last.”
As Smollett said of Johnson, “He and
I were never cater-cousins,” it is to be
presumed that Johnson also dismissed
him. Hume and Gibbon were attacked as
“Infidels,” that absurd stigma for anyone
in the Johnsonian circle who dared to„
think cleanly and clearly on religious
dogma. And Johnson even tried to stop
Boswell from publishing his work.
In short, he attacked every writer whose
work survives, while he praised only the
worthless stuff which perished in its
generation—the novels of Fanny Burney,
innumerable sermons, the novels of that
mawkish little pornographer Richardson,
who employed the device, still practised
by Sunday newspapers, of recording
salacious antics and then denouncing
them in terms of outraged morality.
Johnson’s villainy is no mere affair of
social contacts and personal idiosyn-
crasies. It embraces the whole outlook
of his generation, and worked disastrous
havoc in the generation that followed
him.
This is not too big an indictment to
bring against him, for we see by what
Voltaire did for France what Johnson
did not do for England. French culture
and outlook on life was just as stagnant
as that of England before Voltaire, in-
fusing fresh energy as he destroyed, made
his vitriolic and sardonic attack on all its
false sentiment, its mental apathy, its
formularised arts and its refusal to face
life realistically. To be sure, there was
one purely destructive agent working
against Voltaire’s constructive attack, in
that obscene hater, Rousseau, whose
malevolence, under its normal guise of
love for man, let loose the Revolution on
France. But once that dirty episode was
over, the clarified energy of mind inspired
by Voltaire found its outlet in that
splendid outburst of creative activity
which made France fob a century the
cultural centre of the world.
And Johnson was equipped, with only
a racial variation, with precisely the same
faculty of mind as Voltaire. A ruthless.
hard-headed rationality in all common
affairs of life, a refusal to be duped by
false pretensions and “generosities” of
emotion, a sardonic contempt for the
chicanery of politics and affairs generally,
and a complete scepticism of all claims
to human integrity.
All that is revealed infallibly in John-
son’s talk. One can Only snatch at a few
instances to demonstrate the real outlook
of his mind. To a lady who queried the
existence of intrinsic good in mankind
he said that there was no more natural
good in man than in a dog or a wolf.
Civilisation was only possible if mankind
was kept in a state of subordination to
a system of society based on class distinc-
tions. He saw the real significance of
Rousseau: “I think him the worst of
men ; a rascal who should be hunted out
of society. I would have him work on
the plantations.” One could multiply
instances of his sound judgment on affairs
and his insistence that only under an
aristocratic principle of domination could
the dog and wolf in man be kept in a
state of subjection.
Johnson was at his best in demolishing
sugared falsities of sentiment and
altruistic pretensions to nobility of mind
in humanity at large. Baretti, a member
of Johnson’s circle, had killed a man in
a brawl and was on trial for his life, and
Boswell remarked to Johnson that he had
seen a letter from Tom Davies to Foote
the actor, telling of how he could not
sleep for concern over “this sad affair
of Baretti,” and at the same time recom-
mending Foote to an industrious young
man who kept a pickle shop. Said John-
son :
“Aye, Sir, here you have a specimen of
human sympathy; a friend hanged or a
cucumber pickled. We know not whether
Baretti or the pickle-man keeps Davies
from his sleep.”
Boswell: “I have often blamed myself
for not feeling for others as sensibly as
many say they do.”
Johnson: “Sir, don’t be duped by them
any more. You will find these feeling
, people are not very ready to do you good.
They pay you with feeling.”
This bludgeon of sardonic common-
sense, if brought down on the mental
outlook of a society which accepted false
sentiment for refinement of mind,
moralistic axioms as evidence of moral
integrity, and Miltonic abstractions for
the realities of daily life, would have had
a devastating effect. It would, of course,
have at first aroused outcries of fury, but
that would be the evidence of a moribund
condition of mind startled from its inertia,
into an active state of defensiveness.
No one was ever so perfectly equipped
for such a task as Johnson. He was pug-
nacious, as robust in body as in mind,
and he had gone through the initial tough
experience of life which gave him a first-
hand knowledge of the conditions on
which he was designed to launch his
attack.
Where a special faculty of mind is
evident, there must lie also the conscience
problem of that mind’s work. And when
we turn from Johnson’s talk to his writ-
ings, we find that they do everything to
maintain the state of moral stagnation
which his talk attacked. His essays are
wretched little homilies, scribbled in a
mechanised prose, with the haste of get-
ting rid of a distasteful job. No wonder
he constantly insisted that no man wrote
except for money. The stuff he wrote
was the hack journalism of his period,
based on the understanding that sermons
were bestsellers. His dictionary was an-
other piece of hack labor, devised to
make money while staving off bad con-
science for not doing his proper work.
His “Vanity of Human Wishes” alone
has a touch of sincerity in it, by its
brooding pessimism over the malice of
rfe which defeats all aspirations of happi-
ness, but there is no real punch in it.
Johnson was no poet. It was essential to
his job that he should have no ear for
music, no eye for pictures, and no sensi-
tivity to thfe poetic image. His job was
prose; not the stylised dullness of his
writing but the intimate vitality of his
talk.
Can anyone at this date doubt that
something, went very wrong with the
arrival of a new episode of culture in
England at the dawn of the nineteenth
century? What that arrival needed was
a refreshed perception of actuality, a re-
valuing of human motives, and a.scep-
ticism of all ritualised morality. It needed
a vigorous forerunner to clear the way
for a free expression of its own concept
of life recorded in art.
But when the new writers emerged
they found all ways still bogged in the
outlook and stylism of a dead century.
We can see that dead century’s effect in
the baroque unreality of Keats’s “Endy-
mion,” in Byron’s jog-trot tales in verse,
and in Shelley’s inability to get out of
a Miltonic limbo of abstractions. Words-
worth alone made a brave effort to re-
store a realistic imagery to poetry by his
“Peter Bell” and his village bucolics, but
he had better have left it alone. The
artist cannot do two jobs at once.
What could the unhappy poets do in
that vitiated atmosphere still permeated
by the exhalations of a defunct earth?
The lumbering figure of Johnson obscured
all efforts to see clearly; he was still
accepted as the arbiter of morality and
ethics. After a very brief struggle, poetry
more or less gave up the ghost in Eng-
land. Byron and Shelley allowed them-
selves to be hunted out of the country.
Keats wilfully sought death at the age
of 24. Coleridge took to drink and
drugs.
And Dickens, it must be remembered,
was born into that muddle of demoralised
values in life and art. Consider what
Dickens ‘would have been if Balzac’s
psychological integrity had been added
to his own Shakspearean capacity in the
creation of life-size humanity. Balzac
owed that integrity to Voltaire; Dickens
owed his submission to popular morality
to Johnson.
We have seen, in our own time, what
one resolute, courageous forerunner can
do for an episode of culture in the pheno-
menal effect of Mencken on American
literature. Before Mencken, America
was damned to the worst inferno of wow-
serism and puritanism that ever infected
a community. With a rapier in one hand
and a brickbat in the other, Mencken
cleared the road for the arrival of a
freed expression in literature which has
gained the world’s respect for American
culture and given it a sound basis on
which to build its future effort. Mencken
is America’s Voltaire, and has not yet
been accorded the homage that will be
paid him in the future. This country, un-
happily, has not been given a Mencken.
Its literature is still at the mercy of any
prowling wowser. For that we, also, can
thank Sam Johnson for his refusal to
bludgeon English puritanism into a
partial subjection to the need for a free
expression in the arts.
It is futile to speculate on what John-
son might have done for English letters
had he taken his stand, as he was meant
to, and as his conversation showed he
could, for freedom against repression, for
realism against abstraction ; but at least
it is necessary to point how powerful,
and how repressive, his influence still is.
It reigns, to the distortion of the truth,
in both The Hooded Hawk and Ursa
Major : for of course the biographers
have attacked Boswell, Wilkfes and Mrs.
Thrale not only because of their literary
need for a villain but because they accept
without question the Johnsonian ethic
that Vice and Virtue must be printed in
capital letters. Vulliamy, though he has
a donnish wit, and freely uses the post-
Freudian analysis of motives, cannot
forgive Mrs. Thrale for being gay, charm-
ing and attractive to men, Wyndham Lewis
thinks Wilkes was the Dfevil in person,
and neither of them can forgive Boswell
for having written an immortal book and
been frank about his love affairs. Both
are survivals of the typical moralistic
Englishman of Johnson’s era.
These modern biographers, raging at
Boswell’s morals, and admitting his ability
but denying his mental capacity, have, in
fact, been lured into the very trap
in. which, in his own day, Boswell
captured specimens of the same kind
for his analysis of human, person-
ality. Boswell had an exterior perfectly
designed for the exercise of his special
faculty of observation. Under the dis-
arming guise of a jolly, good-humored
fellow, he was secure from detection as
a sardonic, malicious and tolerant investi-
gator of mankind at large, and the in-
tegrity of his mind is nowhere more mani-
fest than in the frankness with which he
turned that same penetrating analysis of'
character on himself.
It is clear that in Boswell’s presence
people automatically lowered their guard,
and so handed themselves over to Boswell
as subject-matter for his art. He had the
perfect mask for assuring mankind that
masks were unnecessary in his presence.
Even when he played the buffoon, it was
with a perfect knowledge that only
thereby might his subject be lured into
buffooneries also. I know of only one
instance where Boswell’s mask slipped,
and that was where he roared with
laughter at Johnson’s indiscreet confes-
sion that he had often thought of keep-
ing a harem. It is a mystery to me that
Johnson did not detect what Boswell was
doing with him as subject-matter, be-
cause he read every word of Boswell’s
journal of their Highland tour; a fact
that Vulliamy should be reminded of,
since he is constantly impugning the in-
tegrity of Boswell’s record.
It is manifestly absurd to credit Bos-
well with genius and denounce him as an
idiot in the same breath. Moreover, these
attackers of Boswell shout at him —as
discoveries of their own —the careful
analysis of his own personality made by
Boswell himself. I know of no other
writer so acutely aware of every facet of
his character as Boswell. He is the
frankest man who ever put himself into
type-matter; franker even than Sam
Pepys, for Pepys revealed himself only in
the privacy of his diary, while Boswell
published himself courageously to the
world at large.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Goblin Circus .
Peter Hopegood’s Circus at World’s
End (Angus and Robertson) offers a prose
introduction, a fair amount of poetry, and
a remarkable collection of goblins. The
introduction sets out in clear terms the
author’s mystical philosophy and deals
in particular with the medieval mystery
ballads, such as “Tam Lin,” which Hope-
good sees as symbolic of “the process or
Regeneration or Rebirth into a larger
sphere of awareness.”
The poetry has sometimes, even when
it is obscure, a singing melody and an
odd and haunting charm that make one
think simultaneously of “Kubla Khan”
and of nursery rhymes —“Charcoal
Fumes,” for instance, or “Betty Martin’s
Summer Song”:
That losel lad, the throstle...
Cock Lorel, Lorelei...
He singeth in the laurel...
His song is all my eye...
He singeth of Malvina-may,
He challengeth the merle,
His counterpoint of morganfay.
His charter from the erle,
He chanteth
Lully lully lay,
Ho-la 01-la Apollo!
Where he is comprehensible Hope-
good shows in “The Frog” that he
can be disarmingly humorous, in “Song”
that he can be delicately lyrical, in
“Spring in Flanders” and “The Die-
Hards” (about a cricket and a cicada)
that he has an eye for nature, in “The
Bargain” that he can write a dramatic
allegorical narrative, and in “Dithyramb
in Retrospect” and “The Protagonist”
that he has poetic vision, as distinct from
philosophical didacticism.
Peter Hopegood can also write effec-
tively in the medieval ballad style:
“Leap, my lord, while there’s life to spare!”
Sir Godfrey leapt from the scaffold stair
And landed astride a saddled mare.
Then off they whisked to an eerie strain
Of bells a-jig in a moon-white mane,
And never were seen in those parts again.
But, as his translation (entitled “Swas-
tika Step-mother”) of a German version
of “Lord Randal” adds little to the
traditional English ballad, so his other
efforts in this field add little to
medieval balladry as a whole. He has
nothing to match the swiftness and pic-
torial directness of “Tam Lin” nor the
drama of “Edward, Edward” ; and, con-
tent to follow his models, he has cer-
tainly not developed the ballad-form into
a personal mode of expression as did
Burns in “Tam O’ Shanter,” Coleridge in
“The Ancient Mariner” or, in our own
time, Yeats in his later writings.
As with the ballads so, on the Whole,
with the poems, whether lyrical, narrative
or indescribable; technically they are
unsatisfactory. In his pursuit of other
mysteries, Hopegood has disregarded the
mystery of- form ; the perfection of the
poetic image by the perfection of tech-
nique. It is not King Ukko of Arcadia
or any other obscure hobgoblin who will
“raise the heckles” of a lover of the arts,
but the Venus de Milo ; and not because
she is a goddess but because she is
beautiful.
Too often Peter Hopegood’s poems re-
mind one of the must and dust of a
secondhand bookshop ; under the counter
of which, living a murky sort of half-life,
are his hobgoblins: “A Caliban, a Kali-
kan, a Clurican, a Leprochan, a Larrikin,
a Lobo, a Loup-Garou, an Ulphin, an Erl,
an Oaf and a Bee-wolfer.” To say no-
thing of a Coyote-Man-Sun-Snarer, Robin
Hood, a Lubberkin, King Ukko and
Queen Wudumaer, the Great Bear-
Cuckoo Makar a Parent, Pan, Lu-Lugh-
Llew-lewd, Kane-loa, Ka, Tangaroa, the
Emereyn, Johnny Faustus, Hugh McCrae
and a thousand other more or less
amiable fantods.
Peter Hopegood, like any other student
of comparative ethnology, is fascinated
by the similarities of myths and legends
all over the world and seeks in these
poems to find the central source of cul-
ture, inspiration or dream from which
they may have sprung. His didacticism,
of course, is hampering him as a poet.
On the whole, because it is clear, well-
written and genuinely exciting to the
mind, there is more genuinely poetic
quality in Hopegood’s prose introduction
than in his verses. His habit of reasoning
by puns or chance similarities of sound
is a disadvantage; for if the word “life”
reminds him of “activity,” “quiver,”
“ever,” “Eva” and “Eve” it could just as
well suggest the opposite of life and
activity, “grieve” or “grave” and so de-
stroy a whole page of argument; but he
is, nevertheless, a genuine visionary whom
nobody could read without interest.
In the range and direction of his
thought, his personification of the
earth as an “angel” and his search for
the divine in and through the primitive,
he reminds one of John Cowper Powys
and C. S. Lewis, with the difference that
he is more the prophet than those fine
novelists and less the artist.


rtoo§-..-
*5
0
•I //
SO YOU CAN SEE HOW IMPORTANT IT IS TO CHECK
THAT COLD from the very outset. Don’t take risks . . .
choose one of these cough and cold remedies now and take
every precaution against your cold turning to bronchitis.
mmm.
by
mmm.
jm.
s
m
w
m
«
%
#
m
K. 7
I*
X
w
\TS
*
iXX
k s**
' p >
tec
p<-'
m
%
4*
dR
■K
S2>/
wl
“CRIPS” Pastilles, excellent for
irritation of the throat , . . allays
coughing. Price 1/11 tin.
WHITE PINE AND TAR Compound Syrup,
the well-known family cough remedy.
Price 1/3 bottle.
PALACE NASAL DROPS, relieves nasal
congestion, hay fever, cold in the head and
catarrh. Price 1/11 bottle.
“OSTOMALT,” a standardised and ex-
tremely appetising preparation of vitamins
X C and D, with Calcium Cylcerophos-
phate. Unlike ordinary Cod Liver Oil and
Malt preparations, Ostomalt produces no
digestive disturbance. Price .... 4/3 jar.
MILK EMULSION contains Vitamins A
Hil I
m and D, equivalent to 50 per cent, of Cod
Liver Oil. Recommended for coughs,
colds, bronchitis, loss of weight and v
wasting diseases. Price, 3/6 bottle
vV m/ METABINOL Compound with
Creosote and Guaiacol. A palat-
able tonic, to be taken as a Jfjß 4^5
general tonic and all chest com- M’mm
plaints. Prices, 3/6, 6/6 bottle y'SMM
; . v * Chemistry-Ground Floor. Pitt St. v WKM&UBBbk. -e
9
V-
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


Carved probably
in the Fourth Dynasty
the Great Sphinx
at Gizeh has stood
against the elements
as a symbol of lasting
endurance for nearly
sixty centuries I
m
SB'
m
ilsW
mm.
o
R
a
Where great strength and enduring
life are factors to be considered in
farm and factory building, it pays
to specify Lysaght’s ‘ORB’ Gal-
vanized Iron! Possessing great
strength, it is permanent, easily
erected, 100% fireproof and im-
pervious to wear and weather.
EYSECHT’S
MUMMZn t*9*
John Lysaght (Australia} Pfty. Ltd.
f
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
300 C.P.
Model Ex 100
Be sure you buy a
TILLEY
STORM LANTERNS \ Look for the name!
TABLE LAMPS
SUSPENSION LAMPS
RADIATORS
INSPECTION LAMPS
WALL LAMPS
FLOODLIGHT PROJECTORS
Tilley Lamps are made only at
Hendon, England.
Be sure you buy a TILLEY
Look for the name !
5,000 c.p.
Floodlight Projector
the TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG.
Australian Representatives:
MELBOURNE: T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street. Melbourne, C.i.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of old Bulletin verse beginning “The
Reverend Arnold Marigold was curate of St.
Swithin’s Fold,” and another beginning “Damn
the squatter’s blasted sjieep.”—4042.
To buy copy of book of Oswald Pryor’s
drawings.—4043.
To buy copy of Australian Nursery Rhymes,
originally printed in The Bulletin in 1917,
and afterwards published in book form by
William Brooks, Sydney.—4041.
To buy copies of World’s End and A World
to Win, by Upton Sinclair.—4044.
To buy pedigreed male Highland Terrier pup.
—4045.
To get in touch with country suppliers of
grass-tree resin.—4047.
To buy copies of Nanda Deve and Blank on
the Map, both by Shipton.—4046.
Information Sought.
What is the present value of tortoise shell?
Is it sold by weight and what firms in Aus-
tralia deal in it?
Trade in this material is almost non-existent.
There was no tortoise shell produced during the
war and there is very little demand for it, as
it has been almost entirely replaced by synthetic
plastics. Before the war it brought about 5s.
per pound according to quality and size of the
shell. Mr. Wirth, Jewellery Department, Pons-
ford, Newman and Benson Pty., Ltd., 56 York-
street, Sydney, would be willing to investigate
the market here if you approached him.
* * * *
Recipe for paint to discourage rabbits from
eating the bark of fruit-trees?
The following mixture will give satisfactory
results: loz. bitter aloes, lib. common soap
cut up fine and I gallon water. The ingredients
should be boiled for about 20 minutes and,
when cool, applied to the butts of trees with
a brush or swab to a height of about 2ft. 9in.
from the ground.
* * * *
(1) Conditions governing appointment as pay-
master-cadet in the R.A.N.? (2) Where to apply
for such admission?
(1) Paymaster cadets are now known as
cadet midshipmen (S). Candidates for this
entry into the Supply and Secretariat
Branch must apply in the calendar year
in which they reach 17; i.e., youths
born in 1930 will be eligible to apply in 1947;
and must have passed the Senior Public or
Leaving Certificate examination, or intend sitting
for one of those examinations in the year they
a PPly- (2) The conditions of entry may be
obtained from v the Naval Authority in the
capital city of each State, or from the Secre-
tary, Navy Office, Melbourne, S.C.I, Victoria
Application forms for this year will be available
in September.
* * * *
What do the small figures within a circle on
cigarette and tobacco packets denote ? Why do
some brands of tobacco carry these markings
and others not?
They are Customs excise marks. The bottom
figure denotes the State of manufacture, and
the top figure is the registered number of the
factory in that State. The State numbers are-
“l” W.A., “2” S.A., “3” Vic., “4” N.S.W,
and “5” Q’land. At the present time it is not
absolutely necessary to put these excise marks
on manufactured tobaccos, but H.M.C. stipulate
that the name and place of manufacture of the
manufacturer shall be on the package. Cigarette
packets, however, must have the excise marks,
and do not need to add the name of the
manufacturer. Some factories have adopted
the custom of putting both excise marks and
their names on cigarettes and tobaccos. This
explains why some ready-rubbed tobacco has
the Customs mark, and some fine cut has not.
♦ * * *
Pronunciation of the word Reward as used
by Kipling in the title of his book, “Rewards
and Fairies”; also meaning and derivation oj
same ?
The title, as used by Kipling, appears to be
taken direct from the poem by Bishop Corbet
(1582-1635), “Farewell to the Fairies,” in
which he mourned the passing of the belief in
fairies with its corollary of elfin rewards and
punishments:
Farewell, rewards and fairies.
Good housewives now may say;
For now foul sluts in dairies
Do fare as well as they.
And though they sweep their hearths no
Than they were wont to do,
Yet who of late for cleanliness
Finds sixpence in her shoe.
No pronunciation other than the commonly
accepted one is given in any reference available.
* * * *
(1) Cork necessary for making cork car-
burettor floats? (2) Ingredients used and
method of preparation of the petrol-proofing
treatment? (3) How to dry out and re-treat
old floats?
(1) Choose cork free of pits and cracks. If
necessary, build to required size by laminating
cork sheet using the glue mentioned below.
(2) Material recommended by Dykes Automobile
and Gasoline Engine Encyclopedia is: Glue
lib., glycerine 1 teaspoonful, and water 1 quart.
Bring to the boil and add a little formaldehyde
for quick drying. Coat the cork and suspend
by a string till dry. (3) Suggest removing the
old coat with sandpaper, drying in sun till
free of petrol, and re-coat with above material.
Brief Answers.
T.E.S.: (1) No Sydney firm could buy poultry
plucked and frozen unless the premises in which
they were killed were approved by the Chief
Veterinary Officer, Department of Commerce
and Agriculture. (2) Full particulars regard-
ing regulations and details for killing and
dressing may be obtained from the department
mentioned. If the premises were approved the
birds could be packed for shipment direct if
desired. (3) A copy of the standard for pro-
cessing feathers is obtainable from The Stand
ards Association, Science House, Gloucester-
and Essex-streets, Sydney, for Is. It is not
possible to advise regarding the cost, which
is dependent upon general facilities and plant
available for this work J.M.R.: Common-
wealth stamps perforated OS for official service
are not valuable. The three you have are not
worth Id. each. The majority of collectors
are not interested in “officials” unless over-
printed, and many collectors do not take any in-
terest in official stamps of any kind. J. H. Smyth
Pty., Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, can
supply a specialised catalogue of Australian
stamps, which gives a list of official perforated
OS stamps and the price at which they may
be purchased; 3s. 9d., posted W.G.M.:
Difficult to diagnose without having examined
specimens. Foliage disorder may be potato
spotted wilt, which is caused by a virus, and
can be spread from infected to healthy plants
by thrips or carried in a proportion of the
tubers from a previously-infected crop. Again,
the disorder may be early blight due to a fungal
organism, Alternaria solani. The scab men-
tioned on the tubers is most likely common
scab, caused by the fungus Actinomyces scabies.
Select and plant only healthy seed in a plot of
ground apart from that in which «the diseased
crop grew. Should you experience future trouble,
forward specimens for diagnosis to the Biologist,
Vic. Agricultural Dept., Melbourne
Posting extract from Ralph Mayer’s The Artist’s
Handbook of Materials and Techniques on
priming a canvas for oil painting L.N.S-^
See any of the following: “Metal Industry’s”
Plating and Finishing Guide Bdok, Kempe’s
Engineering Handbook, and Teed’s Duralumin
and Its Heat Treatment. .. .A.W. and F.S.: A
roneo’d report on pisd construction will be
available shortly from the Commonwealth Ex-
perimental Building Station, Delhi-road, North
Ryde (N.S.W.). Write and ask to be put on
the mailing list for a copy C. 8.8.: 1916
Conscription Referendum figures were: For,
1,087,557; against, 1,100,033; informal, 61,013.
A.I.F. figures were: For, 72,399; against,
52,894; informal, 2520. The 1917 Conscription
Referendum resulted: For, 1,015,159; against.
1,181,747; informal, 61,315. A.I.F. figures
were: For, 103,789; against, 93,910; informal,
1978 T.M.; “Red Page” reviews of works
by Vance Palmer appeared in The Bulletin
as follows; The Man Hamilton (Oct. 24, 19281-
The Passage (March 19, 1930), Daybreak (May
23, 1934), The Swayne Family (Dec. 5, 1934),
Hurricane (Jan. 8, 1936), Legend for Sanderson
(Aug. 4, 1937), and National Portraits (Jan. 1,
1941). General articles on his works appeared
in the issues of Jan. 22, 1930, and Jan. 20, 193/.
D.E.G.: Write Agricultural Dept., Brisbane.
C.G.M.: See article on “Immigration Re-
striction” in The Australian Encyclopcedia, vol-
I, pages 645-655... .F.H.G.: Information re-
garding the control and destruction of dingoes
in Queensland may be obtained from the Lands
Dept., George-street, Brisbane R.E.8.: The
title of the book is The Right of the People
Vindicated and it was printed in 1669..
J. Write N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., corner
Castlereagh- and Market-streets, Sydney.. ••
G.S.: Suggest you call Personal Loans Dept..
Rural Bank of N.S.W., Martin-place, Sydney.
D.L.: Write Robertson and Mullens, Ltd.,
107 Elizabcth-street, Melbourne... .P.McK.:
The story, entitled “The Record,” was by
J. J. Hardic and appeared in The Bulletin,
May 31, 1933.


Position Wanted.
WOMAN seeks position as companion-typiste for
person travelling overseas. —No; 321 Advtj Dept;)
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Missing Friend.
BRIMNER, David Anderson. —Inquiries are being
made as to the whereabouts of David Anderson Brim-'
ner, or, if deceased, his next-of-kin. David Anderson
Brimner believed to have been Toowoomba, Queens-
land, later Sydney, and to have had three daughters;
Anyone knowing the whereabout of David Anderson
Brimner or his next-of-kin requested to com-
municate with THOMAS JOSEPH PURCELL, Sol};
citor, 66 King Street, Sydney, where information to
their advantage can be obtained.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTIf
WALES — In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN MINFORD DODD late of Sydney.'.—
TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM ALFRED DODD has
commenced a Suit No. 2470 of 1947 in this Court;
for Divorce on the ground of desertion If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
.Divorce Office on or before the 25th day of September
1947 and you may obtain a copy of the petition
free of charge from MESSRS. ERIC N. ROWLEY &
CO., Solicitors for the Petitioner, St. James Build-
ings, 107 Elizabeth Street, Sidney.— (l.s.) C; K."
BODY. Registrar in Divorce.
c, THAT* .
<y> m *
9
%
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious Individual executor is subject to
accident, Illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTOKS —James Burns - Joscpto Mitchell - P. X. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton * Eric Priestley Fee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. K. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE;’ 'BU 5901. Box 543 SP O - B*d 8 * dn **
BP 444,
HARTS
Circular Charts to* all types of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specially.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get out quotation
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O 10.
THE “ ‘WILD CAT* MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
2/- per copy. 22/6 a year post free.
LEARN TO MAKE A
CLOV cocKm
Entertaining is twice as easy twice as
happily informal if a cocktail which
'‘hits the spot” is served.
Here is one which tastes delicious, is
quite simple to prepare, and has that
“difference” which makes people look
hopefully for a second one.
mi
•- ■
m
rM
a
Mix Vickers Gin and Italian
Vermouth in the proportion of
Vickers to 1 Vermouth,
according to number of cocktails
required. Add white of one egg
and juice of half an orange. Add
crushed ice, whip, strain, and
serve with a cherry.
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
From the worhTs most famous and popular recipes
50 reliable, appetising and easy-to-make cocktails
and long drinks have been collected in an attractive
FREE book. You may have a copy with pleasure
by writing to The United Distillers Pty. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Mt/ts Stem BOOK
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VGIS/33
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
R.F.J.: Doesn’t the Main Roads Board ever
say anything except “The roal goes through .
R.E.S.: Four lines, then, though you should
be court-martialled for the rhyme:
P.T.T.: Chifley’s “golden age” won’t bring
you any profits, that’s certain E.M.H.:
Possibly, possibly: —
E.M.: Boil it down V.G.: Regret we
cannot publish your experiences as a
Mamadryad... .8.P.:
Oh, little Elfin Man, what is that you’re making?
Is it for the Fairy Queen? I hope I’m not mistaken.
Why, I do believe it’s a daisy chain and there are
violets, too,
Will you not make me one, please, oh, please do?
No, we won’t make you a daisy chain today.
A.O.: Your poetry suffers from exuberance
of emotion and inefficiency of technique
C. 8.: Would that we owned a bicycle and were
with you:—•
We cycled away one sunny day
Out of the city and far away.
C.D.: “Strange, isn’t it?” Yes E.H.:
The usual S.E.H.: “Lazy Man’s Paradise”
needs 40 hours’ work on it. Or 400... .P.R.D.:
Not a bad bit of verse about an old dray, but
surely your paint hasn’t peeled? ... .J.G.: Too
long, too prosy, too 1005 e... .J. 8.: Regrettable.
. ...1.D.: After reading “The Bush Picnic” we
think that you had better send the others you
have in hand to some other editor... .S.M.:
The sort of sweet trifle a young suitor might
write to read to his girl friend P.M.:
Doesn’t your heroine do anything else except
“sit gazing towards the purple hills, awaiting
her beloved’s return”? ... .C.A.: Tale of back-
alley crooks much too seamy for us... .J.A.J.:
We will try to struggle along without your
philosophical treatises... .S.P.P.: More a uni-
versity essay than a tale for The Bulletin ....
H.McK.: A slipshod attempt G.R.: N 0....
K.J.S.: It would take a “Kodak” to do justice
to the drunk who slept in an elephant’s cage.
.... J.P.: Four times as long as we want them.
. ...F.R.W.: Just an orgy of sickly adjectives.
. ...M.A.: A new writer stands as good a
chance as old regulars; it is the story that
counts... .J.M.: The description doesn’t fit an
Australian cattle station W.M.: Not a bad
tale, but too close to a recent one in an over-
seas magazine J.G.; The average schoolgirl
could do better... .S.C.; Somebody put a
goanna in somebody else’s bed arid you take
5000 words to record the occurrence... .D.C.W.;
You’re right; yours is a “totally inexperienced
hand” B.B.: That theme has long since been
worn threadbare, and you don’t infuse anything
fresh into it....C.P.: Take away the scenery
and there’s nothing left R.J.F.: Didn’t we
warn off that sentimental burglar months ago?
G.D.P.: There’s a machine-like quality
about that crime story that queered its pitch.
E.C.A.: That well-spoken cadger has visited
us in many guises... .N.Y.; If we want articles
of that description we could go to the encyclo-
paedias ourselves... .T.H.: Tell the story
straightforwardly. No saloon-bar customer
would spin it your fashion G.S.: As soon
as we read that there was a good-looking
young boarder next door we knew that she
would catch him... .A.8.H.; If your golf is
no better than your golf story you must have
a record handicap 0.F.W.: Not hankering
for tales about mad inventors... .F.R.: Realis-
ing that the tall, blonde bloke would save her
life and eventually marry her, our interest
waned... .C.C.A.; Too obvious that the curios
would turn out to be fakes.. . .A.P.: Drunken
husband —patient wife —noble friend entangle-
ment. No thanks... .E.R.: Breaking stones
is easy and pleasant work compared
with reading such prose... .W.D.A.: Full
of errors geographical, historical and
grammatical... .G.W.W.: Mere bubble and
froth, hardly excused even by your
tender years W-N.: A chapter of ordinary
mishaps that have been recorded on innumer-
able occasions F.W.: Sundowner’s demise
wins this week’s prize for bathos A.M.:
Constant repetition of the line “Bang! Another
shot rent the still night air” merely gave us
the jumps 8.W.; You write a most exas-
perating hand. And when it is deciphered it
hardly pans out a grain to the dish T.L.:
Very tedious and involved G. 8.: Those hen-
pecked husbands who become strong-arm bullies
overnight are a myth M.J.A.; It reads like
a pub-corner loafer’s day-dream E).C.J.;
It’s hardly worth getting up at sunrise to
transfer thoughts like those to paper... .R.M.:
You make a very poor fist of that ancient
anecdote about a Chinaman W.M.B. { Don’t
know what on earth you’re driving at....
N.G.J.: The worst we could say of your effort
is that it’s too high-flown, too grandiose. .•.«
A.J.: It hasn’t even the makings of a bad
sermon in it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J P.: Having started you might as well have
finished the job... .G.G.C.: Among this week s
black sheep....H.K.W.: Two heavy-handed
efforts R.C.W.: You might be able to dis-
pose of the serpents’ to the local snake-charmer.
. ...D.S.: No swimming space in our waters
for your tree-eating shark D.8.G.: Not one
of the four survived for more than 10 seconds.
...MK.H.: A neat drawing, but not a laugh
in the jest HJ.B.: Faint and untidy
scratches and a feeble wheeze .... AjMcK. :
Nothing in the ideas to make us want to dip
into our pockets... .E.J.T.: Your surfers safely
steered their way to the w.p.b W.J.: From
what freak fowlyard did those weird-looking
birds escape? F.M.: The work of an un-
trained hand... .A.D.H.: Back to the kinder-
garten T.E.R.: Picture of drunk hiccupmg at
the moon received and returned... .S.W.: Unlike
your swaggies you haven’t even reached the
straight yet... .A.E.:Take that bright child away
and keep him under lock and key M.G.:
Unable to smile at sketch of flapper dreaming
of her knut Tov.: We’re not competing
for your drawing of a wasps’ nest F.J.M.:
Big game-hunter’s wife caught in the coils ot
a python is a very old friend... .M.G. :
(Dunedin): You’re the first artist we’ve met
who is so in love with his own gags that he
does half-a-dozen almost identical drawings of
each D.C.: We’ve long lost count of the
number of times we’ve heaved that ancient out.
Thfde service o'er so blast the war,
The world’s all honky-tonky.
So hero we stand with outstretched hand
To welcome you, 0 Monty.
Why do men strike? Refuse
To work and down their tools?
Is it the lure of wealth,
An envy felt for those that have?
Though they know it not, or care,
It is an inner urge
To reach the higher plane,
Evolve a better way of life.


The new Sony
By
JAMES
HACKSTON
WHEN the teacher said we were to
have a new song I was pleased,
and hoped that I would not be
caned as, I had been over the
others. When he came to Red Range we
had to sing all the patriotic songs about
boys of the bulldog breed, Britons never
shall be slaves, sons of the sea sailing every
ocean; songs I’d never heard before.
I only knew about kangaroo-dogs,
kelpies, Queensland heelers and other
dogs of mixed breeds ; and had the boys
been of any of these breeds I’d have
probably put more feeling into that part
of the song; or if they’d been of the
same breed as Kulp’s big brown dog with
the yellow eyes Fd have done better still.
Kulp’s dog was half dingo and half cattle
dog and would go straight for a man’s
throat, so Kulp said. I’d have put all my
marbles (including the bloods) on him to
beat any dog.
We, too, had a dog’at the time that we
had trained specially to keep Indian
hawkers away; half retriever and half
St. Bernard; but to look at him you’d
have thought he had something of the
Clydesdale in him, too, and we had him
tied up with a trace-chain, like an ele-
phant.
When he took a mouthful of dog it was
the end of that dog, and we had to de-
stroy him in the end, after he’d developed
the ambition to kill hawkers outright. Up
against this dog, being boys of the bull-
dog breed did not impress me, either,
and had our dog’s breed been mentioned
I’d have put still more ginger into the
song. “Lion,” as we called him, took me
so long to let him off the chain that by
the time I’d won the fight the hawker
would be well on his way to Wagga
Wagga.
In the circumstances, I did not put into
the song the requisite amount of
melodious pride that should go with the
successful singing of that part of the song
where the bulldog breed is specially men-
tioned.
'"THEN there was that about the sons
* of the sea sailing every ocean —and
sea. None of us in Red Range had ever
seen the ocean, or even a sea, and the
fact, worthy as it was, that the sons had
sailed every one of them did not impress
me as much as had they sailed right down
the Murray in a bark boat, as I was
going to do.
Such a declaration would have kindled
my feelings to the right pitch and made
me feel more like lifting the roof off the
school —anyway, if not that part of the
roof that was the more securely nailed
on, then that part which was not securely
nailed on and which flapped and banged
every time wind blew and let the rain
come in on to our books when it rained.
In these circumstances, as before, the
fire of my singing did hot tally with the
correct singing of that part of the song
where the oceans—and the seas —come in.
In regard to the fact that Britons never
shall be slaves, I remembered how my
English sire had informed the old Ger-
man of it, and how the old German had
laughed and said “Tat pe tamned,” and
my English sire and he had a row and
almost came to blows over it and dis-
solved their friendship. The German
used to give me honeycomb for helping
him with his bees ; but after the dissolu-
tion I lost my job—and my honeycomb.
After I’d heard the song I wished that
my sire had sung to the German about
it instead of swearing it at him. The
German was musical and played the
fiddle, and the song may not have made
him quite so mad and I’d have still been
getting my honeycomb.
In the circumstances (quite personal,
of course) I saw no reason to lay any
particular emphasis on that part of the
song where the slaves come in.
The one and only occasion on which I
held my hand out for the national
anthem, though, was the day I laughed at
the abo. kids singing it; but in this case
it was my sense of humor that got me
into trouble. However, innocent as I
was, my conduct was taken as an act of
disloyalty to the Queen and I received six
cuts of the cane on the left hand, which,
in addition to the fact that I had now
created suspicion in the teacher’s mind
as to my loyalty to the throne, was the
wrong hand for receiving punishment.
I’d have rather taken nine cuts on the
right than six on the left; for my right
palm was always prepared with resin in
preparation for the day’s work. After
that, however, I attended barracks with
both hands primed with wattle gum,
which had been thoughtfully recom-
mended me, in readiness for the day’s
work.
Educated to take cane daily I became
a student of cane, the practice of
caning and the various methods
used by teachers when in action.
Of course different teachers, dif-
ferent styles; and I discovered
that cane itself was used in a
different manner according to the
number of cuts demanded.
I had observed, also, that some teachers
play with the cane; others confine it
strictly to business ; and that some cane
carries a dignity in punishment, a lesson
to be nobly learned, whereas cane in some
instances makes a mockery of chastise-
ment and is but a common instrument
whereby a bad liver may be relieved
under the guise of reformative treatment.
Ky4Y teacher was a twiddler with the
cane; but, although he had no fine
stance when using it, and his person
always seemed off that proper balance
which is necessary, as in golf, still, for
all that, he had a good swing.
But it was not a cane that a boy would
look up to in any way, as a man can still
look up to a Judge although that Judge
had just sentenced him to twenty years’
hard, with incidentals.
It was not an aloof cane ; he’d point it.
No cane should be pointed ; it loses its
dignity. Let it lie on the table in full view
of its future clients. In this manner its
presence is felt more than when it is being
used as a plaything to scratch the back,
rub mosquito bites, attack the mosquitos
or aim at persistent blowflies.
When in action it should be taken up
quietly and slowly ; not hurriedly, osten-
tatiously or obviously in bad temper;
and when operated it should be raised
with dignity; held high as that sword
that hangs over ill-fated heads.
It should be then brought down with
a decisive action that intimates character,
cleanness of stroke, force, spring, come-
back and dynamic stinging power.
Being a twiddler, my teacher would
bend it and make it spring about as if it
were performing an acrobatic act of
some kind. He’d tickle the air with it
like a cat endeavoring to make a mouse
see the humor of the situation before
being eaten.
He’d practise fancy strokes and thrusts
in the manner of a fencing master or as
if exercising the cane itself. Then he’d
come to the conclusion that he himself
was also in trim ; that he felt so well that
he would likfc to be playing tennis some-
where.
Then, as if to keep his eye in or maybe
to develop a new technique or a fancy
slice or drive he had long had in mind
but never tried, he’d cane an imaginary
boy and give the imaginary boy the full
number of cuts that were to be delivered
to the real boy, and all this while the
real boy was standing waiting to take it.
Exhibitionism!
ALSO, as a student of cane, I dis-
covered that a caning develops in
severity or decreases in severity while
being administered, according to the edu-
cational subject that brings it into action.
For instance: arithmetic was allotted
slicing cuts that increased in volume;
geography, sharp stinging cuts that de-
creased in volume; grammar, short cuts
that remained even ; and pellets of paper
thrown at a teacher when nodding and
about to drift into slumber, long wide-
sweeping momentum-gathering cuts, with
an action reminiscent of the champion
whip-cracker.
As for poetry: poetry was not deemed
worthy of any cuts at all, and was used
mostly as an extra punishment. In addi-
tion, I noticed that cane, when used in
conjunction with patriotic song of a
combative nature, is generally wielded
in unison with the fighting spirit of the
song.
Having come by all this wisdom and
lore in the fire of experience, naturally,
the nature of the new song—when we did
come to sing it —was a matter of great
moment to me,
I hoped for something peaceful; a song
that would not get me the cane, and also
one that, when it echoed out on to the
road, would not make poor old Smoky
Jim, who lived in the bark hut without
the chimney, rush out of his hut and want
to fight everybody.
There were songs I could sing, too ;
songs my Grannie brought from Scot-
land :
Johnnie Smith, fellow fine,
Can ye shoe this horse o’ mine?
Yes, indeed, an’ that I can.
Just as weel as any man,
First a bit upon the toe
For to make the pony go;
Then a bit upon the heel
To make the pony go trot wheel, trot wheel,
All the way hame.
T D sung that song into shafts, up rabbit
1 burrows and hollow logs, over hills,
down gullies, along the roads; sung it to
the hare in his forme, the teal on the
dam ; to the wild steers, the rocks and the
ranges.
My mother used to sing it to me when
she played with me in my tub, which was
my cradle, and when she’d come to the
middle of the song she’d shoe the soles
of my feet by slapping them with her
hand and then move them up and down
to make them go trot wheel, trot wheel all
the way hame.
In fairness to my teacher, though, I
didn’t expect anything like this from
him, impressionable though he was.
The cradle I’d had, although not con-
forming to the acknowledged, and usual,
form of design as used by better people,
had many advantages all the same.
It would have been handy to put a net
over (if we’d had one); so, one of our
sheets, which fortunately possessed the
requisite number of holes to let the air
in and not suffocate me, and yet was not
too holed, was used to prevent most of
the flies, mosquitos, beetles, march flies,
blowflies and horsestingers from attacking
me.
When my cradle was placed in the top
of the old red iron tank of ours that had
been industriously cut down for the pur-
pose and the tank-top flooded with an
inch or so of water, I was also safe from
scorpions, centipedes, black ants, red ants,
sugar ants, snakes, frilled lizards, red-
backed spiders and spiders without red
backs; not counting in those more pro-
gressive ones that sometimes ambushed
me from above by dropping stealthily on
me, or by making contact with me per
web; and those with aquatic tendencies,
which swam in search of prey.
JUST about the time we were to sing
the new song our family’s philosophi-
cal outlook was in close demand. We
were successfully poor. We didn’t have
to argue as to whether our porridge
should have sugar on it or whether we’d
be real Scots and put salt on it —it was
flour porridge. '•
We were not living so sumptuously that
we broke out in boils ; none of that eat-
ing to excess, for instance. According to
our austere table, we were proof against
that testimonial to fine living—gout. We
didn’t have gout; and we were saved
from indigestion, too.
Nor did our palate become jaded at an
early age.
Things being so, I, in addition to being
a student of cane, also became a
student of those simple forms of food
with which I had had to cope, and still
had to cope.
Technically, to eat flour porridge suc-
cessfully, the diner must ever keep in
mind that man eats to supply his body
with energy, to feed the bloodstream. If
you, while eating flour porridge, forget
that fact and believe that man eats more
to please his palate, then you fail down
on flour porridge.
There was one advantage about flour
porridge, however, as far as I was con-
cerned, and that was that, after having
my breakfast, 1 could make use of some
of my breakfast to gum together any
leaves of my school-books that had be-
come torn, or mend a- broken exercise-
book.
Then there was my lunch—bread and
fat; not dripping; not that gravy-drip-
ping that teams so well with salt and
pepper; that has the rich jelly at the
bottom of the jar. But fat, hard-caked
unflinching fat that has been through
the frying pan so often, and been burnt
so often, that it has developed into a
black, burnt, glue-like composition where-
in stale relics of charred onion, meat,
potato and fried bread lie embedded in its
asphalt-like composition. The sort of
fat that, in winter, takes a chisel to lever
from the jar.
To spread it you heat it, after which
operation it reverts to type; with the
difference, however, that, instead of being
one concrete whole, it splits itself up
into a series of flat slabs.
I N addition to being a student of cane
' usage, flour-porridge usage, and bread
and fat usage, I also found time to make
a study of the art of receiving cane; a
study of more importance to me than the
delivery.
There were several styles in our school
and each separate style or method had its
own followers or disciples. Of course
some kids belonged to no fixed organi-
sation at all, and took delivery in a manner
which lacked ambition.
Others, being conservative, relied on old
worthless out-of-date prescriptions for the
palm that h% long been outmoded.
Others, being skites, adopted the take-it-
as-if-they-liked-it style, which generally
let them down.
Possum, the abo. boy, was school
champion and set a standard of dignity
and reserve that was highly commendable.
He had, for one thing, that perfect con-
trol of eye —no blinking and I had
noticed that his solid, redoubtable, deep,
black, unflinching stare, in addition to
showing or registering no sign of pain or
complaint in any way whatsoever, had
(i Continued on page 32.)
I Only Know.
Who knows what clenched, titanic hand
Poised earth on the kip, and tosses it
spinning
Endlessly sunwise, with no winning
Fall of predicted heads, no odds
Yielding the takings our hearts demand?
I only know my hand goes out
To its warm goal, and our twined
fingers
Press time to an arc of joy that lingers
Spanning our heaven, an iris to mark
The sun that ends our showers of
doubt.
Who knows what ancient, indigenous eyes
Watched the birth of the Jamieson
Valley
In its huge travail, and kept the tally
Of the mountains leaping like new-shorn
sheep.
Rearing blue ranges to scallop the skies ?
I only know that my eyes caress
That moon-bared whiteness of brow
whereunder
Her face is a jonquil flower, till wonder
Alights on this hour like a butterfly,
With white wings poised in loveliness.
Who knows what dark, memorial word
Creeps haunting from echoed pasts in
sighing
Voices of casuarinas when flying
Possums blacken the moon, and the trek
Of the Cross is a tramping cloudily
heard ?
I only know that her voice, in the day
or night,
Is the sound making for one rich
hearer
Songs in the blood, its lilting clearer
Than Falls of Lodore in the Valley of
Waters,
That flow in cadenzas of crystal delight.
A.C.T.
T. INGLIS MOORE.


ARCADIAN EXPRESS
By BRIAN JAMES
OFFICIALLY
—starkly and
stiffly—it was
“Kelly’s Hill
Branch Line,” but
mostly it was called
the “Little Line.” The
course its train took,
from Willa Junction
to Kelly’s, was no distance at all, but
there was nothing little about the time
it took to get there.
Willa was a very big place, full of
bustle and big shops and garages, foun-
dries, factories, church steeples, hotels,
banks, jail, court-house and so forth;
and ever so many busy people. Most of
them had never heard of Kelly’s, or, if
they had, they never thought of it. Nor
did the swagger of that appendage
“Junction” have any reference to Kelly’s,
but to the big line’s branching off south-
ward from Willa.
All day and all night to and fro all
the time went the big trains through
Willa. They clanged and roared, and
snorted and shrilled ; they lumbered and
rumbled, or they flew with shrieks and
wails that died away eerily in the dis-
tances- great express engines—superior,
supercilious, arrogant; smaller “pas-
sengers,” not a whit less provoking in
their assumptions; great, grey, greasy-
looking “goods,” with all the pride of a
worker among the idle rich he despises,
and reiterating with a childish vanity
“I’m a worker! I am! ” or, “See how
strong I am! ” And with jerks and bumps
and clangs, these “goods” would drag a
string of trucks behind them a quarter of
a mile long, or even more.
And the crews of all these trains, and
even the passengers, took upon them-
selves something of these airs, to illus-
trate perhaps a foolish pride in that most
illusory thing—Progress.
What a change there was when you
headed north for Kelly’s! Here were
some of the leisure and the graces of the
past. No rush, no bustle, no craze for
straight lines, no straining for extra speed.
The “Little Line” just crept very modestly
out of the Willa streets, most politely
avoiding those ugly man-made obstacles,
or those in the way of nature, like big
trees or deep watercourses.
Surveyors and engineers of that line
had some streak of poetry in them —and
it is not unlikely that Kelly’s was the
only line they ever made. And the
engine on the “Little Line” was a little
old man of an engine, a good deal past
his prime, but strong yet, pardonably
proud that a good clean life had con-
served in him all this strength. A bit
timid, too, as old age often is, among
the young and progressive. Still, not
apologetic either, for that engine was
doing his job. Perhaps, pathetic, for no
engine went out of Willa half so clean
and spruce and shiny—just a touch of
the old dandy sleeking the last few strands
of hair to cover his bald patch.
That engine was short, with a real
smoke-stack—none of those short snouts
like a prize Berkshire, a real stack that
George Stephenson could have admired.
There were filings and gadgets, too,
hardly ever seen elsewhere, except in old
pictures. Especially the cow-catcher—-a
rather grim affair like a row of slanting
teeth. But in reality the “catcher” was
an ornament, like a ceremonial sword,
for that engine would never catch a cow
even if it could.
At Willa Junction you were told by
obscure notice, or in a sort of oral con-
tempt, that the train for Kelly’s left No.
5 at 9.7. That was something definite
and precise. Fitting enough, no doubt,
for the rest of Willa, but quite misplaced
as to Kelly’s.
\y OU looked for No. 5, and at last
t discovered that Willa, in its shame of
if, had tucked it away near a goods shed,
as far out of sight as possible. Not a
brick platform, stone-coped, and covered
neatly in Sodwalls granitb, but a short
and rough affair of disused sleepers.
And there the engine, groomed and
polished, would be staring kindly at you,
and puffing purposefully from its healthy
old lungs.
Behind it are two carriages, with half of
the last one marked “First.” Apparently
the carriages are makebelieve, for no one
is in them—first or second. But later
you learn —“They leave it to the last
minute,” and, “There’s never many at
this time of day.” Behind the carriages
are the trucks; one of them nicely filled
with clean blue-metal, the next with
heavy boxes of goods and the red and
blue of some sort of farm machinery;
the last three are louvre vans filled now
with empty boxes.
There are evidences here and there of
slow-motion activity, but nothing much
seems to be done. The driver, or maybe
the fireman, steps down with a fistful of
waste and flicks off a speck from the
flank of the engine, and calls out “Hsy,
Tom!” and says something or other to
Tom. Then he climbs back. The fire-
man, or it may be the driver, steps down
with a long spouted oiling can and prods
it into various places and apertures, and
calls out “What I was saying, Jack”—and
says something or other to Jack. Then he
climbs back, and Tom and Jack 101 l in
the cab.
The engine keeps on breathing deeply.
The guard comes out of a little shed
as though it were a confessional box,
glances respectfully up and down his
train and takes a stub of a pencil from
his ear and writes something or other
in a little black book with a fastener to
it, just as if he were noting the penance
he got. The guard is an old man with
some relics of importance left upon him,
as though he had once been a lot higher
up, and then been shoved back on
account of his age.
Now he went forward, rather baggily,
and made some funny remark or other to
Tom and Jack. Then he bored out his
right ear with his little finger as a kind
of appreciation of the laugh he got. He
went off again, rather baggily, and Tom
said to Jack, “Old George is a doer,”
and Jack said to Tom “A real citizen,
he is.”
The engine kept on breathing deeply.
And at intervals blew its nose, as it were,
of an accumulation of steam it didn’t
want.
The guard came out of his cubby in the
forward carriage and looked at his watch.
Then he put the watch back in his vest
pocket and didn’t seem upset about it.
You look at your watch, and according
to the absurd accuracy of the busy world,
it is 9.30. But it doesn’t matter in the
little world of No. 5 platform.
A stout woman with a pleasant red
face ambles into view. She belongs to the
soil, and many tractable fowls, and fruit
cases, and packing, and the milking of a
sleek Jersey cow. At least, she looks
these things. Otherwise not of very high
intelligence, but with something even
better—contentment.
“Gee!” she says, “it’s hot all right,”
and mops her face with a handkerchief
large enough to cover a small bed. She
has her “shopping” in a bag of bushel
capacity,
“Come on, Cedric,” she says to a small
boy clad like a burlesqued sailor. Cedric
has a bandage round his face. A decent
looking lad with a multitude of freckles.
He goes to the other edge of the platform
and spits out a mouthful of blood. The
stout woman speaks to Jack and Tom.
“Thought we’d miss it,” she said.
Tom and Jack laughed. Jack said,
“You’d miss nothing, Mrs. Morgan.”
Then the three of them laughed.
“What’s wrong?” asked Tom when the
humor of this faded a little.
“Sorley’s got away before we were
ready.”
“Ah!” says Tom. “But Cedric?”
“Tooth!” says the stout woman. “Too
many lollies these days.” She didn’t make
complaint of it, however.
The engine breathed on.
The guard stepped down again, and
apparently went to confession once more.
And made another note of additional
penance.
“Come here, Cedric!” called the stout
woman. “Or you’ll miss this, too! That
must have referred to Sorley, whoever
or whatever he was.
The guard again looked at his watch,
with no visible signs of perturbation. You
looked at your watch. It said 17 to 10.
Jack and Tom lolled on and kept up a
smooth conversation. The stout woman
and Cedric got into the second-class
part of the rear carriage.
Then a young fellow strolled up with
a confidept air of amiable wickedness.
He seemed to consider eternity had
already begun. He dumped down a
leather bag of tools near the cab. He
spoke to Tom and Jack, and both went
into that meaning bellow of laughter
that indicates a “good one, that is!”
But the engine decided just then to
sneeze, so you couldn’t hear it. Evidently
something new, popular and topical. Pity
to have missed it, really.
A girl of 19 or 20 came along, good-
looking in a heavy way. A stranger, it
seemed. The young fellow “took her in,”
and made a remark. Jack and Tom
grinned lazily.
“Is this,” said the girl tq the guard,
“the train for Kelly’s Hill?”
Old George pondered the question a
good while as though Kelly’s Hill might
easily be out of his reckoning, but it was
really the display of enormous ignor-
ance that worried him. Then he answered
non-committally—“Well, I reckon it
should be.”
“And do you stop at Rectory Corner?”
“We do,” said George with decision.
“We certainly do. This is not a through,
vou know ”
The young fellow and Jack and Tom
listened in
•Tm going to Murray’s-that’s at Rec-
tory Corner isn’t it?”
“Yes, the’Big Place they call it. And
you’d be Mavis, now, wouldn’t you?”
George shed some of his bagginess and
assumed a long forgotten gallantry.
The girl smiled simply. “T’m going
to work there, you know.”
George said “Ah!” with satisfaction.
The engine sneezed twice more and
breathed on heavily,
Without any known or visible reason
for it, the guard straightened up quite
suddenly, and without even looking at his
watch, called out sternly “All aboard!”
There was a hissing of steam, grunting,
snorting, huffing ; a squeaking of wheels;
a sliding by of the big Willa station on
one side and the little confessional box
on the other; and, at 10.2 sharp, the 9.5
for Kelly’s Hill threaded its way through
the Willa streets and pointed its nose to
the little? dimpled hills that dreamed to
northward.
NOW it is a curious thing, but true
enough too, that no one ever dis-
covered the exact number of stations on
the “Little Line,”
Certainly, you started at Willa Junction,
where the “Little Line” had a station
to itself, as it were, and you finished at
Kelly’s Hill, where there w&s a real plat-
form—bricks, coping, granite and ail—
and a station building—about 10ft by
Bft., or perhaps a little bigger, and a
goods shed of proportionate size, and
another shed where the engine could
sleep when off duty.
There were a large cinder-covered
yard, and short spur-lines and points and
buffers. There were a weighbridge and
a railway official, who wasn’t exactly
a porter, and certainly not a station-
master. But he had brass buttons and a
pencil behind his ear. Apart from
buttons and pencil, he didn’t look like
a railwayman, but he must have been an
official of some sort. He knew every-
thing about the line, he was fat and
amiable, was always busy in a mild way,
and everyone called him Fred.
In between Willa and Kelly’s there
were a number of stations, very definitely
situated, and very solemnly vouched for
in the Railway Guide, with distances
marked in miles and chains, and heights
above sea-level in feet; and then, as a
humorous afterthought, the times of
trains were stated. Each station even
had a platform —20 ft. or so of old
sleepers—hollow underneath and full of
spiders’ webs, and nearly always a large
unclassifiable, aged dog panting m a
philosophic way.
The name of the station and the
station building of 6ft. by Bft. occupied
most of the platform.
There was no official,
for George did every-
thing there was to be
done. But the names
of these stations
caught the eye, and
played with the imagi-
nation, and were
positive proof of the aesthetic instincts of
the surveyors and engineers of the “Little
Line.” They ran: Early Meadows,
Rectory Corner, Janet’s Lane, Leaning
Tree, Lemon Grove, Running Stream,
Salmon Gums —and then, for an inthrust
of the dramatic among so much of the
idyllic, there was Johnstone’s Leap. All
with double names, you’ll notice.
These stations were fixed and marked
and a definite quantity. But there were
many others not marked at all, and their
number varied with every trip, according
to the mood of George, the whims of
Jack and Tom, the needs of local in-
habitants and many other things.
When Early Meadows, a place of
grassy flats dotted with green trees and
sleek cows, was left behind, the train
ran through the back yard of a com-
fortable-looking house, and a comfort-
able-looking woman came on to the back
verandah. She had a broom in her hand
and a little lace cap on her head. Tom
and Jack with tact and delicacy stopped
the engine, and there was a lovely jangle
of couplings.
“How’s George this morning?”
George was leaning languidly out of
his cubby. “Me! I’m not complaining.
Plenty to do.”
The comfortable woman laughed
pleasantly. “Pity about you, George.
And you’re late again, aren’t you?”
George grinned—“ Well, hardly.”
“Hullo! ” called out Jack and Tom to-
gether.
“Heavens! If it isn’t poor Tom and
Jack,” replied the woman, pretending she
hadn’t seen them before.
“How’s the early peaches?” called
Jack.
“Peaches! My eye!” said the woman,
“Early peaches! Gone a month ago.
“Bad luck!” wailed Tom.
“But there are apricots and cherry
plums.”
“Now you’re talking like a sensible
woman,” said Tom.
The woman put her broom on the
back table and went to the kitchen. She
soon returned with a Adless case nearly
full of apricots and plums: And the
apricots were smooth lumps of gold, and
the plums exaggerated rubies.
George made a fearful drop to the
ground from his cubby and took the
case. “I do like good women,” clucked
old George.
“And I wonder about that, too,” said
the comfortable woman with a Itiugh.
She looked up along the train.. Ah,
strangers!” she said.
“Oh,” said George. “That’s Mavis,
you know, going to the Big Place.”
“Um!” said the woman. Then catch-
ing sight of Mrs. Morgan, now appearing
at a window, “Good to be you having
a holiday.”
Mrs. Morgan mopped her red moon
of a face. “It’s Cedric —tooth.” Cedric
poked out his face, and spat out some
blood by way of explanation. .
“Oh, him!” George nodded vaguely m
(i Continued on page 32.)
“My technique must be slipping , Marge—all my boy friends seem to
go back to their wives."


SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
BOOK SELECTION
THE PAINTINGS OF ROBERT JOHNSON.
This beautiful book contains 18 Australian landscapes in full colour,
each plate 9x7 inches. 42/- (post. 1/-)
PRINCESS ELIZABETH.
The illustrated story of twenty-one years in the life of the Heir
Presumptive, by Dermot Morrah. Over 100 illustrations.
10/- (post. 6d.)
THE SNOW GOOSE, by Paul Gallico.
This brief story is indeed a masterpiece; containing four plates in
full colour and black-and-white illustrations. 12/6 (post. 4d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
PIPE SMOKERS
REPAIR SERVICE
An old pipe is like an old friend. How long
have you enjoyed his quiet companionship.
The mouthpiece may be broken, or the stem
cracked, but we can replace the mouthpiece,
and, by fitting a silver mounting, remedy the
cracked stem. If you think your pipe is too far
gone to repair, give our experts the opportunity
to decide. Acting on their advice, we will
communicate with you at once and let you
know their decision.
Genuine Vulcanite Stems, straight,
bent or square, each . . . . 5/
Sterling Silver Mountings, each . . 3/6
Plus postage for return.
All pipes returned per registered mail in
7 days. N.Z. and island trade catered for,
Trade enquiries invited.
RICHARDS & HAMILTON.
2nd Floor, 756 George Street, Sydney,
’Phone: M 2056.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
LEND-LEASE FOR PEACE.
U.S. Secretary of State Marshall’s
speech at Harvard on June 5, calling on
the needy countries of Europe to unite
in planning, with American dollar assist-
ance, their economic salvation, was not
at first rated at its full importance.
London “Times” report was a brief
summary, the weighty proposal being
described “Mr. Marshall’s Hint.” It was
not till June 11 that the full meaning had
been grasped, the “Times” then com-
menting ;
A tragedy since the war has been the failure
of the countries of Europe to combine their
resources and their enterprise in the common
task of reconstruction. Mr. Marshall’s offer
of American assistance in speeding and sup-
porting the recovery .which has faltered for
two years is a second and golden chance.
Similarly, it was not till June 13 that
Mr. Bevin gave his—and hence the
British Government’s—assessment of the
speech’s great importance:
We welcome the inspiring lead given to us
and the peoples of Europe by Mr. Marshall,
the American Secretary of State. His speech
at Harvard will rank, I think, as one of the
greatest speeches made in world history. It
seems to me to focus a need, and to have
behind it the conception of a great co-operation
between Europe and the wonderful and power-
ful Western Hemisphere. I can only say to
other nations that when the United States
throws a bridge to link East and West it
would be disastrous for ideological or other
reasons to frustrate the United States in that
great endeavor.
Again, it was not till June 16 that
“Pravda” dubbed the.speech “only a
repetition of the Truman plan for in-
terference in the domestic affairs of other
countries.” It was to that and subsequent
Moscow utterances on his proposal that
Mr. Marshall referred in exposing, on
July 1, the Soviet “fantastic misrepresen-
tation and malicious distortion of truth.”
Henceforth, perhaps, it will be realised
that Mr. Marshall speaks only when he
has something of high importance to say,
and also that he is not one to be attacked
with impunity. As to this, an extra-
ordinary thing about the U.S. Secretary
of State is the very gingerly way he is
handled in those sections of the Ameri-
can press opposed to the “Truman
doctrine” which he is implementing. They
do not like the policy, but they treat
the Secretary with a respect very rare in
American journalism.
The steps so far taken in the entirely
new American foreign policy have been:
(1) Its announcement by Mr. Truman on
March 12, the President bluntly declar-
ing the American intention of blocking
any further expansion of Soviet Com-
munism ; (2) Mr. Marshall’s stand at the
Moscow conference, where he made it
clear that the anti-Communist doctrine
would be applied to Germany; (3) the
U.S. Administration’s first “foreign-re-
lief” programme ; (4) the overwhelming
agreement by Congress to the buttressing
of Greece and Turkey against Soviet or
Soviet-directed aggression; (5) Mr.
Marshall’s Harvard speech calling on the
European countries to reach agreement
as to their and the part
they would themselves take in order to
give proper effect to whatever action
might be undertaken by the U.S. Govern-
ment ; (6) Mr. Truman’s speech before
a joint session of both Houses of the
Canadian Parliament, concluding:
Free men everywhere know that the purpose
of the United States is to restore the world
to health and to re-establish conditions in
which the common people of the earth can
work out their own salvation by their own
effort. We seek a peaceful world, a prosper-
ous world, a free world, a world of good
neighbors, living on terms of equality and
mutual respect, as Canada and the United
States have lived for generations.
We intend to expand our energies and invest
our substance in promoting world recovery by
assisting those who are able and willing to
make their maximum contribution to the same
cause. We intend to support those who are
determined to govern themselves in their own
way, and who honor the right of others to
do likewise. We intend to aid those who
seek to live at peace with their neighbors,
without coercing or being coerced, without
intimidating or being intimidated. We intend
to co-operate actively and loyally with all who
honestly seek, as we do, to build a better world
in which mankind can live in peace and
prosperity.
Cartoonist David Low represented the
proposals thus made by Mr. Marshall
and Mr. Truman as giving Russia a
choice between the original “Truman
doctrine” and the new “Marshall plan.”
Actually, they are both facets of the one
thing ; the “Truman doctrine” the poli-
tical facet, and the “Marshall plan” the
economic facet. The choice given to
Russia was correctly stated by the
“Christian Science Monitor”:
The Marshall Plan confronts Russia with a
need for a very serious decision. This is not
Chicago “Tribune.”
THE BARGAINER.
merely a decision to advance against or re-
treat before Western ideologies or power. It
is a choice between world co-operation and
what is essentially sheer isolationism. It is a
choice between keeping a major and recog-
nised role in the reorganisation of Western
Europe or withdrawing from a position of
direct influence. If Russia chooses the latter
course, Moscow will have to rely on under-
ground activities in a climate growing less and
less favorable to them.
It was that latter course which Russia
took at the Foreign Ministers’ meeting in
Paris.
There is another important aspect of
the Marshall move to 'Jielp Europe on a
mutual basis —Congress has still to sanc-
tion thd enormous expenditure. In re-
gard to this Secretary Marshall was him-
self in something of a dilemma: he could
not ask Congress for' the huge funds till
British, French and - other European
countries had agreed in positive terms to
co-operate, yet he could not ‘ definitely
assure those countries in advance of
Congressional agreement. In point of
fact, such Congressional agreement is
much more probable with Russia standing
out than if Russia had come in. “It is
quite unlikely,” “Wall-street Journal”
commented on the Marshall pro-
posal, “that Congress would approve an
expenditure for a programme that in-
eluded assistance to Russia.” The reason,
as given by the same publication:
If Russia got American assistance there is
every evidence that it would be used to build
up armaments, tighten her hold on various
countries that she now controls and increase
Communist fifth-column activity all over the
world. If there were any convincing signs that
Russia would do otherwise; if she would re-
duce her armaments, withdraw her troops and
consent to political settlements which would
give the world some assurance of security, even
a very large amount of money given to her
and to other nations would be well spent. In
the present circumstances there appears no
chance that Russia will agree to any such
conditions.
That represents the overwhelming
majority American opinion on Russia
today—by so much have Soviet actions
since the war changed American feelings
of friendliness and generosity, shown in
lend-lease and other ways.
The Marshall proposal is really lend-
lease in another form. However, there
are still, in the opinion of “World Re-
port,” obstacles between the plan and its
realisation:
As a condition of U.S. aid, the Govern-
ments of Europe are asked to subordinate
national goals and ambitions to the needs
of a continent. The nations are urged to reach
agreement on how many dollars each must
have, and how they will be used. What is
sought is a form of collective action without
precedent.
The U.S. Congress and public, at the same
time, are to be asked to put up dollars for
Europe on a scale never before contemplated
in time of peace, and for purposes that to
many American taxpayers may seem risky and
remote. [The sum required was put at up-
wards of 15 billion dollars before Russia stood
out, and has since been put at 10 billion.]
Given sufficient European acceptance,
there still remains complete acceptance in
America, where, “World Report” says,
“A long argument, and a loud one, is to
be expected.” That was written before
Russia decided to stand out. The “argu-
ment” is now likely to be a lot less loud
and long.
GERMAN POWDER-KEG.
Either the peacemakers will leave Ger-
many as a tight-packed powder-keg in
the heart of Europe or they will have per-
formed a major miracle. There would
seem to be a great deal against the
miracle.
A map of the old and the proposed new
Germany published by “United States
News” gives the core of the problem.
It shows the old main area of Germany as
182,471 square miles with a population
of 68,000,000. The new Germany, if the
Poles are allowed the present boundary
line running practically straight down
from Stettin, will have an area of 142,028
square miles, which will have to accom-
modate, for a start, a population of
71,000,000, preponderantly female.
The population increase—despite war
losses put at 5,000,000 —is, of course,
made by Germans expelled from Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Austria and elsewhere.
The almost one-fourth of area lopped off
includes what used to be Germany’s best
agricultural land, leaving only enough
agriculture to supply 64 per cent, of the
new Germany’s food, compared with the
85 per cent, produced by the old Ger-
many.
Comparative figures given for popula-
tion density are decidedly ominous ; they
are certainly so regarded by the French.
Thfey work out at 500 to the square mile
in the new Germany, compared with
382 in overcrowded Italy, 293 in Czecho-
slovakia, 212 in Poland, 187 in France
and 23 in Russia. If that does not add
up to a powder-keg all such figures are
meaningless,
FICKLE RECORD.
N.Y. “Daily News” columnist John
O’Donnell, who takes a sardonic view of
the world comedy in general, has dug into
“the fickle past of the United States”
and come up with these findings:
1755 —(French and Indian war) —We loved
the British and hated the French.
1776 —(American revolution) —We loved the
French and hated the British.
1799—(Sea battles with France) —We hated
the French.
1812—(War of 1812)—We loved the French
and hated the British.
1846 —(Mexican war over Texas) —We loved
the southerners and hated the Mexicans.
1861-1865 —(Civil war. Britain aids the
South) —We hated the southerners and the
British.
1898 — (Spanish-American War) —We hated
the Spanish.
1899 (Conquest of the Philippines) —We
hated the Chinese and the Filipinos.
1900— (Boxer uprising in China) —We loved
the Japanese and hated the Chinese.
1904—(Russo-Japanese War) —We loved the
Japanese and hated the Russians.
1914—(World War I) —We loved the Japanese
and the Russians.
1914 —(Marines land at Vera Cruz) —We hated
the Mexicans.
1914 (Beginning of World War I) —We loved
the British and French and hated the Austrians
and Germans.
1915 — (Italy joins Allies)—We loved the
Italians.
1916 (Pershing invades Mexico) —We hated
the Mexicans.
1917 (Allied in World War I. Russian
Bolshevik revolution) —We loved the Japanese
and the Chinese but not the Russians.
1918— (Our troops invade Russia) —We loved
the Italians and hated the Russians. /
1927 —(U.S. bombards Nanking)—We loved
the Japanese and hated the Chinese.
1935 — (Italy invades Ethiopia)—We hated the
Italians.
1936 (Communists despoil China) —We loved
the Chinese and hated the Russians.
1939 —(Beginning of World War II) —We
loved the British and French and hated the
Germans and Russians.
1939 —(Russia invades Finland) —We loved the
Finns and hated the Russians.
1941—(Russia fights Germany and Finland) —
We loved the Russians and hated the Finns.
1941 —(War with Japan) —We loved the
Filipinos and hated the Japanese.
1941 (World War II) —We loved the British,
Chinese, Dutch, Russians and hated the Ger-
mans, Italians and Japanese.
1942 — (Vichy regime)—We loved some French
and hated others.
Anyone can bring the list up to date;
not forgetting, of course, that the record
holds good for any people on earth,
Eskimos perhaps excepted.
THE NEW LIDICE.
Nothing more frightful happened in
the Second World War than the razing of
the Czechoslovakian village of Lidice by
the Germans in reprisal for the assassina-
tion of Heydrich, governor of the Pro-
tectorate.
A bitter note on that shocking tragedy
was given in a London “Nineteenth Cen-
tury and After” article, quoted in these
pages (B. 26/3/’47). The gist of it was
that the killing of Heydrich was “not an
act of vengeance by an outraged popula-
tion” ;
It was planned, not in Czechoslovakia, but
in Britain, and was executed by air-borne


Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic . Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio —
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder. s
r.
Safeguard the future
... of your family
. . by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he has these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENCE
Board of Dirsctors:
A. E. Bond, Chair-
man ; Cecil H. Doyle ;
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E.,
V.D.; F. H. Way;
G. Moncrieff Barton,
0.8. E., M.B.CH.M.,
F.R.A.C.S.; J. ».
Faviell.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Asst. Mgr.:
C. N. P. Whittle.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
EIB.
PT.S.G
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.,
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
emissaries from Britain. It was the more indef -
sible because the originators and perpetra
must have known that many innocent P ers 9 _
would be made to suffer —and for an act
which, so far from being a military necessi y,
was not of the slightest military importance.
The Germans, of course, struck at the
innocent villagers, and when the orgy ot
destruction and murder was over, an-
nounced that Lidice had been “erased.
Promptly the inhabitants of a town in
Illinois renamed their town Lidice ; to-
day there are Lidices in China, Cuba,
Brazil, South Africa, Canada and else-
where. Also, a new Lidice is going up
on the old site, a model village to be
built according to plans prepared at
Columbia University (U.S.A.). As des-
cribed by a London “Times” special
correspondent:
It will consist of 170 houses, a Catholic
church, various communal buildings, and, be-
cause the inhabitants of the old Lidice were
mostly miners, the headquarters of the Inter-
national Miners’ Safety Federation. It will be
erected just outside the site of the old village,
which has been declared a national park. Where
the old Lidice stood there is nothing today
except a small dignified monument erected by
the, Russian Army, behind which there is a tall
wooden cross surmounted by a circle of barbed
wire. Later there is to be another monument,
presented by the American Lidice Memorial
Committee, which will dominate the country
for miles around. It is intended to leave the
rest of the site bare in perpetuity, except lor.
plaques bearing the names of the families the
Germans wiped out, which will be placed where
their houses used to stand.
This month and next month the foun-
dation stone laid in June will be added to
by others brought from many parts of
the world.
ZIONISTS OVERDO IT.
It should now be dawning on American
Zionists that they have badly overdone
their campaign" to stir up hatred against
Britain. Allowed plenty of rope, they
used it to hang their, cause.
Until recently any U.S. criticism of
them had been watered down. There was
scarcely any unreserved condemnation.
Now, at last, there are signs of change.
Other factors —such as the U .S. com-
mercial and strategic move into the
Middle East, with the consequent com-
petition against Russia there for Arab
support —are no doubt having some effect,
but general American fairness and also
friendliness towards Britain are prob-
ably chiefly responsible.
One of the severest attacks so far has
been made in the “Christian Science
Monitor” by that newspaper’s staff cor-
respondent R. H. Markham. Quoting
from the full-page advertisements appear-
ing during the past couple of years in
New York papers—a few samples have
been given here, but it’s necessary to
have read them all to realise the full
savageness of their brutality and venom
—Markham asserts that success of the
Jewish appeals means:
Americans are paying for bombs with which
to kill Britishers and for mines with which to
blow up trains, killing women and children. We
Americans are asked to become accomplices in
-still more extensive killing.
Taking the only possible meaning of
the advertisements as being that "some
American Jews actually present them-
selves as engaged in a war similar to the
Boer War,” Markham asks regarding
those paying for the ads.:
Who are they? Are they Americans or are
they not Americans? Is America just a base
of operations for “the Jewish people throughout
the world”? If the Jews here engaged in this
war are not Americans why are they implicating
America? If they are Americans, why do they,
a small group of men and women, pretend
to have the right to involve their whole country?
The writer states: “In New York City
Jews who are engaged in this war action
against Britain held three different war
meetings in a single evening. One, under
the auspices of the United Zionists-
Revisionists of America, openly urged
armed action against Britain.” On that
and all the rest of the savage hate-
campaigning against Britain the writer
made these pertinent, if somewhat over-
due, comments:
It is not necessary to stress hpw extremely
serious it is for a group of citizens of any
State to conspire against a neighboring State.
It is especially serious in such a time as tne
present, when world stability is in danger. An
that seriousness is accentuated when a small
group of Americans and their non-American
friends try to destroy British-American friend-
ship. ..
In \the confusion now enveloping the world,
two things are plain and certain. One is that
America and Britain will feel a steadily increas-
ing need for co-operation, and the second is
that the preservation of an attitude of unity,
goodwill and brotherhood becomes more diffi-
cult here when persons enjoying American
citizenship or American protection carry on war
with Britain.
Would American public opinion for a moment
approve our Polish citizens assembling bombs
for killing Russian generals?
Would it favor Arabs here collecting guns
to kill Jews “wherever the Torah is read”?
Would it countenance Protestants collecting
explosives to attack the Vatican wherever priests
read mass?
This is an extremely sad moment in Jewish
history. Nowhere on the continent of Europe
are Jews welcome. At such a time, can Jews
N.Y. " World-Telegram .”
END OF ANOTHER RAINBOW.
possibly gain if some of them estrange the
American nation by practising a double citizen-
ship and by carrying on war against a friendly
State, vital to America’s future? Every Ameri-
can bomb they send to kill Britishers —or any-
one else—only adds to their own tragedy.
As wiser Jews have tried to tell them,
the over-zealous and usually fanatical
Zionists have been their own, and all
Jewry’s, worst enemies.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Lend-lease Oddities. The detailed lists of
Uncle Sam’s prodigious lend-leasing take some
wading through, but anyone with a strong
taste for the fantastic might find it worth doing.
Its staggering total of $50,000,000,000, sup-
plied to 97 countries scattered over five con-
tinents, is mostly thought of in terms of
weapons, ammo., planes and mass lots of
meat, wheat and the like. There were other
things. Looking through the lists, a “Chris-
tian Science Monitor” staff man feels he d
like to know what happened to the 14751 b.
of writing paper sent to the Arab States, or
who in Peru got, and why, the $570 of men s
gold jewellery. He finds it interesting to
know, also, that Russia, in the list that in-
cludes such an item as an entire rolling mill
valued at $9,845,296, is debited with: 5,396,708
lb. of shelled peanuts; 26,4301 b. chocolate
candy; 6222 square yards of linoleum;
2,475,5121 b. of soap; and 2768 false teeth.
Maybe Uncle Sam would now regard one item
he sent to Russia as quite superfluous—22,67o
gallons of vinegar.
* * * ■
Different Figures; Both Right.— Dipping its
nib into caustic, the “United States News” ex-
plains an apparent anomaly in U.S. and Rus-
sian accounting on the one item of wholesale
(of course Soviet) looting; “Machinery taken
by Russia from Manchuria is valued at above
$800,000,000 by U.S. appraisers while Ruga
values the same machinery at tmder $7O 000 () b
It turns out that both may be right, since tn
U S value represented its worth as operating
machinery, while Russia puts its value on the
basis of worth after Russians tried to put it
back together agam with indifferent
Not Biggest Navy. Buri-Reporting that
“The Roval Navy, bulwark of the Butisn
Empire for hundreds of years, will no longer
be the biggest navy m the world, nor will it
attempt to compete for equality in size .with
the United States Navy,” a “Christian Science
Monitor” staff correspondent reported from
London some quiet remarks made, almost
as an aside,” by Financial Secretary .to the
Admiralty John Dugdale, speaking m the
Commons: “We cannot hope any longer to
have the largest navy in the world, but we
can hope to have the best-equipped—as we
are certain that we shall always have the best-
manned. The Admiralty has one plain duty:
To see that if ever they are called on they
can present to the nation or to the Unitea
Nations a first-class fighting machine. that,
the correspondent commented, “was a state-
ment of obvious fact, and as such was accepted
by the House.”
* *
Italy Exports Manpower. —The end of the
war found Italy with a population of some
46.000. (about a million and a half more
than when the war stated), and as many as
20.000. of them were said to be anxious to
get out. A Rome correspondent of N.Y.
“Post” states that 100,000 have emigrated since
the war and another 400,000 are scheduled to
follow shortly. Switzerland attracted 42,000;
Belgium 26,000 miners; France, Soujth America,
the Netherlands and Austria most of the rest.
The correspondent reports the Argentine as
the biggest bidder; it has given out that it
can absorb 1,000,000 Italians. Belgium wants
50,000 altogether; France 200,000; Czecho-
slovakia 20,000. Britain and Sweden also want
some. The Italian Government stipulates that
all its nationals emigrating to other countries
must receive equal treatment with local labor,
be allowed to retain Italian citizenship if they
desire, and be permitted to send remittances
back to Italy.
* * * *
The Clumsy Bear. —When the historians get
to work on the present post-war period maybe
they’ll have to put a lot of its happenings
down, not to calculated sinister moves by the
Kremlin, but to the innate clumsiness of the
always rather clumsy Bear. That would seem
to apply most definitely to the changing of
American official and popular feeling from
over-generousness to something entirely dif-
ferent. As a Washington “Post” staff writer
has commented: “Only a specialist in the
strange workings of the Muscovite mind, and
even he only with great reservations, can speak
with assurance as to just what prompted the
Soviet Government to treat its Yalta and
Potsdam obligations as cavalierly as it did.
Whatever Russia’s motives, it is questionable
whether, in the long run, the advantages she
gained by acting as an anarch will begin to
compare with the costs lo her of such cynical
conduct. Sooner or later, as the men in the
Kremlin must have realised, it was bound to
result in a hardening of the American attitude
toward the Soviet Union, with the U.S ; throw-
ing its great weight into the scales against her.
Dealing particularly with what the Russian
tactics have led to in Germany, the ‘Post
writer notes that “while, though not without
cost, the Anglo-American economic arrange-
pment in Germany can be made to work, the
maintenance of a separate Russian zone means
increasing difficulties and mounting costs to
Russia.” From which he concludes that “m
the game of patience at which the Russians
were so adept in the past, the advantages are
now with us.”
» * *
Gaspers as Currency. —Without going into
all the details of what can be bought in Ger-
many with cigarettes, a “Christian Science
Monitor” Berlin correspondent gives a few
examples: For 10 packets of cigarettes, a good
radio or four pounds of butter; 30 packets,
a precision camera or some valuable china;
seven packets, a kitchen stove. Even the
humble butt isn’t to b'e despised: a couple
of dozen of them can bring a loaf of bread
or a bar of soap. The correspondent instances
a German friend who, by getting hold of four
packets of fags, was able to get enough coal
briquettes to heat his room through the ex-
treme cold, and also some fat from the butcher,
the first he’d tasted for over two months.
* * * *
Stalintern. —Written by “two former high
officials of the Comintern,” whose identity,
for reasons of “health,” is hidden under the
pseudonym “Ypsilon,” a book called Pattern
for World Revolution, published in New York,
gives an outline of what the authors call the
Stalintern, successor to the Comintern. Accord-
ing to the writers, the members of the Stalin-
tern —the Communist parties in various coun-
tries —take their cue from Stalin, acting in
concert to reach either his “maximum or
minimum target.” “His minimum includes
the political incorporation of the Slavic coun-
tries into the Soviet Union and the international
recognition of the River Elbe as the Russian
frontier. His maximum expectations involve
the inclusion of west and south-west Europe in
the Leb'ensraum of Russia, the military and
diplomatic withdrawal of the U.S. from Europe
and the separation of England from the Con-
tinent.” A serious snag, as seen by the writers,
is that ‘inside Russia a crisis is developing,
the outcome .of which will decide the fate
of the Stalintern. Stalin’s health holds the
key. Like all dictators, he has discouraged
development of a successor. This means an
eventual free-for-all.” The writers do not
expect Communism to last in Germany; it is
a result wholly of the Russian occupation,
and when the Red Array moves out it will
begin to disintegrate. Similarly in China, where
“a showdown is inevitable because the present
division of power between Nationalists and
Communists can’t last.” In the writers’ view
there’s no future for the Stalintern, anyway:
“Resting on force, suppression and despair, it
has no future and will produce no successors.”
* * * *
Friendliness to Italy. —ln separate items in
the one column London “Times” has given
instances of renewed friendliness towards Italy
by Britain and France. In Rome the British
Ambassador, Sir Noel Charles, spoke of the
Anglo-Italian agreement on the withdrawal of
British troops as marking “a new step towards
the re-establishment of the old, close and
friendly relations between Great Britain and
Italy.” The troop-withdrawal is to be com-
pleted within 90 days of the signing of the
peace treaty for Italy, and then, said Sir Charles,
“Italy, having regained her full sovereignty,
will resume her old place among the peoples
of the world and in the councils of the nations.”
The “Times” Paris correspondent reported that
the most notable feature of the French National
Assembly debate on the treaty was “the
friendly feeling displayed towards Italy.” As a
practical instance, M. Bidault emphasised that
the populations of the areas along the French-
Italian frontier, due to be transferred to France
under the treaty, “will have the benefit of
a referendum before any territorial changes are
made.” A cable on June 26 showed the same
friendliness in the U.S., expressed in a gift of
merchant ships to replace Italian ships lost in
the war while under U.S. control.
* * *' *
W.M.H.’s Counterpart. A discussion be-
tween Mr. Hughes and America’s Mr. Bernard
M. Baruch on a subject over which they were
at loggerheads would seemingly be worth hear-
ing, and watching. According to a N.Y. “Daily
Mirror” columnist Mr. Baruch “is quite deaf
but puts his deafness to work. Friends say
that in his arguments with Gromyko, over
control of atomic energy, he had a way of
unobtrusively tuning himself out when the Rus-
sian began making demands not consistent with
U.S. policy. Also, the vigorous old gentleman
has a way of turning his deaf ear towards pests
who, having gotten into his office, try to sell
him something he doesn’t want. They go
away, discouraged. Then Baruch tunes him-
self back in, and goes on with his endless
work.” Most of which could have been written
about W.M.H. for well over quarter of a
century.


Tt
ere
are no
tetter
than...
v \=r
Made in
Australia's
most modern
tyre plant
- -
by skilled
Au s tralian
artisans
using the
finest raw
materials.
J V
i a product or
THE OLYMPIC TYPE
& HUBBER CO. LTD.
Keep on
Buying Savings
Certificates and
Stampsl
■
%
m
Wm
m
TUBE
EVERYWHERE
aNS grip
' I •
mm.
r.
REPAIRS
BROKEN CHINA 9
9 KITCHEN UTENSILS
FURNITURE 9 WOOD -
WORK 9 ANTIQUES 9
FABRICS 9 JEWELLERY
9 ORNAMENTS 9
LUGGAGE 9 LEATHER-
WARE 9 GLASS TO
OTHER MATERIALS 9
FISHING RODS AND
GEAR 9 WATER AND
STEAM PIPES 9
BROKEN FAUCETS 9
LEAKY CAR RADIATORS
GASOLINE TANKS 9
9 CAR WINDSHIELDS
CRACKED MARBLE 9
9 TILES 9 DOOR
HANDLES 9 TOYS 9
9 DOLLS' FURNITURE
MODEL AEROPLANES 9
And a host of things foo
numerous to mention.
numei
■h-
When something breaks, bring TAR-
ZAN'S GRIP to the rescue and
restore easily, quickly and per-
P manently many of your household
P commodities for useful service. Every
0 housewife . . . every handy man . . .
p every hobby worker, should always
0 keep a tube of TARZAN'S GRIP in
0 the home, workshop, or garage.
0 TARZAN'S GRIP is the strongest
0 adhesive known, and resists moisture,
0 cold, acids and extreme heat. Buy a
p tube to-day, and look for the Trade
Mark, "Tarzan gripping the lion's
jaws," on every genuine tube of
TARZAN'S GRIP.
Never be without TARZAN'S GRIP
Manufactured by TARZAN'S GRIP MANUFACTURING CO. LTD.
449 Willoughby Rd. t Willoughby, N.S.W.
Tas.B2.a7
The Yalet razor
strops itself...
Ilsw=
and every
morning
gives a
=55
%
perfect shave!
OF ALL DEALERS
V3 /!ZT
BRITISH MAD I
“Knowledge is of two kinds, we either have it ourselves or we
know where to find it from others.V-Dr. Samuel Johnson.
A shrewd analysis from the lips of
the immortal Docton—true enough
in the calm of pre-industrial England
and of greater significance in these
days of specialised knowledge.
We at Babcock are specialists in our
knowledge of thermal engineering.
Our beginnings were rooted in the
pioneering days of the simple hand-
fed, low temperature and pressure
boiler. In the passing decades, our
engineers followed the path of world
industrial expansion, studied the
behaviour of foreign fuels, climates
and operating conditions, installed
Babcock boilers throughout the
world and, supported by the research
of chemists, metallurgists and en-
gineers in Babcock laboratories,
amassed the knowledge which en-
BABCOCK & WILCOX
I.IMITFD
STEAM ENGINEERS INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
abled us to develop the modern high
temperature and pressure Boiler to
an unprecedented peak of economy
and efficiency.
This knowledge is available to solve
your specific steam problems; we
shall be happy to co-operate with
you.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
W ilcox are planning to put to use the
newly acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . ,
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . , . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.


The Bulletin
Vo*. 68—No. 3518
Wednesday, July 16, 1947
“SPLASH, SPLASH, SPLASH WITH THE WHITEWASH BRUSH.”
“‘S. M. Herald’ and other papers ‘withdrew’ the report that Mr. Ward was shocked at the condition of Britain and the ‘widening’ gap between rich and poor, saying
that his references were to conditions in ‘Eastern and Middle-Eastern’ cities, after many years of ‘white world ascendancy,’ through which he had passed.”
“There, Mr. Ward, since you ask for it; but to do the job properly it would need at least half a ton.”


The Bulletin
The National /Australian iNewspapei
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne. -
•Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AN INDONESIAN MIRROR.
If Dr. Evatt supposes that his pretensions
by way of “asserting Australia’s voice” in
peace-making cut any more ice abroad
than they do at home, let Indonesia
hold up a mirror to him. Here, if any-
where, might have b.een expected some
“voice-asserting” by Canberra in keeping
with Dr. Evatt’s claim to lead British
Commonwealth policy in the carrying out
of what he calls “Australia’s increasing
regional responsibilities,”
In Canberra’s diplomacy the Indo-
nesian test reveals no smallest spark of life,
and the formulation of any policy at all
has been left to Communists in control of.
the waterfront and of the Brisbane Labor
Council —left in their hands because Can-
berra was too scared to take hold of
the show.
Fifteen mofiths ago, at the time of
Lord Mountbatten’s visit to secure release
of Dutch ships laid idle in Australian
ports, politicians with whom he treated
“made representations” to the A.C.T.U.,
and the A.C.T.U. ordered the Waterside
Workers’ Federation to lift the ban. It
defied them both, and both took the de-
fiance lying down. A year later, with
the boycott still on and Australian trade
with the N.E.I. wrecked, all Mr. Chifley
could say in the House in answer to
questions was “The Australian Govern-
ment has at no time imposed a ban on
Dutch shipping” ; and Dr. Evatt could
only plead that “in recent weeks there
has been practically a naval blockade of
Indonesian ports,”
The Dutch and Indonesian plenipoten-
tiaries signed the Cheribon (or Linggard-
jati) Agreement on November 15, 1946.
It ,provided for the de facto recognition
of the -Indonesian Republic over Java,
Sumatra and Madura. The Republic was
to co-operate with the Netherlands
Government in forming a sovereign demo-
cratic State on a Federal basis (the United
States of Indonesia) as part of a
Netherlands-Indonesian Union under the
Netherlands Crown. “Joint interests”
were specified as “foreign relations,
defence and, as far as necessary, finance,
as well as subjects of an economic or
cultural nature.” The Indonesian federa-
tion was to be established before January
1, 1949; a joint commission was to be
set up to restore Indonesian and Euro-
pean property to its rightful owners, and
the Republic would join in forming an
organisation to direct the action required
by the agreement.
The Left-Wirigers in the Republican
camp, always in touch with Communists
in Australia, set about twisting the Cheri-
bon agreement to suit their own designs.
Their main purpose was to get the Dutch
troops out of the country, enforce their
authority upon the remainder of Indo-
nesia—the eastern islands and Borneo,
the two other groups in the proposed
federation —and then proclaim the re-
public over all the East Indies, appropriat-
ing Dutch and other European property.
Sutan Sjahrir, the Indonesian Premier,
with whom the Dutch had been dealing,
may have been no party to this game, but
he could not stop it.
That was shown when, at the end of
May, the Netherlands Government gave
his Administration till June 10 to reply
to definite Dutch proposals for getting
on with the job of putting the Cheribon
agreement into action. Through all this
time Australian wharfies, under orders
from the Communists, who were under
orders from Moscow, held up Dutch
ships and urgently-needed Dutch goods
purchased in Australia, Their “In-
dernesian comrades,” working in Singa-
pore or elsewhere, procured shipping to
carry abroad goods in Java, declared by
the Dutch to be European or American
property. The Dutch stopped this part
of the game by blockading Javanese
ports under naval watch. This is the
matter Dr. Evatt referred to in explana-
tion or extenuation of the Communists’
ban on Dutch shipping in Australia,
though it goes back to September, 1945.
On June 8, two days before the expiry
of the Dutch ultimatum, Premier Sjahrir
climbed down and accepted the Dutch
proposals. Simultaneously a Communist
boss of the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion said that Australia would lift the
shipping ban. But - Sjahrir’s acceptance
proved to be conditional —he demanded
“at least” half the seats in the interim
Government, withdrawal of all Dutch
troops and control of the disposition of
disputed property. There were other de-
mands, but these were the chief. Above
all, the Cheribon agreement was to be in-
terpreted as placing the Government of
the Republic at once and for all purposes
on an equal footing with the Netherlands
Government. That the Indonesians knew
what was involved was clear from their
accompanying order for “mobilisation of
all armed forces,” and the announcement
of “the most decisive moment in our
history.” All this time there was no
effort from Canberra to offer any advice
by way bf carrying out “regional respon-
sibilities,” though advice has been
promised now.
East Indonesia, Borneo and the Dutch
Commission-General promptly rejected
the Sjahrir reply. The Dutch Acting-
Governor-General, Dr. Van Mook,
visited Sjahrir and delivered a note de-
signed to provide him with a way out.
But the Republican Left - Wingers
were allowing him no way out; they
proceeded to reject the Sjahrir memor-
andum also. Simultaneously the Com-
munist boss of the W.W.F. said the lifting
of the shippihg ban was in abeyance.
Then several things happened in a
hurry, Sjahrir resigned on June 26 under
Left-Wing pressure. A few hours later
the Left-Wingers abandoned their atti-
tude, on representations by the Labor
party leader, Mr. Sitiadjid, who returned
that morning from a World Federation
of Trade-Unions congress in Prague—
perhaps with the intelligence that the
comrades overseas could not do much
to help and that the party line had
changed.
On June 29 the United States Govern-
ment in a formal memorandum to Presi-
dent Soekarno (holding the strings be-
hind the scenes) asked the Republic to
accept the Dutch proposals for an interim
Government, upon pain otherwise of
America’s highest economic displeasure.
The British Government (not the Aus-
tralian) also weighed in with a letter de-
claring that the proposals were a reason-
able basis for co-operation. In the result
Soekarno speedily approved the appoint-
ment of a Left-Wing Ministry, under his
old pal Sjarifoeddin, with two Vice-
Premiers, one of them the aforesaid
Sitiadjid ; and the new Government forth-
with accepted the Dutch proposals. On
the same day the W.W.F. Communist
boss said the wharfies in Brisbane would
load a Dutch ship; and this they began
doing last week.
By latest reports it is expected that a
start will be made immediately with the
setting up of a Federal council to work
out the Cheribon agreement, and to order,
as a first step, demilitarisation along the
boundary of the zones held by Dutch and
Indonesian troops.
What stands out in this whole unhappy
business is the impotence of the Aus-
tralian “Government,” not only to assert
Dr. Evatt’s diplomatic influence, but even
to exercise the slightest control over a
group of Communists in Australian
unions, who were inflicting immense
damage on Australian industry and com-
merce and trailing the country’s good
name in the mud. True, the Prime
Minister did send officials to Batavia
at the end of April, four of them from
four departments, to suggest that trade
should be resumed without restriction,
and that the medical and other goods
long stranded on Australian wharves
should be distributed under joint Dutch-
Indonesian agreement. But this was mere
acceptance of a ban imposed, in defiance
of the Government, by a union ; and in
any case the result on which Dr. Evatt
plumed himself—the dispatch on May 25
to Canberra of a letter, signed by both
Dr. Van Mook and Sjahrir, “desiring”
the shipment of goods from Australia —
had no visible effect on the Communist-
led wharfies.
Actually the influence in overseas
affairs of our push-button “Government”
amounts to exactly what this Indonesian
business portrays. If Dr. Evatt, now on
the way to Japan to tell General Mac-
Arthur where he gets off, thinks that
other (even friendly) Governments are
not able to draw the logical deductions,
he is due to be powerfully disillusioned.
None for the State.
A year ago Mr, Herbert Morrison, Lord
President of the Council, speaking at the
annual conference of the British Labor
party, made some remarks that showed
he had come a long way since he first be-
came known as a firfe-eating Socialist:
Don’t let the party run away with the
idea that his Majesty’s Government exists
to run the country in the interests of the
Labor party. It exists to run the country
in the interests of all the people.
A little earlier Mr. Morrison had said to
the Parliamentary Labor party;
It would be a terribly bad day for Par-
liamentary democracy if any group, either
in the House or outside, controlled the
Government and gave them instructions.
These statements get down to basic
principles of representative government.
At a lime when over most of the face
of Europe Parliamentary government
is a mere travesty, with the “terribly
bad day” a dreadful reality, their message
is clear for every country that still be-
lieves in the democratic way of life.
The message was important to Britain,
in the throes of a Socialism-in-our-time
seizure, and that it should come from a
lifelong Socialist showed that he was alive
to dangers to which his party is exposed.
It is equally important to Australia,
where socialisation is being dragged in
through the back door, and where
“Labor” Governments habitually bow to
pressure groups within the party and
accept dictation from or surrender their
prerogatives to insolent coteries outside
Parliament, responsible to no one and
careless of all interests but their own.
At this year’s conference, held at Mar-
gate, Mr. Morrison’s voice was heard
again. He spoke out against Leftist
“rebels” in the Parliamentary Labor party
who staged a minor revolt against the
Bevin foreign policy. He warned them
not to “rock the boat dangerously” or
“upset the apple-cart.”
Another voice was heard at the same
gathering. It belonged to one who, like Mr.
Morrison, had graduated from a Socialist
soapbox to the Ministerial benches, but
who, unlike him, had learned nothing in
transit. This was Mr. Emanuel Shin well,
whose mismanagement of the coal situa-
tion in Britain last winter has not been
forgotten by Britons:
We represent the workers in hand and
brain. As for the rest, it doesn’t matter
two hoots. The wind is blowing in our
favor.
The Shinwell voice is the voice of
Arrogance, feeling itself firmly in
the saddle and determined to ride
rough-shod over all opposition. Emanuel
uses the term “workers” in the
same sense as it is mouthed in this
country by the Wards and Calwells
and their congeners in the Sydney
Domain and on the Yarra Bank; it
means those who vote for “us.”
Last year Mr. Chifley seemed sold on
the favorable wind idea, and he spoke
blithely of the Golden Age that was in
store for Australia. It looks like staying
in store for a long time, and Mr. Chifley
doesn’t mention it nowadays. Instead, at
the Sydney replica of the Margate talks,
he hinted of a possible slump: “We
must be prepared for the recession.”
This change in the Prime Minister’s
outlook —a transition from a devout be-
liever in fairy-tales and magic wands to
one who is beginning to have his doubts
—is interesting when it is considered
that it comes after close on six years of
“Labor” rule in the Commonwealth,
during which period even the war
effort was made subservient to the
furthering of “Labor” socialisation plans ;
after more than six years of “Labor”
rule in N. S. Wales; after more than a
dozen years of it in Queensland, Tas-
mania and Westralia, and after nearly
two years of peace, in which the
policy of running the country in the
interests of the “Labor” section has been
blatantly evident and the surrender of
the interests of the whole people to irre-
sponsible juntas in the House and out-
side all too obvious.
Interesting, too, is the admission by a
“Labor” leader that world conditions can
have their effect on the Australian
economy. For 15 years or more it has
been “Labor” dogma that the de-
pression was brought about by anti-
“ Labor” forces for their own sinister
purposes. At the last election Mr.
Chifley himself warned the electors
that the return of a Liberal-Country-party
Government would mean another depres-
sion, which could be avoided by sticking
to his party. Even during the latest ses-
sion at Canberra “Labor” members were
frequently on their feet recalling the
depression “caused by members oppo-
site,” regardless of the fact that in 1930
“Labor” was in office at Canberra and
in three States, including N.S.W. and
Victoria.
Instances of surrender of Parliamen-
tary power to groups within the House are
legion. Under “Labor” the Federal Par-
liament no longer makes the laws of the
land. They reach their final form in
Caucus behind locked doors. When for
the sake of formality they are brought
before the House open discussion is
stifled, by the application of the gag, and
Opposition amendments are rejected on
“principle” instead of being discussed on
their merits.
Outside Parliament the meek accept-
ance by the “Labor” Government of dic-
tation from pressure groups varies from
the surrender of Australia’s foreign
policy to Communists in the case of our
Federal “leaders” to the rushing-in of a
40-hour week by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment while the matter was still before the
Arbitration Court. “Labor” politicians
not only accept this domination ; they
encourage it; tacitly in the case of Mr,
Chifley, who bows before the wind ; ac-
tively in the case of some of his followers
who urge unionists to use the big-stick
policy.
Australian “Labor” today is as diverse
a cr6wd as was ever gathered into Old
Nick’s net, but it has no one game enough
or sane enough to tell it that its duty
is to put country before party or to wanj
it that in taking the easy course of
pandering to noisy, minorities it is
allowing Parliamentary government to
go by default and paving the way for dic-
tatorships. And there are too many who
like Mr. Shinwell, are prepared to sail’
blithely on, mistaking for a favorable
wind a freshening gale which may blow
their own pet schemes and Parliamentary
government to a common disaster.
Up and At the Yanks!
“In Japan Dr. Evatt will give General Mac-
Arthur a friendly but nevertheless pointed ear-
bashing on his occupation policies.”
—Canberra correspondent of the United Press,
who gives “a diplomatic source v as authority.
A Sydney University lecturer and
A.B.C. spouter has a grievance:
By the end of this month Sydney and
Melbourne will, on present counts, lose
their United States Libraries of Informa-
tion. If the decision to close these libraries
cannot be reversed at this eleventh hour,
this country is about to be deprived of
unique and popular library facilities. In
my opioion, the determination to end the
life of these libraries in our midst is sheer
midnight folly.
On Washington’s part, of course. The
gentleman did not suggest any obligation
on Canberra’s part to maintain the
libraries and their able and obliging
staffs. He was concerned rather with get-
ting something for nothing (“for myself
and my students the resources of the U.S.
Library of Information in Sydney are in-
valuable”), and with carping at United
States policy in the Evatt vein. With Dr.
Evatt furnishing the inspiration, and with
the Communists ready with applause,
carping at United States policy has be-
come fashionable. It was not so in the
dark days of 1942.
How glad the carpers were to welcome
the American airmen and soldiers then!
How relieved they were when they saw
the Kittyhawks flying over our cities!
How thrilled they were when General
MacArthur arrived from Bataan and
Corregidor with the simple and glowing
message “I shall return”—as he did. With
what delight they learned of the vic-
torious fight in the Coral Sea, which
ended the Japanese dream Of invasion of
Australia, and of the Battle of the Mid-
way, which drove the enemy back into a
sterile defensive.
In the history of war no ally ever be-
haved more generously to another than
the Americans did to the Australians.
They sent their conscripts to fight and
die in parts of the Pacific from which
Australia*! conscripts were barred by
“Labor” legislation, as they were barred
from going to the rescue of their captive
brothers in Malaya. There are more
American graves than Australian in Aus-
tralian Mandated Territory. American
servicemen in these parts were preyed
upon by thousands of harpies of both
sexes, and scarcely any of these criminals
got their deserts ; but the United States
authorities waived their right to object.
And when their President’s lease-lend
arrangement, alv/ays heavily in Australia’s
favor, came to an end they made a gener-
ous settlement. But all this seems to be
forgotten—by some people.
So we have Minister Ward attacking
the United States on the score of its
“profit motive” in which—blind in one
eye and with Moscowiritis in the other —
he professes to see a danger of another
war, and on the score of its measures
against Communists, whom it is expelling
from trade-unions and its Federal civil
service. And we have Minister Dedman
“demanding” that the U.S.A. should
abolish its wool tariff, which has not pre-
vented enormous sales of Australian
wool to-the U.S.A., now far and away
our biggest overseas customer for the
staple—“demanding” this regardless of
the fact that compliance would justify
the Americans, in the terms of their loan
to Britain, in pressing for the reduction
or abolition of British preferences on
Australian dried-fruits and sugar. And
at a juncture when it is necessary that
the whole English-speaking world should
stand up against Russian Communism
and imperialism, which threatens all
English-speaking nations, we see Aus-
tralia, impersonated by Dr. Evatt and by
servile Evatt newspapermen, breaking
from the ranks and, consciously or un-
consciously, playing the Russian game.
* This is from the Melbourne “Age,”
which, though an Evatt supporter, is not
devoid of the honesty and candor which
distinguished it in the great days of David
Syme:
Radio Moscow broadcast a Tass message
from Sydney quoting Australian newspaper
editorials concerning Japanese operation of
the phosphate mines in Angaur Island.
The Moscow commentator stated: “The
U.S.S.R. will support Australian represen-
tations against General MacArthur’s dic-
tatorial regime in Japan.”
So, in the bankruptcy of “Labor”
policy, we are to be allied with Moscow
and its ruffians against MacArthur—or
are we?.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Apologies to Mr. Ward.
A stab at the text of an Australian Asso-
ciated Press message dated June 17
(Sydney “Sun”) or June 1-8 (“S. M.
Herald”):
Ward said been shocked poverty and
low standard living many parts Britain.
Astounded that after so many years
Britain’s world ascendancy conditions so
bad. His impression was that gap between
rich and poor if anything widening rather
than narrowing.
Punctuated and padded, as press
cables have to be, it was published in
the succeeding issues of several Aus-
tralian papers, and evidently in English
papers as well —anyway, hot denials
came from two Ms.P., one a Liberal,
Mr. Byers (“patently untrue”), and the
other the Leftist Labor “Tom” Driberg
(“an ignorant, shallow generalisation”).
Mr. R. A. Henderson, general manager
of “S. M. Herald” and chairman of
Associated Press, was in London at the
time giving the British public his ideas
about newspapers, which he said are
“partly the creation and wholly the re-
flection of their readers” —hence, no
doubt, those starting-price supplements
—and indulging in beautiful generalisa-
tions :
The Press has a grave responsibility in
seeing that the peoples of the world are
well and truly informed; given the news
fully, fairly and objectively. It would be
calamitous if those whose responsibility it
is to eblighten and inform are prevented
from doing so by restraints exercised by
Governments.
For three weeks there was no further
reference to the Ward performance.
Possibly during that period Mr. Hender-
son was doing some fancy work off
stage or behind the scenes, with Mr.
Beasley as partner. Anyway, at the end
of the three weeks there was a sudden
outbreak of feeble and disingenuous dis-
claimers from the gutless wonders of
Sydney journalism.
The wandering Minister, who is ad-
dicted to squealing about being mis-
reported, had not made these wounding
remarks about the state of Britain. “In
preparing the message for transmission
to Australia the words ‘during his trip by
air’ were inadvertently omitted; Mr.
Ward was referring, not to conditions in
Britain, but to conditions in Eastern and
Middle-Eastern cities through which he
had passed on his way.” That was the
Henderson paper’s version, which the
“Sun” amplified, in the process altering
a word in the original message as pub-
lished, and a very important word;
An incorrect impression was created. The
fact is Mr. Ward said that “During his
trip by air to Britain” he was shocked by
the low standard of living in Eastern and
Middle-Eastern cities.
•He had made it his business to explore
the poorer quarters, and he had been
astounded that after so many years of
white world ascendancy conditions were
still so bad.
The headline was “Ward Not Hitting
at Britain.” He was hitting at Britain,
indirectly, if not directly. And the sub-
stitution of “white world ascendancy”
for “British world ascendancy,” as it
was in the beginning, makes no differ-
ence ; there is no American, French or
Russian “ascendancy” in the parts
through which he speeded.
He travelled by air from Sydney
to London, stopping a night at Singa-
pore, a night at Rangoon, a night at
Calcutta and a night at Karachi. In
the time available he could not possibly
have “explored” the poorer (and, neces-
sarily, the richer) quarters of these cities
and come to his insulting judgment, as
altered in point of geography, if the
damaging judgment had not already
taken shape in what he is doubtless
pleased to call his mind. The revised
version is merely a sequel to his many
denunciations of “British imperialism” in
the nastiest vein of political larrikinism.
In the first quarter of 1944, when his
then leader was leaving for London, the
Paddington Pet boasted that “more pro-
gress has been made in Soviet Russia in
25 years than has been achieved by any
capitalist country in ten times that
period,” and gloated over the alleged dis-
affection of “great numbers of Indians”
and natives in the Malay States (“they
saw no reason to be enthusiastic in de-
fending a form of government which had
kept them in a state of illiteracy and
starvation”):
One of our great disadvantages has been
the fact that the native peoples over whom
we have had control—l refer to Great
Britain—were not so enthusiastically pro-
British as one would imagine after ex-
periencing many years of the alleged
benefits of British colonial administration.
It must pain this ill-conditioned ex-
ponent of Anglophobia and the Moscow
crawl to see Hindustan and Pakistan
electing to remain in the British Em-
pire and Congress India—yes. Congress
India—soliciting Lord Mountbatten’s
services as Governor of the Hindu State.
This Is Better.
Inspired by the first Australian - born
Governor-General, those Jews who, like
Isaac Isaacs, are in secular matters
Australians first, last, and all the time,
are now being heard from to some pur-
pose. The Westralians among them, who
have a noble record in two wars (a
brilliant boy of whom they had high
hopes enlisted as a bugler and fell in
Gallipoli), are bringing out an excellent
monthly, the “Australian Jewish Out-
look,” which affirms irrefutably that
“there should be no divided loyalty be-
tween nationality and religion”:
The “AJ.O.” denies that the Australian
Jew is a homeless or Stateless exile; it in-
sists that Australian Jews, either born or
naturalised, live in Australia as Australian
citizens by right and not by sufferance,
and must accept to the fullest degree the
obligations of citizenship equally with all
other Australians.
Sydney has a Jew-endowed Monash
Hut which, with General Morshead, Old
Digger Harrison, M.H.R., and Young
Digger Murray Robson, M.L.A., among
those present, was recently transferred to
and dedicated anew at a site in Rose Bay.
The “Hebrew Standard,” published by a
good Digger family, suggests an annual
Monash Day. R.S.L. adoption of the
suggestion can be taken for granted.
Support for Slavery.
In 1943 and 1946 Mrs. Jessie Street was
the “Labor” candidate for Wentworth
(N.S.W.). On each occasion she re-
ceived such support as the Communists
were able to beat up for her—very little
SHIFTING CAMP.
“One in four of our working population is now in Government employ, and the
number —556,700 persons in March —is increasing all the time.” — Fadden.
“Hop it, Grassy — they'll eat us out of house and home."
in 1946—and by grace of Dr. Evatt she
was awarded the consolation prizes of
two trips abroad, with the taxpayers foot
ing the (undisclosed) bills. It is improb-
able that there will be any more of
these expensive exepditions, seeing that
the lady has come out in defence of
Moscow’s ban on the emigration of
Russian girls who married foreigners,
which she did with typical Communist
flim-flam as to the wonderful position
of women in the U.S.S.R., to the scan-
dal of- the previously friendly Sydney
“Morning Herald.”
Mrs. Street referred only to the case
“of a former Canadian military attache
who was apparently disgruntled be-
cause of the refusal of Soviet authori-
ties to give his wife permission to leave /
Russia,” and who “alleged that state-
ments were made to him by Vishinsky,
Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister,” and
to the 15 Russian wives of British ex-
servicemen for whom Mr. Bevin strove
in vain. She should know, if she doesn’t,
that there are hundreds of other ex-
amples of this Oriental barbarism. One
of many references to the subject was
made in the New York “Times” on
April 27 in a semi-official dispatch from
Washington:
The Soviet Government has flatly re-
jected, for the fourteenth time in two years,
the United States appeal to let Russian
wives of American citizens join their hus-
bands in this country.
Vishinsky turned down the latest appeal
of U.S. Ambassador Bedell Smith. In
view of Stalin’s refusal to take up similar
British cases after Foreign Minister Bevin
made a request during the first weeks of
the Foreign Ministers’ Council meeting,
American Embassy officials interpret Vish-
insky’s action as virtual slamming of the
door in the face of the Russian wives.
The Soviet ruling will affect some 1080
other soviet women whose husbands are
American citizens. Most of them are wives
of men who are natives of the Soviet Union
or were from Baltic, Finnish or Polish"
territory that is now in the U.S.S.R. Eighty
of these men fought in the U.S. armed
forces during the war.
The plight of stranded wives has been
the source of constant appeals by the
American Embassy, Ambassadors, Senators
and Secretaries of State for six years.
Mrs. Street poses as a champion ol
women’s rights irrespective of nation-
ality. Obviously they mean nothing to
her when they come up against the de-
crees of her Russian gods. She has
even the face to suggest that the vic-
tims of their unspeakable cruelty “do not
relish the idea of relinquishing their
jobs and independence and starting life
in a foreign country with foreign cus-
toms,” In other words, the poor crea-
tures really prefer lifelong enforced
separation from their husbands and
slavery, marked perhaps by Commissars’
orders to take other mates so that they
may fulfil the required function of
breeding.
Policy for Japan.
If the Chifley-Evatt “Government” has
any policy for Japan, other than the
policy of “the eternal Sydney nark,” it
is undiscoverable.
One day the “Government” frowns
upon the notion of allowing resumption
of trade until after the peace treaty is
signed, however remote that date may
be ; the next day it complains that Aus-
tralia’s quota of commercial representa-
tives to prospect for Japanese exchange
goods is unfairly small. It can’t stand
the idea of Japanese whaling or of
Japanese mining their own necessary
phosphates (under American surveil-
lance) in the Carolines; but as for pro-
viding from other nations’ efforts the
food required for the Japanese people,
chiefly, of course, women and children—
the alternative to wholesale starvation—
that Canberra would, for itself, rule out.
Now press announcements boast of
“the first big post-war shipment of
Japanese goods for Australia.” They are
on the water; “the first regular monthly
export of 221 cases of raw silk, as well
as half the 12,000,000 linear yards of
cotton textiles bought by the Australian
Purchasing Commission.” Simultane-
ously the Japanese Board of Trade in-
forms the world that some months ago
it requested from Australia (with the
approval of General MacArthur) 150,000
bales of wool, but was allowed <jnly
33,000 bales, of a quality so poor that,
only some 7500 bales were acceptable.
Japan, it is announced, is “desperately
short of clothing,” but is rationing for
home use even the small output of
woollens made possible in order to serve
the export trade and regain commercial
stability.
Latterly the Chifley-Evatt “Govern-
ment” has changed its mind and de-
cided to permit export of wool “in
quantity” to Japan, and “of reasonable,
if not high, quality.”
But what, with all this silly yes-<io
Government control of trading, is to be
the fate of Australian commercial pres-
tige in the outside world? American,
Canadian and European competitors for
Asian trade, well aware of the wretched
quality of much of the Australian stuff
that has reached Asian markets, must be
watching the Canberra antics with de-
rision.
Unheeded Warning.
The “Labor” crowd in N. S. Wales
could not have been ignorant of the harm
it was about to do when it brought in the
40-hour week, and that without any pre-
paration for softening the impact upon
transport and other essential industries
which must be run continuously.
As recalled by Colonel Bruxner in the
Assembly when the bill was going
through, the Industrial Welfare branch
of the Commonwealth Department o::
Labor and National Service issued in 1945
a Bulletin (No. 4) on “Planning Hours o;
Work”; and the Agrarian leader quotec
these passages:
Hours of highest weekly output depend
to some extent on the occupation and the
conditions in which the work is done.
But wherever a number of occupations
have to be worked for uniform hours, or
the trouble of making differences is not
worth while, 48 hours per week is the best
general level to apply over a period in
manufacturing industry.
This is admittedly too long *for heavy
manual labor, and shorter than necessary
for some machine-minding, but it is a
reasonable and simple compromise. The
verdict of scientific knowledge and in-
formed opinion, then, is that from the stand-
point of total production 48 hours is the
optimum working week. In other words,
any shorter time must bring about a fall
in the total volume of output. This does
not, of course, mean that the hourly rate'
of production would necessarily fall with
a reduced working week, but it does mean
that it would not increase sufficiently to
offset the loss in production due to the
shorter working period.
Any claim, therefore, that total produc-
tion, and thus strictly material standards
of living, could (other things being equal)
be as high with a 40-hour week as with
a 44 would seem to be utterly without
foundation.
Plain enough. Either Canberra Minis-
ters don’t believe in a 40-hour week, or
they have told their economist advisers
to make themselves scarce.
In for "The Ballot."
Gundagai again;
He walked along Sheridan-street, a sturdy
man about 30, with a serious face, ruddy from
an open-air life, and hands strong and brown
and capable. He wore a dark-blue suit and
a grey hat, and sported the R.S.L. badge.
“She’s cold,” he said, hunching his should
ders and looking eagerly about him. “Where’s
the Courthouse?” It was pointed out. “Got
to go before the Land Board,” he offered.
“Don’t open till ten o’clock. I’m trying to
get in the ballot for a block out Harden way.
Good land, too. Could you do a hot rum
and milk?”
Before the Land Board he testified that he’d
had experience on the land before joining
up, and -that he had a couple of hundred
acres of wheat on shares and about 300 ewes
running on rented country out near Temora.
“This is the last of my share-farming, though.
The owner’s son is coming in with him next
year, and getting wheat on shares is hard.
I’d like to get a block because I’ll have to sell
the ewes—l could only rent the paddock they’re
in for six months and there doesn’t seem any
more about. Been trying to get a block for
over a year now. I’d have a good start, too,
with my wheat money and the ewes.”
The chairman, a kindly and sympathetic man,
said “All w can do is admit you to the ballot,
and there you take your chance with over
fifteen hundred others for thirteen blocks.”
“Thank you, sir,” said the applicant and
left. He had the look of a man who is
confident of success but slightly worried by the
odds against him.
Later on he walked about the streets of
Gundagai. Beside him were his two little boys,
*>ne about seven and one about four, both
warmly clad and with the bright look of
youngsters who are well cared for. They ran
and hopped and looked at the store windows
and cars and were eager and full of questions.
Their father divided his time between them
and their mother. She was pushing the pram
in which slept the third child, a girl.
The land-seeker’s mien had changed. Now,
walking about this new town which would
shortly, he believed, be his town his chest
had expanded and he looked upon his little
family with a proud and loving eye as he
pointed out this or that. The whole family
had an air about it —possibly created by the
young father’s dreams.
For he saw himself bringing fat lambs into
Gundagai and talking with new friends, while
the elder boy went to some little school out
near the farm, the smaller boy played around
the new house and the baby stumbled about
the verandah. He saw his wife feeding the
fowls and shading her eyes against the late
sun over the hills of Illawong as she looked
for the homing man and dog. He saw
himself on Saturdays with the family in the
car, going into Gundagai for the shopping,
and mixing and yarning with the crowd
in there; and at night, the baby and the
younger boy asleep in the car, at the pictures
with the wife and “the big feller.”
In time he’d get the telephone, and be able
to ring up the agent and find how the market
was for lambs or pigs, or order a tin of
branding, fluid or a drenching gun. And in
the summer, with the grass turning color on
the rounded hills and the ewes going down
into the bottoms for the shade and the green
stuff, while the black-backed magpies carolled
and wheeled about the house, they could go
on a Sunday'down to the ’Bidgee and bathe
or fish, perhaps above the old Bridge or in
the bend by Jugiong. If there was a flat or
two on his block he could put in some maize
and maybe a stand of lucerne and
But all this is gone. He must go back to
his shared wheat and arrange to sell his ewes
off the rented paddock. His luck was out
artd his name wasn’t among the 13 who came
out of the ballot. With 1500 others, with
30,000 others scattered throughout the land
they fought for, he must try to explain to his
little boys that they can’t have a pony just
yet, and try not to see the disappointment in
his wife’s eyes as they travel in the train back
to wherever they came from and look their
last on Gundagai, as they’ve looked on other
o Continued on page 14.)


fv
For greater
smoking enjogtneni
CRAVENA
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
%
5794
towns because he thought his number might
come out of the ballot for land.
Somehow or other he’ll keep going, dabbling
in wheat or ewes or doing a bit of carting or
a road contract or something, meantime watch-
ing the newspapers and writing to the Lands
Department about blocks for soldiers and
wondering, with the other 30,000 who also
are keeping going somehow, watching their
deferred pay slip away and the years slip by,
why in their vast homeland there is no acre
which they may hope to call their own.
And in Canberra and Sydney and Melbourne,
in Brisbane and Adelaide and Hobart, moun-
tains of files grow while Commonwealth and
States argue and hesitate and fumble and bungle
about soldier-settlement. Politicians issue state-
ments and pass the buck one to another, and
such of them as are honest triers fetch up
against a blank wall of bureaucracy. And to
towns like Gundagai come fine men who
“wait for the ballot,” congratulate .the lucky
few and depart, to return no more.
POLITICAL POINTS
Sydney daily papers presented Ward
as an injured innocent last week, and
the Sunday press went all mushy about
Chraey, who has entered upon his third
year as P.M. One Sabbath print
hailed him as patient, tolerant, kindly,
shrewd, decisive; a fair fighter
respected by friend and foe alike, by
friends for loyalty and undying service
to the party; a leader with vision to
respond to the voice of Caucus, Another
certified that he had moved carefully,
warily and shrewdly, and revealed a
charming personality, having
become the real glamor boy of the
House, fascinating to women in the gal-
lery by reason of his careless grace and
twinkling smile. And all this, and more,
when taxpayers were reeling from the
shock of the Chifley returns of income
for the year to June 30; tax-revenue
up £26,000,000 —£23,000,000 more than
his estimate. To those with dividends
taxed heavily at the source and again in
their hands, swelling the of tax on
all their income, the idol of Sydney
jellyfish journalism is the world’s worst
Treasurer now McKell is out of the
business.
The Greek Government acted
promptly in cleaning up an armed Com-
munist conspiracy, apparently timed to
go off simultaneously with the announce-
ment of the Royal engagement in London
and the opening of the 16-nations con-
ference in Paris. The Balkan situation,
nevertheless, is grim. Czechoslovakia
was obviously forced by Moscow to
withdraw its acceptance of the Franco-
British invitation to the Paris discussions,
and for the same reason, Finland, Poland
and Hungary had to stay out. Dimi-
trov, formerly general secretary of the
Comintern, in which capacity he com-
manded “Australia” to withdraw from the
German war and now Communist dictator
of Bulgaria, is out with a makeshift plan
for “a Slavonic United States of Europe”
attached to the U.S.S.R. It looks like the
first Russian move to annex Europe west
to the Elbe.
A threatened substantial increase in the
price of Melbourne’s milk —certain to be
at least paralleled, and probably exceeded,
in Sydney—has drawn attention to the
subsidy, which amounts to a daily allow-
ance of £l4OO on- the city’s absorption
of 112,000 gallons. This was introduced
as a war-time price stabilising measure
and the financially embarrassed Cains
have guaranteed it only to September.
One reason why Moscow hates General
Marshall may be found in his report on
the closing phase of the war against
Japan, here condensed :
On August 6, 1945, the atomic bomb was
dropped on Hiroshima. The results are
well known.
Two days later the Soviet Union de-
clared war on Japan.
Then on Aug. 9 the Strategic Air Forces *
loosed a second atomic bomb on Nagasaki
which displayed greater destructive blast
and fire than the Hiroshima bomb.
On Aug. 10 the Japanese sued for peace.
And that’s how Russia didn’t win that
war.
Queensland parents are discovering, as
other people have discovered, that
“Labor” Governments set no high value
on brains. Few Queensland teachers get
more than £6OO a year, and it takes the
best part of a working life to reach £5OO
a year. Pie, the Q.P.P. leader, says 263
dominies have resigned in six months, and
there is an uncomfortable feeling that
they’re making south for better pay.
Brooding on his 90,000 dream houses,
N.S.W. Premier McGirr scolded the
local bodies in the County of Cumber-
land for not helping him to build them.
The words were scarcely out of his mouth,
under and over and round the foot he
keeps in that orifice, when 52 of the 66
councils received a death sentence from
Cahill, the superfluous Minister of
Local Government, whose idea of local
government is that it should be ruth-
lessly restricted to areas that “Labor”
can control for pay. He has altered his
plan, and the alteration will require Par-
liamentary sanction; but the Assembly-
men’s-pension ramp got that.
While, as Sydney Lud Mayor Bartley
puts it, non-Labor municipal areas 'are
to be “deleted” wholesale by the Mc-
Girrs so that “Labor” may conquer a
new province by a gross abuse of power,
Bankstown and Canterbury, the Drum-
moyne Mayor notes, are “left severely
alone.” “Severely” is *not the word.
McGirr is member for Bankstown and
the Mayor of Canterbury—also “good-
as-‘Labor’ ” M.L.C. and many other
things—is Parry, who is very much con-
cerned in the Commonwealth inquiry
into Sydney Land Sales Control.
Noting the Royal Commissioner’s
statement that alleged Parry purchases
of municipal land through dummies are
not in the terms of reference and so will
not be reported on in relation to local-
government law, Lang’s “Century” calls
on Minister Cahill to order a separate
inquiry on the excluded issue. It re-
minds Cahill that he “appointed Parry
deputy chairman of the State Electricity
Authority instead of the then chairman
of the County Council,” the Liberal
Cramer, and declares that, as an M.L.C.,
Parry was “closely associated with Mc-
Kell in many matters.” Certainly Mc-
Kell got the Parry vote for Assembly-
men’s pensions.
An “Economic Survey for 1947,” pre-
sented to Parliament by the Prime
Minister before the £5OO-a-year rise
arrived:
Resources can be increased by increasing
the labor force, or by a bigger output per
maq-year, or by a combination of the two.
On the other hand, a reduction in the
labor force or a reduction in the output
per man-year—by lower efficiency or by
shorter hours or increased holidays un-
accompanied by a compensating increase in
hourly output—reduces the total output and
means that even less of the requirements
can be met than before.
True as to “a reduction in the labor
force” and the succeeding words. True
also that that “resources can be increased
by increasing the labor force” ; but not
in the case of every “labor force.”
Fadden points out that in one month,
March, the Commonwealth Government
“labor force” increased by 132 persons
a day—to 156,500, making the total of
persons in Government and semi-Gov-
ernment employ 556,700; “one in four
of the working population.” And Artie
hasn’t noticed any increase in “resources”
other than blueprints, forms and files.
After Fadden had disgustedly reported
that the population of civil servants was
increasing hand over fist, Chifley replied:
Before the war a sub-committee examined
the staffing of each department. Very few
departments have failed to observe the em-
, ployment target set by that committee.
It won’t convince Fadden or anybody
else. “Before the war” there were 68,512
Commonwealth employees (June, 1939;
Year-Book 1942-43, page 77); and what
about the departments spawned during
the war?
Galloping about with surplus postal
revenue running into millions but never,
never contemplating the lifting of the
war-time ha’penny tax on letters.
P.M.G. Cameron cast up in Brisbane the
other day to announce that his Depart-
ment would spend £7,800,000 in Queens-
land in the next three years. There are
to be new public telephones and post
offices and automatic exchanges and a
new G.P.O. in Brisbane and six new
radio stations an’ everythin’. The Can-
berra boys are concentrating on Queens-
land. It’s only two or three weeks since
Armitage was up there threatening to
build new Commonwealth Banks all over
the place, and wasn’t Ward going to
build a standard-gauge railway from
Cloncurry to Hungerford or somewhere?
Any body’d think there was a Federal by-
election coming off soon.
In April the Australian Wheat Feder-
ation produced a stabilisation plan.
Though in some respects not very differ-
ent from the Scully-Pollard one, it would
give growers more control in selling their
wheat, provide for a guaranteed mini-
mum price based on ascertained produc-
tion costs and limit contributions to the
stabilisation fund to 2s. 2d. a bushel
maximum, while conferring on contri-
butors a right to a refund when they
quit wheatgrowing. Pollard says he
won’t have a bar of it, though the
A.W.F. proposed a referendum: “a
compulsory referendum of all licensed
wheatgrowers.” It is strange to find the
federation so set on licensing. Perhaps
warranted as a war-time measure,
though this is questionable, in peace-
time if is unjustifiable, and could be-
come dangerous.
When gas - masks were issued to
N.E.S. wardens in the dark days
of the Jap war one of the in-
structions was that the things were not
proof against cyanide fumes. In still
another cyanide tragedy in Sydney,
which cost two lives —the men were fumi-
gating a ship, aqd one died trying to res-
cue his mate, a third being dragged to
safety by his mates —it came out that the
victims wore “the usual type of gas-
mask used by the N.E.S.” Sydney has
had ugly fumigation tragedies, but in this
matter “Labor” yoomanitarianism has
not been stirred to action. •
“Acknowledging a welcome - home
greeting by the president of the Sydney
Labor Council” (“Daily Mirror”), Thorn-
ton, Communist boss of the Ironworkers
and champion strike-loser, declared that
when at Prague as a delegate to the Con-
gress of the World Federation of Trade
Unions, he had promoted “the interests
of Australia.” How? “By criticising
General MacArthur’s administration of
Japan.”
He thought his opposition to a Congress
proposal to approve the MacArthur ad-
ministration would be endorsed by Aus-
tralians of all political shades of opinion.
What would be endorsed by “all politi-
cal shades of opinion,” other than Labor-
Communist, would be the deportation of
this unspeakable wrecker so that Moscow
could give him a “welcome-home greet-
ing” and a 48-hour-week job at a rouble
an hour.
In the stopless words of “Hansard,”
the last Queensland Parliament met at
Brisbane “on the First day of August in
the Eighth year of the Reign of His
Majesty King George VI in the year of
Our Lord 1944.” The next will be the
31st, and, while a triumph for “‘Labor’
principles,” as practised since “Labor”
lost its enthusiasm for one-vote-one-
value and so many other things, it will be
a travesty of democratic principles. With
electoral boundaries and enrolments to
taste, “Labor” won 35 seats, 57 per cent,,
with 270,213 votes. With 284,043 votes,
of which 167,783 went to the Q.P.P., the
Opposition won only 23 seats, the; Q.P.P,
a mere nine. Votes per seat: Q.P.P.,
18,640; Independents (4), 14,i90; C.P.,
8300; “Labor,” 7720. “And that’s how
we won the war.”
There is to be an appeal against the
High Court decision, delivered by Wil-
liams, J., that the Wheat Tax Act and
Wheat Acquisition Regulations are
valid, arid it is being backed by
growers in all States, The growers want
to get free of what Canberra calls
“stabilisation,” a term under which it
sold wheat for ss. 9d. a bushel to
“Labor” New Zealand, though it is de-
manding 16s. from India for about 2}
million bushels ordered to save a starv-
ing population. Under “stabilisation”
the growers get ss. 2d., plus half the
extra 10s. 10d., the remaining half going
into a fund from which, in some dim
and distant future, they’ll get advances
and then only if the export price falls
below ss. 2d.
New study in “nationalisation” with a
familiar sequel:
July 2; The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is paying £455,000 for the 261,500
shares in Qantas Empire Airways.
July 10: Qantas Empire Airways em-
ployees who load and unload baggage and
mail from flying boats at Rose Bay, Syd-
ney, demand overtime rates for their
ordinary shift. Three fail to report for
work and are stood down; 200 strike in
sympathy, Tasman Empire Airways can-
cels all its services from N.Z. to Australia.
Some of the strikers are Thornton iron-
workers ; others Wright sheet-metal
workers. In the U.S.A. unions would
have to get rid of their Communists as a
condition of being employed at strategic
points such as flying-boat bases ; but in
this “Labor” country Communists can go
anywhere and do anything.
Menzies is proposing special assistance
to the British in the form of food and
materials on a deferred-payment basis;
suggested cost, the equivalent of what the
free-medicine racket will run away with.
“Disaster to Britain,” he says, “would be
disaster and ruin to the world in general,
and to Australia in particular.” Cal-
well’s idea is that the nation that needs
the labor of every able-bodied man and
woman to keep its head above water could
spare “between 10 and 15 millions” to
save Australia from the Japs, and knock
Australia’s best market endways—though
he didn’t say that. For a beginning, he
would be satisfied with 200,000. Shipping?
Well, the Admiralty had offered an air-
craft carrier provided Australia furnished
a crew of 800, but this was “impossible”
because of Australia’s immense “commit-
ments in Japan.” Unlike Queen Vic-
toria when Charles Beresford told a salty
story in her presence, the downy old
birds at the Admiralty must have been
amused.
Any returned serviceman can now get
a rousing chorus in any Sydney club for
an after-hours version of “Bless ’Em All,”
with a new application. McKell’s
bogus liquor-“reform” measure provided
for more clubs, with bars, and 72-
mostly composed of servicemen, golfers
and bowlers—were granted licences last
week by Scobie, S.M. The catch is six-
o’clock bar closing, which McKell hadn’t
the pluck to alter ; and according to Police
Commissioner Mac Kay (in other days
“the Flying Pieman” to “Labor”) six
o’clock closing is to be strictly enforced
against all clubs, with no Sunday drink-
ing in any. A devil of a row is working
up, “Labor” itself being already sun-
dered.
Sadly reporting a loss of £1,446,800
on the South Australian railways for the
year to June 30, 1946, Acting-Commis-
sioner Chapman reminded the Playford
Government that he had predicted one of
£1,500,000 when appointed six months
before ; and 1946-47 was worse. Revenue
was down £152,000 and expenditure up
£45,000.


ALL DRESSED UP AND NOTHING TO DO.
“Tie parties in Indonesia having come together as a result of strong American and British representations, Dr. Evatt, breaking a long silence on the Indonesian situation,
has offered them his advice and assistance."
“It’s all over, bud. Too little, too late again!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Uco” on the Royal bethrothal:
When Philip Mountbatten marries Princess
Elizabeth he will as husband to the Heiress
Presumptive occupy a position unique in British
history. There were Prince Consorts before
Albert the Good, but never before has a Royal
lady married while actually holding the title
of Heiress Presumptive. Mary I married Phillip
II of Spain after she came to the throne;
Elizabeth of course was never married, and
when Mary, daughter of James 11, was wedded
to her cousin William of Orange there were
two lives between her and the throne with the
added possibility of either her uncle Charles 11,
or her father James, then Duke of York, pro-
ducing a male heir. Had it not been for this
it is unlikely that the marriage would have
been approved, as William was already Stadt-
holder of the Dutch States. Anne, too, was
married while Old Rowley was still on the
throne; her husband, like young Mountbatten,
was a member of the Danish Royal House.
The couple were well matched, but their
domestic life was a succession of tragedies in
that none of their numerous children survived
more than a few years. Prince George doesn’t
bulk very large in history, but a rhyme of the
times suggests he had his points:
King William thinks all,
Queen Mary talks all,
Prince George drinks all,
And Princess Anne eats all.
In 1816 Princess Charlotte, daughter of the
Prince Regent, later George IV, was married
to Leopold of Saxe-Coburg. She died in child-
birth in the following year and her death
caused the Dukes of Clarence and Kent, next
in line for the throne after her father, to break
off their irregular alliances and take approved
brides in the hope of producing an heir.
Clarence’s marriage- was fruitless; Kent’s pro-
duced a daughter, Victoria, who 18 years later
ascended the throne. Like England’s first
Queen, Mary, Victoria married after her
accession.
As husband to Britain’s future Queen, Philip
Mountbatten is taking on a big job. Con-
stitutionally his powers are virtually nil, but
his influence in the Royal household will be
all-important to the success of the next reign.
“Philip Street”: Historically con-
sidered, it is a pity Princess Elizabeth’s
Consort could not have been a Beaufort.
That would have restored Plantagenet
blood to the Royal House, and possibly
the Plantagenet line. The Beauforts are
descended from John of Gaunt by his
second wife, Katherine Swinford. His
first wife was Eleanor of Castile, from
whom ran the line of descent through the
three Lancastrian Henries, who reigned
after Richard 11. But after Eleanor’s
death he married his mistress, Katherine
Swinford, and an Act of Parliament
legitimised her children by him. It has
been said, but never proved, that Henry
IV forged a clause in this statute which,
in effect, barred them from succession to
the throne. The Plantagenet male line
through John of Gaunt by his first mar-
riage petered out with the reigning house
of Lancaster, and it was a female line
that carried on the senior Plantagenet
blood through the Tudors, till their male
line petered out, too. The Beauforts
possess a descent which has continued in
the male line from Henry 11, who repre-
sents not only the line of William the
Conqueror, but also, through his mother,
that of Alfred the Great.
* * * *
“Bo”: Few poets these days, even if
as aesthetic as Gilbert’s Bunthorne, run
to the affectation of long hair. It is
still popular among some contemporary
artists, though whether it is from effem-
inacy or economic necessity is anybody’s
guess. It is no longer regarded as the
infallible sign of musical genius, though a
few older ones in the musical world,
notably Stokowski and Toscanini, still
sport snowy, untamed topknots. The
example of Rafael Kubelik, whose
mane if shorn would comfortably stuff
a cushion, must be viewed therefore with
some trepidation. On a night last week
Rafael was on the rostrum conducting
the Sydney orchestra, and in the fury
of his athletics during a rousing Beeth-
oven overture, as he fiercely adjured first
one section of the orchestra and then an-
other to greater efforts, his hair looked
like a mass of seaweed enveloping him
down to the eyes. Suddenly, in the
Beethoven manner, a double fortissimo
passage suddenly faded, and over the
comparative silence came a stage whisper
from a few seats along: “My dear, he
doesn’t need to see them —he knows
where they all are from memory! ”
* * * *
“Eve”: Nuttiest comment I’ve heard
on the N.S.W. £12,000 Blottery came
from my friend Mournful Maurice. He’s
all against bigger prizes and can’t see how
anybody with sense can possibly like them.
“The extra prizemoney makes everything
worse,” he, told me, “because, when you
strike nothing, it means you’ve lost more
than ever,”
* • ♦ *
“Lao-dah”: Some hint of the diffi-
culties Nehru and his “friends” will have
to contend with when they start govern-
ing India without British assistance is
given by a recent incident at Ahmeda-
bad, in Bombay Presidency. Seventy-
“It's Jimmy's ambition to be a policeman!”
two students at a training college de-
cided on a “fast unto death” because
they were asked to sit down to dinner
with “Untouchables.” Their action was
a reply to the provincial Governments’
attempts to break down the Hindu caste
system by legislation there are
60,000,000 Untouchables in Hindustan.
Gandhi is perhaps the most enlightened
man amongst the Hindu congregation,
and I don’t suppose he really thinks the
cow is a god, but he records on one oc-
casion how he tried to overcome his
prejudice against meat by eating a dish
of beef. He said that it was all he could
do to prevent himself vomiting and he
never repeated the attempt.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: With building costs cer-
tain to soar still higher when the 40-hour
week becomes general, a recent par, in
a Morwell (Vic.) paper must have brought
tears to the eyes of more than one reader.
It concerned a reunion of old residents
of. Gunyah (Vic.) in a little hall,
erected in 1907. The builder, who
was present, related how, in the
old days, he had erected a four-roomed
house for eight quid. On completion,
he said, the owner was dissatisfied be-
cause certain fittings had not been built
in, and he was forced to take payment
in the shape of an unbroken pony—
value unknown.
* w * »
“King’s Pawn”: On the general prin-
ciple that nothing really exists until
Russia has discovered it, the cables re-
port that Moscow Radio has announced
a “new variation of chess” gaining wide
popularity in Russia —“blitz” chess, in
which games must finish in five minutes.
The “new variation” has been very
popular in Australia for the last four
years and was known long before that.
One Sydney club this year ran two special
night tourneys, one for “five-minute
games,” the other for “10 - minute
games.” Chess clocks register the time
of the players, each man’s clock starting
or ceasing by the pressure on a lever as
the moves are made; the first player to
exceed his time limit loses. Lightning
chess (N.S.W., like U.S.A., has annual
championships) is of the same genus.
Russia may yet “discover kreig p '
chess, a game in which neither p >
knows (except by deduction)
opponent’s moves,
“W.RT.”: Publicity was recently
given to the grave of Yemmerawanyea,
an aborigine who accompanied Gover-
nor Phillip to England and died there in
1793. Another abo. buried in England
was King Cole, a member of the cricket
team that toured the country 80 years
ago. He couldn’t stand the climate and
died from inflammation of the lungs on
July- 30, 1868.
» * * *
“Squizz”: Victorian railways have
proudly announced the introduction of
new suburban railway carriages equipped
with straps for the convenience of the
majority of peak-period travellers who
caniiot get a seat. My immediate reac-
tion was to try to calculate just how
many years it took the department to get
around to thinking of installing straps.
Secondly, the base thought occurred
that if they built sufficient carriages they
wouldn’t need straps.
“Clayfield”; Flying gear (B. 25/6/’47)?
The Yanks certainly were keen on wear-
ing it, especially on the ground. At
Nadzab (N.G.), hemmed in on all sides
from sea-breezes, it was common for the
whole team of clerks in the air-freight
office to sit at their desks wearing flying-
boots. Australian flying-boots were
prized, especially, and one of the more
mercenary chaps in our transport crew
decided to cash in on this. During a
trip to Melbourne in winter, 1944, a
Yank offered him £lO for his. After a
moment’s absence, while he spoke to the
pilot, the Aussie kept the discussion
going. Half an hour later the boots were
sold for £2O, the increase in price
brought about through the co-operation
of the pilot. When the deal was started
the kite was at 8000 ft. When it was
settled the altitude was 18,000 ft. The
Yank reckoned “them boots is worth
anything when it’s cold as this.”
* * * *
“Oxo”: Not all wharfies are Com-
mos. When reels of paper from Canada
for the Sydney “Tribune” were landed
on the wharf recently every one of them
had a sticker pasted on it reading
“Russian Fifth Column.” The gum was
quite wet, so the gang working on the
reels in the hold of the ship must have
attached the stickers.
* * * &
“X.S.”: A submission unique in Vic-
torian legal history recently got three
men their release from a charge of re-
ceiving. Five rolls of rayon piece-goods,
stolen from the docks, were recovered
by police and- Customs officials. They
were subsequently planted as a trap- for
suspected receivers on Melbourne’s one-
time notorious Dudley Flats. The trap
worked and the three men were appre-
hended. The Gent. One argued that the
goods ceased to be stolen goods after
they had been repossessed by the police,
and before they were planted. Acquittal,
by direction.
“vObody”; The purchasing power of
the cigarette has deteriorated in Germany
since my day. According to a Frankfurt
report, a man travelling on a train that
stopped at each of two stations wished
to go to a town between the two. He
gave the driver 40 cigarettes and the train
stopped. Forty cigarettes! I remember
when for six cigarettes a passenger-train
stopped to allow a bunch of p.-0.-w. to
alight at their camp. Owing to transport
difficulties engendered by Allied bombing,
the work train that was to transport us
20 miles back to camp didn’t arrive, so
we were bundled into the rear carriage
of a passenger-train which passed our
camp. To save us a two-mile walk, the
driver was approached with six gaspers,
and the train stopped. “Make it 200 and
you can have the engine,” said the
driver.
f “Nakh”; Unless Harborsiders are dif
ferently constituted from Yarrabankers
the honesty boxes won’t succeed i n
Sydney. A few were tried on the trams
in Melbourne some years ago, but they
were withdrawn. Although the boari
loses tens of thousands of pounds
annually through free-riders the return
didn’t even pay for the cost of installa-
tion.
“Adelaide”: An unusual church altera-
tion takes place at Kapunda (S.A.). The
Baptist Church is about the handsomest
building in the town, and had a big
membership when built, 60 years back
in the great S.A. copper-mining days ot
Kapunda, Moonta and Burra. It has
since fallen on evil days, and S. A
Minister of Education has now bought it
for conversion into a technical school.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I’d barely settled into bunk
in my Sydney suburban home the other
night when the doorbell rang. Shuffling
out, I heard a murmur of many voices
and opened the door on a crowd of
people who filled the front yard and
flowed over into the street. Harry Honey
spoke up: “Sorry t’ bother y’, Cloot, but
we’re arranging a protest about these
new tram fares. Will y’ be in it?”
“My oath,” I said. “All right, be
at your tram-stop usual time in the
morning.” The crowd went away.
Next morning I was there. So
were 50 or 60 others, men and women
and schoolchildren. We could see a
similar crowd at the next stop down the
hill and at the next. Then, down the
middle of the road came marching a
crowd of hundreds. We joined it and
it quickly grew to thousands. Each of
us was handed a handbill which read,
“We’ll march to town every morning
like this. Break off and go to work when
you reach St. Mary’s. Assemble
there tonight at 5, 5.30 or 6 for the
march home. We’ll keep it up for a
week and they can run their trams empty.
It ought to bring the fares down.” It
did. On the third day our suburb was
plastered with official notices stating that
the original fares had been restored. But
I didn’t enjoy the victory, for just then
I heard the milkman and awoke to the
drab and cheerless dawn. But, ah, if
only, we could find leaders among us
with the fire to initiate such protests!
* ♦ * *
“Whiskers Blake”: In the years that
had passed since we parted company, I
had grown about four feet taller ; the old
school seemed to have shrunk. Classes
were in and workmen were tearing down
the air-raid shelter in the yard. The
heaves and grunts at last paid dividends
and, arousing angry dust, the shelter’s
roof collapsed)- On the inner surface of
the one remaining wall, and never meant
to be bared to the revealing fight of day,
was the thickly-pencilled message: “Old
Custard-guts has rats.” The workmen
gathered round and laughed; then they
noted the portly, formidable gentleman,
who fitted the description to a “t,” strid-
ing across the yard with a wake of small
pupils, and they showed their hearts of
gold. Attacking with chisels in a most
un-unionist manner, they had most of
the legend erased before the master was
near enough to spot it.
* * * *
“J.M.”: Country kids can take it.
Holidaying at a Springbrook (Q.) guest-
house my wife and I learned that the 12-
year-old of the house had cut off two
fingers in the bread machine. The lad’s
reply to my wife’s solicitations must
stand as a classic of nonchalance —“Oh,
well, two less fingernails to chew!”
“Flip”: Our new lad had fallen for
several hoary practical jokes whfen some
bright spark pulled the old one of send-
ing him up to the chief electrician to “get
a short-circuit —small size.” The lad’s
cherub-like dial belied itself with a
devilish grin as hb knocked upon the
electrician’s door. A little later the pair
could be heard chatting very profession-
ally about batteries, induction coils and
the like; then, with his “short-circuit,” a
mass of gadgets neatly mounted on a
block of wood, the lad emerged and
headed back to his tormentors. The
shocks which they received from hand-
ling the apparatus were slight to the one
which came with his enlightening dis-
course on electrophysics.
* * * *
“T. Once”: That stunt of old Ben
Franklin’s to get near the fire in a
crowded inn parlor one cold night (B.
9/7/’47) was almost equalled by a rough
Australian bloke who came into a
Terowie (S.A.) pub one night and found
the same set of conditions. The locals
were talking about dogs and the cold
stranger cut in. “It’s a pity I wasn’t a
dawg.” “Why?” “Well, if I was a
strange dawg an’ come in here all you
other hounds would jump up to inspect
me an’ then I’d be able to get near the
fire.” It had the desired effect,
the local humorist even pretending to
“inspect” him.
THE RAIN-MAKERS.
“The C.S.I.R. experts who have succeeded in
producing a man-made rainstorm covering 20 square
miles by dropping dry ice into clouds are about to
make a second series of flights, with other liquid
preparations.”
Time was when breaking droughts and cloud-
compelling
Was, in the almost universal view,
A job beyond terrestrial acumen,
Something miraculous and superhuman
Which only gods could do.
We prayed in churches for their intercession,
And still we pray for it in days of stress,
While savage Merlins mutter incantations
To the same end in less enlightened nations,
With much the same success.
But Science marches on, and marches faster
To new achievements, one may well surmise.
Now it’s obtained a field for fresh material
In regions we denominate aerial,
A footing in the skies.
}
“More things are wrought by prayer than this
world dreams of,”
We’re told; but sometimes lesser means suffice.
No orisons, one may suggest, are needed
When once it’s proved they can. be superseded
By agents like dry ice.
On with your task, you scientific pundits!
The more contrivances that you may find
To tap the niggard clouds and coax the weather
And hold unruly elements in tether,
The better for mankind.
To pray for Heav’n-sent rain may be instinctive,
But, personally, I’d be rather fain
To pray for more successes for our mentors
In realms aloft, these talented inventors
Of ways for making rain.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Chevroford”: The world-wide epi-
demic of saucer-spotting exemplifies
once more the simple desire of
people to be in on something. After
the Southern Cloud was lost between
Sydney and Melbourne hundreds of
observers spotted her in various situations.
A farmer driving along the foreshore
saw her come out of a cloud and dive
into the waters of Port Phillip ; another
man saw her just miss his suburban
chimney, and even caught the look
of alarm on the face of the pilot.
The most circumstantial piece of evidence
came from a neighbor in Melbourne who
swore the ’plane passed a few hundred
feet overhead with self and family as
witnesses. There seemed so little doubt
about his story that I suggested that he
ought to add his quota to the number re-
porting to the police. Then his wife piped
up. “When did you say we saw it?”
“Last Saturday, of course,” he said. “But
it was the Saturday before the Saturday
before the last that you called us,” she
said. It was the dates he had hallucinated.
“Pawang”; Ordinary hysteria is a con-
dition in which certain of the bodily func-
tions are distorted as a result of obsessive
ideas not originating from organic
disease of the brain, and it generally
develops in persons who are exceptionally
emotional and are involved in some crisis
—a fright, disappointment in love or busi-
ness failures. Mass hysteria is merely a
manifestation of individual hysteria re-
sulting from some common idea like
the general belief that various Govern-
ments are engaged in making secret
weapons. Like any other epidemic it
goes through a population, hitting those
who haven’t built up an immunity against
it. One of the most pathetic and extra-
ordinary examples was the children’s
crusade of the Middle Ages. Thousands
of children made their way down to the
Mediterranean and boarded ships with
the intention of going to the Holy Land
to rescue the sacred places from the
Saracens. The slave market got most of
them; few ever returned. The late out-
break was over before Hollywood could
commercialise it.
* * * *
“Squizz”: No doubt the announce-
ment that 24 (R.A.F.) Squadron is to
become a kind of Empire circus featuring
crews from all the Dominions had its
origin in successful mixing of nation-
alities in Britain’s squadrons during
the war. Our Bomber Command
unit was typical; Englishmen, Scotsmen,
Welshmen, Australians, Enzedders,
Canucks, Yanks, Rhodesians and
Bahamans rubbed shoulders in the mess
and in the sweaty depths of our Lancs’
fuselages. I learnt more about other
countries and other parts of the Empire
at that squadron than I ever learnt at
school. A fellow-Aussie managed to
collect a crew of seven each of whom
owned to a different nationality. I think
it was easier to sidestep red tape in these
mixed R.A.F. squadrons than it was in,
say, an all-Australian or all-Canadian
unit. As One bloke from a certain
famous Australian Lancaster squadron
glumly complained to me, “It’s 0.k., but
with our own admin, and discip. types
you can’t get away with anything!”
* * * *
“Wattle”: Mortlake (Vic.) was roused
on a stormy night by a call from a station,
eight miles out, saying that a ’plane was
in distress; it was without lights and
wanted to land. Soon, the road was a
sea of cars, heading for a large paddock
that someone had decided would be an
excellent emergency landing-ground.
Lights were focused on the paddock and
everyone waited expectantly. No plane
landed and gradually the motorists went
home. Next day they found out the
truth. An inquisitive farmer had decided
to investigate the workings of a new
bulldozer, in a shed. Quite unconscious
of ihe sensation he caused he had spent
an hour cheerily starting and stopping
it.
* * * *
“Cumberset”: An Adelaide police
constable is advocating an aptitude test
for J.Ps. over 70. He was principal
"Henry, I WISH you wouldn't Wear such a conspicuous tie.”
witness in a careless-driving charge. At
the conclusion of his evidence, the
justice looked over the top of his spec-
tacles and said sternly “I find you
guilty. Fined £3 with 10s, 6d. costs. In
future see you take more care when
The witness was flabbergasted, and so was
the prosecutor* who, in a whispered con-
versation with the justice, hastened to
point out that he couldn’t really punish
the Law.
“X.S.”: If the average time for the
magistrate’s decision at the Sydney Traffic
Court is 40 seconds flat it is in a bullock-
dray stage of development, that Mel-
bourne has passed long since. Some
years ago I was lobbed for parking my
car in the wrong spot. As I had parked
it in that spot daily for at least two years,
thus saving myself pounds in parking
fees, I was surprised and hurt at the
summons and intended to ignore it. A
friend advised me not to do that. He
said the magistrate was always flattered
if anybody showed so much respect for
the Court as to turn up, and if I had a
good excuse would let me off or fine me
merely a nominal number of shekels. I
attend the Court on the due date, and
after 20 or more names had been
shouted without the defendant appear-
ing and the magistrate had imposed the
statutory fine of 205,. at the rate of four
a minute, I heard my name bellowed
through corridors and environs. The
magistrate nearly fell off his perch when
I stood up, and his expression while I
made my prepared speech would have
frozen the milk in a dairy. “Well,” he
said when I had finished, “a man of
your age ought to have known better-
thirty shillings and costs.”
J * * *• *
“McGlum”; Smiler was a Taiwan
guard no better than any other Jap-
trained Oriental, and when he was in
charge of a work party you took your
“Well, here's a cup of tea — that'll make you feel MUCH better!"
chances about what was coming to you—
bash or bludge. One day six of us were
miles from nowhere repairing a road ; a
monotonous, dirty, break-back grind that
made us grouchy and miserable. Smiler
was feeling the effects of a malarial attack.
Having to stand in the Hainan sun and
w&tch us work did not improve his
natural disposition. He drove us hard
until knock-off, gathered us together and
collapsed. We held a 10-second con-
ference, then grabbed him by the arms
and legs and staggered back to camp.
One of our weaklings brought up the
rear jauntily carrying Smiler’s rifle and
fixed bayonet. We got back an hour
late, but the guard house complement
couldn’t find a word to say as bur
delirious burden was unceremoniously
dumped on the doorstep, his rifle beside
him. The usual search and roll-call was
neglected as we hurried off to our bar-
racks.
• • * •
“Captain Pintle”; The location by
H.M.A.S. Lachlan of a sunken 300 ft.
ship some 11 miles eastward of Cape
Bowling Green, 50-odd miles south-east
of Townsville, seems likely to clear up a
mysterious tragedy which put Queensland
into mourning 36 years ago. On March
23, 1911, the Adelaide Steamship Co.’s
passenger steamer Yongala left Mackay
for northern ports with 48 passengers
and a crew of 72, Captain W. Knight in
command. That evening she was sighted
off Dent Island in Whitsunday Passage,
steaming towards a heavy mass of low
cloud. A cyclonic storm of hurricane
force followed. Except for a few mail-
bags, some floating wreckage and cases
of kerosene and a dead racehorse still
in its deck-stall, washed ashore not far
from Townsville, no trace of the ship was
found, despite long and careful search.
* * * *
“Shavia”: Football sidelights, is it?
A bunch of Australian Rules players went
up for the ball in an Adelaide game and
all finished up on the ground. Finally
a little feller emerged clasping the ball
and was given the mark. Came a yell
from a barracker, “Gripes, he was fourth
in the queue!”
* * * *
“Dorai”: The Melbourne “Herald”,
story of the two elderly ladies who hired
a taxi in Melbourne to go to Alice Springs
(B. 25/6/’47) was right enough—but
about 21 years late. In June or July,
1926, when the lamb-markers were
camped at The Pines, on Arcoona station,
out on the east-west line in S.A., two
elderty ladies did arrive one evening in
one of the old model Yellow cabs, and
told the musterers that they had hired the
cab in Melbourne and were on their
way to Alice Springs and possibly Dar-
win. They then proceeded to have their
evening meal, and went to bed in the
taxi while the driver camped on the
ground outside. James or Robert Mc-
Ewin, who owned Arcoona, or Andy
Absolom, who was overseer at that time
and in the mustering camp when the cab
arrived, will vouch for this, but we never
heard how far they got on their trip. The
same winter saw the first tour to Darwin
by. the Pioneer louring Co., which
fetched up at Arcoona station one after-
noon having got off the main track at
Philips’ Ponds on its way from Port
Augusta to Kingoonya.
* * * *
“Goosewing”: Scene: The bridge of
one of His Majesty’s Australian ships.
The captain, in the midst of taking a star-
sight, suddenly finds that he hasn’t
brought his nautical almanac to the
bridge. Turning to an ordinary seaman
standing by, he tells him to dash below
and get it. Time passes, the sun sets,
the horizon fades, the captain fumes,
and still the “Ord.” fails to reappear. At
long last he comes up the ladder, followed
by a sleepy midshipman, who has been
aroused from his slumbers (for he has
the middle watch ahead of him) by an
urgent summons to report to the captain.
“Well, where the hell have you been?”
demands the Old Man, “and where is
my nautical almanac?”. “Oh, I’m sorry,
sir,” answers “Ord.,” “I thought you said
the nautical maniac, and that’s what the
boys call the middy, sir.”
* * * *
“Bungle”: Where on earth do they
store them —and how? The old chap on
the jetty paused in the act of putting on
his Army Disposals jacket, and with a
grin turned back the collar for me to
see. It was branded with the previous
owner’s name —and the year, 1917.
* # * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: An “unlawful kill-
ing” charge revealed some unusual
features when a Perth woman denied
having killed a two-months-old baby
which had been left in her care while its
mother took its twin to a hospital. The
prosecution alleged that the woman
represented herself to be a nurse, that
she accepted responsibility for the child,
and that its death from suffocation,
caused by vomit being sucked back into
its lungs, occurred while she was drunk.
The woman denied the charges of drunk-
enness and misrepresentation, and a
doctor testified that the baby’s life might
have been saved by prompt medical at-
tention. The judge directed the jury to
decide between criminal negligence and
mere carelessness. It did, and acquitted
the woman.
#
“C. 8.”: The Australian “I sez” habit
is no worse than the “I have got” fetish.
Why have we got to say “I have got a
cold” when “I have a cold” is sufficient?
The habit is so virulent that I see I have
got it. An Englishman once told me that
he instantly recognised me as an Aus-
tralian by the gottishness of my discourse.
The “I sez” disease is even more evident
in our literature than in our speaking.
I once asked a friend whether he had
read So-and-so’s latest novel. “God for-
bid,” he said. “Isn’t she one of those
‘he says, she says’ writers?”
* * * *
“Becks” on a naval visitor;
Aircraft-carrier Glory is the fourth ship of
her name to be built for the R.N., although on
several occasions in Britain’s naval history a
French Gloire has, after .capture, been renamed
Glory and has taken her place among the
native-born. First to have the name by birth-
right was a 32-gunner of 679 tons, launched
in 1763 at the end of the Seven Years War.
Fler career was undistinguished, and in 1774
she was re-christened Apollo, yielding her first
name to a bigger ship of 1931 tons, carrying
98 guns. This Glory was over 50 years in the
Fleet and played a notable part in Lord Howe’s
victory over the French fleet commanded by
Admiral Villaret-Joyeuse in 1794. Known to
history as The Glorious First of June, this
action took place 400 miles out in the Atlantic
when Howe with 26 ships intercepted a French
fleet of equal strength that had come out of
Brest to pick up a convoy of food ships from
America. , „ , , .
In a preliminary bout a couple of days before
the main encounter Glory distinguished her-
self by exchanging broadsides with three French
ships and knocking the topmasts off two of
them. In the main action Glory was one of
the eight ships to break through the French
line. She brought down all three masts of
Scipion; but took considerable punishment her-
self, sufficient to prevent her boarding her next
adversary, Sans-Pareil, which she nevertheless
gave a severe drubbing. Sans-Pareil lost 260
killed and 120 wounded; Glory’s casualties
were 13 killed and 39 wounded. Glory was
broken up in 1825 and the name lapsed till
1896, when it was given to a 13,000-ton pre-
Dreadnought battleship armed with four Din.
and eight 6in. guns. She was like the first of
her line in two things—she never fired a shot
in battle and she finished up under another
name, Crescent.
Present Glory is a Light Fleet Carrier of the
Colossus class, laid down in 1942 and com-
missioned in February, 1945. She arrived in
Australian waters to join Admiral Vian’s carrier
fleet round about the time Japan threw in the
sponge and almost her first job was to carry
General Sturdee to Rabaul to take the surren-
der of the Japanese South-eastern Army and
Fleet. A brass plate on her deck commemorates
the ceremony. Next she put her aircraft ashore
and became a repatriation ship, taking British
p.-0.-w. from Manila to Vancouver, Dutch
from Manila to Balikpapan and bringing Aus-
tralian troop? — 1386 of them —home from
Tarakan. Later she ferried the New Zealand
air contingent of 8.C.0.F. to Japan. Since
then she has operated in her normal role as
a unit of the British Pacific Fleet and the bast
Indies Fleet. Since Glory was last in these
parts Seafires of 806 Squadron have replaced
her Corsairs, b'ut 837 Squadron of Fireflies are
still with her.
A POINT FOR POLITICS.
“Politics is perhaps the only profession for which
no preparation is thought necessary,
no A — Robert Louis Stevenson ,
How true it is, albeit, one must confess,
It mattered less in R.L.S.’s day
When those who sat in Parliament, .unless
To office they’d contrived to win their way.
Collected not a penny-piece of pay,
Just to be there fulfilling their ambitions,
And hence the country hadn’t to defray
The cost of unfledged, half-baked politicians.
And now what added food for thoughtfulness
It can’t but furnish you when you survey
Or listen to (p’raps moving the Address)
Some new-made Rep. or tyro M.L.A.,
And realise how little he has to say,
How much to learn to carry out his missions
Doesn’t it strike you as a pity, ph,
There’s no apprenticeship for politicians/
In every other walk of life, I guess,
A chap must learn his craft, be what it may,
Before he practises it, and possess
Some guarantee of merit to display
Ere he can join the salaried array,
E.g., our parsons, lawyers and physicians.
But there’s one class who need no such o.k
They’ve no exams, to pass, our politicians.
Some come and go while others come and stay,
Drawn from all sorts of folk and all con-
ditions.
Here is a job that any can essay, . . .
There’s no preparing ground for politicians.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


f P 5P p ''-ffzyp'f!' \
RATES REDUCED
m « S ai m m mm mkmm
o
4>/’
m
on
mm
A
m
'fS/Zj:
A?
n
mt
e «
g Ar
Oo
®*V
ic e
°Ocf,
on
*****
l *m
£• •• ' ■ .
]
Qa*Cu
m
SYDNEY TO:
• SOURABATA
• SINGAPORE
• RANGOON
• CALCUTTA
• KARACHI
• BAHREIN
• BASRA
• CAIRO
• LYDDA
• AUGUSTA
• MALTA
• MARSEILLES
• LONDON
This big reduction in charges for
Overseas Air freight now provides
commercial users with economical
transport for all types of air cargo
—including perishable goods.
Efficient handling and attentive
service, on the ground and in the
air, ensure efficiency and economy,
and final delivery in the fastest
possible time.
Fly your goods by QANTAS AIR
FREIGHT SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA’S INTERNATIONAL airline
in association with T\ fi fk f
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION O'U‘A'l
THE SERVICE MAN
Australian "Defence."
“Ek Dum”: A comparison between
the expenditures of the United Kingdom
and Australia in defence in the coming
year can scarcely fill the Government at
Canberra with pride, especially when it
is remembered that Australia is rolling
in comfort, its people fully-fed and fully-
leisured on a scale known nowhere else
in the world except Canada and the
U.SA, Certainly it has a housing short-
age, but nothing like Britain’s.
Britain’s total establishment of man-
power for army service in 1947-48 is
1,210,000, 191,000 in the R.N. and
354,000 in the R.A.F. With six times
Australia’s population, the country is con-
tributing 17 times as many men.
Against the total vote of £50,000,000
a year for defence in Australia (includ-
ing about £15,000,000 for scientific re-
search and various other mysterious
measures) the British estimates provide
for: —
Royal Navy .. .. £A245,875,000
Army 465,000,000
R.A.F 267,000,000
£A977,875,000
Thus the overall ratio of British effort
is roughly the same in money (omitting
special votes for research and such
matters) as in proposed manpower.
The National Service Act passed in
March provides for compulsory service
for all British males between the ages of
18 and 26. To operate from January 1,
1949, the Act is due to run till 1954.
Australia has no guarantee that its
“Government’s” scheme will be carried
out, since it depends on volunteers who,
in a country in which there is virtually
no unemployment, are not necessarily
likely to be of the best quality.
As told in another article on this page
the little Himalayan hill State of Nepal
propo&s to offer the British Government
10 battalions of Gurkhas for service out-
side India, so soon as the new Govern-
ments of India take over.
On that basis little Nepal will be pro-
viding a greater effective contribution in
manpower for peace-time land defence
of the British Commonwealth than Aus-
tralia, which Dr. Evatt claims to be a
world Power. The population of Nepal
is about 2,000,000 fewer than that of
Australia.
The skeleton of Australian defence
under the present scheme is as follows:
Scientific Research and Development
This appears first in the Government’s
outline, and for it an average of
£6,000,000 per annum is provided for the
next five years. The main item is the
guided-missile project.
The value of the programme. and its
extent may be judged against the fact
that one machine alone which is being
installed in the United States for atom
research is to cost £8,000,000, and some-
thing like £1,000,000,000 Australian has
been spent there on atomic-weapon de-
velopment.
However, Mr. Dedman solemnly hopes
that from “the combined work of [his]
service and scientific- staffs, there will
ultimately emerge a conclusion on the
probable nature and methods of future
warfare which will provide a firm basis
for the introduction of new weapons.”
Naval Defence
An average annual allotment of
£15,000,000 is to be made, and with this
it is proposed to “build up a balanced
force over a period of years, capable of
operating as an independent force, backed
by shore establishments for its mainten-
ance. It also includes escort vessels for
the protection of our shipping and survey
vessels.”
It is proposed that by the end of the
in five years’ time —
there will be in commission two light
carriers, two cruisers and six destroyers,
f •„ * ~ j ■
three frigates, three survey ships and their
tenders, two minesweepers and three air-
sea-rescue vessels v an ocean-going tug, an
ammunition carrier and two boom-
defence vessels.
These are apart from reserves—one
cruiser, two destroyers and six frigates.
Thus active cruiser strength is to be
reduced by one against present strength,
and by three (not counting Adelaide)
against 1939 strength, the lost cruisers
being replaced by two light aircraft-
carriers. Against the Royal Navy’s enlist-
ment of 191,000, it is proposed to provide
“4040 seagoing forces and 6410 for shore
establishments and pools” this year, num-
bers which are to be increased to 6756
seagoing forces and 7997 for shore service
“Countermand those flooding orders, Prendergast — there's something
here calling for urgent attention!”
by 1951-52. This is to be supplemented
by a naval air arm which will call for
staffs, flying and otherwise, of 448 this
year, rising to 3936 in 1951-52.
A whole £2,000,000-odd a year is to be
spent on the naval air service. And ship-
building—six destroyers, of which two
are laid down, plus repair work, and
whose weight and fighting power Admiral
Lord Tovey criticised a few months ago
—will pan out at about £2,000,000 per
annum.
The measure of usefulness of the
R.A.N. may be judged by the fact that
in the invasion of Lingayen Gulf in the
Philippines, the combined navies used
six battleships, 10 cruisers, 18 carriers and
124 destroyers.
For the covering of any enemy which
may contemplate attack on one fleet, it
needs to be recorded that when the two
aircraft-carriers are completed each will
have a capacity of 36 aircraft.
It is reassuring to hear that, despite
the Chifley Ministry’s overall obsession
with “push-button warfare,” the Minister
for Defence is advised that “there will be
no rapid development which will render-
vessels such as carriers, cruisers and
destroyers obsolete within the near
future.”
The Army
The Minister for Forceps, Mr.
Chambers, is, perhaps, even a greater
optimist than some of his colleagues. He
provides" for
(a) A permanent field force of
one independent brigade group—
three infantry battalions and an
armored unit plus supporting units.
Total, men 4,470
(b) Fixed establishments, mainly
administrative, troops 13,370
(c) Corps for instructional, ad-
ministrative and other duties .. 1,150
Total Permanent Force .. .. 19,000
(d) Citizen Forces, two infantry
divisions, one armored brigade
group and related corps units .: 48,850
(e) Fixed defences 1,150
50,000
Total strength of Permanent and
Citizen Forces 69,000
The whole of the Permanent Field
Fofce will be stationed in Japan, and the
Citizen Force will have so little training
and so little acquaintance with weapons
that it will be of undiscoverable use. It
is proposed to give it “14 days’ camp
and 24 days’ home training, of which
only 12 days will be obligatory.”
The R.A.A.F.
The exposition of this branch of the
Service sets out its composition as:
(a) A static home defence organisation
of four interceptor fighter squadron,s —
all Citizen Air Force—with unit equip-
ment of eight aircraft each, totalling 32
aircraft.
(b) One heavy bomber general recon-
naissance squadron with unit equipment
of eight aircraft.
(c) One target-towing squadron of eight
aircraft.
. (d) One air-sea-rescue squadron, which
* s a * so to J 36 trained as a general recon-
naissance bomber squadron, with a unit
equipment of six aircraft,
~ ... '' TT ~
Thus the fighting Home Defence Forqe,
P ure and simple, of the R.A.A.F. will
consist of four fighter squadrons, all on
a part-time basis, plus one bomber
squadron, 40 aircraft. Including the
target-towers and the rescue squadron
the manpower size of the force will be
1154 officers and other ranks. It will be
a great comfqjt to quaking northerners
to realise that this fearsome air umbrella
“will be organised and disposed at
strategic centres” and that the “Citizen
Air Force will be adjacent to main centres
of population for the close defence of
vital strategic centres, and to allow easy
access to units of part-time Citizen Air
Force personnel.” There will be almost
one aircraft (part-time) available on an
average to each large town and city of
the Commonwealth.
However, beyond these squadrons there
are to be “a group of Task Force ele-
ments” which “in an emergency can be
organised with suitable supporting ancil-
laries and headquarters in order to pro-
vide a force for employment for
strategical purposes and in air support
of the other services.” It will consist of;
2 long-range fighter squadrons with
unit equipment of 16 machines .. 32
3 heavy-bomber squadrons, eight air-
craft each 24
2 transport squadrons, eight aircraft
each .. .. 16
1 survey squadron 9
1 tactical jecce squadron 9
Total aircraft 90
Total personnel 2061
These Task Force elements are all to
be under the command of Eastern H.Q.,
and to be disposed on N.S.W. and
Queensland airfields.
The “emergency” squadrons will be
trained only for very short periods with
the Army and Navy, which have no
forces to train with anyhow.
Boiled down, the front-line air strength
of fighting air units will be four citizen
fighter squadrons, two nebulous “emer-
gency” fighter squadrons and three “emer-
gency” bomber squadrons, the rest
being either dual-purpose or ancillary.
The citizen force provided for the fighters
is 190; the total personnel, 12,625, in-
cluding 4000 headquarters staff ; the total
aircraft now existing are 144 on squadron
strength, 439 on operational reserve and
698 trainers.
All this would be laughable if it were
not tragic, even if it were not recorded
that the “re-equipment cycle for heavy
bombers and fighters will be five years,
and for training and other types eight
years.”,
It is to be hoped that if any country
decides to attack us it will be one of Dr.
Evatt’s favorite allies —El Salvador or
Liberia for preference.
The New U.S. Division.
Every attempt is being made, to assure
that whatever manpower is enlisted for
service in the United States is made the
most of. A recent redraft in the estab-
lishment of the U.S. infantry division has
taken place to make formations more
self-sufficient.
The inclusion of a tank battalion and
an ack-ack battalion brings numbers up
to the war-time basis of 17,698, with
a remarkably increased fire-power, even
in general terms, since many of the wea-
pons introduced have far more uses in
battle than one.
New weapons will be 81 57mm. and
57 75mm. recoilless guns, to replace
the old ordinary 75’s and the 81 57mm.
a.-ts., which formerly were carried. The


Missing Friend.
TO ALEXANDER PAUL FORBES GUMMING, born
Aberdeen, Scotland, 1884, son of William and Agnes
Camming, and who arrived in Brisbane, Queensland,
from Scotland 1911, last heard of residing Artarmon,
New South Wales, 1936, or anyone knowing where-
abouts, please communicate with SHIPWAY &
BEKNE, Solicitors, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM BEOWN late of 137 Chandos
Street Crow’s Nest.—TAKE NOTICE that KATH-
LEEN WINIFRED BROWN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2529 of 1947 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 15th day of August
1947 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from HERALD, BRUCE BRIERLEY & ENG-
LAND, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO IDA MAY PALMER formerly of Haberfield near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that DAVID WILLIAM PALMER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 525 of 1947 on the
ground of adultery with ALLEN CAVANAGH If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the 25th day of September 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
N. D. THOMAS, Solicitor, 61 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE JACOB WARD late of Tamworth.—
TAKE NOTICE that MERLE RUTH WARD has filed
a Petition for a Divorce No. 4885 of 1946 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 17th Septem-
ber 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ALLAN ERNEST CUPIT, Solicitor, 129
Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COUjkT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CECIL ERNEST JOSEPH McCABE (also known
as CYRIL ERNEST JOSEPH McCABE) late of
Sydenham near Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that NANCY JOHANNA
McCABE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2293
of 1947 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 15th August 1947 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from ARTHUR H.
GARRATT, Solicitor, of 18-20 Martin Place, Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce'
as you FLY— in HOURS to
NEW ZEALAND
The Skyway Is a luxury highway when you FLY to
New Zealand.
Speed Is combined with the comfort of a first-class
hotel—with the finest of food and steward service.
Go by Air —fly your Freight, too —by TASMAN.
Reservations for passengers and freight can be
made through any office or agent of Qantas
Empire Airways, principal agents in Aus-
tralia, any office of the Union Steam
Ship Company Ltd., and all
leading travel agencies.
TASMAN
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
MECHANIC'S BAY, AUCKLAND. N.Z.
artillery changes consequent on the in-
clusion of the new-arms battalions are
interesting:
Old. New.
60mm. mortars
81mm. mortars 54 4 V
Hvy (4.2) chemical mortars .. -
Light tanks', M-24 (75mm.) ..
Tank destroyers, 90mm. gun .. 2/
Medium tank, M-26, Pershing,
90mm. gun ‘f.
Heavy tank, M-45, 105 mm. gun 27 12
Twin 40mm. (self-propelled)
ack-ack guns
Quadruple .50 cal. ack-ack guns,
self-propelled .
The helping of 105 mm. howitzers is in-
creased from 36 to 54 and of 155 s from
12 to 18. •
Proportions generally in what are
usually considered as infantry arms
proper show an equally satisfactory in-
tensification.
While automatic rifles (8.A.R.) stand
at almost the same figure as in the old-
type formation (405), the Garands in-
crease from 6327 to 6668, being re-
modelled into an automatic rapid wea-
pon, firing a clip of 15 instead of the
old-time eight, upon a single trigger pull.
This has led to a reorganisation of rifle
squads from the old-time 12 to a new
nine—a corporal gunner with a B.A.R.
with eight riflemen, one of whom will
be the corporal’s gunner-assistant while
another will carry a grenade-launcher
for his rifle. This development, how-
ever, has not been finally accepted, pend-
ing the full results of the Garand auto-
matic tests.
The servicing of automatic pistols
(.45) has nearly been doubled —1329 to
2483; 30-cal. carbines increase from
2820 to 7031. Sub-m.gs. appear—6l2—
and bazookas are to be supplied in pro-
fusion. Against the old stand of 354
there will be 530, of which 81 will be
2/36s and the remaining 449 three-fifth
inch.
With the improvement in barrels,
sighting and aiming devices the new
divisions will take some handling both
by friend and foe.
Indian Army Reorganises.
In Sydney on July 8, at a United Ser-
vice Institution luncheon, Major -
General the Rev. C. A. Osborne,
C.1.E., gave an excellent summary of
what is happening to the Indian Army.
A former instructor at Duntroon, he
was Commandant of the Military
Staff College at Quetta, Director of
Military Operations Indian G.H.Q. and
G.O.C. Kohat Military District in the
wild north-west before his retirement a
few months ago.
General Osborne has taken Holy
Orders and is attached to St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney. /
He said that, with the transfer of India
to the Indians next month, an army
tradition of which Britain had every
reason to be proud would end, but wouid
not be forgotten.
It was a mistake to believe that
Britain had ever held India by force. It
had been held by the affection and trust
of Indians for their British leaders. The
Indian had a loyalty to generations of
British officers, and that tradition of
loyalty had been handed down through
two centuries in the villages which pro-
vided the fighting men.
In those villages of India there was
always a leaven of old men who knew 4
that it was a proud thing to serve in a
British-Indian regiment, and a good thing
economically, too, since experience had
taught them that the British Govern-
ment would always assure for them their
pay and the pension which means
security in their old age. These old
men, proud of their army associations
and knowledgable in the virtues of army
service, saw to it that the young men
came forward for service.
During World War II no fewer than
2,500,000 men had been recruited volun-
tarily for the Indian Army. The Four-
teenth Army, which fought the Burma
campaign, was the largest army operating
on any combatant front, 1,000,000 men,
of whom about 70 per cent, were from
the Indian forces. Of all the casualties
caused to the Japanese on all fronts in
the Pacific War'more than 50 per cent,
must be credited to the Fourteenth
Army front.
The Indian Army was not, of course,
wholly Indian. There was a great leaven
of British in it. Its officers hitherto had
in most cases been British, though much
had been done in the way of Indian-
isation in the last few years. In the war
period the artillery and armor had in the
main been British, so far as the actual
fighting formations were concerned,
though, before the end of the war, a
very fine Indian armored formation had
been created —unfortunately too late for
any opportunity to use it.
The problems which had to be faced
in the transfer of the Indian Army to the
new Government were serious and many.
The army was recruited on a\ “class-com-
pany” basis in the main, the general effect
being that roughly 50 per cent, of the
companies came from the area which
would be included in Pakistan and 50
per cent, from the southern and eastern
area which would be included in Hin-
dustan. These would be allotted accord-
ing to origin under the new arrange-
ment, the position of the Sikhs, who
provided some of the finest fighting
material, being still undefined. It
looked as if they might find them-
selves a divided nation from a military
viewpoint, since they were on the border-
line between the Pakistan and Hindu-
stan areas; but no doubt some adjust-
ment would settle the difficulty. Pos-
sibly they might attach themselves to the
forces of Patiala in the Pakistan area.
One of the greatest problems in the
division of the army would be in the
fact of the differing natures of the new
countries and of their peoples. The
north, or mainly Mohammedan, section,
possessed by far the best military
material —the various Punjabi tribes, the
Pathans of the north-west, the hillmen.
The Hindus, while their area included
some splendid fighting people, such as
the Mahrattas, more generally provided
the best service and technical troops,
though this was partly due to organisa-
tion rather than to the nature of the
people. Of old the British had drawn
some very fine troops from the southern
areas —the Madrassi regiments, for in-
stance.
On the other hand, while the northern
peoples were more inclined to a mili-
tary life, theirs was a poor country, and
it remained to be seen how large a
modernly-equipped army they could
maintain. The bulk of India’s riches
are in the Hindu regions.
One sidelight question in the disposal
of troops was the fate of the Gurkhas,
who had provided a very large force
during World War 11, as during previ-
ous wars for generations. It must be
understood that they were not Indians ;
they were men of an independent hill
State, and a bar to their inclusion in
any of the Indian armies would be.their
insistence on serving under British'
officers. It was understood that they
were prepared to offer the British Gov-
ernment ten battalions for service in the
Orient outside India—in Malaya and
other British possessions and stations—
and possibly they might eventually agree
to serve with Indian officers, which
would enable an arrangement for
another ten battalions to serve in India.
The officer question was one of the
hardest for the Indians to solve.
After the war the Indian Army had
about 300 officers of or above the rank of
colonel, including 14 Indian brigadiers, but
no Indian generals. It would be impossible
to find Indian officers to take even a
third of their places, and junior officers
—partly through our own fault, though
partly through the political activities
of the Congress party during the period
when young officers should have been in
training for the changes now in being—
were in even shorter supply.
He was, however, certain that with
patience the , Indian Armies could
and would be reorganised, perhaps under
a joint command and upon some sort of
mutual basis which would assure the
safety of India and continued co-opera-
tion with the British Commonwealth.
THE REAL AUSTRALIA.
“F.J.”; Two of us travelling by car
from Sydney to Gundagai, and the talk
drifted, as talk will, to pubs. And here,
despite the pleasant morning and a
pleasant spread of country when we came
out of the suburbs, a certain snarling note
crept in. The driver had been in Sydney
in the war years: I had been there for
some of them. And with the general run
of city hotels over that per.od we were,
Coumrv ‘Ltdf wSe be" S
Country hotels were better, we agreed,
Although, perhaps, they had changed a
1 ’ ?°* ~ , , , . , „
TTus reminded the driver that Romano,
of Bernborough and restaurant renown,
now had a pub at Wagga. We wondered
how it was going: wondered how many
other country hotels had recently passed
into city hands. And, wondering spas-
medically, arrived in Mittagong,
At Mittagong a stiff wind sprang up,
buffeting the little car smartly ; and there
was still a sting in it at Yass, By then —
although no publican had offered us
offence—our thoughts had taken a dismal
tinge. The cold reminded us of the cold
shoulder our favorite cigarette seller gave
us on setting out. Of the bottle of stout
I had tried to procure for an old lady of
my acquaintance. And, by a gloomy kind
of inference, of a long tale of lacks.
Sydney, taken on the whole, was crook.
And we weren t too sure about the
country.
The tees grew blacker and thicker, the
headlights were dim and, although the
road was good, the car could not be
pushed too hard. It was growing colder,
and we began to wish we’d had a couple
of rums at Yass, anyway.
Then Jugiong. Not much of it, really,
A few houses, fewer shops, a church on
the rise towards the famous Jugiong Hill,
and, at the foot of the hill, the Jugiong
Hotel. Over in the blackness the Jugiong
Waterworks, which pump water as far
west as Grenfell, but these were invisible.
But there were cars parked outside the
hotel, and lights showed inside.
It was 25 miles to Gundagai, so we
decided to catch up on that rum. But
here we had difficulty. There were cer-
tainly people inside, lots of them, for
we could hear music, dancing, but no
one answered our knock. We knocked
aga i n>
Thus, innocently, we stumbled on a
wedding. True, the wedding proper
had taken place that morning; it
was then past 7 p.m., and the bulk
of the guests had gone, leaving only 50
or so close friends and relatives. True,
too, we were uninvited. But for gate-
crashers we had a handsome time. Our
desire to buy a drink was greeted with
great amusement. “No one can buy a
drink here today,” we werfe told. Nor
could they. Or that night.
Standing in the bar, with an immense
plate of turkey and ham (with frills,
such as bread and butter and pickles)
placed at our elbows, we began to take
a different view of things. It wasn’t just
beer—or whatever else one fancied —
w bi c h was pushed on us so hospitably,
j world In the corner
, , fi blazed . another was
{ in B the room acr i ss th e passage
where the bulk ° £ the V™"® P e °P le were
dancing, and in an inner room, where we
went t ®’ express our thanks to the hostess ,
was the grandaddy of fires: there the
o jder folk were talking,
. t
A dd forent world. We were sorry w
nussed the wedding, but we drank to the
bride and ’groom—by then m Albury,
or beyond—in all sincerity. And we were
glad we had been privileged to witness
the lively tail of the ceremonies. And
for details, well, we had all pertinent de-
tails from the brother of the bride, and
cousins, in the bar. And when we arrived
in Gundagai nearly anyone we could meet
could fill in the gaps. It was there we
learned, for instance, that Jugiong had
declared a public holiday for the occasion.
Those with shops shut them. Everyone
went to the wedding,
For a full account of the wedding there
was t h e Gundagai “Independent,” which
f em i n j ne — anc j therefore expert—opinion
informed me was correct in all details.
as „ as in broad outline 0£ the
, , T . ■ A . _ -i
detad * I remember that the brides veil
wa j the one her great-grandmother wore,
a ” d the general story was told accurately,
sim temperately and cordially. Every-
one was interested, and everyone had to
be told - . .
Anything of the sort m the city
would have been impossible. And
m a sense *t was historic, for it was
symbolic of something natural, sturdy
and spacious which was once typical or
Australian life and which now is as alien
to life as it is led in the cities as are the
tribal customs of the Hottentots,
In Gundagai, too, we stayed at a
hotel which, for accommodation, has few
superiors, and in service no superiors, in
Sydney: certainly nothing at anything
resembling the price. 1 remembered that
it has been in the same family for a long
time—as has the Jugiong Hotel and that
other hotels in the district have similar
traditions.
Taking everything into consideration,
it is unlikely that the Romanos will ever
be a force in the country districts. For
one thing, there isn’t the luxury trade ;
for another, they aren’t made that way.
Were licensing reform a real thing there
would be fewer brewery hotels, more
family businesses and ultimately
fewer Romanos.


WHEN IT’S AN
MORE CARS ARE FITTED WITH EXIDE
THAN ANY OTHER BATTERY
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.. LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST..
SYDNEY
X 1.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
“Ek Dum’s” inspection:
Field-Marshal Bernard Montgomery, Vis-
count of Alamein and of Hindhead, does not
look like a Field-Marshal, a Viscount or a
Chief of the Imperial General Staff.
He looks like a hard-working toiler who
has spent his life shearing or wharf-lumping
and who has decided to take a holiday in his
Indian summer and spruced himself up accord-
ingly. His mind is another matter.
He wears a uniform of working khaki, of
common or garden British battledress type and
material. This encloses a compact form about
two or three inches taller than Napoleon’s and
a couple of inches shorter than Wellington’s.
The features of it are fine shoulders, a deep
barrel of a chest which is not any more
apparent in his photographs than his finely-
domed forehead. It is a surprise to find that
under his close-cropped and thickly-growing
pepper-and-salt thatch he has the cranium of
an intellectual.. It houses a concise, quick
and thoughtful mind rather out of keeping
with the general habiliments of the man and
with his powerful jaw and his beak, which is
as prominent as Wellington’s and has every
Convolution which distinguished the Duke’s
twice over.
The man whom he most resembles facially,
mentally and in public speaking is Archie
Cameron, of Barker, to whom His likeness in
the distance when he is on his feet is some-
times startling. His eyes are hooded —the
obvious result of | long, hard concentration on
maps and papers.
Round his imposing human core he has
hung his uniform in a manner which would
get him sent off parade in any well-conducted
company. Like the member for Barker the
hatters obviously forgot him when they in-
vented their wares and thus a beret, slightly
awry with two badges on it, suits him as well
as anything could.
His tunic collar is wide open at the front
and on one wing of it he wears the’ R.S.L.
badge; on the other he wears a burnished metal
kangaroo, which looks as if it had been won
in a fun parlor and which goes well with the
embroidered insignia of a Field-Marshal on
his shoulders. Across his chest from pocket
to pocket stretches the father of all gold
chains, which might have been souvenired out
of the hawsehole of a cruiser; and on each
wrist he wears a large watch attached to him
by a strap which could be used to haul a
25-pounder. His wrists- are planked firmly
on the table while he talks and, watches up-
wards, like two accusing eyes gazing reprovingly
at the zenith of the hurtling universe.
In conversation he is equable, precise and
short of adjectives, and he always has his
answer ready on the moment.
On his feet before 500 or 5000 people he is
master of himself and of his audiences. He
gives the impression that he does not care a
toss what those around him think of his views
and he expresses bluntly what he thinks in
the shortest possible terms. One feels that he
will even be game to go to Scotland after
telling an Australian audience that he asked
the Ninth Division A.I.F. to teach the Scottish
51st—a formation enlisted overnight by volun-
tary effort when the news came that Major-
General Fortune’s old 51st had fallen into
German hands in the month of Dunkirk —
how to fight.
J. A. McAuley, a young Arts
graduate from Sydney University, has
just done an extensive tour of New
Guinea and the northern Solomons with
the Administrator, Colonel J. K. Murray.
A lecturer in Colonial Administration at
the Australian School of Pacific Adminis-
tration, where patrol officers and other
recruits are trained before going to the
Territory, McAuley combines Pacific
affairs with poetry. He was one of the
two young men who hoaxed the “Angry
Penguins” with the works of mythical
Era Malley. Since then he has had a
volume of his own verse. Under Alde-
baran, published by Melbourne Uni-
versity Press. His next project will com-
bine his interest in literature and his in-
terest in the Pacific. It will be an his-
torical study of New Guinea,
First note of sanity in a nine days’
WPnder during which thousands of words
were cabled and tens of thousands
imagined about flying tea-cups or some-
thing was struck by Professor
Cotton of Sydney University. He took
a batch of physiology students out into
the Uni. grounds, told them to stare
fixedly at the sky and report their re-
actions. Quite a number reported
heavenly crockery pf the type that,
according to credulous Americans, had
been cluttering up the skies of 39 States
in numbers sufficient to restock every
china shop outside the Iron Curtain. The
Prof, then advanced the theory that the
teapots and milk jugs, like Beauty, were
in the eye of the beholder, and were
“the effect of red corpuscles of the blood
passing in front of the retina.” Sensible
citizens accepted the explanation, though
Sydney afternoon papers continued to
print stories of bigger and better soup-
plates. Professor Cotton, who became
chief lecturer in physiology at Sydney in
1923, gained his D.Sc. degree with a
thesis on the effect of the blood of
changes in the centre of gravity. During
the war he was asked to consider the
problem of blackouts in airmen manoeu-
vring at high speeds. His answer was the
anti-G suit. In his student days Cotton
was a champion swimmer; in 1921 he
won N.S.W. 440 yd. and 880 yd. titles and
he still holds University swimming titles
from 220 yd. to one mile. His father was
one of the original (1891) N.S.W. Labor
Ms.L.A.
Rear-Admiral George Creasy, C. 8.,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., M.V.0., Flag Officer
(Air) Far East, visiting these waters with
ships of the First Aircraft-Carrier
Squadron, can’t complain of monotony
in his naval career. Originally a torpedo
specialist, his war-time jobs included
command of the Ist Destroyer Flotilla,
Director of Anti-Submarine Warfare,
command of the battleship Duke of York,
Chief-of-Staff to the Naval C.-in-C. for
the Invasion of Europe and Admiral-in-
Charge of Submarines. His destroyers
came in for some hot moments in the
early stages of the war; when Grenville
was sunk in January, 1940, he transferred
his command to Codrington and con-
tinued in her till May. For the part his
flotilla played in bringing Queen Wil-
helmina and the Dutch Royal Family
from Ymuiden to Britain when Holland
fell he received the Order of Orange-
Nassau, and the Polish Government-in-
Exile also decorated him in recognition
of his command of Polish destroyers
attached to Ist Flotilla. After two years
fit the Admiralty directing operations
against the U-boats and a year on Duke
of York, Creasy was promoted Rear-
Admiral in 1943, when he became Chief-
of-Staff to Admiral Little, C.-in-C. Ports-
mouth, and when Admiral Bertram
Ramsay took over the Invasion Com-
mand, he filled the same post under him.
After the Invasion he took charge of
Submarine H.Q. Having in a sense gone
full circle from torpedoes back to. tor-
pedoes, he commenced his travels again
early this year with his appointment to
the Carrier Squadron,
Colin A. McCallum, here depicted by
Tram, doesn’t look much like a book-
worm although he lives amongst a collec-
tion of 680,000 volumes. He was-re-
cently appointed Chief Librarian of Mel-
bourne’s Public Library, the largest and
most valuable in Australia. It in-
cludes nearly 100 specimens of incu-
nabula —books published during the early
days of printing, such as the Nurem-
berg Chronicle with over 1800 wood-
cuts by the teachers of Differ; the
Book of the Hours, handwritten in Latin
at Bourges for Edward IV, and a fine ex-
LIBRARIAN.
ample of the work of William Caxton,
Among the library’s 100 Bibles there is
one printed at Rouen in 1566 and signed
with John Knox’s name and many of his
thumbprints. McCallum is proud of his
collection and isn’t dismayed by readers’
questions such as “What is the origin of
‘hip, hip, hooray’?” and “Where can I
buy an uninhabited island?” A woman
once phoned and asked how lopg it took
to have a baby elephant. The Chief has
served in the library since he returned
from the First World War in 1919.
Wallace Angus Bethune, one of the
younger,members of the new Tasmanian
Assembly, was born at Sheffield
(Tas.), educated at the century-old Hut-
chins School and Launceston C.E.G.S.,
and is a farmer in the Ouse district.. The
hayseed (or whatever it is) Morrissey has
put in his hatband is, like the hailstones
FARMER M.L.A.
proceeding from the Bethune pipe, mere
artist’s licence; there jvas no sign pf it
in the headgear he wore as a member of
a R.A.A.F. aircrew in the Middle East,
where he served from 1940 to 1943.
Bethune has been a member of Hamilton
Municipal Council since 1936. Wilmot
now claims him as one of its Assembly-
men.
Hard work and worry associated with
Glen Davis shale oil industry possibly
hastened the end of George Francis
Davis, dead in Sydney at 64, A New
Zealander who went to sea in sailing
ships as a youngster, then-came to Sydney
and founded a business —Davis Gela-
tine —which became one of the biggest
of its kind in the world, he was a terrific
worker with boundless energy. When
Cockatoo Dockyard reached the stage
where it was a headache for the Govern-
ment and everyone associated with it, he
took control and put it on its feet again.
He was next asked to tackle the Glen
Davis job, which was to have solved some
of Australia’s fuel problems. It hasn’t
done so, but that’s not .the fault of George
Davis.
New Judge of N.S.W. Supreme Court,
John Sydney Clancy, is a Digger of the
First World War, who was called to the
Bar in 1925, and became a District Court
Judge six years later. In 1944 he was
appointed chairman of the Crown Em-
ployees Appeals Board, a job that carries
the precedence, rank, title and salary of
a Judge of the Supreme Court.
Australians in the United States:
Ron Randell’s “Bulldog Drummond” pictures
have earned him a part in something bigger;
he’s to co-star with Ginger Rogers and Cornel
Wilde in “It Had To Be You.” In New York
Gavin Casey, running the Australian News and
Information Bureau, is preparing to move to
London. Alick McLean, who left Australia
nearly 30 years ago—then in the wool business
—is now vice-president of the Central Hanover
Bank and has done excellent work as president
of the Australian Society. A friend and great
admirer of Viscount Bruce, Alick acts as host
to numerous Australians finding their way to
lower Broadway and Wall-street, and speaks
highly of the young Australian servicemen he
and friends entertained in New York during
the war. A brother is a Melbourne medico.
Ran dell- Heymanson is doing potable work in
the U.S. for the Melbourne “Herald” group.
He has been trained in economics as well as
on the Inky Way, Recently left New York
for a wide tour of Europe, carrying on her
work against infantile paralysis, Sister Elizabeth
Kenny.
Lennie Lower, dead last week in
Sydney at 43, had been writing humorous
articles for over 20 years (he began the
business on a long-dead Labor daily),
and occupied a niche all of his own
in Australian journalism. There was
never a sign of anything forced or strained
about his humor; he wrote with a spon-
taneity and a gusty robustness that flung
the most audacious twisting of words or
the most execrable pun in the face of the
critic and dared him not to grin. His
humorous novel Here’s Luck has run into
many editions, the latest this year; but
when people think of him they are most
likely to recall Lennie Lower’s Trip to
Bourke, a series of delightfully funny
articles he wrote for the “Daily Guar-
dian,” itself dead these many years.
Appointed 20 years ago as Australia’s
first soil investigation officer, J. K. Taylor
has now become chief of the Soils Divi-
sion of the C.5.1.R., in succession to
Professor J. A. Prescott, who found that
the task of directing soils research
throughout Australia had become too
heavy to be combined with direction of
S.A.’s Waite Agricultural Research In-
stitute. As deputy chief since 1944
Taylor has. been mainly responsible for
soil surveys of irrigation areas in various
States. A staff of 35 soil research officers
will be under his direction.
Retired at the statutory limit from
Motor Registration Branch in Melbourne
Philip Hogan, who has been chief there
for 20 years and 32 years in the depart-
ment. When he joined there were 9164
vehicles of all descriptions listed in the
books, and annual licence fees totalled
£36,621. Today the branch takes
£2,000,000, and cars alone number over
a quarter of a million. Hogan was first
a farmer, then a teacher at the old Model
School in Spring-street where the
surgeons’ college now stands, then a
forests officer. The trees grew too slowly,
and he wanted something quicker.
On her last Australian tour Marjorie
Lawrence sang sitting and a screen had
to be arranged for her exit. Her constant
attendant was,her husband, Dr. Thomas
King, who made it his life task to get
his most distinguished patient on to her
feet again after her bout with i.p. When
Marjorie was in Melbourne a girl suffer-
ing from the same dreadful complaint was
brought to her. “You’ll walk if you have
the will and you stick to the practice,”
said Miss Lawrence. “Yes,” said the girl,
“but it hurts so much.” “Of course it
hurts,” said the singer, “but you must
practise.” According to a New York
cable the miracle has happened in the
case of Miss Lawrence. She expects to
sing standing on her feet during the 1947-
48 concert season. That ought to be good
news for the girl in Melbourne,
Dead in Sydney at 68, Edward Joseph
Tait had been in the show business for
half a century. After a few years as a
concert promoter he joined J. C. William-
son’s in 1900, and was general-manager
when he left The Firm in 1916 to link up
with his brothers as entrepreneurs. Four
years later the two organisations
amalgamated, with the three brothers,
E.J., John and Frank, in joint command.
The impact of the talkies and radio hit
The Firm heavily and E.J. has often ‘been
criticised for reviving perennials, but the
majority of the famous artists who visited
Australia during the last 50 years did so
under either the Williamson or the Tait
banner. Tait returned from America only
two months ago ; he made the trip to
arrange for Australian seasons for suc-
cessful New York shows.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Victor Prince, a versatile
actor, son of Howard Vernon. After several
years with J.C.W., he toured his own company
in India, Japan and China and then appeared
at the Shaftesbury Theatre, London. He was
in South Africa for 15 years, played his own
concert company during the war and returned
to Australia last year.
In Sydney, Rev. W. E. K. Burkitt, well-
known to patients and ex-patients of the Con-
cord Repatriation Hospital. He served as a
Chaplain in World War I and again saw over-
seas service in the last one.
In Sydney, Dr. Francis Crossle. An Irish-
man and the friend of W. B. Yeats and
Gogarty in the great days of the Abbey
Theatre, he became friend, patron and physician
to many of Sydney’s leading artists. Norman
Lindsay has said that he twice pulled Gruner
back from the grave. He had a fine collec-
tion of pictures, took an active interest in all
the arts, and published a novel, Donna Juana.
In Melbourne, a week after his arrival on
a visit, the Rev. Eric Stephen Loveday, known
to millions all over the world as a pioneer
religious broadcaster. He was vicar of “the
parish church of the Empire”—St. Martin-
in-the-Fields, where Nell Gwynn is buried and
where Anzac Day services have often been held.
In B'undaberg (Q.) at 75, Henry Stark Sky-
ring, for more than 30 years manager of the
sawmilling firm founded by his father. After
its sale four years ago he lived in retirement
on his grazing property at Wawwoon, but never
lost his interest in Bundaberg affairs.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The whole of the British Empire is
tied together in a true love’s knot.
Romance is in the air. The engagement
of Princess Elizabeth, heiress presumptive
to the throne, and Lieut. Philip Mount-
batten has been announced. When Lieut.
Mountbatten came here with the Royal
Navy in 1945 he was known to us as
Prince Philip, of Greece, and with his
easy, friendly manner, his good looks
and his gaiety was one of the most popu-
lar members of the R.N. to visit Sydney.
His connection with Denmark and
Greece will endear him still further to
England, where the beauty and gracious-
ness of Queen Alexandra are still alive in
memory, and the beauty and charm of
his Royal cousin, the Duchess of Kent,
are a present delight.
As for Princess Elizabeth, every British
home treasures some pleasing little story
of her sparkle, good nature and warmth
of heart. Recent arrivals from England
describe her expression as vivacious, and
her looks those of a typically good-
looking English girl. In addition, as we
all know since her birthday broadcast,
she has inherited the clear, distinct and
endearing speaking voice that is typical
of the Royal Family. Never have a
young couple received more good wishes
for their future happiness. Every man,
woman and child among the teeming mil-
lions of British subjects pray that true
happiness may be theirs.
There has been only one man on the
horizon for Sydney women this week.
He was Monty of the Beret. From the
time the familiar figure stepped from the
plane that had brought him non-stop
from Perth, all the thoughts of Sydney
were centred on him, because Monty is
part of ourselves. Aren’t he and our
glorious Ninth linked together insepa-
rably when Australia remembers El
Mamein?
As usual, the great Field-Marshal was
unsparing of himself, and from an early
hour on Saturday morning whirled on
a round of engagements that had even
Eleanor Roosevelt’s programme beaten.
His first visit on Saturday morning was
to Victoria Barracks, and, although the
hour was early, the long route was lined
with people eager to see the man
with the fine soldier brain and the bull-
dog tenacity. They cheered and waved,
and he, in turn, smiled and waved back.
And the whole morning was flooded with
sunshine.
At the barracks, where he was met
by Lieut.-General Berryman, he inspected
a Guard of Honor, reviewed a parade
of 600 men, and reviewed Eastern Com-
mand officers. He talked for a few
seconds with some of the Ninth Division
men who were present, and with the
parents of Private Edmondson, Aus-
tralia’s first V.C. of the last war, and
later unveiled a tablet to the honor of this
young hero. He also spoke with repre-
sentatives of various groups, and had tea
with the senior officers and their wives.
After the barracks, there was the big
meeting in the Domain with ex-Service-
men and ex-Servicewomen. Over 20,000
people gathered to listen to his words,
which urged everyone to hard and still
harder work that the Peace we had gained
might not be lost. With him on the
official platform were Lieut.-General
Berryman, Lieut.-General Sir Leslie
Morshead, Lieut.-General Gordon
Bennett, Rear-Admiral Moore, Air Com-
modore Lachal, Bishop Pilcher, Mon-
signor King, 0.8. E., and Lieut.-Com-
missioner Joshua James. After that
came another drive through city ways
thronged with enthusiasts, whose shouts
and cheers filled the midday air, to the
Trocadero, where Monty lunched with
Service organisations.
On Sunday Monty attended Service at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, where he read
the lesson. In the afternoon he laid
the foundation stone of the new Fur-
lough House, and a stone at the War
Veterans’ home at Narrabeen. The day
was perfect, and the surroundings and
grounds of Furlough House, just across
the road from the Pacific, was an ani-
mated scene of servicemen, their wives
and children. Thousands of the invited
were within the gates, and thousands
uninvited crowded the roads outside.
Some small and adventurous children
climbed the pines, from which they peered
and blithely waved flags. Monty made
an inspiring speech in favor of the Aus-
tralian soldier. The happiest touch of
the day was Monty having his picture
taken with a cluster of Legacy children
to whom he has promised a signed photo-
graph for Junior Legacy club. He
was so delighted with the work of
Furlough House that he promised to send
a cheque for £lOO, and he is giving his old
“Digger” ha t to the Australian War
Museum. Monday’s big moment was the
placing of a wreath on the Cenotaph by
the Field-Marshal.
With deep regret this Letter bids final
farewell to E. J. Tait, who died last week-
end. And with the farewell goes sincere
thanks for countless nights of entertain-
ment in the theatres under his direction.
The production of “Hassan,” as color-
ful and silken in its weave as a Persian
carpet, promises to go well even though
it will not be the exotic and lavish show
as put on by Basil Dean in London in
1923. The Con. stage itself enforces
limitations of scenes of grandeur, but
the sonorous and lyric lines of the poet
will be well spoken by an enthusiastic
cast. The subject of this photo,
is Pauline Gallagher, who takes the
part of the tragic-fated Pervaneh in
the S.U.D.S. presentation of the play.
The Hassan season opens on August 2
at the Conservatorium, and some good,
hard work is being put in on the pub-
licity side by Elizabeth King.
Excitement in Canberra today is the
wedding of Walter, son of the American
Ambassador Robert Butler and Mrs.
Butler, to Shirley Louise Riedel.
The ceremony will take place this
afternoon at St. Christopher’s Church,
and later a reception will be held
at the Embassy, The bride, who
is the daughter of the Walter Riedels,
of St. Paul, Minnesota, arrived by
plane on Saturday, bringing with her
her wedding frock, of ivory satin and
lace, and a train-length veil of tulle.
With her came her sister Dorothy, who
will be the maid of honor. Catherine
Butler and Elizabeth McKell will be the
bridesmaids. Mei-Ping, the small daughter
of Dr. Cheng (Charge d’Affaires of the
Chinese Legation) and Mrs. Cheng, will
be flower-girl. John Ingebrand, an old
friend of the ’groom, will be bestman. A
feature of the wedding will bd the music.
This will be directed by Roland Foster.
The young couple will make their home
in Melbourne, where Mr. Butler will con-
tinue his university studies. Later they
will go to France, where he will attend
Strassburg University.
Miss Riedel is a keen sportswoman and
holds a pilot’s flying licence and is also
an enthusiastic sailor; the ’groom served
with General Patton’s Armored Corps.
Edouard Borovansky and his Ballet
Company had the happy idea of inviting
members of the press and their friends
to watch them in their dress rehearsal
for the first ballet programme and after-
wards to supper with them on the stage
The opening night’s ballets were the
graceful “Les Sylphides,” “Le Beau
Danube” and “Coppelia.” “Coppelia”
was a real sugar-plum ballet touched with
fairy-like charm.. The shutters on the
tall houses emblazoned with hearts and
darts gave a Valentine touch to the whole.
Among the first-nighters in the front
row DC. were the Eugene Goossens
couple, evidently old pals of Edouard
Borovansky, who called greetings to
them at the end of the performance.
The new conductor of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra and his wife bowed
their acknowledgments. The Czecho-
slovakian conductor Rafael Kubelik
was also in the audience. Tara Barry,
the good-looking principal of “Dancing
Years” and “Gay Rosalinda,” wore a
frock of sky-blue chiffons. Mrs. H. J.
Brady’s sweeping pearl-grey satin skirt
was topped by a rose chiffon blouse. The
red cotton fringe on the shoulders and
pockets was a highlight of the black
frock worn by Mrs. Eric Strelitz.
News that the American Library of
Information is about to close down
brings a feeling of loss. This was one
of the pleasant spots in the city, its
friendly atmosphere owing a great deal
to the group of Uncle Sam’s daughters
who were in charge. Miss Harriett Rout,
first principal, who came to us from
the U.S. Information Service, Washing-
ton, D.C., and her successors Miss Mary
Townes, from the Teachers’ College,
Columbia University; Elizabeth Bond,
from the Public Library, Minnesota;
Caroline Stanley, the present principal
librarian (U.S. Army Library, Washing-
ton) ; and Marie Hurley, of the New
York Public Library, made the visitors
to the library very welcome. The books
themselves are a delight to handle, so
well bound and printed are they. The
library has also served to bring America
closer to every class of citizen. Archi-
tects, manufacturers, budding poets and
playwrights all made use of the well-
stocked shelves, and fiancees of Ameri-
can servicemen and American war
brides visited the place in shoals.
From Melbourne
A late-afternoon party given in honor
of the visiting Royal Navy squadron was
held by the English-Speaking Union in
the Banquet Hall at Menzies Hotel.
President of the E.-S.U., Sir Owen Dixon,
and Lady Dixon, with Mrs. Gerald
Bacon, President of the Hospitality Com-
mittee, received the guests. Rear Admiral
G. E. Creasy came with Mrs. Creasy,
who covered her black frock with a
Persian lamb Coat. Her pale-mustard
upturned felt hat carried bunched black
ribbons. Mrs. D. Reddan’s black frock
was worn with a silver fox bolero and
small black-veiled hat. Captain and Mrs.
Kenneth MacArthur, Mrs. M. Grover and
daughter Julie, Angela Cass, Patsy Gut-
teridge, who was with her mother Mrs.
A. Gutteridge, the Hon. Mrs. Ronald
Douglas and Miss Jean Hamilton, sisters
of Admiral Sir Louis Hamilton, the
Canadian Trade Commissioner, Mr, J.
Fraser, and Mrs. Fraser and the new
U.SA. Naval Attache, Commander
Stephen Jurika, were other guests.
Junior officers from the visiting R.N.
Squadron had a jolly time at a dance at
14 Queen’s-road, given by the Victoria
League. Guests were received by senior
vice-president of the League, Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, who wore a lovely gown of
lime-toned crepe with Tong violet suede
gloves as contrast, and Mrs. M. R. Fair-
bairn, hospitality committee vice-chair-
man, in black satin with waterfall flounces
down the back of the skirt. Susan Han-
lon’s gown was of shimmering blue
brocade. Winifred Wright was in Pacific-
blue satin. Jennifer Beveridge’s gown
was of white silk, embellished with eyelet
embroidery. Pat Swindells chose a gown
of navy and white Sea Island cotton.
Rosemary Herring, secretary of. the
League, wore pomegranate-red crepe,
gold embroidered.
Athol Shmith took this charming
picture of Deede Armstrong, in private
life Mrs. Webb Tilton. Born in New
York, she began her stage career at the
age of 19, when with a repertory com-
pany she played lead in Noel Coward’s
“Ways and Means” and “The Vinegar
Tree.” Deede is tall and very attractive,
and is always very well tutnfed-out. She
has worked as a fashion mannequin and
photographer’s model in New York, and,
with her husband, travelled 20,000 miles
around America during the war selling
war bonds. She appeared in “The Merry
Widow,” understudying Beth Dean in
this production. In “Annie Get Your
Gun,” which opens soon in Melbourne,
she plays the role of Sylvia, the giggling
society woman. Her husband plays the
leading role.
The scarlet and white emblem of the
Red Cross dominated the decorations of
the Melbourne Town Hall for the Red
Cross Ball. Flags of all nations hung
from the balconies, and on the tables,
which were decorated by Mrs. G. I.
Stevenson and her helpers, red crosses
were centred by bowls of red or white
flowers. Silver candelabra held tall red
candles on the official tables. Many
lovely gowns were worn; Lady Dugan,
who came with the Governor and a
large party from G.H., chose a blue
brocade jacket and a full tulle skirt. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs e Bernard Heinze,
wore black velvet with a row of gardenias
across the square neckline. Lady Anghss
was in white satin. Mrs. Sydney Myei s
gown, draped about the hips, was in a
rich flame-red. Her daughter Mangold
was in white net, the shoulders caught
with gold leaves. Mrs. Everard Baillieu s
white slipper-satin gown had a wide
shoulder bertha, encrusted with gleaming
silver embroideries. Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh wore a gown of Parma violet
velvet highlighted with a bustle. Sue
Dickinson, wearing a gown of honey-
toned satin, danced with Lt.-Commander
John Hall, R.N. In a party hostessed
by Mrs. J. J. Daly, who earlier in the
day had given a reception for Vivian
Della Chiesa, the visiting American
soprano, were Mrs. A. A. Lord, June
Funston, Marie Daly, ■■Lt.-Commander
J. C. Cartwright, captain of H.M.S,
Contest, and Lt.-Commander J. B. Cox,
captain of H.M.S. Cockade.
Grey was the most popular color
noticed at the Melbourne Hunt Club s
meeting, held mid-week at Moonee Val-
ley. Tweed suits were worn with smart
felts or the new high beret with a quill
ornament. Beige and brown tweed mix-
tures, amethyst and heather mixtures
and even black mixed with the shade
known as “shocking pink” had their
wearers. Mrs. C. C. Moore, who with
her husband, the master of the Melbourne
Hunt Club, entertained a large number
of guests at afternoon tea, wore a tweed
jacket checked in two shades of grey and
a plain grey skirt, knitted sweater and
small grey felt hat trimmed at the side
with ruchings of grey and white ribbons.
Mrs. W. S. Cox, wife of the secretary of
the M.V.R.C., sported a high grey fell
beret which carried a cockade of grey
ribbon with her full-length grey coat
trimmed with grey Persian lamb. Mrs.
Noel Mason wore a matching jacket of
green-flecked tweed and a brown hat with
her frock. Lady Clarke’s grass-green
wool dress was matched with an upswept
hat trimmed with scarlet quills. Eliza-
beth Cahill’s grey bobby hat set off her
rust-wool frock. Jan Heath highlighted
her grey suit with a yellow sweater and
brown accessories. Loris Nettleborg
chose a small upturned hat in soft pink
to contrast with her black coat.
At the G.N. Steeplechase meeting
at Flemington furs kept out the
bitter wind, yet, strangely enough,
some of the hats worn would have
been more suitable for a spring gar-
den party. Felt hats were glamorised
out of the utility class. One small off-
the-face model was weighted heavily at
one side with large roses. Others were
trimmed with spiky feathers in gay color-
ings and many were tied firmly to the
head with over-the-face veiling. Mrs. J.
Bowen Pain’s ensemble of blue, grey and
brown tweed consisted of a short bell-
boy jacket suit and threequarter-length
cape ; her upturned hat was of pale-grey
felt. Shirley Watts’s green-flecked tweed
suit, the jacket made page-boy fashion,
was worn with a green hand-knitted
sweater and a small green bobby hat
trimmed with pompons in green and
gold. Wanda Shilladay’s page-boy suit
was in French mustard tonfngs; her
small pill-box hat in the same shade was
decorated with brown quills.
Mrs. R. Smith wore a black coat trimmed
with black Persian lamb and a fisher cap of
soft felt trimmed with black sequins. Mrs.
Mickey Paxton’s suit of dull-red-and-
grey checked tweed had a full-pleated,
skirt and the new long-fitting jacket; her
hat was in dull-red felt. Mrs. L. Cole-
man was in a grey ensemble, the full-
length coat trimmed with grey Persian
lamb; her accessories were London-
tan. Mrs. N. Wilson’s light navy suit
was worn with a white hat trimmed with
navy ribbon. Pamela Shillitoe’s suit was
of teal-blue, her matching hat trimmed
with cyclamen ribbon. Mrs. C. Curtain’s
suit of royal-purple wool had grey Per-
sian lamb trimmings. Mrs. Frank Watts
wore a hip-length summer ermine coat
over her dusty-pink wool suit. Vivienne
Betty Stephens’s ensemble of mignonette-
green was in the smart company of a
green-veiled brown bowler hat.
St. Kilda Town Hall was decorated with
Air Force emblems and flags for the ball,
proceeds of which will go to tjie £50,000
appeal for the Memorial Centre, which
will provide facilities for sick, wounded
and necessitous members and ex-members
of the Air Forces of Allied nations. The
Governor, Sir Winston Dugan, was
accompanied by his sister, Mrs. J. Hasel-
den, whose gown of gold tissue, with full
sleeves, was finished with a pastel-pink
posy at the waist. A bouffant old-world
frock of white taffeta was chosen by
Penelope Nettlefold. Wife of Air-Marshal
George Jones wore a white lace gown.
Mrs. Cobby, wife of Air-Commodore
A. H. Cobby, wore a green frock
trimmed with gold sequins and topped
by a white fur jacket. Also at the official
table were the Mayor and Mayoress of
St. Kilda, Cr. and Mrs. A. E. Allen, she
in a gown of aqua-blue crepe and white
fur jacket.


f
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 68
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet .
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
! BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng,
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WADES DIRECTORS;
R. T.-Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J, Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.F.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; A
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J, W. Russell French. jflsjf
—Protect your Property insure with —
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
N.S.W. Branch; 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: BWBI3I (3 Line,) C. R. CORNWELL, Manege,.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
Replacement,
ended Etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
6.9 p.c.
£ £ £ £
1937 .. 1,036,336 804.375 1,201,688 3,509,057
7* p.c. s
1938 .. 1,060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3,700,479
1939 , . 1.005,670 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
8* p.c.
1940 ~ 1,103,744 994,500 1,622,388 4,092,025
1941 . . 1,054,331 994,500 1,682,219 4,351,538
1942 . . 934,619 994,500 1,622,338 4,666,640
1943 .. 1,041.601 994,600 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 . . 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,443,655
8 p.c.
1945 .. 881,136 936,000 1,494,044 5,793,701
1946 . . 887,298 936,000 1,445,342 6,130,885
8* p.c.
1947 . . 1,163,473 994,500 1,614,315 6,447,849
The story last term falls into two parts.
On the one hand, it was the manage-
ment’s efforts to (1) hasten distribution of
sugar, and so keep supply everywhere
abreast of demand, while at the same
time reducing cost of handling the stuff;
(2) quicken the output of building
materials, and help overcome the delay
in building activity; (3) further cheapen
operating costs by mechanisation and
other methods and (4) widen the scope
of the co.’s activities. On the other hand,
the record was one of frustrated effort,
brought about by shortage of coal, trans-
port and materials, by strikes, go-slow
(especially on the waterfront) and other
forms of industrial retardation, all of
which can be traced back to the anti-
social tactics of Communist-led groups
of organised labor.
The spring of £276,175, or 31 p.c., in
the year’s net earnings came mainly from
the sharp increase in outturn of sugar
in Fiji, a lift in the price paid by Britain
for raws, and better results from the
building materials division. The £1,163*473
of profit—-the best yet—was 9.9 p.c. on
capital, compared with 7.5, 7.5,' 7.4, 8.9,
7.9, 9 and 9.4 p.c. back to 1940. It was
written after allowing £420,268 (down
£6556) for depreciation ; and there are
less conspicioua corners in which surplus
earnings have been tucked away in the
past. Half a point was added to the div.,
making it 8£ p.c. again—it was the rate
paid for the five years to end March,
1944.
According to the Sugar Producers’
Association, Australian production, con-
sumption and export of raws compare
as follows over the last eight years:
Pro- Home
duction, Consumption, Export,
\ Tons. Tons. Tons.
™39 .. 927,351 382,658 544,670
1940 . . 805,984 399,484 406,499
1941 • • 745,249 440,928 304,321
1942 . . 649,559 442,225 207,333
4943 • • 523,550 434,128 89,666
1944 . . 669,898 454,237 215,661
1945 • • 665,881 455,698 210,183
1946 . . 552,000* _L
* Estimated.
Drought was the villain last season, when
the co.’s own mills in Australia turned
out 140,000 tons (down 5000 tons) raws.
But production at its Fiji mills nearly
doubled (115,000 tons, up 50,000 ions).
The British price for raws (exports) rose
by £S2 ss. a ton from Jan. 1, 1946, and
by a further £S4 15s. a ton from the
beginning of 1947, making the base pi ice
£S24 15s. a ton.
The scarcity of fines in Australia last
summer was due to shortages of coal and
shipping and the engineers’ strike in Vic-
toria. Only by use of staff men from other
States, and by shipments of surplus fines
from N. S. Wales and Queensland, was
a large part of the Victorian fruit crop
saved from total loss. Plant capacity is
more than equal to local demand, and the
margin of safety is to be increased when
labor and materials allow. Still, unless
transport of raws from Queensland
quickens, there might be a shortage of
fines again next summer. In an effort to
avert the threat, the co. is erecting a
40,000-ton mechanically-equipped raw-
sugar storage bin alongside its refinery at
Pyrmont (Sydney) at a cqst of about
£350,000. This should quicken and
cheapen handling, as well as result in
savings in other directions.
In the building materials section, the
Cane-ite factory was unable to cope with
demand. The hardboard section of this
mill is nearing completion. The plaster
mills at Concord (N.S.W.) and Bruns-
wick (Vic.) worked at less than half
capacity, because enough Governments
rolling stock was not available for
delivery of gypsum. Orders for asbestos-
cement sheets, fibre for which comes from
the co.’s asbestos mines in Westralia,
were also well ahead of output. A new
factory to make asphalt floor tiles, not
previously produced in Australia, is now
going up at Concord.
Largest item on the programme of de-
velopment is one that promises to make
a handsome contribution to employment
and the national income. It is the erec-
tion of a million-pound factory which is
to provide Australia’s full requirements
of cellulose acetate. This is one of the
main plastics, for production of which
the co. will also have to manufacture
acetate anhydride. How long it will be
before the new undertaking comes into
production depends upon the supply of
suitable labor and delivery of materials
and equipment. Structural steel cannot
be obtained under 12 to 18 months, and
manufacturers are quoting up to two
years for delivery of electric motors and
ball bearings.
The co.’s large holdings of liquids in-
vested outside the business suggest that
shareholders may not be asked to assist:
1989. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 2,152,000 3,527,737 3,788,122
Suspense accounts 2,437,456 2,976,845 3,009,488
Employees’ funds 55,817 56,804 57,956
Refineries, mills,
etc 10,478,655 12,470,719 18,037,403
Steamers .. 271,877 271,608 273,786
Distilleries .. 322,678 514,440 527,071
Premises . . 228,202 230,022 228,795
Stocks .. 4,176,249 6,761,917 8,848,879
Book debts, etc, 415,295 2,882,986
Investments . . 3,252,177 4,366,540 4,446,561
Cash and de-
posits . . 3,022,574 744,912 1,943,749
Investments (up £80,021) include £575,365
of shares ip subsidiaries. The other
£3,871,196 consists largely of Govern-
ment and other readily realisable
securities. The year’s movements in
stocks, book debts and cash, etc., are
inter-related. The more or less liquid
surplus (£6,221,609) was only £35,779
less than at the previous balance, despite
a nfet addition of £580,266 to the book
value of fixed assets.
The price of the f.-p. £2O shares —they
are ope of the leaders in the industrial’
group on the market—advanced from
£53 at end 1946 to £54 10s. in Feb.,
eased to £53 17s. 6d. in April .and rose
to £55 in May. Recent sales were at
£54 155., at which figure the return is
3.1 p.c. on an 8i p,c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is visibly £34 13s. 7d.,
including the replacement reserve.
Kemptborne, Prosser (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £> £> £t
1937.. 50,130 8 p.c. = 46,640 ) qqq 205 632
Staff provident fund, £2500 ..j auo.wa
1988.. 77,735 8 p.c. = 46,640 31,095 236,727
Special 12* p.c. cash bonus, £72,875 .. 163,852
1939.. 62,148 8 p.e. = 46,640 15,508 179,360
1940.. 78,418 8 „ „ 46.640 31,778 211,138
1941.. 63,776 8 „ „ 46,950 16,826 227,964
To investment reserves, £6475 .. .. 221,489
1942.. 60,481 8 p.c. = 51,725 8,756 230,245
To investment reserves, £1316 .. .. 228,929
1943.. 61,886 8 p.c. = 52,059 1 _ 997 7Rn
To patriotic funds, £lOOO i. J ’
1944. . 52,079 8 p.c. 52,059 1 9 a 99G
To patriotic funds, £lOOO .. | '
1945.. 50,154 8 p.c. = 52,059 224,871
1946.. 58,312 8 „ „ 52,059 6,253 231,124
1947. . 81,398 9* ~ ~ 66,366 | qqo 945 156
To patriotic funds, £lOOO .. ] 14 ’ 082
Easily the best showing since the co.
set up at Dunedin 62 years ago with a
capital of £72,000. The improvement of
'£23,086 in net earnings came from (1)
record turnover, especially in the drug
section of the business, (2) reduction in
the tax bill (£122,094, previous year’s
figure not disclosed), and (3) payment of
an unstated amount in adjustment of
Government subsidy on manufacture of
superphosphate covering the last two
years. Also, an extra £67,647 of capital
(balance callable on the 1940 new share
issue) was at work for practically the
whole term.
After allowing for the net cost of
manufacture and depreciation, the im-
provement in gross earnings (£265,062)
was £48,890. Exes. (£183,664, including
taxes) took £25,804 of the gain. That
left the net figure £23,086 stronger at
£81,398, or 11.3 on capital as it now
stands, compared with 8.9, 7.7, 8, 7.9, 9.3,
9.8 and 12 p.c. back to 1940. The 8
p.c. div., an annual event since 1935,
was sweetened with a “peace bonus” of
6s. a share, making 9| p.c. for the year.
The market, which looks upon the co.
as a sound 8 p.c. proposition, with possi-
bilities, prices the f.-p. £2 shares at £6.
At that price the return is a wink over
3 p.c. on the basis of last year’s distri-
bution, or 2.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 3i p.c. on his
money counts on a KH P- c - distribution,
or other benefits, such as a one-for-three
new share issue at par and maintenance
of the div. at 8 p.c.
It is very doubtful whether the cautious
board would be likely to make a per-
manent lift in the div. rate at the
moment. However, the co. has a large
construction programme ahead in con-
nection with (1) enlargement of its own
pharmaceutical factory and warehouses,
and (2) erection of new superphosphate
works at Southland in conjunction with
the Dominion Fertiliser Co. No hint is
given as to the outlay in which the co.
is likely to be involved in these two
directions, or as to how the management
proposes to finance the expenditure.
At end January last the co. had
£106,860 (up £37,534) invested outside
the business, mainly on deposit in the
bank: —
1935. 1941. 1946. 1947.
Capital .. £583,000 £621,952 £650,738 £718,385
Liabilities*' .. 84,438 449,087 464,075 459,938
Factories, etc. 366,221 407,557 346,911 867,378
Stocks. . . . 274,477 512,264 651,250 577,468
Book debts .. 133,802 318,184 850,620 414,081
Cash, etc. . . 105,002 87,543 69,326 106,860
* Includes tax provision.
The year’s reduction of £73,782 in stocks
was due mainly to scarcity of supplies,
and the growth of £63,461 in debtors’
balances reflects livelier trading. The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£638,471) was £31,350, owing to
introduction of new capital.
The co. owns four warehouses, stocked
largely with products from its phar-
m|ceutical factory, and four large super-
phosphate works. Owing to the importance
of super, as a factor in production of
fat lambs and dairy produce, and in
furtherance of its price-cost stabilisation
policy (which has got out of balance),
the Government has subsidised manufac-
turers of super, to help offset the increased
cost of rock, bags, etc. Following the
Jap occupation of Ocean and Nauru
Islands, chief source of rock supply was
Egypt. However, supplies of high-grade
rock from the two first-mentioned sources
are beginning to come forward again.
The other side of the business, the manu-
facture of drugs, proprietary medicines,
cosmetics, toilet goods, etc., expanded
considerably during the war; and there
have bam few reconversion difficulties
beyond a temporary shortage of materials.
The demand for medical drugs, including
the co.’s own proprietary lines, remains
high, and so does the sale of cosmetics
and toilet preparations. Opinion in the
trade is that the major portion of the
increased market should be permanently
held.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. senes.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 38.553 12* p.c. = 29,318 9,235 ] , ofi
Brokerage, etc., writen off £3911 .. j ’
1938.. 42,498 12* p.c. = 81,249 11,249 222,745
Pref. Ord. Total.
1939. .46,008 6 p.c. 12* p.e. 33,750 12,258 235,003
1940. .40,683 6 „ ll| „ 35,625 5,058 240,061
1941. .34,502 0 „ 10 „ 32,500 2,002 242,063
1942.. 31.145 6 „ 8| „ 29,375 1,770 243,833
1943. .42,258 6 „ 7* „ 26,250 16,008 259,841
1944. .35,686 6 „ 7* „ 26,250 9,436 269,277
1945. .83,389 6 „ 7* „ 26,260 7,139 276,416
Reserves disappear, £8196 .. .. 268,220
1946.. 269 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 32,500 1 „ 7fio 971 080
To staff fund, £2OOO ..) 8 ’ 769 271 - 9bJ
Restored to reserves, £196 .. .. 272,185
1947. .54,407 6 p.c. 12* p.c. 38,750 15,657 287,842
The brewery is at Ballarat (Vic.), and
the business extends throughout western
Victoria and over the border to Mt.
Gambier (S.A.) and to the N.S.W.
Riverina. After the scrip was listed in
1936, and before war began, the public
had put up £215,000 of fresir capital,
which brought with it £77,520 of share
premiums. The lot (£292,520), and more
besides, went largely into hotel proper-
ties, thus widening and anchoring turn-
over. Then war intervened, and though
service demands helped to offset the
effects of beer rationing and lifts in taxa-
tion and other costs, city brewing in-
terests fared better than those in the
country. The contraction in this co.’s
1944 and 1945 profit figures was chiefly
the result of troop movements out of
the area the co. serves.
Following demobilisation there was a
steady return of population to this area,
and beer rationing ceased in March, 1946.
For a while shortage of raw materials
(barley and hops) stood in the way of a
quick and full increase in production.
But the position eased a little as the
thirsty summer months arrived, and turn-
over continued to expand. Gross earn-
ings from brewing stepped up £22,348
last term. And rents, etc., from the co.’s
92 hotels turned in an extra £9616, mak-
ing the improvement in gross earnings
from all sources £31,964:
Gross Earnings \
1942. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Brewing . . £118,268 £84,846 £105,502 £127,850
Rent, etc. .. 37,914 31,993 30,556 40,171
Total . . 151,182 116,839 136,057 168,021
Exes 120,037 84,950 97,788 121,614
Profit.. .. 31,145 31,889 38,269 46,407
Exes, took £23,826 of the gain, leaving


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Aim'.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—*,
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN POTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
df
BARKO
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
The Lessons of which are specially compiled
tor HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BRIEN HOARE, •
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
Telephone
Manufacturing
U.S.A. manufacturer of
telephone apparatus and
systems established more
than 50 years would pro-
vide engineering designs,
specifications, drawings,
manufacturing methods,
technical advice and
assistance under royalty
and fee basis to respon-
sible local manufacturer.
For further information
please write:
Robert R. Glenn
Evans Associates Co.
307 North Michigan Avenue
Chicago 1. 111., U.S.A.
END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
d
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do bard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and U days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROESSEE APPEIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
a
VI.G.RC
TRAVEL
THE WORLD
with your Wealth
Speed o’er the sea in great ships,
Touring in search of good health,
Dazed in a whirlwind of ’ tips.”
Travel the world as you will,
Seeing strange sights which allure;
But if you’re wise you will still
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure,
For Influenza. Colds.
mw
w%
m
im
•/.Si
AN HISTORIC
vtrn/
Hdj) dD CB
THE
STRAIGHT
SIDE
TYRE
FOR
GOODYEAR
A tyre that could be changed more
easily that overcame rim-cutting!
That was Goodyear’s answer to the
difficulties associated with clincher
tyres when it introduced straight-side
tyres in 1906.
See how clincher tyre (left) hooked on to rim. Straight-
side tyre (right) is held in place by wire bead. Goodyear
backed these tyres to the limit used every means of
demonstration. Engineers and car manufacturers adopted
them . . . they were tried out in the Indianapolis 500-
mile race. The tyres were a success an historic “first
for Goodyear. It was “firsts” that took Goodyear to
leadership in the tyre industry and now, for 32 consecu-
tive years, more people
have ridden on Goodyear
tyres than any other kind.
FIRST
every year
-you don't stay FIRST unless you're best
for 32 years
CS-227
the declared profit £Bl3B stronger at
£46,407.
Including £BOOO dropped from some-
where into plant renewal reserve,
etc., the net result was £54,407, or suffi-
cient to pay the pref. div. (£7500) and
show a juicy 18.7 p.c. on the £250,000 of
ord. capital compared with 12.3, 10.1,
11.2, 13.8, 9.4, 10.8, 13.2 and 17.4 p.c.
back to 1939. The div., which receded
by halting steps from 12y p.c. for the
three years to the close of accounts in
1939 to p.c. for the three years to end
May, 1945, advanced to 10 p.c. in 1946
and to \l\ p.c. again last term.
It is mainly the level of turnover and
costs that now determine brewery profits.
It is unlikely that selling prices, fixed by
officialdom, will be lifted. But while
employment remains practically at the
full, and while high prices continue to
be received for primary products,
brewery earnings, especially in country
areas, can be expected to remain buoyant.
Lifts in wage rates are double-edged ; they
affect costs as well as income, and, in the
long run, costs usually win the race, be-
cause of the snowball effect of wage
increases throughout the whole economy
There is no sign of any recession in the
price of hops, barley, sugar and other
ingredients used in the trade, and the
question of application of the 40-hour
week in Victoria awaits the decision of
the Federal Arbitration Court. All things
considered the immediate outlook is more
favorable than the less immediate one.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1938. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £375,000 £375.000 £875,000
Mortgages .. 88,500 116,000 94,000 84,090
Overdraft . . 60,175 40,784 28,741
Sundry creditors 13,107 10,627 15,413 20,690
Tax reserve .. 10,500 27,000 32,500 87,500
Brewery, hotels,
etc. . . 425,652 564,194 580,870 579,535
Plant, etc. . . 40,500 65,000 50,136 54,600
Stock. . . . 24,872 85,715 29,749 33,630
Sundry debtors 111,412 146,737 125,882 149,928
Shares other cos. 353 346 346 346
Cash, etc. . . 5,904 17,502 58,939 55,856
Last term the co. bought the hotel at
Braybrook (Vic.), which is to be rebuilt,
and the Bull and Mouth at Stawell (Vic.)
was sold on a building lease to Pioneer
Hotels Pty., an offshoot of Ansett Trans-
port Industries. Still, there was a net
reduction of £1341 in the book value of
brewery, hotels, etc. Net addition to the
outside debt was £24,844, mainly to carry
an extra £24,046 of book debts.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the f.-p. pound ords. at 545. 6d.,
at which figure the return is 4.6 p.c. so
long as the 12i p.c. distribution con-
tinues. Net tangible cover is 435.
“Towersite”: Believers in a revival of
the Towers (N.Q.) goldfield, particularly
in the outer areas, find support in the
results of the first parcel of ore won by
the syndicate which took over the Picnic
Mine from Messrs. O’Riley and Lister
early in the year. In sinking the new
underlie shaft to 150 ft., between the 50ft.
mark and the bottom, it yielded 90 tons
6 cwt. ore, of which 66 tons 6 cwt.,
crushed at the Venus Mill, yielded 7dwt.
per ton bullion, 18dwt. per ton in sands
(sold for £5 12s. 6d. per ton) and 10
dwt. per ton in concentrates (the latter
5 tons 3 cwt. assaying 6ioz. per
ton). Total gold content was approxi-
mately 35dwt. per ton. The balance, 24
tons prill ore, sent to Port Kembla,
assayed soz. 17dwt. per ton, worth £l5ll.
Total value of 90 tons 6 cwt. was £2621,
or approximately £29 per ton gross.
* * * ♦
Believing that the price of gold will
rise, Mclntyre Porcupine Mines, Ltd.,
Canada, has stored approximately
5,900,000 dollars worth. This is possible
because no law exists to compel pio-
ducers to sell their gold to the Govern-
ment, although sales, when made, must
be to the Mint. Rodney Adamson, a
member of the Canadian House of Com-
mons, who has been urging the Govern-
ment to make concessions to the gold-
mining industry, recently expressed the
opinion that the Mclntyre co. was adopt-
ing a wise course “as the value of gold
must eventually increase.” But nobody
knows when.
* * * *
To meet rising costs, some Westralian
gold-producing cos. are already treating
higher-grade ore. A mine manager told a
Perth interviewer the other day that it
would soon be necessary to treat sdwt. ore
to cover exes., plutf a moderate div. Before
costs soared, the same producer could
have achieved similar results from treat-
ment of 4dwt. stuff. The effect of the
rise in costs has been to shorten the life
of mines, with a depreciation in immedi-
ate capital value. To meet rising costs,
most cos. will have to scale down their
ore reserves, and a mine which had, say,
1,000,000 tons of 4dwt. ore measured up
might have to reduce the figure to 750,000
tons of sdwt. value to obtain a profit
similar to that secured before the war.
* . * * *
Westralian gold production for the
first half of 1947 is expected to show an
increase of more than 70,0000 z. over the
figure for the corresponding half of 1946.
Latest annual Mines Department report
mentions increased prospecting activity on
most fields, with special attention by cos.
of standing to' Yilgarn, Coolgardie,
Meekatharra and Dundas. ...A return
of 20gr. a ton has smothered the hopes
of Laterite Mines, N.L., of making a
fortune out of its auriferous deposit at
Davyhurst Hansel Mundy, N.L., an-
ticipates that the independent report it
is obtaining on the old Morgans gold-
mine will be good enough to warrant an
option being taken on the property.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) has whooped about in-
tersections of high-grade ore in boring
from the 640 ft. level towards the eastern
boundary of the mine. These new finds
can be readily opened up from existing
underground workings, and the manage-
ment says it is reasonable to assume
that a fair tonnage of high-grade ore will
be developed in the vicinity of the
borings.
* * * *
At Eradu, 35 miles from the port of
Geraldton (W.A.), the State Government
is testing a seam of coal which, if of
sufficient size and required grade, will
save the long haul of fuel from Collie for
the northern railways. Not long ago such
a deluge of water was encountered in the
Eradu workings that it was thought the
bottom of the Geraldton harbor had been
struck. The inflow has since been sealed
off.


SUNDRY SHOWS
BOROVANSKY BALLET.
It’s a pity that the addicts will clap at
the conclusion of the waltzes, mazurkas
and the prelude in “Les Sylphides.” No
doubt the audience means it and the
dancers deserve it, but few ballets can so
thoroughly invest a theatre with their
atmosphere, and it is always disturbing
to have the haunting spell of Chopin and
white loveliness of Fokine’s patterns
shattered by the rattle of applause. When
this commentator had forgotten he was
esconced in a pew at Sydney Royal and
had been mentally transported by Chopin,
Fokine and the dancers interpreting them
to somewhere in the middle air, was
repeatedly and unceremoniously dufnped
back into the worldly comfort of a
theatre seat by enthusiastic clapping of
the audience. Still, the applause was
about the only thing to cavil at in the
Borovanskys’ “Sylphides,” apart from
slight evident nervousness—not un-
common on an opening night and norm-
ally pot noticeable in anything except the
perfection of “Sylphides.”
After the white fragility of the opening
ballet, “Coppelia,” presented for the first
time in Sydney, came like a glad shout
of color. “The Girl With the Enamel
Eyes,” it has something of the quality of
old French enamel—bright, gem-like
colors and an overall brilliance and gloss.
The firm, bright colors of the villagers’
costumes and their whirling, and leaping
mazurka and czardas break in on the
light romantic nonsense between Edna
Busse and Serge Bousloff like a thunder-
clap—if a rainbow could arrive with a
thunderclap. Then, in the second scene,
the toymaker’s workshop with his clock-
work dummies—the brilliantly costumed
king, chinaman, astrologer. Moor and
Punch—-is invaded by Swanilda and her
companions, their dancing in perfect ex-
pression of the wonderment and excite-
ment of children in a magician’s den.
And then the return of the toymakbr and
Swanilda’s teasing as she masquerades as
the clockwork doll brought to life by his
spells, her waltz, Spanish dance and jig,
before Coppelius realises the deception
and collapses from exhaustion and dis-
appointment.
All of it whimsical tragicomedy set
to Delibes’s musical confectionery and
all carried along by the airy dancing and
miming and elf-like mischief of Edna
Busse, perfectly set against Borovansky’s
cantankerous old toymaker, like a black
crow with a red umbrella for a beak
pecking irritably at the youthful gaiety
and pranks which break in on his seclu-
sion.
Good as it is, Borovansky’s Toymaker
doesn’t approach his Athlete in “Le Beau
Danube,” the third ballet on the current
programme. Everything . about the char-
acter —the eyes, the walk, the arms, the
hair, the gestures—is miming at its richest.
And who, except, perhaps, George
Wallace, can obliterate the rest of the
stage and demand and arrest the atten-
tion of an audience with a solitary flicker
of his eyes?
The “Danube,” coming after “Cop-
pelia,” appeared a little drab with its
brown tones —it seemed that the blue coat
of the father or the green one of the
manager could have been a little brighter
—but the Hussar’s grey uniform, the
N ruby-red dress of the Street Dancer, Boro-
vansky’s miming and the dancing of
Edna Busse, Kathleen Gorham and
Martin Rubinstein quickly erased any
suggestion of dullness arising from the
contrast between the two ballets.
The Borovanskys have lost two of their
dancers, and it is impossible to assess
their dramatic strength from their present
programme, consisting as it does of com-
parative lightweights. Borovansky him-
self, of course, is a master of mime
and heavy character ; Martin Rubinstein
is a light, mercurial dancer and, it seems,
expressive enough to cope with heavier
roles than his current ones, excellent as
he is in them. Serge Bousloff is a straight-
forward and masculine dancer, lacking
perhaps Rubinstein’s light nimbleness, but
with an excellent presence that makes
him a fine counter to the predominant
female population of ballet.
Edna Busse and Tamara Tchinarova
are, of course, the two main ballerinas,
with Kathleen Gorham coming up in
the right direction. It would be difficult
to imagine a stronger contrast than that
between Miss Busse and Tchinarova.
The latter is dark and tall —almost too
tall —while her dancing has a passionate
gipsy-like quality and a strong physical
gaiety about it. Miss Busse, on the other
hand, is fragile and small —almost too
small to be dramatic—arid her dancing
is light with a clockwork precision and
hair-spring vitality. Possibly her
emotional range is limited between gaiety
and wistfulness, or possibly her emotional
expression is, to a degree, sublimated
into the perfection of dancing, miming
and acting—it is impossible to judge
completely from a cool, passionless thing
like “Sylphides,” or the mischievous
Swanilda in “Coppelia” or the gay child
in “Le Beau Danube.” At any rate, she
is the best dancer the Borovanskys have,
modelled, by accident or intent, on Ria-
bouchinska.
Kathleen Gorham, in “Sylphides” and
as the coquette in “Le Beau Danube,”
seems to combine some of the finer
points of both Miss Busse and Tchin-
arova. She seems to dance for the
pleasure of dancing, bringing emotional
warmth to lightness, precision and a gift
of mime. It will be interesting to watch
her development.
Arrau's Mixed Bag.
Probably in no other of his sonatas was
Beethoven’s genius for this musical form
so crystallised as in the last one he wrote,
the C Minor, Op. 111. From the fugal
form which dominates the opening
maestoso movement to the theme and
variations of the arietta the work fairly
bristles with technical difficulties. These
seemed to mean nothing to Claudio
Arrau at his second Sydney recital. The
moods of alternating defiance and ex-
altation, fruit of the mental travail from
which the then completely deaf composer
was suffering, and the final resignation
as portrayed unmistakeably in the won-
derful variations to the simple melodic
theme—these were admirably captured
by the pianist. It was great playing of
great music, with emphasis on intense
concentration and interpretation rather
than virtuosity for its own sake.
Mendelssohn’s “Rondo Capriccioso,”
in the andante of which broad lyricism
was given full play, Mozart’s Fantasy in
C Minor, K 396, notable for Mr. Arrau’s
judicious use of the pedal, and the fas-
cinating chiaroscuro of Schumann’s gay
Carnival’s Jest in Vienna, Op. 26 —played
here too seldom —completed as good a
first half of a programme as could have
been devised.
Then came some Debussy twinklings
with the three pieces that make up his
“Estampes.” The “Evocation” and “El
Puerto” from Albeniz’s “Iberia” Suite
had at least rhythm and claims to in-
tegrated melody. But Bela Bartok’s
“Allegro Barbaro” was a good expression,
couched in a senseless idiom, of modem
Magyar dissonance at its worst.
Shakspeare.
One of the finest productions of
“Othello” the present commentator can
remember was that at the Melbourne
Repertory Theatre at Middle Park. It
was the Theatre Guild’s first effort, and
if it keeps on at the same level it should
make a mark in the theatrical life of the
city from outside it. Peter O’Shaugh-
nessy’s massive, dignified Moor was re-
markably impressive and made his sub-
sequent metamorphosis into that rather
comic object, the' jealous husband, all
the more effeptive. Mr. O’Shaughnessy
roared as loudly as Allan Wilkie, but
there was feeling, not mere histrionics,
in his roaring. The Desdemona of
Gloria Mellody also had humanity about
it, and the lago of Thomas Riddell was
a sharp, hard portrait of that immortal
cuckold-maker. As his wife, Margaret
Archibald rose to great heights in the
final scene where Emilia’s practical mind
sees through the net thrown* around the
insensate Moor by her husband.
AH were good, including the Cassio
of Howard Charlton, a most convincing
portrait of alcoholic infatuation and re-
morse. The attempt to recapture the
atmosphere of the Renaissance in the
settings only made one think of the
Melbourne Technical College* art school,
but the incidental music by Dorian le
Gallienne was appropriately simple.
Mr. le Gallienne also supplied the
musical accompaniment to “Macbeth”
at the Union Theatre. The quality of
the drama in the Scottish highlands is
just as good as the quality of the tragedy
in Cyprus, but there was a distinct odor
of the professorial classroom in the
Melbourne University Dramatic Club’s
presentation. One thought of the form
before the content, whereas the reverse
was the case 'with the “Othello” —al-
though the form is the same, in both ex-
amples. George Fairfax’s Macbeth was
only verbally bloody and the Lady Mac-
beth of Margaret Mouchemore had her
emotions in her head rather than her
heart.
Shakspearean comedy—much harder
to make live than Shakspearean tragedy
—had a look in at the National Theatre
in “The Merchant.” It was reasonably
successful.
"O Mistress Mine."
Terence Rattigan’s “O Mistress Mine,”
which has turned up at the Princess,
Melbourne, is one of those theatrical ex-
hibits which intrigue by their subject-
matter but don’t fulfil in the treatment.
A certain Sir John, a Minister, has a
certain Olivia for mistress and has set her
up in a palatial mansion where he does
most of his thinking, or alleged
thinking, on the exigencies of the nation.
Olivia’s son, whom she hasn’t seen for
10 years, comes home from Canada, a
youth of 18 with anti-imperialist affilia-
tions, but these are soon forgotten in
the emotional storm of finding his mother
in some mysterious association with a
strange man whom he doesn’t like and
who doesn’t like him. He assumes the
role of a suburban Hamlet and tragedy
would seem to be around the corner.
Mr. Rattigan, however, hasn’t any such
serious intention. The young man starts
studying books on poisons, and succeeds
in separating his mother from her lover,
but is subsequently diverted ,by a senti-
mental attachment for a girl in the
Minister’s office. Sir John uses this to
re-establish his position and the curtain
descends with the sound of marriage-
bells in the distance.
Mr. Rattigan can’t suppress his inveter-
ate propensity for making fun, but his
farce-comedy is clever enough to keep an
audience bubbling. Kathleen Robinson
and Richard Parry play it in admirable
style as the lovers, and Ron Rousel
makes an unreal part look real in places.
"The Macropulos Secret."
Karel Capek’s play, put on by the
Little Theatre, Melbourne, concerns
Emilia Marty, a beautiful young singer
who is charged with forging a letter pur-
porting to have been written by the mis-
tress of a count who died 100 years be-
fore and whose will is missing. Like
Van Meegeren in the Vermeer case, she
makes the astounding announcement
that she wrote the letter and so did the
dead mistress, as they are one and the
same person. Not only that, but she
was born in the 16th century, has 300
years behind her and has every prospect
of going on living in this vale of tears
for ever. The secret of her immortality
is contained in a sealed packet dis-
covered in the count’s castle.
As in his “Insect Play” and “R.U.R.,”
Capek uses this fantastic theme as a
vehicle for his breedings on life, death
and the immutability of human associa-
tions. Her immortality has left Emilia
completely disillusioned. Life’s eternal
repetitions have bored her so completely
that she has no desires and no hopes
and, having attained to perfection, her
art no longer interests her. She offers
the secret to a young girl, an old
lawyer, a descendant of the dead count
and her own lover, but immortality vio-
lates their associations and they all re-
fuse it.
Capek can make these strange themes
live, and Margaret Reid was convincing
as the undying singer.
"Night and the Laughter."
When the curtains parted, showing a
massive grand piano on the stage, Sydney
Tiv. patrons were amazed, but settled
down for some highbrow pounding of
the horse-teeth. The pianist himself
appeared from the wings, bowed, settled
himself on his stool, removed his rings,
stretched his fingers and played—one
note. The Tiv.’s orchestra took the “A,”
and after the pianist had bowed again
and departed, they started the overture.
With a beginning like this the show
held great promise, but while some of the
acts were good, they needed a Mo or
Wallace to carry them. Two prize
angoras. Jack Murray and Jay Morris,
worked hard to make their audience for-
get the duller parts, and they almost suc-
ceeded. Among the show’s bright spots
were the “Anniversary Song” solo by
John O’Connor, and some enjoyable
warbling of a vastly different kind from
the “Four Guardsmen,” whose imitation
of the Andrews Sisters sounded infinitely
better than the acftial sorority.
Johnny Mack, a young import from
America, managed to warm things up
considerably, but the greatest applause
of the evening went to Ella Shields, and
theatre addicts of long sitting, who turned
up in force to welcome the great lady,
were pleased at what they saw. Ella's
“Burlington Bertie,” a little more sedate
than he was a youth, was the most
popular character of the evening.
Ernest Buckmaster.
Ernest Buckmaster’s latest show at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum embraces all aspects
of his art, from still life of massive bowls
of flamboyant Rhododendrons to vast
panoramas of mountains and portraits.
The most distinguished portrait is that
of Lieutenant-General S. G. Savige,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C., E.D., in a volumin-
ous army coat with all his decorations.
It is the portrait which Buckmaster sub-
mitted for the Archibald Prize, but which
never got there, being mislaid in transit.
If it had arrived it would probably have
been a severe challenge to the winning
picture, for it has much in common with
it, but has more of what the man-in-the-
street would see if he looked at the sitter.
There is no mystery in it —everything is
plainly stated and nobody could fail to
recognise the likeness.
Buckmaster is the staunchest upholder
of the National Gallery tradition left in
Melbourne and he has never wavered
from his viewpoint.
Reviewed Briefly.
Both Valda Aveling, the Australian
pianist, and Ddlla Chiesa, the American
soprano, deserved better audiences than
they got last week in Melbourne,
though the first was playing at
the Assembly Hall and the other
singing at the Town Haft. Miss
Aveling wended her way through an im-
pressive programme of Bach, Liszt,
Debussy, Schumann, Schubert and
Albeniz, and her playing was always dis-
tinguished. The Chiesa is as distinguished
in her department, but she has a tendency,
which the other hasn’t, of vaudevillising
some of her items.
♦ # ♦ ♦
Maxwell Anderson’s “High Tor” is an
extremely difficult play to stage, but
Brisbane Amateur Theatres made an ex-
cellent job of it. Win O’Neill’s produc-
tion lacked little in realism. Alan Denby
had a Puckish charm as De Witt, and
stood out in the large cast. Both Olga
Massey and Vivienne Campbell were
good, but leading man Rex Hodel was
rarely within the compass of his role.
* * * *
Adelaide Society of Arts houses a
show by a new young artist, Rosamund
Stokes. The paintings, ranging from
Macedon to Kangaroo Island, are ordi-
nary, but the “illustrations,” ranging
from Kubla Khan to goannas, show
originality and power, and being all
marked “not for sale” foreshadow a
book to come.
* * * •
There is a soft enamelled look about
the landscape of Sydney artist Rubery
Bennett at the Sedon Galleries, Mel-
bourne, which suggests sentimentalised
Arthur Streeton. There are the same
stretches of blue mountains, the burnished
mirrors of the river reaches and the
vistas of plains and foothills into which
the intrusion of a motor-car or a factory
chimney would be a regrettable faux pas.
Over all is this faintly romantic glamor,
but Nature perpetually in faultless even-
ing dress is apt to give a somewhat
monotonous impression. Mr. Bennett is
best in his smaller sketches where he isn't
so intent in making a gallery picture.
* * * *
The most interesting exhibit at the
Bread and Cheese Club art group ex-
hibition in Melbourne is the collection
of Australian beer brands. They run
along no fewer than three walls of the
clubroom and, aesthetically speaking, are
much more charming than many of the
pictures which suffer from the usual
defect of social organisations—nobody
wants to hurt a fellow-member’s feelings
and there has been no selection. Presi-
dent W. Hunter has two nice etchings in
“Fishermen’s Bend” and “Shadowed
Stream.”


No. 12 of Series
Blue Print
.'i,'
* i>
Ll iJ
12.0 A
O
&U4CA.fi
'■OrbtA/3
ftpLUE PRINT” has come to mean almost any
II kind of planning, but the words really describe
a particular method of reproducing engineering
drawings photographically. Engineers and archi-
tects’ “blue prints” are made on paper coated with
an organic ferric salt and potassium ferricyanide.
The original drawing is placed over this sensitized
paper and is exposed either to daylight or arc light.
The print is then developed by washing with water,
and gives a copy of the original in white lines on
a blue background. What happens is that the action
of light reduces the ferric salt to a ferrous one.
When wet, the ferrous salt thus formed reacts wit
the potassium ferricyanide to produce the wel -
known pigment “Prussian Blue.’ Some hundre s
of millions or square feet of blue print paper are
used every year in Britain alone. The British
chemical industry supplies the iron
salts which make blue prints possible
as well as. chemicals like caustic soda
and chlorine which are essential to the
paper-making trade.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ICI
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
As in the Stradbroke Handicap, the Brisbane
Cun and the Doomben Ten Thousand, a light-
weight won the Doomben Cup; but, upsetting
the previous order of things, Sydney horses
finished first, second and third; a Queenslander,
Embrolita, earned fourth money (£250) for hiS
owner. , ....
In front from the start, Felt Fcj-ce set a
cracking pace, followed by Hiraji; when first
noticed Dark Marne was wide out in mid-
field, and Good Idea well back. At the turn
Felt Force had burned himself out, leaving
Hiraji to head the field. Dark Marne took
the turn very wide but sustained a long run,
to win well from Hiraji and Good Idea. The
last-named was favorite at sixes, young Mr.
Browning, according to his newspaper friends,
having gone in for another plunge. Dark
Marne was at sevens—-a good price consider-
ing his capital recent form and his weight, 7st.
Dark Marne, who is only a little fellow,
cut out the 11 furlongs less 22yds. in 2.13-4,
lopping H seconds off Bernborougbs record.
He has proved a bargain at 110 guineas, the
price paid for him by owner T. E. Cook.
G. Podmore was the rider. The Marne, sire
of Dark Marne, owned (at the beginning) and
always trained by the late William Kelso, was
a sprinter, but several of his offspring have
proved equal to a bit of distance.
Demonstrating again that Doomben is a fast
track when everything is right, Maa Leesh,
defeating Colleague and Attley in the Flying,
clocked new figures, l.lffi, for the Doomben
six furlongs. Maa Leesh carried 7.9, Colleague
7.2 and Attley 10.3. The Melbourne horse,
who dwelt at the barrier, was favorite at 6
to 4; backers of Maa Leesh got sixes.
Full marks for consistency go to the unlucky
grey, Hiraji. Weighted right up to his form,
he ran third in the Ten Thousand and second
in the Cup. He is owned by F. W. Hughes,
who bought him in N.Z., also his sire Nizami.
Ironically, Dark Marne was bred by Hughes.
* * ♦ *
Running true to his fine form of the pre-
vious Saturday, Formidable (13 to 2) won
the Grand National Steeple all the way, and
48,000 racegoers—reckoned the largest crowd
ever at Flemington for a National Steeple
saw him do it.
The country jumper was taken to the
front immediately, and was still there after
they’d covered the 25 furlongs and a
like number of fences. For a moment near
the furlong mark Bickham appeared anxious
and applied pressure. Formidable soon showed
he’d been travelling well within himself and
ran on to a five-lengths’ win. The little-
fancied Parentena came home better than any
of the others; Satellite was third and five of
the 17 runners failed to complete the course.
An aged gelding by Marconigram—Hakinette,
Formidable has proved a bargain for his present
owner, who got him for £5O: first prize for
the National was £2lOO. He has a long way
to go before he rivals Parentena’s National
record —five starts for a win and three seconds.
It had been reported that Biblical was to
be examined by a vet. for “heart
Many punters would agree that he hasn t
much heart for the business; nevertheless
he was sent out equal favorite for the
Footscray Steeple and for once did the
right thing. With the better-class ’chasers con-
testing the National, the Footscray developed,
into a “battle” between two notoriously poor
finishers, Accelerate being the other. Acceler-
ate did the pacemaking and Biblical the rest;
Kindervale was third.
Another infrequently successful jumper for
whom Saturday proved to be the day was The
Feline, trained by Alec Fullarton; but his rider,
Godfrey, made a close thing of it. Oyer the
last jump The Feline looked “home and dry,
but the jockey was almost caught napping
when the favorite, Nantilla, rattled along. There
was only a neck in it, and John Masefield
was. a half-length behind Nantilla.
The Lawn Handicap was one of those
scrambles that wise punters leave alone. There
was a field of 36, under burdens varying from
St. Fairy’s 10.2 to a minimum of 7st. The
favorite, Sea Monarch, was at sevens, St. Fairy
at eights and the rest at double figures. Start-
ing only one in from the outside, Thor (20
to 1 with the bookmakers; £lO 11s. 6d. for
ss. on the tote) landed the money, with Star
of India and Kaffir Prince in the places.
The first division of the Two-year-old Mile
saw the boomed Solvive favorite once more,
and this time he succeeded, defeating Fiddle
and Casson in the run home. In the second
division Black Beau downed Heroic Lad and
Astorette. The youngsters provided the only
two outright favorites to win on the day. Very
appropriately, since members of the R.N. force
are visiting Melbourne, Britisher accounted
for Fine Fettle and Drama over the 12 furlongs
of the Winter Handicap.
* * * *
Saturday at Canterbury was the sort of day
that leads young punters astray; a day of
perfect weather, with well-backed horses, in-
cluding three favorites and three second-
favorites, victorious in seven of eight events.
The one outsider to break it down for the
bookmakers was Verbage, the Talking gelding
who came to light in the Flying at 33 to 1.
Few punters had any material interest in the
close finish, which was between Verbage and
a 20-to-l chance Star Vite, the camera being
called on. Favorite Yankee Lad was third.
Verbage gave “double” bookmakers a virtual
skinner, for though Nepean River, owned by a
bookmaker, was fairly well supported for the
Canterbury Park Handicap, punters’ preferences
went to Codicil and Deed. Neither took any
part in the finish, Air Flare and Bell Rock,
both 33 to 1, following Nepean River home.
At Canterbury Cook and Thompson con-
tinued their tussle for the jockeys’ premiership,
beginning with Cook (38) one ahead of
Thompson. Both missed in the Two-year-old,
in which Sentiment (A. Ward) defeated Torn
and Million; then Thompson broke even by
getting Torment home in the first division of
the Mixed Stakes, a six-furlongs affairs, and
he went one when Frontal Attack-
owned by a gentleman who has an AJ.C.
inquiry and a libel action on his hands—
accounted for &i£le and Beau Brummel in
a Mixed Stakes of 11 furlongs. Cook made
it all square again .through the agency of Noble-
man’s full brother Man at Arms in another
Mixed of six furlongs, and took the lead again
in the third Mixed Stakes, riding the much-
“My number-four racquet, caddy!”
travelled Stormy to victory. Finally in the
Welter Thompson, on Parfait, equalled the
score, with two days to go.
For Canterbury (before acceptances):—
Two-year-old Handicap: Imperium, 1
Cardinal Color, 2; Torri, 3. Mixed Stakes
(six furlongs): Dieppe, 1; Superfort, 2; Royal
Countess, 3. Mixed Stakes (11 furlongs);
Binnia Lassie, 1 \ Frontal Attack, 2; Beau
Brummel, 3. Flying Handicap: Oriental, 1;
Petulance, 2; Tahmoor, 3. Canterbury Park
Handicap: Right Royal, 1; Codicil, 2; Bell
Rock, 3. Welter: Thanks America, 1; Air
Flare, 2; Cavalero, 3.
« ♦ ♦ *
One of the best country fixtures in Australia,
the Clarence River Jockey Club’s July Cup
meeting is run off on the 16th, 17th and 19th
of this month. Chief events are the Ramorme
Handicap and Grafton Cup, both of them
always tiptop races, and attracting good gal-
lopers from both Sydney and Brisbane.
# * * *
The rapidly-improving Geelong side is
knocking for admittance to the V.F.L.
“four,” having downed Melbourne with
a score, 16.11 to 5.16, that stilled talk
from Cailyon’s to the Windsor. It
puts the Sleepy Hollow lads only four
points away from Richmond, fourth in
the* “four”—the Tigers stayed in by de-
feating Fitzroy, 12.12-11.12. Match of
the day was at Carlton, where, much to
the astonishment of. the all-conquering
Blues, “Sowth” nearly lowered their
colors in a furious last quarter —Carlton
10.14 to 9.16. North Melb. beat St.
Kilda. 13.25 to 8.15. Essendon disposed
of Footscray, 10.18-8.11, and Colling-
wood trailed for halfway before getting
in front of Hawthorn, 8.17-6.9. Carlton
on top, Collingwood, Essendon and
Richmond next, Fitzroy, Melbourne and
Geelong together fifth.
**• - ■
Manly, leading in the Sydney Rugby
Union competition, was hard put to it to
beat St. George, 16-15, and had mainly
to thank a rising forward, J. Gwynne.
East beat Drummoyne 12-8, Eastwood
bobbed up at tl)e expense of Western
Suburbs, 21-9, and Randwick was rather
lucky to get the verdict over North,
16-14, a brilliant try by winger Slattery
giving it the honors when North was a
man short. Parramatta trounced Univer-
sity 30-18, Jim Boland, the “Parra” half
and captain, being outstanding. This lad
and the North forward, Cornforth, for
upwards of three years a prisoner of the
Japs, should be in the team for England,
which has palpable weaknesses.
« ♦ ♦ m
On the cricket front; —
England defeated South Africa by seven
wickets in the third Test at Manchester two
wins for England, one draw, two matches
to be played. . „ . .
The tourists made 339 in their first innings:
Viljoen 93, Mitchell 80, Dyer 62; Ednch 4
for 95, Gladwin 2 for 58, and Cranston 2
for 64. England replied with 478: Edrich (191)
and Compton (115—his third century in the
series) putting on 228 for the third wicket.
Tuckett (5 for 118) again bowled finely; he
has taken five wickets in the first innings of
each Test.
South Africa’s second knock of 267 was
mostly scored by Nourse (115 —his second
century, the other 149 at Nottingham), Mel-
ville 59 and Viljoen 32. Edrich 4 for 77 and
Wright 3 for 32 caused the crash. The neces-
sary 130 were got sedately in 150 min.
Players prominent in Australia last season
have done most of the work for England.
Compton (557 runs, av. 111.4), Edrich (509,
av 127.25) and Washbrook (231, av. 46.2) top
the batting, and Wright (13 for 237) and Edrich
(12 for 289) have been the main bowlers. Hollies
(9 for 331), Cranston (2 for 64) and Gladwin
(3 for 84) have done well enough to get other
in the Tests has been consistent;
1458 for 31 wickets in the first, 1159 for 30
wickets in the second, 1214 for 33 wickets in
the third. England’s share is 1947 tor «
wickets and South lBB4 for 51, wickets.
Western Suburbs club, which lifted Sydney’s
first-grade premiership last season but couldn
get a man in the State XI, served up a curly
one in its annual report: “Is Test cricket so
serious a business that any means are Justified
to win a series? Surely not!....The age o
sportsmanship is certainly not gone
from among us, but it is -timely to remind
ourselves that the true spirit of the game must
not be allowed to wither and atrophy. Though
“perish” would be better, the sentiments are
excellent.
India’s political troubles have no more in-
terested observers in these parts than the Board
of Control. The Indian team’s tour was listed
to begin at-Perth on October 17, and at the
moment there is uncertainty when it will begin
or whether there will be a tour at all. Mean-
while Sheffield Shield and first-class matches
are themselves uncertain as to dates.
• » » •
A great player passes:
Warwick Armstrong, dead at Sydney, aged
68, was, like George Giffen, M. A. Noble and
Harry Trott, a great all-round cricketer, Aus-
tralia’s answer to W. G. Grace, whom Warwick,
a schoolboy then, saw on his favorite Melbourne
C G , and on whom, as batsman and bowler, he
modelled his style. Both were big burly men,
in batting sound above all other things, and
bowling slow leg-breaks with a short trot to
the wicket; personalities withal.
Armstrong came into first-class cricket for
Victoria in 1899-1900, and for that State scored
22 centuries, among them 250 v. S. Aus. at
Melbourne in 1911. His Sheffield Shield figures
were 4993 runs, av. 49.93, and 177 wickets, av.
24.16, with the “double” of 157 n.o. and 245
v. S. Aus. at Melbourne in 1920-21 his best
performance with the willow. Armstrong got
his first Test game v. England at Melbourne
on Jan. 1-4, 1902 (4 and 45, both not out);
his most memorable innings was 158 at Syd-
ney, 1920-21. In 42 Tests (Syd. Gregory’s
52 is the only bigger tally) Armstrong scored
2172 runs, av. 35.03, and took 74 wickets, av.
30.91. He topped the “thousand” on each
of his Australian XI tours of England—loB7,
av. 26.51, in 1902, 2002, av. 48.82, in 1905,
1480, av. 43.52, in 1909 and 1405, av. 43.90,
in 1921. He was undefeated as Test captain,
winning five matches v. Douglas’s XI in Aus-
tralia in 1920-21 and three in England in 1921
(two were drawn). Against S’Africa in Tests
he made 691 runs, av. 57.58, and took 13
wickets, av. 48.84, with 159 not out at Johan-
nesburg in 1902 the star turn. Among his
batting achievements the heartiest were; 438
(in a little over six hours) for Melb. v. Melb.
Uni in 1903-04, 335 v. Southland at Welling-
ton (M.L.) in 1905-06, 303 not out v. Somerset
and 248 not out v. Gentlemen of England at
Lord’s —both in 1905. '
He was on the Melbourne Cricket Ground
staff for many years, and afterwards became
a whisky traveller for Peter Dawson, an old
friend. He covered the late tour of Hammond s
men for newspapers and was free-with criticism,
even suggesting that Bradman wasn’t a captain s
bootla.cc. The boys took, it well, realising that
in the failing man mountain there was no
malice or guile.
* * * *
Fighting for “the resident bantam-
weight championship,” the champion,
Francis, having been abroad more than
six months, Ken Hatcher stopped Billy
Williams, a lad from Queensland. Early in
the piece Williams floored Hatcher with
a right to the chin, but Hatcher bounced
up immediately and got busy with left
hooks. These blows—“many of ’em
were rabbit-killers,” Williams protested
afterwards —took their toll, and a left
and right had Williams down for “nine”
in the sixth. In the next round Hatcher
was cautioned for hitting Williams on
the hack of the neck, but Williams was
thrice knocked down for “nine” with
legitimate blows. He fell from exhaus-
tion, and referee Mawson pointed to
Hatcher, standing erect with a gratified
look on his mug.
# * * *
Alfie, one of the Sands brotherhood of
stoush,’outboxed and outslugged Johnny
Shaw at Melbourne Stadium. Both are
welters. A right to the jaw spreadeagled
Shaw a couple of seconds before the bell
signalled the end of the first round, and
he was down and out in the fourth. All
the Sands boys can punch.


bh to i aim
enaitaita
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. 3. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB,
Manager.
Avoid the Pitfalls
of Home-Made Wilis
A Husband Can Unwittingly Void
a Gift to His Wife
HATEVER your wishes you should have
them clearly expressed in your Will
drawn by a Solicitor. There are many pitfalls
for the inexperienced which can defeat their
wishes.
For example:—
By witnessing a Will a husband would auto-
matically void any gift thereunder to his wife
—thus a Testator should not permit a son-in-
law to witness his Will even though he be not
a beneficiary thereunder. By so doing he would
automatically void a gift to his (the son’s) wife.
Be guided by a Solicitor in the drawing of your
Will and consider carefully the choice of your
Executor upon whose trustworthiness and ability
your beneficiaries will be entirely dependent.
If you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor and Trustee you will
be ensuring that the terms of your Will shall be
faithfully carried out, and you will be ensuring
to your dependents a courteous and sympathetic
service.
Call or write for a copy of the Company’s
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It de-
scribes the Company’s service and the charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
THUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER, ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£06,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Kiverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Waggra.
Northern District Representative: F. T. 18. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building:, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth. /
Western District Representative: J. L. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3ACKSO* 4
OSUWIAAa
if. rnim, tJ
''lens V
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” WINDOW FACE
ENVELOPES
..“national” BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
“national” FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
“NATIONAL” WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Federal Budget Preview
The Federal Government clawed in an
extra £4O millions of revenue (£431
millions) for the year to end June last.
On the other side of the ledger there was
a net reduction of £76 millions in expen-
diture (£468 millions); and a deeper cut
might have been expected considering the
fighting ended nearly two years ago, and
that demobilisation entered upon its final
stages by mid-1946. The overall gap,
or deficit, was £ll6 millions less at £37
millions, which was met by borrowing
on the open market.
Here is a summary of approximate
revenue and expenditure figures for the
last two years:
+lnerease.
1945-46. 1946-47. -Dec’se.
Revenue: £m. £m. £m.
Taxation .. .. 351 374 +23
Other 40 57 + 17
Total 391 431 + 40
Expenditure:
Defence and post-
war* .. .. 378 232 -146
Civil 166 236 + 70
Total 544 468 - 76
Deficit met from
loans .... 153 37 -116
* Includes amounts chargeable to London
funds.
The reduction in the amount of last year’s
deficit should raise no false conceptions
of the value of Mr. Chifley’s stewardship.
With a swollen income from abroad, and
lively trade and “full” employment at
high and rising wage rates at home, Aus-
tralia has been and still is basking in the
sunshine of a temporary financial boom.
In these inflationary circumstances a
buoyant public revenue was inevitable,
and an abler and less extravagant Ad-
ministration than our own could reason-
ably be expected to show a surplus, and
to make more substantial all-round tax
reductions, including a cut in co. taxa-
tion, as Canada has done. Not only did
Australian taxation yield £26 millions
more than the Treasurer budgeted for last
year, but it was £23 millions in excess
of the previous year’s collections; this
despite chips taken off income and other
taxes amounting in all to £37 millions
for the year just ended.
Chief items showing increases in actual
revenue last year were Customs up £l7
millions, excise £7.3 millions, sales tax
£2,6 millions -and pay-roll tax £2.2 mil-
lions. Combined income tax and social-
service contribution (£207.7 millions) was
only £6.8 millions short of the 1945-46
figure, which would have 'been substan-
tially exceeded had all assessments for
1946-47 been made and collected by
June 30. It is now obvious that “Midas”
Chifley’s tax cuts for 1945-46 were totally
inadequate and belated, and there are
sound reasons for believing that the same
can be said of his so-called tax “con-
cessions” which came into operation as
from July 1.
The overall reduction of £76 millions
in last year’s expenditure is an illusory
“economy.” Certainly “defence and post-
war charges” (down £146 millions) in-
clude the well-deserved £25 millions gift
to Britain, und, of course, as defence ex-
penditure eased the outgo on rehabilita-
tion increased. With this The Bulletin
hak no quarrel, except that ex-servicemen
are not getting as much as they should
for the money spent. The saving
of £l4 millions on the estimate
under this heading claimed by the
Treasurer, and £ll millions besides, were
used in making the gift to Britain.
The ugly duckling of the expenditure
group is the growth of £7O millions on
civil account. As the large administra-
tive structure associated with raising and
maintaining the fighting forces was dis-
solved, another has sprung up to do the
“I left me whistle at home again!”
“planning” and deal with the avalanche
of official forms and requests that have
come to be associated with the initial
stages of a socialist State. The dis-
sipation of too much of our ydung
manhood on unessential, or unsuitable,
work is evidence of the Government’s un-
imaginative treatment of the crucial
manpower question, and that at the time
of a growing crisis of underproduction.
Another serious aspect of outgoings on
civil account is thetheavy and increasing
expenditure on social services, from the
national welfare fund. The amount was
£64.(5 millions last year, an increase of
£lB,l millions compared with the year
before, making total increase over the
last two years £34.6 millions. In this
field the Government has gone on non-
chalantly adding one to one instead of
measuring the limit of benefits by the
size of a given national income.
All along the Government evangelists
have been thinking in terms of an
economic approach determined by pre-
war conditions very different from those
of today. The assumption has been that
“depression” cannot occur because "un-
satisfied demands are so rast that it will
take years for industry toxatch up with
them. That implicitly assumes that only a
failure of demand to secure maximum
employment of the factors of production
could bring depression and a lower
standard of living. Today the failure is
on the supply side, but the result is de-
ficient production, just the same.
Comments by the National Bank of
Australasia in its latest Monthly Sum-
mary of Australian conditions indicate
the development of trade trends already
forecast in the “Wild Cat” columns.
These trends show that while ability to
supply was the chief factor in capturing
the early post-war market, quality and
price are now becoming the determining
factors in holding the market and
establishing goodwill. The bank says
that apart from seasonal changes the
volume of wholesale and retail trade is
now showing little variation from month
to month. The volume of business in
retail establishments is generally greatei
than a year ago. The expansion has
occurred, and is being maintained,
chiefly as a result of better supplies of
utility goods. However, the tendency to
become more discriminating, especially
of purchases of non-essentials, is gradu-
ally becoming more apparent as the year
advances, and is beginning to appear also
in the import and export trades. The
rising volume of imports is still largely
made up of commodities for which there
is a real need, and little difficulty is found
in clearing these goods even at prevailing
high prices. However, clearances of some
less essential imported lines have been
disappointing lately, and importers,
obliged to carry the goods, are becoming
wary in making future purchases. A
similar discrimination is also evident in
the export markets, where overseas
buyers, especially of manufactures and
processed lines, are placing greater
emphasis on quality and price, and
generally are asking for more rigid ad-
herence to contracts.
* * * *
Fijfcis enjoying more prosperous con-
ditions than it did a year ago. One cause
is the increased production and higher
market value of copra. Production for,
the 12 months of 1946 was about 28,000
tons as against an average of 24,000 tons
for the four preceding years. Price move-
ments since the beginning of 1946 have
been as follows:
F.M.S. Plantation.
Jan. 1, 1946 .... £lB 0 0 £l9 7 6
Jan. 28, 1946 .... 18 0 0 18 5 6
July 7, 1946 .... 23 5 0 23 10 6
Sept. 29, 1946 ■.. 26 3 6 26 9 0
Dec. 2, 1946 .... 25 15 0 26 0 6
Jan. 5, 1947 .... 29 10 0 29 15 6
Costs have advanced, too, but at no-
thing like the same rate as prices. There
are no private exporters of copra in Fiji
today. The Government, acting for the
U.K. Government, buys copra brought
into shipping ports at prices fixed by the
British authorities. For this purpose the
Fiji Government employs business firms
who, in former years, were engaged in
the copra trade on their own account.
Those well qualified to judge think that
prices will hold around present levels
throughout the current year, with the
possibility of a further slight increase.
* ♦ * *
Reorganisation of Whakatane Paper
Mills, Ltd., with Maoriland and Aus-
tralian shareholders and directors, has
come to a head in plans to separate the
“active” from the “inactive” assets. A
new co., Whakatane Board Mills, Ltd.,
with a capital of £1,750,000, is to take
oyer and operate the active assets, Share-
holders of the parent will receive shares in
the new co. in proportion to their present
holdings. The new co. will take over
the business of manufacturing and trading
in woodpulp and cardboard established
at Whakatane, on the East Coast of the
North Island, and develop new products.
Whakatane Paper Mills is registered in
Sydney, with a board of 10 directors, of
whom four are in Australia. Paid capital
is £2,057,064 in 138,537 prefs. and
1,918,527 ords. A year ago the co.’s
forests had a balance-sheet value of
£1,148,606, and the pulp and paper mill
£411,322. Part of the plantation area is
included in active assets under the par-
tition. Demand for milled products in
recent years has exceeded production,
which has ranged from 11,000 to 14,000
tons annually. Heavy taxation has been
a big drag on earnings, net profit for
year to June 30, 1946, being £12,339.
The market responded to the latest moves
by lifting the price of the shares. Pros-
pects of easing the deadweight of prefer-
ence dividend arrears, shown last year
as “not exceeding £100,000,” have a
bearing on investors’ hopes.
* * * *
According to M. S. Foley, of Foley
Brothers (London), Ltd., butter and
cheese from the Dominions are costing
Britain 36 p.c. and 43 p.c. less respec-
tively than supplies from foreign sources.
The position is approximately as fol-
lows :
Butter. Cheese.
Empire. Foreign. Empire. Foreign.
Tons .. .. 150,000 50,000 150,000 50,000
Cost, cwt. 175/- 275/- 100/- 175/-
Domestic
trade .. 114/9 114/9 66/7 66/7
Together the two commodities are cost-
ing the British Treasury about £32 mil-
lions a year in subsidies. Domestic retail
price of butter in Britain is Is. 4d. a
pound as against an average cost of
about 25., while cheese sells at lOd. a
pound as against an average cost of Is.
sd. From the beginning of October
next retailers in Britain will again be
able to sell butter marked as to country
of origin and description of quality, such
as “Australian choicest.” The whole
position is a plain call to Australia to
seize the opportunity open to her by
stepping up total production of butter.
The average, was about 12,200 tons a
month for the first quarter of 1947* as
against a monthly average of 16,200 tons
for 1938-39. Net grading figures for the
11 months to end May last —approxi-
mately the quantity available for export
—was 57,727 tons, or nearly 4000 tons
less than for the corresponding period of
1945-46. The contraction was due mainly
to adverse seasonal conditions in N. S.
Wales and Queensland.
* * * ♦
The Maoriland Government has offered
Westport Coal Co. (B. 18/6/’47) £2 for
its 10s. shares, which makes the total
price £900,000. For buyers who secured
shares for 7s. to 9s. below £2 in the
past year, there’s a nice profit.


• BREN GUN CARRIERS
Running order. Price £lOO with Battery f.o.r. Albury.
Full range of spare parts. Kerosene vapouriser specially
designed for Bren Carriers and Ford V 8 Motors. Price
of vapouriser £2l-r-fitting extra.
• CADILLAC 39 H.P. PETROL MOTORS (as new)
Suitable for cars, trucks and auxiliary power. Complete
with all accessories but gearbox. £125 crated f.o.r. Albury.
• GENERAL STUART AND LEE TANKS
Petrol engines, suitable emergency tractor work, scrub
• clearing, timber haulage, etc. Prices on application.
• FORD TRUCK TYPE GEAR BOXES £6/10/- each
• FORD DIFFERENTIALS
Complete with axles. Suit 1938 to 1942 models.
£lO each f.o.r. Albury.
• "HOMELITE" LIGHTING SETS—3Ov., ISOOw.
The famous Homelite Set is the answer to all light and
power troubles in your country home. Easily portable
and completely dependable. Price £24/10/-, including
Voltage Regulator, f.o.r. Albury.
• VOLTAGE REGULATORS
12-volt and 30-volt Regulators suitable for Home Lighting
Sets. Ensures longer life of your Set and a completely
automatic control of output. Price £4/10/- f.o.r. Aljbury.
• CHASSIS FRAMES
Suit all types of Chevrolet 6 Cars, Utilities and Trucks
1940-42; also to suit Dodge, Fargo and Ford Trucks.
• ALSO Amp. meters, volt meters, portable telephones, radiators,
batteries to suit cars, trucks and home-lighting sets; also
many other items.
Write for our catalogue
BAKER MOTORS
478 OLIVE STREET. ALBURY
TELEPHONE 629
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS
Returns of land held at midnight on the 80th June, 1947, are required to be lodged by:—
(a) Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have altered in any way
since the 30th June, 1946. Returns showing such alterations should be furnished on Form OR
by the 81st July, 1947.
(b) Persons resident in the Commonwealth who held land of an unimproved value of £4OOO or upwards
and absentees when the unimproved value is One Pound or over who have not previously lodged
returns. Such persons should lodge full returns on Form A by the Slst August, 1947.
Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have not altered in
any way since 30th June, 1946, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO LODGE RETURNS. Where land is held in
more than one State and returns are necessary, the returns should be forwarded to the Deputy Federal
Commissioner of Taxation, Box 7690, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Forms of return and full information may be obtained at the Principal Post Offices or at
Federal Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Savings Bank Building, 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Postal
Address: Box 4046-W, G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment, 10 p.c. additional tax —minimum £l.
Penalty for failure tv lodge returns, £lOO.
N. GERRANS, Deputy Commissioner of Land Tax.
THE A.C.A.
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.
★
ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
THE A.C.A. for SECURITY
A.C.A. POLICIES are GOOD POLICIES
★
A.C.A. COMPANY LIMITED
A.C.A. BUILDING
66 King Street, Sydney
Call, Write or Ring, Telephone 8X2165.
BRANCH OFFICES IN ALL STATES.
D. J. MOONEY,
Managing Director.
Our Overseas Trade Boom
For the 11 months to end May last
Australia’s merchandise export cheque
was £A107.59 millions bigger than for
the corresponding period of the previous
year. Imports were only £A28.71 mil-
lions heavier. After allowing for move-
ments in specie, etc., there was a fat
surplus of exports over imports of £A7I
millions (up £A52.83 millions). Here is
the broad overall picture in Australian
currency:
11 months end May
-> Increase +
1946. 1947. Decrease
Exports: £A,OOO. £A,OOO. £A,OOO.
Merchandise. 172,856 280,451 +107,595
Specie, etc. . 26,861 118 26,743
Total .. 199,717 280,569 + 80,852
Imports:
Merchandise. 179,846 208,556 + 28,710
Specie .. 1,696 1,004 692
Total .. 181,542 209,560 + 28,018
Excess Exports 18,175 71,009 + 52,834
In terms of British currency the export
surplus was worth approximately £556.7
(up £542.2) millions. The big leap in
export figures was due mainly to higher
prices and only partly to increased quan-
tities. We sold more wool, meat (except
bacon, ham and pork), metals (except
zinc), fresh citrus and preserved fruits,
jams, cheese, wine, wheat and flour. Prin-
cipal commodities shipped in smaller
quantities were butter, bacon, ham, pork,
sugar, fresh apples, skins, tallow and
zinc. The only important item for which
higher average prices were not received
was wheat; and for this the farmer can
blame a socialist Government, which
stepped in and bought his crop at a price
far below world parity.
Our best customer was U.K. and the
rest of the Empire, which together took
about 54 p.c. of our total exports. Next
came U.S., taking 16.4 p.c. It was the
biggest buyer of wool, followed by U.K.,
France, Belgium and Italy. We sold a
lot of wheat and flour to countries of
s.-e. Asia from India round to China,
and also to Maoriland at the socialistic
price of ss. 9d. a bushel, or about one-
third world parity at time of sale.
Of total imports over 64 p.c. came
from Empire countries, chiefly Britain,
and 18.7 p.c. from U.S. Largest item
on the list was textiles (mainly silk and
cotton goods and carpets and linoleums),
followed by metals and manufactures
(chiefly motor-vehicle chassis and parts
and tinplate), and then petroleum
lubricants, motive-power and other
machinery.
The rise in the value of exports has
given the national income a nice lift,
strengthened trading-bank deposits and
broadened the credit superstructure. Un-
fortunately that doesn’t mean all that it
might, owing to rising costs and labor
troubles. Unless traders can see means
of profitably employing credit full use
will not be made of it. The bigger im-
ports and buoyant trade generally have
bumped up Government receipts from
Customs and excise duties and sales tax.
What needs to be remembered is that the
high prices for exports arise out of
present conditions of scarcity. When
these conditions are removed, a drop in
export prices can be expected. Increased
prices for manufactures, however, al-
though influenced by costlier materials,
spring mainly from higher wage and
other basic costs, from which little relief
can be anticipated.
v First balance-sheet and p. and I. state-
ment of the World Bank shows a deficit
of $680,177 for the nine months to end
March last, being the amount by which
exes, exceeded income for the period.
Assets included U.S. certificates of in-
debtedness and accrued interest totalling
approximately $148,000,000. Interest
received from investments was $598,000,
making gross exes. $1,278,000, principally
for salaries, income tax on salaries and
travel. The bank baked its first loaf
a couple of months ago—an initial loan
of $250,000,000 to France, which had
asked for $500,000,000 to tide it over
financial difficulties, arising partly out of
its socialist programme, in 1947. The
term of the loan is 30 years, with no
period of grace for amortisation. The
rate of interest is expected to be,4| p.c.
It is understood there is no gold clause in
the French loan, but that there is a
dollar clause protecting the bank against
depreciation of the French franc, or any
other currency. Overall lending by the
bank is expected to be limited to a billion
dollars a year, which it estimates can be
raised by borrowing in U.S. There is a
long queue of applicants, including
Mexico, Chile and Peru, which are re-
nowned for the manner of their default
in service of international loans in the
past.
* * ♦ *
Another hotel —the Crown, at Kingston
(S.A.) —has been added to the Ansett
tourist chain. Eleven hotels are now
fully operated by the co., whilst lease
are held in N. S. Wales for about six
others which will be transferred to new
sites. Of those actually operating, fou
are in Victoria, two each in N. S. Wale
and Tasmania, one each in S. Australia
and Canberra. Just added to the Anset
family of subsidiaries is Transport
Acceptance Corporation, Ltd., registerec
in Melbourne with nominal capital of
£lOO,OOO. It will shortly convert to
proprietary co. and will finance the sale
of vehicles manufactured by Ansair Pty.
Ltd. The latter has turned out 140 pas-
senger coaches in its two years’ existence
—more than half are being used on
Pioneer tours —and has plans for con-
siderable expansion. It has linked up
with “a leading American bus manu-
facturing c 0.,” to keep abreast of overseas
production technique. Possibly con-
nected with these negotiations was the
appointment of an American, T. F. Ryan,
of San Francisco, to Ansett’s board last
month. Mr. Ryan was an original
director in the Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
of U.S.A., is on the board of several
other American cos., and visited Australia
during the war as an officer of the U.S.
Army. Ansett’s shares are still rising
steadily on ’Change, latest price being
265. sd.
* ♦ * *
Price rises in Maoriland haven’t run
their full course yet. Since the sugar
subsidy of £22 a ton to manufacturers
was abolished in mid-April, the extra cost
of sugar has filtered through to con-
sumers in dearer cakes, confectionery,
chocolates, cordials, jams, biscuits and
other lines. M.L.’s Government, scared
of the effect a 2Q p.c. rise in woollen
clothing would have on the public, and
particularly on workers, got over this
lately by adding another plaster to the
subsidy bill, already over £13,000,000
annually. But there’s a shock ahead for
Maorilanders when clothing materials
bought from Belgium, France, Czecho-
slovakia and Italy at fancy prices, and
subject to ceiling tariff rates, begin to
arrive towards the end of the year.
Traders figure out that these foreign
materials will cost from 75 p.c, to double
as much as British landed jn Maoriland,
which means a hefty added burden for
sales tax, too. But manufacturers scratch
ing for materials to keep staffs engaged
and machines moving say the materials
must be bought, whatever the price.


ABORIGINALITIES
“H.G.”: At the back of B.P.’s store
the boys off the lugger were holding a
corroboree. From a drum improvised
from an old kerosene-tin the accompanist
extracted quite a semblance of rhythm for
a variation of complicated and not un "
musical chants. In the firelight, with a
stick for a spear, his black body and
crimson sarong weaving fantastic patterns,
was Nebik, scratching the ground and
stamping his feet in a dance that his
cannibal forefathers did long ago. The
girl from the South, while a little fright-
ened, thought it all very primitive and
savage. It was real South Seas atmos-
phere, I met Nebik up town the next
day and asked him when he was sailing.
His reply would have shattered the illu-
sions of my southern tourist and gladdened
the heart of Eddie Ward. “I’ve given it
away,” he said disgustedly. “Those
bloody myalls make me sick—they’re
down on the lugger livin’ on wheatbix
and weak coffee, and if you try to talk
to them about conditions the mugs think
you mean another tin of camp pie.” He
shook his fuzzy head sadly. “No educa-
tion,” he said.
age *jt $ aft
“X.E.D.”: The mob of prize Border
Leicester rams drifted, feeding, to the
dam. Two of their number, having
some past or imagined difference to settle,
squared off about a chain apart and
charged. Their foreheads met with a
resounding wallop, but honor wasn’t
satisfied. Back they went to 50 yards or
so apart, one going to the top of the
dam hill. Then they turned, regarded
each other for a second, then flat out they
charged. They bounced several feet apart
from the impact, appeared mutually satis-
fied with the cast-iron properties of their
skulls and wandered back unconcernedly
to resume feeding. Any bull or goat
would have been knocked silly in that,
contest.
“Gryllus”: “Tub’s” exciting yarn (B.
25/6/’47) about “the frogmouth owl that
ghosted the ‘bunyip’s’ call” and then
stuck its talons into poor Charlie’s dial
is stonkered by the fact that no such bird
exists. The tawny frogmouth {Podargus
strigoides ) is only about 18in. overall,
the boobook owl (Ninox boobook) a
couple of inches shorter, and neither of
them is fitted for assuming “monstrous
shape.” “Eerie hollow booming” is
wholly beyond the vocal powers of either,
the frogmouth’s sole performance being
a muffled semi-whisper of “Oom-oom,”
and the mopoke’s call is known to every
bush kid. The only owl big enough to
give anything like the “firm embrace”
that landed Charlie in the blackberry
patch would be the powerful owl (Ninox
strenua), but its voice is a blood-curdling
screech, and one wipe of its talons would
have taken poor Charlie’s features to bits.
My tip is that the real cause of that
wayfarer’s adventure was a jimjam
(Fantodsia deeteei ), formerly common in
the neighborhood of bush pubs but
becoming rarer since Artie Fadden
shoved the extra tax on Queensland rum.
“Airlie”: I was attracted by a sound
suggesting a hive of bees, but with some
indefinable difference. Because of its
airy and slightly ventriloquial quality,
the curious humming was hard to locate,
but eventually 1 traced it to a ragged
gum—and there, to my astonishment, was
a sedate-looking frogmouth, or podargus.
It was the first time I had ever heard
this queer, lizard-like roamer of the
night call in daylight, and the first time,
too, that I had ever heard from one of the
clan anything but the “Wok-wuk” call
that has sometimes caused it to be known
as the mopoke.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Short of a few bob, we
took a job with a Campaspe dairy-cocky
who’d injured his leg and needed a couple
of men for a fortnight or so. He couldn’t
keep his eyes off the big bloke, for Mat
was pretty to watch when he put his
heart into anything and could handle
stock like a trained nurse. On the second
Sunday we were sitting on the verandah
before getting the cows in when the boss
pointed and said, “See them paddocks
over there. Two hundred acres of great
stuff. If I had a good man on the shares
we could lease it and run another fifty
cows. Look here, Mat, why don’t you
give it a go?” Mat was startled. “Who,
me?” he demanded. “Gripes, what
y’ the idea I’d take on dairyin’ as a habit?
“You'll have to empty it out again—I lost count!”
Not me, boss, why I’d sooner —sooner”
he paused for a suitable alternative,
then he found it “ I’d sooner go an’
get married!” he snorted.
* * * *
“E.A.J.”: The din was terrific. Outside
everything was in turmoil; branches of
trees, palm leaves, fragments of loose tin
and ant-eaten wood were lifted and
whirled away. The horses had long ago
kicked the stalls down and gone racing
blindly into the scrub. Birds were lifted
up only to be sent hurtling to the ground.
John was making his way along the
fence towards the house, a fox terrier
pup in his arms shivering, its head
tucked under a coat-sleeve. He was
within a few yards of the door when the
wind suddenly changed and made him
stagger, sending the dog to the ground.
In blind fear the pup went racing round
the building, dodging all efforts to catch
him in the momentary lull before the
rain started lashing down. Thinking the
dog would take shelter under the house,
we went inside. After the lOin. of rain
which fell in the next three-quarters of
an hour, we found the pup, his head and
half his body covered in mud. Blinded
by rain and in mad fear, some ratting
instinct of his forebears had made him
dig.
* * * ♦
“Green Hills”: The autumnal butterfly
season found two small Australians
arraigned before their paternal prosecu-
tor, jury. Judge and turnkey, charged with
destruction of native fauna ; to wit, inas-
much as they did, by striking with gum
boughs, squeezing with fingers and im-
paling on pins destroy numbers of the
insect order Lepidoptefa. The defence
urged in apprehensive unison that “but-
terflies laid eggs on cabbages an’ things,
and only lived for a day, anyway.” The
prosecutor brought under the notice of
the Court that of the 332 species of
butterflies in Australia fewer than half a
dozen are destructive to cultivated plants.
Also that it took a butterfly considerably
longer than 12 hours, since butterflies
never fly at night, to discard its chrysalis
mummy wrappings, dry damp wings, de-
velop strength to fly, sip sustaining fluids
(butterflies have no mouths for solids),
attract a mate, select a bush and lay its
eggs. The jury found for guilt; and the
Judge fined each offender as much pocket
money as would acquire a net, a killing
bottle, mounting board and ant-proof
boxes, and also ordered that captures be
limited to two of each species of butter-
fly. The turnkey, indirectly, met the
fines.
* * * *
“Cee Gee”: Some facts relating to a
recent discussion. At noon, June 23, on
the 17th parallel, south latitude, a post 6ft.
4in. in height threw a shadow of sft.
6in. in length directly south. At noon
on December 14 last the same post threw
a shadow 12in. in length directly north.
It may have no significance, but it will
be noticed that the distance between the
extreme points reached by the shadows
is approximately equal to the height of
the post.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Can any
member of the Council tell me from
recent personal experience whether the
quaint local dialect of 40-odd years ago,
“Norfolk” as it was called, still survives
unspoiled in Norfolk Island? Is “snell
sullun” still the equivalent of mean
bloke? Or a “breman cow” the correct
local synonym for an unusually thin one?
Is one’s sweetheart still “ma fish,” and
an invitation to a swim “go hawe”?
“Wah-a-wah-ha” as the equivalent of
disgusting is obviously a Tahitian implan-
tation, via Pitcairn philological ancestry,
but how can “You maka me big Jack”
be connected with an intention to weep?
Particularly as a weeping person is “myo
sullun,” again a fairly plain Tahitian in-
heritance from Bligh-Christian days. But
“sem-is-ways” for very good has always
had me beaten to the ropes.
» » ♦ •
“Bray Rock”: “Salmon Gums’s” ques-
tion, “How many Australians have seen
a mutton-bird alive?” (B. 25/6/’47), will
get a “Yes” answer from thousands who
visited eastern beaches or fishing grounds
during the southward migration season
of some five years ago. For several
weeks countless numbers of short-tailed
shearwaters, polite name for the Aus-
tralian mutton-bird, were to be seen
drifting helplessly or washed ashore dead,
all empty of food and very thin. The
evident reason was some migration failure
in the supplies of small fish on which
they feed. They are not seen between
nesting seasons because they migrate after
March, mostly to the Okhotsk and
Bering Seas, and are identical with the
whale bird of Alaska. The New
Zealand mutton-bird is the sooty shear-
water, a ’rather larger species which
breeds also in southern South America
after migrating from Arctic latitudes.
« * * *
“Wippegong”: When Cook put into a
spacious bay to fill his water barrels he
saw fit to name the place Stingray
Harbor. Banks was ashore collecting,
and the specimens he gathered were so
many and diverse that he deferred classi-
fication until again at sea; thus it was
some time after they had left the locality
that the scientist persuaded the navi-
gator to alter the name to Botany Bay.
Banks called one of the new-found
families after himself, and on the sand-
hills where he walked the banksias are
blooming now; B. serrata, the big fellow
with the large, pale-green flower-cones
and the saw-edged, leaves, is passing its
prime, but B. ericifolia is in the full
flush. The long gold and copper spikes
sparkle where the low sun strikes the
nectar drops at the core, and the hum
of bees, the clamor of yellow-winged
honeyeaters tell what the abo. knew long
ago—he used to soak the* flowers in water
to make a drink. Despite settlement,
and because of the great tenacity of
native plants, most of Banks’s discoveries
still grow where he found them. If he
could return he’d still see banksias and
grevilleas, bottlebrushes and flannel
flowers, heaths, whitebeards, “five-
corners,” cycads, ti-trees, woody pears
and the rest of his treasures, though the
hand of the vandal is heavy in this land.
He would doubtless grieve at the presence
of blackberry, lantana and castor-oil
plants; but maybe the English skylarks
overhead would console him.
“L6x”: If “M.U.R.” (B. 25/6/’47)
wants to see a heart which will pulsate for
hours, not merely minutes, after removal
from a freshly-killed body, I commend
him to the turtle. I recall ah evening
“at home” given by the medical students
at Melbourne University in Professor
Allen’s day. Before the guests arrived
some students had affixed the heart of a
freshly-killed turtle in an arrangement of
bent glass tubes to demonstrate the cir-
culation of the blood. When I left at
midnight the heart was still vigorously
driving a red fluid through the apparatus.
* ♦ * *
“Hatchlands”: Two enterprising
blokes, sickened by successive droughts
and alarmed over N.S.W.’s diminishing
forests, are shifting about 20,000,000 bees
from Balranald to Kalgoorlie by road
and rail. Investigations in W.A. having
revealed good prospects generally, they
set to and built a fleet of large caravans
complete with all mod. cons, down to
elpctric power-plants and an elaborate
laundry set-up. With their families and
employees—23 strong —the expedition
has arrived by rail at sleepy little Port
Germein (S.A.) with a fleet of caravans,
trucks and cars. There they will stay
several weeks while some of the party
return to Balranald for the 2000 hives.
Three trips will be needed to move them.
On their arrival at Port Germein they
will be railed to Kalgoorlie, where de-
livery will be taken by some of the party
who are to travel overland by road. A
65-year-old woman is the oldest cara-
vanner, and the youngest is 12 months.
* * * *
“G’roper”: “Salmon Gums’s” yarn
about the ex-housebreaker taking care of
the schoolteacher’s home (B. 18/6/ ’47)
offers no perplexities to one who knows
the kind of home the average W.A.
countiY schoolie has to live in, or the
amount of purloinable property such ser-
vants of the State would be likely to
possess. It wouldn’t be fear of robbery
that caused his schoolie to hesitate about
leaving the State’s tenement while on
vacation ; the fear that some dosser might
set the place on fire. Any really kind-
hearted burglar rather would leave a
donation behind when quitting such
premises.
* * * ♦
“Tub”: Judd, having made sundry
passes at the blackberries in the last hour,
leans on the slasher with relief as he sees
his friend and kindred spirit the rabbiter
approaches. “G’day,” they greet each
other; then the rabbiter pretends to
notice signs of Judd’s toil. “Cuttin’
’berries?” he inquires. Judd looks around
for evidence before agreeing. He digs out
his tobacco and backs over to the log,
where they get comfortably seated and
smoking. Five minutes pass in silence,
a good omen for a lengthy yarn. Judd
chooses his subject carefully, one that will
last. “Many rabbits this year?” he asks.
It takes half an hour to complete the
casual census of bunnies, whereupon the
rabbiter returns the compliment by in-
quiring of blackberries and being fully
informed of theoretical methods of eradi-
cation, The talk drifts on to work, the
purely abstract view of its many and
varied forms and shortcomings. Both
plump for farming. “It ain’t a bad life,
taken all through,” says the rabbiter.
“Long hours an’ plenty o’ work, o’ course,
but y’re y’r own boss.” “Yairs, it’s got
its points,” Judd agrees. “Particularly
bein’ y’r own boss.” He is interrupted
by a yell from the farmhouse and ex-
cuses himself, for it is the call to dinner.
Martha meets Judd at the door, a grim
look in her eyes. “Y’re lucky to be gettin’
any dinner at all, after loafin’ with that
rabbiter all the mornin’,” she grumbles.
“Now, y’ll have to work hard till dark
to get those blackberries finished. An’
t’morrer y’d better get me a load of
wood an’ fix that dividin’ fence, as well as
diggin’ the rest of the spuds. Beats me
how you men think y’ can dawdle about
—it’d serve y’ right if y’ had to go workin’
f’r a boss! ”
SAILING SISTERS
Trafalgar was not written when little wind-
ships, made
Of eucalypt or teak wood, left Sydney town
to trade
With sugar out of Java or coals for Table Bay
Or south for oil and sealskins; they wandered
on their way.
The Cumberland and Charlotte, the Hope and
Mary Ann,
With all their sailing sisters as settlement began
Brought pine from Norfolk Island and maize
from Hawkesbury:
The Register bears witness that cruel is the sea.
<
They were not tall and speedy, those sloops
and brigantines;
They boasted no t’gallants and set no “Jimmie
Greens”;
Hard henchmen manned and sailed them, and
harder masters scored
On errant backs their meaning when there
was doubt aboard.
They fared on coarse provision—salt pork and
hominy—
A meed of black tobacco their only boon at
sea.
Ashore, mean wages brought them what short
delight might come
From draughts of fiery arrack or burning stoups
of rum.
Salute the narrow schooners, the shallow sloops
and brigs
That made a leg from Bradley’s to dodge the
Sow and Pigs!
They’ve sailed across the sealine; the bleached,
unhonored bones
Of all their crews and captains long rest with
Davy Jones.
The four winds blow for ever, the tides still
ebb and flow,
But through the quiet headlands no more will
come and go
Those little Sailing Sisters. They had their
work to do
Who served and fed an outpost when settlement
was new.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Zake”; Mark Twain pointed out that
the U.S.A. had the world’s biggest rivers,
trees, waterfalls, buildings, debts and
disasters. He never made claim, so far as
I know, to American trees having the
longest roots. The championship, I had
always heard, went to a vegetable living
above the Yallingup Caves, near Bussel-
ton (W.A.), which pushed a root down
90ft. to a cave roof and 14ft. below to
the floor. A claim during an irrigation
inquiry in the U.S.A. that roots of alfalfa
(lucerne) had penetrated through crevices
of a tunnel 120 ft. below the field would
make the shade of Mark lift his hat in
solemn respect. Now, can’t some of our
rich river-flat lucerne beat that?
* * , * •
“Esk D.”: George, finally convinced
that Alluvial Creek was worked out,
shifted to the Quartpot to try his luck
there. He spent a month building a hut,
and was settlfed in comfortably when I
rode that way. The site he’d chosen was
at the foot of a very steep spur, and I
drew his attention to the danger of stones
rolling down on him. “Well, I s’pose
they could” the old chap said. “But it
ain’t the obvious things that cause hacci-
dents in the bush; it’s the unexpected.”
One night a tree fell on the slopes
above, uprooting a large granite boulder
which tore down the spur. As it gained
pace it bounded in great leaps off the
ground, ricocheted off a tree, raced at
the hut and crashed through. Fortunately
its path was to the side of the bunk, and
George scrambled out of the wreckage
with no serious injury. “Well, that’s one
case f’r the obvious, George,” I remarked
when I heard of the incident. “No, I
wouldn’t say that,” George said thought-
fully. “Y’ see, it turned out reel un-
expected because of it lookin’ so obvious.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Our road gang, working
well away from town, suffered one of
those periodic outbreaks of ebullience
which afflict schoolboys, hospital nurses,
ships’ crews, armies and other aggrega-
tions of humans thrown together. Hence
old Roach, a fussy old beetle who always
brought his crib carefully packed in
grease-proof paper and in a tin box, hit
the roof when he opened it up and found
three stones, the shinbone of a long de-
funct wether and what was once a lady’s
shoe instead of the tucker he’d packed
that morning. He at once accused Kelly,
“Not bad —but can y juggle him ?”
the jester of the gang. Kelly hotly denied
it. Roach set off down the road to com-
plain to the ganger. When he returned
with the trump his crib-box was perched
high in a gum-tree. He accused Kelly
again. “He’s dingbats,” said Kelly to the
trump. “He always puts it in trees to
keep it clear of dust and ants. The old
goat put it there himself.” “He says y'
pinched his tucker and stuck rubbish in
its place,” countered the ganger. “I tell
y° u be’s dingbats,” aserted Kelly. Even-
tually the crib-box was brought down
an d opened. It contained sandwiches.
R oac h’s eyes popped. There yOU
are,” howled Kelly, “I/old. you he was
dingbats. He s a secret drinker , come
here half-stung and imagines things
“here he saw a stump and jumped on it.
T’m nnW on strike till the old galoot
im going on miik.c un ui& &
goes down on his knees and apologises.
Who’s with me?” The mob, who knew
R e n v roared approval. “Like hell I will,
snorted Roach, now convinced that he
was the victim of a plot. “Like hell you
will,” echoed the trump, “because it y
don’t vou’re out o’ work. Drinkin’ at
aont you re out u
night an comm here halt-sjot anisicem
stones an bones! And old Koacn, tec-
totaller and tidy man, had to yield, A
week later Kelly half-killed a callous
youth who put a dead Jew lizard in the
old bloke’s tuckerbox. # *
“Laetitia”: Imaginative novelists not-
wjt j is t an ding' official vital statistics show
tbe presen t_ day full-blood population of
the j orres strait islands to be about
£ our times wbat it was before first
European or Asiatic contact. The in-
crease . g owin tQ curta ilment of canni-
baljsm and inter . island W ars. But phy-
stature has waned i n inverse ratio to
thg waxing of num bers, this deterioration
b also attributab j e to “controls.” The
victorious part ie S did not eat all the
lations of conquered islands. Spoils
war inc i uded a i so marriageable
maidens With the proscription of canni-
balistic raids, this source of valuable
inevitable The voune buck
“ £ b^ i “* hi ‘ poor physique attests
luinity.
rejecting the offer of a lift
the 9 . ; , u- d for
of tolm m the township and tor
a fortnight before it tad never stopped
raining, but for two or three days the
weather had I p. , in Aaddnclrs in
across.someofthelow-lym*; paddocks in
hts hefuddled stat e Wacka stepped straighi
into a glue-pot bog almost.up tota®
Pds. He struggled to free himself, but
most viscous mud in the country held
him like a vyce His cr es for help were
at last answered by a station hand who
luckily happened to be out after a stray-
ing horse. He brought s_ome mates and
together they succeeded, after much
digging and pulling, in getting Wacka
free. “This ought to teach y a lesson
on the evils o’ drink,” said Tim the
rouseabout in mock seriousness. Wacka
turned a red-rimmed eye on Tim. “I’d
have bin able t’ git out meself right
enough,” he said, “if I’d on’y learned t’
swim!”
* * * * ,
“B. A. Ker : The girl friend s cat had
followed me home and was silly
enough to be sitting on a fence in
pouring rain. Deciding to return the am-
mal next day, I took him under my arm,
straddled the old bike and started off
downhill. We had gained a fair turn of
speed when Tiddums suddenly came
to life. Every claw in his hind legs
ripped into my thigh; his front legs
scratched madly at my hand and his
teeth touched the flesh through my coat-
sleeve. Steering with one hand, endeavor-
ing to select a track between the loose
gravel and the wheelrut, put the hand-
brake on, balance the grid, remain on a
saddle that had taken a tilt heavenwards
and keep my head lowered so that my
hat would stay on, I strove to save myself
from being ripped to pieces while keep-
ing hold on the twisting cat. No good;
an extra twist and he was free.
The next second fur. was literally flying—
from Tiddums’s hind leg as every re-
volving spoke in the front wheel hacked
a piece of fur out. Expecting to find
the leg broken, I managed to get the
brake on, stopped and turned the wheel
“And anything you say will be used in evidence against you.”
back. Immediately the fummy bolted
for the scrub. After climbing a tree,
muffling him in my coat and enduring
his vicious partial escapes over a
torturous mile I finally delivered the
spitting fury to his owner. Yet the wife
still denies that I was an attentive suitor!
* * * *
“Naturala”: The processional hairy
caterpillar being so well protected
against being eaten (B. 28/ 5/ ’47), one
might expect the species to survive and
multiply into vast numbers ; yet the pro-
cessions are a comparatively rare spec-
tacle of the bush. The explanation is
that the moth into which these hirsute
grubs develop is the weak link in the
chain, falling an easy prey to night birds,
and also to big night-prowling spiders.
Walking the bush around the W.A. gold-
fields early in the day I used to come
across dozens of moth corpses sucked
dry, the residue of a night’s feasting on
the part of some of the biggest spiders
to be found in Australia. So to counter-
balance this destruction of potential
breeders Nature endowed the larva with
special defensive armor. Other cater-
pillars were not so lucky. Over much of
the same bush during the spring one
would find myriads of brown velvety
caterpillars. But on these the scrub
turkeys would gorge to repletion. Another
curious feature of these caterpillars, pro-
cessional and otherwise; was that they
were all slowly moving to the east. Often
tried to turn a procession around, but
nothing could alter the fixed determina-
tion of making towards the rising sun.
* * * *
“Edjudina”; “Horseface’s” yarn about
the police party being decoyed into
Simpson’s Desert (B. 18/6/’47) and there
left to perish by blacks, who themselves
at night left the camp to fill up with
water, reminds me of a prospector’s trick
we practised well out in the Great Vic-
toria Desert. Our water was low, and,
although the friendly old buck who had
been hanging around the camp picking
up scraps assured us there was no more
within the whole arc of the horizon, Long
Ned reckoned that he was only putting
one over. Opening a tin of corned beef,
Ned dumped the contents into a billy,
added a big handful of salt and boiled it
into a stew, which he finally offered to
old Mickey. Mickey finished by licking
out the billy. It was a hard thing to do,
but that night Ned lay down with his
wrist chained and padlocked to that of
Mickey’s. By morning Mickey was
properly thirsty. “Yabby?” he kept en-
treating, though it was our yabby he
wanted. By mid-afternoon he was
dry enough to start out for some of his
own —not above three miles away, in a
hidden hollow under a breakaway.
* * * *
“Aspeddidly”: The blowfly isn’t the
bane only of the grazier and the house-
wife. Attracted by the smell of wet
wood pulp in our Tassie newsprint mill
the “blowies” come for miles. Once
inside the paper-machine room, where
the temperature ranges from 80 to 115
degrees F. and humidity is always high,
they become dizzy and drop, usually
on to the paper-machine. This
machine turns a thin mixture of pulp and
water into a continuous sheet of news-
print 13|ft. wide at a rate of 1150 ft
per minute, and when the blowfly’s com-
paratively large bulk falls on the wet
sheet and is swept between the finely
adjusted rollers, even if the resultant jerk
fails to tear the sheet the squashed fly
causes it to stick to the rollers. By tne
time the torn paper has been cleared
from the 80yd.-long machine and the
new sheet brought through, two to eight
minutes’ production has been lost. Dur-
ing one 8-hour shift there were 22 con-
secutive blowfly breaks, causing the loss
of \\ hours’ production, which means
about six tons of newsprint worth at the
time about £3B per ton. That works out
at £lO 7s. per fly.
* * * *
“Myrrhee”: Apropos of that swim-
ming-hole at the junction of the Ovens,
and King Rivers (Vic.) being ruined by
meddlers removing an old log from across
the mouth of the King, two years ago,
the King for the first time in half
a century was exhibiting a perfectly dry
bed. Attracted by a lovely group of
Eucalyptus rostrata gracing the junction
of the two streams, I walked along the
dry bed of the King to the spot where on
normal occasions the two rivers meet.
There I found a busy group of garden-
soil contractors removing drayloads of
fertile river loam, in the course of their
exertions deeply undermining the gums.
A month afterwards the rains came, then
the floods, then fulfilment of my prophecy
that the gums would not survive another
winter.
* * * *
“Atrax”: An amiable little chap of
18 months, Cuddles by name, has estab-
lished a Queensland record as the first
koala to receive successful sulphanili-
mide treatment. Pneumonia was his
trouble, and his devoted medical atten-
dant was C. A. M. Reid, owner of the
Lone Pine Sanctuary at Indooroopilly,
near Brisbane. Although he was isolated
as soon as his complaint was diagnosed,
seven other bears subsequently developed
it and also received sulpha, injections at
a cost of over £l5. Treatment included
nose-wiping, paw-brushing and disinfec-
tion.
“Emjai”: Certainly horses soon be-
come accustomed to mechanical innova-
tions, but the fact that the mare re-'
ferred to in a recent par. ignored a
’plane which flicked her ears proves no-
thing beyond that she was old and grey
and senile beyond sensation. A close
flying ’plane will still cause all the terror
to a horse that the fearsome traction
engine did in pre-motor times. In the
earlier days of flying ’planes with short-
range or engine trouble used frequently
to drop promiscuously into cockies’ pad-
docks. One such landed on the out-
skirts of a north-eastern Victorian town,
alongside old Stubblelugs’s best draught,
which promptly dropped dead. Next
day he shipped a dray-load of fence-
posts and planted them all over the pad-
dock to “learn ’em.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Mention of those
Queensland stations which are becoming
overstocked with brumbies (B. 18/6/’47)
recalls a brumby-shoot out towards the
Warburton Ranges (W.A.), where the
sure-footed little beasts were rapidly eat-
ing themselves and the sheep out of
food. One stallion, attempting to escape
from the rifles, jumped on a pointed
stake and remained suspended, all feet
off the ground, until the stake snapped—
it had penetrated the belly almost to the
back. We withheld fire while the beast
staggered away to what appeared certain
death. Twelve months later it was caught.
It was in perfect health and possessed
unimpaired vigor, only the ugly scar con-
firming our belief that it was the same
horse.
CRAFT PRIVILEGE.
“On Oahu Island (Hawaii), plumber Jerry
Kennedy heard of a job opportunity on
island, jumped in his 30ft. sailboat, saile
to apply—on Guam, 42 days and over 8000 miles
away.’’— “Wanderlust."
Read this, you ageing critics who
Ask what the world is coming to
When o’er the earth, no longer wide,
Effete young men in comfort . ride 1
Come off your time-worn hobby-horse
And cease to praise the ancient Norse
Whose oars a hundred seas would thresh
In quest of loot and female flesh.
For here’s a lad whose manly zest
For roving vies with all that’s best
In olden sagas; one who sought
Advancement, though the way was fraught
With deadly peril. Safe and whole
Through dauntless courage to his goal
He won, and now no more need roam
Unless he left his tools at home!
N.S.W.
D. H. E.


THE TOP PRICE warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F.
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
Hustralian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd,
(Inc. in England, 1863)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches al Newcastle. Wagga, Moree, Henly and Hay.
A 7.22.17
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
uairy Stock
J s\J** Sterilised
i.,-*, bone flour
Phosphorus Deficiency
In Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
C^nogaS
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.. LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
WEIGHT
APPROX.
TONS
f
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VlC.—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI —The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
1
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN q’laND OF
MEEHANITE
METALS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Star Lots Don’t Pay.
“Murrawong”: The Star Lot problem
is becoming an increasing worry to
brokers and Woolbuyers. If every grower
realised the handicap he puts on his wool
by marketing it in lots of four bales and
fewer, to say nothing of butts and bags,
he would stop it at once. The buyer has
orders to purchase a number of bales of
a certain type. Rarely will he get one lot
which is large enough to fill his order, but
if his order is (say) 50 bales, imagine the
saving in time and work in filling the
order from the Big Lots rather than the
Star Lots.
In the Star Lots he will probably go
through several thousand small lots, of
which, perhaps, only 5 p.c. are near the
type he requires. He may have to inspect
and value 100 lots to get his 50-bale order,
as there are probably other buyers look-
ing for the same type, each with his own
price limits. It stands to reason that if
a man can fill his order from two lots
he is not going to spend a day inspecting
the entire Star Lots catalogue and bidding
for 100 lots instead of two or three. And
after he has bought the wool his office
staff has the additional work of a (arge
number of invoices and brands and
entries, which would not be so if he
bought through the Big Lots.
Two examples: A grower sent three
bales of wool. The best bid at auction
was 2ld. per lb ;it was passed in. As an
inferior line of the same clip sold much
better in the Big Lots his broker advised
him to send the three bales to be pooled
and resold in the Big Lots. This was
done, a number of lines were made from
his three bales and, sold through the
same broker in the Big Lots, made up to
30id. per lb., the average for the pooled
wool being 27d. compared with 2 Id.
offered for it as Star Lots, Another sent
a butt of Comeback fleece just short of
bale weight. Passed in at auction at 22d.
per lb., it was sent to a reclassing firm
for pooling and resale in the Big Lots,
where, classed into two lines, it sold at
an average of 37|d. per lb.
Any man whose clip amounts to fewer
than 50 bales should not class it himself.
As each fleece is shorn it should be
thrown on the table and wet stains and
dags removed. It should then be carefully
rolled and put straight into the press or
woolpack. The clip may then be sent
to the broker, who should be notified
that it has to be classed, or alternatively
it may be sent direct to a reliable re-
classing firm which also does wool pool-
ing. This latter is necessary to ensure
that every part of the clip finds its way
into the main catalogue, and by taking
advantage of this the smallest clip can
compete with the largest. The wool will
have been classed by a thoroughly ex-
perienced man with a choice of 700 to
800 bins, which is infinitely more than
the best-equipped shearing shed could
offer, and as a result each line will be
much evener than if it had been classed
in the shed.
Progeny-testing.
“Dub”: It’s the only certain method of
finding out just how good an animal is.
The only question to ask when buying a
bull is whether he is likely to produce
good daughters. The only answer is to
see how he has bred, and the way to do
this is to obtain full production records
of the first lactation of at least his first
six or preferably his first 10 daughters.
This means, of course, that a bull may
be up to four years old before he is
“proved,” which is a distinct disadvantage.
There are two ways of overcoming the
problem. A. H. Ward, as a result of his
sire surveys in New Zealand, has shown
that one bull in three is capable of raising
“ Thai's all right with hoop-pine — you'll have to Watch the ricochets
with the ironbarks."
production. Therefore, if three farmers
each owning a bull were to club together
and use the bulls in rotation, they would
have a more than reasonable chance of
finishing with at least one proven sire.
This bull could then be used by all of
them with the certainty that his daughters
would be better producers than their
dams.
The other way is for the Department
of Agriculture to establish bull-testing
centres at its experimental farms, by
hiring out the bulls to surrounding
farmers or by making services available
by means of artificial insemination. Hav-
ing determined proven sires in this way,
the services of these bulls (and later their
sons) could be made available, with a
guarantee that improvement in produc-
tion would result.
Many pig-breeders have made exten-
sive use of progeny-tests to determine the
worth of their breeding-stock, and the
C.S.I.R. is working out an accurate
method of assessing the value of the
progeny of Merino rams.
Meat By Air.
“Gravelsnatcher”: The development of
the North moved a big step forward when
a ’plane left Mt. House Station, near
Derby, with four carcasses, which were
available for sale in Perth the following
day. The beasts were killed and dressed
by a butcher from Perth, and passed by a
meat inspector in the usual way. The
flight was an experiment and its success
has pointed to the possibility of meat,
killed on Kimberley stations, being sold
24 hours later in every capital city in
Australia —or in any part of the globe
within range. A circle, with Derby as
centre and Perth as a point on the cir-
cumference, will take in a lot of potential
markets.
The scheme, for the development of
which a committee has been formed in
Perth, envisages a chain of refrigeration
plants, each situated centrally to every
three or four stations. Capable of hold-
ing and snap-freezing some 50 carcasses,
these plants may cost up to £50,000 each
: —merely an estimate —so the expenditure
of half a million should go far towards
setting the project on its feet.
The meat would probably be more
easily handled by being reduced to cuts
suitable for immediate delivery to
butchers’ shops. Cellophane will probably
be the cheapest and best form of wrap-
ping. Airlines are anxious to co-operate.
If the Commonwealth Government
weighs in with expected assistance the
venture can’t fail.
Brooder Management.
■“Myrrhee”; Most brooders are sold
on their day-old chick capacity and con-
sequently chick-numbers will need to be
decreased as they grow. By the time the
brood is six weeks old the numbers should
be about half what they were at the be-
ginning.
Keep the chicks comfortable with an
even temperature around the 90deg.
mark, and don’t resort to closing up the
brooder to maintain temperature, or lack
of ventilation will cause deaths and ill-
nesses. Provide an outside run for use
in good weather from the time the chicks
are four or five days old, and as the
birds grow grade them, separating the
smaller from the larger. If different sizes
are run together the smaller chicks won’t
get their share of feed and will drop
back in condition and stature.
Grazing Mitchell Grass.
“Agric”: Experiments at Gilruth Plains
near Cunnamulla (s.-w, ,Q.) since April,
1941, have shown that one sheep to five
acres is best on Mitchell grass. Three
rates of stocking are being tested—one
sheep to 2\, 5 and 1\ acres—and con-
tinuous and rotational grazing are being
tried. The trials have shown that while
Mitchell grass has great recuperative
capacity after summer rain, even
after a long dry spell it must not be
subjected to very heavy grazing during
the period of growth following the rain.
Under the heaviest rate of stocking-
one sheep to 2} acres —the pasture suf-
fered severely and declined after two
years, particularly in its capacity to carry
sheep after a dry spell, and it is thought
that its general carrying capacity will
probably be impaired for years. On the
other hand, under the stocking rate of
one sheep to five acres, the pasture main-
tained its yield and the sheep their live
weight and wool production practically
as well as under the lighter rate of one
sheep to 7\ acres.
Experiments with regeneration of
Mitchell pasture indicate that re-seeding
of areas from which Mitchell has dis-
appeared is practicable. Cunnamulla’s
average rainfall is 13.71 inches, and for
1941 to 1946 the average was 12.21 inches,
but 1946 had only 6.9 inches, “a year
of severe drought.” Excellent rain fell
in February, 1947, but on the black soil
plains there has been no shoot from the
old tussocks of Mitchell, nor any estab-
lishment of seedlings ; on the red soils
the Mitchell did better after the rain, and
seedling growth is good. Actually on
this so-called “Mitchell grass country”
a study of the plant associations at Gil-
ruth Plains has shown the botanical com-
position of one of these pastures in good
order in autumn, after heavy summer rains
to be Mitchell grass 22.2 p.c., other
grasses, mostly annuals, 62.3 p.c., legumes
0.5 p.c., miscellaneous species 3.8 p.c.,
other material 11.2 p.c.
The question of carrying capacity is a
burning subject at all sittings of Land
Courts in Queensland, and the experi-
ments of the C.S.I.R. should provide
valuable data for estimating it.


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a Whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with- large
ted tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
New Spray IRRIGATION
SYSTEM offers ECONOMY
and EFFICIENCY Features
COMBINED OUTLET - HYDRANT
Of simple but ingenious design, is
trouble-free, more efficient, yet costs
less than half old method. Minimum
obstruction in both outlet and main.
NEW TYPE FLEXIBLE COUPLING.
Pressed steel construction stands up to
rough usage. Quick action, positive
lock. 20 degrees flexibility.
3
IMPROVED SPRAY HEAD gives flat
square spray . . . used with 24 ft. pipes
gives 48 ft, coverage . . . one-third less
handling and work. Screw-on top.
new stands with no crossbars
eliminate interference to growing
vegetation. Sturdy angleiron . . .
welded construction.
Literature on request.
Rainbow
SPRAY IRRIGATION
83 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Factory: Pyrmont)
60/3 C
m
1
m
RUM
OVERPROOf . ,
PESO CASSON & CO PTY LTD. EST 1848 Cf«o
they certainfy have X-ray minds!
Whilst the salesman is extolling the virtues of a shining new appliance with
glistening porcelain enamel finish.. .whilst he is stressing the delicate stream-
lines. the chromium and the nickel ... the mind of the modern customer is
apt to X-ray into deeper considerations. "What’s underneath all the
trimmings? What’s this appliance built of? How long will it last? Can it
stand up to years of hard work?" The manufacturer who makes Comrol
Steel Sheets his basis of quality is never afraid
to bring such mental questioning into the open.
When his salesmen state frankly and with pride
that the product is built of Comrol Sheet Steel,
they are answering every possible query on the
question of quality, value and efficiency.
9.
9.
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PTY.
Head Office and Works—Port Kembla. N.S.W.
LTD.
(AUST.)
btv ita rPMFRAL SALES AGENTS: SYDNEY: Kembla Building. BRISBANE: Commercial House.
MELBOURNE: Tempi. CourL ADELAIDE: C.M.L. Building. PERTH: John L,« 9 ht (Aust.) Pt,. Ltd.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.: John Lysaght Ltd.
Air Baits for Dingoes.
“Sarina”: The Queensland Lands De-
partment will have to drop a great many
more baits over outback areas to have
any really decisive effect upon the dingo
pest (B. 11/6/’47). The dogs multiplied
to an enormous extent during the war,
with the result that much, if not all,
forest and range country in the northern
State now harbors large numbers of dogs.
The sheepman blames the cattleman for
“breeding the dogs.” But there are vast
tracts of coastal country where no stock
are run and where the only population
consists of countless wallabies and other
native game. The dingo will live and
breed anywhere where things are quiet
and tucker is plentiful. They re not likely
to hang around in country which is being
poison-baited from the air. They’ll see
the effects of the tempting morsels upon
their fellows, and I foresee a mass migra-
tion to non-baited areas along the coast.
Large numbers of dogs are harrying
dairy-farmers, pig-raisers and poultry-
farmers in the coastal districts. They
came from interior districts during the
war and settled in the coastal ranges.
They’re cunning dogs, too. They’ve an
annoying habit of eating meat that isn’t
poisoned and totally ignoring meat
that is.
The Lands Department may claim that
when its poison-baiting ’planes have
driven the dogs from the inland they will
be sent to the coast to clean up the
dingoes there. But in the coastal districts
are many experienced dogs which have
already taken Government baits and
lived, apparently because the baits weren’t
sufficiently toxic. These old hands will
put the innocents from the inland wise
about the baits, and the air-poisoning
scheme will fail
Hints for the Farm.
Iron is important in the
constitution of a healthy hen and the
chief available supplies of organic iron
are in green feed. Hens on free range
get some iron from insects, but most get
it from green feed and meat meal. Raw
onions, watercress and silver beet, having
a large organic iron content, are the best
“greens.” Give them daily.
“E.H.S.”: All tools and small imple-
ments should bear the owner’s name,
initials or private mark. Warm the metal
slightly where it is to be marked and rub
with wax or hard mutton tallow until a
thin film gathers. Then scratch the letters
on the wax or tallow, cutting through to
the metal. A little nitric acid dropped
on the writing will quickly cut out the
letters. Wash off the acid and remove
the wax by first heating then rubbing
briskly with a cloth, when the writing
will appear clearly etched on the metal.
“Halo”: Early sowings of tomatoes
should be made towards the end of July
and in August, Cover with glass if there
is any danger of frost. Pick out the
strongest seedlings and when transplant-
ing pinch off end of root. When estab-
lished remove laterals, leaving about five
shoots from which ends have been
pinched. Tie to a stake and remove all
hanging leaves to ensure ventilation.
“W. Court”: Large amounts of
molasses should not be given to pigs.
Molasses is fattening, but it builds
flabby, soft fat, and makes pigs stagger
under hot weather conditions. Sometimes,
too, it causes severe scouring, owing to its
high laxative effect, and the victims lose
condition. The flesh may also display a
molasses taste and odor if the pigs have
had a lot of molasses. On the other hand,
a little molassfes sprinkled over the pigs’
grub will render it more palatable, and
also help to keep them free from intestinal
worms.
“Big Billy”: Green manuring will, do
more to retain orchard soil in a highly
productive state than any other method
of soil management. Turning under of
the bulky green cover crop will add
organic matter and increase the humus
content. Decayed organic matter tends
both to bind light soils,* making them
more retentive of plant food, and to
ameliorate heavy and sticky soils by im-
proving their texture and releasing nutri-
ents otherwise withheld from the plant
growth.
“West”: To blow trees with gelignite,
place charge as close to ground level as
possible. A 2in. auger hole bored in a
little past half-way will accommodate
four plugs tied in a bundle (sufficient for
trees up to 18in. thick). Concentrate
charge as much as possible, i.e., one
bundle of four gives much better results
than two bundles of two, one behind
the other —hence the 2in. auger hole.
When it is necessary to economise with
the “gelly,” chop through the side roots
and place the charge in the tap root.
The remaining roots can then be removed
with a tractor.
“Sarina”: For mending holes and
cracks in roof spouts, there is no better
cement than a mixture of black resin and
ground bricks. Use one part of resin to
two parts of brick-dust, melting the resin
over heat, and adding the brick-dust,
which should be as dry and free from
lumps as possible. This cement has the
advantage of being a firm drier and non-
poisonous.
“Gip”: When splitting logs always put
the wedge in smallest end first. The
slabs will then split off to an even thick-
ness. Count your wedges when finished
and save gaps in the axe blade from
hidden wedges left in the wood.
“Sarina”: The large moths that suck
the juice from ripening citrus fruits are
readily trapped if tins or glass jars con-
taining molasses or thick treacle are sus-
pended from the branches. Fruit-flies and
other pests are also caught in the same
way, but it is necessary to remove the
corpses frequently. If the traps are not
sufficiently effective against the moth pest
walk out with a kerosene-soaked rag,
ignite the rag and shake the branches
after dark. Moths will fly straight into
the flame.
“F.L.”: When feeding fowls with
kitchen scraps take care that no more
than a very little salt is given. The
stuff acts as a poison to poultry, and
we stiffened several young roosters by
adding a small quantity of salted beans
to the scrap-tin. They appeared as if_
suffering from cramps and died within
24 hours. A neighbor lost a number of
turkeys which ate coarse salt put out for
“Mr”: Amount of food necessary to
raise a pullet to full production may be
gauged from figures by E. Hadlington,
N.S.W. poultry expert. Based on the
grain and mash feeding system tried at
Seven Hills experiment farm, the quanti-
ties are for 100 chickens. First 28-day
period, 1001 b. (4oz. per week per bird);
second period, 2501 b.; third period,
4001 b.; fourth period, 4121 b. 8oz.; fifth
period, 4501 b.; sixth period, 4501 b.;
total for 24 weeks, 20621 b. Boz.


the effect of slightly upsetting the teacher ;
and it seemed to me as if Possum were
on top, as it were, and that the teacher
was not so sure that he was winning.
The great Possum’s technique, when
taking it, was as if he were completely
oblivious to time and space ; had no
knowledge of the past or the present, A
rock or a tree, or just earth. He’d stand
looking at nothing—school, teacher, cane,
did not exist, and the hands that took
the cuts were dead.
On one occasion the teacher must have
imagined that Possum had prepared his
palms with a secret gum, or had rubbed
them with some ancestral bone that was
good for deadening spear wounds. He
made Possum bend over and take it on
that portion of his person where old
school recipes, prescriptions and lore are
of no avail.
Possum took it with the same unflag-
ging dignity.
Some of the white boys tried to emu-
late or excel him by looking stern and
Napoleonic, standing stiff and martial.
These heroes generally went back to their
seats looking like our rooster Speckles did
the day he fell into the dam.
Then some kids considered that Ginger
Morgan was the rightful claimant to the
championship ; having received the great-
est number of cuts at one time he should
be champion. This claim was not allowed,
however, as Ginger showed unmistakable
signs of strain.
As for myself, I belonged to no par-
ticular creed or party and generally took
what was coming to me as an independ-
ent, leaving the matter of style to be
settled when the time came for me to re-
ceive my allowance. I made my tech-
nique fit the circumstances; let the
exigency of the moment decide for me.
Certainly, I had a sense of humor (as
in my affair with the national anthem),
but humor had neither saved me from
the cane nor lessened the pain of it—any-
way, not up to the time of the new song,
In this case, however, my sense of humor
did actually release me from all possible
contact with the cane,
\ WHEN the teacher announced the
* » name of the new song, I could hardly
restrain myself, it was so funny; the
more so when I came to think of how
I’d be laughing ridiculingly at the song
and how the teacher would be thinking I
was carrying out his instructions,
He had told us that it was a fine,
breezy, boisterous, rollicking song that
had to be sung with gusto ; a hale, hearty,
happy song that would rouse the spirits
and make the heart glad ; that the class
had to put ginger into it as in “Rule,
Britannia” and “Soldiers of the Queen.”
So when the time was ripe, and with
G ur sergeant-major conducting threaten-
ingiy w ith the cane, and while the casual-
ties mounted up around me, I filled my
i ungs and near ly burst the boundaries of
my narrow chest; strained my thin frame
and j e t it g o •
Ha> ha> ha! make the words ri ai Ha>
ha, ha!
Laughter will drive care away,
I had all the force, vim, and vitality
I’d fallen down on in “Rule, Britannia”;
all the fervor, pitch, and emphasis I’d
missed out on in “Soldiers of the
Queen” ; I couldn’t help ha, ha, ha-ing
successfully in a silly song called “Laugh
and Grow Fat.”
the direction of the young fellow—'“Go-
mg to the ‘Leap’ on a job.”
to the Wileys are really going to
repair their place,” said the woman.
The young fellow considered he had
now been admitted into the family circle,
and joined in the conversation. George
passed round the apricots and plums,
Everyone, except Cedric, ate and threw
the stones on the line.
How termination could ever come to
such happy gathering js something of a
mystery. But it did, and the engine, with
“Jack her up on top. Bill — there's only two more carloads to come!"
much coughing and sneezing and panting
attacked the up grade for Rector
Corner.
THERE was only a shy sort of girl
the station. George gave her a hi
parcel. “That’s all, this time, Alice
And you can show Mavis where to go
Hey, Mavis! This is Rectory Corner.
Alice and Mavis were suitably fare
welled.
Between Janet’s Lane and Leanin
Tree the line ran along the roadside
Two Council men, with two shovels anc
a horse and dray, were doing somethin
with the road, or had been dding some
thing before the train hove in sight. Now
they were leaning on their shovel handles
each with a foot resting on the shove
So situated, they were not to be ignored
The whole train came to a halt, anc
negotiations were opened.
The Council men were deep in som
grievance against the Shire, a persona
matter, it seemed, involving the President
who wasn’t nearly the man he shoulc
have been. George was sympathetic, anc
Jack suggested that the Council men
“should tick him off.” But there were
terrible difficulties in the way of ticking
off a Shire President at all effectively
Thep the Council men went over it again
from start to finish without bringing
much more of a relevant nature to light
“That stuff, now,” said George, jerk-
ing a thumb towards the truck of blue-
metal—“That stuff—instructions are to
leave it at Leaning.”
“That’s just it,” grumbled the older ol
the men. “We want it down the other
end, and it means miles of dragging it.’
The younger man changed legs, and spat
in the dust. That summed up his views
“Sorry,” said George, assuming a
slightly official attitude, “but instructions
are instructions, you know.”
The older man started to grumble
again. He seemed to have been born
grumbling, and the greatest misfortune
that could ever happen him would be to
have nothing to grumble at. “Now,” he
started again, “the decent thing would be
to dump it right here.”
“Good Gawd, but we have a time-table
to run to!”
The upshot of it was the two Council
men mounted the truck and shovelled out
the blue-metal. The crew watched them,
and ate plums and apricots absent-
mindedly. At last the truck was emptied.
Even then the older man grumbled, and
was of the firm opinion that “There’d
be a hell of a row” over the business.
AT Leaning Tree, a most important
station, and the centre of “a prosper-
ous fruit-growing district” as the land
agents put it, one of the louvre vans was
shoved on to a toy siding, and left there.
Incidentally, these land agents loved to
take their more or less unsuspecting
victims to Leaning Tree, stand them on
a knoll and point out to them the fair
kingdoms of the earth, consisting here-
abouts of wide green patterns of peach
orchards and orange groves. Then, with
fat forefingers (all land agents seem to
have fat forefingers, and if they haven’t,
there’s something wrong with them) trace
out the curving line to Kelly’s Hill.
“She only goes,” they’d say, “to
Kelly’s. That is, at present. But the
plans are all ready now to continue
northward”—here a fine gesture towards
the distant north —“ And eventually, she’ll
go right on to Brisbane. The Main
Northern Line, you know. It’s all on
the Estimates” (mentioned with a large
fine air of reverence); “right on them
now.”
At this point the agent would give
wafture of his left hand to the south
east, where the skyline was smudgy
“Sydney!” he’d say. “Not 20 miles in
straight line! Think of that!”
If the victim were slow to seize on the
moral, the agent supplied it with that
peculiar upturning and uplifting of the
hands to indicate the holding of big bags
of money—“ Whoosh! Up goes your
values!”
Possibly there was an agent who really
believed the story, but if he did he was
too simple to be an agent.
At Leaning Tree a tramp and a dog
boarded the train. They were not re-
lated or connected in any way, so their
being together was sheer coincidence
The tramp came to a pleasant, non-paying
arrangement with George, and the dog
a large nondescript animal of faded
grey, really belonged to Kelly’s Hill, bul
was a regular passenger, having developed
a taste for train travelling.
The dog did not enter the carriages,
but rode on the back platform of the
first-class end. Here he barked derisively
at any dog he could see—no matter how
far off —a form of sport that was, 4 in the
main, sulkily resented by the other dogs.
Occasionally some dogs pretended, with
no marked success, that they heard
nothing.
The tramp talked to the young fellow,
and managed to cadge the “makings.”
After Leaning Tree the line rose
steeply, and the engine showed its real
mettle, keeping Tom and Jack busy
supplying its wants. Through sandstone
and shale cuttings, around wide bends
and curves, but always upwards, the
engine rocked and roared and displayed
a new side to its character entirely. No
grade however steep was going to beat
that engine. And the way it belched up
black smoke and cinders and sparks and
long straight white puffs of steam
showed a determination that age couldn’t
conquer.
It made impatient pauses at Lemon
Grove, and Running Stream, and Salmon
Gums, gazed defiantly at Johnstone’s
Leap, where the young fellow got off
with his bag of tools, and with a trium-
phant huff-huff-huff mounted the top of
the grade, and snorted along terrifically
at a full 15 miles an hour on the nearly
level stretch to Kelly’s.
It wound its way through a thin forest
of tall blackbutts whose strong white
arms held up the blue sky; past the
sturdy ironbarks, grim old trees, but
friendly too, and the most characteristic
tree Australia has; past clearings and
orchards, and little homes of red or
white, where a small boy or two waved
joyously, and George and Tom and Jack
were not too busy to wave back; past
the big stack of firewood and the broken
dray. And then, with a chuckle, a wheeze
and a grunt, the old engine sat down, and
seemed to say, “Well, there! I’ve done
it again! Thank God!”
Fred looked at his watch, as if it really
mattered. Mrs. Morgan and Cedric laid
claim to a flat slab of figure that was
mainly slow grin and walrus moustache,
Two young fellows examined the farming
machinery. Several old fellows and a
woman with a very leathery face waited
on the goods truck or the two louvres
full of empties. The tramp sought the
shade of the station building, and the
nondescript dog barked officiously and
proceeded to supervise the unloading.
It was all busyness and activity now.
And this was Kelly’s—terminus of the
“Little Line.” But a mere stepping stone
to be on the main trunk to Brisbane!
WHEN the first 10 minutes or so of
excitement had abated somewhat,
Fred, of the brass buttons and pencil
stub, became filled with an internal dis-
quiet—nothing serious, mind, rather a
prophetic peep into a slightly disturbing
future.
“George, I tell you, it can’t last. The
people, I say, the people are not sup-
porting us.”
“But whv worrv Fred'?”
“I’m n T , .
Don’t think it
“fiL vou dJvtffir Sv? ‘ S
But you don t think surely
i hats just it, I do. I say it can’t last.
You see thts line isn t paying.”
11^ t f oes an 7 lme . P a y?
Ihats not the point, George Some
lines pay less, and this is one of them.”
Remly, there was something startling
and significant about a railwayman
taking such a solemn and serious view
in such matters Not that Fred was
cast down at all. He wasn t. But his
long sojourn at Kellys had apparently
given a reflective or philosophical edge
to ms cheerfulness.
No,” Fred went on, “it’s the people,
They won’t give their support. Take for
instance the 7.30 up”
can’t say she isn’t supported,
Trco.
“I know she’s full but what of?
Schoolchildren going to Willa. Not one
of them pays a razoo for the 'journey,
All carried free. But if their parents want
to go to Willa, do they go by train? They
catch Sorley’s bus, for it’s quicker. I’ve
often seen Sorley’s bus full of parents
and our train full of children going along
the road together, and waving to each
other at the very fun of the thing—the
kids travelling free and the parents travel-
ling fast.”
“Still, Fred”——
“Just wait a bit. You want to mention
freight. Do the people use the to
send their stuff to Sydney? They don’t
—not much anyway. It goes by road—■
quicker and less handling. Their oranges,
their lemons, their peaches and plums,
and their eggs. That all goes by trucks
and lorries. Wfe bring back the empties—
time > and handling don’t matter there,
And, besides, the empties come back
free.”
But George was not up to the intri-
cacies of finance. And he bored out an
ear with a little finger to indicate how
perplexing it was.
The holy calm of noonday heat had
settled on Kelly’s. And the soft haze of
summer took the sharp and ragged edges
from everything. Even sound was dulled
till it melted into the languid air and
became part of it. Voices droned off
into nothingness. Locusts skirled on in
the trees till the ear wasn’t aware of
them any longer. The engine dozed in
the sun and at long intervals gave a little
P ai )t just to show it hadn’t gone to sleep
entirely.
there was something in what
' Fred had been saying of the line.
The railway authorities gave it a
malevolent glance now and then, and
with greater frequency. They then began
to look into facts and figures, as if money
were everything: and at last decided to
pufi up the line, and cause it to vanish
from the face of the earth for ever,
Gangs of navvies, complete with all the
tools of destruction, and gangers and
timekeepers and clerks and supervisors
an d the rest, were got ready—a whole
arm Y of vandals - But at this point of
great decision an awful discovery was
made. The line didn’t exist! Such a
lhi "S could happen nowhere else in the
World but at & Uy . s ,
But it was true—the line didn’t exist.
The problem of physically dismantling
something non-existent was too much for
the Railway Department, It had a sense
c f guilt and negligence, too, for it had
included the mythical Kelly’s in its
Guide.
Certainly, there were rails and a track
0 f sorts snaking out of Willa to Kelly’s,
but the whole damned thing was
fiction: Parliament had never sanctioned
the line; no competent authority had
ever authorised it; there was no record
of its ever being built.
So, officially, there was no line at all.
Great minds were brought to bear
upon a difficulty that had no parallel in
the whole history of railroads. The first
thing to do was to make the line exist;
a nd so Parliament sanctioned the line—
very solemnly. That done, after much
delay, the Railway people could now go
ahead and destroy it.
It made no great difference to Kelly’s,
A few cuttings here and there, greyed,
and grassed over, remained. Little else,
Bluegums and blackbutts in thin saplings
thrust up from the floor of the cuttings,
The yard and buildings at Kelly’s dis-
appeared.
Only the big buffers at the very end
of the line were left. Of solid ironbark
they were. They looked like some mon-
ster about to crawl out of the earth, and
then thinking better of it. But what
happened to the little engine, and George,
and Fred, and Tom, and Jack, was a
complete mystery. Perhaps the Railway
Department destroyed them too. But
they have never been seen since.


«?c,
f V'J
M'J .
MmiM
■
SSE
%M
mmm^
'■■ ..H
•uj m .♦'»/• j"} *y• %* *5” V”
S £$
mtmSm
■'*-' . '
™*v///////y//si/M>
~y/ssss/m:sy//s/'~
J T It,
- .LV
'■T^Mra
WimiA Wk
?v*
Hi
H| ■ i
Wrfr-ri
llMiijli
lCT®3=jri!W
ceoTtic
BULL & BUSH INN,
EAULKHAM HILLS.
THIS IS A TOOTH'S HOTEL
Combining charming old-world exterior
with spacious lounges and exceptionally
comfortable and attractive residential
accommodation, the “Bull and Bush” at
Baulkham Hills is an admirable example
of the improvement in hotel standards
i
“j
V
achieved through Tooth’s pre-war re-
construction policy. Plans for a continuation
of this policy are already prepared, and a
new programme of reconstruction will be
put in hand as soon as the more urgent need
for housing has been met.
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED, SYDNEY
MAKERS OF GOOD BEER SINCE 1835
T.fg.ao
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Wanted male kitten, for good home.”
—Suburban paper.
Plus a cash adjustment, of course.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If you wish to preserve a trim figure you
must take the steps that are necessary.”
— Woman’s paper.
Walk more quickly from the meal
table, for instance.
4* 4* 4* 4* ,
“Women these days can hold their own with
men in all walks of life.” — ‘‘New Idea.”
Except as female impersonators.
4* 4* 4* .4*
“At Daytona Beach (Florida) Judge J. C.
Beard decided that two claimants had equal
rights to a bicycle, had it sawn in half.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
4* 4* 4* 4^
“Actress Hermione Baddeley is organising a
scheme to provide free holidays for charwomen
who remained in London during the Witz.”
—Sydney “Sun. v
To The Wash?
4* 4* 4* 4"
“Ex-serviceman reqs. flat, cottage, garage or
kennel for himself and wife, exc. tenants, refs.’
—Suburban paper.
He’ll be a lucky dog if he gets even a
kennel.
.4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bagpipes can play anthem.”
—Melbourne “Herald
Nowadays people will stand for any-
thing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Party ate meal six months old.”
—Sydney "Sun.”
Fancy celebrating in a railway refresh-
ment room!
•JW •£•
“Painters may ban non-union paint.”
—News item.
If it isn’t Red?
Old Flame.
“Jilted man loses faith, gets damages ver-
dict.” — Headline.
When in the lists of love I tilted.
Each contest did my heart some scathe.
But jilting or (more often ) jilted.
Although my self-importance wilted,
I never seemed to lose my faith.
It bore me bravely on, until
I found myself at last bereft
Of Mabel. Mary, June and Jill,
And when I came to foot the bill —
Well, faith was all that I had left.
Then from the of loves well-lost
Emerged one unlamented wraith
Who claimed that she was double-crossed,
And I discovered to my cost
The one I couldn’t lose was Faith.
P. M. LUSK.
“A modern Solomon!” you’ll say,
And yet he had no cause for pride
For at the best he sent away
The litigants, half-satisfied.
BERT.
The Reactionary.
“A motorist lodged a claim with Bexley
Council because a horse bit a hole in the
hood of his parked car.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
My grandfather’s charger, Bucephalus,
was similarly opposed to the competition
offered by modern transport. Through a
clerical error in the Russian War Office,
Bucephalus was awarded the Order of
the Crimson Knout (Fourth Class) at the
Battle of Inkerman, and this gave him
rather decided views about everything.
It was on Bucephalus’s 50th birthday
that my grandfather was exercising him
when they met the first of the horseless
carriages to appear on the roads.
The enthusiasm with which the old war-
horse sounded the charge and overran
the hapless vehicle quite touched my
grandfather, who thought it was all due
to the animal’s patriotic fervor inspired
by the sight of the man with the red flag
walking in front. However, when Buce-
phalus took to biting at tyres, necessitat-
ing a new set of teeth every time he
rather explosively got home to the cpre,
my grandfather had him muzzled.
The steed’s attacks of pique were
moderated when he found that even his
funereal amble was faster than the
current breed of motor-car, but as motor-
ing and Bucephalus’s rheumatics de-
veloped year by year, he proceeded to
kick his way through more and more ex-
pensive models, and was finally retired
to his stable on a pension.
There he might have attained a ripe
old age but for his growing aversion to
progress in any form. The attack of
colic which killed him was attributed by
a panel of pathologists to a diet of live
electric-light bulbs culled from the
socket over his manger.
PLUM.
To Any Musician.
Do not interpret any composition
As you conceive the author has con-
veyed,
But as (if you’ve the needful intuition )
You think the critics think it should
be played.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Progress of a Phenomenon.
Monday: A Moose Bend (Mo.) com-
muter has reported that he saw some-
thing that looked like a winged bath-
heater, a bulldozer or a fully-lighted
block of flats rushing through the strato-
sphere just after he left a pool room. The
fact that he didn’t hear the slightest
sound has aroused intense interest
throughout the nation, and Professor
Knutz has attributed this to the fact that
the phenomenon must have been travelling
at supersonic speed. The Telephone Co.
reports that 16,000,000 calls above normal
were put through for the day.
Tuesday: Over 1400 newspaper re-
porters and radio commentators have
been rushed to Moose Bend (Mo.), and
the town’s only drug store has had to
put on 18 more soda jerks and an extra
25 hamburger fixers, A gigantic nation-
wide hook-up sponsored by Krunchyweet
Krackers, In©-., will describe the terrifying
spectacle, and a special message to the
nation to keep calm will be broadcast by
Fiorello (“Little Flower”) La Guardia.
Wednesday: It is now considered cer-
tain in scientific circles, from a detailed
description given by the Moose Bend
(Mo.) commuter, that the object he saw
was an atom-powered bulldozer shot
from Siberia and out of control.
Several Congressmen have demanded that
the matter be thrashed out at a special
session of the U.N. Security, Council, but
a U.N. official has pointed out that this
could not be done before next November
twelve months, and in any case the
Soviet would certainly exercise its veto.
Professor Knutz has caused a sensation
in scientific circles and consternation in
the public mind by stating that atom-
“I sell the business; I ring to say I Won t Want
your fire-engine this afternoon , yes ?”
powered bulldozers which fly at super-
sonic speed must inevitably attract to
them small planets. This must result in
collisions which, if they occurred close
to the earth, might bend the axis of our
planet, causing it to pitch and roll. Some
strange results might follow, such as beer-
froth being at the bottom of the glass,
and baseball having to be played on the
sides of cliffs.
Thursday: Skunk trappers in from
Hooch Springs (Pa.) have reported see-
ing a well-lighted block of flats flying at
tremendous speed at a dizzy height, dis-
appearing in the direction of a neck of
the woods. They all distinctly saw an
orange glow going up and down and this,
it is surmised, was the elevator in the
flats. Professor Knutz has explained
that the elevator of an atom-powered
block of flats which got out of control
and attained supersonic speed would
emit a dull orange glow caused by the
pull of gravity working with the vacuum
which would follow such a speeding
object.
Friday: Reports are pouring in from
people in 37 States who have seen
flying bath-heaters, flying bulldozers
or flying blocks of flats, or all
of them. Following Professor Knutz s
new theory that they could be
the prelude to an all-out attack by the
mechanised forces of the planet Jupiter
6,000,000 frantic people have been jam-
ming the roads in every vehicle they could
muster making for the safety of the
Adirondacks. Krunchyweet Krackers,
Inc., who have obtained by Court injunc-
tion the sole rights to give an atomic bull-
dozer description of any stratospheric
activity, report that the sales of their
products have soared 2600 p.c. since
Monday.
Saturday: A rumor is sweeping
America that the atom-powered bull-
dozer which flies at supersonic speed was
definitely launched from the Urals, and
that it will shortly be followed by even
more wonderful demonstrations of how
completely Soviet Russia has outstripped
the West in scientific
achievements. A Choc-
taw Rapids (Va.) co-ed.
has reported she saw some-
thing like a two-toned
mountain with a long
cyclamen tail rush across
the heavens, just as she
finished her tenth gin
sling. This has revived an
earlier belief that the earth
is beginning to fly to
pieces, a delayed-action
result of the first New
Mexico atom bomb. King
Brosby, the famous
crooner, is heading the
new Flying Bulldozer
Radio Hour sponsored by
Rrunchyweet Krackers,
Inc, His new hit song,
“Hotcha Hinky Pinky
Whoosh,” written speci-
ally by Manny Snozzle-
stein, Butch Mieckwyczcz
and Guiseppe O’Toole, is
expected to net 7,000,000 dollars in sales
and royalties. Col. McCormick’s Chicago
“Tribune” in an editorial claims it is all an
imperialist conspiracy to trick America
into further bolstering the dying British
Empire.
Sunday; The Battyville (Ga.) “Bugle”
has scooped all its Sunday-paper rivals
with a 36-page colored strip on the new
Mick Madford romantic adventure in
his atom-powered, inter-planetary bull-
dozer, in which he challenges the
supremacy of Bortz the Bone Atomiser,
the evil King of the Hollow-Legged
Monsters of Uranus.
Monday: A reporter from the Mud
Springs (Mo.) ‘Trumpet Call” has fer-
reted out that the commuter who saw the
atomic flying bath-heater or bulldozer
or block of flats is a brother of the owner
of the Moose Bend drug store, who is
estimated to have made 156,000 dollars
from the temporary invasion by news-
men, radiomen and tourists, and that
both are nephews of the President of
Krunchyweet Krackers, Inc.
BO.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
T^wV^ulleijM.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 „ 12 6
8 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
13 months .. ~ .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
8 4 0
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Defence Aerodromes
The recent announcement that the
chief training centres for the R.A.A.F.
will be Point Cook, Laverton, East Sale
and Ballarat raises the question of the
best location for defence aerodromes.
The war showed us the vulnerability of
aerodromes handy to the coast which
were difficult to hide or properly camou-
flage. It is time the R.A.A.F. went into
the question of building key stations
in some more protected spots.
Malta taught another lesson which,
apparently, has not been assimilated by
Air Board. It was that an air force
could keep up the fight if its workshops
were underground and safe from bomb-
ing. On that famous little island the
strips used Were right up against hills
under which were burrowed the hangars
and workshops. Aircraft landed towards
the shelter all the time, and on many
occasions were able to reach safety even
when attacked on landing.
Australia has been surely designed to
make this type of defence ’drome pos-
sible, particularly on the east coast. The
Dividing Range offers a natural place to
build completely secure workshops under-
ground where they could not possibly
be damaged by bombing attacks. There
are hundreds of spots in the foothills
where hangars, workshops and living
quarters could be constructed under
thousands of feet of top-soil. The rubble
taken out could be used to fill gullies and
hollows for the necessary landing strips.
If, as Mr. Chifley chooses to believe,
the next war will be a push-button one the
sooner the R.A.A.F. goes underground
with its vital units the better. I have
vivid recollections of the mental panic
which hit the R.A.A.F. in 1942 when the
Japs were expected to come down as far
as Sydney in their bombing attacks.
No. 2 A.D. workshops were moved from
Richmond to Wagga in the hope that
the valuable equipment would be safer
there If at that time the depot had been
built over North Richmond way under
a thousand feet or two of dirt the panic
need never have happened nor the ex-
pensive move have taken place.
It is not possible to protect actual
landing areas from bombing but, with
repair and maintenance gangs and their
bulldozers, tip-trucks and the rest housed
under the protective covering of a moun-
tain, the strips can be reconditioned in the
shortest possible time. H. Bowden
Fletcher, D.F.C. (N.S.W.).
War Widows
It is typical of the present “Govern-
ment” at Canberra that it should blatantly
announce a £lO-per-week increase for its
members and followers on the same day
that it announced a 55.-per-week increase
in allowances made to war widows.
On May 29, 1947, Repatriation Minis-
ter Baynard promised he would try to
improve the lot of the war widow. His
promise was worth exactly five bob.
Returned men must make a firm stand
for justice to these women. I went away
believing that if I did not return the
Government would take my place as the
breadwinner of my family. It could have
been my wife or yours that the Govern-
ment is treating so shabbily now.
Moneys paid to war widows are paid
as part of the nation’s war debt and
should be budgeted for under that head-
ing. In any case, figures released on June
3 showed that there was a decline of
1300 widows’ pensions in the last 12
months. This could mean a small all-
round increase of pensions without any
further inroads upon our national in-
come. — Repatriate (Q.).
“They Also Served”
So the deserter, if he can tell a good
enough tale, is to be entitled to all the
privileges which the Government allows
ex-servicemen. But the man who served
with the Y.M.C.A., the Salvation Army
or the Red Cross, no matter where he
was sent, is to be regarded as a civilian.
In other words, for him, if in bad
health or broke, there is no medical or
hospital treatment or pension; no loan
for home-building ; no tools of trade and
no gratuity; nor any exemption from in-
come-tax during his period abroad. He
is, in fact, if he served for four or five
years, hundreds of pounds worse off than
had he served as a private in a unit which
never left Australia,
Why? Apparently because he was not
a fighting man. Yet the Y.M.C.A. in
Australia had two killed in action, three
wounded and five taken p.-0.-w. Surely
such men must have been in the thick of
things—far more so than many an A.I.F.
man who served only within Australia.
One Y.M.C.A. man was three and a
half years in Japanese prison camps. He,
like his Army cobbers, lived chiefly on
rice, and towards the end of his im-
prisonment was nearly four stone less
than his normal weight. He was men-
tioned in dispatches, but he is now told
by our “Government” that he cannot
receive any of the privileges of an ex-
serviceman. Yet he, like other philan-
thropic officers, regularly visited the camp
hospitals. He organised concerts, music
-classes and debating societies. He had
charge of a unit garden (growing beans
and kankong to supplement the meagre
rations) and even looked after the educa-
tional activities of men in the convales-
cent depots.
In the early days of captivity one
Y.M.C.A. man distributed some 60,000
sheets of air-mail paper to camp inmates
for use as cigarette papers.
Honorary rank (captain) was given, as
a convenience, by Malaya Command to
those officers who represented Australian
philanthropic bodies. “Honorary” was
the correct word.
In a report on captivity in Malaya
Lieut.-Colonel T. G. Galleghan, D. 5.0.,
said: “I commend the Y.M.C.A- officers
for the work they have accomplished in
this p.-0.-w. camp.”— Beecham (W.A.).
“Forgotten Men”
As a fairly frequent visitor to a mili-
tary hospital I can endorse “A.D.’s” re-
marks (B. 25/6/’47). The condition of
the men is pitiable; their neglect by the
general public scandalous. Admittedly
they receive the best medical atten-
tion possible—they deserve it—but medi-
cal attention isn’t everything. A visitor,
any visitor, is welcome, and it must be
a person with a single-track mind who
can’t find some subject of mutual interest
to a man who is longing to have a yam
with someone.
The Red Cross is doing wonderful
work. It supplies hospital visitors and
gives the human touch to its work. Its
paid staff never gives the impression it is
doing the job in return for wages re-
ceived. It arranges picnics, concert
parties, outings, takes the men under its
wing and treats them as one of the family.
One of the least-known and most
valuable jobs of the Red Cross is the
provision of next-of-kin accommodation
for those on the dangerously ill list.
These relatives are given a self-contained
flat at the hospital and can keep in
constant touch with their boys.— Dad
(Q-).
Packing for Export
Sir Stafford Cripps recently referred to
“a period when we shall have to rely not
only on the quality and quantity of our
products but also on our power of sales-
manship and adaptation to particular
markets.” That these remarks have an
Empire application is evident from a
"The joint must be almost done, Emmy — it's all black.”
New York complaint about the packing
and grading of a June delivery ex-Aus-
tralia.
Australian pears realised six to seven
dollars a case, and would have brought
more but for careless packing and grad-
ing. Another complaint was over a con-
signment of crayfish tails. South Africa
had this market, worth £A356,000 last
year, but cannot supply its previous quota
because of the indiscriminate slaughter
of female fish. So we grab our chance
—and send the tails in 501 b. boxes in-
stead of the 201 b. size that the Americans
prefer. The consignment arrived in good
order, but the packing was described as
shocking, with tails of less than one-third
of a pound in the same box as tails over
a pound in weight.
Such inspection of foodstuffs for ex-
port as is made in Australia is apparently
concerned solely, instead of primarily,
with suitability for human consumption.
Inspectors should be instructed in the
standards of packing and grading re-
quired at ports of discharge and em-
powered to withhold the necessary ex-
port certificate until these conditions have
been met. With every nation on earth
compelled to acquire as many dollars as
possible we shall find competitors not
too proud to practise “adaptation to par-
ticular markets.” —W. F. G. (N.S.W.).
Trees
During the last few months in western
N. S. Wales I’ve seen enough misuse of
privately-owned timber to make me favor
control of all trees. Splendid cypress
pines that would have yielded thousands
of feet of urgently-needed building tim-
ber were split into fence posts which
could easily and profitably have been
obtained from near-by low-grade forest
areas.
In another case timber which has been
withheld from the market for years has
now been released. Ironbarks which 20
years ago would have cut excellent bridge
and heavy-building timbers now barely
make roundback railway sleepers. Cypress
on this property is so wind-shaken and
overmatured that the mill yield is down
to about 25 per cent.
Few property-owners have done any-
thing to reafforest their holdings. Where
trees are spared from? the ring-barkers it
is too often because the owner believes
that eventually they will bring him a rich
harvest in royalty fees.
Intelligent control cannot come too
soon.— Stanus (N.S.W.).
- ’ /
For the Defence
“Wusslean” (B. 25/6/’47) fails to
appreciate the real value of the Concilia-
tion and Arbitration Act, 1947. The
original Court was set up as a layman’s
Court to “conciliate and arbitrate” in
order to preserve industrial peace. It
was a new “Court” and there was no
background of “legal principles” or in-
dustrial precedents. Although among the
early appointments were Judges like
Higgins and Powers, the scheme of the
Act was that a qualified lawyer should
arbitrate between direct representatives
of employers and employees and try to
conciliate them.
In no time, the Judges began to evolve
so-called “principles,” and each decision
established a precedent to guide and
bind “the Court” in subsequent cases.
As the number of precedents increased
and the “binding principles” grew more
complex, it became necessary to import
into a case the qualified solicitor and
barrister, who alone possessed the mind
trained to assimilate and understand the
principles and practice of “the Court,”
and to present in reasoned and orderly
array the facts and arguments calculated
to make an appeal to the judicial mind."
Thus was developed a code of indus-
trial “law” and a complicated Court
procedure in which even a highly skilled
lawyer was completely lost on his first
appearance. Although some experienced
and studious union secretaries continued
to appear, in time even they came to
realise that it was wise to have a barrister
who regularly practised in the Court to
lead them.
What is the result of it all? There is
more red-tape and “procedure” in the
Court of Conciliation and Arbitration
than there was in the Court of Chancery
in Dickens’s time. No employer or em-
ployee can forecast with any certainty
what will happen to his cause when pro-
ceedings have begun. The case becomes
a modern Jarndyce v, Jarndyce, with a
highly-paid “Mr. Tangles” to “s’bmit a
variety of points” to the Court. The
employees who are anxiously awaiting
the hoped-for improvements in wages and
conditions of employment reach the stage
of despair that finally drove poor Miss
Flite mad. No wonder there are strikes
and disruption and ready ears for Com-
munistic propaganda.
But apart from this criticism, this
“Court” has become identified in the
minds of thousands of citizens with a
Court of Law, which it is not and never
was. Its members are confounded with
real Judges, and the hostility which con-
fused principles, dilatory procedure and
irreconcilable decisions have rightly
earned is being directed against all Judges
and all Courts, and against the rule of
law in the community. This is a bad
thing to happen, and, if there were no
other grounds, is enough to warrant
abolition of “the Court.” It may possibly
serve some purpose as an appellate
tribunal, should a Conciliation Commis-
sioner go off the deep end, but even that
is doubtful. The High Court and other
Courts of Law would have ample juris-
diction to control such cases.
The industrial peace and rfespect for
the law which have for so long charac-
terised S.A. may in some measure be
attributed to its system of Industrial
Boards for every industry. These consist
of an equal number of representatives of
employers and employees bona fide
engaged in the calling, with an inde-
pendent chairman who may but need not
be a lawyer. Members come up for
appointment every three years, and are
chosen from lists of nominees sub-
mitted by the majority of employers and
employees respectively. Each board
meets whenever and as often as there is
any question for consideration, and the
members receive a fixed fee for each
meeting, paid by the State.
Result? Decisions which usually
satisfy both sides, given with celerity by
those who know the industry and its
conditions and the difficulties confronting
employer and employee. On the rare
occasions when members of a Board
can’t come to agreement, they vote “on
party lines” and the chairman decides
the question.
The new Commonwealth Act is an
approach to this system, and if the right
type of men are appointed as Concilia-
tion Commissioners, it should provide a
vast improvement on the old structure. —
Devil’s Advocate (S.A.).
A Costly Baby
The Westralian Government is worried
about the prospect of an expensive sick
industrial baby on its hands—the char-
coal iron smelting works at Wundowie;
pet scheme of ex-Minister Hawke. A
Royal Commissioner is at present in-
quiring into the profit or loss possibilities
of this legacy from departed Labor,
much to the dudgeon of the Perth Trades
Hall, which would complacently watch
hundreds of thousands of pounds of pub-
lic money poured down the sink so long
as it created “work.”
Attempts to smelt iron with charcoal
fuel have not been made in Australia for
years. Back in 1882 a very ambitious
project, financed by Victorian capital,
was started in northern Tasmania. The
plant was quite up to date, even by
modern standards, being equipped with
regenerated hot blast, tar distillers, etc.,
yet it failed. Later a Victorian company
tried the same thing, but it, too, had
passed into limbo by the mid-’nineties.
Possibly if Mr. Hawke had known of
these earlier failures he would not have
entered so lightly into what many of his
followers imagined would be an original
step forward in Australian iron produc-
tion. — Historicus (W.A.).


t*he R.S.L.
If executive members of the R.S.L. m
Sydney are alarmed about the decline: in
membership (B. 25/6/ 47) t ey
should, as a starter, forget such ideas as
buying a brewery. That move cause
rriore ill feeling against the State branch
among Old Diggers than any other the
league has made since its inception. 1
was one of the reasons for my pulling
out. Despite the efforts of city car-
toonists to depict the Digger as a cross
between a bandit and a drunkard there
are thousands of first-class fighting men
who prefer a coffee supper after the
monthly meeting to the rush for grog
which is a marked feature of many sub-
branches.
The next step should be the elimina-
tion of paid secretaries in the country
districts, and then the breaking up of
the large sub-branches with numbers ap-
proaching a thousand into smaller units,
with all offices voluntary. A professional
secretary or organiser is not in the race
with a volunteer in keeping the members
together and getting them to work for
the real objects of the League. As lor
the questions of repatriation and other
affairs vital to country sub-branches, the
old-time honorary secretaries would run
rings around the professionals.
As a third move I suggest that some-
thing might be done to cut down the
Sydney paid staff below 62. This is one
of the reasons why hundreds of Old
Diggers have never joined the League
and never will join it. There is also the
unsatisfactory practice of copying the
A.L.P. method of sending out resolutions,
stereotyped, to the country sub-branches
and expecting them to be carried because
they are recommended by Sydney. One
instance of this was the mess made of
the elegibility issue by the State branch.
I nominate the Armidale (N.S.W.) sub-
branch as the right model for all sub-
branches to copy. It had no paid officers.
It did not make any appeals for charity.
It had an unpaid welfare officer who
watched every Digger’s family that was
likely to be in need of a leg-up in hard
times. If an orphan hadn’t the fare to
look for a job elsewhere, if a widow was
short of a pair of blankets for the winter,
if a man needed a tenner to get out of
debt he only had to mention it and the
sub-branch voted the money without
arguing for a second.
Nobody sought publicity. Nobody had
to be dunned for his subscription and
there were no moments wasted at the
monthly meetings. The honorary secre-
tary was a highly-placed Commonwealth
public servant whose efficiency and speed
in all executive matters were 100 per cent.,
and he loved the job for its own sake.
Until the League gets back to the old
spirit that made it highly respected by
Governments its numbers and influence
will continue to decline. —2315 (N.S.W.).
Science and Religion
Whatever “M.H.” (B. 7/5/’47) has
studied, it is certainly not astronomy.
The evolutionary theory applies to the
whole cosmos, on the principle that the
law that applies to the part applies to
the whole. It wbuld be as futile to con-
cede gravitation to a part of the cosmos,
and reject it on the cosmic plane. “M.H.”
should read From Nebulce to Man.
Nothing illustrates the stupidity of
Nature as does the study of astronomy
The major portion of the sun’s heat and
energy is wasted—one astronomer com-
pares it to turning on an arc light to
illuminate a mouse trap. The moon is
of no use to our planet except to “pro-
vide food for poets.” The two moons
of Mars are as of much use as two candles
placed over a large city. And Nature
has provided no steering wheel or brakes.
Some years ago an asteroid came into
the earth’s orbit. Had it struck the earth
a major catastrophe would have occurred.
Occasionally we are told of a new
star. A star at inconceivable distance
has fun into atmospheric dust or
collided with a dead star. Had there
been any planet in the vicinity with human
life all would have been destroyed. It
is possible that our sun and planets may
be destroyed instantly by another sun
“wandering” out of its orbit. It was a
wandering star that “created” our planet-
ary system.
What we call Nature’s laws are our
knowledge of what matter will do under
certain conditions. But Nature is blind
and merciless, and has no regard for
man.— Herbert Mulvihill (N.Z.).
Government and Private Enterprise
I’ve heard scores of people deride
Governmental department inefficiency (B.
18/6/’47) and they’ve all held up private
enterprise as the shining example of
efficiency. I believed ’em, and during
the war thousands of us looked forward
to the day when we’d be back in Civvy-
street with a private concern wherein red
tape, muddle, indecision, etc., would be
absent and we’d all get ahead on merit.
Well, I’ve been back in Civvy-street
long enougb now to know something
about tbe efficiency of private enterprise
and tQ know that the same kind of
le work f or it as work for the Gov-
ernment. I’m now firmly convinced that
ma jority of Government shows are
“Make it Willing , lads — she's running a few minutes late!"
at least equal to, in some cases ahead of,
private enterprise in organisation and
general efficiency. ,
My reasons are based on 12 months
contact with private firms and Govern-
ment departments. I’ve been held up by
having to fill in forms in quadruplicate,
but by the same token I’ve been held up
because in a private concern it took the
manager three hours to see the secretary
or vice versa.
The organisation of which I’m a mem-
ber is conceded to be a reasonably effi-
cient company, yet I’ve seen many ex-
amples of bad or inefficient work. Other
employees of private enterprise tell me
stories of similar bungling in their own
shows. *
From now on anyone who seeks to per-
suade me that Government departments
are inefficient because they are Govern-
ment-run will have to produce facts,
figures and comparisons with equivalent
private undertakings. Queenslander
(Q.).
Rabaul Is Different
Rabaul is cleaning its face. I’ve seen
the town three times in the last 10 years,
first soon after Vulcan burst from the sea
and old Matupj»s blast scorched the fore-
shore to the likeness of a shaven skull.
The next time, Jap prisoners were still
filing into the compounds from the hills,
and Rabaul presented much the same
war-racked face as before.
Today, however. Nature and the
Administration are busily at work.
Apart from landing barges, collected in
a rusting heap round Copra Jetty, and
the usual impedimenta of war’s after-
math clustering on piers waiting ship-
ment, Nature’s growth has healed the
wounds, and there is little to show war
passed this way.
.The bomb-shredded huts and offices
have been replaced with substantial
structures built at least to outlast the
present dearth of materials. Gardens and
lawns are again in evidence, and one trim
little house we passed on the way in with
its pinks and blues whipping on the wash-
ing line was indicative of woman s re-
turning and refining influence.
Graceful pleasure yachts and trading
schooners ride on the harbor, coconut
plantations are being weeded around its
edges, and over all, not but
like a giant whose destructive force is at
last spent, old Matupi puffs his sulphur
vapor into the sky.— Macnell (R.A.N.).
Can Australia Make It?
Anybody attending the “Australia
'Makes It” show at the Exhibition Build-
ing in Melbourne couldn’t help but be
struck by the variety of things Australia
can make, from pressure-cookers to
bombers. Every material under the sun
seems to be within the gamut of the
Australian manufacturer. From the
aesthetic viewpoint, however, the show
was intensely disappointing. There did
not seem to be an object in it, com-
mercial or domestic, that wasn’t com-
monplace.
Why? In the Middle Ages everything
had an artistic quality about it, even a
kettle or a shovel. There is no evi-
dence for supposing that thousands of
artistic geniuses arose in the Middle
Aaes anf died ouf or that the modern
worker is any less intelligent or less
technically skfiful than the worker of the
Midd e Aees
Middle Ages. - iAC •„ nrob .
One answer to the qu
ably short hours, high wag
union rules that discount incen ive.
Melbourne artist bought an armoire in
France for £3 and brought it to au -
tralia. A friend wanted a copy of it. He
found that the wood alone would cost
£3O, it would take several weeks for a
carpenter to make it and the total cost
would be over £lOO. Only the very
wealthy could afford such a luxury.
Yet the article in question was the
ordinary furniture of a peasant cottage
in the Middle Ages, and there are mil-
lions just as good scattered about Europe.
When things become so expensive the
only alternative to individual craftsman-
ship is mass production, and the mass-
produced thing is nearly always ugly. —
Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Soil and Character
Mrs. Elyne Mitchell (B. 11/6/*47) is
by no means alone in her theory. Sir
Albert Howard, originator of the Indore
system of composting, holds that food
grown by organic methods of farm-
ing [i.e., the use of natural fertilisers,
animal manures, compost, etc.) has
greater power of nourishment than food
grown with artificials, or, in the case of
stock, fed with crops thus grown. In his
latest book, Farming and Gardening in
Health and Disease, he presents an im-
posing array of evidence in support of
his argument.
Lady Eve Balfour’s The Living Soil
and F. Sykes’s Humus and the Farmer
are other books that plead a similar case.
Australians have no reason to be com-
placent about their general physique and
vitality. Recently a medical authority of
some standing, Surgeon - Commander
Roberts, R.A.N. (ret.), pointed out that
during the 1939-45 war 35 per cent, of
male Australians in the 17-26 age group
and 24 per cent, of females in the 18-27
group were declared unfit for the ser-
vices. An appalling percentage in a
country with such excellent living condi-
tions ; and faulty diet was named by
Dr. Roberts as a primary cause. The
quality of the national diet may have a
great deal to do with the lethargy and
lack of a purposeful attitude to life that
are becoming characteristic of too many
modern Australians,
The climate is sometimes blamed for
our sloth, but 80 per cent, of Australians
live in regions fully as temperate as the
Mediterranean area, that was the cradle
of European civilisation. For that matter,
otir hottest State, Queensland, breeds as
virile types as can be found anywhere
in the Commonwealth. — Clio (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
As Labor members have taken leave to
increase their pay whenever they want to
without any reference to the taxpayer, I
suggest they should be dubbed “£abor”
members. If the oversea trippers who
cost the country so many extra thousands
could be honored by some further dis-
tinguishing mark so much the better
Agricola (Tas.).
Air transport (B. 26 /3 / ’47) is not
cheap and there are no foreseeable
developments which will ever make it so.
Ninepence a pound is £B4 a ton, a pro-
hibitive freight for almost anything we
produce or use, and on the Brisbane-
Cloncurry run it would work out at
roughly Is, Bd. per ton mile —12 times
the cost of rail haulage. Big modern
’planes require big modern airfields and
they come fairly expensive. An ordinary
f.a.q. emergency landing strip might only
cost a million, but airports to handle
any traffic run anywhere up to £25 mil-
lion. Navigational aids to keep the
accident rate within bounds are also ex-
pensive, so, by the time you’ve made
arrangements to have “cheap” ’planes
serving all the country districts, you’re in
for a capital expenditure which makes
the cost of the Clapp Plan look like
pocket-money— Tidapa (Singapore).
Our servicemen were intrigued with
the variety of tapes, tins and cartons
used in assembling American supplies for
the front line. American cigarettes were
an example of well-considered and
thoroughly - executed packing after
months of lying in sun and rain the con-
tents were found to be perfect. It would
pay Australian exporters to pack goods,
not only for complete protection during
transit, but also for attractive presenta-
tion when opened, — Minto (Q.).
The number of ’plane crashes in pro-
portion to the number of ’planes in the
air today is probably no greater than that
of road accidents, but the number of
fatalities must be higher, because chances
of escape from serious injury are not so
good. Parachutes for passengers, there-
fore, seem less necessary than a para-
chute for the aeroplane. Couldn’t in-
ventors devise a simple, strong ’chute
which, when the ’plane got into difficul-
ties, could be floated out to hold the
’plane while the pilot made the best land-
ing possible? — Eve Merritt (N.S.W.).
During the last couple of years Pro-
fessor Bernard Heinze has given in
Adelaide a number of orchestral concerts
especially for schoolboys and girls. In
these he explained the instruments of the
orchestra, and the structure of sonatas
and symphonies. I attended a couple of
the concerts and you’d have thought it
was a hall full of highbrows, from the
silence that prevailed. Why not extend
the good work to country towns? —
S. R.E. (S.A.).
Germany’s huge guns (B. 2/7/’47)
were of little avail in either war. Big
Bertha, which tossed its shells 70 miles
into Paris, had no more than a nuis-
ance value. The big fellows parked
opposite Dover in 1939-45 merely blasted
the cliffs and cottages of a corner of
England while the inhabitants retired
deep into the chalk. A dozen Krupp
monsters were not worth one Mosquito
or Beaufighter armed with rocket missiles.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
From a letter recently received from
the United States:
I was surprised to find the Australian
Embassy such an impressive building. There
is so little in the papers here about Aus-
tralia, and people seem to know so little
about us, that I expected to see our
Embassy poked in a little back street and
housed in a tiny cottage.
—Pat Chiene (N.S.W.).
I settled down to enjoy a broadcast of
“Candida,” timed for 8 p.m. on the
inter-State programme. At the appointed
hour, instead of the play, Mr. Chifley
gave a nice talk about the census, and
was followed by the Commonwealth
Statistician, Dr. Wilson. Imagine the re-
action if a theatre audience, after paying
for its seats, were similarly treated!
Ceg (Vic.).
I live in a large country town where
the council’s rubbish cart makes daily
collections, tipping the stuff into a dump
where it is burned and wasted. Wouldn’t
it be more sensible to treat it scientifically
and return it to the land? —J. T. (Vic.).
Somebody stole my overcoat, and I
tried to get coupons for another. “Did
I have any proof of the theft?” —“No,
the thief didn’t let me know he intended
pinching my coat.” “Did I inform the
police?”—“No, you can’t expect tffe
police to find the coat in a city of a
million and a half.” —“Couldn’t I get a
note from my employer verifying the
theft?” —“He didn’t know anything about
it. Didn’t know I owned a coat.” “Well,
we can’t give you coupons without
proof.” If this should meet the eye of
the bloke who stole my coat, would he be
kind enough to swear an affidavit setting
out the details and send it to me? —W.
Muggins (N.S.W.).
I mentioned that “pocket-money” dis-
cussion (B. 2/7/’47) to the father of two
boys attending a Sydney G.P.S. Said he,
“What a lot of damned rot. If Jack and
Algie didn’t have 10 bob each in their
pockets they’d suffer from an inferiority
complex. Fancy, too, if it came to their
turn to shout and they had no money! ’
Truly, as “Khasi R.” says, it’s the empty-
headedness and vanity of parents which
make many failures in life. — All-Blue
(N.S.W.). .


_A
O'
RH.C.
M
r.
SjUI /**f
©KIBDA
3
Dear Motorist,
The little lead seal with the Shell trademark, that seals the
underground tank of every Shell pump, is a Shell service highly approved by
public and brade alike, for everyone prefers - to buy and sell guaranteed ,
products.
Shell is the only company that has ever sealed its pumps, or
seals them now. Unavoidably suspended through the war, this extra service
has been resumed. Shell again completely controls its petrol from the ocean
tanker to the tank of your car.
Most motorists want. Shell, and the Shell pump is again their
faithful servant.
PS
f OU
C A
BE
SURE
OF SHELL
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated In Great
Britain!
