

The House of Seppelt ... pr
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68-3512
Wednesday, June 4, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
KYLEMORE CASTLE
LONELY GUARDIAN OF SERENE LOUGH KYLEMORE
'T'HE western district of county Galway, Ireland, is one of the
most mountainous regions of the emerald isle. To the north
lies historic Joyce’s Country with its lofty peaks, while to the south
rise the majestic heights of the Twelve Pins, the highest of which
is 2695 feet above sea level. Between these areas is the quiet sheet
of water upon whose shore stands picturesque Kylemore castle.
Built in 1864, this castellated building is famed for its interior of
richly-decorated Connemara ’marble, quarried in the district. The
building is of granite faced with limestone, and was in the Irish
estate of the Duke of Manchester, a IJritish title borne since 1719
by the family of Montagu. Another Irish castle, that of Tantargee
in Armagh, was also a seat of this famous family. The area
surrounding Kylemore is well wooded and offers good shooting.
The waters of the lough feed the short river Dawros, which con-
nects the lake with the Atlantic at Ballynakill Harbour, less than
ten miles distant.


Umj
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovt obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,**
it V Fame
Address
8.8. 247
AGE
The Red Page
A LIFE OF BOSWELL.
Dr. Johnson had recommended to
Strahan the printer a poor boy from the
country as an apprentice. Calling on
Strahan, he said, “Mr. Strahan, let me
have five guineas on account, and I’ll
give this boy one. if a man recom-
•mends a boy and does nothing for him,
it is sad work. Call him down.” Strahan
called the boy into his courtyard, and
Boswell records the interview:—'
“Well, my boy, how do you go on?”
“Pretty well, sir; but they are afraid I
ain’t strong enough for some parts of the
business.” Johnson: “Why, I shall be
sorry for it; for when you consider with
how little mental power and corporeal labor
a printer can get a guinea a week, it is a
very desirable occupation for you. Do
you hear —take all the pains you can; and
if this does not do we must think of some
other way of life for you. There’s a
guinea.”
Here was one of the many, many in-
stances of his active benevolence. At the
same time, the slow and sonorous solemnity
with which, while he bent himself down, he
addressed a little, thick, short-legged hoy,
contrasted with the boy’s awkwardness and
awe, could not but excite some ludicrous
emotions.
This is mferely one of the lighter
sketches from Boswell; but it shows what
he could do: how alert was his mind for
the slightest incident that could help build
up his picture of Johnson, how exact
was his eye not only for his hero but for
the “little, thick, short-legged boy,” how
keen was his ear for the particularities
and peculiarities of Johnson’s conversa-
tion, how splendid was the balance of
his mind that could show his man simul-
taneously ludicrous and majestic.
“I will not cut off his claws and make
my tiger a cat to please anyone,” Boswell
retorted to Hannah More, so D. B.
Wyndham Lewis records in The Hooded
Hawk; or The Case of Mr. Boswell
(Eyre and Spottiswoode ; Moore’s Book-
shop). And Boswell didn’t. Johnson’s
conversation is recorded as bluntly as he
spoke it:
Johnson, for sport perhaps, or from the
spirit of contradiction, eagerly maintained
that Derrick had merit as a writer. Mr.
Morgann argued with him directly in vain.
At length he had recourse to this device.
“Pray, sir,” said he, “whether do you
reckon Derrick or Smart the best poet?”
Johnson at once felt himself roused; and
answered, “Sir, there is no settling the point
of precedency between a louse and a flea.”
And the portrait of Johnson is, of course,
as frank as it possibly could be:
While talking or even musing as he sat
in his chair, he commonly held his head
to one side towards his right shoulder, and
shook it in a tremulous manner, moving
his body backwards and forwards, and rub-
bing his left knee in the same direction,
with the palm of his hand. In the intervals
of articulating he made various sounds
with his mouth, sometimes as if ruminating,
or what is called chewing the cud, some-
times giving half a whistle, sometimes
making his tongue play backwards from
the roof of his mouth, as if clucking like
a hen, and sometimes protruding it against
his upper gums in front, as if .pronouncing
quickly under his breath, too, too, too:
all this accompanied sometimes with a
thoughtful look, but more frequently with
a smile.
These are familiar quotations. Yet,
so much has Boswell been held up to ridi-
cule and contempt, and so enthusiastically
did he discuss his own weaknesses and
buffooneries, it is necessary at all times
when considering The Life of Samuel
■Johnson to remind oneself that it wasn’t
Johnson who wrote it, but Boswell.
Boswell, in short, was a man of letters.
It is strangely necessary to recall and
keep recalling this simple and obvious
truth when reading The Hooded Hawk:
for D. B. Wyndham Lewis, though he
has the warmest admiration for Boswell’s
talents, insists, throughout the first half
of his book, on discussing him as anything
but a literary man. As a rake, yes; as
a drunkard, yes; as a buffoon, yes; as
a flatterer, yes; as a man humiliated by
Johnson a hundred times, yes ; as an
artist, no. Mr. Lewis’s picture is of a
sinner who might have been “saved” if
he had followed an impulse of his youth
and turned Catholic; a theme which is
both forced and irrelevant.
It would have been much better
for his book had the author never
learned that Boswell was friendly with
Wilkes, and that Wilkes in his youth
joined with some other wild fools in prac-
tising a mild form of the Black Mass,
For Wilkes, though he soon turned the
rites into a joke by releasing a billygoat
into the chapel when the Devil was being
invoked, is Mr. Lewis’s King Charles’s
head. Mr. Lewis thinks, indeed, that
Wilkes was the Devil in person;
Wilkes is the Primal Goat leering behind
all that dainty fla-fla we love in Thackeray
and Austin Dobson; a cynic whose genial,
cultured, destructive charm strangely recalls
that of Goethe’s Mephistopheles, and whose
smile Boswell never could resist.
Having written that on page 15 and
proceeded most valiantly to do battle with
the Devil for the next hundred pages,
Mr. Lewis pauses. “It is difficult,” he
says, “as one surveys the relations be-
tween Wilkes and Boswell, not to fall
into romanticism and to descry the tempt-
ing parallel of Mephistopheles and
Faust.” Eleven lines further on Mr.
Lewis, to use his own term, falls head-
long into romanticism and Wilkes is the
Devil again: “An urbane and perfect
Mephistopheles, Mr. Wilkes, shrugging,
grinning and undermining.”
Since Wilkes is to be the Tempter in
Boswell’s life, it is necessary—for the
sustaining of Mr, Lewis’s drama of hell
and hfcaven battling for the soul of the
hapless laird of Auchinleck —that Dr.
Johnson should be the Good Angel. And,
with a due disregard for human and
historical probability, and for Johnson's
hardly angelic attitude to Boswell’s Tour
in the Hebrides, the lexicographer is so
portrayed. Both prior to his marriage and
after the death of his wife Johnson is
presumed to have lived in unremitting
chastity; and, though Boswell himself
Says in the Life that he and Johnson dis-
cussed the relations between men and
women with a serious but unprintable
frankness, and though Mr. Lewis quotes
a letter in which Johnson speaks of
Boswell’s “wild life,” the reader is twice
asked to believe that Johnson didn’t
know his friend was a rake.
A propagandist approach to literature
is never to be approved. Mr. Lewis’s
religiosity (which should, of course, be
distinguished from his religion) leads him
continually into overstatement and con-
tradiction. He is writing not what he
feels, but what he thinks he ought to
feel: for a writer who is obviously well
acquainted with Rabelais, Sterne, Field-
ing and Wycherley can never persuade
the reader that he really finds Boswell’s
love-affairs as “tiresome” as he pretends ,
nor, indeed, so reprehensible. Wishing
to rehabilitate Boswell’s reputation and
fascinated by his character, he finds him-
self obliged to ridicule him as “this
absurd Casanova.” The book, conse-
quently, lacks conviction. If Mr. Lewis,
when he is in this excited state of mind,
says it is a fine day, it is probably a wet
day.
The other grave faults in The Hooded
Hawk, as distinct from those of propa-
ganda, give the impression that the
author has dazed himself with his own
tub-thumping. He bangs away at his
subject in the most irresponsible manner,
coloring everything too highly and, on
every other page, contradicting himself.
If it is propaganda that makes him say,
when Johnson leaves Auchinleck for
London, “Boswell returned to his wallow”
(the man, after all, was not a pig); it is
mere natural exuberance of mind that
makes him populate eighteenth-century
London almost exclusively with “thugs,
thieves, sharpers, pimps, crimps, bullies,
blacklegs and highwaymen and their
doxies.” And it is the same uncontrol-
lable exuberance that makes him say
on page 68 that “the rough-and-tumble
seasonal booths of Bartholomew’s Fair”
wouldn’t have appealed to Boswell and
his friend Derrick, exploring London in
their youth, and then, on page 70, have
the pair hobnobbing with all the thugs,
thieves, pimps, crimps and doxies (etc.)
in the equally rough-and-tumble sur-
roundings of Hockley-in-the-Hole.
And as the narrative of events, actual
or supposed, gives the impression that
Mr. Lewis doesn’t care what he says as
long as he says it with a thump, so does
the style. If, indeed, one may use that
term for what is, correctly, an absence.
This is the humorist Wyndham Lewis,
not the experimentalist author of The
Childermas and The ApeS of-God, and
this Mr. Lewis, as a writer, is chiefly re-
markable for having no style whatso-
ever. He has an imitation of a style, or
several imitations of several styles. Some-
times he is polysyllabic, almost John-
sonian ; sometimes he is slangy; some-
times he is archaic; at all times he is
uncertain, hoping to be humorous, but
wallowing in words like a grampus;
I cannot help toying with the fancy that
Boswell deliberately avoided mention of the
more splendid crackpots of his time because
he was secretly perturbed by his own gid-
diness and by fear of “going off his
rocker,” to use another excellent folk-
phrase As for Temple, a mild and
monochrome personality, unfortunately
wedded and a Whig to boot Perhaps a
round of golf on Saturday evenings, though
I find no evidence that Boswell ever played
this rancid game There might have been
more of this schoolboy stuff to raise Edin-
burgh’s eyebrows, but lo and look ye!
Who is this trim cavalier riding through
Glasgow on November 15?....Yet to hear
some twittering pedant of the Twentieth
Century patronising it gives one a grue...
As a result of all this frenzy, Mr.
Lewis, while meaning to do the opposite,
inevitably does much injustice to Bos-
well. Amidst the roaring of the moral
lion and the tumbling of the stylistic
circus it is difficult to come across Bos-
well alone in a quiet corner for a moment
and to learn something of the charm
the intelligence, the wit and the essentia
soundness of the man who captivated i
turn Rousseau, Paoli of Corsica, Vol
taire and Johnson. Mr. Lewis has been
able to draw on all sorts of rare or un
published Boswelliana for this book, hi
correspondence and the private paper
published by Colonel Isham; and afte
diving, as it were, into that great sack
he has emerged holding up in triumph—
D. B. Wyndham Lewis,
It is the opposite of Boswell’s method
which, as he said in the Life, was not tc
melt down my material into one mass
constantly speaking in my own person,’
but to present Johnson by his conver
sation and his letters. Boswell’s methoc
is not always practicable when the sub
ject of the proposed biography has long
been dead ; but, having had access to the
private papers, it does seem that Mr
Lewis has failed to take advantage of
wonderful opportunity to Boswellise Bos
well.
Possibly he was not able to quote as
freely as this method would have necessi-
tated. His own method, that of presenting
a concept of a character, remains legiti-
mate. But the concept he adopts and at-
tempts to dramatise—Boswell as a man
who might have been “saved” by chang-
ing his religion—is as unsatisfactory as
it is inappropriate. It would be possible,
no doubt, to explain any aberrations
in the life of Aristophanes on the ground
that he was not a Presbyterian ; but il
would be surely more natural to discuss
him as a playwright. And Boswell’s
lapses, if such they are to be termed, his
debaucheries and his black fits of de-
pression, are typically those of a literary
man ... a literary man uncertain of his
purpose or not able fully or constantly
to employ his talents.
True, other men get drunk ; butchers
and grocers and bookmakers. All men
have their troubles, all men hunger for
more than life will give them ; all men,
one would not dispute with Mr. Lewis,
feel the need for spiritual fulfillment. But
men fulfill themselves —or don’t —in
different ways. We can understand Bos-
well best as a man born to fulfill him-
self in the special way of literature. And
the biography that needs to be written
is one that will show Boswell as the great
man he was, not the light-hearted trifler
he often pretended to be in the Life. We
need to be shown Boswell, in all his
meetings with Johnson, coolly, shrewdly,
with malice and with pity and with
wonder, watching his man: studying him,
using him, and, in the end, turning him
into a masterpiece. Not “exploiting” him,
as has been said, but immortalising him.
For The Life of Samuel Johnson is
indeed a masterpiece. And, in an age of
affectation and pomposity, a master-
piece of realism. Boswell, like Pepys, had
the gifts of a novelist, an ironic mind, an
observant eye, a profound understanding
of character, a love of life in all its fas-
cinating complexity. Possibly, because
it is harder, the art of the novelist is to
be valued above those of the diarist or
such a biographer as Boswell was —an
inspired reporter. Yet the novelists draw
largely on their own experience like the
diarists, and certainly put their friends
into their books as did Boswell. The
difference is not very great. It is hard
to value Fielding much above Boswell,
if indeed one should do so ; and, in fact,
you cannot find in Fielding characteri-
sation on the grand scale as you do in
Boswell.
For that you have to go to Shakspeare
and Dickens. Shakspeare, of course, far
exceeded Boswell in the impassioned
dramatisation of human nature ; Dickens
exceeded him by far in the multiplicity
of his creations. Yet Boswell’s portrait
of Dr. Johnson is characterisation in the
Shakspearean and Dickensian sense; to
be considered, say, with Falstaff and
Micawber. However he did it, Boswell
put a whole man down on paper. We
reserve the term “genius” for those who
perform this feat more often; but Bos-
well’s was at least a single stroke of
genius.
One stroke of genius won’t satisfy a
man all his lifetime. There is a lot of
time to be filled in before and after the
stroke, and much difficulty in accom-
plishing it. And genius, or such share of
it as Boswell had, is not exactly comfort-
able company for a man: very pleasant
when it is being used in writing The Life
of Samuel Johnson or the Hebridean and
Corsican travel books, but at all other
times either an unaccountable exhilara-
tion or an unaccountable torment. And
that was Boswell’s existence: exhilaration,
torment, and the Life. There was one
thing more, a consolation and the source
of an inward dignity, and that was the
knowledge of his powers, the pride of
achievement. “I am absolutely certain,”
wrote Boswell to Temple, “that my mode
of biography is the most perfect that can
be conceived, and will be more of a Life
than any work that has ever yet ap-
peared.”
Mr. Lewis, who speaks of Boswell’s
“consciousness of a mission,” is well
aware of'this pride and dignity in him;
but he cannot help, in the very next
breath, describing these essentials of his
character as “that strutting, pursy com-
placency.” Which is an unfortunate
choice of words.
Yet Mr. Lewis means well by Bos-
well. And, in the second half of his
book, though always likely to slip into
extravagance, he does surprisingly well
by him. For, by a crowning mercy, Bos-
well is not often in Wilkes’s company in
these latter pages and so Mr. Lewis does
not have to maintain himself at boiling-
point. At all times he has a disarming
reverence for Boswell’s writing and, at
the end, repeating what he has said and
straightway contradicted a hundred
times in the book, he attacks “the Bos-
well legend” and defends him against all
who have misunderstood and derided him.
At which point—Mr. Lewis valiantly de-
fending Boswell against Mr, Lewis —it is
appropriate to leave him.
S.
The Rich Woman.
Anne Meredith’s The Rich Woman
(Faber) concerns politics, consciences and
love, and is set in the England of the
middle of the last century. All of which
is plain in chapter V, when an important
character is introduced.
Charles Hobart, riding past the waiting
cab to the foot of the hill, turned to the
left and reined in his mount in front of the
Manor. With his small head, narrow hips
and fine hands, he seemed as carefully bred
as the horses he delighted to own, and
under his surface gaiety he concealed a
conscience that seldom left him wholly at
peace. In those days, before democracy
had become a catchword and the social
order like a pudding in the making, a
hotch-potch of ingredients in a communal
basin that might in the oven turn into
Heaven knew what, men weren’t ashamed
to be gentlemen owing a debt to the country
that bore them, and their women were
wives and mothers and never felt they
weren’t’fulfilling their destinies because they
didn’t speak on platforms or write for the
press. Servants m those days were neither
skivvies nor ladies who obliged
In the cab was Elizabeth, unwanted
and illegitimate child of a lady of quality,
who is being handed over to a pair of
baby-farmers by a sinister and coldly un-
real lawyer. And Charles, arriving home
in the next paragraph, informs his wife
—whom he loves—that he fears some-
thing is amiss up at The Haven, where
the baby-farmers live.
After some horrors—powerfully and
dramatically told Charles rescues
Elizabeth from the baby-farmers and
adopts her, Elizabeth grows up in a
normal household, and is happy until
she meets a needy and radical politician,
Henry Fletcher, who informs her, in
effect, that it is wicked to be happy and
idle when, beneath the agreeable surface
of life as she lives it, there is a gigantic
bubbling of misery and want. Over-
powered by these arguments, Elizabeth
marries Henry, who is inclined to neglect
her for the masses. Elizabeth falls in
love, then renounces love and settles to
becoming Henry’s affectionate wife, his
able political lieutenant and finally his
widow. Then, shining with reflected
political glory, she dies in the presence of
her grandson, his wife, an old servant and
her lover, who in the meantime has ad-
vanced from the rank of captain to
colonel.
In all this there is a great trouble of
consciences, and the author has made a
conscientious effort to give each character
a fair showing. In this she is successful
only with Elizabeth, and that partially;
for the character of Elizabeth, mild, yet
adventurous and essentially loving, is
made to bend too much to a theory. The
theme —interesting as it is as a study of
environment and the logic of events—
seems improperly applied. And it is
likely enough that the author herself lost
faith in it, which explains the sudden
and marked drop in interest immediately
after Elizabeth says goodbye to her
lover.
Even so it might have held together
better if Henry had been a more com-
plete character. Presented as a fiery and
incorruptible idealist, he is inescapably*'
dull; a demagogue ; a bore. And of the
other characters only the murderous Mrs.
Martin and her mentally-deficient sister
can compare with Elizabeth as flesh-and-
blood. They, too, have the advantage of
coming early in the book, of being seen
in action and, being villainous and
idiotic, are not encumbered by theories
Which tempts one to the theory
wickedness is more readable V'
morality, social or otherwise.


Don’t miss “Playhouse of Favourites” every Wednesday night, at
8.30 p.m., 2CH, sponsored by Anthony Horderns’. The classics, enacted
■*- \
by radio favourites, will be brought to you in complete half-hour plays.
Anthony Horderns’
(Left)
Be warm and action-free in all wool heavy
Flannel Slacks, available in Forest Green
or Port Wine. Featured is a fitted waist
band, two pockets and pleated front.
Fractional fittings, waist 25-in. to 32-in.
7 coupons. Price 45/6
Showerproof, windproof jacket. Yours in
Nigger Brown and Navy . . . this jacket
features raglan sleeves, storm-proof cuffs at
wrist, slanted pockets for protection against
moisture, elastic-sided waist-band. We dyed
this English Gabardine ourselves so that we
can guarantee the fastness of colour. Sizes
32-in. to 40-in. bust. 10 coupons. \3B/-
t
mb'
I
I
111
-••••■• .:••■■■• v
vOo
£
'• ;
• •-*•■:;
mmm
:>vx : :: ;
Z\ !
I
\
il
iiiili
yiiMi
/
li*
vs
A
•M
a
s\
on
X
w
SPORTS SHIRT
Snow-white Shirt in all wool
to give you crisp eye-appeal
. . ' . two-way neck, short
sleeves. 4 coupons. Price, 33/-
Active Sportswear —
Second Floor , Pitt Street.
( Above)
Beautifully cut, neat fitting Suede Vest, ideal for topping off your slacks
or shorts. We particularly recommend this jacket when you go riding.
Try it on in bright Emerald, Wine or Brown. Sizes SSW, SW and W,
Coupon free. Price 39/11
Designed to give that slim, upright line, these all wool tailored slacks are
fashioned from a fine hopsac and are available in Mid Grey. They feature
a pleated front and placket pocket. Sizes 26-in., 27-in,, 28-in. and
30-in. waist. 7 coupons. Price 61/-
TELEPHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


M M/17*
%
r
<6
tat
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Win you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Phllp Trust Co. Ltd. as Joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. Hie Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Josepn Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Buxton ■ Eric Priestley Bee.
.Manager—B. S. Parker. Secretary—E. K. Overton, A.F.I.A,
BURNS PHIIP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901.
Box 843 , ©.P.0., Sydney.
EP ?-«4.
HARTS
Circular Charts lot all type* irf
Recording Instruments tor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get eui quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
PTV. LTD.
BRISBANE. O 10.
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts % and Mining Activities,
2/- per copy. 22/6 a year post free.
If you own War Savings
Certificates bought in 1940...
. nU . l 0 wing* oWf
tete ’ S lon li-
lotaV P« w °" 1 J/Of
There’s no point in cashing maturing War Savings Certificates—you’ll do much
better with your money later.
You haven’t missed the money you invested in 1940, so why not hold on for
another 5 years—and make an extra 3/- in the pound profit—bringing the total
to 43% on your original investment!
HERE'S WHY
Savings Certificates are now on sale in a
new five-year series for face value, in
denominations of £l, £5, £lO and £5O.
In five years’ time they will be worth
£l/3/-, £5/15/-, £ll/10/- and £57/10/-
respectively.
These generous rates of increase also
apply to War Savings Certificates matur-
ing this year—if you don’t cash them!
Every pound’s worth, for which you
paid 16/- seven years ago, will further
increase in value each year, at better
than bank rates of interest, to £l/3/- in
five years’ time, a total profit on your
original investment of 43%.
HERE'S WHAT TO DO
1. War Savings Certificates lodged with
your bank for safekeeping; Just leave
them there—the increase in value will
automatically continue.
If you have instructed your bank to
redeem the Certificates on maturity,
cancel that instruction.
2. War Savings Certificates in your own
possession: Hold on to them and they
will automatically increase in value—or,
better still, lodge them with your bank or
savings bank for a further five years.
They will be kept in safe custody com*
pletely free of charge.
• • •
There is no better place for your savings
than in Savings Certificates. So hold on
to all you own, and buy as many more as
possible of the new five-year series. They
are cashable at any time, and the annual
increases in value are free from taxation.
Regardless of holdings of War Savings
Certificates, everyone can own Savings
Certificates of £250 face value .
Don't cash your maturing War Savings
Certificates. • • • They will continue to increase in value
at the same rate as the
MM 5-YEAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
55C9.113.27
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Whereabouts of Harry Peard, last heard of
at Gulgong (N.S.W.).—4022.
To buy Economic History of Europe, by
Heaton, published by Harper.—4023.
Words of verse entitled “The Bush Parson”
beginning: —
On the road to Milparinka
A swagman trudged in the heat and dust.
—4024.
(1) Amount collected from petrol tax? (2)
Purpose for which tax is collected? (3) How
much of this amount is spent on roads?
(1) In the year 1945-46 the amount collected
by customs and excise duties on petrol was
£12,191,522. (2) These taxes are levied to
provide payments to the States under the
Federal Aid Roads and Works Agreement of
1937 and to meet the general expenditure of
the Commonwealth. (3) In 1945-46 the sum
of £3,328,000 was granted to the States under
the above agreement for the construction and
maintenance of roads. A small portion of the
grant may be expended on other works con-
nected with transport if the States think fit.
* * * •
(1) How much money are old-age pensioners
(man and wife) entitled to have ? (2) Can they
own a car? (3) Are old-age pension cheques
posted to pensioners? (4) Must a birth cer-
tificate be presented when making application
for pension ?
(1) Combined assets of husband and wife
(including cash on hand, in bank, bonds, war
savings certificates, vehicles, etc., but excluding
property occupied as the home) not exceeding
£119 in value would not cause a reduction to
the pension rate on account of property. Such
assets totalling £1300 would disqualify husband
and wife from receiving a pension and such
assets between £l2O and £I3OO would result
in a part-pension, provided income did not
affect. (2) Yes, and the value is included in
the property computation as here outlined.
(3) Yes, if desired. (4) Yes. In the absence
of documentary evidence in proof of date of
birth, the department endeavors to trace the
birth.
* * * *
Is the president of a society, who also acts
as chairman at general meetings, in order in
taking part in a debate as ‘‘a private member” ?
If the chairman desires to take part in a
debate the proper procedure is for him to ask
some responsible person to take the chair
while he speaks in favor of or against the
motion. By doing so he becomes for the
time being an ordinary member of the society;
and thus the reputation of the chairman for
impartiality remains unsullied.
jj: * * *
What is the legend that the clock of St.
Paul’s, London, once struck thirteen, and the
proof of a sentry’s innocence of crime depended
on verification of the fact ?
In June, 1770, an obituary notice appeared
in the London “Public Advertiser.” It recorded
the death at 102 of John Hatfield and related
how in the reign of William and Mary he was
court-martialled on a charge of having fallen
asleep on duty upon the terrace at Windsor.
The notice said: “He absolutely denied the
charge and solemnly declared that he heard
St. Paul’s clock strike thirteen, the truth of
which was much doubted by the Court because
of the great distance. But while he was under
sentence of death an affidavit was made by
several persons that the clock actually did
strike thirteen instead of twelve; whereupon
he received His Majesty’s pardon.”
* * * *
(1) Is U legal to trap water-rats and dispose
of their skins in N.S.W. ? (2) Method of
skinning and pegging out? (3) How many skins
would it take to make a small fur coat? (4)
Method of keeping skins in good condition?
(1) The water-rat is not as yet protected in
New South Wales and it is therefore not illegal
to trap it and dispose of the skin in this State.
Every care must be taken, however, to avoid
conflict with the Victorian protection of the
animal. (2) The skin should be opened-up
down the belly and pegged out flat, without
undue stretching, after removal of flesh and
fatty tissues. (3) The number of skins required
for a coat for a “small women’s” fitting would
be from 70-80 according to the average size of
the skins. (4) The skins, naturally dried, away
from smoke-fires and strong sunlight, may be
stored in a dry place without any preservative,
but plentifully sprinkled with naphthalene
against insects. <■
* # * •
- Who were the Seven Sleepers ?
Seven noble youths of Ephesos, who fled in
the Decian persecution to a cave in Mount
Celion, After 230 years they awoke, but soon
died, and their bodies were taken to Marseilles
in a large stone coffin, still shown in Victm’s
church. Their names are Constantine,
Dionysius, John, Maximian, Malchus, Mar-
tinian and Serapion.
* * * ♦
Who was J. F. Hogan, author of ‘‘The Irish
in Australia” ?
James Francis Hogan was born at Tipperary,
Ireland, in 1855, and while an infant emigrated
to Australia with his parents, who settled near
Melbourne. He was educated at St. Patrick’s
College, Melbourne, entered the Vic. Education
Dept, in 1873, joined the literary staff of the
Melbourne “Argus” in 1881, and settled in
London in 1887. He was M.P. for Mid Division,
Tipperary, 1893-1900. He wrote a number of
books, .including History of the Irish in Aus-
tralia, Robert Lowe, The Lost Explorer and
The Australian in London, and some thousands
of paragraphs for The Bulletin. He died at
the age of 69.
Brief Answers.
D.H.: Husband would appear eligible for
Service pension—old-age class, paid to returned
soldiers over 60,, and inquiries should be made
of the Deputy Commissioner, Repatriation
Commission, 77 York-street, Sydney. If such
pension granted, an allowance is usually granted
to the wife J.R.: An pld-age pensioner who
is single or widowed may have an income of
£1 per week (including earnings), or more than.
£1 per week so long as the income does not
exceed £52 in any 12 months, without alteration
to the pension rate on account of income. In
the case of a married pensioner, the total in-
come of both may reach £lO4 W.F.P.: (1)
Total of £ll9 without alteration to the pension
jate on account of property, provided there
are no other assets apart from home property
in which residing. (2) A part pension would
be payable if total assets of husband and wife
(including bank account) were over £ll9 and
under £I3OO, and total income under £lO4
W.K.: In the absence of particulars as to the
age or condition of the tobacco, or the type
of tin in which it is packed, it is not possible
to give advice. Get in touch with the British-
Australasian Tobacco Cos., Kensington (N.S.W.),
and give it the opportunity of inspecting the
tobacco G.S.: (1) The amount deposited by
the insurance company under the Insurance Act,
1932-37, is regarded by the Commonwealth
Treasury as confidential. It advises, however,
that the co. has fulfilled all the requirements
of the act in the matter of deposits to be
lodged by a company carrying on insurance
business (other than life-insurance business).
(2) The section of the Act applicable to this
company requires a deposit of £IOOO in respect
of each £SOOO of its annual premium income.
....J.W.: (1) Rabbit baits are used in cases
where the carcasses are not wanted. The poison
generally used is strychnine, which is applied to
any foodstuff the animals will eat. (2) A be-
ginner with a small truck should be able to
operate about 100 traps. This number could
be increased later on when more experience
in the work is gained. (3) As most trapping
is done on private lands the matter is one for
arrangement between the trapper and the owner
or occupier of the land. (4) The shire council’s
consent will be required for any operations
carried out on roads and reserves. In any case
it would be advisable to consult the shire clerk,
who would be able to give useful local in-
formation M.P.: (1) Yes, and no reduction
is made to pension rate on account of that
property so long as the pensioner continues to
reside therein. (2) £59 cash in hand, bank,
bonds, etc. (3) £1 income per week apart
from pension without alteration to the rate
on account of income.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TjuT^Bxdletxm,.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
12 months £l4O
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:-:
12 months 16 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands—-3 mouths ~ ..£lBO
Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
HERBERT PERCY BURGESS or DOROTHY GEOR-
GINA BURGESS please communicate with N.
BURGESS, C/o “BULLETIN,” Brisbane?
WANTED to know the address of WILLIAM
SOMMERS or SUMMERS, late of Sandstone, West
Australia, or next-of-kin. Important.—WlLLlAM
LANGFORD, Mullewa, West Australia.
RW
TOUR Rupture
Worries!
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROCSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
* S 4fIN TO MW* IHE
‘Martinis-
Most people who like cocktails like Martinis. A Martini is simple to
mix, but remember that there are three versions, each tasting noticeably
i different from the others. You please people
far more if you are able to give them just
the Martini thes prefer. Here are the three
recipes.
€
m
Half fm a j> .
broken Ice and P ,3df!?“ Wi,h
}/3 aS j| grange Bitters.
ft {Bel'S—*.
Mueeze lemon-peel on top.
MABTtSV
X
'S sfe & ers G/»
A 9b “ *2S v.
Ye rnu>u th.
w>
111 Vickers O“^ oot i,.
1/5 f 'f*ake «e"-
\ce a nd . h an olive.
Serve * lth
JBS
mmumsom
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
This is your really reliable guide to the 50 most
appetising cocktails and most thirst-quenching long
drinks. Simple recipes, straightforward instructions.
Write for your free copy to The United Distillers
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
y
“RAPID” ACTION
CONCRETE BLOCK AND BRICK
MOULDING MACHINE
A Complete Plant in Itself
An Immediate Solution for Homebuilders
• 5 Models Available
• Hand-operated, Semi-automatic
• Eliminates Tamping
• Capacity 3 Blocks per minute
• Featuring Curved Blocks for Silos, Tanks, etc.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS—
INSPECTION INVITED
HALL & PYNE
Manufacturers of Special Purpose Machinery
63a Warren Road, Marrickville, Sydney.
’Phone: LL2441
lilt-
It your
flog’ b coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
tf he Is
less, won’t eat
or Is out of
sorts —be may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAREO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Boap.
D ADVA CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
uAKIvIJ SKIN LOTION .8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/B
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Marne and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
WS F : “I haven’t worried you for quite
a while”* Ah, but you have now J.A.W.:
“Unveiling” is totally unavailing.. K.C.; It
should appeal to King Canute.. . .C.R.: Not
the slightest objection to your being bitten by
fleas - but you might try some insecticide on
the bug that makes you write poetry about it.
GC.: Like any other sunrise D.C.:
It* shows command of metre and rhyme; but,
unless you are an aeroplane or a fairy, you
are doing altogether too much flitting and flee-
ing and flying....Darien: Not tiptoe upon the
peak; though it’s a change to see Sydney
Harbor described as “a vast hole filled with
insensate water”...-A.F.: Promising if you’re
young H. 8.: “The Brook” is watery
G M H.: “Hop Picking” is a valiant effort;
but one pint of what is made from hops would
be infinitely preferable... .A.M.: Something
pretty in “The Cuckoo,” but how does one
sing a “ream”? J.H.F.: Come again, with
a rhyme or tw0.... Z.P.: See if you can stop
your knees “a-trembling”... ,8.M.; You don t
really believe that trees “whisper to a butterfly
in a cocoon.” Why say so, then? L.S.:
“Just say what you think is wrong with the
damn thing.” Everything H.G.: Not in
free verse E.S.; Well, it has just the careless
charm of “the busy buzzy rumble of the
bumble bee” H.M.: No drought; no rain.
j.E.: A good thought; but that’s not
enough K.J.8.: By cripes, you’re cryptic.
J.O’G.: Fire away:
N.K.: It wouldn’t have any interest outside
your family circle G.S.; That old bush
character has been written about too often —
and, please, get a new ribbon for that type-
writer. ... W.K.T.: The type of melodrama which
made grandfather wipe away a furtive tear
is unusable nowadays... .S.G.; We’re not
fond of its kind, but it has point enough to be
worth giving a fly elsewhere E.M.E.;
Callow people doing unreal things... .R.G.:
We’ve met your green-eyed villain before —after
a heavy attack of beer-and-lobster A.C.D.:
Better than most of what is written on the
subject, but it’s sadly belated S.A.G.: What,
another buckjumper! There’s no stall* for
him here... .8.H.: Petty criminal steals a coat,
pawns it, buys a lottery ticket with the pro-
ceeds, wins £5OOO and reforms. No!
W.C.M.: What makes you think the average
wharflaborer is sweated and starved? R.D.:
Gave it up after the third murder J.C.T.:
“Old George” is ambling back to the home
paddock S.A.: Sixty pages, mostly descrip-
tion of scenery! Have a heart, brother
H. 8.: Drover failed to earn his tucker
W.Y.: Not interested in the views of Governor
Bligh’s ghost on the proposed import of his
bones... .G.H.H.: Both more suitable for an
English than an Australian market W.0.C.;
Story of happenings in a.d. 2047 is 100 years
too soon for us F.J.8.: Sorry, but “Old
Joe the Fencer” couldn’t last the distance
J.F.C.: First-person narratives written from the
grave usually end up in the basket P.S.:
Boil it down to a paragraph.., .E.W.: “Matter
of Opinion,” in our opinion, is a lightweight.
P.R.: Bush girl who shoots her stern
father warned off the premises.... E.M.E.:
Humor based on the antics of billygoats has
had its day....P.W.: Received “A Piece of
Wire.” Guy de Maupassant made a better
yarn about a piece of string.,. .M.O’C.: Keep
to modern times and make them shorter
L.H.J.; “Listen to My Troubles.” Not on
your life! 8.5.: You had a good idea, but
the story was not well enough written to carry
it through... .J.T.: Same old prospectors down
on their luck, same old lucky strike at the
finish W.A.: Although we cannot use the
yarn we wish “The Pommy Battler” good luck.
R.A.: Try it on a woman’s paper
J.1.L.: A well-below-the-average “crime doesn’t
pay” sketch.,. .D.R.: No shelter in our
columns for the fugitive N.T.: A. C.
Headley wrote yarns on the difficulty of selling
empty bottles and did them much better G.ST:
A “piece of realism” it may be, but the theme
is too sordid for us... . G.C.: Try a daily....
F.J.G.: Misses, but not by a wide margin....
E.W.: Send it to a magazine that specialises
m long natural-history stories.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K. 8.: Dad must have worn out no end of
boots on that persistent suitor J.H.W.: The
youngster is still in the copying stage; let’s see
some of his original work R.L.S.: Scarcely
worth the trouble of setting pen to paper....
T.L.: Inartistic corpse interred with fitting
solemnity... .L.M.M.: The deformed alien was
promptly deported from 252 George-street....
J.<5.: A visit to the Zoo should enlighten you
about the build of a hippo V.O’G.: Life-
less... .T.E.8.: The railway sleepers might
pass, but the tramps beside the track are awful.
E.McK.: If self-taught you are a poor
master F.H.C.Looks like two concrete
posts having a friendly chat S.T.: All are
eyesores... .S.M.: Same old dossers, same <pld
park bench, same old gag L.N.: More like
an overgrown dachshund than a horse....
S.R.D.: Sent back for repairs G.J.: Wash-
work too muddy T.M.: The day of the
silhouette has long faded away 5.8.: You
haven’t broken new ground with that cartoon.
P.C.D.: Office statistician reports that there
are 153 variations of that wheeze —all of them
old R.D.F.: No cheque for curate being
chased up church steeple by angry female... •
A.S.: Gag was going strong about the time
of the Boer war E.F.8.: You’re a bit late
in the day with your pictorial protest....
J.A.H.: They all appear to have been cavort-
ing in a quagmire... .W.S.; Yes, we buy
acceptable jokes without drawings at 7s. 6d.
a time N.G.; Exactly! V.O’G.: Dead-
beat with bag of snakes shooed out of the
office... .D.McK.: Gag was on active service
when The Bulletin was born.
THE ARMY OF TODAY.
The Army of Today to fight the Battle of Tomorrow
Will be expert at Disposing of its surplus Armament;
If the Unions condescend to let it have a Rocket
Bomb,
The C.D.C. will sell it, and we won’t see where it
went;
So salute the Setting Sun, me boys,
Salute the Setting Sun.
The Army of Today to light the Battle of Tomorrow
Will be getting higher pay, me boys, for learning
less and less
Of the gentle art of fighting; but as clerks in uni-
form
We will have no public equals in the Civil Wilder-
ness—
Pen-pushers super-plus, me boys,
Pen-pushers super-plus.
The Army of Today to fight the Battle of Tomorrow
Takes courage from the wisdom of its Country’s
Overseer;
For the Army won’t be needed in a button-pushing
war —
Though who will push what button for Australia isn’t
clear.
But cheer up, it won’t be us, me boys,
Cheer up, it won’t be us.


No. 14 of the "Cookabundy Chronicles"
By BRAIN JAMES
AS a young man, fresh from his
native Cork, Father Moran had
been counted extraordinarily hand-
some. In those early days he had
pioneered the new parish—nearly as big
as all Ireland it was —with an energy
as great as his ability.
Not so handsome now, but still re-
markable—black waves of hair turning to
white, big face growing craggy, mouth
growing hard, nose losing its shapeliness
and more inclined to resemble the beak
of an eagle, figure losing its ease and
grace. But the blue eyes—despite oc-
casional use of glasses—were bright; as
hard and piercing as ever. The mind was
as alert, the memory as retentive, the
tongue as eloquent. He was more intoler-
ant, more impatient of opposition, more
tyrannical.
He ruled his flock with a calculated
harshness. His people admired him, re-
spected him, were even proud of his
uniqueness among clerics ; but they feared
him, and some there must have been
who hated him. This proud man had had
only two human contacts —two conces-
sions to human needs. One of those had
been his friendship with Hagney, the
solicitor, the other his affection for his
niece.
Hagney—Matthew Hagney, as became
a “family solicitor”—was quietly wealthy,
of active middle age; always well-
groomed ; always well attired ; silver-grey
beard clipped to a neat point. In learning
and intellectual quality he came near
Father Moran himself. Apart from that
they were quite unlike.
The niece. Miss Cathleen Moran, had a
family resemblance to her uncle, but was
like him in nothing else. She had come
out from Ireland long ago to keep house
“The Hagney Affair” concludes
the series of extracts from “The
Cookabundy Chronicles” which
“The Bulletin” has published at
regular intervals 'over the past year.
for Father Moran. She was not young,
but a fine woman still. She advanced
gracefully with the years.
When Father Moran went to Ireland
on extended leave Mr. Hagney and Miss
Moran were married —very quietly.
For some reason Mr. and Mrs. Hagney
did not inform Father Moran either of
their intention or of the marriage when
it had taken place. No doubt they had
good and sufficient reasons, or perhaps
they thought to give the good cleric a
surprise.
If this last was their object, it succeeded
admirably. Father Moran, on his return
to the Cookabundy, was surprised; and
fumed and raged in his surprise. All
friendly relations with the Hagneys
ceased forthwith, though his real anger
was for Hagney.
His years, no doubt, were largely re-
sponsible for this unreasonable anger, and
for what followed —when, Sunday after
Sunday, he began to preach sermons in
which the word “clandestine” was rather
overworked. The word was pointed at
Hagney every time, no matter what the
subject might have been. Hagney and
his wife ignored the thrusts, and sat it
out, as it were,
T HEN, very suddenly, Mrs. Hagney
f died. There might have been recon-
cilation at this point. But there wasn’t.
After the first pangs of his loss, Father
Moran prayed publicly for his niece, said
masses and masses for her, exhorted the
congregation to offer fervent prayers for
her, introduced her into his sermons, more
than hinted at the treachery that had
robbed him of her. Still Mr. Hagney
sat it out —he might not have heard a
word for all the sign he gave, staring
straight before him, as still as though he
were carved in stone.
And then at last, one Sunday when a
reference to the evil consequences of a
“clandestine” marriage was too personal
and too pointed to be borne. Mr. Hagney
rose from his seat.
In a voice cold, clear, tremorless, he
spoke: “Father Moran, you have seen fit
to attack me Sunday after Sunday, in this
our house of worship. While I appreci-
ate the depths of your grief, it must stop
now.”
Mr. Hagney sat down, and stared be-
fore him, still as a rock once more.
No one seemed to breathe ; there might
not have been a living soul in that church.
Perhaps some were tensed for the bolt
from heaven that must fall to destroy
the holy place now so defiled. Father
Moran was turned to statue, a statue with
living moveless eyes that were focussed
for ever on Mr. Hagney.
Two, three seconds at the most, but an
age in living ; then he turned to the pulpit
steps, walked slowly down, crossed the
Sanctuary, seeming to grow smaller, older
and crushed beneath some unaccountable
burden as he proceeded. Then he sat on
his chair,, on the Gospel side of the altar
while the collection was being taken. He
stared, still as rock, over the Sanctuary.
It might have all been a dream.
The congregation stirred guiltily it
seemed, as though any movement was
added profanation. Breaths were re-
leased audibly.
Then the very relief of looking in
purses and pockets for coins, the tramp
of the collectors down the aisles, and the
sounds of threepences and sixpences in
the brass plates. When the service was
over at last Mr. Hagney walked as al-
ways from the door to his carriage. He
stopped nowhere, nodded to friends and
acquaintances, never noticed that every
eye was upon him and pretending not to
be. He drove off.
/"'NF course, during the week, the event
was broached and savored, but there
was no full taste to it—only a sort of as-
tringency like a green persimmon.
Certainly Kelly at the Contingent
spoke of it, waiting a fit opportunity
when the Protestants might not hear, for
he said the Protestants were licking their
very lips for it.
“I never did see the like of it,” said
Kelly.
Pat Casey bored the eternal black-
nailed forefinger into his hairy ear:
“Come what might, Kelly, come what
might. Father Moran is God’s priest,”
This was relevant and pertinent, for Casey
had deep within him the vague desire for
salvation, and the conviction that, with
the aid of Father Moran, he would reach
Heaven at last, shaggy, beery, dirty and
unkempt; but he would get there, and
no doubt something would be done about
his appearance and the trimming up of
him.
Teddy Clark came in. Teddy “be-
longed,” and he didn’t. A “sport” and a
bookmaker, he hadn’t been to church for
years. “Just saw Hagney,” he said, easing
his superfluous girth against the bar.
“Looking seedy, too.”
“I doubt if he is Irish at all,” said Pat
Casey.
“He don’t look Irish at all,” Dinny
Regan spoke for the first time. In Dinny
was a sturdy pride that he himself looked
very Irish. The Irish didn’t share in this
pride.
“Look at his beard! ” said Pat. “Ever
see an Irishman wid a beard like that?”
No one could recall such a thing, now
that Pat mentioned it.
“But he’s up against it now, if you ask
me,” said Teddy.
They all had another drink on the
strength of that.
NEXT Sunday the crowd at the
“ ’leven o’clock” was a record.
And Teddy was a part of that record
crowd ; so was Dinny Regan; and so
were scores of others who found, after
varying lapses of time, that the “ould
faith” was still strong within them.
Every seat was taken, every available
space for standing at the back was filled
and packed.
And then came the surprise. The
Bishop of the Diocese was to be the
celebrant. The Bishop ! Unannounced
and never even thought of. He preached,
too —a very brief sermon for a Bishop
who had come hundreds of miles to do
it. A mild sermon and kindly—just like
the Bishop himself,
'But there must be some connection be-
tween his visit and the happenings of
last Sunday. And there was sure enough.
The Bishop was really there to bless the
Church —or to re-bless it.
Up and down the aisles before mass
went the Bishop and Father Moran and
the altar boys. Incense and holy water
and the solemn intoning of blessing and
dedication.
And all the time Hagney in his place—
still alive, still not struck down, still like
stone.
“I wonder what Hagney will do now?”
said Teddy Clark after the service was
over.
“What can he do?”
That summed up all the curiosity, and
perhaps some of the anticipation. But
what could Hagney do? If he wasn’t
humiliated now all his pride was a hope-
less thing. The victory was with Father
Moran.
But all victories have the seeds of
defeat in them.
THE whole town now began to seethe
with real excitement. The inevitable
sides were taken. And the excitement —
and the cleavage—extended to the district
for miles around: The Grey Box, Round
Swamp, Two Rocks, Tipperary, Kilmar-
nock.
There seemed to be more afternoon
teas than usual, and the row at the Church
would invariably be introduced, so very
casually as if it wasn’t the real reason at
all for the afternoon teas. And the row
was sweeter than any of the nice cakes
that were served.
Then Mr. Hagney, Farley Gray and a
few others of influence began’a move-
ment to have all church matters —not
strictly sacerdotal brought under the
management of a church committee. That
was taken as a direct retaliatory measure
against the re-blessing of the Church.
Two big separate meetings were held on
VARIOUS VERSE.
Vase Painter.
Old grey-headed painter, why da you
moon
In a tiny, close attic this long afternoon,
While heavy air flaps like a moth in the
heat,
Dust slowly puffs down the length of the
street
As a sweating wind fingers each yellow
mud brick,
And a hawk breaks the sky like a black
crooked stick ?
You’re hardly alive, shut away in your
room,
Your beard like the tattered old ghost of
a broom.
The whites of your eyes sadly gone in
arrears
As they tremble above (with the flicker
of years
Or possibly joy, or yet possibly grief)
Your Kamares vase with the whirlpool
of leaf.
AH the priests and the ladies, the little fat
king,
Watch the bull-sports in the grand circus-
ring
Where slender sheer women, curved
shapely as thorns.
Vault over the sullenly-glittering horns,
And, arms raised to the sun on the hill’s
highest fold.
Laughs a beautiful goddess in ivory, gold.
Miles out of hearing, though still within
reach
Of those far-away cheers like surf on a
beach.
Your holiday lost, how you toil to pro-
duce
With fingers too shaky almost for use
This black-and-white bauble, this
chipped precious thing
For our eyes and our books and our
reckoning !
CANADA.
FRANCIS WEBB.
Port Light.
The street of old houses like a fleet paid
off:
At number forty-six a riding light
To port ignominiously winks at the
wharf.
These houses have for sailors in the night
A tang of salt, careened dong the shore.
They are like ships to board, prizes of
war,
Asking no quarter and no quarter giving.
These are the ships the dead sail, not the
living.
Hot iron gables like sun-reddened sails;
High poop decks, rows of attics, from
which scan
The wake of life the harpies love regales
With perfumed attributes to catch a man.
Trolling the seas for sailors, pleasure
ships
That fish for men —a glib phrase on the
lips:
“Houses of Pleasure” ... black “swans”
of the night,
Riding at anchor with one spurious light.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
Benguet Miracles.
Riding an invisible pony in the black
night
Through the Benguet mountains, blind
on the viewless trail,
I was pierced, in a lightning gash, by a
fabulous sight —
Death’s rim at my side, and the dragon
coiled at the core
Of the abyss, a Grendel flickering in
molten mail.
A second miracle broke on the black:
my eyes
Were stunned by a Milky Way, a galaxy
Of quivering gold in the valley, fallen
from skies
Mysteriously; necromantic till lightning
unveiled
A myriad fireflies starring a mango tree.
Mountaineers all, riding the terrors of
space
And imperilling time, we turn such en-
counters, strange
And eruptive, to the will’s talismans held
to outface
Despair, while undaunted instinct, sure-
footed and calm.
Carries us on to the clear crest of the
range.
In the dark of our days, travelling the
edge of woe,
I can now dispense with the sun, for I
hold in my mind
The molten river and the fireflies dancing,
and know
I shall live by the inward lustre of
wonders flashed
From solacing beauty, immune to fears
of the blind.
A.C.T.
T. INGLIS MOORE.


| THAT'S NOT THE WAY
i TO BE GENEROUS
ip
m
m
V * * ‘ I:
■
*vV
fciSS
when Britain’s
millions are going hungry
Don’t give away your unused meat and butter
coupons to your butcher, your grocer, or your
friends. What may seem a friendly gesture is
really an unfriendly act against war-tom, weary,
flood-ravaged Britain. Save all the meat and
butter coupons you can, then send them off to help
British Food Relief. Or, if you prefer, simply
destroy your unused coupons and release extra
food for the people of Britain. All Australia’s
meat and butter is either disposed of against
coupons, or available for export. So the fewer
meat and butter coupons you use, the more meat
and, butter will be shipped Straight to Britain.
Britain’s present need is immediate and urgent.
u All possible supplies of meat should reach
England by end of June ”, states the British
Ministry of Food. So start your own “British
Food Relief” Drive, by sending (or destroying),
every meat and butter coupon yen can possibly
spare, at once.
how to get food to Britain auickiv
1. MAKE DO WITH LESS MEAT AND
BE SPARING WITH BUTTER.
2. HAVE AT LEAST ONE SPECIAL
MEATLESS DAY EACH WEEK.
3. SEND SPARE COUPONS POST
FREE.
4. OR DESTROY YOUR UNUSED
COUPONS DON'T GIVE THEM
Just ease up on Meat and Butter, the foods that Britain-
needs for survival, and let the family thrive on foods
that are not so urgently needed for export to Britain.
This practical way of cutting down the family’s meat
consumption will leave you with spare meat coupons,
every one of which can mean extra food for Britain.
Cut out unused meat or butter coupons, mark them
through with a cross and address them post free to:—
“British Food Relief,” Box XYZ, G.P.O. (Your Capital City).
By destroying your unused coupons, you leave more meat
and butter for export to Britain, So don’t give unused
coupons to your butcher, your grocer, or your friends.
* BRITAIN WILL RECEIVE EVERY OUNCE OF MEAT AND BUTTER YOU SAVE *
BRITAIN MUST HAVE MORE FOOD
ISSUED fiX THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
8FR5.114., 57
quite a number of Sundays after mass.
One was in the long room at the boys’
school, and the other in the long room at
the girls’ school. Hagney ran one, and
Teddy Clark, true member of the fold
once more, ran the other.
Hagney’s meeting was for the purpose
of instituting a Church Committee, and
Teddy Clark’s to defend Father Moran
from the indignity of having such a com-
mittee. Father Moran, of course, at-
tended neither meeting. But he had run-
ners provided for him to carry the latest
intelligence.
After the excitement of the meetings
many found it necessary to adjourn to
the pubs to recover. The Clark party
went to the Contingent.
Mrs. Kelly was all draped in very ex-
pensive, lacy black. Above the level of
the bar she was mostly bosom, and a
big red face that was hard, calculating
and sweaty. She was saying:
“And all he’s done for this town—what
sort of a place would it be if he hadn’t
lived here and toiled this forty years?”
Kelly came in at this moment, but
Mrs. Kelly didn’t retire. It was almost
like a family gathering; even Pat Casey
and Paddy Griffin were snarling at each
other.
“It’s up to us to show what we really
think of him,” said Kelly.
That was a popular sentiment. Teddy
Clark took it up. “You’re right, Kelly.
YouTe right. Something in a practical
way.”
There were more drinks, and more
talk, and Paddy Griffin summed up Pat
Casey as “shanty Irish,” and Teddy Clark
told the two of them to be quiet, and
“drink this up, will you?” and Hagney
was damned for his “flashness,” and Far-
ley Gray for his meanness, and Regan,
the storekeeper, for not taking sides, and
a lot of other people for taking sides —
the wrong side. But the germ of an idea
began to grow out oT Teddy Clark’s
suggestion of “something practical.”
As the days went by, and a lot more
talk with them, the plan emerged of
making a presentation to Father Moran —
as a mark of appreciation from half the
town for what he had done for the whole
town. It would have to be done properly
and in a big way.
THE sympathetic ear of Mr. Trist (“our
worthy Mayor”) was tapped. Mr.
Trist was delighted at the move. “AH
denominational considerations apart.
Father Moran has been a big, a useful, an
ornamental part of the very life and pro-
gress of this town.”
Mr. Trist said this on the' tapping of
his ear, and repeated it at a small but
influential meeting he convened. Though
Mr. Hagney’s name was not mentioned,
his discomfiture was as much the real
purpose of the meeting as anything else.
It was not to honor St. George, but to
gloat over the dragon.
The meeting was in the Mayor’s room
—very secret, for whatever was done was
to be a complete surprise to Father
Moran. There was many suggestions of
suitable presentations, ranging from a
portrait in oils to a pair of ponies; from
a purse of sovereigns to a memorial
drinking fountain.
It was Teddy Clark who said, “If I
may make bold to say it there are people
who might not favor a drinking fountain.”
Everyone saw the point, and everyone
smiled, or would have smiled, but Mrs.
Hawley-Brett, who was not disposed to be
amused at anything said by Teddy Clark.
It was decided finally to present the
“grand old priest” (the quotation is from
Mrs. Thompson-Watts) with a pair of
ponies, their purchase to be left in the
capable hands of Mr. Clark ; and a purse
of sovereigns and an illuminated address.
And all this to take place at a grand
banquet in the Town Hall.
The whole plan was to be kept secret
so that Father Moran might not be em-
barrassed by foreknowledge of it. Of
course, Father Moran was almost im-
mediately apprised of every smallest de-
tail.
Teddy Clark and Tim Noonan, from
the livery stables, went into conference,
and secured a beautiful pair of black
ponies at Bardoo. The deal waS shrouded
in mystery, but there were not wanting
those who declared that Teddy and Tim
made a handsome thing out of those
ponies.
An obscure artist was rescued from
his obscurity and brandy and commis-
sioned to “do” the address, which he did
in fine style.
The purse was being every day more
heavily loaded with golden sovereigns.
And all the while—the great “secret”
being wide open by now—the other half
of the town was joyfully supposed to be
writhing in futile rage. But that was a
very mistaken view. In the excitement it
wasn’t noticed at first that though the
“committee push,” as it was called, had
given up its campaign for church manage-
ment, it was still very active. Now it was
evolving a master plan for making a
presentation to Mr. Hagney.
“AH,” said Mr. Trist, when he heard
of the matter, “a laudable move in
every way. What wouldn’t I give to bring
together two such outstanding citizens of
this town?”
Of course, he meant Father Moran and
Mr. Hagney, and he was speaking to Far-
ley Gray. Although Farley was anxious
to run the whole show himself, he saw
(Continued on page 32.)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WANTED—A SUPER-SOLOMON.
UN.O. can claim to have served one
most useful and important purpose—by
having perforce to take over from Britain
the headache problem of Palestine it be-
came the means of making that previ-
ously always beclouded issue at last com-
pletely clear. . t
That should be of particular import-
ance in America, where the clouding, by
violently anti-British advertisements, has
been as thick as it must have been costly.
The anti-British ads., a sample of which
was given here some months back, would
run to many millions of dollars a year.
British official protests about one of
those ads., on the score of its stirring up
bloodshed in Palestine, underlines the
feeling, expressed by Mr. Bevin and
shared by all in Britain, that America
has been ready to criticise* but most un-
ready to share responsibility. To chal-
lenge that fence-sitting position was one
of Britain’s main motives in sending the
case to U.N.O,
Britain’s Case
In a most outspoken and stinging
speech making public diplomatic
dealings of a kind usually kept secret,
and stinging because there could be no
effective reply to it —Mr. Bevin an-
nounced in the House of Commons the
handing of the issue to U.N.0.;
“The issue which the United Nations
must consider and decide is this: (1)
Shall the claim of the Jews be admitted
that Palestine is to be a Jewish State;
or (2) Shall the claim of the Arabs be
admitted that it is to be an Arab State
with safeguards for the Jews under the
decision for a national home ; or (3) Shall
it be a Palestinian State in which the in-
terests of both communities are as care-
fully balanced and protected as poss-
ible?....
“We as a mandatory Power have no
power to make the decision. Nothing I
can find in any of the documents either
of the League of Nations or in the dis-
cussions between the great Powers
at Versailles and after indicate that we
have that power. The mandate cdrtainly
does not give it
“The Government came to the conclu-
sion that after all the force we had seen
throughout the world in the last twenty-
five years, force applied to this problem
would not produce a final solution, and
might produce wide difficulties in the
Middle East and start us on a road which
may well lead, in another quarter of a
century, to another war.....
“Immigration is now proceeding at
18,000 a year. There seems lo be an im-
pression everywhere that this is not an
abnormally large rate of entry, but it has
only-been exceeded five times in the
whole history of the mandate —in 1925
and in the first four years of Nazi rule in
Germany We might have been able
to have done more for the Jews and in-
creased this rate if the bitterness of feel-
ing had not been increased by American
pressure for immediate decision on
100,000.... .1 have done all I can to pro-
mote the best possible relations with
America, as with other countries, but I
should have been happy if they had re-
membered that we were the mandatory
Power and we were carrying the respon-
sibility
“Before the Anglo-Arab conference be-
gan last September things looked more
hopeful, and there was a feeling—l do
not think I overestimate it —that I had
the right approach at last. But what
happened? I went back to the Paris
peace conference, and the next day—l
think it was Atonement Day, or one
special day .of the Jewish religion—-the
Prime Minister telephoned me at mid-
night and told me the President of the
United States was going to issue another
statement on this 100,000.
“I wept next morning to the Secretary
of State, Mr. Byrnes, and told him how
far I had got the day before and that I
believed we were on the road if only they
would leave us alone. I begged that the
statement should not be issued, but I was
told that, if it was not issued by Mr.
Truman, a competitive statement would
be issued by Mr. Dewey. ...The state-
ment [Mr. Truman’s] was issued, how-
ler, and the whole thing was
spoiled
. "If it was only a question of alleviat-
ing Europe of 100,000 Jews I believe a
settlement could be found. I believe a
settlement can now be found if it is purely
a humanitarian thing I have got to solve.
Unfortunately that is not the position,
from the Zionist point of view 100,000 is
nnly a beginning. The Jewish Agency
talks in terms of millions.
I think the Arabs could be persuaded
to agree to 100,000 new immigrants in
an orderly way on humanitarian grounds
if —and I emphasise this —immigration
after that was to be determined by the
elected representatives of the people of
Palestine.
“The claim made by the Arabs is a
very difficult one to answer. They say
‘Why should an external agency, largely
financed from America, determine how
many people shall come into Palestine
and interfere with the economy of the
Arabs, who have been there for 2000
years.’ ” [The Jewish Agency was, on
May 26, granted advisory representation
on the Inquiry Committee set up by
U.N.O.]
Arab Plan
Mr. Bevin dealt further with the
arrangements he had almost brought off:
“In their plan the Arabs agreed that
the Jews should have their own language,
their own universities, their own religion
—everything. I think if other countries
who persecuted Jews gave them that there
—N.Y. "Herald [?]"
U.N.O. INHERITS A HEADACHE.
would never have been a problem. I
thought there were fundamental prin-
ciples which gave effect to what I under-
stand to be basis of the claim for a
Jewish national home.
“The Jews say that if that were done
they will be tolerated as a minority, but
I cannot alter the balance of people in a
State any more than any man could alter
it between Nehru and Jinnah in India.
“I am convinced that, if Jews and
Arabs in Palestine are given a chance to
work together they will work together to
solve this problem. But if it has to be
settled in accordance with Jewish Agency
dictates it will never be settled....
“Many people have said that the way
out of the difficulty was partition. But I
am sure if we agreed to partition we
would have ten times the row as to where
the frontiers should be. You cannot make
two viable States of Palestine however
you try. You can make one viable
State,”
“Successive British Governments have
honestly tried to do their best, and if
there has been a failure it is the failure
of the moral consciences of international
organisations to grapple with this prob-
lem as a whole.
“Take the position now. One million
living as displaced persons on the Con-
tinent. I have made offers that to get
over this problem we will take a pro-
portion of our population with all the
other countries in the world in order to
get rid of this miserable state of affairs.
I have pleaded with the United States to
take in thousands —I do not mean merely
Jews, I mean displaced persons.
“Nobody wants these people, and I
think it is a tragedy.”
Jewish Case
Dr. A. H. Silver presented the Jewish
case to the U.N.O. meeting. He spoke,
he said, not merely for the organised
Jewish community in Palestine but also
for the Jewish people of the world. “The
terms ‘Jewish people’ and ‘Jewish
national home’ are key terms and basic
concepts. To proceed without relation
to them would be to detour into a politi-
cal wilderness. To treat the Palestine
problem as if it were one of merely re-
conciling the differences between two
sections of the population at present in-
habiting the country or of finding a
haven for a certain number of refugees
and displaced persons would only con-
tribute to confusion.”
Dr, Silver cited the Balfour Declara-
tion made on behalf of the British Gov-
ernment in 1917:
His Majesty’s Government view with favor
the establishment in Palestine of a national
home for the Jewish people.
He did not, however, go on to give
the context of that extract from the
declaration which reads ;
and will use their best endeavors to
facilitate the achievement of this object, it
being clearly understood that nothing shall be
done which may prejudice the civil and re-
ligious rights of existing non-Jewish communi-
ties in Palestine or the rights and political status
enjoyed by Jews in any other country.
Dr. Silver proceeded: “There would
be no doubt aa to what the Cabinet then
had in their minds. It was not their idea
that a Jewish State should be set up
immediately by the peace treaty. It was
contemplated that, when the time
arrived for according representative in-
stitutions to Palestine, if the Jews had
meanwhile responded to the opportunity
afforded them and had become a definite
majority of the inhabitants, then Pales-
tine would thus become a Jewish com-
monwealth.” Dr. Silver went on to indi-
cate the kind of Palestinian State the
Jewish Agency has in mind, to criticise the
British Government for preventing it, but
also to praise Britain’s help to Jewish
people:
The notion that Jewish immigration would
have to be artificially restricted in order to
ensure that the Jews would b'e a permanent
minority never entered into the head of any-
one engaged in framing the policy.
When we speak of a Jewish State, we do not
have in mind any racial or theocratic State,
but one which will be based upon full equality
and rights for all inhabitants without distinction
of religion or race and without domination o or
subjugation.
The committee of inquiry should certainly
visit Palestine. They would see what the Jewish
people, inspired by the hope of reconstituting
this national home, has achieved in a few short
years.
The task was enormous —untrained hands,
inadequate means, overwhelming difficulties. The
land was stripped and poor, neglected through
the centuries. And the period of building took
place between two disastrous world wars when
European Jewry was shattered and impover-
ished. Nevertheless, the record of pioneering
achievement of the Jewish people in Palestine
has received the acclaim of the entire world.
The Mandatory Government is today severely
restricting free Jewish settlement to an area less
than six per cent, of that tiny country, and is
enforcing in the Jewish national home dis-
criminatory racial laws which the mandate, as
well as the Charter of the United Nations,
severely condemns.
We have no quarrel with the people of the
United Kingdom. On the contrary, we have
the highest regard and admiration for that
people and for its monumental contributions to
democratic civilisation; and we shall never for-
get that it was the United Kingdom which, first
among the nations, gave recognition to the
national aspirations of the Jewish people. It
is only a wrong and unjustifiable policy which
contradicts and tends to defeat the far-visioned
British statesmanship of earlier years which we
condemn.
We hope most earnestly that the Committee
of Inquiry will also visit the displaced persons’
camps in Europe and see with their own eyes
the appalling human tragedy which mankind
is permitting to continue.
Arab Case
Speaking for the Arab Higher Court,
Mr. Henry Cattan contended that Pales-
tine was an Arab country, that the map
of the world would have to be redrawn
if claims based on earlier occupation
were recognised and that the Palestine
question had nothing to do with the
problem of Jewish displaced persons in
Europe. He quoted the McMahon
pledge of 1915 against the Balfour pledge
of 1917 —the old dispute—and the Arab
contribution in the First World War to
the victory which drove the Turks out
of Palestine and other non-Turkish
regions of the Near East. He declared
that the terms of the mandate from the
old League of Nations conflicted with
Article 22 of the League Covenant, which
contemplated a provisional recognition of
independence for the communities de-
tached from the Turkish Empire after
1918.
The Arabs in Palestine, said Mr.
Cattan,
have lost their civil and political rights, which
they enjoyed prior to the mandate. Immigra-
tion initiated and facilitated under the mandate
is threatening the very existence of the Arab
nation. The British Government is giving
administrative advice and assistance to another
British Government calling itself the Palestine
Government. No trace can be found of self-
governing institutions and much less of any
trace of the development of such institutions.
During the last 25 years more than half a
million Jews were allowed to immigrate into
the country against the wishes of its inhabitants.
The problem is not an Arab-Jewish problem.
The Arab opposition to immigration and the
establishment of a Jewish national home in
Palestine is not based on any racial prejudice
against Jews as Jews but would be equally
strong whatever the race or religion of any
group which might attempt to wrest the cobntry
from its Arab inhabitants.
It is often contended that the Jews of Europe
can develop the country by colonising it better
than its inhabitants could. Such reasoning, if
accepted, could justify any aggression by the
more advanced against the less advanced nations
of the world.
It is not a refugee problem. The problem
of the refugees and displaced persons is not
limited to any special religion or race, and it
is the duty and concern of the civilised world
to treat it as such. The linking of the refugee
problem with Palestine has made, and would
continue to make, the solution of both problems
infinitely more difficult, if not impossible.
The Arab Higher Committee deems it abso-
lutely essential that the Mandatory Government
take immediate steps for the stoppage of all
Jewish immigration into Palestine whether
termed legal or illegal. In the view of the
Arab population, all immigration of Jews into
Palestine is illegal.
Jewish Persecutions
After these addresses the representa-
tives of India, Poland, Colombia and
South Africa put to the spokes-
men for each party questions which
elicited highly interesting statements.
In reply to these points Mr. Moshe
Shertok described the organisation
of the Jewish Agency, and said that
the figures of Jewish population of Pales-
tine (he could not give the immigration
totals separately) for specified years were
in 1900, 50,000; 1930, 165,000; 1939,
475,000; today, 630,000. As for the age
of the Jewish community settlements in
Europe (an Indian query):
Jews had lived in Spain for a whole millen-
nium when, in 1492, they were despoiled and
expelled, except for those who became Chris-
tians. Jews have lived in Poland since the
eleventh or twelfth century, but in the seven-
teenth they were the victims of ferocious
massacres. In Germany the beginnings of
Jewish settlement are traced back to the fourth
century. But just six centuries ago most of
the Jews in Germany were destroyed in a wave
of frenzied persecution which swept Europe.
. The distressed Jews would not be better
assimilable in Europe than in Palestine. You
cannot settle in a graveyard nor build a dwel-
ling out of heaps of bricks. No one has
offered an alternative to Palestine. But even
if there were an alternative they refuse to:
be treated as mere chattels. They form part
of a people which has a national will of its
own. To treat the issue of Palestine in isolation
from the immigration issue would make as
much sense as to study the beating of a heart
in disregard of blood circulation.
In most countries Jews are treated as second-
er third-rate citizens. They live in perpetual
fear of eruptions of fierce fanaticism, of which
there have been tragic examples both in recent
years and in the more remote past. Their
lot ranges from precarious sufferance to active
persecution.
An Arab minority in a Jewish State will be
secure, if for no other reason because the State
will for ever remain surrounded by Arab coun-
tries with which it will be most vitally interested
to be at peace; also because there will always
be Jewish minorities in other lands.
But a Jewish minority in an Arab State
will have no such security at all. It will be
at the mercy of the Arab majority, which
would be free from all restraints.
There have been attempts at collaboration
between Jews and Arabs on both sides. Arabs
and Jews have co-operated, and are co-operating
successfully in the wide and varied fields of
municipal, commercial and labor affairs. Arabic
is taught in all Jewish secondary schools and
in a large number of primary schools. The
Jewish Agency is particularly active in spread-
ing knowledge of Arabic in the Jewish settle-
ments and promoting friendly relations between
them and their Arab neighbors. From personal
observation and experience there is nothing
inherent in the nature of either the native Arab


SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
What a Trustee should know ...
&
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO..
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
■
or the immigrant Jew which prevents friendly
co-operation.
Today the issue is overshadowed and prac-
tical co-operation is hampered by the political
conflict over the country’s future. The present
official leaders of the Arab States, having
achieved practically all they wanted with so
little sacrifice, refuse to admit the legitimacy
of the national aspirations of another people.
At the head of the Arab Higher Committee of
Palestine stands a man who was directly in-
volved during the war in the Nazi policy of
extermination of the European Jews.
The Jews come to Palestine not to fight the
Arab world, but to live at peace with it. Their
ambition is to integrate themselves into the
modern structure of reviving Asia. But their
true partnership with their neighbors can only
be based upon equality of status and mutual
respect. They claim that as many of them as
possible should live together in their own
country, freely develop their civilisation, make
their contribution to the common stock of
humanity, and be self-governing and independ-
ent.
Defence of the Mufti
The Arab spokesman who answered the
Political Committee’s questions —secretary
of the Arab delegation Emile Ghory—
resented the Shertok reflections on the
Grand Mufti, who, hfe said, was so co-
operative with the British until 1936 that
he was accused by some of his own sup-
porters of being a British tool:
If later he abandoned that attitude it was
entirely the results of 20 years of British policy
in Palestine. The Mufti has been attacked as
the most inveterate enemy of British policy
in the Middle East. That is quite true. He
has been the enemy of British policy—as was
General Smuts less than 50 years ago—and as
was George Washington.
The restraint shown by the Arabs can
neither be taken as an indication of indifference
to the political significance of the situation, nor
a gauge of their future attitude, which may be
dictated by the demands of self-defence against
aggression in all its forms.
With respect to the distinction between a
Jewish national home and a Jewish State, the
Arab Higher Committee is not prepared to
consider any solution based upon, or having
any reference to, the meaning or intention of
the Balfour Declaration. The Arab's have at
all times maintained that the Balfour Declara-
tion does not and cannot bind or affect them,
and have expressed their opposition thereto by
all the means at their disposal.
However, I would observe that a Jewish
national home is not only inconsistent with
a completely independent and sovereign Arab
Palestinian State, but that it was specifically
stated by both parties to the Balfour Declara-
tion that it was not intended to involve the
notion of a State. In the statements of policy
of 1922 and 1939, the United Kingdom have
unequivocally repudiated the idea or aim that
the Jewish national home implied or contem-
plated a Jewish State.
Some Jewish leaders have expressed the same
view. Mr. Sokoloff, the President of the
Zionist Organisation, in the introduction of his
History of Zionism, written in 1918, described
it as wholly fallacious. “The Jewish State,”
he wrote, “was never a part of the Zionist
programme.”
The increase in the number of Jews since
1918 has been due primarily to immigration.
Between 1920 and 1930 105,000 Jewish immi-
grants entered Palestine; between 1931 and
1939, 218,000; a total of 323,000 immigrants.
These do not include the so-called illegal immi-
grants. Since 1939, when the White Paper was
issued, over 100,000 Jewish immigrants have
entered the country. This figure again does
not include the illegal immigrants.
In regard to the question as to whether or
not these immigrants are easily assimilable in
Palestine, the reply is in the negative.
Any attempt to solve the question of refugees
and displaced persons at our expense will meet
with the resolute opposition of the Arabs and
will prejudice the chances of a successful in-
quiry and of any just solution. The linking
of the refugee problem with the problem of
Palestine would mean a prejudging of the
inquiry in favor of the Zionists.
With the setting up of the proposed special
committee of inquiry the Palestine problem
in its entirety becomes sub judice. The imme-
diate and complete stoppage of all immigration
in the meantime is imperative if the chance
of a successful inquiry is not to be prejudiced.
We take this opportunity to declare that we
shall continue to resist all Jewish immigration
to Palestine in all circumstances.
The Vital Issue
Clearly immigration has been made
the big issue, as a New York “Times”
commentator declares. “There are
approximately twice as many Arabs as
Jews in Palestine now. Immediate inde-
pendence would mean the creation of a
State in which the Jews would be in a
minority and the halting of immigration
would mean perhaps the end of the hope
of the Zionists for a Jewish National
State there. On the other hand, un-
restricted Jewish immigration would
change the picture, for there would be
created an opportunity for the Jews to
equal or, the Arabs say, to surpass the
Arab population, which would in the
long run result in a different sort of State.
Thus, while the issue of a Zionist State
has not been debated much by the
Assembly, that issue does remain strongly
in the background.”
Another American observer declares
even that “Palestine has become the
problem of the world. It cannot be settled
by force. How it can be settled is the
toughest of the tough questions that
United Nations has been called upon to
answer.”
The Assembly decided on appointment
of a Commission of Inquiry of 11 smaller
nations, excluding any of the Great
Powers since Britain, as Mandatory, is
an interested party. The Commission
will investigate camps of displaced per-
sons in Europe, will visit Palestine, and
formulate proposals for submission to
the General Assembly of U.N.O. in
September.
—London "Daily MaiL."
THE REAL CASUALTY.
A FRENCH HONOR.
All those Diggers of World War I who
witnessed the French Army’s fourteenth
of July celebrations in Paris would have
been moved by last .month’s ceremonies
in which Mr. Churchill was presented
with the Medaille Militaire.
The Medaille Militaire is the highest
military award with which France can
invest a war leader. Mr. Churchill’s in-
vestiture, described at length in the
“Times,” was conducted with all the
splendor and emotional enthusiasm which
the French Army knows how to bring to
such a demonstration. The old Fifth
Division will remember an example of it
when, after the Armistice, the lieutenant
commanding its crack H.Q. platoon in
the village of Solre-le-Chateau was, with
full military honors, made an honorary
corporal in the Chasseurs-Alpins, a bat-
talion of which was also quartered in
the village.
The ceremonies with which Mr,
Churchill’s investiture was associated
had, as London “Times” says, a
wider meaning than a personal honor to
himself. They commemorated both the
last victory over Germany and the vic-
tory more than 500 years ago of Joan
of Arc over an English foe. They were
a tribute of friendship, gratitude and ad-
miration from the people of France to
the people of Britain, expressed through
the signal honor paid by this Govern-
ment to Britain’s war-time Prime
Minister and through the familiar and
affectionate welcome accorded by the
Paris crowds to a man who is to them
the embodiment of the whole character
and spirit of the British nation.
They took place in the historic setting
of the Hotel des Invalides, under the
shadow of the gilded dome beneath
which rests the body of Napoleon. The
carriageway from the gates of the In-
valides to the entrance of the courtyard
was lined on both sides with mounted
guards in full dress with swords drawn
ready for the salute. Inside the court-
yard, the two galleries of which were
packed with people, troops were drawn
up on two sides of the square—African
cavalry in red and white burnous, dark-
blue Chasseurs with their hunting horns
and infantrymen in plain khaki.
Facing the cavalry and the Chasseurs
was the official stand, flanked to the left
by a detachment of British military police
and British and French ex-servicemen
and to the right, in their wheeled chairs
or wicker beds, some of the most gravely
wounded of the “invalides” themselves,
all veterans of the First World War.
Gathered round Mme. Auriol, the wife
of the President of the Republic, were
all the Ministers, the heads of the Army,
the Navy and the Air Force and Diplo-
matic Corps, Mrs. Churchill, Mr.
Churchill’s two daughters, Major Ran-
dolph Churchill and many distinguished
guests.
Mr.* Churchill, wearing the uniform of
Colonel of the Fourth Queen’s Own
Hussars, arrived with the British Am-
bassador, to be received by the French
Premier, M. Ramadier, who had arrived
a few moments earlier. The two anthems
echoed in the quadrangle. Then, to-
gether with the service Ministers and
other distinguished personalities, among
whom were General de Lattre de
Tassigny, Inspector-General of the
Armies, and General Juin, Chief of the
National Defence Staff, they inspected
the troops in the courtyard. Mr.
Churchill stopped to shake hands with
the “invalides” and speak briefly with
them. He was then conducted to the
centre of the square and took his place
in the row of four n.c.os. drawn up ready
to receive the Medaille Militaire at the
same time as himself,
M. Ramadier, now simply Sergeant
Ramadier, decorated with the Medaille
Militaire for conspicuous gallantry in
1914, stood before him. Following the
traditional accolade, with trumpets, he
pinned the green and yellow ribbon on
Mr. Churchill with the simple tribute (re-
peated with the four n.c.os. ip turn;
“France congratulates you and thanks
you.” The vast crowd, hitherto silent,
burst into clapping, and to their accom-
paniment Mr. Churchill drove out beside
the Ambassador in an open car down
the Esplanade and up the Champs
Elysees to the Arc de Triomphe.
Under the Arc de Triomphe, where an
immense Tricolor, filling the whole vault,
billowed in the breeze, Mr. Churchill was
welcomed by the Comite de la Flamme
(the everburning flame) and its President,
General Giraud. After the minute silence
Mr. Churchill advanced to the Tomb of
the Unknown Soldier and laid upon it a
magnificent wreath bearing the inscrip-
tion “To all the glories of France and to
those who have made them live for
ever, —Wipston S. Churchill.”
This ceremony was followed by a
luncheon given by the Prime Minister at
his official residence, the Hotel Matignon.
In the evening Mr. Churchill was re-
ceived at dinner by President Auriol. With
the ribbon of the Medaille Militaire on
the lapel of his dresscoat he covered the
few hundred yards between the British
Embassy and the Elysde Palace on foot,
cheered and clapped all the way.
Next morning, at the Place de la
Nation, in the heart of the workers’ Paris,
Mr. Churchill, standing at the side of
President Auriol, watched the victory
parade, which lasted for more than half
an hour. The crowded visit ended in the
afternoon, when Mr. Churchill left to
return to London, accompanied, as at
every move he made during his visit, by
the cheers and the applause of the people.
IMMIGRANT RACKET.
While there’s considerable division in
America on the issue of the U.S. making
a gesture to the world by easing immigra-
tion restrictions, thus doing its own bit
towards solving the big “displaced per-
sons” problem in Europe and by ex-
ample inducing others to do likewise, the
authoritative “United States News” re-
ports that Uncle Sam is getting quite a
lot of immigrants over the quotas as it
is:
The number of foreigners entering the U.S.
legally as immigrants now is larger than at any
time since the 1920’5. Even more are entering
illegally.
The publication reports a variety of
rackets, one of the neatest selling a
potential immigrant without relatives the
necessary letter from a bank showing a
credit to him of $l2OO, the minimum such
a migrant must be able to show. Having
served its purpose, the money is then
transferred to another account and used
to get visas for others. Also, “stories
abound of chartered ’planes making
daily flights from refugee centres.”
The “number of foreigners caught en-
tering the country under false pretences
is now at the rate of 170,000 a year.”
Those slipping over the border and other-
wise getting in undetected are estimated
at as high as 850,000 a year, and “aliens
who get in illegally stand little chance of
being caught” once they are loose in the
U.S.
The U.S. quota system is based on the
size of the various population blocks
already in the country. Hence Britain,
Ireland and Germany have big quotas—
together, 50 per cent, of the total —but
Britain and Ireland, at least, have no
present great numbers of migrants to
spare, whereas places like the Baltic
States, which contribute a large propor-
tion of the “displaced persons” in Europe,
have only very small quotas, and even
Poland, which contributes most of the
other “displaced,” also has only a small
quota.
Since the quota system was started in
1924 close on 2,000,000 unused visas have
piled up and expired, the countries hav-
ing them not offering the necessary
migrants. One move in the U.S. is to
open up all these unused quotas again ;
but it looks very unlikely that this will
be done.


:
.- V- ■ '''■
vg,2CC^
StoS® 0,
k
CS^»
e
m
m
MB
r-v
mMmmmmmmx
JM
. I S
■»-
* ~
$8
■
m
0S
: i
<■■■
-
11111
mA
■;■:•:• .x
>*
%:■
;•>•■■
m
;>■;;■
. S
IB
m
-d'A
w
II
mm
l|#
'
m
m
■
m
■<
m
m
m
m
1
: *:'x-;Sx
:
*
IS
■
S-d
Pi
H
f ■ «||
iwi
ssbSTda ■■ '•■
m
'■■f
Ait
m®
f V •• :
%
■/ iiff =s mm
S 8
r.
■I
MB
■
m
:.■■■,■■
■
m
il llftl
M •’ I
m
■Hi
•i i
it
i®
is
■
igain a Steelbilt
trial plants, departmental stores
bottlenecks such as these can be
eliminated.
Steelbilt Limited offers you this
Survey Service without obligation.
A detailed recommendation shows
how a Steelbilt installation, suit-
able to your type of business, can
factories, indus-
and warehouses has shown how
open the way to new methods
in the storing and handling of
goods . . . must result in instant
time-savings, labor-savings . . . will
prove just how a speed-up in pro-
duction can actually be made.
Let us have particulars of
your bottleneck. Phone Wormald
Brothers Industries. A Steelbilt
expert will be happy to call and
discuss matters with you.
■
4
Steelbllt Üb(a»y
Shelves.
STEELBILT LIMITED {A Wormald Brothers Industry) Sydney and Melbourne Represented elsewhere in Australia and N.Z. by Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3512
Wednesday, June 4, 1947
NO ROYAL COMMISSION MATTER. -
“Trace the smell to its source, would they? WHAT smell?”


The Bulletin
at .j i Australian Newsoaoef
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
I '
Directors:
p- H Pri” David Adams
r. n. rnor
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
_ Brisbane
W 2 bl“ "
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SOMETHING LIKE A PLAN.
In a political world in which something
for nothing is the rule, and in which ideas
formed in 1917 are still predominant, it is
refreshing to find the statesmanlike imagi-
nation of Earle Page, author of the
Financial Agreement and the National-
debt Sinking Fund and projector of New
States, still at work.
The “Government” has endless schemes
for getting rid of the surplus millions it
is extorting by cold-blooded taxation.
There are Mr. Ward’s schemes for rail-
way construction through dust-bowls,
schemes which are to cost £236,000,000
or £250,000,000, and which are to reach
full fruition when railways, except for
heavy freight and short hauls, will have
irrecoverably lost their already hopeless
struggle against road and air transport.
There are untold millions for “free”
medicine, which will prove dearer in the
end than the kind which is not “free.”
There is to be £30,000,000 for the re-
building of Darwin, a “union town”
which threatens to remain a “union
town ” And there is an ever-rising ex-
penditure on armies of civil servants
whose “work” largely consists in investi-
gation, or in sitting down and poring over
the products of investigation, or in just
sitting.
New Guinea has had tax-money poured
into it, to be sucked down into a whirl-
pool of ruin and extravagance. Every
month the kunai grows taller round what
was once steady progress. Planters,
traders and goldminers—save for big
companies—are seeking means to get out
of the islands. Where “Labor” rules,
none can live in trade and commerce
except those who are strong and rich
enough to look after themselves.
The same is becoming rapidly true in
land industries in the Commonwealth.
The small man, particularly the small
dairyman, is moving out. Who is going
to work from daylight to dark, racked
by brutal and undiscriminating taxation,
when there are cities in which the plums
are always ripe, even in a year of dis-
astrous drought like 1946? The same
processes as are operating in New Guinea
and the Northern Territory—the absorp-
tion of small settlement by the overseas or
local monopoly—are in being in farm-
ing and grazing districts and in the coun-
try towns of N, S. Wales and Queensland,
where branches of Big-City stores are
taking the places of the old solid local
storekeeper.
In such a national atmosphere con-
structive thought is being strangled and
the word “decentralisation” is becoming
a sorry jest. But not in the case of Earle
Page. To the cause of inland Australia
the man who was Treasurer, and (briefly)
Prime Minister, has remained faithful.
His recently issued pamphlet on Clarence
River (N.S.W.) water-power development
is proof that constructive statesmanship
is far from dead; that at least one maa
of note has a plan for the creation of in-
dustry, decentralised industry, and the
establishment of thriving communities
which, among its effects, will loosen the
grip of Communist-controlled coastal
unions on the nation’s throat.
The Clarence River system is fed by
the waters of the New England and
Queensland border ranges. The northern
arm of the system flows down from the
Macphersons to meet the southern or
Nymboida arm, which flows from the
Dorrigo, and on which a hydro-electric
plant, through Dr. Page’s influence, was
built many years ago.
These two arms join at a point at
which their waters turn to the coast in
a constantly-flowing race, 100 ft. wide and
90ft. deep, in the Clarence Gorge.
The Page scheme, in simple terms, aims
at placing a dam at the Gorge, with
at a later stage supplementary dams at
other points of the system. The main
idea is to turn the power generatable
from the water which now flows useless
to the sea to the uses of a semi-circle
of country which reaches north to Gympie
(Q.) and west to Mungindi, Moree, Poka-
faroo and Coonabarabran (N.S.W.)
taking in Newcastle, and even Sydney,
in the south. Incidental is a pro-
posal to develop 3000 square miles
of country and to control and use flood
waters in the Clarence region, together
with irrigation and the rendering of the
Clarence navigable deep into an area
now dependent on a poor railway service
and road haulage, frequently interrupted
by floods which, under a controlled river
system, would be avoided.
The central feature of the plan, which
has the enthusiastic support in principle
of every electrical authority in.southern
Queensland and in N. S. Wales, is the
building of a hydro-electric power station
at the Clarence Gorge, with subsidiary
stations elsewhere. The cost is estimated
at present at £12,000,000, and the supply
capacity of 125,000 kw, would be suf-
ficient for a market for £900,000-worth
of unit power sold at a fifth of a penny
per unit each year.
It is not proposed that this should be
done all at once. The first stage would
be the building of the main dam, 220 ft.
high and 1750 ft. long, to imprison
3.400.000 acre-feet of water from which
to generate 42,000 kilowatts at a capital
cost of £4,000,000. As the demand for
power increased there would be further
dams and stations at Jackadgery, Nym-
boida and Tabulam to produce a further
30.000 kw. of electricity.
The final phase would be reached
when the time came to embrace other
river systems in the general production
project, together with a full linkage of
the water-power scheme with existing
schemes based on usage of coal in New-
castle, Brisbane, Ipswich and other
centres. This would be achieved by the
establishment of high-voltage service
main systems reaching primarily all
centres between Brisbane and Newcastle
and their feeder towns and cities along
the coast, and all inland towns and cities
between Newcastle and Toowoomba over
the New England Tableland and the
heart of the Darling Downs. From these
main routes branch mains would run to
intermediate towns, and as far west as
Narrabri and Moree.
In effect, the plan is to electrify the
whole of northern New South Wales and
south-eastern Queensland, bringing cheap
power to every town within an area 700
miles long and 250 miles deep, and mak-
ing dozens of centres —at present right
outside the ambit of industrial develop-
ment because of the cost of coal-generated
power and of transport - of fuel—part of
the industrial districts of the mainland.
Even with coal-produced power won-
ders have in the past few years been
done silently in the way of extending elec-
trical usage into rural centres. But the
Clarence scheme, applied by one of two
alternative methods which are now under
consideration by an expert committee set
up, mainly as the result of Dr. Page’s
persistent advocacy, by the Common-
wealth and N. S. Wales and Queensland
Governments, would not merely extend
the bounds of industrial power usage,
revolutionising home and community life
over most of the affected area, but would
lend security to and cheapen the average
cost of supply in the capital cities by pro-
viding a regular and adequate head of
reserve power.
All electrical authorities at present are
thinking in terms of wide expansion in
area and bulk of supply. They are re-
stricted in their plans by the bad indus-
trial and fuel situation and by the short-
age in world supply of materials and
machinery necessary to expand fuel-
generated production.
These scarcities do not operate at all
in regard to the source of motive power,
and operate negligibly in regard to
machinery in respect of hydro-electric
schemes. This factor alone seems to dic-
tate the pushing to fruition of the Page
plan before demand and availability of
machinery force the generating authori-
ties into expansion of their present
facilities at a cost which would be far
heavier than that of the Clarence scheme.
That scheme should be given a first
priority in national planning. It is not
only immensely important in itself, but
it points the way for others. For, though
the water-flow available in Australia is
very low for a continent —less in the
aggregate than that of the Rhine
and only one-third that of the Danube —
there are river systems capable of de-
velopment, and of ultimate linkage with
the Clarence scheme.
"Doves of Peace."
When last March General MacArthur
. Australian proposals for an
f rl y conference on peace terms
f° r J a P an h® sa jd he hoped negotiations
would begin in a few months. It
seems to be urgent that they should. But
in the intervening three months nothing
has been done to resolve these three chief
uncertainties; whether the “Big Three” or
the Far Eastern Commission will con-
duct the negotiations; whether the Em-
pire countries should arrive at a pre-
liminary agreement of their own, and
whether other countries are going to
follow the American policy of resuming
trade with Japan without waiting for a
peace treaty for Australia.
Concerning the first of these uncer-
tainties, while the British and American
views favor the F. E. Commission as the
working horse, the Soviet is believed (if
only on that account) to prefer negotia-
tion by the major Powers. Consequential
further delay would, however, only con-
solidate the American position in Japan,
and in Moscow’s eyes that may be still
less acceptable. Concerning the second
point. Dr. Evatt has been pressing for
an Empire conference to thrash out a
common policy, but wants it held in Can-
berra, whereas Britain, Canada and
South Africa would rather have it in
London. On Empire Day Mr. Beasley
told a Sydney “Telegraph” representative
that, in order to secure the Canberra
venue, Australia “will wait if necessary,”
but three days later he was proposing an
early meeting. Week-end talk was of
August discussions in Canberra, with
Britain a party to them, if not South
Africa or Canada.
Concerning the third point, a division
among the Allies on the matter of resum-
ing trade can only lead to unholy jealousy
and friction, especially with Japanese
firms already taking the initiative with
General MacArthur’s approval. Mr.
Chifley’s own indifference is clear from
his own words (“S. M. Herald” report):
The Australian Government is opposed
to a resumption of firm-to-firm trading with
Japan until after the settlement of repara-
tions questions at the signing of the peace
treaty Some authorities believe the
peace conference might take place this year.
However, there is no chance of Australia
following the lead of the United States
and resuming full private trading with
Japan by July 15 Following represen-
tations by Colonel David Heritch, of
General MacArthur’s staff, a Government
mission is in Japan endeavoring to purchase
piece goods for Australia The Aus-
tralian Government has no direct nego-
tiations with the Japanese Government on
trade matters. Whatever trade is entered
into between Australia and Japan will be
financed through the Supreme Command.
Meanwhile the Mitsui firm; is canvassing
direct orders in Singapore, with such
bland reflections as “more than a
year has elapsed since the doves of peace
came back with eternal spring”; and
Kanematsus, the big pre-war Sydney
wool-traders, are equally complacent
—“We emerged from the war al-
most intact, materially, and are carry-
ing on business as actively as before,
without being handicapped by post-war
restrictions.” It is reported that British
and Indian Chambers of Commerce agree
with Mr. Chifley in refusing these
Japanese advances, and that the Chinese
are adopting the American attitude; but
the report comes from Singapore,
As for the Japanese themselves, the
chief of MacArthur’s Industrial Division
says Japan has reached one-third of its
pre-war industrial production, despite
shortages of manufacturing materials,
and can use immediately 600,000 bales
of wool. “Wool negotiations with Aus-
tralia,” he says, however, “are completely
frustrating,” and the only Australian
wool expert in Japan has asked the Gov-
ernment to recall him because he is “find-
ing his mission futile.” Australian Gov-
ernment trading is plainly inept. Smug-
gling of Japanese goods into this country
has already begun; the attraction those
goods offer is irresistible.
, Japanese manufacturers are going all
out on woollen and cotton textiles. The
President of the U.K. Board of Trade
told the House of Commons at the end
of last year—and there must have been
advances since then —that whereas the
Japs had only about a million cotton
spindles operating in 1945, by the end of
July, 1946, they had 2\ million, and by
January, 1947, would have 3,300,000.
Raw cotton is pouring ip from the
United States —650,000 Bales to the end
of September, and a great, though un-
stated, increase since.
On the need to make the Japanese self-
supporting the Americans are acting sen-
sibly and in line with the views held by
other Pacific victor nations. The differ-
ence is that they are doing things while
the others are talking or dozing. Japanese
machinery plants are concentrating on
manufacture and repair of looms and
spindles, and under Washington orders
General MacArthur directed, early .in
April, the removal (as reparations) of
some of Japan’s industrial equipment,
principally to China, the Philippines,
Burma and Malaya. In all of these
countries the need is so extreme that the
U.S. Government ordered this initial dis-
tribution of reparations goods, peace
treaty or no peace treaty.
In the same spirit of ignoring peace-
treaty delays, America is—as competitors
in world trade are saying—making hay in
the Japanese field while the MacArthur
sun shines. But there are considerations
which suggest that the motive is not solely
the selfish aim of prosecuting American
business. Apart from the fact that
Britain is hanging back, content to play
a secondary role to the United States
and losing prestige in Asiatic eyes while
doing so, the Americans are bending
themselves perforce to the job of re-
fashioning their East Asian policy,
severely ruptured by their failure in
China.
It was the post-war task of the United
States to help China to rise to the position
allotted to her as one of the “Big Five,”
from which China was to act as a sort of
a watchdog over Japan’s return to
normal life. That task made both poli-
tical and trading sense in America. But
the bottom fell out of the scheme when
General Marshall could not bring the
Chinese factions to agree. Even before
Chiang appealed to the Communists to
come to terms a “World Report” corres-
pondent wrote that “the hopes of [Ameri-
can] businessmen for a huge market in
post-war China are going up in the
smoke of civil war and inflation.”
Predictions a year ago were that a peace-
ful and united China would buy abroad at
the rate of almost $1,000,000,000 a year by
1951 and that the U.S. would command a
quarter of this market. Today U.S. Gov-
ernment studies indicate that civil strife,
if prolonged —as now seems likely—will
make it impossible for China to finance
purchases abroad in excess of $300,000,000
a year by 1951. The U.S. share of this
may be only $60,000,000 to $90,000,000.
The result is that the Americans have
turned abruptly to an alternative line of
action. They are preparing for trade
with Japan and a consolidated political
position there. But it is subtle play. The
reactions in China are already most
noticeable. Chiang’s overtures to the
Communists show not only that the
military situation has deteriorated, but
that the Kuomintang leaders are alarmed
lest Japan seize the lead in East Asia. As
a method of calling China to her senses
that may be one of Washington’s calcu-
lations.
Australia’s old friend and former resi-
dent Mr, Hoover, who has regained the
influence over his country which he un-
deservedly lost, has urged the calling of
an immediate conference at which peace
should be made with Japan by as many
nations as will come in. Australia ought
riot to be backward in supporting this
proposal. Canberra must be well aware
by now that a is not to be expected
from the Attlee Government, Nor does
it serve any purpose to bemoan, as does
Mr, Macmahon Ball, Dr. Evatt’s choice
for British Commonwealth member of
the Allied Advisory Council in Japan —
and a queer choice it was —the lack of
virile leadership in the new Japanese
“democracy,” or the sincerity of the new
Japanese Government in denouncing its
predecessors’ bad ways. Naturally the
very hesitancy of the Powers at this
juncture makes for a revival of the Japs’
confidence in the ultimate failure of
foreign-managed experiments, and a dis-
position to play for their own hands.
The exhortation is one for ourselves
above all. The indifference of the Chifley
Government on the trade question is
matched by its carelessness about the
prestige of our forces of occupation in
Japan.
Of course the troops in Japan
are fed up, as those returning convey
to their home people. They have few
amenities, no work or prestige as occu-
pation troops in a vanquished country,
and padres returned from Japan have de-
clared in a report to the Minister for
the Army that there is among them “an
appalling lack of even elementary educa-
tion, culture or decency.” Soldiers in the
force from N. S. Wales were so far for-
gotten that they were not even furnished
with ballot papers for the recent State
election. The neglected servicemen do
not quite know why they are in Japan,
nor does anybody in Australia know for
how long they and their comrades from
other parts of the British Commonwealth
will remain there. The British contingent
has been withdrawn, and the M.L.
brigade is to be cut by half. Thus
diminished, the 8.C.0.F. appears to be
more than ever a token of some line of
action which the Australian Government,
having taken a lead in it, has forgotten,
if it was ever very clear about the objec-
tive.
What ideas the Chifley “Government”
may have about the,sort of peace that
is to be restored, and when, must surely
by these signs be nebulous indeed. One
thing is certain: the crowd in office is
far more intent on raising its own salaries.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Squandermaniacs.
For fully a day the squandermaniacs at
Canberra gloomily wondered what would
happen to their dizzy plans and finance
if the Presidential and Congressional
election manoeuvres beginning in the
U.S.A. resulted in Australia losing its
substantially * increased and highly-
profitable American wool market. The
day of gloom passed, and the squander-
maniacs returned to their blithe belief in
the magic properties of their prescription
for enduring prosperity and happiness;
tax, tax, tax, spend, spend, spend, and
borrow from anyone who has anything
left to lend.
The leader of the squandermaniacs, for
his part, was ready with figures which
once more knocked his estimates end-
ways —though, of course, he didn’t say
so.
In the 1945-46 financial year he bud-
geted for a tax-revenue of £343,000,000
and dragged in £360,151,000. Referring
to his prophecies for 1946-47 he said
Customs and excise might yield another
£13,000,000, sales tax another £6,000,000
(roughly £40,000,000 for the twelvemonth)
and income tax another £13,000,000 —■
this in spite of the “reduction” of which
he made such a mouthful in his substitute
for a Budget, presented on July 12, a
“reduction” of £17,500,000. Of the total
increase, £42,000,000, £25,000,000 would
be appropriated as a gift to the United
Kingdom (“book entry! ” was a comment
from the front Opposition bench) and
the rest for “war” (not defence) “ex-
penditure.”
Having got that off his chest, the leader
of the squandermaniacs announced that
he would straightway bring in a Bill to
raise members’ salaries from £lOOO to
£l5OO p.a., in spite of bitter union re-
minders of his long and stubborn in-
sistence on the necessity of wage-pegging
to “hold the line” 'against inflation.
That actual tax-revenue would make
nonsense of the Chifley estimates was fore-
seen by all the taxpayers’ associations.
Great as the increase was, and bitter
as taxpayers feel about it when they con-
sider it along with their excessive assess-
ments, it would have been far greater
had there been no strikes against wage-
pegging and no cowardly surrender to
the Communist boycott of Dutch shipping
and trade with Indonesia, and had the
now-chronic lag in the operations of the
Taxation Department been overtaken.
At the end of the 1946 financial year
the Auditor-General found £42,740,600 of
income-tax outstanding, and that applied
only to issued assessments. The position
as to unissued assessments has been stated
by Mr. Chifley himself ; on May 13,1947,
they numbered 1,153,125 and went back
to the 1943-44 financial year. Details for
that year concern 25 companies and
19,500 individuals; for 1944-45, 100
companies and 41,000 individuals and for
1945-46 6500 companies and 1,086,000
individuals, with the 1946-47 year to
come. Because of the unexplained and
inexcusable delays a great part of the
money demanded, when it is demanded,
will never be collected.
Another depression would find Aus-
tralia in a worse position to meet it than
in 1930. We had a gold reserve then—
there is none now. We then called on
Britain for help and Britain gave it by
waiving £7,000,000 p.a. of principal and
interest payments on our war debt —
Britain now needs, and will continue to
need, our help. We then “saved”
£6,500,000 p.a. by a forced reduction of
interest on all internal Government debt
—the cheap-money policy, which Mr.
Chifley regards as an unmixed blessing,
has made the counterpart impossible.
Nor had most of our foreign customers
then been knocked out by war and its
effects. Above all, in 1930 we had a
vast untouched field of taxation (for one
thing there was no sales tax), whereas
everyone and everything have been taxed
so madly to maintain ruinous expenditure
(except on the most urgent requirement
of defence), in the process inflating costs
of such production as has not been
strangled by taxes and strikes and trans-
port charges as well, that, save for the un-
issued assessments, there is now no
reserve.
Nevertheless, “Labor” goes on its wild
way, unmindful of what followed the
wars against Napoleon and the Kaiser
and heedless of the reckoning which will
assuredly be called.
The Hog in the Car.
Australia is to have a Road Safety
Council, with a road code drawn up by
the Automobile Association and uniform
motor-vehicle standards designed by the
Chamber of Automotive Industries.
On the council there will be represen-
tatives nominated by each State, with a
Commonwealth nominee as chairman.
There are to be film and other forms of
propaganda to educate the hog in the
car —if he can be educated —and bring
the jay-walker to his senses. The propa-
ganda should be addressed also to the
classes from which jurymen are drawn,
and there should be a tightening up of
criminal laws, but so far these measures
have not been proposed. Speeding is the
cause of 90 per cent, of accidents, and for
99 per cent, of the speeding there is no
cause.
Melbourne was the scene of the con-
ference of Commonwealth and State
Transport Ministers which is to have
the Road Safety Council as an outcome.
Finer and straighter roads no city
possesses; nevertheless there died on
these roads last year 248 people, and
7175 others had to be treated for in-
juries. The grim record for Victoria,
leaving injuries out of account, was 335
dead, and this year’s bills of mortality
have been even more frightful—ls 4
killed to the end of the third week in
May. Australian figures for 10 years
from 1936 were 14,420 killed and 230,584
injured—far more than the casualties in
the second war against Germany, which
lasted into the ninth month of the sixth
year: 10,730 killed, 1316 missing, 16,234
wounded and injured.
Land Sales and Smells.
Whether property or produce is con-
cerned, “Labor” control measures and
methods have been hard on honest and
thrifty people in modest circumstances, a
section penalised by “Labor” for having
IN THE CAUSE OF EDUCATION.
“N.S.W. Minister Hefiron has objected to the Popular Barmaid competition endorsed by
the Federation of Parents and Citizens.”
“Now, all together, boys—‘Roll out the bar-rel; we’ll have a bar-rel of fun.’ ”
been thrifty when they grow old. Crooks
of the new-rich can get round “controls”
and take other advantage of opportuni-
ties that come their way.
When share prices were pegged small
parcels of scrip came into the market
from time to time for sale at 50 p.c.
to 60 p.c. of prices offered when the free
market settled down. They must in every
case have been forced sales, necessitated
by income-tax requirements or by the
winding-up of meagre estates. So, too,
there have been many forced sales of
vacant land and dwellings at February,
1942, valuations with equal or greater
losses to deserving people. Why this
particular month, the worst in the war
for Australians, was picked and kept as
the standard has never been explained.
Certainly this legalised jugglery, as en-
forced by officials armed with indisput-
able regulations, has been the cause of
bitter wrong, especially to families de-
prived by death of a breadwinner who
left little more than a bit of house
property, and that mortgaged, or a vacant
allotment —perhaps compulsorily resumed
at the 1942 valuation.
Since the end of the Japanese war
there has been a boom in land sales, in
N. S. Wales particularly, accompanied
by the appearance of a general outbreak
of magnanimity among sellers. “Sales
for the year to March 31, 1947,” said the
president of the N.S.W. Real Estate In-
stitute, quoting the Government Statis-
tician, “established an all-time record of
£57,048,000.” Giving the figures for
1946, 81,196 sales at £50,676,800, “a
legal correspondent,” writing in “S. M.
Herald,” noted sarcastically that the aver-
age price, as revealed in State stamp-
duty statistics, was £75 less than in 1942,
that “year of panic sales.”
Pegging of real-estate prices has been
one of Mr. Chifley’s rapidly disappearing
devices against inflation. Nevertheless he
showed no particular interest in what
was going on in the real-estate world or
in what the dogs were barking until he
was placed in the position of having to
answer pertinent questions in the House.
It was alleged, among other things, that
“some vendors and agents” had been
favored as to prices, terms and time,
official sanction of contracts having gone
through with odd celerity. One specific
charge was that “Subdivision Estates”
(managing director, Stanley E. Parry,
M.L.C., one of those good-as-“ Labor”
members, who voted for the Assembly-
men’s Pensions Bill) had “been given con-
sent to sell land at prices several times
the 1944 valuation.” Whereupon Mr.
Chifley;
As regards the transactions of Subdivision
Estates, I am satisfied that there have been
serious departures from the procedure laid
down. An immediate change has been
made in the administration of Land Sales
Control in Sydney, and investigations are
being continued.
It transpired that the “immediate
change” consisted in the cashiering of the
head of Sydney Land Sales Control, Mr.
F. A. Lush, when he was on sick leave.
Mr. Lush came back immediately, in .a
letter to the P.M., with a demand for a
public inquiry into his work, and with a
catalogue of counter-charges. For ex-
ample :
On several occasions I have received
urgent telephone messages from Canberra
to issue consent immediately to the sale
of farm properties before the fair selling
price had been determined.
On at least two occasions when the Can-
berra office was aware that I was absent
from Sydney, instructions were given to
members of my staff to issue and post on
the sartie day consents which had been
refused.
In the case of two large city properties
fair selling prices had been determined;
I had several interviews. One interview in
Canberra led to my being immediately
instructed to issue consents to prices grossly
excessive. On another occasion I received
peremptory instructions to issue that day
consent to a grossly excessive price.
Two blasts of the trumpet came from
Mr. Lush. Mr. Menzies, for the Opposi-
tion, moved for a public inquiry. After
he and two other Opposition members
and Mr. Chifley had spoken, further de-
bate was gagged on the motion of Mr.
Five-aijd-nine-wheat Scully, now Minister
for the Gag. The P.M. said he had
“asked the Attorney-General to have
the Investigation Department make a full
inquiry.” In effect, a Star Chamber in-
quiry into an affair concerning the
whole nation and affecting Mr. Chifley’s
own administration—for Land Sales Con-
trol is part of the Treasury outfit. Gov-
ernment employees making their own
arrangements as to evidence and pro-
cedure and sitting in judgment on other
Government employees! And this with
“Labor,” having completed its prepara-
tions for lining members’ pockets, rush-
ing into recess!
The Radio World.
To the never-ending list of unwanted ex-
crescences charged up to the taxpayers,
so many of whom are hard put to it to
feed and clothe and house their families
and pay their staggering taxes and keep
solvent, there has been added an A.B.C.
news service. Estimated cost has been
airily mentioned as £150,000 p.a., but
since all the Australian staff necessarily
belongs to the journalists’ union, all
members of which are entitled to four
weeks’ annual holidays, not counting
statutory holidays, there is sure to be a
substantial sum for replacements.^
In any case, total expenditure" (there
will be no income) will be met from tax-
revenue, along with the losses on the
“A.B.C. Weekly” (£150,400 in 6i years),
on “Talk” (£504 in two months) and on
the Commission’s other operations, which
particular losses, though undeclared, are
known to be working up into Something
Big,
Why “Labor” should choose to saddle
A.B.C. with a news service when A.B.C.’s
“Labor” proclivities have been so abun-
dantly manifested on election nights is
as hard to understand as the collaring of
A.B.C.’s short-wave service by the De-
partment of Information, even though
“Information’s” Ministerial boss, Mr.
Calwell, conveniently forgetful of the
nasty Leftist stuff “Radio Australia” has
paid out, alleges that if A-8. C.-sanctioned
talks had been broadcast “international
complications would have arisen.” One
explanation of the installation of
the news department may be that
it is desired to compete with com-
mercial radio in giving listeners the
straight griffin about “the dogs.” “The
horses” are already attended to by
A.8.C., in friendly competition with
commercial radio. Indeed, the efforts of
both seem to be aimed at making Aus-
tralians a nation of gamblers, their cul-
tural interests attended to by Bing
Crosby, the Inkspots, the Andrews Sisters,
Tommy Dorsey, Jack Davey, Bob Dyer,
George Edwards (to multitudes of ill-
informed people, the .creator of Dad,
Dave, Mum and their setting) and others
of less note.
True, A.B.C. gives its public a bit of
good music occasionally. But any visitor
from Mars could turn dials for weeks
together without divining that behind all
the blatancy and cacophony, unheard
in the deafening din, there remains for
the advancement of manners and taste,
if for nothing else, when the right people
get hold of radio the noblest body of
poetry and drama ever written.
The Indian Army.
Should factional strife ruin the Indian
Army by dividing it into communal ele-
ments, as the Moslem League demands,
the effect will be appalling far beyond
India.
One reason why Earl Wavell was dis-
placed as Viceroy becomes clear. Willing
as he was to spend himself in the thank-
less task of conducting the British political
retreat from India he baulked at the pros-
pect of being the instrument in ruining
“the finest volunteer army in history.”
Its numbers are already reduced to
500,000, composed racially as follows:
Moslems 31 per cent., Sikhs 8 per cent.,
Hindus 48 per cent., Gurkhas 7 per cent.,
and Christians 5 per cent. The remain-
ing 1 per cent, was presumably British.
“To partition this army,” declared the
“Times” correspondent, “would be as
difficult as to unscramble an egg.” The
loss it would represent to India would be
not merely the defence it assures against
hostile attack. It is, as the “Times” says,
the strongest bulwark against civil strife
on a country-wide scale.
Nor are the forces absent which would
speedily exploit the weakness to which
India would be exposed with the breaking
up of the Army. The Pathans on the
north-west frontier are eagerly awaiting
the day when, as they suppose, they can
demand what terms they like of both
Congress and Pakistan India. Nepal
may easily become another frontier prob-
lem by itself ; the Gurkhas have been re-
garding with contempt the animosities
of Hindus and Moslems.
Save Our Land!
In Adelaide last week there was a meet-
ing of the Standing Committee on -Soil
Conservation composed of officers from
five States, who have to depend upon
Big-City Governments for funds neces-
sary to their work. Also present was
the Director-General of Agriculture.
Loss of soil is going on all over the
2,900,000-odd square miles of Australia.
The equivalent of the total area destroyed
by erosion in the past 10 years would more
than settle every returned soldier in search
of a block—in the Darling Downs district
alone upwards of 60,000 arable acres
have been abandoned on that score.
Yet on a generous estimate not more
than 100 people, including typists and
clerks, are officially employed to work
on the problem. Forty of them are in
N. S. Wales, which, despite the pitiful
progress it has made in combating
erosion, is ahead of any other State.
It is a national job. Until recognised as
such ; until the Commonwealth Govern-
ment sets up a National Conservation
Authority, with adequate funds, staff and
power to tackle the three related prob-
lems of soil, water and forest conserva-
tion and restoration, the Standing Com-
mittee, for all its sincerity and devotion,
will resemble the old lady who tried to
bale out the Murray with a bucket.


m
mt
m
m
You can
always rely on
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
■1
>1
POLITICAL POINTS
An outmoded extract from the Com-
monwealth Year-Book, preceded by a
transcription of Constitutional section
48: “Until the Parliament otherwise pro-
vides each Senator and each member of
the House shall receive an allowance of
four hundred pounds a year.”
The Parliamentary allowance was raised
to £6OO p.a. in 1907 and to £lOOO p.a. in
1920. Several reductions under Financial
Emergency legislation reduced the allow-
ance to £750 p.a.
It is now to be £l5OO p.a., plus £1 2s. 6d.
per sitting day, plus committee work
at £2 2s. a day, plus use of a secretary,
plus free air travel, plus overseas trips
galore, plus —but why go on? The public
pays.
It is. now clear that had one-vote-one-
value operated in Queensland and N. S.
Wales, “Labor” would have been defeated
in both States; in Queensland by a sub-
stantial majority. One-vote-one-value
was a “Labor” principle for many years,
and in an age , which has witnessed a
revolution in transport (incidentally, an
R.A.A.F. Mosquito fighter-bomber has
flown from Perth to Melbourne in five
hours) it is impossible for “Labor” to
argue against it, so “Labor” never tries
—it takes the cash and lets the credit go.
The New Englanders will introduce it
when they get their new State.
Had Chifley paid proper attention to
Earle Page’s precise and detailed state-
ments of the case for increased produc-
tions and shipments of food to Britain he
could never have fallen into the fatuous
assertions he made last week. He alleged
that the average Briton was receiving
“2.05 pounds of meat per week”—actu-
ally the ration amounts to a couple of
chops—and that “the total amount of fats
available to the Australian people is
less than that available to the British.”
The P.M. attributed these estimates to
“nutrition experts,” whose sanity would
be suspected if it had not transpired
that they were referring to the 1944 year.
People who have sent food parcels to
Britain, with accompanying letters in
which they asked for a list of urgent
requirements, know well enough that they
are invariably implored to send tinned
meat and “please, if you don’t mind, a
bit of dripping.”
There is no cheekier, Labor politician
in the business than Emanuel Shinwell,
who in cocksure ignorance let Britain
in for a coal shortage at the beginning
of its worst winter for many generations.
So far from being impenitent, Shinwell
recently bellowed that he didn’t give “a
tinker’s. cuss” for the Opposition or its
supporters, at least half the nation, his
concern being restricted to “the organised
workers.” Though publicly scolded by
Attlee, Shinwell returned to his vomit at
the party conference at Margate, refer-
ring to Churchill as “that garrulous old
gentleman,” and amplifying the original
slander: “We don’t rely on parasites,
Speculators and idlers ; we rely on the
workers.” Morrison tried to soften the
effect of this insolence on managements
and the disappearing middle class.
Till recently there were two Sullivans
in the N.Z. Parliament, the Sullivan who
induced Australian “Labor” to let him
have 18,000,000 bushels of wheat at
ss. 9d. (the last export price quoted was
165.) and the Sullivan who is Nationalist
member for Bay of Plenty. That Sulli-
van spoke for his party in the contest for
the Avon by-election caused by the other
Sullivan’s death (his majority was pulled
down a thousand or so) and spoke with
vigor and wit. He pointed out that white
members were equally divided, Peter
Fraser had secured a majority, all
Maoris, because he “rubbed noses in
every pa.” Under “Labor,” he proceeded,
“the State has become a vast tote,” with
compulsory purchase of tickets and a
prodigious deduction for “operating
costs.” True, there is an eight-
hour day, but “every man has to work
two of the eight hours for Nash, usually
too far away from N.Z. to hear the
groans of the tax-trodden.”
British Labor’s Left Wing got a dread-
ful doing at the party conference. The
so-called “rebels” were outvoted on con-
scription and on the Government’s defi-
ance of Moscow, and in the election for
the hew executive they failed to secure a
seat. Attlee came in with a contemptu-
ous disavowal of “people” whose “sub-
servience to one great Power makes them
charge us with subservience to another” ;
and their discomfiture was completed by
the grand reception given to Bevin and
his foreign policy. One of these rebels
is that miserable carpetbag poli-
tician R. W. G. Mackay, formerly of
Sydney,
For the “Saturday Evening Post”
Harold J. Noble has written a study of
the Australian economy and foreign
policy, which he declares (and who will
contradict him?) is “virtually the private
preserve of Doctor Evatt; is whatever he
says or thinks at any moment,” The
article is severe on almost every point
except the übiquitous fighting of the Aus-
tralian serviceman “and an extensive,
rationalised and economical steel industry
which should be able to compete almost
anywhere with our own or the British.”
Every competent American observer has
expressed the same opinion. Nevertheless,
the inept and guilty crowd in office is still
toying with the idea of “nationalising”
8.H.P., although it couldn’t “nationalise”
a baked-potato can without losing a ton
of money.
Hamilton Knight, the N.S.W. Minister
of Labor and Industry, a holy terror until
it comes to doing anything, announced
last week that “business people would
be compelled to restore home deliveries
of At that rate Hamilton
Knight must now “compel” vehicle-
drivers to take driving jobs, the Fuel
Control crowd to increase petrol ration-
ing, the coalminers to produce more coal
so that more vehicles can be built and
serviced and —but why go on?
A great noise was made by the Mc-
Girrs about the elevation of a Mr.
Matthews to the Ministry as Building
Materials. Having thus far only the title
and a share in the salary pool, the man
will need a lot of new legislation to back
him up, but his “Parliament,” after meet-
ing to swear in new members, has ad-
journed till September.
McKell, Gee-Gee, has been pressed
into service for button-pushing. He
pressed a button at Yarralumla on Empire
Day, and forthwith about a hundred tons
of combustible material sent a blaze 60ft.
into the heavens over Balwyn, Melbourne.
When the fire died down, 50,000 on-
lookers moved homeward, having been
warmer than they are likely to be again
this winter: strikes and transport muddle
have made another firewood shortage a
sure thing.
The Full Arbitration Court’s hearing
of the 40-hour-wfcek case has entered
upon its second year. At the end of the
first twelvemonth 3*750,000 words of evi-
dence had been taken, and the exhibits
(hundreds) make a stack several feet
high.
After the first German war the Com-
monwealth Bank built houses for Diggers
—1777; total cost, £1,155,100. Now it
is concentrating on building for itself;
and in the far greater need for homes that
exists now the change is decidedly no
improvement, though in correspondence
with the new “Labor” order. A great
new banking palace is designed for
Hobart, and the project has “Labor”
Premier Cosgrove’s blessing. He chooses
to believe that it won’t halt housing in
any way, which is nonsense, and the Tas.
R.S.L. has told him so in good straight
terms, adding that it is withdrawing its
account from the Commonwealth Bank
in utter disgust.
Pertinent contribution to the discus-
sions of the Federal Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion at Adelaide:
E'. L. Cockrell (S.A.): Only an insig-
nificant percentage of taxpayers can check
an income-tax assessment. We wouldn’t
take an unintelligible account from our
storekeeper. Why should we take one from
the Government?
Why, indeed? Unfortunately the spirit
that prompts the householder to question
a hazy storekeeper’s account or baker’s
bill seldom applies when the annual con-
undrum comes from the Taxation Depart-
ment. It is far more often a case of
“What’s the use? I may back the card
or win the lottery this week.”
“For the third time since January,
1945,” as the “Argus” recalls, and for
the fifth lime altogether the Communist
Thornton is “going abroad as a repre-
sentative of Australian trade-unions” —
this time to Prague, which is stiff with
Corns., and where the Com.-controlled
World Federation of Trade-Unions is
having more palavers. “The Govern-
ment has nothing to do with the appoint-
ment,” Chifley protested, “and is not
paying any of Mr. Thornton’s expenses.”
That will be a change.
Qantas is selling out to the Common-
wealth “Government” “as the result of
greatly increased expansion and capital
requirements,” of “ ‘Government’ policy”
and of “a common trend of political
thought.” Qantas is 27 years old, the
oldest regularly operating transport com-
pany in the British Commonwealth and
the second-oldest in the world. Its absorp-
tion coincided with great overseas air
disasters, and comes at a period of
tremendous taxation and bureaucratic
supervision. According to the A.B.C.
news service, now in operation on a
hang-the-expense basis, nearly every U.S.
airline has confessed that it is losing
money. Over the financial operations of
Trans-Australia Airlines a veil has thus
far been drawn.
Melbourne’s housing chaos had a bit
of precise detail injected into it when
Hamilton, the architect M.L.A. for
Toorak, asserted that permits had been
granted for the building of luxury homes
in posh suburbs while ex-servicemen and
others were living in huts or stables —
one, a Tommy, was found camped with
his wife and family on a Spencer-street
station platform. Hamilton gave what he
called a “glaring example”—a Caulfield
house being raised to the order of “Men-
del Fetter, manufacturer.” Fetter already
owns a house with three reception rooms,
four bedrooms and a billiard room, a
block of flats and six cottages. He must
be doing famously in this “Labor”
country.
A year ago when the double-dump dis-
pute tied up shipping in Australian ports
and perishable cargo was rotting in the
holds of produce steamers in Sydney and
Brisbane, striking watersiders in Brisbane,
led by Communists, boarded two vessels
and unloaded cargoes of apples, pears
and potatoes. Much was made at the
time of their charitable gesture, although
they had refused to work the ships in
the normal way when called upon and
the “gesture” was a typical piece of
Communist effrontery. Now the antici-
pated sequel has arrived. The union
claimed payment for the job and tjie ship-
owners refused to shell out on the grounds
that the men were not employed by
them. Canberra obligingly “conceded”
the demands, giving Murada’s apple gangs
£1785, which works out at 17s. Bid. a
ton, an all-time high, and Macedon’s
spud heroes £768. That’s £2553 grabbed
direct from the taxpayers in addition to
the „ incalculable thousands the double-
dump hold-up cost them indirectly.
On the first Saturday in May one R. C.
Dewley was elected Liberal M.L.A. for
Drummoyne (Sydney), ousting the old
“Labor” Parliamentary hand Bob Greig,
now on pension. Within a fortnight Dew-
ley had been fined £lOO, “with £4OO
penal tax” for having “forgotten” to
return income of £958 for the 1944-45 tax-
year. The prosecuting officer stated that
“omitted” income for three years
amounted to £2379 and that total taxes
evaded” amounted to £922, whicu
“Dewley will be called upon to pay.”
That stern character Treatt, the Liberal
leader, caused Dewley to be excluded
from the party room, and, Dewley said he
would carry on as an Independent. In
other and more exacting days he would
have had to resign. An odd feature of
an odd business is that he is a retail
butcher. It was thought butchers of all
grades had turned “Labor.”
Australian writers who see their books
denied publication through shortage of
paper while “ ‘Labor’ Government”
propaganda pamphlets and expensive
brochures flood the country at the
country’s expense may draw some con-
solation from the knowledge that they
do not suffer alone. A British Govern-
ment publication, Coal, put out to boost
or justify the socialisation of the collieries,
used for its initial issue 11 tons of paper.
The monthly allowance for a new
periodical started by private enterprise is
two hundredweight.
As the week began the U.S. Senate was
“seeking a compromise” with the House
on the latter’s proposal for a 50 p.c. ad
valorem tax on “foreign” wool, additional
to the present duty of 34 cents a pound,
and Australian woolgrowers were some-
what morosely studying the manoeuvres
of Dr. Coombs, head of the Australian
delegation to Geneva, presently to be
joined by Dedman. Neither knows
anything in particular about wool or
about the ways of Congressmen, and the
same applies' to Chifley, who, breaking
away from the subjects of Parliamentary
salaries and land sales, avowed himself
“confounded and astonished to find the
country that originated the Geneva
negotiations taking fiction of an almost
internationally provocative nature.” It
will be time enough to cry out when we
are hurt. So far there have been
alarums and excursions, but nothing
more.
Queensland members of the A.M.I.E.U.
and A.E.U. ought to be doing some hard
thinking about their leaders. About a
year ago these persons pulled them out
on strike, and in process of time they
lost their “preference” and the A.M.I.E.U.
was deregistered. Recently the heads
applied for restoration of the preference
clause. The Industrial Court refused,
giving shattering reasons:
For four months Section 21a of the Act,
which deals with the responsibility of
unions and employers for notifying the
Court of disputes, was completely ignored
by the union on 30 different occasions
Union officials openly opposed a Court
order for a resumption of work There
have been “stop-works” and re-
gardless of the loss to the country or the
want of justification for demands.
Did these chattering dunces of “union-
officials” lose their jobs? No! In these
matters the Australian unionist, good
fellow as he is, is far too good-natured.
From “Feng-Shui”:
When the Indonesian republic, free, peace-
loving and united, was first mooted, amidst
loud cheers from simple people, I suggested that
the moment Dutch rule over the islands was
removed deep fissures would be disclosed in
the smooth surface of Indonesian aspirations.
So 1 was in no way astonished when Sundanese
of the Pasoendan party wrested Buitenzorg from
their Republican brothers and proclaimed
West Java a separate State. Buitenzorg,
once the official* residence of the Dutch
Governor-General, is a lovely city with a world-
famous garden, 40 miles from Batavia. Under
Dutch rule nobody in Java or elsewhere
bothered about the national aspirations of the
Sundanese, the differences between whom and
their Javanese neighbors are imperceptible to
the average observer. But it seems to be a law
of nature that as soon as a country becomes
nationalistic its component parts get precisely
the same bug, the exclusiveness of the one
making it a good audience for exclusiveness in
the others. There are other minorities in
Java that are liable to become vocal, notably
the 2,000,000 Madurese, who have been the
wood-and-water joeys of the island from time
immemorial.


the whole
street
talked..
H'
•k
(.7
WHEN M RS JONES
WAS ARRESTED!
«2S, •* tE,* X;
-Jo
:ci e <i
:/:r ‘
" lst ‘-u„ Je d o 'her c >e Pf '<
Lcn^ t 3 n J es set u ° Vernmei
acateie *^7<
There are thousands of women to-day who
would have to plead guilty to such a charge .. . brought
about by their careless spending, Indulgence In luxuries,
and little everyday extravagances that so quickly mount
up. Such thoughtless use of money Is a two-fold danger.
FIRST, it dissipates von
and savings, so th?
goods are plen'ij
values obtain
money tc
SP'
when M R Politician
WASNT ARRESTED!
WHAT THE WHOLE STREET
SAID...
who& defrauding, and
cheating* the Australian
public ? ”
*
Ns
s'
t
im
&
A
A
7
23
£
o
A
'S
O
f
o
f
f
JV
y
ao^p
pas?
SS
0
fs
*isSo
ME
ANOTHER ANGLE ON CRIME.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Mac”: As we moved into our first
camp, still in civvies, we were greeted
with “You’ll be sorry.” Next day we
were handing out the same advice to new
arrivals. When our troopship was pulling
into Singapore the old familiar chal-
lenge floated up from the wharf, where
members of the 22nd Brigade had come
to welcome the convoy in. It was long
enough and far away before we heard
it again. The remnant of our camp was
coming down from Thailand on an over-
loaded troop-train, sick and packed like
sardines into the rice-carriages. As we
waited at a siding off the main line a
Jap troop train, headed north, pulled
in. The Nips aboard showed consider-
able interest in our emaciated company,
but if they expected to find our spirits
low they must have been disappointed.
Jne old, unquenchable Aussie spirit was
equal to the occasion—one joker pointed
to the boniest member of our truck, made
a dramatic gesture northwards, and
chanted “You’ll be sorry.” Then as the
Japs pulled out, the cry rang from end
to end of our rice carriages—“You’ll
be sorry—you’ll be sorry.” And I’ll bet
they were.
* * * a
“Spokeshave”: Quaint misprints? John
Charles Thomas sang a panel of folk-
songs at Melbourne Town Hall about the
roving life of the Gambling Men of
Reedfoot, a great inland sea in Ken-
tucky where headin’ ’em seems to have
been the main industry. Melbourne
“Age,” haying no doubt read the latest
Moscow dispatch describing manners and
customs in the Workers’ Fatherland,
made it “the roving life of the Red foot-
men.”
“Jurumudi”: “F. 0.0.” is a bit out
(B. 21/5/ 2 47) in crediting Noel Coward
with the invention of the phrase about
mad dogs and Englishmen. It was current
in the tropics long before Mr. Coward
lisped his first numbers. It probably
arose in John Company’s day in Java and
there was some truth in it. The Dutch-
man emulated the native in taking his
midday siesta, but it was a common sight
to see a lone Englishman, the sun
striking hammer blows on his topee, strid-
ing through the empty pasars of a city
which looked as if it had been evacuated
by its population. There were always dogs
waiting to rush out from every shadow
to sample his blood and most of them
were really mad, whereas the Englishman
was only half mad. There is not the
slightest evidence for believing that the
midday sun was any more dangerous than
the night-time—in fact, it was probably
less in spite of the mad dog—as the
malarial mosquito took its siesta along
with the Hollanders and the natives.
* * *
“Mere Mum”: Congratulations to the
various victorious quiz teams. No doubt
many others feel as ignorant and humble
as I, after listening to the contests. But
I wonder how many of the contestants
can fill the kettle, beat up an omelette,
listen to each individual .child’s troubles,
eat breakfast, keep an eye on the clock
and look sympathetic about a blunt
razor-blade —all at once? How many
can feed the baby, as many of us do?
A N.S.W. National Quiz man replies;
As a member of a non-victorious team I
feel every bit as ignorant and humble as “Mere
Mum,” but since she sees fit to fire a question
on the domestic front, here goes. For the last
fortnight I have been filling the kettle, beating
up omelettes, listening to the individual troubles
of two small boys, keeping an eye on the clock
and getting no sympathy over my blunt razor-
blade. I have also been bathing and dressing
the two small boys, cooking their meals, making
their beds and attending to their other wants,
real and imagined. Last week-end my clothes-
line presented a sight that would have gladdened
the heart of Dame Enid Lyons. I have never
managed to feed a baby, but that is due to
an oversight on the part of Nature rather than
to any unwillingness on my part. My wife
arrives home tonight and from now on I’ll
stick to quizzing.
* * * *
“Norther”: The long chance has come
off again, this time up at Cooktown
(N.Q.). Old Charlie Sanders, a tin-miner,
accidentally shot himself in the neck
while aboard his launch. Unable to
walk, he hauled the dinghy in, scratched
a message for help on a thwart and set
her adrift. Nearly three weeks later a
naval beach patrol looking for castaway
mines found the dinghy at the mouth of
the Mclvor, read the message and found
the old-timer in the launch a mile
or so up the river, A flying ambulance
took him to Cairns hospital. They’re
tough, these northerners—he’d lived on
powdered milk and a cup of water a day
for 26 days.
“And another thing, darling. I DO like breakfast in bed.”
J. E. Murphy: Mention by “Orion”
(B. 14/5/’47) of Gunbar recalls the days
of 1910 when, as a thriving mail-change
town, it boasted a store, post-office,
billiard saloon and sportsground, not to
mention the since-burned-down pub, kept
by my father. Gunbar was the Mecca of
shearers and Indian hawkers en route for
Hay or Carrathool, and was large enough
to be included on the regular itinerary
of circuses. I have a poignant recollec-
tion of the day when, in a three-year-
old’s impersonation of Big Chief Sitting
Bull, I cannoned into a post, thereby em-
bedding in my gullet a hunting arrow I
happened to be carrying in my mouth.'
Outstripping all would-be helpers in my
bellowing rush across the plain, I was
eventually overtaken, thrown and relieved
of the partly-swallowed arrow by a young
horseman. He was Billy Jackson, then
19, who was to win a V.C. at Pozieres,
and put Gunbar on the world map.
$ * $ «
“McFad”: There’s going to be an
awful rumpus at our next congregational
meeting and some plain speaking by the
vicar. In a printed circular he asked for
literary contributions, verses, stories or
jokes suitable for publication in a parish
magazine. Unfortunately the printer
omitted the “h” in parish.
* * * ♦
“Craiser”; The extraordinary import-
ance attached to stamp-collecting (B.
21/5/’47) has always intrigued me and
I have often wondered a similar
social prestige has never attached to the
equally exacting custom, at one time pre-
valent among the small fry, of collecting
match brands. Match brands yield no-
thing to the postage stamp in aesthetic
beauty, variety of design, excitement of
subject-matter, gorgeousness of line and
color and rarity of issues, but, as far as
I know, no crowned head has become
famous for having a £lOO,OOO collection
of Bryant and May’s safeties, Swedish
tandstickors and waxies. I have a per-
sonal interest in match brands. At one
time I possessed an assortment which was
the envy of every small boy in my Ade-
laide suburb. I doubt if one equal
to it could have been found any-
where in the world, some of my speci-
mens measuring 2ft. by sft.—much too
large to paste into even the largest album.
The reason for the excellence of my col-
lection was simple—the father of the boy
next door was a commercial traveller and
provided me with super-specimens from
ms firm’s bulk parcels. If match brands
were treated with the same respect as
postage stamps my albums would be
worth today at least half a million.
* * * *
“Beta”: While his tram swung round
the Sydney Railway Loop the young
trammie with the Digger badge cursed
the higher-ups for “givin’ a man a single
car when a double wouldn’t half hold the
mob in this peak Our compart-
ment was so crowded when he reached it
that he couldn’t even get his head in the
door; with a cheerful grin he poked it
through the window. “Fez, please.” He
paused with mock consternation. “Fez,
please. Do any more really want to pay
up?” His face broke into a cheerful
grin. “I’ve given this away,” he confided
in my ear. “If a bloke like me
can’t get in to collect, it’s a moral a
wobbly old inspector can’t get in to
check.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Having occasion to look up
Who’s Who in Australia I discovered that
that publication has certain snobberies
relative to the theatrical profession. The
man I was in quest of was George
Wallace, but I couldn’t find him. I next
sought other eminent members of his
branch of the profession. There was no
mention of Mo, Jim Gerald, Don Nicol,
or any other comedian I could think of
among the acres of professors of this
or that arid subject, censors, lawyers,
commissioners, secretaries and assistant
secretaries. Actors and actresses are
there in plenty, provided they are
not the sort that raise laughs; artists,
good, bad and indifferent, get an entry
and most Well-known cartoonists are
mentioned. Why this taboo on the
jesters? After all, they are cartoonists
who use visual and verbal means to put
their message over, and as our commen-
tators on the follies, futilities, pretences
and pomposities of our social system they
have a value. Why aren’t they as soci-
ally important as minor secretaries to
minor politicians?
* * * *
“Wusslean”; The mayor of a country
town was presented with a pair of
statues for the adornment of the Town
Hall. After inspecting the nude figures,
he turned to his hesitating fellow-
councillors and said in awed tones:
“Art is art, and nothing can be
done to prevent it. But there is the
mayoress’s decency to be considered! ”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Being native of neither, I’m
always thrilled by the cultural rivalry be-
tween Melbourne and Sydney. Until re-
cently I had the twain locked in a
desperate dead-heat, but I have now
learnt that Sydney will have nothing but
the whitest of white twine to thread its
corned-beef, while Mebourne is content
to have its salt-horse sewn with anything
that will hold it together. There must be
culture in a people so finicky, and it puts
The Bridge city in front,
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A car travelling in
a Westralian country district picked up a
cow and carried it along on the bonnet.
The cow walked quietly away after holing
the radiator in four places, knocking off
one headlight and damaging the other.
The driver was otherwise fortunate. Next
to a Too, which usually hurls itself
through the windscreen, a cow is the most
awkward animal with which to share an
accident. Recently a driver was explain-
ing how, after the collision, he righted his
car—a baby model —and was straighten-
ing out the mudguards when the cow rose
slowly to its feet and began to move
away, unharmed. “But just a minute, old
man,” the first-aid bloke interjected.
“How did you manage to right your car
with that broken foot?” The other prised
loose a rueful grin. “I didn’t get that
foot broken until that damned cow started
to mooch off,” he explained,
* * * *
“Camsa”: Police and A.A. guides, co-
operating in a mammoth headlights-testing
campaign in Adelaide, in which several
thousand motorists figured, were sur-
prised to see a car come up to
the testing lane with a hen sitting
on the f fender behind the front bumper.
The car had travelled several miles and
passed through the heart of the city, but
the hen sefemed completely unperturbed.
Her astonished owner placed her in the
boot.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: In September, 1946,
the much-hoped-for drug paludrin began
to be handed out freely to all returned
malaria cases whose blood slide showed
“positive.” After six months more
than one patient had a recurrence of
“clinical” malaria and a few had blood
slides ‘*positive.” Still, there is no need
for despair. The paludrin patients had
six months’ freedom from the disease, and
another course of paludrin—one tablet
twice a week for 25 weeks —may effect
a permanent cure.. If it doesn’t then a
third will give imrriunity for another six
months and so on.* For those who show
“apparent” malaria clinically, but whose
blood slide is “negative,” a seven-weeks
course of atebrin will serve the purpose.
* * * *
“Clooter”; When I was a little boy—
one of those execrable nuisances who
simply wouldn’t keep quiet —I got into
a row with my teacher and was “kept
in.” I’ve always held a prejudice against
Adair* Lindsay Gordon since, for it was
when the teacher read out to us
They are rhymes rudely strung with intent less
Of sound than of words
In lands where bright blossoms are scentless
And songless bright birds;
that I shot up and cried “Please, sir,
there’s a big clematis up on the hill full
of scent and the maggies’ nest is”... I
was punished for interrupting the les-
son. Now I learn that Gordon, who
wasn’t Australian-born and never really
became Australian, is to be the hero of
a film, “a feature-length color film
based on the life of the Aus-
tralian poet.” Ye gods, what sort
of a literary education have these
people had? Gh, yes, I know there’s a
Gordon League or some such
and that somebody or other got a tablet
to Gordon’s memory put in Westminster
Abbey as the “great Australian poet,”
but that doesn’t make Gordon either
Australian or great. Not much of his work
rises above doggerel, most of it —even the
ballads —is treacly with sentiment or
smothered in melancholy, and only his
galloping rhymes deserve notice. He
never got into the heart of Australia, and
had no more lasting effect on our national
literature than The Mystery of a Han-
som Cab. From the point of view of
being Australian, that unpretentious
jingler Jack Moses was miles ahead of
Gordon.
“Idnom”: The establishment of a
branch of the Melbourne University at
Mildura seems to have been a wise move.
First-year students from several faculties
are doing their courses at a converted
Air Force camp taken over by the Uni.
authorities. Board is cheap—2ss. a week —
and although there have been complaints
about lack of fresh fruit, of all things, the
general standard of food and accommo-
dation has met with approval. Curtail-
ment of cultural and social activities is
compensated for by the pleasant and
quiet surroundings of Mildura, and the
community spirit of living together should
make up for the lack of city amenities.
This feature of Mildura life is reminiscent
of the older universities of the world,
and is something largely denied to present-
day students.
« * * *
“Bymp”: Melbourne “Herald” tells
the story of two elderly spinster sisters
who, feeling the first touch of winter,
stepped out of their Toorak home, hailed 1
a passing taxi and told the driver to take
them to Alice Springs. When he realised
that they meant it he rang up his
employer, got his o.k. and then asked
the peripatetic ladies for 10 minutes’ grace
to go home, pack a bag and say good-bye
to his wife and family. I once met in
Java an old lady who didn’t like the
New York winter and had been dodgifig
it for 15 years. She was travelling aboard
one of those steamers which used to cart
tourists around on luxury cruises. When
the ship got back to New York, she told
me, she would step straight on to an-
other.
THE ANTIQUITY OF MAN.
“Harvard anthropologists are convinced, through
evidence recently presented in the form of human
skulls and other materials from the East Indies,
that man existed- in a form more human than ape-
like at' least 500,000 years ago.”— Cable.
A thoroughly engrossing theme,
A fascinating subject, this, ■
However roughly it may seem
To jolt the Book of Genesis.
What long, long thoughts whereon to muse
Must needs intrigue you when you scan
The latest scientific views
On the antiquity of man!
And did he truly live and move
And have his being, for weal or woe-
By evidence you can’t disprove
Five hundred thousand years ago?
What countless aeons split space
When Eve and Adam delved and span
From when the good old human race,
Emerging from the apes, began!
And did they range untrodden shores
And in forgotten forests climb
Our prehistoric ancestors
In regions half as old as Time,
Till evolution’s march began
By land and water, plains and fens.
And bit by bit the simian clan
Developed Homo sapiens ?
It must have puzzled them, one thinks,
If they had time for thought to spare
Those whom we now term missing links
To figure out just what they were
At first. But science holds it clear
Our forebears’ brains began to grow,
Also their tails to disappear,
Five hundred thousand years ago.
What futile claims directed at
The oldest lineage it voids,
The chastening reflection that
We all descend from anthropoids
Who revelled, red in tooth and claw,
Or wild in wastes of woodlands ran
Till some inexplicable law
Decreed the dim red dawn of man!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Uco”; Why all these finicking com-
plaints about the language used in comic
strips and their alleged bad effects on the
culture of the community? As far as I
can see strip characters simply ooze with
culture. An instance from my morning
paper: After a smash in which his car
has overturned and burst into flhmes the
crook remarks —to himself apparently, as
there is no one else about —“It’s no use.
The flames are too hot. I can’t retrieve
the money.” A man who in a moment
of stress can talk like that is surely a
worthy example to Youth, even if his
name is Itchy.
* * * *
“Bo”; It is a striking commentary on
the uniraaginativeness, nay, the un-
appreciativeness, of our forebears that it
is not until now that the true cultural
influence of Hebe has been recognised—
I refer, of course, to the Popular Bar-
maid contest being held under the aegis
of the N.S.W. Parents’ and Citizens’
Association. Having often enjoyed pro-
found discussions with blonde beer-
jerkers on such subjects as the influence of
the lonic Dialect on the Attic of Thucy-
dides, the incidence of ventrosity among
Micronesian adolescents and the com-
patibility of Hedonism with Karilean
philosophy, I cannot but commend this
present move to associate barmaids with
juvenile education. There will naturally
be cavillers. Those, for instance, who
have had to leap back, only to be rico-
cheted on to the bar counter again from
the packed concourse, when trying to
escape the wave of wassail consequent
upon Hebe savagely slamming down two
foaming schooners. For my own nomi-
nation in the contest I would enter a
granite-faced hag with a bottled-ginger
topknot who couldn’t hear any customer
calling for a beer unless he first dropped
a bob into a lady’s-waist glass she kept
on the end of the counter specially for
the purpose. Her frankly avowed in-
tention was to “get it while the goin’ was
good” during the long beer-shortage
period—and she got it, Sydney being
more heavily populated with mugs than
an abo.’s mong. with fleas. Hail to the
Popular Barmaids!
* * * ♦
“Barkly”: On the Ambon wharf many
strange cargoes were handled by the
world’s most expert scroungers and very
rarely did Aussie prisoners return to
camp empty-handed. The Japs helped
us to pick our plunder by boasting of
the varied loot acquired on their south-
ward drive. One day one of the lads
was caught in the act of drinking from a
bottle invitingly protruding from a broken
crate. The guards were horrified, but
not hostile; they explained that the crate
contained chemicals for killing flies.
Closer examination, when the time was
opportune, encouraged the best piece of
scrounging on record. Almost every man
managed to smuggle a bottle of the poison
back to Tantoey. Flybane? No, cherry
brandy! After that we gave up looking
for signs of civilisation among our
captors.-
* * * *
“Passun”: I believe in miracles. At
Haisho I once had to stand at attention
outside the Jap guard-house, holding a
dish of water in my outstretched hands.
The punishment was to last from dawn to
sunset, and if I spilt any water or sought
to lean against the wall Or sat down I
was promised a “number one” bashing.
After an hour in the hot sun my arms
went numb and crash went dish and
water. After realising that the Warrior
Gods had not noticed the catastrophe,
so interested were they in their saki, I
picked up the dish and found it a simple
task to hold it now that it was empty.
All through the long day the Japs came
out to admire my strength and stamina.
The torture was an old joke of theirs and
so far no one had missed qualifying for
the bashing. At seven o’clock the sun was
almost behind the distant mountains. Now
my prayers were fast becoming pessi-
mistic in context. Half an hour later
“ Well , you’ll have to pretend you’ve had the fever.”
out came the Jap commandant. He
took the dish from my hands; threw
the water from it over my head, gave me
a packet of gaspers and sent me off to
bed. The explanation? At 7.15 a most
glorious tropical shower had come along.
For 10 minutes streams of water had
poured from the thatched guard-house
roof into my waiting dish.
?.***■
“Spokeshave”: It was at a contempor-
ary Melbourne art show. The young
contemporary represented had been try-
ing for a year to paint pictures that
would give the public the horrors and he
was standing looking around the walls
really feeling that he had succeeded. “Ex-
cuse me,” said an old lady, “are you
the artist?” “I am,” said the young
modern, “Well,” said the old lady, “I
would like to say that I liked your pic-
tures the moment I saw them.” “Is that
so?” said the artist delighted. “Yes,” re-
plied the old lady. “My family laugh
at me and say I’m terribly old-fashioned,
but I must say I do like something pretty.”
* * * *
■ “Zake”: One thing I like about Com-
munists when they come to power is that,
abjuring all temptations to be flash and
enjoy the fruits of their brief authority,
“One more shovelful, Cyril; then you can give me a hand with this
non-electric
they not only insist on living humbly but
put the needs of the country first —self-
sacrifice, in short, is what they aim for.
Take, for instance, Dr. Groza, the Prime
Minister of Rumania, Up till now it
was considered almost a crime if the fel-
low in charge of that country didn’t
have a name that sounded something like
Yellforescu, but the doctor, with a little
help from the Red Army, which is eating
the place out, changed all that. Re-
cently the Groza ordered 12 Rolls Royces
for himself and his “Cabinet.” Sternly
resisting the temptation to ride around
in the well-sprung comfortable bullock-
carts that his predecessors used, he is
patriotically content to put up with jolt-
ing about in a Rolls, One can visualise,
too, his Cabinet colleagues cursing the
fellow’s sense of austerity. Perhaps
Groza had been struck with, and been
influenced by, his “Cabinet’s” counter-
parts in Canberra, who voluntarily put
up with the hardships inflicted through
riding to Randwick on Saturday after-
noons in fluid-drive Chryslers.
* * * «
“Atlanta”: The Adelaide medical
student’s excuse for speeding (B. 7/5/’47)
reminds me of a Brisbane woman who
testified that she was normally an ex-
tremely careful driver, but had been
speeding for a very good reason. Twelve
miles from home she noticed her petrol
tank was getting low —so she started
driving as fast as she could to get home
before her fuel ran out.
• * * *
“Ceg”: Recent yarns about blade
razors reminded me of a chap who
used to be a regular at city and country
agricultural shows. He was a pedlar of
a “marvellous” razor-sharpening prepara-
tion. His method was to mount a box
and make signs of slashing his throat
with one of the old cut-throat razors, A
crowd having gathered, he would then
produce from his pocket a piece of hard-
wood and savagely attack it with the
razor, hacking off large chips of the wood
and presumably also of the blade. Hav-
ing satisfied his audience that the razor
was now in no fit state for using on the
human face, he would produce his sharp-
ening cream, smear some on a strip of
leather and proceed to strop the razor.
This being quickly accomplished he would
ask for “a gent with ’air on ’is harm” to
oblige by stepping up and baring the said
arm. Somebody usually obliged and with
a few deft strokes he would cut a swathe.
He then had little difficulty in selling a
few boxes at “on’y a bob a box.” I
have never used a cut-throat, but I re-
fuse to believe that any blade could
stand up to such treatment and still be
usable for shaving. Possibly while the
“gent” was stepping up the salesman sub-
stituted a good razor for the chopper.
♦ * * #
“Harap”: Why are they “stokers” in
the Navy and “firemen” in the mercan-
tile marine? In a Port Melbourne pub
I foolishly posed this question to a
grizzled little matelot, who informed me
that he was “P.O. Stoker of the ,
R.N.,” and this is what I got: “Well,
Sir, it’s all a matter of slicin’. Keep a
good bed o’ course, but never forget to
slice. Slicin’ means steam. But not
today. No, Sir, just look at ’em today.
Goes arahnd turnin’ on little hoil taps,
they does, and calls themselves stokers!
Stokers? Why, Sir, they ain’t even fit to
be lobsters! ” Whereupon he finished his
beer, gave me a smart salute, and, “With
your permission, Sir,” walked out of the
pub. And I still don’t know why they
are “stokers” in the Navy and “firemen”
on a merchant ship.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An unusual Adelaide case
was the “civil” action of a girl against a
young man for damages for throwing
acid on her. They had been friendly and
she had discontinued the association;
despite his defence of accident, he got
10 years. Chief Justice Napier (1) cut
short the girl’s counsel, having “heard
all the evidence at the trial” ; (2) felt
there would be no sense or justice in giv-
ing vindictive damages that couldn’t be
collected; (3) told the girl that there are
“plenty of people who are far less plea-
sant to look at,” and that she “should not
suffer from any obsession that she cannot
take part in the life of her friends” ; (4)
awarded her £BB9 2s. 9d.
* * * •
“Becks”: It’s a very modest and re-
tiring part of the world that makes no
claim to some kind of a record, but one
of the most peculiar claims came out of
the island of St. Helena when the Royal
party called there in Vanguard on the
way back from the South African tour.
According to reports the visitors watched
the loyal boys slither down the “biggest
bannister slide in the world.” The boast is
probably justified—the rail on which the
lads risked their pants guards the 629 steps
down the steep slope of Signal'Hill. It
would be unwise to give the slide too
much publicity in our schools; it might
lead to an epidemic of runaways, all
bound for St. Helena.
* * * *
“M 8”: There may be “more collaterals
of the great lineage” in Australia than
“Tuart” suspects (B. 28/5/’47). A gene-
ration ago a Shakspeare ran the “Lach-
lander” out in Condobolin (N.S.W.).
Later he founded the Canberra “Times,”
now run by his son, and became a
member of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council. The Sydney telephone directory
lists four of the name. AH spell it with a
third e, but as the original William wasn't
particular how he spelt it I don’t suppose
that makes any difference,
* * * *
“Tummas McNark”: The next time
“W.D.” (B. 28/5/’47) wants to get ser-
vice on a N.S.W. passenger train, let him
wave a frogskin under the nose of the
first porter he meets. He’ll be astonished
at the ease, delicacy and precision with
which he’ll be accommodated.
« * * *
“Emu’s Talk”: It appeared in the
Rome paper “L’Ora d’ltalia,” on April
16:
Canberra, 15th. The Government is con-
cerned at the lack of emigrants offering.
In an effort to correct the position it has
demanded on the reparations account
25,000 young German girls who will in no
way be coerced, willing volunteers only
being accepted. A luxury camp has been
prepared for them near the Australian
capital with all amenities. After acclima-
tisation they will be encouraged to marry,
and the wedding gift will comprise a piece
of land, a house and a flock of sheep.
There seems to be a great opportunity
for those homeless, landless Diggers who
were promised so much and have received
so little. Marry one of these girls and
they’ll get the land, the house and a
flock of sheep.
* * *' *
“Derwent”: An Australian bishop a
few months back reproached his flock
for not having “guts enough” to go for-
ward in a certain line of action which he
desired. Now the musical adjudi-
cator at Launceston competitions—he
came from Sydney—has offered his “con-
gratulations to the Margaret-street Church
Choir for being the only one in this city
with the intestinal fortitude to prepare
for a thing of this kind in a city which
has so many beautiful churches and lovely
organs.” I had thought that the word
the bishop used was now quite well under-
stood ; but I suppose it’s a matter of
culture, as in the case of the young
woman who, when I was a lad, went into
a shop in Adelaide and asked for some
“pussy-bowel violin strings.”
ALL ABOUT ACCOLADES.
“His Excellency the Governor-General, Mr. W. J.
McKell, administered the accolade of a Knight
Bachelor to Sir Kerr Grant.” — “S.M.Hr’ item.
It isn’t like the whacks you hear where boilers
And other massive articles are made,
Or the fierce blows dispensed by sturdy toilers
With picks or axes for their tools of trade.
It’s just a tap on somewhere near the funny-
Bone, if I’ve gathered the technique aright;
And he who undergoes the ceremony
Rises a full-blown knight.
A sword provides the authorised utensil,
Although of course you only use the flat,
And I suppose a gamp—or ev’n a pencil —
In case of need would do as well as that.
Lightly you tap the chap you’re elevating
Above the status of the common man,
Endeavoring to look, the while you’re waiting,
As kingly as you can.
Tis strange that men who reckon titles silly
And snobbish, themes for sneers and jeers
and jokes,
Should find themselves expected willy-nilly
To pin such labels upon other.folks,
And finish up with such congratulations
As worth ensures and honest merit claims
For those ascending from their previous stations
With handles to their names.
These scenes that feature virtue being rewarded
And public service pulling off its due
Might beneficially be recorded,
1 sometimes think, on screens for public view.
How fine a snap ’twould make for history’s
pages,
Billy McKell, flanked by admiring aides,
Like some grand monarch of the Middle Ages
Conferring accolades.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


USE NUGGET -
OLD MAN /T KEEPS
YOU BRIGHT FOR
MANY A MHE!"
O
NUGGET
SHOE POLISH
a
Ofi/LY
OOSE OP
nugget
does tr/
NP46/57
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
HENRY LAWSON, Twenty Stories and Seven Poems, with observations by his
Friends and Critics, selected by Colin Roderick. With portrait.
7/6 (post. 4d.).
ONE HUNDRED POEMS, 1919-1939. By Kenneth Slessor, 5/- (post. 4d.).
ON THE NORTH-WEST SKYUINE. By H. Drake-Brockman. Illustrated.
, 2/- (post. 3d.).
MEANJIN. A literary Magazine, edited by C. B. Christensen. Contents; Articles,
Poetry, Books, Illustrations. First quarter, 1947. 2/6 (post. 3d.).
COOK AND THE OPENING OF THE PACIFIC. By J. A. Williamson.
(Teach yourself history series). 7/6 (post. 4d.).
OUR FERTILE NORTH. “Porter’s Mob” through the N.T., by John D. Porter.
Illustrated. 3 /- (post. 3d.).
CIRCUS AT WORLD’S END. An assembly of verse, by Peter Hopegood.
7/6 (post. 4d.).
THE EUREKA STOCKADE. By Carbon! Raffaello. 4/- (post. 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Law and the Saboteur.
“Ek Dum”: Quite unnecessarily. Cau-
cus has ordered the Commonwealth
“Government” to deal with sabotage of
defence by way of a special Act.
It is denied that the measure is speci-
fically aimed at securing Commonwealth
control of South Australian uranium.
And members of the House who have
inquired have been told that it is not
intended to restrict free speech.
All that the bill proposes to deal with
is boycott or threat of boycott of defence
projects ; publication of such threats or
counselling or advising interference with
such projects ; any acts of violence to
prevent work on defence projects pro-
ceeding.
On the face of it, the threat must be
to some specific project. So it is still open
to a Communist on the Government pay-
roll, so long as he does not offer open
threats or indulge in actual violence, to
do what he can to white-ant the C.S.I.R.
or the Army or Navy.
The Government already has full
power to deal with sabotage under the
Crimes Act; but the Crimes Act is highly
unpopular with seditionists and Russian
agents, so that it would never do to use
it. Like the compulsory-service provisions
of the Defence Act, which are still the
law, the Crimes Act remains a dead letter
while “Labor” is in power. The new
measure has all the appearance of a bluff
to stifle criticism.
The Government is evidently far more
afraid of Moscow influences than it is of
public opinion.
In the very week in which this fearsome
measure was announced, the South Aus-
tralian branch of the Building Industry
Federation passed a defiant resolution in
favor of declaring the rocket range
“black,” and Dr. Evatt, replying to a
question asked by Archie Cameron,
enlarged on the time necessary to obtain
the papers connected with the conviction
of Arthur Rudkin on a war-time charge,
which conviction, Crown counsel said,
would be followed by a recommendation
for the internment of Rudkin for the
duration of the war. Before the war was
over Rudkin was installed in a C.S.I.R.
job and still has it.
Dr. Evatt could have had the papers on
the table of the House within 24 hours
of the request being made.
"Cut to Fifty Millions."
“Ek Dum”: It was reported last week
irom Canberra that Service Ministers
had obtained from the Defence Council
£54,000,000 for defence for 1947-48.
Mr. Dedman had stated the week be-
fore that the increases in services pay
under the new schedules would amount
only to £3,000,000 or so. The whispered
story is that Mr, Chifley is not even in
favor of the full £54,000,000 being spept.
He wants to bring the total down to
£50,000,000.
The plans so far as revealed inspire no
confidence.
The Navy proposes an estimate of
£15,000,000, which would have been cut
if Mr. Chifley had had his way.
Presumably the £15,000,000 is not ex-
pected to cover more than interest on the
cost of two" aircraft-carriers to be pur-
chased or built, plus their running costs
if they are available within the year.
No replacements of cruisers are
contemplated, and the aircraft-carriers
are not, apparently, to be an addi-
tion to the joint strength of the
British Commonwealth. They are two
built or building which are to be taken
over from Britain. Britain is getting rid
of a large number of aircraft-carriers,
partly because it is impossible to main-
tain them, partly because additions
to the ranges of aircraft are inclined to
make them less necessary or practicable
for use in narrower waters and partly be-
cause the whole question of suitability is
under consideration. Partly, also, be-
cause naval ratings are as scarce as hens’
teeth in a labor-hungry country in which
suitable men can draw very high wages.
Actually, replacements to the R.A.N.
are badly needed, but they will probably
be held over until British policy in con-
struction and armament is more clearly
defined. Almost every ship in the R.A.N.
is about worn out. The two 10,000-ton
cruisers which form our “capital fleet”
are 20 years old and much battered.
It is, however, proposed to increase the
strength of the R.A.N. from 11,624 to
14,000, presumably to take care of the
"I thought We Were never going to get out of that tailspin!"
aircraft-carriers, whose delivery must be
imminent if this is the fact.
Exactly how it is to be done perhaps
Minister Riordan, with his expert
knowledge of salt lakes, knows. The
R.A.N. has great difficulty in keeping up
its present strength.
The Army’s Ghost
The Army is to be divided into two
sections permanent, 19,000; militia,
50,000. The permanents will include the
occupation troops in Japan, about 10,000,
who also are included in the 35,000-odd
of which the forces at present consist.
The permanent army will consist of a
body of clerks and instructors presided
over by a small staff, when the occupation
force (a very valuable training force) is
left out of account. The militia, under
the present system, can be nothing but a
quarter-trained, half-baked force of ama-
teurs, a mere token offering to public
opinion.
The whole thing is fully in accord with
Canberra’s conceptions of push-button
warfare.
The Army’s share of the defence vote
will be £12,000,000.
R.A.A.F. Strengths and Types
The treatment of the Air Force is in
line with the rest of the plan.
The R.A.A.F. is to be reduced to
12,000, presumably exclusive of civilians.
Its vote will be £12,000,000. But if the
R.A.A.F. Command needed 3000 men
from its present establishment for opera-
tional duties it would be hard put ■to
find them.
It was solemnly reported by the daily
press that the location of main fighter
and bomber squadrons was being kept a
close secret. And very wisely, too, in
present circumstances. If any enemy
with a squadron or two of heavy 1946-
type U.S. bombers and three or four
squadrons of the very latest long-distance
fighters should find out where they are
all the innate gallantry and training of
their garrisons and crews would avail
them no more than the superlative quality
of the Wirraway men at Rabaul and of
the Buffalo boys at Singapore availed in
those places.
Certainly some provision for the manu-
facture of Vampire jet fighters and other
types of modern British machines is an
earnest of progress beyond the levels of
1939 in peace-time. But it remains to be
seen what Britain proposes to do in the
development of fighters.
By the end of the Pacific war fighters
were covering 829 s on raids on Japan
from fighter bases in the Volcano Islands,
750 miles from the enemy coast. They
were needed because, despite the airy
assumption of Allied publicity depart-
ments that the air invasion of Japan was
a straightout burn-and-butcher operation,
losses of big bombers had been heavy.
For defence under existing conditions
we shall need long-distance fighters
capable of dealing with long-distance,
heavily-armed bombers. Of course, if
matters develop at the present rate, the
conception of a fighter may be entirely
revolutionised. It is conceivable that
within a decade bomber aircraft will have
reached such a size that it will take quite
large craft with heavy rocket equipment
to deal with them. ,
The mupitions industry is to be limited
to about 15,000 employees, including
4000 on aircraft; production. The muni-
tions vote will be £15,000,000.
Hopelessly Insufficient
Considered by and large, all this is
only playing with a problem of great
magnitude.
The forces provided for are incapable
of doing anything of note under their
own steam and incapable of rapid ex-
pansion to meet modem conditions.
The scheme will provide a mere
shadow of defence which will leave the
country just as much at the mercy of
sudden attack by a determined enemy as
if it had no defence at all.
It will, also, leave the country in the
position that if serious war should in-
volve the British Commonwealth it will
be months or years behind the Mother
Country in reaching fighting standard.
Britain, despite its hunger and priva-
tion, has decreed that all its young men
when they reach 18 will see a full year’s
service, unless they are in exempted oc-
cupations, in which their training may be
deferred —farming and mining employees
are at present in the defence-deferred
lists.
Australia will continue to be the only
large Dominion which does not pull its
weight in defence.
Two Navies.
The Admiralty has adopted a new
system of recruiting Royal Navy officers
which is bound to have its effect in the
R.A.N. and which, also, is bound to
draw new types into the R.N. —those
types which formerly faced the gruelling
examinations leading to entry into the
Indian civil service and some of the
colonial services.
Entry age for Royal Naval College
cadets at Dartmouth has been raised
from 13j years to 16 years. Tuition for
lads of this class will cover five terms
and will be free, including board and
lodging.
Recruiting from the lower deck also
will continue on as large a scale as pos-
sible, the goal aimed at being 20 to 25
per cent, of the total officers.
In addition to these two sources a
system of special entry is to be provided
for boys of 18, who will sign on
for 12 years, with a further 10 years, en-
titling them to pensions, at the option of
the Admiralty.
It seems a pity that the R.A.N. cannot
be brought fully into line with the R.N.
Though commissions are interchange-
able, the R.A.N. is the inferior service in
point of pay, pensions and general con-
ditions.
It is a striking fact that the Admiralty
this year is spending £7,000,000 —equal
to almost half the total vote for the
R.A.N. for all purposes—on various wel-
fare services for the lower deck.
Conscription in Britain.
“Ek Dum”: U.S. estimates for this
year’s defence programme work out at the
equivalent of £1,452,000,000 Australian,
and President Truman has gone so far as
to suggest a plan under which the United
States will undertake to arm all Ameri-
can continental countries for mutual pro-
tection.
From the Atlantic coast to the Pacific
there is an intensified feeling of distrust
and fear of Russia —fear not of that
country or its Red Army but of what the
ruling double-crossers will do. The feel-
ing has been deepened and sharpened by
the reports of General Hodges on Com-
munist activities directed against the
U.S.A. in Korea, of the sudden access of


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ROBERT RANDOLPH LAUGHLIN late of New-
castle and Wagga Wagga.—TAKE NOTICE that
HILDA MARY LAUGHLIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3754 of 1946 on the grounds of your
adultery If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Thirtieth day of June 1947 and obtain a
copy of the petition free of charge from JOHNSON
& O’NEILL, Solicitors, of 69 Hunter Street, New-
castle, or SHAW, McDONALD & CO., Solicitors,
of lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce,
TO CALTHORPE JOSEPH ELDER THOMAS
EDWARDS late of Woollahra.—TAKE NOTICE that
HAZEL JEAN EDWARDS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 5238 of 1946 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking the Court to exercise its
discretion under Section 19 (2a) If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at Divorce
Office Supreme Court Sydney on or before the 28th
day of July 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from F. C. SINCLAIR, Solicitor, 2b
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner. —By the Court. — ’(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
iiiii
m
HI
W
FOR
Missing Friends.
HEYDON, Margaret, late of Redfern, Widow, died
1931, aged 65. Believed born Scotland to Robert
and Margaret Souter, to have married twice (first to
one Allen and secondly to one Hey don) and to have
lived in Canada. Her next-of-kin and other persons
knowing thereof please communicate PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Aus-
tralia.
SCOTT, Nelson Nesbitt, born about 1896, last heard
of as a Hairdresser at Henty, N.S.W., about 1926,
and all persons having any knowledge thereof please
communicate re estate his deceased wife BERTHA
SCOTT (nee Falconer) with PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TO EDWARD LOGUE WOODS formerly of 337
Gore Street Fitzroy Victoria.-—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife DOROTHY ELIZABETH WOODS has in-
stituted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office Supreme Court
Melbourne on or before the 20th June 1947 and file
an answer on or before the 30th June 1947 the
case may proceed in your absenoe and you may be
ordered to pay costs AND TAKE NOTICE that a
sealed copy of the petition and a copy of the
citation herein have been delivered to your mother
or your sister Agnes Gordon.—ALAN H. WELLS,
443 Chancery Lane, Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
arms and supplies to the Chinese Com-
munist forces, which call draw from only
one quarter, and of the new manoeuvres
of the U.S.S.R. in other countries.
A Communist coup in Hungary is in
the making. Fresh demands on Turkey
have caused that country to maintain its
military mobilisation. In France the
Communists have suddenly adopted a
new line and declared against strikes, a
sure sign that they are plotting mischief.
British opinion is no less uneasy. The
overwhelming manner in which the
foreign policy of Mr. Bevin was sup-
ported at the Labor party conference at
Margate is a clear indication of the alarm
at the state of affairs in Europe.
Traditionally against compulsion, ex-
cept in war-time, Britain has accepted
peace-time conscription as*, a necessity in
the face of increasingly ominous threats
to world peace and of the chaos which,
as Mr. Bevin himself warned the con-
ference, threatens in Asia, which may be
swept on a wave of Communism into the
arms of Moscow if Moscow is pot swiftly
and effectually checked.
The card vote in favor of conscription
at the Labor party conference was
2,332,000 to 571,000, about half the oppo-
sition coming froga one union—the shop,
distributive and allied workers. The
opinion of the conference was summed
up by a delegate from the London Uni-
versity branch of the party organisation,
who said “Once we have decided how
many men we need we must obtain them
by the only fair way there is—conscrip-
tion.”
Even Professor Laski, retiring chair-
man of the party executive, favored the
conscription plan. He said no one re-
gretted more than the Government and
the executive that a conscription mea-
sure should be necessary. It was a hard
thing to ask of a movement in which
pacifism was so deeply rooted, and which
had fought against conscription over so
many years ; but the executive had to see
that the Government was in a position to
defend the country. The alternatives were'
to recruit an Army the old way, the way
of poverty, hunger and unemployment, or
to recruit it by giving its members
privileges so outstanding that those who
served their country became a special
caste in the community. And all this
from Laski, of all people!
Had it not been for conscription in
Britain, America and Russia, Hitler
would be supreme in Europe -today and
master of Turkey, Iraq and Iran. It was
a necessary precaution.
“Ek Dum”: The one bright spot in the
defence position in Australia is the main-
tenance of the Japan Occupation Force.
As a cohesive training force this is in-
valuable. Britain, of course, bases much
of her military-training system on over-
seas forces whose existence makes it
possible to keep relatively large cohesive
bodies of officers and men in being under
regular Army training conditions for
months at a time. The same applies, and
has always applied, to the United States
Army and Marines. Much of the train-
ing of the new “compulsory” British
Army will be done abroad. It will be a
great pity if, with the coming of peace,
the Japan Force ceases to exist as a
nucleus. It might well be developed into
a regular exchange force of first-class men
who would be used to acquire familiarity
with points outside Australia proper
from which potential invasions might be
launched or long-distance bomb attacks
concerted. Like the British occupation
force in Germany, such a body of troops
should be of great assistance in training
young officers.


■VV3 ?:
c
THE
LONG
LIFE
BATTERY
txite
EXIDE BATTERIES STILL KEEP GOING
WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
v\\\ \v
'////
EXIDE BATTERIES
OF AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD,,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Recently arrived to take over the post
of counsellor at the American Embassy
in Canberra, Harold Shantz must be one
of the most widely-experienced men in
the Diplomatic Corps. Lately he has been
on duty in Washington, but he has
attended to Uncle Sam’s affairs in 17
different parts of the world, his last
assignment before the Washington spell
being counsellor to the Embassy in Yugo-
slavia. Back in World War Ihe served
in France as an artillery officer.
Dr. Graham Humby, a man of
very definite ideas, has retired from
\ medical practice under the British
nationalisation scheme, to which he
strongly objects, and turned his attention
to air freight. He bought 21 Halifax
aircraft from Disposals, and has started
the biggest air-freight business in the
Empire on British tramp-steamer lines.
Out here in one of the Halifaxes he is
establishing a depot with six aircraft, and'
hopes to be ready for operations by
September. Except for key personnel, all
staff will be Australian, working under
an Australian company, and will get
a whack of the profits. Humby owns
all the shares in the parent company, and
with another company he proposes to
form in South Africa claims he will be
in a position to handle freight to any
part of the world at short notice. He
regards the Halifax as the only aircraft
available today suitable for the job. It
carries seven tons over 1400 miles in its
1000 cubic feet of spdce, and freight
charges can be based on Is. sd. a ton
mile. If officialdom doesn’t hamstring
his scheme his air tramps should be a big
help to Australian exporters and im-
porters. He already has a fleet of more
than 30 ‘’planes on the job. The Halifax
in which he flew to Australia returned
to Britain with seven tons of dripping.
Air tramps have not yet reached the stage
where dripping cargoes are anything like
a paying proposition; Humby carried
the consignment freight free as a con-
tribution to Food for Britain.
The University of WA. gets a versa-
tile man with the appointment of H. J.
Hopkins as senior lecturer in structural
engineering. Born at Dwellingup, he
gained his science and engineering de-
grees in Perth, was selected as W.A.
Rhodes Scholar in 1934 and added an
Oxford M.A. to his other degrees. When
the war broke out he joined the R.A.F.,
qualified as a pilot and won a D.F.C.
Justice R. H. Long-Innes, dead in Syd-
ney at 77, was called to the English Bar
in 1893, but first became known in Syd-
ney in 1906 as associate to Justice A. H.
Simpson. He caused quite a stir with
his “Oxford bags”—he must have been
one of the first to wear them in Aus-
tralia. Later on he commenced on his
own and built up a good practice.
He was counsel for the appellant W.
Scott Fell against the refusal of a Certi-
ficate of Discharge by the then Judge in
Bankruptcy. The case went to the High
Court, which reversed the decision and
gave Fell his discharge; the Court con-
sisted of Samuel Griffith, Chief
Justice, Judges Barton and Isaacs.
Isaacs dissented. Innes was elevated
to the Bench in 1925, and retired
in 1940. In sport he chose cricket, and
was for years Aunt Sally for the I, Zingari
A team besides being quite a sound bat.
A Distinguished Flying Cross to V. C.
Grimmett was among the S.A. awards re-
cently handed out at Government House.
He is a son of Clarrie Grimmett, and the
old international bowler attended the
ceremony with him.
Lieut.-Colonel J. L. A. Kelly prob-
ably finds his present job as Director of
Stores and Clothing with the M.G.O. in
Melbourne a trifle tame after some of
his war-time experiences, but no one who
served under him will have any doubts
as to. the energy and keenness he will
throw into it. Before 1939 he was in the
A.1.C., but hp transferred early to the
A.1.F., sailed with the 2/13 Battalion
and went through Tobruk and Alamein,
first as brigade major and later as 2 i.c.
of his battalion. He came back to Aus-
tralia with the Ninth Divvy, went with it
to N.G. and then took over command
of 31/51 Battalion on Bougainville, hav-
ing a part in the fighting at Tsimba Ridge,
Downs Ridge and the landing on Porton
Plantation. When the surrender came
Kelly was sent with his battalion to
Nauru and Ocean Island, and for a time
was Military Governor of those islands.
During his service in the Middle East
and the Pacific he collected a D. 5.0.,
two “mentions” and the respect of all
who were associated with him.
Henryk Mierowski, now in the midst
of a crowded Australian tour under the
Tait banner, had a narrow escape from
being a child prodigy; he thanks his
mother, herself a fine pianiste, for that.
She gave him his fitst training, but made
no attempt to force his talent, choosing
rather to put him to engineering. When
he gave up that career in favor of music
he put in years of hard study in Lwow
(pronounced, by Mierowski demonstra-
tion, something like the bark of a pup
with its front teeth missing) and then in
Vienna. By the time he went to Britain
he was a mature artist. Rejected for
military service, he spent the war years
CONCERT PLATFORM.
giving concerts for the troops all over
Britain. Prior has taken slight liberties
with the Mierowski physiognomy, but
f the Polish pianist has such a prodigious
memory for the works of Chopin, Bach
and Beethoven that his brain must be a
seething mass of musical notation, and
it would not be surprising if some day a
bass or treble clef did burst through.
Latest honor for Maorilander Keith
Park is the conferring of his name on a
Southern Railway engine. Three other
distinguished men were chosen to have
their names perpetuated by the company
—Churchill, Dowding and Beaverbrook.
“Towns”; J, S. Gill, Mayor of Towns-
ville (N.Q.) for 14 years, had an 80th
birthday recently. White-haired, slim-
built but still full of energy, he does
his daily round of mayoral duties and
has enough vigor left to chair a
meeting of something or other a couple
of nights a week. His record includes 23
years with B.Ps. and 39 of local-authority
work as Thuringowa shire clerk, aider-
man and Mayor of Townsville. A
Rugby Union man, half a century ago he
was one of the framers of Townsville’s
first code of Union rules ; later he found
rifle-shooting a recreational outlet, and
today he turns a cunning bowl. It should
interest his brother-mayor in Newcastle
to know that Gill is a strong opponent of
Sabbath-day sport,
“Cauboy”: Although Rupert Bunny,
dead at 83 in Melbourne, was bora
at St. Kilda and learnt his artistic pot-
hooks at the Melbourne Gallery under
Follingsby, he was more French than
Australian. His first exhibited work was
hung at the Old Salon ini Paris 61 years
ago, and he was a constant exhibitor at
European salons until his return to Aus-
tralia 30 years later. His wife was French,
and he was as much at home in that
language as his own. When Bernard Hall
went to Paris Bunny acted as interpreter
between him and Rodin. Rodin showed
his head of Minerva, for which he had
modelled several varieties of headgear.
He put on one after the other for the
benefit of his overseas visitor, apd was
just fitting on the Greek casque when
Hall whispered to Bunny “How much
does he want for it?” “Two thousand
francs,” said Bunny. At that moment
Rodin lifted off the Greek casque. “How
much will he take for it without the hat?”
whispered Hall. Trembling with awe in
the presence of the master, Bunny hesi-
tated. “Go on—ask him,” said Hall.
Bunny translated. “A thousand francs
without the casque,” said Rodin laughing.
And that is how Melbourne got its
“Minerva sans casque.”
Some Adelaide Uni. professors have
been induced to reveal how they came
to be where they are. Kerr Grant
(Physics) told how, at starting, he was all
for literature. Then he took two years
at engineering, and switched over to
physics. Jury (Literature) had gone for
it all the way from boyhood, but Cornell
(French language) started with chemistry.
Stanton Hicks (Physiology) began with
engineering, but found that a doctor’s
life would show him more of the world.
Campbell (Law) was not playing, that
evening; but it is known that he took
Sydney Uni. engineering degrees before
turning to the law.
' New president of the Associated Real
Estate Institutes of Australia Lyle H.
Moore is now in his third term as presi-
dent of the Real Estate Institute of N.S.W.
He has been a trenchant critic of the
continuance of outmoded property con-
trols and out-of-date price levels. In
addition to running the old-established
Real Estate firm of H. W. Horning and
Co., Lyle Moore finds time to attend to
the duties of alderman of Woollahra
Council —hfe was mayor in 1941, and is a
director of Prince Henry Hospital.
Thirty years ago he repped for Sydney
Grammar in rowing, football and
athletics. Nowadays golf and bowls are
his vices.
Tasmanian-born Professor Brian B.
Lewis, who fills the new Chair of Archi-
tecture established by the “Age” at the
University of Melbourne, is in one sense
old-fashioned. When, tp put his sitter at
his ease, Mcßeath offered him a cigarette
the professor, in the most natural way in
the world, pulled out a snuffbox and
offered him a pinch. Architecturally, how-
ever, Professor Lewis is quite modern.
His last job before leaving England was
chief architect to the Great Western
Railway, repairing bomb damage. He
was educated at Wesley College, Mel-
bourne, went to Singapore to engage in
mining, felt an urge to go to England,
and, got there by acting as nurse to a
mental case. In England he studied at
Liverpool, won the Victory Scholarship,
senior award of the Royal Institute of
CHAIR OF ARCHITECTURE.
British Architects, married a fellow-
student who had gained second place and
honorable mention and has reared five
children. When Hitler erupted Lewis
joined the A.I.F, in England and served
with the Sixth Divvy engineers in the M.E.
Recalled to help repair the damage done
by the Luftwaffe to railway installations,
he landed the job from which he was
coaxed to Melbourne. He is 40.
Whitney W. Straight, who succeeds
Lord Knollys as chairman of 8.0.A.C.,
was born a Yank, but when he had
finished his education at Cambridge he
took out British citizenship. He married
a daughter of Earl Winchelsea in 1935.
While at Cambridge he was keenly in-
terested in speed-car racing and lapped
the Brooklands circuit at 138 m.p.h. He
flew solo at 16 and got his pilot’s ticket a
year later ; he now has over 4000 hours
in his log-book. Straight developed civil
aerodromes and sponsored the formation
of flying clubs ; the Straight Corporation
controlled 21 companies running flying
clubs and aferodromes when war came.
A pilot in the Auxiliary Air Force, he
was active in the Battle for Britain, and
for special duty during the invasion of
Norway was awarded the Military Cross
and the Norwegian War Cross. While
commanding a fighter squadron he was
shot down over enemy territory, but
managed to gfet back home in 1942, and
was an air commodore in charge of 216
Group in the Middle East later in the
same year. He’s an A.D.C. to the King,
chairman of the Royal Aero Club, the
Association of British* Aero Clubs and
the Committee on Private Flying. He
also holds thfc C.8.E., D.F.C., the U.S.
Legion of Merit and a mention in dis-
patches. Straight is visiting these parts
with Lord Knollys, who is making a com-
plete tour of 8.0.A.C. routes prior to
handing over the reins to his successor.
Sir Almroth Wright, dead in England
at 85, who was in Australia from 1889
to 1892 as Professor of Physiology at
Sydney University, was once bracketed
with Sir Alexander Fleming by the presi-
dent of the Royal College of Physicians
as “having saved more lives in the army
in the field than anyone else in the world.”
Fleming’s experiments with penicillin
were conducted in Wright’s laboratory.
Wright’s own big contribution to medical
science was the development of immunisa-
tion against typhoid. When he returned
to England from Sydney he became
Professor of Pathology at the Army
Medical School, Netley, and almost im-
mediately began research into the efficacy
of anti-typhoid vaccines. Tried out in
India and in the Boer War, his methods
were immediately successful. When the
First World War came typhoid inocula-
tions were a standard part of a soldier’s
issue. In the later scrap probably not one
in a thousand of those who lined up for
their periodical T.A.B. had ever heard of
Almroth Wright, but he was their per-
sonal benefactor nonetheless.
Into the silence:
At Manly, Sydney, aged 90, Gilbert William
Henry Eliott, grandson of the first Speaker of the
Queensland Legislative Assembly. He lived at
Armidale and Walcha (N.S.W.), where he had
grazing properties. His ancestors were the
Eliotts, of Stobs and Minto, Scotland. One of
them, George Augustus, commanded Gibraltar
during the great siege, 1779-83, and becartie
Baron Heathfield. Gilbert, of Minto, was
Viceroy of India in Queen Victoria’s day.
At 56, at Caulfield, Melbourne, John Webster,
deputy-chairman of Repat. and twice-wounded
Old Digger. He got his commission in the
field, and the Croix de Guerre. He was the
soldiers’ nominee on the Commission.
At 69, in Melbourne, Dr. Reginald Lonsdale
Morton, president of the St. Kilda C.C. and
the V.C.A., and member of the Australian
Board of Control. It takes a man of fine
quality to rise to the top in Victorian cricket
administration, and. the doctor had it.
In Adelaide, at 58, E, E. E, Scarfe, pastoral
accountant and inspector, of a well-known S.A.
family and closely associated with the Mort-
locks. He had charge at different times of
Martindale, Cavandale, Reedbeds, and Coffin
Bay. His only son is associate to Chief Justice
Napier.
At New Plymouth (M.L.), at 56, William
Hayward, the first to land and the last to leave
Gallipoli with the Maoriland Diggers. He put
in four years eleven months on active service.
During the recent war he served with the
Maorilanders in Fiji.
In Brisbane, at 80, John Lunn, a former
president of the Pharmaceutical Society of
Queensland. He was active in civic affairs and
had been Mayor of Sandgate.
In Adelaide, at a great age, S.A.’s most
famous rifleman, J. T. Lake. He twice won
the Dangar at Randwick (N.S.W.), took
“kingships” in three or four States, and was
one of the Australian team that won the
Kolapore Cup in England in 1902. He was a
professional gunsmith all his working life.
At McLaren Vale (S.A.), at 76, F. W. Kay,
G.O.M. of his State’s wine industry. He
was to the end chairman of the Phylloxera
Board, which has somehow kept the disease out
of S.A.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney had practically got back its
American accent when the U.S. Task
Force up anchors and sailed away. They
departed with their memories of a city
that had made them welcome, though its
skies had many times drenched them.
They went on their way treasuring the
trinkets they had bought for their
mothers or their wives, for although
these lads with their beautiful teeth and
eyelashes long as a Hollywood star’s
looked very young many were already
married. But why do the papers stress
the fact that the visitors did not spend
much? Sydney, after all, was not wait-
ing with grim and outstretched hand for
their dollars. It was waiting to greet the
visitors with the outstretched hand of
friendship.
Our own Governor, Lieut.-General
John Northcott, and the Governor of
Tasmania, Sir Hugh Binney, put the
Vice-Regal gold leaf on the Empire
Society’s dinner in celebration of Empire
Day. About 200 members and their
guests drank the loyal toasts in the ball-
room of the Wentworth, and there was a
general feeling that we really had some-
thing to be proud of, all things con-
sidered. This was emphasised when the
speeches were made. In particular the
sentiments of Dr. F. A- Maguire had the
ring of nobility. But it was a night of
good speeches: the two Governors, the
British Council’s C. H. Wilmot, Bill
Sheahan representing the Premier, Frank
Whiddon, Ivan Black, M.L.A., and Rear-
Adniiral p. D. Moore made stirring
commentary on the courage and endur-
ance and family ties of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations.
The decor of flags (they were the gift
of the Walder lady) was extremely
British. On each table was a beautifully-
printed booklet of the message of Prin-
cess Elizabeth to the peoples of the Em-
pire on her 21st birthday, together with
a copy of the engrossed address sent to
the princess by the R.E. Society. Colonel
Spain presided.
Governor Northcott’s daughter Mar-
jorie accompamed him, and Lady Binney
came with her husband. Ivan Black,
M.L.A., had the support of his young
wife. All in all, the dinner was one of
the society’s successes, and secretary Dr.
Wheatley can warm himself in the glow
of satisfaction.
Grand spree of new term at the King’s
School was Saturday’s fete —Food for
Britain the objective. Boys and Old Boys,
masters, parents and friends worked to-
gether''with such a will that before the
afternoon ended £3300 was being rung
into the till. And there’s probably more
to come. The King’s Head (no reference
to King Charles’s head, of course) was
feeling pleased on Sunday evening when
he was asked the up-to-date tally. There
was a small mountain of tinned goods
which had been collected by the boys
and a display of soap and jam made by
pupils in the school laboratories during
the term holidays. There was a
magician in an active line of business, a
chamber of horrors, there were films of
school interest and rides on the grande
father of all bikes —the pennyfarthing.
There is a stirring of the deepest pity
in the drama of a group of people drawn
together in friendship destroying one an-
other’s happiness. “Eugene Onegin,” pre-
sented at the Conservatorium last Satur-
day night, is such a tragedy with the
music of Tscliaikowsky to give it in-
tensity. Both singing and acting in this
production were good. Mollie Grouse as
Tatiana was a delight. Raymond Nilsson
was the ill-fated Lenski, and David Bar-
well the even more ill-starred Eugene,
who twists his own life awry.
There’s no prettier drive around
Sydney than that to Castle Hill, and Lady
Binney, wife of Tasmania’s Governor,
had a chance to enjoy its charms when
she went to lunch with Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax at her home on the Hill. Sir Hugh
Binney and his wife made quite a dent
on this city. His speech at the Empire
Society’s dinner was much admired. And
all who have met Lady Binney pronounce
her delightful. One of her enthusiasms
is the Girl Guide Movement, of which she
was an active member in England. She
is now State president of the association
in Tasmania. A great company of Girl
Guides smiled glad welcome to the visitor
at a reception given in her honor at the
Pickwick Club. The Julius lady, who is
State Commissioner of the movement,
presented the guest with a special guide
pencil. The Binneys flew back last Mon-
day to Tasmania, which Lady Binney
thinks is like her native Scotland. Angus
was her birthplace. The Tasmanian vice-
regals were the guests of Governor John
Northcott and Mrs. Northcott during
their Sydney visit.
Isabel Davies, of the lightning pencil
with shorthand notes, is off to United
Nations Organisation headquarters at
Lake Success, New York. Isabel, who is
an honors and gold medallist shorthand-
writer, has been with U.N.R.R.A. in
Sydney for some time, and was secretary
to Commander R. Jackson, Before going
to U.N.R.R.A. she had worked with
Brig.-General Hester of the U.S. Army—
now looking after the all-important food
organisation with the U.S. in Germany.
When Isabel gets to New York she will
be working on the administrative staff of
our Raphael Cilento —director of the
Division of Social Activities.
Pianist Valda Aveling, who left Syd-
ney in 1938 to continue her studies in
England, has lived up to the expectations
raised by her musicianship at her final
testimonial concert in the Town Hall.
Valda now returns as the complete con-
cert artist. Under the direction of the
A.B.C..she will give a 13-weeks concert
tour of Australia. She will play with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra conducted
by Rafael Kubelik on June 12, *l3 and
16 in the Town Hall. Valda has broad-
cast with the 8.8. C. and has toured
during the war years with C.E.M.A. and
E.N.S.A. She has been soloist with the
London Symphony Orchestra, the Lon-
don Philharmonic and in Brussels with
the Belgian National Orchestra. One of
her memorable tours was that taken as
associate artist with Australia’s own
Marjorie Lawrence in Germany, Belgium
and France. From the age of nine till
she went overseas in 1938 Valda was a
pupil of Frank Hutchens at the Con-
servatorium.
An exhibit of fine needlework from
Melbourne will interest all young mothers
visiting the exhibition of the Arts and
Crafts Society. There are some baby
frocks in this display that are miracles of
fine sewing and daintiness in design. This
year’s show is outstanding in design.
Ideal for breakfast-room or kitchen
windows is the blue fabric, all over little
squares and in each square a saucepan,
or a bunch of bright flowers. Then there
are the gloves, all washing, many of the
skins dyed pale pinks and blues with con-
trasting stitching. Pottery, china, hand-
woven fabrics and wrought-iron make a
show of which the handicrafts workers
of any city might be proud. This writer’s
fancy went out particularly to a set of
dinner mats handwoven in natural linen
in the finest drawn-thread work design.
Mr. Marsden, chief of Anthony Hor-
dern’s Fine Art Gallery, was one of the
judges, and, the proof of the pudding
being in the eating, he proved his high re-
gard for the exhibits by buying some of
them. Minister for Education Heffron
declared the show open last Friday after-
noon, and spoke of the evening classes
at which handicrafts are taught. Presi-
dent of the Society, B. J. Waterhouse, an-
nounced that Nell McCreedy was the
winner of the Mrs. E. Soderberg prize
for her pottery. Another prize-winner
was Miss N. McKenzie.
The N.S.W. Masonic Hospital is having
its First Annual Ball in the Ashfield
Town Hall on June 5, and the skirl of
the pipes will make stirring music when
Matron Lochiel-Cameron and the super-
intendent will welcome the Grand Master
and his Lady. President of the ball com-
mittee is Mrs. Frank Whiddon.
In medicine, science and architecture,
the girls held their own at the conferring
of degrees in the Great Hall of Sydney
University last Saturday. Interesting
point was that several of the new
women doctors, already engaged, intend
to combine matrimony and a career.
Dr. Doreen Davidson, bachelor of
medicine, master of surgery and winner
of four prizes, was one of them. Dr.
Muriel Marchbank (she gobs off to U.S.
for her wedding) is another.
During the unofficial dress parade
turned on during the gaieties of Task
Force week it was one of the glad signs of
the times to see that black lace was com-
ing into its own again for evening wear.
One gown noted was made with an off-
the-shoulder line and full skirt over a
black thick silk foundation. Another
worn by Mrs. A. H. Chartres at the
Crown-street Hospital ball was made with
the long, slim bodice effect, and from
this the black lace foamed out into full-
ness. The bodice of this frock was
throat-high, the yoke of fine black net.
This yoke was thickly outlined in black
sequins.
From Melbourne
A call for help has come from the
Melbourne District Nursing Society.
More car-drivers are wanted for volun-
teer work ; it means driving the nursing
sisters to patients who need attention.
The number of visits paid is over 70,000
a year, and a large area is covered. Most
of the work done by the visiting sisters
is in large industrial areas, and the 21
sisters on the staff are on the move con-
tinually. Matron Tupper says that if it
were not for the splendid work done tiy
the volunteer drivers the sick poor who
are unable to get to hospitals Avould have
no attention. Each auxiliary driver
works from 9 a.m. till 1 p.m. or from
2 p.m. to 5 p.m. each day, either once a
week or once a month. Some have been
driving regularly for many years. Those
who feel they would like to help the
society in its fine work are asked to
contact Matron Tupper at the Melbourne
District Nursing Society. JA2003 will
give particulars.
The committee of the Women’s Hos-
pital has successfully cut through the
lashings of red tape which threatened to
snag the rebuilding scheme. This was
revealed by Mrs. Norman Harris, the
president, at an informal luncheon party
given in the board-room of the hospital.
Each member of the committee brought
home-cooked dishes. Members of the
committee have cause for rejoicing, for
work on the outpatients department has
commenced, and it won’t be long before
there will be an entirely new hospital—
provided, of course, there are no more
industrial disputes. Twenty-four auxili-
aries of the Women’s Hospital are taking
part in the Fair which will be held in
the Town Hall next Monday, June 9.
Lady Dugan will perform the opening
ceremony. The luncheon also served as
a farewell to Matron M- E. Macdonald,
who will retire next month after 20 years’
service with the hospital, and to the pub-
licity officer, Mrs. Hector Greig, who will
devote her time to Y.W.C.A. work.
Hostesses included Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
whose natty sage-green suit was worn
with a matching gold-studded felt hat,
Mrs. E. Cornfoot, who contrasted her
cinnamon-toned crepe frock with a green
hat, Mrs. J. D. G. Mfcdley, Mrs. Lytton
Stephens, Mrs. W. S. Cox, the Leitch
lady and Misses S. Bill and Isobel
Strahan,
Jean Alexander, pictured here by
Ronald Esler, has from her earliest years
been interested in the ballet. For the
past seven years she has been director of
ballet at the National Theatre, and has
many original works to her credit. One
of her most successful was “Tutankh-
amen” with words from The Book of the
Dead, which is over 3000 years old. Jean
is now presenting a season of new and
original ballets at the National Theatre.
Sister Dora Elizabeth Burchill has an-
nounced her engagement to Sydney Ray-
mond Smith of Maryborough. Before the
war Dora did a post-graduate course at
the Tubercular Hospital in London and
then joined Sir Wilfred Grenfell’s Mission
in Labrador. When the civil war was
raging in Spain Dora volunteered as a
nursing sister. She returned to Australia
in January, 1939, and when war broke out
joined the A.A.N.S. and sferved overseas
with the 2/2nd A.G.H. Discharged
exactly six years after she joined up, Dora
conducted a women’s session for a
country broadcasting station, and in her
spare time wrote a book, Labrador
Memories, which will shortly be pub-
lished. Dora is the daughter of Mrs. R.
Burchill, of Camberwell.
Cold the Melbourne nights have been,
but the Chilean pianist, Claudio Arrau,
has warmed music-lovers with his splen-
did playing. Noticed at a recent Town
Hall concert were the Consul for Chile,
C. le Plastrier, and his wife; the
Consul-General for the U.S.A., Richard
Boyce, and Mrs. Boyce, she with a light-
grey Australian lambswool* coat over her
gown. With Frank Tait was his wife
Viola, who leaves soon with her two
small’daughters on a visit to her native
Scotland. Other piano-lovers there were
Roy Shepherd, Mrs. W.* Pate, the Lindsey
Biggin ses and Raymond Lambert.
The quest for Miss Australia, 1947, is
in full swing. This time, all the money
raised by the candidates and their com-
mittees will go towards the General Ex-
pansion of the Free Kindergarten Move-
ment in Victoria. A wardrobe which
would make any girl enraptured, and a
tour of the United Kingdom and the
U.S.A., await the lucky winner. Mrs.
H. F. Creswick heads the Victorian board
of hon. directors of the Quest, and to
Margaret Saker has. been given the job
of forming committees to sponsor candi-
dates and obtaining donations.
An all-white color scheme was chosen
by Joan Natalie Visbord, elder daugther
of Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Visbord, of
Toorak, for her wedding at the South
Yarra Synagogue to Norman Ross Leib-
mann, former staff-sergeant in the U.S.
Army, and yoflnger son of Mr. and Mrs.
Max Leibraann, of Darling Point, Sydney.
The white lace bodice of Joan’s gown
gleamed with moonlight-silver beading
and the bouffant skirt of net was adorned
with alternate bands of beading and
ruching. She carried a bouquet of white
hyacinths and orchids, and her tulle veil
was mounted on a tiara of opalescent
orange blossoms. Joan had two matrons-
of-honor: Mesdames Maurice Strauss
and J. Sher. Their gowns and the one
worn by bridesmaid Norma Patkin were
alike. Fashioned of white net, the skirts
were very full and the bodices were
trimmed . with pastel-toned beads.
Coronets of white-mesh lame were fin-
ished with a bow ; their bouquets were
of white hyacinths.
At the reception, which.was held in
the Venetian Court of the Australia, Mrs.
Visbord wore a gown of blue-and-silver
brocade, her hat being of white and
pastel-pink ospreys. Carole Visbord
wore a short bouffant white lace frock
with an overskirt of white net and a
coronet of pink roses. Mrs. Leibmann
was striking in red. Mrs. A. Colman’s
azure-blue crepe frock was made with an
apron front, the sleeves of the short
bolero trimmed with midnight-blue
sequins. Mrs. George ■ Mendes wore a
trailing gown of white crepe, and over
it a full-length white ermine coat. She
carried a tiny matching muff. Mrs. L.
Green’s bouffant gown was of parma-
violet velvet, her pearl necklace matched
by the pearl ornaments in her hair. Mrs.
W. de Winter wore a beige crepe dinner
gown and an ermine coat. The bride’s
grandmother and great-grandmother
were there. Rabbi Goldman performed
the ceremony.
Madame Crico, a Frenchwoman who
is now hat-designing here, had six ad-
venturous war years. When her mother
died in a concentration camp and her
youngest brother was executed by the
Germans for his resistance work she
escaped to North Africa, where she
joined the British Army and became a
lieutenant in the A.T.S. Known as Lieut.
Tina, she did intelligence work, later be-
coming personal assistant to Colonel
Balfour when he was Port Commandant
of Genoa. The guest of General Mark
Clark, Madame Crico was the only
woman at the Salerno landing anni-
versary dinner. Madame is now Mrs. E.
W. Wickens —her husband was with the
Royal Berkshires. After the war they
went to Abyssinia, where he did some
investigations for the Board of Trade.
Mr. Wickens’s parents have been in Aus-
tralia for 30 years. Before the war
Madame Crico was with the Atelier
Schubert in Paris.
Blue skies, golden sand and lovely
Australian girls swimming and aquaplan-
ing were just a few of the features of the
technicolor films shown by Captain P. H.
Moody, owner of Daydream Island, off
the Queensland coast, at a party at the
Oriental Hotel hostessed by Mrs. T. J-
Ryan. Nostalgic thoughts were aroused
in Ray and Madge Josephs, who propose
tasting again the tropical joys of the
island while Melbourne shivers in the
July blasts. Mrs. John Cain, wifcof the
Premier, cam© with daughter Joan, both
cosy in cherry-red wool coats. With Lelie
Potter were Mrs. and Mrs. Tilton, who
have come from America to play in the
next J. C. Williamson production “Annie,
Get Your Gun.” Mona Power and
Mollie Hajtman, both from Brisbane,
were also there.


mJm
8
Who Will Look After
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country, or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 68 years’ expert
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an im-
partial viewpoint and complete continuity of
service. Charges are fixed and moderate. .
Consult your solicitor or write for Free
Booklet.
The Trustees Executors ■
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
40 1 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager; K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:.
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., G.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C;
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
81
#
r I
' '""J
■■■
Rlili
SiSO, CASSOft & CO/ PTY. ITD. IS*
• v - :: ” B ■***•*■•
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Total > Ex- Written Added
Dec. Income. Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’39.12,182,925 6,200,352 1,324,168 671,168 I o 9 0 7
Additional tax provision, £175,000 j
’4O 12,711,226 6,411,681 1,263,920 671,890 ) , IRR
Additional tax provision, £175,000 j ’
’4l 13 113,267 6,638,662 1,523,970 207,226 4,743,409
’42.13,299,107 7,428,662 1,493,428 85,010 1 , 9fu ,- n7
Additional tax provision, £87,500 j .’ ’
’43 13,691,791 7,431,300 1,333,818 528,757 4,397,916
’44 14 410,742 7,009,339 1,487,834 574,532 5,339,037
’45 15,386,670 7,734,318 1,602,764 30,099 6,019,489
’46.16,438,118 7,999,980 2,152,283 48,261 6,237,594
Industrial Department.
Total Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’39.3,444,913 1,518,872 823,260 47,699 1 n o n nB9
Provision for taxation, £25,000. . i ’ ’
’40.3,682,750 1,586,091 851,757 80,540 1
Provision for taxation, £25,000.. 1 ’ ’
’4l 3 866,840 1,632,056 907,385 38,508 1,288,891
’42.4,’079,872 1,525,080 933,175 16,474 1 n - Q „ fi4 o
Provision for taxation, £12,500.. ) 1,0 ’
’43 4 294,091 1,562,482 939,028 16,214 1,776,367
’44.4,550,853 1,897,507 985,776 13,598 1,743,972
’45 4 845,391 2,053,209 1,006,856 7,226 1,778,100
’46.5,129,915 2,245,238 1,152,203 6,826 1,725,648
Because of the security offered and the
wide range of needs covered, a life policy
in a sound regular- 6onu».paying office
should be the sheet anchor of every man’s
investments. As usual, the figures of
the A.M.P., biggest and oldest of Aus-
tralia’s life offices, disclose a robust
financial structure, together with com-
fortable margins in those matters upon
which continued progress and payment of
bonuses to policyholders —there are no
shareholders —depend.
As evidence of progress consider these
figures: —
1932. 1946.
Assurances in force* .. £263,451,027 £522,939,284
Total income . . .. 11,248,325 21,568,033
Total assets . . . . 89,681,219 172,771,922
* Includes bonus additions..
Over the last 14 years the co. has thus
put on as much weight as it did in the
preceding 84 years. The amount of new
business put on the books last year was
£58,431,530 (up £19,729,908), or 50.9 p.c.
more than for the previous term —
£48,207,529 (up £16,787,252) was ordi-
nary and £10,224,001 (up £2,942,656) in-
dustrial. So too much notice need not
be taken of the growth in the expense
rate. Excluding taxes, this was a moder-
ate 13.4 p.c. of premium income in the
ordinary and 24.7 p.c. in the industrial
section, compared with 10.4 p.c. and 23.3
p.c. respectively for the previous year.
The year’s total income from all
sources was £21,568,033 (up £1,848,743),
of which £15,212,160 (up £1,139,685) was
premiums and £6,355,873 (up £709,058)
interest, etc. After paying all legitimate
claims and exes. £8,018,329 remained, of
which £55,087 was written off the book
value of premises and other assets and
the other £7,963,242 was added to the
assurance funds, raising them to
£164,006,712. These funds have the sup-
port and assistance of £4,250,000 of con-
tingency reserves. The year’s claims on
war account amounted to £564,130, mak-
ing total war claims since the outbreak
of hostilities £5,024,701. Actual loss to
the co. represents the difference between
this figure and whatever reserves had been
accumulated against the claims.
Here is a comparison of surpluses avail-
able for distribution among policyholders
in each section as computed by the
acfuary:
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1938.. £3,094,348 £350,516 £3,444,864
1939.. 1,996,493 377,033 2,373,526
1940.. 2,053,491 409,718 2,463,209
1941.. 1,055,801 192,514 1,248,315
1942.. 1,791,984 210,796 2,002,780
1943.. 1,826,367 309,785 2,136,102
1944.. 2,493,222 334,049 2,827,271
1945.. 8,016,195 377,867 3,394,062
1946.. 3,248,255 397,121 3,645.376
Last year an extra £232,060 was dis-
tributed among ordinary and an extra
£19,254 among industrial policyholders.
Rates of bonuses aren’t mentioned, but
they are known to be very satisfactory
and to compare favorably with any other
office.
Rates of bonus have been reduced con-
siderably since 1939, owing to inflation
and the Government’s cheap-money
policy. To help offset the effects of these
things and protect future bonus-paying
capacity, the co. accumulated large
actuarial and other reserves, thus en-
abling it to lower the basis of valuation
of policy liabilities from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c.
This was done in the industrial branch in
1945 and in the ordinary section last year.
And there is still a special actuarial re-
serve of £3,000,000 for contingencies
tucked away in the funds of the ordinary
branch; it is an exceptionally strong
position. >. Australian compound rever-
sionary bonus scale calls for an increasing
amount of surplus as the age of the policy
advances. This need is met by a low
rate of valuation, which locks up during
the early years sums which would be
otherwise available for distribution and
releases them with interest later on.
The gross rate of interest earned on
mean funds (including investment and
contingency reserve) was £3 17s. sd. p.c.
(down Is. 4d. p.c.) last year. After deduct-
ing taxes (£587,168) the net rate was
approximately £3 10s. p.c., and it would
have been lower still but for the leavening
of large blocks of old securities bought
at more remunerative rates than are to
be had today. There is thus an interest
margin of 1 p.c. between the actual and
assumed rates of earning, and this is
what has been usually looked for in the
past.
During the war years the co. invested
the whole of the increase in its funds,
and more besides, jn war loans:
1945. p.c. 1946. p.c.
Public securi-
ties ..£122,122,391 74.1 £132,334,342 76.6
Mortgages . . 26,677,139 16.2 24,695,609 14.3
Loans on poli-
cies .. 11,813,899 7.2 11,289,906 6.5
Premises .. 1,526,521 0.9 2,037,349 1.2
Other assets 2,630,875 1.6 2,414,616 1.4
Total assets £164,770,825 100.0 £172,771,922 100.0
Liabilities*.. 3,457,529 3,428,811
Net assets £161,313,296 £169,343,111
* Other than under policies.
Of the £10,211,951 added to public securi-
ties last term, £444,952 was invested in
company debentures and shares, which
helps to explain the strong buying support
for sound securities on the Stock Ex-
changes—other life offices are following
a similar course. The year’s growth in
net assets was £8,029,815.
General Industries, Ltd.
Parent Co.
f- Dividends ■,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1937 101,089 20,799 124p.c.= 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20,825 12$ „ „ 79,646 904 8,607
1939 103,528 20,851 125,, „ 79,646 3,031 11,638
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
Assets revaluation, £4882 .. .. .. 179,249
1940 154,060 20,851 12ip.c.= 79,646 53,563 232,812
1941 112,206 20,851 124 „ „ 79,646 11,709 244,521
1942 111,386 20,851 12 J „ „ 79,646 10,889 255,410
1943 99,505 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 14,937 270,348
1944 90,239 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 5,671 276,019
1945 95,560 20,851 10 ~,,63,717 11,992 288,011
1946 95,933 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 11,365 299,376
1947 110,496 20,850 10 „ „ 63,717 25,929 325,305
General Industries is a holding co. It
owns all the shares in two subsidiaries
(Metiers, Ltd., Metters K.F.B. Pty.) and
little else. From factories at Sydney,
Adelaide, Perth and Footscray the operat-
ing cos. turn out a wide range of stoves
—the line on which the business grew up
—baths, gas-heaters, builders’ hardware,
enamel goods, radiators and other elec-
trical equipment, etc. During the war
plant was switched to production of
munitions and heavy equipment, and only
a small fraction of total output, and that
drastically rationed, was available for
civilian purposes.
Defence work out of the way, the
management lost no time in reorganisa-
tion of plant and lay-out for resumption
of civilian trade. Here demand is buoy-
ant, owing to arrears in home and other
building which aren’t likely to be over-
taken for years. But strikes, go-slow
and other forms of industrial hold-ups
continue, thus restricting the flow of
materials to the construction scene. For
these and other reasons, including short-
age of skilled labor and lack of an ade-
quate supply of coal, coke and power,
output of. General Industries’ factories
has lagged behind capacity.
However, the tempo of trade quickened
last term, and the combined net earnings
of the organisation improved by £14,563,
reaching £110,496. That was after pro-
viding for depreciation and other con-
tingencies, setting aside whatever was
considered necessary for the taxgatherer,
and includes £1325 dropped from some-
where into reserves. The £110,496 was
enough to pay the parent co.’s prefs.
their 7 p.c. and show a shade over 14
p.c. on the £637,167 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 11.7, 11.7, 10.8, 12.1, 14.2,
14.4 and 20.9 p.c. back to 1940. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., which is worth
only 6.5 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the financial spring-cleaning in 1934.
The year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in an all-round expansion of
assets and liabilities, except cash, etc.,
which was drawn upon for £51,590,
mainly to carry extra stocks (up £63,501)
and book debts (up £35,745);
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1940. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £935,041 £935,041 £935,041 £935,041
Creditors . . 132,808 170,160 114,568 137,582
Tax reserve . . 98,441 265,388 173,021 222,962
Staff fund .. 12,645 15,521 17,174 15,874
Freeholds .. 314,176 335,164 332,404 342,620
Plant, etc. . . 400,119 428,206 425,720 433,656
Stocks . . 485,047 593,438 493,927 557,428
Book debts . . 242,875 285,841 128,743 164,488
Shares other cos. 24,630 24,630 24,630 24,630
Cash, etc. . . 837 82,453 208,445 156,855
Plant, the chief earning asset, is kept
thoroughly up-to-date, and the co.’s
executives are periodically sent abroad to
keep abreast of latest technical develop-
ments and production methods. The more
or less liquid surplus (£526,983) was
£23,999 less than at the previous balance.
As for the future, outlook on the
demand side is bright enough. Every-
thing will depend uppn production and
costs. With more pay for shorter hours,
and with the national income boosted by
a swollen transition demand which has
bumped up prices for everything, the
danger is that rising costs will force prices
to levels that will finally retard demand.
On the market the f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords.
have advanced from the official ceiling
price of 245. 6d. at end 1946 to 335. 6d.
At the higher figure the return is 3.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The £1 prefs. at
3 Is. 6d. yield 4.4 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £4 4s. 7d. prefs. and 18s. lid.
ords.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit, Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
x. £ £ £
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25.640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 „ „ 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 ~ ~37,033 14,713 110,088
1939.. 52,853 10 „ „ 37,371 15,482 125,570
1940.. 56,101 10 ~ „ 37,681 18,420 143,990
1941.. 44,412 10 „ „ 38,113 6,299 150,289
July,
Life-policy bonuses, £2433 .. .. 152,722
1941*. 25,789 10 p.c. = 19,190 0,599 159,321
1942.. 48,610 10 „ ~ 38,379 10,231 169,552
1943.. 63,568 10 „ ~38,063 24,905 194,457
1944.. 65,045 10 „ ~39,253 26,092 221,149
1945.. 78,458 10 „ „ 39,883 38,570 259,719
Maintenance reserve down £2568 .. 257,151
1946.. 82,290 10 p.c. = 40,206 42,084 299,235
* Six months.
Easily the best showing since the present
co. took over the old Finney’s business
in 1905. Circumstances were exceptional
last year. The sellers’ market continued,
more goods became available from both
local and overseas sources, and the
public had plenty of money in its pockets,
thanks to a state of virtually “full” em-
ployment at increased wage rates. Also
the management has a reputation for
shrewd buying and careful administra-
tion. And the position of the store,
which runs through from Queen- to
Adelaide-street between Albert- and
Edward-street, one of the busiest blocks
in the city, is another factor helpful to
turnover.
For the year to end July last retailers
were in clover, as the following table
shows—it gives percentage changes in
aggregate turnover of a dozen Brisbane
department stores compared with the
corresponding period of the previous
year: -
Average Three Months Ended
A.
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1938- . . + 3.7 + 1.1 + 0.7 + 3.5 + 2.6
1939- .. + 6.1 + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- . . + 5.3 + 3.0 + 5.9 + 8.8 + 5.8
1941- .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 l.O • +ll.O
1942- .. 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 + 4.1
1943- .. 2.1 + 3.5 + 3.0 + 4.6 + 2.4
1944- . . + 7.6 +IO.O + 1.0 0.3 + 5.0
1945- . . +16.5 +27.7 +22.4 +24.8 +23.3
1940-47 .. +14.6 + 9.3
And the market might have been livelier
still but for clothes rationing, which no
longer serves any useful purpose where
goods have ceased to be in short supply.
In such cases the upper limit of gross
margins fixed by price-control tends to
become the minimum price, thus eliminat-
ing the influence of competition on jnark-
up. Costs continued on the up-grade,
but the growth in turnover cushioned the
bump. .
The spring in the year’s gross earnings
(£334,918) was £55,715. Including an
extra £30,458 for taxation and contin-
gencies (£82,939),. exes. (£252,628) took
£51,878 of the increase. The net result
was thus £3836 stronger at 20.4 p.c. on
capital, compared with 19.5, 16.6, 16.5,
12.6 p.c. for the four preceding terms.
With one eye on the future, the board
kept the div.’ at 10 p.c., at which level
it has remained steady for the last


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
ITSYOUR Jn
Mr, A M- V>V!
€,.M
famcrhe
iheir/tflure
secure
JYOJV
A sure way
to provide
security for
your depend-
ants is by
taking out a
life assurance
policy—do so to-day and
fulfil yet another of your
family responsibilities.
See the
suitable
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6 GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
//etrfo/ficeJ7/-373Queen St, fir/sba'ie
WINGELLO HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
fd
BURGLARIES
ore Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE —BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
TITT STREET, SIDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone IiVVIUSI for particulars
\4Sb.
fi.--
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
Position Vacant.
N APPLICATIONS are invited for the position of
ASSISTANT ENGINEER by the RAUB AUSTRA-
LIAN GOLD MINING CO., LIMITED, MALAYA.
Applications addressed to the undersigned are to in-
clude particulars of Workshop Experience, Electrical
Experience, Technical Training, Age, Marital Status,
are to state salary required, and are to be accompanied
by copies of references. Mine experience desirable
but not essential. In addition to salary a cost-of-
living allowance is paid, and free quarters and fares
to the Mine are provided.
CHAS. A. CLARKE & SON, Secretaries,,
Box 277 D, G.P.0., Brisbane.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump onl
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, You suffer from wind. Yougetcom
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.”_ Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/- & 1/3.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL,
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
School resumes 29th May.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
A/
rv
N*
\\
IS FULL
OF KICKS
and ha’pence,
Still, a man may smile
Even when misfortune hits him.
As it must awhile.
Balanced up, a man is happy
When his health’s secure.
Next time you’ve a cold, old chappie.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Woods’ Groat Peppermint Cure,
For Coughs and Colds, never fails.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
V W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
TRAVEL IN GREAT BRITAIN
* 3 3ci
OUJ.
Recovery from war-time conditions is still proceeding
although handicapped by fuel shortages. We are
anxious to welcome visitors from Australia and if
they find train services not quite so frequent or speedy
as before the war, we are sure they will understand.
The world-famous FLYING SCOTSMAN, which never
failed to run during the war, continues its daily journey
over the historic route between LONDON and
EDINBURGH.
Representatives in Australia:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, and branches.
LONDON & NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
of England and Scotland.
'ws» ■ tmm
■■ mam
m
■■ ■ »
:-j
■
'
Photograph by Davis Boulton
ft'3
'6 tl
• • and lovely Valerie
Hobson wears the
Dickensian ensemble with fine demureness for her part as Estella
in “Great Expectations”. But, once ‘shooting’ is over, out
come the modern clothes and new Clarks shoes which trans-
form Estella into a very twentieth - century Miss Hobson.
Made by C. & J . CLARK, Ltd.
(Wholesale only). Street, Somerset, England.
London Office : Mitre House, 177, Regent Street ,
London, W.l
SHOES
:
decade, during which period £203,860 has
been visibly put on the shelf.
The already comfortable financial posi-
tion was further strengthened:.—-
1941. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Capital .. £383,793 £388,793 £402,067 £402,067
Creditors .. 133,276 78,144 29,242 41,184
Tax reserve, etc. 30,150 41,109 54,020 84,456
Property, plant,
' etc... ~ 856,313 352,785 329,008 331,200
Stock . . . . 305,463 300,875 223,123 238,688
Book debts, etc. 48,799 31,769 19,901 26,968
Investments and
cash . . 15,156 6,358 193,119 250,188
To carry an extra £15,565 of stocks and
add £7076 to debtors’ balances and
£57,067 to cash, etc., the board added
£11,942 to the outside debt. The more
or less liquid surplus (£390,205) was
£37,324 stronger than at the previous
balance. The co. has bought the old
Courier building a few doors up the
road at the corner of Queen- and Edward-
street at an unstated figure. However, the
strong cash holding, together with
£50,057 at call on the contribs., doesn’t
suggest that shareholders are likely to be
asked for much, if anything, more.
There are signs that the recent spate of
buying has passed its peak, and that the
public is becoming more discriminating
in its purchases. Still, a sellers’ market
for most classes of labor continues, the
national income remains buoyant, and
the wide margin between earnings and
distributions gives the 10 p.c. div. a com-
fortable appearance.
On the market the f.-p. pound ords.
have advanced from the old ceiling price
of 365. 6d. at end 1946 to 465. 3d. At
the higher figure the return is a satisfac-
tory 4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. In-
cluding uncalled capital, net tangible
cover is 335. 3d.
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., a Mel-
bourne-controlled prospecting add finance
co., is prospecting on its own account a
dredging area at Amphitheatre, Vic. Hdre
211 holes have been drilled to an average
depth of approximately 34ft. on a central
area of 340 acres, which are estimated to
contain 19,000,000 c.y. of alluvium,
averaging 2.44 gr. fine gold. It is expected
that small additional areas of pay dirt
will be located on the boundaries. Bore
cores indicate the presence of sandy clay,
which suggests that plenty of water and
possibly special working appliances on
the dredge will be needed. During the
dry periods water will be available from
deep leads. The co. is also interested
in Victoria Gold Dredging, Morning Star,
Mt. Coolon, Triton and Atlas.
* * * *
“Ex” writes:
The 15-mile workings, 50 miles from Ingham,
Kangaroo Hills field (N.Q.), and Frank
Lowe’s show (B. 30/4/’47) are on or near
ground worked intermittently from 1924 to
1927 by the Castles Dredging Co. Audley
Smith had previously bored the area for other
interests. This co. spent about £35,000 in-
stalling a large pumping plant on Oakey Creek,
and on building a dam and laying 2\ miles
of Din. to 15in. pipes .to the area. Dry seasons
and tough sandstone hindered sluicing, and
then slump foundered the co. It had operated
through partly-worked ground, but did not
reach the main gutter. Some 40,000 c.y., in-
cluding overburden, yielded 161 tons t.o. (75
p.c.), the last run being through 0.751 b. ground.
During the search for war minerals the area
was reported on favorably by Government
geologist Shepherd. Main features listed were
length worked at intervals over 20 chains, with
possible further 30 chains; height of wash to
7ft.; width up to 100 ft., with main gutter of
higher values up to 501 b. per c.y.; overburden
up to 50ft. The report stresses that previous
failures were not due to lack of values. Three
small parties are now working on the main
gutter from shafts as deep as 65ft.; water and
a weak roof are hindrances. Other leads
exist near by, and up Oakey Creek and its
branches, on one of which early this century
a 10-head battery (Redhill) was erected to
deal with rich cement encountered in sluicing.
The finding of rich beaches in the upper reaches
some 50 years ago, when tin oxide was worth
£25 per ton, first brought the area to notice.
* * * *
Westralian Gold: Hill 50 announces
an interim dividend (the 23rd) of 6d. a
share payable June 11... .Linden has de-
clared a call (No. 7) of 3d. a share, also
payable on June 11. Prospects of/Ade-
laide-controlled Ora Banda Amalgamated,
are reported to be much improved as the
result of recent developments in new
and old workings A little capital has
been raised in London to resume mining
on the holdings of Nevoria Gold Mines,
Ltd., near Southern Cross (W.A.). If
developments prove satisfactory more
money is promised for installation of a
treatment plant. Co. has several blocks
which have been unworked for years. It
claims to have developed 397,000 tons
of payable ore.
* * * *
De Bernales’s young son-in-law Enne-
mond Faye, now Visiting London, has
been appointed a director of Great
Boulder Prop. Gold Mines, Ltd. He
succeeds Col. Shand-Kydd, who recently
resigned, and will act as the Australian
member of the Board, a job held for years
by the late and former general manager,
Dick Hamilton.
* * :k *
Union Corp., an authority of renown,
says the world’s gold production is in-
creasing, but is still only about 60 p.c.
of pre-war output. The yield for 1946 is
estimated at 25,000,000 fine ounces as
against 24,300,000 fine ounces in 1945 and
40.700.000 fine ounces in 1940. British
Empire countries produced 68.8 p.c. of
last year’s world total (70.5 p.c. in 1945
and 59.1 p.c. in 1940). Transvaal, largest
individual producer, contributes nearly
50 p.c. of world total. South African
production last year shrank by 300,000
ounces, mainly because of strikes. The
Soviet, with an estimated production of
3,000,000 ounces was second on the
list last year, just ahead of Canada, with
2.808.000 ounces. U.S.A. followed with
1.625.000 ounces, and Australia was next
with 840,000 ounces. After Australia
came Southern Rhodesia 583,000 ounces,
New Guinea 545,000 ounces, Mexico
500.000 ounces and Colombia 450,000
ounces.


Like a mailbag, the Shell pu
RKft
/
//
Dear Motorist,
The little lead seal with the Shell trade
mark, that seals the underground tank of every Shell
pump, is a Shell service highly approved by public and
trade alike, for everyone prefers to buy and sell
guaranteed products.
Shell is the only company that has ever
sealed its pumps, or seals them now. Unavoidably
suspended during the war, this extra service has been
resumed. Shell again completely controls its petrol
from the ocean tanker to the tank of your car.
Most motorists want Shell, and the. Shell
pump is again their faithful servant.
d
CAN BE SURE OF SHELL
S47HF THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
PIPE SMOKERS
REPAIR SERVICE
An old pipe is like an old friend. How long
have you enjoyed his quiet companionship.
The mouthpiece may be broken, or the stem
cracked, but we can replace the mouthpiece,
and, by fitting a silver mounting, remedy the
cracked stem. If you think your pipe is too far
gone to repair, give our experts the opportunity
to decide. Acting on their advice, we will
communicate with you at once and let you
know their decision.
Genuine Vulcanite Stems, straight,
bent or square, each . . . . 5/
Sterling Silver Mountings, each . . 3/6
Plus postage for return.
All pipes returned per registered mail in
7 days. N.Z. and island trade catered for.
Trade enquiries invited.
RICHARDS & HAMILTON.
2nd Floor, 756 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 2056.
SUNDRY SHOWS
MELBOURNE MUSIC.
Musical appreciation is at an all-time
zenith in Melbourne, while musical crea -
tion is somewhere near its nadir. Pos-
sibly there is some connection between
the two things, but the fact remains that
there were approximately 2500 people in
the Town Hall to listen to Claudio Arrau,
the Chilean pianist, in a programme of
Beethoven, Bach, Chopin, Ravel and
others, while on the same evening at the
near-by Assembly Hall there were not
more than 100 to listen to the recital of
original works by indigenous artists pre-
sented by the Guild of Australian Com-
posers.
The attendances are a melancholy
commentary on Melbourne’s real interest
in music. The greatest period of English
music, when it was superior to European,
was round about the Elizabethan era
when everybody made music and organ-
ised concerts were unheard of. Nowa-
days scarcely anybody makes music ex-
cept the A.8.C., and it only reiterates the
music of other people, with the assistance
of overseas virtuosi.
There were works by 13 aspiring com-
posers at the Assembly concert and some
of them were very pleasant, especially
the settings to two Shakspearean sonnets
by Horace Gleeson, a limpid work by
Linda Phillips called “Music from Lamen-
tations,” a couple of short but pithy songs
by Hilda Malmgren and a trio in C minor
by the 80-year-old Louis Lavater, whose
snow-white mane nodded approval of the
Arion Tria’s performance.
Claudio Arrau is one of the most
brilliant executants at the piano Mel-
bourne has heard for a long time and
audience-appreciation mounted as the pro-
gramme proceeded. His approach to the
most exciting passages of the Appas-
sionata might have been fiercer, but few
have rendered better all the flurry and
emotion of the Bach Chromatic Fantasy
and Fugue in D minor, the tenderness of
Chopin’s Ballade in A flat minor, or the
fluidity of Ravel.
Boyd Neel
There was another rush of Melbourne’s
population to the Town Hall for the two
lunch-time concerts in the one day of
the Boyd Neel Orchestra, and while 3000
were struggling to get out 3000 were fight-
ing to get in. The jam was terrific.
String ensembles have never been very
popular in Melbourne, but Mr. Neel has
made his so exciting that the police have
had to be called in. Some people are
born orchestral players and some are
-born conductors. Mr. Neel probably
can’t play the instruments he directs half
as well as some of his players, but he has
that strange ability to make them play in
a way they would never do for another
conductor. He does it without any his-
trionic gestures—in fact, he seems to be
almost inhumanly phlegmatic—yet his
orchestrions succeed in making the music
live as it never seemed to live before.
The programme was exalted. The
Handel overture “Ptolemy” was followed
by four pieces from the Suite in D of
Bach, including the delicious Bourree
and Air. The final item was the Simple
Symphony of Benjamin Britten, allegedly
written when that young English com-
poser was nine. It was composed of a
Boisterous Bourree, a Playful Pizzicato, a
Sentimental Sarabande and a Frolicsome
Finale, and the titles suggested some-
thing of a nursery nature, Mr. Britten
must have been an extraordinary infant.
Mierowski.
The Polish pianist wound up an ex-
cellent Sydney season with a concentra-
tion on Beethoven and Chopin and a brief
excursion into the realms of modernism,
including some pieces by the con-
temporary Catalan composer Federico
Mompon, whose style is characterised by
an absence of bar divisions, key signa-
tures and cadences. Some Debussy was
slightly better than Mompon, but against
Beethoven’s C Minor Sonata these works
were as crackers beside a 25-pounder.
The C Minor (the Pathetique) was the
first work in which Beethoven voiced his
anguished realisation of impending deaf-
ness. Mierowski gave the chords of the
introductory Grave full power, and in
the first subject which follows that brief
utterance he was able to delineate with
fine clarity the composer’s defiant chal-
lenge to his fate. The adagio cantabile
was serene and beautiful; the allegro gay
and lilting.
Chqpin’s Fantasy Impromptu Op. 66
was the poetry of motion and harmony.
This piece is too often thumped out and
wrecked on the shoals of showmanship.
Mierowski gave an exposition of how
the miniature masterpiece should be
played. The preludes, some ballades, the
A Flat Polonaise, two mazurkas and the
berceuse were excellently interpreted.
"Carnival."
The essential note of tragedy is in-
evitability It doesn’t matter whether
the story is a thing of lyrical beauty or
intensely dramatic —unless it represents an
unalterable procession of events and
logical human behavior it is pointless. If
it fails to strike and maintain an atmos-
phere of inexorable design, whether it’s
a song of saddest things or a tremendous
drama of self-destruction like “Macbeth,”
it is lost from the start.
“Carnival,” at Sydney Esquire, has
nothing of Shakspeare or Shelley about
it, but it does purport to be a tragedy, a
fragile moth and flame story of a gay,
vital ballet dancer destroyed by her own
passionate emotions. Unfortunately, Sally
Gray, as the dancer, is as gay and delicate
as a caterpillar and, when she is finally
trodden on by her gloomy, soul-search-
ing husband, her extinction seems more
like an unnatural accident than the in-
evitable result of herself and her actions.
Her husband, too, as presented by the
script and acted by Bernard Miles, seems
something of a human oddity. Half-way
through the film, for no apparent reason
except the convenience of the script
writers, he suddenly changers from a
patient and slightly comic admirer to
the glowering instrument of destiny.
The other characters are more happily
played and seem to earn whatever fate
befalls them —Michael Wilding is credible
as the artist, the flame around whom
Miss Gray is supposed to hover for most
of the time ; his friend, quietly and com-
petently played by Michael Clarke;
Catherine Lacey, good as the mother ;
and Stanley Holloway, the father, ex-
cellent as a slightly bibulous version of
the man who never said a foolish thing
nor ever did a wise one.
Reviewed Briefly.
Artbursts
The N.S.W. National Art Gallery is
showing a Memorial Exhibition of the
work of Eric Wilson. There are eight
portraits, of which the most interesting
is a self-portrait; seven abstract studies,
including the well-known “The Kitchen
Stove,” and a number of landscapes and
street scenes. Many of Wilson’s street
scenes fall into something of a pattern,
but “A Street in Brussels” belongs to his
best style with its imaginative study of
cold, w'et and windswept buildings and
pavements. Another oil, “Bridge Over
the Lilfey,” is also impressive, demon-
strating a phase of Wilson art —a flair for
powerful impressionistic treatment
which was incompletely expressed in the
abstract studies and only occasionally
came out in the portraits.
* * * #
“C. 8.”: In opening a Melbourne art
show with song Miss Muriel Cheek was
following a precedent established by Ivan
Menzies. Mr. Menzies once opened a
show in the same place with a song of
his own composition and a dance, also
of his own composition, but he destroyed
the originality of his effort by append-
ing a long dissertation on art, just like
politicians, K.Cs., Judges, Lud Mayors
and others who, after informing their
audience that they know nothing of art,
proceed to show that they think they
know a considerable amount about it.
Future shows of merit cpuld be opened
by violinists, pianists and other virtuosi,
and some could fittingly be opened by
jugglers, wrestlers, acrobats, strip-tease
artists and low comedians.
The show Miss Cheek opened was
Miss Jo Sweatman’s at the Athenaeum.
Miss Sweatman has been painting the
willow-drenched reaches of the Yarra,
the blue bush and the exuberant wattle
for half her lifetime, and in her latest
output remains faithful to her somewhat
photographic approach to her favorite
subject-matter. In “Bylong Creek” she
was possibly stimulated by the name to
give some of the inner quality of a lovely
landscape.
* * * m
Films
“The Big Sleep” (Sydney Plaza): Dr.
Humphrey Bogart scattering his sedative
pills of .45in. and smaller calibre among
a host of grim types who cross his path.
As none of the patients return for further
consultation, Bogart’s practice diminishes
while his collection of stiff specimens
must finally number dozens. Such good
mysteries as this have been scarce lately,
and those who like Bogart will lap up the
current film —his best since “High
Sierra.” Lauren Bacall, an exceptionally
sultry lass of high wattage, fills in odd
moments with some most amusing back-
chat when Bogart is reloading.
* * * *
“The Dark Tower” (Sydney Tatler):
A circus is the backdrop for this unpre-
tentious British film and, though slightly
weak in parts, the production makes its
faults obscure with clever sequences,
some novel presentation and excellent
photography. Circus atmosphere is diffi-
cult to capture on celluloid, but the
“strewths” and “oo’s” rising up from the
film’s audiences were as loud and as fre-
quent as those evoked by Wirths,
Pieces chewed from fingernails-could be
clearly heard plopping down in the stalls
as Herbert Lorn, possessing the evil eye
and an appropriate dial, had the heroine
hypnotised into thinking she was better
than Blondin.


No. 9 of Series
Fire Extinguisher
yf
ft
\\
»SS\'
THERE are two popular types of fire extinguisher.
The “soda acid” type contains a solution of
sodium bicarbonate in water and a small glass vial
of sulphuric acid. The other is filled with carbon
tetrachloride. When the former is struck or turned
upside down, the “soda bicarb” mixes with the acid
to produce carbon dioxide gas. This creates a pres-
sure inside the apparatus which forces a stream of
water on to the fire. The soda acid extinguisher is,
in fact, rather like a giant soda water syphon. The
other type of extinguisher, which contains carbon
tetrachloride “C.T.C.” for short works by
blanketing the fire with non-inflammable vapour.
C.T.C. is a liquid which boils at 76° C.—water boils
at 100° C. When it is squirted on to a fire it is
converted into a non-inflammable vapour which pre-
vents access of air and smothers the flames. The
sodium bicarbonate, sulphuric acid and
carbon tetrachloride used in fire ex-
tinguishers are all produced by the
British chemical industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ICI
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
REDMILL RUM.
On Saturday at Rosehill the S.T.C. intro-
duced a new type of race which, as yet, bears
the unwieldy title of Fixed Weight Mixed Stakes.
That, at any rate, expresses the idea. All re-
stricted class horses are eligible and carry a
fixed weight varying in accordance theii
class Maidens 7.7, Novice candidates Bst.,
Encourage 8.7 and Trial 9st.
The S.T.C. has at times erred towards cater-
ing too much for the poorer type of gallopers,
but this move provides opportunities for the
restricted class horses and at the same time
gives the public a far more interesting type
of race than the old system of sepaiate events
for each class.
There was no doubt about the popularity
of the idea with owners and trainers. Two
mixed stakes were provided: one of seven
furlongs, which attracted 110 entries, and one
of 10 furlongs, for which 40 were- nominated.
At acceptance time 24 were left in the longer
race, requiring no division, but the sprint had
to be run in three divisions, and, despite course
scratchings, the smallest field to start in the
new events was one of 19.
Punters were a little dubious of the innovation
after the running of the first division, in which
the maiden performer Impudent (F. Smith), a
little-raced Brazen colt, after leading all the
way withstood strong challenges in the last
50 yards to just hold Man At Arms and the
favorite, Kuvera Hope. The bookies had quoted
the winner at 50 to 1, but he paid better odds
than that for a place on the tote, returning
£l4 ss. for a five-shilling place ticket and
£46 19s. 9d. for a win.
Other results were more favorable to punters.
In the second division the equal favorite Belle
Fille (A. Mulley), a five-year-old Beau Pere
mare, also led all the way to down Dieppe and
Torment. The rider of Dieppe, G. Weate,
entered a protest and, not surprisingly, was
fined a fiver for frivolity; he had ridden straight
into a pocket and then tried to force through
where there was not room.
Also an equal favorite, the Coronach gelding
Rotoiti (W. Briscoe) took the third division from
Tartar and Legato. The hardy few who place-
toted Tartar received nearly £lB for their five
shillings. Finally Beau Brummel CM. Sellwood),
who was well in the market for the 10-furlongs
event, had the best of a photo.-finish with
Dark Marne; Monsoon third.
Results of these mixed events suggested that
the scale of fixed weights chosen should prove
most satisfactory. There were two photo.-
finishes and all four events provided as close
racing as could be achieved by the most expert
handicapping. Placegetters came from all four
classes, including Kuvera Hope, the only
starter to carry 9st. Impudent, with 7.7, was
run to a half-head by Man At Arms, with
Bst., and a similar margin separated Beau
Brummell (7.7) and Dark Marne (8.7). Belie
Fille won with 8.7 and Rotoiti with Bst.
Having his first day’s riding as a fully-fledged
jockey, G. Podmore rode a perfect race to win
the Flying on the former Melbourne galloper
Bold Beau. In downing Brazier and Twice
Royal the Kinderscout colt finished with a fine
burst of speed to clock 1.13 for the six fur-
longs—good time in view of the heavy track.
The Dutchman, ran only a fair race,
but he probably needed the run, having had a
spell since his tip-top Doncaster effort.
Racing folk seem more prone than most to
pursue the shadow at the expense of the sub-
stance, which may have accounted for connec-
tions of Skymaster tackling the 10-furlongs
Rosehill Handicap in preference to the Mixed
Stakes of the same distance, for which he had
also been entered. He made a good attempt,
being beaten less than a length by Buonarroti
Boy (J. Thompson), but what a good thing
he would have been in the weaker company!
Nearest after him in the Handicap was Double
Mint, four lengths away.
The withdrawal of Marine Victory, The
Gaffer and others left a still large but rather
weak two-year-old field, so it said very little
for the Brueghel filly Overland that she again
failed, beaten this time by Barita (W. Cook)
and lucky to bag second place ahead .of Royal
Crest. Overland won the Wagga Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, but in her Sydney performances
has shown herself to be one of those very
speedy fillies, likely to be half a dozen lengths
in front when they’ve gone a furlong, but
with no fight in her finish.
In the Welter, over nine furlongs, Yukon
(W. Briscoe) started favorite and ran out the
easiest of winners from Man o’ War and
Agile. Altogether bookmakers diun t seem too
happy about the whole day’s proceedings.
* * * *
Riding at present in great form J. Purtell
had an exceptional day at Mentone on Satur-
day, being on the winners of four of the six
flat races. On two of them, Golden Glimpse
and High Play, he wore the purple, pink
diamond and cap of O. R. Porter, who seems
to have again struck a rich vein—Black Law and
Chatspa also won for him in Adelaide on
Saturday.
The six-year-old Croupier gelding High Play
returned about the best performance of the
day in winning the mile Aldborough Handicap
under a jumper’s weight of 10.8. Closest to
him in the weights, Hereward had 9.7 and
Gay ness 9.5; the rest were weighted within
121 b. of the Bst. minimum. High Play passed
the judge with three lengths to spare from
Kinloch and Air Marshall. For punters who
survived to this last race of the card he was
the only winning favorite of the day.
Displaying more staying ability than have
most of the Ajax progeny, Golden Ghmnse
won the 13-furlongs Wharncliffe Handicap, for
which he was near the top of the weights with
8.13. Golden Glimpse has won twice recently
on provincial courses, but still has to earn a
fair bit to repay the 2300 guineas he cost as
a yearling. He finished too well for the favorite,
Lord Cavil, who had the worst of the running.
A performance to keep in mind for other
events was that of the Tasmanian jumper El
Regis, who made all the pace and hung on
to bag third money.
The old Mentone specialist Arduli, fresh
from a six months’ spell, had the Ascot Thou-
sand won when E. Preston shot her to the
front approaching the turn. Hellenist chal-
lenged, but was safely held by the handi-
capper’s assessment —9.8 against Arduli’s 7.13.
The Saxon mare was leniently treated. Nepal
was third and Spearmain a fourth which sug-
gested he will shortly justify the confidence
reposed in him on Saturday.
Apart possibly from noting the effort of
El Regis in the Wharncliffe, students of Grand
National form gleaned nothing from the day.
The Trial Hurdle brought together a very
moderate bunch and was won by Winpar, with
Repeater and Jung Bahadur next best. E.
“You cad—you could have Waited till the beast had passed over me.”
Sellars on the winner resorted to the whip
nearly a mile from home but the Winooka
gelding didn’t start to respond till the race
looked all over. His belated effort, however,
was effective, though some thought that K.
Rhimes on Repeater had been caught napping.
Another to Purtell was G'reensborough in
the six-furlongs Eclipse Handicap. Punters
again fell for the speedy Rhythm Queen, who,
however, doesn't seem quite able to see her
trip out in metropolitan company, though she
has an unbeaten record on provincial tracks.
Setting the sort of pace which enabled her
recently to equal All Love’s Australian record
for five furlongs, Rhythm Queen had a three-
lengths lead half way down the straight and
still was beaten by half the field, Greensborough
leading Busybody and Quezon.
Foremost seems a commendably optimistic
name for a racehorse, and the Caithness-La
Scala filly who bears it was well to the fore
from start to finish of the Midlothian Handi-
cap for three-year-olds. Under a light weight
she fairly ran them off their legs, favorite
Prince Curl managing to fill second place a
shade ahead of Tarella.
Caithness was also successfully represented
by Sandy Bay (J. Purtell), a winner by five
lengths from Clear Title, Dick Turpin and other
two-year-olds.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Encourage: Set Purpose, 1;
Shyster, 2; Bikini, 3. Novice: Montrose, 1;
Beau Brummell, 2; Tyche, 3. Three-year-old
Encourage: Man At Arms, 1; Beau Robert,
2; Rotoiti, 3. Flying: Dutchman, 1; Cold
Shower, 2; Earl Pentheus, 3. George’s River
Handicap: Field Captain, 1; Crusader, 2;
Chaytor, 3. Homestead Handicap: Buonarroti
Boy, 1; Skymaster, 2; Lady Marie, 3. High-
weight : Dieppe, 1; King’s Glen, 2; Happy
Ways, 3.
* * * *
Leading the field in the Sydney jockeys’
premiership and riding well enough to retain
his lead, G. Moore had the extreme bad luck
to break or rather re-break his leg. Particu-
larly stiff, as it happened not in a race but
in a barrier trial, when Moore’s mount, Civic
Pride, cannoned into another horse, Strathdarr,
so heavily that Strathdarr may have to be
destroyed. Moore’s leg, caught between the
two, gave way in a spot where he’d previously
broken it.
* * * *
Belying its name, a two-year-old with the
soggy monicker of Saggy set a new world record
for A\ furlongs at Havre de Grace, Maryland,
scampering home in 51* seconds, to clip a
fifth-sec. off the previous best, run by Aqueduct
back in 1908. Australia’s best is Adored’s
53i at Caulfield in 1933.
* * * *
No fewer than 134,007 barrackers
attended the six V.F.L. games on Satur-
day, the odd seven and 34,100 others
at M.C.G. for the Melbourne-Footscray
match. It was one of the best games ever
played: grand aerial duels, fast and clever
ground work and the goal-kicking beauti-
fully accurate. Melbourne started the
last quarter 15 points behind, but two
quick goals by the champion. Fanning,
spurred them and they ran out winners
with the remarkable score of 17.3 to 15.8,
scoring six goals without a behind in the
last quarter. At Collingwood there was
another glorious match and a dazzling
finish in which a rejuvenated Richmond
won by a point, 10.14-10.13. Meantime
Essendon beat Fitzroy 11.17-10.14; Carl-
ton beat North, 13.21-11.14 ; South Melb.
beat Hawthorn, 15.14-12.20; and Gee-
long had its third win of the season against
St. Kilda, 7.12-6.13. Carlton heads “the
four,” with Footscray, Melbourne and
Collingwood and Fitzroy and Essendon
hanging around.
In Sydney a Broken Hill team, which
must have thought it had landed on Mt.
Ararat a day after the Flood, was beaten
by a N.S.W. team, 19.15-8.13.
« * ♦ •
The Australian Soccer team played
well to hold the South Africans to a
3-all draw at the Sydney Showground,
in their best game of the series. But it
gives an idea of the S’ Africans that with
Australia ahead 3-1 and 30 minutes to go,
the Springboks could even it. For Aus-
tralia, Date was again outstanding.
* * * *
With the All Blacks here, it’s difficult
to get a line on their capabilities. They
seem to be fast and clever, but the for-
wards are on the light side. All Black
captain Freddie Allen watched Randwick
down Gordon 24-9 at Coogee Oval on
Saturday, and expressed himself as being
impressed. On a muddy field, the hand-
ling was very good, and the game full of
bright patches. In other club games
Manly beat Parramatta 13-3, Easts beat
University 14-8, St. George beat North
16-15 and Drummoyne’s good handling
gave a 13-10 victory over Eastwood.
B 3
* * * *
Davis Cup prelims.:—
Earl y rounds of thp Davis Cup are well
andeF way in the European zone where B; ritam
zSl.S“w“yVze?ho°tovakia.Tn?he s =m"
South Africa will meet the winner ot
Belgium v. Yugoslavia; France, having beaten
Monaco, will play Czechoslovakia. Meanwhile
the largish Australian contingent of officials
and semi-official reps, are waiting for someone
to give them a bit of decent practice Mrs.
Bolton has been untroubled by any opposition
she has struck so far and with Mrs. Hopman
proved too hot for local doubles combinations.
With America’s two best ladies now turned
professional, Mrs. Bolton seems to have
Wimbledon at her mercy. At the Surbiton
tournament the Australian doubles pairs were
eliminating each other in the semi-finals and
in the final Bromwich-Pails beat Brown-Long,
9-11, 6-3, 6-3. Brown was the best player on
the court and looks like reproducing the grand
form lie showed at Wimbledon last year, justi-
fying , the decision of the selectors to ignore
the very poor form he had shown at home
since then.
* * * *
Featherweights Andy Gollan (8.12) and
Joe Crisafi (8.12) turned on a torrid fight
at Leichhardt, and Gollan’s cleaner
punching gained him a hairline points
decision. Crisafi’s continuous attack in
every round led many of the customers
to think he earned at least a draw, and
the hooting lasted for some time after
Gollan was given the verdict. Up to
round nine Crisafi’s hard fighting and
Gollan’s cleaner punching had the score
so close that a draw would have been
in order. More aggressive than ever,
Crisafi outfought Gollan in the last three
rounds, but Gollan was still the better
boxer. A draw would have been fair
enough.
* * * *
The win at Melbourne Stadium of Aus-
tralian middle and light-heavy champ.
Dave Sands (11.51) over Maorilander
George Allen (12st.) was next door to a
walkover. Half-way through the first
round Dave, let loose a left which in-
stantly filled one of George’s optics and
another blow so badly damaged an old
wound on the other peeper that at the
end of the round referee Jennings called
up the quality that isn’t strained.
* * * * *
There is not nearly as much money
about as there was last year, and wrestlers
doing their stuff at the Sydney Stadium
are feeling the pinch. And for want of
suitable opponents for Patrick, the
Stadium people are seldom able to make
use of their best boxer and attraction. The
importation of English pugs is clouded
by the certainty that they will all put on
weight, as all the cricketers did, and U.S.
bruisers of renown won’t come because
of the taxes. “Labor” is responsible for
the taxes, and “Labor” politicians are
no longer objects of adoration —a fact
on which dark threats to set up a boxing
commission have a bearing.


1. TTO
r
SBimtßfjß
[enjßiaim
aimiafm
aMtvc
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. 3. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. 3. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Make Sure that Your
Will Is Up-to-date
Marriage Revokes a Will
IT is surprising how frequently it is found that
persons marrying—and particularly remarry-
ing—are unaware that by -so doing they have
automatically revoked any Will made before
marriage, or remarriage, except one in contem-
plation of marriage. »
Endless trouble and distress have been
caused by Will-makers who defeated their own
wishes by not drawing them properly and not
changing them to meet changed conditions and
circumstances.
Make a point of reviewing your Will. En-
sure that it is up to date. At the same time con-
sider whether your choice of Executors is a wise
choice—bearing in mind that your beneficiaries
will be entirely dependent upon their trust-
worthiness and ability.
Consider the advantages of appointing Per-
petual Trustee Company Limited as your Ex-
ecutor and Trustee—alone or jointly with a
friend. The Company has sixty years’ experi-
ence in the handling of Estates of many dif-
ferent kinds.
Call or write for a copy of the Company’s
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee,’’ which de-
scribes the Company’s service and what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AJfD AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EYCFIfn
£66,000.000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LeSSTHAN £lo,ooo£
Southern and Riverlna Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St. Wagga Wacca
Northern District Representative; F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Taimvorth.
Western District Representative: J. U. McElroy, 140 Lords Place Orange
7
SR y
C 7
CHANGE LIVING
FREQUENTLY CAUSES IRREGULARITY
It is important to remember that changes of
food and living conditions invariably disar-
range the system, and when that occurs nature
needs assistance, at least temporarily. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are especially suited
for this purpose. When going away for a
change, always make a practice of having a
bottle with you and taking a dose occasionally
to stir the liver and keep the s bowels acting
regularly.
yo^
fj*
W/G
Business Robbery Etc.
Whither Nationalisation, Etc.?
The drift toward nationalisation
of industry in France is proving
more of a hindrance than a help
in the vexed problem of rehabili-
tation. The problem is largely one
of replacing capital stock lost through
destruction and of making good “disin-
vestment” of the war years—replacement
of plant and equipment worn out by over-
work and inadequate maintenance. France
has sought a solution in a combination of
the only two methods open to her,
namely, domestic effort and foreign aid.
By mid-March last her foreign com-
mitments exceeded the dollar credits she
had arranged last year by about $lBO
million. To bridge the gap the Govern-
ment has joined the queue at the World
Bank for a credit of $5OO million.
The National Credit Council, the
new advisory body on French bank-
ing, has told the Government that
financing of the Monnet plan de-
pends upon Budget equilibrium being
restored. The National Gas and Elec-
tricity Board, which came into being in
May, 1946, estimates that the deficit for
1947 will be about frs. 18 milliards,
despite a considerable increase in rates
charged to consumers. Former owners
mostly operated at a profit. The estimated
deficit of the nationalised railways for
1947 is put at between frs. 16 and frs. 18
milliards. The big insurance cos., also
nationalised last year, are expected
to record losses for the first time
in* their history. For the year to
end September last their overhead
had increased by 93 p.c., whereas
those of the smaller private cos. rose
by only 44 p.c. over the same period. On
February 10 last the French Government
approved an extraordinary Budget for
1947, providing for an expenditure of
approximately frs. 320 milliards, of which
frs. 300 milliards are for reconstruction
and realisation of the Monnet plan.
United Nations statistics show that the
note circulation in France advanced from
frs. 151 milliards at end 1939 to frs. 570
milliards at end 1945 and to frs. 722
milliards at end 1946. At the same dates
average hourly wage rates for men in
Parisian manufacturing industries were
frs. 10.5, frs. 25.45 and frs. 34.41 respec-
tively. And the Paris food-price index
(official), also for corresponding dates,
rose from 101 to 445 and 804.
Nationalisation, strikes and successive
wage lifts, combined with a failure to in-
crease production sufficiently, have put
such burdens on the State as to threaten
its stability. This has resulted in the
conscription of labor, as recently reported
in the cables.
Besides the economic dangers and con-
sequences of nationalisation, develop-
ments in France provide another grave
warning for Australia. When production
and distribution are seriously hindered
by strikes, go-slow and other forms of
industrial retardation, and at the same
time wage rates, and consequently costs
and prices, rise steadily and persistently,
economic stability is threatened. With
more jobs than workers labor in Australia
is in a stronger tactical position than
ever before. And not only is it loath to
have its position weakened, but it is ex-
ploiting its advantage in ways detrimental
to the public interest.
When prices are pressed constantly up-
wards by wage lifts that are not integrated
with production and the cost-price struc-
ture, anticipated profits lead to specu-
lative purchases of goods and materials
and the accumulation of stocks. But
sooner or later consumer demand is
adversely affected by rising prices, the
speculative transactions break down,
“ Oughtn't y be Wearin' a mask when y’re burglin', Dad ?”
accumulated stocks begin to press on
prices and, finally, output and employ-
ment are affected.
Also, a constant rise in prices causes
a direct and progressive loss of purchas-
ing power to all with fixed money in-
comes, and it is not long before it de-
presses real wages by its effect upon the
distribution of real income. Costs have
been raised by wage advances, the full
effects of which have not yet been felt,
and costs are kept high because output
per man-hour in large sections of trade
and industry is lower than it should be.
When the wage-price structure gets
seriously out of balance, the wage-earner
is threatened first by the tendency of
prices to outstrip wages and secondly by
the risk of price inflation causing a reces-
sion of economic activity, with unemploy-
ment as the inevitable consequence. The
only way to escape from this dilemma
is to check the rise iri wages before it
passes the point at which the inflation
process gets under way. The way to stop
the spiral now is to increase production
and efficiency and so absorb wage in-
creases without further raising unit costs.
To maintain stability any further wage
increases will need to be accompanied
by appropriate gains in productivity. The
alternatives are a lower standard of liv-
ing and unemployment.
At the moment we are endeavoring to
raise consumption standards, re-equip
industry, overtake accumulated demands,
including the building of thousands of
new houses, increase social services,
shorten working hours, raise wages and
extend State ownership and control. We
are thus in danger of falling not between
two but between half a dozen stools. Be-
fore deferred demand can be overtaken.
and before increased consumption and
the re-distribution of wealth (through
taxation and other means) can have any
real and lasting benefit, production must
be stepped up. To do this industry must
have an adequate supply of coal, power
and essential materials, and labor must
efficiently co-operate in keeping the wheels
of trade and industry running without
interruption. The interests of producers,
distributors and consumers are identical
in the long run. All benefit from orderly
markets, and all suffer when any indulge
in practices that interfere with a smooth
-flow of marketable products.
How Russia has spragged the wheels
of rehabilitation in the British and
American occupied zones of Germany is
strikingly revealed in a letter to the Lon-
don “Financial Times” by “Doctor of
Laws.” He points out that “All big
banks in Berlin are situated in the quarter
of Unter den Linden-Behrenstrasse, which
belongs to the Russian zone. The fact
that they are so situated has been misused
by the Russians to block every account
in these banks and every depot. The
majority of these accounts are accounts
of industrial and commercial firms in the
British and American zones. Not only
German accounts have been blocked, but
also every Allied account, and so, for
nearly two years, British and other Allied
creditors have to regard their credits in
Germany as lost.* For the economic
development of Germany this blockade
of the leading banks by the Russians is
most damaging;for instance, Allied house-
owners in Berlin whose houses are dam-
aged by bombing, etc., cannot use their
money in the banks to do the necessary
repair work, and so this Allied property
deteriorates from day to day. The in-
come from real estate is not sufficient to
cover expenses for repair work because
the Control Commission allows German
administration to take excessive taxes
from the Allied owners; thus prac-
tically nothing remains of the rent for
the owner. So the Allies are paying re-
parations to Germany.”
* * ♦ »
Foy and Gibson, Ltd., asked the Capital
Issues Board for permission to raise
£300,000 of fresh capital. The co. re-
ceived approval for an issue of
150,000 5 p.c. £1 cum. prefs, at par. It
is proposed to offer those on the ord.
register 120,000 of the new shares, one
for ten. The remaining 30,000 will be
offered to the staff. The new money is
wanted to carry extra stocks of raw wool
and for replacements at the co.’s woollen
mills. Here plant suffered the heavy
strain of continuous running during the
war years, when it was not possible to
obtain replacements. Though market
rumors of a new issue had been heard
for some time, followers of the stock ex-
pected something better. Price of the
shares eased 9d. to 335. on announcement
of the issue. Ignoring pref. rights, the
return at 335. is £3 12s. 9d. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis, half of which was tax free
last year.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government has
designs upon Guinea Airways’ principal
source of revenue, the route to Darwin.
In recent discussions with the Department
of Civil Aviation regarding renewal of
the co.’s contract for air mail to Darwin,
directors were informed that T.A.A.
would extend its service to that town, and
that “Guinea Airways would be prevented
from competing on the route.” No doubt
T.A.A. could monopolise the considerable
portion of the traffic which is of an
official character. Neither present nor
prospective traffic would seem to justify
two services on the route. Prospects of
the co.’s resuming operations in New
Guinea ar b remote, the chairman states.
Motor vehicles have taken over most of
the former transport work from Lae to
the goldfields, and are more economical.
Faced with so many uncertainties, the
co. has decided to strengthen its position
in the sphere of tourist trade, following
the example of Ansett Transport Indus-
tries, Ltd, A sum of £20,000 was recently
invested [n Australian National Hotels
Pty. Ltd., a co. formed by Holyman Bros,
to purchase the West Point Hotel in
Hobart.
* * * *
Maoriland’s largest brewery and hotel-
owner, N.Z. Breweries, Ltd., was taken
aback when the Land Sales Court recently
gave judgment against purchase of the
Bruce Hotel, at Akaroa, near Christ-
church, from a woman who was willing
to sell for £5500. The Court held that
N.Z.B. already possessed sufficient land
and hotels for its business, and that in
the absence of special circumstances its
acquisition of further hotels must be
deemed “undue aggregation.” “We are
satisfied,” said the Court, “from applica-
tions that have come before us concerning
the sale of hotels that there is a sub-
stantial unsatisfied demand for hotels
from prospective owner-licensees, includ-
ing discharged servicemen, and the prices
commonly agreed to be paid for hotels
suggest that there is no type of real
property in respect of which the restrain-
ing influence of the Land Sales Act is
more necessary to curb the dangers of in-
flationary increases in price.” N.Z.
Breweries, Ltd., owns, or has a financial
interest in, over 200 of Maoriland’s 1098
licensed hotels, and Dominion Breweries,
Ltd., its sturdy young rival, is interested
in 50 or more. N.Z. Breweries, Ltd.,
amalgamated the interests of James
Speight and Co., Hancock and Co., J.
Staples, the Lion and six other leading
breweries in 1923, paying £500,000
(shares) for goodwill and £1,000,000
(cash) for net tangibles. '


&
2^
/'fc'
T
.>2
May I speak to the Manager?
Certainly. Branch Managers of the
“Wales” welcome enquiries about the
Bank’s facilities.
They will be pleased to discuss any-
thing related to banking from personal
financial problems to the financing of
industrial undertakings, from the im-
provement of country properties to the
development of oversea trade oppor-
tunities.
They can do this because their own
wide experience is backed by the tech-
nical resources of specialized depart-
ments.
If you think that the “Wales” can help
you, please don’t hesitate. Ask the
Manager.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
V
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
A4702D
MAKE IT YOURSELF
With the Giant Home Workshop Manual! >n Fi
By following the simple and detailed instructions so
profusely illustrated, YOU can at last enjoy the thrill of con-
structing hundreds of objects in wood or metal by yourself. You
can build useful and practical things—units of furniture, boats, etc.,
right down to those useful knick-knacks in the kitchen. And this book
clearly shows new ways to perform old tasks —features hundreds of NEW things
for the amateur or professional to make. Send for the GIANT HOME WORK-
SHOP MANUAL to-day.
FASCINATING HOBBIES
Bo varied ire the projects in the Giant Home
Workshop Manual that every man, woman,
and boy will find a seemingly endless variety of
things to make that really mean deep interest.
Ideas are as much the craftsman’s stock-in-
Itrade as his tools, and here fs the manifold
ianswer to that ever recurring question, “What
shall I make next?”
MAKES EVERY MAN A HANDYMAN
Not only are there objects you would like to
make, but there are working drawings to
show you exactly how to make them, and
clearly written directions for each step to be
taken. The ten sections cover: Woodwork-
ing, Furniture, Arts and Crafts, Outdoor Ac-
tivities, Home and Garden, Model Making,
Painting and Finishing, Ideas for the Work-
shop, Electricity, Games, and Toys.
1496 Poges
K»"
Over
1500
Drawings,
Diagrams
PARTIAL LIST OF THINGS TO MAKE AND DO
Photo frames, Cocktail trays, Dovetail joints, Spiral inlaying. Wall
ornaments. Bookshelves, Novelties, Decorations, Toys, Jewellery,
Furniture, Wall units. Kitchen usefnls, Potters’ Wheel, Hawaiian
baskets. Knotting, Etching, Printing, Glass decorating, Metal
Work, Leather work. Boats, Sporting material. Garden accessories.
Miniature models, Auto ideas, Tool Cabinets, Electricity, Copper-
plating, ’Phones, Soldering, using Circular Saw, Lathes, etc..
Sanding, Polishing, Painting, etc., etc.
&
Mrs
/WO MASTS
si/M/roxe
ONLY A
LIMITED QUANTITT
IMPORTED
ORDER NOW!
300
TESTED PROJECTS
#
m
There are photographs, working drawings and clearly
written instructions for making furniture, novelties,
household accessories, sporting equipment, home
and garden improvements, shop aids and many other
useful articles. It’s a handbook of tested projects.
CLIP AND POST TODAY'
Please send me a copy of “Giant Home Workshop Manual”
price 18/- (post lOd),
(A) for which I enclose payment; (B) and charge to
my account.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Tech. B. 6/47.)
Silver and the Coinage
Owing to the high price of silver the
Federal Government has decided to re-
duce the white-metal content of our silver
coinage from 92.5 p.c. to 50 p.c. Since
a shilling contains 87.27 gr. silver and
since it takes 12oz. of the stuff to make
66 shillings, the coinage of silver be-
comes unprofitable when the price of the
metal reaches ss. 6d. an ounce in Aus-
tralian currency.
Pre-war the price was 2s. 7|d. an
ounce, and the Government raked in a
handsome profit from minting. The
figure rose to ss. 9d. in August, 1946, but
had eased to 4s. 7d. in February last.
Also, Australia has to hand back to U.S.
approximately 11 million ounces of silver
bullion within the next five years. Dur-
ing the war this silver was borrowed from
U.S., where it was minted into coyis on
behalf of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and shipped to Australia. Part of
the contract was that this silver was to
be repaid to U.S. in kind.
Principal fluctuations in the London
(sterling) price of silver since 1939 have
been:
s. d.
June, 1939 1 7|
September, 1945 3 8
August, 1946 4
February, 1947 3 8
March 6, 1947 4 4
March 19, 1947 3 6
March 28, 1947 3 8*
April 15, 1947 3 10
April 30, 1947 3 9
May 1, 1947 .. .. a. 3 8^
May 8, 1947 .. .. .. 3 8
After Nevada’s silver Senator, Pat Mc-
Carran, had induced the U.S. Govern-
ment to lift its ceiling price of silver from
71.11 cents to 90.5 cents an ounce in
August last the London quote rose from
3s. Bd. to 4s. 7id. stg. The speculative
buying wave received a check when the
British Government announced its in-
tention to replace all silver coins with
cupro-nickel coinage, and to permit traffic
in silver between specified foreign coun-
tries and India.
This started a substantial movement of
silver into the Bombay market, where
there was a break in the price. There
then followed a change in the flow of
Spanish and other silver / from Bombay
to the free market in New York, where
pressure of supply forced the price down
below 71 cents an ounce. The official
buying price for silver in U.S. thus be-
came completely isolated.
What the future of silver prices will be
is difficult to say ; the question is wrapped
up with the Indian demand, for hoarding
and other purposes, with world domestic
demand, and the extent to which Russia
might come into the world market as a
supplier. The output of Australian silver
producers, mainly the big mining cos. at
the Barrier, is bought by the Federal
Government.
p
“Graz”: Just when things were set for
good wool prices along comes the Ameri-
can Bill, which has met with opposition in
the Senate, to impose an “import fee” up
to 50 p.c. ad valorem on all wool imported
into U.S, This is additional to the tariff
of 34 cents per lb. (scoured basis) which
has applied to U.S. wool imports for many
years. American millmen have found
that the cleaner, higher-yielding and well-
prepared Australian and S’African wools
work out at about sd, a lb. cheaper than
homegrown wools, which are usually
dirty and badly classed. The Com-
modity Credit Corporation, a semi-Gov-
ernment organisation, bought American
clips during the war, and pow holds
500,000,0001 b. of accumulated stocks.
The price paid was such that the C.C.C.
cannot now unload these stocks without
incurring heavy losses. In any case,
C.C.C. is not allowed to sell below cost
of duty-paid imported wool. Because
U.S. manufacturers prefer imported
wools, domestic-grown fleeces continue
to be added to the stockpile. As a solu-
tion of the problem, American authorities
have suggested that U.S., U.K. and the
Dominions pool their accumulated stocks
and fix minimum and ceiling prices at
rates ruling for U.S. domestic wools.
This would mean higher prices than those
now ruling outside U.S., and would
help* C.C.C. in its disposal diffi-
culties. At the same time it would
bump up the cost of wool fabrics,
and so handicap them in competition with
synthetics. Thus the long-term effect
upon the consumption of wool might well
prove disastrous to Australian producers.
America breeds big sheep with mutton
the first objective; in breeding for wool
and in preparation of the clip it is
behind the times. For the seven months
ending January last America took
625,943 bales from Australia,
* ♦ * *
Upon rumors that Sargood Gardiner
Pty., Ltd., will convert to a public co.,
the comment of managing director G. D.
H. Sargood was that no decision had yet
been made, though the matter had been
under consideration for some time. The
rumors are more specific, naming a well-
known Melbourne sharebroking house
through which “a largb parcel” of shares
will be offered to the public as soon as
legal formalities are completed. If the
conversion is under way, it may take
some months to effect owing to the wide
geographic spread of shareholders. About
half of the issued capital (of £893,815)
is on the London register, held mostly
by the Gardiner family. Of the re-
mainder, a large portion is held by the
Sargoods, of Melbourne. Now one of
Australia’s largest softgoods warehouse-
men, the co. began in Sydney 48 years
ago as W, Gardiner and Co., Ltd. Since
1936 it has been a proprietary with the
present title. There are big warehouses
in Sydney and Melbourne. Paid capital
(as distinct from issued) amounts to
£676,770 —consisting of 507,199 prefs.
paid to 17s. 6d. each and 386,616 ords.
paid to 12s. each.
* * * #
Engineering shops and building con-
tractors in Maoriland are scratching for
steel as industry gets deeper into diffi-
culty because of banked-up supplies
which await shipping space at Australian
ports. Nearly a third of the mountain of
more than 40,000 tons of MX.’s pur-
chases from Australia that can’t be
shipped is steel, and key trades and in-
dustries in the Dominion are nearly at
the end of their tether as one delay
follows another in the long story of trans-
port failure.
• * * *
One of Maoriland’s ablest and most
experienced engineers, R. H. Packwood,
for 40 years in the Public Works Depart-
ment, has been called on to bring order
out of muddle in planning big projects
for rail, road and trans-harbor transport
in Auckland. Millions are to be spent,
and the schemes may cover development
for a generation. Trains are to be put
underground, arterial outlets built, traffic
bottlenecks eliminated and streets
widened, and the long-talked-of bridge
might appear on the city’s harbor skyline.
Packwood is hailed as the man to find a
way through the maze of problems where
Labor Minister of Works, Bob Semple,
got bogged down, and he’ll have the ex-
perience of war-time construction as a
colonel to help him in marshalling his
forces. In years to come Auckland might
hear a eood deal of Packwood’s plans.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: The little bush pub we had put
up at, and with, overnight was surrounded
by a general store, three houses and
several thousand ringbarked trees, and the
land was drier than a Rechabites’ picnic.
So dry, in fact, that Bung had, so he
sternly informed us when we mentioned
a bath, to bring water up from the creek
half a mile away in a 44-gallon drum on
a sled. Like a lot of little outback licen-
sees, he loved notices. They were every-
where, warning against everything from
spitting haphazardly through the bed-
room window to going to the kitchen for
hot water during certain hours. The wall
of the little dining-room was plastered
with adjurations, and we were fairly cer-
tain there would be one in the bathroom
when we went to wash in the pannikin
of water in the enamel basin that we
were given as an act of mercy. There
was. It was an illustrated set of instruc-
tions for the revival of the apparently
drowned.
* * * *
“Etiwanda”: I rise to protest against
the libelling of my friend the red meat ant,
by comparing it with a Commo (B.
28/5/’47). The red ant has attributes
which would get it rubbed out by the
Commos any time. It is intensely loyal
to its own, will fight like hell to defend
its home and people, will have no truck
with alien cults and is a solid believer in
working to produce. As for work, well
the way a red ant believes in work, to-
gether with its sense of duty, would get
it declared “black” by any “militant”
union leader.
* * * ♦
“Nor’-west”; “As skinny as a black
gin” used to be a proverb among the
old-timers, but nowadays it is surprising
how fat a gin may become when attached
to a station where the hand-out of tucker
is liberal. Travelling through the De Grey
district (W.A.) we came across a moun-
tain of dusky flesh that answered to the
name of Molly Riley. For a gift of
“chixpence” Molly would mount the plat-
form of the station scales; 24 stone.
Near at hand was the mother who had
borne her; six stone. Science tells us
that whether a person be fat or thin de-
pends mostly on the condition of the
thyroid gland: given a plentiful secre-
tion from the gland the body will de-
vote itself to piling on fat. In the
old tribal days when semi-starvation was
the normal abo. lot the thyroid, particu-
larly in the female, didn’t get much
chance to put in any good work. On a
station these days it i§ the “innards” and
the head of a slaughtered beast that be-
come the perquisite of the native camp—
and it is the internal organs, particularly
the liver, that would tend to stimulate the
thyroid gland,
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Not 20 miles from
my property the Perth observatory pro-
vides the divisional meteorologist with
modern scientific equipment for wringing
closely-held secrets from the weather
god. From most points of the compass
—even sometimes from Antarctica—the
little ergs that inhabit copper wire and
ether are winging their way towards him
with reports of current conditions in their
late localities. He dispatches planes into
the upper atmospheres to discover
weather-producing tendencies up there.
From the data thus acquired he can
hazard a fairly accurate guess, anent the
type of weather likely to be encountered
in his part of the globe within the next
24 hours. Nearer home, the rabbits in
my top paddock are returning from the
high ground to the low pastures; the
spiders under the verandah roof are show-
ing signs of returning activities ; the ants
are foraging and the birds are singing, a
trifle wanly, after a week of rain. The
clouds are low and heavy laden, and the
meteorologist is predicting further rain.
I’d say we’ll get it. But those rabbits,
spiders, ants and birds know that a fine
spell is approaching. They derive their
knowledge from some tangible element in
the air, some subtle change that the
scientist, with all his equipment, can’t
detect.
“Horseless Horseman”: A Melbourne
suburb is the last place one would expect
black swans to act as weather indicators
and mistake iron roofs for surface water.
Yet 16 miles from the Elizabeth-street
G.P.0., at Braemar, the Harold Alstons’
home at Diamond Creek, the honk-honk
of the big fliers passing overhead en route
from Melbourne’s park lakes to the Yan
Yean reservoir is as sure a bad-weather
tell-tale as any barometer. On bright
moonlight nights, too, at the old manor
tucked away in its large garden, it is not
"Nice to get away from the city at the Week-ends, ain't it?”
uncommon to hear a terrific crash on
the iron roof and, on investigation, to
find the bird has taken the glistening
surface to be water. The swans are
seldom hurt. Outback, where ducks as
well as swans at times put on a similar
turn, I’ve noticed the birds circle the roof
several times and sort of “pancake land.”
I often wonder who gets the biggest sur-
prise—the birds or the inmates of the
homestead.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d cut out a con-
tract and were celebrating the fact some-
what temperately in the pub when Mat
put down his empty glass and said, “Well,
where’ll we head for now?” “Gipps-
land,” I suggested “Nuh,” he said, “too
much mud.” “The Murrayville line?”
“Too much dust.” “What about Echuca?”
‘Too many narks.” A pause. “Well,” I
resumed, “how about Melbourne?” He
received this with silent scorn. “Well, we
gotta go somewhere, I reckon.” At this
a cove who’d been taking it all
in spoke up, “Whyn’t y’ head up
round Wee Waa, in Noo South?
Gripes, it’s a bonny place. Plenty
o’ jobs and girls—crickey, there’s
more girls round there than” But
before Mat’s glare he quavered into
silence, looking from one to the other
of us in evident bewilderment. Then he
muttered, defensively, “Well, Wee Waa’s
a good little town, anyway.” “It was,”
Mat said, “till it got played out.”
“Played out? Played out? Why, it’s
only just” “Look, mate,” Mat said,
“any place that skites about its girls
must be played out.” I always blamed
that bloke for finding myself with Mat,
a week later, fencing on a run 45 miles
west of Balranald, beyond sight or sound
of a female of our species.
* * * *
“Hanko”; For months I’d threatened
to get rid of the old dray-wheel that
always tripped me up when I went to and
from the woodheap, and came a day
when I carried out my threat by bowling
the thing into the sugar-gunr plantation.
Ten minutes later, when I was hacking
through a log, the boss came trundling
the old wheel home again. “I always
knew there was a mate to that wheel
somewheres around,” he said. When I
explained the case somewhat curtly the
boss flung down the old wheel, apc|.it.
lurched and wobbled till it took up again
the position whence I’d so lately prised
it. In course of time I learned to navi-
gate over that wheel without putting a
foot wrong.
• * * •
“Blime”: Bill had donfe nothing but
growl ever since the boss sent him and
Andy into the bush paddock to saw the
fallen timber into post lengths. He would
drag in at nights, still growling, and offer
vainly to swap anyone jobs. At length
he hunted the boss with his grievance.
“But, there’s no one else I can put on,”
the boss explained. “And I haven’t got
a one-man saw. Besides, I don’t think
it would be quicker, so y’ve just got t’
put up with it.” Bill mooched back to
the paddock and, while Andy waited
with the crosscut, proceeded to strip a
sheet of fresh stringy-bark. “There, git
on that,” he ordered his offsidef, chuck-
ing the bark side downward against the
next big log. Andy stared. “Gripes, that
hard, wet side won’t help me sore knees,”
he pointed out. “I’ll turn it over.” “Not
on y’r life y’ won’t,” Bill snapped deter-
minedly. “Y’ gonna sit on it, see? If
I got t’ have y’ on the other end o’ the
blasted saw, at least it’ll make y’ slip a
bit easier.”
]£ jjS -)|c £
“C.P.C.”: “Dusty Gully’s” story (B.
14/5/’47) of the husband’s abjection to
the “Labor Ward” item on the hospital
b.U reminds me A woman was being
rusted to hospital tor a confinement, but
ditto t make it; her baby was bom on
the lawns of the hospital after which
she was admitted Among the items on
he b,U presented to her husband on her
S V "S“ : Use of Labor Ward I, f 1 Is
The husband queried this pointing out
Itahirf hJthmiteßedb the
Labor Ward. The amended Ml he re-
ceived read: Green Fees, £1 Is.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Thirty years ago, before
Ted was Old Ted, he built a chimney to
his primitive home. An immense thing
protruding like a small room outside the
main wall, it was made of ironbark sap-
lings sheeted on the inside with 22-gauge
corrugated-iron. It warmed Ted and his
wife when they nursed their first-born,
and it wasn’t until Midge, the youngest
girl, married that the old dispenser of cosy
comfort succumbed—to white-ants on the
outside and the action of countless roar-
ing fires on the inside. Old Ted was pre-
paring to erect another similar structure
when Midge’s young husband volunteered
enthusiastically, “Leave it to me; I’m
pretty good with the trowel. I’ll build a
brick one—a real artistic one.” How he
got the bricks was a mystery, but in due
course the job was completed an elabo-
rate, ornate structure. Several months
passed before Midge and her spouse paid
another visit. ‘ How’s the chimney go-
ing?” was the young fellow’s first ques-
tion. ‘ Well,” drawled Fed, “I’m a bit
disappointed ; I thought you said it was
going to be an artistic chimney! ” The
son-in-law looked hurt. “So it is,” he
declared ; ‘ look at the fancy bricks, look
curve aich 5 look at the flash
shell Old Ted interrupted; “Yes,
yes, but it s not artistic. I went to school
with an artistic kid he could draw some-
thmg marvellous; but I’m damned if
your chimney can! ”
*• * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: With the Jap diver
still missing from Broome the local
Binghis continue to lament the absence
of the banquet spread on that August
night known to the Nipponese as “The
Feast of the Lanterns.” On the appointed
day, just on sundown, all of the
town’s Japs would assemble at the
cemetery, some carrying paper lan-
terns, many of large size; others
with baskets of food, pork, fowl, fish,
beef and cakes. On bamboos planted
on the grave mounds the lighted lanterns
would be hung, showing like so many
colored balloons, their colored paper
streamers fluttering in the breeze, while
around stood the “mourners,” waving
little blue-and-white paper flags, drinking
sake, laughing and talking with no pre-
tence of grief. Halfway through the fes-
tival a number of the men would depart
for the foreshore of the bay. There, on
the outgoing tide, would be launched
dozens of small cardboard boats each
carrying a lighted candle and a ration of
cooked rice. So the spirits of those who
had been buried or lost at sea were
catered for. Back to the cemetery the
festival neared its culmination when a
libation of sake would be poured on
each grave. Finally, as a parting gesture,
the food would be distributed, an ample
portion at the head of each departed’s
resting place. And that was where, after
the last Jap had left, Binghi the realist
came in.
* * * *
“Dusty Gully”: “The mice were thick
in the big shed,” related Alf, “so I
reckoned the on’y .way was to get
a carpet snake. It" wasn’t long before
the mice were cleaned out. One wet
evenin’ a swaggie called an’ asked f’r
a place t’ doss, so I let him use the shed,
f’rgetin’ t’ tell him of the snake. In
the mornin’, after a great hullabaloo with
Joe tryin’ t’ git in his bunk, he/comes
all excited t’ tell me he’s killed me mouser.
Y’d expect some o’ those coves’d respect
a man’s property.” “Yes,” I said.
“There’s not many who don’t know a
carpet snake’s harmless.” “That’s right,”
Alf said. “But it wasn’t a carpet snake
exactly. I hadn’t bin able t’ git one o’
them, so I had t’ make do with a big
‘tiger.’ ”
* * * *
“Nagheer”: On his way back from a
trip to North Queensland a Sydney motor-
ist recently collided with and stunned a
nice-looking pup a few miles outside
Charters Towers. A kindly soul and a
lover of dogs, he made the dazed little
chap comfortable in a padded box and
brought him in to the Towers to seek
the bereaved owner. When he learned to
his complete astonishment that it was a
dingo pup that had barely outgrown the
woolly coat of infancy and that he could
collect 15 bob for its scalp, he decided
to take it home with him as a novel
playmate for his youngsters. It is cer-
tainly a charming example of kindness
to animals, but when that pup grows up a
bit its owner will not be at all a popular
person amongst poultry-keeping neigh-
bors in his seaside suburb.
* * * *
“C.E.”; Bert was perched on the stable
roof hammering on a row of new iron.
“Just check that outside edge, will y’?”
he called down to Larry. “See she’s
straight on the string line or we’ll never
get the spouting on.” “Yair, she’s near
enough,” came the reply. Then, a bit
later, “Them last coupla sheets ain’t
quite it,” he said lazily, “but it’ll do.”
“Whatcha say?” “It’ll do. They wus
gettin’ a bit long, but this last sheet’s extra
short t’ make up.” Bert climbed down,
took a look at the job and shook his head
hopelessly. “Well, she’s all got t’ come
orf again,” he sighed, “so here goes.”
Larry eyed him resentfully. “I told y’
she was crooked,” he protested, “but y’
would go on with it.” There was no
reply from the roof. “Gripes, it ain’t my
fault,” Larry continued. “I warned y’
right enough.” Still no comment from
above. “Thought y’ was dam’ silly at
the time,” the voice nagged on, “puttin’
it up when I said it weren’t right.” “Aw,
shut up, Larry,” Bert broke in. “You’re
worse’n the flies.” “Yair?” came the
sudden bellow. “Well, I know what y’
thinkin’, an’ I tell y’ it’s no use y’ goin’
on blamin’ me like this.”
* * * *
“Plum”; “B. A. Ker’s” hairy cater-
pillars (B. 14/5/’47) seem to have some
blood-brothers in the realm of innocent-
appearing insect irritants. Cutting ti-
tree scrub for an Empire Day bonfire, I
removed my shirt to prevent the discom-
fort of the varied collection of animal
and vegetable matter that would other-
wise gravitate down the back of my neck.
Sure enough, at the first blow of the axe
several dozen furry grubs, greyish in
color and about half an inch long, des-
cended on slender lifelines of silk from
their threatened sanctuary. Most of them
found my torso a convenient landing-
place, but were easily brushed off. An
hour or so later I looked and felt as if my
body had been peppered by a shot-gun
loaded with ravenous mosquitoes. The
grubs must have transmitted some power-
ful irritant by other means than biting—
I felt nothing at the time, but 48 hours
later was still feeling, literally, lousy.
Were these merely junior editions of the
hairy caterpillar, or have they a differ-
ent genealogy?
PORT OF CALL.
(Melbourne, 1900.)
Say, Sailor, was you ever at Rovida’s,
With the glasses o’ Torino at your call,
An’ the gaudy Papegalo in the corner,
An’ the.faded Mappamundo on the wall/
I liked the smell o’ garlic from the pantry,
The piney scent o’ sawdust on the floor;
The old padrone hummin’ “Trovatore,”
The evenin’ sunshine slantin’ through the
door.
’Twas kind of well-conducted, was Rovida’s,
With its mural daub of A 1 Vesuvio;
Says Madama, “Girls? I tell you we don t
got ’em!
You wanta girl? Outside—thazz w’ere you
go!”
t
Reporter-blokes an’ such was at, Rovida’s;
They’d always swop a Verraoutb for a yarn;
An’ Dago coves with beards like Garibaldi’s
A-drowsin’ on the benches stem to starn.
You wouldn’t think to find the like in Mel-
bourne :
Antonio’s was more your port o’ call,
When you’d bent a suit o’ togs' at Johnny
Allsorts,
You’d brace the pigtub-divers for a squall.
I kind of liked to drift into Rovida’s
Whenever I would find meself in dock;
You took it slow an’ steady with a shipmate
An’ didn’t ’ave to stop at six o’clock.
Them kindly, dawdlin’, square-rigged days is
over;
I s’pose the place is gone for good an’ all,
With the noisy Papegalo in the corner,
An’ the yellow Mappamundo on the wall.
LONDON.
GUY INNES.


“Old-timer”: A rumor had got round
that Mad Thompson, full of rum and
armed with a shot-gun, was loose in the
scrub and threatening to wipe out the
population,. Word was sent to the
mounted trooper 30 miles away, and as
darkness settled down we barricaded the
doors, tied the dogs at strategic points
around the hut and prepared to await
ihe coming of the Law. Then somebody
remembered that all the dogs knew and
were friendly with M.T., so we let them
loose again. There were six of us in
that hut and nobody wanted to go to bed,
so we sat round the fire yarning, starting
every now and then at a sound outside.
Time passed, and naturally the talk got
on to bush murders and the things done
by fellows crazed with booze, and it wasn’t
long before we were casting furtive
glances at the windows and wondering
whether it wouldn’t be safer if we put the
light out. Well on towards morning the
dogs put up a clamor and we grabbed
hunks of wood and stood ready to die
fighting. It was only the trooper.
We brought him in and poured hot
tea into him and answered has questions
and promised to make up a posse and
go forth and comb the scrubs at dawn.
When the first light appeared Harry
went to the little room to get his over-
coat, stopped at the door and said, “Hey,
look!” There on the heap of old bags
and other gear lay Mad Thompson, in
a harmless drunken sleep. We found out
that he had blown in about 4 p.m.
the previous day, armed with nothing'
more lethal than a bottle of schnapps,
found the place deserted and got into the
little room and drunk himself silly. The
trooper wanted to arrest us for false
pretences or something.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: A belief that needs
authentication is that two dry limbs rub-
bing together on a hot windy day will, by
friction, take fire and so start the bush
going. Now, has any of the Council
ever seen such a thing happen?
*** * *
“Wippegong”; Native birds in the city
somehow seem out of place. Willie Wag-
tail develops a sophistication that would
be better left to sparrows ; peewee loses
much of the immaculate gloss which
makes him one of the dandies of the
open country; and even Bluey the wren
is for ever battling against less space and
more cats. But to one group it matters
not whether their domain lies in city or
shire ; for man has no part in the lives
of the birds of the stamps. Whether on
a golf course in a capital or a water-
course out west, whenever the rains and
“I’m signing him up for the Tivoli."
the reeds have given the food and shelter
needed swamphens, moorhens and coot
will wade, fossick and flick their stumpy
tails as they weave through the weedy
tangle which is the whole world to them.
Sometimes they venture out on the bank
and —half-timid, half-bold —forage on
fairway or crop; but a man’s approach
sends them back to the reeds. If you keep
still and watch close a ripple may show
you a wee mottled shadow scuttling
across the waterlilies —a marsh crake;
while from deep in the rushes a soft
“p-pee-e-et-pee-e-et” tells you a little
grass-bird lives in there. In the spring-
time, when all creatures are slightly un-
stable, you can by imitation draw him
to the outer reeds, but no further. In
the spring, too, reed-warblers enrich the
swamps with song; but for all their
vivacity they share the seclusion of the
other waterfowl. Whenever swamps
occur their feathered inhabitants behave
the same; trams may rattle past or
sirens scream unheeded ; in the metro-
polis but not of it, they are still wild
birds.
m * * •
“Zake”: Bush humor dead? Along
the red dirt road jolted an ancient cart
pulled by a moke that was half asleep
as it plodded slowly along. On the cart
were camping gear and a pile of rabbit
traps and a couple of dogs ambled along
underneath in the cart’s shade. On the
side of the cart was a crudely printed
notice on a piece of cardboard: “Attrac-
tive housemaid wanted. Good conditions.
Sleep in.”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Besides tucker, flying-
foxes on coasts north of Madang (N.G.)
(B. 2/4/’47) are used for making orna-
ments and as pets. Around Cape Gour-
don a village belle will go about with
the wing bone of a fox protruding from
a hole pierced in the right side of her
nose. At Sileo Island in Aitape Roads
we saw several foxes hanging to the cross-
trees of the masts of the Malay-like native
canoes there, and on inquiry the coons
told us the animals were pets and held as
reserve tucker. Don’t know if it was
one of these that picked us up in a small
naval vessel one night well off shore
between Wewak and Aitape and began
circling us. After the visitor near-missed
the lookout’s nose a few times and then
took on flying in one door of the wheel-
house and out the other, we doused the
binnacle light—our only light—and
altered course. Even then it was an
hour before we lost the strange escort.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Eighteen inches of grey-
brown, scaly, flat-headed reptile emerged
from the hedge and wriggled slowly across
the grass as we were having afternoon
tea under the jacaranda shade. “Snake!”
exclaimed the visitor from the city,
“Where’s a stick?” ■ To his horror the
female child of this house skipped across
and picked the creature up by its head.
As she brought it back it cast off nearly
a foot of writhing tail. “It’s only a
slow-worm,” she explained to the s.ti li-
ner vo us visitor. “Those little things like
ears just above where it broke its tail
off are the remains of hind legs. It’ll
grow another tail quite soon, poor thing,
though not so long.” Put down, it
wriggled quickly back to the hedge.
Pygapus lepidopm often suffers unmerited
death on account of its snaky looks, but
it really is a harmless lizard. Several
other species occur in Australia, living in
holes and under stones, and usually com-
ing out to feed in late afternoon or even-
ing. The rough keeled scales enable
them to be distinguished from snakes,
even when the flaps of the lost hind legs
are not in*view.
* * * *
“Ell”: Are all women incapable of re-
fraining from interference with the course
of Nature? Living in a suburb gener-
ously endowed with bush rats, I soon
acquired a mobile rat-trap of scrambled
but entirely terrier ancestry. Before he
was six months old, the pup raised his
score well into double figures, mainly
from the young and unwary members of
the rodent tribe. After rendering all the
local rats childless, his hunt for victims
extended to the older identities, culmina-
ting in what must have been the grand-
father of all rats, which he bailed up on
the front lawn. The rat discovered early
in the piece that running for cover merely
resulted in its being tossed violently in
the air, so it stood up to the hound with
bared teeth, and they made abortive
passes at each other. The pup, enjoying
himself immensely, was waiting for the
rat to make another bolt for it, but he
reckoned without the female of the
species, in the shape of Mrs. Ell. With
a stealthy flanking movement, she took
the rat in the rear and drove it several
inches into the turf with one blow from
the flat of a spade. While she prepared
a last resting-place for the monster the
dog spent a melancholy five minutes try-
ing to shake some life back into the un-
responsive carcass. Taxed with cruelty
"No, that's not her — mine's a blonde."
to animals in spoiling the pup’s rat-play,
she defended herself with “That horrid
big rat might have hurt my wee doggie! ”
* * * *
“Dusty Gully”; Fred, the gawky, slow-
thinking offsider at Rocks’s, was sent over
to borrow a horse from Paley. Ben
caught the nag, a hefty draught, and put
its harness on with exaggerated caution,
affecting to be scared of its every move-
ment. When he finished he laid a hand
on the lad’s shoulder. “Now,” he said
earnestly, “I want y’ t’ be careful of
Nugget. An’ Rocksie, too. Whatever y’
do don’t hit him over the head. I don’t
want Nugget spoiled.” Gaping, Fred led
the horse away. An hour later he was
back, “Mr. Paley,” he said, “I ain’t too
sure of them instructions y’ gave me. I
know y’ told me not t’ hit Nugget over
the head, but that’s all I remember y’
sayin’. The boss wants to know the rest
so’s we c’n start work. What ain’t we t’
hit him over the head with?”
* * * *
“Esk D”: “It was the biggest tree in
the districk,” related Alfred. “Tom an’
Joe were choppin’ the scarfs in f’r a week
before they c’d git a turn at it with the
biggest crosscut saw. But the wedges
didn’t make no impression on the bulk
o’ timber an’ they jammed it in the heart-
wood. Gittin’ another, they kept goin’
till they got it, too, jammed in the middle
o’ the tree. An’ there she was, the great
tree chopped out and sawn in from both
sides, with on’y its evenly-balanced weight
keepin’ it sittin’ on the stump. Tom an’
Joe were in a fix, ’cause it was in a deep,
sheltered gully where no wind ever stirred.
They had t’ send f’r me t’ think out a
way of gittin’ it down. I had
a look at the tree f’r a few minutes
an’ then asked them t’ git me an old cow
I c’d shoot. That puzzled ’em, o’ course,
but havin’ had dealin’s with me before
Tom went orf without question an’ bought
one o’ Murphy’s culls. I shot her along
the line o’ where they wanted the tree t’
fall. Nex’ day it crashed exackly on the
spot. That was when the mob o’ crows
I’d been relyin’ on landed in the branches
on that side an’ overbalanced the tree.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: “Maya’s” explanation of
the immense stone portraits on Easter
Island, that they were carved and erected
when the island was a much greater land
mass than it is at present (B. 21/5/’47),
was Dr. MacMillan Brown’s explana-
tion ; and there isn’t a skerrick
of evidence for it, except indirectly.
There is no absolute necessity, how-
ever, to postulate a large and dense
population and millions of slave laborers
to account for their manufacture, if time
is brought into the question. A few thou-
sand people obsessed with carving, pos-
sibly for religious reasons, could have
done them if they had spent, say, a couple
of centuries at the business. There are
precedents in history. The great archi-
tectual frenzy of the Middle Ages didn’t
last long, but it gave Europe scores
of cathedrals, thousands of monasteries
and churches and an uncountable
number of lovely buildings, every inch of
which was carved by craftsmen much
more elaborately than the primitive
effigies on the Pacific island, Java is
also covered with temples, monas-
teries, shrines and miles of frescoes
built and carved during a century
of Hindu domination when the popu-
lation of the island was not one-thirtieth
of what it is now. With a similar stimu-
lus and an equal obsession given by some
individual, why might not the indigenous
inhabitants of Easter Island have pro-
duced a proportionate achievement? If
only one-hundredth of the energy which
has been put into football, cricket, going
to the races and beer-sparring in the last
50 years of Australian history had been
put into sculpture there would be enough
statuary about to line both sides of the
Princes Highway from Melbourne to
Sydney.
* * * *
“Alpine Willie”; None but the un-
initiated would describe the coachwhip
bird’s call as other than the warbled ver-
sion of the whip-crack, and I doubt that
one could be confused for the other (B.
14/5/’47). To me it’s a source of wonder
that the topknotted fowl can perform
the trick without dislocating his neck.
Watching from a few feet away in deep
scrub, I’ve seen the male slowly swing
his head back and elongate his neck to the
accompanying “phwee,” while the head
came forward with a surprising jerk to
bring in the “crack,” In these scrubby
Victorian gullies and slopes scores of
lyrebirds imitate the coachwhip birds
with great fidelity, but the sharp crack
of a cattleman’s stockwhip is music of
quite different timbre. Menura imitates
all and sundry of the noises familiar to
his domain, but it’s hardly likely that
whip-cracking would be heard often and
regularly enough in -a small area to get
a mention in his repertoire. Apropos,
for the first time the other day I heard
one of these mimics render the mopoke’s
call, with the somnolence and plaintive-
ness that sound so strangely humorous
by broad daylight.
* * * *
“Esk D.”; The river was down in an
old-man flood, and a great dry tree,
broadside on, had washed up against the
piles of the bridge. The whole struc-
ture, with water almost over the deck-
ing, teetered dangerously to the play of
the current. The shire engineer and a
working party decided that it was
doomed. Then from the group of spec-
tators Fred pushed forward. “If y’ lower
me with a rope I’ll saw the tree orf,” he
said. Scorning objections, and with volun-
teers holding the rope, he worked half-
submerged in the river, sawing tediously,
till the log gave way with a sharp report
and was whipped away by the current.
They hauled the drenched Fred to dry
land and the engineer made much of
him. “Well done, Horatius,” he de-
claimed. “It took real guts to save the
bridge for the convenience and utility of
your neighbors, let alone the saving in
cost to the ratepayers for a new one.”
Fred took a glance at the now gently-
swaying bridge. “Aw, square up,” he
said through chattering teeth. “I live on
the opposite side o’ the river t’ the pub,
don’t I? How was It’ git home twice
a day t’ feed me poddy calves if the
bridge went?”
FORECAST.
“The seas off Central Queensland will be
smooth”...
The noon announcer’s voice mechanically
Purred on of carrots and the price of beans.
“What does it know,” said Michael, “of the
seas,
This voice that goes by trams to work each day,
This man an hourly slave to valves and chimes,
And whose life microphones have sapped away?
“Has he known waves mast-high, or ever seen
The white line of the reef by summer dawn,
The flying-fish, like messengers of light,
Racing the sun to meet the cresting wave;
Or shared the peace of anchor? fast in pools
Where beche-de-mer drag half an inch a day?
Not he! He said ‘The waters will be smooth!’
And while he spoke, above the aerial
Nine frigate-birds were hovering in fear
Of house-tops, men and wharves and cargo
ships,
Yet choosing these in exile from the Reef
Before the terrors of the unborn gale.”
QUEENSLAND.
VAL VALLIS.


THE TOP PRICE warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F.
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
Australian, Mercantile, land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863)
4 Bligh Street Sydney
Branches a! Newcastle. Wagga, Moree. Henly and Hay. A 7.22.17
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
To Remedy
BONE
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
DESTROY THESE PESTS
with
OnogaS
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.. LTD.
6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
IS THE REGISTERED BRAND OF
CYCLONE CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(.Established 1898)
Farm Qates • “Ringlock” Fence • Wrought Iron Work
Prefabricated Farm Buildings • Ornamental Qates and Fences
Playground Equipment • Stock Transports • Tubular Equipment
for Dairy Sheds • Chain Wire Machinery and Window Quards
Tennis Court Enclosures * Flywire • Steel Scaffolding.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - ADELAIDE - PERTH
CGS/6 ——————^MB— W
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Fertility of Ewes.
‘Bogan Joe”; C.S.I.R. has just issued
Bulletin No. 205 detailing investigation
into the subject. Merino ewes were found
to reach sexual maturity later than other
breeds and did not attain their highest
level of fertility until at least two years
old and sometimes even three and four
years. Reduction in fertility occurred
after the ewes reached eight years. The
delayed maturity was found to be associ-
ated with increasing rates of infantile
mortality and incidence of death among
ewes bearing first lambs. If this finding
is confirmed by further investigations it
may prove to be a serious problem.
Crossbred (merino-Border Leicester)
ewes showed a relatively high level of
fertility at 21 to 22 months, and appeared
to reach the threshold of sexual maturity
at round 17 months. Having been under
observation for only six years no informa-
tion has been secured as to the effect of
age upon their fertility.
C.S.I.R. field officers are working with
the W.A. Department of Agriculture in
intensive field and laboratory inquiries
into the factors contributing to loss of
fertility in ewes, particularly the effect of
sub.-clover. The infertility was first dis-
covered on the sub.-clover-dominant pas-
tures oF W.A., where the Dwalganup
strain was almost exclusively used. The
disease was observed in the last three
years in the southern portion of Eyre Pen-
insula and Kangaroo Island, as well as
in parts of Vic. and N.S.W., and would
appear not to be confined to Dwalganup
clover.
According to Dr. A. E. V. Richardson,
some measure of control would appear
possible with the present limited know-
ledge by avoiding continuous intake of
clover for breeding ewes except during
the period from maturity of the clover
to the end of the dry stage. A practical
method would appear to be one of balanc-
ing of clover-dominant pastures with
gramineous plants such as cereal oats for
grazing or Wimmera rye grass.
D.D.T. in Tick Control.
“Agric”: Although Dr. I. M.
Mackerras, of the C.5.1.R., was able to
tell cattlemen in Rockhampton (Q.) that
veterinary officers in Queensland have
given up regarding the tick- and buffalo-
fly as a problem as the result of their
experiments with D.D.T., the N.S.W.
authorities are so arsenic-minded that
they cannot apparently appreciate the
good work achieved in Queensland.
Dr. Mackerras said a most important
property of D.D.T. was that it stayed
on the hides of cattle for a week to a
fortnight, or longer, and therefore dipped
cattle walking round a property were
killing ticks all the time. If graziers were
dipping cattle in D-D.T. for control of
the tick, they could forget about the
buffalo-fly, he said, because D.D.T. re-
mained on the hide long enough in suffi-
cient strength not only to kill all the
flies already present, but also to kill those
which hatched later from eggs already
laid; the protective period being longer
than the life cycle of the fly.
On the debit side D.D.T. is difficult to
mix, but a cold-mixed preparation may
be on the market before long. It would,
of course, be rather costly for N.S.W.
to charge with D.D.T. all its dips be-
tween the border and Lismore, but if
those districts developed the arsenic-
resistant species of tick, which have given
Queensland cattlemen so much trouble
the last four or five years, another
specific must be tried.
Shearing Competitions.
“Murrawong”; The one intended fbr
last Sydney Show had to be abandoned
through lack of time. It is intended, how-
ever, to have one next time, and mean-
time country show societies may be asked
to co-operate by running local chamnion-
“He gives me a spell in the lunch hour .”
ships, the winners of which would later
compete in Sydney.
Shearing championships and shearing
records are different things. Records
refer entirely to speed, while in competi-
tions the emphasis is placed on workman-
ship. Some confusion is likely to occur
as a result of someone being named
champion shearer of Australia, as there
will probably be dozens of men in the
bush who could shear rings round him
in the course of a day’s work. Shearing
records are difficult to control, however,
as they are seldom made under official
supervision, and most of the records that
have been advanced in the past few years
have been made on “easy” sheep, such as
crossbred lambs. The only worth-while
record as far as Australia is concerned
should refer to fully-grown merinos.
While there are shearers today just as
fast as any in the past, conditions have
changed and are still changing so rapidly
that it is becoming hard to get a full
day’s run in one class of sheep without
a break of some sort. Subdivision of
properties means smaller flocks and, with
the exception of Queensland, where big
paddocks are still to be found, and where
the sheep and the seasons lend themselves
to record-making, it seems likely that
established records are unlikely to be
excelled.
The championship conditions drawn up
by Sydney R.A.S. allow for three sheep
to be shorn by each competitpr in the
eliminating heats, four sheep per man
will be shorn in later heats and five sheep
in the finals. The maximum of 100 points
is allocated as follows: Speed 24, work-
manship and trimming 25, absence of cuts
17, absence of second cuts and breaking
of fleece 20, skill and manner of handling
14. That allocation shows clearly that,
speed is a very minor consideration,
particularly when it is further stated that
a competitor shearing a sheep in three
and a half minutes will gain full points
for speed. This time limit is too long,
and will only have the effect of keeping
good, fast shearers away from the com-
petition. Shearing at that rate would
give a man a tally of 120 to 130 sheep
per day. There are scores who could
double that tally and still shear their
sheep well. To bring them back to half-
speed would spoil their style, yet if a 250-
a-day man shore at his usual rate he
would cut out his five sheep five minutes
earlier than another competitor who, by
putting up one more point for work-
manship, would be adjudicated the
winner. One can easily imagine the re-
action of the spectators to such a placing.
Don’t Bum Stubble.
“K.W.R.”: For the past 12 years Benno
Seidel, of Walbundrie (N.S.W.), has never
burnt stubble, but has always worked it
back into the paddock. He is satisfied
that stubble returned to the soil is not a
means of disseminating diseases such as
flag-smut, footrot and take-all, and that
provided a proper rotation is adopted
these diseases can be eliminated. It is
essential that oats should follow wheat
and that at least a year of pasture should
be included in the rotation.
Burning of stubble and bare fallow-
ing have caused serious decline in fer-
tility of wheat lands as well as wide-
spread erosion. In addition, crops grown
on areas previously cut for hay and on
strips cut for dividing paddocks into more
convenient working areas are usually
better than on areas where stubble has
been burnt. Working stubble back into
the soil gives better yields and, during the
1946 season, crops grown on land where
the full stubble had been turned in were
considerably better than those grown on
areas previously cut for hay.
In Seidel’s experience it takes 10-12
years to rejuvenate wheat land thoroughly
by turning in the stubble. The main
factor preventing general adoption of
the practice is the present inability of
machinery firms to supply implements
capable of handling stubble without chok-
ing.
Milk Fever.
“Curlew”: I’ve been dairying in the
Seymour (Vic.) district roughly 65 years,
almost always handling Jerseys or Jersey
cross stuff. Our country is derived from
granite, our native grasses mostly were
kangaroo and wallaby—principally the
latter, which gave a fair quantity of nutri-
tious feed on which stock did well.
During the past 15 years or so sub. clover
has been introduced.
Until about 12 years ago I had had no
experience of milk fever. Then a Short-
horn cow left in my charge by a neigh-
bor went down. She had calved, but had
not got up when I found her. She
struggled to rise, stood on her head and
toppled over. It was diagnosed as milk
fever. The bike-pump was used freely
for about three days, but she blew out.
About four years ago one of my best
cows went down with it. Not having any
dicalcic phosphate, I slaked 31b. of lime,
then added 171 b. of super, and mixed the
lot. Using three or four tablespoons of
this in a bottle of water I drenched her
about five times and had her on her feet.
The next two years I cured two young
cows in high condition that way, and last
spring an old cow about 15 years of age
went down, and I got to her too late.
She was fat as mud. In future I will not
have my springers in tgo-high condition.
Also I have a stock of the super.-lime
mixture on hand, dried. Milk fever -or
no a dose does no harm.
A Home-made Beehive.
“Aperist”: With factory-made hive
bodies in short supply, a good substan-
tial body may be built from a couple of
dump apple cases, opened on the flat
side. Each case will measure, inside,
14|in. wide by 18in. long by deep.
Thus 10 full-depth comb frames will fit
in nicely, the lugs resting on the top
edge of th 6 case. Take the second case
to pieces. Saw one end down lengthways.
This gives two pieces 4in. by 14jin.
Nailed on so as to project about |in.
above edge on which frame lugs are
lying, these complete the ends and also
the necessary rabbets, while bringing the
body to the requisite depth of 9in. The
sides, being of fin. stuff, will be too
thin. Thicken them to fin. by nailing on
the sides from the second case. Use the
corrugated paper usually found in apple
cases as insulation against both heat and
cold. External corners are better rein-
forced with a binding of thin iron or
tinplate, and a coat of paint ensures pro-
tection from the weather. The 4in. pieces
nailed on the ends give a good grip when
lifting the hive.
A Beginning?
“C.J.”: The first scientifically-planned
woodlot in N.S.W. was recently planted
at Hurlstone Agricultural High School.
It is of 4| acres, «nd ultimately 2000


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; 'has 20ft. runners ‘loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4X09, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £51,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
LiW
ax
K
• o
a
m
X
£Acs ftAsm, c/x*v ~4ut
Tuft c Sax&cA. s/fadczoJ"
Don’t risk offending with afternoon stubble. Shave
once with Gem and you shave clean a professional
skin level shave that keeps you neat all day and
evening . . . buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
PRICE; ONE SHILLING.
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
Table Lamp Model
This, photo shows a 300 c.p. Tilley
Lamp for domestic use but there
are also 5000 c.p. Floodlights, Out-
door Lamps, Radiators, etc. All
burn Ordinary kerosene,
Tilley Lamps are made only at
Hendon, England.
BE SURE YOU BUY A TILLEY LAMP
LOOK FOR THE NAME!
A quality product born of long
Manufacturing Experience
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
MELBOURNE : T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
eucalypts, yellow box and red-flowering
ironbark will be planted within its boun-
daries. As the trees come to maturity
they will be thinned out to provide fenc-
ing and timber. Both species are nectar-
producing and therefore valuable to
apiarists.
The idea offers practical education to
the 450 boys who attend the school, in
tree cultivation and practices. W. A. W.
de Beuzeville, a N.S.W. forestry expert,
said the development of every country
was marked by three stages; (1) Destruc-
tion of trees for settlement; (2) felling
of trees for saw-milling ; (3) re-birth of
forestry. Australia was beginning to
realise the value of, and need for, trees,
and big tree-planting schemes to rehabili-
tate the land were now imperative. “No
forests mean no water and no soil.”
Hints for the Farm.
“E. 2”: Horses fresh in to work are
liable to scalding through excessive sweat-
ting and harness friction. Grass-fed ones
are soft and sweat profusely, shedding a
lot of salt by way of the skin. For the
first few days the harness should be
slipped back and the sweating animal’s
back or shoulders washed down with
clean water several times a day. These
parts washed after work should be the
rule with horses in regular work if they
have been sweating. Keep an eye to the
padding and general cleanliness of
harness.
“Wheat Farmer”; Having two teams
of horses which in spite of four feeds
daily were always low in condition, I had
a vet. attend their teeth at a cost of
7s. 6d. a head. Now they’re doing the
same work on three feeds daily and all
are in the pink of condition.
“Sundowner”: If anthrax is suspected
the affected carcass and surrounding soil
should be completely burned. Should
risk accompany the use of fire the un-
opened carcass should be buried deeply
and covered with lime.
“Bai”: Heavy soil is unsuitable for
cauliflowers, but it can be improved by
the addition of sand or light sandy soil.
The seed must be kept damp in the soil
and seedlings placed 2ft. apart in rows
3ft. or more apart. Sow in showery
weather or water regularly until estab-
lished. Colloidal sulphur should be
sprayed every fortnight to prevent mil-
dew. Dusting with derris will control
grubs of moth and butterfly.
“W. Court”: After hoeing fertiliser
into the topsoil to help growing crops,
wash the blade of the hoe immediately
afterwards. If even a minute quantity of
the fertiliser remains in contact with the
metal, rusting will start. For the same
reason tools should never be stored in
the same shed as fertiliser. Even when
the two are a fair distance apart in the
same building, draughts may carry small
quantities of fertiliser dust across the floor
and deposit it on the metal tools.
“Horseless Horseman”; Few trees are
as prolific as the odd walnuts growing
about the mountain districts of Victoria.
At Harrietville last year two large iso-
lated walnuts that shade the old butcher’s
shop there yielded more than £5O worth
of nuts. The drawback is that the trees
won’t yield well in groves.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Best method of killing paspalum where it is
growing in a couch-grass lawn ?
By spraying with sodium chlorate mixed at
the rate of 21b. to 3 gallons of water. This
spraying will severely damage the couch grass,
but if the spraying is done during the
;arly portion of the summer the couch grass
will recover and the spray will kill about 90
per cent, of established paspalum plants. The
couch grass can be assisted in its recovery by
fertilising the lawn area with sulphate of
ammonia at 31b. to 1000 square feet about four
weeks after the spraying. Sodium chlorate is
safe to handle as it is purchased, but once it
has been in solution with water and then dried
on any vegetable matter, clothing, leather boots,
etc., it becomes inflammable. Persons using it
therefore need to take adequate precautions to
see that their clothing does not become wet
with the spray solution.
* * * *
When to plant culinary herbs? What kinds
are most suitable to grow for commercial pur-
poses ?
Set roots out during August in deeply-worked
soil —this is essential since the plants will re-
main in the same position for many years.
Avoid overmanuring, which forces too much
leaf-growth but reduces the high percentage
of oils. The best marketable sorts are thyme,
marjoram, sage and mint; parsley can also be
included in this list. There is also occasional
demand for tarragon, balm and the different
kinds of savory (dill, summer and winter).
Green herbs are sold in bundles; but dried
herbs are also sought by large stores and res-
taurants. For drying pick stems in the early
morning during dry weather, hang them in an
airy shed for a few weeks, then remove leaves
from the stalks, and they are ready for market,
either in bottles or cartons.
* * * *
Best position to grow choko vines, time to
plant, and best varieties?
Choko vines will grow over any kind of
frame or building on which wire-netting has
been placed. Set sprouted tubers at least 6ft.
apart in a warm position in rich soil during
September (frost areas in October). In the
early stages protect young shoots from snails
and slugs by sprinkling Defender or lime freely
over them. -Give plenty of water during dry
weather. Choko vines do not bear heavily
during the first year; after that they are heavy
croppers. Varieties are cream- and green-
fleshed, which differ little in size, although the
former are the most sought after.
T*
How to tan shorn sheepskins for floor rugs
by alum and salt method?
Thoroughly wet skin if dried out. Make a
solution of 21b. borax and sufficient warm water
to cover skin. Lift skin up and down for 10
minutes and then leave in solution for 24 hours.
This will degrease skin. Then drain. In a
bucket of warm soapy water wash wool per-
fectly clean. Then wash with clean cold water
and drain. The skin is then ready for tanning.
Lie skin on board wool downwards. Strip all
surplus flesh from skin to allow tanning solution
to penetrate. Procure 11b. alum and lib. salt
(coarse) and rub into skin with clean cloth.
This must be done twice daily. Be careful not
to get edges of skin dry or solution will not
take. Fourteen days of treatment should make
skin perfectly tanned. Dry steadily and soften
on flesh side with pumice stone.


-ver ask Y oUI
Oo you ever
this Question?
'
O'
Take the first step to-day. Every time you go
out shopping . . . before you make each pur-
chase . . . ask yourself this question—"Do I
really need it?” If the answer is an honest
"no ” don't buy!
Save your money this easy way, and hold all
It’s very tempting to go through the shops these
days—to see many of the things you’ve gone
without coming hack one by one into stock.
It’s a foretaste of 1 what’s to come.
Yes, many things are available again—but those
prices! Many articles that arc still scarce can
be obtained coupon free "at a price,” or for a
little extra from someone "in the know” or
unashamedly on the blackmarket.
Your income seems to go nowhere, and your
savings are only too easy to draw out.
In this excitement of post-war buying, just stop
a moment! What is this carefree spending really
doing—to you, and to fellow Australians?
Careless spending harms you by encouraging
inflation. Inflation would mean your money
would buy less and less . . . Blackmarkets would
flourish and artificial shortages be created . . .
Living standards would be threatened . . . Your
future security and prosperity endangered.
Price Control and other Government measures
are combating this inflationary tendency, but
you, too, must help.
your Bonds and Savings Certificates, buy more
of the new 5-Year Savings Certificates regu-
larly, and subscribe in advance to the next
Commonwealth Loan . . . your funds will
increase at better than bank rates of interest.
Save for
Security
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR
FUTURE—AND AUSTRALIA'S
1. Buy only what you really need. Spend
wisely . . . get full value. Save all you
can.
2. Pay no more than the fixed or regular
prices. Always surrender coupons.
3. Don't waste money on blackmarket
goods.
4. Pay your way. Settle your debts. Buy
for cash,
5. Invest your savings, at better than
bank interest, in Commpnwealth Bonds,
Savings Certificates and Stamps. Later
on, you’ll have the money, plus the
interest, to spend on better goods in
plentiful supply at better values. Hold
all the Bonds and Certificates you own.
BUY BONDS AND SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
NS5.113.57.
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of cord,
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
CRAIO&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony ’Hordern's)
that he really belonged to the shire —the
perimeter, as it were. He needed the
Mayor for the more essential centre.
“Of course, you’re running the Father
Moran presentation. A cheap bit of spite
that business is, if you ask me.”
“Laudable, too, Farley ; laudable and
worthy. A remarkable citizen and a giver
of illustrious service.”
“What about Hagney?”
“The very embodiment of all that is
best., I stand second to none in my ad-
miration of him.”
Farley Gray let it go at that. He was
powerless and speechless before this
tower of virtue.
So, without seeking, Mr. Trist was the
guiding spirit of'both presentations. The
position was a unique one. Only Mr.
Trist could have filled it. The waves of
bitterness that beat on all the shores never
reached Mr. Trist: he was above group
and party.
THE banquet was held in the Town
Hall on Thursday evening. Turkeys
and sucking pigs and young roosters
gladly gave up the joys of living to grace
the occasion.
Jellies and blancmanges quivered under
the lights ; trifles by the ton almost, and
no stinting of sherry in them. Long
bottles of hock; claret-cup in great
bowls ; even Summerlea Bing for those
who couldn’t stand alcohol.
Mr. Trist brought in the guest of honor,
and the assembly burst spontaneously in-
to “For he’s a jolly good fellow” — after
Mrs. Thompson-Watts began it in her
sweet clear voice.
Father Moran somehow looked older ;
more careworn. But his eye was bright,
his gaze steady. He had, too, the com-
prehensive eye that took in all without
looking at anyone.
There were toasts and speeches and
replies, and cheers and hear-hears. The
right things were said and duly ap-
plauded. “Our guest” had that very
day completed 43 years of strenuous
work in Summerlea: he was a great
churchman, a great townsman; there was
the customary admiration and the wonted
hope of many more years, etc., etc.
Father Moran spoke with feeling but
without warmth, and he spoke eloquently.
He spoke as priest and citizen, but not
as a preacher. He said exactly the right
thing and the correct thing.
But he was pleased with the ponies—
Tim Noonan had driven him down to the
Hall with the pair of blacks. He knew
horses, no one in the whole district —not
even Tim Noonan, shrewd as he was —•
knew half as much. In the years gone by
there was no better horseman in the dis-
trict, and certainly no one who looked
half as well on a horse. Yes, he could
speak of those trotting ponies with a
warmth of feeling.
There was no barest hint of Hagney
in it all. But perhaps Hagney was there
just the same, a Banquo at the feast.
Over at last, Mrs. Hawley-Brett and
Mrs. Thompson-Watts were taking leave
of the Trists.
“What a wonderful occasion!”
“Historic, really!”
• “So spontaneous!”
“Not one jarring note!”
The stars looked down on the quiet
town, iron roofs faintly showing white
and silver in the clear starlight. A silence
settled down, that was never quite silence,
though the lowing of distant and oc-
casional cows blended with it without
disturbing it. The big event was over,
and now, as Mrs. Thompson-Watts had
said, a part of History.
MR. Trist and Farley Gray were inter-
viewing Mr. Hagney very soon after
in Mr. Hagney’s office —the roomiest and
quietest office in town, in the Town Hall
buildings. .
“Believe me, Mr. Trist, I am deeply
grateful, deeply moved. But such has
been my life in this town that I couldn t
accept, I really couldn’t. It’s good of
you, Farley, too, and perhaps you 11
understand better than anyone why I
can’t.” Mr, Hagney smiled ever so little,
a weary smile, and it made him look
older.
But Farley didn’t understand. “Funk-
ing it now!” was all he could think of.
He was even inclined to argue, to per-
suade, to cajole.
Mr. Trist interposed, without inter-
rupting. He understood, he said, and he
respected the feeling, and regretfully
bowed to the necessity.
The wan smile appeared again. “Thank
you, Mr, Trist.”
So that was that, and a triumph van-
ished.
Sunday after Sunday, Mr. Hagney was
in his accustomed place, ornate, solid
and unbending. A hundred things might
never have been for all he showed of
them.
Father Moran preached his eloquent
sermons, and attacked Saturday night
dances, and State education, and mixed
marriages, and immorality, and skimpi-
ness in Christmas and Easter dues. He
announced the banns of marriage for the
second time —or the third time, and per-
functorily invited all to mention the
impediments they might be aware of. He
prayed for souls —recently departed, or
anniversaries “about this time of year.
He railed at the young men who would
stand at the back of the church when
there was room in front.
But he never, by hint or sign or gesture,
gave the slightest intimation that he re-
membered the presentation. He never
used the word “clandestine” again. He
never noticed the presence of Mr.
Hagney.
The Prisoners.
Not in this room can hot electric light
Explore the sofa-back’s eternal shade.
Here are such regions of all space and
night
As god-created darkness never made ;
Dull scent of lilies, ivory ornament,
A family snapshot on the polished table.
Within a frame contorted trees are bent
To illustrate some fashionable fable.
The owners of the castle nightly strive
To grip the intangibility they sense ;
Inhabiting a cell they guess the hive —
Doomed their poor efforts to discover
whence
The honey. Might the long quest end
more soon
If they would walk a mile beyond the
gate
To where the hillside white beneath the
moon x
Oblivious of centuries is content to wait ?
Encyclopaedia on the dusted shelves.
Car in the garage, speed in tutored
fingers;
Advance, retreat, distrust between them-
selves
— Moonlight, unchanging, magical still
lingers
Outside, above the creek, above the
cloud;
Silvers the roof-tops, never in the room.
No vacuum, Nature, please! Two is a
crowd.
Secure the curtain ... “Yes, dear, to
resume”
n.s.w.
NANCY KEESING.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia g
JACKS Oiy
osuixivan
piyud
o n 1 C.V
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” window face
ENVELOPES
NATIONAL BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT "BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
' PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
NATIONAL WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
/deal
r
A
.■MMtHM
A
CONSOLE MODEL 327
Five Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
TABLE MODEL 847
Four Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
Without electricity . . . you can bring the
choice of the world’s programmes to your
home. These new Dual Wave Receivers
maintain the high level of performance asso-
ciated with the famous “His Master’s Voice”
trade mark.
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE”
true-to~life RADIO
Ask your nearest H.M.V. retailer to demonstrate
these new H.M.V, radios.
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
R3/47
LET
ATLAS >
CARRY THE
BURDEN
h&zzttmk
w
Established X»08 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas" has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“I think everybody has at least one super-
stition.” — “New Idea.”
Every woman, at least, dreads a ladder.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Cocker Spaniel pup, black and white, good
strain, both sex.” — Suburban paper.
He’s a nice pup, isn’t she?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An odd bird known as a swoose has been
hatched on a farm at Central Hawkes Bay.
It is a cross between a swan and a goose.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Gwan!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woman of £7O fined £lOO over-building.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
Mercenary creature!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Most women are feminine at heart.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
But they generally have something
masculine in mind.
“You’ll have glamor all round the clock in
this dear little frock.” — “Women’s Weekly.”
But a good deal depends on the dial.
•h 4* *l* 4*
“Brief case, containing lecture notes and toilet
articles, left in taxi, Central Station. Reward.
Return HAMS.” — ‘‘S. M. Herald.’'’
Now, who will bring home the bacon?
“Livestock for slaughter and direct shipment
to Britain would be made available for that
purpose, despite a rumor that some of this
meat would be dispatched to other denomina-
tions.” — Hobart “Mercury.”
Rather a needless sectarian venture,
surely!
“Rubber mill hand, experienced, day shift
only, good wages, conditions.” — “S.M.H.”
One who doesn’t mind being bounced
by the foreman.
Gloves Off.
“London women are wearing fishermen’s flies
as accessories on dresses and hats.”
—Fashion Note.
A cynic here might care to mention
That dressing up the female frame
Is done entirely to inflame
A bit of masculine dissension;
Indeed, there’s no misapprehension
About a girl’s immediate aim
When thus she chooses to proclaim
With brutal frankness her intention.
Now that the day is ended for
The subtler trinkets women wore,
A girl had better place reliance
On sterner measures than of yore —
A reel of barbed wire, maybe, or
A sturdy set of grappling irons.
P. M. LUSK.
Ups and Downs.
“An Oklahoma (U.S.) man helped to open up
a case of compressed bed-springs, didn’t jump
fast enough, hit the ceiling, landed in hospital.”
— “Time.’'’
/ have a notion, based on feeling
And not on scientific proof,
That after dropping from the ceiling
He subsequently hit the roof.
BERT.
Sunday Morning.
Sunday morning! Peaceful time, when
rest is like a feast. Morning made for
sleeping-in till ten o’clock at least. For
me, but not the man next door —he wakes
me up at six by dragging his darned
flivver out some part of it to fix. His
battery of implements he keeps in blast
till seven, then leaves the field to other
pests . . . the paper-boys, ah heaven!
Sunday morning, peaceful morn, morn
for sleeping-in. At last the paper-boys
depart; five minutes’ calm —then, thin
and sharp the church bell clangs from
three doors down the street; a cart rolls
in to swell the row —the milkman’s on his
beat; gate after gate the fellow bangs—
I wish I were in Bourke. Farewell to
sleep—l’ll make it up tomorrow, yes, at
work.
EVE.
Heart-cry.
Ah, rosy lips! ’Tis but few years
Since I beheld with heartfelt pain,
That moved my artist’s soul to tears,
A mouth bright-painted in our train ;
And your sweet dewy freshness made
More hideous by contrast those
That flaunted such a gaudy shade.
My thoughts to heights poetic rose
And pictured yours as fit to be
The lips the fair moon-goddess pressed
On young Endymion. Ah me!
Though deeply moved, I might have
guessed
When man’s inconstancy is such
And custom so his faiths can shake.
That lip-stick would be worn so much
You’d look to me like raw rump steak.
D. H. E.
Perfect Sportsmanship.
“ ‘The Kiev football team wanted three
players of the Odessa team so badly that it
kidnapped them,’ says ‘Trud,’ the Soviet trade-
union paper.”
The final between the Moscow
Dynamos and the Kiev Atomisers had,
it was generally agreed afterwards, been
played in the finest spirit of Soviet sports-
manship.
There had necessarily been a few
changes in the teams. For instance.
Muck, the Dynamos’ usual outside centre,
didn’t take the field. Two days before
the match the Atomisers’ captain told
him he looked ill and advised an immedi-
ate vacation on the Black Sea. Muck,
who was 6ft. and 13st., declined, saying
he never felt better. The next day,
although he had grown in length to Bft.,
he never felt worse, probably because
he had been run over, while held down
by three strong men, by a steamroller
driven by the Kiev captain’s brother-in-
law.
Gn the day before the match Tickly-
koff, the Atomisers’ goalie, had been
pounced on by the N.K.V.D. and charged
with harboring Trotskyist thoughts. Fol-
lowing an interesting few hours of “ques-
tioning” at headquarters, Ticklykoff was
carried out feet first with one leg 6in.
longer than the other. It was decided
that if he tried to play—assuming he
could have got to his feet —with his
newly-acquired infirmity, the most he
would have been able to do would be to
run around in circles. So the N.K.V.D.
chief in Moscow excused him from fur-
ther participation in the match and then
went and put 100,000 roubles on the
Dynamos with a collectivist s.p. merchant.
Kronikitch, the Atomisers’ inside right
and a key man, was another who didn’t
hear the whistle blow. He made the fatal
mistake of boarding with relatives of the
referee, who had been ordered by the
Central Executive of the Party to keep
the Dynamos’ record of successive vic-
tories unbroken.
Kronikitch turned the gaslight off be-
fore he went to sleep. The gas —unlit —
was turned on again after he was asleep.
"Of COURSE I booked the hairdo up to the boss—
it grows out quite a lot in his time, doesn't it?"
His family was ordered to pay 10,000
roubles for the coffin —plain undressed
pine and without silver handles —and
remove the body within 12 hours.
The match preliminaries were carried
out in the perfect spirit of Soviet sports-
manship. After the Atomisers’ captain
had called to his team for three hoots
for their opponents the Dynamos’ captain
presented the Atomisers’ 'captain with a
posy of poison ivy which had been
steeped in cayenne pepper.
The referee placed the ball on the
centre line and ordered the Atomisers’
captain to kick off. When the latter pro-
tested that the Dynamos should be kick-
ing off, the ref, significantly pulled a
knuckle-duster from his pocket and began
fitting it on. The Atomisers’ captain im-
mediately hurried back, took a long run
and kicked with terrific force the sphere
of cast iron that had been painted to
look like a Soccer ball. He broke only
four toes and his ankle, much to the
chagrin of the opposing captain, who had
a bet of 100 roubles with the referee
that he would break all his toes,
The “patrol” area outside the Ato-
misers’ goal mouth had been liberally
treated with a special oiled mud and
the Atomisers’ goalie had been ordered
by the ref. to use smooth-soled rubber
shoes. The rule about changing ends at
half-time was, also on his orders, dis-
pfensed with.
As “Depravda” said next day, it was
a grand game. It contained quite a few
thrills, such as the one where Taykashuv,
the Atomisers’ star winger, breaking
through into Dynamos’ territory, sud-
denly disappeared into a camouflaged
“elephant trap.” On the occasion too,
when Dumski, the big Atomisers’ fer-
ward, flying along the sideline, was im-
paled on a sharp stake held against the
ground by a Dynamo forward, roars of
laughter rang around the ground. '
“Depravda” emphasised that the score
of 28 goals to nil was
a true reflection of the
difference in skill, and
announced that the vic-
torious Dynamos, team
would be kept intact,
except for Krok, the
vice-captain. Krok had
been sent to work in
the same Siberian salt
mine as Marshal Zhu-
kov for having failed
to get the quota of
goals set him by the
Sports Commissar.
A few days after the
match the Chief of the
Kiev Presidium ordered
that all the Kiev men
who had taken part in
the match be brought
before him for ques-
tioning as to their Party
loyalty, following their
disgraceful defeat.
At the appointed
hour not one had ap-
peared. The chief sent
for the head of the
local N.K.V.D. and demanded to
know why the culprits hadn’t been appre-
hended.
“Well, there weren’t any Kiev men in
the Kiev team,” explained the secret-
policeman, “To strengthen the team they
kidnapped three from the Odessa team,
four from Leningrad, four from Mur-
mansk and another four from Minsk.”
“But that makes a team of fifteen,
doesn’t it?” asked the Presidium chief.
“That’s what they took the field with,”
said the N.K.V.D. man. “You see, none
of the Dynamos can coupt past about
eight.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; ail others 2|d. per line.
Forty-hour Week for Shearers
A shearer in the Longreach (Q.) district
was the speaker.
“I don’t come out here to see the
scenery,” he said. “I come out to make as
much money as I can as quickly as I can.
My home’s in Toowoomba. 1 want to get
back there as soon as I can. We’re*
saving—me an’ the missus—to get a
place of our own as soon as we can. I’m
sitting down here doing nothing for two
full days of the week ; my expenses are
going on at home all the time. I reckon
this 40-hour week puts us back two years
in getting a place of our own.”
Asked if he couldn’t do more in 40
hours than in 44 he replied “Ask them
old guns who put up the big tallies how
they did it. Could any of them do it on
40 hours? Half a day Saturday to wash
an’ mend an’ a day’s spell on Sunday is
all we need to make us fightin’ fit. An’
that goes for nine out of ten men on th’
board. Still, I s’pose we got to put th’
bosses in their place.”
I didn’t ask him to which boss he was
referring—the one who paid him for his
labor or the one who cracked the whip
to make him jump through the hoops.—
Tar (Q.).
“Dedman’s Dole”
There are arguments for increasing
the amount, but there is another side
to the question. I had to earn every
penny that was paid to the university, and
I’m not so keen, now the war is over, to
pay taxes for others to do likewise.
Trainees are very fortunate to receive
any allowance ataal most of them
should have saved some of their service
pay, and ail had considerable sums com-
ing to them as deferred pay.
Take pharmacy, for instance, a calling
that is attracting many ex-servicemen. It
takes a three and a half years’ course
and costs the Government approximately
£7OO to put a single man through the
course.
I began my apprenticeship in 1935, at
15s. a week for the first year, 17s. 6d.
during the second, 225. 6d. during the
third and 275. 6d. for the remainder.
During the last two years I earned 3s. 6d.
a week in coaching fees. Out of the
whole I paid one half as board and 2s.
per week insurance. Out of the balance
I clothed and kept myself. The uni-
versity fees I borrowed from my em-
ployer, undertaking to repay them after
qualifying. Had I been receiving the
equivalent of “Dedman’s dole” I would
have been on clover.
During the time it was impossible to
think of much enjoyment; it was a case
of study day after day, but the
end justified the means. Those who com-
plain of the present allowances seem to
be mainly married men who want the
authorities to keep them as well as their
families. They rush into marriage during
the war and now it’s over want to have
it both ways.
What of those who were too young to
take part in the war? They are not all
the children of wealthy parents, yet they
manage to go to the university and get
through their courses. Some are granted
bursaries and exhibitions, but even these
have to call on their parents for help.
By all means advance more money to
ex-servicemen, but don’t hand it out as a
gift. Let them have it as a loan, to be
repaid when they have qualified in their
chosen profession.—R. W. (N.S.W.).
Fish
The sea-mullet are again migrating
along South Queensland shores on their
annual northward spawning voyage, and
again net fishermen are being permitted
to prevent vast numbers of them from
perpetuating their species. Their spawn-
ing is done in rivers and estuaries, and
from these same rivers and estuaries
come part-roed reinforcements to the
migrating shoals. The stupid and de-
structive practice of allowing netting in
the immediate neighborhood of river and
estuary mouths thus gets them both go-
ing and coming. The inevitable result has
been a serious decline in the proportion
of sea-mullet in S.Q. markets.
The only effective method of protecting
this valuable fish-food supply against
virtual extinction is to render netting
illegal, between March and July, within
half a mile of the entrance of any river
or estuary to which the mullet are known
to migrate in the spawning season. A
generation ago the flashing, leaping
shoals of sea-mullet ascending the Bris-
bane River in autumn used to bring
many sightseers to Victoria Bridge. For
years past there hasn’t been a mullet in
sight. .The same thing has occurred in
many other rivers in S.Q. and northern
N.S.W.
The sole reason is Government neglect
in regulating netting at or near the river
mouths. Forty years ago Douglas
Ogilby, the Queensland ichthyologist,
appealed to the Government of the day
“to protect by every means in their
power these nurseries of our edible
fishes.” The Government responded by
the same masterly inactivity that has
characterised its successors,— Dicky
Beach (Q.),
Aid for Britain
Hardly any of the methods devised or
suggested to help the hungry British are
much use, and surely the most retrograde
method of them all is to tighten up on
our own rationing to send surplus food
to England. |
I saw all these methods tried on a small
scale in the Mallee years ago during
droughts, only then it was the animals
that were starving and not humans. The
only satisfactory method to cope with the
position was to forget all about rationing
and handing them the left-over dinner
scraps, and to concentrate on an all-out
“No, Madain, I cant see a dark, handsome man crossing YOUR path!”
effort to get a few surplus haystacks
around the place. Get them we did, and
we could almost laugh at one year’s
failure —only after a two- or three-year
drought did wfe feel the pinch.
If Australians really exerted themselves
for, say, one or two years on a produc-
tion effort we could overload every ship
available to carry food to Britain or any
other country. And we could use our
ration cards to paper the walls. As for
industrial disputes, they will occur as
long as the world lasts, but I’ve never
seen a dispute yet that could not be
settled provided both parties were willing.
—R. H. L. (Vic.).
Foster-mothers
They have popped up in the press,
accompanied by foster-fathers. ■ Out of
700 children who were brought into
Australia for fostering at the beginning
of the war, 50 have decided to adopt their
new parents for better or for worse,
with the consent of all parties concerned.
No doubt many others would have fol-
lowed suit if the choice had been left to
them and their fosterers.
The facts so briefly stated in the press
are a great compliment to those who en-
tertained strangers and found them angels
unawares, also to the overseas children
who responded to the fostering care by
being lovable and by honoring their
foster-mother and -father.
It is characteristic of our journalism
that the pleasant international incident
earned only five lines of print while
trifling and sordid happenings hit the
headlines. — Publico (S.A.).
Help- for Matrons
The plan to provide subsidised help
for the wives of lower-paid workers, as
suggested by the women’s inter-State
executive of the A.L.P., awakens echoes
of a similar scheme put forward almost
20 years ago by Sir Oswald Mosley,
when that gentleman stood for one of
the poorer London constituencies as a
true-blue Labor candidate.
Sir Oswald’s first wife, Lady Cynthia
Mosley, daughter of Lord Curzon, who
had about as much knowledge of the
living conditions of an East End house-
wife as the man in the moon, stamped
up and down the hustings assuring all
and sundry that if her husband were re-
turned they would all have maids. Who
would provide the maids’ wages, and the
pool from which they would be drawn,
remained nebulous.
If my memory does not betray me, Sir
Oswald was not elected. Afterwards he
took another wife and changed his shirt
and his politics.— Bendy (Vic.).
Smash and Grab
My daily newspaper tells me that the
Federal “Labor” party refuses to grant
subsistence money to Young Diggers
who were p.-0.-w. in Malaya but con-
templates raising the salaries of Federal
members by £5OO p.a., and that a young
member of the State Parliament, even if
he never opened his mouth except on the
hustings, could be defeated at 34 and
draw something like £lO,OOO in pension
before Death claimed him at 70.
One of the men who have been refused
subsistence money was beside me in a
hospital ward. He had one leg. The
other he lost through being beaten with
bamboo while working on the Burma
railway; a tropical ulcer formed
and the leg had to be amputated in the
crude p.-0.-w. manner to save his life.
In that camp, he told me, there were 200
men who had lost a leg from the same
causes. When, after months of patient
labor and unimaginable resource, he was
able to make an artificial leg without
tools or proper material, his officers per-
suaded the most brutal enemy in history
to give him the means to make legs for
the others, and they didn’t dock him for
his tucker while he was doing it. In
other words, they allowed “him subsis-
tence.
This little Digger, smiling like a
dinkum Aussie, is hopping round on his
one leg and a swinger on a small New
England (N.S.W.) holding, straining his
intestines from dawn to dark to get the
tax-money to pay the Federal Parlia-
mentarian’s rise of £5OO a year and the
State reject’s £lO,OOO.
Even that’s not the worst of it. The
proposal, as I understood it, was that the
Japs should be made to pay the subsis-
tence money to p.-0.-w. as part of repara-
tions. And now they are going to get
heaven knows how many millions by
being protected against the p.-0.-w.
claim!—23ls (N.S.W.).
.
Dairyfarmers
“W.P.T.” (B. 7/5/’47) is indeed lucky
to be able to have a holiday on a South
Coast (N.S.W.) dairy farm. I presume
he is a city worker or retired, otherwise
he would not have time for a holiday—
cows will not dry off for a fortnight
while .he farmer goes away, nor will pigs
go on a diet ioi a couple ot weeks.
Dairyfarmers may “growl from day-
light to dark,” but they also work from
daylight to dark, winter and summer. I
often wonder how city people would fare
for food if farmers worked 40 hours a
week—to get our “wholesome food” the
farmer’s wife generally has to manage
the vegetable plot, make the butter, look
after the fowls, cut four and five lunches
(we have large families) for the children
to take to school, sometimes three or four
miles away.
I too, could add a stone weight on a
“holiday” on the food we get in norihal
seasons. But what about the droughts,
particularly the one we have just gone
through in Queensland? There were no
vegetables or milk or butter then, and
the only pleasure we had was helping
weak beasts out of drying waterholes.
As for strikes not worrying farmers,
last year Queensland meatworkers went
on strike and were out for three months.
Farmers fattened and slimmed, then
fattened and slimmed the pigs, because of
that strike. Cows that were culls had to
be given feed that may have saved a
good beast later in the drought. And
what about shipping strikes? We can’t
get galvanised-iron which is sorely needed
to house machinery that can never be
replaced because of strikes. We
can’t get wire for fences and are eternally
separating neighbors’ cows from our own.
During the last drought, farmers were
granted Loan Relief (at three per cent,
interest) to buy fodder, which couldn’t be
railed because of a railway strike, while
an unemployed worker could draw the
dole. - As for land taxes, the more you
improve your farm the higher you are
taxed.
I love the land, too, and certainly
would not trade it for city life. But I’d
like to see a better understanding between
farmers and their city cousins.—A. C. S.
(Q .). • > ...
Undergrads
“Dutigalla’s” complaint (B. 14/5/’47)
about the percentage of Leftists among
University lads is one which could have
been made 20 years ago, and no doubt it
will be repeated 20 years hence.
University students are given to ex-
treme ideas. Most of them begin their
courses in their ’teens, and many readily
become a prey to sincere but vague en-
thusiasms which lead them suddenly to
champion questionable causes, as sud-
denly dropped. Others develop a sort of
intellectual snobbery which fosters a be-
lief that they and they alone know all
the answers to economic and political
problems. A third type includes the ex-
hibitionist, who draws attention to himself
by extravagance alike in dress, language
and opinions, usually as a compensa-
tion for a sense of personal inadequacy
and inferiority. In still another category
is the type that comes fresh and imma-
ture from the secondary school into the
dazzling influence of some library savant
whose pontifical utterances are taken as
gospel.
After graduation most students settle
down to measure their theories with the
yardstick of practical experience and to
modify them accordingly. Many a staid
and responsible citizen has rather em-
barrassing memories of the fanatical,
impractical and jejune reformist zeal that
characterised his post-adolescent period.
A small percentage do, as “Dutigalla”
suggests, retain extreme views, but it
would be a sorry day if examination of
systems different from our own were cur-
tailed because of the lack of perspective
shown by this minority. “D.” should
remember that the Oxford students who
shocked the nation with their “no fight
for King and country” resolution res-
cinded it at Dunkirk and El Alamein and
on the Normandy beachheads.
His complaint, however, lends weight
to my theory that between secondary and
tertiary stages of education there should
be a two-year hiatus during which the
prospective undergrad, would rub shoul-
ders with the world and earn his own
living. The direct jump from a sheltered
secondary-school existence to the wider
field of the University often prevents the
formation of a sound sense of values, and
a degree then becomes a symtfol merely
of learning and not of wisdom. —B.Ec.
(N.S.W.).
“Dutigalla’s” statement (B. 14/5/’47)
that the “economic interpretation of his-
tory” is taught ad nauseam in ’varsities
indicates limited experience. As he is
a Victorian it seems likely that Melbourne
University is his criterion. I can speak
with knowledge of conditions in other
universities.
As a general rule the materialist or
economic conception of history is pre-
sented as an interesting theory—and so
are the “geographical” and “great-man”
interpretations. Any true student will ad-
mit that there is some truth in them all.
In one particular period one of the fac-
tors may predominate, e.g., England’s
geographical isolation from the Continent
largely shaped her history from the time
of the Conqueror until very recently. Ac-
ceptance of the partial truth of all the
interpretations implies a balanced his-
torical outlook.
The contention that ’varsity graduates
include a large percentage of Leftists has
no connection with the kind of history
they are taught. Only an infinitesimal
number of the total undergrads study
history.
Anyway, most of these so-called
Leftists are not even enthusiastic
theorists. Adelaide University Socialist
Club has the grand total of 11 financial
members, according to “On Dit,” the
student paper. So much for the radical
idealism of our universities! —H. C.
(S.A.).


War Memorials
No real Australian would object to an
expenditure of £160,000 on World War
II memorials. What real Australians
object to is being cut off from all say in
the matter and having foisted on them
more stone edifices that serve no purpose
at all.
What this country needs are living
edifices —tree memorials which will re-
afforest, serve and beautify the land for
which these men died.
In America after World War I the
first tree memorial consisted of a few
trees planted in the groilnds of an Epis-
copal Church. These commemorated
the sacrifice of three men —“townsmen of
a stiller town.” From that beginning
tree memorials increased to an avenue of
400 miles along the Jefferson Highway.
Australia is not without its war-
memorial avenues, but it needs more,
planted over a far greater expanse of
country. In a land suffering from de-
forestation and erosion, what finer tribute
could be paid the dead? Tree memorials,
properly cared for, do not crumble, nor
can they be forgotten.— John Weyman
(N.S.W.).
“A Matter for the Court”
I see it has been suggested that the
Canberra salary-grab case should be sub-
mitted to the Arbitration Court. Perhaps
the lawyers can tell us —I can’t—how
that august body could deal with the
case.
It would first have to decide what poli-
tics is. It knows what blacksmithing is.
Blacksmithing is the art or science of
making horseshoes and attaching them to
horses’ feet. The shoes, if properly put
on, add to the value of the horse, and
the value added can be fairly accurately
assessed. Also, there would be some
measure of agreement amongst experts as
to the quality of the blacksmith’s work.
A blacksmith has special knowledge
about something, and we know what that
something is. But what is the some-
thing with which the politician deals and
of which he has special knowledge?
If it is the art or science of dealing with
human beings some people must have the
knowledge and others not, for if every-
body had it there would be no need for
politicians. If the politicians have it they
should be in agreement as to what it is;
but, unfortunately, you can’t find two
politicians who are in agreement about
it. If all the politicians have are different
sets of prejudices it is difficult to see why
they should all be paid for having them
or that some should be paid and others
not, since one set of prejudices is no
better than another.
If a horse were shod on the lines of
Canberra politics it would have shoes of
all sorts and would be dead lame in half
a minute. — Hackshaw (Vic.).
“Great War Effort”
Servicemen returning to industry have
been sickened by the claptrap they hear
about the great war effort of those who
stuck to the production front.
Sometimes the effort was good. Some-
times it was bad. When it was good it
was so because of two factors: (1) A
proportion of those in the production
lines wanted to do their duty, reward or
no reward ; (2) a proportion worked long
hours because they were handsomely re-
warded. Self-seekers and loafers were
grouped with the patriots.
Higgins, the American shipbuilder,
took a different line.
Experiencing petty stoppages which
upset production, he called a mass meet-
ing of his employees. “Look,” he bel-
lowed, to his surly audience, “I know
exactly why most of you are here. You’re
here Decause wages are high. You’re
working long hours because you get
more still in that way. When you
threaten a stoppage you do so to get
more in return for less. I understand
that. I understand you. Now go on
with your work and if you want anything
see me on that basis, without any hum-
bug.” It is on record that when Higgins
finished the crowd raised a cheer. Any-
way, they got back to work.
The moral is that plain people like
plain talk. If the industrial hold-ups in
Australia were tackled in the Higgins
way and not in the way of woolly hum-
bug, there would be less growling and
more production, even if some corns were
damaged.— Minto (Q.).
An Old Speech
With increasing fury I have read of
the decrease in Australian defence forces,
and now come the final details for our
permanent Army and Air Force. The
Government not only fixes ridiculously
low figures, but blares them forth to a
world in which every other nation is
building up defence forces and experi-
menting on future scientific defence.
It really looks as if history is about to
repeat itself—if not being prepared can
be called history. The speech of Earl
Haig to the Caledonian Club on July 27,
1923, is as important to Australians now
as it was to Englishmen then;
An undue proportion of your heavy
losses was incurred in the opening stages,
when our Army was called upon to take the
field in a European war • with forces
numerically inadequate to the task it was
asked to perform It may be that, by
the mercy of Providence, unpreparedness
does not lose a war, but the fact remains
that the military handicap imposed by want
of preparation can never be wholly caught •
up, no matter how long the war may last.
The time may come when there are guns
. enough and munitions enough, but the men
who die to hold the line while the guns
are being made and soldiers trained to use
them can never be replaced.
I wonder what would happen if some
nation had its first fling at us instead of
giving us six months or more to recruit a
few divisions of volunteers. Perhaps the
Waterside Workers’ Federation and Mr.
Campbell and Mr. Healy may be able to
persuade their Indernesian friends to act
as a buffer for us in lieu of England,—
Captain (Q.). #
Quality
I’ll agree that quality to last a lifetime
is not ideal in a vehicle such as a motor-
car (B. 7/5/’47), but too many people
these days prefer things that wear out
quickly so that they have excuse to replace
them. In the 1930’s a boot repairer told
me that he was doing far less business
than 20 years earlier, “because most of
the younger people nowadays would
rather buy a cheap pair of shoes and get
another when they wear out than pay
for a good pair that will stand several
resolings.”
Similarly, there are those who choose
cheap furniture, not through necessity,
but because “we can get a fresh lot in a
few years.” This practice adds greatly
to the cost of living, for though the poorer-
quality commodities require a lower
initial outlay, more is spent over a specific
period. It is also destructive of good
craftsmanship—and very wasteful as re-
gards material.
This last effect is a serious matter.
Most things used by man come directly
or indirectly from the land. The reckless
squandering of natural resources and
prodigal consumption of goods charac-
teristic of the twentieth century are bound
to put too heavy a strain on the earth.
Warning signs are already apparent in
depletion of timber supplies, widespread
soil erosion and decline in soil fertility.—
Sam (N.S.W.).
Country and City
Fewer farmers might be able to pro-
duce all the food Australia needs (B.
31/4/’47), but they can only do it by
misusing mechanisation to a degree that
will further deterioration of the soil.
Used with discretion, machinery is not a
deleterious influence in farming, but
when the effort is made to produce more
and more with less and less manpower,
it does become harmful. The assertion
of Harold Massingham and Lord Ports-
mouth —that the land needs more labor
to keep it in full health—is as applicable
to Australia as to England.
However, apart from the nature of their
employment, it is imperative for the
well-being of Australia that far more
peoplp live in the country districts. Unless
statesmen can be found to initiate wide-
spread decentralisation of secondary in-
dustries, Australia will have no future.
Nothing can be worse for a country
than concentration of most of the popula-
tion into a few vast cities. One of the
most striking lessons to be learned from
history is the inevitable decline of the
community where this happens. Such
cities, as Christopher Dawson emphasises
in his Progress and Religion, “lose all
economic and vital contact with the
region in which they-are placed. They
are out of touch with the life of Nature,
and of human nature as well. They have
become parasitic.”— Clio (N.S.W.).
Population Lag
According to the newspapers Mr. Cal-
well is about to spend some of my tax-
money trying to find out why families
are smaller, and particularly why there
are fewer children under 15 in Australia
today than before the “Labor” battalions
stormed and captured Canberra. He
must be wearing winkers or defective
glasses if he has to make such an inquiry
—unless it is to provide another job for
some defeated candidate or ex-union
organiser'.
Among contemporary reasons I
can see sticking out like organ stops
are the converted army huts for
newlyweds; the number nine shovel
going into the box wherfe they
keep my taxes; the impossibility of
a farmer’s son returned from the war
getting land on which to rear a strapping
family of sons and daughters; the cut-
purse method of taxing wages to elimin-
ate savings; poor train services ; crowded
and out-of-date trams ; rotten roads all
over the place; overcrowded schools;
blackmarket prices for necessities ; lower
standards of manufacture for everything
a family needs; shortages of necessities
for the home; hospitals packed like
rabbit warrens and Ned Kelly charges
for building materials.
Those are a few reasons plain to every-
one except, it seems, Mr. Calwell. Others
include rises in Parliamentary salaries
while wages for electors remain pegged ;
swarms of civil servants waiting to, get
their cut from the family-man’s pay be-
fore he even sees the envelope ; Mr. Cal-
well’s immigrant friends snapping up
everything from housing to small busi-
nesses ; bashings and thuggery all over
the Commonwealth ; the “Government”
dipping its finger into profits of prinrary
and secondary producers ; and apples and
pears at fivepence each to make jobs for
a control department.
I’ve reared a first-class fighting family
of six and made myself proud for life
doing it, but with the Calwell brand of
“Government” in power I would seriously
consider, if I were launching my matri-
monial bark today, the advantages of re-
maining a bachelor. —G. Smith (N.S.W.).
This month I am expecting my second
child. After trying for accommodation
at six hospitals, I Went to the doctor I
“Dear, this is Joa n—you know, the secretary
you're just going to sack.”
had at my first confinement and he
managed to get me into a hospital where
the charges are £4 .15s. a week up-
wards, The hospital tells me it is not
sure yet where it can put me, but will fit
me in somewhere!
After the doctor had signed the certifi-
cate for the baby’s ration book I was told
at the rationing centre to come back in a
week, as it was a bit too early! In Wes-
tralia we are allowed £l6 for a second
child —£6 bonus and £1 ss. a week for
help for a month before and a month
after the birth. I’ve tried to hire
? a housekeeper for the fortnight I’ll be
in hospital, and although I’ve offered
twice as much as the Government allows
me for such have drawn a blank.
My husband will have to batch and my
little girl will have to go to my sister,
who lives in another suburb, thereby
missing two weeks’ school.
Most of the articles needed —cotton
wool, Dettol, etc. —are very hard to get,
and diapers are more than twice the price
they were seven years ago. So far it has
cost me about £lO, and I still have to buy
a pram, cot and stroller. Of course there
is 7s. 6d. a week endowment, but as the
price of everything is sky-high and the
£1 is only worth 125. % I’m not so keen
to increase my family after this.
I have to stand in buses and,
although I’ve had my name down for a
telephone since 1942, I still don’t rate
one, according to the P.M.G.
Instead of looking for immigrants
from overseas the Government should
do more for Australians already here. —
Fed Up (W.A.).
Rawling
Although I agree in the main with your
attitude towards Communists I hold that
the criticisms of John Rawling were un-
warranted.
Mr. Rawling is an Old Digger, and
sickened by the horrors and devastation
that he witnessed he thought he saw in
Communism a w&y of preventing such
things happening again. On his return
to Australia he became a foundation
member of the Communist party. At the
outbreak of the last war in 1939 he was
editor of “Common Cause.”
After the Hitler-Stalin Pact and the
subsequent invasion of Finland he had
his eyes opened as to what Communism,
as practised in Russia, really meant, and
resigned from the Communist party in
disgust. Since then nobody—not even
The Bulletin —has fought against Com-
munism more consistently. By the way,
John Strachey, Britain’s Food Minister,
another ex-Communist, left the party
about the same time as J.R., and for the
same reasons.— Fair Go (Vic.).
Profit-sharing
To a visiting American millionaire in-
dustrialist who contends that profit-shar-
ing has cleansed his organisation of
industrial disputes, union leaders have
replied that incentive payments auto-
matically lead to sweating.
Perhaps both are right. It seems obvi-
ous that a chance to share in profits will
attract the most zealous and skilled
workers, and possibly such men could
earn big money when working for rates
that would mean poverty for their slower
and less competent mates, even though
the latter were honestly doing their best.
Then, again, the industry which is profit-
able today may, for reasons beyond its
control, be unprofitable next year.
In the same week General Motors-
Holdens reported a loss of nearly half a
million on its last year’s operations, while
at Broken Hill, where pay is tied to the
price of lead, an advance in the price of
that metal lifted wages to
£l5 a week. If, therefore,
wages are to be governed
by profits, some men,
mainly through luck, may
get fat envelopes, and others,
* working just as conscienti-
ously and capably, will re-
ceive considerably less.
It might be possible to
devise a system under which
all industries put aside part
of their profits into a general
fund out of which annual
bonuses could be paid to
employees, irrespective of
whether their particular em-
ployers made a profit or not.
This should tend to pro-
mote individual effort, and,
if the bonus were propor-
tional to the number of days
worked, might do much
to prevent strikes. To be
successful, such a fund
would need to be created
and administered by agree-
ment between employers
and unions. Any attempt
to do the job by legislation
would simply mean the
creation of a new tax on
industry, the formation of
another huge Government
department, and little, if any, benefit to
the worker. —Harap (Vic.).
Work for the R.A.A.F.
For the defence of Australia it is essen-
tial that what is left of our Air Force
be kept as efficient as possible. Training
exercises serve no other purpose, and
the money spent on them brings no
tangible return, but there are many use-
ful peace-time tasks which the R.A.A.F.
could undertake and which would be
admirable training exercises as well.
One obvious job is aid in expanding
the Flying Doctor service. Another is to
help our scientists, particularly research
workers, in every possible way. In mak-
ing its organisation, men and machines
available for scientific work the R.A.A.F.
would not be breaking new ground—it
has been doing that very thing for a long
time. Two typical examples were aiding
the C.S.I.R. in its soil survey of Aus-
tralia, and helping the late Dr. Madigan
to solve geographical problems con-
nected with Lake Eyre and the Simpson
Desert. Scores of similar tasks remain
to be done.
Two major problems connected with
research work in the more remote regions
of Australia are transport and supplies.
When forced to travel by sea and land
to a spot where field work is to be, under-
taken, scientists often have to use most
of the time at their disposal in travelling,
leaving little time for their real work.
Bringing in supplies and sending out
specimens often set additional prob-
lems. Air transport of the party to its
objective, with the use of helicopters for
the final stage if necessary, and the drop-
ping of supplies from the air, would bring
any place in Australia or on any of
the adjoining islands within a couple of
days’ travelling. The preparation of
landing sites, general assistance with camp
and field work and organisation of sup-
plies would enable paratroops to be in-
cluded in the training.
Our scientists and their work are in-
dispensable in peace or in war. At
present many of them are sadly handi-
capped. With close co-operation from
universities, the C.5.1.R., museums and
similar bodies, R.A.A.F. headquarters
could plan its training programme to in-
clude as many scientific tasks as possible.
— H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).


BOUT SPECIALLY FOR AVERAGE ENGINEERING
AND MAINTENANCE SHOP
SUPERLATIVELY ACCURATE
ytl
*»>. A
%
m
ft
<?*-.
n
*
i
SBSS
w
sM
- . ! . h •
ill
M
&
sS
■
sS
f
ss
?%&c
m
m
i
sas
-,v
H
m
m
m
%
as? Ss
%
*S©
15
OS
ass
■
$
ss
ass
I
1
3S
S§s
m
sss
m
r*
■ K
■ 5 f
C. ' !
J.
m-.sm
m*m
m
I
. .
WM
: ■' V
■:■■■■',■.■ J ■■
JL-
■BjpMI
><* %' V„. *«T’
Du
ifecssl
I
19
i
ft
The HERCULES
SX-inch Lathe
"The little GIANT of the
Lathe World"
Here is a small lathe which
has' all the facilities of a
larger lathe plus GUARAN-
TEED and certified accuracy
to finest commercial limits.
Supreme for Value. Accuracy
and Utility
The “MAES”
6-Inch Lathe
The "Mars" 6-Inch Lathe enables
you to carry out a host of small
jobs and so save your bigger
lathe for the bigger work. The
"Mars'* 6-inch Lathe is capable
of fine work at high speed
Licensed Manufacturers in
Queensland of "Meehanite" Metals
The
New‘VENUS”
7-inch Lathe
A sturdy, accurate,
quick-action Lathe suit-
able not only for very
fine work but also for
medium and roughing
out work within the
lathes capacity of 4ft.
Kn. between centres
and 20in. maximum |
All details and illustrated literature from:—
N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Servian Machine Tools (Aust.) 343 a Sydney Road, Brunswick,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND; Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd., 450 Ann Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.. Perth.
TASMANIA : Charles Davis Ltd., - Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Motor Specialities Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland,
CALCUTTA : Ross Neil & Sons. Chowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta & Co. Ltd., Alii Chambers, Medows Street,
Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG and SHANGHAI: The East Asiatic Co. Ltd.
Other “MARS’*
Products
are 8-inch, 10-inch and
11-inch Lathes, Millers,
Shapers. Planers, Rad-
ial Drills, Boring Mills
and Paper Guillotines.
Distinctive features
of all “MARS”
MACHINE TOOLS
ACCURACY Built to recognized
and certified standards of accuracy
—BALANCE —All necessary revolv-
ing parts are Dynamically Balanced
■—FINISH—All surfaces are Machine
Ground- MATERIALS Finest
Matured High Test Alloy Castings
throughout SMOOTH RUNNING—
All Gear Teeth are generated
VERSATILITY All lathes have
generous Detachable Gap Bridge.
"MARS" Lathe Lead Screws are
cut from a certified and tested
Master Lead Screw
IS
m
i
3
i
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advt.
