

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 68-No. 3498
Wednesday, February 26, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WHERE GALWAY DEFTES ATLANTIC TEMPESTS.
MOHER CLIFFS.
r JT I HE Cliffs of Moher in Galway, on Ireland’s west coast facing
Aran, are among the finest in the British Isles. At the northern
end, near O’Brien’s Tower, one may lie on the edge of the cliff and
drop a pebble into the Atlantic, six hundred feet below. The Cliffs
of Moher, known as the Grand Rock-wall, extend for several
miles along the coast, at times reaching an elevation of over 650
feet. On account of the tabular nature of the rock the top is flat,
and one can safely approach the edge and look down the great
perpendicular wall to where the Atlantic swell surges around its
base. Several tall outlying pinnacles rising from the water enhance
this spectacular view.


mi
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovt obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.*’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 247 AGE
Th e Red Page
"Modern Australian Poetry."
Dear Red Page, —Many thanks for
your kind review of Modern Australian
Poetry (B. 12/2/’47); allowing for differ-
ences of opinion, I don't see that I could
have expected anything more favorable.
Still, perhaps you will allow me to make
a- few explanatory points.
First, as to the damnable misprints. I
took the greatest pains with the proofs,
but the book must have been an extra-
ordinary trial to the printer. Again and
again during the long period while the
book was in the press index references to
poems that had been taken from manu-
script or from a magazine had to be
altered owing to their reappearance in
book form, and in more than one in-
stance similar alterations had to be made
because of the appearance of a new or a
collected edition of a book. In all such
instances there had, of course, to be a
double alteration in the Titles and
Authors as well as in the Authors and
Titles index, and it must have been diffi-
cult to trace the alterations back to the
right titles or the right authors. For
similar reasons there had to be continual
alterations in the text, and all with the
compiler in Sydney and the publishers in
Melbourne. This is no excuse, but it
does, I think, afford a certain amount of
explanation.
You do not mention the most obvious
of the omissions, though others have. I
hope to be allowed to include in the next
edition more of Douglas Stewart’s work.
The fact is that The Dosser in Springtime
had not appeared when the anthology
closed down and that some of Stewart’s
best poems belong to New Zealand. This
may also explain why the list of the books
attributed to Stewart is incomplete ; but
in any case the bibliographic? are no
more intended to be complete than the
biographies.
For the other omissions: I should
like to have included a poem by Eve
Langley, but could not be sure that it
was not written in New Zealand. It may
seem unnecessary to draw such fine dis-
tinctions, but I can see no way of avoid-
ing them unless the poetry of Australia
and New Zealand is to be lumped to-
gether, which I think would be a mis-
take. As to the other omissions, however,
so far as it is possible to say so without
checking over the poems mentioned, and
so fan as these were available when the
anthology closed down I remain impeni-
tent, though I will certainly consider all
suggestions when the time comes for a
second edition. I am also impenitent
about Hope, McAuley and H. F. Stewart;
H.F.S. is one of the finest literary artists
we possess, and McAuley and Hope
seem to me to be easily among the few
leading poets today, in Australia at any
rate.
The assertion, by the way, that Modern
Australian Poetry drew heavily upon
Angus and Robertson’s annual yerse an-
thology in the year in which I edited it,
though natural, is quite mistaken. On
the contrary, Australian Poetry, 1943
drew heavily upon the material, much of
it in manuscript, which had been already
accumulated for the larger anthology.
There was no telling when that would
appear, and I wanted to draw attention
to some fine stuff; but it is true that a
wrong impression may have been given
of the poetry of a particular year.
I must thank you for your appreciation
of the sectional plan of the book ; but
as to the lack of signatures, don’t you
think it is worth while, especially in a
collection that is meant to represent Aus-
tralian poetry rather than Australian
poets, to compel the reader to approach
a poem in a more unbiassed way than if
he had the author’s signature in front of
him? — H. M. Green.
Five Art Books.
Travelling through four new Faber
Gallery books is a delightful, a magnifi-
cent and somewhat exhausting experience.
Coming then to Roy F. Parkinson’s
Praise Life and Practise Art (William'
Brooks) is rather like descending from
mountains to a valley; or at least to
gently sloping hills. Parkinson was an
Australian artist who died in 1945 and
his book consists of reproductions of
paintings and a collection of lecture notes
—a pleasant, unpretentious little volume
with written matter aimed at the be-
ginner in painting.
Though the book is nicely made, and
though a reproduction of “Morning
Mists,” with soft stripped boles of gums,
peeling bark, a delicate touch of mild
yellowish-green grass and the misty bright-
ness of the distance, is really very good,
it is hardly fair to compare this work
with that of Faber’s Old Masters. Still,
as Mr. Parkinson reminds us —amid
technical advice concerning paints,
brushes and the like —Australia, too, has
Masters Streeton, Gruner, Heysen.
Honorable mention is also made of Lam-
bert, Mclnnes, Julian Ashton, Longstaff,
Penleigh Boyd and Hilder. The title of
the book, too, Praise Life and Practise
Art —a sturdy and gallant phrase—indi-
cates a link with the long history of
art.
The Faber books are Royal Paintings,
English Qutdoor Paintings, Sienese
Paintings and Flemish Paintings; and,
with noble subject-matter, they are them-
selves minor works of art —the art of the
publisher.
There are many ways of appreciating
them. They may be read for their human
interest—how Stubbs, for instance, whose
“Gentleman Holding His Horse” deco-
rates the cover of English Outdoor Paint-
ings, had been “a strict water-drinker, yet
lived to enjoy 82 years of vigorous life”
during which, besides painting horses, he
dissected them in a Lincolnshire farm-
house, and wrote a celebrated treatise on
the Anatomy of the Horse. And how
Morland “liked the English country and
the people and animals upon it. So he
painted what he liked in the way that
his talent made easiest for him —and let
it go at that. For the rest he was feck-
less, a drunkard and generally in debt to
dealers Yet he was happy.”
Or you could find interest in the history
of art criticism as, necessarily hap-
hazardly, it is recorded in the commen-
taries in each volume. How Ruskin, a
hard man to please, found Turner’s
“Crossing the Brook” to be “glorious in
composition and perfect in all that is
most desirable and ennobling in art” but
“scarcely to be looked upon as a piece
of color. It is an agreeable cool grey
rendering of space and form but it is
far inferior to the tones of the same kind
given by Claude.”
And then —for, now as in the past,
critics are always both right and wrong
—there is the pleasure of controversy.
Discussing the cubist and surrealist ex-
cursions of Paul Nash, for instance, R.
W. Wilenski, who has edited the Outdoor
Paintings, applauds the “terrible and
grimly ordered symbols of the manless
chaos wrought by modern weapons” —
and, of course, one cannot help reflect-
ing that even a bulldozer can provide a
manless chaos. Compared with the great
English landscapists—or with the great
Australians —Nash does seem, after all,
a minor painter; a matter of capacity
rather than doctrine, for there is an in-
finitely more effective surrealist painting
reproduced among the Flemish Paint-
ings, Joachim Patinir’s “Saint Jerome in
a Rocky Landscape.” Upon which the
commentator, Thomas Bodkin, observes:
Nothing is known of Joachim Patinir’s
early life. The date and place of his birth
are still to seek; but he seems to have been
about thirty-five years old when he pur-
chased, in 1515, the freedom of the Painters’
Guild at Antwerp. Five years later he
owned a house in that city where Diirer
visited him....
The early Flemish painters were great
lovers of landscape and delighted to enliven
the background of their pictures with little
glimpses of scenery viewed through doors
or windows. Patinir was one of the first
to treat landscape primarily for its own
sake, making his figures subsidiary to
their setting. The picture here reproduced
represents the left-hand portion of a com-
position of which at least three full-sized
versions exist. As its painter could have
had no opportunities of studying mountain
forms in the Lowlands, he has obviously
used shards of stone to stimulate his
imagination, producing a general effect
that is extraordinarily romantic. It is on a
panel, measuring by 13iin., and
came to the National Gallery by the be-
quest of Mrs. Oppenheimer, in 1936.
All of which —as regards the Lowlands
and the rock —is likely and plausible
enough. Still, the stubborn suspicion re-
mains that in the sixteenth century a
Flemish painter was, whatever the im-
mediate cause, painting surrealist pic-
tures. And painting them—on the evi-
dence of plate 7 extremely well.
Rocks, road, woods, buildings ; ragged,
white, goblin-like mountains and distant
smooth fields and black torn clouds all
fitting into a winding ragged pattern,
smoothed by art. As though the artist
had assimilated some of the cruder aspects
of surrealism and had reached beyond
them.
And so, though again haphazardly, the
books provide something of a history of
art as well as of art criticism. It is
pleasant to turn over the plates and relate
to the European tradition such Aus-
tralian works as spring to mind ; some-
times inferior, sometimes equal and some-
times superior. Looking at the-pair of
white, ghostly bare trees in one of Paul
Nash’s paintings one recalls—and with
relief —Heysen’s white gum-trees. Look-
ing at “Shoreham” Palmer’s “In a Shore-
ham Garden” with its gorgeous, exotic
massing of color and blossom, one re-
calls flowerpieces and a blossoming pear-
tree in watercolor by Margaret Coen, an
oil painting of a blossoming tree by
Gruner; Australian works which in
lyrical flashes and the intense observation
of light give a more striking impression
than the painting in which Palmer, like
Van Gogh, strove for “excess.” Streeton,
too, painted a noble garden-piece, now
in a private collection in Sydney.
As to the history of art generally,
Bojdkin’s comment on Patinir’s use of
figures—“He was one of the first to treat
landscape primarily for its own sake,
making his figures subsidiary to their
setting”—is interesting in relation to the
much later work of Wilson, on which
Wilenski comments: “In contrast to the
‘civil’ records of the Georgian gentry
quietly dominant in their trimmed estates,
we have here an art which suggests a
universe with tiny humans in submissive
accord.” A cycle has, in effect, taken
place in the relation of figures to land-
scape. First, figures—portraits, groups
and the like ; then glimpses of landscape,
for enlivenment; then pure landscapes.
And, of course, the problem of the “pure”
landscape painter has been to make
Nature itself as dramatic as Nature-as-
a-background-for-Man. Even Gruner,
though he reached very far into the
realms of beauty and delight in his
“morning light” period, hardly made
Nature dramatic. Streeton did more in
this respect; Turner, of course, most of
all. Cubism, surrealism, and all such
fashions and fancies might be regarded,
from this point of view, as attempts to
dramatise Nature ; praiseworthy in a sense,
but usually evading the real problem,
which is to combine—or infuse —realism
with dramatic power.
Finally, and of lasting delight even in
reproduction, the Faber Gallery offers
the pleasure of the paintings themselves.
Wilson’s “Cader Idris” in the Outdoor
Paintings, Gainsborough’s “Mr. and Mrs.
Brown,” a powerful Constable, Mor-
land’s “Rabbiting,” Raeburn, Turner.
Royal Portraits has Holbein, Titian, Vel-
asquez, Van Dyke, Largilliere; and the
other two books, though with a less re-
sounding array of names, are equally
fascinating. The hooks —though the
Australian price is doubtless higher—
sell in England at six shillings. Aus-
tralian publishers, with a comparatively
small population to work on, could not
hope to produce art books at such a
figure. But if Faber and Faber could be
persuaded to add selections of Australian
art to their “gallery” they would certainly
do well with them here ; and should do
well abroad.
J.F.
Bird Mimics.
It is a custom of the more grimly
scientific type of naturalist to deny that
birds sing primarily for joy—a fact so
obvious That only a scientist would de-
mand “proof” of it —and to explain this
lovely miracle in purely practical terms :
it impresses the mate, it warns othpr birds
away from the nesting territory.
There is probably a deaf scientist some-
where who doesn’t believe that birds sing
at all —he has no “proof” of the fact.
There is certainly, according to Alec H.
Chisholm’s Natures Linguists (Brown,
Prior, Anderson Pty.. Ltd, Melbourne), an
English naturalist who declares that “birds
really don’t mimic at all but merely use
notes that chance to resemble those of
other birds.” But Mr. Chisholm roundly,
and admirably, asserts:
Birds that practise vocal mimicry do so
mainly for pleasure because they are
sound-lovers and are capable of profiting
by their receptivity. Possibly the impulse
is partly pleasurable and partly automatic,
as is the fashion of boys who whistle
popular airs.
This is only one of 20 conclusions the
author has reached about bird mimicry,
but it is placed high in the list. Another
conclusion, of special interest to Aus-
tralia, where there appear to be many
more bird mimics than in other countries,
is:—•
Possibly there is significance in the fact
that, although many of our bird-voices are
strong and melodious, relatively little social
singing is heard in this spacious country.
Lacking the conditions that stimulate con-
tinuous and company recitals, our birds
generally are vocally individual, distinctive,
sharply defined, and so invite mimicry.
Consider the human reaction: no listener
ever feels impelled to join in the “thousand
blended notes,” so spirited and yet so in-
volved, that arise in springtime from an
English woodland. On the other hand,
there is always a temptation in the Aus-
tralian bush to whistle imitations of the
concise, clearcut calls of the whip-bird, the
grey thrush, the currawong, and' many
another feathered soloist. Most of us,
it is true, make very indifferent mimics, but
we keep on trying. Imagine, then, how
much stronger is the impact of such voices,
heard day after day, on sound-loving birds.
This is a field in which Mr. Chisholm
is an expert. He says that as
many as 49 species of Australian birds,
“of which only a few are regarded as
doubtfuls,” indulge to a greater or lesser
degree in mimicry, and he discusses in
detail a number of the “major” and
“minor” performers. The booklet, re-
vised from articles in the “Victorian
Naturalist,” is printed in a limited edition.
Reviewed Briefly.
Challenge to Education: Eric Ashby
(Angus and Robertson). “If the subject
lends itself to disinterested thinking; if
generalisation can be extracted from it;
if it can be advanced by research; if,
in brief, it breeds ideas in the mind, then
the subject is appropriate for a university.
If, on the other hand, the subject borrows
all its principles from an older study (as
journalism does from literature or sales-
manship from psychology, or massage
from anatomy and physiology), and does
not lead to generalisation, then the
subject is not a proper one for a uni-
versity.” With the overriding idea that
the universities should serve the com-
munity but the community’s needs,
which are not necessarily the same as
its desires —and with the conviction that
“the education we give is third rate,”
Professor Ashby submits 11 articles of
special interest for educationists but also
for general discussion. .
The Doctor and Tomorrow: Dr. Arthur
E. Brown (F. H. Johnson Ltd.). Written
with an eye on the possibility of the
nationalisation of medicine in Australia.
“The medical profession must reform
itself, .or, alternatively, be reformed.”
Reinstatement in Civil Employment:
Hector Hughes, M.P. (Staples Press, Lon-
don). Supplied by the High Com-
missioner for the U.K. at Canberra and
of interest to servicemen’s associations:
an outline, in comprehensible terms, of
the Reinstatement Act of 1944.
Cavalcade of Houses: W. Watson
Sharp, A.R.A.I.A. (K. G. Murray Pub-
lishing Co., Sydney). Useful pamphlet
for anyone planning to build. It discusses
the whole problem and has 12 illustra-
tions of different types of homes. The
reviewer, not being able to buy, build
or rent even a fowlhouse in Sydney ex-
cept at double the pre-war cost, read the
booklet as a beautiful but maddening
dream.
The Magic Snake: William Linklater,
illustrated by Mavis Mallinson (Curra-
wong), Abo. legends and ceremonies
done as stories for children.
War Memorials: Arnold Whittick
(Country Life, London). Though de-
signed chiefly to guide English communi-
ties in the choice of war memorials—
and of interest anywhere for that pur-
pose—the volume may also be read as a
handbook on memorial sculpture from
Greek to modern times. It is lavishly
illustrated. New Zealand’s statue of
Captain Scott (designed by Lady Kennet)
is reproduced but no Australian work.
St. Malachy’s Court: Olivia Robertson
(Peter Davies). Light and pleasant char-
acter studies from the Dublin Streets,
illustrated by the author’s pen-drawings.
Naming the Baby: Sydney J. Endacoti
(Robertson and Mullens). List of Chris-
tian names, with meanings. “Flavian,
meaning “yellow,” should come m
handy ; and “Eldred” —“terrible,” ‘ Hul-
dah” “weasel” and “Ursula” “she-
bear.”
Folk Dances of Other Lands: Four-
teen dances with music and descriptions,
arranged by Gerda Haas (Melbourne
University Press).
Where the Trade-Winds Blow: Stories
of the South Pacific islands collected by
R. W. Robson and Judy Tudor (Pacific
Publications Ltd., Sydney.). Set double-
column in smallish type, with artic.es
stories, sketches and verse crammed anc
crowded on the pages, it looks more lit-
the raw material for a book than the
finished article ; yet there’s a lot of fas-
cinating history, adventure and travel in-
formation packed away in it.
Harvest Adventure: J- Wentworth
Day (Harrap). Pleasant English farm-
land sketches, and fierce politics. The
author likes birds, beasts, fishes and in-
dependent farmers; bureaucrats excite
him like wasps and Professor Lasla
drives him hopping mad.
Fun on Andy’s Selection: Eric Jolliffc
(author; 22 Milson-road, Crernome.
Sydney). Another lively selection
Jolliffe’s outback joke-blocks. Reading
matter, interspersed among the drawings
includes stories by E. A. Gollschewsk)-
Les Robinson and James Hackston an
some ballads from The Bullet^ 5
“Aboriginalities” pages.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
jPHARivtAt
%
dTsTOSARY
11
lb
a
■f
/
A* .*
-
4
/
K
\
>, Vi
i
x.
ze
-X
%r
X
M
m
t
€5
r
1
an the Ground Floor , Pitt Street.
*k\V
»
D
H
fcV*
i»i2
«?UK<
s
m
s*s
A>,
or
Po ***
mm
X"
•AT
in
F
>s.
You can rely upon your prescriptions being
promptly and accurately dispensed at our
modern, up-to-the-minute pharmacy. For all
your chemistry needs, visit our . . .
Here ctre just ce few items which should be included
in every Medical Chest.
EXETEX — a safe and economical remedy for Eczema
Acne, Pimples, etc. Price, tube 9d'
JAtlO’S PILLS, wonderful for the Liver, Kidneys, Bladder,
Constipation, also Pneumatic Pains, ■ Backache, Dizzy
Spells, etc. Price, bottle and 9d.
GAUZE, hygienically packed and available in the con-
venient size of 1 yard x 6 yards. Price, packet 1/6
BISMA-REX, made in England, quickly relieves the dis-
comfort of excessive Gastric Acidity, Sour Stomach,
etc. Price, bottle j/
PALACE FLY SPRAY, guaranteed to kill Flies, Moths
Mosquitoes, Silverfish. Contains 3% D.D T Price ' '
Wall, tin . '
KUROPED for Perspiring Feet and
Foot Odours. Price, large tin, 1/-
JOHN’S U-KAL-LYPTOL Germicide
can be used as a General Disin-
fectant, as a Mouthwash, for Sore
Throats, etc. Price, 1-pint bottle, 1/3
INSECT POWDER, contains 3%
D.D.T. Kills Fleas, Silverfish and
other insect pests. Price, tin, 6d.
* 'PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
• BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


/L
%
OIE
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and Conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
Interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS—Janies Burns - R. J. Nosworthy » Eewis Armstrong l - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. ' Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.P.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE:' 'BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
bp iu.
H4RIS
Circular Charts Jot all types of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get our quotation.
• SON & O’SULLIVAN
OUtEN STREET I'TV. tro. BRISBANE, O 10.
hzs.
JAC
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel-—And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Yousuffer from wind. You get con-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and wears
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, y.et amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3. , *
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TJw^ulletm.
The limitations on Subscriptions 1 6 The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are:—
12 months .. ..£l4O
6 „ ' .. .. 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:—
12 months .. ~ .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
S 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. .. £1 9 0
C 7
5
ALTITUDE
TOLERANCE I Never heafd of if I
U
That's not surprising few have! However, it is interesting to
note that flowers, birds and even fish are extremely resistant to the
effects of altitude. In fact, any kind of freight finishes its trip in
first-class condition when sent Express" via TAA. It is subject
to less handling, requires less packaging, and is delivered direct to the
consignee (free within the city area!). TAA rates are surprisingly
low, and a 24-hour capital-to-capital service is guaranteed.
Business houses are invited to ring for
a representative to call and discuss all
aspects of air freight .
t£l
7
1 v i.'V'
SYDNEY, Phillip House, 119 Phillip Street, near Martin
Place, Tel. B 0526 . . . MELBOURNE, Myer Building, 273
Lonsdale Street, Tel. MU 6751 . . . BRISBANE, Terrica
House, Cr. Adelaide and Creek Streets, Tel. B 1341
ADELAIDE, Anchor House, 142 North Terrace, iTel. Cent!
7545 . . . PERTH, St. George's House, St. George's Terrace,
Tel. B 2453 . . . CANBERRA, Civic Centre, Tel. F 615 . . .
HOBART, Cr Collins and Argyle Streets, Tel. 7411 . . .
LAUNCESTON, Cr. Brisbane and George Streets, Tel. 2061.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRLINES COMMISSION
♦
E-27-47
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EDITH ROSE ALLSTON late of Narrabri.—
TAKE NOTICE that JAMES ALFRED ALLSTON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4569 of 1945
on the grounds of your adultery with EDWARD
GEORGE ALLSTON If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 22nd day of April
1947 and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MANNING & ABBOTT, Solicitors, of Mait-
land Street, Narrabri, or from A. S. BOULTON,
LANE, REX & CO., Solicitors, of 12 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of recitation “Moloney’s Fenian Cat.”
—3946.
To buy The American Wool Handbook. —
3947.
To buy bag of Insignia and/or Quadrat
seed wheat for experiments. Freight paid.—
3948.
To buy Columbia Record D 01543 “From
the Welsh Hills” (Orchestra Raymonde), new
or second-hand, in good condition.—3949.
Words and music of “The Wild Colonial
80y.”—3951.
To get in tpuch with persons interested in
collecting air-mail stamps.—39so.
Information Sought.
Duties and privileges of the executor of a
will ?
The duties commence after the death. Briefly
they are to bury the deceased, collect par-
ticulars of the estate, prove the will (probate),
give statutory notice to creditors tp send in
accounts, collect all outstanding moneys, pay
debts, pay legacies (within 12 months)! if any
trusts for life pay income as will directs, keep
proper books of account, file administration
accounts for 12 months. If any doubt arises,
consult a solicitor. If he is a creditor in the
estate it is the executor’s privilege to pay him-
self first, and he may claim payment for his
services.
* ■*- * *
Particulars of the Sunshine railway disaster?
It occurred on April 20,’ 1908, at 10.45 p.m.
at Sunshine station, Braybrook, Victoria. The
down Bendigo train crashed into the rear of
the down Ballarat train just as the latter had
commenced to move out of the station; 43 per-
sons were killed and 250 injured, some very
seriously.
* * * *
How to make photographic blueprints ?
Make up two solutions as follows: (a)
double-citrate of iron and ammonia 44 grains,
water loz.; (b) ferrocyanide of potassium 50
grains, water loz. Brush paper over with
solution of (a) and dry in the dark. After
suitable exposure to daylight develop with
solution (b). Wash with water slightly acidu-
lated with hydrochloric acid, and then with
water alone.
* * * *
(1) What is the limit to the height of Sydney
buildings? (2) Reasons for limit?
(1) By an Act of 1912, 150 ft., measured from
the footway to the top of the highest portion
of the building to be occupied. Towers, water
tanks, lifthouses, etc., may be permitted above
the height limitation. (2) Matters taken into
consideration were the effect on traffic, fire
hazards and the effect on lighting and ventila-
tion of adjoining buildings.
* * * *
How to remove Indian-irik stain from a red
plush tablecloth ?
Indian ink is difficult to remove and any
bleach would take the original color out of
the red tablecloth. Place stained part on large
plate and soak mark with eucalyptus extract;
when ink shows signs of liquefying apply clean
blotting-paper. Process may take days, but
it is the only likely remedy. When worst is off,
pour warm water through and, finally give
whole cloth a good brushing with brush dipped
in warm water and eucalyptus (50-50). Dry
in shade.
* * * «
Is a barrister who obtains a B.A. and LL.B.
at Queensland University able to practise in
any other part of Australia and the British
Empire ?
Barristers admitted to practise at the Bar of
Queensland are eligible to apply for admission
to the Bar of N.S.W. and probably of all parts
of the Empire. Mere admission to the Bar of
Queensland and the holding of university de-
grees does not, -however, confer any right of
practice elsewhere. In order to practise in
some other part of the Empire the barrister
must apply for admission to the Bar of the
country or place in which he desires to practise
and be admitted and enrolled.
* * * *
Have the average profits of the trading banks
in Australia over the last 10 years (1937-46)
exceeded 5 p.c. ? If so, could the percentage
be given ?
Over last 10 years the trading banks’ profits
on total shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) have averaged 3.8 per cent.;
and dividends actually distributed were 3.5
per cent, of those total funds. Corresponding
figures for 500 representative manufacturing
and general-trading companies were 6.9 and
5.6 per cent, respectively. On capital alone,
dividends of trading banks were around 6.5
per cent.
Brief Answers.
R.T.8.: Vocabulary of aboriginal words and
names by J. J. Baylis gives the meaning of
Aratula or Arajula as “you look shy”,.. .C.W.:
Very Rev. Hewlett Johnson, Dean of Canter-
bury. He wrote The Socialist Sixth of the
World and Soviet Strength. . k .M.A.M.; It will
be necessary to send specimens for identifi-
cation .... Reader: In the circumstances out-
lined, the would not be called upon
to pay maintenance to his wife T.A.:
Georges Carpentier won world’s light-heavy-
weight championship when he knocked out
Battling Levinsky (fourth round) at Jersey City,
U.S.A., on October 12, 1920. Carpentier lost
title to Battling Siki, who knocked him out
(sixth round) in Paris on September 23, 1922.
Jack Dempsey beat Carpentier on July 2, 1921.
. ...W.E.G,: Unable to trace criticism. Can
you furnish more particulars? F.W.8.: The
Ly-ee-moon, of Sydney, a favorite passenger
ship, was wrecked off Green Cape on the night
of May 30, 1886. Seventy-six lives were lost
A.A.: (1) The Australasian Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy (Inc.), Osborne House, 399’Little
Collins-street, Melbourne. (2) The Institution
of Engineers, Science House, 157 Gloucester-
street, Sydney... ,R.H.: W. C. Penfold and
Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney J.R.C.: (1) The
next Olympic Games will be held in London
during the last week in July and first week
in August, 1948. (2) Every four years. (3)
Write Thos. Cook and Son, 12 Bridge-street,
Sydney A.H.K.: Write to either Miss Weite-
meyer, c/o J v Spreadborough, Box 100, Kil-
larney, Queensland, or Mr. C. Weitemeyer,
Green Gables, Moray-street, New Farm, Bris-
bane... .A.R.H.M.: Both Red Page articles
were written by Norman Lindsay. “The
Making of a Novel” appeared in The Bulletin
of May 22, 1946; “The Craft of the Novel”
in the issue of June 12, 1946... .H.R.C.: “To
whinge” means “to complain.” It is a slang
word derived from English dialect J.M.F.:
The publication of a collection of the author s
literary criticisms is contemplated but it will
be some time before they appear in book
form J.A.S.: (1) Most accommodation to
England is still in vessels under transport con-
ditions. Fare is £136 ss. single passage from
Sydney to U.K. port. (2) Reconditioned vessels
are coming back into service very slowly. The
Orion is due to sail from Australian ports
in April and July. The Orient Line quotes
fares of £73 15s. up to £ll3 15s, for accom-
modation in Tourist “B” class according to
type of cabin and position, and £137 10s. up
to £231 ss. Australian for Ist Class according
to type of cabin and position. (3) There are
a few vessels occasionally offering large cabin
and dormitory accommodation at £BO and
£92 10s 8.H.: The book was not reviewed
in The Bulletin. .8.F.F.: It is a 20-reis
piece of Maria 11, Queen of Portugal, and is
worth about 3d N.H.G.: Write Cement
and Concrete Association of Australia, 14
Spring-street, Sydney T.S.: Sixteen work-
men were killed during the construction of the
Sydney Harbor Bridge and approaches. The
Bridge took eight years and eight months to
build L.M.J.: Write Miss Katie Jones, Hon.
Secretary, Cymmrbdorion (Welsh) Society of
Sydney, 30 Gould-avenue, Sydney T.V.:
George Louis Becke died in Sydney on February
18, 1913, and is buried in the Waverley
cemetery.«


Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is sought as to the whereabouts of
WILLIAM BURKE (Dealer) and MISS ROMA GRACE
BURKE last heard' of at Longreach in 1921. Please
communicate with the LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC
CURATOR, Rockhampton, Q.
ELIZABETH SOWTER (nee HOOTON), formerly of
Carlton, Victoria, or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, kindly communicate with DOYLE & KERR,
Solicitors, 108 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria, or
her brother, WILLIAM C. HOOTON, 47 Droop Street,
Footscray, Victoria.
TO MAX TRINIA STANTON formerly of Jamestown
in the State of South Australia but now of parts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife JULIA
ALICE STANTON of 31 William Street Newport in
the State of Victoria Married Woman has instituted
proceedings against you for Divorce on the grounds
of repeated acts of adultery and desertion UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
Law Courts William Street Melbourne in the said
State of Victoria on or before the 28th day of March
1947 the said suit will proceed in your absence and
a Decree for Dissolution of Marriage may be granted
and you may be ordered to pay costs If you intend
to defend this suit you must also file an answer
in the said office on or before the 15th day of April
1947.—CLEARY, ROSS & DOHERTY, of 40 Queen
Street, Melbourne, in the said State of Victoria,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
WILL JOHN ORVILLE GILL, son of the late
R. A. 0. GILL, please communicate with MESSRS.
NEWMAN & PENGILLEY, Solicitors, Tamworth—
to his advantage?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce,
TO JOSEPH HENRY BLAND (known as GORDON
NOBLE MATTHEWS) late of 305 Riley Street East
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that HANNAH MARY
BLAND (known as HANNAH MARY MATTHEWS
or ANNIE MATTHEWS) has filed her Petition for
Divorce No. 358 of 1947 on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
the suit you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
22nd day of April 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from HILLIARD & BERRY,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
10 JOHN D’ARNAY late of Richmond Road Claren-
«<»•—TAKE NOTICE that CYRIL PEARCE
® as a Petition for Divorce No. 8773
?pqtt?ir 0n £ roun d of your adultery with LYBBIS
LESLEY MULLER If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
c ourt King Street Sydney by 18th April 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
1). K. DONALD, Solicitor, 33 Macquarie Place, Syd-
ney- ( L -s-) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
FOUR OUTSTANDING BOOKS
BEN HALL THE BUSHRANGER. By Frank Clune.
An exciting and absorbing novel based on the life of Ben Hall.
10/6 (post. 6d.).
CHALLENGE TO EDUCATION. By Eric Ashby.
In this book Professor Ashby examines some of the ills that afflict
our organisation of education. 4/6 (post. 3ck).
CRUSTS AND CRUSADES. Tales of Bygone Days. By W, M. Hughes.
A collection of stories based on chapters in the life of the most
colourful figure in Australian politics. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
PRACTICAL HOMES. By R. L. Spooner and C. T. Eeles.
Here is a book which will be welcomed by all those who have been
hoping to build since the outbreak of war. With 23 pages of
drawings. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
Available at all Booksellers.
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
liqueurs
M
11
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
liqueurs
it's "good tasfe" fo serve them!
',• V ' ' V ' "4 / 1 * • 1 ’" '•
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY., ET V. —Established FSd.
PRESENTING THE WORLD’S MOST POPULAR
ALL-PURPOSE WOODWORKING MACHINE
Over 60,000 units in use.
, as an executive, are vitally interested in production methods
adapted to the post-war period—so different as regards labor and
maximum production from your available labor force, and ensure the
most economical use of available material. To every operation
involying the cutting of wood—and other materials—DE WALT
brings new standards of accuracy and efficiency.
A few of the leading organisations now using DE WALT are—
Victorian Housing Commission, N.S.W. Public Works Dept., Broken
Hill Pty. Ltd., Bulolo Gold Dredging Ltd., Commonwealth Aircraft
Corp., Howie, Moffat & Co, Pty. Ltd., Ansair Pty. Ltd., Morts Dock
& Engineering Co, Ltd., E. A*. Watts Pty. Ltd., Electrolux Pty. Ltd.,
Jarvi & Co. Pty. Ltd.
the reach of every progressive building contractor and manufacturer.
material supplies to the days before 1939. The new era in wood-
working—in all types of industry—demands DE WALT.
This versatile all-purpose power saw is the machine that will give you
DE WALT
Makes Every Cut Possible
With a Circular Saw
And Shapes, Routs and Drills. %
DE WALT Saws are available for early delivery at a range of prices within
♦ • \
Full particulars from the Sole Australian Agents
m
IT
CROSS CUTS
m
m
IT RIPS
5 ■' i
IT MITERS
a
IT BEVEL\CUTS
I
§
IT DADOES
SELIGSON & CLARE (AUSI.), LTD.
465 Collins St., Melbourne, 56 Clarence St., Sydney.
And from the following distributors
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Harris Scarfe Ltd. Harris Scarfe & Sandovers Ltd.
Brisbane. Adelaide. Perth.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
E.M.J.: Might do for one of those books
in which hotel guests set forth their reactions
to local scenery... .FJ. *. It started an endemic
of yawning in the office... .R.S.C.: Needs to
be treated with more restraint and feeling
A.8.W.: Roughly put together P. 8.; Swag-
man’s demise wins this week’s prize for bathos.
A.K.: Plot is an extremely venerable
acquaintance... .S.T.: Cannot place either....
R.W.: We suspected the gardener all along
J.P.M.: A touch of vigor A.J.O’S.; A noble
thought to write a farewell ode for Bern-
borough, but it’s difficult to imagine the animal
singing “My Old Kentucky Home” R.G.B. :
It may console those who can’t buy tobacco:
....8.W.: They sound young D.H.R.:
“Engineer” the nearest yet... .Eila: Bubbly....
L.F.: Lawson made a better story of it in
“The Loaded Dog” C.M.: Shelley would
have wept:
C.C.: So you , have located the Lost Tribes
of Israel? Apply to the Minister for Immi-
gration J.A.R.: Since “Tale of the Timber”
is alive with Americanisms, another can do no
harm—it’s “corny” R.J.W.; Hopelessly dull.
K.M.O.: Bring in the vulture:
R.O.: Save it for April 1 P.R.8.:
“Never in a Million Years” is right F.S.:
Your “mother-in-law provided the material for
the heroine.” Try her as a villainess H.T.:
No chance yet of “opening up our stony heart.”
K.K. : Getting a lot nearer P. 8.: The
Bulletin cricket team is glad it had a
spectator. We cannot use your 32-page “Cham-
pions of Sport” A.Y.R.: So was the story.
R.E.R.: Still too slight C.M.: Some-
body will write a printable poem about McKell
one of these days H.T.D.;
But I must go back
To the old bush shack.
Take the poem with you, and we’ll give you a
whole sackful on the same theme Septimus:
“Terrible Accident” is indeed a terrible acci-
dent 8.5.: Pardonable if you are young
A.M.C.: Read “Red” and reeled A. 8.:
Fair, and fairly flat.... <ihic: Ah, you’ve done
it:
... .L.P.R.: Come again H.G.: Both light-
weights E.H.: It may mean something but
just what isn’t certain, and don’t you mean
“deer”-? ... .KJ.; “Cider” is fizzy B.N.T.:
“1 jump, I jimp, I dinka-doo.” Unless you are
a kangaroo there’s not much hope for you....
H.McD.: Next time you see a sunset, close
your eyes G.S.S.; We simply roared at the
story of Aunt Polly sitting on the pin
H.E.Y.: Imitation Chinese poems are about as
valuable as imitation Chinamen... .Y.B.: You
really can’t rhyme “Frogmore” with “Ipswich.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.G.: Small hope for you if that is your
best... .C.M.H.; Dead-weary of that hack-
neyed pun L.B.: You splash the ink around
but the result is awful F.M.G.: Shaky line-
work and feeble jests C.T.: Don’t know
what you are driving at, though we suspect
you dislike McGirr J.J.; Looks like a sheet
of paper on which someone has been playing
noughts and crosses J.G.: Why picture
them with their lower halves buried?....
S.D.: Once in a while you manage to draw
some unimportant detail correctly a .. .R.M.F.:
Is it a swagman or a hollow log? J.M.: If
► you can’t draw the family seated at a table,
why not let them feed standing up? B.S.:
One looks remotely like Evatt, but who on
earth are the rest? S.S.: A below-the-
average bunch... .T.J.F.: You have given Dad
a wonderful beard, but his legs look as if
they wouldn’t carry him five yards A.M.:
Can’t tell -whether the object in the water is
bather or driftwood P.R.: Have a look at
some of Ted Scorfield’s dogs and see how
much you have to learn G.S.: Your patri-
otism is unquestionable, but not your art
V.M.: Sorry we cannot satisfy your “uncon-
trollable craving to get into print” A.S.K.:
Thpse bony flappers would look better with
their clothes 011....D.F.: You haven’t learned
your trade... .L.F.: Attempt to depict an out-
back Donnybrook ambitious but disastrous
N.L.: Make the central figures stand out
more plainly W.M.R.: You made a dread-
ful mess of a good idea... .E.N.: The lines
are scraggy and the figures are standing at
impossible angles... .S.G.: One of our own,
published long ago; and it is offered to us
a d 9 zen dmes a y ea r.... T.F.: Draw another
49, burn them and if you are greatly daring
send the fiftieth... .W.G.; That s drunk has
relied home often with the same tale
A.C.P.: Six grimy atrocities all going back..~.,
R.L.: Hopeless.
Does wisdom emanate from smoking tubes
That from dour mouths with bowl-like ends pro-
trude
And from a puffing medium for smoke?
What foul designs and high ambitious aims
And plots are hatched and meditative thoughts
Are born in wreathing smoke and end therein.
ODE.
Polar bear, I pity you,
When summer strikes at Sydney Zoo.
Lying on yoUr ice facsimile,
Panting like a factory chimely.
The people stand and watch you steam:
“Pretty fellow —ain’t ’e cream?”
And yet you smile on things to come.
Knowing soon they’ll all be numb.
When winter comes,
You spring a fur behind.
We rough and ready Aussles liv%
Without the poise traditions give—
Besmirched with slang we can’t abolish,
Remote from normal signs of polish
As castles, butlers and school ties
And monocles on haughty eyes.
Remote from landed marchionesses,
Blue blood, and Hartnell-fashioned dresses.
In short, we have no claim to culture
No more tllan savage bear or vulture.
So with a sigh he named McKell
To be the Duke’s successor,
And I picked up the tommyhawk
And smashed the kitchen dresser.


VALSE
By
D.L.Rogels
FOR once Miss Thorpe’s and
Charlie’s minds, though * travelling
by different routes, had reached
the same conclusion.
Charlie sat upright 6n the piano stool,
back stiff, round head thrust slightly for-
ward, eyes fixed on the sheet of music in
front of him, tip of tongue showing at the
corner of his mouth as evidence of his
intense concentration. One, two, three,
one, two, three went Charlie’s stubby-
fingered left hand among the bass notes
while his stubby-fingered right hand
wandered in a treble wilderness.
One, two, three, one, two, three. The
piece of music was simply and discreetly
entitled “Valse.”
Charlie .was thinking about football.
Half his mind, the wary half, trained, to
the purpose by constant association with
schoolteachers and the like, kept an eye
on the music, while the other half sallied
through Miss Thorpe’s sitting-room
window and across the peaceful afternoon
landscape to Hicks’s paddock, where the
team would be practising for the match,
minus Charlie in body, but not in spirit.
That was Charlie’s spirit, looking sqlid
in its owner’s striped guernsey, darting
and weaving with extraordinary strategy,
scooping up the ball in the nick of time
and sprinting up the field past bewildered
and discomforted would-be tacklers and
scoring a try, spectacularly, on his chest,
while cries of “Good old Charlie!” rang
out from all sides. But that was fantasy.
Npt all his pleading had sufficed to get
him there in the flesh,
“No,” said his mother firmly, not
bothering to look up from the washtub.
“You can play your old football any
time, but this’s the only afternoon Miss
Thorpe’ll take you for your music lesson.”
“Aw, but gee. Mum, this is practice
for the Match,”
“I don’t care
what it’s practice
for. Music’s an
Accomplis la-
ment.” She put
several pegs into
her mouth and
spoke through
them, which was
one of her own
many minor ac-
complishments. “I only wish I’d had
your chances. I wouldn’t be working
my fingers to the bone now if I had.”
Charlie’s mother’s hands were very
well fleshed like the rest of her, but per-
haps the fingers referred to were figura-
tive.
“You’ll be grateful to me some day,”
she added. “Now don’t let me hear any
more about the Match or you won’t go
to it at all.” •
It was beyond the scope of Charlie’s
imagination to see himself ever being
grateful for being forced to thump the
keys of a piano, but he knew that argu-
ment was useless. His mother was quite
capable of carrying out her soulless
threat to keep him away from the Match.
HIS music lesson lasted an hour. Even
if he ran all the way to Hicks’s
paddock he wouldn’t be able to get there
in time. His only chance was to per-
suade Ole Thorpie to let him go early.
He could tell her that he had to go a
message. But even as he thought of it
Charlie reluctantly discarded the plan.
Mum would find out, sure as anything,
and that would certainly be the end of
the Match as far as he was concerned.
One two three, dee dumdum. His
left hand carried out its uninspired task
well enough, but his right hand, needing
more direction, betrayed his abstraction.
Miss Thorpe uttered an anguished cry
and clapped her hands over her ears.
“Charles, Charles!” She persisted in
calling him Charles. “That’s dreadful.
Simply dreadful! You aren’t paying
attention, I can see.”
“Me hand slipped,” protested Charlie,
“My hand,” corrected Miss Thorpe.
“Well, try again.” She made it a rule,
as she always stressed to parents enrolling
small victims, never to get angry with
her pupils. A little patience, she said,
works such wonders. When she felt
herself becoming angry she counted ten
—or sometimes twenty. It had never
been necessary to count beyond twenty.
Miss Thorpe was a pale, thin spinster
of no particular age. She had a pale
complexion, pale eyes and vast quantities
of pale hair, arranged in a bun on the
nape of her neck,
which she always
referred to as her
“m a n e,” ’ a s
though she were
a rather anaemic
lioness.
At the local
concerts she in-
variably played
something intri-
cate which entailed a good deal of mane-
tossing, generally contriving to get the
pale mass streaming down her back by
the time she finished,
“Allegro, Charles,” she said, with much
rolling of the “r.” “Allegr-r-r-o,” she
repeated, a soprano growl.
MISS THORPE had problems of her
own. At any time now Mr. Hassell,
the electrician, would be arriving to ex-
amine the house-wiring at her request.
It would be a libel to say that there
was nothing wrong with the house-wiring,
since Miss Thorpe didn’t know whether
there was anything wrong with it or not,
never having had it examined since its
installation. But it was true that Miss
Thorpe had had visions of herself sitting
at the piano playing softly'and soulfully
while Mr. Hassell listened entranced
and in these visions there was no men-
tion of house-wiring.
Mr. Hassell was a dark and silent
bachelor of about 40. Miss Thorpe was
sure he was musical because at a party
not long ago he had leant musingly
against the piano all the time she played,
which was a considerable time. As a
matter of fact, Mr, Hassell had leant
against the piano because it was his habit
to lean when not otherwise occupied and
his musings were entirely concerned with
a small dynamo he had picked up cheap*
and wanted to sell at a profit. But Miss
Thorpe was not to know that, and her
inner vision would have still been func-
tioning happily if it had not been
obscured by the solid obstacle of Charlie.
Miss Thorpe had completely forgotten,
when making her arrangements, that
Charlie was going to be with her that
afternoon. She had got her days mixed.
She had thought it was Wednesday and
instead it was Thursday. But Thursday
it was and there Charlie was and she
could certainly not sit playing.softly and
soulfully with Charlie there for a music
lesson.
Perhaps she could send Charlie off early
on some pretext. But even as the idea
came to her Miss Thorpe reached the
same point that Charlie had reached—
Charlie’s mother. Charlie’s mother paid
for Charlie’s music lessons by the hour
and she was a woman who expected to
get her money’s worth to the last minute.
Miss Thorpe shuddered at the thought
of the fuss Charlie’s mother might raise
if she didn’t get her money’s worth.
Miss Thorpe sighed. “Softly, Charles,
softly.”
/ALSE” struck heavily on Vince
V Hassell’s ear as he got out of his neat
little utility and opened Miss Thorpe’s
front gate. Some poor little beggar suf-
fering, he thought. He wondered how
much Miss Thorpe charged a quarter.
She must make a pretty good thing out
of if. He eyed the house thoughtfully,
a roomy weatherboard place in good
order. Not bad. And her own, too.
Good piece of land in a good position.
Ought to be worth a bit. And the old
lady must have left a tidy sum of money
behind her when she died.
Mr. Hassell’s lips pursed in a cheerful
whistle.
Miss Thorpe came out sedately in
answer to his knock,
“Oh, Mr. Hassell,” she said, smiling
and surprised. “I had quite forgotten
about you. Come in.” She was wearing
a blue linen dress —one of her best —
that suited her, and agitation had brought
a becoming flush into her cheeks.
Not a bad sort, thought Mr, Hassell.
A bit skinny, but then most of them were
these days.
Charlie struck an agonising discord.
“I have a little pupil here,” said Miss
Thorpe. “I hope he Won’t disturb you.
Sometimes fhey’re a little trying to listen
to when they’re just beginning,”
“Won’t worry me,” said Mr. Hassell,
contriving to inject a faint note of gal-
lantry into this perfectly truthful state-
ment ; Mr. Hassell’s ear was proof against
discords.
Mr. Hassell was no innocent fly—his
sharp eye took in the details of the
spider’s parlor ; walls all nicely lined with
good timber, rooms a decent size, plenty
of solid, comfortable furniture. Alto-
gether a very nice little place. Again Mr.
Hassell’s lips pursed thfemselves into a
whistle, though this time no sound issued
forth.
Miss Thorpe left Mf. Hassell in the
kitchen —wood stove, wonder who she
gets to chdp the wood for her, electric
refrigerator, hot-water cistern over the
sink.
“Might take me a while,” said Mr.
Hassell, looking at the power points with
great satisfaction.
“Oh, take as long as you like,” an-
swered Miss Thorpe anxiously. “I know
I can rely on you to do the job
thoroughly, Mr. Hassell.”
Miss Thorpe returned to the sitting-
room and played “Valse” to show Charlie
how it should be played. Then for good
measure, to impress the example firmly
upon him she played a couple of other
pieces.
Charlie wondered how Ocker White
was getting on in his place and hoped
that he wasn’t getting on too well.
Out in the kitchen Mr. Hassell took
his time and told himself that living in a
boarding-house wasn’t much of a life for
a man when he had to work hard all
day.
Miss Thorpe was obliged to take a
couple of trips out to the kitchen, once
for a glass of water and once for a
pencil that she had left in a drawer of the
kitchen cabinet. But having lingered for
half an hour in the kitchen and un-
screwed. and examined everything that
could be unscrewed and examined, Mr.
Hassell progressed to the bathroom—
fully tiled with set-in bath and electric-
heater —where Miss Thorps, couldn’t, with
any delicacy, find an errand. However,
by the time Mr. Hassell had finished in
the bathroom it was time for Charlie to
go, and there was still the dining-room,
the sitting-room, three bedrooms and the
laundry to be attended to.
Miss Thorpe suggested a cup of tea
and Mr. Hassell unhesitatingly accepted.
CHARLIE needed no urging to take
himself off the premises as quickly as
possible. He was out the door before
the echo of the last note of “Valse” had
died away, and was half-way to Hicks’s
paddock before Miss Thorpe had put
the hot-water jug on to boil.
His forebodings were justified. When
he reached the paddock the team had dis-
persed and Blue Callaghan, the captain,
had gone, taking the ball with him-
There were only a few stragglers left,
kicking a tennis-ball around.
“Well, if it ain’t ole Chari,” said Ocker
White. “How’s the goanna goin’, Chari?
“You shut up!” retorted Charlie con-
temptuously, kicking the tennis-ball into
the long grass. “Til punch your head.”
Ocker was conciliatory, so Charlie con-
descended to kick the tennis-ball about
for a while after they found it again, until
the pangs of hunger called him home-
ward.
But his musical labors were not over
for the day. Charlie’s mother had a
visitor, in the stout shape of Mrs. Purvis,
('Continued at foot of next page)
VARIOUS VERSE.
Concerning Words.
Vve met three minor poets in my time.
Men who are vocal of beauty as the
birds.
Men for whom rivers run in purling
words,
And all awareness must be fixed in rhyme.
I’ve heard them cry on Beauty with one
voice,
And with one voice whisper a charm to
pain,
That pain be secret, Beauty without stain.
Pain being their knowledge, Beauty being
their choice.
Vve heard them flay injustice with a whip
Made of small biting words, I’ve seen
them quail
Before the insensitive spirit with the flail,
Who took on him cold wisdom’s cham-
' pionship.
Words fall so easily into a pattern
That none of the three are great —the
astringent, terse
Thinking being muffled into pliable verse.
And mind and muse turned each into a
slattern.
And I am one with these, and no more
brave,
But claim one virtue, dimly understood,
Under the tyranny of words, ’tis good
To be silent sometimes, rather than a
slave.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Shadows.
Under coppery konini boughs
There is no longer laughter,
Only the waters falling
And shadows after.
No wild mouth like honey,
No faun-green eyes.
Only the ghost of a maiden
■ Whispering lies.
Under coppery konini boughs.
There is only the danger
Of finding in your reflection.
The face of a stranger.
MX.
PETER JACOBSON.
Street Map.
The map shows a town that I love
And the map of. the town
Shows the longitude-latitude lines
Of the streets running down
And across in an .orderly pattern;
Unreal to the eyes
Which, accustomed to seeing them all
From the level of man,
Know them better that way
Than upon the cartographer’s plan.
The avenues, alleys and roads
On the map are the same,
The sameness at variance only
In length and in name;
But the avenues, alleys and roads
In reality known
Are the ways with the trees and the signs,
And the voices and faces
That are etched by the mind
On its chart of familiar places.
N.s.W.
LAN HEALY.
Loose in the Water.
“Loose in the water,” he said —
That lone man standing
On the white sand by green, weed-
broidered sea.
The hard words, straining from silence.
Creaked solemn to the stiff shape of a
story:
Black-white, light-shade, the beating
images
Broke through thin time as tide washed
men for death;
The stealth of feet in sand,
Avalanche of spears, and shouts
Pouring through sunlight, battering at
the boats.
And blood like favors scarving bodies
lean as swords.
Another world where life was black,
death red,
Warriors sinking under the spears to
drown —
“Men loose in the water,” he said;
And stodd, a silent man.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


and she was anxious to display Charlie's
accomplishments.
“It seemed a waste to have a piano in
the house and nobody able to play a
note,” she explained, “so I thought
Charlie might as well learn. Alf’s mother
left it to us so’s Bessie wouldn’t get it.”
Charlie, in search of sustenance,
wandered unsuspectingly into the trap.
“Can I have a piece of bread?”
His mother pounced on him. “Play
your new piece for Mrs. Purvis, Charlie.”
Charlie was mutinous. “I’m hungry.
I can’t play on an empty stummick.”
“You can have a piece of bread after-
wards,”
“Come on, Charlie,” encouraged Mrs.
Purvis.
“I’m hungry,” repeated Charlie despair-
ingly, feeling himself hemmed in by these
two large, resolute women.
“Get up there on that piano-stool at
once,” ordered Charlie’s mother. “And
don’t let me hear any more nonsense out
of you.”
Charlie knew that tone. He played
“Valse” through with the maximum of
sound that he could extract from the
elderly piano. Then he had to play one
of his earlier pieces, and then he had to
play “Valse” again.
The younger members of the family
wandered in and stood round gaping
open-mouthed at their prodigy. Mrs.
Purvis said he was doing real well there
was no doubt and you had to have it in
you. She asked Charlie’s mother how
she would like it if Charlie became a pro-
fessional some day, and Charlie’s mother
said there wasn’t going to be any of that
nonsense.
At last Charlie, greatly worn in spirit,
made his escape to the kitchen.
HASSELL had now disposed of
afternoon tea, the three bedrooms,
the dining-room and the laundry, and had
arrived at the sitting-room. Miss Thorpe
had found a number of tasks to occupy
her that had occasioned a good deal of
flitting from room to room. But at
last her moment had arrived. She seated
herself at the piano, hands poised lightly
on the keys, head thrown slightly back.
Softly and tenderly she played the first
movement of the Moonlight Sonata
while Mr, Hassell busily unscrewed, his
face dark and thoughtful.
“Do you like Beethoven, Mr. Hassell?”
Mr. Hassell scratched his chin with the
screwdriver. “Well, I don’t know. I like
a good lively tune meself. Like ‘Horsey,
Keep Your Tail Up.’ That was a good
one. Can you play that?”
For a moment Miss Thorpe faltered.
Her soul almost revolted. Almost. k
Presently Miss Thorpe’s neighbors
were astounded to hear the familiar tune
coming from the temple of music ; then,
flushed and giggling, the high priestess
swept into “Yes We Have No Bananas.”
Mr. Hassell reluctantly screwed in the
last screw.
“I think I’d better come back tomorrow
and have a look at that heater you’ve got
in the kitchen.”
“Oh, yes,” agreed Miss; Thorpe without
the least idea why he should look at the
heater. “Please do, Mr. Hassell.”
Mr. Hassell took the step he had been
cogitating for some time.
“Call me Vince,” he said.
THEY DROVE TO TOWN
BUY JAMES HACKSTON
THEY used to drive into the town
every now and then to “see about
things” ; if their horse was not in
the pound, hadn’t strayed into the
hills, fallen down a shaft, got
bogged in the creek or tumbled
over an embankment; and if the
wheels of their trap were not
sprung, one of the shafts not
broken, some of the harness not
on loan to someone or one of
the traces not missing.
Giving their boots a clean with mut-
ton fat (they couldn’t find the blacking),
they’d wash, comb their hair with the
good end of the comb and, while the dog
made frantic efforts to lick their faces as
an appeal to accompany them, give in-
structions about the same things that
always had to be done in their absence
and which, as they knew, would not be
done and never had been done; and all
this as importantly as if they were going
on a world tour.
By this time the dog (having failed to
lick their faces) would be making frantic
efforts to lick the horse’s head instead;
in reply to which appealing picture they’d
smile benignly and, with the spirit of
goodwill lighting up their faces, signal
to the dog that he could come with
them.
And now, with a shake of the reins;
but not strenuously enough to break them
at one, or more, or at the whole number
of the many places where they had been
mended with bootlaces, string, wire, rope,
greenhide and even stay-laces ; and, with
the tail-happy dog already up at the front
gate exercising his sense of smell in
anticipation of the delicious and pungent
odors to come, they’d drive off; the
wheels of the trap looking as if, at any
moment, one of them, or both of them
simultaneously, would leave the trap and
go rolling off on its own. And so, with
the echoes of the usual unintelligible last-
minute order receding into the infinite,
they’d disappear round the bend.
|_| ALF a mile or so down the road
* 1 they’d come to Pike’s place and
again wonder why Pike did not plough
that other half of his paddock, and, re-
ceiving no information from the paddock
in reply to this never-ending question
with themselves, they’d venture the
opinion and suggest to themselves that
Pike never grew the right thing in that
part of the paddock he did cultivate* and
that he should not grow wheat in soil
which they knew would not grow wheat.
If the land were theirs they’d have
planted potatoes instead of wheat.
But by the time they’d got to planting
potatoes in Pike’s paddock in place of
the wheat Pike had so industriously sown
they’d have
passed his
place and,
coming to
Blunt’s place
next, they’d
be again sur-
prised that
Blunt did not
clear his
land and put in a good crop: for what
was the good of a man owning land if
he did not clear it and cultivate it; and
they’d just about have it cleared and cul-
tivated when Blunt’s neglected place
would also slip by with the trees and
fences and Holman’s place come into
view, and likewise be inspected and com-
mented on.
Holman’s place! Not a tree on it to
provide a bit of shade for his sheep—
what he had of them. And the sheep
weren’t up to much. In this case they’d
plant trees; they’d plant clumps of trees
for shade, and on the northern end a
windbreak, and after they’d planted the
same windbreak they’d always plant
when passing. Holman’s unprotected
property would slip past, too (too quickly
for them to do more), and the open pad-
docks come into view ; some with sheep ;
some with cattle; some with horses* in
them; and as they’d pass along they’d
take the cattle out of the paddock the
cattle were in and put them in the pad-
dock where the sheep were and move
the sheep into the paddock where the
cattle had been and instead of allowing
horses to eat up the feed run them into
the sales yards.
In addition to these successful opera-
tions they’d again put up a new fence on
those properties on which they always
put up a new fence and also put in the
new rail, put up the new post and tighten
up the same wire, as they always did.
And they found time, too, to write to
the council about the bad state of the
road they were driving along. By
this time all the “mismanaged” and
“neglected” properties would be lying
back in the distance and the town itself
coming up to meet them.
WHEN the main street met them
they’d notice that Harry Conarchie’s
horse, or Archie Wilson’s horse, or the
horse belonging to Jack Winter, Will
Matthews, Sandy Mac or Old Pike was
drooping before the Black Swan Hotel,
and they’d venture the opinion, with
themselves, that young Harry Conarchie,
or Old Pike or one of the others (which-
ever one of them happened to be going
to the dogs at that particular time)
should take a pull before it was too late.
They also thought that Connor ought
to give his Black Swan Hotel a coat of
paint.
After these salutary warnings and ad-
monishments, they’d get out of the trap
and stand in front of the chemist’s shop
to see if the two big red and blue carboys
were still there and again wonder if they
were made of colored glass or had
colored water in them and, after staring
at them, as they always stared at them,
be highly amused and smile forgivingly,
that some people used such fancy soaps
and stuff to clean teeth—salt or ashes
from the fire and a bit of rag were just
as good. And there was the hot-water
bottle in the flannel jacket—a stone
ginger-beer bottle filled with boiling
water was just as good, and it could be
used for bottling raspberry or red
currant wine if not wanted for tooth-
ache or stomachache.
If there were bright striped pyjamas
with fancy cords and tassels in the win-
dows at the big store, she’d look at the
pyjamas and, with a wicked look in her
eyes, give him a flirtatious nudge in the
ribs with her elbow and ask him if he’d
like a pair and then burst out laughing ;
and while he’d be looking silly jand
sheepish, as if trying to visualise himself
in such a rigout, she’d be looking as if
she were thinking of how she had seen
him in bed: the time it was very cold and
he had his socks on, a muffler round his
neck and his old hat on and pulled so
far down on his head that his moustache
seemed to be growing out of the hat.
If there were nightgowns with little
innocent-looking bows of pink and pale-
blue ribbon in the window he’d look at
her with a sinful look in his eyes and
ask her if she’d like one of “those,” and
he’d then give her a sly flirtatious nudge
in her ribs and she’d look sheepish and
.shy, as if trying to visualise herself in
such a flimsy lacy rigout. And then
they would both laugh very heartily.
A FTER any such wicked episode, and
** while she’d be looking at furniture,
a pair of corsets or something or other,
he’d go over the road to the saddler’s ;
not to see about
new harness, but
to again have' a
look at the big
cod in the glass
case that had
been in the
saddler’s window
for as long as he
couJd remember
and which he’d
always have a
look at.
Gating fixedly and admiringly (how
he wished he’d caught it) at the big cod
(biggest ever caught in the Murray) he’d
read all over again, as if he had not read
it before, that it had been caught by
Watty Crump, and pretend that he did
not know that Mr. Small, the saddler,
was watching him from the back of his
shop, as Mr. Small always did every time
he’d look at the cod ; so he’d make a
show of looking at a bridle instead of
at the saddle he had looked at the last
time Mr. Small watched him from the
back of his shop, and, so that the
saddler would not think that he only
came to look at the cod, he’d pretend to
look at some other harness to make it
look as if he had not come to look at
the cod at all but to look at the harness.
Then, feeling the cod’s cold, unshift-
ing, suspicious stare following him, he’d
cross back across the road and say, if it
happened to be Bent who was coming
up the street, that “that lazy cow Bent”
was coming; and then he’d shake hands
with the lazy cow and ask the lazy cow,
who was the town’s poundkeeper, rate-
collector, caretaker of the Mechanics’ In-
stitute, lamplighter, vermin - destroyer
(also noxious weeds) and honorary secre-
tary of the Canary Club, how was he
popping
After the lazy loafer had passed on,
he would say that if he were pound-
keeper he’d certainly not let the chief
magistrate’s horse roam all over the town
without being impounded, and that Bent
should do his duty and make old Mother-
well get rid of the blackberries on his
place before they’d spread over every-
body else’s land, also mentioning that
Bent wasted too much of the town’s time
breeding fancy canaries.
A FTER he’d expressed these septi-
ments they’d have another look to
see if young Harry Conarchie (or one of
the others) was still going to the dogs at
the Black Swan and, paying no more
attention to “that blot on the town,”
come to the hay and corn store where
the bran and the pollard and the chaff
smelt fine, with fragrant whiffs of sweet
hay and the perfume of bags and twine
and the restful sight of black cats and
white cats and grey cats and striped and
tawny cats sleeping luxuriously in the
patches of sunlight that lay over round,
fat, voluptuous-looking bags of grain.
While she’d stroke the kittens that
fawned round her, purring and press-
ing against and past her, their
tails held plumb upright and straight
as a poker, with the exception of
the extreme ends, which were sud-
denly bent, he’d smell the bran;
lift his hose to it as a deer to the wind ;
stand solemnly by the bag of corn that
always stood temptingly by the big
cavernous door.
Wonderful how a bag of corn attracts
man. There’s kinship. Corn! Golden
corn! Crush it! The sweetness of it!
The earthy taste! Down the ages—
corn; standing there looking at it
solemnly ; nodding the head wisely at it;
handling it; letting the golden pellets
tumble in small cascades over their hard,
horny, tender palms.
He’d pitch one into his mouth and
grind it and tell the man that he’d been
thinking about planting corn —might do
so next year; that coming along the
road the country looked fine, and feel-
ing some rebuke, maybe, from the com-
bined efforts of man’s industry and hus-
bandry (as compared with his own in-
dolence) spread so honorably before him,
and, as if now wishing to give all men
their just deserts, say that Pike’s crop
looked fine and that the sheep that
weren’t up to much also looked fine.
Then, with a handful of corn in his
pocket and a pellet in his mouth, go
grinding along to
Condron, the town’s
blacksmith, who
owed everybody, so
they said, and again
listen to the profes-
sional talk on the
rows of old shoes
that were hanging in
long rows on the
dark, mysterious,
sun-spotted, spider-
webbed walls.
Count back sixty years or so on those
shoes, Condron could. Tyson’s leaders ;
Ferguson’s big team; Todhunter’s
champions ; Mason’s team. Great days!
Slashing horses! Pull anything! Those
great wagons of bales of wool stacked
up against the sky; the great draughts
ploughing the dust; the grinding wheels
singing their song of the laden road and
the far sheep plains.
After this lecture a look in at the
timber yard (fine smell of clean pine)
and a couple of inquiries about the price
of timber in general—just in case, like ;
and, to follow, a visit to the coach-
painter’s ; not to have the trap attended
to, but just to watch the coachpainter
miraculously painting that thin, steady,
yellow line that runs round the rim of a
wheel; watch him breathlessly, lest the
master’s hand falter; lest his brush slip
and ruin the perfect evenness and conti-
nuity of the magic line ; with the master
paying not the slightest attention ob-
viously, but with a secret eye on them
and feeling that thrill that comes to man
when the magic of the hand holds his
brother.
The three solitary helmets still hung
in the fire-station —“Not quite as shiny
as last time we looked at them” —and
the firemen’s three coats still hung be-
neath the three helmets. “They always
keep the buttons up to the knocker.”
Still there was the vacant block of land
opposite the fye-station where any per-
son found depositing rubbish would be
prosecuted with the utmost rigor of the
law and where, just after Watty Crump
had caught the big cod, Sergeant Gaugh-
win had found Councillor Jingles, the
keen cod angler, sleeping dejectedly and
drunkenly on the old tangled wire mat-
tress that rusted among the tanks, bed-
steads, casks, tins, hoopiron and fencing
wire.
“Councillor Jingles’ bed is still there ;
he, he, he! ”.
Brunsden’s old deserted flour mill (the
haunted mill) still stood up against the
blue wall of the sky, with its thistles,
briar bushes and wild weeds holding
counsel with the goats; its shadow
(Continued on page 32.)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
UNCLE SAM OUT OF CHINA.
As distinct from the tragedy of a China
faced with practically certain mass star-'
vation and large-scale civil war together,
there is a strong element of comedy in
the story of Uncle Sam’s experiences in
his do-good role in that ancient land,
ending with the abandoning of mediation
efforts and the withdrawal “as soon as
possible” of Marines and other U.S.
forces. These have been moving out
steadily since the decision to go was taken
at the end of last month.
Instead of being loved for his part of
guide, philosopher and friend, Uncle
Sam, according to current American re-
ports, has become thoroughly hated. The
Chinese, these reports suggest, want him
to get out —evefn quicker than he is
going.
Old hands in China have no doubt
been waiting for such a denouement.
Taking a philosophic—or it might be
thought blase —view of the troubled land,
the London “Times” Shanghai corres-
pondent has written: “But this is China,
and the evils affecting China today are
nothing new”; adding, of course with
Uncle Sam mainly in mind: “During the
last decade the Western nations have in-
dulged in unwarranted optimism, about
the possibilities in China and have ignored
the stupendous problem of bringing a
nation of 400,000,000 people into line
with modern Western civilisation.
Patience is a virtue and remains an
absolute necessity in assessing correctly
the progress of China, which has to be
counted by decades and even centuries.”
Actually, Uncle Sam has been on his
do-good mission in China much longer
than a decade. “For a century past,”
Professor Fairbank, of Harvard, points
out in an “Atlantic Monthly” article, “we
have fostered liberalism in China. Our
missionaries have carried the message of
the worth of the individual.”
Uncle Sam’s hopes and ambitions
soared to their highest when the Japs
caved in. U.S. policy, as enunciated in
President Roosevelt’s time, was to build
in China a strong, united democracy. It
was to be capable of defending itself
(with U.S.-trained ground, air and sea
forces) against all-comers. It was to be
built up industrially and otherwise to
replace Japan as the leading nation of
Asia, fit to stand forth in the world as
nothing less than a major Power.
The failure of that project has no
doubt influenced Uncle Sam in making
his claims for sole-control trusteeship
over former Jap mandated islands more
urgent. Though he is, getting out of
China, he means to be as handy as pos-
sible.
Chronic Civil War
Those who had their doubts about the
wisdom erf building up the powerful,
modernised China envisaged soon had
their fears allayed for the time being.
They had reckoned without China.
Uncle Sam’s ambitious programme be-
came bogged in China’s eternal internal
troubles. “From the overthrow of the
Manchus in 1911,” writes the “Times”
correspondent, “some kind of civil
war has gone on year by year
Nor is it any one particular set of
ills that has to be rectified ii| order
to get commerce running in normal chan-
nels again. The troubles affecting China
are so numerous and so closely inter-
locked that to unravel them will be the
task of a number of years.” Uncle Sam
was beginning to find this out when in
December, 1945, General Marshall, fresh
from the triumph of his Staff leadership
in the war, was sent as President Tru-
man’s special envoy to try to make order
out of the Chinese chaos. Professor
Fairbank says the intention was not to
back the Kuomintang civil war:
General Marshall’s statesmanlike objec-
tives were to help stop the civil war and to
help achieve a coalition Government of all
parties, in which the Communist party
would be represented and have political
rights to seek adherents and thus compete
with the Kuomintang for the support of
the Chinese people. This coalition Gov-
ernment would end one-party dictatorship
by the Kuomintang and usher in a two-
party system; at the same time the two
parties would merge their armies in a newly-
reorganised national army, which the
United States would help to build. The
new coalition Government, founded on a
new Constitution, would receive economic
aid from the Uriited States, and China
would be set on the road to unity, de-
mocracy and national strength.
Fanning Hatred
After a year of it. General Marshall
returned, beaten. In a report he blamed
equally the extremists among the Chinese
Communists and the reactionaries of the
Kuomintang, and said that China’s hopes
lay with the moderates of both sides.
It was a judgment worthy of Solomon ;
hut meanwhile the Kuomintang - Com-
munist position had worsened, to the
extent that the “Times” correspondent
had to report a couple of weeks ago
that “it would now seem certain that the
dispute can only be decided on the battle-
field,” and meanwhile, also, Uncle Sam’s
position in China considerably worsened,
too. As a “World Report” correspondent
at Nanking sees it:
All China is a ripe field for anti-
American activity. The immediate success
of the recent demonstrations in alt of
China’s major cities points up the in-
credible but conclusive fact that at least'
one-third of China violently and irrationally
hates America.
The “World Report” goes on to say
that “the immediate target of the out-
breaks is the American serviceman,”
adding:
Most Chinese want him to leave. In-
flammatory incidents ranging from jeep
accidents to street fights and alleged cases
of rape are setting public opinion afire.
U.S. troops are. unhappy in China. They
want to come home. Of the American forces
N.Y. "Daily News:"
FOR EVER AND A DAY.
in China, who numbered 113,000 a year
ago, most have returned to the U.S. Some
of those still are career men. But,
of the 12,000 remaining, few like the
country.
The American troops have been alienated
by China’s inefficiency, corruption, black-
market operations, industrial backwardness,
poverty and lack of sanitation. Few
Chinese speak English and few homes have
modern plumbing. New antagonisms have
been added by Communist attacks on
Marine-guarded installations in Nationalist
areas, in which a number of American lives
have been lost.
The Chinese are sensitive to these scorn-
ful attitudes. Proud of an ancient civili-
sation, they reciprocate with contempt for
the Western “barbarians.” Chinese news-
papers for months have been filled with
complaints—some true, some exaggerated,
some fabricated —of Chinese beaten by
drunken Marines, of Chinese hit and left
bleeding by American trucks, of Chinese
women insulted and attacked by American
soldiers.
The “World Report” further states that
“U.S. intervention in Chinese politics
meets widespread distrust in broad sectors
of Chinese opinion” and that “the struggle
of China’s opposition parties to channel
these feelings into support for their pro-
grammes has fed fuel to the flames.”
With the aid of propaganda “that reads
like pure fantasy to an American,” a new
unity has thus been fostered among anti-
Kuomintang forces, “built around the
campaign against the U.S.” As a result;
China’s contending factions will be left
to fight ft out largely on their own. In
this fight anti-American feeling will con-
tinue to play a major role.
The Trade Mirage
Of course the interest in China was
not merely either altruistic or political.
Uncle Sam expected to he doing
a big post-war trade with that country.
Instead, as “World Report” has phrased
it: “Hopes of businessmen for a huge
market in post-war China are going up in
the smoke of civil war and inflation.
American companies in Shanghai are
finding it so difficult and risky to do
business that they are holding up their
plans for expanding trade and invest-
ments.”
Predictions a year ago were that a peaceful*
and united China would buy abroad at the
rate of , almost $1,000,000,000 a year by
1951 and that the U.S. would command
a quarter of this market. Today, U.S.
Government studies indicate that civil strife,
if prolonged as now seems likely, will make
it impossible for China to finance purchases
abroad in excess of $300,000,000 a year by
1951. The U.S. share of this may be only
$60,000,000 to $90,000,000.
Military costs, “World Report” states,
are taking 84 per cent, of the National
Government’s Budget expenditures ; taxes
are bringing in only one-sixth as much
as the Government is spending. The'
publication quotes a “top official on
China” as stating:
It is unsound to invest private or public
capital in countries where there is wide-
spread corruption in business and official
circles, where a Government is wasting its
substance on excessive armament, where
■ the threat or fact of civil war exists, where
tendencies toward Government monopolisa-
tion exclude American business, or where
undemocratic concepts of government are
controlling.
“With American businessmen in
China taking the same view,” says “World
Report,” “the continuation of civil strife
will mean postponement of China’s in-
dustrialisation and a long delay in the
emergence of China as a major market
for the world’s goods.” And meanwhile
a U.S, loan to China of $500,000,000,
which would probably have been con-
siderably increased, is held up. It was
to have been for “in-
dustrial rehabilitation
and expansion,” but
Uncle Sam can see no
hope for that until (if
ever) China finishes
fighting itself.
U.S.-U.S.S.R. Clash
In some American
opinion, when Uncle
Sam moves out Uncle
Joe is sure to move in,
Thus N.Y. “World-
Tele g r a m”: “If
American withdrawal
from China .brought
collapse of the
Nationalist Govern-
ment, as it probably
would, the door
would be thrown wide
open to the Com-
munists. That would
add 450,000,000
people to the ever-
expanding Russian
orbit and give the
Kremlin a pool of
manpower dwarfing
anything the world
has ever known. The
implications are stag-
gering.” Also, argu-
ing that Uncle Sam
“must lend every
practicable support to
the constituted Gov-
ernment of China,”
Dr. Henry P. Van
Dusen (“president of the Union Theo-
logical Seminary” and “one of the out-
standing younger leaders in the Protestant
churches in the U.S.”) has stated in an
article which “Life” ran as an editorial:
If World War 111 comes, it may well
break out, not in. Europe or the Near
East, but in Eastern Asia, where Russia
and the U.S. face each other along a
common frontier. Wherever it begins, it
is likely to involve the U.S. most vitally
along that frontier. However it originates,
the issue of World War 111 may be deter-
mined in'Eastern Asia.
China in Communist hands would be
the most probable, one may almost say
certain, prelude to World War 111. '
Dr. Van Dusen believes that “if the
U.S. withdraws support from China, the
leaders of the National Government may
well find themselves with no course save
to make the best terms they can, not
with Communists of their own people,
but with the mighty expanding strength
of Soviet Communism.” The same writer
added; “There is reason to believe that
the terms of such an agreement would
bring China immediately into the com-
pany of Soviet satellites and ultimately
might place the whole of Asia under
Russian domination. Here is the real
issue at stake in the decision of U.S.
policy.”
Taking the view that the problem of
China is a conflict of interests between
.the U.S. and U.S.S.R., and that it all
hinges on an agreement being reached
between Washington and Moscow, a
N.Y. “Times” special correspondent, after
spending some time in the Communist
section of China, has made the interest-
ing report that all is not happy between
the Chinese Communists and their Russian
counterparts: “It is no secret that rela-
tions between the Soviet community and
the Chinese Communists in Harbin are
strained.” While the correspondent par-
ticularly mentions U.S. “reactionaries” as
being blamed for China’s troubles, he
also insists; “Everywhere-in China today
there exists an awakening nationalism that
resents all foreigners. But especially in
the ranks of the Chinese Communists this
nationalism is most advanced and has
become, indeed, a mild xenophobia.”
Altogether it would seem that the re-
ported turning against Uncle Sam (and
all other foreigners) in China is part of
that vast and unpredictable heritage which
the Japs gave to the world thrbugh the
successful propagation of their sloga'n
“Asia for the Asiatics.” It has taken hold
from Manchuria round to India,- with
implications for countries like Australia
tersely summoned up in the N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” comment; “There is a new day
dawning in Asia, and those who slumber
through it may regret they were not
awake/’
POLAND ELECTS.
Summing up on the Polish elec-
tions by Dave Boone in N.Y.
“Sun” : —
Well, the Polish people went
through their elections with perfect
artillery and air support. It just
goes to show the value of light
tanks in upholding the popular
will.
The successful candidate emerged
suffering only from battle fatigue
and announced in Russian that the
people had triumphed again and
that the cause of democracy would
go marching on under the leader-
ship of the secret police, “Pravda”
editorials and a suitable force of
machine-gunners.
The Potsdam Agreement was re-
pulsed with heavy losses and was
reported asking for rehabilitation
and a transfer to Georgia, where
the elections are quite as tough, but
more convenient to first - aid
stations.
“SENTRIES OR EXPORTS?”
Commenting on Britain’s deficit last
year of £400,000,000 of imports over
exports, a London correspondent of
N.Y. “Times” stated that “about
£300,000,000 of this was attributable
to military expenditure overseas, not
counting the £100,000,000 it is cost-
ing the British to occupy Germany and
Austria.”
The cry had been raised that half a
million men must be transferred from the
services to industry. The cry was “Sentries
or Exports?” and “New Statesman and
Nation” asked; “Can we....afford to
maintain, as* we are doing, 1,385,000
men in the armed forces?” The publica-
tion’s reply to its own question was one
calculated to dampen optimism on
the prospects of getting unlimited immi-
grants from Britain. That sized force,
said “New Statesman and Nation,” can’t
be afforded unless Britain is “prepared
to accept immigration labor on a large
scale,”
In addition to those actually in the
armed forces, about 500,000 workers are
engaged in keeping those forces supplied.
London “Times” has stated that Britain’s
military commitments in Germany, India,
Indonesia, Palestine and Greece are im-
posing a strain on manpower, material
and foreign exchange “which is increas-
ingly difficult to reconcile with the im-
perative requirements of recovery and
reconstruction”; but,. in the “Times"
view, “While the Cabinet is known to
be anxious to reduce these commit-
ments the trend of events appears
to point to the need for reinforce-
ments rather than retrenchment.” The
“Times” stated that “a fresh ex-
amination of policy” in some of the
regions mentioned “will almost certainly
be called for,” but the recent White Paper
on defence gave out that the requirements
for the three services would still be
1,087,000 this time next year. That is
less than the present strength, but still
more than double the pre-war figure.
Questions have been pressed in the
House of Lords on the weakening of
the Navy, but it was stated that there is
to be no weakening there, and it is also
intended to keep the R.A.F. up to
scratch.
Explaining the move to back the
R.A.F. with a Volunteer Reserve, Mr.
Noel-Baker, Secretary of State for Air,
said he “hoped it would not be thought
that Britain was preparing for another
war.” The new scheme, which should
greatly strengthen the R.A.F. for any
emergency that might arise in the next
few years, is in its way part of the drive
to save on manpower. “1f... .we want
to make our air strength as great as pos-
sible,” said Mr. Noel-Baker, “it is be-
cause we desire to be able to assist
actively in maintaining peace, to support
the United Nations if their law should be
challenged and to withstand aggression


f
£1
» BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap* It
keeps his tender akin
healthy and ex-
quisitely «oft
and velvety*
One of the famous i
trlo-Cutioura Soap, j
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
630
What a Trustee should know...
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection:
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must ha,ve time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
w
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. ITD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
.. . PT.4.6
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco. Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage*
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
'2O/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —*
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
whenever it should appear. The purpoie
of these arrangements is to increase our
strength as much as we can with the
smallest possible diversion of manpower
from ordinary needs.”
The Volunteer Reserve scheme is to be
open to eX“Officers of the Air Force who
“are ready to volunteer now for service
if they should be required in the event
of a future emergency.” At least it is a
contrast- to the current Canberra policy
of merely allowing both army and air
forces to disintegrate, on the excuse that
nothing can be done till Canberra knows
what U.N.O. is doing.
Pressed for manpower as he is—the
shortage for the recovery job has been
put at 2,000,000 —J. Bull still has no
time for that sort of excuse.
TROOPS WASTED IN
JAPAN.
General MacArthur has spoken very
highly of the British occupation troops in
Japan and expressed his gratitude for
their “loyal support,” but in more than
one report the Tokyo correspondent of
London “Times” has written on the theme
that those troops have no worth-while
job to do there, and that such duties as
they have to do are of a kind that puts
them in a false light compared with the
American occupation forces.
Earlier this month the “Times” man
reported that “in Tokyo the principal
British activity in the eyes of the Japan-
ese consists of military parades,” lead-
ing many Japanese to say, “While the
British parade to impress us, the Ameri-
cans rebuild our country.” Stating that
there are many competent administrators
in the British forces and that “they want
to participate in town planning and public
health schemes and economic rehabilita-
tion, but are debarred except in a
private capacity,” the writer added:
To these officers the issue is simple:
either the British Commonwealth Occu-
pation Force should have some part under
the United States command in the ad-
ministration of its area, or the force would
be better employed elsewhere. The funda-
mental aim of the occupation—the incul-
cation of democratic ideals among the
Japanese people—has been largely lost sight
of. Commanders’ activities are too much
limited to petty details of procurement,
and the troops now feel they have not a
proper job to do. Indeed, one of the most
popular subjects of debate throughout the
British Occupation Force
area is “Why are we in Japan?”
As the “Times” man sees it, the total
result of these forces being in Japan is
that “in many Japanese quarters they are
regarded, owing to the nature of their
duties, as oppressors, while the Americans
are looked upon as liberators.”
On these persistent reports, the Aus-
tralian forces in Japan would amount to
a sheer waste of men.. They are shown
in a current Department of Information
film efficiently doing such duties as the
American control allots them, but the
“Times” correspondent sees them as a
mere token force, having no real job to
do and, compared with the warm feeling
for the Americans, regarded by the Japs
with something like contempt.
HERR PICKWICK.
“Re-education” in Germany—
high optimism, if nothing else —
has included teaching the young
idea something about British elec-
tions ; part of democracy period.
To this end, according to a Lon-
don “Times” special correspondent,
“One enterprising young German
master has typed out and dupli-
cated for his class a complete
chapter from an English novel, that
in ‘The Pickwick Papers’ describ-
ing the Eatanswill election.”
As elections would be coming up
in the British section in Germany,
the boys had wanted to know how
the British managed this sort of
thing at home; but, says the
“Times” correspondent, “it would
be hard to find a single example of
what we hope the Germans will not
do in their elections which is not to
be found in that immortal chapter.”
The boys “assumed that the Blues
and the Buffs were the Conserva-
tive and Labor parties.” Whether
the master was as naive as he would
seem is another matter.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Spent on Smokes and Films. —J. Bull’s ex-
penditure of loaned* and other dollars, as given
by Mr. Dalton in the House of Commons, made
odd reading in one or two particulars. A
table headed “Expenditure in the United States
on U.K. Civil Imports and Films, Juty-
December, 1946,” set out that 29.7 million
pounds (or 24 per cent.) was spent on food,
whereas 39.2 million pounds (32 per cent.)
was spent on tobacco. “We are now con-
suming tobacco,” Mr. Dalton admitted, “to
the extent of 130 per cent, of the pre-war
figure.” On films the expenditure was given
as 8.8 million pounds (7 per cent.), and be-
cause of this and the tobacco expenditure re-
spective interests in the
U.S. have been warned
that there may be some
drastic cutting.
* *
Whoppers in Planes.
—When the series Of
Dakota crashes hap-
pened in January the
authorised all-up weight
for them in Britain was
stated to be 28,0001 b.,
with the war-time limit
given as 30,0001 b. The
panel appointed by the
British Ministry of Civil
Aviation to recommend
the best layout for the
international airport for
London at Heathrow
was instructed to keep
in mind “the largest
aircraft which could
reasonably be foreseen.”
The conclusion of the
panel was that “all run-
ways, etc., should be
designed for aircraft
having an all-up weight
of 360,0001 b.”
* *
Rebuilding Italy. —As
distinct from the
tangled political troubles
there and the public
mourning over the peace
treaty, the results of
individual rebuilding
efforts in Italy have
been described by the
“Atlantic Mbnthly” as
“a heartening experience.” In the “Atlantic
Monthly” description: “Bridges and houses are
springing up on all sides; what _ used to be
heaps of rubble is again clean, civilised land-
scape ; whatever could be done with stones,
mortar and labor of hands independently of
bureaucratic interference and foreign raw
materials is being achieved by the indefatigable
industry of a people which has made up its
mind not to die.”
* * * *
Prices Drop in C/.S—Noting that “the price
peak, apparently, has been reached,” the “Wall-
street Journal’s” staff correspondent in Washing-
ton states that, though the official price indexes
“have not yet begun to show any startling
drops,” the prices of “a number of significant
commodities, normally trend-makers, have fallen
sharply.” The rest of the year is expected to
see “a marked decline in prices for cost-of-
living items as well as special luxury goods,”
though prices “on heavy durables, where the
production lag is greater, are expected to hold
up better; this is particularly true of auto-
mobiles.” The writer states that “as a result,
the cost of living is going down,” the more
cautious estimating a drop of from 5 to 8 per
cent, by the end of the year and others putting
it at from 10 to 12 per cent.
* * * *
Tomorrows Germany. Discussing the sort
of Germany that will eventually emerge from
the peacemaking, London “Times” favors the
view of “Russia and the countries of Eastern
Europe,” which, it says, are for a “unitary
State,” while the Western European countries
support a “federation or confederation.” The
“Times” points out that effective German unity
dates from 1870, “though the desire for it is
centuries older.” Today “every important party
in Germany, from the farthest Left to the
farthest Right, is united on this issue, if on
nothing else.” Contending that the loose
federation recommended by France, like the
confederation urged by Holland, “might last
only as long as the Allies intervened to maintain
it,” the “Times” concluded: “German unity
is a natural phenomenon. It may be dangerous,
but to attempt to repress it by constitutional
half-measures in a treaty would be to make
it more so.”
* * * *
Holding German P.-0.-W. —One effect of the
delayed peace treaty for Germany noted by
London “Times” is that until there is such a
treaty the Allied Governments have legal
grounds for retaining German p.-0.-w. The
“Times” puts the total number being held at
some 3,500,000, the great bulk of them —up
to 2,500,000 —in Russia. There are about
340,000 in Britain, and at the present rate of
repatriation it will take two years before they
are returned to Germany. France is hanging
on to some 700,000, including 426,000 captured
by the Americans and “lent” to France. The
U.S. having asked the French to return these
to Germany by October, the prisoners are to
be given the choice of going back or staying in
France as free workers. In a leading article
the “Times” pointed out that the present
German population, of nearly 66,000,000 is made
up of 36,597,146 females and 29,313,853 males;
“most of the discrepancy of 7,000,000 falls in
the middle age group, where women probably
outnumber men by two to one, and this the
return of the prisoners-of-war will do much to
redress.”
•** * % 9
Bullseye with McKell. However he may
have been shooting with the other barrel, Ed
Sullivan in N.Y. “Daily News” was right on
the target with the second barrel on January
27, four days in advance of the announce-
ment: “Eager Duke of Windsor won’t get
Duke of Gloucester’s Australian post, which
will go to Australia’s William J. McKell.”
Chicago "Times."
"I DIDN T KNOW IT WAS HEREDITARY."
Soviet Limits Journalists. —With their sus-
piciousness and their secrecy complex, the
Russians must have been horrified when they
heard of the numbers of American, British and
other journalists, broadcasters and the like
who’d applied for visas in response to the
official Soviet intimation that reporting of the
Foreign in Moscow would
be free from censorship. It isn’t to be even
that; and visas are to be limited to only a
fraction of the scores applied for. General
Marshall, however, is taking with him —unless
the Soviet looks on the set-up as a Trojan
Horse —no fewer than 100 advisers, technical
experts, clerks, secretaries and other aides. He
is reported to have been mainly engaged since
his appointment in “assembling and briefing”
this army. And, if Russia isn’t allowing a free
hand in reporting and broadcasting, America
is insisting on telling Russia a few things.
The U.S. State Department’s international
broadcasting division is now sending “factual,
unbiassed news of the world and of the United
States” daily into Russia via transmitters in
Munich. It makes the 25th language in which
“the voice of America” speaks.
* * * *
Truman v. Lewis. —The issue on which Presi-
dent Truman faced up to and defeated United
Mine Workers’ leader John L. Lewis was
“whether the Government’s sworn responsibi-
lity for the general welfare can be exercised
to repel a threat to it by organised labor or
whether life-and-death powers over that welfare
shall be transferred to the unions.” It has a
familiar ring in Australia, which can’t be said
of the fight Mr. Truman put up. According
to N.Y. “Times” Washington representative
Arthur Krock, that fight included an intended
broadcast which was cancelled when Lewis
caved in: “Mr. Truman’s unspoken speech
promised full protection—and that means the
Army—to miners who returned to work, and
the same to their homes and to their families
it also contained a notice that the Gov-
ernment would go to the grand juries with
criminal conspiracy charges against those re-
sponsible for concerted activity that prolonged
the strike.” Mr. Truman won because once
he had “made up his mind that such emer-
gencies must never be permitted to paralyse the
national economy and the public welfare he
was not to be deflected.”
* * * *
World Armies. —In an article in the semi-
official U.S. military publication “Armored
Cavalry Journal,” Major Hal D. Steward puts
the main armies of the world as: Russia, about
3,000,000; China, 2,700,000 regulars in the
National Army; Britain, about 1,500,000;
United States, 1,300,000. Major Steward
directed special attention to the very large
army—Boo,ooo, though 10 per cent, are women
—maintained by Yugoslavia. Regarding the
Russian Army, he cautioned that, because of
“secrecy and evasion,” any figure “can be
grossly inadequate.”
* sH * V
Churchill Was Right— Its hostility to the
war leadership of President Roosevelt has
forced the Chicago “Tribune” into, for it, the
unusual role of championing something British.
The “Tribune’s” foreign correspondent John
Thompson having reported that “many Ameri-
cans in Europe are wondering whether things
wouldn’t have been better if there had been an
Allied invasion through. the Balkans” the
paper commented in a leader that Capt. Harry
C. Butcher’s diary chronicling Eisenhower’s
career made it clear that “the _ invasion of the
Balkans was urged by Prime Minister Churchill,
who had well-founded suspicions that if the
Russians once extended their sway to the area
they would remain there for good.” But at
Tehran Stalin, meaning to be first into the
Balkans, “high-pressured” Roosevelt into agree-
ing on the attack through France, and Churchill
grudgingly consented. Without Roosevelt s
assistance, states the, “Tribune,” “the Russians
could never have attained the political objec-
tives which, once won, have kept Europe in
torment ever since.”
* <« , * *
U.S.-British Wool Rivalry.—A convention of
U.S. w'ool interests, reported by the “Journal
of Commerce,” severely criticised Britain’s wool
dealings. Holding that “the British Empire
constitutes the greatest threat to United States
raw wool producers,” the convention statement
declared that the British Government “has the
monopoly power, and has exercised it, of
deciding the amounts of available wool that
shall be offered at auctions; of either accept-
ing or rejecting the bids, and of placing em-
bargoes on shipments of desirable wools to
certain countries.” The statement added that
not only had the U.S. been “the victim of this
embargo,” but the British Government “is
paying its wool textile manufacturers a subsidy
on British wool and is paying two or three
more additional subsidies to British clothing
manufacturers in order to relieve them of the
added cost of wages,” while “requesting lower
duties on imports to the U.S.” The conven-
tion recommended a quota on imports to pro-
tect the domestic industry, adding that “the
future security and welfare of the nation re-
quires that the U.S. should produce a minimum
of 50 per cent, of its raw wool requirements.”
* * * *
Britain’s Jet-engine Lead. —J. Bull’s supremacy
in jet-engine development was shown in a
course of instruction lately given to technicians
of other countries, including the U.S.; Belgium,
China, France, Holland, Italy, Sweden and
Switzerland. The course embraced “all but the
latest and most secret British developments in
gas turbines,” and, apart from assisting the
countries with less experience (Dominion
technicians had already taken the course), it
was intended to “substantiate Britain’s claims
to lead the world in gas turbines and result
in overseas orders for equipment and manufac-
turing licences.” W. E. P. Johnson, a director
of Power Jets, Ltd., described it as “a com-
pliment to British achievements that technicians
had come from all parts of the world to take
a short course.”
* * * #
J. Bull's Patchy Wardrobe. —As an illus-
tration of the austerity living in other things
besides food the “Wall-street Journal’s” Lon-
don correspondent reports:
“Make do and mend,” the war-time slogan
to conserve wardrobes, has become a per-
manent feature of British life, like so many
other emergency projects.
All over London and other big cities
shops have been opened for turning and
mending men’s suits, with a six- to 12-'
, week delay in delivery. Replacing frayed
shirt cuffs and collars by pieces taken from
shirt tails is another flourishing industry.
Naval officers and others obliged to wear
white collars are compelled to use paper
collars. Neither clothing coupons nor
laundry will allow the use of a clean linen
collar every day.
Woollen underclothing, very much needed
in the winter months in Britain’s cold
homes, continues in very short supply.
Women’s shoes are very scarce and pros-
pective purchasers must queue up before
nine o’clock in the morning. Then they
are lucky if they get a pair in their size
before stocks are exhausted for the day—
within an hour. The shortage of darning
wool is making repairs on socks also a
difficult problem.
Such are the straits to which clothing
shortages and rationing have reduced once
well-clothed Britons.


I
52*
Sy
iff
0
ff
&
//
Off.
Off
f
f
Off
t.
f
hr
f
0/
A
A
ff
if
*A
A
A
&
A
Off
/
As the only Company of its kind in Australia
with offices and factories in every state of
the Commonwealth, Claude Neon occupies a
position of unquestionable leadership in the field of luminous-tube
products for out-door advertising displays and interior Fluorescent
Lighting, The magnitude of Claude enterprises warrants a sub-
stantial year-after-year investment in research and planning . . .
$
your guarantee of the best that modern science and engineer-
ing can produce, when you buy Claude products. In addition,
Claude Neon is in continuous direct touch with overseas laboratory
research so as to ensure that every technological advance is made
speedily available to Australian users of luminous-tube products.
Claude Neon Limited
FIRST IN FLUORESCENT


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3498
Wednesday, February 26, 1947
AWFUL NIGHTMARE AT YARRALUMLA.
"On the same day the Governor-General designate read in the cables that the old immunity of the Crown was being withdrawn, and in the Canberra reports that Mr.
Menzies had said ‘The removal of Mr. McKell by an incoming Government would restore the Governor-Generalship to its true position and character.'"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne. •
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia > 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR" AND ITS FRIENDS.
With the Commonwealth Parliament
open for business again, as business is
conducted there, and with four States,
possibly five, soon to have Assembly
elections, two in the coming month, it
is necessary for Australians to consider
deeply how they have fared and are
faring under the- parties they have placed
in office and where the nation is going.
Federal “Labor” has been “in” since
October, 1941, and since the end qif
June, 1944, it has been in control of
both Chambers. N. S. Wales has had a
“ ‘Labor’ Government” for nearly six
years, Tasmania for 13 years, Westralia
for 14 years and Queensland for 15 years
—3O years since 1915. Victoria’s “Labor”
Government dates only from 'November,
1945, but the period has been long
enough for familiar features of
“Labor” administration to show them-
selves —wicked and destructive strikes,
concessions to strikers, notably a
Communist-led crowd of Govern-
ment railwaymen at the cost of Rail-
way Department solvency, and conces-
sions also to the gambling interest,
though the institution of Government
■lotteries rivalling the Government lot-
teries in the other four “Labor” States
has been unavoidably delayed.
The one State which has deliberately
absented itself from the—er —felicities of
“Labor” rule is South Australia.
In South Australia the Liberal and
Country parties long ago agreed to come
together, and there has been a Liberal
and Country League Ministry for *l4
years. For upwards of eight years Mr.
Playford, an Old Digger, has been
Premier, and it has been a very fruitful
period.
In the Tom Playford time Whyalla,
previously one of the neglected ports
with which the Australian coastline is
dotted, has become the scene of the great-
est and most successful experiment in
decentralised industry that this country
has ever known, and the terminus of the
most ambitious water-supply undertak-
ing, itself successful, since the Westralian
achievement of C. Y. O’Connor and John
Forrest. Dependent on N. S. Wales for
coal and plagued by the strikes and stop-
pages chronic in that “Labor” State,
which has not only an expensive Mines
Department, headed by a former coal-
miner, but returns the four principal
Commonwealth “Labor” Ministers, the
Playford Government set to work to get
coal from Leigh Creek when there
were not even holes in the ground. In
three years, with impressive results to
industry and transport, it has won 211,000
tons.
Mr. Playford’s State has not been ex-
empt from strikes, but in the main they
have been extensions of strikes started in
other States by bosses of federated
unions, as was the recent gas strike.
Even so, the 1945 record shows that only
3835 S.A. workers were directly or in-
directly involved in industrial disputes for
a wage-loss of £27,768 (the N.S.W. figures
were 261,759 and £2,241,180); and in
1946 lost time amounted to 220 days per
1000 unionists in S.A., as against 2100
days per 1000 in the Commonwealth.
Moreover, though in a worse position for
materials than any of the “Labor” States,
South Australia has outdistanced all in
the building of houses.
In this field the Playford Government
did not find it necessary to set up a huge
department with vast staffs of clerks and
inspectors, clouds of “co-ordinating”
semi-departments and the rest. It was
• satisfied with a Housing Trust composed
of seven members and a secretary, there
being no Minister to fuss round and brag
and ignore the pointed comments of an
Auditor-General like the one in N. S.
Wales, who, reviewing the year to June
30, reported that of dwellings “com-
pleted” by the “Labor” Housing Com-
mission, set at 1809, 440 were “emer-
gency,” 404 “military-hutment units”
and 94 “sleep-buts.” The S.A. Trust
builds neat and substantial structures
of three-, four-, five- and six-rooms,
rents them, mainly to ex-servicemen,
at 14s. 6d. to 255. a week, and sells
for round £l2OO dwellings that would
cost £2OOO jn “Labor” Sydney. Even
the Commonwealth “Labor” Housing
Minister has been driven to admit that
there is a difference of £4O to £45 a
“square” in S.A. and N.S.W. building
costs, and when he was accused by
Sydney builders of grossly under-estimat-
ing N.S.W. costs he had no reply.
In the industrial competition between
States, Liberal-C.P. South Australia has
forged far ahead of “Labor” Queensland.
This was indicated two months ago by
that eminent authority Mr. Calwefl, who,
in a statement on immigration (without
reference to the sort of immigration he
is sponsoring), gave South Australia’s
“immediate manpower needs” as “13,060
persons” and those of Queensland “6840
persons.” Yet Queensland’s male popu-
lation is nearly double that of South
Australia and its resources in fuels and
raw materials are immeasurably superior.
It is also, of course, in a far better geo-
graphical situation for the development
of an' export trade in the produce of
mines, factories and workshops.
By the irony of events, Mr. Playford’s
opponents are banking on the very in-
dustrial progress with which Mr. Playford
is identified to defeat his Government.
They are saying that so many A.L.P.
and A.C.T.U. unionists and their
families, many from other States, have
gone into borderline electorates as
a result of Playford policy that the Gov-
ernment will lose these electorates, and
with them its majority.
The unprecedented list of unopposed
returns —nine L.C.L., among them the
four Assembly Ministers and the Speaker,
and only four “Labor”—does not suggest
that this will happen. It suggests rather
—and this also for the first time —a loss
of confidence on the “Labor” side. But if
it does happen, and if the Westralian
Government survives the effects of the
shameful railway strike it ignominiously
“settled,” Australia will be “Labor” in
Commonwealth, States and Territories;
everywhere a Caucus despotism, tempered
by the arrogance of the bureaucrat and
the anarchy of the Communist wrecker.
Gone will be the one State Government
which placed its resources at the service
of energy and initiative and offered
careers to talents; the one State Govern-
ment which stood for British standards
and kept them high, refusing to accept the
reign of industrial lawlessness or to pre-
scribe the anodynfe of State lotteries; the
one State Government which was never
accused of pandering to the booze and
betting interests ; the one State Govern-
ment which showed a steady attachment
to the British people, and with whose
blessing the Food for Britain movement
was launched and maintained, notwith-
standing the cold hostility—active in the
first instance—of Federal “Labor.”
Of Federal “Labor” and its political
crimes of commission and omission
the nation heard something last week
from Mr. Menzies, Mr. Fadden and Mr.
Cameron. In the time allotted to them
these men could not possibly have told
the whole dreadful story, but what they
said amounted to an appalling exposure
of a regime which, in its proceedings and
lack of proceedings, resembles no other
regime that this country or any other
country has had.
When Parliament met ship-repair
unionists in Sydney and metal-trade
unionists in Victoria had been out for
months, the Victorian strike threatening
disaster to the fruit-preserving industry
for lack of refined sugar. The A.C.T.U.
had threatened a May Day strike for the
40-hour .week, for higher wages (with
“war and ‘prosperity’ loadings”) and for
the altering of the industrial-arbitration
machinery to its own specifications. With
coal production already down seriously,
the Miners’ Federation was threatening a
strike for the 35-hour week and a lot of
other things. And the Waterside Workers’
Federation, though promised paid holi-
days and “appearance money,” all to
come out of the taxes until, as it trans-
pires, the huge amount required is ex-
torted by a levy on “employers,” had
added a strike to its “go-slow methods,”
so described by the British Food Minister,
who said that in the result he might have
to reduce the meat ration again—and it
has got down to a shillingsworth a week:
Meat cargoes are not being loaded
according to the schedules necessary for
the maintenance of our ration. A cut is
inevitable ' if an Australia-wide tie-up of
shipping develops.
And it looked as if the Communists of
the Seamen’s Union might attend to that.
In Queensland large parties of Com-
munist-led squatters had taken possession
of national property, unresisted except
by servicemen who had no orders from
“Labor,” and so ineffectually. And a
long and shady succession of “Labor”
jobs had been consummated, from the
payment of Wimmera Wilson for his
vote on the 1941 censure motion with
the Administratorship of Norfolk Island
to the appointment of the rank partisan
McKell as Governor-General.
To the Opposition indictment on all
these counts, and on others concerning
the confiscation of profits on dealings
in commandeered wool, the sale of
wheat to “Labor” New Zealand at
roughly two-fifths of the export price
and the maintenance of the highest taxes
in the world, “Labor’s” only answer was
to brazen it out. For, morally as well
as intellectually bankrupt, “Labor” finds
its only resource in bluster. “Labor’s”
policy is a compound of Tammany Irish
paternalism and German-Jew socialism,
salted with Sydney larrikinism, the rule
of law in industrial matters having been
abandoned for the law of the push, A
national disaster of the first magnitude
is the certain outcome unless the
party goes to pieces again, or unless the,
electors revolt.
Defence and Excuses.
“The supreme object of British policy
must be to deter aggressioh, and simul-
taneously to safeguard British interests
against attack.” That was said in a
British White Paper on the armed forces
issued last week.
British defence expenditure in the com-
ing financial year will be considerably re-
duced by comparison with 1946-47, but
it will still be round £AI,IH>OOO,OOO, of
which one-third wifi be spent on the
Army, one-fourth each on the Navy and
the R.A.F., and the balance on supply
and experiment. British forces also will
be reduced during 1947-48, but not to
the point of insecurity.
There will still be 1,087,000 men and
women serving their country—and, inci-
dentally, this country —on March 31,
1948. They will be engaged in guarding
British colonies, air and sea routes, oil
and other vital supplies and in providing
garrisons for occupied and mandated
territories. They will be developing
weapons for which the crowd at Can-
berra will yell in hoarse terror if we are
attacked. In the process young Britons
will be going through their compulsory
service, while Australians shirk —not be-
cause Australians feel that way in the
mass, but because they are “governed”
by a mob which, as in the past, will stoop
to anything base and mean by way of
keeping and getting votes.
In essence Britain is hard put to it to
keep afloat. Nevertheless, its Labor Gov-
ernmenh for all its childish enhance-
ment with its socialist toys, is still British
to the extent that it realises its prime
responsibility, which is to defend the
country and its remaining possessions
at all costs. The Australian “Gov-
ernment” has ceased to be a “Gov-
ernment” at all in the accepted
sense of the word. It is like a
dead fowl which has been tossed into a
gutter, and which has become the play-
thing of dirty little boys who use its tail-
less corpse as a weapon against any
passer-by who has excited their hatred or
derision, be he called employer, “Fascist”
or “scab.”
This “Government” has no defence
policy other than that imposed on it by
union secretaries who take their orders
from Moscow.
It has no initiative in defence save that
deeded to it by persons who hate every
concept of British citizenship, and whose
one aim is to see the end of British
“imperialism” and its replacement by a
new kind of imperialism, implemented by
themselves as agents for a backward
Asiatic Power which has little in its favor
save savage hordes and cunning.
The seriousness of the world situation
is clearly shown by the sacrifices which
the United Kingdom is making to keep
its defences strong, and by the concerted
measures into which the Atlantic Eng-
lish-speaking nations have been driven.
Not the most bitter enemies of Britain
and the United States could claim that
these countries have not been conciliatory
to all the nations of the earth, even to
those whom past experience has given
them full reason to distrust. Yet their
overtures and concessions have been met
in such a spirit that they have been com-
pelled to concert parallel policies instead
of following that to which they naturally
lean —one built on the hope, gradually
fading, that something may come out of
the gabbling of U.N.0.; which looks
to their own security based upon the use
of their joint resources.
The British nation faces this necessity
at a time when it is desperately short of
food, fuel and shipping ; when it is deal-
ing with terrorist insurrection in Pales-
tine, with frustration by those whom it
saved in every country in Europe, and
with ingratitude in India, from which,
having given that country virtual indepen-
dence, it has now to contemplate the need
to withdraw all British nationals —as
British women and children have been
withdrawn from Palestine —lest they have
their throats cut during what seems to be
inevitable civil war.
And since British communications are
also Australian communications, since
there would be no shipping or markets
on which Australia would have a claim
if Britain were to go the way of sixth-
century Rome, everything that happens
to Britain is something which Australia
cannot escape—though it is difficult to
believe this when the proceedings at Can-
berra are conned over.
It is true that Australia this year has
provided £124,000,000 for defence pur-
poses. But the figures are a subterfuge
and a delusion. If Parliament had not
abdicated to a secret junta, and if there
had been a normal debate on the defence
estimates, it could have been proved that
they were nothing better than a confi-
dence trick.
The real situation is shown by the
statement of Mr. Dedm'an on February
19—a day of dreadful memory, anni-
versary of the bombing of Darwin in
1942—that at l5, when de-
mobilisation of war units was completed,
even the meagre “interim” defence force
of 67,500, clerks and women included,
which the Government expects to con-
tinue “for a long period”—R.A.N. 13,500,
Army 39,000 and R.A.A.F. 15,000 —is
7350 short of specifications.
The existing force includes, of course,
that in Japan, which is the only section
that could be described by any stretch of
imagination as fit to fight, apart from
the R.A.N. When clerks in uniform and
women are allowed for, this means that
at a pinch Australia might be able to
assemble a brigade on a war footing
within its own shores and its island terri-
tories, A disgraceful fact; but it does
not worry any of the five Defence
Ministers with which Australia is
equipped at the rate of one to every
12,000 “troops,” According to Mr. Ded-
man these five Ministers, only one of
whom has seen any sort of active service,
have decided that the permanent post-
war strength of the defence forces will
depend to a large extent on the decisions
reached by U.N.O.
It might be imagined that the lure of
adventure would fill the ranks of the
Japan force with young men. The fact is
that neither the Japan force nor any
other can be kept up to strength under
present conditions by the voluntary sys-
tem. And this at a time when there has
been a necessary withdrawal of a British
brigade from Japan, and when Australia
has been asked to assume the small task
of taking over its duties.
The “Government” is optimistic about
its chances of providing whatever force
is needed when U.N.O. declares its quota.
The theory may be —and if it is it is
worthy of the 'kind of brains which oper-
ate the “Labor” Ministry—that young
Australians will come rushing to the flag
of the United Nations, where they would
not be willing to fight merely for their
own country or the British Common-
wealth.
It is more likely that the “Government”
believes that so much time will elapse be-
fore any real plans are made by U.N.0.,
plans calling for commitments, that the
evil day of decision will be postponed far
beyond the “Labor” era.
If a nation of 7,500,000 healthy and
patriotic people cannot, under the pre-
sent system, provide more than 60,000
men for its own defence, including uni-
formed clerks, the fact that Australians
are asked to defend .themselves as U.N.O.
citizens instead of as British Common-
wealth citizens will scarcely lead to a
riot at recruiting stations.
Possibly, however, the “world leaders”
on the Molonglo are hopeful that U.N.O.
will rate their country with those with
whom its representatives consort, and,
considering it a small gringo nation, will
set its quota of world policemen so low
that Australian “Defence” Ministers will
be sufficiently numerous to provide the
whole force.
But the Canberrans are likely to be out
of luck in that case, since the world at
large has fallen into the habit of regard-
ing the British Commonwealth as a rich
treasure-house of men and material which
must be milked to the limit when milk
is needed.
If Australia, by United Kingdom
standards, on a population basis, were
providing its fair share of the British
Commonwealth defence of resources com-
mon to all, it would have built and would
be maintaining two battleships, a dozen
aircraft-carriers, eight or nine cruisers,
30 destroyers, several modern aircraft
squadrons and something in the vicinity
of 180,000 men and women, apart from
volunteers. Actually, Australia is main-
taining three old cruisers, half-a-dozen
destroyers —being worn out rapidly
through overwork —and enough obso-
lescent aircraft to fill a good junk heap.
And it must continue in this position till
it acquires a Government with the courage
to introduce compulsory training and see
that Australia pulls its weight in the com-
mon defence of the British Common-
wealth, in the process providing generous
pay and pensions for men willing to ac-
cept this high and honorable duty.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The High Cost of Scully.
Last year it came out that some
sort of shenanigan in wheat was going on
between the Australian and Maoriland
Governments, both “Labor.” Australian
Mr. Scully, asked if there were any con-
tract to supply M.L. with wheat at ss.
9d. a bushel, denied it. Maorilarid’s Mr.
Sullivan, asked if his Government had
contracted to pay 9s. 3d., let the cat out
of the sack:
Australia will supply our Dominion’s
requirements for the next four or five
years at ss. 9d. a bushel. That is to be the
ceiling price and if there is any fall in
world parity or any other factor justifying
a reduction in the next four or five years,
New Zealand will get the benefit.
Mr. Sullivan’s own wheatgrowers had
been guaranteed 7s. Id. a bushel, so Mr.
Sullivan considered the Australian price
“very reasonable.” However, an Aus-
tralian Federal election, in which wheat
was an important factor, was imminent,
and a deep with regard to the
wheat dealings of the two Governments
fell upon Mr. Scully and his colleagues,
and then upo* Mr. Sullivan himself, who
said he didn’t want to interfere in- Aus-
tralian affairs.
There had been other strange manifes-
tations of this Mr. Scully’s wheat traffick-
ing, brought to light by Mr. McEwen,
deputy-leader of the Country party:
In the course of a few weeks the Minis-
ter sold wheat out of the same silo at
ss. 2d. a bushel for bread, 3s. lid. for
power alcohol, 3s. ll£d. for a gin distillery
and 3s. 10Jd. for pig feed.
About the same time it came out that
Britain and Canada had entered into an
agreement whereby Britain was to take
160,000,000 bushels from Canada (almost
an average Australian harvest) for each
of two years (’46-47 and ’47-48) at a fixed
price equivalent to 9s. a bushel,
and 140,000,000 bushels in each of the
two following years at a minimum price
equivalent to 7s. Bd.(A) and 6s, 2d.(A)
respectively. Where was Australia when
the negotiations were on? The British
Food Minister, Mr. Strachey, said in the
Commons “We have not been approached
by the Australian Government.”
The elections came and went. Mr.
Scully scraped in and was transferred
from Agriculture and Commerce to a
sinecure, Mr, Pollard succeeding him.
The Scully “stabilisation” plan also
went, S.A, growers being unable to
stomach its confiscatory clauses. Mr.
Pollard, horribly annoyed with the
growers, threatened them with falling
prices within 18 months, “when the
States will be forced to accept the stabi-
lisation plan,” At the week-end he was
desperately trying to defend the N.Z.
“deal” against the attacks of Mr. Mc-
Ewen and Mr. Cameron.
New Zealand is to get Australian
wheat for this year and the next four
years at ss, 9d. a bushel. The current
export price is 14s. 6d. The present
“stabilisation” scheme provides that
growers are to get 50 p.c. of the differ-
ence between the guaranteed price
(ss, 2d.) and the export price, the other
50 p.c. going into a “stabilisation fund.”
First intentions were that growers, par-
ticularly those with 1945-46 wheat, should
be debited with thfe cost of providing the
New Zealanders with a cheap loaf, but
the burden is to be transferred to tax-
payers, who will be “up” for £2,000,000
in 1947 alone. There is a “Labor”
Government in Britain, where the food
position is almost as desperate as it could
be and Britain’s financial position is
under severe strain. But no such
“gesture” has been made to the British
by the Australian “Labor” Government.
The fact that an election was imminent
in N.Z., as in Australia, when its Mr.
Sullivan was able to announce the “very
reasonable” wheat agreement with Aus-
tralia offers the hope that just before the
next Commonwealth election—it may not
be long in coming—N.Z. can arrange a
supply of cheap pumice-stone or some-
thing for Australia.
This Paradise for Communists
Melbourne “Herald” has had a man in
Queensland collecting ( the facts about
Communist-led “squatting.” His conclu-
sion is that “almost 1000 ‘squatters’ are
occupying former service establishments
in six Brisbane suburbs and one at Too-
woomba.”
“The movement,” he writes, “began
last June, when ‘homeless’ civilians moved
into a former Army hospital at Ekibin”:
By mid-September 170 men, women and
children had moved in. Gas and electricity
services, which had been cut off, were re-
stored by Ministerial direction just before
the Commonwealth election, and the squat-
ters have lived there ever since.
Presumably the “Ministerial direction”
yyas given by .Mr. Forde, then trembling
for his seat, which in the event was lost.
“Squatting” proceeded, and “it has be-
come too widespread to escape notice.”
The public, no longer surprised, ex-
pects further invasion daily. State hous-
ing authorities say the Army and Air
Force must take action. No directions
have apparently come from the Air Board
or Ministers, though the Defence Act pro-
vides for action to guard service property,
with penalties for trespassing. The Com-
munist party says “it has housed between
500 and 600 people in Army camps round
the city.”
How different the position in Britain
and in South Africa, where eight mem-
bers of the Communist party, one the
president of the Mineworkers’ Union
and another a lecturer at Capetown Uni-
versity, and in Canada, where parties to
a Communist spy plot, one a Jewish M.P.
from Poland, have been rounded up and
sentenced to long terms of imprisonment.
In these three countries it is axiomatic
that democratic institutions must be pro-
tected and that the rule of law must pre-
vail.
Even while Communists and their
proteges were seizing Air Force property
in Brisbane a party of London Com-
munists who had directed the seizure of
a block of flats figured in the dock in the
Old Bailey. Two, Bramley and Henderson,
were Communist-party branch secretaries.
Three others were borough council-
lors —Morris Rosen, Joyce Miriam Aler-
gant and Gabriel Carritt, The five had
been committed for trial on a charge of
conspiracy, and the Judge said he had
turned over in his mind the question of
sending them to jail. He decided to bind
them over for two years, but jail will be
their portion if during that period they
violate the conditions of the bond.
The next step in Queensland will no
doubt be the seizure of private property.
In that case there may be bloodshed, for
Queensland house-owners, small as their
"Damn YOU, Jack Bull—WE’RE all Right!"
"The British people, still in the grip of the freeze and about to suffer still more drastic
fuel and lighting restrictions, were told by their Food Minister, Mr. Strachey, that stoppages
and ‘go-slow methods’ on the Australian waterfront were jeopardising the meat ration, now
a shillingsworth a week. A Waterside Workers’ Federation embargo on the export of tallow
is in full operation as part of the Communist game."
resources are compared with those of
“ ‘Labor’ Governments,” are not the
sort of people to let Communists walk
over them.
"Scab" Is Defamatory.
When Comrade Wells “withdrew” from
the ballot for president of the Miners’
Federation, and was thereupon expelled
or purged or something by the Com-
munists, somebody had to be acting
president until a new one was elected.
The choice fell upon Comrade Millar,
president of the Queensland Colliery Em-
ployees’ Union, another Communist, and
a person about whom members of the
Q.C.E.U. should be inquisitive.
In a negative sense Comrade Millar has
been of some value to Australian union-
ists, for it was through him that the pre-
cedent has been established in Queens-
land that any worker called a “scab”
can obtain redress at law. During the
Queensland strikes in June, 1946, Com-
rade Millar went out to Marburg to “pull
out” the Roughrigg coalminers. The
Roughrigg men refused to strike without
a secret ballot and were confirmed in
their attitude when the Coal Reference
Board ordered strikers back to work.
Comrade Millar, infuriated, went to
North Ipswich railway workshops and at
a lunch-hour meeting said:
Roughrigg “scabbed” in 1940 and as far
as I can see would “scab” at any time.
The names will be broadcast throughout
the Commonwealth and while I am presi-
dent I will see that the “scabbing” is not
forgotten.
Three Roughrigg workers, two of them
Diggers who had fought against the
Japs and the other a V.D.C. man, replied
with defamation suits. Comrade Millar
did not appear. The magistrate, refusing
to accept the defence that the words com-
plained of were “made in good faith for
the protection of the interests of the de-
fendant or of the members of the Queens-
land Colliery Employees’ Union,” found
for the plaintiffs, awarding them £25
damages and costs.
Though Comrade Millar unintention-
ally got the word “scab” in a fair way to
being outlawed, that is not what the
Q.C.E.U. members should be inquisitive
about. They should be inquiring as to
who pays the damages and costs and who
will pay for a Supreme Court action
turning on the question of whether the
two Diggers and the V.D.C. man were
validly expelled from the union.
Wrecked Ship—and Wrecker
A few weeks ago Australians and Maori-
landers alike rejoiced at the news that
the fine passenger liner Wanganella,
which had for three weeks been stuck
hard and fast on a reef at the entrance
to Wellington Harbor, had been floated
off and .was safe alongside the wharf —
a wonderful piece of salvage work. Last
week further news came to hand of the
Wanganella; she had been taken from
her berth to the floating dock for re-
pairs. No credit was due to the crew for
this feat; other hands performed the
errand of mercy. “S. M- Herald” re-
ported :
When all plans for moving the Wan-
ganella had been completed, members of
the crew demanded higher pay. Their claim
was rejected, whereupon the men left the
ship. The crew of a tug which had been
engaged to tow the Wanganella into dock
made a similar demand, \\hich was also
rejected. Captain Todd (the deputy harbor
master) decided to dispense with the services
of the tug and to steam the Wanganella
into dock sufficient crew to work the
liner were hastily mustered from salvage
workers and members of the staff and
the liner is now safely secured in dock.
Australians have become accustomed to
reading of tug hands refusing to handle
Dutch vessels even when the weather has
made berthing without a tug a hazardous
enterprise; accustomed, too, to crews
walking off ships at a moment’s notice
over some trumped-up grievance. But
even people inured to the ways of the
Communist-run Seamen’s Union were
a little surprised at this latest exhibition
of callousness —until they read the cables
in the next day’s papers. Then they
learned how Maorilan'd’s Australian-born
Works Minister Semple had attacked
“wreckers from abroad” for “unwar-
ranted interference in New Zealand
affairs.” Reading further they found
that the wrecker chiefly complained of
was the Moscow-minded Elliott, general
secretary of the Seamen’s Union.
Mr. Semple said:
It was a shameful incident. I know all
. about Mr. Elliott and the way he has poked
his nose into N.Z. affairs. He is highly
unwelcome. It is extraordinary how Mr.
Elliott obtained a travel priority appar-
ently for disruptive purposes. This ques-
tion will bear examination.
Bob Semple had obviously not been
studying Australian affairs very closely or
he would have been aware that almost
any Communist in Australia can get a
priority to go almost anywhere—some-
times at public cost.
Elliott’s reply to the Minister was to
the effect that the seamen were dissatis-
fied with the * attitude of the salvage
officer and that the Australian “Govern-
ment” had thought it necessary for him
to fly there to represent them. The “Gov-
ernment” had provided him with a travel
priority.
It came out that Mr. Drakeford’s De-
partment of Civil Aviation had issued the
" priority. The “Government” to which
Mr. Drakeford belongs accepts respon-
sibility for nothing, but if through its
policy of crawling to Communists
and other troublemakers it has be-
come a matter of departmental routine
to issue air-travel priorities to any Com-
munist who feels called to travel “for
disruptive purposes,” it cannot avoid the
blame. But passing the buck is the first
lesson a “Labor” politician is taught.
When the insolent Elliott (imp.) said
the Government had thought it necessary
for him to go - to New Zealand he prob-
ably wasn’t thinking of the Canberra
crowd at all, but of the Communist ex-
ecutive, which, taking advantage of the
spinelessness of “Labor,” is fast becoming
the real Government of this country.
While Mr. Chifley was busy denying
everything N.Z. unions were busy, too,
not on repairs to the stricken vessel, but
in declaring her “black,” an action be-
ing taken “out of sympathy with the
Australian seamen who refused to work
on the ship when refused increased pay
during salvage operations.” Elliott (imp.)
was in attendance at the meeting that
made the ignoble decision. ,
There was a time when a ship in dis-
tress brought out the best in seafaring
men; but that was before Australian
seamen handed over their affairs to a
gang who, in their apelike malignity,
regard ships and seamen alike as pawns
to be used or cast aside in Slavish obedi-
ence to a shifty foreign Power.
Our Nearest Neighbor.
From “Feng-Shui”:
I see that Dr. Soekarno, of the new Indo-
nesian Republic, is contemplating shifting 15
to 20 million .Javanese from their over-
populated island to what the Dutch call the
Outer Possessions. This interests me because
I saw similar attempts on thp part of the
Dutch, though not on such a large scale, and
noted their comparative failure.
Not only Australia has vast empty spaces.
The N.E.I. has them. Java and Madura are
less than a twelfth of the total area of the
East Indies but contain half the total popu-
lation. The human density in Java is round
750 to the square mile; in the other islands
it' varies from 50 to 1.2, like the Australian
Never Never. Unlike the Never Never, how-
ever, most of the archipelago is as fertile as
the mother island. Sumatra, three times the
size of Java, has the same central-heating
system of active volcanoes fertilising the rich
plains, but carries only a fifth of Java’s popu-
lation.
The Dutch used the .customary device of
assisted immigration to wean the Javanese from
his domestic hearth, without success. The
Javanese are nine-tenths peasants and their whole
life centres in their ricefields. When the rice is
planted out or when a cow calves, a son is
circumcised, a daughter is married qr the old
man is buried there is a sedekah or selamatan
in which the whole village takes part. Every
guest brings a tray of food whose ingredients
are fixed by ancient custom, the physical sub-
stance being devoured by the guests, the spirits,
by a convenient fiction, getting the smell or
essence. The gamelang b'rays all day and
night, the villagers dance, and in a prosperous
village there may be a wayang-wayang, or
shadow theatre.
Generally speaking, every family has a field
and some fields are held in common. This
communal system Works so well that, during
the great depression, the people who were
worst hit were the Europeans, the native white-
collar workers drifting hack to the dess'as, to
be reabsorbed in the family system.
Javanese parents don’t object to children, as
children are an economic advantage to them.
The Javanese child learns the same crafts and
follows the same calling as his parents. This
is the main reason why the population rosp
from 5,000,000 to 45,000,000 in a few short
generations. The orthodox explanation is that
it Was due to the so-called Cuitur system,
which compelled every peasant to do one day’s
gratuitous work a week fqr the Dutch, who
also made him plant crops for export. This
system, anyhow, was abolished in 1882.
The Javanese peasant was reluctant to popu-
late the outer islands because he liked his own
so much, and it is in no way astonishing that
the Dutch scheme failed inasmuch as it was up
against that simple human problem.
I should not be astonished, however, if
Dr. Soekarno succeeded in these days of
totalitarianism and mass movements. The
organised State seems to be all the fashion
these days. The world is full of quaint
creatures itching to be little Stalins, and Dr.
Soekarno and his friends seem to have swal-
lowed the philosophy, hook, line and sinker,
judging by their pronouncements. I saw a
photo, the other day of Nadjamoeddin Daeng
Malewa, Premier and Minister of Economic
Affairs in the first Cabinet of the recently-
formed State of East Indonesia. He was at
the microphone like any European statesman,
no doubt talking the usual “bull” about his
people’s sacred right t.o the Four Freedoms,
including the freedom to make pots and pans
and chewing-gum for export in mass-production
factories. I daresay Dr. Soekarno has good in-
tentions and wants the best for the republic;
but, personally, I prefer unorganised barbarity
to organised barbarity and I hope he isn’t suc-
cessful.
If, however, Dr. Soekarno and his friends
get their republic going there doesn’t seem
to be any reason in the world why they
shouldn’t shift their 20 million; and as the
Javanese are extraordinarily fecund and, con-
trary to general opinion, arc capable of re-
markable effort, despite their climate —as witness
the amazing amount of temple-building they
did under their former Hindu masters —a popu-
lation of 200,000,000 for the whole archipelago
might be reached before the end of the century.
How Australia is going to- get on in that’
case is another question.


m
m.
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enjogmeni
CRAVE NA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
THROATS
m
%
5794
POLILICAL POINTS
By all accounts the freeze in Britain
has brought out the best in coalminers,
railwaymen and seamen, coalminers go-
ing down the pits not only on Saturdays
(never worked in N. S. Wales) but on
Sundays. Bitter must have been their
thoughts when they learned from
Strachey, the Food Minister, that their
meat ration, propped up for a time by
a gift to every man, woman and child in
the U.K. from Fascist Argentina, was
in danger of being cut again because of
“go-slow methods” and stoppages on the
Australian waterfront. In Strachey’s Red
days he could never have imagined that
Communism would breed such baboon-
like malignity in men of the English-
speaking race.
Dr. Evatt took part in the no-confi-
dence debate, but didn’t refer to his book
The King and His Dominion Governors.
From that volume Menzies had quoted
the learned author’s acceptance of the
“logic” of Professor Jenks:
The appointment of a Governor-General
is exclusively a matter of Dominion con-
cern; the termination of the appointment
of a Governor-General is also a matter
exclusively of Dominion concern.
Menzies pushed the point home:
If it happehed that an incoming Aus-
tralian Government removed Mr. McKell
in order to appoint somebody far removed
from thfc political storm, the position
would he welcomed, because it would
restore the Governor-Generalship to its
true position and character.
But the Attorney-General was not to be
drawn. He elected to discuss “full em-
ployment” and “new problems in arbi-
tration and conciliation” instead.
N.S.W. “Labor,” faced with the neces-
sity of going to the country within the
next three months, finds itself with
a quarter of a million liquor-referendum
“defaulters” on its hands, all liable to be
fined, and with continuous losses on its
Sydney and Newcastle trams and buses,
which have prompted the Auditor-
General to recommend a “substantial in-
crease” in fares. A situation requiring
Premier McGirr to exhibit some of that
“vigor and courage” he didn’t display
when Minister of Housing, though “S.
M. Herald” gave him credit for both. A
situation met by a pre-election bribe: the
40-hour week.
According to the secretary of the East
Redfera branch of the A.L.P., McKell
has resigned and his resignation was re-
ceived “with regret.” His resignation
from his present position would excite no
regret among 90 per cent, of the people.
In seven weeks of 1947 loss of coal
through strikes and stoppages in N.S.W.
mines reached 250,000 tons. This after
the miners had enjoyed their paid annual
holidays. Still, let nobody be dismayed,
Chifley has the matter in hand —he is to
hold a conference, if he can get anyone
but stopworkers to attend it.
From a Sydney “Herald” report on
rocket-tests and spies:
The Commonwealth will do everything
possible to prevent a repetition of Canada’s
experience with traitors who revealed
atomic-bomb secrets.
Squeamish as ever! The paragraph
needed the insertion of “Communist”
after the fourteenth word and the addi-
tion of “to Russia” before the full stop.
Time was when “Labor” could get
candidates to take on the forlornest of
forlorn hopes. With the advent of
materialism, careerism and Tammanyism,
this is no longer the case, as was evidenced
in South Australia last week, when nine
Lib.-C.P. members among them the four
Assembly Ministers, and only four
“Labor” members were - returned un-
opposed. In S.A., and not in that State
alone, the enthusiasm which used to ani-
mate “Labor” has been lost to the other
side.
Attlee to the British people in their
darkest peace-time hour; —*
Failure to produce 200 million tons
of coal this year will set back the entire
productive effort. It rests with the miners.
The nation cannot afford shorter hours
of work unless these can be shown to
increase individual output.
McGirr to the N.S.W. people, in pur-
suance of “Labor’s” policy of making
them work-shy:
The 40-hour week is enjoyed in other
countries [not Britain] and the Government
feels that its introduction will usher in an
era of industrial progress and contentment
production generally should show a
corresponding improvement.
Courage and claptrap, the stark truth
and glozing lies, and manifested on the
same day. Stand by for a coalminers’
strike in*the McGirr State —a strike for
a 35-hour week, which will mean 31
hours at the face.
There is honor among thieves, hut not
among N.S.W. “Labor” politicians.
Breaking in on Chifley’s thousandth
repetition of his formula, “the 40-hour
week is a matter for the Arbitration
Court,” McGirr announced a gift of the
40-hour week to all N.S.W. employees
working (or doing something remotely
resembling woi;k) under State awards. In
the result the insolvency of the N.S.W.
Government tramways and railways,
which the wars interrupted, will become
chronic and irremediable except by
smashing rises in fares and freight-rates ;
but there will be nasty consequences in
scores of fields. One has been indicated
to Chifley by the Victorian Dairy
Farmers’ Association, which is going for
a 75 p.c. rebate in income tax (reduced, it
suggested, by one-third) “to compensate
dairyfarmers for their seven-day week,”
worked daylight to dark. The P.M. had
already bought off a threatened farmers’
strike in the Sydney milk zone with a
Commonwealth subsidy, saying
about recovering the amount from the
Sydney “Government,” that conscience-
less war-time profiteer.
Change of leaders in N.'S.W. “Labor”
doesn’t make any difference in the party’s
pre-election tactics. Polling day, though
not yet announced, is getting nearer, so
the periodical mock war against Com-
munism is on again. At a series of
“regional conferences” to be held in
March and April the main business will
be “to discuss the current industrial un-
rest and to make plans to offset the
activities of the Communists in this
direction.” If previous experience is any
guide, the discussion will consist of an
attempt to persuade the unions to soft-
pedal their demands till after the elec-
tions, and the offsetting will amount to
outbidding.
Ex-servicemen are getting evidence dt
a sort that Evatt “full employment” and
Dedman preference 'are both working
after a fashion. Those who have been
drawing “sustenance” from the National
Service Office in Brisbane were informed
that work awaited them and that they
must take it. They did, 97, with prefer-
ence, joining 40 other men at the work-
place. The job? Donkey-work on a
water main. The Diggers must not sup-
pose that this opens the door to trade
commissionerships, C.S.LR. “advisory”
jobs or Governor-Generalships.
In two recent instances “Labor”
Ministers have been haled to court
for objecting to giving up possession of
rented houses required for more necessit-
ous cases. The second example was that
of Hawke, Westralian Minister of Works
and M.L.A. for Northam —he unseated
James Mitchell, Lieut.-Governor since
1933 who rented a house owned by
the Anglican Church. Asked to re-
tire in favor of an assistant curate
and his family, Hawke refused, refusing
also to share it with the assistant curate,
although the diocesan trustees offered to
put in a separate kitchen. Hawke’s plea
was that he “often had guests.” Faced
with the alternative of sharing with the
assistant curate or getting out, the Minis-
ter said he was prepared to discuss shar-
ing, and the magistrate, a stipendiary, let
it go at that.
It looks as if the shaping of tariff
policy has been handed over to Dr.
Coombs, M.A., Ph.D. (Econ.), Director-
General of Post-War Reconstruction.
Nearly three years ago. Dr. Coombs,
addressing the “Australian Association of
Scientific Workers,” with the “Arts and
Science Committee of the Australian
Communist party” present by invitation,
had a crack at “the antiquated building
industry;” and undertook to “bring about
a revolution”;
It will take us two years to catch up
on the housing shortage, despite the fact
that we are planning a programme twice
as big as in the best pre-war years.
Something must have gone wrpng with
the plans, but Dr. Coombs is undis-
couraged and he retains Chifley’s blind
confidence.
Dr. Coombs, M.A., etc., is leading a
huge party of theorists to the International
Trade Organisation at Geneva. Going on
things he has said, manufacturers are
seriously concerned about “proposed mul-
tilateral tariff concessions” and the sugar
and dried-fruits industries about their
British preferences. Hanlon, the Queens-
land Premier, was moved to suggest
keeping Coombs in Australia so that he
might effect his long-delayed revolution
in building. Hanlon compromised on the
inclusion in the Geneva delegation of a
Queenslander “keenly alive to the im-
portance of preferences.”
Replying to a question as to what the
Government proposed to do if the
threatened May-Day strike came off, the
P.M. replied, in his helpless fashion, that
he did not believe coercive action could
be taken against a million men, Treatt,
N.S.W. Opposition-leader, pointed out
that the million would be acting under
coercion if they went out on May Day,
as the decision calling them out was
made by a very small though unconscion-
ably insolent minority. He suggested a
secret ballot as “a complete reply, to the
revolutionary disruptive elements in the
A.C.T.U. which now threaten to take
charge of the country.” There is provi-
sion for secret ballots in the N.S.W. and
Queensland industrial laws, but there’s as
much likelihood of Chifley including a
similar provision in his Arbitration Act
“Amendment” Bill as there is of his
apologising for his part in the 1917 strike.
Victoria’s trammies’ union has
added, two more “militants” to the
already long list of those with Irish
names —Cullen as president and O’Shea
as secretary. Their accession to the
strength was hailed by Brown, the Com-
munist boss of the railwaymen’s union
(“Victorians will have to do a lot more
walking”), who is reputed to have been a
Catholic before he saw the Red light. By
exploiting sectarianism and the weakness
and folly of “Labor” Governments, Com-
munists have to some extent counteracted
the slump caused by Russian perfidy and
greed; all the same, they and the other
faction are becoming the centre of a
concentration of hatred and contempt
that will sooner or later engulf both.
It has been officially admitted that the
House of Reps, election for Parkes
(N.S.W.) was held on impure rolls,
“temporary postmen and women” and
the Registrar-General’s department being
blamed. Parkes, anti-Labor since 1901
except at the 1929 and 1943 polls, re-
elected the exuberant Haylen by a
majority of 164 in an effective poll of
65,448. In the subdivision of Ashfield
the Haylen majority over Richardson,
previously Ashfield’s M.L.A. for 11 years,
was 71. In the by-election for Ashfield
Richardson got back 2768 to the good.
Meanwhile the Libs, had become curious
about the rolls, advertising its curiosity
as a warning to impersonators, and
officialdom now confesses that on them
were “the names of 99 deceased persons,
844 who had left the district and 62 not
known,” The Libs, are to police the rolls
in all dubious electorates, a procedure
which should be followed in other States,
especially Queensland.
Archie Cameron, in the no-confidence
debate at Canberra;
In two weeks’ time the Playford Ministry,
the only non-“ Labor” Ministry in Aus-
tralia, will face an election, and the great
“Labor” party, which maintains that it is
the only party worthy to govern, has had
to admit that it cannot find a candidate
to put against the Premier. A world’s
record in democratic government has been
achieved in that the entire Ministry in South
Australia, together with the Speaker of the
Parliament, has been returned without
opposition. Out of 19 members constituting
the Liberal and Country party, nine have
been returned unopposed by any party.
That record is in striking contrast to the
record of the Commonwealth Government.
So it was, but not striking enough for the
Sydney morning papers to mention it, or
to report Cameron, though the man made
as fine a fighting speech as has ever been
heard at Canberra. He has the disad-
vantage of not being a “Liberal” in the
sense in which Commos understand the
phrase—a disadvantage which -Premier
Playford, his old comrade-in-arms in
the 27th Battalion, A.1.F., shares with
him.
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation,
after tooling up its factorial a cost of
£250,000, has started the production of
the Myer pre-fabricated house. Re-
ports that 600 pre-fab. hquses will be
off the assembly lines this year, with
5000 to follow in 1948, and that the first
25 houses were already available brought
a queue of 200 applicants to the agent’s
office in Collins-street. After shivering
for hours in the rain and the cold till
nine next morning,* the 200 departed,
25 aspirants having signed their contracts.
That same day the Melbourne district
committee of the Amalgamated Engineer-
ing Union ordered its members to cease
work on the Myer pre-fabs. Meantime
Hayes, the optimistic Barry’s optimistic
Assistant Minister of Housing, gave out
a new Government forecast that 12,000
fresh homes would be built this year.
An anti-imperialist “Labor” Govern-
ment has accepted the mandate issued
by ‘Gandhi on August 8, 1942 —24th
anniversary of Ludendorff’s “black day,”
to which the A.I.F. made a smashing
contribution. “Quit India!” was the
Gandhi mandate, and the “Labor” Gov-
ernment has undertaken to quit India by
the end of June, 1948. There are sure to
be frightful consequences, but the
“Labor” Government is not concerned
with consequences, only with scuttling
and shibboleths. So is the “Labor” Gov-
ernment in this country, but Dr. Evatt
has come to light with fancy phrases.
From one of those racing-mad jour-
nals :
The no-confidence motion was lost by
28 votes to 37.
The three Independents, Mr. Lang
(N.S.W.), Mrs. Blackburn (Vic.), and Mr.
Blain (Northern Territory), voted with the
Government.
The second paragraph was in heavy black
type. Appropriate ift a way; but even
the Sydney “D.T.” ought to know that
Blain never votes on no-confidence
motions because he can’t.
It happened at the Sydney elimination
contests for the National Quiz. When
the question was asked “In Spenser’s
‘Faerie Queene’ who was the Squire of
Low Degree?” the silence which had fol-
lowed other questions was broken by a
competitor who shouted “Billy McKell.”
It costs the employer—generally speak-
ing, a sugar-grower—3s. Byd. a man
for every wharfie who works at Mackay
(N.Q.) before any work is done at all.
That’s for transport and travelling time.
The wharfies enjoy the usual good con-
ditions applying to their calling in all
Australian ports. But because Commos
are in the ascendant there, go-slow is
the rule at Mackay, as elsewhere, and
74,000 tons of bag sugar is choking the
port and district mills. It’s been there
for months, and ships avoid Mackay as
they avoid other Queensland ports, and
for the same reason.


ALL QUIET ON THE MOLONGLO.
Sometimes he sits and thinks;
But mostly he just sits.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTEO
WITM WIMBLES INKS"
“Meekatharra”: A senior R.A.A.F.
officer visiting a northern mainland unit
was appalled to find that most of the
airmen on the station were wearing shorts
which were “nothing much before, an’
rather less than ’arf o’ that behind.” The
visiting wallah bore down on the unit’s
equipment officer and blew the day-
lights out of him for allowing the men to
get about in such a state. The E.O.
protested feebly, but truthfully, that
wheedling shorts from southern stores
depots was harder than getting action
from a politician. “Put in a demand
immediately,” he was told, “and ex-
plain the position fully.” The E.O. duly
sent in his demand for “one thousand
pairs of shorts, sizes various,” explaining
the position more than amply and record-
ing the wrath of the senior visitor. In the
long course of official time he received
a letter from south demanding a precise
explanation of his unit’s need for “one
thousand pairs of shorts, sizes various.”
In desperation he typed the reply him-
self, stating that the “one thousand pairs
of shorts, sizes various,” were “urgently
needed to cover one thousand bare bot-
toms, sizes various.”
“Fons”: Curious how a trifling inci-
dent can give a vivid impression of a
man, when all else is forgotten. Our
B.S.M. was a sensible man, a stout fel-
low and a good soldier; he was badly
knocked in Greece. Yet he is kept
green in my mind by one malaprop-
ism. The wheels of army administration
were moving exceedingly slowly at the
time, particularly in the matter of
dentures. Men had had teeth extracted in
good faith and were left toothless. It
was a real problem. At last dentures
arrived—to be strictly rationed. The
B.S.M. called a parade of victims. “And
I want it clearly understood,” he said in
the course of a harangue, “that these den-
tures will only be issued to men who find
it impossible to masticate.” But, alas!
He didn’t say “masticate,” but a word
disturbingly similar.
“Findy”; This sort of thing couldn’t
happen in Australia, because no “Labor”
Minister voluntarily retires from politics*
and if the electors compulsorily retire
one he is soon fixed up with a remunera-
tive job at public expense. Extracts from
a Maoriland newspaper report of tributes
paid to ex-Minister Paddy Webb, now
retired from politics:
Between 600 and 700 people.... enter-
tained Mr. Webb to a banquet at Taylor-
ville....A fireside chair was presented to
Mr. Webb at the Hector sports meeting.
There was another banquet at Runanga....
A third banquet at Blackball a gather-
ing at Westport... .A sports meeting at
Westport.... a dinner for Mr. Webb a
concert... .Mr. Webb was prevented by ill-
health from attending a ball at Huntly
on Saturday night Mr. Webb entered
Lewisham hospital last night.
Save us from our friends!
* * * *
“C.E.G.”: Hank’s tent mates (“Jasby,”
B. 12/2/’47) should have been with me
on the Gladstone to Brisbane train a
few years ago. Just before it left Glad-
stone there reeled into the carriage a
gentleman carrying a newspaper parcel
which he straightway commenced to tear
apart, disclosing two huge crabs. Ripping
off an assorted handful of claws he
offered the bunch to me. I refused the
gift, which in other circumstances I
would gladly have accepted. They were
then tendered, with true Australian hospi-
tality, to the only other passenger, a
superior-looking type who merely glared
his refusal. Unabashed, the drunk
settled himself down to enjoy a good
feed. Broken claws, legs, pieces of shell
and other uneatable portions soon littered
the carriage floor. The meal finished,
the crab-eater fell asleep. In due course
the conductor arrived. And rather
unnecessarily inquiring which of us had
made the mess, he woke the sleeper and
made him get down on his knees and
gather up the rubbish. Tossing the
wreckage out of the window the crab-
eater wiped his messy hands carefully on
his blue serge suit and settled to sleep
again, muttering imprecations about
blokes who were too blanky fussy.
$ ' # $ *
“E.M.D.”: A few years ago a fruit
barrowman in our town won £5OOO in
a lottery. When told of his good luck
he became so elated that he overturned
the barrow and danced with joy while
apples, tomatoes and oranges Tolled un-
heeded down the street. I don’t know
what has occurred in the years between,
but last week I saw him back at the old
stand. Perhaps he was just slumming.
i * * *-
“Stagnant Waters” in praise of the
C. 1.8.:
After a lifetime devoted to the solving of
crimes that have baffled the police of many
nations I am always willing to give credit when
it is due. In the big Sydney jewel robbery last
week (big, of course, by Australian standards
only; £B5OO is very small beer compared to
some cases I have handled the Rajah of
Wrattbag’s diamond, for example, and the
Duchess of Tyburn’s necklet) there was a niece
"Is there a carpenter in the house?”
of deductive reasoning which was positively
brilliant. The jewels were found at the Embassy
Theatre, wrapped in a handkerchief behind a
rubbish bin in the men’s lavatory. The “Sun”
with characteristic modesty spelt it “labatory,”
but that deceived no one. Without hesitation
the Police Department announced to the Press
their firm belief that “the bandit who stole
the jewellery hid his booty in the theatre,
hoping to recover it later.” This deduction
is worthy of the greatest masters in crimin-
ology ; I have seldom done better myself.
But I cannot agree with the C. 1.8. chief in
his praise of the general conduct of the inves-
tigations'—a purely routine job if ever there was
one. Apparently a stool pigeon rang H.Q.
to say that the booty was hidden in a cup-
board at the Mayfair Theatre and the police
rushed along and searched unsuccessfully. A
moment’s reflection would have told them the
squealer had got his pictures mixed. No jewel
thief would choose a joint where a film called
“The Years Between” was showing—the sug-
gestion of Long Bay would be too much for
him. Similarly the Capitol’s “Crime Doctor’s
Man Hunt” wouldn’t attract him, nor the
Civic’s “Somewhere I’ll Find You.” His obvi-
ous choice would be “A Place of One’s Own”
at the Embassy. And so it turned out, though
it was left for the theatre manager actually
to locate the loot. No, there was nothing
brilliant about that job. It couldn’t be com-
pared, for instance, with the epic performance
of Police Commissioner Mac Kay, who scoured
the world for 10 years for the slayer of the
Pyjama Girl and finally ran him to earth in
the person of a hat-waiter at his favorite night-
club —Romano’s.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: On a “quiz” session
the other night I heard Marble Bar
(W.A.) described as being named after “a
bar of marble-like rock which crosses
the Shaw River.” The answer was
accepted as correct and it was probably
near enough for the purpose. Actually,
however, the “marble-like” rock is a bar
of multi-colored jasper which runs across
Chinaman’s Pool in the Coongan River,
a mile or two west of Marble Bar. I
don’t know where the mistake originated,
but as far back as 1893 the Westralian
Government Geologist of the day re-
corded in the State’s Year Book that the
town “took its name from a large mottled
bar of quartz which crossed the Shaw
River.” J. S. Battye, in his History of
Western Australia, published in 1924,
makes the same mistake. All the maps
I can find, however, place Marble Bar
firmly on the Coongan, which, like the
Shaw, runs into the De Grey, although
the two are miles apart. Further,
although I’d generally had a few noggins
at the old Ironclad Hotel beforehand, I
was always fairly certain that,, when div-
ing from the bar into Chinaman’s Pool,
I was swimming in the Coongah.
* * * *
“Uco”: Unlike the elderly couple men-
tioned by “0.R.” (B. 19/2/’47) my seven-
year-old son was not impressed by the
Russian “Sports Display.” As team after
team paraded in the Red Square, each
with a display of banners which must
have kept the Soviet’s collectivised silk-
worms working night and day for
months, he wriggled uneasily in his seat
and asked when “The Overlanders” was
going to start. At Stalin’s fourteenth
appearance he inquired “Who’s that man
with the moustache who just keeps
looking?” I told him and he subsided.
Presently Uncle Joe’s grim visage flashed
on the screen again. My offspring broke
silence. “Well, he doesn’t seem to think
much of it,” he said.
* * * *
“Philp”: A constant —and almost the
only—source of amusement to me from
films is the juvenile orphan (almost in-
.variably, female) generally depicted as
being cared for by a brother or uncle of
“eligible age.” The guardian invariably
meets some wench, and the sweet innocent
che-ild, of course, takes to her like steel
to a magnet and the pair of ’em slobber
over each other like nobody’s business.
The point is that the wench, her nails like
claws, is almost always painted like a
whitewashed fence, is dressed like a
surrealist nightmare and presents a
general appearance that would scare the
wits out of any healthy kid, send it
in a screaming fit under the nearest bed.
“Col M.”: Despite the big freeze,
British members of Parliament are still
cracking jokes as ably as they do the ice
on their morning’s milk. In a recent
session Morrison, a Conservative mem-
ber, asked the Minister for Food to state
publication costs of the “Rodent Mail,”
“issued by the infestation division of
his department” as a form of rat-catchers’
Bible. He was answered by Dr. Edith
Summerskill, Secretary to the Minister for
Food, who told him of the costs and
announced that “the purpose of the publi-
cation is to stimulate effort on sound, up-
to-date lines.” (Loud laughter):
Mr. Stanley (Conservative): Is the issue
of the “Rodent Mail” considered an essen-
tial service and will it be continued during
the crisis?
Dr. Summerskill; It provides an effective
antidote to the effects of discouragement
which questions like this produce on ex-
cellent officers. (Awed silence).
Mr. Hogg (Conservative): Should it not
be called the “Rodent Herald”?
Hogg has been billed as the answer to the
Conservative prayer for a suitable suc-
cessor to Churchill.
* * * *
“Applecross”: There were some in-
teresting points about the Como (W.A.)
murder case in which a Kalgoorlie busi-
ness manager, Leonard Charles Jackson,
was found guilty of murdering an elderly
woman, Stella Farnsworth. The victim’s
body was found floating in the Swan, a
heavy concrete slab being tied to it with
wire. Police claimed that the twist of
the wire suggested a left-handed man.
Jackson when asked whether he was left-
handed said “Yes, I do use my left hand,
but not to write with.” Evidence was
produced to prove that accused and de-
ceased had been seen together in a hired
car, though Jackson denied knowledge
of the woman and of the car. Blood-
stains were found on the floor of the car
and on Jackson’s clothing; hair found
in the car was examined by a pathologist
and found to be similar to that of the
murdered woman. In Jackson’s room
a receipt from the hire-car firm was
found; accused said he knew nothing
about it. The man with whom the mur-
dered woman had been living up till the
day of her disappearance told of two
telegrams he had received, purporting to
come from her and stating (1) that she
was staying with friends in Fremantle
and (2) that she had taken a job in
Geraldton. Original telegrams when pro-
duced were not in the handwriting of the
deceased. Trial lasted eight days. Ver-
dict ; Guilty.
* * * *
“Zake”; That photo, of the McKelly
unleashing a fatuous grin as he raised two
fingers in a travesty of a military salute
in acknowledgment of one given by a
constable reminds “Ken” (B. 19/2/’47)
of the late Hugh Herbert’s screen buf-
foonery. Well, if the antics he has in-
dulged in since his appointment are a
pointer to the future, the Redfern
Wonder should raise more laughs in his
five-year term of office than Hugh did
throughout his whole screen career. But
a careful look at the “salute” admits of
two other interpretations. The first is
that Billy, against the inevitable time
when he will, as every G.-G. does, don
a Boy Scout’s uniform (that’ll be the
day!), was practising the Scout salute.
But cut the caption from the photo, and
you can almost hear the bookie saying
“It’s a bet. Want it again?” It is a per-
fect replica of a punter “nodding” a
“thirty quid to ten Deadlegs” wager to
his favorite fielder. „
« * * •
“Loc”; Queen of the Fairies, a race-
horse, recently played a history-making
role. She is the first of her tribe to fly
Bass Strait, unless Pegasus once visited
Tassie; she made the trip to take part
in the Launceston Cup. Obviously the
Queen knows her haggis-gravy, for,
with a hopeful glint in her eye, she
played up very badly while being loaded
into the aircraft. After five hours p£
fruitless attempts to get her aboard her
attendants gave in, produced a bottle of
Scotch and poured her a treble-header,
“following it,” according to the “Daily
Telegraph,” “with a chaser of half a
bucket of water.... afterwards she
walked up the ramp backwards and
entered the plane quietly.” Interested to
see how the nag fared with that under
her surcingle, I looked up the “S. M.
Herald” account covering the trip from
the Taswegian end. Here’s what hap-
pened :
First racehorse to be flown across Bass
Strait, Queen of the Fairies, was bleeding
from the nose when she arrived in Laun-
ceston today.
* « * •
“Adelaide”: Quiet Adelaide has
broken out in a crime-wave in the un-
usually hot weather. Fires, mainly in
churches, have become common in Way-
ville suburban district, and night patrols
are usual everywhere there. Pressmen
have adopted (of course) the American
term “firebugs”; and police don’t know
whether to look for a crank with a dis-
like for churches, or for mischievous boys,
or both. Meanwhile an orgy of glass-
stealing br -smashing has set in. The
Test match saw 3000 beer-glasses stolen
and 5000 cool-drink bottles smashed; 20
extra men were needed to clear the ground
every morning. And at the Wayville
“trots,” 800, 900 and 1000 glasses were
lost in successive evenings.
» * * ♦
“H.A.L.”: You don’t hear many
church bells around Adelaide (B. 5/2/’47),
but it’s a different story in some S.A.
country towns. They don’t have peals
of bells, but each church has its own
single bell, and half an hour before the
service starts the bells begin. Some of the
places originally settled by German im-
migrants a hundred years or more ago
are pretty good on the bell-ringing, but
the championship is usually awarded to
Mt. Gambier, settled by people of British
stock. Local residents take it all for
granted, but to the visitor it seems that
the whole countryside is echoing with
the Cling-clong of the K’bingle-k’bongle
twice every Sunday.
* * * *
“Wyer”: Policemen sometimes get a
raw deal. The chap on point duty at a
Melbourne intersection last Week saw a
loaded brewery wagon swerve to avoid
a cyclist. The ropes holding the precious
cargo snapped and 96 bottles of beer hit
the road with a splash. Five nines and four
18s followed and went rolling down the
hill followed by half the city population.
While the copper was fumbling for his
notebook a council water-cart drove past.
The driver, intent on watching the fun,
forgot to turn the water off and the un-
fortunate point-duty man got soaked to
the skin. Then a private car, with its
driver also looking at the mess, started
to drive across against the bobby’s signal.
It was a heaven-sent opportunity for the
man of law to relieve his feelings. He
was roaring like a bull when the council
car came along you’ve guessed
it —the John Hop copjped a second issue.
OUR NEW C.-in-C.
“The appointment of Mr. McKell as Commander-in-
Chief of the Australian Forces brings that office into
ridicule and contempt and is an insult to all service-
men.’’ R.S.L. resolution.
He’s more than a figure vice-regal,
A visible link with the King,
With powers that are perfectly legal
Endowed—and all that sort of thing.
But whoever his fitness endorses
For his job should remember as well,
Commander-in-Chief of our Forces
Is William McKell.
He’s faced Parliamentary clangor
Full oft, but it’s firmly averred
A shot that was levelled in anger
Is something he never has heard.
Perchance, where the scrub and the gorse is,
Some ’roo to his marksmanship fell;
Yet he’s now C.-in-C. of the Forces,
Our Mr. McKell.
Ten thousand, tax-free, you’ll b'e saying,
With a mansion designed for a nob,
Is a big wad of dough to be paying
For a purely civilian job.
But there’s more to employ the resources
Of air Ex. who aspires to excel,
And he’s now C.-in-C. of the Forces,
Pacific McKell.
Though soldiers may well be astounded
They should know that Ben Chifley’s a flair
For shoving square pegs into rounded
Depressions, and round ones in square.
A chrious stunt which, of course, is
The reason for any to tell
Why the boss of our combatant forces
Just now is McKell.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“T.C.T.”: Our prison camp M.O.
warned us that there was a danger of all
p.-0.-w. becoming sterile, owing to vita-
min E deficiency. This caused an uneasy
stir and a considerable amount of time
was devoted by competent people to
vitamin research. It was announced that
small quantities were present in hibiscus
leavfes, and soon large quantities of the
leaves were being consumed. But they
tasted worse than chopped-up grass and
it wasn’t very long before most of us
decided to leave them to the grubs,
and take a chance on going sterile. A
few diehards still religiously munched
their daily ration of leaf. One was a
well-known Changi personality, an officer
known as Lulu. Whatever he was doing
or wherever he was going, Lulu always
had a pocketful of leaVes. Even on
parade he would chew. Sometimes,
whilst lined up for roll-call, waiting for
the Nip to come and. count us, he would
say “Now then, lads, you might think
I’m joking, but I’m not; eat as many
of these leaves as you can.. One day
you’ll be thankful.” Months and years
passed and we ceased to worry about
sterility. Then came the surrender and
soon afterwards bags and bags of mail.
Lulu’s mail brought bad news—his wife
had run off with a Yank. Our sympathy
was tempered by sardonic humor as we
thought of the hibiscus leaves. But
there’s a happy end to the tale. I heard
it only last week. The desertion wire
was a malicious fake. Mr. and , Mrs.
Lulu are still happily married. Their
twins were born only a few weeks ago.
Good old hibiscus leaves!
» * * *
“Bo”: A Sydney department store has
been running a weekly column in a
morning paper in which is described, in
a style fruity and with much mateyness,
the bargains which are available to the
“discriminate” shopper. Now another
firm has entered the field, and in its in-
augural advertisement reassured its
patrons that the weekly news would “not
be in bold type you probably don’t
like to be shouted at.” Also “not in
flowery adjectives—you may feel they are
getting threadbare,” Then follows a little
header into the unfruity:—■
When the mercury sizzles and you make
a beeline for that bottle you camouflaged
in the back of your refrigerator—the con-
tortions you perform to manoeuvre your
bottle safely past milk jug and oyster jar,
only to foul the egg-tidy at the edge of
the shelf —the temper you displayed... !
Take heart, the Fridge is on its way!
Nary an adjective! But they can’t be
long delayed in that style, especially with
the rival fruit merchant churning ’em
out by the hundred. I predict a fruit-
and-adjective hurricane that will send eye-
bashed shoppers of both stores looking
for dark-glass bargains.
* * * *
“Conda”; H.M.S, Vanguard is dis-
tinguished by features other than her
Royal passengers. Though other ships rate
canteens and picture shows on the upper
deck, none is fitted, as Vanguard is, with
a properly-appointed cinema below decks,
a chapel, a laundry, galleys for captain,
wardroom, warrant officers, gunroom and
ship’s company, replete with all the labor-
savers electric ranges, dishwashing
machines, steam kettles, hot closets and
even a machine which cuts bread and
delivers it buttered. For the first time in
history a British warship has been air-
conditioned. Two steanvjet conditioning
units do the job, supplying vital gunnery-
control positions and magazines below
water level with conditioned air. Two
sick-bays are carried, one above and one
below armor, the lower one being air-
conditioned. The battleship’s length can
be steered from five positions, and —again
unique in history—she carries no mag-
netic compass ; reliance is placed on three
master gyros. Vanguard is the ninth of
Aren't We lucky? It's one of his temperamental nights."
her name, and was launched by a present
member of her company, Princess Eliza-
beth, in November, 1944.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: As one who has often ex-
pressed the opinion that country-paper
owners in Australia show small im-
agination in naming their sheets—they
seldom get beyond “Advocate,” “Times,”
“Post,” “Mail,” “Leader,” “Clarion,”
“Beacon” type of name—it was decidedly
refreshing to see listed in a press directory
the Canungra (Q.) “Tonic.” The more I
think of it the more attractive the possi-
bilities become and a town that contains
a paper with a name like that should be
worth visiting. Incidentally, I number
among my specimens of queer nomencla-
ture “The Gilgandra’Weekly and Castle-
reagh” fN.S.W.), “The Koondrook and
Barham Bridge” (Vic.),,and “The Blyth
Agriculturist” (S.A.). The last could
well inspire a happy pastoral sonnet, but
somehow that “Tonic” holds its own.
* * * *
“The Buster”: A recce plane had
sighted three Nip troopships stooging
past the Aroe Islands heading for Dobo
and N.-W. Area sent out enough air
strength to sink an armada. We in Beau-
fighters had first use of the wicket, our
job being to carry out a low-level straf-
ing attack to silence the flak, or keep the
guns occupied whilst the Dutch Mitchells
made a broadside masthead bombing
attack. We were to stick around until
the Dutch made the sinkings, and then
deal with survivors. By way of a diver-
"Sorry, folks —for a minute I thought I Was back at the quarry ."
sion, Yankee Liberators were to bomb
Langour, an air base about 100 miles
away in the Kei Islands, thus keeping the
Zeros occupied and out of our way.
Radio silence was the strict order of the
day. We made our sighting, and formed
for the strike. The ships opened fire
with everything they had, and the “Whis-
pering Death” became as noisy as Paddy’s
Market. Suddenly from out of the blue,
and with startling clarity, came a broad
Texan drawl: “Here, pass me that big
gun, Abner! This little blankard’s no
goddam good!”
* *
“Dahdit”: My entry for champion
I watched him receiving
messages continuously for over an hour,
recording them by means of a typewriter.
Every few minutes he would pause, reach
for a pencil, and write something down.
Tien, with a rattle of typewriter keys, he
would catch up again with the Morse.
Going closer I found he was working out
a crossword puzzle. In 45 minutes the
crossword was completed: he had not
once broken the sending telegraphist, he
had recorded every word sent, and the
speed had never fallen below 25 w.p.m.
* * * *
“Craiser”; There is a human note
about the cabled story of the youth of
18 who was bound over for two years in
London for stealing from the school of
which he was an old boy. He took a
packet of tea and ss. The human touch
about it is that before he left with his
booty he broke the headmaster’s cane.
* * * *
“Plum”; In a Sunday news-sheet there
was an advertisement for coffee percola-
tors. An exclamatory paragraph concluded
with the chatty admonition “Buy one
now; it’s a good idea, seeing that tea
prices will be soaring soon.” The adver-
tisers then went on to their second bargain
offer. This announced, presumably for
the benefit of those with enough money
not to worry about the price of tea, a
nice line in teapots.
* * * *
“Macnell”: The Navy has always exer-
cised a nice judgment in the choice of
names. Code names were used in the
“Pluto” pipe-laying operation, and
Disney’s dog having once got his nose
in it was natural to bring in some of his
friends; thus “Bambi” was the British
terminal and “Dumbo” the French.
With the two big merchant ships used
however, a difficulty presented itself. No
ship in the R.N. has a name remotely
resembling another and one merchant-
man’s name, Empire Ridley, was too
much like the destroyer Ripley. History
at once suggested Latimer as the comple-
ment of Ridley, and that famous martyr
bishop’s last words at the stake to his
fellow-sufferer—“Be of good comfort,
Master Ridley, and play the man, for we
shall this day light such a candle by
God’s Grace in England as I trust shall
never be put out”—were a clarion to the
men of Force Pluto. So H.M.S. Latimer
carried these historic words engraved on
an oak plaque throughout the operation
as she laid the cross-Channel pipeline.
* * * »
“Don”: That par. (B. 5/2/’47) about
Beresford Fowler dashing out to get a
substitute revolver recalled my initiation
into the necessity of having a spare in
reserve. The play was “Under Two
Flags,” in the last act of which the hero
stands awaiting the shot that will send
him to a higher plane, the heroine dashes
in and receives the charge. On this oc-
casion the gun did not go off. There was
no substitute “prop,” so the quick-think-
ing actor quickly reversed his rifle and,,
exclaiming “You will not defeat me,”
struck the girl on the head with the butt.
She dropped like a stone. So did the
curtain —and it was an hour before she
recovered.
* * He *
“Tin Hat”: What kind of news does
the great Australian public look for?
A city daily in announcing an increase
in the space allotted to its country cor-
respondents told them, as a guide to
what news to send:
You should advise us immediately,
by telegram or telephone, of any big or
sensational news. Such news includes
storm or flood damage, serious bush or
town fires, major crimes, interruption to
train or plane services, plane crashes or
forced landings, fatal accidents, crimes
affecting any public body or institution,
and searches for persons lost in the bush.
* * * *
“Benbow”: Fanning Island is hard
to pick up all right (B. 12/ 2/ ’47). Most
of the Gilbert and Ellice atolls are in-
correctly charted and are so low that they
are invisible more than six or eight miles
off. I recall lying in Tarawa lagoon and
clearly seeing the lights of one of Andrew
Weir’s tramps coming to load copra. She
was dodging outside the reef awaiting
the dawn. During the night a spot of
weather came up and it was five days
before she got in. Peter B. Kyne in
The Green Pea Pirates mentioned the
Mountains of Ara-Nuka. The highest
point on Ara-Nuka is about eight feet
above sea-level.
* * * ♦
“Ken”: Sydney water? While on leave
with friends ashore at Manly, I decided
to wash my best white naval uniform.
After giving the trousers and jacket a
preliminary rub through the suds (no-
thing like-the rich, creamy lather you get
with Melbourne water!), I dumped them
into the next tub and let the tap run
while I got on with a few minor items.
The sedate residential was treated to a
rich sample of shipside vocabulary when
I returned my attention to the soaking
uniform. By some mysterious alchemy,
the water running from the tap had turned
as black as ink, and so, apparently, had
my whites. It came out eventually, but
only at the expense of my knuckles and
a planned afternoon on the beach.
* * * *
“Dong”: Having collected one of
Sydney’s New Year’s Day offerings on
my skull I am now getting about again
and looking for the culprits. “Clooter”
(B. 5/2/’47) should hardly blame the
C.S.I.R. for the hailstorm. The scientific
blokes might be able to produce artificial
rain in the field, and even snow in their
laboratories, but I doubt if the young ice-
berg which drove me inches into the
ground was a product of theirs. How-
ever, the C.S.I.R. has engaged in the
occult and, in the good old days, would
have been promptly burned with any
other party suspected of being able to do
a* slow roll on a broomstick. The
council should remember the sad case
of “Rain-maker” Hatfield, who was wor-
shipped at the beginning of the century
in the corn-belt of the United States.
Summoned to California by desperate *
farmers, Hatfield rigged up his apparatus
in a shack, and, declaring that he would
fill the local reservoir and charge $5OO
an inch for any rain that topped 30in.,
he went to work. Thirty-six inches came
in one mighty downpour, providing the
worst flood in the district’s history and
municipal losses amounting to $3,000,000.
Lo'cal business heads wanted to lynch the
rain-maker, but after an unsuccessful
attempt to collect his fees he lit out for
Boston, where he spent the rest of his
days miserably making tempests to fit in
tea-cups.
* * * *
“Mr. Dribble”: It seems foolish to me,
all this squabbling about “Test” umpir-
ing. When I was a kid we used to settle
the issue simply—the only decisions that
were not disputed were clean-bowled and
caught; all other decisions, 1.b.w.,
stumped and run-out, were settled by the
whole 22 kids gathering in the centre of
the “pitch” and arguing or fighting it out.
The ultimate result may not have been
the right one, but it certainly allowed all
concerned to have their say.
CROSSWORDS.
“A crossword puzzle is the best intelligence test
ever invented.” —Professor Murdoch.
His apothegms sometimes awaken
A flicker of doubt if they’ve got
(Like the wisecracks of Shaw) to be taken
At purely face value or not.
Yet I know of no reason to query
The statement or venture a scoff
At the truth underlying the the’ry
Advanced by the Prof.
Think how it enlarges your diction.
Reflect how it sharpens your wits,
The search for some hero of fiction
In an intricate setting that fits, •
The hunt for some town European
To which you have hit on no clue
Except that it starts with an “e” and
Concludes with a “u.”
It sets those who never were hoping
To be dubbed intellectual chaps
In lexicons greedily groping
And glueing their optics on maps.
And think of the pleasant emotion
They feel when they add to their store
Some word that they hadn’t a notion
Existed before 1
He’s a cynical pedagogue clearly,
Our Murdoch, an erudite egg,
If he’s solving acrostics or merely
Intent upon pulling your leg. *
But I’m with him entirely concerning
The manner in which he declares
They broaden competitors’ learning,
These crossword affairs.
“Say, Dad,” comes a voice in the middle
Of some job that I’m worrying through,
“I’m stuck at a six-lettered riddle,
An adverb and adjective too.
‘lntensive’ is giv’n as the key, and
This detail as well must apply :
It’s got to begin with a ‘b’ and
End up with a ‘y,’ ” »■
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
y.
m
WITHOUT OUR HELP THEY ARE
DOOMED TO DIE!
Throughout Europe, thousands of innocent kiddies are facing
starvation and death because of the appalling shortages of the
bare necessities of life.
We in Australia can help to save these young sufferers by
giving all we can without delay, whether it be cash for the
purchase of food and medicines or clean, serviceable clothing.
The Society of Friends, in conjunction with ♦ The Occupied
Europe Society, will allocate the relief impartially, wherever
the need is greatest in the occupied areas and certain liberated
zones, including Jugoslavia, Greece and Poland.
Europe’s homeless and helpless innocents look to you for help.
Don’t fail them.
THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
(: QUAKERS)
INTERNATIONAL RELIEF COMMITTEE
in collaboration with the
OCCUPIED EUROPE RELIEF SOCIETY
Please forward your donations to
THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
N.S.W.: 119 Devonshire St., Sydney. Vic.: 20 Russell St.,
Melbourne. S.A.: c/o Mr. George Hutchesson, Box 779 G.P.0.,
Adelaide. W.A.: c/o Mr. J. H. Crosland, Albany Rd., Gosnells.
Q’LAND: c/o Mrs. H. F. Jones, Thozel Rd., Nth Rockhampton,
or Miss Kate Sauer, 8 Balaclava St., Woolloongabba. TAS.: c/o
Mrs. Ruth Erskine, Burdoc, Rosetta. N.T.; Box 48, Alice Springs.
/F YOU YMDBEEN
BRIGHT AND SHINING
YOU WOULDN'T HAYE
BEEN TAKEN FOR
A HOBO SHOE
NUGGET
SHOE POLISH
Th £ d/uly
, , 0/2 t
)N(/OOEr[
ooes
The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
MARS Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. AH essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - - all gear teeth are generated.
ẃ
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
ẅ
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.-Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd ;
\ ictoria— Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne ;
Q’land— lntercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W.A.-The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth ; TASMANiA-Charles Davies,
Ltd., Hobart; N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd., Auckland;
Calcutta— Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.; Bombay
Province— R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay; Hongkong
ayd Shanghai— The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Qld. op
“Meehanite”
Metals
THE SERVICE MAN
Defence Organisation.
“Ek Dum”: The difference in outlook
between the Government at Canberra,
which prays that the time will never come
when it will have to take any respon-
sibility for defence preparation, and the
British Government is shown by the dif-
ferent lines taken. Britain laid down her
framework plan of peace-time defence
six months ago, and in the Budget to
come on March 31 is filling it in with
walls and roof.
The Chifleys are still waiting obsequi-
ously for the decision of U.N.O. — i.e., for
the instructions of Honduras, San Salva-
dor, Mexico, Cuba, Persia, Yugoslavia
and the like as to what the Common-
wealth may or should do to defend it-
self." The British have decided to retain
a million persons in arms, with compul-
sory service.
A White Paper remarks that-despite the
fact that the country was in many re-
spects dangerously unprepared in 1939,
“owing to the political and economic cir-
cumstances” of the preceding decade, the
“aspects of defence preparation which
required collaboration between the mili-
tary and civil agencies of Government
were fully prepared both in 1914 and
"What’s that gadget for ?"
"Cosh, I'm not a quiz kid, sir."
1939 by the Imperial General Staff” ; so
“the transition from peace to war was
accomplished smoothly.”
But the R.N, and the R.A.F., though
“not badly equipped,” suffered from seri-
ous gaps. The R.N. was “dangerously
short of destroyers and escort vessels.”
Aircraft and ack-ack artillery were “in-
adequate.” The Army was small and
badly equipped, and had so little produc-
tion behind it that if fighting had con-
tinned in 1940 for any length of time
“it would have soon been short of every
kind of ammunition.” And there was
lack of policy co-ordination among the
three services.
During the war unity of action was
achieved under the Prime Minister and
Minister of Defence. The present Gov-
eminent has been compelled to consider
methods of continuing this unity in peace.
One scheme suggested was the welding
of all forces into one, which would in-
volve a return to first principles. The
Government has not altogether rejected
this idea. It declares that at some stage
it might become desirable, but not for
the present. .
The expedient adopted was that in use
between the Anglo-American and mter-
service commands during the war com-
bmed staffs from all services, composed
of men responsible for carrying out an
agreed national policy in their own par-
ticular service spheres.
This is opposed to the German General
Staff system, under which the Supreme
Command was detached from execution,
merely making plans and passing them in
to the active command, which had no
hand in making them and had often not
been consulted. The German Staff’s re-
moteness from the realities of battle did
much towards losing the war for the Reich.
The Skeleton Scheme
The British system which has been
laid down is here summarised.
The Prime Minister will have the
supreme responsibility for defence. He
will be’chairman of a defence committee
which will review current strategy and
co-ordinate departments, likely to be in-
volved in preparations for war.
A Defence Minister—Mr. A. V. Alex-
ander, war-time First Lord of the
Admiralty—is responsible to Parliament
for the apportionment of resources be-
tween the services and the framing of
general policy to govern research, Be-
velopment and production programmes,
He also settles questions of common
policy in administration and administers
joint-service bodies such as Operations
H.Q. and the Joint Intelligence Bureau,
He will bring his proposals before the
Defence Committee and Cabinet, will
present Cabinet decisions to Parliament
and will act as arbiter-in-general between
the three services. And to Parliament he
will be generally responsible for all mat-
ters common to R.N., Army and R.A.F.
He will be Deputy Chairman of the
Defence Committee and Chairman of
the Chief of Staffs Committee,
The Chief of Staffs Committee will
continue to exist. It will prepare
strategic appreciations and military plans
for submission to the Defence Committee,
The Service Ministers will continue
responsible to Parliament for their own
service administrations,
The Defence Minister, therefore, is the
deputy of the Prime Minister and in
peace-time will relieve him of the defence
detail of his work, which is concerned
with the inter-relation of the three ser-
vices and their supply. But matters of
high policy remain the collective respon-
sibility of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
as a whole, on the advice of the Defence
Committee, which will discharge the
tasks incidental to a change from peace-
to war-footing—the duties formerly in
the hands of the Imperial General Staff,
This committee will include the Prime
Minister, the Defence Minister, the Lord
President of the Council, the Foreign
Secretary, the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, the Service Ministers and the
Ministers of Supply and Labor. The
Chiefs of Staff will attend meetings. The
p r i me Minister will be war-time chair-
man.
Sub-committees will take over details
0 £ mobilisation and other functions,
The Financial Side
Tbe estimates, instead of being pre-
pared separately for each service accord-
jn g m the ideas of that service, will be
co-ordinated into a whole according to
oV erall strategic requirements and
a n ott ed in agreed balanced proportions so
as to make co-ordination between the
forces completely workable. For ex-
arnple; the Army will know what co-
operation it needs from the R.A.F., and
tb i s will be provided for in an agree-
ment.
There will be a standing committee on
production, consisting of the Defence
and Services, Supply and Labor Minis-
ters. This w ill work with a joint war-
production staff. The objective of this
organisation will be to keep production
in such a state of readiness and organisa-
tion that upon the imminence of war it


MORE AND MORE
MOTORISTS ARE
DEMANDING THE lOO°/ 0
AUSTRALIAN TYRE
THAT'S WHY
THERE’S A BIG JOB AHEAD OF
There’s a six year backlag to bis
overtaken too —but rest assured
that new Olympics will be made
available for everyone—as soon as
possible.
Keep on Buying Saving Certificates and Stamps
A Pro'duct of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE &
CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED
CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
0
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM, MAY 54h-16th. 1942
This is your first opportunity in seven years to
see your old suppliers in Britain and to meet new ones.
Overseas Buyers are invited to Britain for the
1947 British Industries Fair. It will enable them to
establish personal contact with the makers of the
immense range of United Kingdom goods displayed
in the London (Lighter Industries) and Birmingham
(Hardware & Engineering) Sections of the Fair. The
careful grouping of exhibits will assist buyers to
compare the products of competing firms with a
minimum of time, trouble and expense. Special
arrangements to suit individual markets can be dis-
cussed and terms and conditions of business settled
direct with the manufacturer, since only the actual
producer or the sole selling agent may exhibit.
★ For full details of the 1947 Fair apply to the nearest British
Commercial Diplomatic Officer or Consular Officer, or the
British Trade Commissioner in your area.
BRITAIN PRODUCES
THE GOODS
can be swung over to full war produc-
tion in the quickest possible time and
with a minimum of reorganisation of
machinery and manpower.
Service Ministers —Admiralty, Army,
Air Force —will continue to be respon-
sible to Parliament for the running of
their own concerns, and there will be a
network of Ministerial and other com-
mittees for the purpose of thoroughly
knitting the various parts of the country’s
defence together.
The Imperial Defence College will be
under the Defence Ministry, but it has
not yet been decided how far services
common to all branches of the fighting
forces — e.g., medical services—shall be
drawn under a common control.
The Chiefs of Staff Committee will
continue to work on the satisfactory basis
on which it was established during the
war. It will retain full responsibility for
preparing plans and submitting them to
the Defence Committee, but it will differ
from the German Staff in that its mem-
bers will have a hand in carrying out
the plans the committee makes.
Particular attention is to be given,
naturally, to scientific research. There
comes into existence a Committee on De-
fence Research Policy which will consist
of those concerned both with operational
and scientific considerations. This will
be advisory to the C.O.S. Committee and
the Defence Minister and Cabinet. The
chairman is a “scientist of high qualifi-
cations.”
Home defence will have its own Head-
quarters, organisation and system.
Dominions’ Part
It is at this point that the Common-
wealth’s interests become involved. The
White Paper on Defence says;
Methods of collaboration between vari-
ous members of the British Commonwealth
are governed by the Statute of West-
minster, .. .Admittedly the Dominions have
a close interest in problems that affect the
[British] Commonwealth and Empire as a
whole, but each of them has a special and
distinct outlook on world affairs, dependent
upon geographical position and political
and economic environment, and Dominion
Governments must retain full liberty of
action. Co-operation in defence has there-
fore taken the form of promoting uni-
formity of organisation, training and
equivalent military forces and maintaining
the closest possible touch between , staffs
and interchanging officers to promote a
common dbctrine in military affairs. Col-
laboration in war-time of forces from dif-
ferent parts of the, British Commonwealth
has therefore thus been easy and effective.
The British Government suggests that
the defence of the whole British Com-
monwealth and Empire would be best
served by '“regional association,” and
thus proposed (and is implementing the
scheme) that liaison officers be established
in each Dominion to join with Dominion
chiefs of staff in studying regional secu-
rity, the Dominions having similar rep-
resentation in London.
These views and proceedings, it is re-
ported, had a “favorable hearing” last
year from the Dominions representatives,
who were still studying them late in the
year.
It was hoped that in the main they
would prove acceptable and “pave the
way for machinery which, while giving
full play to the independence of the
member-States of the British Common-
wealth, will be effective as a means of
co-operation and collaboration,”
The Decision in June
What the Australian delegates told the
country was that the scheme of regional
defence control was theirs and that they
had virtually forced Britain to agree to it.
It is one that suits them. It implies
no obligation on their part to do any-
thing save appoint opposite numbers to
British Ministers and high officials. It
implies no need on their part to put down
card for card, to match Britain’s Navy
with a Navy commensurate with their
own population and wealth. It im-
plies no obligation to fight for another
Dominion or for the United King-
d°n}, even if the Dominion or the
U.K. is beaten to its knees. It carries no
obligation to share the burden of main-
taining compulsory training or of build-
ing up a shipbuilding industry with others.
The only obligation it implies is a rat-
m-a-hole policy under which the Aus-
tralian Government is free, as an “inde-
pendent” nation, of the wars of the rest
of the British Commonwealth until Aus-
tralia and the skins of its followers are
in danger. And thMi it is free to howl
tor help like a treed Vhoolgirl, as it did
m 1942.
The present “interim” Army arrange-
ment, which is a continuation of the
Second A.I.F. war-time defence scheme,
with war-time pay and privileges, is due
to die m June, and by that time the
Government” will have to decide what
defence forces it needs, besides five Minis-
ters and a milita'ry board modelled on
the British Army’s and built to run a
concern of about 200,000 men.
*? ave t 0 dec ide, in effect,
whether it is to remain, in defence, a
part of the British Commonwealth.
Rocket-bomb Secrets.
“Ek Dum”: With the beginning of
rocket-bomb experiments in Australia it
is announced that stringent searches are
being made to ensure that “rocket spies”
do not penetrate the country. The Com-
monwealth Government or its Informa-
tion Department is showing zeal in the
matter —unusual for a Government which
allowed its fighting services to become
Red-anted with Communist^,
The leaders of these Red-ants did no
fighting. During the war they could
always be found at Sydney Domain and
Melbourne Yarra Bank meetings. People
of the same kidney have tried to Red-ant
the R.S.L. Here they have suffered a
check.
At this very date there are muni-
tions and transport unions headed
by persons who boast of their
allegiance to Russia. There is a so-
called Association of Scientific Workers,
stiff with Communists, which worked it-
self up into a dreadful state of indigna-
tion over the traitor’s sentence imposed,
on Dr. Nunn May. And the secretary
of the Seamen’s Union, a member of
the Communist Central Committee, cast
up last week in New Zealand to inter-
fere with the salvage of the Wanganella,
claiming to have priority from the “Aus-
tralian Government.”
It is reported from Canberra that,
with a view to the protection of rocket-
bomb secrets, Federal Government
“migrants” will in future be more closely
scrutinised.
On “migrants” from Eastern Europe
there is no check worth mentioning.
Even an unmarried refugee can nominate
foreign Jews for landing permits.
There is no mention of any step being
taken or to be taken to prevent Com-
munist “scientific workers” being em-
ployed in the rocket-bomb experiments.
Sudkin to the Somme.
“Ek Dum”; As a war organisation the
Seventeenth Battalion (A.1.F.) is one of
the oldest units in Australia, Its cam-
paign honors, written round its Mack-
over-green color-patch, are: Suakin,
1885 ; South Africa, 1899-1902; Gal-
lipoli, 1915; Pozieres, Bullecourt, Menin
Road, Bapaume, Ypres, Amiens, Hinden-
burg Line, Mont St, Quentin, 1916-18.
The Seventeenth’s history in World
War I has now been written by Lieut.-
Colonel K, W. MacKenzie, M.C.
It mobilised for World War I in
March, 1915, embarked on May 12 on
the old Themistocles, and learnt on its
way to Egypt that Italy had declared war
on the side of the Allies. It began train-
ing on the old Aerodrome Camp at Heli-
opolis on June 13. On August 21 it found
itself moving into Australia Valley on
Gallipoli, and six days later was in the
attack on Hill 60. Later it relieved the
First Light Horse at Pope’s and Quinn’s
Posts.
The battalion evacuated to Mudros in
December, 1915. . On May 24, 1916,
almost exactly a year after its organisa-
tion was completed, it was in billets at
Thiennes in Northern France. A few
days later it was filing into the trenches
of the Northumberland Fusiliers at Bois
Grenier.
By the end of the first week of July,
1916, the Seventeenth was in the thick
of things, and in the thick of things it
remained right up to the battle of the
Beaurevoir Line in October, 1918. Its
final draft did not leave for England until
April 24,, 1919.
The Seventeenth had some famous
commanders, among them Colonel Paton,
a citizen soldier, and the incomparable
Goddard, who at 48 was, one of the coolest
front-line regimental officers in France.
It contained a large proportion of soldiers
who lied valiantly about their ages. Its
history contains a special addendum roll
of members who “served under assumed
names.” And it is recorded of Private
T. C. Crawford, an over-age member of
A Company, that when a battalion of
Guards approached a point which he
controlled, the following conversation
took place:
Crawford (to Guards colonel): Sir, you
will have to march in single file on the side
of the road.
Colonel: We are the Guards!
Crawford: It don’t matter to me—you’ve
•got to march on the side of the road.
Them’s the orders.
Colonel: Get out of the way! We are
the Guards!
Crawford: I don’t give a damn if you’re
the blanky enginedrivers. You’ve got to
march on the side of the road.
There are numerous affidavits (all by
members of the Seventeenth) to authenti-
cate the battalion’s right to this story.
Nearly 4000 men served in the Seven-
teenth during its four years in service in
World War I. It had 840-odd killed or
one-fifth of its nominal roll.
It won a V.C. (Bill Jackson, in 1916),
a C. 8., a C.M.G., 32 M.Cs. (with one
bar), 18 D.C.Ms. and 128 Military
Medals, apart from other decorations.


txlh
/////
\J 'U\\°
STIU KEEPS 6QIN6 WHEN
[the rest have stoppep
EXIDE IS THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.. LTD..
44 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Two men who have been attending
the International Civil Aviation con-
ference in Melbourne have memories
of Australia. Both were in the
1934 Centenary Air Race. Reeder
G. Nichols, appointed representative
in Australia of the U.S. Civil Aero-
nautics Board, was navigator and
radio operator with Roscoe Turner
and Clyde Pangborn, the Americans who
finished third behind the Englishmen
Scott and Black and the Dutchmen Moll
and Parmentier —with one bad engine and
two troubled ones that forced a landing
back of Bourke. Both his companions
are still flying—Turner runs a private
airport at Indianapolis and Pangborn
ferries aircraft from factories to buyers.
Nicholas record for continuous long-dis-
tance radio communication, made in
those far-off days, still stands. The
other participant in the Centenary air-
race was Commander H. C. Walker, co-
pilot with the late Captain McGregor,
who landed third in the handicap section.
He led the first M.L. squadron which
went into action in the Pacific and he
is now chief for the M.L. National
Airways Corporation,
S. W. Jeffries, out to make a comeback
at next month’s S.A. elections, was a
member of the State Assembly from
1927-30, during R. L, Butler’s first
Ministry, lost his seat in the swing to
Labor, but got it back three years later
and held it till 1944. For nine years
under Butler and Playford he had a place
in Cabinet as Attorney-General, Minister
for Education and Minister for Employ-
ment and Industry. Jeffries was admitted
to the Adelaide Bar back in 1910. In
those days he was a notable figure in
sport—he played tennis and football for
Prince Alfred College and Adelaide
’Varsity; later he held his own in pen-
nant tennis and in senior League ranks
with Norwood and Sturt football teams.
Nowadays he gets his exercise in less
strenuous fields, but will probably put in
a good run for Torrens, his old seat.
Resigned from the position of Director
of the School of Public Health and Pre-
ventive Medicine at Sydney University,
Harvey Sutton was one of Victoria’s first
Rhodes Scholars —in 1905 after a spell
as resident M.O. at Melbourne Children’s
Hospital. In those days he was a cham-
pion runner and held the Australasian
mile and half-mile records. When he
came back to Australia he was appointed
Chief School Medical Officer with the
Victorian Education Department, but in
1915 went away with the AJ.F. and at
the end of that war was in charge of
medical services for the Australian
Mounted Division. Followed a job
looking after the health of N.S.W. school-
children, from which he moved on to
his present post. Professor Sutton has
directed surveys into the diseases of the
tropical territories of Australia from the
Solomons to Darwin and from Nauru to
Norfolk Island. Instructional work in
tropical medicine and hygiene given by
his department during the war earned
the gratitude of the Allied medical ser-
vices.
British Columbia’s new lieutenant-
governor, C. M. Banks, is a Maoriiaqder.
A native of Thames (N. 1.), he was horn
in 1883, and before going to the United
States 30 years ago was gold mining in
M.L. In the States and Canada he
practised mining engineering till the
Outbreak of World War I, when he
joined the Royal Engineers. After the
armistice he returned to America to
become managing director of Placer
Development. Banks filled the job of
Canadian rep. of the Department of
Munitions and Supply in London during
the second World War.
During the war no man did more for
Maoriland Diggers and airmen passing
through Sydney than C. Roy Stanley,
liaison officer of the N.Z. Returned Ser-
vices Association. In recognition of his
good work the association has awarded
him its Certificate of Merit with Gold
Star Badge. Stanley settled in Sydney 20
years ago, and has been a leading light
in the advertising world ever singe. Be-
fore coming to Australia he put in a
couple of years with a tobacco firm in
China and a few more as manager of
Gordon and Gotch in Dunedin. Earlier,
while still in his teens, he attended World
War I with the N.Z.E.F.
Ernie Old, the 72-year-old Melbourne
cyclist who passed through Sydney on his
way to Brisbane per pushbike, keeps the
greens at the Box Hill (Vic.) golfcourse
during his intervals of leisure. His
latest jaunt was, nothing exceptional; Old
has done similar trips to Adelaide and
Sydney.
“El Verdugo” on an art pioneer who
is still pioneering:
Looking at the benign countenance of Max
Meldrum at 71- it is difficult to realise the
passion of contention which his theories aroused
when he and Australian art were young and
argumentative, and art exhibitions did not look
like something which had been dug up from
the nether regions of an army camp. Meldrum
came to Melbourne at 14 from his native
Edinburgh and his intonation still has some
lingering flavor of Scots tongue spoken at its
best. Art fairly oozed out of his young pores
and he was inoculated in the famous old studio
at Chartersville on the Yarra founded by
E. Phillips Fox and T. St. G. Tucker, of which
other habitues at various times were the Lind-
says, Vincent, Alex. Sass, Will Dyson, Janies
Quinn and Shirlow. Max won a travelling
scholarship in 1899, but frequented in Paris
the galleries rather than the studios and came
back eventually a fine, mature portrait painter
and a constructive theorist who depicted art as
a “pure science of optical analysis” and the
artist as a technician whose duty lay in “trans-
lating optical impressions within the limits
of his capacity and in the scientific order in
which they come to the eye.” He preached
the supreme importance and difficulty of tone
ART.
as opposed to color, and started enough debates
to fill Parliament Mouse, Canberra, for 40
years, dividing the whole Australian art World
into two camps. As a “technician” after, his
own manner he proved himself a masterly
exponent, he has had as many honors showered
on him abroad as any Australian painter and
has given his own country some fine portraits
—those of Samuel Griffith and Lord Den-
man are about the best in Canberra’s Gallery,
and his portrait of his mother is one of the
most arresting in Melbourne Gallery. He has
produced a mass of work which will have a
greater reputation in a century than while its
genial creator still lives and argues. At present
his reputation is far greater abroad than at
home. Meldrum admits that he once or twice
contributed to The Bulletin in his callow
youth, saying that in the ’nineties no artist
could claim a standing until he had joined
Archibald’s band. He has another link with
The Bulletin in that two of its artists, Percy
Leason, who has founded a school on his
method in the United States, and Colahan are
his ardent disciples. He has written a new
and exhaustive book on the practical appli-
cation of his methods of painting which will
be published in July by Charles Shepherd, who
recently issued Norman Lindsay’s bobk of
oils and Douglas Stewart’s Ned Kelly in super-
fine editions.
KarlvonStieglitz, of Andora, near Evan-
dale (Tas.), breeds Corriedales and makes
historical research his hobby—he has dug
up a mass of information on the early
days of the Apple Isle, A few years ago
he compiled a series of well-illustrated,
racily - written booklets written round
Longford' and Evandale districts.
Since then various municipal authori-
ties and public bodies have enlisted
his help in writing the early his-
tory of their localities; and quite a
spate of publication's is now coming from
Andora. The big genial man thoroughly
enjoys his hobby, arid Tasmanians ap-
predate the contribution he is making to
the preservation and recording of the
island’s story. It was at Andora that
Frank Hurley got some of his shots for
his film “Isle of Waters,” in which the
huntsmen provide some good studies, and
the music of “John Peel” is played.
Othman F. Blakey, M.E., recently
appointed to the associate professorship
of structural engineering in the University
of W.A., graduated in 1920 with first-
class honors in civil engineering and a
Thomas Mcßwraith scholarship from the
University of his native Queensland.
After service as constructional engineer
at the Wyndham meatworks and for the
Commonwealth Bank in Victoria, he
joined thei staff of the W.A. University
as lecturer. In 1936-37 he toured univer-
sities and engineering works throughout
Britain, Europe and the United States,
on a grant from the Carnegie Corpora-
tion. Talent runs in the family—a sister.
Miss Victoria Blakey, is a leading figure
in Brisbane’s musical world.
J. E. Langley, much farewelled, is re-
tiring from Prince Alfred’s in Adelaide
after half a century as teacher. Among
his old students present at the farewell
lunch were Bernard Berry, from Sydney,
and Egbert Howard, from Melbourne.
The star pupil attending was J. F. Ward,
the present headmaster.
Whoever rifled ..the butterfly collec-
tions of Australia knew what he was
doing when he lifted upwards of 900
specimens from the George Lyell col-
lection in the National Museum in Mel-
bourne. The collection numbers 52,127
specimens, 6177 species and 547 types,
and represents 95 p.c. of the known
Australian butterflies. Their original
owner, George Lyell, is world-famous
and at 82 still retains his passion for
collecting. He lives the life* of a recluse
in Gisborne (Vic.) and it is years since he
has been seen at scientific meetings.
Only last year he gave his collection to
the National Museum.
Vernon Lawrence can’t be everywhere
at once, but from Jingeflic down to Wel-
lington (S.A.) and all along the Murray
tributaries, catchments and irrigation
areas, it’s pretty hard to talk about de-
velopment and associated themes without
his name creeping in somewhere. As
organising secretary of the Murray
Valley Development League, which is out
to make Australians conscious of the
grand old river and the boundless possi-
bilities that exist throughout a water
system that covers a large lump of south-
eastern Australia, Lawrence’s head-
quarters are in Kiewa-street, Albury, but
his work takes him to all sorts of places,
even unto the corridors of State Depart-
ments in three capitals and in a place
called Canberra, down Yass way. He
brings to his job valuable ‘ experience
gained in the foundation of the Murray
Valley Coaches back in ’34—a road, ser-
vice which did much to revive travel
MURRAY DEVELOPMENT.
along the Murray and teach travellers to
view it as a grand national asset —and
with the experience goes a steady en-
thusiasm for the cause of Murray develop-
ment. He’d have probably been at it
sooner, just as the League itself would
have been formed earlier, had not the
war intervened. A transport man, Law-.
rence naturally gravitated to A.A.S.C. in
the Second A.1.F., served with Corps
Troops and the Ninth Divvy in the M.E.
and Borneo and was a major at the finish.
The cheerful grin caught here by Mc-
Beath belongs to a bloke who was shot
down over Germany while piloting a
Wellington bomber and spent most of
his prison-camp time trying to escape,
succeeding at the tenth attempt. Alan
AIRWAYS.
McSweyn was one of the first Empire
Air Training men brought down by the
Hun and he saw the inside of several
prison camps, including Stalag Luft 111,
from which he was shifted only three
days before the mass break in which
so many of his pals were killed through
a last-minute hitch in the plans. Despite
his long spell in German hands, McSweyn
found time to collect a Military Cross
and the A.F.C. At 28, back in Brisbane
with his England bride, hfe is Queensland
manager for T.A.A.
R. D. Williams, the n,ew Commissioner
of the Victorian State Savings Bank,
holds a Commerce diploma, is secretary
of the Sandringham branch of the A.L.P.,
has had 21 years’ service with the bank
in the building section and is, of course,
a Labor man. He was years in the
A.I.F. The first man in Victorian bank-
ing history to be promoted from clerk to
commissioner, he becomes the third
Williams occupying a high executive posi-
tion in the Savings Bank. N. R. Williams
is general manager and H. E, Williams
secretary,
“Nagheer”; The effects of North
Queensland’s Awful Climate have been
once more demonstrated in the case of
William Hammond, who has lived in
Townsville for all of his 16 years.
At the recent Junior Public Examinations
he gained first place among all candi-
dates for the State Public Service. Dur-
ing the same year he was in his school’s
teams for tennis, swimming, football,
cricket and gymnastics, in its cadet corps
(as * a corporal), and was chosen for
attendance at the cadet officers’ school in
Brisbane. Now, instead of accepting the
comfortable, easy life-job which he could
have had in the public service, the lad
has decided on a university course.
Into the silence? —
In Melbourne, Dr. J. Jones, medical officer
of the Melbourne Football Club since 1933 and
one of its best-liked officials. He served with
the A.I.F. in the late war with the rank of
lieutenant-colonel. -
In Sydney, at 83, Dr. William C. Daish.
Born at South Melbourne, he graduated at
Melbourne Uni. and practised in Collins-street
before going to N.S.W., where he became well-
known in Dubbo, Canbelego, Cobar and
Nyngan. He was for a time Mayor of Nyngan,
but later moved to Sydney and remained in
harness with rooms in Macquarie-street and at
Homebush until a few months ago. As a
major Dr. Daish took part ift the Boer War.
At 76, in Melbourne, the wife of ex-Senator
George Pearce. An ever-present help to Pearce
throughout his. long political career, she accom-
panied him to London and Washington in
1919 when he was Minister for Defence.
A link with early Maoriland was snapped
when R. H. Wynyard died at Auckland, aged
80. He was a son of Lieut.-Col. Wynyard,
military governor of M.L. in 1854 and superin-
tendent of Auckland province. R.H.W. was
well known'in business circle in the city and
on the polo, hunting and golf fields.
At New Plymouth (M.L.), at 96, R. J.
Matthews, founder of Rugby in Taranaki and
well known on the turf —he won the N.Z-
Cup with Star Rose. R.J.M. was an ex-bank
manager.


Missing FriencJ.
TO JOSEPH ERNEST PEGLER formerly of 77
Canterbury Road Middle Park in the State of Vic-
toria but now of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife VALDA GEAN PEGLER of 36 Canter-
bury Road Albert Park in the State of Victoria
Married Woman has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion during
three years and upwards Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the said State on or
before the 31st day of March 1947 the said suit will
proceed in your absence and a Decree Nisi for disso-
lution of marriage may be granted If you intend to
defend this suit you must also file an answer in
the said office on or before the loth day of April
1947. —T. J. KANE, of 101 Queen Street, Melbourne,
in the said State, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
State Governor Northcott’s daughter
Marjorie is engaged to be married. She
announced it early last week. Her fiance
is Major Donald Coburn, and the two
met in Japan, where Miss Northcott was
serving as a lieutenant in the A.A.M.W.S.
Major Coburn, of the Royal Electrical
Mechanical Engineers, 8.C.0.F., is the
only son of the late S. T. Coburn and of
Mrs. Coburn, of Hatch End, Middlesex,
England. The Governor’s daughter was
one of the first Army Welfare officers in
Japan, and was at the Australian hospital
at Ita Jima. Since their arrival in the
Merkur the two have been staying at the
vice-regal country home, Hillview, Sutton
Forest. The wedding is timed for the
end of the year, when Major Coburn ex-
pects his next leave from Japan. The
two will make their home in England.
Marjorie’s ring has a large square-cut
sapphire set in diamonds.
At the first lunch of the year, March
13, the members of the Society of Women
Writers will have Mrs. John Northcott,
wife of the State’s Governor, as guest of
honor. Lieutenant Marjorie Northcott,
and probably Miss Elizabeth Northcott,
will accompany their mother.
Saturday’s sun streamed bright on Vic-
toria Barracks. It picked out the green
of the lawns, the brass of the cannon
from the Sirius, gleaming defender of the
gardens of the officers’ mess, and of the
really ferocious - looking pair guarding
the shallow steps to that sacred edifice.
In the afternoon breeze the decades of
its history rustled into life as Lieutenant-
General Berryman turned some of its
leaves in the old-fashioned rooms with
their high windows. In the garden near
the tree that Mrs. Roosevelt planted on
her Australian journey, Mrs, Berryman
received the guests to the party which
was the Eastern Command Auxiliary’s
effort on behalf of the War Widows’
Craft Guild.
Further afield there were a tennis tour-
nament raging, a putting green snaring
you to try to hole in one and an Army
“duck” running tours of the grounds
for eager passengers of all ages. There
were pictures and over all the suave
benign music of the Eastern Command
Band—altogether a hot, lazy, happy after-
noon.
Near the garden gate Mrs. P. Moore,
Mrs. Russell and secretary Mrs. Mann
were kept busy receiving packets for
the “Give a gift, buy a gift” stall.
That was further down the garden al-
most opposite the tree the Duchess re-
cently planted. It was soon heaped with
coathangers, boxes of powder, pieces
of china. Among the guests were the
Morshead lady, Mrs. C. J. Pope, Mrs.
Pulver with her Brigadier. Their daughter
Margaret was one of the tennis players,
so was Ann Berryman. Mrs. Berryman
is president of the Auxiliary, which was
formed towards the end of last year.
From Monte Carlo, the not-so-gay
these days, comes a belated Christmas
letter from a former Sydney woman.
Food, and the conditions of living in
that once butterfly-filled garden of
pleasure, appear to take up all the
thoughts of its residents.
The conditions in Italy are unbelievable.
They would, I think, cu’t off your hair if
you stopped for a moment to tie your shoe-
lace, if they could sell the hair. They are
really starving amidst plenty. Imagine
Italians having to pay 300 lira a kilo for
pate, their staple diet. Sugar is 1200 lira
a kilo. There are no rations there. Every-
thing can be bought freely—but for more
money than the people have. The class of
people like our domestics used to be are
in desperate straits. It almost makes you
try to forget that they did go in with Ger-
many against us. My car, which a friend
managed to save from the Germans, is
still sitting in the garage. • I could not pos-
sibly run it now, for petrol is like liquid
gold. It is now midway through December
and in spite of everything the hotels are
getting ready for a bumper crowd along
the coast. I am wondering how many
English there will be, as they are allowed
to bring only £7,6 out of England and
hotels like the Monte Carlo Palace cost
at least £3 a day, and there are percentages
and taxes.
Wall-street big business, beware! Bul-
letin’s Business Robbery expert David
Adams is making for New York. David,
who is also associate editor of this paper,
is speeding between the Heads outward
bound for America, just as this Letter is
rushing into print. David goes first
to New York and later on to England
and Scotland, where he has relations.
The literary staff and the heads of all
departments of The Bulletin farewelled
him at a lunch set ii* the Wentworth
last Friday. He goes off in the Marine
Phoenix on this Well-deserved holiday.
St. Vincent’s, the big Darlinghurst
hospital which has served the public
of Sydney so well for many years,
has been for a long time desirous
of adding a maternity block to
its impressive buildings. This week
an art union is being launched to
raise funds in a big way. A modern
bungalow, completely furnished even
to the bedspreads, and situated on the
heights of Pymble, is the first prize.
And there’s no snag about having to
hand out a sheaf of coupons for furnish-
ings—they are absolutely coupon-free.
A motor-car with a caravan trailer is
the second prize. Relax! Take a holiday
from jewel robberies. There’s a casket of
jewels, too, as well as other desirable trea-
sures. Film magnate Dan Carroll is the
hon. director of the art union. The
president of the Special Appeals Com-
mittee which is running it is Mrs. Bertie
Kelly.
Among the newly-engaged are Mary
Ellen Arida, only daughter of the H. J.
Aridas, Hughenden, North Queens-
land, and Desmond Hogan, a son of the
A. Hogans, also of Hughenden. Desmond
is an ex-p.-0.-w., Italy and Germany,
Here is a Noel Rubie picture of Mrs.
Max Afford, formerly Thelma Thomas
of Adelaide, who is at present designing
period costumes for the two Charles
Chauvel films: “Sons of Matthew” and
“Cobb and Co.” This isn’t the South
Australian’s first effort in films. She
designed the costumes at Cinesound for
Cecil last Australian film,
“Mr. Chedworth Steps Out.” The cos-
tumes for the Adelaide and Melbourne
Centenary celebrations and for Sydney’s
150th Anniversary spree were also done
by Mrs. Afford.
Not many singers of 18 have sung the
part of Donna Anna in “Don Giovanni.”
But Australian Shirley Wallwork did so
on Saturday night in the concert per-
formance of the opera. This great work
of Mozart’s was performed by Singers
of Australia. Henri Krips was the
musical director of a great night’s enter-
tainment, and a crowded Town Hall re-
sponded with loud and sustained applause.
No stage performance could have had
three prettier principals than Shirley,
Mollie Grouse, who was the deserted
Elvira, and Margaret Kerr as the gay
little butterfly Zerlina. Shirley and the
tenor, Alonzo Nolan, are “Singers of
Australia” discoveries.
The talk is of furs. Sydney women
have been gloating over the lush and
lavish displa'ys of silver fo%, Arctic fox,
Persian lamb. Kolinsky and dolled-up
Australian lamb for the past week.
Skins with fur so deep and thick
it would submerge your third diamond
bracelet snuggled the shoulders of
slim models at the big stores, and
when their hands felt frozen in an
atmosphere of 80 or upwards they cosily
embedded them in the long, wide stole
ends of the cape. Luxury coats have a
moulded-to-the-figure line and swing out
into flared ice-skater fashion. Coats have
rolled-fcack fronts and wide, bell-like
sleeves. Indeed, by their sleeves ye shall
know them for this year’s or last’s.
There is nothing modest or merely
utilitarian about these furs. They are so
handsome they knock you in the eye like
a platinum blonde. Their prices run
blithely into the hundreds. A few were
priced at a modest 1000 guineas—and
where’s the peg for such iff a four-guinea-a-
week flat? Of course, a domestic prob-
lem like that can be faced when you’ve
caught your hare. Some very glamorous
affairs were of white Arctic fox, with all
the fashion highlights-—nipped-in waist,
flared skirt that was weighted at the hem
with whole fox skins going around
instead of up and down, wide sleeves
caught in at the wrist —they looked as
soft as heaped thistledown or a float-
ing cloud, and any young husband would
float a loan to get one for his dear,
but after dear has worn such to a few
symphony concerts, a dozen dinner-
dances and like State occasions it would
have long spells of confinement in its
camphorwood box. No matter how chilly
the morn you couldn’t wear it to the local
lending library or queuing up for a steak
in the butcher’s shop.
From Melbourne
Under the spreading branches of its
83-year-old oak-tree with its decoration
of twinkling colored lights, guests
assembled at the Grosvenor for the fare-
well party to P.1.C.A.0. delegates. Air-
Marshal R. Williams and his wife, smart
in a black-and-lime-green frock and small
black hat, were host and hostess. Mrs.
Harold Rabling’s black tailored frock
had bunches of mauve glass grapes as
adornment. Canadian Mrs. Victor
Davey’s lovely silk frock in dove grey
was splashed with cerise. Wife of Air-
Marshal George Jones chose a simple
white frock, on which were small gold
aeroplane brooches. With her navy-blue
ensemble, Mrs. Geoff Nicholls wore a
burnt-straw cartwheel hat heaped with
creamy roses. Freda Avery was another
who chose a cartwheel straw hat; hers,
of white straw, was worn with a dusty-
pink tailored frock.
With Richard Boyce, U.S.A. Consul-
General, was Mrs. Boyce, who topped
her navy cx*epe suit with an ice-blue
crownless veiled toque. A hat greatly
admired was worn by Madame Tresh,
wife of a French delegate. It was a very
chic little burnt-straw with jaunty brown
feathers soaring from one side. Another
smart newcomer to Melbourne was Mrs.
Van Valzah, whose frock of saffron
yellow and white print was covered by
a graceful black cloak ; her black hat was
trimmed at the back with white bows.
Mrs. A. A. Nicolades, wife of the Consul
for Greece, chose brown for her out-
fitting and contrasted it with a hat
trimmed with pale yellow and brown
flowers. Edna Glasscock, who has done
a man-size job as Hospitality and In-
formation officer to the whole delegation,
was attractive in a frock of aqua-blue
crepe with a matching crownless hat
which featured a small brown brim and
brown veiling.
Bride of the week was Lesley Alison
Mitchell, pictured here in her bridal
finery. Lesley, who is the only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Mitchell,* of
Essendon, was married to James Rossiter
Stable, elder son of Lieut.-Col. and Mrs.
L. R. D. Stable, of Toorak. St. Peter’s,
Eastern Hill, was decorated with bowls
of white and pink gladioli, blue and
mauve hydrangeas and with tall vases of
pink and white perennial phlox at the
chancel steps. Canon F. E. Maynard per-
formed the ceremony. Lesley, who was
given away by her father, wore a lovely
gown of pearl-tinted lace fashioned with
a tight-fitting bodice and bouffant skirt
mounted on magnolia satin. The match-
ing finger-tip tulle veil was held in place
by a crown of gardenias to match her
bouquet of gardenias, tuberoses and lily-
of-the-valley. The bride’s only attendant
was Vivienne Kinnear, whose full-skirted
gown of silver-green taffetta featured a
rounded neckline outlined in deep cream
lace. George, Lesley’s brother, was best-
man. Ushers at the church were Dr. lan
Stable, Lieutenant Fred McGrath,
R.A.N.V.R., and Messrs. John Mock-
ridge and John Barry.
Later a reception was held at 9 Darl-
ing-street. With her husband Mrs.
Mitchell received the guests, her navy-
blue frock being worn with a matching
blue hat swathed in veiling. Lieut.-Col.
and Mrs. Stable assisted them, Mrs.
Stahle’s frock of black highlighted by a
yoke of ice-blue and her hat" flower-
trimmed. Dr. Irene Stable chose a black
crepe and fine lace frock with a small
hat of' black straw. Young friends of
the bride’s included Patty Duggan, in
black, Pat Henley, whose dusty-pink
crepe frock was worn under a matching
coat, and Marie-Louise Manniche.
Focal point of this city’s social round-
about has been the spate of parties given
by the leaders of various delegations to
P.1.C.A.0, Week began with the late-
afternoon party given at the Australia by
the Chinese delegation. Col. C. Y. Liu,
leader, Mr. Y. C. Wu, Lieut.-Col. C. C.
Tso and Mr. Foy C. Hwa, members of
the mission, received their guests, who
included members of other delegations
and friends they had met in Melbourne.
The next day the Consul for China
(Mr, I. M. Wang) and Mrs. Wang enter-
tained several hundred guests at a buffet
dinner in the Gloucester room of the
Australia. Mrs. Wang wore an Oriental
gown of rich royal-blue silk heavily en-
crusted with gold and jewels at the neck-
line and dragon motifs in gold em-
broidery on the bodice and pencil-slim
slit skirt. Among the guests were the
Chief Justice of the High Court of Aus-
tralia, Sir John Latham, and Lady
Latham, Judge Foster and Mrs. Foster,
the latter wearing a green-and-black-pat-
terned frock and a feather-trimmed hat,
Major-General and Mrs. C. E. M. Lloyd
and Sir Owen and Lady Dixon. Frank
Beaurepaire brought his lady, whose
black frock featured a pastel-blue yoke
studded with black sequins. With Mrs.
A. Drakeford were her daughters Muriel
and Gilda, both in attractive floral
frocks. The Ivan Holymans were there,
she in black with a small hat lavishly
trimmed with multi-colored ribbon bows.
Mrs. Massey Burnside was also in black,
but relieved it with a gay satin hat.
It was with mildly chaotic feelings that
guests viewed the hat show at the Town
Hall organised to assist the funds of the
Queen Victoria Hospital. It began with
a dinner, for which they had to wait; to
add to the distraction of guests who had
paid two guineas for the privilege of
attending, a choir of white-clad maidens
sang through most of the fashion show.
In the official party was the Brookes
lady, who is the hospital president, in a
stunning gown of pale-orchid mauve
satin. Mrs. Fred Dennett’s black satin
gown with its shoe-string shoulder straps
lent an air of suave sophistication. Mrs.
Hamilton Sleigh chose a Chartreuse
gown; Mrs. Eric Harrison’s gown of
aqua blue had the bodice embroidered
with blue bugle beads.
Guest of honor at an informal before-
luncheon party at the Australia hostessed
by Mrs. N. Dowling was Joyce
Macartney. Here the opportunity was
taken of presenting a cheque for £l5O,
the proceeds of a party given by Mrs.
Dowling and Mrs. C. Sleath, to Joyce be-
fore her departure abroad, where she will
fulfil singing engagements and pursue
further musical knowledge. Mrs. Dowl-
ing received her guests wearing a smart
black frock and grey squirrel coat and
small black hat. Mrs. Sleath chose a
bottle-green ensemble and London tan
straw flower-trimmed hat. The guest of
honor chose beech-brown for a frock
which was relieved with touches of blue
and silver embroidery. Flowers trimmed
her small brown hat. Mrs. R. E,
Tracey’s black frock had pockets of blue
and pearl embroidery, her burgundy hat
being trimmed with mauve and blue
ostrich plumes. Mrs. W. A. L. Agnew
(Lyla Stevens) was in a red jacket allied
to a black skirt and black hat.
Another Coral Sea ball is being
planned by the Australian-American As-
sociation. At an afternoon-tea party held
at the Victoria the chairman, Mrs. Wal-
lace Mitchell, and members of the ladies
committee met to discuss plans for the
ball, which will be held on May 8 at
St. Kilda Town Hall. It will be under
the patronage of the American Am-
bassador, Robert Butler, the Lord Mayor,
Cr. Connelly, and the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Bernard Heinze. All the proceeds
will go to the Children’s Hospital
through the American Women’s Auxil-
iary. Mermaids will float gracefully
through tropical waters set with palm-
trees, while in their branches gay-
plumaged birds will add their note of
color tp the scene. There will also be a
stage presentation. At the party Biddy
Brooksbanks lifted her soft Irish voice
in national songs, and Pat Worboys and
Olive Haines also entertained. Mrs. R.
B. Bradley, president of the Women’s
Auxiliary, Mrs. Norman Picot, Mrs.
Herbert Allen and Mrs. Seaton Mc-
Daniel were'among the American women
present.


Who Will Look After
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country, or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 68 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an im-
partial viewpoint and complete continuity of
service. Charges arc fixed and moderate.
Consult your solicitor or write for Free
Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Ccflman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb.* F.R.C.8., Eng,
General Manager; W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
%
NEW SOUTH WARES DIRECTORS:
R. T,'Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Resile Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
N.S.W, Manafeer: J. W, Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
END your RUPTURE
A
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and Ik days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 108,819 8 p.c. = 96,000 12,819 654,250
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 754,250
1937.. 120,136 9 p.c. = 112,453 1 n noo 7 c« 933
. Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j 2,683 756,933
Share premiums, £70,000 .. .. 826,933
1938.. 151,973 9 p.c. = 131,905 \ jg ogg 842,001
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J - 10 ’ 08 ’
Share premiums, £89,051 .. .. 981,052
1939.. 152,287 9 p.c. = 144,327 \ „ q fio 934012
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..] A D *
1940.. 170,213 9 p.c. = 155,843 1 q 0 79 943 332
Staff fund, £5OOO .. . . 3 9,370 94 ’
1941.. 135,208 9 p.c. = 155,925 922,660
1942.. 143,649 8 „ „ 188,600 5,049 927,714
1943.. 149,184 8 „ ~ 138,600 \ 5,584 933.298
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..J
1944.. 149,957 8 p.c. = 138,600 | g 357 939,955
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..| ’
1945.. 153,258 8 p.c. = 138,000 ) 9 658 949313
Staff fund, £5OOO . . . . j ’ ’
!946 156,020 8 p c = 138,600 I 12 961f759
Staff fund, £5OOO .. )
By a nearly two-to-one majority the
public of N. S; Wales plumped for main-
tenance of the status quo at the unpopu-
lar liquor-trading-hours referendum of
February 15. Failure of the breweries
in their campaign for 10 p.m. closing was
due to a number of causes, all centring
in their failure to give the public
the service it expected both before and
during the war.
Between them Tooths and Tooheys
share all but a fraction of the trade in
N. S. Wales, Tooths taking the lion’s
portion. There is no price-cutting ; com-
petition takes the form of buying hotel
freeholds, thus widening and anchoring
turnover. Tooheys added £1,602,198 to
the book value of its fixed assets, largely
on hotel account, during the decade to
the close of accounts in 1939, since when
capital outlay has been restricted by
official edict, and there has been marked
expansion in consumption of beer, owing
partly to service requirements and partly
to a state of full employment in trade
and industry.
Some idea: of the expansion, and of
what a generous and untroublesome con-
tributor beer is to the national revenue,
can be had from the Commonwealth
statistician’s figures showing excise col-
lections on the stuff:
Year to Year to
June 30, June 30,
1989.. £7,342,257 1944., £21,615,974
1941.. 11,836,870 1945.. 21,674,224
1942.. 14,199,411 1946.. 22,841,010
1943.. 19,632,695
Growth in the figures since 1939 is equal
to 211 p.c., of which 162 p.c. represents
lifts in excise, which stepped up from Is.
9d. to 4s. 7d. a gallon. These lifts have
been the only increase in the selling price
of beer since war began ; expanding turn-
over looked after the growth in taxation
and other costs. The 4s. 7d. is equal to
73 p.c. of the brewers’ gross receipts for
bulk beer. The other 27 p.c., approxi-
mately ss. sd. in the £l, has to cover
increased production, distribution and
other costs, as well as profit.
The surprising feature is the growth of
£1,166,786 in last year’s excise collections.
It suggests that expanded civilian con-
sumption more than offset evaporation
of service requirements. The period was,
of course, one of extraordinary expendi-
ture, as was to be expected following
demobilisation. Government rationing
of beer ended in March, 1946, but the
breweries continued to adhere to the
official quota, because shortage of raw
materials (barley and hops) stood in the
way of increased output.
After allowing for contingencies, there
was a spring of £119,681 in the co.’s
gross earnings last term:
Gross 1940. 1944. 1946. 1946.
earnings £935,661 £1,573,261 £1,633,834 £1,753,515
Exes. .. 772,647 1,423,304 1,480,576 1,597,489
£163,014 £149,957 £153,259 £156,026
Exes, stepped up £116,913, leaving the
net result £2768 beter at £156,026, or
9 p.c. on capital, compared with 8.8, 8.6,
8.6, 8.3, 7.8, 9.8, 9.5 and 10.3 p.c. back
to 1938. The div. was kept steady at 8
p.c., the usual £5OOO was tossed into the
staff fund, and the £12,426 that remained
lifted reserves to £961,739. For the half-
dozen years to the close of last accounts
net earnings averaged £148,880, compared
with an average of £132,696 for the pre-
ceding six years.
It is mainly the level of turnover and
costs that now determines brewery profits.
Selling prices, fixed by officialdom, are
unlikely to be lifted at the moment, and,
in the absence of 10-o’clock closing, it is
doubtful whether much further increase
in turnover need be looked for. The
recent interim lift in the basic wage has
bumped up the cost of production and
distribution, and there is no sign of reces-
sion in the price of hops, barley, sugar
and other ingredients. The question of a
40-hour week awaits the decision of the
Arbitration Court. Until the outlook be-
comes less clouded, it is difficult to say
exactly what the future trend of brewery
profits will be.
Because the co. has to take its place in
the queue of applicants for the products
of the building, engineering and other
trades, it has not yet been able to get
ahead with its programme of construc-
tion, repairs and replacements for
brewery and hotels. Here are balance-
sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Capital .. 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500
Sundry
creditorst • 563,469 727,503 318,084 364,934
Loans* . . 795,301 809,643 804,973 814,988
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 3,339,178 3,492,611 3,182,849 3,125,798
Stocks . . 101,876 141,378 137,123 164,594
Book debts 623,858 581,847 505,315 500,685
Cash, etc... 13,491 11,613 13,107 116,607
Shares in
other cos. 39,212 39,212 40,777 40,777
* Advances by subsidiaries, f Including taxation, etc.
Excluding loans from the finance sub-
sidiary, which are a domestic matter, the
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£404,202) was £85,725.
The market for brewery scrip has
settled down on a basis yielding around
3.5 p.c. There has, therefore, been little
movement in the price of Tooheys’ f.-p.
16s. shares, which at the old official ceil-
ing of 38s. 6d. returned 3.3 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. Recent sales at 375. 9d.
show a return of 3.4 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 245. lid. (book value),
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
• To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1936.. 43,948 10 p.c. r= 37,000 0,948 87,438
Share premiums, £8692 .. .. 96,130
1937.. 47,690 10 p.c. = 39,178 8,512 104,642
1938.. 51,875 11 „ „ 44,000 7,875 112,517
Goodwill disclosed, £80,429 .'. 82,088
1939.. 59,891 12$ p.c. = 50,000 9,891 91,979
1940.. 66,173 12 „ „ 48,000 8,173 100,162
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
Added goodwill, £33 .. .. 131,663
1941.. 55,348 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,348 139,011
1942.. 53,720 12 „ ~ 48,000 5,720 144,731
1943.. 54,552 10 „ „ 40,000 14,552 159,283
1944.. 55,751 10 „ ~40,000 15,751 175,034
1945.. 63,360 10 „ ~ 40,000 23,360 198,394
1946.. 64,504 10 ~ ~ 40,000 24,504 222,898
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,524 at Sept. SO,
1946, •
Steady expansion, a long run of very
satisfactory earnings and divs. and com-
fortable finances are the pleasing record
of this manufacturer of high-grade canned
foods and condiments. The co. set up
at Richmond (Vic.) with a capital of
£lOO,OOO in 1911. Progress was sluggish
until the 1914-18 war was out of the way.
Since then £300,000 —£25,000 of it bonus
scrip—has been added to paid capital,
factories have been established at Bendigo
(Vic.), Sydney and Windso'r (N.S.W.),
Adelaide (S. Aus.) and Hobart (Tas.), trade
was opened up with Britain, Canada,
southern Asia and near-by islands, and
over the last 28 years shareholders have
had annual dividends averaging a shade
over 11 p.c. And when .the books last
closed they could see £222,898 of visible
reserves (subject to £30,524 of goodwill)
to support and assist the £400,000 of
capital;
During the war as much as 80 p.c.
of factory output, which kept on expand-
ing, went to the services, including Allied
and British forces. Local civilian packs
had, of course, to be severely restricted
in both volume and variety, and the pre-
war export trade came practically to a
standstill. The div. dropped from 124-
in 1939 to 12 p.c, for the three follow-
ing terms, and for each of the four years
since a steady 10 p.c. has been paid
with comfortable and widening margins.
Early last term it was expected that a
hungry civilian market (where a bit more
profit is to be had than from Govern-
ment contracts) would more than take up
the slack resulting from evaporation of
service requirements. But “the antici-
pated improvement.... through termina-
tion of restrictions in packing a number of
products in our pre-war range was not
realised,” the chairman said. Difficulties
associated with labor and coal prevented
plants from doing what they are capable
of, and shortage of tinplate, the cost of
which kept on advancing, retarded pro-
duction of containers for foodstuffs. So
demand, including exports to Britain,
continued to run ahead of output, which
remained rationed to local traders. The
politically-inspired tactics of waterside
workers prevented resumption of trade
with the Netherlands Indies, where, see-
ing new opportunities, Canada and U.S.A.
have stepped in.
The spring of £40,633 in gross earn-
ings (£314,402) and growth of £39,489
in exes. (£249,898) largely reflect the 30
p.c. lift in factory wage rates for women
early in the term, as well as the advance
in costs generally. The net result was
£1144 stronger at £64,504, or 16.1 p.c. on
capital, compared with 15.8, 13.9, 13.6,
13.4, 13.9," 14.1 and 14.2 p.c. back to
1939. That was after allowing whatever
was considered necessary for taxation
and a liberal £23,297 (up £10,064) for
depreciation.
Financially the co. is well-ribbed and
ready to expand its connections as soon
as opportunity' offers:
1941. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Capital . . £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
S’dry creditors* 177,266 241,164 256,317 277,268
Property .. 186,305 186,733 205,192 204,778
Plant, etc. .. 54,421 47,032 63,096 80,437
Stock .. 364,594 485,487 353,390 285,217
Debtors .. 84,346 90,470 94,226 111,245
Cash, etc. . . 44,150 234 148,300 227,965
* Includes "provisions.”
The year’s difficult trading and revival
of civilian turnover are further indicated
by the reduction of £68,173 in stocks,
growth of £17,019 in debtors’ balances
and a net addition of £17,341 to plant,
etc. After allowing for the div., the
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£407,159) was £107,560.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, prices the
pound shares at 595. 6d., at which figure
the return is 3.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 4 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distribution.
The cover (book value) is 295. 7d. in net
tangibles,
Wentworth Hotel (Sydney)
To Ee-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 2,172 Nil 2,172 3,430
1937.. 3,030 Nil 3,030 400
Reserves.
1938.. 5,931 2i p.c. = 1,259 4,681 4,281
1939.. 6,540 3* „ „ 1,750 4,790 9,071
Tax written back, £BOO ~ .. 9,871
1940.. '6,197 5 p.c. = 2,500 2,697 12,568
1941.. 5,039 8 „ „ . 4,000 1,039 13,607
1942.. 6,611 10 „ „ 5,000 1,611 15,218
1943.. 9,735 10 „ „ 5,000 4,735 19,953
From inner reserves, £425 .. 20,378
1944.. 10,267 10 p.c. = 5,000 6,207 25,645
1945.. 9,561 10 5,000 4,561 30,206
1946.. 11,805 10 „ „ 5,000 6,805 37,011
It has been an extraordinary recovery,
and there is nothing at the moment to
suggest that anything like a sharp re-
cession is in sight. Hence buyers now
offer 325. 6d, for the f.-p. pound shares—
they changed hands at the old ceiling
price of 245. 6d. in November last —with-
out attracting sellers. The return at 325.
6d. is an attractive 6.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 345. 10d. in net
tangibles.
The hotel is on the slopes of Church
Hill, practically in the heart of the city,
yet outside the hurly-burly. In the
booming 1920’s a run of 10 p.c. divs.
was paid, with narrowing margins. The
tide ran out in 1928, and for the seven
years to 1934 annual losses aggregating
£30,254 showed up. Since then steadily-
expanding profits have been earned,
thanks to a new residential wing, popu-
larity of the ballroom, the attention given
to service, and the overwhelming demand
for accommodation since war began.
After a ten-years drought shareholders
got into the picture again with 2\ p.c.
in 1938. The rate climbed to 10 p.c. in
1942, and has remained steady since.
Over the last nine years profits total
£70,686, and dividends £34,500; thus
£1686 more was put by than was dis-
tributed, raising the visible support for
capital to £37,011. After allowing for
taxation, depreciation and staff super-
annuation, last year’s profit (up £2244)
was 23.6 p.c. on capital as against 19.1,
20.5, 19.4, 13.2, 10, 10.3, 13 and 11.8
p.c. back to 1938.
The immediate outlook, brightened
by a bigger wool cheque and brisk
activity in trade and industry generally,
favors maintenance of a high level of
gross earnings. The shortage of housing
accommodation and the domestic-labor
problem have made the public more hotel-
minded. The fly in the ointment is the
high and rising level of costs —the recent
interim lift in the basic wage and up-
ward trend of prices generally will cut
into the current year’s takings. Still, the
wide margin between earnings and dis-
tributions suggests that the 10 p.c. div.
is in no danger. The testing time will
come when post-war shortages have been
overtaken, and there is less money about
and competition sharpens.
Meanwhile the* financial position is
steadily improving:
1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. .. £59,000 £50,000 £50,000
Mortgages, etc. .. 54,446 16,287 6,151
Sundry creditors .. 7,153 13,452 25,452
Freehold .. .. 104,652 7 113 755 115)662
Fittings, etc. .. •. 12,356 )
Stocks .. .. •• 1,37(j 1,926 2,843
Cash, debtors, etc. .. 4,037 2,577 3,609
Since 1939 £29,996 has been lopped off
the outside debt (up £1864 last term).


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys,
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.-
Collins
Austra-
—Advt.
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIH^
OSIU'I^VAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype & Linotype Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Copperplate Printers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope & Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rubber Stamp Manufacturers
Rulers, Bookbinders, Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists & Illuminators
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twine
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
’ Company, Limited
19-31 PIXT SXREEX, SYDNEY
L. Mudfordj Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particular»
An &PHESS -ion of contentment
/
lit
m
as lie lights Kis ,
555
\ \ \ I / / //
N
//
94 1 D
When labor and materials become avail-
able the co. will be faced with substan-
tial outlay on renewals and renovations.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To He— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937*. 7,660 lOp.c. =• 7,500 160 93,463
1938.. 15,037 12Jf„ „ 18,750 89,750
1939.. 15,023 10 ~ „ 15,000 23 89,773
1940.. 15,109 10 „ „ 15,000 109 89,882
1941.. 14,289 10 „ ~ 15,000 89,171
Insurance recoveries, £18,596 .. 107,767
1942.. 18,430 10 p.c. = 15,000 .3,430 111,197
Loss.
1943.. 11,537 6 „ „ 9,000 90,600
Profit.
1944.. 7,505 5 „ „ 7,500 5 90,665
Loss Gwydir collision, £3918 .. 86,747
1945.. 7,718 5 p.c. = 7,500 218 86,965
1946.. 15,779 5 „ „ 7,500 8,279 95,244
* Six months. f Including 2i p.c. sesquicentenary
bonus.
The smart recovery in earnings last term
fitted in fairly well with market anticipa-
tions. The price of the f.-p. pound ords.,
which eased from 41s. in March, 1946,
to 40s. 6d. four months later, now stands
at 395, The return at 395. is 2.5 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis; so the investor who
looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on his
money counts on an 8 p.c. distribution.
This is a reasonable anticipation, pro-
vided the Government holds the scales
fairly and labor refrains from throwing
too many spanners into the works —pious
hopes, perhaps.
An 8 p.c. div. would call for £12,000
p.a., or 4.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). Except
for two lean patches—one during the three
years to the close of accounts in 1945
and the other during the slump years
1930 and 1931—the co. has never failed
to earn substantially more than that since
1919.
Shareholders received a steady 10 p.c.
for the dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1929. Slump and sickness
in the coal trade brought the rate down
to 5 p.c. in 1931, but it had climbed to
10 p.c. again by 1937, and, with a 2\ p.c.
sweetener added in the following year,
remained steady until 1942. Then there
came Jap submarines on the coast, loss
of the Gwydir through collision, and
reduced cargo and passenger takings, and
“exceptionally heavy extra expenditure”
was incurred in connection with opening
up a new service between Sydney and
Port Stephens. Costs climbed rapidly,
and the fleet passed to the Shipping
Board in 1944. It is still on charter to
that body, the co. acting as agent.
Only once in the last five years has
any allowance been made for deprecia-
tion of ship property; but more than
adequate provision had been made in
previous years, the board says. Present
charter rates are inadequate to cover
running, maintenance and depreciation
charges, and allow a reasonable margin
for profit. When- the charter’ runs out
and the fleet is returned to the co., the
Government proposes to regulate freight
and passenger charges, etc., replacements
are to be made from Australian-built
vessels, and the ships are to pass out of
commission when they become 25 years
old. It all means higher capital and
other costs, to meet which and provide
a reasonable return to shareholders the
public will have to be asked for more in
the way of freight charges, etc.
Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Capital .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 16,907 21.886 19,260 21,320
Ship property 122,869 162,847 162,847 162,847
Freeholds, etc. 3,963 2,033 8,686 3,686
Plant, stores, etc. 8,587 12,277 10,865 10,023
Book debts .. 16,414 51,697 45,028 46,882
Consols, cash,
etc. .. 112,347 36,947 37,559 47,376
The outside debt is more than twice
covered by Consols, cash, etc., alone. The
fleet is reported in good order and con-
dition, and much depends on that.
Goldmining is still in the doldrums in
the Northern Territory. The main centres
at Tennant Creek continue to stagger
along with inadequate crushing facilities.
With a little foresight on the part of the
authorities, remedial steps might have
been taken 18 months ago, when miners
on the spot made strong representations
to the Government on the matter. With
war-time increase in costs out of all pro-
portion to the rise in the price of the
metal, many marginal concerns are find-
ing it increasingly difficult to make a pro-
fit these days. Abolition of the gold tax,
not an important item of public revenue,
would give a little help,
* * * *
The two principal wolfram fields in
the Northern Territory—Hatches Creek
and Wauchope have both fallen
away. The contract with the British
Government, under which miners were
able to produce at a profitable
figure, was held to expire six months
after actual cessation of hostilities
—not as from the date of any declaration
that a state of peace existed. Price fell
abruptly to something short of £3 10s. per
unit, and most miners, taking the only
course open to them, left the fields.
Urgent application to the Minister for the
Interior brought negative results. Frantic
and costly efforts were made by the Gov-
ernment to bolster up production of thfs
mineral during the war, but the attempt
failed in the main and most noticeably
on the Wauchope field.
« * * #
One after another chairmen of London-
controlled Westralian goldmining cos.
are visiting the mines in which they are
interested-. The latest is Capt. A, H.
Moreing, of the Sons of Gwalia. In
Perth he told an interviewer that there
had been a lot of talk about the price
of gold, but many people did not realise
how it was fixed. The price in London
and elsewhere in the Empire was regu-
lated by the U.S.A. quotation, which was
maintained at 35 dollars an ounce. By
converting 35 dollars into sterling at the
present rate of exchange, the London
price was obtained. There were only two
ways in which the price of gold could be
raised in London. One was by raising
the sterling value of the dollar; the
other was by U.S.A. raising its buying
price. Gt. Britain was tied by the Bretton
Woods Agreement, and so long as she
remained a partner she could neither
decrease nor increase her rate of ex-
change by more than 10 p.c. The only
possibility he could see for an increase
in the price of gold was for U.S.A. to
raise its buying price, which, at the
moment, it was not prepared to do.
Whatever might happen in that respect
would not happen in the immediate
future. He thought it would be much
safer to say that gold would be pegged
at the present rate for some time to
come. As regards rising mining costs,
which, he claimed, were endangering the
industry, Westralian cos. were struggling
to combat increased expenditure by
greater efficiency and economies. Un-
fortunately there was a general inflation-
ary tendency, which added to the difficul-
ties of keeping prices in check.
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) has rejected the
Commonwealth and State Government’s
terms for financial assistance on the
ground that they are extortionate. The
Governments insist that repayment of a
suggested advance of £30,000 must be
made from calls on shareholders, and
that after such repayment the two Gov-
ernments together are to be entitled to
tvyo-thirds of any profits which might be
won. There is talk of further boring
being financed by means of calls on con-
tributing shares, if shareholders can be
induced to contribute.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s general manager,
Joe Thorn, gives six main reasons for
last year’s rise in ore-extraction costs
from 13s, to 14s. a ton. They are;
greater number of men employed, rein-
troduction of afternoon shift to increase
production, mining at greater depth, re-
opening of Ivanhoe and Chaffers Deeps,
which have not yet reached maximum
producti®n, employment of some un-
skilled labor and increased price of sup-
plies. Production per man shift fell
from 2.04 tons to 1.91 tons. Day-
workers produced the greatest tonnage
per man shift. When equipment becomes
available as much work as possible is
to be done on day shift. Owing to high
taxation contract miners “didn’t put for-
ward their best efforts last year.”
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward (W.A.) shows a loss
of £1029 for the year to June 30 last.
Mine maintenance outlay of £763, re-
coverable from the Commonwealth, has
yet to be received. Co. is awaiting a de-
cision from the Federal Bureau of
Mineral Resources concerning an appli-
cation for a loan to expand underground
development and reorganise plant on its
mine near Coolgardie.
* * * *
Chairman of Wiluna Gold Corp. says
that, owing to delay in delivery of plant,
retreatment of 400,000 tops of 6dwt. resi-
dues is at present being handled by one
40-ton-a-day unit. Average recovery has
.exceeded the 66 per cent, originally esti-
mated for full-scale operations. Costs
are high, but they should drop substan-
tially when, the nlant is enlarged.
* * * *
Westralia has made a good getaway
in the 1947 gold-production race.
January output at 62,745 fine oz, is more
than 20,0000 z, ip excess ef returns for
the corresponding months, of 1946 and
1945, and better than the
January output in 1944. The rise is due
to the recovery of the industry last year,
despite labor shortage, higher cost of
stores and equipment and replacement
difficulties and fuel problems. The search
for new mines continues.
* * * *
Westralian Gold Items: Wiluna Gold
Mines, Ltd., has got six months’ exemp-
tion from labor conditions on the Mt.
Charlotte group, Kalgoorlie, on which it
holds a long option. Reason for the
application Was inability to secure
necessary machinery, equipment, tools,
building supplies and labor for mining
operations... .Sydney interests are re-
ported to be nibbling at an old dump of
sands.on the abandoned Menzies Consoli-
dated goldmine. Others have tried, and
failed, to make money out of these
residues First Hit had a pleasant
annual roll -up the other day.
Shareholders approved of (he board’s
recommendation to push on with
development, and to continue tribute
arrangements until the end of March.
They also agreed to investigation of any
suitable new property offered to the co.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L., has
decided to discontinue mining of low-
grade ore, and to concentrate on under-
ground development and exploration.
Co. continues to mine high-grade pyrite
ore... Mtindy has taken a
sampling option on three auri-
ferous areas, including Devon Con-
sols, at the north end of the Kalgoorlie
field. They adjoin Hannan’s North,
operated by 8.H.P., and the Mt: Char-
lotte group, on which Wiluna holds an
option. Years ago, when worked by a
local syndicate, Devon Consols produced
a few cakes of g01d.... London-con-
trolled Hampton Areas, Ltd., reports an
average gold yield of a little over sdwt. a
ton from 321 tons of ore extracted during
development Ij-om its holding on Block
59, Coolgardie.
* * * *
A trial crushing of 500 tons from the
Porphyry goldmine is being put through
the .Yarri State battery (W.A.). The
Porphyry is under option to the Wiluna
and Gold Fields Australian cos., and
may be acquired by'them. It was formerly
worked by a weakly-financed Adelaide
concern which gave up the auriferous
ghost.


Personal.
ANGELINA MACDONALD COOPER, Deceased.
BY ORDER of the Chancery Division of the High
Court of Justice" dated sth March 1945 made in
an Action IN THE MATTER OF ANGELINA MAC-
DONALD COOPER Deceased and IN THE MATTER
OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF' ESTATES ACT
1925 WRIGHT v* COOPER 1945 C. 55 the following
Inquiry was directed, viz.;—
1. An inquiry who upon the death of the above-
named Angelina Macdonald Cooper on the 18th
April 1944 became beneficially entitled either abso-
lutely or contingently to any property of hers
as to which she died intestate and for what
estates and interests and in what shares and pro-
portions and if any such persons are since dead
when they died and if any such persons died having
attained an absolute vested interest who are their
personal representatives.
Notice is hereby given that all persons claiming to
be entitled under the said inquiry are to send
by post prepaid to ALFRED HARDY BENTLEY of
82 King William Street London E. 0.4 so as to reach
that address on or before 2nd June 1947 their full
names addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claim or in default thereof they will be ex-
cluded from, the benefit of the said Order unless the
Court or Judge on application otherwise orders.
DATED this 24th day of January, 1947.
(1.5.) TREVOR C. NEWMAN, Master.
DRUCES & ATTLEE, of 82 King William Street,
E.C.4, London, England, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Missing Friend.
WILL FREDERICK GILBERT NEEDHAM, late of
Sydney, son of Mrs. L. P. Needham, of London,
or anyone having any knowledge of him, communi-
cate with MESSRS. LITHGOW, PEPPER & ELD-
RIDGE, Solicitors, 84 Wimpole Street, London, W.l,
England ? »
fV
Nourma Hand ford.
A NEW BOOK by the Hon.
Secretary of the Australian Book
Society. “High River” is a frank
study of human relations in a
modern and uncompromising
world. The setting is Australian,
the characters are the people we
know.
Buy it at all booksellers
8/6
Shakespeare Head Press Pty., Ltd
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
ill
i
'«•« I.
*nsm
than
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The,
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise* and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
<S.
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
SUNDRY SHOWS
"THE GLASS MENAGERIE."
Tennessee Williams’s play, produced by
John Hayden at Sydney Minerva, is aptly
titled, for it is a delicate and fragile
piece. In the first of its two acts it
glittered in the subdued light; early in
the second act a flaw appeared, and by
the time the curtain came down it was
in fragments—yet remained rare and
attractive, a glass menagerie.
The play is chiefly remarkable for a
portrait of a mother, once a belle of the
South —or so she insists*—now deserted
by her husband and in the slums of St.
Louis with her grown-up hulking son
and crippled daughter. Played with a fine
understanding by Dorothy Dunckley, the
lady chatters about bygone glories and
incessantly harries her family: the son to
“rise 2nd shine,” to eat slowly, to comb
his hair, to give up going to the movies,
not to drink, not to smoke and, above
all, to better himself at the warehouse
where he works; the daughter to stop
playing old records on the gramophone,
to stop playing with her collection of
glass animals, to attract a caller to the
house, to marry.
A character at once pitiable and comic,
sympathetic and maddening, the mother
has the son “boiling” by the opening of
the second act, and it seems inevitable
that he will murder her or at least walk
out like the father and leave her to con-
template the tragedy she has brought on
herself by talking too much. But here
there is a change of direction. Attention
is concentrated on the crippled daughter,
who is abruptly revealed to be charming
and intelligent instead of the near-idiot
portrayed in the first act, and when her
brother brings a caller home and the
young man is found to be engaged the
curtain goes down with the cripple in a
state of permanent pathos: a falsely
sentimental touch, for she is shown
happy enough in her “peculiarity” in the
opening scenes.
Then, as a last twist, the brother —who
acts as narrator from time to time —re-
veals that, after tamely waiting to be
sacked from his job, he walked out at
last and roved the world for ever haunted
by a “fixation” for the sister. This point
was probably obscure to most of the
audience, and is in any case highly un-
convincing, The brother never behaves
as if he has a “fixation” —never takes his
sister to the movies, for instance—and it
is not suggested that the father, another
rover, also left home because of a “fixa-
tion.”
In his sentimentality and in his adop-
tion of the “Messiah” theme —the caller
who is going to make life wonderful —
Tennessee Williams has probably been in-
fluenced by Saroyan ; also in his impres-
sionistic, talkie-like technique. As for the
Freudian touch, judging by recent talkies,
all America has suddenly discovered
psychoanalysis without discovering the
more important fact that Freud, however
useful he may be in the consulting-
room, always does more harm than good
when he is brought into the arts : at the
best narrowing the understanding of
character, and often, as in this play, falsi-
fying it. So many people have sisters ; so
few, really, have “fixations.”
When the characterisation goes wrong,
when the author loses his own concept
of life and adopts Freud’s, the whole play
goes astray. Dorothy Dunckley began
to enjoy her own performance too ob-
viously, burlesquing a little as if she had
lost track of herself, Leonard Lord,
capable and vigorous as the brother, had
to lose himself offstage in the kitchen ;
while Eric Reiman and Virginia Barton,
doing their best with the caller and the .
cripple, lost themselves in an intermin-
able love scene. The glass menagerie
lost its unicorn, the brother lost his job,
the actors lost the resounding applause
they would have won if only the play-
wright had been kind enough to slay the
mother ; and the reviewer, having a fixa-
tion on the Minerva’s tank of goldfish,
lost himself in King’s Cross on the way
home.
The play is probably valued for the
wrong reasons: its experimentalisrh,
which really doesn’t matter ; its imaginary
meals, which give one a hollow feeling ;
its dim light, which is dismal; its
Freudianism, which is mere madness.
Still, it is interesting—the sort of thing
one can usually see only in a Little
Theatre, and therefore an admirable de-
parture for a Sydney professional theatre.
And, good characterisation being very
rare in contemporary plays, it is well
worth seeing for the portrait of the
mother alone.
A Moliere Play
In “The Doctor’s Dilemma” Shaw
attacked the medical profession largely
on the grounds that it had a pecuniary
interest in curing sickness by surgery,
pills, potions and inoculations, the abso-
lute validity of which there were grave
reasons for doubting. Moliere (1622-73)
did exactly the same thing in “The
Physician in Spite of Himself,” put on
for a fortnight, in a very free translation
by the New Theatre, Melbourne.
Moliere presents his case in much the
same fantastic shape as would,
though that doesn’t alter the quality of
the criticism in the slightest. Sganarelle,
the woodchopper, gives his shrewish wife
a beating and, to get her revenge, she
tells a servant who is in search of a
doctor for the sick daughter of his
wealthy master that her husband is a
physician of the first water but will only
admit to his eminence in the art of heal-
ing after a thorough beating, Sganarelle
is easily convinced by a good thrashing
and is introduced into the rich man’s
household, where he discovers that the
daughter is feigning dumbness as a pro-
test against her father’s objections to a
love match. He makes her as talkative
as a magpie by bringing her and her lover
together.
Moliere’s wit is as fresh and sparkling
as if the play had been written yester-
day—in fact, some of the lines might
have been lifted from Shaw. “None are
so discreet as the dead,” says the alleged
physician. “They never complain if we
kill them.” Victor Arnold gave the piece
a robust production and Vane’s sets, had
a quality which was quite unusual. Jon
Kerr gave the woodchopper physician the
right mixture of cringe and bluster and
the rest of the cast were more or less in
keeping.
“Don Giovanni”
It is not easy for the bold, bad Don
to instil vocal conviction into his en-
thusiastic pursuit of a string of hapless
virgins while clad in tails, ironclad shirt
and a 2in. collar instead of a glamorous
velvet suit and a sword. Nor can a piano
—even when played by Henri Krips
at the Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
night—adequately replace an orchestra
as a background to impassioned arias.
Despite these handicaps, the presentation
of the Mozart opera by Singers of Aus-
tralia was excellent. Shirley Wallwork,
who sang Donna Anna, looks like
Deanna Durbin, but sings much better ;
Margaret Kerr gave the necessary touch
of coquettishness into Zerlina’s arias, and
Mollie Grouse was a spirited Donna
Elvira.
The best two numbers in the effer-
vescent music are the duet “Give Me
Thy Hand O Fairest” and “II Mio
Tesoro.” Gunter Hirschberg as the Don
and Margaret Kerr sang the duet very
well, and Lorenzo Nolan gave the Don
Ottavio air with fine abandon. Raymond
Beatty’s resonant bass was heard in
Leporello’s “Catalogue” song, and Alan
Light and Stanley Clarkson completed
a strong cast.
“Follow the Girls”
“Follow the Girls,” Melbourne His
Majesty’s latest attempt to lighten the
industrial crisis, is a musicomedy con-
fection more or less concerned with the
American Navy, and the pursuit of the
eternal feminine is mainly concerned
with her underclothing. Without the
irrepressible Don Nicol the show would
be almost solemn, and his capacity for
impromptu comment is a welcome leaven
to the simple, unsophisticated and mildly
pornographic humor. Lois Green, flown
from England for the occasion, provides
a mixture of classical and modern danc-
' ing as a strip-tease dancer who doesn’t
strip-tease. Sailors who tapdance in-
stead of doing the hornpipe, and Claude
Flemming, as an amorous Captain Haw-
kins, are features of the opus, on which
the Firm seems to have poured out all
the resources of its wardrobe.
At the Films.
“Alexander Nevski”
“C. Ma”: After reading the superla-
tives lavished on it by certain Australian
dailies —“one of the most famous of
modern films executed on the grand
scale.... beautiful photography, terrific
action the spectator is simply carried
away....an extraordinarily fascinating
example of Soviet direction Serge
Eisenstein’s sure instinct for the most
effective composition.... his wonderful
flair for shrewd camera shots,” etc. —I
went to the screening of “Alexander
Nevski” at Melbourne University’s
Union Theatre expecting some world-
shaking masterpiece of cinema art com-
parable with the literary masterpieces of
Tolstoy and Dostoievsky.
What was presented was something
even stagier than Laurence Oliver’s
“Henry V” and lacking the flashes of
Shakspeare’s humanity which made you
occasionally think of the play and not
of Laurence Olivier. Although there is
a refreshing absence of make-up and
artificial lighting in the Eisenstein film,
there isn’t a human being in it. It is
crude nationalism shifted back to the
thirteenth century, when the Mongols
were menacing Russia from the east and
the Teutonic knights menacing her from
the west. The slaughter is certainly on
the grand scale, but if any spectator were
carried away he must have been a peculi-
arly susceptible individual.
Mr. Eisenstein’s manipulation of crowd
scenes may be effective composition, but
the Soviet producer doesn’t make you
feel them, though, when he toppled
hundreds of Teutonic knights into the
frozen waters of Lake Peipus, the pre-
sent commentator certainly felt sorry for
the poor actors, no doubt threatened with
ten years’ transportation to Siberia if
they didn’t do it.
“Bedelia”
Margaret Lockwood behaves even
more wickedly in this than she did in
“The Wicked Lady.” As “Bedelia,” she’
is cashing ip on the rather gruesome
racket of poisoning a succession of
heavily-insured husbands. The fatal Miss
Lockwood does the deed so naturally
and charmingly that when the show was
over and “God Save the King” was
played, it could be noted that the married
males in the audience were standing
rigidly to attention, but were giving their
wives a suspicious eyes-right. The ladies
were looking smugly thoughtful. lan
Hunter, as the last of Bedelia’s tribe,
gives an excellent performance and is
saved for later films by Barry K. Barnes,
who played the unusual part of an artist-
detective cross-breed,
“Thrill of Brazil”
Well, rattle my castinets and call me
Pedro! “Thrill of Brazil” (Victory) deals
with Latin America, contains plenty of
the local talent, has scenery which sways
at the breeze or at the hips, is produced
by Hollywood, and yet is photographed
in black and white. That is almost a wel-
come change from the gaudy technicolor
efforts which usually come under the
circumstances, and make the temporarily-
blinded audience bump into post or fall
down gratings as they leave the theatre.
Evelyn Keyes and Keenan Wynn, as the
main nuts, are both in excellent form
blowing pieces off each other with gre-
nades of witticism. Ann Miller, gyrating
through most of her appearances in strict
Sambo (or something) tempo, gave a sur-
prisingly good performance. Whether
the term “Thrill” was meant to be applied
to Miss Miller or Miss Keyes would be a
Paris-like decision. Perhaps it was a
Hollywood generality to cover the entire
film, though the lass with the short socks
who bellowed “Hubba Hubba” into the
back of this scribe’s neck whenever Tito
Guizar appeared on the screen would
have no doubt pinned it on him. Tito
sang like Sinatra with a heavy cold, a
bagful of lollies in his mouth, and a deep
foreign accent.
“The Dark Mirror”
This, at Sydney State, is another
of those “psychological” films which
have more affinity with Bill Sykes
than Psyche. A man is murdered and a
girl suspected, but it turns out she has
a twin who is physically like her. One
of those professional psychologists who
seem to be as numerous in U.S. as poli-
ticians offers to delve into the twins’ un-
conscious. By means of ink blots and
free associating he quickly discovers that
one is a schizophrenic and homicidal. As
he doesn’t know one from t’other, and
as they won’t tell, he is no nearer his
objective, though, having fallen in love
with one, he has a vested interest in a
satisfactory solution of the problem.
Oliva de Havilland doubles for the sisters,
and Lew Ayres is the sort of psychologist
who would make Freud regret that he
didn’t burn his Introductory Lectures.


No. 2 of Series
Refrigerator-. ..
&
:
m
i
P
FOOD goes bad because of the activity of certain
micro-organisms. Under cold conditions these
microbes fail to grow and the food remains fit to
eat. In a domestic refrigerator a volatile liquid
called a “refrigerant” is made to boil and in so
doing absorbs heat from its surroundings which, of
course, include the space used for storage and
reduces their temperature to a point low enough
to prevent food going bad. The vapour from the
refrigerant loses its heat to the outside air and as
it does so condenses back to a liquid ready to be
boiled again. The most useful refrigerants
ŵ
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates
IL-16-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Everything about Attley’s winning of the
Futurity Stakes at, Caulfield on Saturday
marked him, to borrow a phrase from the
latest pugilistic double-talk, as the leading con-
tender for the title of Australia’s best horse of
the moment. Shannon is, of course, in the
same parlance the provisional champion.
With 10.6, Attley had 41b. more than Bern-
borough won with last year, and was con-
ceding such a first-class galloper as St. Fairy
71b. Despite that, it simply wasn’t a race.
Punters had their doubts and didn’t exactly
overwhelm bookies offering to “take 6 to 4”;
the bag-swingers had to extend their price to
5 to 4 against.
La Patrice attempted to lead all the way,
and was still a length ahead of Attley and
well clear of the rest at the furlong post.
Shortly after Attley streaked to the front and
Purtell was able to start easing him up with
50 yards to go; yet the Portofino horse equalled
Ajax’s course record of 1.24 for the seven
furlongs. Master Dash, a New Zealand gal-
loper of repute and the medium of a solid
betting plunge, just pipped La Patrice for
second money three and a half lengths behind
the winner. Master Dash’s trip> over here
should show a profit. St. Fairy finished fourth,
looking in need of the run.
After a couple more runs in Melbourne Attley
is to go to Sydney, where he will meet Shan-
non in the Rawson Stakes at Rosehill on
’March 22.
The next-best effort seen at Caulfield was
that of the three-year-old Manitoba filly Amelia,
who tackled and easily beat a good-class open
company field over a mile and a half in the
Woodcliff Handicap. Ridden by Breasley, the
filly was always handy, began to move up at
the half-mile, led into the straight and went on
to beat Miss Prim by three lengths, with a
further couple of lengths to the favorite Cherie
Marie. On this showing, Amelia would have
more than a fair chance of adding to the very
small number of fillies that have won the St.
Leger; it’s to be run next Saturday. Also,
her run suggested Australian Cup prospects.
The inevitable Dhoti turned up in Denhoti,
who had a shade the better of a hard-fought
finish with Chanak in the Merson Cooper Stakes
for two-year-olds. Royal Mark beat Jalna
for the minor place. W. Williamson, rider
of Denhoti, was also successful on Promise
You, who had a clear-cut win from Glamis
Star, Bankura and other Trial candidates.
The Sydney galloper El Grandee was com-
pletely lost in the Oakleigh scramble, but made
amends by winning Saturday’s Hawksburn
Handicap of six furlongs. Ridden by Mc-
Growdie, El Grandee hit the front before they’d
gone very far and remained there, the 66-to-l
chance Tamerlane being closest at the finish,
followed by Allied Power. Native Son, who
was good enough to win the Carrington and
the Villiers with nothing much on his back,
seems unable to handle the big weights he’s
getting now. With 9.2 in the Hawksburn he
was never sighted. Cutting out the six fur-
longs in 1.11, El Grandee entered Newmarket
calculations.
Reputedly a cantankerous customer, St.
Razzle shied and threw his rider, but for-
tunately it was after he had passed the post
an easy winner of the Stanley Plate for three-
year-olds, giving W. Shipton a win with his
first mount after a long spell resulting from
a spill at a country meeting. Skyrocks and
Glendinning were in the places.
* * g *
Next to the sweltering heat; Saturday’s
S.T.C. meeting at Canterbury was mainly
notable for extraordinary activity on the part
of the course broadcaster, a succession of calls
going out over the public-address system for
doctors, the club vet., a detective, the driver
of the police car, trainers, and various un-
classified individuals, the whole giving an
impression of much strange doings behind the
scenes. Some of the stir was caused by alleged
attempts to- put forged tickets over on the tote.
Quite the best field of the day contested the
Flying, and the finish was a tribute to club
handicapper I. Peaks. Any of half a dozen
might have been the winner with 50 yards to
go; on the post Fine Art (G. Weate) had
drawn half a length clear, but only a head
separated the next three. A photograph showed
Earl Pentheus second, followed by Yankee Lad
and Good Idea, the latter’s run ’promising well
for his autumn campaign.
A few disgruntled supporters of Earl Pentheus
were loud in their opinion that a stronger and
more experienced rider would have succeeded
where the 71b.-apprentice F. Walker failed.
However, the Pentheus gelding seemed fairly
beaten on his merits. Walker showed no lack
of vigor earlier in the day when, on Corona-
tion Lad, he won the Nursery from Cognac
and Valmaen. An Agincourt colt having his
first run, Cognac produced a fine turn of speed
and seemed to have the race in the bag until
Walker brought Coronation Lad along.
The win on Fine Art completed a treble
for_ G. Weate, earlier successful in both
divisions of the nine-furlongs Novice. In the
first Bourke, at 25 to 1, downed Rifle and
Union Jack; in the second McKechnie, more
strongly fancied, accounted for a couple of
rough ’uns in Crispian and Mamie Boy. The
Welter was also productive of two divisions,
in which Craftsman, receiving 31b. allowance
for D. Weir, came from pretty well last to
beat Prince Midas and Lord Rex, while
Pennicuik (J. Browne) took the second division
from Gold Taj and Last Bowl.
In the nine-furlongs Canterbury Park Handi-
cap Tamaroa, a winner at his previous start
and again well backed, was in front all the
way except when briefly headed at the half-
mile by Euryalus. At the finish Air Flare,
coming home fairly well, and Huamight were
closest to the winner, a four-year-old entire
by Mr. Standfast. Euryalus looked ready to
win one before long, particularly a suitable
race against his fellow three-year-olds. With-
from the Canterbury Handicap, Silver
Spear successfully tackled the extra two fur-
longs and the smaller and weaker field of the
Trial, Grahamstown and the favorite Menelik
following the Silver Standard gelding past the
judge.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Maiden Stakes; Menelik, 1; Sun King, 2;
Trajant, 3. Maiden Two-year-old Handicap:
Million, 1; Rabelais, 2; Valmaen* 3. Encour-
age : McKechnie,' 1; Tamasha, 2; Mt. Howitt,
3. Flying: Brazier, 1; Vermeil, 2; Hiraji, 3.
Canterbury C,up: Air Flare, 1; - Kiaree, 2;
Buzz Off, 3. Welter: Gold Taj, 1; Lord Rex,
2; Gold Caste, 3.
» * * m
In the Launceston (Tas.) Cup the favorite,
Wingfire, ridden by Breasley, was just nutted
by Miss Dart, an aged mare to whom Wing-
fire was conceding 181 b. Miss Dart had previ-
ously finished second to Wingfire in the Hobart
Cup.
« * * *
England’s leading woman owner, Miss
Dorothy Paget, has" been before the National
"Whacko—a sixer!"
Hunt Committee stipes (two of them Lords)
to explain the running of one of her hurdlers,
Broad Atlantic. Her explanation was accepted,
but the stipes stuck to their opinion that the
riding of the neddy’s jockey was “open to grave
suspicion.”
* * * »
Completed recently at Lexington (Kentucky),
the autumn sale of thoroughbreds was em-
bracingly described by one writer as “the
biggest sale of thoroughbred horses ever held
anywhere.” In all 733 animals were sold for
an aggregate of 2,410,150 dollars, representing
an average price of 3288 dollars, which is
almost exactly £AIOOO. Some of the stock
successfully unloaded on to buyers provoked
scathing comment by N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
racing writer Joe H. Palmer: “In this case
averages lie like epitaphs. ' There were 181
more horses sold [than last year] and these
not only came from the bottom of the barrel;
some of them came from under it. When
even a fair horse came in through the door,
restraint went out at the window. This doesn’t
mean the fall market is made up of pre-
dominantly bad horses. It’s just that in with
perhaps 500 horses with some reason to exist
were mixed 200-odd more wh)ich had no
slightest excuse. That’s what makes the aver-
age remarkable. It’s like throwing rocks into
gold ore and selling it all at the same price
per ounce. It’s hard to see why anyone will
buy a 20-year-old barren brood mare when
she wasn’t much good in her heyday, but
somebody always turns up. A few horses
had died in the interval between cataloguing
and selling, but the notion here was that
it was a mistake not to stuff them and send
them in.”
* * * *
The M.C.C.:
After rattling up 336 for 9 wickets on Fri-
day (115 before lunch) N.S.W. added only
six more next day. Lukeman, a right-hander
with fine strokes on the offside and back-play
reminiscent of Macartney, batted soundly for
70, and. is definitely a Test-hoper. England’s
leg-spinner Peter Smith bagged 9 for 121, which
has been bettered only twice on the Sydney
ground—when George Giffen got 10 for 66
for Australian XI v. The Rest in 1883-84,
and Tim Wall’s 10 for 36 for S.A. v. N.S.W,
in 1932-33. Evans’s ’keeping was, as usual,
splendid. At stumps (light appeal at 5 p.m.)
M.C.C. had 200 on the board for 7 wickets,
towards which Compton had piled up 75. Spin
bowlers Johnston (2 for 35), Pettiford (2 for
39) and Toshack (3 for 76) got the wickets.
Hutton stopped a hard whack on the chin;
it came off a bumper from Lush which was
deflected by a faulty stroke. The cut needed
a couple of stitches, after which Hutton cheer-
fully went back for more and was 36 not out
at stumps.
. Compton’s 75 lifted his aggregate to 1661
runs averaging 63.88, which heads Sutcliffe’s
1626 av. 73.90 in 1924-25 as the best English
effort on an Australian tour. Washbrook
(1081 runs av. 38.60) is the only other M.C.C.
player above four figures. The Australian rush
for the aggregate is between Miller (1145 av.
76.33), Hassett (1142 av. 71.37) and Morris
(1113 av, 74.2).
M.C.C. made a feeble finish in the match
against Victoria earlier last week. After lead-
ing by 28 on the first innings (355 to 327)
they crumpled for 118 in the second knock —
their lowest innings total of the tour. Left-
hander George Tribe (Vic.) took 6 wickets
for 49, and the effort bowled him back into
the Test team. Tribe got 9 for 191 in the
match, and, with 13 for 153 v. South Aus.
and 12 for 171 v. N.S.W., has the finest match
efforts among Australian bowlers this summer.
Hassett scored an excellent 126 (his fifth cen-
tury for the season). M.C.C. drawn games
now. total 18, with three wins and two de-
feats (both in Tests).
♦ * * *
South Australian Ron Hamence, given a
chance in the fifth Test, has earned his lift.
Up to Saturday he had scored in Sheffield
Shield matches this season 472 runs averaging
67.42. He is a right-hander, a splendid field,
aged 31, and toured MX. last year with the
Australian XI.
* * * *
After being defeated by 181 runs by N.S.W.
at Sydney, S.A. moved on to Brisbane, and
Queensland at the end of the second day led
by 276 for 8 wickets against 224. Hamence
(63) and Dooland (56), for S.A., and Carrigan
(63), Tallon (54) and Rogers (41) for Queens-
land, were the chief run-getters.
* * * *
John Treloar is showing great form
in N.Z., where his stiffest opposition has
come from an American sprinter with a
name familiar in present Australian
athletics—Don Campbell, Over 100yds.
at Christchurch Treloar beat Campbell by
one and a half yards, clocking 9 3-5 sec.,
a New Zealand record. It was the third
occasion in recent starts that Treloar
had registered that time, which is one-
fifth outside the world record shared by
three Americans, including Jesse Owens.
On the same day Treloar just pipped
Campbell over 220yds. in 21 4-5 sec., a
•fifth outside the N.Z. record. Then at
Napier the Australian lad again beat the
American over those distances, taking
9 4-5 for the 100yds. but doing the
220yds. in the N.Z. record time of 21
2-5. Standing well over six-feet and
built in accordance, Treloar looks too
big to be able to cover ground at those
speeds, but there is a parallel on the Turf,
where often the biggest of horses are
crack sprinters while many really good
stayers are little more than ponies.
* * * *
At Richmond baths (Melbourne) on
Saturday night John Marshall, the 16-
year-old holder of four national swim-
ming .championships, won his fifth Vic-
torian title by taking the 1650yds. free-
style championship. Clocking 20 min.
42f sec., Marshall touched the line 150
yards ahead of his nearest opponent.
Marshall continued on to complete the
mile, for which he registered 22.6, knock-
ing 15 seconds off the Victorian record.
:fc * Jfc ♦
A London “Times” letter-writer has
noted a remarkable change in ye olde
sport of foxhunting. Hitherto it had often
been said that English farmers put up
with it on sufferance, because many of
them didn’t dare to object. Since the
war, notes the writer (sec. of the Fields
Sports Society), “Pack after pack is
either actually being taken over by the
farmers or being run with their help or
under their supervision,” and so fox-
hunting is being “firmly re-established as
the yeoman sport of our countryside.”
Maybe an outcome of the rich not being
as rich now as they used to be.
* * * *
Cullud U.S. pug Willie Jones couldn’t
get a fight in Sydney or Melbourne, but,
while moderate others of his hue have
fared poorly at those addresses, Jones
has been cleaning up Vic Patrick’s con-
queror, Bos Murphy, in N.Z. In their
first encounter Jones won through Mur-
phy whacking him a k.o. wallop after
the bell. The second meeting was all
Jones. Over half a stone lighter, he had
Murphy down for six in the first round,
again on the canvas for nine in the third,
and in the tenth only the bell saved
Murphy from a k.o.
* * * ♦
Though by far the better boxer, South
Australian Sandy Walsh (11.11) was out-
fought by Tommy Colteaux (12.1) at
Leichhardt. Forcing the fight all the
way, Colteaux often clinched after land-
ing a punch, and in one of these hugs
early in the scrap his head gashed Walsh’s
left eyebrow. Despite that damage,
Walsh did much the cleaner work, but
he weakened and the decision Colteaux’s
way was fair enough.
*.* * *
At Melbourne Stadium cullud import
Clint Miller (9.0£) did better against
Billy Alexander (8.1 H) than in their
first encounter. Alexander’s slow be-
ginning helped the negro to pile up the
necessary points.


im-mtam
jaiica/a/aj
ai iai m /as
m
[ rp^w^iirfmFa
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYEAIR.
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
PITFALLS await
the inexperienced
EXECUTOR.
The choice of your Executor is almost as
important as your Will itself. The duties of
Executorship are highly technical and pitfalls
abound for the inexperienced.
You will do well to consider the advantages
that you will give your beneficiaries by the
appointment of Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) as your Executor and Trustee.
The Company has specialised in this work for
60 years. Although it handles a great volume
of business thmre is nothing impersonal or
mechanical in its service.
The instructions of the Testator are faithfully
and efficiently carried out while the Company’s
service to beneficiaries is personal, friendly
and courteous.
You might call and discuss the matter with a senior officer.
If you prefer, send for a copy of the Company’s booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee’’ which explains the service the
Company renders and the cost of it.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative: J. L. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
Safe and Profitable
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
• Old age or ,untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants,. and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin” annual reviews. Policyholders
get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office; A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
D. »J- Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
, Branch Offices:
"Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide. %
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Business,Rolleuy,Etc.
Commmonwealth Govt. Shipping
The Federal Labor Government is
fatally entangled in Australian coastal
shipping and shipbuilding. It is charterer
of nearly all coastal tonnage, and it has
to foot the bill for rises in seamen’s
wages, the' losses arising from wanton
misbehavior of seamen and wharfies and
from the general attitude of go-slow in
the maritime and stevedoring industries.
War-risk bonuses are still being paid to
coastal seamen, and now a huge bill will
have to be met to provide wharfies with
holidays annually.
Every time an has arisen requir-
ing a little courage on the part of the
Chifley Government in order to rebuff
the rampant forces of indiscipline the
Government has crept away with its tail
down. In 1945-46 the Department of
Supply and Shipping showed a debit of
£3,107,393 in its requisitioned-ships sec-
tion, and there appeared to be reckless
optimism in the forecast of a debit of
only £1,086,590 for 1946-47. The cost of
the Stevedoring Industry Commission,
forecast at £136,540, will be found a
gross underestimate.
Even the ill-starred Commqnwealth
Line fared better at this stage of a previ-
ous war’s aftermath. The line was
built up mainly during the Prime Minis-
tership of W. M, Hughes, sold (in various
lots) during the period of office of the
Bruce-Page Government, and collections
of debt from the White Star Line went
on during the Ministries of Scullin, Lyons
begin at the end of 1914 and finish in
1941.
The story of W. M. Hughes’s Com-
monwealth Line is worth telling again.
The Commonwealth began trading in
November, 1914, with a number of de-
tained enemy vessels, working under the
control of the Department of the Navy.
In 1916 15 vessels known as* the
“Australs” were acquired in the United
Kingdom, and in 1917 14 wooden ships
were ordered from the United States. The
Commonwealth Government Line was
established in 1916, and the “Australs”
were placed under its management.
Eighteen ex-enemy vessels were brought
within its control in 1918, “as were also
such vessels built in America as were
taken over.”
Profits were not difficult to make under
war and 1918-21 conditions; “working
profits” between Oct. 16, 1916, and June
30, 1921, aggregated £2,304,442. Initial
success in extraordinarily favorable cir-
cumstances bred greater ambitions in the
hearts of W. M. Hughes and others. A
programme of Australian pro-
vided for 48 vessels, half wooden sailing
ships, the rest steel cargo steamers. Actu-
ally 21 steel vessels and two five-masted
schooners came off the slips.
Of the steamers, 19 were of 3350 tons
gross (1920 tons net), and two (the
Fordsdale and Ferndale) of 9500 tons
gross (5660 tons net). The big ships
were built by the Commonwealth Navy
Department at Cockatoo Island, together
with two of the smaller vessels; six of
3350-tonners were constructed by
the N. S. Wales Government yard at
Walsh Island; six at Williaftistown by
the Commonwealth Ship Construction
Branch; three at Adelaide by Poole and
Steel; and two at Maryborough (Q.) by
Walkers, Ltd. Launchings commenced in
March, 1919, and continued at intervals
until the end of 1922, with the Fords-
dale in 1923 and the Ferndale in 1924.
The Bay line was built in Britain, each
of the five ships 13,800 tons gross (8450
tons net). They were all handed over to
the* Commonwealth Government between
November, 1921, and September, 1922.
Steamers thus acquired after the war
represented 48,000 net tons Australian-
built and 42,000 net tons in the Bay line.
"How d’you want it?"
With war-time tonnage taken in, allow-
ing for losses and sales, by 1923 there
was 170,744 net tons under Common-
wealth control. On September 1 that
year the line was passed over to a board,
following trading losses of £2,707,719 be-
tween July 1, 1921, and June 30, 1923.
Valuation was £4,749,350, against cost of
nearly £15,000,000. Operations thence-
forward until March 31, 1927, showed a
further loss of £1,922,406, There were
capital losses also on the disposal of
laid-up vessels; by the end of 1927 there
were only the Bay liners left, plus the
Fordsdale and Ferndale.
With depression approaching this resi-
due of the fleet was sold to the White
Star Line in London for £1,900,000 in
1928. The chairman of this line later
on complained that it lost £1,476,412 of
capital in this and subsequent transac-
tions in the Commonwealth Line, and
spoke of “a very hard bargain.” To
which the Commonwealth Auditor-Gen-
eral replied that White Star had “pur-
chased for £1,900,000 a very fine fleet of
vessels which originally cost the Com-
monwealth £7,500,000.”
The White Star transaction is a story,
in itself. Very soon this company was
in difficulties, as were other units of the
Kylsant group. Kylsant himself we.nt to
jail over a prospectus matter. At the
end of 1932 there was still £1,162,098,
including interest, owing to the Common-
wealth. With the depression at its worst,
in 1933 the'Commonwealth exercised its
powers under a debenture and forced the
sale of five Bay liners and the Fordsdale
(the Ferndale meantime had been lost) to
Shaw, Savill and Albion Co., Ltd., for
£500,000 (April 8, 1933), thereafter rank-
ing as an unsecured creditor for the
rest of the amount owing (£662,098).
The Bay steamers passed to the Aber-
deen and Commonwealth Line, in which
White Star had an indirect interest
through Shaw, Savill and Albion,
In 1933 the chairman of White
Star protested that the Common-
wealth had “already received full
value for the ships, and it would
be barely an act of grace to cancel
the indebtedness remaining, and
representations to this end'have,
in fact, already been made.” After
correspondence with S. M. Bruce,
then High Commissioner in Lon-
don, the Commonwealth quite
rightly took a firm stand in the
matter, and eventually White Star
went into liquidation. A court
case then went on to decide a
matter of payment of inter-
company debts involving the
Royal Mail Steam Packet Co.,
and it favored the Common-
wealth. In June, 1936, a dividend
of 2s. 6d. in the £ was paid by
White Star on the debt, in
November, 1938, a further 6s. A\d.
came along, and in 1940 there was
3|d., making 9s. Hd. in the £.
At this stage there was £416,032
sterling in principal and interest
outstanding. With a small final
liquidation payment, including
23,920 shares in the Oceanic Steam Navi-
gation Realisation Co., shortly afterwards
this debtor’s balance was wiped out
of the Commonwealth Government’s
accounts.
Returning to the main stojy of the
Commonwealth Line, it should be kept
in mind that the Commonwe.alth Ship-
ping Board took over the entire fleet in
1923 at valuation £10,000,000 below cost
to the Government; this was made pos-
sible by writing down the ships out of
profits on the working of ex-enemy
vessels (£3,673,494), “gross profits” on the
operations of other vessels up to 1923
(£2,493,449), insurance reserve (£901,920)
and charging the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment with a debit of £2,645,761, But
even at that, in 1933 the Auditor-General
put losses on sales by the board prior to
March 31, 1928, at £540,938, loss on the
White Star contract price at £936,438,
trading losses at £2,444,085 and other
losses at £92,135 —total for the board
after 1923, £4,013,596.
Taking into credit all the easy money
that came with the 1914-18 war (nearly
a third of the tonnage was commandeered
enemy ships), the Commonwealth never-
theless lost £6,650,000 cold in all stages
of its shipping venture. That is ignoring
the subsequent difficulty otf collecting
from White Star.
Cockatoo Island dockyard was for
an appendage of the Com-
monwealth Line. In 1936 the Auditor-
General reported:
This establishment, which, prior to Feb-
ruary, 1932, functioned as a Government
. activity at a loss exceeding £60,000 p.a.,
was in February, 1933, leased to the Cocka-
too Docks and Engineering Co., with the
result that not only has the annual loss
been eliminated, but, in addition, rental,
which is'based on a sliding scale, has been
received as follows: First year to 28/2/’34,
£1000; second year to 28/2/’35, £3877;
third year to 20/2/’36, £9031; and since
29/2/’36 the rental has been at the rate
of £15,0.00 p.a. ,
As mentioned in my predecessor’s report,
two sloops were being constructed by lire
lessees under contract with the Defence
Department. The cost of executing the
work specified in respect of the first vessel
(which has been completed) is well within
the amount contracted for and results in
the department receiving a rebate of some
£9OOO.
The rental paid to the Commonwealth
was £14,717 in 1938 ; it rose to £27,894
in 1939 and £41,263 in 1940. For the
year to Feb. 28, 1943, the maximum ren-
tal of £50,000 was received by the Gov-
ernment from this dockyard operating
under private enterprise. Certainly war
had latterly stimulated its activity, but
even before the war the story is plain
enough.
The tale of the Commonwealth Line
is not all told in its bare financial records.
There are industrial and other economic
aspects that could be dealt with as well.
Governments have a habit of entering
into such ventures when times are excep-
tionally favorable, establishing a new and
high standard of costs while they are in
charge, and then, when the economic
weather changes to bad, they are all for
getting out and leaving to someone else
the responsibility of establishing new in-
dustrial conditions.
How the present Government at Can-
berra is going to extricate itself from the
awful mess that represents the Australian
shipping industry today it is hard to im-
agine. Building costs are very high in
spite of exchange advantages, and running
costs have risen enormously. Building
still goes on. It is only because the tax-
payer is footing a huge bill every year
that freight and passage costs have not
risen in proportion to the economic and
industrial deterioration now so obvious.
The proposed merger of the Bank of
Australasia and the Union Bank, one of
the largest things of its kind ever to be
seen in Australia, is an intriguing de-
velopment. It suggests, among other
aspects, that private enterprise in bank-
ing is not a dead letter in this country—
that the banks do not regard themselves
merely as victims awaiting complete
nationalisation. The amalgamated enter-
prise, to be called the Australasia and
Union Bank, will be an extremely power-
ful unit in the banking world, but will
still be smaller than the Bank of N. S.
Wales as regards volume of business,
even if extraordinarily strong financially.
Capital of the new bank will be
£8,500,000 —shareholders in each bank
will get share for share —compared with
£8,780,000, Australian currency, in the
case of the ’Wales. The merger of the
two London-incorporated banks may pos-
sibly represent the broadening of a
channel for the flow of British invest-
ment to Australian industries.
* * * 9
The Commonwealth Bank in future
will pay the trading banks only 10s. per
cent, lss. per cent.) on their
deposits lodged compulsorily with the
central bank. Deposits' of this nature
recently totalled over £270 million from
all the trading banks. Commonwealth
Treasury policy is to squeeze trading-bank
profits down to a minimum.
* * * *
The 40-hour week to be granted to
those working under N. S. Wales awards;
It can be regarded otherwise than a dis-
aster only if employees do more in 40
hours than they are now doing in 44.
There is no evidence that trade-unionism
is any more ready to do the decent thing
than it has been over the past four years.
Most of the “militants” are covered bv
Federal awards, but few unions, as bodies'
have behaved really well in recent
times; N. S. Wales railwaymen, tram-
waymen and firemen have all been on
strike during the past two years.
* * * ♦
Bradford Cotton, at 51s. 6d., ex div.,
still looked attractive in last week’s
market.


W&& *v..
■:•■ •
v
m
■
I \
A
WM
ms
m
-
&Cv.
:> 1
■• || m, %Wvj
•■•W-SSSSCi?
'_ ' I
m
mm m
mi
®ip
i#
-ll|^
’ r „& **
» x- i .><• : :?•: ••
wmmm
m i
V •. V
■
mmm
V I
■
■ KSS
\
m
ssa.
m.
Skin-graSt ior a Man-o - War!
Toward the end of the war the Dutch
cruiser “Tromp” limped into Sydney
Harbour for repairs and was soon
high and dry in the new Cockatoo
Dock. An inspection revealed, among
other things, that the protective,
hard-rubber skin on the hollow, port
propeller shaft had been chafed away
for a distance of about 40 inches at
the end nearest the ship.
The matter of stripping the old cover-
ing and grafting on a new rubber
“skin” was little more than a routine
job for skilled Dunlop technicians.
The real problem was the vulcan-
ization of this new “skin” on the spot*
Originally the rubber covering had
been vulcanized, simply by passing
steam through the hollow shaft.
This could not be done on the repair
without damage to the remainder of
the covering.
The problem was eventually over-
come by using a specially constructed
battery of twelve, 120 volt Infra-Red
Heating Lamps—a method of rubber
vulcanizing never before used in
Australia ! The illustration shows
how the lamps were arranged in two
staggered rows round the shaft to
give effective, even heating over the
entire circumference of the shaft.
The story of this unusual “skin-graft”
proves that Dunlop Technicians have
the “know-how” to be of assistance
to you, and they’re at your service
at all times. All you need do is
write to the Dunlop Branch in your
own State.
fli£ Dublet UncUcstuf
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
/
Charity Begins—Where?
What is an institution or establishment
of “a charitable, benevolent or philan-
thropic Character”? Could Ikey Mo’s
pawnbroking establishment be brought
within such a definition? No doubt Mr.
Mo himself might be persuaded that it
could, frequently having protested as
much himself. And, of course, Mr.
Thornton, of the Ironworkers’ Union,
might claim that his source of secretarial
income was an establishment that was
charitable, benevolent and philanthropic,
even if essentially “militant.” Then the
Sydney Turf Club, Lord Nuffield notwith-
standing, might assert its utter benevo-
lence or philanthropy, whilst the Rugby
League, of ear-chewing fame, might lay
claims to its charitable intentions if not
practices both on and off the field.
It is important that owners of property
in N. S. Wales be left in as little doubt
as possible on the matter, since one of
the last gestures of the N.S.W. Ministry
with Squire McKell (Gee-Gee) as Premier
was to introduce a bill, now an Act,
whereby charitable, benevolent or philan-
thropic institutions were granted rights
of “appropriation or resumption” of
land, and of converting such property
into Crown land free of all charges, rates,
taxes, assessments, etc., regardless of
what the position was before resumption,
The Land Acquisition (Charitable In-
stitutions) Act has already been invoked,
and in a case where negotiations for sale
were in progress, subject to lessee’s rights.
resumption is now the order, lessee’s
rights being devastatingly attended to by
Section 4 (6) of the Act.
It will probably be found that the Act,
assented to on December 27 last, post-
dates the beginning of more than one set
of negotiations for the sale of land to an
“institution,” charitable or otherwise. If the
institution, as approved by the Govern-
ment, invokes the Act, then negotiation goes
overboard and resumption supervenes,
A number of institutions are defined in
the law—hospitals, orphanages, schools,
etc.—but the general provision is “any
institution or establishment of a charit-
able, benevolent or philanthropic char-
acter.” The Government decides which
“institutions” fall into the foregoing cate-
gory, and, through the Governor, pub-
fishes their names in the Government
“Gazette.” Then, when the “governing
body” of such an “institution” desires
“that land shall be acquired for the pur-
pose of the institution by appropriation
or resumption it may apply to the Gov-
ernor through the Minister.”
After that “a Crown grant of the
land may be issued to the applicant or
to the nominee of the applicant, and such
grant may be issued subject to such
trusts, conditions, covenants, provisions,
exceptions and reservation as the Gov-
ernor [read “Government”] may deem
expedient.”
The institution deriving the right of re-
sumption of a person’s land may be no
more than a proposed institution in pro-
cess of formation.
All as wide open as a barn door. In-
stitutions unnamed and undefined may
be given resumption rights at “the Minis-
ter’s” pleasure, and institutions yet un-
born, with objects unknown, except that
they be considered “charitable, bene-
volent or philanthropic” in the eyes of
nobody, perhaps, but “the Minister” or
his colleagues, may take over the Union
Club, a privately-run golf or tennis club’s
premises, or a factory site the owner of
which is, possibly, not regarded as truly
“benevolent, charitable or philanthropic”
by “the Minister.”
Where, oh, where, does charity begin?
And where—in the State of N. S. Wales
—do “benevolence” and “philanthropy”
end?
Factory payrolls in N. S. Wales fell
away during 1945-46, the average em-
ployment for the year being 315,774 per-
sons, compared with 326,156 in 1943-44,
during the war. last year’s lower
activity was the result of labor disturb-
ances is clearly seen when it is found that
in November, 1946, When there was a
better production of coal, the number
of factory employees was 326,900.
A build-up toward the November record
had been going on since May. The num-
ber of factories operating in 1945-46 was
a record —12,287, compared with 9464
in 1939, when employees averaged
231,800. Wages paid in 1939 were £44.6
million, in 1945-46 £87.6 million. The
reduction in the amount of overtime now
being worked, as well as the erratic em-
ployment conditions during the post-war
years, is shown by the fact that in 1943-44
wages paid totalled £93.5 million, which
was £6 million greater than last year’s
total. Gross value of N.S.W. factory out-
put in 1938-39 was £218.4 million, in
1943-44 £399 million, and ia 1945-46
£367 million.
* * * *
Manufacturers of shoddy articles are
likely to get caught before very long.
Makers of inferior furniture are already
feeling the pinch. People believe that
by waiting they will get a better article,
even if the price be no lower than now.
The furniture trade is also confronted
with problems arising from the hqpsing
shortage; it is in new homes that they
look for their biggest market, since much
old furniture in established homes is
better than can be got today. Thus,
While a general shortage of production
still prevails, there are likely to be sur-
pluses of certain' types of goods from
time to time, and shopkeepers won’t have
it all their own way. The fall in savings-
bank deposits, too, is partly an indication
of reduced spending power arising from
strikes, etc., and this is bringing to an end*
a state of affairs in which traders could
assume safely that anything on their
shelves would sell. Manufacturers will
be wise to plan more selective production
from now on.


ABORIGINALITIES
“O’Took”: Barring projected murder,
squabbles in the natives’ camp are quick-
est mended without interference from
white men, so the boss didn’t worry un-
duly when he heard Benny and Fanny
going at it like a couple of wild tomcats.
Things began to look more serious when
the gin came running out of the tent
with Benny close behind her flourishing
a long-handled shovel. “You no good
lubra,” he cried and, landing the face
of the shovel squarely on the crown of
her skull, he flattened her in the dust.
“You no more yabba-yabba allatime. You
makem quiet fella or you bin proper
sorry,” the buck warned her and went
back to the wallaby he was skinning.
Faqny lay where she had fallen, crying
like a piccaninny for half an hour; then
she got up and went about her business
in the washhouse. It happened to be
mail-day, so after pegging out the wallaby
skin Benny collected the bag and, without
so much as a sidelong glance at his
spouse, mounted the hack and rode off
down the track. “Hey, you dirty black-
fella,” Fanny shouted after him. “You
come back changem trouses. S’pose
people all about Mataranka see you
dirty troilses, dirty shirt. Might be they
tinkem you no more hab lubra washem,
cleanem, all fixem ebeyting.”
* * * ♦
“Hanko”: We’d been knocking off
early for so long that the sight' of the
overseer lounging by the -horse-yard wor-
ried us not at all. He eyed us bleakly
as we unsaddled and slung our gear in
the harness-room. “Having a ' half-
holiday for something or other?” he said.
We ignored the taunt and he had another
shot: “Just as well I’ve got one man who
keeps to proper working hours.” The.
words were hardly out of his mouth wheis
Little Joe clattered in at the gallop, a
bunch of white and yellow everlastings
swinging at his saddle-bow. “Been work-
ing your fingers to the bone gathering
posies?” snarled the trump. Little Joe
went red in the gills, swung to the ground
and brandished the daisies like a club.
“I picked these blanky fldwers in me own
time,” he roared. “That’s why I’m so
late gettin’ in.” The overseer was
fumbling for his watch when the station
governess tripped out. “Oh, Mr. Little
Joe,” she gushed, “how sweet of you to
find time to gather me those gorgeous
immortelles.” Little Joe beamed with
pleasure as he made the floral offering.
The overseer scowled darkly as he
rammed his watch back into his jodhpurs.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; I’d known him for
years as, one of the finest in the
district, and as I watched him I cmild see
age had in no way lessened his energy
or impaired his skill. He works alone,
no doubt because experience has shown
him the futility of relying on outside
assistance, and he overcomes the chronic
shortage of builders’ hardware by utilis-
ing such material as he finds ready to
hand. The structure on whichohe-is at
present engaged is composed entirely of
unburnt clay carefully selected and
pugged and kneaded skilfully on to the
previous work. The. architecture is odd,
but not unusual in this district, and I
happen to know that this chap, and his
ancestors, have worked along similar lines
for the last few million’years. He’s a bad-
tempered little cuss, instinctively opposed
to being led by the nose, and he’d be
hunted from any union meeting into
which he accidentally intruded. He
assures me, in language that Australians
used to understand, that he’ll have that
job completed before winter, come hell
or high water. Local opinion votes him
unprogressive and an undesirable neigh-
bor, but the thought intrudes that the
nation-wide housing shortage would
diminish rapidly if we had a few thou-
sand other workers with the initiative,
industry and determination of the hornet
that is building his nest in the corner of
my verandah. . .
# % % *
“Wippegong”: The wet southerly
howling in from Bass Strait had
drenched the bracken, and fur and feather
had mostly gone to cover; but one
species reckoned the day good, and was
abroad in force. It was the lowly
planarian worm, a thin, flat, slimy crea-
ture whose bright yellow struck a vivid
line across the sodden sheeptracks. Finely
tapered fore and aft, he looks more like
a sliver of custard than a worm, for this
fellow is so far down the evolutionary
ladder that his body is not segmented ;
"So it's YOU that's been worrying the sheep. ”
nor has he a head, though a retractable
mouth swung amidships is used to good
purpose. This humble specimen, with
the regrettable effrontery of the lower
orders, seeks out as his prey a species
far above him in biological status —the
common earthworm ; and , though our
garden assistant —or potential bait, ac-
cording to your hobby—may thrash,
squirm and struggle, his precocity availeth
him not. For the planarian promptly
wraps himself completely round his vic-
tim, covering him with primeval slime
while he playfully gnaws him in two, thus
justifying the use of antique methods and
demonstrating the fallacies of progress.
Quiz kids please note.
*,* * *
“Billjim”: A Justice in a London
revenue case has ruled that the word
“cattle,” generally applied these days to
the bovine genus, may also be correctly
used to include pigs. ’Sonor based his
decision on the fact that when the present
translation of the Bitjle was made cattle
included all kinds of animals, and Adam
gave names to all his cattle,.
* * * ♦
“C.E.”: The shire was temporarily
without an engineer, -and charge of the
road work was given to Flash Walker, a
former Government official. With the
maintenance gang hard at it, old Ben ran
into the new boss at Dead-Cow Flat. “See
y’ doin’ up the road out be the river,”
Ben began. “Long way t’ cart the gravel
from here, ain’t it? Nine miles. An’
when there’s plenty there on the spot?
Wonder the ratepayers don’t squeal.”
“Well, they are —er complaining,”
nodded Flash, “not understanding that
out this way it is better gravel.” “Yair,
but it’ll be the time they object, to,” Ben
pointed out. “Three loads a day ain’t
much. Tell y’ what y’ c’d do.” His
eyes twinkled and he turned quickly
away. “Y’ got t’ do this road, too, ain’t
y’, so why not bring back a load o’ the
river stuff an’ dump it here afore y’ pull
into the pit? That’d save coming back
empty.” Flash thought it over. “That’s
right,” he agreed. “Not such good
material, but it would mean more work
done, and with the cost of only
one extra man for shovelling at the river
end. Yes, yes, an efficient move. I’ll
see to it at once.” Flash has now come
to the conclusion ; that no matter what
a man does he cant satisfy the growling
ratepayers round these parts.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Fishing one night in Western-
port (Vic.) we found that sharks of
various types and sizes spoilt the snapper
catch but provided sport. One amiable
old fiddler pressed his attentions to the
extent of coming into the boat\five times
(he was identified by the slashes ol re-
leasing hooks) before being given his
quietus. When the big fellows came
around, to the detriment of snapper
tackle, shark lines were put out and at
daylight a 12-footer hooked up. When
hauled alongside, harpooned and slit
open she proved to be heavily in young,
packed in bunches. The count was
roughly 30 and as these hit the water
they quickly swam away. But “Wan-
dana” (B. 5/2/’47) needn’t be concerned
at their release, as at that stage they were
sightless and would be-gobbled up in no
time. When the old girl was cut loose,
although completely disembowelled, she
lit out for the horizon like a torpedo,
but could not submerge and 100 yards
out, in a wild scurry, her sweet relatives
tore her to bits.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: That Geelong
College party (B. 19/2/’47) was not the
first on the 1200 ft. mountain - top
Rodondo since the war. Harry Crole, a
deep-water fisherman for 30 years out
of Newhaven (Vic.) lands there often. He
was first specially sent there 12 years
ago to explore the island for signs of the
airliner Miss Hobart, which disappeared
near by. Since then, at the anchorage
there, in between working cray-pots he
and his sons occasionally go ashore to
pitk up wreckage in the crevices or cut
a load of firewood. As for Rodondo
beipg “a lost world” —why, you can prac-
tically see all there is on it through the
powerful telescope at the Wilson’s
Promontory lighthouse six miles away.
* sfc * *
“Muntree”: Cutting off posts to let a
wide load go through (B. 5/2/’47)? Near
Naracoorte (S.A.) was a main road
which had 11 gates across it in 12 miles ;
travellers had cursed them for years, but
the squatter who owned the surrounding
country was deaf to all pleas that he
should fence off the road. Finally old
Joe the bullocky secured a carting con-
tract along that stretch of road ; return-
ing empty after delivering the first load,
he hitched his team to every gatepost
and hauled it out of the ground. The
squatter, breathing threats of police-
court action, put every hand on the
station to work, and they replaced the
missing posts with huge logs, none under
two feet in diameter and all sunk at least
four feet into the ground. “He won’t
pull those out,” was the squatter’s com-
ment when the last one had been rammed.
Joe didn’t try ; he waited for a gooid sou’-
westerly breeze, dragged a cross-log to
the base of each post and lit a fire
against it. Next morning every post had
been burned off flush with the ground.
Finding that all the long-suffering road-
users were backing up the bullocky, the
squatter gave in and fenced the road.
if: sji * *
“H*A.L.”; Where can the platypus still
be found (B. 5/2/’47)? Very plentiful
on the Atherton Tableland in North
Queensland ; fairly plentiful all along 'the
Dividing Range down to northern N.S.W.
I found no traces of it north of the
Daintree ; local abos declared it wasn’t
found in rivers such as the Jardine in
Cape York. Appears to be going out fast
in some places, such as the headwaters
of the Murray tributaries. On the lower
Murray in S.A. it is found only in one
jealously-guarded stretch of the stream ;
found nowhere else in S.A. save where
it has been liberated at Flinders Chase,
on the western end of Kangaroo Island.
Used to be found in streams such as the
Onkaparinga in the Adelaide hills ; last
authenticated appearance there pearly 50
years ago. Chief reason for its disap-
pearance is the introduction of fish like
the trout and the perch. These do not
directly harm the platypus, but when the
fish are established drumnets are used —
and the platypus gets trapped and
drowned. Residents of the Atherton
Tablelands are talking of introducing
sporting fish to their creeks and rivers
as a tourist attraction. They have attrac-
tions enough without it, and if they pur-
sue the scheme the platypus will exit via
the drumnet deathtrap. All game and
fisheries men know that for every illegal
drumnet they find a thousand escape de-
tection.
* * * *
“Sub-Druid”: The little S.A. town-
ship where I was born has (perhaps be-
cause I’ve kept away from the place for
20 years) acquired a Progress Association
equipped with all the ebullient enthusi-
asm of such parochial gasworks. One of
the P.A.’s pet projects is the planting of
trees: a laudable ambition. The rainfall’s
good, soils are rather heavy, it’s gum-
tree country—so of course they’re going
to. plant pines, masses of ’em. There are
a few Australians, and a lot of imported
assortments, who never see a gum-tree
without reaching for an axe; who are
ready to exchange the blossom and foliage
of one of the world’s grandest vegetables
for the sombre monotony of the pines—
and they are monotonous: live for a
while in a pine forest if you don’t believe
me.
* * * *
“Simon”: Geese aren’t in it with
peacocks as “watchdogs” (B. 12/2/’47).
Peacocks roost in trees where foxes can’t
get at them; moreover, their shrill cry
can be heard a mile off. At least one of
our bushrangers, Harry Power, appreci-
ated their worth ; he had three or four
installed at a shanty half a mile up the
creek from his camp. But the police
eventually woke up to the dodge and
dealt first with the gorgeous “cockatoos.”
The trouble about all feathered “watch-
dogs,” of course, is that they are apl
’to raise the alarm at the wrong time;
and the more alert they are the more
likely they are to err.
* * * *
“M.H.”: I’ll hand it to the bulbul for
novel nest-foundation. Last year they
used a milk-bill which had blown away
from the servery. This year a piece of
lace about 12in. long formed the bottom
of the first nest and in the second they
purloined a small child’s lace handker-
chief which had blown from the clothes-
line. In each case this year the cloth
was wound round the small limbs of
a plum-tree in a manner which suggested
that the birds had had lessons from a
nurse. The rim-tops of the nests were
finished off with leaf-growth which re-
sembled raffia and was always of a grey
tinge—possibly as a camouflage to match
the dull feathers of the female bird.
* * H= *
“T.C.”: Tell “Zake” (B. 1/1 /’47) that
the snake’s sunbaking sessions, early
a.m. and late afternoon, are those of all
other venomous creatures ; each distilling
his poison from the virulent brindle and
denduckety grey rays which play such
havoc with the bush-bred brand of
Homo sapiens. A more observant old
bushman than “Zake” would have noticed
the scarred faces and hands of other
bushmen compelled to be abroad early
a.m. and late afternoons. Those mad
dogs of Englishmen who go out in the
midday sun and who do their office work
during Joe Blake’s sunbaking sessions
don’t get skin cancer. Dairyfarmers
who milk also escape. Early and late
agriculturists and stockmen provide the
patients. A victim, I kept mine under
control for nearly 30 years—l did the
milking. When the war forced me out
into the paddocks, early and late up, they
flared. Cured again, I now go out only
in the midday sun.
* * * *
“West”: An electric storm in the Lake
Broadwater district (s.-e. Q.) left behind
evidence of some very unusual lightning
strikes, A big round-leaf box-tree had
most of its top scattered over a wide
area, but the trunk escaped unscathed.
Near by a cabbage-gum had a great slab
weighing several hundredweight blown
from its butt, yet the rest of the trunk
and the top showed not a mark. A huge
dead iron-bark received a direct hit and
was blasted to smithereens—there wasn’t
a piece that a man couldn’t pick up with
one hand. A few miles away lightning
struck a wild apple-tree 60ft. high, and
though it merely disturbed the outer bark
the tree died within a few days.
SONG OF SURVEY CAMPS.
I have pitched my tents by the still lagoon,
green upland, laughing stream,
When smiling memory takes my hand, it s
sometimes of these I dream; ...
And sometimes the scent of turpentine bush,
the hopbush flat aflame,
And the milk-white limbs of the mallee scrub
where I learnt the survey game.
Deep blue of pines on the distant ridge, beiar
and bulloak tall,
The malice’s green unconquered waves, and the
good sun over all.
When cookie upon the swung crowbar his
morning anthem played . ,
And we woke to vistas of frost-keen bush all
dappled with light and shade ,
And the galley’s with the bush scents merged,
as, on a frozen sack,
You stood, while your mate in chuckling glee
poured water down your back; . *
Then the cook —he would go on benders grim,
which experts count their due —
Served Rabelaisian yarns to,us, along with the
stew.
Vhen straight as any homing bird our bushmen
led the way.
Through scrub and pine to where our line had
met the closing day;
And, as the whirling axes laid the boughs in
tumbled sheaves,
The frozen dew in diamond drops came tink-
ling with the leaves;
Yet by midmorn we tingled warm, as, bathed
in sunlight bland,
We laid the line like a ruler’s edge across that
shining land.
And once we camped where heavy rain had
left a shallow pool
On a hopbush flat in a fairy ring of sighing
pine-trees, cool;
And the bronzewings dropped like feathered
bombs to crowd the water’s brink,
And the dingo and the kangaroo stole in for
the evening drink,
While thd hobbled horses plunged in fear as
the emus stalked the plain;
Till we and the wild things drank it up, and
we move k d our tents again.
W.A.
R.J.M.


“Lub”: Tiny Rawson, six feet tall and
somewhere about fifteen stone, employed
Alf on his Willeegobung farm. Alf was
a shade taller and heavier than Tiny
and took great pride in his prodigious
strength. It amused his boss to refer to
him as “the big bloke” and have him
show off his strong-man feats. When
they Were fencing it was Alf who juggled
the great strainer posts, heavy for two
ordinary men, across his knee and
dropped them in the holes. Tiny stood
by while the other’s muscles cracked
and strained. With the busy season
Rawson had to put on another man,
and by a streak of chance there turned
up a skinny midget to take the job.
From the first he was a scoffer at Alf’s
strength. “Big, y’ know, but no brains,”
Harry confided to the boss. “Now a man
like you with a head on his shoulders’d
put it over him f’r real strength.” Tiny
doubted it, though the praise stirred
him. “But you’re built f’r strength
more’n he is,” insisted Harry. “An’,
havin’ the brains, y’d know jist when t’
put in the extra ounce that makes all
the diffrence.” And so it went on daily.
A month later the new skin-buyer called
and made his way over to where the
little cove was standing off barking orders
at the big fellows while they strained
to push the revving tractor out of a bog.
“That’s a hefty pair of toilers y’ve got,”
he remarked. “Yair,” agreed Harry.
“Big, y’ know, but no brains. It’s me
thinkin’ f’r ’em that makes ’em so strong.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: “A trick I learned was dingo-
howlin’ through a beer-bottle with the
bottom knocked out,” related Dan.
“Useter be able t’ strike the right note
f git all the dingoes within earshot
interested an’ coax ’em in close f’r a
shot. It wa's a pretty good hobby when
the sportin’ mob used t’ visit, an’ many’s
the time I took a chap out f’r the day
an’ showed him some real sport. But
the young fellows these days haven’t
much sense, an’ the one I took out the
"Fertile country around here, Bert—after that rain EVERYTHING sprouts."
other day mucked things up properly,
It was his fault that I couldn’t raise a
decent tune all day. Y’ see, I told the
silly cow t’ bring a bottle f’r the job,
aa ’ have the Ijrains t’figger out
that t’ git the right note I’d need t’ make
sure the marine was freshly emptied.”
* * * *
• h Dr ° neslun ß” : “Gryllus” (B. 5/2/’47)
is hard to follow in comparing the sting-
ẅ
seen coming over the low bare hill about
10 minutes before trudged past us.
To our casual comment on the blistering
day he admitted cautiously as he kept
walking that it might be considered “a
bit hot.” Half an hour later, as we were
mending the break the lengthy one re-
turned along the red dirt road ; he was
carrying a crowbar and a long-handled
shovel. This time he paused long enough
to remark that the flies were “crook,” and
supposed that there was “somethin’
wrong with the bus.” The cobber, who
specialises in sarcasm, said no, there was
nothing wrong—we’d just parked there
while he calculated how many corruga-
tions we’d passed over since leaving Nim-
milabel. “And I suppose,” he finished
up, indicating the implements the other
was holding, “ you're going to play
cricket.” The long cove looked in wide-
eyed wonderment. “By cripes, how did y’
guess that,” he said. “It’s our big match
today. Y’ see, we only got one six-
stitcher, an’ I slogged it an’ it went
straight down a rabbit-burrer. That's
"I'll show you kids how to build sand-castles."
why I had t’ come home an’ git these t’
dig it out. Well, so long, I better git goin’
—l’ve held the game up long enough”—
and he tramped up the hill.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; I suppose change had to
come, even to a place like Eustoa (B.
19/2/’47). I don’t know what the new
owners of Medley’s pub propose to do
with.it, but since Euston is the oldest
town on the Murray Medleyfc must be
the oldest pub, and it might be worth
preserving as a historic relic. In the
days of my youth it had a wooden form
on the front verandah under which many
a historic relic sat and contemplated the
old pepperina hard by, I saw a recent
photograph of the pub, and seat and tree
are still there, the latter apparently not
having grown a foot and the former
having survived probably a century of
whittling. Medley’s was where I drank
my first beer —somewhat scared about
the effects because Harry Leslie had
gruffly told me a wild yarn about a
youngster who drank beer and chased
little yellow men all over the Prill Lake
next day. But within the month there
came the day when, having unloaded
about 50 tons of chaff from a river boat,
Harry led us into Medley’s and ordered
“Three pints each, George.” I downed
mine with ease and precision. I couldn’t
do it now. Incidentally, though my
photograph ought to have shown Shailer’s
pub down by the river, it doesn’t. Shailer’s
might have been older than Medley’s,
since it was right by the old punt.
* * ♦ i»
“Betcha”: Mike was new, but willing,
and when the boss suggested doubt as
to Mike’s ability to bring some sheep
across from the Rogers place on his own
the new hand confidently said there’d be
nothing to worry about. “There’s a big
poddy in ’em that might give trouble,”
the boss explained, “but I’ll lend y’ Shep.
He’ll shift ’em ; but be careful with him ;
that dog’s valuable.” First news of the
sheep came the following afternoon when
the mailman reported seeing them some
five miles from Rogers’s homestead, while
Mike hunted in a scrubby gully a bit
further on. Next day it was the driver
of the cream wagon who had seen the
woollies on the road outside of town.
Mike, he admitted reluctantly, was busy
admiring the distance from every rise. A
trifle uneasy over the reports, the boss
was pleased when, no more than half a
day late, the mob drifted into sight.
Jumping a nag, he rode out to help them
in. “Everything all right?” he greeted
Mike. Then, looking round, “Where’s
Shep?” “He’s there,” sighed Mike. “I
got him.” He pointed back, where, tied
fore and aft, the dog was lashed safely
to the saddle; while, bridle reins looped
round his neck, the poddy sheep fol-
lowed after the mob leading the nag.
“Gripes, don’t disturb ’em,” implored the
new drover, urgently. “It leaves me free
this way t’ drove the sheep.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: For years Seventyfiver
had promised himself a convenient,
modern hut, but, a couple of wars inter-
vening, together with a few years of
financial stress, the matter was post-
poned. Now he was round to it and at the
store. “Big order for y’, George,” he
greeted. “ ’Nough timber fr a hut from
’ere t’ the door, say, an’ ’bout t’ that case
o’ pickles. An’ good stuff, George ;
nothin’ makeshift.” The storeman did
some rapid calculations, and began to
, write. “An’ a door an’ winder, George.”
“Can’t get ’em,” came the reply. The old
bloke argued, then decided a few bags
hung over the openings would have to
do. “An’ some good iron for the roof,”
he ordered. “An’ ridgin’ an’ spoutin’.”
“Haven’t seen a sheet of iron for years,”
said George, “let alone spouting and
stuff.” “Awright, I’ll put bark on her,”
Seventyfiver decided. “But send plenty
o’ nails.” “Can’t get y’ any,” explained
the storekeeper. For 20 minutes Seventy-
fiver pointed out the difficulties of put-
ting on weatherboards without nails.
Finally he accepted the situation. “Aw-
right ; well. I’ve waited so long for me
noo up-to-date place, I ain’t gofina be
done out of he declared stub-
bornly. “I’ll use log walls, George. So
y’ better cross orf the timber, an’ we’ll
leave the list at that.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: When Sam built himself a
new house and retired to the city to live,
first thing he did after setting in a one-
fire stove was to start on the installation
off the ancient electric light plant he had
brought .with him. For seven or eight
nights he sat in darkness, then his labors
were rewarded by a faint gleam that
petered out after a couple of hours.
“Reckon it ain’t the wires this time,” he
decided. “Must be the batt’ries that’s
flat/’ Followed several more dark even-
ings while the batteries were recharged,
then half an hour’s brilliance preceded
another breakdown. More nights of
patience and strife, and Sam managed
a light that flickered off and on in a
most exasperating way. “But why not
use the city’s supply?” asked a neighbor,
wonderingly. “They’ll put it on if you
notify them, and the bit you’d use
wouldn’t cost near as much as that old
set.” “Oh, yair? An’ be at the mercy
o’ all them strikes ’n’ things,” came Sam’s
snort. “By cripes, no. A bloke wants to
be sure o’ havin’ a light.”
• * * •
“Narrin”: The old sleepy lizard —
Trachysaurus rugosus if he gets at your
strawberries and you have to call him
hard names —has a rather morose out-
look on life, induced probably by the
scores of ticks that live upon him. Pick
him up and you’ll see the blighters em-
bedded under the scales along the back,
behind the shoulder and in the ear region
—in fact, anywhere where Sleepy can’t
reach to dislodge them. The said ticks
are likely to result in the extermination
of their harmless old hosts in some settled
districts, not because of the lethal
qualities of the parasites but because man
is always ready to blame someone else for
his misfortunes. There is a rumor going
round Adelaide’s outer districts that
Sleepy carries the ticks that infest and
sometimes kill chooks. The result is
that feather-fanciers are apt to swipe on
sight an innocent old reptile which
already suffers heavily from netting
fences, cars, foxes and dogs. It is rather
interesting to note that some years back
Trachysaurus was blamed for carrying
.the tick that attacked dogs. Scientists
pointed out that the dog-tick and Sleepy’s
parasite were entirely different species,
and the furphy gradually died. The
moral is: if you’re a rooster-rancher
don’t kill off the harmless curiosities until
an expert (not of the bar-room brand)
tells you that his itch-producers and
those on your pullets are identical.
SWAMP GUM, MADDINGLEY.
Gnarled, watchful arms snatch at the wind,
. Snatch and release,
Release and trap again
The airs that wander lawless from the hills,
Rangers from Lairederk and far Ballan,
Barbed gales from the Gorge.
Lost even to recollection now,
Troopers and trackers,
Servants of a Queen
Who died crumpled and old —
Not having seen
How well or indifferent they kept her peace,
Held the road free for Ballarat and gold.
Gold-
Gold washing earth now in season’s tidal flow —
Barley, pale-eared and softly singing
When wind is freed
(Wind of the spirit
Held in the shuddering of the whitening grass),
Or higher where the sad-voiced sheoak stirs;
And oats by Anthony’s Cutting deepening gold
Where the forgotten coach-track wound,
Girdling Old Stumpy Hill with shouts of men
Hell-bent for the diggings;
The escort brave with carbine,
Baton and rattle, reeking lamp-hung belt;
And the lost kings of the land,
Tracking on black, narrow feet
The white gold-thieves,
To have them chained at last to this lone gum,
Which, head in air.
Looked ever to the east —and found it fair.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Safe in his hands...
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique of the A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged. that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently at A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
ustralian. Mercantile, Land & Finance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree. Henty and Hay.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
r 7u
Sterilised
To Remedy BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is'purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
A ll particulars from :—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
Va
V"V-?
DESTROY THESE PESTS
CVanogaS
with
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
/
SB
NOW “Portable” Rain
With These Flexible, Jointed
Spray Pipes
Your parched land can now have all the benefits of an extremely'
modern and adaptable irrigation system—the “MAXIMUM
SPRAY. Each installation is individually designed and built to
fit your particular needs.
The “Maximum” Coupling allows continuous spraying and changing
of pipe positions without stopping pump or motor. It is the only
coupling on the market with such flexibility and ease of connection
can be coupled by a simple movement to any inclination up to
1 5 degrees, in any direction, and remain watertight.
“Maximum” connecting pipes with the
famous Flexible Coupling will solve all water-
conveying problems. 1. They are portable.
2. Can be laid by anyone. 3. Available in
standard lengths and bores. Write or enquire
now!
Agents; Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156
Clarence St., Sydney; M 2977. Waugh &
Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St-
South Brisbane; J 1456. Pascoe & Co., Ltd-
-282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia;
M 7127. Welling & Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149
Clarendon St., South Melbourne; MX4BB"-
MANUFAC-
TURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7858.
(M 2)
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Prices.
“Bungaree”: In spite of the publicity
about high prices for wools, some types,
of which Australia produces large quan-
tities, are meeting a very poor market.
Indeed, bids for them are lower than the
floor price set by J.O. Coarse cross-
breds, 50’s and lower, particularly those
carrying, burr, crutchings carrying vege-
table fault, etc., cannot ‘find buyers.
Growers of these wools, which until re-
cently were in strong demand, have to
thank J.O. for coming to their rescue.
While good top-making sorts are
bringing excellent prices, it is the specialty
wools that are breaking records. Un-
fortunately the publicity they are getting
will have repercussions, since the high
prices are purely artificial and cannot
last. They are used by the unions to
demand higher Wages and better con-
ditions on the ground that the industry
can afford to pay. Actually the real bene-
ficiary is the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, through taxation, and if award
rates are increased now, it is most un-
likely that they will be reduced if a
slump in wool prices sets in.
Value of Sub. Clover.
“Curlew”; I’ve been using super, and
sub.-clover —mostly broadcast on un-
ploughed grass land —for a number of
years now. Land up to a sheep to the"
acre has been, improved to about three
sheep to the acre and I have had im-
material stock losses. In the last drought
in the Seymour district of Victoria, aver-
age rainfall 25-30 inches, I lost only three
sheep. A neighbor lost 800 —about one
in four. He fed a large quantity of
wheat, chaff and potatoes —the last,
like pumpkins, onions and pie-melons,
abominably deaf feeding, as they are
about 80 p.c. water.
Quite a quantity of our clover is now
made into hay. Normally a paddock is
shut up for eight to 12 weeks, then mown,
raked into windrows and (not leaving it
too long) made into cocks. As soon as
most of the moisture is dried out it is
stacked or pressed. This latter, while
making easier carting and stacking, pro-
tecting against rain, and feeding out wherf
wanted, is a rather expensive item, run-
ning into anything from 225. 6d. to 30s.
per ton. The cutting and previous hand-
ling bring the cost to nearly £2 per fbn.
Under normal conditions I value good
clover hay at £4 per ton —not more.
Costing £2 for labor leaves £2 nominal
value of the hay—or about £2 per acre.
Closed up and made into hay probably
means that about half the annual growth
of a paddock has been used by stock ;
the other half going off the paddock as
hay. On the basis of the hay value the
paddock thus returns £4 an acre. But
the grazing has cost nothing, so that
means £2 an acre extra. Besides, some
of the fodder consumed has been returned
to the land in manure. A, neighbor this
season sold a large quantity of. his clover
hay at £4 per ton —I think he sold part
of his farm with it. Growing oaten hay
for sale is an unprofitable business and
mostly means a rundown farm. After
a few years the humus is used up, the
soil compacted, and unless steps are taken
to increase the humus it takes years of
weathering to make available crude plant
foods.
Cultivating womout land, manuring,
sowing a crop suitable for such condi-
tions and feeding it off by grazing so that
the material is almost wholly returned to
the land is the speediest and most profit-
able way of bringing such land into pro-
duction again. A stand of sub.-clover
will hasten the process. A surplus of
clover hay on the farm is just the thing
in times of shortage and if the quality is
right there is no finer fodder. It has
"Cripes , I wish Mum hadn't gone all social!"
an added advantage over some fodders
that mice and rats do not damage it.
But whether the making of hay regularly
year after year is the most profitable
way to utilise a stand is another matter
—particularly at £2 a ton for processing.
I don’t believe it is profitable.
Overhauling Machinery.
“Atlanta”; Machinery should receive
regular and systematic attention to mini-
mise operating costs, ensure smooth
running and avoid unnecessary hold-ups.
With all machinery, lubrication and speed
of operation require special attention.
Lubrication is not merely a matter of
using any type of oil on a particular
moving part, but is a highly-specialised
job demanding detailed knowledge of the
character of various lubricants and the
mechanism of parts.
Machines are generally designed to do
a certain job with maximum efficiency at
a specified speed, and though speeding up
the machine may reduce time taken to
complete a job, the delays for adjust-
ments and breakages will frequently off-
set any gain in time or money. Excessive
speed means excessive wear and reduces
the effective life of the machine.
Maintenance and repair work includes
replacement of worn and broken parts
and minor adjustments while the
machine is in operation. Major over-
hauls should be arranged for a time when
other work is at a minimum. In most
farming districts June and July is the most
suitable period for overhauls.
The casual procedure of delaying over-
hauls and repair work until just before the
machine is required may cause costly
delays. This is particularly so with har-
vesting and shearing machinery, both of
which should be thoroughly overhauled
before the time comes for their use. Spare
parts should be always on hand, and tem-
porary repairs should receive proper at-
tention at once or at least before the next
working season arrives.
A record of replacements and adjust-
ments necessary for various machines
during successive seasons will to a great
extent enable the owner to take pre-
liminary measures towards counteracting
the most common delays and faults.
Machinery at all times should be pro-
tected from weather. Engines used semi-
permanently—pumping water, sawing
wood, etc. —require some form of hous-
ing and measures should be taken to
facilitate their speedy removal in the
event of flood or other emergency,
Victorian Wheats.
“Mr.”: W. B. Miller in Victorian
“Journal of Agriculture” discusses
changes during the past few years in
acreages sown to the main types of wheat
in Victorian areas. Ghurka occupied 63
p.c. of the Wimmera in 1941, but only
21 p.c. last year, having been replaced
largely by Quadrat (48 p.c:) and Mag-
net (14 p.c.). In the Mallee Pindar, Ben-
cubbin, Regalia and Quadrat grow on
much of the area formerly sown to
Ghurka.
Further changes are forecast following
the Victorian Department’s release last
year of Pinnacle (Wimmera) and Insignia
(Mallee). Miller regards each of them as
a distinct improvement in both yield and
flour quality. For this year the Depart-
ment recommends: Wimmera (black
soil): Pinnacle, Quadrat, Magnet and
Ghurka ; (red soils): Quadrat, Magnet,
Ghurka, Ranee 4H, Bencubbin, Insignia
and Pinnacle (for trial only). Northern
Mallee: Insignia, Regalia, Ranee 4H,
Bencubbin and Pindar. Central and
Southern Mallee: Insignia, Pindar,
Regalia, Ranee 4H, Bencubbin, Quadrat
and Ghurka. Mid-north (west of Shep-
parton raihyay): Quadrat, Pindar,
Ghurka, Ranee 4H, and In-
signia. East-Northern (east of the rail-
way): Quadrat, Magnet, Pindar, Pin-
nacle, Ghurka, Baldmin, Bencubbin,
Ranee 4H ancf Insignia. Other districts:
Pindar, Quadrat, Ghurka and Magnet.
Harvesting Lucerne.
“E.H.S.’*; When harvesting lucerne
guard against weather damage, which
causes loss of green color ; leaf shedding
from rough handling; mustiness or
mouldiness; over-ripeness at time of
cutting, which causes relatively low de-
gree of leafiness, hard and fibrous stems
and a weak and faded color.
Overdrying in swathe, windrow or
cock causes severe shedding of leaves,
brittle stems and loss of green color
from sun bleaching. Baling under-cured
hay by immediate loading on waggons
causes heating, mustiness and mouldiness.
Baling during hot, dry weather shatters
the leaves and causes stemmy bales, or
bales with an undue percentage of
broken leaves. A good stand is essential,
otherwise the lucerne will be spindly and
thinly leaved. After each cutting the
paddock should be carefully raked so
that no deleterious substance remains.
St. John’s Wort.
“K.Mc.”: Twelve years ago the
C.S.I.R. released a root borer, Agrillus
hyperici, and two leaf-eating beetles,
Chrysolina hyperici and Chrysolim
gemellata, among St. John’s wort in the
Ovens and Kiewa valley districts (Vic.).
The leaf-eating beetles in particular have
done good work, and Victorian weeds
expert A. Pearson thinks there is little
doubt they will destroy the wort in that
State.
Beetles released at Tumbarumba
(N.S.W.) in 1944 are making good pro-
gress, but those liberated at Mudgee
(N.S.W.) have evidently found the
climate too hot and dry. The root-boring
insect released at Mudgee in 1942 is still
on the job, and has killed some of the
wort, but its progress is too slow. More
favorable seasons might enable the leaf-
eating beetles to get the upper hand of
the pest as they are doing in Victoria,
That Tennis Court.
“Jackdaw”: The layout (B. 12/2/’47)
leaves something to be desired. Even if
the slope makes it a bit more difficult and


Notice.
TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b .; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED' 00., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
for Inf I bmedEye* and Eyelid*... Sbld Everywhere
EYE LOTI OKI
r
D M ,.ooia cverywnere
— R ° se& Co..Pty,Ud.. King Street. Sydney.
11 your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if be is list-
lees, •won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
w
of BARKO Condition Powder*. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powder* and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
DADFA CONDITION POWDERS l/«
oAKRU SKIN MOTION 2/»
uiuuav lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup.
Winners of First and Second Prizes on two occasions, also winners of
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe. SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE*
Orders are now being booked for Rams dropped October, 1945,
which will be classed before the end of February.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
H. E. KATER and SON, Egelabra, WARREN. N.S.W.
Telephone; Warren 10.
Popular Motoring Leaps Ahead
The Chrysler-Dodge-De Soto line . • •
great pioneers of worth-while motoring
features , • , bring a new thrill in
Fluid Drive.
This perfected Fluid Drive practically
eliminates gear changes. Your tip-toe
on the accelerator takes you from stop
to cruising speed—gives* you all the
range of speeds needed in city traffic.
From a mile an hour to full speed
ahead, the motion is smooth and
effortless.
If you want the acme of motoring ease
and comfort, choose your new car
from the Chrysler-Dodge-De Soto line.
muk
DODGE
TRUCKS
DODGE
M DeSoto
FAR SO TRUCKS
Dodge
(AUSTRALIA) PTT.LTD.
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. Ltd., Harden and Johnston Ltd., York Motors Pty. Ltd.
• MELBOURNE: Automobiles Pty. Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Lane's Motors Pty.' Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
• ADELAIDE: Waymouth Motor Company Limited. Flinders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: W interbottom Motor Company Limited, Wentworth Motors Limited.
• HOBART: H. C. Heathorn S’ Co. Ltd., Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Co-Operative Motors Limited.
t*krusler
CDB7
expensive the court should run north-
soujth. Nine feet from back lines to en-
closure is too short for anybody over the
age of five, and too short a court is worse
than no court at all. Where space and
materials permit, the enclosure should be
110 ft. by 50ft. Championship enclosures
are 120 ft. by 60ft. for a doubles court,
but for good club play this is more than
necessary and tiresome for players who
are their own ball boys. Height of the
enclosure is standard at 10ft. You can
get away with Bft., and if you have a
short court you need 12ft. at the back.
Cotton Production.
“Outback”: With irrigation it is esti-
mated that the whole of Australia’s re-
quirements of 100,000 bales of raw
cotton annually could be grown in
Queensland, but last year production
was only 2300 bales. This year plantings
have been increased to 18,000 acres (8000
last year) but this will produce only a
fraction of the requirements. The record
pre-war yield was 17,500 bales in 1934.
Report of the Co-ordinator-General of
Public Works (J. R. Kemp):
Cotton is perhaps the most important
crop with potentialities waiting to be de-
veloped to meet the Australian market.
The present demand for raw cotton is some
100,000 bales per annum, in addition to
which the equivalent of at least 200,000
bales is imported as manufactured goods.
The growing of cotton in place, of other
crops at present more profitable would
permit of the placement of more settlers
who could engage in cotton production with
other crops, without oversaturation of the
market. ,
In America cotton has been produced
successfully on a completely mechanised
basis —the soil was prepared and planted
mechanically, insecticides and chemicals
for defoliation were applied from aero-
planes, while flame-throwers were used
to kill grass and weeds. Mass production
of a successful type of mechanical har-
vester — equal to from 30 to 40 hand
pickers—is to begin there as soon as
materials are available.
Such machines, it seems, could do for
local (cotton growing what the header
has done for cereals. Australia is badly
in need of new crops for which there
is a strong and lasting local demand and,
given irrigation, cotton holds as much
promise as any.
Hints for the Farm.
“Cuira”: Where you have ample water
supply at your milking bails run a length
of inch water-pipe along the floor at the
head of the bails, with holes every foot
or so. It will save a lot of time and
trouble with broom and bucket, as the
water will flush all the floor simultane-
ously and a light brooming will do the
rest.
“Sundowner”: Small numbers of poul-
try infested with lice can be cured by
dusting with a powder formed of three
parts of flour and one of sodium fluoride,
ruffling the feathers to allow the prepara-
tion to reach the skin.
“Jumbuck”: It should be apparent to
all small wool growers that dealers buy
to sell again at a profit and that even
a few bales will realise higher prices
when competed for by the world’s
buyers. If a grower is unable to class
his clip it can be forwarded to any broker
with a request that reclassing be carried
out. The charge is small and the ex-
penses incurred will be returned by pence
per lb. Shortage of ready cash is often
the cause of many small growers selling
locally, yet an advance can always be
obtained from any wool broker. Any
grower in doubt as to where he will get
the higher return should halve his clip
and sell one half locally and send the
other half to a broker. Country
dealers might serve a useful purpose by
buying fadges, bags and small lots, but
if a grower has anything more than six
bales the central market is the place to
sell it.
“Prof”: A problem often confronted
when handling belt-driven machinery is
to find the size of pulley required to drive
a certain machine at a certain speed
when the diameter of the pulley on the
machine and the speed of the driving
engine are known. Multiply the diameter
in inches of the driven pulley by the
number of revolutions it is required to
make in one minute and divide by the
speed in revs, per min. of the driving
pulley or engine. The result will be the
required diameter in inches,
“Bai”: Over-inflation causes the centre
0 f a £y re more than its proper
s £, are D f strain, whilst under-iMation
wears it at the sides. For uniform
wear the happy medium must be struck
according to the weight imposed. On
rough roa( js, stones and roots are likely
to cause bruises to tubes, which should
he reinforced as soon as they are noticed.
Rim dents and worn fabric should receive
attention when punctures are being
me nded. Ihe man whose tyres show
uni f° rm wear when being discarded is
‘ he man who understands the relation
between.loading, inflation and size of
Motor vehicles and s P are
should always be protected from sun
and weather by careful housing.
‘“Calos”: After peas have been picked
stock should be turned into the paddock
and allowed to camp there so that the
nitrogen will be returned to the soil. If
vines are large they may be collected
with a hay-rake and stacked for fodder,
or made into silage. Where a shelling
machine has been installed the vines will
have to be carted away when threshed
in any case, so it is not much trouble
to put them into a pit and store them
for a non-rainy day Peas and beans
may be followed by root crops with
good results. Where no stock are kept
the vines should be ploughed into the
ground and allowed to rol there to en-
th* cr.il
“Johnny”: lo burn out a stump, rest
the end of a small log on top of it and
kindle a fire where the log touches the
stump—no other fuel is required. Simil-
ar*Y a I P a Y 'be burned down if a
s “ al£ " lche ‘s chopped ajttnp high in
whlch ,0 rest ,he end o£ the lo S-
J-B. ■ That lucerne paddock reserved
£or B r azing will give better results if a
supplementary grass is planted it pro-
vldes a more balanced diet. - Two proven
B rasse . s £or th,s P ur P ose are Rhodes and
P aa P. . , ,
J lB Bl “ y : °" ly u way *° dea ' “'i 1 a
f addock kn °™ tO , be worm-infested is
t 0 b “™ <? ff 'J 6 P a! ?“ re ; Worms do ? ot
multiply in sheep, but larva remain fer-
J dc mt le P astL * te £au about 15 months,
Worms £aed the d, B est,ve canal of the
s *>fP> where they can remain a month
before they die. Sheep should be kept
off infested pasture for a month. After
the autumn rains is the best time to rotate
pastures.


New
Cream Deodorant
safely
Slops Perspiration
ARRH)
I Does not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
C Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
8 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can be
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Arrid if the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-dayl
ARRID
l/- a jar
AlsoinOid* jars
Distributors: Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
At all chemists & stores
selling toilet goods
your menfolk are
hot and tired.
FRESHEN THEM
WITH ICE-COLD
ICKERS
• y g 11|
a
%
/
m
Here's how . . •
The Recipe is so simple. Bruise
well the peel of a lemon, and
slice the whole lemon into a jug.
Add 2 dessertspoons of sugar
and crush into the lemon.
Add pinch of cinnamon, nut-
meg and 6 cloves. 4 good
nobblers of Vickers Gin go
m next, followed by a few mint
sprigs. Mix lightly and strain
into 4 tumblers. Add ice and
fill with water or soda water.
FREE RECIPE BOOK
Recipes for 50 practical long drinks and cocktails.
Get your free copy. Write to: The United Distillers
,Pty. Ltd,, P.O. Box 759 G. Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
VG 9/33
G
S
E
0
c
A
O
showing four o’clock about and not twelve
o’clock as proclaimed publicly by the
broken hand on the fire-brigade clock.
“Nothing like a shadow for telling the
right time; and a wet finger for the
wind.”
THEY’D be off then, and call in at the
Kulps’ on the way home, jogging
along without talking; the talk now
taken over by the stick (the whip) and
the old black straw hat with the little
white daisies round the crown. The stick
would point to the culvert —it always
pointed to the culvert —and the hat would
nod to the stick. That was where the
coach once went over. Then to the east,
pointing right bang through the gap in
the hills as if it were going there, and
the black hat would nod again. That was
where Em lived. Further.on it would re-
mind the hat of where Tim- lived, and
after that show it a rabbit by the road, a
hawk in the sky and, in between times,
wave to other fellow sticks that were
passing along the road,
Kulp’s place! If it be true that you
can tell what sort a man is by the way
his land treats him then that should ex-
plain Kulp. His currants and raspberries
hung full-blooded ; his cherries were like
plums and bled with the bite ; pears,
apples, peaches, tomatoes. The house
stood by the large dam ; the dam shaded
by bamboo where his fat ducks waddled ;
brown ducks and white ducks; ducks
with jewelled necks and ducks with
crimson bills and scarlet eyes. They’d
a path up from the dam to the
big barn-like kitchen; and, as with the
fowls, sometimes waddled through the
kitchen.
It was a communal house with
a background of grunting sow and bel-
lowing calf. From the big stove in the
kitchen Mrs. Kulp brought forth bat-
talions of scones, marching them out on
trays with their lines of brown baked
caps. From the rafters hung sides of
bacon, hams, smoked mutton, red sausage
and black sausage. Bags of herbs hung,
smelling of the garden; satin-coated
garlic and onions poking thfir green toes
from out their brown dresses of silk and
satin.
In the summer, from the cellar under
the house, there’d be a glass of red or
black currant wine, heavy with sleep, or
large cups of tea with hot scones oozing
white creamy butter. In the winter a
bowl of steaming pea-soup from the big
black pot on the hob that merged its
steam with the steam from the clothes
that hung over chairs to dry and the wet
muddy boots and leggings that lay dry-
ing on the stone floor ; and with it all
the warm steamy smell of leather, clothes.
garlic, onions, herbs, ducks, fowls, man
and earth.
Sometimes they’d have a meal with* the
Kulps and sit down at the long heavy
kitchen table ; Kulp at the top end, big
and heavy and strong ; Mrs. Kulp at the
bottom end, big, strong and heavy, and
the young Kulps eating on the wing:
five on one side and four on the other
and, maybe, the equalising number on
the way. 7
They’d watch Kulp shooting new
white - skinned potatoes down his
throat like a Falstaff and fancy they
could hear them dropping with a thud
into his inner regions. Kulp would talk
trees, pruning, bees, honey, currants, pigs,
litters, soil, rain, sun and sky. He’d
show them how much water be had in
his big underground tank. “Yes, Kulp;
better’n praying for rain. Must have an
underground tank myself one of these
days. Nice to be able to pump up a
bucket of cool clear water in the sum-
mer time.” Mrs. Kulp would hand them
duck eggs, “Thanks, Amelia! If they
don’t eat them all on me and I bring
them all out all right he’ll have to dig me
a proper dam for my ducks, won’t he?”
REFRESHED, they’d set off straight
for home now, and if they’d had
tea he’d only plant the corn next season
on the way home. If it was the spirit
of the currant they’d had then he’d plant
corn and wheat and complete the fine
underground tank as well as they trotted
along, with Floss the old male or Duke
the old horse emitting a series o.
machinegun-like abdominal
every now and then with the strain oi
getting home quickly. “Can’t sell our
nag to the parson’s wife, Mother!” ! 0
this she’d say, as she always said, Oft.
you do say such terrible things, Jules
and both sitting back contentedly n°w-
they’d look as if they’d just come from
the big stock and station agents and had
bought Uraquillarilla and Bungowan-
nawinnie stations.
Now fancy their forgetting the axe
handle! Or was it the tomahawk? o°.
well, never mind; they’d have to in
going into the town again soon to see
about things.
Conroy's Cap.
The lorry climbs towards Conroy’s Gap;
The driver and the moon are full
For while he drank at The Shadow of
Death
The moon lay down on his load of wool,
And with a bale-hook in her hair
Like a willing girl she is sleeping there.
(He heard the trooper at the door,
He heard the barmaid catch her breath,
And when The Swagman leapt the rails
He heard the rider laugh at death
Who rode as mountain horsemen ride
With Darby Munro at his side.)
The lorry moves past walls of stone;
The driver yawns and rubs his eyes:
A convict in a tailored suit
Is picking shale on the iron rise
And singing in the bitter cold
‘‘l dig for truth in chains of gold.”
The possums’ eyes return the glare
Of headlights: dingoes hunt the hills
And pick the moonlight from dry bones
That once stood up in Burke and Wills.
As bristles stand on the dingo’s hide—
The bones knit up; Burke thumbs a ride.
“Both beer and girls I loved,” he said,
‘‘And yet my mind would not be still
Despite the inadequacy of flesh
To execute the spirit’s will
In city or on desolate plain.
Wills, up man I Time to strive again.”
The lightning strides across the ridge;
Wills strides between the falling steel;
A tommy-gun is in his hand
And men in green are at his heel
While those beneath the Flemish grass
Cry “You’ll be sorry,” as they pass.
And bullock-drivers shout to see
The wool go by as yesterday
—A bronze dog’s on the tucker-box—
They cracked their tongues at the
bullock-dray.
Says Harry by his resting team
“I travelled the same route as him.”
The lorry tops the gap. The hills
Welt up, says Turner, break like waxes;
And motor-horns and cattle-bells
Re-echo in the sandstone caves
With the knock of spear and the light
footfall
Of blackmen carving the sandstone wal
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


The Yalet razor
strops itself...
and every
%
morning
gives an
edge like new!
kJ . vi7i 27
OF ALL DEALERS 9 BRITISH MADE
A Pledge to the
Rimary Producers
of Australia.
THE pent-up needs of primary producers,
restrained through years of war, have, by their
immensity, brought a tremendous problem to manu-
facturers of equipment in every part of the country.
Sources of supply In both raw materials and labour
do not nearly respond in a manner adequate to meet
the enormous demand.
Give us the raw materials and we shall fashion
the tools of primary production. That is a promise
for the future which explains tha delays of the past.
As conditions improve so will the output of our
assembly lines.
We are firmly resolved to give our best brains
and energy to the vital job of contributing to a
prosperous post-war period for the primary producer
whom It has been our privilege to serve for nearly
SO years.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms; 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
QTand Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE,
ROMDSON-TIPPETT
SMOKE-OH!
To The Best!
With The Best!
IT'S REMY MARIIN BRANDY
“Cinemactress Linda Darnell is throwing out
her chest against Hollywood censorship.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
And sooner or later there’s bound to
be a bust-up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Two boys aged 10 and 12 admitted placing
a 1751 b. bale of wire on the tracks of a Pennsyl-
vania railroad ‘to see what would happen.’ ”
—-“Sunday Telegraph.”
They might have known that the
passengers would be stranded.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When Jung Chau, a poor fisherman of
Canton, hauled in a 3001 b. fish, he became a
millionaire —in Chinese dollars.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Apparently he consigned his fish to
Sydney.
“Compensation granted for ‘ringing’ in ears.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Finally got the right number.
•J*
“Narrow escape from shark bite.”—' “Sun.”
At the eleventh hour friends persuaded
the ex-serviceman not to put his deferred
pay into the business offered.
“Timber belts ‘practical.’ ”
—Newcastle “Morning Herald.”
It’s the easiest thing in the world to
take them in a notch or two.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Police asked to stop nude surfing, sun-
baking.”—'"D.T.”
They weren’t doing it whilst on duty,
surely.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women never really cease to think in terms
of new hats.”— Woman’s paper.
Nor to talk through the same channels.
t4* 4* 4*
uy pearls, loose, or about sixty
roofing tiles.”— “Advocate” {Hornsby, N.S.W.).
At ceiling price, of course.
4* 4* 4*
“Ever since her marriage Belle’s life had
been a veritable Garden of Eden.” —Short story.
Never taken out and practically noth-
ing to wear.
4* *l* 4* 4*
“Obstetric case for sale, good condition.”
—Weekly paper.
Delivery assured at any hour.
4* 4*
“Serious fire at abattoirs.”
—Melbourne “Sun.”
The place was completely gutted.
Counting the Cost.
“A ceiling price on brides is sought by
tribal chiefs of Mongola, near Uganda Pro-
tectorate.” — “Time.”
Among the unenlightened sects
Of Africa a girl expects
To find that Father’s herd collects
A tidy quota from her hero.
Under more civilised regimes
That frown upon such sordid schemes
The ceiling price of brides, it seems,
Would be approximately zero.
But reckoning the price you’ve paid
You will recall the promise made
{Though years of matrimony dim it)
When all your worldly goods you laid
At her command, and I’m afraid
You’ll realise the sky’s the limit.
P.M.LUSK,
Not Fare!
“In Uniontown, Pennsylvania, U.S., a Para-
dise Restaurant customer looked waitress
Katherine Gaydo up and down, exclaimed,
‘Gee, you’re pretty good enough to eat! ’
grabbed her hand, bit it.” —“Sunday Telegraph.’''
From moralists and poets you will hear
That life holds no catastrophe as sad
As Goneril and Regan made for Lear.
And yet I doubt if any callous lad
Who spurns the aged and ailing sire
who needs him
Could equal in ingratitude the cad
So thankless as to bite the hand that
feeds him.
D.H.E.
Prisoner’s Song.
“Prisoners in Sangamon County Jail, Illinois,
sang to xlro.wn the noise while others filed
window bars.” —“Sunday Telegraph”
It was while snooping round Europe
as Our Special Correspondent that I was
detained by the Gestapo. Since they
fettered me in a rather medieval type of
dungeon, I became literally a member of
the underground.
One of my fellow-prisoners had a file
and a sledge-hammer donated to him,
smuggled in in a loaf of unleavened
bread. Distinguishing these from the
bread cost us most of our teeth before
the truth dawned, but we immediately set
about singing practice to camouflage the
expected filing and hammering.
An elderly Gascon peasant turned out
to have a crooning tenor with exactly the
pitch of a file biting into old iron, so we
gave him the leading parts. When his
voice cracked under the strain we were
regretfully compelled to fasten a boot-
lace round his throat and tighten it until
we got the right note again.
The Gestapo spent several days hold-
ing interviews with us to discover what
was making us so cheerful all of a sud-
den. We persuaded them that the news
of Hitler’s third successful invasion of
England had convinced us that the war
would soon be over, and after
that they left us to it. We noticed
with joy, not unmixed with a
sense of injury, that earplugs
became a standard issue for the
guards.
The escape went well, with
only one minor hitch. We had
a bad moment when one of the
guards removed his earplugs to
ask suspiciously what the noise
of hammering was, *
He replaced them with a
somewhat shamefaced look
when we told him we were sing-
ing the “Anvil Chorus.”
PLUM.
Day in, the Life of a G.-G.
It had been a busy day at Yarralujnla.
As Commander-in-Chief of all land,
sea and air forces of the Commonwealth,
hi.s Magnificence Vice-King Billy had
been exercising that military genius which
must have burgeoned early in his career
had not his attendance at World War I
been unfortunately precluded by import-
ant appointments to speak at anti-con-
scription meetings 8000 miles from the
nearest fighting—Booo miles being con-
sidered in “Labor” anti-conscription
circles to be a safe enough distance so
long as the A.I.F. was between them and
the enemy.
His chief military adviser, who un-
fortunately had to be a military man— 1 -
an unemployed ex-organiser of a militant
union would have been a monte for the
job if he’d have known anything at all
about military matters, but helping to
defend his country is never numbered
among the activities of a militant union
organiser—had that morning mentioned
"Got a licence for this wireless?"
to the V.-K. the advisability of using an
improved breech-block. His Magnificence
said he hadn’t heard any complaints
about hand grenades and unless the new
gadget made It safer to handle he couldn’t
see the necessity for it. After it had been
tactfully pointed out to him that a breech-
block was part of the mechanism of a
field gun, the C.-in-C. of all land, etc.,
retired to the library to look up the
meaning of “form threes,” “slope arms”
and “about turn.”
Later his Magnificence had to seek
aspirins when the tidings were brought
to him that the Sydney Turf Club, which
he had brought into being as his chief
contribution to the war effort, proposed
to resume, under the arbitrary powers he
had given it, a large area to make a
new racecourse. It already had 2,000,000
bricks for stands and stables from the
State Brickworks. With a pang the V.-K.
was made aware that the land included
some reserved for defence purposes, and
that his pets must be frustrated.
The garden party in the afternoon was
a spectacular affair, and the gay um-
brellas on the lawn, brought nostalgic
thoughts to many who crowded it.
Jockeys who, by some strange dis-
pensation, had been able to fight the Japs
for two years from the weighing-in rooms
of Randwick and Canterbury; bookies
who took a keen interest in the welfare
of workers through Labor Leagues;
hefty League footballers who had
sportingly sacrificed opportunities to win
decorations and instead had taken part
in club matches throughout the war;)
professional pugs who had been so in-
valuable as morale-builders that the army,
purely on its own initiative, of course,
had sternly ordered them not to travel on
passes further than the capital cities of
other States when accepting engagements;
Bungs who, though disappointed at the
crashing of hopes the Squire had built
up for them, came up smiling at the
thought that six-o’clock closing still had
one very special compensation for them
f —these, with, of course, herds of union
officials and their wives in furs made up
the bulk of those who gravitated around,
smacked the Squire on the back and ex-
pressed hopes that night trotting would
soon enliven the hitherto sacred pre-
cincts of the Mugga Way.
There had been one awkward perio,d.
An hour before the party was timed to
commence the entire new domestic staff
had threatened to go on strike
unless they got double time and
free beer and the guests were
made to wash up their own
crockery afterwards. His Mag-
nificence, displaying great firm-
ness, granted all the demands,
thus refuting any suggestions
that his technique .had slipped
since he was Premier. Never-
theless, it was acknowledged
that the worth of the Breweries’
Liaison Officer, one of the per-
manent staff, had been extremely
valuable during the afternoon.
It was towards eight o’clock
that the doorbell of Yarralumla
rang. It was an official messenger
to see the G.-G. on urgent . busi-
ness.
’Arry, the ex-MX.A. who, having lost
his seat at the general election, had
generously consented to fill the newly-
created post of Diplomatic Secretary,
before retiring on a life pension, received
the visitor. “Y’ can’t see Billy tonight,”
he said, “he’s nicked orf,”
“But I must see him —the business is
most important,” replied the visitor.
“SoV Billy’s,” retorted the D.S.
“Well, can you tell me where he is so
I can contact him?” persisted the official.
The D.S. grinned. “Y’ got no hope of
seein’ him, mister,” he said. “Y’ see,
tonight’s the annual election of officers
o’ the local Labor League, an’ Billy’s
backin’ the retirin’ president. They
reckon there’ll be a hell of a yike on, an’,
’struth, you wouldn’t expect the Squire
to dingo a fight there, would y’? He’ll
be right in it when the skin an’ hair’s
flyin’ just like he was in Caucus' before
they dumped his pal Heffron.”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Singapore Remembered
In September, 1945, with other
liberated p.-0.-w., I clambered down the
gangway of an American destroyer into
a motor-boat manned by men in jungle-
greens and slouch hats. The boat drew
away from the destroyer and headed to-
wards the shore, pulling into a wharf
where women in slacks and gaiters gave
us drinks of cordials. So we found the
A.I.F. in green and saw that Australia
had women serving with the forces.
With a load of astonished men the boat
pulled out from the wharf and ran
parallel with the shore for some distance
and then swung inshore, I braced myself
for the shock of grounding, but there
was no shock. The beach appeared be-
neath us in place of water, and in a
matter of seconds the boat had crossed
the beach and was-travelling along a dirt
road. The amazement on our faces must
have been comical. We were told we
were travelling in a “duck.” We passed
rows of guns, tanks, planes and work-
shops and were incredulous when told
that all this equipment belonged to our
own forces..
That night in the hospital we heard
of flame-throwers, walkie-talkies, Owen-
guns, etc., from Ninth Divvy blokes.
As I listened I thought of the gear,
or, rather, the lack of it, we had
at Singapore three and a half years
before, and I felt as though I were a relic
of the bow-and-arrow days. I thought,
too, of the bitter fact that thousands of
fine young Australians had died because
our country was unprepared for war. No
doubt there were those complacent souls
back home who said “Well, England
always wins the last battle.” This doesn’t
help our cobbers who fell in the battles
we lost. Those cannot be blamed on the
A.1.F., R.A.A.F. or R.A.N., who in those
battles fought against greatly superior
odds with inferior equipment. The blame
lies with our rulers for their failure
to provide the necessary equipment and
trained men to meet the enemy on an
equal footing,
A couple of months after the fall of
Singapore I was present at a lecture given
by General Percival to a number of
A.I.F. officers. He gave us an insight into
the state of the British Army at the time
of Munich. The thought that we had
been so near war with Germany then
made me sweat with horror and made
me realise again how grateful every
Britisher should feel to Neville Chamber-
lain for the year’s breathing space that he
gained for us. Britain, however, is taking
steps to see that tlie state of unprepared-
ness then shall not exist again.
The Australian Government, busy in
its efforts to place defeated “Labor” poli-
ticians ip good steady jobs, has been con-
spicuously silent in regard to the question
of the future of our armed forces. With
memories of militia service and of make-
shift equipment we had to use, I am
wondering what has happened to all the
equipment I was so astonished to see at
Labuan and Morotai after liberation.
When I joined the militia in 1938 there
were not enough rifles to go round, and
the Lewis-guns we trained with had
barrels similar to shot-guns. When,
thanks chiefly to Billy Hughes, that old
recruiting sergeant, the militia was in-
creased from 35,000 to 70,000 the equip-
ment position whs acute, and there was a
shortage of horse transport. The fact
that Gentian conscript armies were
mechanised to the hilt and had large
numbers of airborne troops did not pre-
vent “Labor,” then in opposition, from
bitterly contesting any suggestion that
defence expenditure should approach
what the situation required.
Two days after Singapore fell I saw
135 Japanese tanks rumble through the
city. We didn’t have any. The greatest
number of tanks I had ever seen before
at the one time was three, at a tattoo in
Sydney Showground in 1936 when I was
still a school cadet. Another fact that im-
pressed me rather deeply at Singapore
was that many A.I.F. men were killed or
taken prisoner there within six weeks
of enlisting in Australia—a stark ex-
ample of the legacy of Australia’s unpre-
paredness.
In London last year Mr, Beasley
pointed out how vulnerable Australia was
to attack. Last September Mr. Forde,
still in office as Minister for the Army,
said Australia should not again be faced
with the tremendous shortage of equip-
ment whifch it encountered in 1939.
Strange statements indeed from men who
were so conspicuous in opposing any de-
velopment of the armed forces in 193i-39.
In spite of statements of this nature the
Government’s chief policy in regard to
defence seems to be that of weakening
our armed forces as much as possible.
This country has the blood of thou-
sands of young men on its hands because
of its criminal negligence in not being
able to put its soldiers in a position to
fight on equal terms with the enemy. It
is the clear duty of Australia to ensure
that the young men who are training for
our defence have the opportunity to
train with modem military equipment
comparable to that of any other nation.
—Tidak Makan (N.S.W.).
A Funeral Pyre in Melbourne
Needing timber for farm buildings, I
visited Army Disposals at Fishermen’s
Bend, Melbourne, and found it closing
after having disposed of upwards of £l£
million worth of goods of all sorts.
An officer told me that it was an age-
old custom for overseas ships, after they
had discharged their cargoes, to pile the
dunnage—timber used in packing—on
the decks and, to save cargo space, dump
it overboard at sea. As the Army could
override any port regulations in war-time
it succeeded in saving vast quantities of
this timber.
I went down to the docks and was
cheered by the sight of a vista of
American, Swedish and British ships
busily discharging, and of timber all over
the place. I have never seen so much.
All the chief officers I interviewed, how-
ever, were sympathetic but sorry—they
had orders not to sell dunnage. Some
"It's all right, lady — it's only my army-issue rehabilitation suit"
of it was left on the wharves and some
was back-loaded.
A group of stevedores enlightened me
as to what happened to the stuff the ships
left behind them. Somebody had a con-
tract with the Harbor Trust to cart the
stuff away to a dump and bum it. He
was paid for this service. Tons of it was .
disposed of in that way daily, they said —
enough to build a score of houses.
Though some of it was worthless, much
of it was well-seasoned Oregon of large
dimensions that any Melbourne builder
would give his eyes for.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
Santa’s Address
Tell “Wotcher” (B. 5/2/’47) that Santa
Claus’s address is care of Parliament
House, N.S.W. or Canberra,' though he
isn’t “at home” to everybody. If he
doesn’t happen to be on the premises at
the moment he can be found roosting at
the home of any wharfie, coalie,
Social Services Department employee,
bureaucrat, subsidised manufacturer or
farmer, publican, brewer, clothing
merchant or defeated Parliamentary
candidate (of the right color).
If he isn’t at any of those places he’s
probably yvith some Information Depart-
ment journalist, union organiser, would-
be Ambassador, blackmarketeer, Jewish
immigrant, pug or jockey who dodged
military service of the active kind, build-
ing contractor or Commo agitator, —
2315 (N.S.W.).
Brisbane Squatters
Squatters are becoming more daring
in Queensland. One group stormed
the R.A.A.F. camp at Victoria Park,
Brisbane, and not only defied armed
guards stationed to protect R.A.A.F. pro-
perty, but successfully outwitted them.
When a small group of squatters
approached and tried to enter a R.A.A.F.
hut a heated argument took place be-
tween them and the guards. The chair-
man of the “squatters’ committee” told
the guards that they, intended to take
possession of a hut, that if necessary they
would take it by force and that they
could call on 500 men to back them up.
While the attention of the guards was
thus distracted another group of squatters
took possession of a hut some distance
away.
The squatters were then left in posses-
sion, no attempt being made by service
or civil authorities to evict thpm. Next
day more squatters arrived and there
was a wild brawl, during which another
hut was seized. The new arrivals were
supported by 50 squatters already in the
camp who had knives and axes.
R.A.A.F. guards hastily brought fire
hoses into action. In the resulting confu-
sion some of the hoses were cut by knives
and axes and the squatters came to grips
with the guards.
In the course of the fight, Comrade
Haas, Brisbane district chairman of the
Communist party, and another “resident”
squatter received head injuries which re-
quired medical treatment. One of the
guards was taken by the squatters and
held as a kind of hostage. Finally, to
avoid bloodshed, a R.A.A.F. officer was
forced to bargain with the squatters and
agreed to let them occupy the hut if the
captured guard was released and given
safe passage back into his unit.
Following this incident a, R.A.A.F.
spokesman made a statement to the effect
that the position of the guards was
farcical and confusing. He did not know
whether squatters were to be kept out
of the camp or not. The guards had been
placed to keep unauthorised persons off
R.A.A.F. property, he said, but at the
same time an order had been issued that
nothing must be done to embarrass the
Government, the Air Board or the Air
Minister. Meanwhile no redress is forth-
coming from any authority for the illegal
activities of the squatters and they are
allowed normal essential facilities.
Bitter and humiliating insults were
hurled at the guards by the squatters
when they were first placed there to
prevent a threatened occupation of huts
in an area occupied by W.A.A.A.Fs.
The earlier occupation of huts in the area
resulted in the abandonment of a train-
ing camp arranged for A.T.C. cadets.
The squatters said they were “sorry” but
their need was greater than that of the
A.T.C, To all these illegal activities the
State and Federal Government authorities
turn a blind eye.—J. E. D. (Q.).
South Seas Commission
Before Dr. H. V. Evatt starts fixing up
the South Sea Islanders, “with encourage-
ment to be given to voluntary movements,
especially missionary activities,” he
should read up the history of previous
voluntary movements and missionary
activities in those parts.
Consider the Marquesans. The French
Government recently was reported to
have closed their islands against tourists
and the like because the tragic remnants
of the natives were beginning to show a
slight increase in numbers. But this is
small 'recompense for the appalling
damage done in inflicting an alien religion
on a race of happy idolaters. At least the
Marquesans weren’t Nazis ; nor did they
drop an atomic bomb on anybody.
Like Dr. Evatt, Mr. Nash, the Deputy
, Prime Minister of N.Z., wants to “lift up
native standards.” “The question which
transcends all others,” he declares, “is
how can the natives be made to live
longer and better lives?”
I will tell him free of charge, and then
he and Dr. Evatt can dissolve the Com-
mission and get to work on something
useful. Leave the poor devils alone!
J. D. (N.S.W.).
Socialism
Thousands of Government “workers”
are kept in jobs which were created in
war and which have neither use nor. justi-
fication in peace. This vast body of
clock-watchers is being maintained by
taxes filched from industrious people.
Men who receive the protection of a
social-security tax will, in time, lose the
ability to protect themselves.
Socialism means control, and control
is summed up in the words of Thomas
Jefferson. He said:
Men are endowed by their Creator with
certain inalienable rights, including the
right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness. Were we directed from
Washington when to sow and when to
f reap, we should soon want bread.
The shortage resulting from Govern-
ment restriction on the acreage of wheat
is ample proof of the wisdom of these
words.
Government control means Govern-
ment jobs, which mean heavy taxation.
If means that wornout politicians like
Forde, Frost, Breen and company will
live like rajahs in foreign lands on money
provided by taxation.
We should think well before embrac-
ing socialism. Are the munificence of a
7s. increase in the basic wage, the “secu-
rity” of an old-age pension of 325. 6d.,
the luxury of an incapacitated soldier’s
£4 10s. to be bargained for the inalien-
able rights to life, liberty and the pursuit
of happiness? Must the Government be
allowed to anticipate our gratitude for
these “privileges” by voting itself
a £5OO per year increase, by providing
each of its Cabinet Ministers with a £l6OO
Chrysler car, and—in the case of
N.S.W. and Victorian politicians —by
giving itself a superannuation scheme
fantastic beyond the dreams of anyone
but a politician? Must the Government
be permitted to create embassies, lega-
tions and consulates for defeated mem-
bers, to create portfolios for members
without Cabinet jobs, and to set up
boards, committees and commissions for
those who have rendered sterling service
to the party?
Freedom is freedom. There is no sub-
stitute. Bondage to a Government is the
same as bondage to a man. —C. B. C.
(Q-).
Books and Radio
Whatever may be said in favor of
allowing sceptics as well as Christians to
broadcast their views (B. 29/l/’47) the
argument that there should be no restric-
tion of opinion on any subject, through
any medium, is untenable.
Belief in freedom of thought as a
general principle does not compel rigid
adherence to such an attitude. Ideas with
no appreciably deleterious effect de-
livered in book form —in which they
reach • a comparatively restricted circle
generally mentally equipped to encounter
them without ethically disastrous conse-
quences —may well work moral havoc if
purveyed by the cinema or radio. These
agencies would bring them, in very dra-
matic form, to the notice of a greatly-
varied audience.
The broadcasting of Christian doc-
trines, whatever the creed, can do noth-
ing but good morally, but weak or un-
trained minds may be badly influenced
by plausibly-presented irreligious propa-
ganda. These lack alike the learning to
refute such opinions and ther considered
philosophy that enables them to be held
without moral principles being withered.
—Lyle (N.S.W.).
Entertainment Tax
One of the most disheartening condi-
tions social organisers have to face is en-
tertainment tax. From every dance ticket
sold at Is. lid. the Taxation Commis-
sioner will take 5d.; of an admission
price of 2s. 7d. he will leave only 2s.
Figures for a suburban dance held to
raise funds for a young peoples’ sporting
and social club are relevant. Attendance
of 200 at 2s. 7d. (including tax) made
total door takings of £25 16s. Bd. Out
of that the following expenses had to be
met: hire of hall £2 10s., orchestra
£6, policeman on duty 165., and taxation
£5 16s. Bd. That, omitting minor ex-
penses, will leave a profit of £l6 2s. Bd.
Taxation, it will be noted, is assessed on
gross takings and not on net profit.
By comparison a surreptitiously-con-
ducted raffle for a half-dozen bottles of
“cordial” will swell the funds by £2O or
more. — Kek (Q.).
Victoria’s Outback Children
If the Tasmanian Rural School system
has achieved the results described by
“T.W.” (B. 29/1/’47) Victoria should
immediately adopt it. A preliminary
medical report on the 1200 outback
children who attended the Melbourne
Lud Mayor's summer camps at Portsea
disclosed that:
Not one has been 100 p.c. dentally fit:
60 urgent extractions had to be made;
1000 other teeth are in need of immediate
extraction. Only 50 p.c. of the children
passed the eye tests; 10 p.c. had definitely
bad eyesight. Most of the children had bad
posture. Ofv the first 200 medically ex-
amined, 30 were found to be suffering from
malnutrition. Ear trouble was prevalent,
though hearing was better than in city
children. The country diet must be badly
balanced, inasmuch as many children put
on five or six pounds in weight and general
health improved during the 10 days.
The only cheering thing about the
examination was that no ailment of an
infectious character was discovered. —
Spoke (Vic.).


Still Interned
We read with interest the letter in B.
5/2/’47 about German internees still be-
hind barbed wire here in Victoria. Mr.
Krumpeter mentioned only the plight of
about 100 men who were led to believe
the day of their liberation was near when
the Orbntes was named as repatriation
ship.
It may give Australians a mental jolt
to know that their country has the doubt-
ful honor of being the last to hold women
and children behind barbed wire. Here
in this camp is a group of families,
roughly about 150 men, women and
children, who had practically everything
packed ready to go on the Orontes only
to be told five days before the date of
sailing that the whole thing was off.
Think of it —nearly two years since
hostilities ended and we have still to
suffer the indignity of being caged like
animals in a barbed-wire pen! Although
it is now over three weeks since our
hopes of repatriation were dashed, and
although several letters were written to
Mr. Calwell, not a single reply has been
forthcoming as I write. Not one hint
been given as to how much longer we
may expect to be deprived of our free-
dom.
Many a desperate returned soldier and
other Australian citizen cannot find a
home for wife and children. Here in this
camp there are scores of buildings that
could be converted into quite comfortable
dwellings for them.—E. L, L. (Vic.).
In his cry for mercy (B. 5/2/’47) Hans
Krumpeter can be assured that in due
course his repatriation will be arranged,
its delay being in no small degree due to
the destruction of ships by his fellow-
countrymen during the recent war.
As one who spent four years as a
p.-0.-w. in Germany on a ration of
1600 calories per day, which was reduced
by the German Government to 1100 when
the Red Cross succeeded in delivering
urgently-required food parcels; and as
one forced to witness from an adjoining
compound the deliberate starvation and
resultant death of more than half of 300
Russian prisoners during the winter of
1942 at Warburg, I think that he has
much with which to console himself.
He may perhaps meditate on the plight
of those British officers and soldiers who
were totally blinded during the campaign
in France in 1940 and were taken as
captives to Germany. The utmost efforts
of the Red Cross, together with the offer
of every facility, were powerless to secure
their repatriation for more than three
long years. Then from expediency alone
the German Government permitted the
exchange, because a like number of
German captives had been fa ken by the
Allies in Africa.
I’m not suggesting that the internees in
this country should be blamed for any
of these things. The present delay in
repatriation is due to practical difficulties
which are the outcome of the recent
conflict, the tragedies and discomforts of
which are in some degree borne by us
aII.—A.L.W. (Vic.).
A Place to Live
When every attempt to get your own
home built is frustrated by a fresh short-
age of some essential requirement—
shortage of Government forms held up
my building application at one stage for
six weeks —it is nice to hear that build-
ing is no trouble at all to some people.
The Victorian Public Works Depart-
ment announces that work has be-
gun on a new police station for Surrey
Hills. Unlike its Sydney counterpart, the
Victorian Surrey Hills is a good-class
residential suburb, right in the heart of
a “dry” area. What they want a police
station for beats me ; I lived in the district
for years and cannot imagine a more
law-abiding community—you never see
a drunk there and crime is almost non-
existent.
But the powers-that-be have decided
that a new police station, is necessary. It
is to be “a two-storey building, with
residence, office, cells and all that goes
With a police station,” whatever that
means. Shortage of materials? A mere
£5537-worth of bricks, mortar and
whatnot is going into the place. ,
My one consolation lies in the thought
of those cells. Knowing Surrey Hills, I
can rest assured that there will always
be one spot in Melbourne where a room
for the night is available for a homeless
man desperate enough to heave a chunk
of roadmetal at the new police-station
windows.—D. J. G. (Vic.).
The Cumberland County Council, one
of the recent additions to our bodies of
masters, has decreed that certain areas are
not to be built on. Though its reasons
have a plausible appearance, I bite when
the council goes further and points out
that enough vacant lots exist in certain
other areas to cater for building re-
quirements for some years. The vacant
land is certainly there; but, owned as it
is by people who do not want to sell at
1939 values, it is difficult to find a block
to build a house on.
One way to handle the situation would
be to make available vacant Crown land
within handy distance of water, power
and sewer utilities. Councils could then
divide this land into blocks and ballot
these with perhaps 80 per cent, for ex-
servicemen. They should attach a string
as to the time allowed for a building to
be started, granting returned soldiers an
exemption, provided they give an under-
taking to build within reasonable time. —
Wilydah (N.S.W.). .
The discovery by the Cumberland
(N.S.W.) County Council of the large
number of building blocks available in
suburbs provided with utility services and
its recommendation for a veto on the
building of cottages in certain areas not
so serviced are very interesting.
The Water Board is the greatest sup-
porter of the vacant-lot industry. It has
always discriminated in favor of the
owner of idle blocks and penalised the
progressive owner who improves his block
by building on it. Under the Water
Board system of charging rates on
assessed annual value, every building
erected increases the rates.
The County Council might make a
strong recommendation for the charging
of water rates on unimproved capital
value. That simple change would make
"Parson preached splendid sermon on gold-stealers 's mornin , 'Lijah.
He gave 'em hell."
many properties too expensive to hold,
and they would come on the market. The
vacant-lot owner should certainly pay
for the privilege of having water in his
street, just as the householder does. —
L.H.D. (N.S.W.).
Democracy?
Democracy has blown out its best
brains and young manhood in two major
wars, and we now have an upsurge of
scum and the elevation of low people to
high places. No matter what a man’s
background may be the ability to govern,
to lead intelligently and deal with the
problems of the day are traits resultant
upon breeding, training and the building
up of service and tradition. These have
been lost in the main and superseded by
gangster greed flavored with academic
“isms.”
Despite glib talk about a high standard
of living, Australia as a whole, and
N.S.W. in particular, are fast heading for
an economic crisis. Essential coal pro-
duction hangs upon the irresponsible
whims of any nitwit who loses his pants
or doesn’t like the onion-flavored breath
of his chargehand. The waterfront
seethes with stupid squabbles that are the
joy of the Communist wrecker, while
valuable ships lie around the harbor rust-
ing at their moorings.
Food production and distribution,
hampered by harsh seasonal conditions,
are further strangled by multifarious
boards, regulations, forms and controls.
Nd one would mind second-quality stuff
if it were proved conclusively that the
best was being sent to Britain and others
who need it. We haven’t even that
assurance.
There has been a collapse in political
morality, and the cynical encouragement
of the horse-racing, dog-racing and pro-
fessi ° nal s P ort t ra< * e,s se " es f as f > ov '; ly
smokescreen for disregard for the real
need of the country
All this noise and smell hang like a
P all over the eastern seaboard of Aus-
tra lia- North and north-west have lapsed
once more into the gri P of a lethar gi c >
uninterested officialdom with little in the
W a ?"T
stretch of the Timor Sea separates the
empty spaces of the N.T and the N.-W.
from islands teeming with native races,
And wllile the P ot is simmering we putter
? round absorbed in trivialities and throw-
mg our dlestS out in the Hall of Nations.
stupidly ignoring facts that must eventu-
ally confront us.—E. H. W. (N.S.W.).
Living Wage
“J.A.” (B. 29/1/’47), like all other
idealists, ignores the facts of the case.
He states that the workers are easily led
astray because they are dissatisfied, and
that if all their demands were granted
first they would repay such generosity by
increasing production.
The workers are neither led nor mis-
led. They are driven. Their so-called
leaders are union bosses who dictate
strikes and go-slow policies, squashing all
opposition with a heavy hand. These
bosses have openly declared that “satis-
faction” is a vice and increased produc-
tion a crime against class-consciousness,
They oppose the taking of secret ballots
before strikes because the secret vote
might allow satisfied workers to go on
producing.
There is no need to condemn the union
workers but there is reason to condemn
a Government which allows a few revo-
lutionaries to browbeat the entire com-
munity into a deliberately-planned state
of poverty and industrial chaos. — Ballot
(S.A.),
Imported Pests
The giant toads which are raiding north
Queensland beehives are comparative
newcomers to Australia, having been im-
ported from America in 1937 to combat
the sugarcane bug. They are just another
chapter in an old, familiar story.
One chapter was written by the
prickly pear. There are several species
in Australia, and all have been intro-
duced, mainly from America, Mexico and
the West Indies. Some were introduced
for cochineal by Phillip; others are
“Garden escapes.” One species was even
brought to the Darling Downs as a poss-
ible reserve fodder for starving stock. It
has been estimated that the pear pest
invaded about 30 million acres in
Queensland, with a further six million
acres in N. S. Wales. As in the case of
the rabbit, millions of the taxpayers’
money have been spent on bringing the
invader under control.
Sparrows are responsible for damage
to fruit and vegetable crops to the tune
of hundreds of thousands of pounds each
year. Yet, on July 22, 1863, the South
Australian “Advertiser” reports the sale
of an English cock sparrow for 1 Is. It
was the sole survivor of 100 that had
been shipped from England. When Lord
Huntingfield sent 26 pairs of turtle doves
to Brisbane fropi India in 1912 only 16
pairs survived. But they were enough.
Lantana came to us from tropical
America as an ornamental shrub, and has
overrun large areas of eastern Australia.
South America gave us water hyacinth
with its beautiful mauve flowers. It was
kept under control until about 1900, when
a fragment was accidentally liberated in a
tributary of the Clarence River. Since
then many thousands of pounds have
been spent in keeping the channels of
our coastal rivers navigable.
Burrs, including Bathurst, Noogoora
and other species, came from Europe and
North America. Nut-grass was intro-
duced in pot plants from America. Sida
retusa (Queensland hemp) was brought
here to start a rope-making industry. The
fibre is tough, but production is not
profitable, and so the plant flourishes as
one of our most formidable weeds.
Modern science is dealing effectively
with many of these pests, and there is
now some measure of legislative control
over the entry of nuisance plants and
animals into the Commonwealth. But
the necessary action has come, generally,
many years too late, and millions of
pounds have gone down the drain. —
Jacob (N.S.W.).
The Wog Complex
Most Australian servicemen who saw
overseas service were in the Islands, and
the biggest medical wastage was due to
malaria. Now these men are back the
“wog complex” has developed to an
alarming extent.
Fairley has shown that the common
recurring malaria, benign tertian, dies
a natural death 18 months to two
years out of a malarial area. If attacks
are to continue beyond this time a person
must be reinfected. Such cases are as
rare as hens’ teeth. Yet I know
a man who has been taking odd
days off (due to self-diagnosed “malaria”)
for years—ever since he left India 18
years ago, in fact.
When a victim of the wog complex
gets a headache, a fever or an ache he
diagnoses malaria. When he again, feels
the effects of combat, grows nervous and
trembles, it must be the wog. Mostly he
treats himself for a few days with atebrin
he has stored up at home, then returns
to work announcing that he has had
malaria. As a good drug misused,
atebrin does tremendous harm —used
either in self-treatment or as an initial
treatment before seeing the M.O. A
couple of atebrin taken usually mean that
the blood film will be negative, and then
no one knows what the illness is. Occa-
sionally the patient presents himself to a
medico, and if he has the signs and
symptoms consistent with the widely-
varying pattern of malaria a blood film
is made. If it is negative he is treated for
the illness diagnosed. If positive he re-
ceives paludrine and, after the acute
phase, takes two paludrine tablets a week
for six months.
The number of recurrences after
paludrine won’t run into double figures
for Victoria, and in these cases the
tablets may not have been taken as per
instructions. Paludrine sometimes causes
slight nausea and headache —always
labelled malaria by the victim. When
you tell him the symptoms are due to
paludrine he frequently gives you a look
telling you what to do with your diag-
nosis. Paludrine is issued by Repat. only
on a positive blood film —a wise move.
At present, when a man tells me he
has had a touch of the wog over the
week-end, I can say that he is probably
wrong. As the two-years time lag runs
out I shall be able to say that he is almost
certainly wrong, and it will be a good
thing, too. This malaria has been over-
worked. It has been a bad thing for
the ex-serviceman and a bad thing for
the country. Sickness is no good tp any-
one. Sympathy wrongly placed and self-
sympathy are worse. — Jock (Vic,).
T.B. and X-Ray
For many years self-sacrificing doctors
and research-workers working to eradi-
cate T.B. have emphasised that the first
essential in treating the scourge is the
early discovery of its presence—they
can deal with it if treatment can be
started early enough. And how often
have they sadly shaken their heads over
the plight of some poor breadwinner who
did not seek early diagnosis because he.
was his family’s only support!
“Pawang” (B. 5/2/’47) has overlooked
the fact that T.B. is a highly-infectious
disease. Perhaps he can say how it is to
be eradicated, or even controlled, if X-
ray is not made freely available or com-
pulsory. At any rate, it is, at present,
compulsory to report all cases to health
boards.
Let the Government go ahead with its
scheme, and let adequate sustenance
be provided, where the circumstances
warrant it, for the breadwinner’s de-
pendants.—Wombat (S.A.).


1
jf)>%v ' 5 ' .r^w o ■, -■' ’' >(■ \ '
i ~r.-'<‘ !, i
, ~, r ■ 4 gfj
rf*l
rf t
i
X
£2zrV :
fSJS)* 4 *
2
Xi
X*S
fit
[ : X
r~» ~
w
i=^
(]f
HO
<N
’f^ v r
\
# *■ ,s
r/
t»?
A
-r' 1
ip
<ir.
M
ft-
V
/»
/•V
Vr r
/"
!r<
fl3N*si
yiH J
fTV
W*-:
■g#
‘V
*>»
sr-
..;#3
<* rv
f?
X 9J
crossing
T J
*» •CJP'
L
Stt4
X
s * e «i si i
Ml |
J»V
\U
7.
PUBLISHED IN THE INTERESTS OF SAFER MOTORING BY
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers of "C.O.R Plus' Motor Spirits • "C.O.R" Power Kerosene • ” CORAUTE " Lamp Kerosene AM/f /
• - • -•* - ' ' n , v IX%/H
■if* ,
/n y f *
"C.O.R Light Diesoleum " • "C.O.R" Diesel Oils • "C.O.R" Fuel and Bunker Oils
/ C 46
HEED ALL ROAD SIGNS
FOR SAFER MOTORING
Remember road courtesy means road safety.
Keep in your line of traffic;
don't be a "traffic weaver."
Keep your position on hills and curves:
pass only when you can see safely ahead.
Use hand signals correctly:
let others know what you intend to do.
Exercise extra caution at intersections.
Observe police and traffic signals:
don't beat tlie lights.
Children are careless;
be careful of their movements.
When you stop, pull off the carriage way.
Keep to the left:
after passing vehicles return to the left.
